Ninja Spirit


 CHEAT MODE:

 Pause the game using [F9], now press the left [Shift] and [Caps Lock].
 Unpause the game again with [F9] and you will find that there is no time
 limit and the collision detection has been turned off.

GENERAL TIPS
At all costs, kill the gold ninjas, as the various orbs they carry are 
vital if you complete the game. Blue orbs will give you an invincible 
spirit (maximum of two); while green orbs will power up the weapon you 
are using. However, if this has been powered up then it will power up 
the next weapon, and so on. If all your weapons are powered up then 
you won't gain anything by collecting the orb. Gold orbs will give you 
an extra life. Red orbs will give your indestructable spirit a  fire 
rope. When a power up is collected, you and your spirits' weapons are 
powered up as follows.
        
SWORD - Each time you use your sword, it will leave a trail of laser 
rings.

GRAPPLING HOOK - Allows you to swing it around 360 degrees. Use the 
weapon advisor if none of your weapons have been powered up.

NINJA STARS - Triple amount of stars you can fire

DYNAMITE - Ability to fire more rapidly.

LEVEL ONE
Power up your sword to initialise the laser rings. When walking across 
the water use the rings to protect you from the knives that the Ninjas 
throw down. Don't jump over any red soucerers, as they will attack you 
immediatly. At the end of the level you will be safe standing inside 
either of the pillars. While here hit the pillars with your sword or 
grappling hook. As soon as they explode, the Budda will start to rise 
from the ground. as it rises, hits to it are not counted, so don't 
bother. Instead move to the centre of the screen and select, a new 
weapon. If you have spirits and a powered up sword, use this, 
otherwise use the dynamite. Only a few good hits are needed to kill it.

LEVEL TWO
As usual collect as many bonus orbs as possible. the red ninjas throw 
only once, so don't worry about killing them after the've fired. The 
wolves and fireballs will kill you on contact, so keep away from them. 
On reaching the end of level, the treecrawler will appear in the 
centre of the screen. as soon as it moves, climb up to the top right 
most branch just off the screen. Every time the treecrawler jumps 
past, fire some dynamite. Taky your time as you are safe standing here.

LEVEL THREE
Stay clear of the beige Sourcerers while they are carrying their 
staff, as they could throw it at any time. When they throw it in the 
ari, move in for the kill. Musketeers are harmless, until they stop, 
take aim, and fire, so try to kill them when they are running to 
another firing position. There is a fire rope to be had on this level, 
it is especially useful when fighting the green innja at the end of 
the level. When fighting the green ninja, drae him towards you by 
waiting at either side of the screen. Just as he is about to cut you, 
jump over him and take as many shots at him as you can. Repeat this 
until he is defeated.

LEVEL FOUR

SECTION ONE
The pink ninjas on this section only use their grappling hooks against 
you, when you are in range. As they appear on the screen, alternate 
Šbetween running along the ground and celing. as you do this the 
swordsman will follow. Try to avoid them and last out to the end of 
the section.

SECTION TWO
Stay on the celing when possible and keep well away from the bamboo 
spikes. Keep an eye on the beige ninjas as they try to stab you 
through the celing.

SECTION THREE
Run and jump your way to the end, only stopping if your life is 
threatened. Don't waste any time as the falling wall will flatten you 
for sure. When the moving stones slide down at the end of the level, 
stay on the ground to draw them towards you. They're not pattened so 
they will work together in an attempt to squash you. Go all out with 
the laser rings or dynamite to blow up the lanterns attached to the 
stones in the first few seconds, or the stones will squash you for 
sure.

LEVEL FIVE
Weapons are not needed when climbing the mountain. However, it will 
take some practice and planning to find out where the poisonous gas 
leaks from the cracks in the mountain. When flying a kite at the tip 
of the mountain, aim for the ninja in the middle as he is the one 
flying it. The other ninjas will reappear when killed until the one in 
the middle is killed.

LEVEL SIX
No tips here, all you need is speed.

LEVEL SEVEN
Don't try to kill the wizard as he requires 300+ hits. Practice as 
required to find out where the poisonous gas leaks out. When you 
descend to fight the warlock, keep to the right. You will have to move 
left at least once. When you do move right again, dodge the undead 
ninjas. The warlock fires fireworks from his crystal ball every few 
seconds. Draw them towards you, as they fizzle out pretty quickly. 
When this happens, fire dynamite at the crystal ball. Only a few hits 
are needed to defeat him. When you've killed him you can now watch the 
nice end sequence.

End.