Keef the Thief
--------------

For something interesting in this game go up into the tree houses near the
left side of the map. When you see a commercial like screen with a woman in
it make this spell: Rhino Horn, Black Pearl, Narcicus Root.

			  
KEEF THE THIEF - SOLUTION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
				
				
Save your position every time you succeed in doing something i.e. stealing, 
disarming (especially), selling or fighting.

SLEEP - Sleep as often as possible.  (Select Sleep from Menu Bar or use 
right Amiga Key with E.)  Expect an ambush after sleeping outside Same Mercon.  
Sleeping also puts your Health up a bit and improves your MagIc points.
Always Sleep before Disarming something and make sure your Health is high.

FOOD - Steal food from Dunk 'n Dragon in Same Mercon or buy it from Al        
Handratta (you die of starvation if it gets too low)to get your Food level 
up to 100%.

HEALTH - Improve Health by walking along streets in Same Mercon, wait until 
Health is 100% then carry on with adventure.  Other ways are: sleep in 
Drunk 'n Dragon (steal Room for night) until Health is high.  Buy Full Heal 
from Black Cross in Bazaar or cast Takus Tylenus.  Always try and have full 
Health before Disarming anything and also Sleep.

DISARMING - Make sure you have full Health and Sleep.  Always save the game 
after Disarming something (even if you have to go a long way back to Same 
Mercon), and if you don't succeed in Disarming re-load the game and keep 
trying until you do (if after trying It says 'I hope you will forgive this 
trap for killing you.  Just business nothing personal.' This is the correct 
way, you just haven't got enough of something).


START
Search Jungle where you are.  Get tree branch (club) to use as a weapon.  
Go South and South again into Same Mercon.  You are now in a square by The 
Open Gate. This is where it really starts happening

SAME MERCON From The Open Gate:
West  - West Town Square
East  - Bazaar
South - Palace
North - Outside Same Mercon

N.B.  Talk to as many people as possible as this will give you clues to the 
adventure


WEST TOWN SQUARE (West from The Open Gate)
(Talk to people for clues to the game)

BHW - Horse seller - steal the Clydesdale - give this to Al Handratta when 
you find him - you can also kill the Barbarian (Horse seller) if you really 
want to.

Art Shop - nothing of use here other than to get your Stealing points higher 
if you steal the pictures.

Le Pink Dragon Pub (West from Square) - sell things from the houses in Same 
Mercon to the Collector or Merchant (whoever gives the best price) and talk 
to the other customers for clues to the game.


BAZAAR (East from The Open Gate)
(Talk to people for clues to the game)

Black Cross - Healing potions (only use as a last resort - they work as soon 
as you buy them).  See HEALTH on a cheaper way to improve Health.

Weapons R Us - Click on Nasty Dude and buy Lock Picks, Flint and Steel, Rope, 
Knife and Oil.  Steal whatever you wanT from here and find out which is the 
best combination that you want to use for Weapons and Armour (make sure you 
have the Gauntlets and wear them).

Book Store - Steal everything except Credits.  Read all.  Use Scroll to make 
and cast spells (using appropriate Reagents), other books hold clues to the 
game.

Herb Shop - Steal Reagents (not Roses or Daffodils) to make Spells (don't 
forget to Save game every time you steal successfully). See 'REAGENTS' 
for what they are.  Steal Flower of Mem and give it to the Princess in the 
Same Mercon Palace.

Drunk 'n Dragon - Steal 'Room for the night' and 'Good meal' to improve 
Sleep and Food levels.  Buy Magic Sling from Grim Soldier when you have 
enough money (3500 gold pieces - kill people or sell things to get the 
money).  Talk to customers for clues to the game.


Tel Road (South from Bazaar, North from Mem Drive)

(let the Guard pass and as he goes off the screen go into the house of your 
choice (be as quick as possible), any sooner or later be prepared for a 
fight)

Neopsaws - Steal Dog - sell to Merchant in Le Pink Dragon Pub.

Lekihams - Steal Goblet - sell to Collector in Le Pink Dragon Pub.

Nepetos - Steal Plate - sell to Collector in Le Pink Dragon Pub.

Tikitans - Steal Toothbrush - sell to Collector in Le Pink Dragon Pub.

Samsongs - Steal Painting - sell to Collector in Le Pink Dragon Pub.


Mem Drive (West from Tel Road, East from Marble Street)

(let the Guard pass and as he goes off the screen go into the house of your 
choice (be as quick as possible), any sooner or later be prepared for a 
fight)

Telfans - Search and steal Sword (the sword is Charles) - use this as a 
Weapon until you find something better.

Marble Street (South from West Town Square, North from Mem Drive)
(let the Guard pass and as he goes off the screen then go into the house of 
your choice, any sooner or later be prepared for a fight)

Kells - Remove TRAP (make sure you have full Health and Sleep) by brushing 
embers back - Steal Gems 

Benreys - Remove TRAP (make sure you have full Health and Sleep) by removing 
candles from wall - Steal Glove (the Glove is Tortoise).

Megtans - Search and steal Necklace - sell to Collector in Le Pink Dragon Pub.

Nodels - Remove TRAP (make sure you have full Health and Sleep) by stopping 
tea-pot from spilling - Steal Tea-Pot and sell to Collector in Le Pink 
Dragon Pub.

Smythes - Search and steal Necklace - sell to Collector in Le Pink Dragon Pub.

Palace (South from The Open Gate)

Give Flower of Mem to Princess to get into the Palace.  Go South into the 
Palace (if it is dark use the Steel and Flint).  Go West, South, South and 
East, now face North and Search to find a hidden door.  Go North into Same 
Mercon Treasury.

What to do to remove TRAPS in Treasury: (you must have full percentage on 
Sleep and Health to be successful in disarming, remember to save every time 
you successfully disarm a trap - you must come out of the Palace to save 
here)

Walls - wave your weapon ahead

Ceiling - there is no way to disarm this trap, just make sure the others are 
disarmed and that you have the spell Takus Tylenus and you should be able 
to steal everything then.

Floor - tapping floor carefully

Gold Pile - there is no way to disarm this trap, just make sure the others 
are disarmed and that you have the spell Takus Tylenus and you should be 
able to steal everything then.

Right of Pedestal - putting knife in hole

Back Wall - twisting upright sword

Front of Pedestal - pushing front panel


Reagents: (All of these can be stolen from the Herb Shop in the Bazaar in 
Same Mercon other than the Phoenix Egg which is up The One Tree at Lands 
End - see Lands End for further details)

Narcissus Root    - SELF
Peppermint Sprigs - HEALING
Wart Weed         - POWER
Scorpion Tail     - HATRED
Black Pearl       - FOCUS
Rhino Horn        - OPENING
Kiki Root         - MAGNIFY
Skunk Juice       - PROTECTION
Glow Grass        - LIGHT
Dragons Drool     - FIRE
Eye of Owl        - SIGHT
Phoenix Egg       - INFINITE

SCROLLS FOR SPELLS: (when mixing spells, make sure you are using the 
correct Scroll.  Do this by clicking in the spell circle that has the 
flame in it after selecting 'Mix'.)

N.B. All spells do not last very long so don't expect them to.


Scroll of Unity (Steal from Book Store)
(Just the circle to mix spells)

Bandus Aidus - gives a bit of Health
(Narcissus Root and Peppermint Sprigs) 

Flickus Bickus - gives light in dark places
(Glow Grass and Dragons Drool) 

Emmus Excuus - a bit of damage to one enemy
(Scorpion Tail) 

Scroll of Force (from Treasury in Same Mercon Palace)
(use the square in the circle to mix spells)

Takus Tylenus - improves your health a lot.  The best for giving extra 
Health when needed i.e. when fighting
(Narcissus Root, Peppermint Sprigs and Wart Weed)

Dranus Liqus - use for seeing hidden doors or for opening doors that you 
can't open with Lock Picks
(Rhino Horn and Black Pearl) 

Onus Arudas - gives a nasty blow to enemy
(Scorpion Tail, Wart Weed and Black Pearl)  

Napus Almus - kills enemy but at psychic cost
(Scorpion Tail, Wart Weed and Kiki Root) 

Mutus Omahaus - protection against enemy
(Wart Weed, Narcissus Root and Skunk Juice)                                          

Scroll of Power (from Al Handrattas library in his hut)
(use the triangle in the circle to mix spells)

Generous Elektus - a bit more light than Flickus Bickus
(Glow Grass, Dragons Drool and Eye of Owl)

Huvius Vacuumus - for finding things that won't appear with Search
(Black Pearl and Eye of Owl)

Cynus Arcenus - kills one enemy
(Scorpion Tail and Black Pearl)

Agenus Oranus - kills or badly maims more than one enemy
(Scorpion Tail and Kiki Root)

Riteus Gardus - protection against attack - better than Mutus Omahaus
(Narcissus Root and Skunk Juice

Scroll of Infinity›@ (from Tel Hande Library)
(use star in circle to mix spells)

Usus Carus - gives you more charisma to haggle
(Phoenix Egg, Glow Grass and Eye of Owl)

Pizaus Coldus - kills one enemy
(Phoenix Egg, Scorpion Tail and Black Pearl)

Olus Gayus - kills more than one enemy
(Phoenix Egg, Kiki Root and Scorpion Tail)

Lyodus Londus - protection against enemy but at psychic cost
(Phoenix Egg, Narcissus Root and Skunk Juice)

Barbus Rubinus - gives you extra Weapon and Armour strength for fighting 
i.e. in competitions
(Phoenix Egg, Narcissus Root and Scorpion Tail)

Phonus Homus - takes you to your last saved position from wherever you are 
- very handy in hard to get out of places like Mazes
(Phoenix Egg, Eye of Owl and Narcissus Root)

Elmus Pastus - this spell you cast in the Secret Lab 'when you can see 
everything' and only when you have got the Arm of Love, Arm of Wealth, 
Plate of Strength, Artifact of Mem, Gem of Wisdom and Globe of Power
(Phoenix Egg, Black Pearl and Wart Weed)


OBJECTS

Dog - from Neopsaws in Tel Road - show to Merchant in Le Pink Dragon

Goblet - from Lekihams in Tel Road - show to Collector in Le Pink Dragon

Plate - from Nepetos in Tel Road - show to Collector

Painting - from Samsongs in Tel Road - show to Collector

Toothbrush - from Tikitans in Tel Road - show to Collector

Necklace - from Smythes in Marble Street - show to Collector

Tea-pot - TRAP (with full Health and Sleep) - stop tea-pot from spilling.  
From Nodels in Marble Street - show to Collector

Necklace - from Megtans in Marble Street - show to Collector

Gems - TRAP (with full Health and Sleep) - brush embers back.  From Kells 
in Marble Street - they turn to money

Tortoise (glove) - TRAP (with full Health and Sleep) - remove candles from 
wall.  From Benreys in Marble Street - Armour

Charles (Sword) - from Telfans in Mem Drive - Weapon - one of the best 
weapons

Passport - from guard on Same Mercon Bridge (after killing him with a long 
range weapon - click on 'Other' to do this) - you can now get into Tel Hande

David (Magic Sling) - buy from Grim Soldier in Drunk 'n Dragon - weapon

St. George (Sword) - from Level 5 in Tel Empor behind hidden door (Level 5 
coming from Level 4 - S,E,E,E,E,E,Search,E,S,Search) - Weapon

Arm of Wealth - from Treasury in Same Mercon Palace - (gives you 100% Luck) 
Artifact

Mermaid's Ring - from behind Waterfall - (N,N,N,E,N,N,W,W,N,Search, N,Search) 
give ring to Mermaid outside Waterfall - you can now get the Arm of Love 
from behind Waterfall

Arm of Love - from behind Waterfall (only after giving Mermaid's Ring to 
the Mermaid) - TRAP (with full Health and Sleep) - Torch - pulling torch 
forward.  Pedestal - sliding knife under pedestal -  (N,N,N,E,N,N,N,E,N,
N,W,N,Seach,N) - (gives you 100% Constitution) Artifact 

Moe (Helm) - from behind Waterfall (N,N,N,E,E,E,S,Search,S,Search) - Armour

Yang - from Treasury in Same Mercon Palace (see Palace for TRAPS) - Weapon 
(one of the best but especially with Yin, only Bruce is better)

Yin - Mems 2nd Room in Mem Santi - Floor 2 (Floor 2 from Floor 1  N,N,N,W,W,
Search,W,Search) - Weapon (best with Yang, only Bruce is better)

Phoenix Egg - from up The One Tree at Lands End (South-West corner of map, 
as far as you can go) - TRAP (with full Health and Sleep) - carefully taking 
egg - Reagent

Achilles - take off Guard in Stair Room at Mem Santi after killing him - use 
this and it improves your speed - Armour

Tellocs Skull - from Tel Hande Basement - (from by Exit of Tel Hande W,W,W,
N,N,D,S,S,E,S,S,Search) - throw skull into Abyss on Level 2 of Tel Empor 
(click on 'Other' to do it) - See Tel Empor to get to Abyss

Plate of Strength - from the Level 6 in Tel Empor - (from Level 5 to Level 
6 E,E,N,E,Search,E,E,E,S,Search,Unlock,S,Search,Unlock,S,Search, Unlock, 
S, E,Search,Unlock,E,Search,Cast Dranus Liqus (from Scroll of Force),E) - 
TRAPS - Torche - pulling torch holders forward.  Ceiling - using rope to 
secure loose rock.  Front of Pedestal - pushing buttons 1 & 3.  Brick - 
slipping knife under the brick - (gives you 100% Strength) Artifact
 
Artifact of Mem - from Mems 1st Room in Mem Santi Maze - make sure you have 
the spell Phonus Homus to get you back to Same Mercon - in Mems 1st Room go 
Down to get Artifact then cast spell Phonus Homus (Mems 1st Room is through 
one of the hidden doors in the maze, you have to search everywhere as there 
is no easy way to find it.  If you go through the wrong door you will just 
be put in another part of the Maze, so just keep looking) - (gives you 100% 
Speed) Artifact

Scroll of Unity - steal from Herb Shop - see SCROLLS FOR SPELLS to find out 
what this scroll does

Scroll of Force - from Treasury in Mem Santi - TRAP (with full Health and 
Sleep) - Right side of bench - Squirting oil inside hole (then Steal Scroll 
and go and Save position) - see SCROLLS FOR SPELLS to find out what this 
scroll does

Scroll of Power - from Al Handrattas library (cast Huvius Vacuumus to find 
it) in his Hut - see SCROLLS FOR SPELLS to find out what this scroll does

Scroll of Infinity - from Tel Hande library (cast Huvius Vacuumus to find 
it) - see SCROLLS FOR SPELLS to find out what this scroll does

Gem of Wisdom - from Hall of Wisdom in Al Handrattas Hut (from Exit in Al 
Handrattas Hut N,N,E,Search,E,E,S,S,E,(Unlock),E) - (gives you 100% Wisdom) 
Artifact

Hare (Glove) - from Hall of Wisdom in Al Handrattas Hut (from Exit in Al 
Handrattas Hut N,N,E,Search,E,E,S,S,E,(Unlock),E) - Armour

Globe of Power - from Magician King after you kill him and the two blue 
dragons (from Tel Hande Exit W,W,N,N,N,W,N,E,N,W,N,E,E,S,E,U,E,E,S,E,S,S,D,
S,S,E,D,N,N,N,W,W,U,U,U,U,U,Cast Barbus Rubinus,Fight Magician King) - 
(gives you 100% Charisma) Artifact

Bruce (Sword) - from Tel Hande after winning Competition (from Tel Hande 
Exit W,N,N,N,Cast Barbus Rubinus (after killing 3rd or 4th competitor)) - 
(gives you 100% Weapon Strength) Weapon (the best)

Key of Koran - from Treasury in Mem Santi (from Exit from Floor 1 N,N,N,N,U,
N,N,N,E,E,S,Search,S,S,U,S,S) - use to open strange large West door in Tel 
Empor or strange large East door in Al Handrattas Hut along the stone 
corridor

Tellocs Log - from Tellocs Library in Tel Empor (from Exit in Al Handrattas 
Hut N,N,E,Search,E,E,S,S,W,Search,W,D,E,E,E,E,E,E,E,S,E,E, E,E,E,E,Use Key 
of Koran,E,Cast Huvius Vacuumus) - outside Tel Empor click on 'Other' and 
say word 'TUNA' to find Secret Lab

Bahb el Buhd (Sword) - from Treasury in Mem Santi (from Exit from Floor 1 
N,N,N,N,U,N,N,N,E,E,S, Search,S,S,U,S,S) (see Mem Santi Treasary for TRAPS) 
- Weapon

Hermits Key - off Al Handratta after giving Clydesdale (from BHW in Same 
Mercon) to him - use to open Hall of Wisdom in Al Handrattas Hut

Used Scrolls - from Treasury in Mem Santi (from Exit from Floor 1 N,N,N,N,U,
N,N,N,E,E,S,Search,S,S,U,S,S) - holds clues to the adventure

Book of Lore - steal from Book Shop - read for clues to adventure

Book of Swords - steal from Book Shop - read for clues to adventure

Shard of Mem - from Treasury in Same Mercon Palace Treasury - (see PALACE 
for TRAPS) give to Mem Guard in Mem Santi Temple Foyer


Mem Santi
(from Same Mercon after killing Guard on Same Mercon Bridge N,W,N,N,N,N,
W,W,W,W,N,E,U)

Temple Foyer

Talk to Guard - give Shard of Mem to him and he disappears - Search and a 
door appears behind the Tapestry which goes outside to Tree Tops (but a 
slightly different part).

North - Back Halls - Floor 1
East - Tree Tops - Naughty Dog Office
West - Tree Tops - Stair Room

Stair Room (Enter from Tree Tops - West from Temple Foyer)

Kill Guards - Search and get cloak (Achilles), use it - Down takes you into 
the Mem Santi Maze (make sure you have the spell Phonus Homus so that you 
can get out again).

Mem Santi Maze›@ (Down from the Stair Room)

N.B. Make sure you have the Spell of Phonus Homus (see SPELLS) before you 
enter the Maze so that you can get back to Same Mercon.

Search the Maze for Hidden Doors and go through them until you find Mems 
First Room.  Once you are in this room go Down to get the Artifact of Mem.  
Now cast Phonus Homus to go back to Same Mercon.


Back Halls (North from Temple Foyer)

ems Second Room - Yin (Sword) - from Entrance on Floor 1  N,N,N,N,U,N,N,N,
W,W,W,Search - Behind all other hidden doors are guards but if you need the 
gold this is a good way of getting it.

Treasury - from ladder on Floor 2 from Floor 1 N,N,N,E,E,S,Search,S,S,U,S,
Unlock,S.  To remove TRAPS - Floor - Using knife to jam spikes.  Right wall 
- Using knife to jam panel.  Ceiling - Squirting oil into cracks in 
ceiling.  Right side of bench - Squirting oil inside hole.  Sceptre - 
Crushing top of Sceptre.  Gem - Removing Gem from stand.

Waterfall (South from Head Waters)

Mermaids Ring - from Entrance N,N,N,E,N,N,W,W,N,Search,N,Search - give ring 
to Mermaid outside Waterfall and another door will appear (this is the door 
to Chamber of Love.

Moe (Helm) - from Entrance N,N,N,E,E,E,S,Search,S,Search - Use Moe.

Chamber of Love - from Entrance N,N,N,E,N,N,E,N,N,W,N,Search,N - TRAPS - 
Torch - Pulling torch forward.  Pedestal - Sliding knife under pedestal.  
Steal Arm of Love - (gives 100% Constitution) Artifact.

Tel Empor (South of Same Mercon)

St. George (Sword) - from Entrance  E,S,S,E,S,D,N,E,E,E,S,S,W,W,W,W,N,N,
E,E,S,W,D,E,E,D,S,Search,S,D,S,E,E,E,E,E,Search,E,S,Search.

Abyss (click on 'Other' if you have Tellocs Skull from Tel Hande Basement 
and throw in Abyss) - from Entrance  E,S,S,E,E,S,D,N,E,E,E,S, S,W,W,W,W,N,N,
E,E,S,W,D,E,E,E,E,E,S,U,N,E.  To get out either cast Phonus Homus or from 
Abyss  N,N,W,W,W,W,W,W,S,S,U,N,W,W,N,N,W,U.

Tellocs Library (behind large strange door) - from Entrance (Level 1)  
E,S,S,W,N,D,S,D,E,S,Search,S,S,D,N,N,N,W,W,W,N,N,N,W,W,W,S,W,W,N,N,W, 
Use Key of Koran to open door, W, Cast Huvius Vacuumus to find Scroll.

Hall of Strength - from Entrance (Level 1) E,S,S,E,E,S,D,N,E,E,E,S,S,
W,W,W,W,N,N,E,E,S,W,D,E,E,D,S,Search,S,D,S,E,E,E,S,S,W,W,S,D,E,E,N,E, 
Search,E,E,E,S,Search,S,Search,S,Search,S,E,Search,E,Search,E.  To 
remove TRAPS - Torches - Pulling torch holders forward.  Ceiling - Using 
rope to secure loose rock.  Front of Pedestal - Pushing buttons 1 and 3.  
Brick - Slipping knife under the brick.

After finding Scroll (Tellocs Log) in Tellocs Library, when you are outside 
Tel Empor click on 'Other' and say Tuna.  A Staircase appears which goes up 
to Secret Lab.  Cast Elmus Pastus when you have 100% in all Attributes i.e. 
Wisdom, Strength, Luck, Constitution etc. this is the end of the game.

Tel Hande (North from Same Mercon, make sure you have the Passport from the 
Guard on the Same Mercon Bridge (you get this by killing him)

Tellocs Skull (throw in Abyss in Tel Empor) - from Exit on Floor 1  W,W,W,
N,N,D,S,S,E,S,S,Search.

Tel Hande Library - from Exit on Floor 1  W,W,N,N,N,W,N,E,N,W,N,E,E,S,E,
U,E,E,S,E,S,S,D,S,S,E,D,N,N,N,E,E,U,U,U,N,Search,N, Cast Huvius Vacuumus to 
find Scroll.

Bruce (Sword) - you have to win Contest - from Exit  W,N,N,Cast Barbus 
Rubinus, N (DO NOT attempt this unless you have Plate of Strength).

Globe of Power (get off Magician King after killing him on Tower Roof) - 
from Tel Hande Library  S,U,U,N,Unlock,N, Cast Barbus Rubinus and use Bruce 
(from Contest), Fight Magician King (kill King and Blue Dragons then get 
Globe) - (gives 100% Charisma) Artifact


Lands End (furthest South-West corner of map)

The One Tree - go up tree - TRAP - Egg - carefully taking egg.  Steal 
Phoenix Egg - this is used with the Scroll of Infinity.


Al Handratta's Hut (from Lands End E,E,N,E,N)

Al Handratta's Library - from entrance N,W,S,Search,S,Search - take Scroll

Hall of Wisdom - from entrance N,N,E,Search,E,E,S,S,E,E - take Glove (Hare) 
and Gem of Wisdom (gives 100% Wisdom)

Stone Halls - from entrance N,N,E,Search,E,E,S,S,W,Search,W,D - the halls 
take you to the large strange West door to Tellocs Library

Tellocs Library - from entrance N,N,E,Search,E,E,S,S,W,Search,W,D,
E,E,E,E,E,E,E,S,E,E,E,E,E,E,Use Key of Koran,E - Cast Huvius Vacuumus in 
Library to find Tellocs Log (Scroll)


How to complete game:

See last paragraph on Tel Empor (you can still go back into the game after 
completing it, so once it says The End you have done it).

AND THAT'S ALL THERE IS TO IT!

End..............