Kid Chaos


 CHEAT MODE::

 There are two cheats available for this game. Both of them should be
 entered in as passwords. Once entered, a new option will appear on
 the main options menu. They are as follows:

 'HARDASNAILS' - Access to all areas, toggle time, doors etc.
 'ARCADEGAMES' - Access to all end of level arcade games.
 'BMNEPGHITJJ' - (????? ????)

  WORLd 1 :  LFEGOKOKQCK
  WORLd 2 :  MDORQAPKHOL
  WORLd 3 :  NRLQTAGASIM
  WORLd 4 :  OPTSQARBLOD

                              KID CHAOS HINTS 
                                by FISH/LSd

Level Tips
~~~~~~~~~~

3) Toy Factory.

There are no break-through walls on this level, but there are plenty
of hidden rooms - just walk through the walls to get in. Some rooms
are hidden in the mine shafts. Beware of stompers, for which you may
need a run up. Even if they're just off the screen, you can still hear
them. When you're in the pipes, steer by holding the joystick in the
direction you want to go.
  Most switches just call the lifts - when clicked these stay on for a
short time, then go off. Other switches either stay on or off. These
turn the fire and the stompers on, so sometimes it's best npot to
touch them! The cars are really hard to finish off - a run up and a
whizz is your best bet.
  When you get sucked into a pipe, you may have to jump very soon after
you come out, so beware. There's a real nasty bit where you get shot
out of a pipe, and if you don't slow down immediately you'll be sent
through a one way door and you'll have to go all the way round again.
On some hydro-platforms you must jump at the right time so you don't
hit your head on the spikes in the roof.

End Of Level Challenge.

Each teddy bear has a number above it: This is the number of time you
must shoot it before it disappears. The best way is to follow them
from right to left along the bottom row, shooting them nine times.
Count your shots, then you won't shoot too many and hit a duck on the
top row. Each time a teddy makes it across a row it gains three lives.
Be careful, and avoid shooting ducks at all costs.

4) Techno Fortress.

Spaceships and invaders rain down shots, so it's best to get as high
as possible before you jump on them. Be careful of robots with
electricity which goes on and off. To get through moving laser walls
you must run very slowly, but if you get hit there's probably time to
make a run for it.
  On moving platforms where you have to jump from one to another, it's
best to edge to the right hand side so you can get a better view.
Watch out for them changing direction as well. On the second map - the
race level - time is pretty tight. You must learn when to just so you
don't fall back down, because if you do you won't make it to the end.
On the bottom level where you have to jump hight up over the bits of
electicity, you must take off on the steepest part of the up-slope to
get enough speed for the next jump.
  There are two extra lives on this level, and it's possible to get
absolutly everything as there are plenty of hidden extra time bonuses.
Level 3 introduces teleports - these always take you to the same
place, but make sure you know where. There are lots of hidden monitors
to destroy, and you have to find them all to get out.

End Of Level Challenge.

Shoot the invaders down in rows like the arcade game, so they will
take longer to travel from side to side, and take longer to come down
the screen. There can be no more that three invader bullets on the
screen at any one time - so just keep shooting.

5) Ruined City


Flocks of birds dropping bombs are best attacked from the side or the
top. Watch out for falling breeze-blocks and rolling stones. You can
only hit the electric fish when they are not buzzing. Other hazards
include falling guillotines and swinging axes. Timing here is crucial
- by now you should be good at accelerating, jumping and stopping.
  You'll need an eagle eye for spikes, which are just above the surface
of the grass.
On the later maps, the destruction count is higher - 100%, in fact, on
level 5.3, so you have to hit all the concrete posts. One large room
on 5.2 has four rows of posts, and to get them all you must make four
passes, collecting a row at a time.
  There are many 'appearing' platforms, so if you get stuck underground
it's worth jumping around. Look for irregular brick patterns to give
you a clue where they are. Also on the last level there is a
underwater maze - don't go in there unless you have full health
because the water decreases your energy.

End Of Level Challenge.

The spikes never come up in the same place twice in a row, so you're
safe where they came up last. Keep well away from the birds - they're
not worth shooting, and they just get in the way. If you get a shield,
shoot the blocks on the edge and don't worry about the spikes: that
way you can collect another shield before the first one runs out. If
you get a Quinto Gun you can shoot two blocks at once. GOOD LUCK <><