                        *- King of Chicago Docs -*
                              by:
                               The Deviator

Well, since the game isn't cut-and-dry like a Sierra Game, I'll give
you a few pointers.  Try to get the game where it starts and you're in
the chair saying, "This is where I belong...." or you are standing in
the hall saying, "The boss will pull up in a few minutes...."  Go on
the bombing run with the
boys. Throw the bomb when you're at the window BEFORE the one with the
light. If it's the first window, throw the bomb as soon as you're onto
the screen. If you miss, don't worry, you'll have a second chance.
     The next thing to do is get Ben on your side, don't be direct at
first about "bumping off" the old man, but when you do ask him, offer
him 20 grand a month, he will accept 90% of the time.  After you kill
the old man (you should be able to figure that out), first take over
the west side.  Offer Alderman Burke two thousand a month (Select "Buy
him while he's still friendly" and "I'll bet he comes cheap").  Either
before or after you do this you should "hit the dives".  Bet a heap on
the craps roll.  If you lose, you'll probably lose the game.  If you
win, you'll probably win.  Next, go for the East Side (The Loop).  If
you won the Craps game, Alderman Burke will probably become mayor.
From then on you're pretty much all set.  You should meet up with a
problem where some of your girls are being kidnapped. "I always said
Dames was trouble".  Select things so that you end up getting out your
Tommy-Gun (Thompson) and "cruise the alley" (I can't be specific
because the actual quotes are different every time).  Go up to the
room and select to shoot your way into the room.  Blow off the
doorknob and then you'll see hands with guns coming out of the
darkness to shoot you.  Make sure you're over the hands with your
sights before you shoot (take your time).  You can get shot AT LEAST
twice before you die, maybe more, so stay calm and it'll get easy.
Next, go for The South Side.  There may be several ways to win, but
this is my way (and it worked great).  Select Make a Hit on Santucci,
select a bomb instead of a single bullet.  The bombing run is the same
as before, use the same pointers as above.  If the run is successful,
you'll then have to enter the smoking Palace and blow away Guido and
then Santucci, and then you won!!! So that's it.....