                                    NARC

                           docs typed by MERKWooD

Scenario


NARC - now you have a chance to infiltrate the MR BIG CORPORATION, the scourge
of the underworld. Outwit the army of body guards, gangs of charisma-bypass
patients in trench coats, the bullet brain with the build of a rhinoceros and
the breath of a drug beetle, packs of vicious canine yappies, the psychotic
clown with the evil sense of humour - you'll die, but not laughing!

But it's not all bad! You've got a chopper to back you up, a mean shiny street
machine, some heavy metal hardware and pretty neat moves. Hit the enemy - and,
finally, come up against the baddest, the biggest - Mr Big!


Controls


This is a one or two player game controlled by joystick or keyboard. When
playing a two player game both players may select a joystick, or one player
may select keyboard.

KEYS
Q           - Up
A           - Down
O           - Left
P           - Right
LEFT ALT    - Fire
              (To fire missiles hold down fire button/key for s short time and
               then release it.)
   Quickly tap UP when standing to JUMP
   Quickly tap UP when crouching to STAND
   Quickly tap DOWN when standing to CROUCH
F1          - Pause
F10         - Restart game
F9          - Toggle Music/FX
   To arrest an enemy stand by them for a short period of time.


Gameplay


Level 1 - Fight your way through the junkyard and arrest as many of the enemy
as possible for bonus points. Collect bullets dropped by the enemy to obtain
rapid fire. Then locate the door which will take you through the pipeline.

Level 2 - You are inside a subway station. Watch out for Coatmen coming out
of the train doors and try to arrest them. Locate the red safe card to return
to the junkyard.

Level 3 - Having successfully negotiated the subway you return to the junkyard
where you must seize cash, drugs, bullets and missiles, arresting people where
possible. A bonus will be awarded for drugs and cash collected.

Level 4 - Krak street - you are on route to the evil drug cartel HQ. Here you
will meet Spike Rush who throws hypodermic needles at you - if they hit you
they will inject you with drugs and you will loose strength. You must find your
way to the Krak Stop drugs lab.

Level 5 - You are inside the drugs lab where the Krak is made. The lab is full
of vials and beakers whcih you can destroy with missiles for bonus points..
Vicious dogs will block your path and attack you. Find the blue safe card to
exit from the lab.

Level 6 - Outside the lab you will find yourself on a bridge where you will
meet Joe Rockhead the drug addict. You cannot arrest him, so you must blast
him before he gets near you. Make your way across the bridge - you can jump
into passing cars and drive them to cross more quickly.

Level 7 - Once across the bridge you are back on the streets of Sunset Strip.
Kinky Pinky the mad knifeman appears here. He will attempt to kidnap the
female escorts. You need to blast Kinky in order to protect the escorts as
you move through this level. There are five exit doors from this level. One
is locked and will require a silver safe card and the other four lead to four
sub-levels.
These are called the Kennals, Kinky's Big Top, The Swamp and The Scrap Heap.
One of the sub-levels contains the silver safe card you need but you will have
to find out which one

Level 8 - You are outside the nursery where Skyhigh grows his drugs. Blast your
way through the gunmen to get to the entrance of the nursery.

Level 9 - Fight your way through the gunmen and Joe Rockhead and you move
through the greenhouse. Collect the illegal drug plants for an extra bonus but
watch out - some of them are booby trapped. Make sure you blast the gunmen as
one of them will be carrying the green safe card to exit the nursery.

Level 10 - Back on the streets you must make your way through downtown towards
the headquarters of Mr Big's evil organization KRAK. When you reach the build-
ing and enter you will have to fight through the headquarters to reach Mr Big.

Level 11 - Once inside Mr Big's office he will attack you in his wheelchair.
When you finally manage to overcome him he will leave a gold safe card.

Level 12 - Mr Big having recovered from your attack is now really angry! You
will need all of your skill and a good supply of missiles to finally defeat
him. He will then drop another gold card. You can use this to enter a special
bonus level.


Status Panel


The Status Panel displays: drugs seized, cash seized, criminals busted, number
of bullets and missiles, score, lives remaining (depicted by helmets), safe
cards collected, score required for extra life and scanner showing sector and
position of the enemy.


Hints and Tips


At the start of the game bust as many people as possible as this will bring
you points.

Cash and drugs are worth collecting for points but bullets and missiles are
more important as they will help you to survive. If your bullet counter drops
to one you will only be able to fire one bullet at a time. Collect more bullets
and you can use rapidfire.

Keep moving at all times to stop the baddies getting you in their line of sight

Try to save your missiles for later in the game - you will need them.