kiNGdOM Presents  ]==-->   NAUGHTY ONES - USER MANUAL   <--==[

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Amiga & Amiga AGA

1. Insert your NAUGHTY ONES game disk into the default disk drive.
2. Plug your joystick port 2. If you are 2 players, then plug a joystick
   in each port.
3. Turn on your computer and monitor. The game will now load automatically.

THE GAME

In NAUGHTY ONES you must help John and Jim fight their way through 5 different
worlds on their quest to defeat the evil king and returning to the real world.

Each world consists of several rooms where you have to find the key to con-
tinue. On the way you will have to fight different monsters. When they die,
they leave coins behind which you can pick up for extra points. There are also
various items in the rooms which you can pick up for either points or to give
your character special abilities such as new weapons, speed, immortality, or
extra lives. At the end of each world you have to fight the master monster of
that world.

There are a lot special elements in NAUGHTY ONES such as lifts, conveyer
belts, balloons, flooding, etc. Each demands a special approach and is a
challenge. You should also look for the hidden bonus rooms and levels. But
most important of all:

GET THEM BEFORE THEY GET YOU!!!

COPY PROTECTION

When you first load NAUGHTY ONES, an instruction will appear on the screen
requesting you to enter the name ot the enemy that is displayed on the
screen. To do this you will need your copyprotection sheet.

Hold it against the light so that you can see the pictures and names of the
enemies on the sheet. Find the name of the enemy you can see on the screen
and type it in. You will have 3 attempts to get it right.

Interactivision has invested a lot of time and money in making NAUGHTY ONES.
It is therefore illegal to copy. Only by avoiding piracy can we continue to
supply you with high (?) quality games.

CONTROLS

Main control   Joystick
Fire           Joystickbutton
Music          M
Sound effects  S
Pause          P
Quit           ESC

1 OR 2 PLAYERS

You can play NAUGHTY ONES alone or together with a friend.

You start the game pressing the fire button. If player 1 starts the game, it
will run in 1 player mode. If player 2 starts the game, it will run in 2
player mode.

BONUSES

In NAUGHTY ONES you can pick up bonus items which gives you extra abilities.
There are the following:

(KEY)      Opens the exit
 (+)       Bouncing killer shots
(HEART)    Extra life
(DROP)     Removes water
(SHIELD)   Immortality
(FLASH)    Vertical killer shots
  (->)     Extra speed
  (?)      Any of the above

WORLDS

In NAUGHTY ONES you have to fight your way through 5 different worlds to win
the game. Each world has its different style and enemies.

Mad Mechanics

In this world you will have to face the mechanical monsters of the 
Mad Mechanics. Look out for the deadly cranes, hidden cannons, and heat-
seeking missiles as your fight your way to the exit. On the way you will
have to pass lifts, conveyer belts and much more. 

Crazy Clock

In this world you will meet new obstacles as your opponents start throwing
and dropping things on you as you walk underneath them. Some of the enemies
are immortal, and your only hope is to avoid them. 

Foreign Affairs

In the world of Foreign Affairs you must challenge the Russian inhabitants.
Cossacks, deadly red stars, periscopes, and much, much more.

Furious Fire

The pyromaniacs of the Furious Fire world are competent opponents. You will
have to defeat them before they set to fire the entire level. But they are
not the only danger. There are also various other enemies that will try to
prevent you from reaching Egypt. 

Evil Egypt

This is the final confrotation. On your way to fight the evil king, you will
have to defeat the mummies, Egyptians, and snakes which inhabit Evil Egypt.
Once you have defeated the evil king, John and Jim can return to the real
world.