NEMAC IV

 
What is NEMAC 4

NEMAC 4 is a 3D action game (or is it a VR game?) with features like leaving
multitasking/system untouched, support of OCS/ECS/AGA, Gfx boards, using any
suitable screenmode, window resizing and more ...

The .config file

You can do additional preferences for i-glasses! or Graffiti in the ".config"
file that is in the NEMAC_4 directory.


These are the possible commands:
	IGL-BAUD
	IGL-TFILTER
	IGL-MFILTER
	IGL-SMOOTH
	IGL-PRE
	DEVICE

	GRA-WINLEFT

GRA-WINLEFT <x> is the only one command for Graffiti. This hardware may
possibly need another screen position in horizontal direction. Our prototype
needed often another value than it is written in the documentation. So we
decided to make this configurable. You can enter (positive and negative)
numbers. First you should try to use the values given in the Graffiti
documentation. If these are not suitable you should experiment a little bit.
Please note that a softscroll value of 1 is 2 for this command! Always use
even numbers. ("GRA_WINLEFT 2")

IGL-BAUD <x> is the baud rate you want to use for communications with your
i-glasses! The default value is 19200 baud and that should only be altered
when your serial device or cabling has difficulties at this speed. The baud
rate should be as high as possible to get a good mean value of the headtracker,
but it may not be greater than 19200 baud.

IGL-TFILTER <x> and IGL-MFILTER <x> are the i-glasses! tilt and magnetic
filtering. Here you can enter values between 0 and 7. What these filters
exactly do depends obviously on the version of your i-glasses! and you should
read the documentation for further information. Our i-glasses! ran best with
values of 7 for both commands. 

IGL-SMOOTH <x> and IGL-PRE <x> are commands for our own headtracker soothing
routines. This was necessary because the headtracker gives inaccurate values
for the heading direction. If you enter values of 0, smoothing is disabled.
IGL-SMOOTH means from how many values a mean value is calculated. This should
be between 0 and 20. IGL-PRE precalculates the heading from the actual movement
and should have a value between 0 and 6. If you are dissatisfied with the
default values you might experiment a little bit, but, it is very difficult to
try to get accurate values from inaccurate ones. :-)

DEVICE <name>: You can enter a name of a alternative serial device which is
connected with your i-glasses!



" How to Start NEMAC 4  "

NEMAC_4 can be started by a double click on the icon via Workbench or in
a shell. If you start it from a shell, you have to cd into that directory,
because otherwise the maze.cld can not be found.

If you want to save screenshots (be careful, an extra Buffer is
allocated!), you have to start it from a shell with the option
s<name>!<x-size>!<y-size>. If you start it up for example typing
"NEMAC_4 spic!320!256", every time you press "s" in the game a snapshot
of the window will be saved, named "pic.0001", "pic.0002" and so on,
sized 320x256 pixels. The screenshot is saved in the actual directory,
so copy it to your harddisk first!


 Preferences

If you start NEMAC IV, the preferences requester appears:

<Selected Screenmode>

Here the current selected screenmode is shown by name.


Select Screenmode

If you click this button, a screenmode requester appears.

In the left window the suitable screenmodes found on your Amiga are
shown, in the right one you can see some informations about the current
selected screenmode (frequencies, number of colours etc.)

All screenmodes more than 160 pixels width and more than 128 lines high,
extra halfbrite mode or a depth of 8 bitplanes are shown.

Please have a look at the frequencies of the selected screenmode. If they
go over the ones in your monitor's specification you have a good chance
to destroy it.


Close Workbench

Closes the Workbench if no other program runs on the Workbench screen.
This gives you some bytes of Chip Memory if you are short on RAM.


Chunky To Planar Modus

Chunky 2 Planar mode: Here you can select the method of converting the
rendered chunky data into the screen's bitplane mode. CPU+Blitter is
recommended for all Amigas with a CPU < 68060 :-) CPU+Blitter is disabled
for Amigas with the old Blitter, because it is not capable of moving
the required amount of memory.

Chunky to planar means the method of converting the chunky raw data
so that you can see it on screen. The picture that is rendered lies
in chunky raw format in memory, that means that every one byte
represents one pixel. If you use bitplane-orientated screens, these
pixels must be spread over eight bytes.

If you have selected a gfx-board screenmode or Graffiti output, this
button is disabled because no conversion is needed.


Memory size

LARGE: The program tries to allocate 1.7 MB RAM. Here you can achieve
best graphics detail.

SMALL: Now the program just tries to get 840 KB RAM. Now the textures
and monsters have less detail so they fit into this tiny amount of
memory :-)

AUTO: If you have selected this option, the program first tries to
allocate 1.7 MB, and if this fails, 840KB with the corresponding
loss in detail.


i-glasses! Mode

This button gives you six options:

Off:        Nothing of the i-glasses! is supported
Use:        3D output for i-glasses! is enabled
Use/Trk:    3D output for i-glasses! and the headtracker are enabled,
            you can look left and right, but don't run in the direction
            you look
Use/Hd Trk: 3D output for i-glasses! and the headtracker are enabled and
            you run always the direction you look.
Tracker:    Only the headtracker is enabled, you can look left and right,
            but don't run in the direction you look

Head Trk:   Only the headtracker is enabled and you run always the
            direction you look.

To get a correct 3D output, please make sure that an INTERLACE mode is
selected that the i-glasses! can display (i.e. PAL or NTSC interlace)



Save

Here the current preferences are saved to ENV:NEMAC_4.prefs and
ENVARC:NEMAC_4.prefs.


Use

Here you start the game with the current preferences.


Quit

Never press this button :-)


The Main Menu

The main menu looks like this:

	START NEW GAME - Starts a new game at the first level.
	LOAD OLD GAME  - here you can load and play an old saved game.
                         Make your selection using cursor up/down,
                         Shift and cursor up/down for jumping a page
                         forward/backwards and <RETURN> for selecting
                         a game. If you press <ESC> you come back to the
                         main menu.
	INTRO          - Shows the intro once again.
	QUIT           - Quits immidately

Loading of a level takes about 10 seconds, because 1 to 2 MB of data must
be read and remapped to the current colour map.



The Game

If the level is loaded, you will 'wake up' in the starting room.
On the screen you see how many ammunition, what door codes and how many
life energy you have.

By pressing <right> key you turn right, by pressing the <left> key you
turn left, of course. By pressing the <speedup> key you run faster.

If you press the <strafe> key and hit the <left> or <right> key, you will
go left or right, not turn.

If you shoot, please keep in mind that the bombs do not explode when they
hit the ground, they explode by pressing the <ex bombs> key in the order
of throwing them out. Of course, bombs can also attached to monsters and
objects. It might appear that a bomb doesn't explode immidiately. If that
occurs it will do so if it thinks it is the right time to do it :-)
This is not a bug, it's a feature.

Barrels can be moved around if you stand in front of them.

Switches often start actions over a large distance (e.g. letting walls
appear or vanish). They can be demolished by a explosion that is near
enough. If this happens, the action is started, but not more reversible.

When starting up the game, you first see the intro. If you hit the 
<RETURN> key, the next part of the intro comes at once. By hitting
any other key, you get to the Main Menu.

Between the levels a statistics is shown with total and level information.
You get to the Level Menu by hitting any key.

In the options menu you can set the window size and
other parameters. You get into that menu by pressing the <ESC> key
during the game.

If you are dead, press the <RETURN> key, if you want to start the level
up again using the last known status (not in level one) or press
the <SPACE> key if you want to start up with standard status.

By pressing the <G> key during the game you can adjust the gamma
correction (sort of brightening) in five levels.

Pause is witched on hitting the key <P>. If the game is in pause mode,
it is in wait state, i.e. no CPU time is wasted.



The Level Menu

You can select:
- Next Level	You are transported to the next level.
- Save Game	The current game standings are saved.
- Replay Level	Statistics are discarded and you replay the last level.
- Exit		Quit game and go back to the main menu.


Keyboard Configuration

You can define the keyboard configuration for yourself. If you click on the
button, another window is opened where the current definitions are shown.
Right from the short description there is another small button that enables
key recording. Any key you hit now will be used for the specified function.
Some keys are predefined and cannot be used for playing (see below).

On the bottom of the window there are four buttons:
- Default        The default configuration will be loaded.
- Last saved     The last saved configuration will be loaded.
- Cancel         The definitions are discarded.
- OK             The defintions you made will be checked and then you go back
                 to the preferences requester. The first three weapons may use
                 the same key, everything else has to use a different key.

These are the functions you can define:

Chain gun	Aha.	
Plasma gun	The same :-)
Grenades:	Guess what
Bombs:		And here?
Forward:	Go forward
Backward:	Go backward
Left:		Turn left
Right:		Turn right
Ex bombs:	Bombs explode in the order you throwed them.
Fetch bomb:	Here you can collect the bombs you have already throw out.
Speedup:	Lets you faster get away from trouble.
Strafe:		Force sidestep
Strafe L:	Special key for only going left
Strafe R:	The same to the right
Cross:          With thiskey you can switch on any crosswires you like :-)
                This might help you aiming at monsters a little bit.
Map on/off:	Turn on auto-map
Map zoom +:	Zoom the map in
Map zoom -:     Zoom the map out
Ground map:	Texturemapping for ground and ceiling on/off
Switch On:	Press button


Using Joystick or Mouse                 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you want to use joystick (port 2) or mouse (port 1), you have to
click on one of the checkboxes. You can only use either joystick
or mouse or none of them.

To use any function click on the box of the function, so that it is
in "record mode" and then click on the joystick/mouse button you
want to use. In mouse mode the walking functions are fixed to
the mouse of course.


How to quit
~~~~~~~~~~~
You can quit the game by choosing 'Exit' in the options menu.


Notes
~~~~~
The weapons may be fired all at once if you have enough ammunition.

Because of a bug in the A1200-keyboard the program can not notice
hitting a key while another is pressed. The default key definitions
are made keeping that in mind, so that the problems should be
minimized.


Predefined Keys
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<ESC>          Options Menu
<P>            Pause
<S>            Save screenshots (must be enabled with argument startup)
<G>            Gamma correction
<SPACE>        Start up again when you are dead



Options Screen

The options menu looks like this:

     WINDOW SIZE       - Here you can resize the window on the screen.
                         This can be done in steps of 8 pixels in each
                         direction by using the cursor keys. By pressing
                         <SHIFT> while resizing, the steps are 32 pixels.
                         If you use Picasso/CyberGraphX output, the
                         horizontal steps are always 32 pixels.
     DETAIL LEVEL      - (not while using picasso)
                         The pixel size can be set depending on the chunky
                         2 planar method. CPU+Blitter: 1x1 pixel or 2x2
                         pixel, CPU C2P 1x1 or 1x2 pixel, Graffiti 1x1, 1x2,
                         2x1 or 2x2 pixels. The window size will be adapted
                         on the pixel size.
     SOUND FX          - ON/OFF
     EXIT TO MAIN MENU - Quit the game and go back to the main menu 

                    

Some Hints

If a monster is shooting at you, it is better to strafe left and right
while shooting back. So the monster can't hit you as much.

When you stand in a room with many monsters, before running quickly away
you should shoot at a monster standing in the background. When it starts
shooting more heavily it hits the other monsters which will blow it up
and maybe themselves too. So the level becomes a little bit easier.

Doors that are not locked by a key code can be opened by shooting at
them.

The weapons can be all be fired the same time, if you have the right
ammunition.

The ground and ceiling texture mapping can be switched off by the <ground
map> key. This raises the rendered speed.


If you have difficulties in starting the program because of insufficient RAM, you should
- Boot your Amiga without startup sequence
- Because the game needs preferences data from "ENV:" and "ENVARC:", make sure
  that both assigns exist and are assigned correctly
- Change the directory to that one containing NEMAC 4
- Start the game


Story of NEMAC IV

Nemac IV -- The story
---------------------

In 2048 the superpowers decided to hand global defense over to 
computers.The technicians of the three ruling alliances built one 
headquarter for each of them. Each headquarter was connected with 
the others to coordinate all decisions with the other alliances.

The essential part of each HQ was a neural computer, with the 
ability to analyse the global situation within seconds. The tactical 
reactions that could influence the life of millions came out faster 
than a bullet hits its target.

The three megacomputers were called  NEMAC I - III.

But the system was not untouchable.

During the North - South Wars 2057-2065 a commando unit slipped 
through all defenses and was able to hit one of the HQ's. Dispute 
about competence and the human Factor paralysed the system when it 
was most needed.

Only Nemac II managed to avoid the worst by massive employment of 
conventional units and strategic nuclear weapons. The principle of 
computer control had shown its effiency.

In the troublous time of the years 2066 to 2073 the whole earth was like 
a big barrel full of gunpowder.

The new founded alliance NSS decided to build a central command unit 
which was designed to react fully independent to a possible attack. 
All automatic combat units and the complete nuclear potential were 
controlled by this HQ. The command unit was named like its brain, 
the most powerful neural computer ever created. Nemac IV.

The Structure of Nemac IV
-------------------------

Nemac IV is a bunker, reaching several hundred meters down into 
solid granite. The lowest level contains a fusion reactor that 
provides independent power supply.

Embedded in the system are all communication and defense satellites 
giving it control over all military movements. Nemac IV and all 
nuclear defense installations run fully autonomous.

The structure of the bunker, as much as the power of the defensive 
installations make a direct assault on Nemac IV virtually 
impossible. Nor the bunker itself neither its periphery can be 
destroyed by a nuclear attack.

The parts of the central computer are spread over the whole 
building. The destruction of single components has no influence on 
the functionality of the system because of the ability of the 
neural net to take over tasks from destroyed parts similar to the 
human brain but a thousand times faster.

To avoid an assault by a commando team or an army that has taken the 
first levels, the floors were built displaced. There is no direct 
way down.

The essential parts of the computer are situated in deeper 
levels. They are protected by automated combat units, that keep 
commandos from proceeding into Nemac IV.

Given the theoretical situation, that it is taken by the enemy Nemac 
IV would give destruction tasks to all its units, fire all its 
missiles and subsequently initiate the selfdestruction sequence.

The Problem
-----------

Just before Nemac IV was completed its systems should have been 
tested by running a simulation. The program simulated a situation in 
which enemy parachute troops have taken key positions in our country 
and in which various command levels have been infiltrated or 
sabotaged. Additionally simulated a broad scale assault.

They only forgot one thing. They didn't tell Nemac IV that this was 
only a simulated conflict.

The Situation
-------------

Nemac IV took full control of the defense installations, as he 
should do, in case of a conflict.

As the data he received from his surveillance drones differed from 
that of the simulation he decided that must have been disrupted by 
the enemy.

50 milliseconds after the simulation had been started Nemac IV 
launched a fullscale counterattack.

5 seconds later all human beings within the bunker had been 
classified as enemies because of their behaviour. Only ten seconds 
later there was no living human being within the walls of the 
bunker.

Four of the five external control rooms also received the status: 
Infiltrated by enemy forces. They were obliterated by a massive 
blast of conventional missiles. Control room 5 is unknown to the 
computer.

There is no more chance to prevent a war. The conventional units were 
stopped but the computer will soon start to fire its nuclear weapons 
because of a lack of feedback from his troops.

We only must prevent him from blowing up our own territories, 
assuming that there are enemy forces.

One of the control rooms was able to disable the internal 
surveillance cameras and communication lines just before it was 
blown away.

Therefore Nemac IV has no control of his defense installations and no 
information on what is going on inside of the bunker. But all the 
automated combat units are still fully operational.
  
The Mission
-----------

During the first testphase a FIKM-7 unit has been equipped with a 
remote control to destroy combat drones that are out of control.

This unit is still fully operational and unknown to Nemac IV. 

We believe that the computer sees no direct threat for him in the 
moment, that means as long as the surveillance outside the bunker 
doesn't sense an attack.

All documents are inside the bunker or in buildings in its nearer 
region. An intrusion into this area could be mistaken as an 
attack.

YOU are to guide the FIKM-7 unit down to the reactor to blow it up.

We have only one chance.

We count on you.

FAILURE IS NOT AN OPTION


Credits
-------

Idea & Concept		Martin Schlott
			Oliver Groth
			Stefan Heinsen
Textures		Michael Amend
			Alex Grasso
			Oliver Groth
Music			Stefan Schulz
Raytracing & Monster	Oliver Groth
Programming		Oliver Groth
			Stefan Heinsen
			Martin Schlott
Levels			Oliver Groth
			Stefan Heinsen
			Martin Schlott
			Stefan Holländer

The Picasso II support routines are by VillageTronic, Hannover, Germany.


Thanks to ...

We want to thank:

	- Alex Grasso 
	- Steffen P. Häuser
	- Michael Amend
	- Stefan Holländer
	- Stefan Schulz
	- Executor from IRC #amigager
	- IRC #amigager for many good tips
	- Aminet, those who maintain the sites and those who wrote the
	  software and uploaded it.
	- Star Trek :-)


	
Details of the Engine

This programm is fully system friendly. Multitasking keeps untouched.

This game should run on every Amiga that has the specifications that are
required.

The graphic output adapts automatically to the possibilities and bitmap
depth of your computer!

Nearly every screen with nealry every frequency can be selected. That means
that everyone can play the game on his favourite screen mode. It does NOT
just open a standard PAL or NTSC screen.

The keyboard definition is conforme to your keymap loaded.

The synchronisation of the game is independent from computer speed, because
it is just not synchronized by building a frame.

Textures can be scaled absolutely free in x- and y-direction on walls and
everything else without time loss.


Requirements

You need a computer with following specifications:

- An Amiga :-)
- A MC68020 CPU or better
- Amiga OS 2.0 or better
- At least 2 MB continouus Memory, Fast RAM is recommended, but not
  necessary

- Graphics: This program runs on AGA- AND OCS/ECS-Amiga, i.e. on all types
  of Amigas that meet the requirements above, not only on A1200 and A4000.
  Besides, it supports Graffiti, i-glasses!, Picasso II and CyberGraphX.