NEVER MIND

Welcome to the most challenging test of joystick-juggling and mind
muddling ever created on your computer (or anybody else's for that
matter). Two hundred and fifty screens of isometric three dimensional
puzzlement guaranteed to turn all but the most impossibly intelligent
brains into vegetables. A combination of computer-generated and hand
crafted puzzles that will keep you glued to your computer for ever
(well alright for a very long then). If you complete this game you
will be heralded as brainbox of the century. If you don't then NEVER
MIND.

The game consists of a specially constructed series of rooms. Each
room is made up of three surfaces at right angles to each other. You
may walk upright on each surface regardless of its orientation. 

Each surface is divided into a series of large tiles. You are free to
move between these in any direction except diagonally. Moving between
surfaces is achieved via warp tubes. By simply standing on these you
will be warped to another surface. Only trial and error will reveal
how the warp tubes are linked. 

Some of the tiles on one or more of the surfaces will when placed
correctly form a picture. One or more tiles have been removed from
each picture and placed in strategic positions in the room.

Your task is to restore each picture witin the set time limit. If you
succeed you may progress to more difficult rooms.

THE PICTURE TILES

Each time you enter a room you will see it being constructed before
your very eyes. You will also discover that you have a blank tile in
your possession.

To exchange this for a picture tile you must first stand on the tile
that you want and then press fire. The blank tile will now be under
you and you will carry the tile that was previously there. You may now
repeat this process with other tiles until the picture is
reconstructed. Finally you should be carrying a spare tile when you
exit the room.

The rooms start with a picture of 3 by 3 tiles with one fragment
removed. In later rooms there will be two or three pictures to
reconstruct each on a different surface and animated as well.

THE TIME LIMIT

Each room must be completed within a set time. This is a mere forty
five seconds for the first screens, but you are allowed larger amounts
of time for the more difficult rooms.

If you are quick enough to finish a room with time to spare you will
be awarded a bonus. You may also if you are feeling confident, set a
lower time limit and increase the size of your bonus as a result.

THE CHESS PIECES

On some screens you will encounter giant chess pieces. These move
around the rooms picking up tiles and moving them to random locations
and generally making a nuisance of themselves. So you will find it
even harder to complete the rooms. Frustating isn't it!

...AND THERE'S MORE

As if time limits and chess pieces were not enough you will also have
to contend with the following devious features:

    Islands and Causeways - later rooms are divided into islands which
are linked by causeways of moving blocks which you will have to
traverse to get from one island to another. But do be sure you are
quick about it after a while the causeway may begin to dissolve
leaving you stranded.

    Dissolving Tiles - In some rooms you won't even be able to rely on
the ground you stand on. Now you see it, now you don't.

    Transporter Tiles - As if you hadn't already got quite enough
problems on your hands, one minute you're busy pottering about putting
tiles in place and the next you find yourself unexpectedly thrust into
a completely different room... well, nobody said this would be easy!

HELP IS AT HAND...

If you manage to reach a high enough level, you will be given a
password that will allow you to enter the game at a more difficult
room. In addition you can also use the cheat key for some extra help.
This will show you the game sequence at an accelerated rate, giving
you a chance to observe the order in which blocks dissolve and so
forth. There is, however, a time penalty for using this feature.   


THE CONTROLS

JOYLEFT   Rotate man counterclockwise
JOYRIGHT  Rotate man clockwise
JOYUP     Move man forward in current direction
JOYDOWN   Enter Warp Tube
FIRE      Exchange Tile / Enter / Exit room

Use the mouse to move the pointer and press the left button to select
icons. These are:

HELP      Show completed picture
PAUSE     Pause the game
X2        Double Bonus
X4        Quad Bonus

                                                                       
----------------------------------------
|                                      |
| DOCS TYPED BY  |\/|ORNINGTON of D\/8 | 
|                                      |
---------------------------------------- 