                                 Night Hunter

                            docs typed by MERKWooD

Commands


1) Night Hunter is played only with the joystick.
2) To pause the game, press the spacebar.
3) It is not possible to play Night Hunter by using the keyboard.


Vampire


A dead being coming out of a tomb to suck the living's blood. He can change
into a bat or a werewolf in order to hunt down his victims. The vampire only
comes out at night; sunlight would be a crucifix. The only way to kill him is
to pierce his heart with a wooden stake. The most famous vampire is the Count.


Dracula


Until recently, humanity has been saved from the vampire's reign, thanks to
several holy medallions which were used to restore a balance between good and
evil on earth. The problem now is that Dracula has decided to appropriate
these medallions to create chaos and become master of the planet. The Professor
Von Helsing, a gallant vampire hunter, has heard about the horrible plans of
Dracula. He has sent his army of vampire killers, set traps, and warned the
population so that the vampire will not gather the medallions.


Object Of The Game


The game is made up of different levels, each one including 20 panels. To go
from one level to another, Dracula must collect 8 objects and find a magic
door (a blue or red door). The 8 objects are made up of 1 scroll, 1 red
bottle, 1 cross, and 5 keys. Each key enables you to open a door that leads
you to other panels of the level.
Each time Dracula has gone through 5 levels (when you reach a twon), he has
to collect these 8 objects and find the medallion in order to pass to the
next level. Once the medallion is found, you pass directly to the next level.
You are not obliged to go through one of the doors as in proceeding levels.


I. Commands


A) Joystick

Use the joystick to move Dracula (plug it in port 0).
To turn and walk in the desired direction, move the joystick right or left.
To bend down, pull the lever down.
To collect an object, pull the lever down if the object is on the ground, or
    press the fire button if it is elevated.
To use the stairs, pull the lever diagonally (up to climb, down to go down)
    when you are facing the stairs.

B) Keyboard controls

SPACEBAR   - Pause on/off
ARROW KEYS - moves the character in 8 directions
           - To change from Dracula into the bat, press the right-down,
             diagonal arrow key while pressing the fire key.
           - To change from Dracula into the werewolf, press the left-down,
             diagonal arrow key while pressing the fire key.
TAB KEY    - Fire


II. Features of the Characters


If you want to enter a place, stand in the middle of the door or thoroughfare
   and press the fire button while pulling the lever up.
To catch an enemy and suck his blood, press the fire button at just the right
   time to catch his throat. Keep the button pressed to drain his blood.
To change into a bat, pull the lever diagonally down on the right hand side and
   press the fire button. You can then fly where you want. To change back into
   the Vampire, start the same procedure again.
To change into a werewolf, pull the lever diagonally dwon on the left hand side
   and press the fire button. The werewolf moves like the vampire but he can
   neither collect objects nor enter houses. On the other hand, you can hit
   your enemies (press the fire button to strike a blow). To change back into
   the vampire, start the procedure again.


III. The Enemies


All the characters you meet will attempt to kill you.

1) The vampire hunters are armed with wooden stakes. The kill with only 1 hit.
2) The priests throw holy water.
3) The archers shoot arrows that take away many energy points from Dracula.
4) The witches are invincible.
5) The vultures cannot be killed. Be careful not to get caught.
6) The policemen are armed with silver bullets.
7) Professor Von Hesling throws stakes, and he is invincible. He only appears
at the end of each level after you have collected the 8 objects. If he touches
you, you will instantly die.

You will meet other characters, as well, who are armed to wound you.


IV. Panel


The panel at the bottom of the screen shows you, from left to right:

- your score and the high score
- your power level (orange bar). It decreases each time you recieve a blow from
an enemy. When Dracula's power level has reached 0, he dies.
- your time to change into someone else (blue bar). When Dracula changes into
someone else, this bar starts to decrease. When it has disappeared, you
become a vampire again.
- the number of lives (an additional life each time you have scored 50,000
points).
- the collected objects.


V. Hints


- The werewolf and the bat change into the vampire when they are wounded.
- Each character according to his aspect has a certain rate of aggressiveness
and courage in front of the werewolf and the bat. He also possesses an initial
energy and a bonus when he is hit by the werewolf.
- Strange marks on the ground may indicate the location of a trap, which will
lead to Dracula's death.
- Day breaks when the moon has reached the right hand side of the screen. To
protect Dracula from the sunlight, go in a crypt (they only open in the morn).
- The bat can only land on the ground.
- Von Helsing is your most dangerous enemy, so avoid him when he appears!
- The objects aren't always easily visible on the panels, so look carefully.
- If you are hit while you are the werewolf or the bat you change back into
the vampire.
- Some doors can be opened without keys.
- You cannot open closed doors bearing a crucifix.
- The bat and the werewolf are not bothered by some weapons, however, the
werewolf is killed instantaneously with silver bullets.
- When you are a bat, do not change into a vampire again while your above water
- When you are going through a town, it is possible to go down some streets
that are located between buildings. These work in the same manner as the doors.
Position Dracula in front of the street, pull up on the joystick and press the
fire button. You will then enter into another part of town.
- You can only gather objects when you are in the form of Dracula.
- After you have found the 8 objects on the fifth level, take the street that
runs down the middle of the screen to the other part of town, then go as far
as possible to the right and enter the room. If the professor is on the second
floor, leave the room and then return immediately. If he is on the first floor,
change into the bat and fly to the bottom of the stairs. Here, you must
transform into into Dracula, climb the stairs, and go through the door.
Immediately transform into the bat and fly to the first floor. The medallion
is here. Position Dracula in front of it and carry out the same action as you
would with a door.
- Save your game after each level.