				NINJA MISSION

	Of all the dangerous tasks given to the Ninja, this was to be the most
perilouw in their long history. To enter the Temple of Death and regain the
glowing idols stolen from the Princess by the Hordes of Darkness would call for
all his skills in the art of combat, a fearless and resolute heart and the
smile of fortune.
	Ninja do not disobey the word of nobility, however, so taking up his
weapons he makes his way to Tori, to begin the mission....
	Mind blowing graphics, stunning playability and a soundtrack to rock
to, in the greatest martial arts game of them all--it blows the black belts off
all the others.

				THE HISTORY AND THE LEGEND

The Shadow Warriors
	The origins of Ninjutsu, the least known of all the Japanese martial
arts can be traced back over 1000 years. Judo, Karate and Aikido made popular
in the West after the second world war, were only introduced to Japan
comparatively recently in the last century.
	The Art was developed in the wooded mountain areas of Japan known as
Iga and Koga by isolated family groups who had rejected the civilised world and
had elected to live in harmony with nature and to seek total enlightenment
through a study of mysticism!

Development of Warrior Art
	The family clans were peace loving, but the knowledge of their
existance and way of life displeased the Emperor and his Warlords, it was not
permitted in feudal Japan to go against the way of life dictated by the State.
	The Emperor's troops were dispatched with orders to eliminate the
troublesome families, and the resulting centuries long struggle produced the
legend of the supernatural Ninja Warriors of Japan.
	It rapidly became clear that the families would need to defend
themselves, as the attacks from the Japanese Warlords were intensified.
Training methods for the warriors were developed, concentrating on physical
combat, psychological warfare and the use of occult powers. Training was quick
and rigorous. The warriors relied on physical tricks, on strategy and cunning,
they were adept at camouflage, and the use of fire and explosives in battle.
	The reputation of the Ninja warriors spread throughout Japan, for their
ruthlessness and their lack of scruples in battle. What the enemy would call
"deceit, cowardice and treachery" the Ninja would term "strategy, cunning and
wit". It was for these reasons that they were shunned by the Samurai who were
loyal and "fair" in battle.

Weaponry
	The sword was the main weapon. It had a short flat blade for close
range fighting: for medium and long range fighting 2/3 edged blades and spears
were used. The use of fire and explosives was widespread and very effective in
Japan, where most buildings were constructed from paper and wood.
	Gradually over the centuries the Ninja families became more and more
involved with their reputations as military specialists and less with their
lives as mystics. Their methods of physical combat became so admired that they
were taught throughout Japan and are still practiced today...

Your Mission...
	For many years the people of the small Japanese village Tambo Machi
have lived in fear of the evil tyrant, Akuma. Akuma and his band of ruthless
thieves have taken nearly everything of value from the villagers, leaving them
scarcely able to survive on what remains.
	Now the village faces its greatest crisis...Akuma and his men have
stolen the "Shichi Nin No Kami", the seven jade idols, which the people had
kept hidden for years. The idols are considered priceless because of their
mystical powers.
	The peasants of Tambo Machi have called on you, the greatest Ninja
warrior of the land, to help then retrieve the idols. You must enter Akuma's
fortress of death, the Shijo, to recover the idols which are scattered
throughout the rooms. Armed with your special Ninja weapons, you will battle
the guards of the Shijo in order to bring back all the idols and make a safe
escape from the Shijo.
	All of Tambo Machi is counting on you....Good Luck!

Loading Instructions
	Insert Kickstart disk if requested.
	At request for workbench disk insert program disk. Program will load
and run automatically.

Game Play
	Your goal is to bring back all seven jade idols which are scattered
through the floors of the Shijo. Each room can be protected by three different
kinds of guards. There are karate experts, skilled at hand-to-hand combat,
whose kicks can be deadly. You will also face judo experts who have strong
punches. Most deadly of all, you will have to battle Akuma's Ninja warriors who
will try to defeat you with throwing stars, knives, and skills equal to yours.
	As you move through the Shijo, you may fight the guards (there may be
up to five per room), or escape! You may do this by running to the exits at the
sides, jumping up through the holes in the ceiling, or jumping down through
holes in the floor. If you choose to fight the guards, you may punch or kick
them or throw stars and knives. But you must be careful...with each injury you
suffer from the guards, your strength will weaken.
	Points may be scored by defeating guards and by retrieving idols. With
each idol you retrieve, your strength is restored by mystical forces. You must
try to obtain all seven statuettes without being destroyed by the guards. You
must then make your way safely back to the exit of the Shijo at the bottom,
where you began, to return the treasured idols to the villagers, and win the
game.
	The final idol lies in a locked room at the very top of the Shijo. The
forces of the idols will open the door for you, buy only once you have six of
the seven idols.
	As you move up through the levels, more points are scored for defeating
Ninjas, Thugs and Karatekas than on the lower floors. They are, however
considerably harder to kill.
	Your strength and theirs is shown as a bar at the bottom of the screen.

				    THE MAP

				---------------
                                !   Akuma's   !
                                !   Chamber   !
                        -----------------]  [-!-----------
                        ! Zashugura    !   Takamura       !                 
                        !              !                  !
              !---------!--------------------------[  ]---!-------!
              !  Kanagura      !     Kura       !   Green Door    !
              !                !                !                 !
       !------!-]  [-----------!----------------!-----------------!-----!
       ! Balcony      !     Temple    !    Entrance Hall  !   Red Door  !
       !              !               !                   !             !
!------!--------------!---------------!----------]  [-----!-------------!-----!
! Tori in  !     Walkway    !       Gate       !      Shiro    !   Shrine     !
! the sea  !                !                  !               !              !
!----------!----------------!------------------!---------------!--------------!
    ^
 Start Here

				JOYSTICK CONTROLS

                                     Jump

              Jump Back                                 Jump Foreward

          Move Back                 SWORD                      Move Forward
               
              Move 1/2                                     Move 1/2
              step back                                    step forward

                               Duck (pick up star) 

                          Joystick Controls WITHOUT trigger
                          --------------------------------


                                  Punch High

               Draw Sword                           Kick High

         Throw Star                PUNCH                  Kick

            Round House Kick                        Kick Low

                                 Punch Low

                          Joystick controls WITH trigger
                          ------------------------------

Fire button pressed controls assume Ninja is walking right to left. Reserve
when he does. Return/Enter begins new game once completed or lost. (Fire on
AMIGA).

To move upwards, stand under the holes in the ceilings and jump upwards. (You
must be exactly under it).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ninja Mission docs brought to you by The Southern Star.
                        
   
            