                  NODDY`S BIG ADVENTURE FULL DOC`S         TYPED BY SHARD   
                 ==================================             03-11-93
 
CONTENTS
========

Introduction

Section 1
Loading and Using Option Screens

Section 2
Driving Menu
Noddys House
Noddys Scales
Kitchen Fun
Monkey Town
Bert`s Scrapbook
The Goblin Village
Tricky Trees
Can You Find Me
The Beach
Beach Sorter
Picnic Attack

Section 3
Noddy`s Word Processor

Section 4
Parent/Teacher Section 
National Curriculum
Reference Section
Help Line

INTRODUCTION
============

Welcome to Toyland and Noddy's Big Adventure, a fun-filled educational
package for young children! Noddy's Big Adventure contains no less than
thirteen exciting programs which will inspire, delight and, most
importantly instruct children in a range of different skills.

Each of the activities contained in Noddy's Big Adventure have been
carefully designed, within the framework of key stage 1 of the National
Curriculum, to make learning an enjoyable process.

The programs which make up this package can each be used, unaided, by very
young children. At the lowest level of play (described throughout the
package as "easy") there is little or no reliance upon the use of language.
Many of the programs are controlled using colourful and simple to use
icons.

Noddy's Big Adventure contains:

Seven educational and fun-to-play games:

Kitchen Fun:
search around the kitchen and help Noddy to make his friends a feast. On
the higher levels children must follow simple pictorial or written recipes.

Noddy's Scales: 
Help Noddy to tidy his garage by matching different weights and balancing
the scales.

Tricky Trees: 
Listen to sequences of notes and see if you can repeat them.

Can You Find Me: 
Search for different shapes and objects in a variety of bright and
colourful pictures.

Bert's Scrapbook: 
Help Bert Monkey to sort out the pictures in his scrapbook and reveal
different stories about Noddy and his friends.

Beach Sorter: 
Match different shapes, decide where various animals come from and place
animals into their correct groups.

Picnic Attack: 
Use your skill to stop the naughty crabs and lobsters from stealing Noddy's
picnic.

A Junior Word Processor:

A Driving Game:
In which children can drive Noddy and his car around Toyland. Not only
does this link each of the components of this package but it also forms a
game in itself which children will want to return to time and time again.
As children and Noddy drive around Toyland they will be able to pick up and
drop off characters.

Four different linking programs.

Each of these are made up of fully-interactive scenes which are games in
themselves!

Program Help

While each of the activities which make up this package has been designed
to be as easy as possible to use, children may sometimes experience
problems. If this happens Big Ears is always on hand to help. If children
click on Big Ears he will offer a clue to help children complete the task
in hand

Controls

The controls used in Noddy's Big Adventure are as simple as possible for
children to use. Each of the activities can be controlled using the mouse,
the keyboard or a joystick. Full details on how to operate each game can
be found in Section 2 of this manual. The majority of the techniques used
are the same for every activity:

Mouse
Each part of this package, except the Driving Menu and Picnic attack, can
be controlled using the mouse. The left mouse button is used throughout
this package to select items.

Keyboard
From the computer keyboard the on-screen cursor (or Noddy's car in the
Driving Menu) can be moved around using the cursor or arrow keys. Enter or
Return are used to confirm the currently selected choice.

Joystick
The joystick can be used instead of the mouse with the Fire Button
confirming any currently selected choice.

A number of operations are controlled in the same way regardless of which
input method is used:

To leave any game and return to the relevant linking screen, click on
Noddy's car (which can be found in the bottom right of each games screen)
or press Escape on the keyboard.

To leave a linking screen and return to the Driving Menu again click on
Noddy's car. In the case of these screens this can be found to the far
right of the scene.

To leave the Driving Menu and return to the Main Options Screen (see
Section 2, below), press Escape on the keyboard.

To change the level of play within any game (or when using the Word
Processor) press F10 on the keyboard. You will see a Level Selection
Screen from which you should select the level you wish to play.

How to use this manual

The remainder of this manual is laid out in four sections

Section 1 
Describes how to load Noddy's Big Adventure and use the Options Screens.

Section 2 
Describes each of the games within Noddy's Big Adventure along with Noddy's
Driving Menu and the linking scenes which connect the Driving Menu with the
games. This section is interspersed with a story which may be read aloud
to children.

Section 3 
Describes Noddy's Word Processor

Section 4 
Explains how Noddy's Big Adventure responds to the early requirements of
the National Curriculum.

SECTION 1
=========

LOADING AND USING THE OPTIONS SCREENS

Amiga Users
Insert Disk 1 into Drive 0 and switch on the computer. After a short while
you will see the Introductory Screen. Occasionally you will be asked to
swop disks. Double drive owners may wish to boot up the computer with Disk
2 in Drive 1. When asked to swop disks it is suggested that Disk 1 is left
in Drive 0 and Drive 1 is used for disk swops.

HARD DRIVE INSTALLATION

Noddy's Big Adventure can be installed to the hard drive of your Amiga.
Due to the size of the program which make up this package, we strongly
recommend that you only attempt to do this if you have at least 2 meg of
RAM available.

1. Boot the Amiga without any disks in the floppy drives.

2. Insert disk 1 into any drive.

3. Double-click on the "nods" disk icon.

4. Click on your hard disk icon, then drag the "Install Noddy 2" icon from
the Noddy disk drive into your hard disk window. Then double click on this
icon The installation process will now proceed. You should swop disks as
requested. Once installation is complete remove any disks from the floppy
drive(s) and reboot the machine.

IBM-Compatible PC Users

MS-DOS version
Noddy's Big Adventure must be installed on your hard drive before it can be
used. To do this insert 1 into Drive A.

Within MS-DOS activate Drive A by typing in:

a: <Enter>

Next, type in:

install <Enter>
 
The installation program will now proceed automatically. You should answer
any questions about your system as they appear on the screen and swop disks
as instructed by the on-screen prompts

To run Noddy's Big Adventure once it has been installed you should change
to the relevant directory. (the default directory is nod2) using the cd\
command:

cd\nod2 <Enter>

Next, type in:

Noddy <Enter>

and the program will run.

TO EXIT THE PROGRAM at any time hold down the Control key and press Break.

MS-Windows version
Load up Windows in the normal way. From the Program Manager select the
File menu and click on Run. Type the following into the command line:

a:\install

Next, select OK.

The installation program will now proceed automatically. You should answer
any questions about your system as they appear on the screen and swop disks
as instructed by the on-screen prompts

To run Noddy's Big Adventure once it has been installed you should enter
Windows and double-click on the Noddy icon.

Acorn Archimedes users
Insert Disk 1 into the floppy drive and double click select on the floppy
disk icon. Next, double click select on the Noddy icon. After a short
while you will see the Introductory Screen. Occasionally you will be asked
to swop disks.

Running Noddy`s Big Adventure

Once you have followed the relevant loading instructions for your computer
you will see a screen which introduces Noddy's Big Adventure. You can
by-pass this at any time (and speed up the loading process) by pressing the
Spacebar on your computer's keyboard.

The Main Options Screen

Shortly after seeing the Introductory Screen you will be presented with the
Main Options Screen. This allows you to set the parameters which control
how children play Noddy's Big Adventure:

Easy, Harder or Hardest

The seven games within Noddy's Big Adventure can be played at one of three
levels. The easiest level ("easy") is designed for very young children or
those unfamiliar with this package while the most difficult ("hardest")
will tax even bright seven year olds.

You can set the starting level for the games by clicking on the relevant
icon. This level will then be used in each activity upon loading. While
playing a game, the level can be altered at any time by pressing F10 and
re-selecting a new level of difficulty.

Loading Noddy's Word Processor

PC and Archimedes users

Noddy's Word Processor can only be accessed from the Main Options Screen.
If your children wish to use Noddy's Word Processor rather than enter the
Driving Menu, you should click on the relevant icon.

Amiga users

Noddy's Word Processor forms a separate part of this package. To load it
insert Disk 4 and reboot the computer. This program will then load
automatically.

Driving Around Toyland

Noddy's Big Adventure consists of a word processor and seven games. A
ninth program, Noddy's Driving Menu, forms a fully-interactive menu system.
The seven games are linked to the Driving Menu via four linking scenes.
These scenes are, like the Driving Menu, fully interactive. Children can
move the mouse pointer around the screens and click on various obJects and
characters. Some may animate, some may produce a sound, some are used to
load the games. Children should be encouraged to discover for themselves
what can happen in each scene.

The Driving Menu can be used in one of two ways:

Children may wish to drive Noddy around Toyland themselves. To do this,
they should click on the icon which shows Noddy's car. In selecting this
method they can explore the map which makes up the Driving Menu Dotted
around the map are four taxi ranks. These represent load points for each
of the linking scenes (and hence the games in this package).

The four linking scenes and their associated games are:

NODDY'S HOUSE from where Kitchen Fun and Noddy's Scales can be loaded.

THE DARK WOOD Tricky Trees and Can You Find Me are tucked away in this
scene.

MONKEY TOWN is where you can load Bert's Scrapbook.

THE BEACH linking scene you can load Beach Sorter and Picnic Attack.

As an alternative, children may wish to see Noddy take control of his car
and drive it around Toyland. If children wish to do this they should click
on the icon relevant to the place which they wish to visit first.

If children have decided to take control of Noddy's car Noddy's Driving
Menu will load with Noddy parked outside his house ready to leave.

SECTION 2
=========

The Driving Menu, The Linking Scenes and the Games

Driving Around Toyland
Noddy gets up early every weekday morning. He is awoken by his little
alarm clock which goes "Da-ring, da-ring". Noddy opens his sleepy eyes and
yawns. After getting dressed he climbs down his staircase and goes into
the kitchen. There, he always has two boiled eggs, some toast and
marmalade and two large cups of tea. After breakfast Noddy washes all of
the dirty dishes and puts them away. Then, after washing his face,
brushing his teeth and combing his hair, it's time for work.

Noddy is a taxi driver. His little yellow car is a taxi. Every night when
he comes home, Noddy drives his little yellow car into the garage next to
his house. Each morning he opens the garage door, starts the engine of his
car and drives it outside. He checks the petrol gauge, makes sure that his
mirror is in the right place, fastens his seat belt and away he goes!

Noddy spends the day driving around Toy Town and other parts of Toyland.
He often sees his friends waving at him by the side of the road. Sometimes
they are simply waving to say "Hello", sometimes they want Noddy to stop
his car and give them a ride.

You can help Noddy to drive his little yellow car around a part of Toyland.
To do this press the arrow keys on the keyboard or use the joystick. As
you drive along you will see lots of his friends. If you stop the car in
front of any one of them and press the spacebar that person will get into
Noddy`s car. Can you decide where any of Noddy`s friends want to go?
Could they be going to Toytown to do some shopping or could they be off to
the Beach for a day out? Noddy's friends can get out of the car wherever
you see a "T" sign. To make someone get out of the car, stop. it by a "T"
sign and press the Spacebar. If there is already someone waiting at the
sign they will change places with that person.

For each ride that Noddy gives someone, he earns sixpence.

How many sixpences can you help Noddy to earn as he drives around?

There are lots of country roads in Toyland. Noddy likes to use some of
these as short cuts.

Can you find any of the country roads? Try not to get lost as you and
Noddy drive around. If you don't know where you are, like Noddy you can
always look at your map to help you find your way. Some parts of the
country roads contain tunnels. These are very special because they are
magic tunnels! If you drive into one something very unusual will happen!

As you drive along, you can make Noddy and his car do various things.
These are all controlled by keys on the keyboard:

Press H to make Noddy sound the horn of his car

Press W to make Noddy wave

Press B to make the car brake

Press N to make him nod

Press E to make the cars engine roar.

The roads around this part of Toyland contain four special parking places.
In each of these the word "TAXI" is written on the road.

Only Noddy's car is allowed to park in these places. If you should park
where you see the word TAXI you will be able to go into one of the places
which Noddy visits the most.

To enter one of the special linking scenes park Noddy`s car in one of the
special parking spaces and then click on the icon which represents that
scene. If you should accidentially park in one of these places, click on
Noddy`s car and you can continue on your journey.

You can, if you wish, move between these four places very rapidly. To do
this, press one of the following keys:

F1: Noddy`s house on the edge of Toy Town

F2: The dark wood next to Goblin Village

F3: Monkey Town

F4: The Beach

Noddy's House It was Saturday morning. Noddy had finished his breakfast
and had cleared everything away. He decided to have a look around his
garage and his kitchen.

If you enter the linking scene at Noddy's house, you too can look around
his garage and his kitchen.

To enter the linking scene make sure that Noddy's car is parked outside his
house (if you are a long way from Toy Town and Noddy's house you can press
F1 to go there quickly). Park the car in Noddy`s special parking place and
then click on the icon for Noddy's house. After a few seconds you will see
the linking scene.

You can move around this large scene using the mouse pointer. As you move
the pointer to the far left or the far right of the screen the scene may
move to the left or to the right. Many of the objects in this scene will,
when clicked on, either move or make a sound. What can you get to happen
in this scene?

Within Noddy's house there are two points from which games can be loaded:

To load Kitchen Fun, click on the oven door.

To load Noddy's Scales, click on the set of scales in the garage.

If you select either of these you should confirm your choice by clicking on
the nodding Noddy icon (or by pressing Y on the keyboard). If you should
click on these points and not wish to go into a game you can return to
Noddy`s house by clicking on the icon which shows Noddy shaking his head
(or by pressing N on the keyboard).

Noddy`s Scales

After looking around his garage, Noddy decided that he must tidy it up.

"What a mess," Noddy thought to himself "I don't know how I managed to let
my garage get into this state!"

Just as Noddy was feeling very upset with himself and wondering how he was
going to tidy his garage, there was a ring on the doorbell.

Noddy wandered to the front of his house and standing there, swaying from
side to side, was Mr Wobbly Man.

"Hello Noddy", said Mr Wobbly Man, "I thought that I would come and see how
you are. It's such a long time since we have had a chat!"

"This is not a good time," replied Noddy. Noddy then told Mr Wobbly Man
all about the mess in the garage and said that he didn`t know how he was
going to tidy it up.

"Let me have a look," said Mr Wobbly Man. With that Noddy walked towards
his garage with Mr Wobbly Man slowly wobbling along behind him.

Mr Wobbly Man stood in front of the mess on the floor. There were pots of
paint, bricks, balls and lots of other things lying around all over the
place.

"It`s easy", said Mr Wobbly Man, "we just need to get organised. Let`s
sort out each of these things by weighing them."

"But I don't have any scales" said Noddy.

Mr Wobbly Man laughed. "You don`t need any scales, he said looking around
the garage. "I can make my own."

After a few minutes, Mr Wobbly Man had found a plank of wood, two pieces of
string and two metal plates. He tied the string to the plates and then
attached these to either end of the plank of wood. supporting it on his
shoulders.

"See," said Mr Wobbly Man "I`ll be a set of scales for the day. Noddy`s
scales."

This game involves picking items up from the floor of Noddy's garage and
balancing the scales.

Easy 
In the easy level, look at the number on the item which is on the left
hand side of the scales, this number represents the item`s weight. Now,
look for an object with the same number on it among those on the floor.
Pick this up by clicking on it. Take it over to the scales and place it on
the right hand side by clicking again. If you should pick up an item and
decide that you do not want to use it, click on the right mouse button to
put it down.

Harder
The harder level involves simple addition When you first enter this level,
one item will be placed on the left hand side of the scales and a smaller
item will be on the right hand side. You must decide which number must be
added to the object on the right to make it equal with the larger number on
the left. Decide which item you wish to choose, then pick it up and place
it on the scales. If the numbers on the items on the right hand side of
the scales add up to too much you will see a X next to the sum in the
question bar. If this happens, click on the item that you placed there
(with the left button) and return it to the floor (by clicking on the right
button). When the scales are balanced (and the sum is correct), you will
see a tick in the question bar. At this point, you should click on Mr
Wobbly Man to let him know that you have finished.

Later in this level you will notice that there are no items on the right
hand side. You must now decide which two items from the floor balance the
scales. Pick these items up, one at a time, and place them on the right
hand side of the scales. If you get the answer wrong and see a X next to
the sum in the question bar you can return the items to the floor just as
you did before. Once you see a tick click on Mr Wobbly Man.

Hardest

In this level you will see an item on either side of the scales. This time
you should balance the scales using one or more of the objects from the
floor. In this level you can use as many or as few items as you wish so
long as you are able to balance the scales. There may be many ways of
completing each sum. Each time that the scales are balanced you will see a
tick in the question bar. As before, you can take items off the scales and
put them back on the floor. Once you have completed each sum you must
click on Mr Wobbly Man to let him know that you have finished.

Kitchen Fun

Next day was Sunday and Noddy had invited some of his friends to come to
tea.

Opening and closing all of his cupboard doors, he searched around his
kitchen for something nice to eat.

In this game you can open or close a cupboard door by clicking on it.
Sometimes you may wish to open or close all of the doors. To do this,
press O on the keyboard to open all of the doors and press C to close them
all.

Noddy picked three things from his cupboards and placed them into his
magical food processor. Next, he pressed the large button on the front of
the machine. The contraption whirred and flashed then it flashed and
whirred. Waste paper, tin foil and anything else which could not be eaten
was thrown out of the side of the gadget. After a few seconds something
emerged from its side.

"I don't know if I can give that to my friends," Noddy said staring at the
gooey mess.

Easy
In this level you can make up any food that you like. Just as Noddy did,
pick three items from the cupboards and put them in the machine To pick an
item up click once with the mouse pointer above it. To drop it, click it
again. Once you have dropped your three items in the magical food
processor, the machine will mix them together and make something to eat.

Just as Noddy was looking at the food, Mrs Tubby Bear walked by the Kitchen
window.

Noddy opened the window and shouted, "Mrs Tubby Bear" can you come inside
and help me with my cooking?".

"Of course Noddy" replied Mrs Tubby Bear. Within a few seconds she was
standing looking at the mess on the plate.

"YUCK," said Mrs Tubby Bear. "Why don`t you try making something that we
might be able to eat?"

Once again, Noddy chose three things. He put them in the magical food
processor and pressed the big button on the front. The gadget whirred and
flashed, then it flashed and whirred. Waste paper came out of the side of
the machine and, just as before, some food emerged from its side.

Mrs Tubby Bear looked at the food. She bent down and sniffed it.

"YUM" she said, "now that`s much better!".

As you make each different Kind of food in the easy level Mrs Tubby Bear
will tell you if she likes it or not Can you work out what Mrs Tubby Bear
thinks makes good (or yummy) food and what she thinks makes bad (or yucky)
food.

Noddy explained that some of his friends were coming around for tea that
afternoon and that he had to cook some nice things.

"You`ll need some recipes", said Mrs Tubby Bear.

"What's a recipe?" asked Noddy

"A list of things which you put together to make something nice to eat,"
she replied

She looked around Noddy`s kitchen and found an old recipe book. She opened
it up and showed Noddy some recipes. The book showed a list of ingredients
and how to cook them.

"This will help you to make lots of nice things," she said

"just use the lists in the book."

Can you help Noddy to make some nice food for his tea party?

Harder 
In this level you will see a list of ingredients at the bottom of the
screen. These are shown as pictorial icons. Find each item of food and
place it into the machine. You can do this in any order. Once you have
found all of them click on "cook." After a short while the food will appear
from the machine and Mrs Tubby Bear will check that you (and Noddy) have
followed the recipe correctly.

Hardest
In the final level the ingredients are shown as words. You must put these
items into the machine in the order that they appear in the question bar.

Monkey Town

It was Monday morning. Noddy was riding around Toy Town in his car. He
was thinking about the wonderful party that he had yesterday.

"Thank goodness for Mrs Tubby Bear and that recipe book", he thought to
himself. As he drove along the main road in Toy Town he saw Martha Monkey,
she waved at him.

"Hello Martha", said Noddy as his car came to a stop

"Do you want a ride?"

"Yes please," said Martha. "Can you take me to Monkey Town. I have all of
this shopping to get back home."

"Of course," said Noddy as he helped Martha and her shopping bags into the
car.

A few minutes later, Noddy`s car was parked in his special parking place in
Monkey Town

"Thank you," said Martha climbing out of the car. She handed him a shiny
silver sixpence.

Noddy smiled. "Let me help you carry your shopping" he said.

Noddy jumped out of the car and picked up the two heaviest bags. He
followed Martha to her house and placed the bags outside her front door.

"You are very kind" said Martha as she opened the door.

"Think nothing of it" replied Noddy. "While I"m here I may as well have a
chat with Bert. Is he in?"

"No", said Martha, "but" if you go back into Monkey Town you might find him
there.

After saying good-bye to Martha, Noddy turned around and walked towards the
centre of Monkey Town.

You can find out what Noddy saw in Monkey Town by entering the linking
scene. To do this you should park Noddy`s car at Monkey Town (you can
press F3 to go there quickly). Once the car is in Noddy`s special parking
place click on the icon for Monkey Town. After a few seconds you will see
the linking scene.

You can move around Monkey Town using the mouse pointer (or the arrow
keys). As you move the pointer to the far left or the far right of the
screen the scene may also move. Many of the objects in this scene will,
when clicked on either move or make a sound or both.

What can you get to happen in this scene.?

From this linking scene you can load Bert's Scrapbook, to do this click on
Bert Monkey.

Bert`s Scrapbook

After searching around Monkey Town, Noddy finally found Bert standing
outside one of the shops in the High Street Noddy shouted "Hello Bert", a
few times, but Bert did not hear him. As he got nearer, Noddy could see
that Bert was staring at a book. As he slowly turned each page over he
whispered "Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear", to himself.

Quite a crowd had begun to gather behind Bert, they were each anxious to
discover what he was so concerned about. As each new person joined the
crowd they echoed Bert`s chorus of "Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear."

"That`s a terrible thing to happen" said Mr Plod as Bert turned a page.

"How did it ever occur?" said Big Ears.

"What a pity", said Mr Wobbly Man.

By now, Noddy had approached the crowd. "What`s going on?" he asked

"It`s awful" said Mr Plod.

"Horrendous", said Big Ears.

Bert closed his book and looked at Noddy. "I don't know how it has
happened" he sighed.

"How what has happened?" shouted an impatient Noddy.

"All of the pictures in Bert`s scrapbook are in a terrible mess", said Mr
Wobbly Man.

"It took years to put that scrapbook together", said Mr Plod

"It's ruined!" sighed Bert, "I`ll have to get my camera and start all over
again."

Noddy looked at them. "Have you lost all of the pictures?" he asked.

"No," replied Bert.

"Have you lost any of the pictures?."

"Er, no," was the reply.

"Then what's the problem?" asked Noddy.

"They're all in a mess!" wailed Bert.

"Don't be silly!" said Noddy" unsure that if we all work together, we can
help Bert to sort his book out again!"

Noddy lead them all to the park where they sat on the soft grass and helped
Bert to reorganise his scrap book.

Can you help Noddy and his friends to sort out Berts Scrapbook?

Easy
Each screen in this level contains six pictures which make up a story.
After seeing them in their correct order, they will become muddled. You
can put the pictures back in the right order by clicking on any two
pictures to swop their positions. If you should get stuck, you can click
on Big Ears at anytime. He will tell you which pictures are in the right
places and which are not. When you have put the pictures back in the
correct order you can move the mouse pointer over each of them and see the
words of the story.

Harder
On the harder level you will see that the screen is divided into two
sections;

On the left hand side of the screen is a page from Bert's Scrapbook. Each
page can contain two pictures along with their captions. A story is now
spread out over three pages. To move between them, click on the left/right
arrow on the right of this section of the screen.

On the right hand side of the screen are the pictures which must be placed
onto the pages of the scrapbook. To move between these pictures click on
the up/down arrows which are next to them.

The first and the last pictures are in place in the scrapbook as are all of
the captions.

Look at the first page. Can you decide which is the missing picture?
Scroll between the different pictures on the right of the screen by
clicking on the up/down arrows. Once you have found the correct picture,
click on it. Now, move the picture across to the space into which it
should be placed and click again.

Next, turn the page by clicking on the left/right arrow. You can now
continue to place the pictures into their correct positions. When you have
finished, Big Ears will check what you have done. Any pictures which he
finds are in the wrong position will be returned to the right of the
screen.

If you complete the story correctly you can read it by scrolling between
the pages. To move onto another story, click on "NEW STORY". You can ask
Big Ears to check what you have done at any time by clicking on him.
 
Hardest
The hardest level is similar to the harder level, you now have to put all
but the first picture of each story in place. In this level you must also
place the captions which make up the story in to their order. These can be
picked up and put in place in exactly the same way as the pictures. The
captions are all stored on the right of the screen. To move between
different captions, click on the arrows next to the caption box.

The friends finally managed to get all of the pictures in Bert's Scrapbook
back in order. Mr Plod gave Bert some extra strong glue to stick them
firmly in place. Bert was so happy that he went home and collected his
camera while everyone else waited at the park. Soon, Bert was taking some
more pictures for his scrapbook to remind him of this day.

By the time that all this was over the sun had begun to set. It was time
to go home.

When Noddy arrived home he was very tired. He parked his car in the
special parking place outside his house and went indoors.

The Goblin Village
On Tuesday morning Noddy got ready for work as usual. He went down to his
garage when he remembered that he had left his car in the parking space
just outside his house. He closed and locked his front door and went over
to his little yellow car. To his horror, he noticed that the spare wheel
was missing from the back of the car.

"Oh dear", cried Noddy, "Where could that be."

Noddy searched up and down the road. He looked in the hedge outside his
house. He searched though his garden and even checked his garage. The
spare wheel was nowhere to be found.

Just as Noddy was about to give up looking, he saw Mr Plod riding by on his
bike.

"Mr Plod", shouted Noddy, "can you help me ?"

Mr Plod stopped his bike next to Noddy`s car. "Now, now Noddy", he said,
"I hope that this is important, I`ve been summoned to the scene of a crime.
Lots of things have been going missing in Toy Town."

Noddy explained that he had discovered that the spare wheel was missing and
that he couldn`t find it anywhere.

Plod scratched his head. "Looks like the work of the naughty goblins to
me", he said. "It`s probably in Goblin Village by now. I`ll be able to
investigate this tomorrow or the day after."

Mr Plod rode away.

"Oh dear" thought Noddy" "I must have my spare wheel I'll go into the
Goblin Village and see if I can find it."

After a short ride Noddy had parked his car in his special parking space
next to Goblin Village. To get to the village" he first had to walk
through the Dark Wood.

Park Noddy's car in the special parking place near to Goblin village (you
can press F2 to get there quickly) and click on the icon for the Goblin
Village. After a few seconds you will see the linking scene.

You can look around the scene using the mouse pointer (or the arrow keys).
As you move the pointer to the far left or the far right of the screen the
scene may move to the left or the right. Many of the objects in this scene
will, when clicked on either move or make a sound or both

Within this scene are two points from which games can be loaded;

To load Tricky Trees, click on the large tree on the far left of the scene.
 
To load Can You Find Me, click on the dustbin on the right of the scene.

Tricky Trees
Noddy nervously climbed out of his car (being careful to lock it behind
him). The Dark Wood lay only a few steps away. He stopped and looked
around. He was sure that someone was following him.

As he walked into the wood it seemed as though night had fallen. It was
very dark. Behind him he heard the rustle of someone running. He looked
around, there was no one there. The noise now moved into the trees next to
him. He felt sure that he could see someone moving about in the dense
undergrowth.

"Who's there ?" shouted Noddy.

There was no reply just another rustle of leaves.

Again, he saw the outline of someone darting between the trees.

"I know there`s someone there!" yelled Noddy. "Who is it?."

This time a voice from behind the trees shouted back, "What do you want?"

"I"ve only come to look for my spare wheel" Mr Plod said that it might be
here" ,Noddy said in a loud voice.

"I Know where it is", said the voice "Do you want me to tell you where it
is Noddy?"

"Oh yes please," replied Noddy, "I don`t like it here, I want to go home!"

"Very well," said the voice" "but first" you must play with the tricky
trees. Gobbo says that no one except him can win at that game. I don't
like Gobbo, he will get angry if anyone can beat the trees!"

Reluctantly, Noddy agreed. As he did so, the tree which was next to him
opened its eyes, yawned. blinked and said, "Ready when you are Noddy!".

Noddy was so surprised that he nearly fell over. Then one at a time, the
rest of the trees in the wood each opened their eyes and yawned.

"What odd trees" thought Noddy as he began to play the game.

Tricky Trees is a memory game. It will also introduce you to the names of
different colours and shapes.

Easy
In this level you will see five numbered trees each with different coloured
noses. At the beginning of the game one tree will play a note. You should
help Noddy by playing that note back. To do this either click on the tree
with the mouse or press the relevant number on the keyboard. Next, two
notes will be played. You should play them back in the same order by
clicking on the correct trees or pressing the relevant keys on the
computer's keyboard. As each new sequence of notes is played, you should
play it back to the trees in the same order. Once you have played a
sequence of five notes you have beaten the trees and upset Gobbo!

Harder
In this level you will see six trees. The final sequence will contain six
notes.

Hardest
The hardest level contains eight trees and a total of eight notes in the
final sequence.

"Well done!", the voice shouted to Noddy as the trees fell back to sleep.
"Gobbo will be angry!".

"Now can I have my wheel back?" asked Noddy.

"If you do one more thing for me" replied the voice.

Noddy sighed. "Just one more!" he said.

Can You Find Me.
"Do you know where the cinema in Goblin Village is?", asked the voice.

"Yes."

"The young goblins are sitting in the cinema waiting for a slide show. The
slide show is all about different shapes and colours, but we have no one to
show it."

"So you want me to show the slides?" asked Noddy.

"That's right", replied the voice. "but you must also tell the young
goblins about the different shapes and colours in the pictures."

"Very well" he said after a few minutes thought.

"If you do this. I will see that the wheel is put back where it belongs."

Noddy wandered down the little path that lead to Goblin Village.
Fortunately, the cinema was just by the edge of the wood.

The young goblins were talking madly as Noddy entered the cinema. Some
were throwing popcorn around, others were running up and down the aisles.
When Noddy started to show the slides, they fell silent, some even answered
his questions.

In Can You Find Me you must help Noddy to find different shapes and objects
in the pictures.

Easy
You will see an outline shape in the question bar. Find an identical shape
in the picture and click on it. As you find each shape correctly a tick
will appear above it.

Harder
In this level you must find shapes of the same type and colour as those
shown in the question bar. Find each of them in the picture and click on
just as you did in the easy level.
 
Hardest 
In this level you should find the objects described in the question bar.
Click on them in the picture just as you did before. After you have found
each object you will be asked a question about its shape or its colour.
Three alternative answers will appear in the question bar. To answer the
question click on the correct alternative.
 
After a while the young goblins all left the cinema. Noddy wandered back
to his car. The spare wheel had been replaced!

The Beach
The next day was Wednesday. As Noddy wandered to his car he saw that the
sun was shining and heard the birds singing. Just then, he saw Big Ears
coming towards him on his bike.

"Hello Noddy," said Big Ears, "Isn`t it a lovely day!"

"It`s wonderful", replied Noddy, "just the sort of day to go to the beach."

"What a good idea." said Big Ears" "why don't we?"

Noddy thought for a while. He had earned a lot of sixpences recently and
really wanted to spend a day by the seaside.

"Yes, let`s!" said Noddy. "I can even make us a picnic lunch using my
magical food processor."

Big Ears said that he would tell some of their friends about their plan and
invite them to come along. With that, Noddy dashed inside, found his
picnic hamper and, with the help of his magical machine, was soon filling
it with lots of nice food. He rushed around the house finding his
sunglasses, bathing trunks, beach ball and finally his camera. He piled
all of these things into the boot of his car just in time to once again
greet Big Ears.

As Big Ears climbed into the passenger seat of the car he explained that
Bert MonKey and a few other friends would meet them at the beach.

Noddy and Big Ears were soon driving along, singing their favourite songs.
After a short while, Noddy had parked the car in the special parking space
by the beach.

Park Noddy's car in the parking place at the beach (you can press F4 to get
there quickly) and click on the icon for the beach. After a few seconds
you will see the linking scene.

You can look around the scene using the mouse pointer (or the arrow keys).
As you move the pointer to the far left or the far right of the screen the
scene may move to the left or the right. Many of the objects in this scene
will, when clicked on either move or make a sound or both.

Within this scene are two points from which games can be loaded:

To load Beach Sorter, click on the pebble on the bottom left hand side of
the scene.

To load Picnic Attack, click on the crab next to Bert Monkey.

Beach Sorter
One of Noddy's favourite games, when he goes to the seaside, is sorting
pebbles from the beach into groups. Can you help Noddy to play this game.?

Easy
In this level you will see a number of pebbles and buckets on the beach.
The buckets have different coloured shapes on them. You should match the
pebbles to the shapes and colours on the buckets. To do this, first click
on a pebble and then click on the bucket in which you think it belongs.
 
After a while Big Ears reached into his pocket and picked out a number of
pictures.

"You`re good at sorting pebbles" he said, "but can you sort each of these
animals into the places that they live?"

Harder 
In this level you should try to match each of the animals shown at the
bottom of the screen with the places they live (their habitats). To do
this click on an animal followed by the place in which you think it
belongs.

"That was easy!" said Noddy, "can`t you find anything harder?"

"All right," replied Big Ears, "can you sort these animals into their
different groups?"

Hardest
In the hardest level you should sort the animals into their different
groups (mammals, reptiles, fish and so on). The pictures at the top of the
screen show a representative member of each group. To sort each animal
into its correct group first click on the animal and then click on the
representative member of its group on the top of the screen.

"Well done!" said Big Ears as he lay back on the beach sunbathing

Picnic Attack
Noddy and his friends were having so much fun playing with their Frisbee
that they forgot what the time was.

"I`m feeling hungry", said Big Ears, "did you bring a picnic Noddy?"

"Of course!", replied Noddy. He then wandered off to his car to collect
the picnic basket.

When he returned, Big Ears had already laid out a large beach towel on
which they could sit while they ate their lunch. Noddy put the basket next
to the towel and unpacked all of the goodies that he had prepared that
morning. As he did so, a crab emerged from the water and ran towards the
picnic.

"Go away!" shouted Noddy, "what a naughty crab!"

The crab ran back into the water. A few seconds later it re-emerged, this
time followed by lots of its friends. They were all heading for the picnic
basket!

"We must think quickly" said Big Ears, "or they will have all of our food!"

Noddy noticed that there was a hose pipe near to the entrance to the beach.
He ran towards the hose pipe and, to the amazement of everyone on the beach
dragged the end of it in front of the picnic basket

"Go and turn it on Big Ears!" Noddy shouted.

In almost no time at all Big Ears was by the tap and Noddy was squirting
water at the hoard of crabs, and now lobsters, coming towards his picnic.

Picnic Attack is a fun-to-play game in which you must help Noddy prevent
the crabs and lobsters from stealing his picnic.

Easy, Harder and Hardest
This game is best played with a joystick. To move Noddy to the left or
right simply move the joystick in that direction. To fire water at the
crabs or lobsters, press Fire. As an alternative, you can use the arrow
keys on the keyboard to move Noddy from left-to right and Return (or Enter)
to fire water.

To stop the crabs and lobsters from stealing the picnic you must hit them
with squirts of water. Some lobsters must be hit more than once. If a
lobster is pink it must be hit twice, if it is blue three hits are
required. A few crabs (these are black in colour) are there to distract
you!

Noddy finds the pipe difficult to hold because of its weight. He sometimes
drifts over to the right of the screen. If he does this, you must help him
to move back

This game is played in 28 different "waves". There are also some surprise
waves where you will confront something other than crabs or lobsters! Each
successive wave is slightly more difficult than the preceding one. You can
join this game at three different points:

To join the game at the first wave select the easy level.

By selecting the harder level you will join the game at wave number 7.

The hardest level takes you directly to wave number 12

The aim of the game is to accumulate as high a score as you can. You will
receive points for the number of crabs and lobsters that you manage to hit
and will receive a bonus for saving your food. As you complete each "wave"
you may also receive a bonus item of food.

Eventually the friends saw the last crab fly off towards the sea. Noddy
and Big Ears cheered.

Noddy and Big Ears sat down and started to eat their sandwiches.

"Life seems to be one big adventure!" said Noddy pouring a drink.

Big Ears laughed. "For you, yes" replied Big Ears, "I`d call it Noddy`s
Big Adventure!"

SECTION 3
=========

NODDY'S WORD PROCESSOR

Noddy's Word Processor is a unique program which been designed to acquaint
children with the basic functions found in similar "grown up" utilities.
This program operates on three distinct levels, the easiest being aimed at
very young children. It comes complete with three separate,
level-specific, games which are geared towards increasing children's
vocabularias as well as introducing them to the spellings of a range of
simple words.

PC and Archimedes users can load this program from the Main Options Screen.
Amiga users should insert Disk 4 and reboot the computer to load Noddy`s
Word Processor. The program will load automatically from this disk.

Function Icons
The function icons have the same effect regardless of which level Noddy's
Word Processor is currently being used. These icons are placed in a strip
along the top of the screen. They are:

Save or Load a Story
Children's work (their "stories") can be saved to disk and later re-loaded
into the program. To save or load, click on this icon. You will be
presented with a menu containing two further icons:

To save a story, click on the SAVE icon. Type the name that you wish to
use for this story into the file selector and select OK or press Return or
Enter.

To load a story from disk click on the LOAD icon. From the file selector,
click on the story which you wish to load then select OK or press Return or
Enter.

Stories are saved to and loaded from the currently active drive. Amiga and
Archimedes users must prepare a blank, formatted data disk with the volume
name NODTALES on which to save any work.

Load a Sample Story 
Noddy's Word Processor comes complete with a number of sample stories. To
load one of these, click on this icon. You should make your selection from
the list shown on the screen.

If you wish to return to the program without loading a sample story click
on the QUIT icon.

Print
To print the current page click on this icon. Pages produced within
Noddy's Word Processor can be printed on any Epson-compatible 9-pin printer
(If you are using Noddy's Big Adventure from within MS- Windows on an IBM-
compatible PC you will be able to print to the printer type which is
currently under the control of the Print Manager.) In the easy and the
harder levels, stories will be printed out as graphic dumps. In the
hardest level you will have the opportunity to print a story as a graphic
dump or as a simple page text (using the default font for your printer).
The advantage of selecting the latter is that, although the print quality
is poorer, it will give you the opportunity to obtain a quick print-out
which can be used to check children's work.

Change Level
Clicking on this icon has the same effect as pressing F10.

Select a Letter or a Location-Specific Bank of Words

This icon has two functions:

Change the letter in the bottom bar. The bar at the bottom of the screen
displays a number of pictures relative to a particular letter (or letters)
of the alphabet. This bar acts both as a word bank and as a dictionary.
It is possible to scroll between different letters by clicking on the
arrows to the far right of the bar. Using this method it would take some
time to move between the different letters of the alphabet.

After clicking on the icon at the top of the screen you will be presented
with a menu. Click on the letter of the alphabet that you wish to see
displayed in the bottom bar. The display will then change in line with
your selection.

The pictures, and hence the words, used in this program have been arranged
into four banks. Each of these reflect the four locations around which
Noddy's Big Adventure is based (i.e. Noddy's house, Monkey Town, Goblin
Village and the beach). To select a new picture bank, click on this icon.
You will be presented with a pictorial menu. On the right of this are four
further icons which each represent the location banks. Select the bank
that you wish to use and the display will automatically change according to
your selection.

Turn Back a Page

Current Page Number

Turn Forward a Page

These icons show the currently active page number and allow you to move
backwards and forwards between different pages within a story.

On the easy level nine pages are available for any one story, on the second
level this number is increased to 33. On the hardest level a story can
contain up to 99 pages.

Clear the Page
Clicking on this icon wipes all pictures and/or text from the currently
active page.

OOPS
If you select this icon you will cause the program to remove the object or
letter to the left of the cursor. This function simulates using the
backspace key.

Quit
To leave the program, click on this icon.

PC and Archimedes users will be returned to the Main Options Screen of
Noddy's Big Adventure.

Amiga users will be returned to the CLI. To reload Noddy's Big Adventure,
Amiga users must insert Disk 1 and reboot the computer.

Picture Bar
At the bottom of the screen is a picture bar. Each of the pictures
displayed represents a word. On the easy level a single row of large
pictures is displayed. On the hard and hardest level, two rows of smaller
pictures are shown. To the left of any row is the initial letter of the
words represented by the pictures in that row. To move between different
letters (and hence, sets of pictures) you should click on either the up or
the down arrow to the right of the bar.

In the easy and harder levels clicking on any pictures causes a copy of it
to be pasted into the main work area or the screen. In the hardest level
the pictures act as the component parts of a pictorial dictionary. These
functions are explained in more detail below.

Using Noddy`s Word Processor

The way in which you can use Noddy's Word Processor depends upon the
currently selected level:

Easy
The purpose of this level is to allow children to paste pictures on to a
page and to later add the initial letters of the words represented by those
pictures. By pasting these in a specific order, children should be able to
construct outline stories.

On loading, the on-screen cursor is in the top left hand corner of the
screen. If any picture (within the picture bar at the bottom of the
screen) is clicked on, a copy of it will appear in the top left hand corner
of the screen. This will animate for a short while and the cursor will
move to the next position ready for another picture to be put in place. If
at any time a pasted picture is clicked on, an overlay box will appear
showing an animated version of the picture along with the name of the word
that it represents. Clicking on this overlay box will remove it from the
screen.

The line immediately below a row of pasted pictures is reserved for
keyboard input of the initial letters of the word represented by those
pictures.

Once you have put a complete row of pictures in place, the cursor will move
down to the second line where the initial letters can be typed in from the
keyboard. As each letter is entered the computer will check whether it is
correct or not. Correctly entered letters will be shown in black,
incorrect ones will be presented in pink. After entering a row of letters
the cursor will move to the beginning of the next line. The program is now
ready to accept the input of a further row of pictures.

Alternatively, it is possible to move around the screen using the cursor
(or arrow) keys.

Pictures can, using this method, be placed in any order on the screen. If
the cursor is placed over an existing picture and a second one selected,
the new selection will replace the existing one. This method will also
allow you to place letters on the screen in any order (provided there is a
picture above the input letter).

Harder 
This level contains a much larger dictionary of words compared to the one
available in the easy level. Because of this, the pictures which represent
the words are smaller.

In this level, children can paste pictures on the screen (as in the easy
level). Once pictures have been pasted down, children can attempt to
complete the spellings of the partially-spelt words which are represented
by the pictures.

The input methods used in this level are similar to the easy level. As a
picture is pasted, a partially spelt word will appear below it. Clicking
on a second picture will (if sufficient space exists) cause a copy of it to
be pasted to the right of the first word. If there is not enough space to
accept this picture/word combination you will hear a warning sound. If
this happens, you should press Return or Enter to move the cursor to the
next line.

Pressing Return or Enter while on a row containing pictures will cause the
cursor to move to the first letter below those pictures. At this point
children can either complete the partially spelt words in this row or they
can press Return or Enter again to move to the next row and enter some more
pictures.

Any number of pictures can be put on the screen before adding letters to
their partially completed labels.

To complete a partially spelt word the cursor should be placed over the
first blank space within that word. Each missing letter can be entered
from the keyboard. To move between spaces you should use the cursor keys
or click on the next letter using the mouse. As each letter is typed in,
the computer will check whether it is correct or not. Incorrectly entered
letters will flash.

As in the easy level, clicking on a pasted picture will lead to an
information box appearing on the screen. This will contain a copy of the
picture along with the word which it represents. To remove this box from
the screen, click on it.

Hardest
This level acts as a simple word processor. Words can be typed in from the
keyboard. Backspace and delete are available along with a limited word
wrap facility. Clicking on a picture in the picture bar does not cause it,
or the word which it represents, to be pasted onto the screen. Instead, an
information box showing the picture along with the correct spelling of the
word represented by it will appear on the screen (clicking inside this box
causes it to disappear from the screen).

The Games

By pressing F1 while in any of the levels, you will be able to play a
level-specific game. To leave a game, press F1 at any time.

Easy 
In this game there are 2O different pictures available in the picture bar
at the bottom of the screen. These are in a random order. To scroll
between the different pictures, click on the arrows next to the bar.

A question will appear in the centre of the screen which will ask you to
pick a number of pictures which each begin with a certain letter.

To play this game you should scroll between the pictures in the bar. As
you see a picture which represents a word beginning with the relevant
letter, click on it. Continue to do this until you find the number of
pictures requested in the question.

Harder
This is a spelling game.

Six pictures will appear on the screen each followed by a number of blank
spaces. Each blank space represents a letter.

Click on a picture then type in the spelling of the word that you think it
represents and press Return or Enter. If you are right, the word will
remain on the screen. If you are wrong, your entry will disappear and you
should try again.

Hardest
This is a crossword game where pictures are used in the crossword as clues.

You will see a crossword grid on the screen.

As you move the mouse pointer over a picture it will flash. With a picture
flashing, click on the left mouse button. The picture will disappear and
you can enter the solution from the keyboard. Press Return or Enter at the
end of the word. If you have correctly entered a word it will remain in
place, if you have not your entry will disappear.

SECTION 4
=========

PARENT/TEACHER SECTION AND THE NATIONAL CURRICULUM

Noddy's Big Adventure is a complete learning and entertainment package for
young children. Its main aim is to introduce important educational
concepts in a fun to-use manner. This package encourages children to
develop a number of basic skills while at the same time enjoying
themselves.

Noddy's Driving Menu, along with the four linking scenes, forms a cohesive
connection between the remaining programs in this package. As well as
encouraging children to refer to reference sources (in this case, the
printed map which is enclosed in this package) the Driving Menu will help
them to develop an appreciation of different directions. Children should
be encouraged to describe the routes in which they direct Noddy using
simple terms such as "turn right", "turn left" and so on. Indeed, this
program could be used to encourage collaborative effort between children
with one child acting as "navigator" and the other as "driver"

The connecting scenes will appeal to any child's inherent sense of
curiosity. The events which happen on the screen are entirely under
children's control. Only through investigation will they discover what
those events are.

Noddy's Word Processor is a unique and amazing utility which can be used by
children of widely differing ages and abilities. Even young children can
construct simple stories (on the easy level) using the large and colourful
pictures which are available. At this level. reading and spelling skills
are reinforced by encouraging them to place the initial letter of an object
under its representative picture.

The hardest level introduces children to a number of standard word
processor functions. The use of word processors is a requirement of the
National Curriculum in Technology (Information Technology). This level
will, therefore, help children to achieve this requirement at an early
stage.

The harder level forms an intermediate stepping stone between these two
extremes. In this level children continue to work with pictures but, in
order to complete a "story" they must be prepared to complete the names of
the objects which appear on the screen by filling in blank letters.

Each level of the word processor offers children the opportunity to see the
correct spelling of any word which is represented pictorially. Because of
this, even with the hardest level (which simulates "real" word processors)
children have access to a pictorial on screen dictionary.

To further encourage linguistic skills a small game has been included in
each level of this utility. On the easy level children must isolate a
number of pictures which each begin with the same letter. The next level
includes a simple spelling tester. The hardest level contains a crossword
puzzle game where each of the clues are given pictorially.

At its easiest, Kitchen Fun introduces children to the concept of selecting
and mixing ingredients to produce final outcome (the food product). The
result of childrens actions is monitored by the program (in the guise of
Mrs Tubby Bear) who informs children whether the food product is good
("YUM") or bad ("YUCK"). Children should be encouraged to look for
patterns in these responses and discover what, in general, produces each
response. In reality, the mixture of all sweet or all savoury items
produces a positive response whereas the mixture of sweet and savoury items
will produce a negative response.

The concept of following written instructions (in this case, a recipe list)
is introduced in the final two levels of this activity. The harder level
shows recipes in a pictorial form. The language of these items is
reinforced on the screen as each item is selected. On the hardest level
children must follow written recipes in a specific order

The easy level of Noddy's Scales introduces the numbers 1 to 9. Through
the use of objects of different relative sizes, along with the effect of
balancing the scales, children should soon appreciate the simple concepts
of "greater than" and "less than". The harder level takes the form of a
simple adding game. One object (number) appears on the scales and children
must match its value (or "balance the scales") using two (numerically)
smaller objects. This concept is extended within the hardest level where
questions of the type:

3 + a = 5 + b

are used. This level allows children to experiment with numbers until they
are able to find the correct answer As with the harder level, the program
does not reward or penalise children for their answer until they have
decided that they have finished work on a particular problem. Each problem
may have a number of solution and children may wish to discover how many
different ways there are of completing a particular sum. This can
initially be carried out by trial and error with the scale indicating which
side of the sum is too high ("heavy") or low ("light")

Tricky Trees is primarily a memory game where children must repeat
sequences of notes which are played to them. This activity introduces
children to the language of shape and colour.

Can You Find Me builds upon the concepts introduced in Tricky Trees by
reinforcing the concepts of the language of shape and colour. In the easy
level, children must search a picture for particular shapes. The names of
these shapes along with the names of their colours are introduced in the
next level. These ideas are reinforced in the final level where the names
of particular objects are also presented on the screen.

Bert's Scrapbook encourages sequencing skills as children have to re-order
disorganised stories. At its simplest, children must simply look at a
sequence of six frames of a story-board. These become muddled on the
screen. The children's task is now to put them back in order. Language is
introduced on the harder level where each of the frames are accompanied by
a written caption. The hardest level encourages children to use their
reading skills by asking them to place captions, as well as picture frames,
in order.
 
Beach Sorter is a game which has three very distinct levels each of which
are concerned with the concept of placing objects or animals into groups.
In the easy level children are encouraged to match shape and colour in a
novel and interesting way.

The harder level deals with environmental habitats. Each of the animals
shown on the bottom of the screen must be matched to its correct habitat.
These habitats are in turn, represented by icons shown at the top of the
screen. There are five habitats introduced in this level

These are:

Jungle, sea, woodland, farmyard and fresh water.

The hardest level introduces the concept of classifying animals into their
respective groups. As in the previous level, the animals are shown on the
bottom of the screen. At the top of the screen are a number of icon each
containing a representative member of a particular group. The groups used
in this program are:

Fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals and insect

As children work through this level, you may wish to point out the major
differences between animals in each group. In this way they may be able to
classify unfamiliar animals:

ANIMAL GROUP CHARACTERISTICS

Fish		 Live in water. Brwathe through gills
		Most are covered in scales. They have
		fins to help them move.

Amphibians Can live in water or on land. They lay
		eggs in water. The young breathe
		through gills, adults have lungs

Reptiles	Cold blooded. Live on land. Usually
		covered in scales, reptiles lay eggs

Birds	 Warm blooded. Covered in feathers
		Most have wings and can fly. Birds lay
		eggs.

Mammals	 Have fur or hair. Warm blooded. Most
		mammels give birth to live young

Insects	 Small animals. Their heads contain
		feelers. They have three pairs of legs
		Many have two pairs of wings 


Picnic Attack is a fun-based activity in which children must help Noddy to
save his picnic from being eaten by a hoard of crabs and lobsters. As in
Noddy's driving Menu children should appreciate that they are using the
computer to control Noddy's movements.

Noddy's Big Adventure and the National Curriculum

Noddy's Big Adventure responds to various early aspects of the National
Curriculum, most notably English, Mathematics and Technology (Information
Technology). As such, this package will assist children acquiring some of
the basic skills demanded within the educational sector today. The lowest
level of study within the National Curriculum is key stage 1. This is
directed at children in years 1 and 2 (ages 5 to 7).

This package can be used, at its lowest levels, by pre- school children.
As such it will prepare them for a number of important aspects of key stage
1 of the National Curriculum. The highest level of each activity within
this package may tax even bright six or seven year olds and will therefore
reinforce work carried out in school.

A summary of the Attainment Targets (ATs) of the National Curricula in
English, Mathematics, Science and Technology covered (in part or in full)
at Levels 1 and 2 (key stage 1) by Noddy's Big Adventure are shown as
below:

ENGLISH AT2 READING
 Kitchen Fun, Can You Find Me, Tricky Trees, Berts Scrapbook
 Noddys Word Processor, Beach Sorter,
 
ENGLISH AT3 WRITING; COMMUNICATING Using pictures etc.
 Berts Scrapbook, Noddys Word Processor

ENGLISH AT4 Spelling
 Noddys Word Processor

MATHEMATICS AT1 Using and Applying Mathematics
 Noddys Scales

MATHEMATICS AT2 Number Counting
 Noddys Scales

MATHEMATICS AT3 ALGEBRA
 Tricky Trees 

MATHEMATICS AT4 Shape and Space
 Can You Find Me, Tricky Trees, Noddys Driving Menu, 
 Noddys Scales

MATHEMATICS AT5 Collection processing and Interpretation
 Kitchen Fun

TECHNOLOGY AT5 Information Technology
 Noddys Driving Menu, Noddys Word Processor

SCIENCE AT1 Scientific Investigation
 Noddys Scales

SCIENCE AT2 Life and Living Processes
 Beach Sorter
 
Warranty

In the very unlikely event of you finding any faults in this product you
should return the whole package to your dealer for a replacement as soon as
possible.

Alternatively, you may return any faulty disks to us. You should send the
original disks in a strong secure envelope to:

The Jumping Bean Company Limited
Leen Gate
Lenton
Nottingham NG7 2LX

Please include the following details:
. your name and address.
. the date of purchase,
. where the product was purchased,
. the nature of the fault, and,
. precise details of your computer (make, model and
 available memory)
 eg. ("CBM-Amiga A600- 1 Meg")

You should allow up to seven days for receipt of your replacement disks.

This limited warranty is valid for 90 days following the purchase of this
product and does not affect your statutory rights. It is provided on the
understanding that disks are correctly used in the machine stated on the
disk labels and not used or stored in extreme temperatures, in areas of
ionising or magnetic radial or exposed to any liquids or volatile
substances or misused in any other way.

The Noddy's Big Adventure Help Line

We are happy to help you with any problems which you may experience in
using Noddy's Big Adventure.

The Noddy's Big Adventure help line will operate on weekday afternoons from
2 to 4:30 PM. If you find that you have any "teething troubles" please
feel free to ring us on 0602-791408. As a security measure, we would ask
that you have your manual and the original packaging to hand when you
phone.

PC 5.25" Disk Exchanges We offer an exchange service for PC users with
5.25" disk drives. Please return your original disks (in a strong package)
together with a stamped addressed envelope to the above address, and we
will exchange them for 5.25" VGA compatible disks.

Please note that this service only applies to the MS- DOS version of
Noddy's Big Adventure

Copyright Notice

Copyright 1993 The Jumping Bean Co. Ltd. All rights reserved

This product, Noddy's Big Adventure, its program codes, manuals and all
associated product materials are the copyright of The Jumping Bean Co.
Ltd. The owner of this product is entitled to use the product for his or
her own personal use only. No one may transfer give or sell any part of
this manual, or the information on the disks without the prior permission
of The Jumping Bean Co. Ltd.. Any person or persons reproducing any part
of this package, in any media, for any reason, shall be guilty of copyright
violation, and subject to civil liability at the discretion of the
copyright owner.
 
 
	 HAVE FUN GUYS AND REMEMBER ITS ALL FOR FUN 
			aLL DoNE By SHaRD/N&B