	B.A.T - THE SOLUTION
      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Anything that is not mentioned here is of no use or importance in the game.

START				      					KORTAKIS
ACCESS CARDS								KRELLS
ALIENS				   			 		LYDIA
AMMO				     			 	        MAZE
ARCADE				  			   		MERIGO
BIZZY GAME			        	                  	MUSEUM
B.O.B.				    		                        NIGHT BAR
CLUB (where Lydia is)				                        PARK
CREDIT CARDS								SLOAN
DOCTOR									SHIELDS
DOP CARD								SHOPS	
DRAG									TECHNICIANS
ELECTRONIC KEY							        VRANGOR
EXCHANGE CENTRE							        VRANFORS STATION
FOOD AND DRINK							        XIFO CLUB
FORCE FIELD SHOP                                                        GIRL IN BLACK ZIP SUIT           
GUN SHOP                                                                JEWEL


Search everywhere you go at least 5 or 6 times, sometimes things are hidden 
and you only find it on the 5th or 6th click on 'search'.

Search every time you eat or drink something because quite often you get 
them back even though you have used them.  DO NOT steal from shops or bars 
because you end up getting put in jail for about 3 days.

DO NOT stay in one place too long otherwise Aliens steal your Krells then 
your belongings.

Start: Set B.O.B. on Programming so you can understand both Aliens and 
Robots (See B.O.B.).  

Visit toilets first - right off screen - go into cubicle to meet your 
colleague and get your equipment.

Access Cards: You get these off different Aliens.  One is to get past the 
Technicians at the Northern Airlock, this is where you get the Access Code 
for Epsilon.  Use this code at Vrangor's Station on the Keypad on the wall.  
The other Access Card is to get into the the Xifo club so you can kill 
Merigo.  You will get this card off the Alien that you have to meet in the 
Museum (see Museum).

Aliens: Steal as much as you can from them until they say something (if you 
steal again from them you will have to fight which lowers your health), 
always try and steal Access Cards but don't eat the food that you steal.

Ammo: Buy in the Gun Shop which is at Central Junction.  Buy for whichever 
weapon you have and make sure you have plenty especially when you are going 
to Vrangor's Station otherwise you will not be able to kill him.

Arcade: This is in the Hot Area at the start of the A-312 road opposite the 
club where you meet Lydia.  Play Bizzy game to get credits added on to your 
Credit Card.  Go in between 1.15 and 3 p.m. and play against Sloan to get 
his friends ip (copy the pattern of the Bizzy shapes on a piece of paper 
then as each one appears put the number (in pencil) next to it, this way you 
can win every time).

Bizzy Game: You play this in the Arcade which is in the Hot Area at the start 
of the A-312 road opposite the club where you meet Lydia.  Play it to get 
more credits on your Credit Card or play against Sloan ( between 1.15 and 
3 p.m.) to win is friendship.  Copy the pattern of shapes onto a piece of 
paper and then as each one appears write next to them (in pencil so you can 
rub them out) the number that the shape is, this way you will win every time.

B.O.B.: Keep a check on your Physical Condition, always make sure that you 
eat and drink regularly and that you do not get hurt.  If you do get hurt 
try and get to the Doctor as soon as possible.  Put your language on Robot 
and then Programme B.O.B. with IF ALIEN TRANSLATE ALIEN END IF END RESTART 
then save it on B.O.B. then hopefully it will stay the same every time you 
load your game.  You can change your heartbeat on the Cardiogram for 
different reasons.  Hibernation is good if you are injured or to save your 
energy but you are more likely to get hurt.  Normal is OK for normal 
situations.  Accelerate is for when you are dancing with Lydia or when you 
come up against Merigo or Vrangor, it makes your reactions quicker (you must 
be of accelerate when dancing with Lydia otherwise she will not stay with 
you).  Make sure you change your heart rate before you go into the situation 
otherwise you will not be able to change it once you are there.

Club: This is the club where you meet Lydia.  It is in the Hot Area at the 
start of A-312 road opposite the Arcade where you meet Sloan.  You have to 
pay before you get into this club so make sure you have enough Krells also 
put your heart rate on accelerate before you enter the club (see Lydia for 
more help).

Credit Cards: Use card to make phone calls or buy food and drink.  You can 
also change credits into Krells in the Exchange Centre (see Exchange 
Centre).  Use credits to pay for Drag (see Drag).  To gain more credits 
play Bizzy in Arcade.  The card that you find with the broken strip is no 
use at all.  Kortakis gives you enough credits to rent a Drag (see Kortakis) 
or you can play Bizzy for them.

Doctor: This is north (on the left) from where the Medical Organisations are.
Buy Stimulants or get Surgery when you are injured.  Search after taking your 
last pill and you will get it back even though it was registered as being used 
in the game.

DOP Card: Please see 'Jewel' as you do not need this card and 'Jewel' explains 
why.

Drag: This is straight ahead from the Northern Airlock past the guard.  You 
have to have Sloan with you to get past the guard.  You need 5500 credits to 
rent one.  You can either play Bizzy until you get enough or go and see 
Kortakis with Lydia who will give them to you.  Read manual on how to fly 
Drag.  Head for the orange dot (it's quite bright) which is Vrangors Station.  
When you find his Station you have to fire at it so that it stops moving and 
firing at you.  Once you have shot it you have to fly the Drag into the 
darkest part of the Station (it can take a bit of time before you get it 
right).  Make sure that you know the access code for Epsilon for the keypad 
on the wall and that you  have lots of ammo and shields before you go there 
so you can kill Vrangor. 

Electronic Key: You get this off Merigo after you have killed him. The key is 
for the door which is by the derelict building just off from the Astroport 
Square.  This door leads into the Maze (see Maze).

Exchange Centre: It is straight ahead from the Astroport Square next to the 
cafe.  Exchange credits for Krells here.  

Food and Drink: DO NOT steal from shops.  Always buy food and drink that you 
are going to use for yourself, never eat or drink what you have stolen off 
an alien.  You can give anything to Sloan or Lydia.  The water in the Park is 
OK.  Search every time you use something or give it to Sloan or Lydia because 
you can get it back even though it has been registered as being used in the 
game.

Force Field Shop: This is right from the Police Station then right from the 
man and woman.  DO NOT steal from the shop.  Buy 2 or 3 force fields (number 
7 or 8) to protect you until you are ready to go to Vrangors Station on the 
Drag, then get rid of everything that is useless and try to get as many 
number 8 force fields as the game will let you carry to protect you from 
Vrangor.  If you do not have enough shields you will not be able to kill 
Vrangor.

Girl in Black Zip Suit: Ask about Merigo and she will tell of an Alien that 
she heard talking about him.  Keep looking for the type of Alien that she 
said and ask about Merigo, when you find the right one he will tell you to 
meet him at the Museum in the Park at a certain time.  Make sure you have 
Krells to give him and make a note of the time he says to go to the Xifo club 
to find Merigo.

Gun Shop: This is just off the Central Junction (straight ahead but to the 
right).  DO NOT steal from the shop.  Buy ammo for your weapons that you got 
at the beginning of the game (hopefully you picked HAAS 10 and the MOZ).  The 
ammo that you need for these weapons are T 02, E-10 and E300.  If you buy 
another weapon (especially the NOVA) you will probably end up carrying too 
much and will not be able to leave the location until you get rid of 
something.  Make sure you have plenty of ammo before you go to Vrangors 
Station otherwise you will not be able to kill him.

Jewel: Kortakis gives this to Lydia when you go and see him at home.  The 
Jewel is used by Lydia in the maze to find a 'DOP card' (detection onde de 
poursuite - pursuit wave).  This card is supposed to be useful in the Drag 
to indicate where Vrangor's ship is but you can find him easily enough 
without it (just go for the bright dot).  You can finish the game without 
ever going in the maze or even being with Lydia, so the DOP card is not 
really useful unless you want to make the game longer than it already is.

Kortakis: To get his phone number you have to have Lydia with you then go and 
rent a Drag, if you don't have enough credits she will give you Kortakis's 
phone number (which is 52031 -hopefully).  Ring the number and go and see 
him.  He is in the Hot Area past the cinema and the northeast end of town.  
He will give you enough credits to rent a drag and give Lydia a Jewel which 
is not really any use (see Jewel).  You can complete the game without seeing 
Kortakis by just playing Bizzy to get credits for Drag (see Bizzy).

Krells: Steal from Aliens until they say something (don't steal again or you 
will have to fight).  You can exchange credits for Krells at the Exchange 
Centre (see Exchange Centre).  Use Krells for buying food, drink, ammo and 
shields.  Aliens steal from you if you stay in one place for too long (you 
will hear the same noise as when you are stealing from them).

Lydia: She is in the Club where you have to pay to get in which is in the 
Hot Area opposite the Arcade where you find Sloan.  Make sure you put your 
heart rate on accelerate before you enter the club.  Go in club between 2 - 4
pm and Lydia will appear and ask if you want to dance.  Dance with her and 
get the love meter to the top and then she will be your friend and stay with 
you.  If you get it wrong she will not appear again until the next night.  
When you go to hire a Drag and you haven't got enough credits Lydia will tell 
you the phone number for Kortakis so that you can see him.  Ring the number 
to make an appointment.  Go and see him (past the Xifo club in the Hot Area) 
and he will give you enough credits for the rag, he will also give Lydia a 
jewel which is supposed to help in the Maze (you don't really have to have 
Lydia with you if you can raise enough credits by playing Bizzy and you 
also do not need to go into the maze at all).

Maze: This is through the door by the derelict building which is just off 
from the Astroport Square.  To enter into the Maze you need the Electronic 
Key off Merigo which you get after you kill him in the Xifo Club.  You do 
not need to go into the Maze at all in the game as you can finish without 
ever entering it.  If you do want to go into it here is what is supposed to 
go on - you don't find anything very interesting in the Maze but you can have 
access to the underground city.  You need to find the control room but you 
can do so only if you are with Lydia.  She has to have the Kortakis Jewel 
(see Jewel) with her.  Then she finds a DOP Card (detection onde de poursuite 
- pursuit wave).  This card is supposed to be useful when you are in the Drag 
to indicate the position of Vrangors ship but you can do very well without 
it.

Merigo: He is in the Xifo Club at the time that the Alien from the Museum 
says (see Museum).  When he arrives you kill him then you will find an 
Electronic Key and Krells (see Electronic Key).

Museum: This is in the Park which is left from the Artificial Park.  After 
talking to the girl wearing the black zip suit in the Night Bar she tells 
you about an Alien who mentioned Merigo.  Once you have found the Alien he 
will tell you to me at him at the museum at a certain time.  Make sure you 
have Krells to give him and that you are on time.  He will tell you what 
time Merigo is usually in the Xifo Club so that you can go there and kill 
him.  If the Alien has an Access Card try and steal it but if you can't 
you'll have to buy it.  You must get the Access Card because it is for the 
Xifo Club where you will find Merigo and you have to kill him.

Night Bar: This is at the Approach Road.  It opens at 19.00 hrs.  Inside is 
a girl with a black zip suit, ask her about Merigo and she will tell you 
about an Alien that has mentioned him.  Keep looking for this type of Alien 
and asking them about Merigo.  When you find him he will tell you to meet 
him at a certain time at the Museum in the Park (see Museum).

Park: This is left from the Artificial Park.  You can drink the water from 
the fountain which will refresh you and your companions. You will also find 
the Museum here which is where you meet the Alien who tells you about 
Merigo (see Museum).

Sloan: You will find him in the Arcade which is in the Hot Area at the start 
of A-312 road opposite the Club where you find Lydia.  He is only there 
between 1.15 - 3 pm which is when you can play Bizzy against him (see Bizzy).
When you have beaten him he will stay with you.  You need him to get past 
the guard at the Northern Airlock which leads to the Drag.  You definitely 
need Sloan where as you don't really need Lydia.

Shields: Buy them in the Shield Shop which is left from the police station 
then left from the man and woman.  Buy number 7 or 8 and make sure you have 
enough to last especially when you are going to Vrangor's Station otherwise 
you will not be able to beat him.

Shops: DO NOT steal from them otherwise you will end up in jail for 3 days 
and that just wastes time.  Always buy what you want.  Make sure that the 
food and drink that you use is from the shops rather than stolen from an 
Alien as it is safer.

Technicians: They are left from the Northern Airlock.  You need the Access 
Card for 'Technicians Only' to get into this area (you can steal this off 
one of the many Aliens that you meet).  This is where you will find info on 
the bases.  Take a note of the Access Code for Epsilon as this is what you 
have to enter into the Keypad on Vrangor's Station (Epsilon - LRRRRRRL) 
to let you get to Vrangor to kill him.

Vrangor: He is at his Station (see Vrangor's Station).  You get there in the 
Drag (see Drag).  Make sure you have plenty of ammo and shields before you 
see him and put your heart rate on accelerate.  Just keep firing at him and 
as long as you have enough ammo and shields he will die and you have won.

Vrangor's Station: To get here you have to use the Drag (see Drag).  Make 
sure you have plenty of ammo and shields before even considering going here 
or you just won't make it.  When you see the Station you have to fire at it 
to stop it then you have to fly into it at the darkest part.  Once inside go 
to the right and you will see a Keypad on the wall.  You need the Access 
Code for Epsilon (which you get from the Technicians) to enter into it 
otherwise you can't go any further (Access Code for Epsilon - LRRRRRRL).  
Before entering the Code put heart rate on accelerate and then you can 
enter code.  Now you will be face to face with Vrangor.  Just keep firing at 
him until he dies and then you have won the game.  You can still carry on 
wandering around if you wish to do whatever you like but the objective of 
the game has been completed.

Xifo Club: This is in the Hot Area at the northeast end of town. You need 
an Access Card to get in here which you will probably get off the Alien in 
the Museum (see Museum).  This is where you will wait for Merigo at the time 
that the Alien in the Museum told you.  When he appears you have to kill 
him (see Merigo).

Easy isn't it!

End.