                            BATTLEHAWKS 1942 - HINTS

    1. One useful thing to know is the promotion levels relating to the
       missions. Some ranks are only given to certain nationalities, but for
       the most part they're the same for both Japan and America. The ranks
       are, CADET, ENSIGN, ACTING LIEUTENANT, LIEUTENANT JUNIOR, LIEUTENANT,
       LIEUTENANT COMMANDER and COMMANDER.

    2. Learn the characteristics of each plane before embarking on combat
       missions. While Japanese aircraft are generally more manoeuvrable
       than their American counterparts they don't have the same sturdy level
       of protection. Another thing to remember is that the KATE torpedo
       bomber has no front-firing weapons, so think twice before using this
       plane.

    3. A plane won't necessarily burn up or disintergrate before it crashes
       into the ocean. Sometimes the pilot can be shot while still flying,
       so that his vessel will plunge into the Pacific with little visible
       damage. Keep a look out for pilots attempting to trick the enemy by
       faking a crash - the sneaky basts...

    4. On attack missions, it is sometimes better to devastate the enemy CAP
       before starting your own attack run. Other pilots in your squadron
       should meanwhile have carried out their bombing runs and eliminated
       some of the opposition. If they have, then life should be alot easier,
       since damaged ships fire little or no flack. It is better to bomb an
       undamaged vessel, even if it isn't a carrier, because there is a good
       chance that ships already on fire will sink anyway. Also, your chances
       of promotion are much greater if several enemy vessels have sunk or
       been set on fire.

    5. Torpedo hits generally do more damage than dive-bombing, because thay
       hit vessels at the vital point below the waterline. When torpedoing a
       ship, try to release the missle at the last possible moment. This will
       cause maximum damage and means that the ship has less chance to dodge
       the attack. There is a good chance that a ship will sink after just
       one hit using this tactic, especially if you are using the LONG LANCE
       type torpedo.

    6. Bombers are formidable opponents, since all except the Japanese KATE
       bomber are armed with front and rear guns. These planes are vulnerable
       to attacks from the side, but this tactic isn't always possible.
       Another way to get them is as follows.
          Fly behind and slightly below the enemy plane, so that the rear
       guns can't get you. Now when you get in range you should be able to
       pick them off with relative ease. If any planes break away from the
       formation to get away from your shots, then this will leave them open
       to a side attack. This technique is difficult to use against torpedo
       bombers, as thay fly close to the surface of the ocean will attacking.

    7. The more explosions occur on the decks of ships, the more chance they
       stand of sinking. Hanging around blasting the decks of ships increases
       the possibility of them sinking, so it's a good idea to inflict as
       much damage as possible on the ship as quickly as you can, then at
       least one of the ships will have sunk by the end of the mission.
          A CARRIER will normally sink after taking three torpedo hits. A
       BATTLESHIP can be sunk using a single torpedo, particularly if it is
       launched from close range.

    8. If an enemy plane hassles you and causes problems, dive towards the
       ocean and any nearby ships - even if they're the enemy. You'll have
       to dodge the flack, but so will any planes attempting to follow you.
       They'll be so intent on firing at you that they won't avoid the flack
       and will get it in the neck from their own side!!

    9. Japanese pilots occasionally attempt kamikaze attacks on allied
       shipping. This is usually done for a couple of reasons - either they
       have suffered heavy losses early in the mission or they've missed
       with all their warheads. Occasionally, the pilot of a badly-damaged
       plane will aim it at a ship and bail out just before impact. A
       kamikaze attack causes so much damage that a ship may sink straight
       away. Tricky, but the squadron leader is often well rewarded. Remember
       only to adopt this tactic on the 16th ATTACK mission - just before
       retiring.

   10. Here's a way to dive much quicker than usual - useful for getting out
       of tricky situations. Begin your dive as normal, then switch to the
       rear gunner. The altimeter will now spin round much quicker than usual
       until you switch to front view. This also works when objects in the
       distance seem to take a long time to arrive.