                             BATTLE COMMAND HINTS

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.


Nice thought isn't it?  Driving around in a powerful tank, blasting the enemy
and generally protecting the innocent from the vicious dictators.  This is
what you can do in BATTLE COMMAND but that's only good news if you've
mastered it yet!
Here's some helpful guides to some of the missions to help you get the most
out of your trusty tank.

AIRFIELD ATTACK
Make sure you destroy all the buildings near the runways and any other in the
vicinity.  For this reason you need to make sure that you're stocked up on IR
surface-to-air missiles.

HIDEOUT
The only way to complete this mission is by using mortars - it's a good idea
to take two sets of mortars with you.
When you reach the circle of mountains use the exterior views at maximum
distance to find the exact location of the target then use the mortars, set
at around 500-700 yards, to blast it.

DESTRUCTION
Try to avoid the crossroads where possible, as there are always gun
emplacements based at them.
If you are short of ammo and still have a lot of buildings to destroy, sit
next to them and wait for the enemy to fire on your position, then move out
the way.  Their shots will do the task well!

MISSILE BATTERY
This is pretty straight forward so keep your head and push on!

SATELLITE
To begin with, head south-west across the bridge then follow your scanner.
If your rear-end starts to get badly damaged, driving around backwards can
help balance it out, as well as giving you the chance of blasting any enemies
that try and follow you.
When you reach the satellite, remember to drive into it slowly.

KAMIKAZE
Forget about the roads and travel south-east until you come to where the
river and mountains nearly meet instead.  Now whiz through the gap to the
pick-up point to escape.
Remember to take plenty of air-to-air weapons and self-protection systems.

U-BOMB
One clue to this mission is to note the fence at the entrance of the valley
works by electricity - and the electricity pylons are on the other side of
the river.
Try to blow up the U-Bomb with Dragonflies for some spectacular results!

GENERAL HINTS
When the chopper arrives at the pick-up point try to destroy all the enemies
in the area; there's nothing worse than getting blown-up as you board the
chopper!
When using the pulverisor cannon set your binoculars at maximum magnification
for greater accuracy.
Use trees and buildings for cover if you're being pursued.
Destroy enemy aircraft as soon as possible to strengthen your position and
note that you can also use surface-to-air missiles to blast ground targets.
One last thing - keep moving!

End.