                             BATTLEMASTER HINTS

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.


SCENE 1: DORIN'S DELVE
Level one consists of a treasure chest and an entrance to level two.
Walk along the cliff face to reach the chest and grit your teeth while
you make your way past an arrow.  Walk up the dark brown earth track to
the cliff face, and you wake up the sentries.  Dodge them by walking left
around the bushes.  When you get to the cliff face just walk up and down
- doing this will open the cave entrance.

Once you're on level two, you will find a corridor with stairs at the
end.  Walk down the centre of the corridor as there are lots of pits on
either side. At the end of the corridor go up the stairs to level three.
Here you will find a small room with a locked door.  There's a lever in
the wall on the left hand side which opens it.  Walk up and down in front
of the mirror to find out what the secret code is.

SCENE 2: DULHAM
Just a few huts here, plus a few people and a pit trap at the end of the
road in the middle of the village.  Set this off and your rear and huddle
formations suffer losses.  The locked hut can be opened by finding a key
which is behind the next hut to the right.

SCENE 3: BRIGHTLEAF
This elf scenario comprises a large transporter field and an underground
section.  You can escape from the transporter field by taking the spade
and walking up to the tree on the small grassy knoll.  The underground
section is accessed by walking over the bridge and into the cave on the
lefthand side.  Once inside, pick up the small glowing syones as they can
be used to remove stalactites.

SCENE 4: AXEHEAD HILL
There are two caves here and the one nearest the river conceals a special
lever.  This lever disables all the pit traps on this level, but require
you to perform a particular ritual to make it work.

First deal with the two orcs and walk right up to the lever and away
again.  The lever changes position.  If you then enter the other cave,
you can kill the orc in the corner and then follow the passage to the
end, where it turns left.  Here you find a room, after which the passage
continues.  Stay on the lefthand side as you pass through.  Once you are
through, keep going until you're out of the underground section, using
the cave exit at the end.

You now find yourself on the other bank of the river.  The cave nearest
the river requires caution for you to enter safely.  Once inside the
cave, move left as far as possible and then go up.  You find yourself in
a cave full of spiders, but moving back down transports them all outside
again.

End.