			Beast Lord - Maps & Solution
 			----------------------------

BASIC TIPS
----------

Okidoki,heres  a  few  basic tips to get you started in your quest.The main
thing to do is to keep an eye on your energy levels at all times.  They can
drop  quickly  at times,so keep topping them up with food and drinks.To get
hold  of  some,attack  as many hostile inhabitants as possible,as many will
leave either supplies or money.
Speaking  of  money,always collect it,as you never know when you might need
it later.Always talk to everyone you can,and always ask them for help.  O.k
now lets dive straight into the solution!!

FOREST SECTION
--------------

You  start  the  game in the forest,ready for action.The first place you`ll
want to go is the Village at the top of the map.Head towards it,Killing off
everyone  you  meet  and  collecting  everything they drop.Everyone,that is
until you reach the Village itself,at which point you must be as cuddly and
friendly as a little lamb.Talk to all the villagers,and ask all of them for
help.Before  you  know  it,you`ll  bump into someone with a knife.Generally
they  will  be found at map location 2.No,they arnt about to mug you.Simply
offer them some money and buy the knife from them.
Now go to the Inn,at location 1,and buy some ale and some nuts.Whatever you
do ,do not have a fight with anyone in the Village,as news travels fast and
you dont want to make anymore enemies than you already have.
On your way to the Village you should have passed a little guy in a bag,who
begged  with  you to free him.Head back to him with the knife,but dont give
it to him.Instead,trade with him until he gives you the Re-Animate spell in
return  for  the  knife.If  you  give him the blade straightaway,he`ll just
scarper with it.

Now  go to the statue of the bird found at location 3 on the map.Wait until
night,when  you  cant  see  a  single  thing,and  then  cast the Re-Animate
spell.Before  your  very  eyes  the statue will come to life,but only until
dawn.  After that it will return to its natural grey,stony state.  The bird
will  ask  you  for a sacred ring,which you wont have at this point so dont
worry abooit it.

Wait  until  daybreak and then head for the Orc Forest.I shouldnt go during
the  night if I was you.Orcs can be nasty at night.The ring you are after -
the sacred ring,remember?  - is high in a tree on the far side of Orcville.
You  won`t  be  able  to  get hold of it but,by using your Doctor Doolittle
powers,you  can  get  squirrels  to  fetch  it for you!  talk to one of the
squirrels  and  say "Get Sacred Ring".It will scamper off and return before
you  know  it  with the ring.Not that it will give it to you.You`ll have to
trade  the  nuts  you  are  carrying  for  it.Oh well,they were dry roasted
anyway!

Return  to the Village and find the small blue dog which is roaming around.
Walk  up  to  it showing no fear and use the command "Follow me".The dog is
now  your  lifelong companion and you need to do is stand around.Now if you
were  doing all the talking like I asked you to,someone will have mentioned
an  invisable  thief.Just because you cant see him doesnt mean the dog cant
smell  him,and  sure enough the dog will go running after him as soon as he
passes  you.Just  follow  thr  dog  and he will take you all the way to the
thief`s home.

Go  into the house and fight the thief,stealing his invisible cloak as soon
as  possible.Run away and head for the witch`s house.Dont enter yet,though.
Put  the  cloak on first and - hey presto!  - you look like a predator!  Go
into  the  house  and  avoid  the  random  spells  that  the  witch  throws
around.Grab  the  Light  spell  in  the  corner  of  the  room and run away
quickly.Once outside,take the cloak off again.
G
o  back  to  the  bird  statue and wait until nightfall once more.Cast the
Re-Animate  spell  once  more  and this time give the bird the ring it asks
for.   Yhe  bird  will  now  follow you everywhere.Cor,youre turning into a
right  Noah`s  Ark  and no mistake!  For the rest of this level the bird is
useless but keep it with you as you`ll need it in the Temple Section.  Head
for  the  Dark Forest.In here is a troll,as it is always night,the troll is
always  ready  to  do a bit of squishing.Stand a safe distance from him and
cast  the  Light Spell - day will break in the forest for the first time in
years.If  you  havnt  been  reading your DiscWorld books then you wont know
that  daylight turns Trolls to stone and will be completely surprisedby the
result.You can now pass the harmless-looking boulder.

Find  the  entrance  to  the  Temple and talk to the guard.Give him the ale
youre  carrying and then wait for gravity to take affect.When hr is slumped
on the ground enter the Temple.There,what could be simpler?

TEMPLE SECTION
--------------

When  you enter the temple,make sure that you have the bird with you as you
wont be able to complete the level without it.Got him?  Right,go to the top
oof  the  map,marked  as  location 1.Wait there until nightfall and a ghost
will  appear.Ask  him  for  help,and  he will first tell you must guess his
name.I`ll give you a clue - it isnt Rumplestilskin.Only the Mad Monk  knows
his  name,and  you`ll find him wandering around map location 2.Find him and
ask him the name but he wont tell you as he`ll be too busy telling you that
hes lost his marbles.

Funnily  enough,the marbles are to be found on the other side of the map,in
location  3.Search  around  on  the  floor for all of them,pick them up and
return  to  him.He  will then tell you the name of the ghost.Now go back to
the  ghost  and  call  him by his name.In return he will tell you about the
Guardian Of The Key and the cannister of poisonous gas which holds the key.

Now  you  have to find the Guardian himself,who you`ll at this time to be a
mouse.He`ll  be  scurrying about at location 4 adn,when yoou find him,order
the  bird  to  catch  him.He`ll become very helpful now,so you can tell the
bird  to  drop him.The mouse will run into a small hole and return with the
key,which  will  be contained in a small glass bottle.Sadly,the bottle also
holds  a  gas  which  will  kill  you and the bird as soon as the bottle is
opened.

Head  to  map  location 5,where you`ll meet a wise old man.Ask him for help
and he`ll tell yoou about a special plant he has which will stop the poison
from  affecting  you.Buy  the plant from him and eat it.Now open the bottle
and get the key.The bird will die,well,it was only a statue anyway.

The  key  will  allow you to open a door at the top of the map (location 6)
with  a  pentagon  drawn  on  it.Go  through  the door and you`ll come to a
chained  up  Unicorn.Speak  to  the Unicorn an he will ask you to free him.
unfortunatly  you  dont have the necessary tools to free him but you know a
man you does.

Find  the  sculptor  at  location  8  who holds in his hands a hammer and a
chisel.If  you  talk to the sculptor you`ll discover just how unfreindly he
really is.You could spend hours trying to reason with him if you wanted but
the  easiest  way  to  get  the tools off him is to beat him up.Do this and
collect  the  hammer  and  chisel.Free  the  Unicorn and it will follow you
around from this point on.

Now you must get to the next section.Heres how to do it.Throw a coin into
the well at location 9 and then run to the exit at location 10,in the
bottom tight of the map.You have a tight time limit to get there,so dont
stop at any Little Chef`s along the way!

SWAMP SECTION
-------------

The  final section of the game.As soon as you arrive go through the door to
the  right.Duck as you enter to avoid the wasps and,as soon as they are far
away  enough,run away so you dont get harmed.Here you will find a container
of  oats,which  you  should  collect  and  continue right.When you meet map
location  2  you  will meet a magician who will ask you to find three magic
stones.Who are you to refuse?

Leave  the  wasp  room  by the door you came in and go up through the first
door  you  come to.Now you`ll be surrounded by killer frogs.Yeah,like thats
really  feasible.Still,here  you  are,so avoid the frogs as you head to the
right  until  you come to a door going up and go through it.You will now be
in an empty area so,for want of something better to do,feed the oats to the
Unicorn whoo will regain his ability to fly.

Go  through  the next door up and you`ll be in another forg area.Run to the
left  and  you`ll collect one of the three stones (location 3).  Go through
the  next  door  up,up  through  the next one and you`ll be surrounded by -
arachnophobics  brace  yourslef  - gaint spiders!  Run left and you`ll find
dome  toilet  paper.No,only  kidding.You  actually  find another one of the
stones  (loacation 4).Run back to the right and go through the next door to
the top and you`ll find the last stone.  (location 5).

Run  back  to the magician and give him all three stones.He will give you a
Power  spell.Go back through the first frog area this time head right until
you  reach  the  impassable swamp,marked  with  danger  signs.Climb  on the
Unicorns  back and you`ll be able to fly across the swamp .Pull down on the
joystick to land.

Once off the Unicorns back,cast the Power spell then go up through the next
doorway  into  what we`ll call `The Final Area` (location 11).Here lies the
final  guardian  and  you`ll  need  the Power spell to destroy him.Stand in
front of him,facing him and press the fire button to launch the spell.It`ll
take a few hits to kill him - and watch out for his punch!

When  he  dies  he`ll drop a guiding light.Just use the light to finish the
game!  There you go all finished,easy eh?


Typed by Alice/Rvg.