                        BLOODWYCH GENERAL HINTS

By TIM BRIDLE. Typed in by PARASITE.


        If your patient enough, a good way of starting is to recruit
your way through all of the characters, taking their belongings, and
then dismissing them. Yuo can now sell all weapons you don't want, to
end up with about 200 coinage. You will also have a plentiful supply
of food and keys, so remember to have only one character carrying the
keys to save on backpack space.
        The best combination of characters is to have two fighters at
the front, and two wizards at the back. It's difficult to say which
colours are best, since they all have spells which come in very
useful. The yellow Vivify spell is probably best, but red spells such
as Vitalise, fireball and firebath tend to be most frequently used.
Note that the first time you use the Vivify spell, you will need about
70 to 80 spell points if the character casting the spell isn't yellow.
        Any items you come across can be sold to any creature, so long
as they're not one of the characters you robbed at the beginning of
the game. You can quite easily reach and maintain the maximum of 99
coinage this way.
        As far as fighting goes, make sure you don't get trapped while
using the 'hack and step back' method, only to realise that you
haven't saved the game for some time. Occasionally it is possible to
worm your way out of this situation by using the confuse and terror
spells and talking to the creature. Keep boasting to it about how
great you are, and then threaten it. Every now and then the creature
will turn and run, but unfortuanally this is quite rare.
        A good tip is the 'hiding behind the door technique'. Stand to
one side of the wooden door with the creature on the other side and
keep clicking on the fight icon until the creature opens the diir.
Sometimes it is possible to get a hit from both of your front
characters and close the door before the creature hits you. If the
creature then opens the door straight away, you won't need to click on
the fight icon again. If there is a delay, you'll probably have to
keep hitting it. If you've worried that one of your characters is
going to die, then lock the door usinf magelock, as it's quite easy to
make the mistake of locking the door open if you use a key. With the
door locked you can give your characters a rest, allowing them to
recuperate and be ready for the next fight.