BORROWED TIME

  Part 1
BORROWED TIME is an action-packed adventure by Activision Home Computer
Software. It is available for many different computers. Versions may differ
slightly and there may be more than one way to solve it. I played the
Macintosh version. In this walkthru, I am presenting one possible solution. I
have tried to cover all the major problems in a step-by-step procedure as I
solved the game. However, it is not necessary to do everything in this exact
order. Because of one very annoying character in the game, the thug, you can
expect to be "killed" frequently so save often and map carefully.
 THE THUG. I wasn't able to do anything about him. It seemed that he appeared
when I had taken too many moves between finding evidence or obtaining
information. I usually received a warning about three moves before he started
blasting.
 GAME BEGINNING. You are in your office. Answer phone. Read your case files
(all 7 of them). Go east to the little office and read the note. Take the east
exit to the alley. This is where the action starts! Go east to the Dixie Arms
Hotel. Hide behind the chair. Crawl north. Lock the door. Go up to the attic.
Break the window. Take the shard of glass. Go east to the ledge. Climb the
cable. When you get to the second-story window of the Dublin Rose Bar, cut the
cable with the shard of glass. Go down to the bar.
 LEBOCK'S HOUSE. If you are having trouble finding or entering Lebock's house,
go to the bar. Talk to the thug. Show gun to the thug. This will loosen his
lip but not enough. Show gun again. He will tell you the location of the house
and the password.
 The big bruiser, Rocco, guards the door. Say "TINPLAYER" then enter. Lock the
door. Search fireplace. Take scrap of paper. Go east through the curtain. Take
the candlestick and wait. Hit Rocco with the candlestick. Go east and exit
back door.
 RITA'S APARTMENT. You'll get hit over the head and tied by your wrists to the
ceiling beams. There is a table nearby. Look at table. Get the matches and the
candle. Light match then light candle. Burn twine. (Amazing what you can do
with your feet!) Search the kitchen. Take Receipt. If you search enough,
you'll find a key but getting it now will cause you problems. Oh, well, go
ahead move the stove and get the key. Now your hands are burned and you can
only carry a few things. It would be best to visit the doctor now.
 DOCTOR'S OFFICE. Tell the nurse you are a patient. You'll see Mongo through a
doorway. He is receiving medical treatment. Don't call attention to yourself;
listen. Search desk. Take the bandages. If you have already burned your hands,
 *APPLY* bandages to your hands. Ah, that's better!

     BORROWED TIME
        Part 2
 SHACK. In case you haven't found the shack, it's at the west end of First
Street (just west of the hot dog vendor). Break the door. Untie Mavis. Take
the tube and the novel. Read the novel and take the bookmark -- it's a claim
stub!
 DORIS POLK'S APARTMENT. (Intersection of Pershing and Polk) Talk to Doris.
Ask her about Mongo, Lebock, Farnham, etc. Show stub to Doris. This might be a
good time to visit the car park.
 STILES' SAFE PARK. If Jake is there alone, leave and return later. If two men
are there fighting, help Jake. Get gloves and cans. Show evidence to police.
You should have: (1) cans, (2) gloves, (3) stub, (4) tube, and (5) receipt.
Mongo will tell you about the key and the P.O. Box.
 TRASH PILE (First Time). Search trash. Get bone. Remember, this might be a
good place to hide.
 VISIT FARNHAM. (85 West Polk) A tough looking guy guards the door. Talk to
man. Enter building. Talk to Farnham. Notice the dogs and what Farnham says to
them.
 HOUSE WITH FENCE AND DOGS. Say HIYO to the dogs. Enter house. Talk to Shuman.
Untie Rita and Wainwright. Talk to Rita. Talk to Wainwright. Get report.
Police will take Shuman away.
 BRUCE LIGHT'S HOUSE. (Sixth West of Main, blue brownstone) Knock on door.
Enter. Look at bottles. Wait for Light to appear. Ask Light about Mongo,
Farnham, etc. If he's reluctant to talk, show gun. Go upstairs (big deal,
huh?) Search. When Light is able to talk, question him again.
 P.O. BOX. (Post Office) Unlock box 999. Get poem. Read it. There's a number
written on the back. Head for the Park.
 PARK. (6th and South Main) Go south of the statue to Tool Shed. Set lock to
6316. Get shovel. Dig at statue. Get suitcase. Go north. Thugs are chasing you
from south, north and east. Go west. Hide in Trash Pile.
 TRASH PILE (Second Time). You are hiding from the thugs. Give bone to dog.
Wait. When dog starts to bark again, go east. You should now have enough
evidence against Farnham to go to the police.
 END GAME. Take evidence to Police Station. Tell police to arrest Farnham. You
should have the following evidence: (1) Report (from Wainwright), (2) Scrap of
paper (from Lebock), (3) Suitcase (from Park), and (4) Folder (from the
suitcase).
 BORROWED TIME is published by Activision, Inc.
 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1986 by Terry Clayton. All rights reserved.