R-Type
Typed by Belgarath


A desperate battle is being fought out in the limitless and unknown dimensions of
space which have been contaminated and corrupted by an evil power. The evil
power is the Bydo Empire, which is determined to subjugate the world. It is
inhabited by weird creatures, whose very sight inspires fear. But Mankind is
fighting back, and sends you into battle in an incredibly sophisticated plane, the
R-9 fighter. Behind the control panel of this fantastic fighting machine, you are
Mankind's only defence against the enemy.


Loading Instructions

Set up your computer system as detailed in your user manual. Ensure that all
non-essential peripherals - such as cartridges, printers, etc. are disconnected.
Failure to do so may cause loading difficulties.

If you are using an Atari ST computer with the R-Type diskette...

a) Connect your disk drive to your computer (if your computer features a
   built-in disk drive you will not need to do this.
b) Insert the R-Type diskette 'A' into disk drive A, label side up.
c) Switch your TV/monitor, computer and disk drive ON.
d) When prompted by the computer insert DISKETTE 'B' into disk drive A,
   label side up.

If you are using a Commodore Amiga computer with the R-Type diskette...

a) Switch your TV/monitor and computer ON.
b) At the Workbench prompt, insert the R-Type diskette into disk drive DF0:, label side up.


Multi-Load Instructions

R-Type is a multi-load game. Each level will be loaded as you complete the
previous one. This means that to enjoy continuous play you MUST keep your
R-Type disk in your disk drive, at all times during a session with the game.


General Instructions

The movements of the R9 fighter are controlled by standard up, down, and left
and right joystick movements. The weapons are controlled by the fire button;
holding down fire will build up the strength of firepower until the button is released.

Weapons are increased or modified by shooting one of the enemy craft which
reveals jewels. Collecting a jewel is rewarded by the addition of one of the
following weapons:

                         REFLECTION LASER
                        ANTI AIRCRAFT LASER
                          GROUND LASTER
                         HOMING MISSILES
                           EXTRA SPEED
                           SHIELD ORBS

The first jewel collected also releases a special weapon, the Force, which can
be attached to the front or rear of the R9 fighter, sent ahead to clear a path, or
behind as a rearguard. The Force is equipped with its own lasers. The SPACE BAR will be
used to release this weapon.

At the start of each new game of R-Type five credits are given. While credits are
still available the player may continue a game from the level attained in the
previous game by pressing the fire button during an on-screen countdown.


Controls

For Atari ST Owners

The game is controlled by joystick in port 1. The Force is detached and retrieved
by pressing SPACE.

                         PAUSE - F10
                       MUSIC ON/OFF - F1

For Commodore Amiga Owners


                         PAUSE - P

The game is controlled by joystick in port 1. The Force is detached and retrieved
by pressing SPACE


Typed by Belgarath