                           RAMPART - DOCUMENTATION


NOTE: These are not the full docs but should be enough to get you going,
no more docs are needed that I can see, I did these docs from the
Super Nintendo version and what a load of rubbish the Amiga version is,
because it doesn't have 1/2 the options of the SNES version and doesn't
even feature the Super Rampart mode (as far as I can tell), but it's
all rather crap anyway and here are these partial docs just to help
you out if your all that confused about what's going on....



SELECTING A HOME CASTLE

You will need to select a Home Castle for each Battlefield. The Home
Castle will be your beginning headquarters for the current round of
play, and will be where your first walls are constructed and where you
can place your first Cannons. To select a Home Castle:

               1. Use the controller to move the Castle Selection
                  Square.

               2. Press Fire (player two) or the left mouse button
                  (player one) to select a Castle.


DOING BATTLE

Each Battle is divided into three phases: The Cannon Placement Phase,
the Combat Phase, and the Repair Phase.

During the Cannon Placement Phase you place your allotted Cannons; during
the Combat Phase you fight your opponent; and during the Repair Phase
you may repair and build walls around your Castles.


Cannon Placement Phase

To destroy your opponents, you need to bombard him with Cannonballs fired
from Cannons placed within your Castle walls. At the beginning of each
Cannon Placement Phase, you are given an allottment of Cannons to place.
The number of Cannons left in the allotment is displayed in an icon
in a corner of the screen. To place a Cannon:

               1. Use the controller to move the Cannon Placement
                  Square.

               2. Press Fire (player two) or the left mouse button
                  (player one) to place the Cannon


Combat Phase

The goals of the Combat Phase in One Player and Two Player Games are
slightly different:

- One Player Combat

  The object of the one player Combat Phase is to destroy all enemy
  ships. Each Combat Phase lasts for a set period of time. To destroy
  enemy Ships:

               1. Use the controller to move the targeting Square.
                  (If you hold down the button while moving the
                  Targeting Square, it will move faster.)

               2. Press the left mouse button to fire your Cannons.

Note: Each Cannon can only have one Cannonball in the air at a time.


- Two Player Combat

  The object in the two player Combat Phase is to destroy enemy Castle
  walls. Each combat phase is timed. The player with the highest number
  of points after the last battle wins the round. To destroy enemy walls:

               1. Use the controller to move the Targeting Square.
                  (If you hold down the button while moving the
                  Targeting Square, it will move faster.)

               2. Press Fire (player two) or the left mouse button
                  (player one) to fire your Cannons.

Note: Each Cannon can have only one Cannonball in the air at a time.


Repair Phase

You will get the chance to repair your walls during the Repair Phase.
You can also place walls around other Castles; if you enclose additional
Castles with walls, those Castles become your territory and you can
place new Cannons within these new enclosures. To repair and
construct walls:

               1. Use the controller to move the outlined Wall Sections.

               2. Press the right mouse button (player one) to rotate
                  Wall Sections. Player two should hold down the button
                  and move the joystick to rotate his Wall Sections.

               3. Press the left mouse button (player one) or fire
                  (player two) to place a Wall Section.

Wall Sections can only be placed on open ground. Once a Wall Section has
been placed, it cannot be moved again. There is a time limit for placing
walls; if you do not have at least one Castle completely enclosed when
time runs out, you lose the round.

Freestanding wall sections that are not attached to larger wall sections,
or wall extensions that jut out from larger wall sections, will be
"trimmed" when the Repair Phase is complete. Such wall sections and
extensions will become slightly shorter, but this will not weaken or
otherwise effect enclosed walls.

After the Repair Phase, you are awarded a number of Cannons and you
return to the Cannon Placement Phase. The number of Cannons awarded is
based on the number of Castles you surround. Surrounding your Home
Castle will award you 2 new Cannons; surrounding other Castles will
award you 1 new Cannon each. Cannon awards are cumulative so, for
example, if you surround your Home Castle and two other Castles, you will
be awarded a total of 4 new Cannons.



ENEMIES

Ships

Ships appear only in one player games. There are three types of ships:

 - White Ships bombard the land with cannonfire.

 - Grey Ships bombard the land with cannonfire and land Grunts on
   shore.

 - Red Ships bombard the land with cannonfire that leaves burning
   pits. Walls cannot be placed over these pits until the pits burn
   out after three Battles.

Grunts

Grunts are self-propelled enemy artillery units that disembark from
enemy Ships which reach your shore. Grunts will attempt to
surround and destroy walls and Castles, and can in turn be destroyed
by cannonfire. You can also destroy Grunts surrounding them with
Castle walls.


GRAVEYARDS

When a Castle is destroyed by Grunts, it becomes a Graveyard. You
cannot place walls on top of a Graveyard, but you can surround it with
walls. A surrounded Graveyard disappears and becomes normal
enclosed territory.


WINNING THE GAME

The game is played on a series of maps. The player controls the land
forces, and his enemies are the naval forces. Points are awarded
in four categories:

  - Destruction Points for destroying enemies.
  - Territory Points for enclosing territory with walls.
  - Castle Bonus for enclosing Castles (including your original Home
    Castle) within walls. The more Castles you enclose, the higher the
    Castle Bonus.
  - Bonus Points are awarded for completing the game, game difficulty,
    and unused continues.


Two Player Game

The game is played on a series of maps. Player One is the Blue Army
and Player two is the Red Army. The player with the most points after the
final battle wins the round; if one player cannot enclose at least one
Castle within walls during the Repair Phase, he loses. Points are
awarded in three categories:

  - Destruction Points for destroying enemies.
  - Territory Points for enclosing territory with walls.
  - Castle Bonus for enclosing Castles (including your original
    Home Castle) within walls; the more Castles you enclose, the
    higher the Castle Bonus.


HIGH SCORE

If you achieve an especially high score in a one player game, it will
be displayed when the game is completed and you will have the chance
to display your initials beside the score. To display your initials:

               1. Move the controller up or down to scroll through
                  the alphabet.
               2. When the letter youw want appears, move to the right
                  to go to the next initial.
               3. When you have chosen the initials you want, press
                  the left mouse button to save the initials and start
                  a new game.

High scores will be saved only as long as you continue playing Rampart.
If you turn off your Amiga, your high scores will be erased.



             Regards to These Guys Who Have Done Some Docs of Late:

         Rygar, Munchie, Razor Blade, Radar, Mr. Hell, Perpetual Demise,
                              Scooter and the rest

END *