RANX
Brought to you by Belgarath

I. LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

*ATARI

RANX works on ATARI 520, 1040 ST and STE.
To use RANX, you need an ATARI, a color monitor and a joystick.
- Switch off your computer.
- Insert the disk in drive A and switch on your computer.
- The game will load automatically. After a few seconds, the presentation
page will appear.
- To play, click on the fire button of your joystick. A message will ask
you to insert the disk 2 of RANX. insert this disk and press the ‘space’
bar to valid. The game will load automatically.
- After a few seconds, you’ll see RANX coming out of a tube station.
Now, the game will start. It’s your turn to play!

* AMIGA:

RANX works on AMIGA 500, 1000, 2000.
To use RANX, you need an AMIGA, a color monitor and a joystick.
- Switch off your computer.
- Insert the disk in drive A and switch on your computer.
- The game will load automatically. After a few seconds, the presentation
page will appear.
- To play, click on the fire button of your joystick. A message will ask
you to insert the disk 2 of RANX. Insert this disk and press the fire
button of your joystick to valid. The game will load automatically.
- After a few seconds, you’ll see RANX coming out of a tube station.
Now, the game will start. It’s your turn to play!

* IBM PC AND COMPATIBLES:

RANX works on IBM PC, XT, AT and compatibles in CGA, EGA, VGA
mode. To use RANX, you need a joystick card and a joystick. Otherwise,
you can use the keyboard

- Switch off your computer.
- Insert your DOS disk in drive A and switch on your computer.
If your computer is fitted with a hard disk and an auto-boot system, you
will automatically access to the drive A after the initialization process,
without inserting the DOS disk in drive A.
- Insert the disk 1 of RANX in drive A
- To launch the program, write the following instruction: RANX.
- After a few seconds of loading, the menu will be displayed. According
to the available graphic card, joystick or keyboard etc.., choose the suitable
items in the menu. If you want to install RANX on your hard disk, select
the instruction for the installation on hard disk of the game.
- If you use the joystick, follow the instructions displayed on the screen.
- If you use the keyboard, use the key-padd: The key “5” corresponds
to the fire button. The combinations of the keys and the fire button are
identical to those described for the joystick.

II. THE STORY.

The degenerated universe of Ranx is in a crisis: psychopeste, a disease
from outer space, is decimating the planetary population. The pope is the
victim of a kamikaze whore, while the president of the United States is
in an even worse position...

In Rome, Lubna’s father, a famous Italian industrialist, possesses the
extremely unique vaccine which cures those infected with this bizarre
illness, which inflicts atrocious suffering accompanied by purple spots, hence
its name: the disease Fuchsia.

Ranx finds himself involved in an imbroglio against Lubna’s tyrannical
father. He must deliver the X03 vaccine to the United States where the
terrible Yakusa are thirsting for an absurd vengeance. After the vaccine
is delivered to New York, Ranx must find the one that makes his artificial
heart beat wildly: Lubna, in Rome...

It’s up to you to guide him in this mission.

III. CONTROL KEYS:
All commands are available using the joystick. The following instructions
will allow you to move RANX.

A. Moving the joystick only:

Up: walk to the back of the screen.
Down: bend down.
Left: walk to the left.
Right: walk to the right.
Up to the left: jump left. The jump is short if RANX is just standing. It
is long if RANX is walking.
Up to the right: jump right. The jump is short if RANX is just standing.
It is long if RANX is walking.

B. With the fire button of the joystick only:

This action allows you to access the menu ( you’ll see a finger at the
bottom of the screen. If you move the joystick to the left or to the right,
the finger will move. To access one of the menu options, position the
finger on the said option and press the fire button on the joystick (see
menu).

NOTE: You can also access to the menu by pressing the SPACE bar.

C. Using the joystick with the fire button:

* Fire-up: RANX searches through his pockets for one second.
- If the joystick is released during this action, he takes his hand out of
his pocket and the inventory shows the following object. This command
permits you to see all the objects in RANX’s possession. On the contrary,
if this movement is maintained for more than one second, RANX will
take the object in his hand. If the joystick is immediately released, the
object will be thrown high and short.
- If the joystick is released after l/2 second, the object will be thrown
further but not as high.
- If the joystick is maintained, RANX will automatically throw the object
a long way.
* Fire + up-left (or up-right): RANX will kick up.
* Fire + left or right: RANX will kick down.
* Fire + down: RANX will pick up an object lying in front of him. If
RANX is in front of a door (for instance to walk out of an hotel), then
RANX will walk past the door.

D. The menu

The access to the menu is possible thanks to the Space bar or with the
joystick (see chapter B). To leave this option, move your joystick down.

The menu proposes four options: DISCUSSION, HEALTH, DISK, REPARATION.

- DISCUSSION: This option is displayed through an icon situated down
the left of the screen. Selection of this option will give you access to
a new menu. To select an option in this new menu, place the computer
finger on the selected option and press the fire button of the joystick. The
options supplied by the DISCUSSION menu arc:

? (QUESTION): discussion with another character.
Flash (INSULT): RANX threatens a character. Answer of the character.
ZZZ (SNORT): in this option RANX makes his war cry.
Mouth (LAUGH): this laugh is sometimes useful as a diplomatic tool.
Hand: allows you to access the other options of the DISCUSSION menu:

+ Go back to the Discussion menu:
$ : RANX gives money.
S and V: allow you to see the different objects in your possession.

OK: RANX gives the displayed object to the person he is speaking to.
The DISCUSSION icon only appears when RANX is close to a character
or a machine. Otherwise, nothing will happen.

- HEALTH: this option allows you to see RANX’s physical condition
(visualization of RANX’s body). If he is in bad condition, the damaged
zone displayed is surrounded by stars.

- DISK: this option allows you to save or to load a game.
When you select this option, a message will ask you to press the F2 key
to save the game or to press F1 key to load a saved game. If you select
this option by mistake, you can cancel it by pressing ESC (ESCAPE) key
on the keyboard.

- REPARATION: this option allows RANX to repair himself. For this,
he must have some suitable pieces in his possession. You’ll know whether
RANX need to be repaired by using the HEALTH option. You can find
the spare parts almost everywhere in the game (in the chests). When you
select this option, if you have the pieces, a scanner view of RANX’s body
will be displayed for a few seconds.

E. Other command:

You can pause the game by pressing the P key.

To use the lifts in front of the hotels, place RANX in front of the lift
and move your joystick up. You’ll see RANX walking into the lift. To
move up or down, move your joystick to the right or to the left and make
your choice by pressing the fire button on your joystick.
Note: the hotels only have 3 floors.

To use the electronic locks, place RANX beside them and select the
DISCUSSION option of the menu. If you have the card corresponding
to this lock, insert it in the lock by selecting the OK option of the
DISCUSSION menu.

To find money, destroy the parking meters. Watch out for the policemen!!!

To restore your energy, hit the lamp post, the grey or yellow boxes.


Brought to you by Belgarath