                 REALM OF THE TROLLS     by Rainbow Arts 
 
Once upon a time,  in the early stages of mankind,  when there was still no  
sign  of the history books that the old people had left behind,  a big  and  
bloody war erupted between the elf people and the aggressive  trolls.   The  
trolls constantly attacked the caves of the friendly elves in their kingdom  
in the North. 
 
During  these attacks,  which took place in Dirillon Sippe's  forests,  the  
trolls  robbed the elves of their elaborate treasures,  making them  forget  
the their caves and how valuable and useful they were. 
 
Many  of  Dirillon's  companions,  while trying to  recapture  the  magical  
objects and treasures,  were seen by the trolls.   They were forced to flee  
without recovering anything,  except their lives and important  information  
regarding the structure and dangers of the well-guarded troll-grottos. 
 
After  all his companions had failed,  Dirillon,  the Elf-King's  son,  was  
taught by Astarn-The-Magician to use magic.   This would help him to  fetch  
the treasures back from the grottos and darkness. 
 
You  will lead Dirillon through the grottos and overcome the  dangers  with  
him.    Dirillon's   predecessor  discovered  the   following   information  
concerning the troll's home: 
 
  *  The  troll-castle is divided into single caves (or grottos) which  are  
     guarded by at least 4 trolls. 
      
  *  These grottos are connected with doors through which the trolls cannot  
     go.   The elves can see these doors only after they have collected all  
     the treasure in the cave. 
      
  *  The  air in the grotto is all consumed after a fixed period  of  time.   
     The elves will suffocate if they do not exit before this time is up. 
      
  *  Secret  passages  are  rare but  very  convenient.   They  appear  and  
     disappear  in  walls  and can transport the elves from  one  place  to  
     another. 
      
  *  The  treasures are sometimes hidden and appear behind or in  front  of  
     the elves before they can collect them. 
      
  *  Also,  some of the objects are only optical illusions,  and  therefore  
     cannot be collected. 
      
  *  In  some places the floor is not solid and in these places you  cannot  
     stop! 
      
  *  Poles and ladders can also bring with them problems. 
      
  *  Floors,  ladders and poles can appear in places where you would  least  
     expect them! 
      
  *  Trap-doors and poles, that constantly open and close themselves can be  
     dangerous.  However, there can also be escape options. 
      
  *  Mushrooms  and magic symbols appear to be useful,  although it is  not  
     totally clear what purpose they serve! 
      
  *  The magic-drink,  which makes the elves fresh and strong, can be found  
     in special containers. 
      
  *  Danger  lurks in some places where rocks have already fallen from  the  
     ceiling. 
      
Nothing  more  is  known but it is assumed that  there  are  further  nasty  
surprises waiting in the caves! 
 
Dirillon  was prepared for these problems by Astarn,  and is therefore  not  
completely helpless: he can paralyse the trolls for a set period of time. 
 
Additionally,  he can destroy soft floors,  wooden ladders and wooden poles  
in order to create new routes and shake off pursuers. 
 
He  has  been specially trained to move along poles  without  touching  the  
ground and also to jump from great heights without harming himself. 
 
 
                            LOADING THE PROGRAM 
 
1.  Switch on your computer. 
 
2.  Put the disk into the disk drive. 
 
3.   When the display "INSERT DATA DISK" appears,  insert the enclosed data  
disk  into  disk drive A (or a disk that you have initialized in  the  disk  
menu).  Choose the "OK" field. 
 
4.  As long as a screen with three menus appears, you are in the Main Menu.   
From here it is possible to get to the Playing Menu,  the Disk Menu and the  
Editor by choosing the appropriate field.   With the right mouse button you  
can view the high score list. 
 
                           HANDLING THE PROGRAM 
 
GENERAL NOTES: 
 
After loading the program,  the data-disk should remain in the drive.   You  
will need it during the game and for the Editor. 
 
The  program  is  controlled either with the mouse in port  #0  or  with  a  
joystick in port #1. 
 
USE OF THE MAIN MENU 
 
The GAME MENU offers you several choices.   By selecting the  corresponding  
fields  you may either select a training game,  test a hall of your  choice  
(test game) or perform a little contest with up to 8 players. 
 
After selecting the training game,  you may play immediately without  being  
entered into the HIGHSCORE.   In this case you cannot save a game or load a  
saved game. 
 
The test game follows the same rules as the training game,  except that you  
can choose a hall with which you want to start. 
 
In  a match (contest) up to 8 players may enter their names in a  list  and  
thus apply for the match (by selecting the WILL JOIN/WILL NOT JOIN  field).   
In addition a saved game may be loaded and new players entered. 
 
Players already entered can be cancelled again. 
 
By  clicking at the START GAME field,  the players are summoned  one  after  
another and now should try to do their very best in order to achieve a good  
end result. 
 
The game of any player is automatically stopped when the energy-level  goes  
under 50% and the displays don't change. 
 
The hall must be newly mastered in the next round. 
 
After the game stop, or death of a player, you go automatically back to the  
CONTEST MENU.   If you then press the right mouse button or click the START  
GAME field, the next player may try his luck. 
 
As  soon as the game is started,  the hall - if playable - is displayed  in  
the bottom field of the screen.   If not playable,  you may either play the  
next hall or exit the game. 
 
In the top right screen partition the following displays are shown:   SCORE  
-  value  of  the collected treasures;  ENERGY - remaining  energy  of  the  
player...... ( a bit missing .... Sewercide). 
 
End............
 
