                        REBELLION
                        =========
                                              TYPED BY SHARD - N&B

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------

ATARI ST/ AMIGA

Ensure  that your computer has been switched off for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to  loading the game.  If you have a mouse connected to
your  computer  remove  it before loading the game.  Switch on your machine
and  insert  the  game disc in your first disc drive.  The game should load
automatically.  In case of difficulty please remove any additional hardware
and  try  again.   If the game fails to load on the first attempt leave the
disc in the drive and reset your machine.

THE GAME
--------

The  object  of the game is to rescue as many humans as possible from their
captors  (the  Robots).  This is achieved by touching them and leading them
back  to  the dropship.  Humans flash green periodically when collected and
will  enter  the dropship when they step onto the door/ramp.  Remember they
are frightened and confused, so may need a little encouragement.

When  collected.   Humans  cannot be killed by your weapons, but great care
must  be  taken  to  avoid  shooting  them  before.   Also  they  are still
vulnerable  to  enemy  fire  etc  when collected, unless you currently have
shielding  powered up, in which case this will extend to any Humans you may
have in tow.

The  number  of  Humans which must be saved varies with different locations
and  is  shown  at the bottom of the screen in white.  Any Humans over this
are  shown  in  grey.   Dead Humans are display as red skulls and orange if
below the necessary quota.

Each location has a set time limit shown at the bottom right of the screen.
You must have rescued the quota of Humans, entered the Dropship and pressed
the  fire button before the counter runs down to zero.  In two player mode,
when  one player enters the Dropship and presses the fire botton, a warning
klaxon  sounds and the other player has 30 seconds to enter the Dropship or
it must go without him, (he will lose a life).

ROBOTS
------

These  have  all  now  received  orders  to destroy any intruders and while
trying  to kill you they may also kill any Humans that get in their way, so
be careful not to lead robots towards areas where people are.

ROBOT TYPES
-----------

Service Droid 1:
Small  and  blue  in colour, slow moving.  Has no weapons or armour, but is
dangerous at close quarters.

Service Droid 2:
A fast moving, white droid, no armour or weapons.  Runs on 3 wheels and can
kill on contact.

Minelayer:
Heavily  armoured,  slow  moving  and  silver in colour.  Generally safe to
touch  but  mines  must be avoided (these self destruct after a short time,
but can be shot to remove)

Repair Droid:
Cannot  be destroyed.  Will appear when a fence post has been destroyed and
will repair it and then leave.

Pod Carrier:
Lightly  armoured,  hovering  droid.   Red/orange  in  colour and circular.
Generally  safe  to  touch, but will constantly try to get in your way.  If
killed will release small pods.

Pods:
Fast moving orange discs.  Generally safe to players, but will rapidiy kill
any Humans in its path.  No armour, but very difficult to hit.

Gun Emplacement:
Large,  white  and very dangerous.  Will track player and fire large energy
bolts when targeted.  Heavy armour and immobile.

Tank:
Large,  green  and  just  as  dangerous.  Slow moving and heavily armoured.
These  shoot  missiles  and  are  able  to  partly penetrate fences to kill
humans.

Spotter Droid:
All  enemies  will attempt to transmit information of your presence back to
the  central  CPU.   Unless an enemy is destroyed at least every 30 seconds
the spotter droid will be dispatched to investigate further.  In effect you
will have less time to complete your mission before you are discovered thus
the  time  remaining  counter will speed up.  When shot the counter resumes
normal speed.

Security Droid:
White  with  black  legs,  this  robot  is  heavily  armoured and extremely
accurate with its plasma cannon.

OTHER OBJECTS
-------------

FencePost:
Each  is both a transmitter and a receiver for the energy fence.  The fence
is safe to touch, but will not allow objects to pass through.  The fence is
transmitted  in  a clockwise directon.  Posts are heavily armoured and when
destroyed will signal to the nearest Repair Droid.

Doors:
A  key  is  needed  for  each  door.   Keys can be recovered from destroyed
robots,  however,  they  only  stay  on  screen  for  a  few seconds before
disappearing.

Trap Doors:
These  will  open and close periodically, killing anything standing on them
when  they  open.  Shooting the flashing light in the top right hand corner
locks them in a closed position.

PICK UPS
--------

Shield:
Shield  symbol  on icon.  Stops all projectiles and robots from harming the
player for the duration of powerup.

Extra life:
Human symbol on icon

Invincibility:
Red dot in brackets on icon.  Similar effect to shield.

Plasma:
White star on blue icon.  Higher potency fire-power, with greater velocity.

Rockets:
Blue  rocket symbol on icon.  Press and hold down the fire button to launch
rocket.  10 are contained in each icon.

Scrambler:
Antenna symbol on icon.  Scrambles Robots sensory circuits at short range.

Key:
Key on blue icon.  Collect and walk against a door to open it.

CREDITS
-------

Programming     Andy Severn
Graphics        Peter Austin
Sound Effects   Tau Zero