                       Relics of Deldroneye Instructions

                             Written by Lee Bamber


 The Game
 --------

 You are a royal explorer, serving a king of the Deldroneye Empire. It was
 your devine task to recover the fabled lost treasures of Deldronis. Known
 by every commoner as the Relics of Deldroneye.

 Breaking through the walls of an ancient crypt, you discovered a treasure
 pocket containing one of the ledgendary  Di-Stones.   Unfortunately,  you
 were hit over the head and left for dead, only to awake a day later, at a
 court of law, where you were convicted of the theft of the treasure.   As
 you could not reveal the location of the hidden treasure,  your  sentence
 was that of perpetual interogation, by way of torture.
 
 The real criminals were free to preparing stage two of their evil  quest.
 One which not only threatened the life of the king,  but  of  the  Empire
 itself.

 The Controls
 ------------

 Designed using a familiar verb layout, to control our hero is simple.  If
 you are fortunate to remember the old text-based adventures,  the  method
 of performing actions is relatively straight forward.

 Using this pseudo-english, you can construct simple actions from the verb
 panel supplied.  You are given MOVE, LOOK, TAKE, USE, OPEN and CLOSE. You
 are also supplied with interactive verbs like TALK, OFFER, GIVE and SHOW.
 There are two things you can perform actions with in the game.  The items
 in the inventory and anything in the screen itself.

 Anything of importance on the screen will be prompted when you  move  the
 cursor over it.  There are a number of things you can  find  when  moving
 the cursor around screen.  Floors and  exits.  Machines  and  mechanisms.
 Items you can take. People you can talk to. (Nouns)

 You can have any combination of verbs and nouns, but only in a simplistic
 sense, eg. MOVE TO Door, TAKE Pen, USE Pen ON Paper, OPEN Door.  All  the
 sentences you create are valid.  But you may not get an action if it does
 not make sense, eg TAKE Floor, TALK TO Door.  Some combinations will just
 not happen: If you tried to USE Floor ON Floor, the computer will not let
 you select Floor as something you can use.  You can only USE  items  that
 are in your inventory, this also applies for OFFER, GIVE and SHOW.

 NOTE: If you wish to simply use something like a car, or ride a horse. If
 it is meant to happen in the game, you can simply MOVE to the  thing  and
 your hero will try to do it.  To enter an open door, simply  MOVE TO Door
 or if you want to walk up West Street, then MOVE TO West Street. Etc.

 A feature not found in games of similar genre is the ability to use  more
 than the one control panel!  Now don't get scared, it's nothing  complex.
 If you look at the top/right corner of your panel,you'll see three square
 images.  Click them to open the new panel...

   1) Interactive - The first square is the default one, this has your
                    interactive verbs and your inventory panel.

   2) Memory      - The second is the memory of your hero, where any
                    important messages or comments are stored.  By using
                    the two verbs supplied, you can probe the information
                    stored.

   3) Credit      - Pure self-indulgence.  Just to let your know it
                    was AMOS that brought you this masterpiece.

 The inventory and the memory displays are exactly the same.  Three spaces
 with arrows either end.  The spaces will show an image representing  what
 is stored there.  Whether it is an item or a picture of the person  whos'
 comment you remembered.  The arrows will scroll through the list  of  all
 the items/comments stored.

 To aid your efforts to construct suitable commands for your hero, there's
 a bar which is reserved for the building of the  sentence.   It  will  be
 added to as you click the verbs and nouns.  The bar  is  cleared  as  you
 select a new verb.  When the sentence can be understood by the  computer,
 it will be executed immediately.  This is straight forward and nothing to
 worry about.  The sentence can only ever have a maximum of two nouns with
 certain verbs(USE, OFFER, GIVE).  Every other verb has only one noun.

 Summary
 -------

 Above is a detailed description of a control system that  is  immediately
 usable and recognised by nearly everyone.  This description is  given  to
 further demonstrate that Digital Ninja is as much here to  entertain  you
 as it is to line our pockets with silver.  Let's not be subtle. I've been
 subtle for three years and haven't seen a bean!  It's time  to  be  loud,
 proud and fiscally endowed.

 From me, Lee Bamber, and the lazy lot that is Digital Ninja, we hope  you
 enjoy the adventure as much as we haven't enjoyed making it.

 Digital Ninja
 -------------

 Admittedly, this is one of the best games we have created  to  date.  And
 one we hope will win us some attension.  You would be right  in  thinking
 we have written more stuff.  Perhaps not to this standard, but  each  one
 written to entertain or facilitate.

 These other games span the PD community from freeware to licenceware, and
 we are happy to give you details on where they can be  purchased.  Rather
 than list them in a game that will creep through time in a static  state,
 it's best to write in and get one of our info sheets free of charge.  You
 must make sure  you  include  an  SSAE (Self Stamped Addressed Envelope),
 otherwise you won't get one.

 Why is it free? (I hear the sceptics whisper), because if just one person
 buys a licenceware title or registers to our shareware products, then the
 cost of 50 info sheets will have been payed for.  It makes sense,  so  we
 do it.  Plus we get to plug all our new developments you will not be able
 to read about anywhere else!

 For the info sheet, write to:  Lee Bamber, 'Rockville',  Warrington Road,
 Lower Ince, Wigan, Lancs, WN3 4QG. UK.


                                    ~-~-~