Revelation!
Brought to you by Belgarath

Revelation   challenges your skills and reflexes as   you attempt to rob a 
Bank. Turn the dials to open the safe before the police arrive. But be careful! 
Some locks have booby traps to catch you in the act.  After opening the safe, 
you have a limited amount of time to open each deposit box and get jewels, 
cash, extra lives, bonus levels, and tumbler locks to help you in future levels. 
The   faster you open the safe,   the more time you have to gather the loot. 
Good Luck! 


CONTROLS 

Joystick
Left  (grab + left = counterclockwise dial turn) 
Right (grab + right = clockwise dial turn) 
Up 
Down 
Fire  Grab Dial  / Lock Tumbler 
<ESC> Quit Level 

OBJECT OF THE GAME 

The object of   the game is simple, to gain the most amount of 
wealth in the least amount of time. Each screen represents the locking
mechanism of a safe. The safe door must be opened to get the goods
inside. The wheels must be correctly arranged to match the arrows, so, 
that every colored arrow points to a wheel segment of a matching color.
Each level has a time limit, which ticks down in   the status panel at the 
left of the safe screen. If you run out of time before opening   the safe, 
the police will catch you and you will lose a life. 

The wheels are either dials or tumblers, and are rotated by moving 
the cursor over the desired dial, “grabbing” it, and turning clockwise or
counterclockwise. Only wheels with dials may be directly turned, 90
degrees at a time, to set the tumblers in motion.

RULES 

The only rule in Revelation is that no two adjacent wheels can 
have identical colors touching. If a wheel turns so that a colored section 
matches one of its neighbors, then the neighboring wheel will rotate
clockwise until it has managed to eliminate this clash. Note that this may 
involve more than one   turn before this clash is eliminated. Also, this may 
cause other clashes and set off chain reactions. To become a skilled
Revelation player, you must be able to predict and control these chain
reactions several steps ahead of your next move. 

SPECIAL SEGMENTS 
There are two colors that have special characteristics different than the others: 
the WHITE and BLINKING RED wheel sections. A WHITE section will not 
clash with any other color, including another white.  The BLINKING RED sec- 
tions are booby trapped - if two blinking reds touch each other, the alarm is 
instantly triggered. YOU will lose a life, so watch out!

STATUS PANEL 
The panel on the left of the screen displays the current level number at the
top, and the scores, lives, and locks remaining for the two players. The
inactive player’s area will be shaded gray. 

LOCKS 
Each player begins Revelation with 3 lives (hearts) and 3 locks. These locks
can be placed on tumblers to prevent them from turning.  This allows you to 
control chain reactions - a locked wheel will not turn. Lock a tumbler by grab- 
bing it. Unlock it by grabbing it again. It is possible to solve all the levels in the 
game without using locks, but they may make the solutions easier and quicker. 

POWERUPS 
Powerups (bonuses) will appear randomly on the screen around the lock 
mechanism. Simply position the cursor and grab to activate that powerup. 
There are three types of powerups:   TIME ADDERS, REWINDS,   and PAUS- 
ES. The TIME ADDERS   are triangles with a number inside them. When 
grabbed, the specified number of seconds will be added to the clock. The 
clock can have at most 99 seconds.   REWINDS are the left turn arrows.  A 
rewind will take the wheels back to their original positions   - useful if you 
get in a mess. Note that the clock will not be reset. PAUSES are represented 
by the sign with a hand on it Until grab is pressed again, the game will
halt, giving you an opportunity to contemplate your next move.

COMPLETING A LEVEL
Once a level has been solved, i.e. all the arrows are pointing to the
matching color segments, the safe door will open. Inside the vault is nine
safety deposit boxes. Within each may be a valuable, a powerup, a bonus
level, lock, life, or nothing. Move the cursor over the box and grab to reveal
the contents. Opening each box will cost 5 seconds of remaining clock time.

BONUS LEVEL
If a bonus level is grabbed from the safety deposit boxes, you will be
presented with a special one-move safe. You have only ten seconds to
select and turn the wheel that you think will complete the level. If you
open the safe, all box contents will be yours.

PASSWORDS
Every ten levels completed will be rewarded with a password, which can
be used upon restarting the game to gain a higher starting point.


Brought to you by Belgarath