Rings of Medusa          
                  
            Loading instructions:
            
            Reset disk A into the internal drive. Put disk B into the 
            internal drive when the computer ask you to do so (only 
            Atari ST). After loading the game, you can enter your 
            name, and the game starts.During the loading you have the 
            possibility of switching to 50 or 60 Hz pressing the  5 
            or 6 continuously.
            
            Configurations for Rings of Medusa
            Commodore Amiga 512/ Atari St with colour monitor.
            1.   Idea/Aim of the game 
            
            a)   Pre-story:
                    The player acts as the son of the king, on an 
            unknown planet. The country flourishes and thrives, life 
            goes on very calmly. But one day the situation changes. 
            The people get more and more controlled by and evil 
            force. Revolutions and wars arise. The formerly united 
            kingdom divides. Finally, the old king finds out that a 
            goddess called "Medusa" tries to control the people from 
            out of the underworld, in order to conquer and rule the 
            entire world with her army from hell.
            
            b)   Aim of the game:
                    The player who takes the role of the prince is 
            forced to stop Medusa's advance and to reunite the split 
            kingdom. To reach that, he must fight against the goddess 
            Medusa and defeat her again. As the opponent is a 
            goddess, the player is not able to find her anywhere in 
            the country.
            He can only call her when he finds 5 rings, puts them 
            together in a temple and forces Medusa to face a fight. 
            The basic task is therefore the search for the 5 rings. 
            Unfortunately the king has very little energy, and so 
            the starting conditions for his son do not look very 
            good. First he has to earn some money to afford an army 
            which is necessary to find the rings. This causes more 
            problems, which the player realizes and includes in the 
            course of the game.
            
            2.   Point of entry:
            
                    The player has severe financial problems, which 
            means that he first must collect some money. There are 
            several possibilities:
            
                 -Trade
                 -Attack caravans
                 -Conquer towns and plunder the treasuries
                 -Search for raw materials, find and exploit
                 -find the kings treasures
                 -Gamble in the casino
            
            
            
            
            
            
            3.   Description of the program's user surface
            
                 On each screen, there is an information bar and an 
            options menu.
          e 
            notices, (e.g. the coordinates of an island).
             
            Buying:  Serves to buy combination with buying or 
            selling, i.e. all possible articles are bought or sold.
            Position of the switch is visible on the mouse pointer. 
            Switch off by clicking on MAXIMUM again.
            
            Door:   Serves in most cases to leave special situations 
            or places.
            
            OK:     To answer a question, player clicks on here, if 
            the question shall be answered with a "yes" (e.g. Enter 
            Town XYZ ?).
            
            Retreat: Serves to call back the selection unit in the 
            fighting screen.
            
            Attack: Make unit attack in the fighting screen. 
            Otherwise attack in general (e.g. of a town, bankor a 
            castle) .
            
            Increase:  Serves to adjust the speed in the fighting 
            screen, in which the fight takes places. Also a 
            possibility while adjusting the money value during 
            NEGOTIATIONS ( see below)
            
            Search:  Send out scouts to search for raw materials or 
            treasure.
            
            
            
            
            Restore:  Serves to restore a saved game. Only possible 
            in a town.
            
            Town information:  Give you information about the town 
            you are in.
            
            Sell:   With this function, the player can sell his 
            goods. Also in connection with MAXIMUN.
            
            More goods:  Helps you to ssearch inside the WAREHOUSE.
            
            Treasure:  Shows you the known coordinates of a treasure 
            visually.
           
            Not Okay:  Like OKAY, helps you to answer question. Here 
            it serves as a negation.
            
            Negotiations:  During the fight you can make negotiations 
            to avoid an armed conflict whenever possible.
            
            Decrease:  Opposite of INCREASE.
            
            Mine"   You can open a mine.
            
            
             Furthermore, there is as information field in the center 
            of the menu, in which you can adjust or read special 
            things. There is also a green button in the upper left 
            corner of the field,. which makes the field rotate. 
            Synchronization and effects can be switched on and off 
            here.
            
            ( Also see the short description in Appendix A)
            
            
            
            
            4. Program parts
                 The program can be divided up into three parts: 
            Landscape, Town and Fight.
            
            
            4.1  Landscape
            
            In the landscape, the player can ride from one town to 
            the other, open mines and find treasures. You have                                                                                           
            to pay attention to the fact that the player cannot 
            ride over mountains. If the player is accompanied by 
            an army, he has to make sure his soldiers receive 
            their money on the first day of each month. The player 
            therefore always should have enough money with him, so 
            that he can pay for  his army. The money which the 
            player has on his account cannot be used for paying 
            the soldiers' wages.
            
            
            
            
            
            Furthermore, there are two dangerous places for the 
            army:   
            
            a.      On the one hand the swamp, in which the 
            players army sinks when he does have enough magicians 
            with him who protect his army. Each magician is able 
            to protect about 100 soldiers in the swamp.
            
            b.      The same goes for the enchanted forest, except 
            for the fact that each magician can only protect 50 
            soldiers.
            
            
            When he crosses the landscape, the player further must 
            consider the fact that there are also some caravans 
            travelling around and that he could possibly bump into 
            these.
            The player has the possibility of finding the enemy 
            armies. This depends on the number of scouts the 
            player takes with him. The more scouts he has, the 
            bigger the radius in which he can see his enemies. 
            During the search radius decreases, as the search for 
            these goods is much more difficult than the search for 
            armies.
            
            But look out! During the search for raw materials or 
            treasures, the player can no longer move his army as 
            he has to wait for the scouts. Moreover, he is not 
            able to see his enemies, as the scouts are being used 
            elsewhere and can no longer enlighten the enemy's 
            territory.
            
            If it should come to a fight during a phase of 
            searching, the scouts are also not at player's 
            disposal. The player should nevertheless keep in mind 
            that the scout's wages must be paid.
            
            If the player is lucky enough to find a treasure or 
            raw materials, he must open a mine To do that, he 
            needs a capital of 30000 and a transportation system 
            can be bought in the warehouse under  the designation 
            "machine".
            
            With the money and the machine, the player can open a 
            mine (by going to the place chosen by the scouts and 
            select the function "MINES").
            
            If he has not exactly hit the place named by the 
            scouts, it is possible that he missed the raw 
            materials reserves. In this case, the mine reveals 
            soil and waste. If the player should now get the idea 
            of filling his wagons with soil and waste, If the 
            player should get the corresponding number of wagons, 
            as nobody will be ready to buy the waste from him.
            
            
            
            But if he has found a raw material, the will reaveal 
            this material incressantly, until the space in the 
            storehouse is filled or the reserves are exhaust ed. 
            Each storehouse has room for 300 units of any raw 
            material. The player has the possibility of building 
            more storehouses, which would of course result in 
            further costs. But the mine would be ready to reveal 
            raw materials for a longer time. Moreover, the player 
            does not need to fetch the raw materials as often 
            anymore, as the production will not have to be ceased 
            because of the overfilled storehouses so soon.
            It is also possible for the player, if he has more 
            machines with him, to build up too 3 conveyor towers 
            per mine. This has the advantage of increasing the 
            amount of the haulage.
            
            As the player is only allowed to own a maximum of 20 
            mines at one time (because of the danger of a 
            monopoly), he must under all circumstances close 
            exhausted mines, when he wants to open new ones. 
            
            If the player finds a treasure and wants to take it, 
            he needs, like the mine opening,30000 capital and a 
            transport system. In a treasure, there can be a ring 
            but also a certain amount of money. Both are surely 
            helpful to win the game.
            
            Concerning the treasure, one can say the following 
            things:
            
            On the big continent, 2 of the searched rings are 
            hidden in the treasures. 2 more rings are in treasures
            on the islands and another ring is hidden among an 
            army which is to be defeated.  
           
            
            4.2     The Town
            
            In town every player can buy or sell goods, gamble in 
            the casino, buy armies, go to the bank and so on. All 
            players options are placed in separate, single houses. 
            If you want to enter a house, you just have to click 
            on the appropriate house.
            In general it is an operation. A player can compare 
            prices and make decisions because the clock is 
            stopped.
            
            
            
            The Harbor
            The harbor can just be found in towns situated at the 
            sea or at rivers. Here the player can do everything 
            concerni      a message, so that he can pick it up in the town where 
            it has been built.
            Before he can go to sea with this ship he has to 
            enlist sailors who steer the ship.
            The player has to enter the pub and enlist the sailors 
            by offering money. The more money he offers the more 
            sailors will be interested in the job.
            
           
            "Wages/month" are placed on the left hand of the 
            screen. By clicking the mouse pointer to the top or to 
            the bottom the given value can be changed. Underneath 
            the player can see how many people are interested in 
            the bid. If the player offers 20 per month, for 
            example, there might be five people who are 
            interested. If he enlist these five people, he has to 
            pay 100 per month. If he offers again 20 per month 
            there will be no one interested, because every who 
            wanted to work for 20 per month is already 
            enlisted. The wages have to be raised to 25 per 
            month,for example. Then there might be a new sailor 
            who is interested in the jobs. If the player has not
            
            
            
            enlisted the sailors for 20 per month, these sailors 
            would be interested in the jobs further on. It is 
            important that the player only enlist 3 of 7 
            interested sailors for a wage and then raise or lower 
            the wage, or even leaves the pub, so that the 
            remaining sailors are disappointed and leave the pub 
            themselves. This means that they not to be enlisted 
            anymore.
            On the right side of the printed form you can see how 
            many sailors are needed.>>NEEDED<<. From<<wages>> you 
            know how much you have to pay for the chosen ship per 
            month.
            
            
            The store:
            
            Here the player can buy or sell goods. On the left 
            hand side of the screen you can see the price and 
            quantity. On the right hand side you can see your own  
            cargo.
            The player can adjust the quantity of the goods in the 
            middle of the screen so you can buy or sell the 
            articles. The player of the articles always think 
            about the maximum function.
            The price of the articles are calculated by the single 
            number of citizens, which is unstable. If there is a 
            huge population in this town at the moment, the prices 
            are very high, because the demand is according to the 
            population. At the same time the production of goods 
            in this town is at its maximum. You're able to look at 
            the momentary population of the city information. In 
            addition to that, there are differences of prices from 
            town to town.
            
            Example: If city X produces apples, this is the city 
            where apples are cheaper than in any other town. In 
            city Y, which could be far away, the apples are 
            expensive < the further away the city, the more 
            expensive>. In the store there is also a chart of the 
            loading capacity of each means of transportation, like 
            in the harbor.
            
            (please refer to Appendix B)
            
            
            Bank:
            
            In the bank the player can make his money 
            transactions. There's just one bank system in the 
            whole kingdom, one office in every town. If the 
            player pays in money on a bank of town X, he can 
            withdraw it in every other town. The player can pay in 
            or withdraw money on his account and he can take a 
            credit.
            In the beginning, the bank offers an initial starting 
            
            
            
            loan of 3000. If the player takes just a part of the 
            loan he has no claim to the rest of the loan. The 
            player has to pay the interest, of course. He'll see 
            the amount of interest in each banks business rates 
            and conditions. He has to pay interest on his bank 
            account and loans. Caution: The local traders at the 
            store support the bank. The player won't get his goods 
            from the traders if he doesn't pay the loans ( but he 
            can buy with credit for 3 months until the traders 
            stop business with him). He should go to the bank 
            immediately and pay back the loan.
            The bank decides if he is worthy of a credit. He has 
            to have an appropriate equivalent of goods; money is 
            not an equivalent in this case. He can look at the 
            respective credit margin at "credit scope."
            
            The Park:
            
            The player can buy soldiers for his army in the park 
            but he has to observe several things. The army is 
            subdivided into 7 parts: Infantry, cavalry, artillery, 
            scouts, dragonriders, wizards and archers. Every unit 
            has advantages and disadvantages which depend upon the 
            fighting ground. For example, the dragonriders are 
            very good in the swamp because they are able to fly; 
            the other units would sink.
            On the other hand, the dragonriders are bad in the 
            forest. They can't reach and fight the infantry on 
            ground because of the dense forest. The selection of 
            races is also very important for the strength of the 
            army selected for the units. If the player takes the 
            huge and clumbsy giants as his scouts, they won't 
            achieve as much as the little and agile elves.
            
                    
            There are 10 races and 5 qualities each and every race 
            has to a certain degree:
            
            
            100 means maximum,0 minimum
            
                    
                    Strength  Courage   Endurance   Agility   Intelligence
            
            Human      50        50        50         50        50
            Elf        40        37        28         75        70
            Dwarf      64        67        81         22        17
            Halfling   34        24        42         92        58
            Orc        79        33        75         44        19
            Gnome      16        33        26         89        86
            Giant      99        27        91         19        14
            Troll      92        32        87         21        18
            Ogre       85        39        79         31        16
            Zwark      18        40        32         81        79
            
            
            
            
            
            This next chart shows which qualities are important for 
            each unit (e.g. scouts don't have to strong, but they have 
            to clever):
            
            
            1 is not important, 5 is very important
             
                       
                       Strength  Courage   Endurance  Agility  Intelligence
            
            Infantry     5         5         5          1        1
            Cavalry      1         5         1          5        3
            Artillery    1         5         1          3        5
            Scout        1         1         5          5        5
            Dragonriders 3         5         3          3        3
            Magicians    1         1         1          5        5
            Archers      1         5         3          5        3
            
            
            The following chart clarifies what unit is best for 
            different scenarios ( the higher the value the better 
            unit):
            
            
                      Plain     Forest    Magic forest  Hill     Swamp
            
            Infantry    10        10         5            8        8
            Calvary     20         5         3            15       3
            Artillery   10         3         1            15       1
            Scout        8        20         8            15      15
            Dragonrider 20         3         1            20      20
            Magicians    8        10        20            15      20
            Archers     20         3         1            10       8
            
            
            The player should attempt to put the correct race with the 
            correct unit, otherwise the strength of the army decreases
            
                                     
            There is just a limited number of available people in 
            every town. The young must grow up before they are able to 
            fight. So it is possible that the people of one race are 
            not available yet. In the " TOWN INFORMATION" you can see 
            how people are available.
            In the park, the player discovers how much money he has to 
            pay for his armies and sailors each month ( total wages ).
            He can see the salary of a unit for each month.
            Underneath that he finds the chart of the composition 
            condition of the army which consists of the respective 
            races. This training condition determines the power of the 
            army. The training condition can be improved by training 
            in the castles.
            
            
            
            
            
            Training:  
            
            The training happens only in castles. Here every part of 
            the army can be trained for different criteria. The 
            training costs money but it's worth it. The functions are 
            the same as in the store.
            
            Weapons:
            
            Here the player is able to equip his army with additional 
            weapons, in order to increase the fighting strength of the 
            units. He can purchase armours, weapons and other 
            equipment is much weaker than a perfectly equipped one.
            
            Palace:
            
            The player is only able to enter the palace when he is 
            attacked and conquered the plunder the treasury, i.e. 
            collect the peoples taxes. The taxes depend upon the total 
            city population.
             
            Barracks:
            
            The player is only allowed to enter the barracks when he 
            possesses a town. If he has taken a town, the other 
            caravans strive for the reconquest of this town. Therefore 
            the player should leave a part of his army in the 
            barracks, as as reinforcement for his newly conquered 
            town. The screen is again separated into halves. On the 
            left there is your own army, on the right, the town army. 
            Now you can transfer parts of your army to and fro. On the 
            right edge of the screen there are several beams which 
            describe the time delay after which the corresponding unit 
            joins the fighting when the town gets attacked. In this 
            way, the player can order his people to a defense plan of 
            the town, by setting up a strategy for the people's 
            action. It is, for example, wise for the artillery to 
            start shooting at once after an attack by the enemy. The 
            dragonriders should probably start a little bit later to 
            reach the enemy lines together with the infantry. The 
            further to the left the beam appears on the display, the 
            earlier the corresponding units start the fighting. When 
            the beam is on the far right side. The player's army waits 
            for the enemy attack. To develop a good fighting strategy, 
            it is useful to analyse the computer opponent and possibly 
            to go ahead in a similar way ( very difficult).
            
            Stable:
            
            In the stable, the player can purchase transportation for 
            his goods. A complete set consists of two horses and a 
            wagon. Each provides room for a maximum of 80 goods. The 
            user's control is the same as in the "store".
            
            
            
            
            
            Pub:
            
            Inside the pub, the player has a possibility of playing a 
            card game similar to "Black Jack".
            
            The rules are as follows:
            
            Ace  (A)=11       Queen (D)=3      Ten =10    Eight= 8
            King (K)= 4       Jack  (B)=2      Nine= 9    Seven= 7
            
            Double aces always wins.
            Before taking a card, the player must place his bet. The 
            player has won when he has more points than the computer, 
            but not more than 21 ( the only exceptions are two Aces, 
            which always win). To reach that, he may take as many 
            cards as he likes. Should there be a equality of points, 
            the computer wins. The player always begins. He takes a 
            card by selecting from the stack of cards. If he thinks 
            that he has enough points, he must select the cancelled 
            deck of cards. He can decide the amount of his bet by 
            clicking on coins of different values. In case of a 
            victory, the player gets back twice the amount of his bet, 
            If he loses, his money goes to the bank. If he wants to 
            leave the pub, he must click on the door in the lower 
            right corner.
            
            Temple:
            
            In the temple, the player receives information about the 
            treasures, which is situated in the corresponding part of 
            the country. Unfortunately, the priests inside each temple 
            do not know the exact location of the treasure. Therefore, 
            you will only hear rumors about the possible location. The 
            actual place can sometimes differ considerably from the 
            named one. You will also just receive one geographical 
            coordinate. You can get two or more coordinates by 
            conquering another town inside the same part of the 
            screen. The player will get to know about this town in the 
            connected temple.
            
            The player's second possibility of finding a treasure is 
            to find a big area with one coordinate and to search 
            through this area with his scouts.
            
            If he has received all three coordinates, they will form a 
            triangle, with a treasure lying in the inner field. The 
            more coordinates you receive, the smaller the vicinity 
            search.
            Furthermore, the player can get information about his 
            status in the temple, i.e. he receives information about 
            how many rings he has already and how many mines, ships 
            etc. he owns
            
            
            
            
            
            
            He must also set the found rings in a five pronged star 
            inside the temple of his choice ( simply click on an empty 
            space). With every ring the player sets in the temple, he 
            will receive magic skills:
            
            1st ring:
              The player gets a display of his own strength 
            and the strength of the opponets's army during a fight. 
            Therefore, it is easier to find a strategy, as the player 
            can now see which unit is currently strong.
            
            2nd ring:
              The player gets to know which goods are produced in 
            which town. Therefore he also knows where to get which 
            product at the cheapest prices. This information is 
            displayed in the corresponding "TOWN INFORMATION". with 
            that, his trading becomes much more efficient.
            
            3rd ring:
              The player does not need any more scouts to explore the 
            surrounding country, i.e. he can see all enemies, not 
            depending on the distance and the number of the scouts he 
            has around him. Therefore traveling from town to town is 
            not as dangerous.
            
            4th ring:
              The strength of the player's army is increased by 50%, 
            i.e., his army is now 50% stronger than before. This is 
            very useful for the final fight against Medusa.
            
            5th ring:
              As soon as he sets in the fifth ring, the player calls 
            Medusa, who now accepts the final fight.
            
            
            Jeweler:
            
            Here the player can sell the precious raw materials which 
            he excavated in his mines. There are considerable price 
            differences. It is not useful to sell right beside the 
            mine, as the prices will be very low. The player should 
            instead transport the raw materials to a place where it is 
            not possible to find them. He cannot trade with raw 
            materials,i.e. they cannot be bought, just sold. Once 
            again, all adjustments are done like in the "STORE".
            
            
            4.3   Castle:
                       
              Besides the towns there are also a few castles, which 
            all have the same purpose of educating the player's army 
            and to improve his state of training. To get inside a 
            castle, it must be attacked or conquered.
            
            
            
            
            
            
            5.0   The palyer's army can fight against opposing armies, 
            ships, castles or towns.
            Therefore, the following configurations are possible:
            5.1   Fight Army <-> Army
              If you bump into an opponet's figure with your own 
            figure, it comes to a fight between the two parties. The 
            player's army is on the left side, the opponent's on the 
            right side. Unfortunately, the number of soldiers the 
            opponent owns is not known. Because of that, you get asked 
            at the beginning whether you want to send out your scouts 
            to learn about the opponent's strength. This cost a lot of 
            money, but it is well worth the engagement. If you do not 
            own any scouts, this is of course not possible. To learn 
            about the exact calculation of the fighting strength, 
            refer to the section "PARK" in this manual.
            
            When the fighting starts, the player has two 
            possibilities:
            
            1)    He can send single units into the fight (select unit 
            and click on attack) or he can call them back (select unit 
            and click on retreat). During the attack, the armies start 
            moving forward,which the player can follow on the upper 
            edge of the screen. Only when units of his own army meets 
            units of the opponent's army, can a proper fight proceed. 
            The unites involved in the fight are shown in red. If 
            there are casualties, they depend on the players own 
            strength and the opponent's strength, as well as on the 
            number of the player's own soldiers and the opponent's 
            soldiers.
            
            One exception is the artillery. If it gets the order for 
            an attack, it opens fire at once, which directly results 
            in casualties for the opponent. The same goes, of course, 
            for the opponent's artillery and the player's own 
            casualties.
            
            The fighting continues one army has lost, i.e. has no more 
            people. If the player should lose the fight, he loses 
            everything he has with him, except his wagon. 
            Nevertheless, the bank is so kind to hand out the starting 
            loan of 3000 again. An already existing bank-account will 
            not be touched! If the player wins the fight, he will 
            receive all the money which the opponent's caravan 
            possesses.
            
            2)    The player avoids a fight. This happens by clicking 
            on the "negotiations". With the help of that, he can start 
            negotiations, but he has only one chance. Failed 
            negotiations cannot be started again. One possibility: 
            Either he uses a bluff and he boasts that he is the 
            strongest, or he bribes the opponent with money ( adjust 
            with "Increase" or "Decrease"). The opponent sometimes 
            falls for the bluff, but not always. This depends on the 
            
            
            opponent's own superiority. 
            
            During the bribery, the player should not be to tight with 
            his money. When he loses a fight, all the money will go to 
            the enemies anyway. The amount of the bribery also depends 
            on the number of the player's army and the opponent's 
            army.
            
            If the player has attacked a caravan more than five times, 
            he is no longer able to enter the caravan's home town, as 
            it will no longer trade with him.
            The same goes for the situation in which a player has 
            attacked a town directly.
            
            (Please refer to Appendix C)
            
            
            5.2   Fight army <-> Town or Town<-> Army
            
              If the player attacks a town or a castle, the same rules 
            apply as in 5.1 "Fight Army<->Army". Should the player 
            win, he takes over the town/castle.
            Naturally, not every castle or town is the same size. The 
            size of a town or a castle can be recognized in the screen 
            graphics, but also in the "TOWN INFORMATION." Big towns 
            have of course more soldiers to defend themselves than  
            smaller towns.
            If a player's town is attacked by an opponent's army the 
            player does not have any influence on the outcome. He can 
            only rely on his strategy (see BARRACKS) and hope that he 
            will win.
            
            
            
            5.3   Fight Ship <-> Ship
            
              If 2 ships bump into each other on the map, a sea battle 
            begins. In this case, the out come is dependent upon how 
            many canons are at the players disposal. The battleships, 
            of course, have an advantage over the merchantmen. The 
            p[layer now faces one ship representing the opponent's 
            fleet.
            His task is now to hit this ship as often as possible. 
            This can be influenced by two things: the shooting angle 
            and the powder amount. The shooting angle can be changed 
            by clicking on the canon in the centre of the screen.
            On the right centre of the screen , you can see a section 
            of the canon. First you must fill the cannon with powder, 
            this happens by clicking on the powders barrel on the left 
            side.
            The powder now must be visible inside the section. The 
            powder must be stuffed by clicking on the stuffer on the 
            far left side. This action must also be visible in the 
            cross-section. If you want to increase the shooting 
            distance, the canon must be stuffed and filled with more 
            powder. If you have filled in enough powder, the ball
            
            
            
            will be loaded by clicking it on. Now the canon should be 
            ready for shooting, which is made visible by by a fuse. If 
            no fuse is visible, something has been done wrong (e.g. 
            not stuffed etc.). But if everything has been performed 
            properly, he can now fir the canon by clicking on the 
            flame and firing the slow-match. Unfortunately, the player
            has to act in a limited space of time, in which he 
            should try to score as many hits as possible. When the
            time is over, the final results will appear on the 
            screen. As the player has shot with one canon as a 
            representative of all the canons, the number of hits is 
            multiplied by the number of canons. This results in the 
            total number of hits received by the opponent's fleet. 
            Each ship needs 10 hits to sink. Therefore, one can 
            ascertain in this way how may of his own and how many of 
            the opponent's ships have been sunk. If all of the 
            player's own ships have been sunk by the opponent, his 
            game is over because he drowns. If the player has 
            destroyed all of the opponent's ships, he receives some 
            money or maybe even a ring. 
         
            
            
            Example of a possible begin for "Rings of Medusa"
            
            1.    If the mouse pointer is moves in the options menu, 
            the game will be stopped until one leaves the options menu 
            again. This is very useful to reach the negotiations 
            during a fight, for example.
            
            2.    The game's score should be saved on a special disk 
            as often as possible. You prepare this by formatting an 
            empty disk.
            
            3.    Notes of a successful start for the game:
                  1. Go to a bank and take a credit.
                  2. Purchase a wagon with horses in a stable.
                  3. Trade with the towns which are far apart from 
                     each other.
                  4. Always negotiate with the opponent in case of an 
                     attack.
                  5. Purchase scouts early in the game.
                  6. Wright down coordinates and other important 
                     things in the Notice Pad.
            
            
            
            
            
            APPENDIX A:
                 Above:  Note Pad, Save, Buy, Sell, Maximum, Door,
                         50/60 Hz, Music/Sounds, Okay, Not Okay,
                         Retreat, Search
                 Below:  Load, Town Information, More Goods, 
                 Coordinates, End of Game, Negotiation, Mine
            
            
            
            
            APPENDIX B:
                 Above:  Goods, Decrease Amount of Goods (fast and 
                         slowly), Increase Amount of Goods
                 Below:  Disposal Amount, Capacity, Means of 
                         Transportation
            
            
            
            APPENDIX C:
                 Above:  Total Number of Soldiers 
                 Below:  Own Army, Army Unit Involved in the Fighting, 
                         Opponent's Army