                    --- RISE OF THE ROBOTS FULL MANUAL ---

                       TYPED IN BY REBEL/TRADERS DREAM

                    MANUAL SUPPLIED BY SONIC/INDEPENDANT

                                   WARNING
                                   -------
EPILEPSY WARNING

PLEASE READ BEFORE USING THIS VIDEO GAME OR ALLOWING YOUR CHILDREN TO USE IT.

Some people are susceptible  to  epileptic  seizures  or loss of consciousness
when exposed to certain flashing  lights  or  light patterns in everyday life.
Such people may have a  seizure  while  watching  certain television images or
playing certain video games. This may happen even if the person has no medical
history of epilepsy or has never had  any epileptic seizures. If you or anyone
in your family has ever had symptoms  related to epilepsy (seizures or loss of
consciousness) when exposed to  flashing  lights,  consult  your doctor before
playing. We advise that parents should monitor the use of video games by their
children. If you or  your  child  experience  any  of  the following symptoms:
dizziness, blurred vision,  eye  or  muscle  twitches,  loss of consciousness,
disorientation, any involuntary movement or  convulsion, while playing a video
game, IMMEDIATELY discontinue use and consult your doctor.
PRECAUTIONS TO TAKE DURING USE

  - Do not stand too close to  the  screen.  Sit a good distance away from the
television screen, as far away as the length of the cable allows.

  - Preferably play the game on a small television screen.

  - Avoid playing if you are tired or have not had much sleep.

  - Make sure that the room in which you are playing is well lit.

  - Rest for at least 10 or 15 minutes per hour while playing a video game.

                                    SET UP
                                    ------
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

AMIGA 500+/600/1500/2000/3000   Recommended spec
Minimum spec                    2 Mb RAM
1 MB Chip RAM                   Second floppy drive
Joysticks                       30Mb hard disk space

AMIGA 1200/4000                 Recommended spec
Minimum spec                    2 Mb RAM
2Mb RAM                         Second floppy drive
Joysticks                       40Mb hard disk space

                             LOADING INSTALLATION
                             --------------------
Commodore Amiga 600 and 1200
Running Rise from floppy: Switch  off  the  computer.  Insert disk #1 into the
floppy drive and turn on the  computer.  Rise will load and run automatically.
Follow the on screen prompts. Installing Rise onto an Amiga Hard Disk: Turn on
your computer and insert the Hard  Drive  installation disk. At the CLI prompt
type <df0:INSTALL> and follow the on screen instructions

Amiga CD-32
Insert the CD as described in the CD32 manual.

                                 INTRODUCTION
                                 ------------
THE GAME

Rise of the robots is a  "new  generation"  computer game conceived to combine
state-of-the-art programming design and  graphics  display. "Rise" was created
using the Auto Desk 3-D Studio  CAD  software package. 3-DS is fundamentally a
rendering package. Objects such as the  robots are created by Mirage's artists
in a basic  component  form,  simple  geometric  shapes  such  as  spheres and
cylinders. Once assembled, the hundreds of shapes form a complete object which
are then coloured and textured: the rendering process.

All objects can be lit and  viewed  from  any  angle and while they move under
animation the given  attributes  of  colour  and  texture appear realistically
highlighted or shadowed under the differing light sources.

The main combat action of  the  game  employs  a specially designed artificial
intelligence system  by  which  the  computer  controlled  opponents  learn  a
player's style of play and then create strategies to meet this.
THE TEAM

Rise is the result of a convergence  of the varied specialisms of Mirage's in-
house project team; "Instinct". The  interiors  are  the  work  of Kwan Lee, a
professional  interior  designer,  the   robots   themselves   come  from  the
imagination of Sean Naden who is  a trained technical illustrator. Programming
and animation has been performed by Andy Clark and Gary Leach. The entire Rise
project is the original idea of Sean  Griffiths, the games designer, a veteran
programmer in the games industry, with  a  string  of successful titles to his
credit.
BRIAN MAY

Brian May has earned himself  a  place  on  rock  history  as  one of the most
accomplished and talented contemporary  guitarists.  With Queen he contributed
to their unique sound through  his  unmistakable guitar style, vocals, writing
and production.

It was Brian's solo album "Back to the light" which first attracted the Mirage
team. Brian was approached regarding two  tracks  off his million seller. "The
Dark" and "Resurrection" were ideally suited to the style and tone of "Rise of
the robots". Brian was extremely impressed  with  the game (computer games was
an area that  he  had  not  previously  worked  in,  but  had  always  held an
interest).

                                 INTRODUCTION
                                 ------------
THE STORY

Rise takes you to a  future  world,  highly industrialised, where technologies
have developed and crashed together  to  create  a supreme super-tech society.
Over centuries of technical progress, the planet  has paid a heavy price. Life
is only sustainable in huge city-states that constitute civilisation, the land
and oceans beyond have been plundered  for raw materials and are irretrievably
polluted.  Now,  all  life  support:   food,   water  and  breathable  air  is
manufactured in population centres. A  ruling politico-military class controls
the production of  these  resources  and  manipulates  the  human underclasses
accordingly. Internal social disorder is  commonplace, both military and trade
wars between city states are  regularly  instituted  as  a means of population
control.

The servants of society are robots.  The  city state Metropolis 4, the setting
for Rise, is the home of  Electrocorp,  the planet's major robot manufacturer.
Electrocorp produce a huge range  of  machines  for all possible applications,
ranging from crude industrial droids right up to highly sophisticated military
and bio-simulatory models. The  Electrocorp  manufacturing complex is entirely
run by droids, managed day-to-day  by  the  ultimate  in robot technology, the
polymorphic  Supervisor  class  droid.  The   Supervisor  is  unique  and  has
successfully run the Electrocorp plant for  several months, that is, until she
becomes infected by  a  highly  pernicious  computer  Ego-Virus corrupting her
behavioural programming and creating a vicious psychotic personality.

The only way to stop the Supervisor  as  she proceeds to take over the factory
and reprogram its robot-workers, is to  send  in  a human-based Cyborg to seek
out and destroy her. You, the player, are the Cyborg. You have been chosen for
this task, you will cause minimum damage to the immensely valuable Electrocorp
plant, you will cause maximum damage to any  droid which may try to hinder you
in your mission, you must locate the Supervisor and terminate her activities.

                                   PROFILES
                                   --------
PRO :> FILE             THE CYBORG

STRENGTHS

  Agility
  Intelligence

WEAKNESSES

  Can suffer mental fatigue

CONTROLS

                UP  -  Jump
              DOWN  -  Crouch
        LEFT/RIGHT  -  Shuffle towards/away from opponent (away = autoblock)
        FIRE-1(F1)  -  Punch/kick
        FIRE-2(F2)  -  Block (PC joysticks only)

MOVES

                F1  -  Jab
           F1 + UP  -  Flying kick (towards/away)
         F1 + DOWN  -  Low punch
         F1 + AWAY  -  Kick
      F1 + TOWARDS  -  Big punch
DOWN + TOWARDS + F1 -  Low kick
       DOWN + AWAY  -  Crouch autoblock

SPECIAL MOVES

    DOWN + UP + F1  -  Turbo Head-Butt
AWAY + TOWARDS + F1 -  Shoulder Barge
FACT FILE

The Electrocorp Cybernetic Organism  model  ECO  35-2  represents the ultimate
development to date from  Electrocorp's  Sci-Bio  Technology  team. The ECO 35
series Cyborg is the  first  anthropomorphic  droid  to  successfully meet the
corporation's design and performance spec for this secret project.

The ECO 35 is a full  biped  android,  mirroring  the human physical form. The
cyborg utilizes a conventional composite structural  skeleton made from a wide
range of materials, with certain exoskeletal  elements where this is deemed to
serve the design better.  For  example,  the  torso  and  skull are monocoque,
allowing free space  inside  for  the  complex  control  and energy generation
units. The skull unit itself is  an immensely strong cross-fibre multimaterial
alloy. This unit houses the implanted  human  CPU  -  the brain. Where the bio
tissue of the human CPU contacts the skull structure the laminated fibre alloy
has been specially graded such that the contact surface is 100% organic. It is
anticipated that eventually the  implanted  brain  will  bond with the contact
lamination's open DNA  structure  thus  creating  a  true,  totally integrated
biomechanical - a massive step forward in sci-medical technology. The question
yet to be answered is whether an  ECO  can survive long enough for this theory
to become fact.
The Cyborg's chassis engineering and power system  has endowed the ECO 35 with
considerable strength, many times greater  than  that  of resident human CPU's
original body. It  has  been  observed  that  this  feature  tends  to greatly
increase the Cyborg's self confidence  and  aggression  potential, making it a
formidable combatant,  ideally  suited  to  hand-to-hand  combat  in sensitive
locations where environmental damage through  weapons  use is undesirable. The
Cyborg is the perfect choice for the Rise mission.
PRO :> FILE             THE LOADER DROID

STRENGTHS

  Solid Build
  Powerful Arms

WEAKNESSES

  Slow
  Limited tactical ability

CONTROLS

                UP  -  Jump
              DOWN  -  Crouch
        LEFT/RIGHT  -  Shuffle towards/away from opponent (away = autoblock)
        FIRE-1(F1)  -  Punch/kick
        FIRE-2(F2)  -  Block (PC joysticks only)

MOVES

                F1  -  Punch
           F1 + UP  -  High kick
      F1 + TOWARDS  -  Mid kick
  DOWN + AWAY + F1  -  Low kick
         DOWN + F1  -  Low punch
       DOWN + AWAY  -  Crouch autoblock

SPECIAL MOVES

TOWARDS + TOWARDS + F1  -  Double fork-slash
FACT FILE

The loader  droid  is  a  mass-produced  robot  in  use  in  a  wide  range of
applications in manufacturing plants  across  the  planet.  The  loader is now
considered  to  be  old  technology  and   is   being  replaced  by  the  more
sophisticated BHFO3 Builder type droid. It is indicative of the quality of the
design and construction of this particular  machine  that  it is still in use,
even within the Electrocorp production lines.

This droid has never been assigned combative tasks, and posses no self-defence
software other than  the  regular  standard  hazard  avoidance  procedures. Of
course reprogramming is possible and it is probable that this droid could make
a formidable opponent. The Loader has exceptionally powerful arms, which could
be capable of delivering damaging blows,  the rugged construction of the droid
would also withstand much physical punishment.
PRO :> FILE             THE BUILDER DROID

STRENGTHS

  Powerful Arms
  Efficient Blocking Tactics

WEAKNESSES

  Vulnerable Legs
  Slow Speed

CONTROLS

                UP  -  Jump
              DOWN  -  Crouch
        LEFT/RIGHT  -  Shuffle towards/away from opponent (away = autoblock)
        FIRE-1(F1)  -  Punch/kick
        FIRE-2(F2)  -  Block (PC joysticks only)

MOVES

           F1 + UP  -  Uppercut
F1 + TOWARDS + AWAY -  Backhand
         F1 + DOWN  -  Hard sweep
  DOWN + AWAY + F1  -  Low hand sweep
         DOWN + F1  -  Low punch
       DOWN + AWAY  -  Crouch autoblock
SPECIAL MOVES

  DOWN + AWAY + UP  -  Pile Driver
DOWN + TOWARDS + UP -  Bomber Jump
FACT FILE

The BHFO3 Builder droid (Code Name: Prime-8) is designed to supersede the more
primitive Loader class. The huge BHFO3 is  designed  to be able to carry heavy
plant components around the engineering floors of manufacturing units.

BHFO3 carries a highly developed power  transfer  system. From the high energy
eletro-magnetic server housed in the massive  thorax,  it is able to instantly
switch bolts of energy  though  to  slave  units  within  its limbs. The rapid
response, especially of the Builders  arms,  results  in  these huge masses of
metal sweeping through the air to deliver blows with a force of several tons.

The  Builder  droid's  rather  top-heavy  design,  coupled  with  its  limited
intelligence, dictates a rather  static  combat  style,  the  Builder tends to
crouch rather than use its full height  of  some 3 metres. This tactic affords
protection for its lower  limbs  and  presents  a  squat  armoured  bulk to an
attacker which can be difficult to penetrate.
PRO :> FILE             THE CRUSHER DROID

STRENGTHS

  Agility
  Speed

WEAKNESSES

  Vulnerable CPU Housing
  Vulnerable Arms when extended

CONTROLS

                UP  -  Jump
              DOWN  -  Crouch
        LEFT/RIGHT  -  Shuffle towards/away from opponent (away = autoblock)
        FIRE-1(F1)  -  Punch/kick
        FIRE-2(F2)  -  Block (PC joysticks only)

MOVES

                F1  -  Jab
         F1 + AWAY  -  Kick
      F1 + TOWARDS  -  Claw jab
  DOWN + AWAY + F1  -  Low kick
         DOWN + F1  -  Low punch
       DOWN + AWAY  -  Crouch autoblock
           F1 + UP  -  Flying punch

SPECIAL MOVES

DOWN + TOWARDS + F1 -  Pincer Mincer
FACT FILE

The Crusher droids were introduced into  the Electrocorp production halls when
a series or Builder class  droids  developed autonomous routines and destroyed
an entire production  line.  When  not  required  to  act  as  production line
"bouncers", Crusher droids  are  used  for  entering  hazardous  areas  on the
production lines to free jammed machinery and extract waste materials.

As a machine specifically designed to  destroy,  the Crusher droid, once under
the control of the  Supervisor,  is  an  opponent  which presents an immediate
serious threat to the Cyborg. As  a  combat  droid, the Crusher class robot is
formidable due to its speed  and  pincer  arms,  which  must be avoided at all
costs. Its insect-like  form  can  also  confuse  some  combat droids' sensory
equipment.
PRO :> FILE             THE MILITARY DROID

STRENGTHS

  Speed
  Tactical Intelligence
  Heavy blow-force

WEAKNESSES

  Vulnerable CPU Housing
  Vulnerable Limb Joints

CONTROLS

                UP  -  Jump
              DOWN  -  Crouch
        LEFT/RIGHT  -  Shuffle towards/away from opponent (away = autoblock)
        FIRE-1(F1)  -  Punch/kick
        FIRE-2(F2)  -  Block (PC joysticks only)

MOVES

                F1  -  Jab
           F1 + UP  -  Uppercut
      F1 + TOWARDS  -  High kick
         F1 + AWAY  -  Spin kick
  DOWN + AWAY + F1  -  Low kick
         DOWN + F1  -  Low punch
       DOWN + AWAY  -  Crouch autoblock
           UP + F1  -  Aerial side kick

SPECIAL MOVES

    DOWN + UP + F1  -  Catapult Spin
AWAY + TOWARDS + F1 -  Cyber Slash
FACT FILE

The Military Class  Droid  (Code  Name:  The  Exterminator)  has been designed
specifically  for  combat  and  security  applications.  The  Exterminator  is
Electrocorp's generic combat  class  robot  has  rapidly  become  the standard
machine in  all  of  the  planets  military  organisations.  The  Exterminator
recruited by the Supervisor is  a  top  secret  development model and features
modifications not found on production military droids.

The Exterminator has a titanium alloy  skeletal chassis with laminated polymer
mouldings protecting all important components. Extra  armour is carried on the
thorax to shield the CPU and central power supply.

The Exterminator droid has  advanced  artificial  intelligence  and is readily
trainable alongside its human  comrades.  The  Exterminator  is the first pure
combat droid with the Cyborg will meet in its search for the Supervisor.
PRO :> FILE             THE SENTRY DROID

STRENGTHS

  Tactical Intelligence
  Speed
  Aerial agility

WEAKNESSES

  None Identified

CONTROLS

                UP  -  Jump
              DOWN  -  Crouch
        LEFT/RIGHT  -  Shuffle towards/away from opponent (away = autoblock)
        FIRE-1(F1)  -  Punch/kick
        FIRE-2(F2)  -  Block (PC joysticks only)

MOVES

           F1 + UP  -  Mile-high kick
      F1 + TOWARDS  -  Mid kick
         F1 + AWAY  -  Punch
  DOWN + AWAY + F1  -  Low kick
         DOWN + F1  -  Low punch
       DOWN + AWAY  -  Crouch autoblock

SPECIAL MOVES

  DOWN + DOWN + F1  -  Flying Jet-kick
FACT FILE

Designed by Electrocorp's Japanese subsidiary,  the formidable Sentry droid is
a further development  of  the  technology  used  in  the Exterminator droid's
construction. Up until the Rise  mission,  the  Sentry  droid  has been a pure
research model employing prototype systems under test for future incorporation
into a new generation of combat  robots.  Now the Supervisor has employed this
model to be her first line of defence  in a direct attack on her command floor
high in the Electrocorp tower.

A fundamental difference between the  Sentry  and the Exterminator class droid
is the Sentry's greater size. During this model's development it was necessary
to incorporate a higher output central  power  supply  in order to support the
added energy-greedy systems, such as  the  super-rapid CPU and all-mode threat
sensor hardware. The new power supply  demanded a larger and stronger chassis,
but which still retained basic humanoid  articulation  and agility, and so the
3.5 metre Sentry came into being.

The particular Sentry model enlisted by the Supervisor in her defence, carries
radio frequency particle defence shields and a  dorsal jet pack to enhance the
droid's already considerable leaping ability. The Sentry droid is coloured red
for easy recognition during  battlefield  testing.  Airborne  agility and limb
articulation in excess of  the  industry  standard  humanoid model, turns this
robot into a high category threat for any opponent.
PRO :> FILE             THE SUPERVISOR

STRENGTHS

  Tactical Intelligence
  Morph-capable
  Speed

WEAKNESSES

  None Identified

SPECIAL MOVES

        Mutilation
        Melting & re-form
FACT FILE

The 'parent form' of the Supervisor is  that  of a stylised female. This shape
was arrived at by allowing  the  development  robot  to decide its own persona
characteristics both physical and  intellectual,  these  fundamental bases are
immutable,  yet  the  Supervisors  design   does  allow  extended  periods  of
'morphing' into other three dimensional shapes to suit particular tasks.

The Supervisor droid  is  a  total  departure  from  conventionally engineered
robots. This machine is the product of Electrocorp's New Technologies Division
and remains a secret to the outside  world. The Supervisor droid relies on the
known principles of electrical flux  physics  for  its  basic form, the entire
structure of the Supervisor is engineered from the base atomic level which has
enabled  the  designers  to  build  a  component  structure  of  unprecedented
complexity.

It is the radical 'loose'  atomic  structuring  of  all the robot's components
that allows morphing to take place.  The  Supervisor droid employs a molecular
polarising system to enable  rabid  form  changes. Minute current fluctuations
impulsed from the CPU alter  the  molecular  bonding  of the 'parent form' and
allow macro changes in the robot's 3-D shape.

Techniques borrowed  from  biotechnology  have  been  used  to  create linking
receptor molecules which effectively memorise their 'home-position' and enable
the Supervisor to snap  back  into  her  original  shape  after morphing. This
entire process is remarkably power-efficient due  to the fact that the robot's
structure super-conducts, with no  power  demands  of  any component exceeding
pica-volt level.

It is without a doubt  a  consequence  of  a  flaw in the Supervisor's radical
technology, that she has developed  the  'Ego  Virus'.  It is evident that her
resident personality  has  become  corrupted,  most  frighteningly,  emulating
psychopathic conditions  found  historically  only  in  human  subjects.  This
behaviour  disorder  coupled  with  the  Supervisor's  super-intelligence  and
physical morphing abilities ensure that she  poses  the greatest threat to the
Cyborg and in turn, the whole of Metropolis 4.

                                 HOW TO PLAY
                                 -----------
STARTING THE GAME

Once you have Rise installed  on  your  hard  drive,  you need only access the
directory and at the prompt type <rise>, this will start the game.

OPTIONS SCREEN

The various game options are  selected  by  highlighting the selection of your
choice using your predefined computer  keyboard  keys  and confirming with the
fire key. If you have nominated  joystick control during the installation, use
the joystick to highlight your choice and confirm using the fire button.

ONE PLAYER GAME

This option pits you against the computer.  You take control of the Cyborg and
you must battle your way past the  series of formidable Electrocorp Robots who
protect the Supervisor, the ultimate opponent. The droids you encounter have a
mounting intelligence factor. Upon selecting the one player game you will next
see two options: Mission Briefing and Training.

TRAINING

This option lets you, the Cyborg,  select between the individual robots. Using
your predefined  keys  or  joystick  choose  your  preferred  combat opponent,
confirm your choice using the  fire  key  or  fire  button. You may select any
robot except the Supervisor with this option.

MISSION BRIEFING

This option puts the Cyborg into  the security services directed mission where
you must first meet  each  robot  in  a  mounting  order  of  combat skill and
aggression. It is only by following the  mission briefing and by battling your
way past all the opposing  robots,  that  you  will  finally meet the ultimate
challenge... The Supervisor

TWO PLAYER GAME

Within this option you are able to select  an opponent for the Cyborg from the
range of Electrocorp Robots. You will  not  be  able to play one robot against
the other - Electrocorp's Droids are  programmed  not to engage one another in
combat - but you are able  to  pit  the  Cyborg  against a clone. The morphing
Supervisor remains under the control of the computer at all times.

HANDICAP SYSTEM (2 PLAYER MODE ONLY)

This options allows a handicap  to  be  imposed  on  a  player who may be more
skilled than his opponent, allowing  for  a  fairer  contest. Using the slider
bar, increase or decrease your strength and power according to how you wish to
balance the contest.

DIFFICULTY LEVEL

Here you are able to select the  difficult  level of play from Beginner, Easy,
Medium or Hard to determine the aggression and skill level of your opponents.

TIMER

The time is displayed at the top  of  the  screen  and counts down as the bout
progresses. In the  event  of  a  knock-out,  the  time  remaining contributes
proportionally to your bonus score.  You  can  select  the length of the bouts
from 30,60, or 90 seconds. You may also select the 'No Timer' option.

CINEMATICS

This option allows you to turn the cinematic sequences that link the different
encounters on or off.

BOUTS

Each encounter with an individual  robot  is  divided into separate bouts. For
each encounter you can choose through  this  option  the total number of bouts
from 3,5 or 7 bouts.

SHADOWS

This option allows you to  turn  the  robots'  shadows  on or off. Some slower
computers may run faster with shadows turned off.

SCREEN SHAKE

This option allows you to turn the screen shake on or off as the robots engage
each other in combat. Turning off the screen shake may speed up the action for
slower computers.

SCORING

Each player's score is displayed on the  screen above the starting position of
the particular fighter, i.e. on  the  left  or  right  of the screen. The most
important way of building a  hefty  points  score  is through landing powerful
strategic hits on your opponent.  The  use  of  special  moves is an essential
factor when building a respectable points tally.

POWER OF BLOW

Very important for amassing a credible  score.  The  longer you hold down your
nominated keyboard power button, or fire  button  for joystick users, the more
power you will deliver with your blow upon its release. Be careful, using high
power kicks and punches leaves you open to fast counter-attacks.

SPECIAL MOVES

Each droid has its own  special  move  or  moves  derived  from its own unique
abilities. These moves are devastatingly powerful  when they connect, they can
cause massive damage and will contribute  greatly  to the user's points score.
Special moves are, however difficult to  execute  and will require practise to
master.
                    +-----------------------------------+
                    |                                   |
                    |  IF YOU'RE STUCK AND NEED ADVICE  |
                    |  CALL OUR UK HELPLINE NUMBER ON:  |
                    |           01604 60 40 60          |
                    |                                   |
                    +-----------------------------------+

                                 THE CREDITS
                                 -----------
MIRAGE

Produced by                     Peter Jones, Sean Griffiths and Andy Wood

Designed & Directed by          Sean Griffiths

Senior Artists                  Sean Naden and Kwan Lee

Character Design                Sean Naden

Set Design & Construction       Kwan Lee

Senior Programmers              Andy Clark (Amiga) and Gary Leach (PC)

Project Assistance              Gina Jackson

Musical Co-ordination           Richard Joseph and Andy Wood

Game Soundtrack                 Richard Joseph

Game Music                      Jason Page with conversions by Graham King

Produced by                     Richard Joseph

Marketing & Publicity           Julia Coombs and Declan Brennan

Distribution                    Roy Campbell, Dave Cotton and Andy Wood

Script Writing                  Jim Murdoch

Quality Control                 Paul Baddeley,  David  Capewell,  Carl Carter,
                                Matthew Hawkesford, Lee Salt and Thomas Wardle

"Ressurection","The Dark"       and  other   incidental   music    composed  &
                                performed by Brian  May.   Published  by Queen
                                Music Ltd./EMI  Publishing  Ltd.  Published by
                                Queen  Music  Ltd/Les   Editions  Marouani  in
                                France.

TIME WARNER INTERACTIVE

Senior Producer                 Ken Humphries

Marketing                       Tony  Adams,  Jeff  Tawney,   Rob  Letts   and
                                Andrea Simpson

Special Thanks to               Boz Anderson,  Connie  Booth,  Ciaran Brennon,
                                Rick Brookfield,  Darren  Bullivant,  Acclaim,
                                Dave Eardley, Steve  Eardley, Rachel Fitzhugh,
                                Nick Garnell, Christoph  Gomez,  Keith Healey,
                                George  Hill,  Joel  Hochberg,  Geoff  Holmes,
                                David Klein,  Helenka  Lewandowska-Grey, Karen
                                Lockwood,   Steve   McEwan,   Neal   McCleave,
                                Florence de Martino, Sarah Mould, Randy Scott,
                                Graeme Struthers, Randy Their, Ray Wain, Kevin
                                Shepard,   John   Lawrence,   Harold   Gilmen,
                                Christopher Payne, Meach  Meakin,  John Eaton,
                                Makoto  Orii,  Jack  Tretton,  Kerry  Burgess,
                                Deborah Jones, Julie Walker and Clare Barnett.

Extra Special Thanks to         Jim Beach,  Dan  Van  Elderen,  Julie  Glover,
                                Roger Harris,  Paul  Johnson,  Justin Shirley-
                                Smith,  Michael  Thomas,  T.T.,  ...  and  the
                                unrivalled Mr.  May  for  doing  everything we
                                asked him for, plus a whole lot more.

Manual and Packaging
Designed by                     CAMEL Advertising and Marketing