Road Blasters
Typed by Belgarath


Loading Instructions
--------------------

CBM Amiga/Atari ST

Insert disk and turn on computer. The game will load and
run automatically. Follow on screen prompts.


Scenario
--------

The ultimate race of the future, Road Blasters is part road
race and part combat zone survival exercise.

Following the road, you travel through a progression of
countries, alternating checkpoints and rally points. As you
race past checkpoints (mid point goals) you are awarded
additional fuel. Rally points are similar to the finish lines in
ordinary race games as they indicate the completion of a
race section. A scroll up video display evaluates player
performance at each rally point. The game ends when the
player runs out of fuel, by driving too slow, being destroyed
by opponents or crashing too often.


Game Play
---------

Placed along the roadside are green and red fuel globe to
obtain fuel. By tagging these, the players' cars are refuelled.
As a reward, when you reach each checkpoint and rally
point you receive extra fuel. Four unique computer-
controlled opponent vehicles challenge players. These are:

(A) Sleek, fast STINGERS. Score 50 pts.

(B) COMMAND CARS are heavily armoured. Score 100 pts.

(C) RAT JEEPS are evasive and unpredictable. Score 50 pts.

(D) CYCLES are very quick and dart everywhere. Score 100 pts.

These vehicles combine forces to try to prevent the players 
from reaching the next rally point. Scores equal the points
scored x multiplier.

In addition the following elements conspire to destroy you:

(E) Mines - these are placed in the road.

(F) Gun Turrets are placed on the side of the road and shoot
    at players.

(G) Spikers are thrown by opponent vehicles.

(H) Toxic Spill - to be avoided as much as possible.

The player can acquire special weapons by docking with
the special attribute pack dropped by the support jet. Special
weapons include: Cruise missiles that destroy everything in
the path of the player, that is visible on the screen; Nitro
Injectors that boost the speed of the player's car; U.Z. Cannons
that rapid fire; Electro Shields that protect the
player's car from shots, collisions, mines and spikers.


High Score Mode
---------------

When the game ends, if players are among the top scorers
recorded on the game, they may enter three initials. Players
select their initials by steering to select and fire to enter.

Players can correct their initials by selecting the arrow that
points to the left, then repeating the procedure for entering
initials. High scores remain throughout each session.


The Visual Display Unit
-----------------------

This screen appears after each stage is completed. In the
top right hand corner is the total score up to the end of the
last stage. In the top left hand corner is the highest previous
game score.


Joystick Control
----------------

Move joystick left or right to steer.
Move joystick forward to accelerate.
Move joystick to centre position to decelerate.
Move joystick backward quickly to ignite special weapon.
FIRE button - fire main gun.


Typed by Belgarath