                          ROBINSONS REQUIUM

After playing a while Robinson Requiem i found that the program checks for
a word in the manual.
So Paradox didn't remove that protection, if they really cracked the game.

Here are the words....


English:

  PAGE  LINE  WORD  PASSWORD
  ----  ----  ----  --------
   11     1     3   COURSE
   16     2     6   GAME
   17     1     3   MODE
   19     1     2   THE
   21     1     7   ARE
   22     1     1   GIVE
   24     1     2   THERE
   
French:

  PAGE  LINE  WORD  PASSWORD
  ----  ----  ----  --------
   11     1    11   PISQUE
   17     1     3   MODE
   20     1     2   TORCHE
   20     1    10   FLAMME
   21     1    11   TENUE
   22     2     1   OTRE
   24     3     6   ARME
   
German: same as english...
====================================================================================================================
ROBINSON'S REQUIEM

Brought to you by Belgarath

SUMMARY

The action unfolds in the middle of the twenty-second century, at a time when the Earth and some of its
colonised planets are already over-populated.

Robinson is the nickname given to members of AWE - Alien World Exploration - a military body whose task it
is to explore totally unknown planets.

Recruited from the best military academies, Robinson candidates have to take an Officer-Enlightener course.
At the end of this training, the best of them go through a strict selection test which indicates their aptitude for
surviving extreme conditions.  Very few are selected to AWE's Holy of Holies; about twenty people of each sex
per intake. They are issued with a white booklet on admission.

The headquarters of AWE is situated on the monastery station of Levattelow. Robinsons must have no contact
with the outside world and their contract last for five years. During those five years they undertake the exploration
of as yet unknown planets in order to ascertain whether living conditions are suitable for colonisation. At the
end of their mandate, large public demonstrations are organised to celebrate the return of these modern heroes
who are promised a golden retirement on Earth. This festival is called  Robinson's Requiem because it
commemorates the end of their lives as Robinsons and their return to civilian life.

That is the official version.

The reality is very different. The secret intelligence agency SI (Scientific Intelligence) has issued orders that
certain Robinsons will not be returning.

In the course of their numerous missions, some Robinsons come into contact with unknown viruses. To avoid
all risk of contamination, SI has chooses to banish them. These sacrifices are not made in vain, because they
enable the symptoms of these new diseases to be studied in the hope of conquering them and then being able
to colonise the planets when they are free of these plagues. A handful of other agents - you included - have
discovered what is going on, and the SI are onto you.  For your last mission before the Robinson's Requiem,
you are sent on a mission to a wild planet not listed in official documents. This planet has magnetic shields
and, on approaching it, the Robinsons lose all control of their ship. Most of them manage to eject themselves
before the ship crashes, thus finding themselves prisoners in a hostile environment.  The surveillance of this
planet is entrusted to druids which also have the task of collecting all the information necessary on their
prisoners' state of health.  Placed in this extreme survival situation, they nevertheless do not always behave
like old comrades... but are determined to quit this nightmare planet and return to dear old planet Earth.

So where do you come in ?

The year is 2163. You are an experienced Robinson and have received your last mission, to go and explore the
planet Zarathustra...

ERGONOMICS

Mouse

The game is operated entirely by mouse. The left-hand button is used to select, the right-hand button to cancel
the current operation and exit from the panels or menus selected.

Movement Panel

To walk, click on the directional arrows with your left mouse button.

To run, click with the right mouse button.

To crawl, click the left and right mouse buttons together.

Keyboard Short-Cuts

These enable you to carry out certain operations quickly :

Keys 4 to 9 of the numeric key-pad emulate movements in the picture (move forward, move back, turn around,
step sideways).

By combining these keys with the left-hand SHIFT key, movements can be made at a run. With the CONTROL
key you can advance at a crawl. For everything concerning movement, refer to the <movement panel> further
on.

The <+> and <-> keys raise and lower the head.

The F1 to F10 function keys activate the game icons (see further on).

The <SHIFT> key used on its own replaces the left-hand mouse button. The ESC (or ESCAPE) key replaces
the right-hand mouse button.

Joystick

This can be used to move in different directions. The shoot button then replaces the left-hand mouse button.

Pause Key

Press the <P> key. To resume playing, touch any key.

To Quit The Game

To quit the game, press <CONTROL> <X>.

To Bypass The Presentation Page

Press the <ESC> key.

After The Presentation

At the start, you will be offered a choice of languages. Click on the flag corresponding to the language you
want.  The screen will then show a menu. It offers you various options for the game (accompanied by a written
commentary in a panel), or the chance to load previously saved games (see Actions and Computer chapters).

There are technical options and playing options:

1 - The technical options:
a) Music ON/OFF - Sound ON/OFF
b) Levels of detail in the game - 2
c) Size of screen - 2

Depending on the level of detail and the screen size, the game proceeds faster or slower on the screen.

2 - The playing options: These concern the choice of 3 levels of difficulty, taking into consideration the weather,
diseases and upsets (flu, sunstroke, etc.)  To select or de-select these options, click on the corresponding
boxes.  You are offered an optimum configuration by default, depending on your computer. Your configuration
will be saved automatically.

To start the game, click on START.


DESCRIPTION OF THE SCREEN

-----------------------------------------------------
|                                         |         |
|                                         |         |
|                                         |         |
|                0                        |    2    |
|                                         |         |
|                                         |         |
|                                         |         |
|                                         |         |
|-----------------------------------------|---------|
|                          |       1      |     |   |
|                          |--------------| 6   |7  |
|                          |              |     |   |
|          3               |       4      |---------|
|                          |--------------|   8   |9|
|                          |              |       | |
|                          |       5      |       | |
|----------------------------------------------------

0 : 3D screen

The view is subjective : it is what you see - you, the player, placed in this three-dimensional universe - through
your own eyes, so you will never be visible in the picture.  You can act directly on the 3D screen by clicking on
an object to pick up or on an inanimate character to frisk. The item selected must be quite close to you, of
course.  You cannot place just any object into the picture. To place an object, you must use the USE icon. This
icon will enable you to carry out other actions in the 3D screen too (see further on).

1 : The text screen

This is the screen on which the texts of your Sesame computer are displayed: description of objects, information
on your state of health, prohibition messages, etc.  In most versions of the game, it also gives you a simultaneous
translation of the conversations you have with other characters, on a window superimposed on the object panel
(see further on). Click once to dismiss this window.

2 : Game icons

There are 10 action icons: examine the MAP, consult the COMPUTER, use an object (USE), MANUFACTURE,
DRESS, GIVE TREATMENT, EAT, SLEEP, FIGHT and take an INVENTORY. When you select an icon, all the
objects concerning that action appear in the objects panel (zone 3).  For example, if you click on the EAT icon,
all the food is shown and you simply have to choose the things you want.  The INVENTORY icon shows you all
the objects you possess. By clicking on the right-hand button, the action icon selected is cancelled and the
objects disappear from the panel. The following pages give a detailed description of all these actions.

3 : Object Panel

This displays all the objects available by the action icon selected. The small figures at the bottom right of the
boxes show the number of objects you have (if you only have one, no figure will be shown). For some objects,
the graphic changes according to their condition (flask more or less full, torch more or less consumed, etc.). If
you point to an object, a frame is displayed and the name of the object appears on the text screen (zone 1).


4 : Arrows

When all the objects cannot be shown in the picture at once because they are too numerous, these arrows
enable you to scroll the object panel to the right and left.

5 : Management window of object panel

The function of this window varies, according to which game icon is selected:

1 - It can be a dustbin for discarding objects in the case of an inventory (see (Inventory) ;

2 - It can validate combinations of objects if the MANUFACTURE action icon is selected (see Manufacture) ;

3 - In other cases, it is used to move objects on the panel click on that window, then select the object to be
moved, then validate it on the place where you want it to be on the panel. You can use the scroll arrows; if
you click on the right-hand mouse button, the object will place itself in the last box in the panel. To cancel
this mode, click the window.

6 : The compass


The centre of the compass indicates the direction in which you are facing.

7 : The state of health screen

This screen displays your current state of health. There are nine different states which bring about greater or
smaller efforts and can make your heart-rate and temperature vary.

1 - WALK :      This is the most usual mode. It is the one selected by default.
2 - RUN :       You cannot run indefinitely or you will exhaust yourself and your pulse-rate can rise very high.
                The screen will automatically return to WALK, mode when you are too tired. It is impossible
                to run backwards!...
3 - CRAWL :     This mode allows you to approach characters discreetly without being noticed too soon.
                Movements are made more slowly.
4 - LIMP :      If you have a fracture, or a leg amputated, the screen displays this mode which prevents you
                from running.
5 - SWIM :      Like running, swimming requires a considerable effort from the body. Be careful not to venture
                too far... The water temperature is not the same everywhere. Swimming in icy water without
                special protection can kill you.
6 - NAVIGATE :  To use a raft, just put yourself on it. This situation will end as soon as you touch land, the raft
                then remaining at the water's edge.
7 - FISHING :   An activity which can be more or less productive and which lasts one or two hours (on the
                game clock).
8 - FAINT :     Fainting occurs after a violent effort, a fall in blood pressure or when pain is too great. Loss of
                consciousness does not usually last very long. When you recover consciousness, the pain
                will be more bearable and your blood-pressure will rise again.
9 - SLEEP :     See further on in the chapter on descriptions of the action icons.

8 : The movement panel

The arrows at the top right and left will enable you to turn. Rotation is accelerated when you hold the key down.
The central top arrow enables you to advance and the bottom one enables you to retreat. Lastly, the two arrows
at the sides will enable you to move sideways.

9 : Head movement

These two icons enable you to raise and lower your head. If you click on them with the left-hand button the
head will resume its normal position when you move. If you use the right-hand button, the icon will stay down
and your head will be held in that position when you move. To return it to the upright position, re-select the icon
with the left-hand button.

ACTIONS
There are ten action icons - in the order they are displayed on the screen, from right to left and from top to
bottom:

The map

Sesame, your mini-computer, is equipped with Gyrosoft, a true space reconnaissance software program.
Thus, a map of the area appears as you move. If there are other Sesames in the area belonging to other
characters, these are detected and shown on the plan. To quit the map, click on the right-hand button or select
the icon at the bottom left.

The computer

The Sesame. You will find the detailed manual for this mini-computer in the White Booklet.  Note the three
control keys in the middle of the computer which, from top to bottom respectively, concern saving the game,
restarting previously saved games and re-starting the game.  To save or resume the game, you can select
directly from a menu the name of one of the last five games saved. If you choose the OTHER, option, you must
type the exact name of your saved game.

If you are playing on hard disk, the games saved are recorded directly into your sub-directory. On diskette,
follow the instructions shown on the screen : you must insert a previously formatted diskette. You can save as
often as you like.

To exit from the computer, click on the right-hand button or select the icon at bottom left.

Use

The USE icon enables you to carry out certain specific actions if you possess the corresponding objects.
These actions can follow different procedures :

1 - Put an object into the screen: For example, click on the snare, then place it directly on the 3D screen. This
    object will become operational in the picture. You can take it back if you want to by clicking on it.

2 - Make use of on-screen object: For example, by selecting the knife, then validating it on a tree, you can
    pick up branches which you must place in the object panel. The result varies according to the scenery: this
    same knife on a plant would have given you leaves. Another example : to fill your flask, you must validate
    it on an expanse of water.

3 - Setting off a particular action: To make water boil and disinfect it, validate the flask on a fire (this will not put
    out the fire), or use a disinfection tablet.
    
The LIGHT A FIRE icon appears if you have branches and something to light them with : match, flaming torch,
other fire nearby. A match should not be used unless there really is no other solution. You will obtain the same
result by clicking directly on the MATCH icon. If the terrain permits, the fire will appear a few yards in front of
you and will burn one unit of wood.

If you have a torch, this is accessible in the object panel. As for LIGHT A FIRE, you must have some matches
or a fire nearby in order to light it. If you click on the lit torch, it will light, and the icon will change into a lighted
torch. To put it out, click again on this new icon. The total number of lit or unlit torches can be displayed using
the INVENTORY icon (see further on).

A torch has a certain life-span ; the flame changes size according to how long it has left to burn. If you have
other torches, a REPLACE LIT TORCH, icon is accessible. This enables you to obtain a new torch without
using a match. The old torch is then destroyed.  Note that, of course, rain will put out all sorts of fires... There
can only be one TORCH icon, lit or unlit.

Manufacture

To design an object, you must assemble several others. The procedure is intuitive : select the objects to be
combined from the object panel, then click on the OK icon.  If the combination works, you will obtain a new
object which you can place in the panel. The active icon will then be the action corresponding to this new
object.  If the combination is invalid, the object selection panels will disappear.  To de-select an object, click on
it again.

You can create an object by adding several others to it (these basic objects will disappear after the new object
is created).

For example:

CORD + BRANCH = BOW

You can also use products, for example:

SYRINGE + FLASK OF MORPHINE = MORPHINE INJECTION or again, you can work an object. For example:

NEEDLE AND THREAD + ANIMAL SKIN = GARMENT.

For these tailoring operations, the amount of skin you have will determine what garment you obtain. As a
priority, you will be offered the garments you do not yet own, from the largest to the smallest.

Dress

When the game begins, you are dressed in a Robinson outfit.  Throughout the game, you can make yourself
other clothes (see above).  By clicking on the DRESS icon, your character appears in a panel covering the
action icons in the clothes he is wearing. This in no way prevents you from continuing to move through the
picture. To put on clothes, select an outfit, place it where it should be on the character and click. To remove a
garment, select it on the character and then place it in the object panel, or click on the right hand mouse
button. Some garments can be covered - thus, you cannot take off your pullover before you have taken off your
jacket.

Warning ! If you remove the Sesame computer, it will no longer be available when you select its icon.

Garments have different functions : protecting against cold or damp, or protecting a part of the body.  The top
left-hand key enables you to undress quickly, which is useful when moving from a cold area to a hot one
(leaving a cave and entering the desert).  To make the panel disappear, click on the top right-hand key, or click
on the right-hand mouse button, or hit <ESC>.

Give Treatment

As for the DRESS action, a panel with your character is displayed over the icon table. You can exit from this
mode by clicking on the key (top right).

All outward injuries appear on the body. Most of the objects used for medical treatment come from the Robinson
medical kit which you do not possess at the outset. You will find a detailed description of this kit in the White
Booklet. Ergonomics vary according to the type of object used. Some act directly, by clicking on them
(medicines), others have to be placed on (or removed from) the character (bandage, splint, tourniquet), and
lastly, some are used by validating them precisely on the part of the body concerned (disinfectant, injection,
needle for suturing, knife for amputating). The latter items should be used with caution. You will find all the
necessary advice in the White Booklet.

The key at top left enables you to access the skeletal scanner. All infectious diseases are displayed there in
red, or by frames. If one of these indicators is flashing it means the situation is very serious. Act quickly.  You
can obtain a medical diagnosis on any part of the skeleton by clicking on it.

To return to the body panel, re-select the key (top left).

Eat

Your food and water requirements are indicated on your Sesame computer. You can also check your weight on
it, which is a revealing indicator. To eat and drink, just select the item you want. You will then consume one unit
of that item.

You will find your food in the natural surroundings. But beware because it is not always edible (consider
purifying your water) and can lead to digestive upsets or other reactions (after taking drugs or alcohol).  If you
want to eat cooked food, you simply need to be close to a fire.  You will find more advice on the whole of this
chapter in the White Booklet.

Sleep

This action is not always possible. If you are too agitated or worried, in great pain or not at all tired you will not
be able to fall asleep. You can use the tranquillisers and sleeping pills which you will find in your medical kit,
when you obtain it. However, you cannot have two sleeping bouts one after the other! Conversely, if you are
extremely sleepy, you may fall asleep against your will...

How long you sleep for will depend on how tired you are and the outside context (day/night, climate). Time will
pass more quickly while you are asleep... Sometimes disturbed by strange dreams. Consult the White Booklet
which stresses the benefits of sleep.

Fight

There are many weapons available in the game, obtainable either by finding them or making them.  If you have
no weapons, you can always fight with your fists. Click on the FIST icon.

There are different types of weapons:

1 - Hand to hand weapons (knives, torch) : you have to be quite close to your adversary to use them. The
    consequences vary, depending on which weapon you have chosen.

2 - Direct throwing weapons (spear, etc.) : select it and the weapon will fly straight ahead. You can even pick
    it up again where it landed!

3 - Aiming weapons (bow and arrow, laser, etc.) : at your choice, you can select the weapon (bow) or the
    projectile used (arrow). The mouse pointer then disappears from the screen and the weapon appears in the
    foreground. You direct your weapon with the mouse, up, down, right and left. You can thus aim at your
    adversaries, even from very far off or in difficult corners.

When using the bow, you will revert to normal mode after each shot and must re-select that icon if you want to
shoot again, as you have to take another arrow out of your bag.

For lasers, the weapon stays permanently in the picture. You can thus fire several successive shots. To exit
from this FIGHT mode, click on the right-hand mouse button.

Each shot consumes one unit of the projectile used. If you are hit during a fight, you lose control of your
weapon and must re-select it to use it again.

Each weapon has its specific characteristics (power, speed, aim, range, rarity, etc.). It is up to you to use the
right one at the right time!

Inventory

This icon gives access to all the objects in the bag. If you point the mouse at one of them, the usual description
message will appear as well as the weight of the object. This can be highly useful when your bag is too heavy
and is over-tiring you. You can then destroy objects. To do so, click on the DUSTBIN icon in the object panel,
then on the object to be destroyed. If you click with the left-hand mouse button, a single unit will be destroyed,
whereas with the right-hand button, everything will be removed, making the object icon disappear.

To cancel the DESTRUCTION mode, re-select the DUSTBIN icon or exit from the INVENTORY icon.

A destroyed object cannot be recovered : it is lost forever. Be cautious when you use this option. Preferably,
only destroy items which are easy to find again in the surroundings (wood, meat, etc.).


Brought to you by Belgarath