                      ROBIN HOOD THE LEGEND QUEST



Save marion from the cluches of the evil sheriff. battle through the catacombs
of nottingham castle. conquer the trols, dwarves, vampire bats and fire
brething gargoyles.  find your quest, discover the legend!. in the ancent
heart of olde england the sheriff of nottingham ruled his people with a fist
of iron. while the good king richard crusaded, the sheriff exorted higher
taxes from the poor folk of the land.. those who dared complain were thrown
in the castle dungeons to rot. 
only one man could save them.. a legend amongst men .. known only as..

                                robin hood

one a noble man with lands, servants livestock, robin became an outlaw and
vowed to defend the helpless, protect the needy and right evil.
but robins quest was not for the people, it was to rescue his beloved marion!

keys and tresure
----------------
the route through the castle is long and hazardous. robin must find the keys
to open doors and activate lifts. collect the treasure and find your way out.

hearts and lives
----------------
the game starts with three lives. each life has three chances. these are
indicated as the heart shapes on the screen. extra hearts can be found around
the castle collect six and you will have a new life.  each time ye hit by
somthing, you will have a short time of invunerabillity so you can get out of
the way.

secret passages
---------------
like all castles, nottingham is littred with secret passages.  if you canfind
the trigger points they will be reveald. so get serching!.

water and lava
--------------
robin can wade through water, but he will be hurt by lava. beware!.

trampolines
-----------
in the castle you will find trampettes which robin can jump on. to get a
really high jumpbounce on the tramp! several times.

--controls--
      
    keys    joystick    action
    ----    --------    ------

    z       left        left

    x       right       right

    k       up or jump  up

    m       down        down

    space   fire        fire

    p   pause

    esc to quit


hints and tips
--------------
    
    * duck below some arrows to miss them.

    * jump above some arrows.

    * learn the thugs firing routines, don't just rush into places.




                          THE END