Rolling Thunder
Typed by Belgarath


Loading Instructions
--------------------

CBM Amiga Disk

Insert your kickstart disk, turn on the monitor and computer. When the workbench disk is requested insert
your Rolling Thunder disk into drive 0.


Story
-----

In New York City around the year 1960, the elusive Maboo is plotting to conquer the world.

Rolling Thunder, the undercover arm of the WCPO (World Crime Police Organisation) has sent the female
secret agent Leila on a special assignment into Geldra's underground headquarters. Her mission was to
expose the treacherous conspiracy, but she was captured.

WCPO sends in the only man on the Rolling Thunder force who can possibly rescue Leila. He is known only
by his reputation and code name 'Albatross.' Guns are blazing and the fighting begins.


Gameplay
--------

You assume the role of 'Albatross' and your prime objective is to penetrate and overthrow the secret
organisation 'Geldra' controlled by the sinister Maboo.

To achieve your objective you must pass through ten levels, jumping over balconies and over obstructions in
your path. Enter doors to hide from guards at strategic moments. The guards that you encounter along the
way will shoot, punch and drop bombs on you, mercilessly draining your energy. You are armed with a pistol
and machine gun with which to defend yourself. By entering doors marked with the bullet (pistol
ammunition) or gun (machine guns ammunition) symbol you can gain extra fire power.

Hazards you will encounter along the way include deadly automatic lazers and storming fire men who
inhabit the lava-pool.

If you manage to defeat Geldra's army and capture the command centre you must confront Maboo in the
final showdown.

You will be fighting against time whilst preserving your life.


General
-------

Pressing up will cause you to jump upward or enter doors. Press UP and FIRE simultaneously will cause you
to jump either up to or off a balcony or do a high jump if not near a balcony.


Typed by Belgarath