Romantic Encounters At the Dome
Brought to you by Belgarath

The DOME is a sophisticated, hi-tech, private club situated in an ultra-posh 
section of Los Angeles, Within the multi-stories of this elegant glass and 
steel edifice You will pursue romantic encounters the likes of which you have 
only dreamt of before but never dared speak about, Permit Your wildest 
imagination to interact with the enticing scenarios awaiting you at the DOME. 

Enter as a woman or as a man, You may try to control the direction of the 
relationships you develop, but be careful, They could take you where 
You’re not ready to go. 

ROMANTIC ENCOUNTERS enables You to stretch the boundaries in your relationships with the 
opposite sex by allowing you to play out roles in life that otherwise might not 
come so easily, At the DOME you are encouraged to “try on love” by taking 
dramatic risks within a variety of situations and settings. 

You could be romantic or reckless. Your candlelight dinner could end in a drunken brawl, 
or you could soar to new heights, going all the way, without ever reaching the penthouse. 

There are many exciting and challenging relationships awaiting You at the DOME. 
It’s up to you to handle the action. take the emotional risks. and reap the potentially dramatic rewards!

At the DOME your skill with the opposite sex will be put to the ultimate test. 
And to sharpen those skills by knowing yourself better. 

You can drop in for “love capacity testing” at the Psychological Department on the DOME’s third floor. 
Whether you are a hopeless romantic or engulfed by more earthy drives. your experiences at  
the keyboard with ROMANTIC ENCOUNTERS can be carried over, if you dare, to broaden and enrich
the rest of your daily life. 

ROMANTIC ENCOUNTERS at the DOME, with its countless interactive scenarios, was created by Lee Thomas, 
an award-winning playwrite and screenwriter. 
Some of his awards for dealing with contemporary dramatic material include: 
National Endowment for the Arts, Eugene O’Neill Award, ABC Award.



SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

AMIGA 500
AMIGA 1000 / 512K MINIMUM 
AMIGA 2000
For single or dual drive systems. 

START-UP 

Amiga 1000 owners need to “Kickstart” their 
system after it is first turned on. See Your owner’s 
manual if you don’t know how to do this When 
you are prompted for a “Workbench” disk, insert 
Disk (A) in Drive 0. If you have a second drive 
(Drive 1). insert Disk (B) into it. The program will 
automatically load and run.

PASSCODE 

Your Personal Passcode 
Women: Lorry / Men: Tanya 
The above personal passcodes are provided to give
you alone access to the enclosed program. 
The use of passcodes allows Your membership to be a personal one -  
and also protects the program from unwarranted access by minors.

UNDERSTANDING ME, UNDERSTANDING YOU

Moving about successfully in life means understanding the environment you have to work with, 
So it is in the Dome. 
To be successful in your dramatic life at the Dome, act within the environment supplied to you. 
Do your best to understand and respond within the context of the reality before you - then reap, 
or suffer the dynamic consequences. 

OPERATIONS 

Throughout your experience at the Dome whenever you 
see a flashing cursor all alone. it is suggested that you 
type in a response.  When you see  <---| 
it is suggested that you press return to progress to the next screen. 
Wherever the main screen you are working on begins 
to scroll over the top, you may type “backup” to restore 
the screen to its original form.

RANDOM GENERATOR 

Romantic Encounters’ Random Generator is designed to simulate the “chance factor” 
of true reality For every second you refrain from touching the return key. 
your options for the kind of experiences you can have inside
the Dome change dynamically. 
Once you press the return key, hundreds of options are frozen in time, mapped and evaluated -  
then held in memory as potential experiences, 
Fate and your temperament are also important factors and can determine the nature  
and outcome of your life at the Dome. 
This program is capable of screening your “input” for mood indicators, 
and making adjustments, accordingly. 
On a more predictable level. the Dome Staff has been 
carefully trained to make your stay with us as pleasant as possible, 

LEAVING PROGRAM 

Once involved in a Romantic Encounters  dramatic  encounter, you will not be allowed  
to simply quit the experience, anymore than you  can  do this in real life, 
An outside computer function,  or act of God, is required. 
In the absence of celestial intervention, control C can be utilized. 
To operate:  At a static (non-moving) 
screen, hold down the control key and PRESS the C key.

TYPICAL SCENARIOS 

Starting below ore 8 illustrations of typical play. Two women played out 
the first scenario, and six men played out the second scenario, Each 
variation started with the same opening scene. but altered its direction 
in response to the input from the game player, To seek your own 
Romantic Encounter at the Dome looks for your inspiration in the text to 
direct your own input and trigger the responses you desire, 

SCENARIO
ONE 

AS PLAYED OUT
BY FIRST FEMALE

At the dance floor You find a towering transparent pillar of etched 
glass and lean against it, 
As you scan the onlookers, many of whom look like their sole 
occupations are working out in health clubs and Shopping for clothes, 
a tall blond man attracts your attention, He is standing alone at the 
moment, though you doubt he’ll be standing alone for long. His hair is 
trimly cut and he is neatly, though casually dressed...  a blue sailing 
jacket, informal white shirt, loafers, He glances briefly in Your direction.., 

(Inspiration for player input)
His face is subtly handsome.  

his powerful six-foot frame gracefully 
proportioned, His manner is subdued. steady. with a glow that suggests 
harmony, His 35 year old sex appeal is contained, You reflect this is the
kind of man a woman could marry.  who would fill the role of husband? 
well. be loyal. always treat You with endearing respect and give you
beautiful children that would be fathered in the best possible way, 
He is standing alone now. but the situation could change at any 
moment. As he glances your way again. you decide whether to offer a 
smile, a special look, 

(Player input)
HE’S HANDSOME, BUT I’LL LOOK AROUND FOR SOMEONE ELSE 

Another man catches your eye. He’s a little younger, with shoulder 
length. beautifully cut brown hair. He begins staring at you with his eyes 
tensed. even as he continues a conversation with a twenty year old girl 
who looks as though she might be a waitress, This is a very sexy guy a 
man who exudes confidence, stays fit in the gym, has a gift of gab a
man who you thought You saw run his hand into his Young companion’s
designer jeans, while murmuring gently into her ear, His eyes dart again 
at Yours and hold in a very tight stare. You reflect this is the kind of man, 
who once he gets You alone might immediately pull open Your clothes 
and with eyes and breath full of passion. bury his face in Your breasts, start 
tearing at your clothes, 

You make a decision about him 

(Player input)
I HAVE NO INTEREST IN HIM. I’LL MOVE ON. 

You walk, You watch a variety of couples dancing, A couple 
dressed in beautifully tailored black leather and cheap industrial
chains takes to the floor and does a seductive nothing-in-this-world- 
can-bind-me routine that gets everyone watching, An attractive man 
moves in on your right to watch the dancers, He notices you. nods, 
seems to like what he sees, His eyes turn back to the dancers,  

(Inspiration for player input)
You think of something to say to him. 
You decide to say... 

(Player input)
HELLO, WOULD YOU LIKE TO DANCE? 

He doesn’t respond, doesn’t even look at you. It’s as if he didn’t 
hear you, 
You speak again. 

(Player input)
 I SAID, “HELLO, WOULD YOU LIKE TO DANCE?” 

The man shrugs. tenses, starts bobbing his head in a kinda cool 
manner. Then he turns to You in a stern manner, and now looks You over 
as if you were some kind of cheap hooker. He shakes his head 
rejectingly at you and says, “No thanks,” then turns and walks off. 
You can’t believe what has just happened. that anyone could be 
so insensitive. so intentionally cruel! 


Note: There's several more scenarios, but surely you've got the idea by now?


Brought to you by Belgarath