                              The Running Man

Scenario
--------
The year is 2019 and the USA has become a totalitarian state.  Personal
freedoms no longer exist and only television distracts the people from
their plight.  One show is more popular than any other, The Running Man,
a deadly cat - and - mouse carnival in which the contestants battle for
the ultimate prize:  survival.  After refusing to fire on un-armed
demonstrators Ben Richards is wrongly convicted and labeled "Butcher of
Bakersfield," this is the start of a chain of events which lead to him
becoming the 'star runner' on 'The Running Man.'  No contestant has ever
won.  All have perished within the 'Game Zone' of a destroyed Los
Angeles, hunted down by four lethal 'Stalkers.'  In Tonight's show Ben
Richards must survive, prove he is innocent and expose the corrupt
propaganda of the ICS network.  Ben is launched into the game zone by
Damon Killian, the host and inventor of 'The Running Man.'  He promises
Killian "I'll be back!" - no other contestant has ever come close.
You are Ben Richards, you must run for your life.

The Game
--------
The Running Man is a one player game in which you must manuever Ben 
Richards though 4 game zones and a TV studio.  You must defeat all the
stalkers and guards, fight off the attack dogs and fulfill your promise
to Killian.  The first zone is the 'Ice Rink"

Zone 1 - Ice Rink
-----------------
Here you will encounter your first human obstacle, SUBZERO.  This ex-ice
hockey champion carries a razor-sharp hockey stick and launches
exploding pucks.

Zone 2 - Suburbs
----------------
If you survive SUBZERO's attentions you will meet BUZZSAW whose tri-
teflon coated chainsaw can finish Ben's run right here.

Zone 3 - City Lights
--------------------
The third game zone was once the bright lights of Los Angeles, it's now
illuminated by the flash of lightening bolts from the human Christmas tree
DYNAMO.  You must use all your cunning to overcome this opponent.

Zone 4 - The Complex
--------------------
Inside this labyrinth of pipes and ducts you must avoid the red hot
flames of FIREBALL.  His flame-thrower also functions as a jet pack
enabling him to fly.

The Studio
----------
If your skill is such that no stalkers can stand in your way you will
return to the TV studio.  Here armed guards will attempt to halt your
progress to Killian.  If you succeed in reaching him the reward will be
freedom and revenge.

Basic Play
----------
The joystick is used to control Ben as follows:
without the fire button pressed
Center          - Stands still.
Down            - Moves into a crouch if standing.
Up/Left/Right   - Jumps up if standing, stands up if crouching.
Left/Right      - Turn/Move left or right.  If the joystick is moved twice
                  quickly in the same direction Ben will run in that
                  direction (he will make a higher/longer jump while
                  running).
Down/Left/Right - Crawl

With the fire button pressed
----------------------------
Center     - Kicks in the direction faced.
Down       - Moves into a crouch if standing.  If crouching collects/drops
             weapon.
Up         - Jumps.
Left/Right - Turns/punches if facing in that direction.  If holding a
             weapon uses it.

Weapons
-------
In the game zone you may find various objects which you may use as
weapons.  These include bricks, pipes, and guns.  You can kill some
stalkers without using weapons but this will require greater skill.

Health
------
If you are struck by a stalker of fall into a trap your health will
suffer.  Your health is displayed at the bottom of the screen together
with that of any stalker you are fighting.  Your health can be improved
by two methods, medi-packs which are in various locations throughout
the game and by completing the UP-LINK-CODE.  If your health gets below
a certain level you are deemed as unconscious and the game ends.

The UP-LINK CODE
----------------
Between each game zone you must try to attain the UP-LINK CODE.  This
involves a simple coordination game, in which you must match two sets
of symbols.  You are presented with two sets of 8 symbols, the left set
is then mixed up.  Two highlights will appear, these can be moved with
the joystick, If the fire button is pressed the two symbols that are
marked will swap position.  Using the right hand symbols as a guide you
must put all the symbols in the correct position.  If this is achieved
in the allocated time then your health is restored for the next game
zone.

Score
-----
The score is based on the money bet by viewers.  If you fight well then the
more money they can bet.  Bonus betting occurs when you complete a zone
and for killing a stalker.

THE END

ENJOY THE GAME

/////////////// Docs provided by THE HELLION & THE CORSAIR \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
                             WORLD OF WONDERS

Typed by The Ninja.....
