In The Dead of the Night Walkthrough.

Open the suit case - Take the picklock - Take the syringe - Open the door.

Use the picklock with the door of Stefano's bedroom - Open the drawer - Take the photo - Open the door.

Go to the staircase - Open the door to the dining room - Take the candle.

Open the door to the kitchen - Take the biscuits - Open the door.

Open the door to the drawing room - Use the photo with the trestle - Use the biscuits with the parrot (384756) - Go to the staircase.

Use the door of Giada's bedroom - Take the painting - Open the safe (384756) - Use the painting whit the safe - Open the door.

Go to the staircase - Use the picklock with the door of Marta's bedroom - Open the last drawer - Take the diary - Examine the diary - Open the door.

Go to the door mat - Go to the first passage - Go to the second passage - Take the bottle - Open the door - Take the icicle - Go to the second passage - Use the ice with the dishes - Open the door - Go to the first passage.

Open the door to the main entrance - Open the door to the dining room - Open the door to the kitchen - Open the drawer - Take the key - Open the side board - Take the sugar - Open the door.

Open the door to the drawing room - Go to the door mat - Go to the passage - Go to the second passage - Take the matches - Use the matches with the candle - Open the door.

Use the key with the door - Take the trap - Take the log - Take the ring - Open the door - Go to the first passage.

Open the door to the main entrance - Speak to Andrea about : "Marta" - Go to the door mat - Open the door to the air cable way - Speak to Giorgio about : "The hiring of Marta", "The spleens of Marta", "Diana's call" - Open the door.

Open the door to the main entrance - Open the door to the dining room - Open the door to the kitchen - Speak to Marta about the "Diana's call" and Show the log - Open the door - Open the door to the drawing room.

Go to the staircase - Use the door of the Monica's bedroom - Speak to Monica and Give the bottle - Open the door.

Go to the staircase - Use the door of the Marta's bedroom - Speak to Marta - Use the syringe with Marta - Open the door - Go to the door mat. Open the door to the air cable way - Take the screwdriver - Open the door - Open the door to the main entrance - Go to the staircase.

Use the door to the bathroom - Use the screwdriver with the mirror - Examine the tile - Examine the sign - Use the exit icon - Use the screwdriver with the mirror - Open the door.

Use the door of the Marta's bedroom - Open the beauty case - Open the door.

Go to the staircase - Go to the billiard room - Use the billiard marker - Open the door - Go to the staircase.

Use the door of the Anna's bedroom - Speak to Anna about : "Stefano", "The marriage with Diana" - Open the door - Go to the staircase.

Open the door to the dining room - Open the door to the kitchen - Take the cheese - Open the door to the dining room - Go to the drawing room.

Use the door to the bathroom - Use the cheese with the trap - Use the trap with the hole of the mouse - Open the door.

Open the door to the billiard room - Examine the litigants - Open the door.

Go to the staircase - Use the door of the Giada's bedroom - Speak to Giada about "The quarrel" - Open the hand bag - Open the door - Go to the staircase.

Use the door to the bathroom - Take the trap (with mouse) - Open the door.

Go to the staircase - Use the door of the Anna's bedroom - Speak to Anna and Show the mouse - Open the wardrobe - Open the beauty case - Open the door.

Use the door to the bathroom - Use the screwdriver with the mirror - Examine the tile - Use Monica's lipstick on the tile - Use Giada's lipstick on the tile - Use Anna's lipstick on the tile - Examine the Anna's lipstick on the tile - Use the exit icon - Use the screwdriver with the mirror - Open the door - Go to the staircase.

Open the door to the dining room - Take the bolt - Open the piece of furniture - Open the tools bag - Open the door to the drawing room - Go to the door mat.

Open the door to the air cable way - Use the monkey wrench with the parcel - Take the jewels (animation) - Open the door.

Examine the police helicopter - Open the fuel tank plug - Use the sugar with the fuel tank plug - Go to the passage.

Open the door - Take the skis - Use the skis. (END)