IS THIS THE LAST MISSION FOR THE LAST OBLITERATOR?

Your personal communicator beeps. A summons.
The Federation Council of Elders wants you.
and they want you now.
No time to pack-a Nuclonic inter-stellar shuttle is on
its way to collect you-the last time this happened it took
them three months to put your body back together again.
You shudder-the adrenalin is pumping. You're tough, you're 
mean and you're ready for action-but what's in store?
Something big is about to break-(your amiga) the star fleet was on alert for days-then one morning it was gone, the whole fleet and no one knows where. The top brass have been running around with stark terror on their faces-no one knows why. And they are going to tell you-the last of the Obliterators. Why? During the last war you and the unit you were heroes-wherever the fighting was the hottest and the bloodiest who did they send? the Obliterators of course! the most highly trained elite fighting force ever assembled; each one recruited at birth from amongst the population of billions in Federation space; each one intensively trained and educated from childhood. Each one with an genetically enhanced body to speed up reflexes, enhance the senses and increase strength and agility. Always the Obliterator mission is suicidal, always a last attempt to rescue impossible situations against impossible odds. And always-incredibly-you survived. But the clone wars were eight years ago, and since then the Obliterators have only been called to undertake the occasional suicide mission-but you always came back and that's why you're the only Obliterator left. And that's why they want you!

The briefing is over and you have orders. it's hard to believe that the summons came less than four hours ago- now you're three million parsecs away, about to enter into the most dangerous situation of your life-and you're alone. With all else failed the Elders had to call on you-and what they told you was beyond belief. The entire Federation Star Fleet had been destroyed by a single Alien Spaceship-but what a Spaceship! For centuries the Federation had been the most powerful force in the galaxy. Ever expanding outward, colonising new worlds and absorbing== old alien cultures. More than a thousand worlds knew and enjoyed the Federation's law and order. But all this was not without cost. Expansion inwards towards the galaxy's core revealed many old civilizations some of which were both unwilling to join the federation and technologically superior. Federation attempts to coerce these Aliens into joining them had many enemies. Now these   enemies have banned together to construct a seemingly indestructible craft- and they are hell bent on revenge. Enormous in size and apparently invulnerable in size and apparently invulnerable this craft is heading straight into the center of Federation Space. Its apparent mission-the destruction of the Federation homeworld-Earth. The Starfleet never stood a chance. The alien ships anti-matter screens deflected everything they threw at it with a scornful ease, and then it simply removed the fleet from existence with its main weapons. The technology is awesome. The Elders plan is simple. There exist a prototype matter transporter, the latest thing in interstellar travel. It has two problems-no living creature has yet used it and the immense power needed to transport an object as complex as a human being. There is though, enough power to put one person aboard an alien craft and the Elders have given you the honor. And how about this for a mission-the Elders only want you to disable the Plasma drive engines-bring down its battle shield and disable the main weapons system. That should give the Federations few remaining strike craft a chance to destroy the cruiser-but thats just for starters. The Federation also need information on the alien ship. Any alien computer datapacks must be recovered-the information they contain is vital. Which means they expect you to somehow survive and escape before they destroy the ship. Now the mission begins. Luckily it worked-your body was broken down into elemental parts, then beamed aboard the alien spacecraft out in deep space where it had been re-assembled-not a pleasant experience. But everything seems to be in the right place and in working order. The environment is strange but the atmosphere breathable. All seems menacing. From the limited intelligence the Federation scanners were able to pick up, you know that this craft is crewed with a mixture of androids, robots and the worst kind of bad guy aliens you could possibly hope to meet. With luck you should be able to disable equipment and machinery by removing vital components. But your first priority must be to survive-you were able to bring a limited arsenal with you-to stay alive you'll have to live by your wits-steal what weapons and ammunition you can-learn as you go and kill. You must kill every alien you come across and create as much havoc and confusion as possible-and, once you've completed your objectives the elders expect you to escape with the information they so desperately need-nothing must stop you, nothing must get in your way, the mission is all important. Only one thing can save the Federation now-YOU! 
Within the alien space craft you control our hero 'Drak'. Onece the game task started you will materialize somewhere in the rear of the alien  space craft and in order to complete the game YOU MUST FIND AND REMOVE the vital components 
whilst complete these tasks you will be confronted by various creatures and contraptions which you must destroy to earn points.Once all five tasks have  been completed the score will COUNT DOWN (the border colour will now be slightly blue) until it reaches zero at which point the federation fighters will attack .If you are successful your score is your remaining points.

During gameplay weapons may be discovered which may be used in exactly the same manner as the pistol which you always have .Its projectiles are slow and fairly ineffective.
Dark is equipped whit a personal shield which protects him from most alien weapons but which degenerates whilst in use. Shield-Regenerators may be found at various points , to activate simply walk into them as you would a doorway.
The Game may be controlled from the keyboard, by the mouse or a joystick in any combination although fine control of weapons firing requires the mouse. The following keys may be pressed at any time during play to issue commands.

Arrow keys .....left, right , up , down at the next opportunity.
H or F1 Halt (stop) 
Return or F2  Go into at next opportunity.
J or F3 Jump
S or F4 Shoot
D or F5 Defend
A or f6 Action (depends on context)
Space Bar ..... Swich to alternate Strip
Esc ....Pause
Help....Game Options               Docs by Heops Von ToT & J.R.L.
 Return or 