-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
              OLYMPUS DOCUMENTATION from Paradox (so was the crack !)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Loading Instructions:

    Instert the OLYMPUS DISK 1 into Drive DF0: and boot your system (by
turning the power on).  After a few moments the game will load, and you
will be prompted to insert disk 2.  Do so and press your fire button.

   If you insert the incorrect disk, wait for the busy (disk light) to go
out and then insert the correct disk and press the fire button again.

  NOTE: Keep your Code sheet!  You will be asked to type in a code each
time you boot the game.  [Editors Note: Not after i got done with it!]

  Background Information:

   Several Weeks ago, King Vasilos lovely daugher (awesome! hote babe!),
the princess Eleni, became gravely ill from an unknown disease, the
greatest healers and sages from the kingdom were summoned to cast a spell
on the princess to prevent her condition from worsening.  Unfortunately,
the state of suspended animation can only be maintained temporarily. If a
cure is not found soon, she will surely die.

   A sage named Anexenos, one of the oldest and wisest offered a glimmer
of hoppe.  "If the legendary Golden Fleece can be brought hither, 
its mystical restorative powers can surely save Eleni!"

 The king has sent forth a call for heroes throughout the land, promising
that anyone who succeeds in finding the Golden Fleece in time to save his
daughter will be greatly rewarded.  he states that such a champion will
gain the Princess' hand in marriage and will eventually rule his vast
kingdom.  [kinda like how paradox rules the amiga scene, for example]

 HISTORY:
 
  Your name is Pylos.  YOu are a dedicated follower of the goddess
Athena, championing Truth and Valor.  You reside on the ISland Kingdom
of Olympus.  Where you are a noble and just fighter of great renown.

 GOAL:

    You (as the hero) must undertake a quest to recover the magical
Golden Fleece and thereby save the Princess' life.  You will discover
many obstacles and opponents throughout your journey, which you must
overcome to succeed.

 GAMEPLAY:

   Joystick Controls:

    Josystick position controls the walking direction of the character for
example, pushing the joystick up causes your character to walk towards the
back of the area.  In combat, pressing the FIRE button causes you to swing
your weapon, and your joystick position determines the type of swing.  If
you are too clsoe to your enemy you will not have enough rooom to swing
your weapon.  Moving the stick to the left causes you to advance, right
makes you retreat.

 KEYBOARD COMMANDS:

   Keyboard commands [with the exceptioin of <SPACE>] have no effect during
combat sequence.

 <ESC> = MAP

   Displays the map of Olympus.  Useful for finding your relative position
[indicated by a glowing red marker] on the landscape, as well as the types
of terrain you will encounter.

 <TAB> = Inventory

   Lists an inventory of possesions. The type and quantity of all weapons,
armour, and supplies are listed, those with a "*" in from are items of a
magical nature.

 <W> = Walk Speed
 
  Toggles Hero's walking rate [NORMAL or FAST]

 <S> = Sound

  Toggles Sound on/off (For LAME Atari 520 STs with 512km this has no
  effect)

 <G> = Grab

  Picks up Objects within reach.  There are many useful items that can
be encountered within your travels.

 <P> = Potion

  Use Potion of Healing (if you have any) to increase health points.
 Damage healded will be from 4-8 points.

 <SPACE> - PAUSE

   Pause the game during COMBAT sequence.  This function ONLY operates in
  combat sequence!  To start the game play after hitting <ESC>, <TAB>, or
 <SPACE>, touch the same key again.


 The main portion of the screen contains the display of your character
and his present location.  Below this screen is a status line contaning
important information:

 H.P. [HEALTH Points] - Characters general well being and health.  The
number to the left of the slash indicates your present status.  To the
right is your maximum total.  The passsage of time, consumption of healing
potions and victory during combat increases your present total up to the
maxmimum. Defeating creatures also increases your maximum health point
total [up to 90].  Naturally, Injuries from combat and running low on
rations decreases your present health!

 A.C. [ARMOUS CLASS] - Indicates the amount of defense your character has,
the greater the number the less effective monster attacks become.
Purcashing armour and other requipment increases your A.C from 0 at the
start of the game to a maxmimum of 9.

 ENC  [ENCUMBERANCE] - The total weight of your equipment your character is
carrying.  Weapons, armous, supplies and gold.  You can carry a maximum of
99 pounds of equipment.

 WLTH [Wealth] - Amount of gold coins presently carried.  Gold is used to
purchase helpful equipment in town.

 DIR [Compass Direction ] - INdicates present direction of travel (north,
south, east, west).  Your character will not be able to move in certain
directions if there are any obstacles to obstruct movement.  The compass
orentation will vary from screen to screen, so it is important that you pay
attention to this display during your travels.

  THE CITY:

  The hero will have to travel to and from the city many times during the
course of the game.  There are two significant locations in the city:

 General Store:
   There here will be able to buy and sell objects here.  when you approach
the shop keeper, type B to see his list of wares, their weight, and their
cost.  The costlier weapons and armour are more effective (Ie: Plate mail
offers more protection than chain mail).  Your character automatically uses
the best weapon and armous possesed.  The shopkeeper is also interested in
used equipment. Typing [S] will display your inventory; press the number
key corresponding to the item you wish to sell.  Each item you offer is
bought back at 50% of the original price.

 Athenaeum: Within the city is located the athenaeum.  (Temple of Athena),
who is your patron goddess. Athena, the goddess of Wisdom and Combat has
inspired and guided your lifestyle, and you have dedicated yourself to her
and the principles she represents.  By accepting this quest in the name of
Athena, she will watch over and protect you during your dangerous journey.

 TIME:

  Time passes during all of your travels, and the changing days are
displayed on your screen; the length of time spent in each area is
insignificant, as days elapse, only after crossing several areas. Each new
day increases your health, by 1 point, and one portion of rations is
consumed.  If you run out of rations, each passing day weakns yo by one
point, and if you reach 0 health points, your quest ends (permanently!)

 ENCOUNTERS:

  The land of Olympus is populated by many fantastic and dealy monsters.
every new area you enter has a random chance of containing a foe of some
sort.  These creatures wander about, so there is no chance of
re-encountering them if the area is re-visited.  There are also singular,
fierce beasts that claim territories, guarding a treasure or otherwise
serving some purpose.  They always will be found in these locations unless
they are overcome in combat!

 COMBAT:

  During combat the hero will appear on the right sight of the screen and
the monster will approach from the left.  The hero will draw his most
powerful weapon (if any).  Monsters are tought in Olympus and are immune to
your flailing fists. So it is a good idea to obtain a weapon of some sort.

 The hero makes three types of attack: low, mind, and hight thrust.
Pushing the joystick down and pressing the fire button aims the attack low;
pushing the joystick left or up and pressing the button causes a mild or
high thrust, respectively.

 A successfully landed blow by a monster or the hero will produce an
audible cry!

 Occasionally, discretion is the better part of valour, so you can flee an
encounter by moving the hero as far as possible to the right side of the
screen.  Fleeing an encounter is a good idea if you are low on strength or
your opponent is too powerful to defeat.  Monsters may also flee if they
have been severely injured.  But certain monsters will fight until slain.
You can only feel if the path of the retreat is clear (not blocked by the
ocean or the mountains, etc).

  If the hero drives the monster all the way to the left side of the
screen, it will be forced to withdraw from the encounter.  Monsters can
also force the hero off the screen.  If the hero has no more room to
maneuver, he may be forced to withdraw (if possible).

 Note: Forcing a monster to withdraw (or if it retreats) is usually not a
good idea, as the hero will receive no experience (health points) or
treasure from the encounter unless the opponent is killed!

 DEATH:

   If the hero wins the battle, your reward is calculated and displayed.
Monsters carry gold and other treasures; your finds are displayed
on-screen.  Press the fire button to continue.  Some monsters are more
dangerous than others; defeat of more powerful foes brings greater rewards
(more gold and a great increase in your chracters H.P's).  If the hero is
killed, you are given the option to try again or end game play.

 HINTS:

 Start the game by visiting the shop in town and purchase the necessary
equipment.  Don't forget to buy a weapon and some armour, as well as
rations to sustain you during your travels.

 Avoid the larger and more powerful foes until your character grows
stronger and more experienced. 

 Observe the monsters as each has its own particular methods of attack and
vulnerabilities.   Learn to exploit these weaknesses.

 Be agressive in combat, but avoid being crowded by your foe.  If you don't
have enough room you will not be able to use your weapon!

 Make a map of your travels, marking the location of game objectives and
useful items.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Olympus was cracked by P A R A D O X in 1990.  Docs typed by PDX also
                    THE WORLD BEST !!! 			-srg- 10/90
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
