                            Typed by: APOLLON & CHRONOS! 


ONE STEP BEYOND:
----------------

On the other side of the screen it all looked so easy....

Rain battered the windows as Colin Curly settled down to play his
favourite computer game, PUSH-OVER (Wich coincidentally
happended to involve his favourite snack, QUAVERS). Other
than eating Quavers, there was nothing Colin would rathor do,
espacially on such a dark and stormy night

As the puzzles in the game grew harder (and Colin's Quavers supply
grew smaller) he became more and more absorbed in the game,
failing to notice the storm raging harder and harder outside. All he
could think was, "This game plays curly".

At last, Colin reached the final level, number one hundred (he was
also down to his last packet of Quavers!). As fate would have it, two
amazing things happened simultaneously: Colin popped his last
Quaver in his mouths (amazing!) just as he finished the game (most
amazing!). This explosive one-in-a-million combination of Quavers
ans awesome gameplay resulted in Colin being digitised and 
curlified..into his computer! He had never felt anything so exciting
 since he first tasted Quavers!
 
Colin is trapped on the inside of his own computer and an amazing 
array of challenges stands between him and escape from this 
electronic nightmare, the only good thing is that a truly massive
packet of Quavers awaits him at the end of each challenge.

It's the toughest computer game he's ever played...because this time
he really has gone where no dog has gone  before! He's disappeared
into a land of both shadow and substance, of things and
ideas..There'sthe signpost up ahead, Colin Curly has
gone...ONE STEP BEYOND!



GAME:
-----
When you start to play, Colin Curly will enter the first puzzle screen
by somersaulting from his Quaver packet onto the first of a number
of platforms.

You have to move Colin Curly from the ENTRY packet to the EXIT
packet by jumping from one platform to the next. Colin can only 
escape the level if ALL the plateform have shut before he reaches the
exit.

As colin steps off a platform, it will slide shut behind him never to
open again unless it has special properties (see SPECIALS on page 6).
So it is important to work out the correct route to follow in order to
close all the platforms before Colin reaches the EXIT but still be able
to move around the screen.



LOADING:
-------

ATARI ST:
THIS GAME REQUIRES A DOUBLE-SIDED DISK DRIVE.
Switch on the power to the computer and insert disk into the drive.
If you have two disk drive insert disk 1 into drive A and disk 2 into
drive B. The program will load automatically. Follow the on-screen
instructions


CBM AMIGA:
Switch on the power to the computer and insert disk into the drive.
If you have two disk drive insert disk 1 into drive A and disk 2 into
drive B. The program will load automatically. Follow the on-screen
instructions



CONTROLS:
---------
Pressing "P" on the keyboard ('H' on PC) will PAUSE the game and
display a help box showing and identifying all the SPECIAL platform
types listed below. Press ESC to quit.

AMIGA AND ATARI ST:
The game is controlled by joystick on the Amiga & Atari ST in port 2.

You can only jump upwards in a diagonal movement to the platform
above and to the diagonal position required.
If you wish to jump to a platform that is two spaces UP and RIGHT or
two spaces UP and LEFT, hold down Fire Button while you move the
joystick to the required position.
NOTE: For vertical UP movement you need to land on a BOUNCE UP
platform.
Pull the joystick towards you to make Colin Jump up slightly, allowing
the platform to retract and dropping Colin to the next open platform
below.
To jump downwards to a platform that is left or right, use the 
appropriate diagonal directions on the joystick. Holding down the
Fire Button will allow you to jump two spaces.

KEYBOARDS CONTROLS

The keyboard control are:

        MOVE LEFT "O"       "Q+P" MOVE UP/RIGHT
	MOVE RIGHT "P"      "A+O" MOVE DOWN/LEFT
        MOVE DOWN "A"       "A+P" MOVE DOWN/RIGHT	      	
        MOVE UP/LEFT "Q+O"
        
SPACEBAR will operate as FIRE BUTTON on the joystick.



TIMER:        
------
On the bottom left corner of the screen is a clock wich displays the
amout of time in minutes and seconds that is allowed for each
puzzle. Unless you complete the puzzle within this amout of time,
you will not be able to get Colin out of the EXIT.



LEVELS & CODES:
---------------
On the bottom right hand corner of the screen is the number of the
level you are on. You will be presented with an access code number
after the succeful completion of each level and should write this 
down for future use. By entering the access number on the option
screen the next time you come to play ONE STEP BEYOND you can go
directly to the screen you wish to continue playing.



SPECIALS:
---------
The puzzles are quite simple to start with using REGULAR platforms
and help you to learn the rules as you graduate to harder levels.
Here you will be introduced to the SPECIAL platforms which
generally perform functions and reactions that you cannot control.
The Special platforms are as follows:

Horizontal Shutter: Closes all platforms on the same row at the
                    instant Colin JUMPS OFF IT.

Horizontal Opener: Exact reverse operation to the Shutter. This
                   one opens all platforms on the same row at the
                   moment Colin lands on it.

Bounce Down: Closes the moment Colin lands on it and drops him to
             the platform below. If there are no platforms below
             the Bounce Down, you will lose a life.

Delay: A Delay platform will remain open for arpximately 15 seconds
       after Colin moves off it. This will allow you to retrace
       Colin's steps and return to tthe platform before it closes.

Ray Shutter: These platforms will close ay other platform along the
             diagonal paths indicated by the arrows on the special
             platform icon. They operate as Colin moves off the Ray
             Shutter platform.

Bounce Up: When landing on one of these platforms, Colin will be
           somersaulted upwards two platform level and land safely
           on a platform above providing there is one still open in
           the correct position.

Bounce Up Right: Operates in a similar manner to Bounce Up, except it
                 will throw Colin two platforms to the right and two
                 platforms upwards too!

Bounce Up Left: You've guessed it! This throws Colin two up and two
                to the left!

Safe: A happy platform that will not close and can be relied upon to
      be availablefor Colin to relax on for a while under normal
      circumstances! However, if you activate a RAY or SHUTTER platform
      etc., the SAFE platform will operate as a normal one in keeping
      with the special function.

In & Out: This is a tricky platform. It continually slides in and out
          and requires timing to land on it safely. Once you have landed
          Colin on an IN & OUT platform, it will stay open until you move
          off it when it returns to its open and close mode of action.

Numbers: Platforms with numbers on them have to be visited in numberical
         order to cause the EXIT to function corretly. Should there be
         number 1, 2 and 3 in a puzzle, you can visit number 1, than
         move across un-numbered platforms before you arrive at 2 and
         than 3 etc.



FALLING TOO FAR:
----------------
If Colin falls too far from a platform before landing on another his
attempt to complete the puzzle is at an end. You are deemed to have
failed and will be invited to try again.
        


TOKENS:
-------
On succesful completion of a puzzle, within the time allowed, the
player will be rewarded with a TOKEN. These will build up as you
progress through the levels and can be used should you fail on a
puzzle at any stage. If you have gained TOKENS you can use them when
prompted by a message box and re-start the puzzle at a point prior
to moking the wrong move.



GIVE UP:
--------
If you have plotted a wrong course and find that there is no way to
complete a puzzle, you can escape from the game by pressing the ESC
KEY. You will then be given an option to continue.



HINTS:
------
Bounce Down Platforms: These can be used to good effect because they
will lower Colin safely to the platform below. If you are using a
joystick PRACTICE the positions required to jump up and down on the
diagonal movements. These are quite tricky until you master them.



CREDITS:
--------
The character Colin Curly is the property of Smiths Crisps Limited 1987

Game programmed by Red Rat Software Limited

Copyright 1993 OCEAN Software Limited. All Rights Reserved.


              Cracked by SKID-ROW - Supplied by T.F.B.
                   Doc typed by Apollon & Chronos