                               ** ONSLAUGHT ** 
                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
 
  Violence - The exertion of force so as to injure or abuse... 
 
  I have never really found any game quite like this.  That word is the first 
word that I have thought of that almost totally defines this game. 
 
 This documentation file will be covering the RELEASE version of Onslaught, 
not the beta test mode.  The easiest way to determine between the release and 
the beta version is the title screen.  The beta version shows (what looks 
like) a cheap Degas picture of a guy entering a castle bashing a guy's head 
in.  The release version's title screen looks like an awesome Spectrum 512 
pic showing a bunch of guys on horseback charging at you. 
 
I. The Main Menu (has 6 options which I'll cover in outline form) 
 
  A.Start Game - Begins the game 
  B.Define Keys - If you lack a joystick, the keyboard is your only other 
    method of control.  Most of you know how to work this. 
  C.Easy/Hard Mode - This controls the total population of the enemy in 1 
    square of land(on the map).  Toggling this option to Easy will result in 
    the amount of the enemy doubling (and sometimes tripling).  
  D.Tutor/Assist/Human Mode - This has mainly to do with your weapon selector 
    bar during the "Physical confrontation" stages. 
  E.Music On/Off -This controls whether or not the music which is made by the 
    sound chips is playing (you should hear this with a Tweety Board). 
  F.Game Credits - I'm glad they put this option in so we could see the team 
    that brought us this fine game. 
 
II.The Game 
   
  A.The Map- After hitting start, The Onslaught intermission will come on. 
I could never get tired of it.  The only things that are important (at this 
point) on the screen at this point are things that occupy the upper 3/4ths of 
the screen.  They will show (on the left) a picture of You with information 
about yourself.  Most of these things aren't important except for your glory 
(score), amount of land you occupy, etc..  In the middle of the screen will 
be a large map.  This game is about war and about conquering.  It is your 
mission in this game to Take over all the land in GARGORE (the place where 
all of this wonderful game take place).  You and all the land you occupy are 
represented by yellow squares.  Your enemies (or conquerable lands) are 
represented by red squares.  Water or lakes are represented by blue squares. 
There are two types of green area.  I believe that they are both forest 
lands, except that I think there may be a possibility of the game letting you 
cross through one of the parts at a certain point of the game (I haven't 
gotten far enough).  The Temples are represented by a square with a Red 
diamond in the center (look under Mental Confrontations for an explanation of 
these).  The Oracle of Gargore (Important you must not be in tutor mode or 
Easy mode to go here) this place gives you hints on how to play.  The Oracle 
is represented by a square with a Blue diamond in it.  The left side of the 
screen is used (after moving the cursor on it) to tell you who (and what) the 
enemy army is, how many people are in it, etc...  After you're done selecting 
which place you want to attack then hit the button and kill em. 
 
  B.Physical Confrontations - This is the fun part,this is where you get to 
kill anything that moves.   Once you start attacking an enemy's land you MUST 
KEEP MOVING TO THE RIGHT.  DO NOT STOP RUNNING.  When you first start the 
stage you will see a flag that represents your CULT.  What you have to do is 
run to the right until you hit the flag that represents THEIR CULT.  During 
this section, try to pick up as many weapons as possible here (I'll explain 
the weapons and different enemies at the end of the doc).  Touch it and kill 
the remaining troops have, have then won you the first conflict.  The enemy 
will then retreat to his castle.  Then you mount your second front and invade 
the castle.  Do the exact same thing and you'll then face the Enemy's leader. 
This will either be a Demon, Chief, (2 others I can't remember).  This is a 
Mental Confrontation. 
 
  C.Mental Confrontations - This is the odd part of the game.  At the end of 
the level,or if you enter A Temple you will fight a god or a demon,or chief. 
However this fight takes place in your mind.  On the border of the screen, 
there will be a small hand (please notice which finger is raised).  The 
octopus thing floating is him.  Nuke em'!!  Move left and right and to move 
the hand around the border and hit the button to shoot him.  There is no need 
for you to worry about where the fireballs you shoot go, as that when you hit 
the button the fireballs shoot at the thing's head where it is when you hit 
the button.  You'll see what I mean. 
 
  D.The Bottom of the Screen - I think it's easiest to describe if I start a 
the center of the bottom of the screen and work my way out.  This is the best 
way to do this being that both sides of the bottom are symetric to each 
other. 
    1. The center - There are 2 guys that look like you, 1 is blue and one is 
       orange.  The Blue one represents your mental health, the Orange one 
       represents your physical health.  When you are hurt,the colour goes 
       out of the the person in the way you were hit.  When your physical 
       energy is gone you explode,when your mental energy is gone you lose 
       the battle with the demon, etc.. that you were fighting.  Moving 
       outward..  The black things with flags stuck in them.  During play 
       you will notice these filling up with blue every now and then. When 
       this fills with blue it means that you've let some people by you, this 
       means that they can progress back behind you and fight your army. If 
       enough get through, then you are overrun, and you must retreat. 
       Moving outward..  The two battle axes, these will drip blood whenever 
       something happens to the enemy.  In a nutshell if you blow up an enemy 
       with a bomb, then the axe drips blood. 
       ...Oh Damnation,I almost forgot.. 
 
    2.The Weapon selection bar is located at the bottom of the screen.  You 
      may carry up to 8 weapons at one time and switch at your leisure (or if 
      Tutor or Assist mode, the computer's leisure).  To activate a weapon, 
      select it like described in the section "Control", Or hit the " F-key" 
      that corresponds to it.  All weapons will be described in full at the 
      end of the doc.  Oh.. If you get a weapon that you think will serve no 
      purpose, then select it and then hit F10.  This will jettison the 
      weapon out of you. 
 
  E. Control - Just standard joystick control, except when changing weapons. 
If you are in control of a weapon and you would like to be in control of the 
one to the left of it (on the weapon selection bar) pull down and then to the 
left in one motion and Viola.. you did it.  Also, to pick objects up pull 
down while standing over them. 
 
  F.The Fuzzy Bits (weapons/Misc) - Alright, here we go, a list of the 
weapons and what they look like, some of the monsters and characteristics, 
and then a list of the scrolls, their colour, and their effects.  Lastly, 
some hints.. 
 
- Normal Mace (Brownish/Orangish Shield with a mace in it) 
  This is the typical, average weapon.  You start with this. 
 
- Destruct-O-Mace (Silver Shield with a mace in it) 
  This may be also titled the 1 hit mace, all you have to do is hit anything 
  once and poof,they're gone. 
 
- Grenades/Bombs (Brownish/Orangish Shield with a Sphere in it) 
  Activating this and hitting the button throws a grenade, this will go about 
  2 inches the explode.  Causing anything with it's explosion range to die or 
  explode.  This can cause some nasty chain reactions. 
 
- Mini-Crossbow (Brownish/Orangish Shield with a small pick in it) 
  This is a rapid fire gun that shoots small arrows.  This is not a very 
  powerful weapon, but it's speed makes up for that. 
 
- Heavy Crossbow (Brownish/Orangish Shield with a large pick in it) 
  This shoots a large arrow that is very powerful.  It goes through 2 
  soldiers (that aren't wearing armor).  This is one of the best. 
 
- Blue Gods (Brownish/Orangish Shield with a blue head in it) 
  This shoots a blue head from you, it is like a homing missile.  It locks in 
  on any enemy and goes for him.  You get 4 heads per/shield.  These 
  disappear after a certain amount of time. 
 
- White Gods (Brownish/Orangish Shield with a white head in it) 
  This shoots a white head from you, it is also like a homing missile,but 
  after a certain period of time it stops, enlarges, screams, and sends 
  fireballs in 8 directions.  These don't hurt you so don't worry. 
 
  The SCROLLS, purely magical objects.  Very valuable however... 
 
Green Scroll - Causes every enemy on the screen to explode. 
 
White Scroll - Causes every enemy on the screen to freeze.  Although they 
               can't move,they can still throw spears, etc.. 
 
Gold Scroll - Causes a white god(expanded,screamin') to appear above your 
              head and explode (fireballs,etc...) 
 
Red Scroll - Restores some of your lost physical energy. 
 
Blue Scroll - Restores some of your lost mental energy. 
 
Black/Grey Scroll - Select this scroll and hit the button, you will lose all 
your other weapons, except in return you will have 8 gold/green scrolls. 
 
** HINTS..... 
 
  
1. If your trapped between 2 soldiers running at you in opposite directions 
(in front and behind) then jump over the one running at you in front then 
turn around and nuke the one behind you. 
 
2. Gargore at the time has no ruler, all the cults are fighting for control 
of the land.  Think before you move on the map stage.  Also, if you're not 
sure, wait.. It will say "Time passes in Gargore".  After this, you'll see 
where all the other cults are going and what they're going after.  Also,  
waiting restores half your physical and mental energy. 
 
3. Become familiar with and learn to recognize the different cults' attack 
styles.  Watch out for the ones with the guys that just walk toward you 
wearing cloaks.  They are the first combustible people and will explode on 
contact... with anything (ie arrows,etc..) 
  
End........
