OPERATION THUNDERBOLT DOCS TYPED IN BY ZARCH  - 09/12/89

SCENARIO

ROY ADAMS IS BACK!

The hi-jack report came from DC-10 leaving Paris for Boston.  Arab guerillas
were in control of flight 102 and had turned the aircraft towards Africa...
The plane lands in hostile territory and the terrorists begin their demands...

A rescue operation is called for and there is only one man to head it up,
Roy Adams.

Weary from his operation wolf mission, he is persuaded to put his crack team
into a new sortie to free the hostages.

Bringing you enhanced shoot-em-up action for one or two players.

Thunderbolt not only reproduces to horizontally-scrolling gameplay of wolf,
but brings 3D action to the scenario, pitting you against swooping jets,
helicopters, tanks and many more awesome advasaries!
Get the laser sight, or the bulletproof vest, but watch out for those 
air-to-ground missles!  GOOD LOOK IN YOUR MISSION.


AMIGA 500

Insert the disk in drive df0: and turn on the computer; the program will
then automatically load and run.
During play the game will locate its disks in any attached drives.


CONTROLS
This is a one or two player game which is controlled by either mice or
joysticks.
The following selection keys are used:

F1  -  START ONE PLAYER GAME
F2  -  START TWO PLAYER GAME
F8  -  MOUSE/JOYSTICK SELECTION
F9  -  PAUSE GAME
F10 -  QUIT GAME

MOUSE AND JOYSTICK SELECTION

If mice are selected then player one uses the mouse in port 1 and player two
uses the mouse in port 2.
If joysticks are selected player one uses the joystick in port 2 and player
two uses joystick in port 2.


STATUS AND SCORING

The status panel displays your score, life remaining, number of bullets 
remaining, number of magazines remaining, and number of rockets remaining
for either one or both players.

Also shown are the items held by either player. The item on the left is the
last one collected. The middle item is the bulletproof vest(if collected) and
the item on the right is the laser sight(if collected). Each player has three
credits, when all three have been used the player is dead and must start the
game from the beginning. If a player dies on a level he must replay the
whole level. The game will not advance to the next level until the player(s)
have completed the current level.

Points are achieved by shooting enemies. At the end of the game, if 
successfully completed, points are awarded for thr number or hostages rescued
and the life level remaining.


GAMEPLAY

The player equipped with sub-machine guns and rockets must shoot all the
enemies who appear on the screen. Remember that your energy and ammunition are
limited, and these can only be replenished by picking up objects such as
magazines and power bottles that appear on screen or are parachuted down in
crates.

LEVEL 1
You must work your way, on foot, through hostile soldiers and reach the end
of the level where an enemy spy is waiting with vital information.

LEVEL 2
You must attack the ammunition depot to gain supplies.  If you are successful
you will receive more magazines, rockets and bullets.

LEVEL 3
You are driving a jeep and must reach the enemy hideout where some hostages
are being held.

LEVEL 4
You will encounter hostages that have been taken from the aircraft and
imprisoned. To release them you must shoot the locks on all the doors but 
avoid shooting them in the midst of all the action! Beware at the end of this
mission you will encounter a heavily armed officer and must use all your 
skills to defeat him.

LEVEL 5
The boat, battle your way through hostile craft to reach the enemy headquarters
where more hostages are being kept.

LEVEL 6
Inside enemy HQ you must rescue the hostages to complete your mission. Again
you will face heavily armed officers who must be defeated

LEVEL 7
Make your way down the runway destroying everything in your path to the
get-away aircraft.

LEVEL 8
When you finally reach the hi-jacked airliner you must walk up the centre of
the aisle taking out the grenade throwing and machine gun blazing hi-jackers
as you go. Take care to avoid the hostages(children). Once you have reached
the cockpit you must shoot the last hi-jacker who is using the pilot as a
shield. If you take too long to eliminate him you will not survive his
machine gun fire. If you shoot the pilot your only means of escape will perish.


HINTS AND TIPS

1. Pick up all objects that fall from the top of the screen by shooting them.
   These include magazines, power bottles, medical packs, bulletproof vests
   and laser sights.

2. Try not to spray your opponents with bullets as your ammunition is limited.
   Pick your targets carefully.

3. Destroy the heavy vehicles before the soldiers as the inflict more damage.

4. If you are overwhelmed by soldiers and your energy is low, use grenades.



 DOCS TYPED IN BY ZARCH  - 9th DECEMBER 1989!


