                OSCAR  - AMIGA 1200             TYPED BY SHARD 29-11-93
                ===================             =======================

Joystick/Keyboard

Loading Instructions.
Insert  Disk  1  into the drive and switch on your computer, then follow on
screen prompts


PLAYING THE GAME
----------------

When  Oscar  arrives  at  the  cinema, he walks into the foyer and sees the
entrance doors to the various movies now showing.

The World Selection Screen
These  doors  are where you are able to select which film World you wish to
play.  The Worlds can be completed in any order

World Doors
Beside  each  of these doors you can see a poster depicting the film of the
World you will enter through that entrance.

Bonus Doors
These  doors  have Question marks on them.  You can only enter a bonus door
after you have completed a World, and you will be given a prompt as to when
this  is  achieved.   Note each World`s Bonus door is situated close to the
World door itself.

To enter a door select DOWN on the joystick/Keyboard.

Once  you  have selected and entered a World you will be told the NUMBER OF
STATUES  OF  OSCAR  you  need  to  find  to  exit this land.  PRESS FIRE TO
CONTINUE


CONTROLS. (Without fire button pressed)
Use  the  keyboard cursor keys to control direction and either shift key to
Fire/start game Alternatively use a standard Amiga joystick.


                             Jump/Fly/Swim
                       Jump                Jump
                     Walk Left             Walk Right
                              Enter Doors

(With Fire Button Depressed)
If  you  have  collected the Yo-Yo, you can throw it Up/Down/Left/Right and
Diagonals.


THE YO_YO
---------

The  Yo-Yo  can  be  used  once  you have collected it from one of the film
canisters.   It  can be used to break down walls, bricks, kill monsters and
also  to  swing  from  platforms.  To throw the Yo-Yo press Fire and select
direction.  If you release the fire button, it will return back to you.  To
throw in the direction you are facing simply press Fire.

Swinging on the Yo-Yo
As detailed above you can throw the Yo-Yo at various angles.  Once you have
collected  the  Yo-Yo  jump in the air and at the same time press FIRE with
the selected throwing angle.  If it attaches onto something eg a platform.

Hold in the Fire button and Oscar will swing on the string until:

1. You let go of Fire

2. You hit something you cannot go through (a brick wall)

Collectables found in and around the levels

There are four types of objects found on the levels.

1. Statues of Oscar
At  the  start of the level you are told how many statues of Oscar you need
to  collect  before  you  can proceed to the next level.  Run up to them to
collect them.

2. The Contents of Film Canisters
As  you  run  past  a  film  canister  the can will open and an object will
explode  into  the  air.   To  collect or make use of the contents you must
catch the objects before they disappear.

3. Special Powers
The following collectables will give special powers for a limited time.

SPEED  UP  BOOT The Speed Up Boot gives Oscar more speed and will also give
enhanced jumping capabilities

SHIELD The Shield gives total protection from Monsters

BALL & CHAIN The Ball and Chain slows you down

WINGS The Wings allow you to Fly around the level

A  POTION The Medicine potion from the glass makes you invisible apart from
the dust as you skids to a stop

SPRINGY SHOES The Springy Shoes allows you to jump twice as far as normal

ALARM CLOCK The alarm clock freezes monsters

4. Bonus items which are scattered around the platforms.
These  are  purely points bonuses, to raise your score, unless you are in a
BOGUS level when you will need to find a pair of specified objects to exit

The Information Panel
---------------------

LEFT TO RIGHT
A  Coloured  statue  of Oscar displays a number showing the statues left to
collect on this level.

LIVES COUNTER Indicates the number of lives remaining

SCORE The number of points you have gained so far

HEARTS  Below  the score are 4 hearts.  Every time you are hit by a monster
you will lose a heart Lose all 4 and you will lose a life

BONUS/BOGUS.   When you first start the level this area will be clear until
you collect the letters to spell BONUS or BOGUS which determine the special
level to be completed at the end of the World

To EXIT a LEVEL and CLAPPER BOARD

When  you  have collected the required number of statues from the level you
will recieve a message telling you to go to the exit

BIG RED ELEPHANTS
Around  the  level  you  will  come across a BIG RED ELEPHANT.  HE IS NOT a
monster, but a friend who will never forget where he last saw you.

To  make  him remember you, walk up to him.  When he jumps away he has your
position noted.  If you lose a life, you will be returned back to where the
Elephant last saw you

SUPER COOL WHITE RABBITS WITH SHADES
If  you`ve always wanted to find a LUCKY RABBIT here is your chance.  These
Rabbits  can  only  be  found  in  the Bonus levels.  You will be awarded a
continue for every one you find in the game.

On  the  continue screen use left and right to select YES OR NO and fire to
CHOOSE

LIFTS, FALLING PLATFORMS and SPRINGS
Some  lifts  are  moving  when you get onto them, others only start to move
when you step onto them.  Falling platforms are always well hidden and will
surprise you so BEWARE

Springs,  Bouncy springy platforms which sink when you are standing on them
them  lift you up into the air.  To make maximum use of springs jump up and
down until the desired height is achieved

BONUS AND BOGUS LEVELS
If you are lucky enough to collect the letters that spell the word BONUS or
unlucky  enough  to  collect  BOGUS  you will be sent to the BONUS or BOGUS
level after you have completed the level you are in.

BONUS LEVEL
Collect  all  you can but keep an eye on the time as you must find the exit
before  the  time  runs  out.   (Otherwise  you  will  lose  everything you
collected in that level, including points, bonuses and even LUCKY RABBITS)

BOGUS LEVEL 
At the beginning of the level you are given the task of finding a pair of a
specified  objects.   If  you  find  the pair of objects and get to an exit
before  the time runs out you are given DOUBLE BONUS points for that level.
If you FAIL you will lose a life.  It`s risky but rewards can be high!

SCORING
Points are awarded for:   Killing monsters
                          Finding Oscar statues
                          Collecting all the bonus items

Extra lives are awarded at 5000 points

WHEN YOU GET GAME OVER

On  the  continue  screen  a countdown clock gives you ten seconds to press
fire to continue from where you left off

If you don`t press fire with in that time you will have to start again

 
 
              HAVE FUN GUYS AND REMEMBER ITS ALL FOR FUN 
                      DoCs DoNE By THe SHaRD/N&B