Night Shift

 LEVEL CODES:

 02: Cherry, Banana, Banana, Lemon.
 03: Banana, Cherry, Pineapple, Plum.
 04: Pineapple, Lemon, Pineapple, Pineapple.
 05: Pineapple, Pineapple, Lemon, Cherry.
 06: Cherry, Plum, Plum, Pineapple.
 07: Cherry, Pineapple, Lemon, Banana.
 08: Pineapple, Banana, Pineapple, Cherry.
 09: Pineapple, Lemon, Lemon, Cherry.
 10: Lemon, Banana, Plum, Plum.
 11: Banana, Pineapple, Cherry, Plum.
 12: Cherry, Plum, Banana, Plum.
 13: Plum, Cherry, Banana, Pineapple.


 CHEAT MODE:

 To access each level no matter how badly you perform
 just enter 'MPICKLE' into the high score table.

 
 Also try typing ET on the highscore table for infinite everything!


HINTS FROM AMIGA ACTION MAGAZINE

   Welcome to the weird and wacky world of Industrial Might & Logic. We hope
your employment with us can be a long and happy affair. In order to make
things easier for you we have included this flysheet detailing a few of the
BEAST's finer details.
   Before we begin with an insight to its components I would like to suggest
that you become adept at using each individual piece - don't be tempted to
use the alternative security codes found elsewhere.
   The BEAST works in a fairly rudimentary fashion. Materials are put into
the system, manipulatilated by the components, quality tested and packaged.

Solidifier Supplier:

   Before the BEAST will operate the Solidifier Supplier must be plugged in.
As those `orrible Beastie Boys would say, kick it!  Next make sure the
Bunsen Burner is lit - mind your fingers! Set the supply of gas so that the
solution is kept simmering. To achieve this, put the gas on full power until
liquid starts to boil and then flick the lever until it rests in the
vertical position.

Resin Maker

   Converted from an old tumbler-drier, the Resin Maker is a simple component
to maintain. Ensure the screw on the side of the unit is tightened - Lemmings
do tend to loosen it so you'd be well advised to keep a keen eye on it.

Upper Conveyors, Mould Castings and Unit Counter

   The direction of the upper conveyors can be reversed by flicking a simple
switch. You'd be best advised to make them flow towards the garbage collect-
ion point, changing the direction as the plastic begins to appear from the
Resin Maker. The Unit Counter is pre-set in earlier levels. However, on 
later levels, jumping on the springs will change the production rates. Make
sure both levels are the same.

Paint Vat

   Please try to stick with the colors you are assigned. Red, yellow and
blue dolls are simple to make. Other colors such as brown and green may take
a little more tought. Please ensure the bath is flushed before starting on
new mixes. If you get a multicolor mixture in the bath, the showers in the
Paint Shop will cease working. If this occurs, flush the system and turn the
taps on again.

Paint Shop

   Please ensure the paint taps are turned on and that the shower units are
operating correctly. The driers should also be operational. Turn on the fans
by flicking the nearby switch - we don't want dolls with coloring flaws!

Bonding Unit and Lower Conveyors

   Ah, what a piece of technology the Bonding Unit is. Using only the highest
quality adhesives, this component is self sufficient. The Lower Conveyors 
must be moving in the correct direction. If the Bonding Unit is joining parts
incorrectly, change the flow of the moulded pieces by flicking the switches
on the conveyors.

Furnace and Battery Generator

   One of the first things you should do is jump on the bike and peddle for
all you are worth. When the light are flashing frantically, the battery is
charged. The furnace should be alight. If it's not, take out your handy box
of matches and light it.

Quality Controller

   This unit will only check for correctly assembled products. If the colors
are wrong, you've only got yourself to blame and your wages will be docked
accordingly. To turn the unit on, simply flick the switch.
   At the end of your shift you will be presentd with the total amount of
toys made and a total for those that went wrong and a total that were OK.
The totals effect your wages. Get the toys right!

---------------------------
HINTS FROM ENDLESS PIRACY

The goal of this game is to keep the production process running.
Your boss tells you what you must produce tonight.
You'll see different men and women dolls and the quota for each.
To produce you must watch the big machine. If you hear a ringing sound,
somewhere, there is a malfunction. Find it and use your tools to repair it.
To do this push SPACE, select a item by pushing the joystick left or
right then push FIRE. Now stand in front of the malfunctioning part
and push UP+FIRE.
An other way is to kick the part (YEAH!, like your compi). To do this
use your stick (it's fiddeling...).
I'll play it for a while (to check out the crack is 100%) and found
many different possible malfunctions of the machine.

- belt stuck           --> kick
- no power             --> use bicycle
- fire goes out        --> light it again by a match
- broken steampipe     --> use tool 
- animals              --> use trap

To produce correct dolls you must switch some switches or pull a
chain in some cases. Watch the machine and decide which switches etc.
are correct and which are wrong.
Some tools may help you climb up (BALLOON) or down (UMBRELLA).
Produce as many men (or women) as possible but avoid 'mutants'!

Select different options by pressing F2 on the title screen
Type in EP on the highscore list to activate cheat mode.
Remember the fruits shown in the boss bureau, it's the levelcode!
Watch the demoplay!
Okay, you may figure out the rest....
 

                          - typed in by POSTCARD MAN -