               DOCS FOR 'BACK TO THE FUTURE II'
             ************************************

               Written by MR.THOMPSON / DEFJAM

-----------------------------------------------------------
LOADING:
--------
AMIGA : Power up the machine, and when the workbench prompt
        appears, insert the disk into the internal drive and
        game will load and run.
ATARI : Insert the disk into the internal drive and power up
        the machine. The game will now load and run. Owners
        of single sided disk drives should return the disk to
        us for up-grading: send to BTTF2 Upgrade, Image Works,
        Irwin House, 118 Southwark Street, London SE1 OSW.

CONTROLS:
---------
The Atari ST and Commodore 64 versions are contolled by joystick
only. The Commodore Amiga version can be controlled by either
Joystick or Mouse. The IBM PC, Spectrum and Amstrad version can be
controlled by joystick and also have a redefinable keyboard option.

HERE'S WHERE YOU COME IN.....
-----------------------------
Returning from the year 2015 on an innocent sightseeing tour , Doc
has some very bad news for Marty. Unless he goes back to the future
with him in order to change the course of history, the future of
his family could be in danger. Now it's up to him - or rather you -
to put things right.

BACK TO THE FUTURE II is not just one game - it's five separate games
that each tell a chapter of the story, with you as the lead character,
Marty McFly. If you've seen the movie you're bound to have some
adventage as each of the levels is based directly on a specific scene
from the film, but ultimately only quick reflexes and an even quicker
mind will see you throught safely. It's up to you now. Think about the
future ....
The object is to race throught Hill Valley, and make it safely to the
Town Hall, thus preventing a future disaster for your son. Your
hoverboard is a pretty nippy mover, but you'll have to move fast to
avoid Griff and his gang.
As you can see the screen is divided into two areas. The larger portion
at the top is the game area, while the lower section is the status
area, which appears throughout the game. The status area displays
everything you need to know, relevant to the current level, including
the year you're currently (in this case, 2015), your energy level(you
start with a full bar, and this is depleted along the way), number
of lives remaining and the time remaining, and your score.

CONTROLS
--------
You control your movement on screen by use of the input device
(keyboard, mouse, or joystick). To move around, steer yourself in the
direction you wish to go. To accelerate push the device forwards, and
to brake, pull backwards. You can punch on-coming attackers by tapping
the select button but by holding it down, you will be able to jump
over obstacles such as manholes, gratings, puddles of water and kerbs.

Your mission on this level is to get Jennifer out of the house without
her bumping into any of its computer-controlled occupants, since this
would not only cause severe damage to Jennifer's nervous system but
also to the fabric of time itself.

You view your home of the future from above and, as you will see,
Jennifer is in there along with 2 or 3 other occupants. Getting her out
sounds simple but it's far from easy seeing as you don't actually control
Jennifer directly. You're presented with an eight-directional pointer. By
moving the directional pointer in any one of its directions, you will
flash two of the available doors. When the doors have been opened the
occupants of the connecting rooms will move from one to the other.

All you have to do is get Jennifer safely out of the house's exit door
without bumping into any of the future family. It's basically a logic
puzzle so there are plenty of times when you'll have to sit back and
think hard about where to move next. The key to success lies in not just
watching Jennifer's movements but also the movements of the future family.
Memorise which directions open which doors, and bear in mind that you
are actually controlling the movements of the future family indirectly
(in the same way that you're controlling Jennifer). It;s a little like
chess in the sense that you'll often have to look two or three moves
ahead in order to keep on top of things, so a little forethought wouldn't
go amiss. Good luck...

Working out what has gone wrong with the time flow and correcting it may
be the first thing on your mind but before you can do that, you've got
to get back to the DeLorean alive - and with 1985 in the state it's in
it's not easy!

This level is a right-to-left scrolling combat game where the objective
is to battle your way through Hill Valley and reach the DeLorean.
In each of these areas you'll come up against a variety of undesirable
local residents who are all out to get you - these are not nice people.
To defend yourself you have a simple array of combat moves at your
disposal (you may want more but remember , Marty is not Bruce Lee).
The moves are as follows...

The walking left and right, crouching and jumping bit, is pretty obvious,
but kicking and punching is a little more complicated. Each combat move
is slightly different (as you'll see when you play the game) and will
therefore have a different effect on its victim - this also depends on
exactly who you're trying to beat up.

Like the second level, this level is a logic puzzle, although this time
you're more likely to be familiar with it. It's based on the 'sliding
block' pocket puzzles where the idea is to slide the tiles in the
correct order to make a complete picture.

In this game the picture you're presented with is an animated one of
Marty playing guitar at the dance. Or at least it would be if the tiles
that make up the picture weren't horribly scrambled. Your job is to
slide the tiles into the correct order to complete the picture before
the time limit expires.

Moving blocks is easy - making the picture isn't. You'll see that one
space in the tile grid is always empty and this is the space that you
can slide tiles into. Just select a tile, and move it into the relevant
direction to fill the space - and create a new one. Once the picture
is complete, you can proceed.
Like the second level, the logic of this puzzle means you'll always have
to look two or three moves ahead if you're to get anywhere.

LEVEL FIVE
----------
Still in 1955, Marty has followed Biff from the Enchantment Under The
Sea dance and is hotly pursuing his car through Hill Valley on his
hoverboard (which he brought back from 2015). Biff still has the
Almanac, and to stop time from going askew, Marty must retrieve it,
before Biff reaches his destination.

As before you have various enemies to contend with, including both you
and old Biff, Biff's henchmen and the Hill Valley police - fortunately
you can fight them off as before. You can also, as before, collect
objects along the way for extra energy, points and power-ups (See
Level 1 for details).

Don't forget to grab hold of the Almanac before Biff or anyone else gets
you. Your future depends on it.

END GAME
--------
Even if you manage to complete BACK TO THE FUTURE IPART II, the adventure
is far from over, as the game's end sequence will reveal.
There's still one more chapter to go....

Watch out for
BACK TO THE FUTURE PART III
from Image Works.
