                                Bad Dudes

                  BAD DUDES INSTRUCTION GUIDE: AMIGA

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

* Amiga Personal Computer - 500/1000/2000

* 512K RAM; Kickstart 1.2 or higher required

* Single disk drive

* Joystick/Two joysticks for 2 player mode

* Color Monitor Required

LOADING THE GAME

1) Insert the disk into Drive A, then turn the computer on.

2) The title screen will appear. Press the joystick fire button to load the
   game.

3) At the next screen, choose from the following option keys on your
   keyboard.

Key F1: One Player Mode
Key F2: Two Player Mode
Key F3: Music On/Off

Pausing
To  pause  the  game at any time, Press P on the keyboard.  Press P again to
resume play.

JOYSTICK CONTROLS

The joystick controls your movements as follows:

Joystick        Your Movement

Up              Jump
Down            Duck, pick up objects
Left            Walk left
Right           Walk right
Upper Right     Kick or punch up right
Upper Left      Kick or punch up left
Lower Right     Kick or punch down right, duck
Lower Left      Kick or punch down left, duck

With  the  FIRE  BUTTON  pressed,  the  joystick  controls  your movement as
follows:

Joystick        Your Movement

Up              Super jump, jump to upper level
Down            Duck, drop to lower level
Left            Lateral kick or punch left
Right           Lateral kick or punch right
Upper Right     Spinning kick with jump right
Upper Left      Spinning kick with jump left
Lower Right     Duck and kick or punch right
Lower Left      Duck and kick or punch left

Whenever you jump, you can also move left or right by moving the joystick
left or right.

Flaming Fist

The Flaming Fist lets you waste several villains with one blow.  The Flaming
Fist takes all your concentration and can only be done by standing still and
holding  the  FIRE  button down for a few seconds until your fist glows red.
Then release the FIRE button to knock'em dead.

Picking Up Objects

To pick up objects, press joystick DOWN.

SCORING

Blue Ninja ..............................100 points
Red Ninja ...............................200 points
Grey Ninja ..............................200 points
Dogs ....................................200 points
Blue Creature ...........................200 points
Girl Ninja ..............................400 points
Ninja with sword ........................700 points
Super Warrior (at end of level) ......10,000 points
Dragon Ninja (at the rescue level) ..100,000 points

Saving High Scores

When  the  "Game  Over"  screen  appears, hit the FIRE button.  The alphabet
appears  with  a  man under it.  Moving the joystick left or right, walk the
man  to  the  first  letter  you  want.  Stop at the letter by releasing the
joystick, then move the joystick forward to choose the letter.  Hit the Fire
button again to move on to the next letter.  You can use four letters.

The  game is basically the same as the IBM version.  You must go through the
levels in the same order.

There  are seven levels of outrageous enemies you must defeat before you get
the  chance  to  rescue the president.  Be careful out there.  And remember,
the  fate  of  our  country lies in your hands.  The President - KIDNAPPED?!
You've  barely  had  a  chance for the news to sink in when the phone rings.
It's  the  head  of  the Secret Service.  Before he says a word you know why
he's  calling  -  the Dragon Ninja is responsible for the kidnapping and you
alone can rescue the President from his clutches.

The FBI has tracked the Dragon Ninja and his captive to an abandoned factory
far  away from the White House.  You need to act fast.  The Dragon Ninja has
a  helicopter  waiting  at  the factory to spirit the President away.  If he
makes  his  getaway  before  you  can stop him, the world will never see the
President again.

The  bad news is that the Dragon Ninja knows that the Secret Service knows -
and  he'll  be ready for you .  You can expect to face - at the very least -
wave after wave of ninja henchmen, vicious dogs, and samurai warriors as you
make  your  way  through  city  and forest, atop moving big rigs and freight
trains.

Remember - the nation is counting on you!

GETTING STARTED

Select  64 mode.  Turn on the disk drive.  Insert the program into the drive
with   the   label   facing  upwards.   Type  LOAD  "*",8,1  (RETURN).   The
introductory   screen   will   appear   and   the  program  will  then  load
automatically.

The  game  loads  in  stages,  and  completion  of  each  successive part is
necessary  to  proceed  to  the  next.   Leave  disk in the drive and follow
on-screen instructions for prompts.

GENERAL CONTROLS

Usual joystick options in Port 1 for UP, DOWN, LEFT and RIGHT.

* COMMODORE IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF COMMODORE ELECTRONICS LTD

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

To play Bad Dudes on an IBM PC/XT/AT/PS2 or 100% compatible machine,

you need:

* 512K RAM, or 640K RAM Tandy 1000

* A single 5.25-inch or 3.5-inch floppy disk drive

* Enhanced Graphics Adapter (EGA), Color Graphics Adapter (CGA), Hercules
  Monochrome Adapter, or Tandy 16-Color Graphics mode

* RGB or monochrome graphics monitor

* Joystick (optional)

* IBM IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF IBM CORP

GETTING STARTED

1) Put the program diskette in drive A with the label side up and turn on
   your computer. A prompt appears that asks if you have a joystick
   connected to your computer.

2) Type y if you do, n if you don't.

3) If a message appears that asks you to insert the data diskette, insert
   the data diskette and press any key. The Bad Dudes title screen appears.

4) To start the game, press the fire button if you're using a joystick or
   the spacebar if you're using the keyboard. (If there are two players,
   you each need to press either the fire button or the spacebar, depending
   on whether you're using a joystick or the keyboard.)

5) During the game, a message may appear asking you to insert the program
   disk. If that happens, replace the data disk with the program disk and
   press any key.

TANDY TL/SL OWNERS

To load Bad Dudes on your computer you will first need to follow
these instructions:

1) Go to drive A.

2) Go to the setup TL MS-DOS diskette or setup SL MS-DOS diskette.

3) Type SETUPTL or SETUPSL (return). A list will come up of things to do,
   under primary startup device select DISK. (The primary setup device
   automatically defaults to ROM. You need to change it to read DISK.)

4) The initial start up program automatically defaults to Deskmate. Shift
cursor to MS-DOS.

5) Press F1 to update.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

An Apple IIe or IIc with 128K RAM is required. A joystick is required.

GETTING STARTED

Insert the program into the disk drive with the label facing upward. Turn
your  computer on. The introductory screen will appear and the program will
then load automatically.

The game loads in stages, and completion of each successive part is
necessary to proceed to the next. Leave disk in the drive and follow
on-screen instructions for prompts.

GENERAL CONTROLS

Use joystick for UP, DOWN, LEFT and RIGHT.
CTRL-S - TOGGLES SOUND
CTRL-R - RESTARTS GAME

* APPLE IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF APPLE COMPUTERS, INC .

For one player, you can use either a joystick or the keyboard. For two
players, you can either use two joysticks or one joystick and the keyboard.

JOYSTICK

A button: Punch (when far from an enemy) or kick (when close to an enemy).
To punch an enemy above you, move the joystick up and press the button.

To pick up a knife, numchuck, energy, or extra time, move the joystick down
and press the A button.

B button: Jump. To jump higher (over an enemy or to a higher walkway), move
the joystick up and press the button.

To jump down, move the joystick down and press the button.

KEYBOARD

Spacebar or X: Punch (when far from an enemy) or kick (when close to an
enemy).

To punch an enemy above you, press the up arrow, then X or the spacebar.

To pick up a knife, numchuck, energy, or extra time, press the down arrow,
then X or the spacebar.

Z: Jump. To jump higher (over an enemy or to a higher walkway), press the
up arrow, then Z.

S: Turn the sound effects on or off.

J: Recalibrate the joystick.

0: Quit.

LOOK UP

MOVE LEFT-- MOVE RIGHT

STOP MOVING

LOOK DOWN

IBM COMMODORE APPLE

Numchuck. Increases your power to defend yourself.

Knife. Increases your power to defend yourself.

Extra Time. Adds 5 seconds to the timer at the top of the screen.

Energy. Restores you to full energy which means that you can withstand six
more hits.

Spike. You take a hit when you step on a spike. Jump over them or kick them
to avoid taking a hit.

IBM COMMODORE APPLE

Hit Indicator. One for each hit you can take before you lose a life. When
you re fighting a super warrior,two rows of indicators appear. The top row
shows how  many hits the super warrior can take. The bottom row shows how
many hits you can take.

Life Indicator. One for each life you have left not counting the current
one. You have a total of three lives.

Joystick Indicator. Appears if you're using a joystick.

Keyboard Indicator. Appears if you re using the keyboard.

Sound Indicator. Appears when the sound effects are on.

                        IBM         COMMODORE       APPLE

Red Ninja            100 points     75 points     100 points
Blue Ninja           100 points    100 points     100 points
Dog                  100 points         --         100 points
Samurai              100 points         --         100 points
Super Warrior     10,000 points     50/hit      10,000 points
Star Ninja           100 points                    100 points
Ninja with Knife         --         175 points
Objects Collected                   200 points
Completing a Level       --      10,000 points

THE CITY

Once you step outside, your life is in danger.  FBI informants from all over
the  city  have  reported spotting the Dragon Ninja's henchmen.  Information
the  FBI  has in its files about the warriors makes it clear they're not all
alike.   They  train  in  different skills, so don't expect the tactics that
work on one group to work on all of them.

You  need to travel light, so you won't be taking any weapons with you.  But
keep  an  eye out for knives, and numchucks you may find along the way.  You
can carry only one weapon at a time, and you lose the weapon you're carrying
when you lose a life.

There  has  also  been a rumor that Karnov is in town.  Karnov is a one-time
circus  strongman who has a unique talent for breathing fire from his mouth.
Needless  to say, you'll want to avoid this.  His reasons for joining forces
with  the Dragon Ninja aren't clear.  You'll find him much more difficult to
defeat than anyone else you encounter in the city.

THE BIG RIG

Hopping  a  big  rig  is  a  good  way  of getting out of town fast.  But be
prepared.   The  Dragon  Ninja  has  trained  his  troops  in daring assault
tactics.   His  ninjas  will  no doubt attack you from all sides.  Something
else  suspicious  is happening.  There have been a growing number o~ reports
about  rabid  dogs roaming the streets.  The number is far higher than could
be  expected  normally.   The only conclusion to reach is that they're being
set  loose  in  the  city  by  someone (and you get one guess about who that
"someone"  might  be).   Watch  out  for the dogs - they have your scent and
they'll be looking for you.

Make  your  way  to the front of the truck.  Whatever else you do, take care
when  you jump from one trailer to another and from the front trailer to the
cab  -  if  you  fall  off the truck you'll take a hit and you'll lose time.
When  you  get  to  the  cab, the driver will stop the truck to let you off.
Watch  out - that's a dangerous moment.  The Dragon Ninja will no doubt have
one of his super warriors lying in wait for you.

THE SEWER

You'll  next  find yourself in a large storm sewer.  You can follow the path
along  the  water's  edge,  or you can use the ledges above it.  Needless to
say, stay out of the water.

At  the  end  of  the  sewer, you'll encounter another of the Dragon Ninja's
super warriors.

THE FOREST

The  sewer leads to the forest.  The Dragon Ninja has let loose another pack
of  rabid  dogs there.  If you're agile enough to walk along the tall hedges
in the forest, you can keep away from them up there.

At  the  far  edge  of  the forest, you'll have to do battle with one of the
super warriors before you can continue.

THE FREIGHT TRAIN

Hop  one  of the freight trains that travels the old Southern & Pacific line
to take you to the vicinity of the factory where the Dragon Ninja is holding
the President.  Make your way to the other end of the train - and be careful
as you jump from one car to the next.

One  of  the  Dragon  Ninja's  super  warriors is known to be commanding the
hordes  that  are  keeping  watch on the freights that travel the Southern &
Pacific  line.  Once the ninjas report your presence to him, you can be sure
you'll have to deal with him before you reach the end of the line.

THE CAVE

The  factory  where the Dragon Ninja is holding the President is impregnable
from  ground  level.  But there's a secret cave that leads to the very heart
of  the  factory.   The Dragon Ninja hasn't had a chance to fortify it as he
has the rest of the factory but you can be sure that he keeps it under close
guard  and  that  he'll throw all the man power he has at you when you enter
it.

The  cave  has  an  unusual  natural hazard, too - falling stalactites.  The
stalactites  -  something  like stone icicles - formed over the centuries as
water dripping slowly from the ceiling of the cave deposited minerals there.
Many of the stalactites are only loosely attached to the ceiling of the cave
and can fall without warning.

Guarding  the  end  of  the  cave closest to the factory is a super warrior.
You'll have to defeat him before you can get into the factory.  THE FACTORY

By  the  time  you  reach  the  factory,  some  of the super warriors you've
defeated  earlier  will  have  had  a  chance  to  return  to the factory to
reinforce  it.   Your  first  objective  when  you  reach the factory is the
elevator~, which will take you to the second floor.  The elevator is guarded
by  one  of the super warriors, and you'll have to defeat him before you can
use it.

When  you  reach  the  second  floor,  make  your  way to the Dragon Ninja's
helicopter.  He'll no doubt try to take off - with the President aboard - as
soon  as  he  senses  you're  near.  You may have to jump up to the hovering
helicopter's runners and do battle with the Dragon Ninja there.

You  don't need the Secret Service to tell you that the Dragon Ninja will be
your most challenging opponent.  Be ready for a fierce battle.  And remember
- you must defeat him at all costs to save the President.

* In the Apple version, there is no elevator; the helicopter is on the first
floor of the factory.