Bad Company
Typed by Belgarath


Loading Instructions

Atari ST and Commodore Amiga

1. Turn off the computer and disconnect all unnecessary peripherals.
We recommend that you leave your computer switched off for thirty
seconds in case a virus has installed itself into your computers memory.
This will kill a virus if one is present.

2. Insert the 'Bad Company' disk into the drive and switch the
computer on. The game will now begin to load. Do not remove the disk
from the drive whilst the game is playing.


The Plot

Your Task:
No Mercy - No Surrender!

We're Bad Company. A team. Each and every one of us a trained and
primed killing machine. Troopers. Nurtured from birth to kill. We
don't know how to do anything else. Command made us that way. And
now we're ready!

Now they have a mission for us. The Nu-Worlds. Just four of them.
They need them see. The Earth is dying. We need the Nu-Worlds. Or
we die. Mankind that is. So they send us. To destroy the alien filth
that infests them. And then we can colonise. Breathe new air.

Company Command will be watching us of course. From above.
Orbiting. They just air-drop Company hardware for us. We do the dirty
work. We do the killing. But its not for us to question. We just follow
orders. This is the way we were made see. To Kill. No Mercy. No
Surrender!


The Controls

You control your member of Bad Company with a joystick. If you want
to play Bad Company with a friend, you will need two joysticks - you
will then be able to play simultaneously as a team. To start the game,
press either key '1' or '2' for a one or two player game.

You will then need to select which member of Bad Company you wish
to play, each trooper having their own particular skills and abilities in
strength, weapon training, stamina and agility. There are eight mem-
bers of the company.

LANCE 'FLASH' GORDON - An ex-commando whose strength and
stamina make up for his lack of agility. He can use all Company weapons.

LEROY 'SHADES' HENRIKSEN - Big, black and bad, with an
impressive military history. His toughness, determination and weapon
knowledge is high.

STEFAN 'IRONSIDE' HUNTER - An experienced firearms expert,
with reasonable stamina and agility. He has spent over twenty years in
Company service.

MAT STEINBERG - A relentless fighter of average strength but low
agility. He is lucky to be alive after having had his lower jaw shot away.

ATHENA DE SANTEZ - Her beauty belies her ruthless fighting
ability. She has low stamina and low strength but high agility.

CHRONOS WARCHILD - A tough arms expert with a great deal of
experience in battle. He is strong and has reasonable stamina but is not
too agile.

SANDI KALISHNOV - Kalishnov is very quick, quite strong and has
reasonable stamina. Some weapons are too heavy for her to carry.

BRUCE 'MANIAC' NORTH - A veteran mercenary with high
endurance but low agility. He is adept in the use of all available weapons.

Once you have selected your player(s) you need to select which world you wish
to start on. Do this by moving your joystick up, down, left or right and press fire.
Your player(s) will then be dropped into the battlezone and the onslaught will
begin.


Extra Controls

F1                 - Abort Game
F8                 - Pause
F9/joystick button - Unpause


The Status Display

The status of player one is displayed on the left of the screen and the status of
player two (if playing) is displayed on the right side of the screen. For player one,
the top left corner shows the member of Bad Company under your control and how
many lives he or she has.

To the right of this is your energy level (the red/yellow/blue bar) and score. As you
progress through the game, your energy will recharge and a white bar will pulse
on the grid to indicate this. The rate that your energy rises is dependant on your
Company member's stamina.

Down the left hand side of the screen are two vid-displays that indicate your
primary (upper vid-display) and secondary (lower vid-display) weapons. These can
be switched around for player one by striking any key on the main keyboard (letter
keys, space bar etc). Player two's status is displayed on the right hand side of the
screen and operates in a similar fashion to player one's status. If player two wishes
to switch weapons, he must hit any key on the numeric keypad.

To start with the weapons are displayed on blue and they are in their normal
operation mode. As you progress through the game you will discover weapon
boosters that have been air-dropped by Company Command - these are red
tokens with lightning flashes on them. If you pick up a weapon booster, the back-
ground behind your primary weapon will turn red and the weapon will be boosted.
If your member of the company goes down in action, then he/she will lose the
weapon booster, so be careful!

As you progress through the game, Company Command will air-drop weapons to
you to help you on your mission. The weapons will be seen in the distance falling
to the horizon and then four black sealed plasti-spheres will hurtle towards you.

Each sphere contains a weapon and from left to right, these are:

the Newstar SK Turbine - a low fire rate ground weapon featuring bouncing
plasti-mines to give a wide and high spread of fire. When boosted the ground
incendiary barrel triples its firing capabilities.

the Marsblast Widerim Pro - a very large and heavy ground-attack weapon.
Only strong members of the Company can handle this. It fires single but very large
plasma sphere. When boosted, a ground-based quadruple incendiary attachment
is fitted.

the Farnham P111 'Megadeth' - comes standard for all Bad Company troopers
but you may want another one if you manage to lose your original unit. The
Farnham P111 fires ground-attack energy hoops at a fairly fast rate, but when
boosted this weapon becomes a very high fire rate, maximum destruction device.

the Zarman T90 Killomatic - comes as a standard Company trooper back-up
weapon. It fires a low rate but three-pronged energy charge at ground-based
attackers. When boosted, it doubles up with a simultaneous airborne offensive as
well to dispose of those really nasty inhabitants of the sky.

To obtain a weapon, you must shoot one of the plasti-spheres. The sphere will then
burst and the weapon will fall out onto the floor. If you stand in front of the
weapon, then its description will appear in the vidi-display at the top-
centre of the screen. Note that if your trooper is not strong enough to
carry it, then the weapon will be surrounded by a red warning hand
in the vid-display. If you wish to pick the weapon up, walk over it and
it will replace the primary weapon that you are currently holding.

On the planet landscape, Company Command have also air-dropped a
number of life regenerators. These devices instantly camouflage
themselves with the planet floor so that hostile aliens cannot use them
for their own purposes. However, if they detect a Company trooper
nearby, they spark life-force giving electrical charges into the air. If a
trooper stand within this charge, his or her energy will instantly be
boosted - remember not to stand in the regenerator for too long because
it will eventually power down.

Most weapons are powerful enough to destroy obstacles on the planet
surface but you should always bear in mind that you can utilise
obstacles to your own benefit by using them as cover for your trooper
as he/she progresses forwards against the onslaught.


Typed by Belgarath