                            BALLYHOO

           THE TRAVELING CIRCUS THAT TIME FORGOT, INC.

                    OFFICIAL SOUVENIR PROGRAM

                          TOMAS MUNRAB
                       A Man With A Vision

	How the incredibly backward vision and superlative genius of one
man set into constant motion The Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc.

	Put yourself in the man's oxfords for a moment.  A graduate  magna
cum laude from one of the world's most prominent business schools.  Yet at
the same time, a maverick at heart, independent of mind - reluctant to
follow his blue-suited classmates lockstep into the boardrooms of Corporate
America.  A man with a vision - a vision as yet undefined, like a cloud,
anticipating the release of its own charge, the lightning bolt of an idea.

	So what do you do if you're an out-of-work Harvard Business School
grad with a dream?  You do out and buy yourself a circus, of course.

	The idea, brilliant in its simplicity: to resurrect the classic
traveling circus of old-blending innocence, flamboyance, and nostalgia -
and send it off to crisscross the highways and byways of this promised land
of ours, visiting upon the masses thirsty for good clean fun.

	Sounds so simple, yet it is hard to imagine the tremendous quantum
of resistance and awesome challenge that would confront this would-be
modern day P. T. Barnum.  Immediately you would hear the voice of the
nay-sayers, their prickly criticism intended to burst your balloon,
deriding such "pipe dreams" as low tech and low brow, logistically
impossible, financially unfeasible.  And imagine the embarrassment of
getting laughed out of the Harvard Club!

	Now, if you ever met Tomas Munrab, you'd know one thing for
certain; the word "impossible" is unknown to him.  Not through any lack of
education, certainly, but by willful, steadfast determination to overcome
all obstacles in his life's path.  A couple of years ago, it was this
personal drive coupled with this vision that compelled Mr. Munrab to invest
in a small circus and to completely transform it, thus embarking on the
odyssey of The Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc.

	As President, Produces, and Chief Entertainment Officer of The
traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of
Munrab Enterprises, Inc.), Mr. Munrab himself has overseen whole hog the
acquisition of the capital, talent, and marketing savvy necessary for
transforming his circus into the growing concern you see today.

	"It takes some doing to maintain an exciting family show with a
genuine, turn-of-the-century feel, while at the same time funding
additions, improvements, and the necessary attentions to investors," say
Munrab, obviously proud of his mastery over his dual roll as showman and
businessman.  "You could say I've had to deal with quite a few clowns over
the past couple of years."

	Despite such good-natured banter from the Boss, it's clear from
their much-practiced performances and their dogged dedication that the
circus folk hold Mr. Munrab in high esteem, even reverence.

	And indeed who could help but have a great reservoir of admiration
for the top talent of them all: Tomas Munrab, the man whose golden touch
single-handedly put into motion what is well on its way to becoming the
entertainment miracle of the century, The Traveling Circus That Time
Forgot, Inc.

                 THE AMAZING GENATOSSIO BROTHERS

	In a daring display of high wire skill and reckless abandon, the
famed Genatossio Brothers thrill spectators with an array of death-defying
feats.  Balanced on a thin steel cable 50 feet overhead, Carlo, Giuseppe,
Antonio, and Stefano Genatossio play a heart-stopping game of leapfrog,
ride tandem bicycles, jump rope forward and backward, and perform a
stupendous break-dance finale.

	The 28-year-old Genatossio quadruplets, natives of Bologna, Italy,
were spotted by Tomas Munrab at a county fair in Upstate New York.  After
seeing their incredible performance, he asked the young men to join The
Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc.  "Senza dubbio," says Carlo, "we
accept without hesitation."

                         GLORIOUS GLORIA
                        Queen of the Air

	Not since the days of Lillian Leitzel have circus-goers been so
entranced by a trapeze artiste.  With her sequined tutu and halo of blond
hair, Glorious Gloria Golotov embodies the glamour and daring of the big
top.  Gloria dazzles audiences with an extraordinary repertoire of aerial
splits, somersaults, and pirouettes, culminating in the stunning
death-whirl made famous by Leitzel in the 1920's.

	Glorious Gloria, Queen of the Air...Captivates Crowds with her
Courage and Flair...Weaving her Wondrous Aerial Spell...Glorious
Gloria...Artiste Nonpareil!

                                3

                                4

                        THE WILD KINGDOM

	In 1815, Hackaliah Bailey toured New England with his elephant "Old
Bet," thereby creating the traveling menagerie.  His show was so successful
that imitations soon appeared, offering an array of exotic animals drawn
from the four corners of the globs.  Massive elephants from India stood
side by side with savage lions from the Tanzanian plains and quick-witted
apes from the jungles of the Congo.

	Eventually menageries combined with circuses to produce the touring
extravaganzas of the late 19th century.  This has remained their place to
the present day.

	Crucial to the success of the menagerie is the animal trainer, who
earns the respect of even the most ferocious tiger and arranges for the
care and feeding of all.  The Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc. is
proud to present world-renowned trainer Gottfried Wilhelm von Katzenjammer.

	In one of the most breathtaking moments of the show, Gottfried
strides bare-chested into a cage of ferocious, snarling lions.  Using only
a bullwhip and chair, the fearless trainer masters the savage beasts,
commanding them to perform a series of dramatic stunts.

	Born in Hanover, Germany, in 1952, Gottfried is the son of famed
pachyderm trainers Wilma and Werner von Katzenjammer.  After honing his
skills in the family act, Gottfried rose to prominence in the acclaimed
Cirque Martinique.  He was persuaded to join The Traveling Circus That Time
Forgot, Inc. in 1983, during Tomas Munrab's annual world-wide talent
search.

	Blond and muscular, Gottfried draws as much attention as the
animals he commands.  From the stunning lion act to the magnificent
elephant parade, the skills of Gottfried Wilhelm von Katzenjammer and his
wild animals contribute immeasurably to the excitement and pagentry of The
Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc.

                                5

                           CLOWN ALLEY

	The great showman P. T. Barnum once remarked that clowns are the
pegs on which circuses are hung.  When the atmosphere of suspense and
tension in the arena approaches unbearable limits, the clowns arrive to
lighten the mood of the spectators in preparation for the next
death-defying stunt.

	Foremost in our Clown Alley is the celebrated Comrade Constantine
Thumb.  Only 28 inches in height, Thumb proudly bears the title of the
smallest man in the world.  Born of normal-sized parents in the West
Siberian Plain, Thumb was educated at the famed Surgut Acrobatics
Institute.  He defected in 1984, at the behest of Tomas Munrab, to join The
Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc.  Whether cavorting with his
miniature dachshund, displaying his considerable acrobatic skills, or
warbling in his native Russian, our merry midget delights audiences from
Dallas to Dayton.

	Comic comparisons to Comrade Thumb are the other members of our
clown troupe, from Chuckles, the buffoon tramp, to Mystic Malcom, the
stumblebum magician.

	All in all, the clown's profession is a noble one.  The world's
full of tears, and it is far more difficult to send us into gales of
laughter than it is to make us cry.

                                6

                      HISTORY OF THE CIRCUS

                    Glittering Extravaganzas

	It has been said that the circus is the only really mysterious
thing left in civilization.  Here in Spangleland, performers from around
the globe astound audiences with a star- dusted repertoire of seemingly
impossible feats.  Clowns in Comical makeup leap out of unexpected places,
and magnificent beasts respond as if by magic to the trainer's command.

	The circus can be traced back to the Roman amphitheater, although
these ancient spectacles featured mostly chariot races and gladiator
fights.  In the Middle Ages, wandering tumblers, jugglers, acrobats, and
animal trainers performed wherever people gathered.

	The circus as we know it did not appear until 1768, when a trick
rider found that if he galloped in a circle while standing on his horse's
back, centrifugal force helped him keep his balance.  From then on,
organized circus performances were held in rings, usually in permanent or
semi-permanent buildings.

	The big top originated in the 1820's.  At first, circus tents were
very small, housing a single ring and several hundred portable seats.  A
few decades later, big tops rivaled the ancient hippodromes in magnitude,
covering up to two acres with 11 tons of canvas.

	By the 1870's, American circuses were glittering extravaganzas,
carried from town to town by dozens of railroad cars.  Generations of
families made the circus their life and livelihood.  A special language
evolved, mingling foreign tongues, thieves' argot, and terms used to
describe objects and locations peculiar to the circus.

	In circus lingo, a sucker is a circus-goer, and Annie Oakley is a
ticket, and a Bible is a program or magazine.  Lot loafers or lot lice are
townspeople who hang around the lot.  The back yard is the space between
the big top and the dressing rooms, where wardrobes and props are stored. 
The white wagon is the main office on the circus lot.  The blues are the
cheapest seats in the big top.  Side-walling - crawling in under the canvas
wall - is the last resource of local urchins who can't even afford the
blues.

	Illegal gambling is called grift.  "Hey Rube!" is the rallying cry
for help in a fight between circus people and toughs or irate townspeople. 
A Monday Man was permitted to steal from village clotheslines.  A Johnny
Tin Plate is a small town marshall or constable, a First of May is a novice
performer, and a roustabout is a common laborer.  Extra work is called
cherry pie.  A keister is a trunk or wardrobe box.  A clown is a Joey.  And
clown alley is a dressing tent or trailer reserved exclusively for clowns.

	As the circus parade with its gaudy wagons, proud tigers, and
whistling calliope rolls through town, who among us does not feel a thrill
of excitement?  For we know that when the great tent is erected and the
Joeys leave clown alley for the performance ring, we can all join in on the
magic and mystery of the circus.

                                7

                    RIMSHAW THE INCOMPARABLE
            Divines the Future, Resurrects the Past!

	From the mysterious mountains of Eastern Europe, we bring you
RIMSHAW THE INCOMPARABLE,  augur of the future, interpreter of the past,
diviner of hidden attributes.

	Born of humble parents on the fog-shrouded coast of Cornwall,
England, Rodney Rimshaw astonished the world at the age of two by
foretelling an assassination attempt against the visiting Czar of Bulgaria.
 The grateful monarch invited little Rodney and his family to join him as
his spacious palace in the Bulgarian highlands.  There Rimshaw was taken on
as apprentice to the court astrologer, whence he learned to command the
movements of the planets and stars and discern the hidden magnetic forces
that control the destiny of every living creature.

	As seer for the Czar, young Rodney assisted in the machinations of
the throne until 1943, when the monarch, ignoring Rimshaw's warnings, made
an ill-fated voyage to Berlin.  Grieving Bulgarians blamed Rimshaw for
failing to prevent the journey, and the slandered soothsayer was forced to
flee across the border to Yugoslavia.  It was there Tomas Munrab found him,
forty years later, plying his mystic skills in a hut outside the mountain
village of Strup.

	Today we are fortunate to have access to the same skills that once
influenced a great Balkan nation.  By placing his subject under hypnosis,
Rimshaw is able to recall the past in astounding detail. By tracing the
distinctive lines of the palm, he is able to foretell the roads that lie
ahead.  And by kneading the bumps on one's head, he is able to determine
individual traits and talents and how they may best be applied.

	Hypnotist, phrenologist, palmist, mystic beyond measure- RIMSHAW
THE INCOMPARABLE.

                                8

                              TINA
                  827 Pounds of Feminine Charm

	Imagine giving birth to a 36-pound baby girl!  That was the joyful
surprise for Mrs. Oscar Whittlesby, statuesque wife of the renowned
meteorologist, on New Year's Day 1966 at their home in the Northwest
Territories.

	This scientific miracle was only the first in a series of fantastic
milestones in the life of our alluring Tina.  By the age of 8, the tyke
weighed in at an astonishing 410 pounds.  By 12, she weighed 639 pounds. 
And at age 14, when she reached her full adult height of 6'5", Tina tipped
the scales at a truly monumental 827 pounds, over a third of a ton!

	Like the pleasingly plump maidens in paintings of your, Tina
retains a winsome charm and a fashionable flair much appreciated by her
fellow performers.  Stop by her tent and say hello to the largest
enchantress in the world!

                          ANDREW JENNY
                       Half Man/Half Woman
                       Believe It or Not!

	In the world of physical phenomenon, few oddities can compete with
the strange union of a man and a woman in one body.  It is particularly
rare and fascinating to find a figure split vertically, with one half
entirely given over to the male and the other half entirely to the female.

	The Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc. is honored to call
itself home to Andrew Jenny, a delightful example of this particular
biological quirk.  Andrew is the epitome of masculine bravado, while Jenny
exudes a beguiling femininity.

	Guests are received in Jenny's cozy boudoir, where time flies by in
the distinguished company of one of nature's intriguing curiosities.

                                9

                           CIRCUS WEEK

                              WPDL
                   Welcomes You to the Circus!

	In the golden days of this century, nothing matched the great
family entertainment of an evening spent around the radio -
except for those magical nights when the circus was in town!

	The Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc. harkens back to a time
of simple pleasures.  That's why WPDL is proud to be the official sponsor
of the big top for the week of August 28 to 24.

	Enjoy the show!  And when you get home, tune in to music that
soothes the savage beast...

                              WPDL
WPDL, 1170 AM, America's foremost classical AM radio station.

                               10

                 INSTRUCTION MANUAL FOR BALLYHOO

	Spurred by your natural curiosity, you stick around after the show
in the big top, hoping to catch an after-hours performance.  Perhaps you'll
get a peek at an impromptu clown act, or watch the late-night feedings of
the exotic animals you goggled at earlier.  But life at the circus isn't
glamorous after the audience has gone home: instead of flashy feats, you
overhear a mysterious conversation: a little girl - the circus owner's
daughter - has been kidnapped!  Her father is too naive (or is he too
pompously stupid?) to do more than hire an inept detective to find her.  He
remains blindly loyal to his overworked performers, but...could it be an
inside job?  The girl might be hidden somewhere on the circus grounds...and
one of the performers might be her abductor!

	So you do what anyone would do in these circumstances; set out to
rescue the damsel in distress.  The odds aren't in your favor; you - a
spectator, a bystander, an outsider in a defensive close-knit community -
trying to find a girl you've never met, in a place you know nothing about,
among bizarre people who want nothing to do with you.  Some would call you
brave.  Some would call you foolish.

	Every circus has its seedy underside.  But few are as dangerous as
this.

	If you're familiar with Infocom's interactive fiction, you may not
feel like reading this entire manual.  However, you should at least look at
the appendix of recognized verbs (on page 18); some of the verbs listed are
found in all Infocom stories, while others are included especially for
Ballyhoo.

 
                        Table of Contents 
 
An Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Page 12 
What is interactive fiction? 
 
Tips for Novices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 
Nine useful pointers about interactive fiction. 
 
Communicating with Ballyhoo. . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
	Basic sentences 
	Complex sentences 
	Talking to characters in the story 
	Vocabulary limitations 
 
Starting and Stopping. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 
	Starting Ballyhoo ("Booting Up") 
	Saving and Restoring 
	Quitting and Restarting 
 
Appendix A: Important Commands . . . . . . . . . . . 17 
 
Appendix B: Some Recognized Verbs. . . . . . . . . . 18 
 
Appendix C: Ballyhoo Complaints. . . . . . . . . . . 18 
 
Appendix D: Sample Transcript and Map. . . . . . . . 20
 
Appendix E: We're Never Satisfied. . . . . . . . . . 22 
 
Appendix F: If You Have Technical Problems . . . . . 23 
 
Appendix G: About the Author . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 
 
Appendix H: Copyright Warranty Information . . . . . 23
 
Appendix I: Quick Reference Guide. . . . . . . . . . 24 
This is a brief summary of the most important things to know 
about interactive fiction.  It is vital to know all these things
before you begin playing. 

                               11

An Overview

	Interactive fiction is a story in which you are the main character.
 Your own thinking and imagination determine the actions of that character
and guide the story from start to finish.

	Each work of interactive fiction, such as Ballyhoo, presents you
with a series of locations, items, characters, and events.  You can
interact with these in a variety of ways. 

		To move from place to place, type the direction you want to
go.  The first time you find yourself in a new region, it's a good idea to
become familiar with your surroundings by exploring the nearby rooms and
reading each description carefully.  (You may notice that Ballyhoo
occasionally refers to a location as a "room," even if you are outdoors.) 
As you explore, it is helpful to make a map of the geography.

	An important element of interactive fiction is puzzle-solving. 
You should think of a locked door or a ferocious beast not as a permanent
obstacle, but merely as a puzzle to be tackled.  Solving puzzles will
frequently involve bringing a certain item with you, and then using it in
the proper way.

	In Ballyhoo, time passes only in response to your input. You might
imagine a clock that ticks once for each sentence you type, and the story
progresses only at each tick.  Nothing happens  until you type a sentence
and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, so you can plan your turns as slowly
and carefully as you want. 

	To measure your progress, Ballyhoo keeps track of your score.  You
may get points for solving puzzles, performing certain actions, or visiting
certain locations.  A perfect score is to be strived for, but of course
having fun is much more important.

                               12

Tips for Novices 
 
1. Draw a map.  It should include each location, the directions connecting
it to adjoining locations, and any interesting objects there.  (See the
small sample map that goes along with the sample transcript on page 20.) 
Note there are 10 possible directions plus IN and OUT. 

2. Examine all objects you come across.  Most objects in the story that you
can pick up are important for solving one or more of the puzzles you'll run
into.

3.  Save your place often.  That way, if you mess up or get "killed," you
won't have to start over from the beginning.  See page 16 for instructions.

4.  Read the story carefully.  There are often clues in the descriptions of
locations and objects.  Even strange or dangerous actions may provide
clues, and might prove to be more fun!  You can always save your position
first if you want.  Here's a silly example:

>PUT THE SADDLE ON THE PONY
As you drop the heavy saddle onto the pony, the animal is crushed by the
weight, and it falls down, legs splayed.

Here you have a clue that you should find either a lighter saddle or a
sturdier horse.

5.  Unlike other "adventure games" you may have played, there are many
possible routes to the end of Ballyhoo.  Some puzzles have more than one
solution; other puzzles don't need to be solved at all.  Sometimes you will
have to solve one puzzle in order to obtain the item(s) or information you
need to solve another puzzle.

6.  You may find it helpful to go through Ballyhoo with another person. 
Different people may find different puzzles easy and can often complement
each other.

7. If you really have difficulty, you can order a hint booklet and a
complete map using the order form in your package.  You don't need this
booklet to enjoy the story, but it will make solving the puzzles easier.

8.  Read the sample transcript on page 20 to get a feel for how Infocom's
interactive fiction works.

9.  You can word a command in many different ways.  For example, if you
wanted to pick up a yellow hoop, you could type in any of the following:

>GET HOOP
>TAKE THE HOOP
>PICK UP THE YELLOW HOOP

In fact, if the hoop is the only thing in sight that you can take, just
typing TAKE would have been enough.  But more about that in the next
section...

                               13

Communicating with Ballyhoo 
 
In Ballyhoo you type your sentence in plain English each time you see the
prompt (>). Ballyhoo usually acts as if your sentence begins "I want
to.....," although you shouldn't actually type those words.  You can use
words like THE if you want, and you can use capital letters if you want;
Ballyhoo doesn't care either way. 

	When you finish typing a sentence, press the RETURN (or  ENTER)
key. Ballyhoo will respond by telling you whether your  request is possible
at this point in the story, and what happened as a result. 

	Ballyhoo recognizes your words by their first nine letters, and all
subsequent letters are ignored.  Therefore, HYPNOTist, HYPNOTize, and
HYPNOTic would all be treated as the same word by Ballyhoo. 

	To move around, just type the desired direction.  You can  use the
eight compass directions: NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST,  NORTHEAST, NORTHWEST,
SOUTHEAST, and SOUTHWEST.  You can  abbreviate these to N, S, E, W, NE, NW,
SE, and SW, respectively.  You can use UP (or U) and DOWN (or D), IN and
OUT will also work in certain places. 

	Ballyhoo understands many different kinds of sentences.  Here are
some examples. (Note that some of these items do not actually appear in
Ballyhoo.) 
 
>WALK NORTH 
>DOWN 
>NE 
>GO UP
>READ THE BANNER
>GO OUT
>POUR THE WATER INTO THE POT
>EXAMINE THE LARGE RED BALLOON
>PUSH THE BLACK BUTTON
>GIVE $1.50 TO THE HAWKER
>SHOOT THE ELEPHANT WITH THE ELEPHANT GUN
>GIVE THE FLY TO THE FROG
>LOOK INSIDE THE CAGE
>CLIMB THE FENCE
>BET 75 CENTS
>SET THE WATCH TO 8:30
>TAKE THE BURNING COAL WITH THE ASBESTOS
 
	You can use multiple objects with certain verbs if you  separate
them by the word AND or a comma.  Some examples: 
 
>TAKE THE BOOK AND KNIFE
>DROP THE YELLOW BALL, THE SPOTTED FROG, AND THE PEANUT
>PUT THE LADYBUG AND THE SPIDER IN THE JAR

                               14

	You can include several sentences on one input line if you 
separate them by the word THEN or by a period. (Each sentence  will still
cause time to pass.)  You don't need a period at the  end of the input
line.  For example, you could type all of the  following at once, before
pressing the RETURN (or ENTER) key: 
 
>READ THE SIGN. GO NORTH THEN TAKE THE CROWBAR AND MALLET 
 
If Ballyhoo doesn't understand one of the sentences on your input line, or
if something unusual happens, it will ignore the rest of your input line
(see "Ballyhoo Complaints" on page 18). 

The words IT and ALL can be very useful.  For example:

>TAKE THE APPLE. POLISH IT. PUT IT IN THE BOX
>CLOSE THE HEAVY METAL DOOR. LOCK IT
>TAKE THE SHOE. EMPTY IT. PUT IT ON
>TAKE ALL
>TAKE ALL EXCEPT THE WET EGG AND THE KEY
>TAKE ALL FROM CABINET
>DROP ALL BUT THE PENCIL

	The word ALL refers to every visible object, except those  inside
something else.  If there were an apple on the ground and an orange inside
a cabinet, TAKE ALL would take the apple but not the orange. 

	There are three kinds of questions that Ballyhoo understands: WHO
IS (someone), WHERE IS (something), and WHAT IS (something).  For example:

>WHO IS HARRY?
>WHERE IS THE TICKET?
>WHAT IS A PHRENOLOGIST?

	You will meet other people and creatures in Ballyhoo.  You can
"talk" to some of these beings by typing their name, then a comma, then
whatever you want to say to them.  Here are some examples:

>LOIS, HELLO
>FRED, WHERE IS MY TICKET?
>JUGGLER, FOLLOW ME
>MIDGET, GET OFF THE PONY THEN GIVE ME A TICKET
>HARRY, TAKE THE GUN. SHOOT THE PENGUIN

Notice that in the last two examples, you are giving a person more than one
command on the same input line.  But remember: most people in the story
don't care for idle chatter.  Your deeds will speak louder than your words.

	Ballyhoo tries to guess what you really mean when you don't give
enough information.  For example, if you say that you want to do something,
but not what you want to do it to or with, Ballyhoo will sometimes decide
that there is only one possible object you could mean.  When it does so, it
will tell you.  For example:

>UNLOCK THE DOOR
(with the key)
The door is now unlocked

	If your command is ambiguous,  Ballyhoo will ask what you really
mean.  You can answer most of these questions briefly by supplying the
missing information, rather than typing the entire input again.  You can do
this only at the very next prompt.  For example:

>CUT THE ROPE
What do you want to cut the rope with?
>THE KNIFE
As you cut the rope, you hear a loud crash in the tent.

or

>TAKE THE BUTTERFLY
Which butterfly do you mean, the delicate magenta butterfly or
the fat yellow butterfly?
>DELICATE
The delicate magenta butterfly flutters away as you reach for it.

	Ballyhoo uses many words in its descriptions that it will not
recognize in your commands.  For example, you might read, "The full moon is
bright and clean, and the wagons case eerie shadows."  However, if Ballyhoo
doesn't recognize the words MOON or SHADOWS in your input, you can assume
they are not important to your completion of the story, except to provide
you with a more vivid description of where you are or what is going on. 
Ballyhoo recognizes over 900 words, nearly all that you are likely to use
in your commands.  If Ballyhoo doesn't know a word you used, or any of its
common synonyms, you are almost certainly trying something that is not
important in continuing your adventure.

                               15

Starting and Stopping 
 
Starting the Story:  Now that you know what to expect when you  venture
into Ballyhoo, it's time for you to "boot" your disk.  To load Ballyhoo,
follow the instructions on the Reference Card in your package. 

	The story will begin with a description In the Wings, the opening
location.

	Here's a quick exercise to help you get accustomed to  interacting
with Ballyhoo.  Try the following command first: 
 
>LOOK AT THE BIG TOP   
 
Then press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.  Ballyhoo will respond with: 
 
Soiled by endless miles of travel and heavily patched in places, the wide
blue-and-white stripes nevertheless rise up to meet at the top of the
towering center pole.

Then try"
  
>GO NORTHEAST
 
After you press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, Ballyhoo will respond:

Climbing up into the deserted and littered grandstands produces a
disorienting sense of deja vu.  You make a headachy descent down the steps.
  Saving and restoring:  It will probably take you several days to complete
Ballyhoo.  Using the SAVE feature, you can continue the  story at a later
time without having to start over from the  beginning, just as you can
place a bookmark in a book you are  reading. SAVE puts a "snapshot" of your
place in the story onto  another disk.  If you are cautious, you may want
to save your place before (or after) trying something dangerous or  tricky.
 That way, you can go back to that position later, even  if you have gotten
lost or "killed" since then.
 
	To save your place in the story, type SAVE at the prompt  (>), and
then press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.  Then follow the instructions for
saving and restoring on your Reference Card.  Some computers require a
blank disk, initialized and formatted, for saves.  Using a disk with data
on it (not counting other Ballyhoo saves) may result in the loss of that
data, depending on your computer.  You can save your position as often as
you like by using additional blank disks. 

 	You can restore a saved position any time you want. To do  so, type
RESTORE at the prompt (>), and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.  Then
follow the instructions on your Reference Card.  You can then continue the
story from the point where you  used the SAVE command. You can type LOOK
for a description of where you are.
 
Quitting and restarting:  If you want to start over from the  beginning,
type RESTART and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. (This is usually faster
than re-booting).  Just to make sure, Ballyhoo will ask if you really want
to start over.  If you do, type Y for YES and press the RETURN (or ENTER)
key.

	 	If you want to stop entirely, type QUIT and press the
RETURN (or ENTER) key. Once again, Ballyhoo will ask to make sure this is
really what you want to do. 
 
	Remember when you RESTART or QUIT: if you want to be able to return
to your current position, you must first use do a SAVE.


                               16

Appendix A 
 
Important Commands 
 
There are a number of one-word commands which you can type  instead of a
sentence.  You can use them over and over as needed.  Some count as a turn,
others do not.  Type the command after the prompt (>) and press the RETURN
(or ENTER) key.   
  
AGAIN - Ballyhoo will respond as though you had exactly repeated your
previous sentence.  Among the cases where AGAIN will not work is if you
were just talking to another character. You can abbreviate AGAIN to G. 
 
BRIEF - This tells Ballyhoo to give you a full description of a  location
only the first time you enter a it.  On subsequent  visits, Ballyhoo will
tell you only the name of the location and any objects present. This is how
Ballyhoo will normally act, unless you tell it otherwise using the VERBOSE
or SUPERBRIEF commands. 
 
DIAGNOSE - Ballyhoo will give you a brief report of your physical
condition. 
 
INVENTORY - Ballyhoo will list what you are holding.  You can  abbreviate
INVENTORY to I. 
 
LOOK - This will give you a full description of your current  location. You
can abbreviate LOOK to L. 
 
OOPS - If you accidentally mistype a word, such that Ballyhoo doesn't
understand the word, you can correct yourself on the next line by typing
OOPS and the correct word.  Suppose for example, you typed GIVE THE YELLOW
BALL TO THE KUGGLER and were told "[I don't know the word 'kuggler'.]" You
could type OOPS JUGGLER rather than retyping the entire sentence. 
 
QUIT - This lets you stop.  If you want to save your position  before
quitting, follow the instructions in "Starting and  Stopping" section on
page 18. You can abbreviate QUIT to Q. 
 
RESTART - This stops the story and starts it over from the  beginning. 
 
RESTORE - This restores a saved position made using the SAVE  command.  See
"Starting and Stopping" on page 16 for more  details. 
 
SAVE - This puts a "snapshot" of your current position onto a  storage
disk.  You can return to a saved position in the future  using the RESTORE
command.  See "Starting and Stopping" on page  16 for more details. 

SCORE - Ballyhoo will show your current score.

SCRIPT - This command tells your printer to begin making a  transcript of
the story as you venture onwards. A transcript may aid your memory but is
not necessary.  It will work only on certain computers; read your Reference
Card for details.
 
SUPERBRIEF - This commands Ballyhoo to display only the name of a place you
have entered, even if you have never been there before. In this mode,
Ballyhoo will not even mention which objects are  present.  Of course, you
can always get a description of your  location, and the items there, by
typing LOOK.  In SUPERBRIEF  mode, the blank line between turns will be
eliminated.  This mode is meant for players who already know their away
around.  Also  see VERBOSE and BRIEF. 
 
UNSCRIPT - This tells your printer to stop making a transcript. 
 
VERBOSE - This tells Ballyhoo that you want a complete description of each
location, and the objects in it, every time you enter a location, even if
you've been there before.  Also see BRIEF and SUPERBRIEF. 
 
VERSION - Ballyhoo responds by showing you the release number and serial
number of your copy of the story.  Please include this  information if you
ever report a "bug" in the story.
 
WAIT - This will cause time in the story to pass.  Normally, between turns,
 nothing happens in the story.  You could leave your computer, take a nap,
and return to find that nothing has  changed.  You can use WAIT to make
time pass in the story without doing anything.  For example, you can wait
for a specific time, or wait for an event to happen, etc. You can
abbreviate WAIT to Z. 

                               17

Appendix B 
 
Some Recognized Verbs 
 
These are only some of the verbs that Ballyhoo understands.  There are many
more.  Remember that you can use a variety of  prepositions with them.  For
example, LOOK can become LOOK  INSIDE, LOOK BEHIND, LOOK UNDER, LOOK
THROUGH, LOOK AT, and so  on. 
 
ASK		EXAMINE		LOCK		SIDE-WALL
ATTACK		EXIT		LOOK 		SLIDE
BET  		EXTINGUISH	OFFER		SMELL 
BOARD		FILL	     	OPEN		STAND
CLIMB		FIND		POUR		TAKE
CLOSE		FOLLOW		PULL		TELL
COUNT		GIVE		PUSH		THROW
CUT		JUMP		PUT		TIE
DESTROY		KICK		RAISE		TOUCH
DIG		KILL		READ		UNLOCK
DISEMBARK	KISS		SEARCH		UNTIE
DRINK		KNOCK		SET		WAKE
DROP		LIE		SHAKE		WAVE
EAT		LIGHT		SHOUT
ENTER		LISTEN		SHOW
 
Appendix C 
 
Ballyhoo Complaints 
 
Ballyhoo will complain if you type a sentence that confuses it  completely,
and will then ignore the rest of the input line.  (Certain events in the
story may also cause Ballyhoo to ignore the rest of the sentences you
typed, since the event may have changed your situation drastically.) 
Ballyhoo's complaints always appear in brackets "[like this]" to
distinguish them from the text of the story.  Some of Ballyhoo's
complaints: 
 
I DON'T KNOW THE WORD "__________".  The word you typed is not in the
story's vocabulary.  Sometimes using a synonym or rephrasing will help.  If
not, Ballyhoo probably doesn't know the idea you were trying to get across.
Remember Ballyhoo recognizes your words by their first nine letters. 
 
YOU USED THE WORD "_______" IN A WAY THAT I DON'T UNDERSTAND.   Ballyhoo
knows the word you typed, but couldn't use it in that sense.  Usually this
is because Ballyhoo knows the word as a different part of speech.  For
example, if you typed PRESS THE LOWER BUTTON, you are using LOWER  as an
adjective, but Ballyhoo might know LOWER only as a verb, as in LOWER THE
BOOM. 

                               18

THERE WAS NO VERB IN THAT SENTENCE!  Unless you are answering a  question,
each sentence must have a verb (or a command) in it  somewhere. 
 
THERE SEEMS TO BE A NOUN MISSING IN THAT SENTENCE.  This usually means that
your sentence was incomplete, such as EAT THE BLUE. 
 
THERE WERE TOO MANY NOUNS IN THAT SENTENCE.  An example is PUT  THE SOUP IN
THE BOWL WITH THE LADLE, which has three noun  "phrases," one more than
Ballyhoo can digest in a single action. 
 
I BEG YOUR PARDON?  You pressed the RETURN (or ENTER) key without typing
anything.

YOU CAN'T SEE ANY ________ HERE!  The item you referred to was  not
visible.  It may be somewhere else, inside a closed  container, and so on. 
  THE OTHER OBJECT(S) THAT YOU MENTIONED ISN'T (AREN'T) HERE.  You referred
to two or more items in the same sentence, and at least one of them wasn't
visible to you in your present location. 

YOU CAN'T USE MULTIPLE (IN)DIRECT OBJECTS WITH "______."  You can use
multiple objects (that is, nouns or noun phrases separated by AND or a
comma) or the word ALL only with certain verbs.  Among  the more useful of
these verbs are TAKE, DROP, and PUT.  An  example of a verb that will not
work with multiple objects is  ATTACK; you couldn't say ATTACK ALL or
ATTACK THE PRIEST AND THE POLICEMAN. 
 
YOU CAN'T GO THAT WAY.  There was no passage or exit in the  direction you
tried to move. 

THAT SENTENCE ISN'T ONE I RECOGNIZE.  The sentence you typed may have been
gibberish, such as TAKE ROPE WITH READ.  Or, you may have typed a
reasonable sentence but used a syntax that Ballyhoo does not recognize,
such as WAVE OVER THE MOUNTAIN.  Try rephrasing the sentence.

                               19

Sample Transcript and Map 
 
This transcript is not from Ballyhoo, but it does show most of the usual
things you can do in the story.  It contains several simple puzzles and
their solutions, and will give you a good idea of how Infocom's interactive
fiction works. The player's sentences appear in capital letters after each
prompt (>).  The map represents the terrain in the sample transcript as you
might have drawn it.

                   !----------!  !-------------!
                   !  By      !--! In the park,!
                   ! the      !  ! near trees  ! Apple tree
                   ! Magician !  !-------------!
                   !----|-----!
                        |
                   !----|-----!   !-------------!
Broken plate       ! By the   !   ! In the park,!
Lacrosse ball      ! Juggler  !---! South of    !
Cracked candlepin  !----|-----!   ! trees       !
Chopstick               |         !-------------!
                   !----|-----!
                   ! By the   !  
    Monkey         ! Grinder  !
                   !----------!

Every summer the circus comes to town; and every year, you and all your
neighbors line the streets to watch the animals parade from t he railroad
station to the big field on the hill.  Many of the performers in the circus
also line the streets - acrobats, magicians, musicians, jugglers, and
clowns - to entertain the crowds before the parade.  Usually the sideshows
are better than the main event.

By the Grinder

You're awaiting the parade of the circus here on sunny Park Street, which
runs north and south.  A thick hedge to the east runs parallel to the
street.  People line the street as far as you can see in both directions. 
North of here you can see strange objects being tossed into the air
sporadically; south of here you can hear "oohs" and "aahs" of a tighter
crowd.

In front of you is an unshaven organ-grinder, looking hot, bored, and
weary.  Strapped to him is a hand organ, a black-and-yellow box with a
crank.  On top of the organ is a little gray monkey, dressed in a
red-and-gold vest and wearing a fez.

>PET THE MONKEY
The monkey jumps onto the organ-grinder's head, out of your reach.

>MONKEY, DANCE
The monkey yawns and ignores you.

>TURN THE CRANK
The organ-grinder steps back away from you.  "No performance without a
ticket," he grumbles.

>INVENTORY
You are carrying a circus ticket.

>EXAMINE TICKET
You see nothing interesting about the ticket

>GO NORTH

By the Juggler

You're still awaiting the parade of the circus here on Park Street, which
continues north and south.  A thick hedge to the east runs parallel to Park
Street.

In front of you is a young, dark-haired man juggling a broken plate, a
lacrosse ball, a cracked candlepin, and a chopstick.

>APPLAUD
The juggler bows, dropping everything.  The candlepin lands squarely on
your foot.

>PICK UP THE CANDLEPIN THEN GIVE IT TO THE JUGGLER
candlepin: Taken

"Thanks," says the embarrassed juggler, taking the candlepin.  He starts to
juggle again but soon drops everything.

>GO SOUTH

By the Grinder

The monkey is on its knees, arms outstretched, basking in the applause of a
small crowd.  "That was great," you hear someone say.  "The best act on the
street."  The people disperse, talking appreciatively about the monkey's
act.

>GIVE MY TICKET TO THE MONKEY
You gave the ticket to the monkey, who sniffs the ticket, lets out a yawn,
and tosses it into the air.  The ticket sails over the hedge to the east
and disappears.  You should've given the ticket to me," says the
organ-grinder sadly.

>ORGAN-GRINDER, FIND MY TICKEY
[I don't know the word 'tickey'.]

>OOPS TICKET
"Find it yourself."

>EAST
There's a hedge in the way!

>SOUTH
You can't go in that direction.  There are too many people crowded around a
performer.

>N
By the juggler
The juggler is here, dropping things.

>E
There's a hedge in the way!

>GO NORTH

By the Magician
Park Street continues north and south here. A thick hedge to the east runs
parallel to Park Street.

A woman wearing a black top hat and a tuxedo is here.  She is waving
colorful handkerchiefs around, which turn into flowers, and then turn back
into handkerchiefs.

>EAST
There's a hedge in the way!

>CLIMB OVER THE HEDGE
Its branches are too little and prickly to climb.

>CRAWL UNDER THE HEDGE
You smell dirt in your face and feel thorns on your back as you crawl under
the hedge and find yourself...

In the Park, Near Trees

You're in a large, sunny park, nearly empty since most people are awaiting
the parade of the circus on Park Street.  An apple tree and an elm tree
stand nearby.

A large dog comes bounding up to you, tail wagging.  It has something in
its mouth.

>LOOK AT THE DOG
This is a very large dog, a cross (you'd guess) between a Great Dane and a
German Shepherd.  It has your ticket in its mouth.

The dog runs around you playfully.

>TAKE THE TICKET FROM THE DOG
The dog, enjoying the game of tug-of-war, holds onto the ticket tightly.

>EXAMINE THE TREE
[Which tree do you mean, the apple tree or the elm tree?]

>APPLE
The tree already contains good-sized apples, even though apple season is
weeks away.

>PICK AN APPLE
apple: picked

>SHOW THE APPLE TO THE DOG
The dog isn't interested.

>THROW THE APPLE
The dog briefly considers chasing the apple, which bounces away, then
decides not to.  It runs around you playfully.

>PICK AN APPLE
apple: picked

>W
You crawl under the hedge and find yourself...

By the Magician

>ASK THE MAGICIAN ABOUT THE DOG
The woman ignores you.

>SOUTH
The juggler is here, juggling.

>WAIT
Time passes...

The juggler drops everything.  The lacrosse ball lands squarely on your
foot.

>TAKE THE LACROSSE BALL AND THE CHOPSTICK
lacrosse ball: taken
chopstick: taken

                               21

>JUGGLER, TELL ME ABOUT THE DOG
"You mean the big dog in the park? I don't know much about him, other than
he's friendly and likes to fetch sticks."

>GIVE THE LACROSSE BALL AND THE APPLE TO THE JUGGLER
lacrosse ball: "Thanks," says the embarrassed juggler, taking the lacrosse
ball. 
apple: "Hey, thanks! Keep the chopstick!" He starts juggling the apple, the
lacrosse ball, the broken plate, and the cracked candlepin.

>I
You are carrying a chopstick.

>CRAWL UNDER THE HEDGE
You crawl under the hedge and find yourself...

In the Park, South of Trees

You're in a large sunny park. North of here, you see an apple tree and an
elm tree.

The large dogs comes bounding up to you, tail wagging.  It has something in
its mouth.

>SHOW THE CHOPSTICK TO THE DOG
The dog looks excitedly at the stick, and starts jumping for it.

>THROW THE CHOPSTICK
You heave the chopstick as far as you can.  The dog drops the ticket and
bounds happily after the stick.

>TAKE THE TICKET
ticket: Taken

>W
You crawl under the hedge and find yourself...

By the Juggler

The juggler is here, juggling.

>SOUTH
By the Grinder

The organ-grinder and his monkey are here.

>GIVE THE TICKET TO THE ORGAN-GRINDER
The organ-grinder smiles broadly as he takes your ticket and punches it. 
"Thank you, sir," he says pleasantly.  He cranks his organ, and despite the
tinny sound, the monkey performs a memorable interpretive dance,
reminiscent of Gene Kelly in An American in Paris.  Indeed, the best act on
the street.

Appendix E 
 
We're Never Satisfied 
 
Here at the Infocom Game Writers Clown Society, we take great pride in the
quality of our products.  Even after our stories are "out the door," we're
constantly improving, honing and perfecting. 

	Your input is important.  No matter how much testing we  do, it
seems that some bugs never crawl into view until thousands of you begin
doing all those wild and crazy things to the story.  If you find a bug, or
if you think a certain puzzle was too hard or too easy, or if you have some
other suggestion, or if you'd just like to tell us your opinion of the
story, drop us a letter!  We love every excuse to stop working, and a
letter from you is just such an excuse!  Write to: 

	Infocom 
	125 CambridgePark Drive 
	Cambridge, MA  02140 
	Attn: RIMSHAW
  
                               22

Appendix F 
 
If You Have Technical Problems 
 
You can call the Infocom Technical Support Team to report "bugs" and
technical problems, but not for hints to solve puzzles, at  (617) 576-3190.
If your disk develops a problem within 90 days  after purchase, we will
replace it at no charge.  Otherwise,  there is a replacement fee fo $5.00
(U.S. funds).  If you call to report a bug, please provide your version
number, which you can  find by typing VERSION.  Please return the
registration card from you Ballyhoo package if you'd like to be on our
mailing list and  receive our newsletter, The New Zork Times. 
 
Appendix H 
 
About the Author
 
Jeff O'Neill is a computer school dropout from Whittier, California.  After
graduating in 1982 from California State University, Los Angeles, he worked
in journalism and for a while dabbled in computer science at a local
community college.  In the spring of 1984 he did the equivalent of running
away with the circus by moving to Massachusetts to become a game tester for
Infocom.  Through diligence and hard work he finally came to fulfill the
typical American boyhood dream - to get paid for writing interactive
fiction.  Ballyhoo is his first Infocom story. 
 
Appendix H 
Copyright and Warranty Information 
 
Limited Warranty 
 
This software product and the attached instructional materials  are sold
"AS IS", without warranty as to their performance.  The entire risk as to
the quality and performance of the computer  software program is assumed by
the user.  However, to the  original purchases of a disk prepared by
Infocom and carrying the Infocom label on the disk jacket, Infocom warrants
the medium on which the program is recorded to be free from defects in
materials and faulty workmanship under normal use and service for a period
of ninety (90) days from the date of purchase.  If during this  period a
defect on the medium should occur, the medium may be  returned to Infocom
or to an authorized Infocom dealer, and  Infocom will replace the medium
without charge to you.  Your sole and exclusive remedy in the event of a
defect is expressly  limited to replacement of the medium as provided
above.  This  warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may also
have  other rights which vary from state to state. 

 	N.B. After the warranty period, a defective Infocom disk may be
returned to Infocom with a check or money order for $5.00 U.S. funds for
replacement. 
 
                               23

Appendix I 
 
Quick Reference Guide 
 
1. To start the story ("boot up"), see the separate Reference  Card in your
Ballyhoo package. 
 
2. When you see the prompt (>) on your screen, Ballyhoo is waiting for your
input.  There are four basic kinds of sentences or commands that Ballyhoo
understands: 
 
A. Direction commands:  To move from place to place, just type the
direction you want to go: N (or NORTH), S, E, W, NE, NW, SE, SW, U (or UP),
D, IN, or OUT. 
 
B. Actions:  Just type what you want to do.  Some examples:  READ THE BOOK
or OPEN THE DOOR or LOOK THROUGH THE WINDOW or GIVE THE BALL TO THE CAT.
Once you're familiar with simple commands, you'll want to use more complex
sentences are described in "Communicating with Ballyhoo" on page 14. 
 
C. Commands given to other characters:  Talk to characters in the story by
typing their name, then a comma, then what you want to say to them.  For
example:  FRED, GIVE ME THE AXE or OLD MAN, HELLO.
 
D. Special one-word commands: Some one-word commands, such as INVENTORY or
DIAGNOSE, give you specific information or affect your output. A list of
these appears in the "Important Commands" appendix on page 17. 
 
3. Important! After typing your input, you must press the RETURN (or ENTER)
key before Ballyhoo will respond. 
 
4. On most computers, your screen will have a special line called the
status line. It tells you the name of your current location, your score,
and the number of turns you have taken.
 
5. You can pick up and carry many of the items you'll find in the story. 
For example, if you type TAKE THE FLASK, you will be  carrying it.  Type
INVENTORY to see a list of the items you are carrying.
 
6. When you want to stop, save your place for later, or  start over, read
"Starting and Stopping" on page 18. 
 
7. If you have trouble, refer to the specific section of the  manual for
more detailed instructions. 
 
                               24

	When the crowds have left the big top and the performers retire to
their trailers, a heightened sense of mystery pervades the circus lot. 
Attracted by the shadowy recesses beyond the floodlights you wander off to
explore forbidden corners of the White City.  There, amidst tattered
banners and grotesque freaks, you find a world of corruption and crime.

	Overhearing a conversation between the circus owner and a local
gumshoe, you learn that the owner's young daughter has been kidnapped.  It
soon becomes apparent that the sotted sleuth is in no condition to help. 
While exploring the seedy nooks and crannies of the circus, you find
evidence that the child is being hidden on the lot.  Can you find her?

	Untangling a twisted skein of motives and mayhem, you begin to
realize how much of an outsider you really are.  You'll need to perform a
few stunts of your own to protect yourself and the missing child, as you
try to break through a wall of secrecy to learn the truth.

	The Table of Contents for the instruction manual is on page 11. 
Take a look at it to find out what you need to know before you start the
story.
 
            Interactive Fiction Reference Card for the 
 
                         COMMODORE AMIGA 
 
This booklet tells you how to run your Infocom story on your  computer, and
provides a few other handy bits of information. 
 
I.  What You Need 
Required: 
	Amiga computer  
	For Interactive Fiction PLUS only: A monitor that supports 
        an 80-column display, such as an RGB-type monitor. 
 
Optional: 
	256K memory expansion cartridge (for faster execution; 
        especially recommended for Interactive Fiction PLUS) 
	Extra 3-1/2 double-sided disks (for SAVEs)	 
	A second disk drive (for convenience with saves) 
	Compatible printer (for SCRIPTing) 
 
II.  Making a Backup Copy 
In accordance with the licensing agreement in your package, we  recommend
that you make a backup copy of the original story disk for your personal
use.  See your hardware manual for instructions on how to make disk copies.
Store your original disk in a safe  place and always start the story from
the backup. 
 
III.  Starting the Story 
Turn on the Amiga and wait for the Workbench to appear. Insert  the story
disk and open the disk icon into a window, then double- click on the story
icon. 

The story can also be started from within the Command Line  Interpreter
(CLI).  If the default drive and directory are not  the same as the
story's, they must first be changed with the "CD" command (for example, CD
DF1:) Then type in the story name. 
 
IV.  Talking to the Story 
Whenever you see the prompt (>), the story is waiting for your 
instructions. If you make a mistake, use the backspace key to  erase the
error.  When you have finished typing in your  instructions, press the
RETURN key.  The story will respond and  the prompt (>) will reappear. 

	If a description will not fit on a screen all at once,  "[MORE]"
will appear at the bottom of the screen.  After reading the screen, press
any key to see the rest of the description. 
 
V.   The Status Line 
At the top of the screen is a status line.  This line is updated after
every move to show your current position in the story.  Depending upon the
type of story, it may also show other  information. 
 
Score and Moves 
 
In stories that keep a score, such as the ZORK underground  adventures, the
right side of the status line will show something like this: 

	Score: 245/920 

The first number is your score and the second is the total number of moves
you have made.  In the example above, you have 245  points in 920 moves. 
 
Time 
 
In stories that keep track of the time, such as the mystery  thriller
DEADLINE, the right side of the status line will look  something like the
following: 

	Time: 9:22 a.m. 

This shows the current time of day in the story. 
 
VI.  SCRIPTing 
You can use the SCRIPT command to print out a transcript of your moves as
you go along.  SCRIPTing is an optional feature which is not necessary to
complete the story and may not be available with certain hardware. 
 
1.   Connect the printer to the appropriate port at the back of 
     the computer.  Use the Preferences tool (see Section IX) to
     make sure the system is configured correctly for your 
     printer. 

2.	Turn on the printer and make sure it's ready. 

3.   Type SCRIPT at the prompt (>) to start the transcript.  To 
     stop the transcript, type UNSCRIPT. 

4.   SCRIPT and UNSCRIPT may be used as often as desired. 
 
If a problem occurs with the printer, the story will "timeout"  (appear to
hang) for 30-seconds or so, then a printer error  message will appear.  If
you don't correct the problem before the 30 seconds are up, scripting is
automatically cancelled. 
 
VII.  Saving a Story Position 
You can save your current position in the story to any disk in  any drive,
space permitting. The save disk must not be write-  protected. No other
data on the save disk will be affected. 
 
1.   Type SAVE at the prompt (>).  A message will appear asking 
     you to choose a name for the save file. 

2.   If you want to SAVE to the story disk itself, just enter a 
     file name and press RETURN. 

3.   If you want to save to another disk, you must prefix the 
     file name with either the name of the second disk (e.g., 
     Saves:) or the name of the drive containing it (e.g., DF0:). 
     The prefix is needed even if the two disks were swapped 
     using a single drive.  If the save succeeds, the prefix 
     becomes the default prefix, and need not be typed again for
     the next save. 

     The disk drive will spin for several seconds. If all is 
     well, the story will respond: 
		OK 
	If it responds: 
		FAILED 
	consult the Troubleshooting section (see Section XI). 
 
	After saving your position, you may continue with the story.

 	NOTE: The file "Icon.Data" is used to create icons for new  save
files. If you delete this file, new save files will not have visible icons.

 
VIII. Restoring a Saved Story Position 
 
You can return to a previously saved story position at any time.  Type
RESTORE at the prompt (>).  The most recently saved or  restored position
will be displayed as the default.  Then enter  the name of a save file, as
in Section VII. 

	If you want to return to the default position, you can just press
the RETURN key. 
 
IX.  Amiga Preferences 
Several aspects of the story presentation can be changed using  the Amiga
Preferences tool, including text size (60 or 80  columns, except for
Interactive Fiction PLUS, which requires 80  columns) and color.  The size
can be changed only before the  story is started.  You also use Preferences
to specify your type of printer and the port to which it is connected.  The
Amiga  supports both parallel and serial devices. 
 
X.  Memory Usage and Multi-tasking 
 
On a multi-tasking computer such as the Amiga, all tasks share  the
available memory.  Some tasks may require that a certain  amount of memory
be available to work correctly.  Also, actions  like opening and resizing
windows or loading a printer driver can use large blocks of memory. 

	When the Infocom story loads, it will normally leave a  minimum of
64 Kbytes (32 Kbytes for Interactive Fiction PLUS).   This can be changed
by starting the story from the CLI with a  special argument of the form
"F/n", where n is the new minimum  number of free bytes (for example,
Deadline F/32000). If you  supply an argument, memory use statistics will
be displayed when the story loads. 

	You may need to increase the amount of free memory if, for 
example, you are running several tasks and switching between them causes
the system to hang.  On the other hand, you can probably  decrease free
memory if you are running only the story.  This may reduce or eliminate
disk activity on versions of the Amiga with  limited memory. 
 
X.  Troubleshooting - Load, SAVE, RESTORE and Other Problems 

A. If the story fails to load properly, or SAVE/RESTORE or SCRIPT fails,
check each of the following items.  If none of these  offers a solution,
consult your Commodore dealer for assistance.

1.   Inspect all disks carefully for any visible damage. 

2.   For SAVEs, make sure the save disk is not write-protected 
     (the small opening in the corner of the disk should be 
     covered). 

3.   For SCRIPTing, make sure the printer is connected properly,
     enabled for printing, not out of paper, etc. 

4.   Try again; the problem may be only momentary.  If all else 
     fails, you can call the Infocom Technical hotline at (617) 
     576-3190.  Please note that this number is for technical 
     problems only, not hints. 
 
B.  If the story produces an error message, run the following  procedure: 
 
Restart the story.  When the initial screen appears, type $VERIFY and press
the RETURN key.  The disk drive will spin for a minute or so, and a message
similar to one of the following will appear:

 1.  "DISK CORRECT".  The disk has not been damaged and the data  is
intact.  If you are having problems, they are most likely  hardware
related.  It is also possible that there is a bug in the program.  If you
suspect that there is a bug, call the Infocom  Technical Hotline. 
 
2. "DISK FAILED" or "DISK READ ERROR".  This reply indicates  either
hardware trouble or disk damage.  Repeat the $VERIFY  procedure several
times.  Also try the $VERIFY process on another computer (such as your
dealer's).  If the story ever replies  "DISK CORRECT", the problem is your
hardware.  
	
	If you repeatedly get a negative response on more than one 
computer, the disk has most likely been damaged.  Please send the disk only
to Infocom for testing and replacement.  

(Also included in the package)
	One purple balloon inscribed "The Traveling Circus That Time
Forgot, Inc.

	One ticket for August 21, 6:00 P.M., cost $7.50, Sec.24, Row AA,
Seat 4, advertising: "Don't Miss Rimshaw the Incomparable! Palmistry,
Phrenology, Hypnosis" (Two punch out dots: M [blue], F [pink]

	(Back of ticket) The Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc.
welcomes you to its two-ring extravaganza and sideshow extraodinaire! 
You'll see feats of skill and daring, ferocious animals from the jungles of
Africa and Asia, and amazing human curiosities!

	This ticket also entitles you to three sessions with RIMSHAW THE
INCOMPARABLE.  Simply present your ticket to (1) have your palm read, (2)
undergo hypnosis, and (3) allow him to read the bumps on your head.

	We are committed to bringing you the best entertainment value! 
With this in mind, we're completing a series of demographic surveys.  You
can help us by punching out the pink (female) or blue (male) dot on the
front of this ticket to indicate your gender.

	The Traveling Circus That Time Forgot, Inc. is not liable for any
loss of personal possessions or for any injuries or damages you might cause
or personally sustain while on the circus grounds.  To help prevent such
injuries or damages and thus avoid the possibility of lawsuits on our
behalf, we ask you to obey the following rules and regulations:

Please do not throw anything into the circus ring. Severe injury to our
performers may result.

Please do not feed or attempt to pet the animals.  These are unpredictable
wild beasts.

Beware of pickpockets, gamblers, thugs, and thieves.  We are not
responsible for local criminal elements.

Please leave immediately following the performance.  Do not loiter in the
ring or on the circus lot.

Above all, have fun!  We hope to see you again next time we're in town.

Card advertising: Dr. Nostrum's - A Wondrous Curative Guaranteed to Soothe
All Ills - prehydrogenated genuine preparation of naturally nitrated
compound herbified extract. (back of card)
                      Dr. Nostrum's Extract

	This medicine was originated by Dr. Nostrum in 1863 and since that
time numbers of grateful patients have testified to its worth.  It should
be in every medicine cabinet as it is a prompt and pleasant remedy for
aches, pains, sour stomach, heartburn, sick headache, constipation,
diarrhea, biliousness, itch, "singer's throat," and pin worms.

	De. Nostrum's contains 19% alcohol as a preservative and solvent.

	For Toothache - Wet cotton with Dr. Nostrum's Extract and crowd
into the cavity, or lay it around the roots of the aching tooth; also bathe
the face over the tooth with Dr. Nostrum's.

	For Itch - Lie on flannel wet with Dr. Nostrum's Extract.

	For Grippe & Catarrh - Take two teaspoons of Dr. Nostrum's Extract
three times a day.  Apply Dr. Nostrum's to all sore spots.  Sleep indoors,
preferably in bed, until the attack is broken.

	For Constipation, Diarrhea & Related Difficulties - One teaspoon of
Dr. Nostrum's Extract three times a day, to be taken half an hour before
meals.  Eat simple food and then only when hungry.  Take outdoor exercise,
be regular in habits, and drink plenty of water.

	Sick Headache - Headache is often due to indigestion.  Keep as
quiet as possible, clean out the intestinal canal with Dr. Nostrum's
Extract, eat slow, and chew the food well.

	For Sore Throat - Put a piece of flannel around the throat wet with
Dr. Nostrum's Extract.  Do not leave on too long or blistering may occur.

	For Pin Worms - Round and pin worms are transmitted to the human
body as Worm Eggs, swallowed in water, or in uncooked meat and vegetables. 
Treat with four tablespoons of Dr. Nostrum's Extract six times a day.  Dr.
Nostrum's paralyzes the worm and makes it let go its hold.

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================