                          Barbarian II Instructions

Prologue:

        At the finale of Barbarian - The Ultimate Warrior, the barbarian 
defeated the warriors of Drax and thus freed Princess Mariana from his
evil spell.
        Drax fled to the dungeons beneath his black castle, vowing to wreak
disaster on the Jewelled Kingdom.
        It is decided that there is only one way to stop Drax. the
Barbarian and Mariana - herself an accomplished swordswoman - are the only
two warriors skilled enough to survive the perilous journey to Drax's lair.
They must stop him before it is too late.

Barbarian II - The Dungeon of Drax

Choice of Character
        You may choose to play either the barbarian or Princess Mariana. At
the beginning of the game the two characters will appear. Choose your
warrior by moving the joystick left or right and pressing fire.

Levels
        You must fight your way through three levels - the Wastelands, the
Caverns, and the Dungeons - before arriving at the fourth level, the Inner
Sanctum of Drax. These sections must be played in the correct order.
        Each of the first three levels is a maze consisting of
approximately 28 screens. As you view each screen it is possible to walk
left, right, or into doors or caves at the back of the screen.
        The direction you are walking, as viewed on a map, is continually
changing and therefore a compass (in which the sword always points north)
has been provided at the bottom of the screen.
        When you reach the exit to the next level the Level Display will
pulse as a warning. It is not advisable to leave a level without first
collecting all available magical objects (see below).

Monsters
        On each of the first three levels you must fight six different
types of monster, some of which can be killed with one well-placed blow.
They are:
        The Wastelands - Saurian beasts, Neanderthal men, Apes, Mutant
Chickens, Stabbers, Floaters.
        The Caverns - Carnivores, Orc Guards, Crabs, Slithering Things,
Cave Trolls, Stingers.
        The Dungeons - Pit Things, Dungeon Masters, Giant Grubs, Gobblers,
Eyes, Orclets.
        If you survive to the Sanctum of Drax you must face the Living
Idol, A great Demon, and finally, the dreaded Drax!

Magical Objects
        In each of the first three levels there are two magical objects
that you will need to collect in order to survive throughout the quest.
        The axe increases your strength.
        The globe guards against death from Drax's magic.
        The potion increases your resistance.
        The key opens portcullis doors.
        The shield guards against death from the Demon's fire.
        The Jewel disables the Living Idol when the idol is reached.

Energy and Lives
        Your energy is displayed as a bar at the top right of the screen.
When it runs out you lose a life.
        You start the game with five lives. More lives can be gained
throughout the game by collecting any skulls you may find. These contain
the life-force of warriors who have preceded you. When you lose all your
lives you restart the current level.
        The energy of the current monster you are fighting is displayed as
a bar at the top left of the screen. When it runs out the monster is
destroyed.

Scoring
        The more difficult fighting moves will score highly and do more
damage.

Joystick Moves
        These are your joystick moves when you are facing right (reverse
these when facing left).

Without button pressed:

up=run, left=walk backwards, right=walk forwards, lower left/right=through
a door, down=turn around

With button pressed:

up=overhead chop or running jump when preceded by run, left=flying neck
chop, right=kick, down=low chop

        To jump across holes or pits you will need to make a running jump.
If you do not jump far enough you will find yourself teetering on the far
edge of the hole. By swiftly waggling the joystick left and right you may
save yourself.
