                   ===> BARD'S TALE III: Thief of Fate <===


[< PREFACE >]  As I lay dying...

I pray my body does not fail me before I am able to complete this most
important missive.  I pray as well that, somehow, the heroes who once  before
saved Skara Brae will find this accounting and act upon it.  I leave this
record so those who come after will know what horrors that the Mad God Tarjan
has perpetrated, and so that they will not be lulled into believing that
Skara Brae was his sole target.

How can I describe that day.  May, it did not begin like all others  for on
that day we celebrated the victory over Mangar that had so recently liberated
our city.  Bards from the world arrived in Skara Brae to play and herald the
brave deeds of those heroes who saved us.  The townspeople danced in the
streets with happiness, and the great festival filled all with an
overwhelming joy of life and renewed hope for the future.

Then Mangar's Master, the The Mad God Tarjan, arrived to reduce our day of
celebration into a day of mourning.  His shadow sank the city into pitiless
black oblivion.  Foul creatures that had festered in his flesh like maggots
burst forth to assault fair Skara Brae.  People ran, but could not run swiftly
enough to escape.  Tarjan's minions left none untouched.

Forgive the shakiness of my script, for life ebbs painfully from my body as I
write.  Tarjan, mocking my death curse, told me Skara Brae was barely one in a
series of conquests he had long contemplated to complete his revenge.  He
laughed when I said heroes would come to destroy his mad plan, yet I sensed
fear in his voice when I promised that the legendary Hawkslayer, and those
who defeated Margar, would return again to triumph.  As payment for my
threat, he gave a swift twist of his jewelled sword into my belly.

Tarjan must be stopped.  Whosoever reads this, you must get word to the
heroes.  This will be their greatest challenge, for upon their efforts rests
the fate of more than Skara Brae, more than the Six Cities of the plains.
Their failure will mean the extinction of all life - save for the wretched
Tarjan and his servile parasites.  Pray for success...and life renewed.


[< OBJECTIVES >]

You must assemble a group of adventurers who will travel to the seven
dimensions in search of the source of Skara Brae's destruction.  Along the
way, you'll gather words, spells, and items that will help you in your final
battle against the repugnant Evil One.  If you successfully destroy the Evil
One, Skara Brae will be released from the bond of ruin.

Using logic is he key to surviving in each of the dimensions.  Let's say
you're trekking around in some icy, arctic-like zone and a monstrous snow
wolf steps onto your path, bares its teeth, and then proceeds to chew off
your ankle.  You have a bag of spells to chose from, but one type of spell
would be 'especially' effective. (Hint: Trying to freeze the snow wolf in an
ice storm is not the best choice.)

Throughout the game, you'll need to make important decisions about how to
accomplish certain tasks.  You won't want to proceed in the usual 'Whatever
Works' method.  It will pay to think it out.


[< PRE-BUILT PARTIES >]

When you enter the Refugee Camp, you'll find a group of adventurers called
INTERPLAYERS ready to do your bidding.  They're not the most seasoned of


adventurers, but they're good enough for you to sample Thief of rate with.
Use these characters to find out how commands work, what different races and
classes do, how it feels to get repeatedly attacked, in general, what the
Realm is like.  When you're ready, you can create your own characters.


[< CREATING CHARACTERS >]

I'm sure most of you know how to do this, so there's no need in the key
pressing situation ... so listen up:

RACES
-----
HUMANS: Their strength and inventiveness make them one of the best survivors.
Never lacking agression , they can handle themselves in just about any adverse
setting.

ELF: Fair of hair and skin, the Elves are slightly taller,faster, and more
agile than humans.  Although weaker, they make up for this by being more
skilled in magical arts and war strategies.

DWARF: Stout and short, these people are amazingly strong and healthy.
Brightness, however, isn't a shining attribute of theirs.

HOBBIT: The Hobbit is deft and clever, which are ideal traits for thieving.
Their favorite boast is 'A locked door is soon no more.'

HALF-ELF: The result of an Elf and Human 'friendship', Half-Elves acquire
their fair and light skin from Elves, and their physical bulk from Humans.

HALF-ORC: Orcs are the henchman of evil wizards who are capable of little
more than following orders for physical dirty work.  Half-Orcs are tempered
with Human blood, so while they're still dangerous, they aren't completely
mindless drones forever in search of necks to wrench.

GNOME: Gnomes are much like Dwarfs, but a little more anti-social due to a
deficit in beauty.  Because they've spent so much time studying alone, Gnomes
have developed a certain flair for magic.


CHARACTER ATTRIBUTES
--------- ----------

As you create your characters, these attributes appear above the race
categories at the top of the screen.  They're your character's vital
statistics.  These values will determine how successful your character
performs in his or her class (or 'profession').

STRENGTH (ST): Nobody really wishes to be light on might, but strength is
especially important to fighters.

INTELLIGENCE (IQ): If you won't have brawn, then you better have the brains.
Magicians get bonus spell points for high intelligence scores.

DEXTERITY (DX): This helps determine how fleet of feed and nimble of hand
you'll be.  A high score makes you harder to hit, and helps you land the
first blow.  For Rogues, the higher this value, the less likely they'll get
their fingers snapped off in traps.

CONSTITUTION (CN): This represents your overall health.  The higher this is,
the more damage your opponent must inflict on you before you need to start
thinking about death.  Should you be blessed with strong constitution, you
will get bonus hit points.

LUCK (LK): Luck is ambiguous and unpredictable; you never know what alliance
it has made with fate.  One thing is known about luck: lucky souls are more
likely to resist evil magic and avoid traps.


CLASSES
-------

No one class, or profession, is nobler than the next.  As the mix of strings
on the Bard's mandolin makes for a richer sound, so will a mix of calls  
make for a richer journey.  Create a party with no Rogues or Bards, and
you'll have nobody to steal flowers for your grave and sing at your funeral.
While there are 13 classes to put your choosing, only eight are available to
the first-time adventurer.

WARRIOR: It's a rare weapon that this king of fighters can't handle.  Warriors
gain an extra attack capability for every four levels of experience after the
first; a reward for becoming more adept in battle.

PALADIN: This fighter swears to battle all evil and uphold honor and purity.
Due to their virtuous nature, the Paladin can handle some enchanted weapons
that other can't and also have greater resistance to spells cast on them.

HUNTER: These are the skilled assassins.  Their combat approach is to aim for
the vital organs or nerve center and do away with the opponent with as little
swordplay as possible.

MONK: These are no ordinary, somber, brown-robed, porridge eaters.  Monks are
actually adept fighters skilled in the ways of martial arts.  While Monks with
more experience prefer to fight with their bare hands, they can also use
traditional weapons.  A Monk's armor class improves as he or she gains levels.

BARD: Any Bard will tell you that music can do more than sooth the savage
beast.  The Bard can do a number of things from creating light to
regenerating spell points with a mere stroke of strings.

ROGUE: This dexterous thief makes a living out of picking locks and
neutralizing traps.  If you plan on traveling  without a Rogue, prepare to
pay a high physical price for your spoils.  A Rogue also has the ability to
identify mysterious items.  And perhaps most important, a Rogue can be an
excellent killer due to his or her ability to sneak up close to an opponent
before he or she attacks...and you'll soon find out just how important this
thief is to your fate.

CONJURER: Conjurers have the ability to heal wounds and create physical
phenomena like fire and light.

MAGICIAN: A Magician's specialty is to change the properties of physical
objects, such as enchanting a sword, turning an enemy to stone, or making a
dungeon wall vanish.

SORCERER: These mages have weighty illusions, ones that a newly-made
character surely couldn't handle.  You must know at least three spell levels
from the Magician and Conjurer classes.

WIZARD: Rumor of the Real is that these mages have the power to summon and
bind creatures of the supernatural, creatures who react foully to being
dragged out of their worlds on someone else's whim.

ARCHMAGE: Archmages must have mastered all the spells of any three magic
classes.  With this hefty experience requirement, Archmages are undoubtedly
the most auspicious among those who cast spells for a living.

GEOMANCER: Fighters who want to convert to a life of a magic can become
Geomancers.  Once they choose to change, they can still use the armor,
weapons, and magic items that the  fighter can use.  Beware: Bards lose their
songs, Warriors lose their multiple attacks, Hunters lose their critical hit
ability, and Monks lose their armor class bonus and multiple attacks.  It's
part of the trade off.

CHRONOMANCER: Chronomancers are the travel experts of the magic users.
Before becoming one, a magic user must master all the spells of any three
mage classes.  An once you become a Chronomaster, you lose the power to use
all the spells you previously learned.  It may sound unfair, but the
Chronomancer needs to focus all of his or her attention on the important
dimensions teleport spells.  Don't think you can get around without this
spellcaster, because you can't.


SPECIAL CHARACTER TIPS FROM THE REFUGEE CAMP
------- --------- ---- ---- --- ------- ----

* Don't worry about losing a level 1 character; just make another one if he
or she dies.  However, when your characters reach level 3, regularly back up
your character disk with your favorite disk copy utility or prepare to shed
tears over a lost character.

* If your favorite character is killed, you can resurrect him or her with
magic, or with gold if you can find a shrine that raises the dead.  You can
also turn off the computer, reboot, and reload your party from the point
where you last saved them to disk (which means all of the characters lose any
gold or experience points they may have earned since the last time you saved
them.)  Or, you can delete the dead character from your main character disk,
and replace that character from your backup disk.

* When you roll for attributes, shoot for 16's, 17's, and 18's since they can
make a big difference.  For example, high dexterity gives you bonus armor
protection and first strike capabilities; luck often lets your survive  if
you accidentally spring a trap; constitution provides all characters with
extra hit points; and high intelligence gives mages bonus spell points in
later turns.

* Certain races rely on certain attributes being strong.  A mage who is
strong but not intelligent is at a far greater disadvantage at an opposite
attribute... being weak but with high intelligence.

* Develop a Sorcerer quickly to use in the dungeons.  Wizards, too, are
important because they can summon extremely powerful special members .  Work
toward Archmagedom.  You'll also need to prepare at least one character for
the role of Chronomancer.

* Experiment with Hunters.  They can often kill superior  monsters quickly
because of their critical hit capabilities.  Rogues also have excellent
critical hit abilities, but only when they hide in the shadows.  And don't
dismiss the Monk as lightweights best left chanting in the monastery; after
the sixth level, they're probably the best fighters of all the classes.

* You can always enlist the services of special members and save them to your
party.

* Beware of certain magic squares.  Keep an eye on your character's
statistics while exploring.  If you see that your character's spell or hit
points are dropping for no apparent reason, your character is probably on a
magic square that drains power - jump off the square before he or she is
sapped of all strength.


[< SPECIAL CHARACTERS >]

You may meet special characters during your travels, or summon them with a
spell or magic article (the summoned characters are also known as illusionary
characters).  You can invite as many of these special characters to join your
party-granted you have the space in your party.  You can save special
characters to disk once you return to the Refugee Camp.

Special characters choose their own method of attack and usually go after the
first group of monsters that you party if facing.  Illusionary characters
disappear from the party ranks when they are killed or when a foe disbelieves
its existence.  If a nonillusionary special characters is attacked by another
party member  for any reason, the special character immediately turns hostile
and fights until defeated.  Dead special characters can be resurrected and
healed just like your regular characters.

Special characters can carry items for your party, but they can't find them
or use them.  Only the characters you made are capable of this.  When special
members are killed, anything they were carrying disappears, so don't have
them carry your favorite family heirloom.


[< MOVING UP IN LEVELS >]

All newly-made characters start out as level one.  As you adventure, fight,
and gain experience, you can go up in levels.  The higher your level, the
better you'll perform in the profession you choose: magic users cast more
spells, fighters fight more skillfully, thieves steal more successfully, and
so on.  To advance, you must go to the Review Board where the Old Man will
review your accomplishments and let you know if you are fit for
advancement... [Art possibly?]

Spellcasters need to advance in levels to acquire more spells.  What
spellcasters would wish to dedicate years of study only to dabble in the same
handful of tepid spells all of their lives?  The following tables shows at
what level spellcasters can use certain level spells.  For instance, a Wizard
with an experience level of 3 can only use spells up to the second level.
Spellcasters have seven spell levels that they can acquire.

EXPERIENCE LEVEL/SPELL LEVEL

1/1         8/4
2/1         9/5
3/2         10/5
4/2         11/6
5/3         12/6
6/3         13+/7
7/4

You can advance to a new, more powerful mage class once you learn enough
spells from enough mage classes.  Just how many spells and just which mage
classes you must learn depend on which mage class you want to advance to.
When you go to the Review Board, you'll find out exactly which classes you
can advance to at that time.

For those seeking to change classes, your experience points will reset to
zero, but your other attributes such as hit points, spell points, and gold
remain unaffected.  A warning to magic users: once you advance to a new mage
spells, you don't get the chance to learn the magic classes and spell levels
that you skipped.  For instance, if you become an Archmage without having
studied the Sorcerer spells, you cannot go back to learn those Sorcerer
spells.


[< PLACES >]

Despite the fact that much of the Realm was crushed, some places still do
stand.  The Scrapwood Tavern, for one, still does good business.


[< REFUGEE CAMP >]

Once, there was a home to travelers called the Adventurer's Guild.  Wayfarers
stopped there when they wanted to slake a thirst, engage in merriment, or
just rest their weary feet.  Now that the plague has descended and Skara Brae
has been shattered, the Refugee Camp serves as the gathering points for
travelers.

Although lacking the niceties of the Adventurer's Guild (tables, heating,
vermin free bedding), you can still do the same things in the Refugee Camp.
Come here to create characters, form a party, and save characters to disk.
This is where you will begin every game and where you will be returned should
all your party perish during the quest.


[< SCRAPWOOD TAVERN >]

Drink up!  This is the only tavern in the vicinity.  You may want to fill up
with a wineskin here so your Bard will not have to go thirsty in some of the
more inhospitable, tavernless areas.  While you're here, ask the barkeep how
things are going...


[< PLACES NO MORE >]

In the previous scenarios of Bard's Tale, you may of found places like
Roscoe's Energy Emporium, temples, casinos, but... here, you may not be so
fortunate.  So you may have to search out for alternatives, if there are any.


[< REVIEW BOARD >]

Once, this housed the representatives from each of the ten different classes
from all over the Realm.  They were responsible for advancing adventurers with
enough experience points to higher levels.  During the dark days, all fled or
perished in the attempt.  Now, the Old Man sits on the Board, and he alone
will answer to your call for advancement [Art, again in aid.]


[< MORE TIPS FROM THE REFUGEE CAMP - PLACES >]

* Your first adventure should be in the Mad God's dungeon in Skara Brae.
Here you'll build your savvy for fighting, spellcasting, and adventuring.

* Avoid potential traps.  Use the Trap Zap spell when in doubt.  It will
disarm any trap, including the Gas Cloud trap, famous for its toxic fumes.

=================================================================================
		The Bard's Tale III - The Thief of Fate

                            Book of Spells



Declarations
------------

Range of effectiveness

View........Line of sight.
##'.........Anything in the direction the spellcaster is facing for the number
  	    of feet specified by '##'.
Wall........A wall in the direction the spellcaster faces.
Level.......The entire level your party is on.
1 Object....A single object
1 Foe.......A single monster, regardless of the numberyour party faces.
Group.......One of up to four monster groups.
All Foes....All the monsters your party faces.
Char........The party member (character) you designate.
Special.....The special character you designate.
같..........Hits with full effectivness up to the listed range, and at reduced
	    effectiveness when it hits at double the listed range.
N/A.........Not applicable; used where range is not a factor in the spell.

Duration

Combat......Until combat ends.
1 Move......Exactly one move.
1 Round.....The entire round of combat.
Short.......A few minutes only.
Medium......Several minutes.
Long........Twice as long as short spells.
Indef.......Until the party enters the Refugee Camp or an anti magic zone.
Misc........Has multiple or variable ranges.
N/A.........Not applicable.



Mage Class
Level #:	CODE	COST	RANGE		DURATION
		Spell Name - Description
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Conjurer
--------
Level 1:	MAFL	2	View		Medium
		Mage Flame - A small flame, illuminating the immediate area.

		ARFI	3	1 Foe/10'	N/A
		Arc Fire - Fiery blue flames from the spellcasters hands inflict
		1 to 4 damage points depending on the Conjurer's level.

		TRZP	2	30'		N/A
		Trap Zap - Disarms any trap within 30'.

Level 2:	FRFO	3	Group		Combat
		Freeze Foes - Binds your enemies in a magical force making
		them an easy target.

		MACO	3	N/A		Medium
		Kiel's Magic Compass.

		WOHL	3	Char		N/A
		Word of Healing - Heals a member from 4 to 16 points of damage.

Level 3:	LERE	5	View		Long
		Lesser Revelation - An extended Mage Flame that also reveals
		secrte doors.

		LEVI	4	Party		Short
		Levitation - Partially nullifies gravity, letting your paty
		float over traps, or up and down through portals.

		WAST	5	Group/20'	N/A
		Warstrike - An electric spell where a stream of energy shhots
		from the spellcaster's hands inflicting 5 to 20 damage points.

Level 4:	INWO	6	Party		N/A
		Elik's Instant Wolf - Summons a giant and extremely fierce
		wolf to join your party.

		FLRE	6	Char		N/A
		Flesh Restore - A Healing spell that restores 10 to 40 damage
		points.

Level 5:	GRRE	7	View		Long
		Greater Revelation - Operates like Lesser Revelation but
		illuminates a wider range for a longer period of time.

		SHSP	7	Group/30'/같	N/A
		Shock Sphere - Creates a large Globe of intense electrical
		energy that envelopes a group of enemies and inflicts 10 to
		40 damge points.

Level 6:	FLAN	9	Group		N/A
		Flesh Anew - Works like Flesh Restore, but affects every member
		of the party.

		MALE	8	Party		Indef
		Operates like Levitation but lasts infinite.

Level 7:	REGN	12	Char		N/A
		Regeneratin - A health spell that revives all the hit points
		for one lucky party member.

		APAR	15	Party		N/A
		Aport Arcane - Teleports the party within a dungeon to any
		location that's not protected by a teleport shield.

		FAFO	18	Group		N/A
		Far Foe - Pushes a group of foes 40 feet further away from
		your party, up to a total distance of 90 feet.

		INSL	12	Party		N/A
		Elik's Instant Slayer - Materializes a slayer who joins your
		party.

Magician
-------- 	
Level 1:	VOPL	3	Char		Combat
		Vorpal Plating - Causes the weapon (or hands) of a party
		member to emit a magical field that inflicts 2 to 8 points
		of additional damage.

		QUFI	3	Char		N/A
		Quick Fix - Regenerates 8 hit points for a character, up to
		the character's max. hit point level.

		SCSI	2	Party		N/A
		Scry Site - Causes a dungeon wall or wilderness pathway to 
		reveal the party's location.

Level 2: 	HOWA	4	1 Foe/10'	N/A
		Holy Water - Holy Water sprays from the spellcaster's fingers
		inflicting 6 to 24 points of damage on any foe of evil or
		supernatural origin.

		MAGA	5	Char		Combat
		Mage Gauntlets - Makes the hands (or weapon) of a party member
		more deadly inflicting 4 to 16 points of additional damage.

		AREN	5	30'		Short
		Area Enchant - Causes the dungeon walls within 30 feet 
		(3 squares) to call out if the party is headed towards stairs.
	
Level 3:	MYSH	6	Party		Medium
		Ybarra's Mystic Shield - Causes the air in front of the party
		to form an invisible shield that's as hard as metal. The
		shield moves with the party.

		OGST	6	Char		Combat
		Oscon's Ogre Strength - Endows a specific party member with 
		the strength of Elik's Ogre for the duartion of the battle.

		STFL	6	Group/40'/같	N/A
		Star Flare - An electrical spell that ignites the air around
		your enemies, scorching them for 10 to 40 damage points.

Level 4:	SPTO 	8	1 Foe/70'	N/A
		Spectre Touch - Drains a single creature of 15 to 60 damage
		points.

		DRBR	7	Group/30'	N/A
		Dragon Breath - Lets the spellcaster belch a breath fire at a
		group of monsters, inflicting 8 to 64 damage points on each 
		monster.

Level 5:	ANMA	8	Party		Combat
		Anti-Magic - Causes the ground to absorb a portion of the
		spells cast at the party by monsters, giving the party a
		chance to escape unharmed. This spell also aids in disbelieving
		illusions and shielding against magical fires such as 
		Dragon Breath

		GIST	10	Party		Combat
		Giant Strength - Instills tremendous power in your party, 
		increasing their strike ability by 10.

Level 6:	PHDO	10	Wall		1 Move
		Phase Door - Vaporizes any wall that's not protected by an
		Anti-Phase Door aura or spell into air.

		YMCA	10	Party		Indef
		Ybarra's Mystical Coat of Armor - Works like MYSH but lasts
		indefinitely.

Level 7:	REST	25	Party		N/A
		Restoration - Regenerates the body of every party member to
		perfect condition; even cures poison or insanity.

		DEST	16	1 Foe/10'	N/A
		Death Strike - Instantly kills a selected enemy, wich
		certainly categorizes this spell as one that doesn't
		fool around.

		ICES	11	Group/50'	N/A
		Ice Storm - Pummels a group of monsters with chunks of ice,
		causing 20 to 80 points of damage.

		STON	20	Char		N/A
		Stone to Flesh - Takes a character who has been turned to stone
		and restores him to his natural flesh state.


Sorcerer
--------
Level 1:	MIJA	3	1 Foe/40'/같	N/A
		Mangar's Mind Jab - Casts a concentrated blast of electrical
		energy at one opponent, inflicting 2 to 8 points of damage
		for each experience level of the caster.

		PHBL	2	Party		Combat
		Phase Blur - Causes the entire party to become blurry in the
		eyes of the enemy, making your party tougher to strike.

		LOTR	2	30'		Short
		Locate Traps - Heightens the spellcaster's awareness for trap
		detecting. Works for 30' in the direction that the spellcaster
		is facing.

Level 2:	DISB	4	Party		N/A
		Disbelieve - Reveals an attacking illusion for the true
		nonphysical object that it is, causing it to vanish.

		WIWA	5	Party		N/A
		Wind Warrior - Creates the illusion of a battle-ready ninja
		in the ranks of your party. The illusionary ninja will fight
		until defeated or disbelieved.

		FEAR	4	Group		Combat
		Word of Fear - An incantation that causes a group of enemies
		to quake in fear, thus reducing their ability to attack and
		inflict damage.

Level 3:	WIOG	6	Party		N/A
		Wind Ogre - Like Elik's Instant Ogre, it summons a mean
		illusionary ogre to join the fray.

		INVI	6	Party		Combat
		Kylearan's Invisibility Spell - Invoke this spell to render
		the entire party nearly invisible to the enemy.

		SESI	6	30'		Medium
		Second Sight - Heightens awareness so the spellcaster can detect
		all traps and tricks that lie directly ahead.

Level 4:	CAEY	7	View		Indef
		Cat Eyes - Endows the entire Party with perfect night vision
		for an indefinite period of time.

		WIDR	12	Party		N/A
		Wind Dragon - Creates the illusion of a Red Dragon to join
		the ranks of your party.

Level 5:	DIIL	8	All Foes	Combat
		Disrupt Illusion - Destroys any illusions among the ranks of the
		enemy and prevents new illusionsfrom appearing.

		MIBL	10	All Foes/30/같	N/A
		Mangar's Mind Blade - An electric spell that strikes every
		opposing group within the range with an explosion of energy
		capable of inflicting 25 to 100 damage points.

Level 6:	WIGI	11	Party		N/A
		Wind Giant - Creates an illusionary elemental giant that joins
		your party and fights up a storm.

		SOSI	11	30'		Indef
		Sorcerer Sight - Operates like Second Sight but lasts
		indefinitely.

Level 7:	RIME	20	All Foes/40'	N/A
		Rimefang - Rakes the enemies with shards of ice, inflicting
		50 to 200 points of damage.
		
		WIHE 	16	Party		N/A
		Wind Hero - Creates an illusionary hero with the power of
		hurricane winds to join the party.

		MAGM	40	Group		N/A
		Mage Maelstorm - Assaults a group of opposing spellcasters and
		may do one of the following: inflict 60 to 240 damage points,
		turn them to stone, or kill them outright. However, because
		the Maelstorm is illusionary in nature, a disbelieving enemy
		can totally nullify it.

		PREC	50	All Foes	N/A
		Preclusion - Keeps the enemy from being able to summon any
		creatures.


Wizard
------
Level 1:	SUEL	10	Party		N/A
		Summon Elemental - Creates a fire elemental to join your party.

		FOFO	11	Group/10'	N/A
		Fanskar's Force Focus - Lands a cone of gravitational energy on
		a group of your foes, inflicting 25 to 100 points of damage.

Level 2:	PRSU	14	Party		N/A
		Prime Summoning - Coerces a powerful undead creature to 
		unwillingly join your party.

		DEBA	11	1 Foe/30'	N/A
		Demon Bane - Inflicts 100 to 400 points of damage on a single
		creature of evil or supernatural origin.

Level 3:	FLCO	14	Group/30'	N/A
		Flame Column - Creates a cyclone of flame that lashes out and
		delivers 22 to 88 points of damage to a group of foes.

		DISP	12	Char		N/A
		Dispossess - Returns a possessed party member to the normal
		state of consciousness.

Level 4:	HERB	13	Party		N/A
		Summon Herb - Summons Herb to join your party. Herb is pretty
		busy, but he'll hang out with your party for a while if you
		need him.

		ANDE	14	Char		Combat
		Animate Dead - Reanimates a dead character with living
		strength so he or she attacks enemies as if truly alive.

Level 5:	SPBI	16	1 Foe		N/A
		Baylor's Spell Bind - If successful, this spell possesses
		the mind of an enemy and forces him or her to join and fight
		for your party.

		SOWH	13	1 Foe/70'	N/A
		Storal's Soul Whip - Whips out a tendril of psionic power
		to strike a selected foe, inflicting 50 to 200 damage points.

Level 6:	GRSU	22	Party		N/A
		Greater Summoning - Operates like PRSU but causes a powerful
		elemental creature to appear and fight for the party.

		BEDE	18	Char		N/A
		Beyond Death - Brings a dead character back to life and gives
		him or her one hit point as a welcome back gift.

Level 7:	WIZW	16	Group/50'	N/A
		Wacum's Wizard War - An electric spell that creates a 
		pyrotechnical storm over agroup of monsters, inflicting 50 to
		200 dmage points.

		DMST	25	Group/50'	N/A
		Demon Strike - Unleashes the terrorizing power of demons unto
		the enemy ranks, causing 200 to 400 points of damage.


Archmage
--------
Level 1:	HAFO	15	All Foes	1 Round
		Oscon's Haltfoe - If successful, this spell causes every
 		attacking group to miss all their attacks during the next
		round.

		MEME	20	Group		N/A
		Melee Men - Pull an attacking group into melee range (10')
		regardless of how far they were when they began attacking.

Level 2:	BASP	28	Party		Misc
		Batch Spell - Executes the following batch of spells:
		Greater Revelation, Ybarra's Mystical Coat of Armor, Sorcerer
		Sight, Major Levitation and Kiel's Magic Compass.

Level 3:	CAMR	26	Party		N/A
		Camaraderie - Has a 50% chance of calming all monsters in your
		party that have turned hostile.

Level 4:	NILA	30	Group/60'	N/A
		Fanskar's Night Lance - Launches a chilling ice missile against
		a group of foes, inflicting 100 to 400 points of damage.

Level 5:	HEAL	50 	Party		N/A
		Heal All - A Beyond Death spell that resurrects every dead party
		member (except those turned to stone) and heals all wounds,
		paralysis and insanity.

Level 6: 	BRKR	60	Party		N/A
		The Brother's Kringle - The Brothers are always willing to help
		friends in trouble. Enough brothers appear to fill the empty
		slots in your party.

Level 7:	MAMA	80	All Foes/90'	N/A
		Mangar's Mallet - Inflicts 200 to 800 bone-crushing damage
		points against every monster group you face.


Chronomancer
------------
Level 1:	VITL	12	Char		N/A
		Vitality - Invigorates a character by healing 4 to 8 hit points
		per level of the caster.

Level 2:	WIFI	20	Group/20'	N/A
		Witherfist - Crushes a group of enemies under a huge fist of 
		power for 300 to 600 points of damage.

		COLD	20	Group/80'	N/A
		Frost Force - Blasts the enemy with a deadly frost for 50 to
		400 points of damage.

Level 3: 	GOFI	25	Group/80'	N/A
		God Fire - A holy spell where balzing fires are sent from the 
		angry god to roast the enemy for 60 to 240 damage points.

		STUN	30	All Foes	N/A
		Stun - An electric spell that gives the enemy a high-voltage
		zap for 50 to 200 points of damage.

Level 4:	LUCK	45	Party		Combat
		Luck Chant - Increases your chances of hitting or defending by
		8 points.

		FADE	50	Foe/30'		N/A
		Far Death - A long range spell that drops a distant foe dead
		in its tracks.

Level 5:	WHAT	60	1 Object	N/A
		Identify - Cast this spell on something to find out what the 
		heck it is.

		OLAY	60	1 Char		N/A
		Youth - Coats a character with a light, fragrant lotion to
		cure oldness.

Level 6:	GRRO	65	1 Char		Misc
		Grave Robber - Casts Beyond Death and Regeneratin for a life-
		giving combination of spells.

		FOTA	70	Group		Misc
		Force of Tarjan - Casts Witherfist and Snadstorm for a double
		offensive punch.

Level 7:	SHSH	60	Party		Indef
		Shadow Shield - Casts a gray shadow around the party and lowers
		their Armor Class by 4.

		FAFI	100	All Foes	N/A
		Fatal Fist - Crushes the enemy under an unearthly gravitational
		force for 400 to 1500 points of damage.


Geomancer
---------
Level 1:	EADA	5	Group/40'	N/A
		Earth Dagger - Cuts down the enemy with holy daggers for 200 to
		800 points of damage.

		EASO	5	Level		N/A
		Earth Song - Reveals all booby-trapped areas that can injure
		the party.

		EAWA	8	Level		N/A
		Earth Ward - Casts the Trap Zap spell on the entire level.

Level 2:	TREB	10	All Foes	N/A
		Trebuchet - Fries all foes witch wickedly hot flames for 150
		to 600 points of damage.

		EAEL	15	Party		N/A
		Earth Elemental - Summons an Earth Elemental, which is a
		creature created from the raw elements of the earth.

		WAWA	15	Wall		Misc
		Wall Warp - Works like Phase Door until the party leaves.

Level 3:	ROCK	18	1 Foe/60'	N/A
		Petrify - Turns an enemy up to 60 feet away into the hardest
		stone.

		ROAL	20	Level		N/A
		Roscoe's Alert - Reveals to the party where the anti-magic
		areas are.

Level 4:	SUSO	20	Level		N/A
		Succor Song - Shows all heal-party squares.
		
		SAST	25	Group		N/A
		Sandstorm - With a violent swirl of sand, all foes are whipped
		back 60 feet.

Level 5:	SANT	30	Level		N/A
		Sanctuary - Shows all mage regeneration squares.

		GLST	40	1 Foe/90'	N/A
		Glacier Strike - Impales the enemy with an icy stalagmite, 
		causing 400 to 1600 points of damage.

Level 6:	PATH	40	Level		N/A
		Pathfinder - An instant map that shows the entire maze the
		party is in.

		MABA	50	Group/50'	N/A
		Magma Blast - Burns a group of foes with a blast of hot, fiery
		magma for 300 to 1200 points of damage.

Level 7:	JOBO	60	All Foes	N/A
		Jolt Bolt - Wrenches the earth below the enemy, smashing
		them to the ground and gives them a jolting electrical shock
		to cause 400 to 1600 points of damage.

		EAMA	80	Group/50'	N/A
		Earth Maw - Commands the ground beneath the enemy's feet to 
		open wide and drop the foes in, so they're never seen again.


Misc. Spells
------------
		GILL	10	Party		Medium
		Gilles Gills - This survival spell lets your party breath
		under water. It is cumulative in effect; casting it more than
		once will extend the amount of time you can spend underwater.

		DIVA	250	All Foes/Party	Misc
		Divine Intervention - This powerful spell earns its name by
		doing the following: 1) Turns illusionary characters into real
		characters; 2) Cures characters of all illnesses but age; 3)
		restores all hit points to the party. If you are in combat,
		it also does the folllwing 1) lowers your Armor Class, saving
		throw to hit and damage by 20 points; 2) Increases your attack
		by eight points; 3) Casts Mangar's Mallet. 

		NUKE	150	All Foes	N/A
		Gotterdamurung - The finest in offensive obliteration, this
		spell annihilates the opponents for 2000 damage points.



		
				The Bard's Tunes


1. Sir Robin's Tune     : This lets you run away from attackers as long
			  as the combat has not yet begun. During combat, 
			  this keeps the monsters from calling additional
			  help.
	
2. Safety Song		: Sets up an anti-monster aura, so foes won't randomly
			  attack you.

3. Sanctuary Score	: Lowers the party's armor class level up to a max.
			  of 15 points.

4. Bringaround Ballad   : In non-combat situations, this rejuvenates the Bard's
			  hit points. During combat this song will affect
			  everyone in your party, including the bard.

5. Rhyme of Duotime	: In non-combat situations this regenerates the mage's
			  spell points. During combat, it gives the party an
			  extra attack.

6. Watchwood Melody	: This creates light, so you can find your way around.
			  May even work in anti-magic-zones.

7. Kiel's Overture	: In non-combat situations this calls up a compass, so
			  you can get your bearings. During combat, this casts
			  the monster-frying Trebuchet spell for one round.

8. Minstrel Shield	: In non-combat situations this lowers your armor class.
			  During combat, it also partially shields your party
			  so they only take half damage from monster attacks.




This extract from the Bard's Tale III manual was brought to you by

 - BLOCKHEAD -  03-27-91