		   THE BARDS TALE : TALES OF THE UNKNOWN
 		   -------------------------------------

Typed in by ESP of B.S.S. (The mad RPG freak! - if you have any problems with
Bards Tale I or II, contact me, I've finished them both.)

O.K LETS DO IT:



"They disbelieved my wind dragon... they possesed my greater demon... now it's
up to the bard and his magic fire horn..." First you explored the city. Then
the cellars and sewers below. Now you're trapped in  Harkyn's castle.
7 levels conquered and still 9 to go... Command 4 different classes of Magic 
User: Conjurer,Magician,Sorceror and Wizard, each with unique spells. And the 
Bard who makes magic with his music. 85 spells in all. But choose well - the
wrong spell and you're history...Pushes the power of you computer to it's 
limits (Ha ha - maybe the ST one does!). So it's fast, it's big. And there's
plenty of power for 3-D scrolling, full colour mazes, amazing sound effects (?)
 and animated colour monsters. Excellent game design. Each level is demanding
- and different. There are more monsters, mazes, "specials", logic puzzles &
magic items than you've ever seen in a game like this before.



The Legend of Skara Brae
------------------------

Long ago when magic still prevailed , the evil wizard Mangar the Dark threatned
 a small but harmonious country town called Skara Brae. Evil creatures oozed
into Skara Brae and joined his shadow domain. Mangar froze the surrounding
land with a spell of eternal winter, totally isolating Skara Brae from any
possible help. Then, one night the town millitamen all disappeared.
	The future of Skara Brae hung in the balance. And who was left to 
resist? Only a handful of unproven young Warriors, junior Magic Users, a couple
of Bards barely old enough to drink, and some out of work Rouges.
	You are there. You are the leader of this ragtag group of freedom
fighters. Luckily you have a Bard with you to sing your glories, if you survive
. For this is the stuff of legends. And so the story begins...


Making a character disk
-----------------------

Before you start playing The Bards Tale for the first time, you need to make a
character disk on which to store your games. To make a character disk, put an
initalized blank disk in your disk drive. Click the new disk icon to select it
 then choose RENAME from the workbench menu and name the disk :


BARDS TALE CHARACTER DISK      (be sure to use this exact wording!)


After you've renamed the character disk, put the workbench disk back into the
drive. Double click the preferences icon, then turn on the CLI gadget and
select Save. Open the system drawer and double-click the CLI icon there. Type:


Copy from BARDSTALE:Members to RAM:


and press return. A series of prompts asks you to switch disks. When the copy
is complete, put the workbench disk back in the drive and type:


Copy from RAM:#? to "Bards Tale Character Disk:"


Again, the program prompts you to switch disks. When the copy is complete, put
your program disk in the drive and reboot the Amiga by pressing Control/R-Amiga
/L-Amiga simultaneously/ If you have 2 drives put the character disk in drive2.



Getting Started
---------------

If you've already created your character disk, you can use Kickstart 1.2 to 
start your Amiga. When the workbench screen appears, eject kickstart and insert
the Bards Tale program disk. (If your computer is already on, reboot by
pressing Control/R-Amiga/L-Amiga simultaneously, and insert the Bards Tale disk
.) The program loads automatically : click the left mouse button when the title
screen appears, and in a moment, you'll find yourself at the Adventurer's Guild
in Skara Brae.

Your Bard's Tale character disk now contains a completely outfitted and ready
to go band of adventurers named *ATEAM. In addition, you can create other
parties and store them on the character disk. To use the *ATEAM, select Add a
member from the main menu. The list that appears shows all parties and
characters stored on the disk. Click on *ATEAM. When the party is loaded, the
main menu reappears.

Because your Bard's Tale disk is copy-protected, you cannot make backup or
working copies of the disk (Wanna bet E.A ??!!). Be sure to always keep the
disk write-protected.



During Play
-----------

Several conventions apply throughout the game.

Click the LEFT mousebutton to make selections and give commands. The RIGHT
mousebutton is your Help key: use it to view a summary of keyboard commands.

Game informtion and menus appear in the white requestor in the upper right of
the screen. To select, click on the option you want, or type the first letter.
You make all game decisions - except direction of travel - from this box.

Information about your characters appears in the casyt list at the bottom of
the screen. When the white requestor asks you to select a character for any reason,
move the pointer to the character's name and click - or type the first letter
of the name.

NOTE: Infrequently, you may get a read/write error during play. If this 
happens, click retry. The Amiga DOS screen appears (though you are still in the
Bards Tale program). Click the front-back gadget in the upper right corner of
to move the Amiga DOS screen to the background, and the Bards Tale reappears
where you left off.



Main Menu
---------

You only have access to the Main Menu when you are in the Adventurer's Guild.
Your options are:

ADD A MEMBER - Adds members from other parties on your disk to the current
party. You can also use it to recombine characters into entirely new parties.
 The requestor that appears contains all the parties and characters saved to
the disk; party names are preceded by an *. Click in the name of the party or
the character you want to use.

REMOVE A MEMBER - Removes a member from your current party and saves him to 
disk.

CREATE A MEMBER - Creates a new character. The prompts that follow this 
command ask you for the new character's race, class, and a name (up to 15
characters). Answer the prompts either by clicking your selection or typing
the selection number.

DELETE A MEMBER - Deletes a character from your party. CAUTION: when you use
this command, the character dissapears forever!

SAVE PARTY - Saves the entire party to disk under a single party name. Party 
names are preceded by an * on the disk menu.

LEAVE GAME - Exits the Bard's Tale. When you select this option, you're offered
a "yes/no" choice before you actually leave the game. A "no" answer returns you
to the main menu. If you want to save your characters, make sure you do it 
before you give the command. A "yes" answer takes you to the Amiga DOS screen.
If you want to re-enter the game from here, type BARDSTALE and press return.

Enter the City - Leave the adventurer's guild and starts play.



Safety and Death
----------------

Face it. The sort of streets where you run into wandering Kobolds,Werewolves 
and Orcs are dangerous. Don't be shy about spending the night in the 
adventurers guild. When you leave the guild, the clock is always set ahead to
the next morning.


Moving About
------------

When you place the pointer in the upper left of the screen, it turns into a
directional arrow, it points out the various directions you can travel:ahead,
around corners, into buildings, through doors. Click to indicate that you want
to go in the direction currently indicated by the arrow. You can also control
your motion with the keyboard arrows.


Viewing Characters
------------------

To view a character, point to his name on the cast list and click, or type the
number that corresponds to his place in the marching order (1-6). Character
information appears in the white requestor, along with the options to
TRADE GOLD, POOL GOLD, or CONTINUE. The continue command is followed by the
equipment list, from which you can (T)rade or (D)rop items, or (E)quip the
character. Press T,D or E, or click on the desired option.



Combat Commands
---------------

During battle, your characters actions and options appear in the white
information requestor. You can respond by clicking the option you want or by
pressing:

F to Fight
R to Run
P to Start intra-party combat at any time.
A to Attack monsters in the firt two ranks, hand-to-hand. (available to the 
first three party members.)
D to Defend. This lessens the chance of damage from a monster in that round.
U to Use a magical item. The character must be equiped with the item in advance
B to sing one of six Bard's tunes for one combat round. You can also press the
function key that corresponds to your Bard's character number. (Available only
to Bards.)
C to Cast a spell. Type the first letter of (or click on) the spellcaster's 
name, then select the spellcode from the list that appears. You can also press
the function key that corresponds to your characters character number, then 
type the spellcode and press return. (Available to Magic Users only.)
H to hide in shadows. (Available only to rouges.)
> to speed up messages scrolling rate
< to slow down messages scrolling rate



Other Adventuring Commands
--------------------------

The following commands are available while you're peacefully exploring the
streets of Skara Brae:

C to cast a spell. Type the first letter of (or click on) the spellcaster's 
name, then select the spellcode from the list that appears. You can also press
the function key that corresponds to your spellcaster's character number, then
type the spellcode and press Return. (available to magic users only.)
P to start intra-party combat at any time.
B to sing one of six Bard's tunes while travelling. You can also press the 
function key that corresponds to your Bard's character number. (Available only
to Bards.)
E to Elevate up a portal. The party must have a levitation spell in operation.
Works only in dungeons.
D to go Down a portal. Works only in dungeons.
? to learn the name of the street your party is on, and the time of day.
N to establish a new marching order for your party. Click on the name of
character you want to move. Click again on the position in the cast list you
want the character to occupy. All other characters will move up or down to 
accomodate the new placement.
T to Pause and Resume the game.
U to Use an item. Some items, like torches, don't work until you activate them
with this command; others run out of power after only one use.
V to turn sound on or off.



Creating and Saving Characters
------------------------------

You can create and form parties only at the adventurer's guild. To create
characters, form your own parties, remove characters, or rearrange their 
marching order, use the Main Menu commands described above.
===========================================================================

          * *
         *** ***
          *                      The Bard's Tale *
         *** ***
          * *

The Manual

About Fantasy Role playing Games
THE BARDS TALE is a fantasy role-playing game. First in a series of Tales 
of the Unknown, this one is set in the city of Skara Brae.

Like other fantasy role-playing games, there are three objectives you will 
be trying to accomplish. How you do this is up to you...

Your most inportant goal is to complete the quest built into the game. In 
THE BARD'S TALE the city of Skara Brae is threatened by an evil mage called 
Mangar. You must find Mangar and "persuade" him to release the 
once-harmonious city from his evil control.

But Mangar is protected by layers of obstacles, mazes and evil henchment. 
Your second goal is to develop characters capable of surviving these 
barriers. These characters are your alter ego in THE BARD'S TALE. They act 
according to your commands, but over the course of the game they change, 
much as real people do over a lifetime. They improve their skills in magic, 
combat, stealth, etc. They amass wealth and treasured objects. And they 
worry about dying too soon.

Your third goal is to explore the entire world of THE BARD'S TALE. There 
are numerous goodies, puzzles, and special places in Skara Brae. Part of 
the fun is finding them, and discovering the layout of this fantasy world. 
How do you get into the walled off towers? What's in the castle? Where are 
the legendary catacombs of Skara Brae?


Table of Contents
A Quick Overview                        Section 1
Characters                              Section 2
Places                                  Section 3
The combat System                       Section 4
The Magic System                        Section 5
Conjurer Spells                         Section 6
Magician Spells                         Section 7
Sorceror Splles                         Section 8
Wizard Spells                           Section 9
Bard Songs                              Section 10
Spell Key Glossary                      Section 11
Tips from the Underground               Section 12
Items                                   Section 13


So turn the page and get started. Skara Brae awaits.


Section i                               A QUICK OVERVIEW
=-------=-------------------------------=--------------=
An orientation for beginners,
a quick start guide for experts.

How to Use This Manual
This Manual has three parts. This overview is designed to give first-time
adventure gamers a quick sence of the overall gameplay and give experienced
fantasy role-players all they need to know to start quickly.

The rest of the manual is reference material about how various parts of THE
BARD'S TALE operate, including character building and development, places 
and mapping, the combat system and the magic system. There is also a listing 
and description of  all the magic spells and the beginning items available 
in THE BARD'S TALE. Finally, there are hints and clues interspersed 
throughout the manual.

1. Command Summary Card
In another text file is a Command Summary Card, which lists keystroke 
commands, disk utilities and step-by-step instructions for starting up. If 
you are an experienced adventurer, this card gives you most of what you need 
to know; the rest is covered in this section.

2. Adventurer's Guild
The ADVENTURER'S GUILD is where you start each time. This is the only spot a
party can be formed, characters created, or characters saved to disk.

3. Use the Pre-Built Party
For your convenience, you will find a pre-built party already waiting for you
when you enter the guild for the first time. The party is called *ATeam. They
are even outfitted with weapons and armor affordable to characters of their
humble stations. For more about characters and party selection see section 2

4. Use City Map on The Package
On the inside of your "album cover" is a map of Skara Brea. You'll need it.
Notice:
-2 walled-off towers (wonder what's in there?)
-A castle protected by Guardian Statues
-Temples for healing, Equipment Shop for purchasing more weapons, Taverns for
  drink and gossip, Roscoe's for more spell energy.
-You'll have to find the Review Board (where levels are awarded and magic is
  taught) on your own.

Mapping the dungeons and mazes is up to you. You even have to figure out how 
to get into the mazes on your own. One clue: each of the 16 mazes is set up 
on a 22 by 22 grid. North is to the top of the screen, East is to the right. 
Be sure to go to every square; there are lots of specials. For more about 
the City of Skara Brae see "Places" in section three.

5. Combat
Only your first 3 characters and the first 2 rows of monsters can attack in
hand-to-hand combat.

There are several new combat commands, including Party Attack, for fighting
between party members; Bard song, for making magic by playing music; Hide in
Shadows, to avoid combat.

For more information see "The Combat System" in section four.

6. Magic
There are 4 classes of Magic users, each with unique magical capabilities:

CONJURERS can create objects and heal adventurers;
MAGICIANS can bestow magical effets on common items ;
SORCERORS can create illusions and heighten awareness ;
WIZARDS can summon and control supernatural creatures ;

Sorceror and Wizard classes are not available to first level adventurers. To
create one of these, you must change class of a Magic User who has achieved 
3rd level magic spells in one (for Sorceror) or two (for Wizard) other 
magical arts. Class change takes place in the Review Board. A Magic User who
successfully learns all 7 levels of spells for each of the 4 Magic Classes is
an Archmage, one of hte most powerful characters in THE BARD'S TALE. Once a
Magic User leaves a class, he can never return to it.

Magic Users qualify to learn next level spells based on their experience 
levels, but it takes gold to actually learn the new spells.

Casting spells uses SPELL POINTS in different amounts depending on the spell.
Spell points are regenerated automatically when a Magic User is in the City 
in the daytime, and may also be regenerated in Roscoe's Energy Emporium, or
special "REGEN" squares in some dugeons.

For more information see "The Magic System" in section 5. Magic Spells are
listed in sections 6-9.

7. The Bard
The Bard makes magic by playing music. He needs an instrument, of course. He
can play in combat or during exploration, with different effect. Only one 
tune at a time. And one tune for every experience level. Then he needs to 
get a drink from any nearby tavern.

You can listen to his music or not. See the COMMAND SUMMARY file for details.

By the way, the Bard is not too shabby as a fighter.

8. TIME
Time waits for no one. Even without keystrokes, time passes, from day to 
night and back again.

Nightime is especially nasty. The really evil monsters hit the city streets 
at night, looking for characters just like you. And, what's worst, you use up
spell points faster, because spell points only regenerate in daylight.

Now you know enough to get started, if you are an experienced adventuer. By 
the way, the tavern on Rakhir Street is the only tavern that serves wine. 
And that wine "goes down" easily. You may wish to drop by to wet the whistle 
of your Bard. Good Luck!


Section II                              CHARACTERS
=--------=------------------------------=--------=

RACES
Humans are not the only race in the world of THE BARD'S TALE. others are more
magically inclined, stronger and smarter. Part of the fun of a fantasy
role-playing game is getting to know these different races, and forming your
party accordingly. The races and their descriptions are:

HUMAN: While possibly being of hardier stock, This caracter is nonetheless 
       like you or me.

ELF: Patterned after the Tolkien elf, the elf is slight or build, frequently
     taller than a human, and very inclined to magic.

DWARF: The Dwarven people are short and stout, extremely strong and healty, 
       but not amazingly intelligent (i.e., excellent fighters).

HOBBIT: Hobbits are slightly smaller than Dwarves but are nimble and 
        dexterous.  Just the right make-up for a rogue.

HALF-ELF: These crossbreeds are usually blong and fair-skinned, like elves, 
          and get some added size and strenght from their human ancestry.

HALF-ORC: An orc is a large, goblin-like creature often found working for 
          evil wizards. The Half-orc, being half human, is not quite as 
          despicable as his orc parent, but you wouldn't want to date one.

GNOME: Gnomes closely resemble dwarves, but have less hair and even shorter
       tempers. They are also more magically inclined, as a rule.

CHARACTER CLASSES
In fantasy role-playing games, characters choose different "Classes" or
professions. There is no single best class; each has its own strengths. Your
character must use teamwork to succeed.

Class selection is the most important aspect of creating a character in THE
BARD'S TALE. There are ten different classes of characters, but only 8 can 
be selected for a newly generated character. Class types carry with them 
different abilities and limitations, as are roughly covered below:

WARRIOR: the base fighter-type in THE BARD'S TALE, warriors can use nearly
every weapon there is. For every 4 levels of experience after the 1st 
Warriors get an extra attack ability in combat.

PALADIN: Paladins are fighters who have sworn to abstain from all evil and 
to uphold honor and purity in all places. They can use most weapons and 
even some that no other fighter can. They get multiple attacks at higher 
levels. They also have a greatly increased resistance to evil magic.

ROGUE: a professional thief with so-so combat ability, the rogue can hide in
shadows, search for traps and disarm them. Without a rogue your party will 
pay very dearly for the booty it wins.

BARD: The Bard is a wandering minstrel. You'll see him with a tankard of 
ale in front of him in the less reputable traverns--the rowdier the better.

Bards were once warriors, and can still use most warrior weapons. But they
turned to music instead and now play songs with an almost magical effect on
other characters. Bards don't get the warrior's advantage of extra attacks 
in combat anymore--but their magic is so unique, it is almost impossible to
survive in Skara Brae without one.

Any true Bard has 6 tunes on his lips, though to play them he must have an
instument equipped. A song played as the party is exploring is long-lasting 
and continues even after the party returns from combat mode, even if other 
songs were played during combat. Any songs played during combat are 
abbreviated and so create different magical effects then the full non-combat 
versions. The shorter combat versions don't endure as long either, only one 
round of fighting

Only one Bard tune can be played at a time. If a second one is played while 
the first is still playing (by the same or a different Bard), the first will 
end. A bard can play as many tuens as he has experience levels before his 
throat gets dry. Then it's off to a tavern for a drink to rejuvenate his 
voice. Tough duty, but someone has to do it.

Bard songs vary according to the difficulty of the dungeon. When the going 
gets tough, the Bard goes drinking.

HUNTER: an assassin, a mercenary, a ninja. The hunter can use most weapons, 
and has the ability (which grows with experience) to do critical hits in 
combat (i.e.,to attack a nerve center or other vital area and instantly 
kill an opponent). A good skill

MONK: a martial artist, an almost inhuman fighting machine trained to fight
without weapons or armor. The monk can use them, but, at higher levels
particulary, often does better without.

CONJURER: one of the 4 classes of Magic Users, Conjurers deal in the 
physical creation and manifestation of real things (like fire,light,
healing).

MAGICIAN: another of the 4 classes of Magic Users, Magicians deal with magic 
as it affects physical objects(i.e. enchanting a sword, making armor 
stronger, making a dungeon wall disappear).

WIZARD: Wizards are Magic Users who are dedicated to the summoning and 
binding of various supernatural creatures. These creatures are not friendly 
to humankind and trying to control them is extremely hazardous. The 
Wizard-class is not available to new characters either. For more on magic 
classes, see page 11.


CHARACTER ATTRIBUTES
Each character you create has five basic attributes which define his 
physical and mental prowess. When you create a character each attribute 
is randomly assigned a value from 1 to 18, with the higher number reflecting 
higher capability.

STRENGTH (Shown as "ST" on the screen): Strength is physical power and 
chiefly affects the amount of damage a character can do to an opponent in 
hand-to-hand combat. Make sure your fighting characters are strong.

INTELLIGENCE ("IQ"): Intelligence is mental power. A high intelligence 
rating will enable your Magic Users to get bonus spell points.

DEXTERITY ("DX"): Measures agility & nimbleness. A high score makes your
characters harder to hit and helps them strike the first blow in combat.

CONSTITUTION ("CN"): Measures healthiness. It takes more damage to kill a
character with a high constitution score. This is reflected in bonus "hit
points," the characters life span.

LUCK ("LK"): Luck is an ambiguous attribute, as it has a number of unseen
effects on gameplay. For example, lucky characters are more likely to resist
evil magic and avoid nasty traps.

OTHER CHARACTER STATISTICS
ARMOR CLASS ("AC"): This statistic reflects the level of protection a 
character has from physical attack. In classic fantasy role-playing style, 
the armor class starts at 10 for a totally unprotected, unarmored character 
with low dexterity, and goes down to -10 (called LO) as his protection 
improves by armor, spells, or other means.

HIT POINTS ("HITS"): Hit points measure the damage a character can take 
before he is killed. The "Hits" statistic shows his potential at fullest 
health, rather than current status.

CONDITION ("COND"): Condition shows the character's present number of hit
points. For example, if a character with 10 hit points is wounded for 7 hit
points, his condition will drop to 3. Another wound of 3 or more hit points
will kill him. If he is fully healed, his condition will return to the full 
10 again. (Even though his Condition scores changes, his Hit Points stay at 
10.)

SPELL POINTS ("SP PT"): This shows current spell point status. Points are 
used up with each cat of a magic spell. If a conjurer has 20 spell points 
and casts a Mage Flame spell at a cost of 2 spell points, his new total 
would be 18. A character's maximum spell points are listed in his 
view-character mode.

EXPERIENCE POINTS: This measures abilities gained by experience, the higher 
the number, the better the character. Characters get experience points for
successful combat, according to the difficulty of the fight and the number of
characters who survive. The amount is indicated after every successful combat.
A character's running total of experience points is indicated in view-mode.

GOLD: Gold is the unit of currency in this world. Your characters start with
just barely enough gold to by the armor and weapons they need to survive.
There are two ways to get rich enough to by better equipment: taking gold 
from the monsters you defeat in combat or selling items you find in dungeons. 
The first way is more fun.

LEVEL ("LV 1"): Level is a general measure of achievement within a 
character's class. Level 1 is a novice, Level 13, for example, is required 
to become a Master of a Magic User Class.

The Review Board will promote a character to higher levels based on his
experience points, but only upon the character's in-person request. An 
advance in level is very important because it generally means an increase 
in attribute scores, hit points, spell points and other abilities.

SPELL LEVELS (e.g., "MAGI 1"): This shows the highest group of magic spells 
a character canb use in any of the 4 classes of Magic Users. There are 7 
groups of magic spells for each different class.

To learn a new group of magic spells (a "spell level"), a Magic User must
advance two experience levels. (NOTE: spell levels and experience levels are
not the same thing!) For any of the four magic classes, a Magic User advances
as follows:
          E\#xperience Leve\#l S\#pell Leve\#l
          =______________= =_________=
                1 1

                2 1

                3 2

                5 3

                7 4

                9 5

               11 6

               13 7

               14 and up 7 maximum

To change class to Sorceror, a Magic User must first have learned Spell 
Level 3 (or higher) in at least one magical art. To change to Wizard, a Magic 
User must first have learned Spell Level 3 (or higher) in two other magical 
arts.

ITEMS: Items fall into 10 categories: Weapons, shields, armor, helms, gloves,
musical instruments, figurines, rings, wands, and miscellaneous. Only one 
item of each type can be equipped for use at any one time. For example, two
different shields cannot be used at once to protect a character, though the
spare shield could be toted around.

Some items can only be used by specific characters. For example, only Bards 
can use musical instruments. An item which can never by used by a character 
is marked (see below for diagram) when he examines it in his view mode or 
in the equipment shoppe. An item which has been equipped is marked with an 
(see below)

   Cant be used                            Equipped
   ------------                            --------
       **                                      *
      *  *                                     *
     ******                                   * *
      *  *                                   *   *
       **                                    *****

A character can carry up to 8 different items.

How to Create a Character

1. While in the Adventurer's Guild, select a race.
2. Character attribute numbers displayed are a combination of genes and luck
   For each different race there is a lowest possible number for each 
   attibute (the "genes"). The computer then adds a random number (the 
   "luck") to each attribute.
3. If you are satisfied with the "roll of the dice", choose a character 
   class, then name this caracter. If you arn't satisfied "reroll the dice."
4. After being named, the character will be saved to disk, ready to adventure.

Section 3                               Places
=-------=-------------------------------=----=

THE CITY MAP
There is a map of Skara Brae on the inside of the album cover your program 
disk came in. Notice that there are several important looking places that 
are blocked off. Like the castle, and the two towers protected by locked 
gates. There must be a way to get in there, wouldn't you think?

Use your map to guide you in Skara Brae. If you ever get lost just press the
"?" key and the program will tell you where you are and what type of day it 
is.

UNMARKED BUILDINGS
Most buildings in Skara Brae are unmarked. But some of them are inhabited by
the corrupt creatures who have skulked into Skara Brae. So kick in a few 
doors and find them. Remember that fighting is good for you; it's the only 
way to build up enough experience to challenge Magar. Your should be 
disappointed when you kick in a door, screaming a battle cry, and find it 
empty. No fun.

When you exit a building and enter a street, the building will be behind you,
and you will be facing the building or landmark across the street.

THE ADVENTURER'S GUILD
The Guild is like a union hall where adventurers "hang out" hoping to join a
party. This is where you form a party, and where all adventures begin.

GARTH'S EQUIPMENT SHOPPE
Garth is one of yesterday's almost forgotten heroes, now retired from active
adventuring to supply tommorrow's would-be greats. At Garth's Shoppe 
characters can buy armor and weapons, sell items, have items identified, or 
pool all the party's gold for buying expensive items. Due to a deal with the 
city blacksmith Garth has an inifinite supply of armor and supplies. But 
unique items found in labyrinths, even if sold to Garth, remain in his 
inventory only untill they are sold.

Occasionally an item won in combat will remain unidentified. This means that
its general type might be apparent (e.g.,shield,ring), but not which exact 
type (e.g.,Dragon shield, Ring of Power). Garth canb identify this item for 
you..for a price.

THE REVIEW BOARD
The Review Board is a group of high level representatives from all ten
different classes. Upon your request in person, the Board will determine
whether a character has accumulated enough experience points for advancement 
to higher levels. The Board teaches new spells to Magic Users who qualify for
higher spell leves, too, but charges for this training. It pays the rent.

You may have to do a bit of exploring to locate the Review Board. And it's
closed at night.

TAVERNS
Taverns are the Bard's favorite pllaces for gossip and refreshment. There's
even a tavern named after him. Watch him carefully though; the Bard has a
tendency to overtip the bartender.

DUNGEON DELVING
The term "dungeon" refers to any indoor labyrinth, designed for mapping, 
combat and puzzle interaction. They take a variety of forms, from towers to 
catacombs, and have a varied number of levels for each. You can go up or 
down to levels higher and lower then the one you're on via stairways, 
portals, and teleportation.

Stairways are not visible from a distance. But when you omve onto one you 
will be asked if you wish to ascend or descend.

Portals are holes in the floors and ceilings, and are visible from a 
distance. You will not go through a portal merely by standing on it; you 
must first command your character to do so. If he jumps down through a portal,
he will be damaged from the fall unless he is using a levitation spell. The 
only way to go up through a portal is by levitation.

The locations of dungeon entrances are well-kept secrets, but there are 
plenty of hints in Skara Brae.

ROSCOE'S ENERGY EMPORIUM
If your spell points aren't recharging fast enough, go see Roscoe, But be
prepared for electrifyingly high fees.

TEMPLES
Temples are divine places of resurrection and complete healing. In fact, 
this is the only place to cure characters who have been withered or turned 
to stone. A resurrected character retains all the items, gold and experience 
points he had before dying, but he comes to life with only 1 hit point. When 
he finds out how much it costs to be resurrected, he may turn over in his 
grave.

Tips from the Underground: Places
1. Your first three dungeons should be the sewers, the catacombs and the 
   castle (in that order). Each is progressively tougher. Don't attempt the 
   catacombs without a party of level 9 or higher characters.

2. Explore and map every square in every maze. There are "Magic Mouths" that
   give hints. There are 1-of-a-kind magic items and spell regeneration 
   zones. Good maps will show you the logical spots for secret doors and 
   secret rooms, too.

3. Avoid traps. Higher level rogues are excellent at opening chests, but 
   when in doubt use the "Trapzap" spell. TRZP is guaranteed to work with 
   no harm to the party, unless, of course, the trap is protected by even 
   more powerful magic. In fact, you can use TRZP to disarm any traps you 
   encounter. Gas Cloud traps have doomed many brave but foolish 
   adventurers. If you set off a trap and nothing happens, you were lucky 
   not good. You could have been killed.

4. Be sure that your paryt is fully healed before entering a new dungeon.

5. When you are finding your bearings in a maze remember that each 
   succeeding level goes UP in a tower or castle and DOWN in a dungeon.


  **     **
  ***   ***
  ** * * **
  **  *  **
  **     **
  **     ** agic is power.

Section 4                               THE COMBAT SYSTEM

The Bard's Tale is a game of fighting. It's the only way to build up 
experience Fortunately, Mangar and his gruesome creatures are very evil, 
so don't worry about their feelings. Kill them, if you can.

Combat with "monsters" (the generic term for all opponents) occurs both
randomly and at set locations. You can also initiate intra-party combat at
almost any time, in case one of your members  is turned to the dark side. At
the outset of combat a list of foes will be given, broken down into the 
number of foes in each group. The maximum is 99 monsters per group, with up 
to four groups.

Combat is divided into a series of "rounds," like a boxing match. At the 
start of each round, each of your characters must decide what action he will
undertake in the upcoming melee, unless, of course, your party decides to run
away. A menu of possible selections will appear for each character. These
options are as follows.

ATTACK FOES: To physically assault foes in the first or second group of
             monsters.

PARTY ATTACK: To assault another member of the party, including special 
members

DEFEND: Do not interact this round - redues chance of being hit.

USE AN ITEM: Make use of a magical item held in the character's inventory and
             currently equipped. This may require specifying a target for the
             effect.

BARD SONG: Bards can paly a short tune to affect the party or the foremost
           group of monsters in some fashion.

CAST A SPELL: Cast a spell at the party or a group of foes. The spell code 
              must be entered, and a target identified.

HIDE IN SHADOWS: A rogue can try to avoid combat altogether by hiding and, if
                 successful, will be skipped as a target of attack in the
                 upcoming combat round.

The first three characters in your party can be attacked physically by 
monsters and can attack back. The last three characters can only be struck 
by magical attacks, and can only attack back with magic. This simulates your 
first three characters being up on the front line of attack, with the last 
three characters acting as backup in case one of the first three is killed. 
The first two groups of monsters are in a similar position; they are the 
only monsters who can attack or be attacked physically.

Once all the choices for your characters have been entered, the round begins.
The most dexterous characters or monsters usually make the first strike, but
luck, character level and character class also affect this. In evenly matched
fights, the outcome often depends on which side gets in the first blow.

The rate of scrolling of the combat messages can be speeded or slowed. See 
the Command Summary list of keystrokes for details.

At the end of a combat round, dead monsters will be removed from the ranks of
your foes, and dead characters will be shuffled back to the end of your party.
A fresh group of monsters may also advance into the first two ranks to give
there fellow monsters a breather.

At the end of combat, treasure and experience points will be split among the
battle's survivors.

SPECIAL MEMBERS
The special slot (marked "S") is for monsters who canb become part of your
party. They can join by:
1) being summoned or created as an illusion, or some other artiface related 
   to a cast spell, or
2) introducing themselves to the party and offering their services as a 
   comrade

Specials cannot be controlled in battle; they choose their own attack mode 
and generally go after the primary group of monsters the party is facing. 
Specials are cleared out of the S slot when killed. Illusionary specials 
(created by a sorcerer) are cleared out if any foes disbelieve them.

If a non-illusionary special is attacked by another member of the party for 
any reason, it will turn immediately hostile and fight untill defeated!

Tips from the underground:              Combat
1. Usually the highest dexterity character attacks first. For particularly
nasty monsters (like blue dragons) attack with your highest dexterity
characters first. Your less dexterous characters may not survive long enough 
to get in a first strike.
2. Use your spells and Bard songs to lower the armor class of your entire 
party The lower the better.
3. If you are attacked by more than two groups of monsters, concentrate on
Magic Users first. If you cannot kill off all hte magic-using monsters, you 
may want to cast anti-magic spells to protect against illusions, possessions 
and other spells.
4. You can minimize damage by killing off all but one monster in either of 
the first two atttacking groups. As a general rule, attack groups with only 
one monster last, unless it is a deadly monster.
5. Many of the undead monsters are capable of draining experience levels,
turning characters old and gray or even turning characters to stone. Treat 
the undead with respect. In other words, kill them quickly.
6. Be prepared to die a lot with level 1 and 2 characters. Especially at 
night. especially when you don't have any weapons and are just walking ot 
Garth's Shoppe. It might even be a good idea to stay close to a Temple at 
night, so you can quickly heal any wounds.
7. Fill the special slot quickly. Conjure or sommon a monster or create an
illusion, if necessary. The special member will take a lot of heat off your
fighters. Monsters tend to attack special members first.
8. Monsters are smart. They usually attack your most vulnerable characters
first, unless one of your members represents a significent threat.


Section 5                               THE MAGIC SYSTEM

Magic is power. It can make the difference between success and failure in
The Bard's Tale.

It is not always necessary or wise to rely on magic, though, because magic 
is by no means foolproof. There are some places where magic never functions, 
and some monsters who are highly resistant to spells. Sometimes you just 
have to wade in with fists flying and get dirty.

The best to tell that your party has wondered into an anti-magic zone is that
all residual spells except light spells are cancelled.

Residual spells are magic spells that keep working for more than just an
instant. Light spells, trap detection, secret door detection and magical 
armor are some examples. Most residual spells cause a graphic symob to 
appear in the central blank strip on the screen, to keep the player aware 
that the duration hasn't yet expired.

All spells have a point cost. In other words, all spells cost the mage 
casting them a bit of his internal energy. This energy is returned 
automatically in direct sunlight, and may be regenerated at Roscoe's Energy 
Emporium or in special regenerration zones you have to discover.

There are magical items hidden in the dugeions and carried by the monsters 
of The Bard's Tale. Magical weapons do extrra damage. Magical armor gives 
extra protection. Other magical items radiate special energies. There are 
even magic keys and talismans necessary to get into a certa in important 
parts of the game. The most powerful magic items are secreted in the most 
challenging dungeons and are guarded by ferocious monsters. When you win 
one, you should be very proud and very happy. They can be the key to success 
against the wickedest opponents.

To cast a spell, you type in 4-letter codes which are a rough abbreviation 
of the spell name. The entire list of spells, codes and spell points required
begins in section 6.

All Magic Users, even level 1 novices, start the game with knowledge of all
level 1 spells in their magical art. Rather than learning one spell at a 
time, Magic Users alwasy learn whole groups ("spell levels") of spells at 
once. It's the closest thing to mass production in Skara Brae. Here is a 
description of the four magical arts.

CONJURING

Conjuring deals with the instantaneous creation of objects and effects though
the channeling of the mage's power. Conjurer spells are potent, but not
unlimited in effect, since the exercise of creation takes a large amount of
energy to produce even a moderate effect.

A conjurer can also produce effects that distort non-solid things to produce
new effects, like the distortion of space and time required to teleport human
bodies to a new location.

MAGIC

Magic (meaning the art practiced by a magician) deals with bestowed magical
effects on common objects. The items do not become magical, but radiate 
fields of power for the duration of a spell(which is usually the lenght of 
combat.)

The gist of Magic is that it can increase anb item's capability, give it a
totally new capability, or change its form to something totaly different.

Some examples: making a sword do greatere damage, making dungeon walls glow
with a magical light, or causing a wall to totally vanish for 1 move.

SORCERY

The byword of sorcery is, "seeing is believing." Sorcery does not deal with 
a physical manifestation, but rather a creation of illusion and a tapping 
into a heightenend sense of awareness.

An illusion is an image envisioned by the spell caster, which he then lays 
over the retinas of all who watch, augmenting this with appropriate 
stimulation of nerve endings to fool the other four senses. The human mind, 
believing an illusionary creation to be real, can hurt or even killed by it, 
unless it is somehow disbelieved.

A sorcerer, with the aid of his art, can also perceive certain special things
hidden from view.


WIZARDRY

Wizardry deals with the summoning and control of supernatural creaturs. The
wizard has fewer spells than the other three classes, but his are by far the
most potent.

The creatures he can summon come from another plane of existence, called the
Negative plane. They join the special slot in the party, and will fight until
defeated.

The wizard has some ability to trap and control normal monsters, as well.

mages who have learned at least 3 spell leves in an art may elect to change 
to another mage class at any time. Thus, a level 5 conjurer could choose to 
become a level 1 magician. His experience points would reset to 0, but he 
would retain his previous attributes, hit points, spell points, and all 
knowledge of his conjurer spells. He would be unable to learn any higher 
conjurer spells, however; once a mage leaves a magic art, he cannot return 
to it.

A mage can become a conjurer, magician, or sorcerer as a second class. A 
mage can become a conjurere, magician, sorcerer, or wizard as a third class. 
A mage who has knowledge of all 7 levels of spells in all 4 classes is 
called an Archmage, and is one of the most powerful personages in the world 
of The Bard's Tale.


Section 6                               Conjurer spells

Key (see section 11 for glossary)

___________________________             CODE
|SPELL NAME/Description   |             Pt. Cost
|                         |
Range
|_________________________|             Duration

CONGURER SPELLS
Level 1

MAGE FLAME  A small, mobile "touch"     MAFL
will appear, and float above the        2
spell caster as he travels              View
                                        Medium

ARC FIRE A fan of blue flames will      ARFI
shoot from the caster's fingers, doing  3
doing 1-4 hits of damage to a select    1 Foe
opponent, times caster's level.         ---

SORCERER SHIELD The mage is protected   SOSH
protected by an invisible "shield" of   3
magic, that turns aside many blows      Self
that would otherwise hit him            Combat

TRAP ZAP This spell will disarm any     TRZP
trap within 30 feet, in the direction   2
the party is facing. It will also       30'
disarm traps on chests.                 ---

Level 2

FREEZE FOES This spell binds your       FRFO
enemies with a magical force, slowing   3
their movements and making them         Group
easier to hit.                          Combat

KIEL'S MAGIC COMPASS A compass of       MACO
shimmering magelight appearns above     3
the party, telling them the direction   ---
they face.                              Medium

BATTLESKILL This spell increases one    BASK
of your party member's skill with       4
weapons, increasing the accuracy and    Char
ferocity of his attacks.                Combat

WORD OF HEALING With the utterance of   WOHL
a single word the spell caster can      4
cure a party member of minor wounds,    Char
healing 2-8 points of damage.           ---

Level 3

ARCYNE'S MAGESTAR A bright flare will   MAST
ignite in front of a group of your      5
enemies, temporarily blinding them      Group
and causing them to miss the next       ---
combat round.

LESSER REVELATION This is an extened    LERE
"Mage Flame" spell which also reveals   5
secret doors.                           View
                                        Long

LEVITATION Partially negates the        LEVI
effect of gravity on the party,         4
causing them to float over traps or     Party
up through portals.                     Short

WARSTRIKE Causes a spray of energy to   WAST
spring from the caster's extended       5
finger, sizzling a group of opponents   Group
for 4-16 hits damage.                   ---

Level 4

ELIK'S INSTANT WOLF With this spell     INWO
the caster can make a real wolf appear  6
and join the party, fighting in its     Special
defence.                                ---

FLESH RESTORE This powerful healing     FLRE
spell will restor 6-24 hit points to a  6
party member and cure poisoning and     Char
insanity.                               ---

POISON STRIKE This spell hurls          POST
porcupine-sharp needles from the mages  6
finger into a selected monster,         Foe
poisoning it.                           ---

Level 5

GREATER REVELATION This spell           GRRE
functions like a "Lesser Revelation"    7
spell, only it illuminates a wider      View
area.                                   Long

WRATH OF VALHALLA Makes a member of     WROV
party fight with the strenght and       7
accuracy of ancient Norse heroes for    CHAR
the entire combat.                      Combat

SHOCK-SPHERE A large glove of intense   SHSP
electrical energy envelops a group of   7
ememies, doing 8-32 hits of damage.     Group
                                        ---

Level 6

ELIK'S INSTANT ORGE This incantation    INOG
will cause a real ogre to appear and    9
join the party.                         Special
                                        ---

MAJOR LEVITATION This will make the     MALE
party levitate as does the level 3      8
spell, but its effects will last until  Party
dispelled                               Indef.

Level 7

FLESH ANEW This spell behaves like the  FLAN
"Flesh Restore" spell, exept that it    12
will affect every member of the party   Party
                                        ---

APPORT ARCANE Allows the party to       APAR
teleport anwhere within a dungeon,      15
execpt for places protected by          Party
teleportion shields.                    ---


Section 7                               MAGICIAN SPELLS

Level 1

VORPAL PLATING This spell causes the    VOPL
weapon (or hands) of a party member to  3
be covered with a magical field, which  Char
causes him to do an additional 2-8      Combat
points of damage.

AIR ARMOR This spell will make the air  AIAR
around the spell caster bind itself     3
into a weightless suit of "armor"       Self
                                        Combat

SABHAR'S STEELLIGHT SPELL Causes all    STLI
metal near the party to glow with a     2
magical light, illuminating the         View
surrounding area.                       Short

SCRY SITE The walls themselves will     SCSI
speak, under direction of this spell,   2
revealing to the spell caster his       Party
location in the labyrinth.              ---

Level 2

HOLY WATER A spray of water will        HOWA
emanate from the mage's fingers,doing   4
6-24 points of damage to any undead     1 Foe
foe(e.g. skeleton,zombie,vampire)       ---

WITHER STRIKE Any foe at whom this      WIST
spell is castq is likely to be turned   5
old, thus reducing his ability to       1 Foe
attack and defend in combat.            ---

MAGE GAUNTLETS Makes a party member's   MAGA
hands(or weapon) more deadly, adding    5
4-16 points of damage to every wound    Char
he inflicts.                            Combat

AREA ENCHANT This spell will cause the  AREN
dungeon walls within 30 feed of a       5
stairway to call out, if the party is   30'
traveling toward it.                    Short

Level 3

YBARRA'S MYSTIC SHIELD The air in       MYSH
front of the party will bind itself     6
into metallic hardness, and will        Party
accompany the party when it moves, as   Medium
a sort of invisible "shield."

OSCON'S OGRESTRENGTH Allows a member    OGST
of your party to damgage monsters as    6
if he were an incredible strong as an   Char
ogre.                                   Combat

MITHRIL MIGHT Increases the armor       MIMI
protection of each party member by      7
enhancing their armor's natural         Party
strenght by magic                       Combat

STARFLARE The air surrounding a group   STFL
of your enimies will instantly ignite   6
causing them to be burnt for 6 to 24    Group
damage points.                          ---

Level 4

SPECTRE TOUCH This spell will drain a   SPTO
single enemy of 12 to 48 points of      8
damage, as if touched by a spectre      1 Foe
                                        ---

DRAGON BREATH Allows the mage to        DRBR
breathe fire at a group of foes, doing  7
8 to 32 points of damage to each.       Group
                                        ---

SABHAR'S STONELIGHT SPELL Makes all     STSI
stone and earth within range of the     7
party glow with magical light,          View
revieling even secret doors             Medium

Level 5

ANTI-MAGIC Causes the ground to absorb  ANMA
a protion of the magical energies cast  8
at the party, frequently allowing the   Party
members to escape all damage. Also      Combat
aids in disbelieving illusions and
turning back magical fire, like a
dragons breath.

AKER'S ANIMATED SWORD A magical sword   ANSW
will appear and fight like a summoned   8
monster in defense of the party.        Spec
                                        Combat

STONE TOUCH This spell will often turn  STTO
an enemy to stone, or a stone monster   8
from living stone to dead stone. But    1 Foe
it doesn't always work.                 ---

Level 6

PHASE DOOR This incantation will alter  PHDO
the structure of almost any wall        9
in from of the party, turning it to     1 Wall
air for exactly 1 move.                 1 Move

YBARRA'S MYSTICAL COAT OF ARMOR Causes  YMCA
an effect like "air armore" to cover    10
every member of the party, lasting      Party
indefinitely.                           Indef.

Level 7

RESTORATION Makes all wounds disappear  REST
as your entire party is reforged into   12
unflawed bodies. Also cures poisoning   Party
and insanity.                           ---

DEATHSTRIKE This incantation is very    DEST
likely to instantly kill one selected   14
enemy, big or small.                    1 Foe
---

**   **   **
 ** *  * **
   *    *   hen in doubt,  blast'em with magic

Section 8                               SORCEROR SPELLS

Level 1

MANGAR'S MIND JAB The Mage casts a      MIJA
concentrated blast of psychic energy    3
at one opponent doing 2-8 hits of       1 Foe
damage for each experience level of     ---
the mage.

PHASE BLUR The entire party will seem   PHBL
to waver and blur in the sight of the   2
monsters, making the party very         Party
difficult to strike.                    Combat

LOCATE TRAPS In a stae of magically-    LOTR
heightened arwareness, the spell        2
caster will be able to sense a trap     30'
within 30 feet, if he faces it.         Short

HYPNOTIC IMAGE If successfully cast,    HYIM
this spell will make a group of your    3
enemies miss the following attack       Group
round.                                  ---

Level 2

DISBELIEVE This spell will reveal the   DISB
true nature of any illusion attacking   4
the party, causing it to instantly      Party
vanish.                                 ---

TARGET-DUMMY A magical illusion         TADU
appears in the party's special slot.    4
Unable to attack, it will serve to      Spec
draw enemy attacks to himself.          Combat

MANGAR'S MIND FIST A higher power       MIFI
"Mind Jab," does 3-12 hits damage to    4
one foe, times the experience level of  1 Foe
of the mage.                            ---

WORD OF FEAR This incantation will      FEAR
make a group of you enemies shake in    4
fear, reducing their ability to attack  Group
and do damage.                          Combat

Level 3

WIND WOLF This spell creates an         WIWO
willusionary wolf to join the party.    5
This and other illusions are only       Spec
effective as long as an enemy "belives" ---
them. Depending on power and location
the monster may see through the
illusion, and cause it to vanish.

KYLEARAN'S VANISHING SPELL The mage     VANI
casting this spell will turn nearly     6
invisible in the eyes of his enemies,   Self
who will have great defficulty in       Combat
striking him.

SECOND SIGHT  The mage will experience  SESI
heightened awareness and be able to     6
sense stairways, special encounters,    30'
spell negation zones, and other         Medium
unusual occurrences.

CURSE Causes a group of your enemies    CURS
to fear you greatly, lessening their    5
morale and their ability to hit and     Group
damage you.                             Combat

Level 4

CAT EYES The member of the mage's       CAEY
party will all receive perfect night-   7
vision, which will last indefinitely.   View
                                        Indef.

WIND WARRIOR This spell will create     WIWA
the illusion of a battle-ready warrior  6
that joins your party.                  Spec
                                        ---

KYLEARAN'S INVISIBLITY SPELL This       INVI
invocation will perform a Vanishing     7
Spell on the entire party.              Party
                                        Combat

Level 5

WIND OGRE  This spell will create the   WIOG
illusion of an ogre, which will         7
accompany and fight with your party.    Party
                                        ---

DISRUPT ILLUSION This spell will        DIIL
destroy any illusion fighting the       8
party, and any new illusions created    Party
later in combbat. it will also point    Combat
out anby dopplegangers in the party.

MANGAR'S MIND BLADE A sharp explosion   MIBL
of psychic evergy that inflicts 10-40   8
hits to each and every enemy you face.  All Foes
                                        ---

Level 6

WIND DRAGON This incantation will       WIDR
create an illusionary red dragon to     10
fight with your party.                  Spec
                                        ---

MIND WARP  This spell will make a       MIWP
member of your party go totally         9
insane. Useful for possessions.         Char.
                                        ---

Level 7

WIND GIANT This spell will create an    WIGI
illusionary storm gieant, to join with  12
and fight for, your party.              Spec
                                        ---

Sorcerer Sight  This spell functions    SOSI
the same as the Second Sight spell,     11
but it will last indefinitely.          30 '
                                        Indef.


Section 9                               WIZARD SPELLS

Level 1

SUMMON DEAD This spell will gate into   SUDE
our universe a zombie or skeleton to    6
fight for the party.                    Spec
                                        ---

REPEL DEAD This spell will do 16 to 80  REDE
points of damage to a group of undead   4
creatures.                              Group
                                        ---

Level 2

LESSER SUMMONING This spell will gate   LESU
into our universe a lower power         8
elemental or demon, who will (under     Spec
protest) join the party.                ---

DEMON BANE This spell will do 32 to     DEBA
128 points of damage to a single demon. 8
The power to summon is the power to     1 Foe
destroy.                                ---

Level 3

SUMMON PHANTOM This spell will bring    SUPH
a medium level undead creature into     10
party.                                  Spec
                                        ---

DISPOSSESS This spell will make any     DISP
party member return to his normal       10
state.                                  Char
                                        ---

Level 4

PRIME SUMMONING This spell gates in a   PRSU
meadium level elemental or demon, to    12
fight with the party.                   Spec
                                        ---

ANIMATE DEAD Gives a dead character     ANDE
undead strength, making him attack      11
your enemies as though he were truly    Char
alive.                                  ---

Level 5

BAYLOR'S SPELL BIND This spell if       SPBI
successful possesses the mind of any    14
enemy, forcing him to join your party   1 Foe
and fight in its defence.               ---

DEMON STRIKE This spell works like      DMST
Demon Bane, but it will affect an       14
entire group of demons.                 Group
                                        ---

Level 6

SPELL SPIRIT This spell will gate in a  SPSP
higher-level undead creature to fight   15
for the party.                          Spec
                                        ---

BEYOND DEATH This spell will restore    BEDE
life and one hit point to a character.  18
                                        Char
                                        ---

Level 7

GREATER SUMMONING This spell will gate  GRSU
a greater demon into our universe and   22
gind him to the party.                  Spec
                                        ---

Section 10                              BARD SONGS

1. FALKENTYNE'S FURY
   This tune increases the damage your party will do in combat, by driving them
   inot a berserker rage.

2. THE SEEKER'S BALLAD
   This song will produce light when exploring, and during combat it will
   increase the party's change of hitting a foe with a weapon.

3. WAYLAND'S WATCH
   This song will sooth your savage foes, making them do less damage in 
   combat.

4. BADH'R KILNFEST
   This is an ancient Elven melody, which will heal the Bard's wounds during
   traveling, and heal the party's wounds during combat.

5. THE TRAVELLER'S TUNE
   This melody makes the members of your party more dexterous and agile, and
   thus more difficult to hit.

6. LUCKLARAN
   This song sets up a partial "anti-magic" field, which gives party memebers
   some increased protection against spell casting.

Section 11                              SPELL KEY GLOSSARY

Range Terms

View        --spell affects line of sight
1 Foe       --spell affects a single mosnter, regardless of how many you face.
All Foes    --spell affects all monsters you face.
Group       --spell affects  1 of 4 monster groups
Self        --spell affects spellcaster only
30'         --3 squares in the direction you face
Char        -- one of 6 party members or special
Party       --spell affects all 6 party members and special
Special     --spell affects "S" slot only; summoned creature enters combat
              next round

Duration Terms

Combat      --spell lasts until all monsters or all party members are killed,
              or until party runs away
Short       --spell lasts only a few minutes
Medium      --spell lasts a little longer
Long        --spell lasts twice as long as "Short"
Indef.      --spell lasts until party enters the Adventurer's Guild or an 
              anti-magic zone

Section 12                              TIPS FROM THE UNDERGROUD

Characters
1. Don't be concerened about losing a Level 1 character. Just make another 
one. But when your characters reach the 3rd level, back them up regularly 
using your favorate disk copy program.

2. If your favorate character gets killed, there are several things you can 
do. You can resurrect him by magic or in a temple by spending spell points 
or gold. You can turn off the computer and reboot, and your entire party will 
be restored, but without experience, gold and magic items they have won since 
the last tiem you saved the game. Or you can load the character from your 
back-up disk onto the main disk, after first deleting the dead character from 
your main disk. NOTE: you canb only restore a character by rebooting if you 
have previously saved your party by exiting the game when in the Adventurer's 
Guild.

3. In "rolling" a character's attribute numbers, 17s and 18s canb often make 
a big difference, as followes: Intelligence gives Magic Users bonus spell 
points; Dexterity gives fighters (but not Bards) bonus armor protection and 
first strike capability; Strength allows fighters to do extra damage in 
combat; Luck allows Rogues to survieve even if they accidentally set off a 
trap; and Constitution gives all characters bonus hit points.

4. Most character races have at least one attribute they are particularly 
high in. Pay close attention to starting attributes when designing your 
party.

5. Develop a Sorceror fast. They are very useful in dungeons. Wizards are
extremely important in advanced levels; they can summon demons, extremely
powerful specials. Develop an Archmage, too. You'll need one; you'll want 
one.

6. Your pre-built party, excellent for beginning levels, may not be the best
group for advanced levels. You may want to experiment with a hunter, because
his "critical hit" capability can vanquish superior monsters, and the monk, 
who is perhaps the best fighter of all after he reaches the 6th level.

7. Warriors and other fighters often play less of a role against higher 
level, magic-using monsters. But without protection of their armor and 
strong arms, your Magic Users would not survive long enough to learn the 
higher level magic spells.

8. Beware the Doppelganger monster. It enters your party and looks just like
one of your members.

TIPS FROM THE UNDERGROUND: Magic

1. Don't venture too far into any dungeon without your maximum spell points. 
A good rule is to leave a dungeon when you are down to one quarter of your
maximum spell points.

2. Manage your spell points carefully. Don't waste a spell if you can 
acomplish the same thing without magic. Torches, for example, often work as 
well as magic light spells. On the other hand, don't be shy about using magic 
in combat. When in doubt, blast'em with magic.

3. Locate traps, second sight and sorcerors sight spells all identify traps
within 30 feet. Trapzap spell will disarm all traps within 30 feet.

4. Cast a long-lasting Bard spell right before entering a tavern. It's light
getting a free spell.


Section 13                              ITEMS

These are the basic items found in Garth's Equipment Shoppe in unlimited
quantity:


Torch                                  --for light in dungeons
Lamp                                   --longer duration than a torch
Broadsword                             --most damaging non-magic sword, only
                                         usable by fighters
Short Sword                            --a lighter sword, usable by all but
                                         mages
Dagger                                 --usable by all, not too effective
War Axe                                --a heavy, damaging weapon, not usable
                                         by bards,rogues,or magic users
Halbard                                --a combination battle axe and pike,
                                         the most damaging non-magical weapon
Mace                                   --the most powerful weapon a rogue can
                                         use; an armor crusher
Staff                                  --a simple,non-magical cudgel
Buckler                                --a small round shield
Tower Shield                           --a larger shield
Leather Armor                          --the lightest armor, wearable by all
                                         but magicians and conjurers
Chain Mail                             --light metal mesh armor,best against
                                         light weapons
Scale Armor                            --better still, difficult to pierce
Plate Armor                            --strongest non-magical armor
Robes                                  --will dull old knives,but that's it
Helm                                   --covers the head adn saves the
                                         adventurer's good looks
Leather Gloves                         --some protection for the hands
Gauntlets                              --metal gloves
Mandolin, Harp, Flute                  --musical instruments for use by Bards


Item Abbreviations

FGN is an abbreviation for Figurine, a magical statuette which canb come to
life.
MTHR is an abbreviation for Mithril, an elven metal with magical qualities.
ADMT is an abbreviation for Adamant, another magical metal.
DMND is an abbreviation for Diamond, one of the hardest substances known to 
man or monster.

TIPS FROM THE UNDERGROUND: Items

1. Generally, the more expensive the items is, the better it works. Almost 
like real life.

2. There are no cursed or bad items, unlike real life.

3. Don't be stingy. Equip your fighters with the best armor, weapon, shield,
helmet and gauntlets money can buy. After all, he can't take it with him.

4. Experiment with all items you find to deturmine their capabilities. 
Magical items are key to success. Remember that an item may only be magical 
for certain characters and classes, so trade items around if you have to.

5. Make sure some of your characters carry less then 8 items, or else the 
party will never be able to pick up new magical items in the dungeons.

6. Whenever your party captures an especially interesting or powerful magic
item, save the party as soon as possible. That way, even if disaster strikes,
you will never lose that powerful armor, weapon, talisman or whatever.

7. This manual is not protected by magic shields or air armor. Don't let your
dog eat it.

                  Typed by:
                              Admiral Ski [Of Apple world]
                  Merged by:
                              Cyborg [Of Amiga world]