The Battle of Austerlitz 
Brought to you by Belgarath

-Table of Contents - 
Part I 
1). Introduction 
2). Loading the Program 
3). Scenarios 
4). Options 
5). Leaders 
6). The Battlefield 
7). Inspecting the Troops 
8). How to Give Orders 
9). Corps Orders 
10). Army Orders 
11). Movement 
12). Column vs. Line 
13). Combining Units 
14). Charging 
15). Infantry Square 
16). Combat 
     a). Fire 
     b). Melee 
17). Terrain 
18). Morale and Fatigue 
19). Hidden Movement 
20). Army Demoralization 
21). Winning the Game 
22). Time Settings and Pausing 
23). Saving the Game, Ending the Game 

Part II 
1). History 
2). Scenarios 
3). Leaders 
4). Tactical Notes 
5). Designer Notes 
6). Order of Battle 
7). Questions and Answers 
8). Credits 

Manual and Program 
Copyright © 1989 Cornerstone Software Inc. 
- Page 1 - 

PARTI 
1). INTRODUCTION 
Austerlitz is a grand tactical military simulation of Napoleon's first 
major battle as Emperor of the French. At Austerlitz he met and soundly 
defeated the combined armies of Russia and Austria. 

2). LOADING THE PROGRAM 
Commodore 64, Amiga and Atari ST owners please refer to the back of 
the manual for loading and other machine specific instructions. With the 
Game Disk inserted, type '1805'. After a campaign introduction, the game 
will load. When you get to the scenario screen (see part 3 on Scenarios), 
insert the Scenario Disk if you own the IBM 5 1/4" version. In order to install 
the game on a hard drive, you will first have to make a directory using the 
Make Directory command: rnkdir C:\AUSTRLTZ'. Then, copy from the 
game disk with the copy command, all the files into your new directory: copy 
a: *.* C:\AUSTRLTZ. Then copy the scenario disk to the new directory the 
same way. To play the game, you will need to set your current directory to the 
Austerlitz directory: 'cd c:\'AUSTRLTZ'. Then, while you are in that 
directory, simply type '1805' for the intro/game or just type 'main' to go 
directly to the game (by-passing the intro screens). When the program asks 
for the Scenario Disk to be inserted, simply ignore this and choose the 
scenario normally. 

3). SCENARIOS 
After the title screen, the scenario menu will appear. Press the arrows to 
choose a scenario. Press F3 or RETURN to move to the MAP screen. 

"Breaking of the Allied Center", depicts the mid-morning assault on the 
 Pratzen heights. 

"Fight for the Lower Golbach", depicts the early hour struggle on the 
French right flank as the Allies try to smash through to the French rear. 

"Don't let them Escape!", - depicts the day long fight on the left between 
Lannes and Bagration, along with the mass cavalry battle of Murat and 
Liechtenstein. 

"Historical Battle", - depicts the entire day of the battle with no variation. 

"Bernadotte's Betrayal", depicts the entire battle without Bernadotte's I 
 Corps on the French side. 

"Davout's Failure", - depicts the entire battle without Davout's HI Corps on 
 the French side. 

"Egads!", - depicts the entire battle without either Bernadotte's I Corps or 
Davout 's HI Corps on the French side. 
- Page 2 -

4). OPTIONS 
After the Scenario Screen, the OPTION screen will appear. To alter the 
setting of the currently displayed OPTION, press the Right or Left Arrow 
Keys. To move to a new OPTION, press the Up or Down Arrow Keys. 
The 'Allied Player': 'French Player' OPTION turns the computer player 
on and off for the Allies. 
Select COMPUTER to have the computer play the Allies. 
Select SEE to have the computer play, but allow you to see his moves. 
Select NO to allow a human opponent for the Allies. 
The Difficulty OPTION adjusts the Artificial Intelligence of the Computer 
Player. 
Select EASY for a beginner level game. 
Select HISTORIC for the historical levels. 
Select HARD for a difficult game. 
'Toughness' can be used to lower the morale of the selected side's units 
slightly, making them easier to beat. It also can be used to balance a two 
player game. 
Select NORMAL for the regular morale level. 
Select EASY for the lowered morale level. 
The 'Morale' OPTION determines if the morale of the units is to be used 
in the combat calculations. 
Select YES to use morale in combat. 
Select NO to ignore morale in combat. 
The 'Fatigue' OPTION determines if the fatigue of the units is to be used 
in the combat calculations. 
Select YES to use fatigue. 
Select NO to ignore fatigue in combat. 
The 'Hidden Movement' OPTION allows you to turn hidden movement 
on or off. 
Select YES for the computer to use hidden movement. 
Select NO to not use hidden movement. 
Note: In Human vs. Human, hidden movement is automatically turned off. 
The 'Alternative Plans' OPTION determines whether the computer 
player will follow the Historical battle plan or create a battle plan of it's own. 
Select YES to use its own plans. 
Select NO to use the historical plans. 
When you are satisfied with your selections, press 'F3' or 'RETURN' to 
move to the LEADER screen. If you selected to continue a saved game, you 
may see and change the options for the saved game. 
- Page 3 - 

5). LEADER SCREEN 
After you have selected all the options, the computer will ask you to select a 
personality for the side it is going to play. By using the arrow keys, you can 
highlight the name of one of six different leaders on which the computer will 
base its strategic decisions. Once you are satisfied with your choice, hit 
'RETURN'. From here you will either go to the MAP screen or be asked to 
choose another leader (if the computer is playing itself). Note: There is no 
limitation of who can command what army. This allows Napoleon to 
command the Allied army, giving his benefits to them if one wishes. 

6). THE BATTLEFIELD 
NOTE: In order to use a joystick on the IBM, it must be turned on by 
hitting 'J' on the keyboard while at the MAP screen. If you do not have a game 
port, and hit 'J', you will get unpredictable cursor movement. You can 
recover your game simply by hitting 'J' again. 
Once you have selected your leader(s), you will come to a map of the 
battlefield. Depending on the scenario selected, the map may scroll until it 
hits either a border or the edge of the involved area. There are a number of 
different types of terrain that affect movement and combat. These are: 
TERRAIN             GRAPHIC 
Clear ..............empty square 
River/Stream ........blue lines 
Frozen Lakes.........white solid/partial square 
Bridge...............broken river/stream 
Woods................green/brown tree shapes 
Village..............brown/yellow house shapes 
Castle.............. grey castle shape 
City................ grey building shapes 
Slope ...............radiating brown pattern 
Steep Slope..........concentrated brown pattern 
Heights.............. clear square at top of slopes 

To find out what type of terrain the cursor is over, press the space bar 
(button on mouse or joystick). The name of the terrain type will be displayed 
in the information strip at the bottom of the screen. 
On the right half of the display is the game speed indication. You press the 
number keys to adjust how fast the game will play. The current setting is 
displayed here. (See part 22, TIME SETTINGS AND PAUSING, for more 
information). 
- Page 4 -

7). INSPECTING THE TROOPS 
The French units are blue, the Russian units are dark green, and the 
Austrians are white. There are several different types of units: 
TYPE                 ICON 
Infantry Column      2 men 
 inarching            feet move 
 firing               gun raised 
 melee                gun moves 

Infantry Line        1 man
 marching            feet move 
 firing              gun raised 
 melee               gun moves 

Infantry-Square      Square
 firing              guns pronounced 

Cavalry              man on horse 
 melee               sabre moves 

Artillery            cannon 
 fire                smoke on cannon, blast on target 

NOTE: When units change to solid inverse color, they are disorganized and 
can not charge, but can melee and fire, inflicting lesser casualties. 

8). HOW TO GIVE ORDERS 
In general, orders are given to all units in the same way: 
1). Place the cursor on the unit to be given orders, 
2). Press the space bar to get a special cursor, 
3). Place the cursor on the target square, 
4). Press the space bar. 

NOTE: If using the joystick or mouse, you must press the button to get the 
special cursor, and then WHILE HOLDING THE BUTTON, move the cursor 
to the target square, and then RELEASE the button to give the order. 

Just looking at a unit has no effect on the unit's orders, however, moving 
the cursor while looking at the unit does. To erase an old order, simply give a 
new order. To cancel a unit's orders, select the square that the unit is in as the 
target square. To do this, press the space bar, move the cursor out from the 
unit, then move it back to the unit and press the space bar again. 
- Page 5 - 

In addition to the cursor, there is a V that marks the target square. Select 
a unit and order it to move forward to a square. After you have issued the 
orders, go back to the unit and press the space bar again. There will be V in 
the square the unit was ordered to move to. If the unit doesn't have orders, the 
V will be in the same square as the unit itself. There are several different 
types of orders that may be given. Not all units can be given all types of 
orders. Below is a list of the types of orders: 
                                        C64
1). Fire artillery gun   yellow cursor  Dark Gray 
2). Move as column       white cursor   Purple 
3). Move as line         red cursor     Red 

Here is a table of what each unit can do: 
                 Infantry         Cavalry       Artillery 
Fire Artillery   No               No            Yes 
Column Move      Yes              No            No 
Line Move        Yes              Yes           Yes 

To use a particular type of cursor, you must MOVE the cursor while it is the 
proper color. Once the cursor has been moved, it will not change color. 

Cavalry - When you press the space bar, a red MOVE CURSOR appears 
and you can enter your orders. 

Artillery - For artillery, there are two cursors, the yellow FIRE CURSOR, 
and the red MOVE CURSOR. When you press the space bar, the yellow FIRE 
CURSOR appears. If you don't move the cursor within one second, the cursor 
will change to a red MOVE CURSOR. If you move the cursor within one 
second of pressing the space bar, the yellow FIRE CURSOR will remain. If 
you wanted to give an artillery unit orders to fire its guns, you would press the 
space bar and within one second, move the yellow cursor away from the unit. 
Now with the yellow cursor 'locked in', move it to the target square and press 
the space bar to select that square as the target. Artillery can have only one 
type of order at a time. If you give a unit a new order, it will stop doing what it 
was doing and begin to execute its new order. The old order will be lost. 

Infantry - There are also two cursors for Infantry. The white COLUMN 
CURSOR tells the units to move in column formation and the red MOVE 
CURSOR tells units to move in line formation. If the unit is in LINE 
formation, the MOVE CURSOR appears, then changes to the COLUMN 
CURSOR. If you tell a unit in line formation to move using the COLUMN 
CURSOR, the unit will first change to column formation and then begin 
moving. There are a few complications for units in stacks, (see part 13 
Combining Units for more information). 
- Page 6 -

9). CORPS ORDERS 
Since there are a large number of troops, it can become quite tedious 
giving each unit individual orders. Austerlitz has a unique feature that 
allows you to give a single order to an entire maneuver element (division or 
Corps depending on the chain of command). The computer will then take 
over the command based on the historical leaders command rating and 
independently wield the entire element towards its goals. 

To give Corps orders, hit 'F5' if you are playing the allies, or 'F6' if you 
are playing the French. A list of the commanders names, the strength of his 
command, and his men's average morale and fatigue will be displayed. By 
moving the arrow keys up and down, you can highlight a leader's name, and 
see what his current order (if any) is. Then, by hitting the right arrow, you 
can go to the mode list and decide which mode you wish him to take. 
Available orders are MOVE, ATTACK, and DEFEND. After this is done, 
press 'RETURN', and you will be taken to the MAP screen. A national flag 
for that Corps will appear either at the approximate center of the Corps, or 
where its last Corps orders were. You simply move the flag to where you wish 
the Corps to go, and press the space bar (or mouse I joystick button). Soon, that 
Corps will start to move towards the objective in the mode you selected. 
Pressing ESC returns you to the map. 

If you selected the ATTACK mode, the Corps will march off in attack 
formation and look for enemy units to fight in the process of taking the 
objective. If you selected the DEFEND mode, the Corps will march off to the 
objective, and then go into a defensive formation and try to hold the objective. 
It is not a good idea to move a Corps in defense mode over large distances! If 
you selected MARCH mode, the Corps will march off to the objective, 
IGNORING enemy units, but at a slightly faster rate. It is not a good idea to 
have a Corps MARCH anywhere near enemy formations without friendly 
support. 

Note: You will lose control of all units of that Corps until you cancel 
Corps orders. To do this, simply go back to the status screen (F5 or F6) ,and 
select NONE for that commander. After one minute all orders for those units 
will be CANCELLED. Also, once units become committed in combat heavily, 
the responsiveness of Corps orders will be reduced. Obviously, the computer 
will be trying to engage and defeat the the enemy, and moving its target 
around will not have much effect while its heavily involved. 

10). ARMY ORDERS 
When victory is certain, (or defeat iminent), you might wish to have every 
unit advance (or retreat) regardless of Corps organization or formation. This 
can be done with the GENERAL ATTACK order (or the GENERAL 
RETREAT order). 
- Page 7 - 

However, once this order is issued you will lose all control of your units 
unless you cancel the order (ex: Hitting 'A'orders the allied army to attack. 
If hit 'A' again it cancels the attack). If you cancel an Army Order you must 
recall your units either manually or with Corp Orders. 

The Allied player uses 'A' for Attack and 'X' for Retreat. The French 
player uses 'F' for Attack and V for Retreat. When the computer is playing, 
the Attack/Retreat keys for its army are disabled. 

11). MOVEMENT 
Although the playing area appears continuous it is actually broken into 
squares for movement purposes. Each square is the size of one unit symbol 
and is approximately 275 yards on a side. The length of time it takes a unit to 
move from one square to another depends on the type of unit it is and what 
kind of terrain the unit is entering. A list of terrain attributes is given under 
17) TERRAIN. For artillery units that have been firing, allow one to three 
minutes (to relimber the guns) before the unit begins to move. 

If a unit encounters a friendly unit in its path (units cannot pass through 
one another) or a terrain feature which would slow it down, the unit will move 
one square to the side, if such a move will avoid the obstacle. When a unit 
encounters an enemy unit directly in its path, it will attempt to dislodge that 
unit. (See part 16 COMBAT). 

12). COLUMN VS. LINE 
Infantry units may be in one of two different formations: line or column. 
Line means that the troops are strung out in a line. The advantage is that 
every man can fire his musket at the enemy. The disadvantage is that if the 
line is penetrated at any point, the unit is in a dangerous position. Infantry 
in column are arranged in a somewhat block-like formation. The troops 
gain a morale boost in a 'safety in numbers' phenomenon, but most of the 
troops are rather useless for fighting. However, column formation did allow 
for a more rapid assault and was a fairly easy way to handle poorly trained 
men. For a unit to be able to successfully use line formation, it usually had to 
have a great deal of training. To convert infantry from one formation to the 
other, give it move orders with the cursor for that type of formation. The unit 
will take a few minutes to make the change in formation, then it will begin to 
move. If you want a unit to change formation without moving, move the 
cursor of the proper color out from the unit, then move it back to the unit before 
'releasing' the space bar (that is, hitting it a second time). 

13). COMBINING UNITS 
Another advantage to column is that units from the same Corps may be 
grouped into a single formation, in a single square. This allows you to 
- Page 8 -
concentrate many men for a powerful attack. To combine two infantry units 
both units must be in column, they must begin their move adjacent to each 
other; and, they must be from the same Corps. (Check the unit display). 
Using the COLUMN CURSOR, order one unit to move into the other. The unit 
will advance and merge with the non-moving unit. This may be repeated as 
much as you want, as long as the total strength does not exceed 6300 men. The 
'stacks' of units can be moved as any other column unit. A stack cannot be 
changed to line formation. To separate the units, order the stacked 'unit' to 
move as line. Instead of the 'unit' changing to line, the last unit to join the 
stack will separate and move to the target square. The remainder of the stack 
will stay in place. This can be repeated until all of the individual units are 
separated. The individual names are not shown for stacked units. If all of 
the units are from the same division, the divisional name will be displayed. 
If all of the units are from the same Corps, the Corps name will be displayed. 

Strength, morale, and fatigue levels are shown normally (if the 
OPTIONS are chosen). The displayed strength is the sum of the unit's 
individual strengths. The displayed morale is a group morale. The 
displayed fatigue is that of the lowest of any unit in the stack. For purposes of 
determining if a unit becomes disorganized or routed, the lowest morale in 
the stack is used. For combat calculations, each unit uses the group morale 
and its actual fatigue. 

14). CHARGING 
During the course of a battle, units normally moved at a walking pace. 
However, when units got near an enemy unit that they were attacking, they 
would close quickly to minimize the time that they were exposed to enemy 
fire. In the game, infantry and cavalry units will cross the last square in one 
minute. However, this is only under ideal conditions. Units can only charge 
if they are formed (i.e. not disorganized, see part 16 COMBAT). Also, units 
may only charge through clear squares. They slow to their normal pace 
moving through streams, woods, towns, etc.. 

15). INFANTRY SQUARE 
Because of their mobility, cavalry could quickly move to the flanks of 
infantry units and cause great havoc. To counter this, infantry could change 
to square formation, with men facing outward in all directions. Using the 
square formation, infantry could stand up to even the best cavalry. In the 
game, when an enemy cavalry unit moves to within 2-3 squares of an 
infantry unit, the infantry will change to square. This will take several 
minutes. When the cavalry moves away, the unit will change back to its 
previous formation. Units in square cannot move, although they can still 
fire. If you wish to have a unit in square move anyway, re-issue orders. The 
unit will change back to formation and begin moving. 
- Page 9 - 

This "square override" will remain in effect until, 1). it reaches its target 
square, 2). you change its target to its present location, or 3). there are no 
cavalry units within 2-3 squares. Only formed infantry units can use square 
formation. Disorganized or routed infantry are at the mercy of the enemy 
cavalry. However, infantry units will never enter square formation if their 
target square is occupied by an enemy unit. In that case they will assume you 
wish them to attack no matter what the circumstances. Thus, it is very 
dangerous to order infantry to move large distances to attack, since while 
your attention is diverted, enemy cavalry could get off an opportunity charge. 
The prudent commander will always have his infantry move to a staging 
area before ordering his units over the last several squares to the enemy 
position. Obviously, as in real life, the presence of enemy cavalry makes it 
extremely difficult to conduct an organized infantry assault. 

16) COMBAT 
There are several methods of inflicting losses on enemy units. In 
general, the lower an attacker's morale, the fewer enemy it can kill; and, the 
more tired it is, the fewer losses it can inflict. 

16.1). FIRE COMBAT 
Artillery: Artillery may fire at targets up to five squares distant. Move 
the yellow cursor to the target square and within 1-3 minutes, the 
bombardment will begin. When you change an artillery unit's target, it will 
take about 1 minute to resight. Artillery's effectiveness increases as the 
firing distance decrease; at a distance of one square, it is much more 
effective. Also, artillery is more effective firing against a large unit than 
against a small unit. Note that artillery units firing more than one square 
can occasionally miss and hit squares adjacent to the target square. Also, 
artillery can inflict damage by bombardment on your own attackers as they 
close with their targets. Note that if you direct fire at a unit where the fire 
would be blocked (such as behind woods), the artillery will fire, and yes, it 
will be blocked and the enemy will suffer no casualties. 

Infantry: Infantry only has a range of one square. Infantry units that do 
not have orders to move, they will fire at adjacent enemy units, if there are 
any. So, to have an infantry unit engage in fire combat with a unit, order it to 
move adjacent to the target unit. When it reaches the adjacent square, it will 
cease movement and begin firing. 

Attached Artillery: Some cavalry and infantry units had a small 
number of light artillery pieces with them. Because of the small number and 
caliber of these guns, they only had an appreciable effect at close range. 
Therefore, they are handled like infantry fire. They only fire a distance of 
one square, fire is handled automatically, and there is no blast to indicate its 
bombardment. 
- Page 10 -
ia2) MELEE COMBAT 
Melee is fire combat and charges at very close quarters. When a unit 
attempts to move into a square occupied by an enemy unit, it will attempt to 
engage in melee to dislodge the enemy unit. Melee usually happens 
automatically when a unit closes with an enemy unit. (Charging units take 1 
minute to close after moving adjacent. If for some reason a unit cannot 
charge, the time wilt be normal time for moving across the particular 
terrain.) Melee is not automatic in the following cases; 1) Artillery cannot 
initiate melee. 2). The defender is in limited access terrain, such as a 
village or castle. The advantage of melee over infantry fire is that casualties 
can be inflicted at a faster rate, and objectives held by the enemy can be 
taken. This is particularly true for units in column, which have a limited 
number of men who can fire. 

17). TERRAIN 
There are many different types of terrain. These affect both movement 
and combat. The following is a summary of terrain effects: 

Terrain       Movement Effect          Combat Attacker       Combat Defender
Clear         Normal                   None                  None
Border        Prohibted,except to exit N/A                   N/A
River         Slows                    Cannot Charge         None
                                       Disorganized (2-3) min
River Bridge  Slows                    Cannot Charge         None
Woods         Slows                    Cannot Charge         None
              Artillery Cannot nter
              Cavalry Cannot enter
              Infantry Disorganized
Village       Normal                  Cannot Charge          Reduced Losses
              Blocks Artillery Fire
Castle        Normal                  Cannot Charge          Reduced Losses
                                      Blocks Artillery Fire
                                      Melee not Auto
Slope         Slows                   None                   N/A
Steep Slope   Slows                   Cannot Charge          None
              Units Disorganized      Artillery Cannot Fire
- Page 10 -

18). MORALE & FATIGUE 
Morale is a representation of how well a unit is doing psychologically. 
The morale of a unit will fluctuate up and down during the battle, as it is 
exposed to different conditions. Each unit has a maximum morale. 
Generally, elite units such as guards have a higher maximum than poorly 
trained units. The actual morale, which is what is shown on the unit display 
begins with the maximum morale, then is reduced based on the ratio of 
casualties that the unit has recently taken compared to its total strength. The 
effects of the casualties is gradually lessened over time. The morale is also 
reduced by the presence of enemy units. Cavalry has the most detrimental 
effect, followed by infantry. Artillery has little effect. Enemy cavalry have 
very little effect if your infantry units are in square formation. If enemy 
units are disorganized, they have less effect on morale; if they are routed, 
they have no effect at all. 

For combined units, the maximum morale is the morale of the lowest unit 
in the stack, so combining good and poor units is not a great idea. The 
casualties and strengths of all units are combined to find the effects on 
morale. Then the presence of adjacent enemy units is taken into account. 
Thus, by flanking an enemy unit, you will not only inflict more casualties, 
but cause a greater drop in the enemy units morale, causing it to break 
sooner. 

If the morale of a unit drops to the FAIR LEVEL, the unit will become 
disorganized (shown in solid, inversed color), if the morale drops past 
POOR, it will become routed, and attempt to retreat. When a unit routs, its 
maximum morale is permanently reduced. As a unit gets away from enemy 
units and stops taking casualties, the morale that is displayed will gradually 
return to its maximum. The higher the unit's morale, the faster it will 
recover from disorganization (but only while resting; not while moving, 
firing or meleeing). 

Fatigue will be increased with movement and combat. The higher a unit's 
fatigue value, the more ineffective in combat it will be. Combat is more 
detrimental to a unit's fatigue than moving. If a unit ceases activity, its 
fatigue will be lowered based on how much time you allow the unit to rest. 

19). HIDDEN MOVEMENT 
If this OPTION is selected, not all of the enemy units will be visible at all 
times. Certain terrain features, (such as forest, the heights, and villages) will 
block line of sight from your units to enemy units, thus keeping the enemy 
units hidden. Most of the battlefield is clear, since the tactics of the day 
demanded this. Thus, enemy commanders usually could see the enemy 
unless he was 1). Out of range, 2). There was combat between the units 
producing a lot of smoke, or 3). If weather conditions affected visibility. 
- Page 12 -

At Austerlitz, hidden movement will be most affected by an early 
morning fog. When the battle starts, the visible range will only be a few 
squares, except for units on the heights, which were above the fog and visible to 
the enemy command. Around 8:00 am, the sun will rise high enough and 
start burning away the fog, and visible range will gradually increase to its 
maximum range of several miles. Also, units in combat will block line of 
site to the units behind them. Due to the largely clear terrain and number of 
units, this will usually not be sufficient to hide the units behind those in 
combat. However, occasionally it will, and can lead to some unexpected 
reinforcements for the enemy. Thus, it is wise to use the highly mobile Light 
Cavalry to keep watch on the enemy. 

20). ARMY DEMORALIZATION 
During the game, the computer constantly tabulates the number of 
destroyed, routed, and disorganized units for each army, according to the 
following formula: 

Destroyed Units: 4 x Unit's Value 
Routed Units: 2 x Unit's Value 
Disorganized Units: 1 x Unit's Value 

A unit's value depends on its significance. Guard Units are weighed 
more heavily than small, unimportant units. For stacks, calculations are 
done separately for each unit in the stack (in other words, a stack does not 
count as one unit). If the sum of these points is ever greater than a 
predesignated value, that army is said to be demoralized. The opposing 
side's anthem is played and each unit in the demoralized army has its 
maximum morale permanently reduced. Also, a demoralized army's 
strength lost due to rout (those who run away or were captured) is counted in 
the casualty totals for victory determination. The number of men lost when a 
unit is routing is usually fairly large. Therefore, demoralizing the enemy 
army (and getting the extra points) is usually crucial to winning. A short 
time after one side is demoralized, the other side will get a bonus added to 
their army morale as victory becomes certain. Even so, it is not wise to accept 
demoralization of the enemy as the end-all to victory, thus sending every unit 
blindly forward. This will usually result in your own army becoming 
demoralized as your units hit enemy pockets of resistance piece meal and are 
routed themselves! 

21). WINNING THE GAME 
The score is calculated by starting with a base score, adding in the number 
of Allied killed/wounded and then subtracting the number of the French 
killed/wounded. In addition, if an army is demoralized, the men of that 
army who were lost due to rout are also counted. At the end of the game, the 
computer will analyze the final score and tell you the Historical outcome 
based on the battle. 
- Page 13 - 

For a Marginal Victory, a short version of the victor's anthem will be played. 
For a Decisive Victory, a long version of victor's anthem will be played. 
For a Draw, no anthem will be played. 

22). SETTING THE SPEED AND PAUSING 
To pause the game, just press 'P'. To resume the game, do any game 
action or press 'G'. The number keys are to control how fast the game plays. 
The settings are as follows: 

1 = 1 second per game minute 
2 = 3 seconds per game minute 
3 = 5 seconds per game minute 
4 = 7 seconds per game minute 
5 = 10 seconds per game minute 
6 = 15 seconds per game minute 
7 = 20 seconds per game minute 
8 = 30 seconds per game minute 
9 = 60 seconds per game minute 
0 = execute 1 game minute, then stop. 

Please note that these are target times. In the bigger scenarios, the clock 
will only advance after the mover, combat, and if the computer is playing, AI 
routines execute. Selecting a speed faster than the computer is executing will 
not have an adverse affect on the game, but it may not go that fast. If 'O1 is 
pressed, the game will stop the clock from advancing, yet allow you to still 
give orders. That way, if things are more than you can cope with, you can 
pause time. Remember, though, that in real life this could not be done. 

23). SAVING THE GAME, ENDING THE GAME 
To save the game, press 'F3'. The game will stop and a "SAVE GAME" 
screen will appear. Type in the name you wish to use for the saved game file. 
You may use up to 8 characters. The game will add a .BOX extender to the 8 
character filename that you have chosen. You may end any game at any 
time, and see your current score by pressing 'F9'. This ends the game, after 
saving the game you can resume the game by pressing 'F4' or start another 
game by pressing 'F10'. Note that your current score is displayed in the upper 
right hand side of the screen. If it looks low during the course of play, 
remember that when you demoralize the enemy, it will jump in your favor 
(higher for French, lower for Allies), and if you are demoralized, it will 
jump in the enemy's favor. 
- Page 14 -

PART II 
1). HISTORY 
With English gold supporting Royalist plots against France, and 
Napoleon training what would eventually be the Grande Armee', the Treaty 
of Amiens was destined to fail. In 1805, England formed the Third Coalition, 
consisting of Austria, Russia, Naples and Sweden. Napoleon wished to 
invade England, and stop the wars at their source. However, English 
domination of the seas, and the gathering storm to the east led to a drastic 
change in plans; before his enemies could combine for their advance into 
France, he would have to swiftly deploy eastwards and defeat them in detail. 
For the Allies, it was a matter of survival for their regimes. They had 
first thought little of the French Revolution, but now for ten years they had 
been at war, first with the radical revolutionaries who pledged that all kings 
should die, and next with the unconquerable Napoleon. For them, war was 
necessary to reestablish the old order, which of course was how God intended 
it to be. 
The Austrians confidently went forward before their Russian allies 
arrived, and paid for it at Ulm; an entire army surrounded and captured. 
Within the first few weeks of the campaign, Napoleon stood triumphantly on 
the Danube. 
However, all was not safe for the Emperor. The Austrians had an army in 
the south, and another organizing in the north. He was far from home with 
his lines of communication unsafe and supplies running out. He had to end 
the war. With the Russians finally arriving in strength, and desertion in 
his army growing as the winter wore on, conditions seemed bleak. 
The Allied plan under Kutuzov was sound . Wait and gather their 
strength, and let the French retreat or fight a battle on the Allies' terms. But 
when the young wolves on Czar Alexander's staff saw Napoleon in an 
apparently weak position near Austerlitz, they had to give battle. Glory was 
for those who acted! 
Napoleon bloodied the bait with a feigned retreat off the Pratzen Plateau, 
which ending the Allied debate. They would attack! Sweeping down off the 
Pratzen they now possessed, they would turn Napoleon's weak right under 
Legrand and roll up his entire army. Kutuzov asked what they would do in 
case Napoleon did not sit still for their masterpiece? He spent the rest of the 
battle asleep or drunk, unheard. 
December 2nd opened with a thick fog. The Allies set their plan into 
motion, not knowing that Napoleon intended to smash their center just as they 
left the Pratzen. As long as Legrand could hold the Allies just a little while, 
the Allied army's fate was virtually sealed. The Allied advance was slow 
and bungled. Entire columns crossed through each other. Legrand was 
pushed behind the brook, but Davout arrived in time from the south, leaving 
the Allied advance stymied. As the sun rose over the hills and burned away 
the fog, Napoleon launched Soult (St. Hilaire and Vandamme), against the 
Pratzen. The decision swayed in the balance for a short time, but finally the 
Allied line broke, and the plateau was taken! 
-Page 15- 

At the far left of the French line, Lannes and Bagration sparred off with 
the opposing Heavy Cavalry of both armies charging each other, making 
much noise but with little results. On the right, Napoleon personally directed 
the destruction of the Allied left while Bernadotte thwarted Constantino's 
attempt to save the Allied center. 
Around 4:30 pm a snow storm brought the battle to an end. The French had 
won a decisive victory, while Czar Alexander was left weeping. The French 
had less than 2,000 dead, with approximately 7,000 wounded. The Allies 
suffered at least 15,000 killed and wounded with a further 10,000+ captured. 
The French took home forty-five enemy standards and over 180 Allied 
cannon. The Russians returned home, and the Coalition collapsed. The 
ruling members of English aristocracy raged... the revolution would live! 

2). THE SCENARIOS 
SUN OF AUSTERLITZ - Breaking of the Allied Center 
8:30 am to 11:00 am 
Scores 
Allies need: below 13,000 
French need: over 18,000 
Knowing the Allied intentions of trying to turn his flank, Napoleon 
planned to wait until the Pratzen Plateau was void of the enemy, then quickly 
attack it cutting the Allied army in two. However, the Allied incompetence 
was even worse than Napoleon thought! The divisions of St. Hillaire and 
Vandamme met the conscripts of Kollowrath, the Russians of Milorodovich, 
who recalled several units from the Prybyshevsky's III column, and the 
French found themselves outnumbered! However, a stiff charge by 
Vandamme broke Milorodovich, sweeping the Allies from the plateau and 
sealing the fate of the Allied army. 

CHECKED BY DAVOUT! Fight for the Lower Golbach 
6:30 am to 10:30 am 
Allies must attempt to get 16 units at least 2 squares south of the Brook. 
French must stop them. 
This scenario depicts the early morning struggle on the French Right. 
The Allies planned to swiftly turn the French flank and get behind 
Napoleon's army, crushing it in the process. However a stubborn defense by 
Legrand and the timely arrival of Davout halted the advance, and led to the 
complete destruction of the Allied attack columns when St. Hillaire and 
Vandamme of Soult's IV Corps suddenly appeared in their rear and drove 
them into the Frozen Ponds. 
- Page 16 -

DON'T LET THEM ESCAPE 
9:00 am to 3:00 pm 
Scores 
Allies need: below 30,000 
French need: above 37,000 
While the battle was fought and won on the right of the French line, both 
sides expected the left to be a pinning maneuver. Historically, when the battle 
was lost for the Allies, Bagration fought a stubborn defense and saved his 
troops, forming the nucleus of the army which would later face the French in 
1807-1808. 

HISTORICAL BATTLE 
6:30 am to 4:30 pm 
Scores 
Allies need: below 48,300 
French need: above 88,450 
This allows you to play the entire battle as the side of your choice. 
However, regardless of the side you play, you will be forced to decisively 
defeat your opponent, and time will be the critical factor. The battle is 
relatively short, and so while you must move quickly, you must also give your 
units time enough to get in the optimum positions, otherwise the bulk of the 
enemy can slip away. Unlike in many turn games, where timing is washed 
away and lost in countless phases, and where the sense of timing is simulated 
with percentage chances of your units moving, here you control when the key 
blow is made. Remember, he who takes the battlefield can claim to have won, 
but he who wins the war writes the history! 

BERNADOTTE'S BETRAYAL 
6:30 am to 4:30 pm 
Scores 
Allies need: below 48,300 
French need: above 88,450 
Marshal Bernadotte was one of the many individuals who wanted a hand 
in ruling France, but lost out when Napoleon seized power. Though receiving 
his Marshal's Baton in 1804 (because he married Napoleon's old girlfriend 
Desiree) he remained extremely jealous of Napoleon, ultimately betraying 
him and fighting against France. This scenario is the same as the 
Historical Scenario, but theorizes that Bernadotte might have conveniently 
not made it to the battle. This leaves the French without their strongest 
reserve Corps, and improves the Allied chances considerably. 
- Page 17 - 

DAVOUTS FAILURE 
6:30 am to 4:30 pm 
Scores 
Allies need: below 48,300 
French need: above 88,450 
Davout NEVER failed. Napoleon's equal on the battlefield, he held the 
right of Napoleon's line more times than any other Marshal. This scenario 
theorizes that Davout does not make it to the battlefield. While he historically 
only made it with half of his command, it was enough to check the Allied 
advance, and allow Napoleon to destroy the Allied Army! 

EGADSI 
6:30 am to 4:30 pm 
Scores 
Allies need: below 48,300 
French need: above 88,450 
This scenario combines Bernadotte's Betrayal and Davout's Failure. 
Historically, Napoleon did not use Oudinot's Grenadiers or the Imperial 
Guard. Bernadotte was in fact used sparingly. It has been estimated that 
Napoleon used 45,000 men to defeat 90,000. For the French, this scenario 
makes any mistake costly. For the Allies, I hope you can finally win. 

3). BIOGRAPHIES OF LEADERS 
Three leaders of each side are provided, each of whom fights the battle 
differently. For added variation, each side can have any of the six leaders 
command it. 

THE FRENCH 
Ney, Michel (1769 - 1815). "Bravest of the brave". Enlisted in the army in 
1788, rose to rank of Marshal of France in 1804. Ney served in all major 
Napoleonic Campaigns, and distinguished himself as a competent tactician 
and excellent rear guard fighter when he managed to keep his head. Ney was 
a man of extremes, he either clung to the letter of his orders, or disobeyed them 
completely. Throughout his career he never quite managed to learn the art of 
combined arms, which was demonstrated most disastrously at Quatra Bras 
and Waterloo in 1815. 

Davout, Louis Nicolas (1770 - 1823). "The Just". Commissioned in the 
Cavalry in 1789, he was later expelled from the army at the beginning of the 
French Revolution for insubordination. Returned to military service in 1792 
as a commander of a volunteer battalion. To the surprise of many, Davout 
- Page 18 -

was made a Marshal in 1804. Famous for his defense of Hamburg 1813-14, 
surrendering only after Napoleon's first abdication, Davout is considered by 
some to be a tactical equivalent of Napoleon. He was cold, methodical, 
incorruptible, and quiet. An expert organizer, his troops were always the best 
trained, equipped and disciplined on the battlefield. Through his career, 
Davout proved to be one of the greatest military leaders of the Napoleonic era. 
He was never defeated. 
Historically Davout commanded the "vaunted" III Corps of the Grande 
Armee, whose timely arrival on the French right stymied the allied advance. 
Davout as an opponent, should offer a challenge to the experienced player. 

Bonaparte, Napoleon (1769 - 1821). Emperor of the French, Napoleon 
gained the rank of General and command of the Army of Italy in 1796 by 
distinguishing himself at the Siege of Toulon, and later by dispersing a 
royalist mob with the famous "whiff of grape shot". Victory followed victory 
as Napoleon demonstrated strategic understanding never before seen in the 
history of war. After a failed campaign in Egypt, where Napoleon was trying 
to strike at English trade and relieve France from England's menacing war 
effort, he returned to a France defeated on many fronts and with the ruling 
Directory corrupt and failing. Many different groups were scheming for 
power, but Napoleon, with the help of his brother Lucien, acted and seized 
control. After the Battle of Marengo destroyed the Second Coalition, Napoleon 
achieved peace with the Treaty of Amiens. On December 2nd, 1804, Napoleon 
was crowned Emperor of the French after a huge plebescite in his favor. He 
went on to make France Europe's most socially and intellectually advanced 
country, while beating off the attacks of European Monarchies. In 1812, with 
news of Russia's betrayal of the Treaty of Tilst, and with hope to end the wars 
once and for all, Napoleon attempted to invade and subdue Russia before the 
war was brought into Central Europe. However, years of victory left Napoleon 
complacent, and he was defeated. Napoleon again demonstrated his 
brilliance in 1813 and 1814, but the European Monarchies stirred up 
Nationalism (which eventually destroyed them) to defeat the "aggressive" 
French. Napoleon was exiled, but returned in 1815 for the "Hundred Days". 
He eventually lost at Waterloo, but secured for himself the solitary place in 
history as the greatest soldier the world has ever seen. Historically, 
Napoleon commanded the French army and crushed the Allies. The Grand 
Armee's confidence and morale under Napoleon was at its highest peak. 
Only those commanders who have learned the art of Napoleonic Warfare, 
should attempt to oppose Napoleon. 

THE ALLIES 
Czar Alexander. Came to power after the murder of his father, Paul. 
Participated in much of the Napoleonic Wars, though he know nothing of 
military matters. He felt he was the savior of Europe from Napoleon while 
stifling the freedom of his own people. He did show remarkable steadfastness 
in the Russian Campaign and introduced many reforms in the Russian 
Military. 
- Page 19 - 

Historically, he was in command of the Austro-Russian army, though he 
was easily persuaded by those who spoke of victory and ignored Kutusov's 
pleas to wait. Alexander should provide the easiest opponent for the new 
commander. 

Bagration, Peter (1765-1812),. Entered the Russian Army in 1782, and by 
1799 had served with distinction against the Turks and in Poland. In 1808, he 
made a daring march across the frozen Gulf of Finland to seize the Aland 
Islands from the Swedes. He was mortally wounded at the battle of Borodino 
in 1812. 
Bagration, though tactically tenacious, never demonstrated any strategic 
skill, and was unfit for large independent command. A furious, stubborn, 
inspiring leader of men, he was much like Ney: personally fearless, 
reckless, and very aggressive. At the Battle of Austerlitz, he commanded the 
Advance Guard, the finest Allied troops on the field. While a much better 
leader than Alexander, he was not as cautious or thoughtful as Kutusov, thus 
providing a moderate opponent on the battlefield. 

Kutusov, Mikhail Larionovich (1745-1813). Entered the army in 1759. 
Served in Poland, 1764-69, and against the Turks, 1770-74 and 1788-91. In 
1805, he commanded the Russian expeditionary force sent to aid Austria. He 
filled administrative posts thereafter until 1812 when he was recalled to 
supreme command against Napoleon. 
Wise and cautious, more than any other allied leader he knew the 
limitations of his men, and the potential of the enemy. Only he saw the 
impending disaster at Austerlitz, but was out-voted by Alexander I, and his 
war-hungry staff. He will provide the greatest challenge of the Allied 
leaders. 

Players new to real-time games may find the gap between the traditional 
turn oriented board games and the realism of simultaneous execution 
frustrating. We recommend that new players first master the art of defense 
with the first scenario and read the following commentary by Field Marshal 
R. Cromwell Bastian III, veteran of 1'Battaile de la Playtestour'. 

4). TACTICAL NOTES FOR THE SUN OF AUSTERLITZ 
SCENARIO 
December 2nd, 1805 
Attention soldiers of Austro-Russian Army: 
In order to properly send the heads of Vandamme and St. Hilaire back to 
Napoleon on a silver platter, we must remember that ours is a defensive 
position, and the attack will only be used when victory is certain. 
Because firepower is greatest when line formation is used, it is the best 
defense possible. Stacked units may not use line formation, so we must 
unstack our combined units. We will then deploy in line formation on the 
left of the map (our right flank), at a position near the crest of the slope. Due to 
our position, the French will be advancing up the slope. 
- Page 20 -

This will slow them down, allowing us more time for counter-maneuver 
and fire combat. Our main strength lies in the 23rd Infantry regiment. We 
will use this behemoth as the keystone by positioning it in the middle of our 
line. Although our regiments are small, we have many so that a reserve of 
one or two regiments may be kept just behind our center. Column formation 
should be used for these reserves, thus adding a speed of deployment that will 
allow them to quickly fill any gaps, and a morale bonus in case melee is 
necessary. In the event of one of our regiments breaking, we must 
immediately move one of the reserve units into the open cavity. The 
positioning of our foot artillery unit is of the utmost importance. It is the 
strength that will hopefully ward off any French attempt to break our defense. 
Its deployment should be in the center behind our line, thus providing a 
devastating bombardment that will protect our entire Corps. 
Our tactics should be the same for the Russians. While Kollowrath's 
Austrians are holding the right flank, the Russians will be defending the left 
flank. Again, positioning of reserve regiments just behind our line is very 
important so that any French breakthroughs will not be exploited. Our 
Russian foot artillery should be deployed behind our center providing fire to 
all fronts. 
After the French have repeatedly beaten themselves against on our line of 
musket fire, and has disorganized and is retreating, THIS is the time to stike 
and wipe up the lot. By shifting Kollowrath's Austrians into column 
formation, we may attempt to envelope the French by moving around their left 
flank. With our Russians, we will move in column towards their center (or 
what's left of it) and attempt to engage in melee using our larger regiments, 
thus pinning the enemy and allowing time for the Austrian envelopment. 
With all successful, the French center will be broken, and allow us to destroy 
their entire army. 
Having vanquished the French in the introductory 'Sun of Austerlitz' 
scenario, you probably are ready to take the command of an entire army and 
lead them to victory. If so, then you will find it necessary to attack. Many 
new players find attacking difficult, and become frustrated when their units 
rout. Here are some tips to help you find success. Have units arrive at the 
point of attack at the same time. If they advance alone, then they will probably 
be repulsed. When faced with a line of defense, try to maneuver around a 
flank where you can put three units against one. Multi-unit attacks are very 
successful, and can lead to a domino effect along the enemy line. 
Use cavalry to threaten infantry without engaging. If the infantry goes 
into square, use friendly infantry to enter into fire combat, and artillery to 
bombard the compact formation. If the enemy comes out of the square, then 
have the cavalry advance along with infantry, but still do not engage. The 
most common mistake in this game is to feel that once units are adjacent, one 
should have them melee. Most casualties are caused by fire combat, and 
when an enemy unit routs. 
Heavy cavalry are the elite of your shock troops. However, they were also 
fragile. It takes time to reorganize after a charge, and they become fatigued 
quickly. Save the heavy cavalry for moments of decision, and if you win the 
battle without using it, consider yourself a better General. 
-Page 21 - 

And finally, learn when to slow down the pace and allow your army to 
recover. Pushing them too hard can cause your army to demoralize, even at 
the point of victory. 

5). DESIGNER'S NOTES 
There is no comparison between Austerlitz and other wargames. 
Austerlitz is the first computer wargame to begin to utilize the computer's 
capabilities on a Grand Tactical scale, unlike those weak, slow, unrealistic 
board game clones. The Artificial Intelligence which drives the computer 
player is broken into three levels. On the Grand Tactical or highest level, the 
computer analyzes the battle to determine broad concepts: where to attack, who 
to send and when to retreat, or launch an all out attack. 
Once this is decided, another module handles the coordination of the 
maneuver elements (divisions, Corps, columns). This was, by far, the most 
difficult element in the design. From this module, targets for each Corps are 
selected which are most likely to bring about the success of the Grand Tactical 
plan. 
With these targets, the tactical module takes over and gives the orders to 
the individual units. Here things like artillery fire, units going into line to 
fire or column to assault towns, and the commitment of cavalry are decided. 
Also, the status of the Corps is checked, and if necessary, the tactical module 
can override the Corps orders and give them new ones. 
Leaders are very, very important, though there are none to move around. 
The army leaders affect the way the Grand Tactics are decided. Each 
maneuver element is also rated based on the leader involved, and any other 
factor which might affect its performance. One should find playing the 
French against the Allies a tremendous difference between the easy and 
hardest level. Instead of just affecting the numbers in the calculations, the 
computer will actually change its tactics and utilize its army better. I was 
tired of having to lower my side's morale, and a number of other things in 
order to have a real challenge! 
In the real battle, the French command system functioned well, though 
there were some problems when Napoleon was directing the destruction of the 
Allies near the ponds. It appears that somehow Murat and Lannes on the far 
left did not receive Napoleon's orders to advance, and Bagration got away. 
The Allied system was abysmal. Some Allied orders were not even issued 
until after 8:00 am... and the battle had been decided! In fact, the AI for this 
game is many times better than the historical Allied command, but was kept 
this way for gaming purposes. With this AI system, there are 3906 possible 
targets for each of the 140 units. Of course the deployment of the armies 
certainly does cut this down, but I feel not having a system based on 
predefined locations makes this game a great improvement over many that 
exist today. With the AI the way it is, we could also offer the player Corps 
Orders. With this, the player takes over the responsibility of the Grand 
Tactics and Corps Coordination, but allows the computer to handle the tactics 
of a particular situation. 
- Page 22 -

This is not only more realistic, but allows one's attention to be centered on an 
event without the battle being lost out of view. But, also like history, you as the 
commander can take personal control over any Corps at any time. 
The 'real-time' also allows for a much greater feel for how the battles were 
fought, and the decisions made. There are no turns and phases, and no 
ridiculous rules or 'points' to limit things that could not have happened in 
real life, but usually do in board games, or computer board games. A manual 
should explain how to play, not list rules which limit the player. Rules are 
themselves attempts to cover up a limitation in the system. An example of this 
would be the cavalry dilemma in a board game. Because of their high rate of 
movement, cavalry could usually get behind units in their movement phase 
and cause the elimination of a unit unrealistically. To counter this, rules 
were developed to hinder the movement of cavalry, the most popular being a 
morale check before they moved in case they decided 'not to go'. However, 
this in itself is a horrible solution which has now infiltrated the computer 
industry. In Austerlitz, cavalry are moved at will. Because the enemy can 
react to their movement , surrounds are naturally difficult to achieve. This is 
how it should be. 
This game was designed to be quick, exciting, and highly playable. Most 
importantly, enjoyment and fun has been brought back to the stagnant world 
of computer wargames. I hope the other bigger companies will spend a lot 
more time on each release so that the industry can be revitalized and the 
current decline of military simulations can be halted. Vive 1'Empereur! 

Stephen M. Beckett II 

6). ORDER OF BATTLE 
Each Maneuverable Leader has his name in BOLD. Following that is a 
rating of how that element responds to Corps ORDERS, (based on Strength, 
Morale, and Leadership) 

French Order of Battle: 
I Corps Bernadotte, Marshal Jean Baptiste Jules (Below Average) 

Kellerman 
 Hussars             1310 Lt. Cavalry
Rivaud 
 8th                 1910 Infantry 3 Guns 
 45th                1650 Infantry 
 54th                1570 Infantry 
Drouet 
 27L                 2010 Infantry 3 Guns 
 94th                1830 Infantry 
 95th                2060 Infantry 
8th Ft Artillery     18 Guns 

- Page 23 - 

III Corps Davout, Marshal Louis Nicolas (Average) 

Friant 
 108th                  845 Infantry 
 15 L                   467 Infantry
 33rd                   750 Infantry 
 lllth                  664 Infantry 
 48th                   583 Infantry 
Bourcier             
 Dragoons               1447 Heavy Cavalry 3 Guns 
 2nd H. Artillery       9 Guns 
 
IV Corps Soult, Marshal Jean de Dieu 
St. Hilaire (Above Average) 
 10 L                   1500 Infantry 
 14th                   1600 Infantry 
 36th                   1600 Infantry 
 43rd                   1600 Infantry 
 55th                   1600 Infantry 
 5th Ft. Artillery      16 Guns 

Vandamme (Above Average) 
 24L                    1350 Infantry 
 46th                   1610 Infantry 
 57th                   1830 Infantry 
 4th                    1880 Infantry 
 28th                   1690 Infantry 
 Laribois Artillery     17 Guns 

Legrand (Above Average) 
 26L                    1400 Infantry 
 18th                   1200 Infantry 
 75th                   1200 Infantry 
 Tir corses             450 Infantry 
 Margaron 
  Ch.a' Cheval          735 Lt. Cavalry 

V Corps Lannes, Marshal Jean 
 Suchet (Above Average) 
 17L                    1450 Infantry
 34th                   1300 Infantry
 40th                   1360 Infantry
 64th                   855  Infantry
 88th                   1590 Infantry
 7th Ft. Artillery      22   Guns
- Page 24 -

V Corps (Cont'd) 

Caffarelli (Above Average) 
 13L                    1380 Infantry 
 17th                   1420 Infantry 
 30th                   1170 Infantry 
 51st                   1200 Infantry 
 61st                   1230 Infantry 
 Fauconnet 
  Ch.a' Cheval          500 Lt. Cavalry 

Murat, Marshal Joachim (Above Average) 
 Cavalry Reserve 
  Division Nansouty      1390 Heavy Cavalry 
  Division D'Hautpoul    1045 Heavy Cavalry 
  Division Walther       1245 Heavy Cavalry 
  Division Beaumont      1250 Heavy Cavalry (Commanded by Boye)
  Division Milhaud       425  Light Cavalry
  Division Treilhard     305  Light Cavalry
  Mossel Horse Artillery 12   Guns 

Emperor's Reserve 
 Division Oudinot (Above Average) 
 1 Rgt.d'elite           980  Infantry 
 2 Rgt.d'elite           1100 Infantry 
 3 Rgt.d'elite           1090 Infantry 
 4 Rgt.d'elite           1000 Infantry 
 5 Rgt.d'elite           1230 Infantry 
 Reserve Artillery       10   Guns 

Imperial Guard 
 Bessieres, Marshal Jean Baptiste (Above Average) 
 Gren.a' Pied            1345  Infantry 
 Chas.a'Pied             1270  Infantry 
 Gd Royal                700   Infantry 
 Ordener                 1035  Heavy Cavalry 
 Imp.Gd. H.Arty          24    Guns 
 Santone Arty            18    Guns (Can not move) 

Austro - Russian Army: 

Kienmayer, Lieutenant Field Marshal Baron (Below Average) 
Left Wind Advance Guard 
 N.7 Frontier             500   Infantry 
 N.14 Frontier            1300  Infantry 
 N.15 Frontier            1300  Infantry 
 Nostitz                  1000  Infantry 
 Stutterheim              1940  Lt. Cavalry 
 Stutterheim              12    Guns 

- Page 25 - 

Dokhturov, Lieutenant general (Average) 
First Column 
Lewis
 7 Jag                   650    Infantry 
 New Inkermanland        2000   Infantry 6 Guns 
 Yaroslav                2000   Infantry 6 Guns 
Leiders 
 Vladimir                2000   Infantry 6 Guns 
 Bryansk                 2000   Infantry 6 Guns 
Urusov 
 Vyatka                  2000   Infantry 6 Guns 
 Moscow                  1400   Infantry 6 Guns 
 KievGren                1000   Infantry 4 Guns 
 3 Ft. Artillery         24     Guns

Langeron, Lieutenant General Count (Average) 
Second Column 
Soulima 
 8 Jag                   1970 Infantry 5 Guns 
Olsuvev 
 Vibourg                 2000 Infantry 5 Guns 
 Perm                    2000 Infantry 5 Guns 
 Kursk                   2000 Infantry 5 Guns 
Kamensky 
 Ryazan                  2000 Infantry 5 Guns 
 Fanagoria Gren          2000 Infantry 5 Guns 

Prebyshevsky, Lieutenant General (Below Average) 
Third Column 
Muller 
 7 Jag                   1275 Infantry 5 Guns 
 Galicia                 1500 Infantry 5 Guns 
 Butyrsk                 1700 Infantry 5 Guns 
Wimpfen 
 Narva                   1600 Infantry 5 Guns 
 Podolia                 700 Infantry 5 Guns 
 Azov                    900 Infantry 5 Guns 

Miloradovich, Lieutenant general (Below Average) 
Fourth Column 
 Adv. Gd. Apcheron       500 Infantry 
 Adv. Gd. Novogorod      1330 Infantry 6 Guns 
Berg 
 Little Russia Gren      1500 Infantry 6 Guns 
 Smolensk                1500 Infantry 6 Guns 
Repninsky                
 Novgorod                670 Infantry 
 Apcheron                1000 Infantry 

Ft Arty.                 12 Guns 

- Page 26 -

8). FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

Q: Why don't my infantry units stack?
A: There are a number of requirements for units to merge together. First,
they must be of the same formation. (Corps or Column). Second, the limit in
one square is 6350 men. Third, the units must start adjacent to each other.
This was done to prevent accidental stacking when units are ordered over
large distances. The best procedure for stacking is as follows: move the units
adjacent, have them stop, give one orders to move into the otehr.

Q: How do I change an infantry unit's formation without moving it?
A: With the cursor over the unit, press the fire button (spacebar first
time). When the appropiate colur cursor (line or column) appears, move the
cursor away from the unit. Then move it back to the unit and release the fire
button (spacebar second time). This will not affect stacks.

9). GAME CREDIS

Game System Design: Stephen Marhsall Beckett II and Steve Krenek
IBM: Stephen Marhshall Beckett II, Steve Krenek and Robert Crowell Bastian III
Atari ST: Stephen Marhsall Beckett II and Robert Cromwell Bastian III
C64: Ray Vallieres, Jr.
Amiga: Jeff Jones
Scenarios and Map: Stephen Marshall Beckett II
Computer Graphics: Kurt Hoover and Stephen Marshall Beckett II
Manual Layout: Steve Nolan
Text Manual: Belgarath
Order of Battle provided by: John Wladis
Historical Consultants: John Wladis and Dave Naquin
Playtesters: Duane Anthony Schell, Richard Griffith Schell, Steve Nolan,
Douglas R. Oberle, Woody Nichols, Michael Gilchrist & Karlton S. Patton