            HELLFIRE PRESENTS...FULL DOCS TO BATTLE TRUCKS

TYPED BY IGGY/HF

                        COPYRIGHT NOTICE

This manual and the associated computer program are protected by National and       
International Copyright Laws. Copying, lending, translation and hiring are
prohibited without the express written permission of Richard G. Howard T/A
BASE 2.
    If you require another Battletrucks game then please send a cheque or
postal order for 9.80, payable to Base 2.

HOW TO LOAD
BattleTrucks will run on any Amiga with 1 meg or more of ram.
1. Your Amiga should be set up as described in the user manual, with the 
power off.
2. Insert disk 1 into the internal drive of your Amiga.

3. Turn the power on. The title screen should appear in less than 30 seconds
If you think the disks are faulty then please return them and we will be 
happy to provide you with replacements. Be sure to include your address and
telephone number.

COMPUTER VS COMPUTER

On the title screen press F2 twice so that it says "comp." next to Player 2.
Now press F1 twice so that it says "comp." next to Player 1. When this is
done press F4.
     Soon you will be requested to insert disk 2. Insert the disk into any
drive and before long you will be watching the computer racing against itself
This will give you an idea of how the game is played.
     Notice how the trucks try to race each other off the screen. If this is
achieved then the truck that is behind loses a life which is indicated by
deleting one of the small trucks at the bottom of the screen.
     There is a blue square pad at the top and bottom of the playing area and
the truck tyres must go over these pads. First up to the top pad, then the
bottom pad, then back to the top etc. If a truck misses the pad then a life
will be lost when the pad goes off the screen.
     Also you will notice that various weapons and devices are used to affect
the demise of an opponent. If a truck is hit with a missile - then it will
lose a life.
     The trucks also lose a life if they go into the water (or other 
substances on some screens) which must be avoided at all cost. Also there are
sometimes items on which the trucks get stuck (bushes on this screen) and so
these should be avoided. If a truck goes over an object such as a rock then 
it will be slowed down, so these are also best avoided. 
     After a player loses a life the trucks are set next to each other and
facing the right direction to continue racing. You are given two seconds in 
which you are immune to water and any other object that you would otherwise
get stuck on.
     When one player has lost all his lives then this is the end of the round
but not necessarily the end of the game.
Pressing ESCAPE on most screens will take you back to the previous screen.
Pressing ESCAPE now will take you to the title screen.

HUMAN VS COMPUTER

On the title screen press F2 until it says "comp" next to player 2. Now press
F1 until it says your choice of control next to player 1. If you wish to use
a joysick in port 2 then select "joy 2". If you wish to use a joystick in 
port 1 then select "joy 1". If you wish to use the keyboard then select 
"keys". When this is done press F4
    Next you will be asked to enter your name. Just type your name in, then 
press return and you will be taken to the shop.
    At the shop you must control the hand on the screen like you would a  
mouse pointer. Control the hand with the control you selected on the title
screen (Joy 1, Joy 2 or keys).
    Read what it says on the screen and you shouldn`t have a problem. The 
two buttons on the top left are to select different trucks - press them and 
you will see. You muxt buy what you want and then press exit. When you click
on an item certain information on that item will appear on the screen: the 
name of the item, the joystick controls for it, the cost to you if you buy it
the money you will get if you sell it and the amount that you have of that
item.
     When you exit from the shop you will go to race against your opponent.
The joystick controls are:

up - accelerate forwards
down - accelerate backwards
left - steer sharper left
right - steer sharper right
fire & up - shoot winch
fire & right - launch heat seeker
fire & down - boost
fire and left then up - front missile
fire and left then down - rear missile

Notice that when you are holding the fire button down you are in control of 
the weapons and when you have released the button then you are in control of
the truck.
    Notice also that the steering gets progressively sharper so you`ll have
to be careful not to oversteer. If you brake and steer at the same time then
you are likely to skid. This can be used to your advantage for sharp 
cornering.
    If you win the round then you will be awarded financially according to 
how well you did and then you`ll go back to the shop before another round
against a more worthy opponent. Each round is raced on a different track and
there are 12 tracks. The challenge is to beat your oppenent on all 12 tracks
but this will not be achieved without a lot of practice and skill. When you
lose a round it`s game over.

HUMAN VS HUMAN

On the title screen you use F1 to select the control for player 1 and F2 to
select the control fo player 2 (for obvious reasons they cannot be set on the
same joy port).
    Next use F3 to select the difference in points needed to win. Basically
the higher this number is the longer the game is likely to take. Press F4
when ready.
    Off to the shop next to get kitted, and then it`s the first round. The 
winner of the round will be awarded a point for each life he had left at the 
end of the round and each player is awarded more cash according to how well
they did (50,000 + 5,000 for each life left). Then it`s back to the shop to
upgrade before racing again on a different track. This continues until one
player is beating the other by the predetermined amount set by F3 on the 
title screen. He is then declared the victor.

IGGY/HF   26/5/95
