                           BEYOND THE ICE PALACE
                           ---------------------
                        Typed by Codetapper/Action!


Beyond The Ice Palace and to the North, legend tells of a mystical land
where strange creatures dwell.  It is a land of fantasy and magic, of
Goblins and Ghosts, of good and evil.

Recently, there has been great upset in the balance of good and evil in
these lands.  The forces of evil have been burning down the forests,
destroying the homes and lives of the simple woodcutters.

One night a meeting was held between the ancient and wise spirits of the
woods.  A decision was made to appoint a single person to be responsible
for returning the balance of the lands once again by banishing the evil
back from where it came.  They blessed a sacred arrow with the powers of
the woods, which would summon a spirit in times of need, and shot it into
the air; whoever found the arrow would find themselves in an adventure of
fantastic importance...


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
Spectrum              LOAD""
Commodore 64 (Cass)   SHIFT & RUN/STOP
Commodore 64 (Disc)   LOAD"*",8,1
Amstrad (Cass)        CONTROL & ENTER
Amstrad (Disc)        RUN"MENU" on side A
Amiga & Atari ST      Insert disc and RESET
IMPORTANT - FOR VIRUS PROTECTION!
Switch computer off - leave for minimum of ten seconds - switch back on and
enter disc.


PLAYING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
Various weapons may be obtained along the route.  These operate differently
and have varying strengths.

In times of crisis the Spirits of the Forest may be summoned to sacrifice
themselves for your needs, they will weaken certain enemies and destroy
others but use them wisely as you only start with two spirits though you
may find additional ones along the route.


SPECTRUM & AMSTRAD/SCHNEIDER
----------------------------
Joystick or redefinable keys


COMMODORE 64
------------
Joystick only
Move and Fire    - Joystick Port 2
Pause            - Spacebar


ATARI ST/AMIGA
--------------
Keyboard Control
All options are keyboard redefinable


ABORT KEYS
----------
Spectrum         - Break
Commodore 64     - Run/Stop + Restore together
Amstrad          - Esc
Atari ST & Amiga - Esc


CONTROLS
--------
Up               - Climb ladders/jump
Down             - Descend ladders/crouch
Right            - Move right/jump right
Left             - Move left/jump left
Fire             - Shoot weapon
Summon Spirit    - Redefinable keys
Pause            - Redefinable keys

(c) 1988 Elite Systems Ltd


All rights reserved worldwide.  Unauthorised copying, lending, broadcasting
or resale without the express written permission of Elite Systems Ltd is
strictly prohibited.

GUARANTEE

This software product has been carefully developed and manufactured to the
highest quality standards.  Please read carefully the instructions for
loading which are included.  If for any reason you have difficulty in
running the program, and believe that the product is defective, please
return it directly to the following address:

	Customer Services Dept
	Elite Systems Limited
	Anchor House
	Anchor Road
	Aldridge
	Walsall   WS9 8PW
	Telex 336130 ELITE G

Our Quality Control Department will test the product and supply an
immediate replacement at no extra cost.  Please note that this does not
affect your statuatory rights.