      Big Game Fishing from Simulmondo

Finally , after months and months of hard work in the busy metropolis
you have decided to allow yourself a vacation on the limpid waters of the
south seas where you will be able to engage your favorite sport : BIG GAME
FISHING ! 
Only one problem , you are virtually broke and the natives , being used to
tourists , wont lose to make a chance to make some money of you .
So , if you dont want your vacation to end in 1 day , you will have to 
catch not only a considerable amount of fish , but also the kind and the   
quantity of fish requested at the beginning of each day . If you should 
fail , you wont be able to pay the cost of your boat and buying gas , bait
,etc...
Weather conditions are variable , so you will get some good fishing days ,
some mediocre fishing days and days on which the fish arent biting at all 

                            THE HARBOR

You have 3 options :

GOING FISHING ( move joystick left + push joystick button ) and you gain 
access first to the MAP and then to FISHING .
TROPHY in order to get a recap of how things stand ( inventory , and 
weight of the largest fish caught ) ; you may now save a game onto a disk
or return to main options .
PURCHASING TACKLE ( joystick right + button ) to enter the STORE where 
you will buy your gas and gear . Prices vary according to store location 

                                MAP

Use the map to pick your navigation route ( by moving the joystick and 
pressing the button when you have positioned on the point you want )
Press the spacebar in order to redo the selection if you want to change
the route chosen . Once you have decided upon and chosen the route , the
following information will appear : how far to destination in miles and 
what the expected fuel consumption will be . If the route chosen should
collide with the coast , you wont be able to reach the point you picked .
If , however you choose a harbor for your destination ( little red house )
you will automatically return to the preceding options . This option is
particularly useful if you need to refuel and restock supplies on long 
trips . If you get into trouble , you have at least one battery or some
emergency flares . The price of being rescued depends on how far away 
from the coast you are and on whether or not the rescuers meet with any
trouble .

                               FISHING

This is where your expertise as a Big Game Fisherman will get a chance to
shine . The following items will be visualized on the screen : 

A SONAR SCAN ( to sound the ocean dephts , operational only with the motor
running ) : the ocean depth , following the bathymetric lines drawn on the
map , will be shown on a graph . The deeper the water , the better chance
of catching big prey .
A RADIO which will be usefull to call for help in case you run out of gas .
Carefull : in order for the radio to work , you need to have at least one 
battery .
A DRAG bar : to be able to keep a check on the strain the tackle ( line 
and rod ) is under while you draw the long sought after prey out of the 
water .
A CLUTCH bar : will tell you how to control the tension on the reel ( by
moving the joystick to the right or to the left you can increase the hold
to release it ) .
Type of BAIT : the kind of bait you put on the hook ( numerical keys 1 - 5
, and only when the line is mounted and completly wound - on 0 ) will 
decide which fish you can catch .
Number of LINES available : will tell you how many lines you have with you
( lines may break when the drag bar is at his max. and the fish jumps out
of the water ; futhermore , you will lose at least one line a day to wear
and tear ) ; use the F key to mount a new line .
A METER COUNTER : will tell how many meters of line are reeled out .
SARDINE box : these little fish are great chum and will call the fish you
want to catch : push the SPACEBAR when you want some chum .
A SPEEDOMETER : will show you the speed you are going in knots . Press the
" + " and " - " keys to speed up or slow down .
If you put live bait on the hook , you will have to go rather slowly ( 1
to 4 knots ) . If you use artificial bait you can go faster ( up to 8 or 9
knots ) .

                             EXAMPLE

Here is an example of how to catch a fish .
After having chosen your route on the map , you will automatically move on
to the fishing sequence . If you havent already done so , you must now 
mount a new line ( F key ) and bait ( numerical keys 1 - 5 ) ; then you
must lower the line into the water ( joystick forward + button ) to a depth
of at least 25 meters at the beginning of the day and bring up the boat to 
the desired speed ( + and - keys ) which will depend on which type of bait
you have on the hook , live or artificial .
As soon as you see sea gulls circling in the sky you know your close to
your prey  . Its now time to let out the chum ( spacebar ) in order to 
attract the predator fish to the boat : the number on the chum box tells
you , you have some chum left when it turns green it means your all out .
If the prey should be interested in the bait , you will see the fishing 
rod bend under the numerous attacks of the fish : its now time to hook him
( joystick back + button ) .
The fish will now try to escape for a good number of meters depending on
its size ; when the drag bar starts showing the resistance , its time to
start drawing in the fish .
This is the most delicate phase of action . You will have to be really 
careful now not to snap the line and lose your catch .
The rod must return under tension eventhough you have to slow down the fish
by putting just the right amount of hold on the line ( joystick to the right 
and to the left ) .
At first you must leave the clutch loose and allow the fish to gain precious
meters of line . Then , when the fish is tired out , you can slowly tighten 
the clutch in order to start drawing in the fish ( from number 2 on )
By pressing the button on the joystick , you can start to reel in the fish
; how fast depends on how tight the clutch is .
This will , of course , put  a strain on the line which may cause you to lose
the fish .
Trawl fishers usually draw in the fish by raising the rod up as high as it 
goes ( joystick back ) and then , when it can go no higher ( the rod will
start vibrating ) , while letting it go back down ( joystick forward )
, reel in the line ( joystick button ) .
You have to try and draw in the fish without letting it jump because each
time the fish cleares the water , the line could snap . Dont worry if the
day is already over and you have hooked a fish : you will be allowed the 
time it takes you to get into the boat .
The big ones may weight up to 360 kg . but you will find fish this size 
only in the deeper waters ( 70 meters ) found to the north . So , if you
want to attempt to make a record catch , you will have to make a little
money in the coastal areas , where tackle and gas cost less and your quarry
is paid more , before venturing to the northern waters where the big ones 
are waiting for you.
