		Bio Challenge

The aim of the game is to collect four parts of an amulet found by 
killing the guardians that inhabit the floor. You kill them by 
jumping on the slabs above them and somersaulting. You can tell how 
many somersaults are needed by how many lines each block has. Once 
the slab has run out of lines it falls, hopely on top of the enemy.
The small flying creatures are killed by spinning into them.
The cauldrons you find are different colours and do different things.
	These are as follows:-
	
        YELLOW  	:	Time bonus of an extra minute
	BROWN		:	Bonus of 5000 points
	BLUE		:	Extra Life
	GREY		:	Expands the capacity of the reserve
				tank to 32 units
	GREEN		:	Increases power of armour. When armour
				flashes green and you somersault your 
				enemies are destroyed.
	RED		:	Increases power of armour. When the
				small flying creatures come near, spin 
				and they will rebound off your armour
				and possibly kill one of the guardians
Joystick commands :-

Fire button not pressed
	Push Up 	:	High Leap
	Push Left	:	Move Left
	Push Right	:	Move Right
	Pull Down	:	Crouch or Step Down from Slab
Fire Button Pressed
	Push Up		:	High Leap and Spin
	Push Left	:	Jump Left
	Push Right	:	Jump Right
	Pull Down	:	Somersault
Other Joystick Commands :-
	Crouching in front of a monster fragment collects it.
	To make a small leap left or right, push joystick up and then
	move left or right.
	The longer the joystick is pushed up, the higher you leap.
	The longer the joystick is pushed left or right, the farther
	you will jump.
		
On screen commands :-
	Time 		:	Time allowed for level.
	Energy		:	The energy tank adds up the remains
				of the monsters picked up along the
				way. The larger circles are equal to
				five smaller ones. Circles will only
				appear after you have picked up the
				remains and taken them back to the 
				large sphere at the beginning of each
				level.
	Oil Gauge	:	You character (KLIPT) runs out of oil
				when he :-
					Moves
					Gets hit by an enemy
					Gets hit by a guardians missile
	Lives		:	The KLIPT starts with four lives
	Amulet		:	Before you can Proceed to the next
				level you need to collect all four
				pieces of the amulet



			@ 30/05/89 The Phantom Lord