                         B I O N I C
			        C O M M A N D O

SCENARIO

It may have been ten years, but the oppression and devastation continues.
The alien forces that laid waste to our once beautiful world have all but
decimated our civilization.

Now, for the first time in so many years comes our chance for glory again.
The Bionic Commandos.  This elite fighting force is each equipped with a
bionic arm with which they can climb and swing from platform to platform by
extending their arm and grabbing any suitable object above them.  The arm
is also useful for catching provisions and extra weapons parachuted into
the combat zone.  As a weapon the bionic arm delivers an awesome blow to
any enemy soldiers he may come to grips with.  After battling his way
through the alien base complex, the commando must destroy the launch
computer, thus preventing the aliens from using their doomsday weapon.


JOYSTICK COMMANDS

Without fire depressed:

Left - Walk left
Right - Walk right
Back - Crouch
Forward - no effect
To attach your bionic arm press FIRE.

With fire pressed:

Left - Fire left
Right - Fire right
Back - Crouch and fire in direction facing
Forward - Extend bionic arm

With bionic arm attached:

Left - Swing Left
Right - Swing Right
Back - Detach bionic arm
Forward - Climb up bionic arm


KEYBOARD COMMANDS

F1 - Pause
F10 - Reset


GAME PLAY

Your bionic commando is equipped not only with a bionic arm, but also with
a standard double-shot gun.  As the game proceeds, extra weaponry will be
parachuted to you.  These include:

A rapid fire gun
Grenade launcher
A plasma bolt blaster
A bionic arm turbo charger for extra speed.


LEVEL 1

The Dying Forest

This is the only accessible route to the alien complex.  However, the
aliens know that too!  As you approach the complex, alien guards armed with
rifles and grenades will bar your way.  Use your bionic arm to climb the
trees, but beware, the larger soldiers are equipped with a grappling hook
with which they can climb trees and chase you.  Also the trees are
inhabited by, in the lower brances, a species of killer bees and on the
higher branches lurk vicious flying creatures.  These must either be
destroyed or avoided at all costs.


LEVEL 2

The Castle

Once through the forest, your next task is to neutralise the castle under
which lies the enemy base complex.  Battle your way across the drawbridge
doing your best to blast or avoid cannons and gun turrets that spew out
wave after wave of deadly shells and missiles.  Electric wires that stretch
across your path must be destroyed, as touching them is instant
electrocution.


If that wasn't bad enough, once across the drawbridge, to reach the top of
the castle, you must destroy the explosive ladened kamikaze soldiers who
will do their best to blow you up, while above you the aliens have placed
their toughest soldiers who will try to squash you flat by hurling large
objects from above as you pass by.


LEVEL 3

Infiltration

Gaining access to the underground complex will be no easy feat.  With their
first two lines of defence destroyed the aliens have sealed off the complex
to all but the most frenzied attack.  However, there is one slim chance of
entry, the sewer system.  Infested by lethal creatures, little of which is
known, fight your way through blasting not only the creatures, but also the
massive robots which even though only partly operational, are still
extremely dangerous.  To add to the battle, evil machines bounce towards
you which if hit, catapult its driver clear allowing him to fight on.


LEVEL 4

The Control Room

Now inside you must reach the missile with all possible haste.  To reach it
you must pass through the control room.  However, your entry is blocked by
a set of immovable doors.  These are easily dealt with by blasting the
locking mechanism.  As you battle to reach the top of the room, blast the
soldiers that bar your way, destroy the helicopters that buzz around above
you dropping bombs, while avoiding th indestructible stomp machines that
will flatten you if they have the chance.


LEVEL 5

The Silo

The final and most difficult level of Bionic Commando.  Smash through the
remaining defences that have a few lethal surprises in store.  Once at the
top of the silo, destroy the alien launch computer, thus stopping the
launch of the doomsday missile and completing your mission...  possibly!


And that's it folks.  Hope you enjoy the game.
