                       KONAMI & PARANOIMIA present:

                            BLADES OF STEEL

PAGE 3


TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION / HOW TO SET UP THE GAME................................. 4

LOADING AND CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS...................................... 8

GAME SCREEN / LEAGUE RULES............................................ 9

THE FIGHT SCENE....................................................... 10

PENALTY SHOTS & OVERTIME PLAY......................................... 11

PAGE 4


WELCOME TO THE BIG TIME

   From the opening Face-Off it's six on six pro-style hockey at its
best.  Their are eight teams for you to captain: Los Angeles, New York,
Vancouver, Montreal, Edmonton, Minnesota, Toronto and Chicago.
You can challenge a friend, or take on a multi-talented computer squad.
You can also choose from three difficulty levels - Junior, College and
Pro.

   Throughout the game, you'll constantly be tested by every intense
element of championship hockey, from Penalty and Overtime Scenes to
Knockout Smash-Hit Fight Scenes.  Speed, strength, quickness and
instinct are talents you must possess if you plan to prevail, especially
when the anger flares, gloves come off and fists start flying.

   It's hard hitting action at its toughest.  And you'll soon learn that
in this league nothing's ever given to you, and before you can reach
your goals - you have to score them.  You've gotta master the artful
skill of a finesse player and the bone crushing brutality of an enforcer.
You'd better be versatile as well, because you must skillfully control
your forwards, centers, defensemen and even the goalie, who'll defend
the net against unrelenting Power Plays (which will occur if you lose a
fight and have your battered carcass banned to the Penalty Box).

   So strap on Blades of Steel, and prepare to make a name for yourself.
Or be put on ice by the hottest hit men in hockey!

HOW TO SET UP THE GAME

   Blades of Steel consists of three periods with non-stop action.
Throughout the game you'll control both your offensive and defensive
players along with your all-important goalie.

   When on offense you'll always control the player with the puck.  To
change players, simply aim your controls toward a teammate, wait for him
to start flashing, and pass the puck.

   On defense you'll always control the flashing player.  You can also
switch controls to different defensemen.  At all times, you'll have
complete control over the goalie.

   To begin, select one or two player mode using the joystick.  Lock in
your decision by pressing the fire button.

   One Player Mode:  If only one player takes the ice, you'll face off
against tough computer competition.  Begin by using the joystick to
select "Exhibition" or "Tournament" play.  To lock in your selection,
press the Joystick Fire Button.

   Next, use the joystick to decide on one of three challenging levels -
Junior (for beginners), College (for intermediate) or Pro (for advanced).
Lock in your choice with the Joystick Fire Button.

   Finally, use the joystick to choose the team you wish to captain,
and again lock in your decision with the Joystick Fire Button.  Repeat
this procedure to select the team name for your computer opponent.

   Two Player Mode:  If you're challenging a friend, you will both
pick a team using the joystick.  Both of you will also lock in your
decisions with the Joystick Fire Button.  In the two player mode, you
cannot select tournament play or difficulty level.

   If for any reason you want to change your selections in either mode
when the game begins, hit the ESC key to repeat the process.

   When all decisions are final, press the Joystick Fire Button to bring
the teams onto the ice for a stick slashing good time!

PAGE 8


LOADING AND CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS

What You Need

   Amiga 500, 1000 or 2000 computer; 512K RAM memory; one disk drive;
monitor or TV (color recommended); joystick required; a second joystick
is required for two player competition.

Loading

   Plug the joystick into Port 2 for player one; plug the second joystick
into Port 1 for player two.  Turn on your computer and monitor.  Insert
the disk into the disk drive.  The program will automatically load.

PASSWORD INSTRUCTIONS

   Removed by THE BEST... PARANOIMIA 90!

GAME CONTROLS

   During the game, press:

Key          Action
~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CTRL P       Toggle Pause On and Off.
CTRL B       Toggle Background Music On and Off.
CTRL E       Toggle Sound Effects On and Off.
ESC          Restores Game to Player Selection Screen.

JOYSTICK CONTROLS     Joystick moves player in eight directions and
                      aims the direction of your shot or pass.
      Up
    \ | /        Offensive Control
     \|/         Passing: Give the Joystick Fire Button a quick press
Left -O- Right   to pass the puck to another team member.  Precision
     /|\         skills are very important when attempting a fast-paced
    / | \        pass.  Because if an opposing team member is between
     Down        the pass and your teammate, the puck will be intercepted.

                 Shooting: To fire a shot on goal, hold the Joystick Fire
                 Button down the release.  The puck will travel directly
                 at the red arrow in front of your opponent's net.
                 NOTE: The red arrow randomly moves, and you should try
                 to time your shot so that the puck reaches the arrow
                 at the exact moment when the goalie is out of position.

Defensive Control
Switching Defensemen: Use your joystick to control your goalie or the
flashing defensive player.  When on defense, give the Joystick Fire
Button a quick press to change your active player to the one nearest the
opponent with the puck.

Stealing: When you want to steal the puck, move your flashing player
in front of the opponent with the puck, then go for the theft by banging
into him and pressing the Joystick Fire Button.

PAGE 9


THE KONAMI ARENA

   This 70,000 seat arena is sold-out until the year 2,010.  Luckily,
you've got the best seat in the house: Center Ice.

RULES OF ENGAGEMENT

Face-Offs

   At the beginning of each period, and after icing calls, the ref will
line up the teams for a traditional, quick wristed Face-Off.  The first
player to hit the Joystick Fire Button when the puck is dropped will
get the first shot to strike offensively.

Icing Calls

   Icing occurs when a player shoots from his own territory and the puck
slides the length of the rink, past the opposing team's goal, without
being touched.  When the opponent takes control of the puck from behind
his net, icing will be whistled and a Face-Off will occur.

Slashing & Checking

   If a player gets too rough (if that's really possible in this sport)
a fight will break out or a penalty will be called.  This usually happens
if you repeatedly check the opponent.

   If there's a fight, the screen will switch to a battle mode, and the
loser of the fight will be sent to the penalty box for 30 seconds.

   If there's a penalty called, a penalty shot will be awarded to the
player who was victimized by the slasher (see page 11 for details).

PAGE 10


HOW TO STAND A FIGHTING CHANCE

   Hockey greats are generally known to have short fuses, and in Blades
of Steel that stereotype explodes into full blown fight scenes when the
fore-checking gets outta control!

How to duke it out.

   Get in your best stomach shots by aiming the joystick down and
pressing the fire button.  To pummel your opponent's pug nose, aim the
joystick up and press the fire button.

   To defend yourself, aim the joystick right to ward off belly punches.
Aim the joystick left to guard your sensitive schnoz.

PAGE 11


THE PENALTY AND OVERTIME SCENE

   If a fight breaks out and the ref intervenes before fists are bruised,
a penalty shot will be awarded.  If a game ends tied, 5 overtime bonus
shots are taken by each team, with the victor ultimately decided by the
player with the most extra goals.  If the game remains evenly knotted
after the 5 shots, it's on to a one shot Sudden Death finale!

How to take control during Penalties and Overtime

   If you're the slap shooter, use the joystick to aim your shot, then
press Button 1.

   If you're defending the net, use the joystick to defend the area you
think your opponent might be aiming toward, then simultaneously press the
fire button to try and block the shot.

   Note: During this scene, there are eight different points you can shoot
at or defend.

The numbers 1-8 represent the eight locations you can aim for.

1 - top middle of net
2 - top right side of net
3 - right middle of net
4 - bottom right of net
5 - bottom center of net
6 - left bottom of net
7 - left middle of net
8 - left top of net

Original supplied by and manual type by Endless Sleep!