		Blitzkrieg at the Ardennes

Introduction: Blitzkrieg at the Ardennes sumulates one of the 
most decisive battles of WWII.  On Dec 16, 1944, to coincide
with several days of bad weather, Hitler ordered directive
"Wacht am Rhine."  The German plan was to quickly strike
weakened Allied lines in Belgium and Luxemburg and to
breakthrough and push quickly to the Meuse River to capture
the Leige and finally the port city of Antwerp.  The capture
of Antwerp was essential to postpone the invasion of
Germany, and give the Fuhrer a chance to honor his 
promises of secret weapons that would win the war.  But the
chances of success were remote.  The Germans were 
desperately low on fuel and the Allies had firm control of
the air, and strategic superiority in Europe.

Overview: Blitzkrieg at the Ardennes is an interactive computer
simulation composed of a set of rules, a terrain map, and set
of units representing the opposing forces.  The map or
battlefield is an area composed of 1700 hexagonal cells
(hexes).  Each cell is assigned a terrain type of mountain,
plain, forest, city, or siegfried.  The normal display is a
subarea or "window" into this battlefield eight cells wide by
six cells high.  Positioning the pointer at any edge of the
screen causes the display to move in that direction one hex.
At this resolution the strengths and status of all units is
visible.  The next level of resolution can display about one
half of the battlefield.  individual units and nationality are
visible with artillery and infiltrator units a different shade.  A
large scale display of the entire area is also available.  It is
possible to use these maps to move the display rapidly from
one area of the battlefield to another (see NAVIGATION).

The attacker moves his units around the map encountering
and engaging the units of the enemy.  The various types of
units have combat strengths and movement abilities
associated with them.  These are modified by the terrain.  A
tank for example moves more rapidly down a road than
Through a forest.

All interaction with the simulation can be done with the
mouse, although there are command key alternatives provided

						Page 1



for all items on the menu.  Moving a unit or units for
example would involve selecting "collect" from the menu (or
pressing the right Amiga key and the letter "c" similtaneously)
positioning the pointer over the unit to be moved and
pressing the left mouse button.  The selected unit would then
disappear from the map and move to a special area of the
screen called the raster.  Up to 27 additional units can be
"collected" in the same manner.  Logically these units would
then be either moved to some stragic objective if it were
unguarded, or to an area where it could engage the enemy at 
favorable odds.  This would be done by selecting "deposit"
from the menu, positioning the pointer over the desired
destination and clicking the left mouse button.  Assuming
that the move is legal, the unit will disappear from the raster
and reappear at the desired location.  Whenever a unit is
adjacent to an enemy unit in can engage the enemy unit in
combat.  The units participating in the engagement are
indicated with the mouse.  When the details of all the
engagements are defined the battle resolution phase can
begin.  

The battle is resolved one engagement at a time, in the order
that they are selected by the attacker.  Selection is done
"picking" with the mouse any unit in that engagement.  The
outcome of the battle is determined by the relative strengths
of the units involved (modified by their position in terrain)
and a random factor (die roll).  All calculations are done
automatically.  The "odds" or relative strengths  of the units
were calculated and shown to the player as he defined the
engagement.  The roll of the die commenced with the
selection of the engagement.  The result of the engagement is
then announced with a message at the bottom of the screen.
Adjustments related to battle damage are made automatically.
Any advance or retreat of units must then be done by the
player owning those units.  When all units are serviced the
next engagements may be resolved.  When the last engagement
in the battle is resolved the next turn begins.

The preceding explanation consists of only the bare
essentials.  There are many other details involved.  These
details are, we think, exactly what one would expect when



						Page 2


one considers the implications of the situation.  This is after
all a simulation.  The object of a simulation is realism.  There
are also a great number of player aids incorporated.  It is
impossible to violate the rules.  Informational messages are
displayed whenever this is attempted.  The following section
details the Menu Picks or modes.





						Page 3


MENU: The menu is activated by moving the pointer to the
upper right hand corner of the display screen and holding
down the right mouse key.  When the menu appears slide the
pointer over the menu entry you wish to activate and release
the right mouse button.  All menu picks have command key
alternatives which are displayed next to the text in the menu.
Pressing the right Amiga key and the indicated letter will
select that menu function.  The current menu mode will be
displayed at the top of the screen.

Not all menu picks result in an explicit action.  Some define
the context within which mousebutton activities will be
interpreted.  There are basically only three things you can do
with the mouse: position the pointer on the screen, press the 
left button or press the right button.  In order to perform the
command functions of the simulation there must be different
contexts under which this action occurs.  For example if the
pointer is positioned over a unit and the left mouse button is
pressed what can that mean?  In a general sense we will say
that the unit has been "selected".  What happens then will be
the function of the "mode".  With a few exceptions the mode
is what is selected from the menu.  Most of the menu picks
establish modes.  They are:


VIEW: If there are more than one unit in a hex some part of
the other units will be obscured fro view.  In this mode,
positioning the pointer over the visible part of the unit and
pressing the left mouse button will rearrange the positions of
the units so that the selected unit is entirely visible.  If the
unit happens to be in an engagement, the odds for that
engagement will be displayed.


COLLECT: Selection of a unit while in this mode will cause
the unit to be removed from the map and placed in a special
area of the screen called the raster.  If the selected unit is part
of an engagement, the selected unit will be removed from the
engagement and the odds for that engagement recalculated
and displayed.  Up to 27 units can be "collected" in this
mode.


						Page 4



DEPOSIT: The last unit in the raster is deposited into the
hex which is under the pointer, provided that this is a legal
move.  If the hex contains other units which are engaged and
the pointer is positioned over the visible part of one of these,
the unit in the raster will be added to the engagement and
the recalculated odds displayed.

ARTILLERY: In this mode unit selections will be interpreted
as, associating artillery pieces, and their targets.  The first
selection will be interpreted as a firing unit selection.  The
hex containing the unit will turn black.  The next selection
will be interpreted as the target.  After the target is selected
the hexes containing artillery and target will return to their
previous appearance.  The artillery unit will contain a square
in the upper right hand corner indicating that it has been
assigned a target and the target will contain a square about
one third of the way down the right edge of the unit marker
indicating that it is a target.  If the target is in an engagement
the square on the artillery marker will have the color of the
engagement (see ENGAGE).  One artillery cannot target
multiple units but any unit can be targeted by as many
artillery units as are in range (three hexes in any direction).
Artillery can be targeted during any time after reinforcements
(if any) have been deployed and before battle resolution
has begun.  In addition, the Allies, after battle resolution has
been finished may elect to give protective fire to any of their 
units in range.  The mechanics of this process is the same as
offensive fire except friendly units are selected as targets.
Then at the beginning of the German resolve turn, the
selected artillery will automatically fire on the largest
German unit in range that was attacking the selected Allied
unit.


ENGAGE: Unit selections will define engagements.  The
sequence of selection is of some importance.  An attacking
unit can engage the units in any adjacent hex.  All defending
units in any hex enter the engagement as one group i.e. the
defending units in any hex can belong but to a single
engagement.  Attacking units occupying the same hex can


						Page 5



engage different defending units in the same or different
hexes.  One attacker could have combat with several defending
units on separate hexes but the strength of the defending
units remains one number.  This restriction prevents the
construction of a "chain" of engagements extending across the
board.  As a result every engagement will consist of units
from at most seven hexes-the "central" hex and the six
adjacent hexes.  The central hex will be attacking and the rest
defending, or the central hex will be defending and the rest
attacking.  The hex containing the first unit selected will be
interpreted to be the central hex.  That hex will turn black
and the selected unit will show a border in one of twelve
colors.  All other units that are selected for this engagement
will have the same color border until battle resolution for
that unit is finished.  After unit in the central hex is complete
units may be selected in the adjacent hexes.  Once a unit in
an adjacent hex has been selected the computer will interpret
any subsequent selection in the central hex as ending the
engagement definition.  The central hex will revert to its
former appearance and the program will wait for the next
engagement definition.


UNDO ENGAGE: Selection of any unit that is in an
engagement while in this mode will cause that engagement to 
be dissolved.  All units will revert to their unengaged status
and appearance.


DEMOLISH: In this mode selections will be interpreted as
orders to the selected unit to demolish a bridge or a fuel
dump.  The selected unit will have had to have started the
turn in the hex it is to demolish.  If the hex is both a bridge
and a dump, the dump will be demolished.  Only one attempt
at demolition per hex per turn is permitted.  The unit
attempting demolition is immobilized for the rest of the turn
regardless of the success or failure of the attempt.]


BRIDGE: This works like demolish (same rules apply to the
selected unit) except it causes a demolished bridge to be


						Page 6



rebuilt.  A fuel dump cannot be reconstructed.  But if the
enemy has destroyed both sides, they must be reconstructed
separately.


JOIN UNITS: This works like deposit except the unit in the
raster will merge with the selected unit.  The resulting unit
will have the sum of the strength of both.  Both units must be
the same type.  A unit cannot be built up beyond its original
strength.  Any surplus strength remains with the unit in the
raster.  The unit being built up in immobilized.  The unit
building up the selected unit must have been able to reach
the selected hex.  If an unsupplied unit and a supplied unit
are joined, both are considered resupplied.


RESOLVE: This menu pick indicates that the
movement/engagement phase is over.  Offensive firing of all
target artillery is done automatically and the results
calculated and displayed.  The Germans get to launch their V2
rockets against the Leige or Antwerp.  After this is done, the
attacker is asked to select an engagement to resolve.  The
engagement containing the unit which is then selected is
resolved.  If the results indicate any movement, each of the
remaining units in the engagement must be
advanced/retreated.  Retreat is obligatory.  Advance is optional,
but two selections must be made for each unit in the
engagement (Exception: a unit that must retreat but cannot,
is eliminated immediately upon its selection).  The first
selection is a unit selection and indicates the unit to be
moved.  The hex containing the unit turns black.  The second
selection is a selection of the destination hex.  The unit
disappears from the hex it where it originated and reappears
at its destination.  The colored border disappears from the
unit marker.  The hex of origin returns to its previous
appearance.  If the owner of a unit wishes to decline an
advance, this is indicated by selecting the unit twice (i.e.
destination is the same as origin).  After a unit has been
selected for advance/retreat but before it has been assigned a
destination, a representation of permissable destinations can
be seen by a menu pick of WHERE.


						Page 7



			NAVIGATION

BIG PICTURE: The normal display of the battlefield is an
area eight hexes wide by six hexes high.  This can be thought
of as a "window" into the battlefield.  The big picture causes a
large scale map of the entire battlefield to be displayed.  A
blue square is displayed on the map and represents the
current "window".  This square can be moved with the pointer.
A click of the left mouse button will cause a redefination of
the window to coincide with the location of the blue square
at the time of the click.


ZONES: This is simular to the big picture except that the
scale of the map is about one half that of the big picture.  All
hexes adjacent to the German units (except infiltrators) 
are outlined in red, those adjacent to Allies in the blue, and
those adjacent to both, in yellow.  The blue square works as in
the big picture.  This is helpful in visualizing the lines of the
respective forces.


WHERE: This displays the same type of map as zones but the
hexes outlined in blue represent permissable moves for the
last unit in the raster, or in the case of movement during
battle resolution, the permissable moves of the selected unit
(see RESOLVE).  The hex where the unit was at the start of 
the turn is outlined in yellow.
Home Hex - will position the window over an area containing hexes
which are legitimate destinations for the last unit in the raster.



						Page 8



			RASTER OPERATIONS


NEXT: Causes every unit in the raster to move up one
position.  The last unit moves to the first position.


HOLD: Causes reinforcement units currently in the raster to
be deferred.  They will be offered again on the next turn.



			QUITTING


QUIT: Ends the simulation.  Nothing is saved.


SAVE: Causes the current state of the simulation to be saved
to disk where at a later time the file may be used to restart
the simulation at the point it was saved.  "Save" can only be
used after reinforcements have been deployed and before
battle resolution has started.  Does not cause the simulation
to terminate.


DISPLAY: At the top of the screen, game information is 
displayed-date, time, turn indicator, menu mode, weather.


MESSAGES: At the bottom of the screen information will be
given during the course of the game.



						Page 9


MOVEMENT: After a player decides which unit(s) to move, he
may move these units their full number of movement points
for that unit or until it becomes adjacent to an enemy unit
(except infiltrators). Each hex traversed by a unit during a
turn requires an expenditure of a certain number of
movement points.  The point requirement will be different for
each type of unit and for each kind of terrain being
traversed (see table 9).  Any unit may be picked up and put
down as many time as you wish.  The Amiga never forgets
where a unit starts.


COMBAT: After the attacker has moved all of his unit(s) next
to enemy units he wishes to attack, he may select the
ENGAGE function on the menu.  All units next to enemy
units must be engaged for attack during the resolution phase.
Up to three units, including infiltrators may be placed in any
hex.  Allied Units may not occupy a Siegfried hex.  Each unit
displays a number indicating it's combat strength.  If a unit is
attacking this number represents its attack strength, if
defending, its defense strength.  The defender may be
doubled or tripled in strength according to what unit(s) are
in a particular type of terrain (see table 8).  This modification
is not displayed on the unit but will be reflected in the odds.
The attacker is never modified.  When the strength points of
the attacker and the defender are added up, the ratio of
attack to defense is formed.  Example:  30 combat points
attacking 10 pts would be a 3 to 1 ratio.  Or, if 10 points were
attacking 30, the ratio would be 1 to 3.  Odds are scaled to the
values 1 (or less)-4 to 6 (or greater)-1 where the first
number represents the attacker's odds and the second the
defender's (see table 2).  Odds are rounded to the defenders
advantage.  After the engagements are defined, the artillery
may be engaged and targets chosen.

You are now ready to Resolve (see menu).  If, at this time
there are still enemy units adjacent that have not been
engaged, the computer will take you there so you can either
engage that unit or move it away.  Note:  You may have to
unengage and re-engage as desired.  Press Resolve again.  The
artillery phase will then start by systematically reducing units


						Page 10


that the artillery had been set on during the engagement
phase.  Note:  These reductions will affect engagement odds
during Combat Resolution.  After each battle, damage is
calculated and deducted from each unit(s) in a hex involved
in that battle.  If there are more than one attacker or
defender in a hex, all units receive damage.  This damage is
deducted in fractions of the unit's attack strength at the time
of the damage.  Losses are rounded to the nearest whole
number.  e.g. A loss of 1.5 becomes a loss of 2, and a loss of
1.3 becomes a loss of 1.


RESULTS:


DEFENDER LOSE:-Points deducted from all defenders.

DEFENDER BACK:-All defending units are retreated the
exact number of hexes on the results table.  If a unit can not
move because:

(a) movement would take it at any time next to an enemy or
off the board.

(b) armor would have to cross an unbridged river or

(c) more than 3 units would be stacked together on the same
hex or

(d) in the case of an ally it would have to move in or through
a Siegfried hex

	IT IS ELIMINATED


DEFENDER ADVANCE:-All units are given the indicated
number of movement points and may advance as in regular
movement.  A unit is always allowed to enter the defender's
hex even if such movement would exceed the movement
point requirement to enter that hex.  No hex to be entered
twice.

DEFENDER ELIMINATED:-All defending units are eliminated.


						Page 11


EXCHANGE:-Both attacker and defender lose one unit of
their choice if the defender only had one unit, the attacker
may move into vacated hex.


NO MOVEMENT:-No movement on either side.


ATTACKER LOSE:-Points deducted from all attackers in
engagement.


ATTACKER BACK:-Same as defender back.


ATTACKER ADVANCE:-Same as defender advance.


SUPPLY:-All units except air, V2, and infiltrators must be
supplied by fuel dumps.  If a unit is not supplied, it may
affect its attack and/or movement.  Defensive strength is never
affected.  Units are considered out of supply if at the
beginning of their turn they are out of range of all fuel
dumps in friendly hands.  The reduction of isolated units will
be different for each type of unit and calculated at the time
of isolation (see table 7).  Note:  If a unit's combat strength
falls below one during isolation it is eliminated.  In order to
be supplied, a unit must be at least 4 hexes from a road that
leads to a friendly supply source.  This may change however,
due to a V2 rocket attack, German or Allied bombing,
demolition, or enemy zone of control.  The supply line back
may not travel through or adjacent to enemy units, or
through unbridged rivers or in the case of the Allies through
Siegfried hexes.

At the beginning of the game, Allies are supplied from the
Leige, Antwerp, and two other fuel dumps, near Stavlot and 
Bastogne.  The Germans have two fuel dumps both behind the
Siegfried line on the bottom corners of the mapboard.

The number of hexes a friendly unit(s) may be from a supply
road and still be supplied is displayed in the top corner of
the supply hex, and is reduced by one for each hit from air


						Page 12


units or V2 rocket attack.  If the supply source number falls
below 1, it is destroyed.  A dump may also be destroyed by
any ground unit provided the unit has been there one turn
before its demolition and an enemy unit (not infiltrators) are
at least 4 hexes away.  Any unit that is resupplied is restored
to its combat level at the time of isolation unless it was
damaged during isolation.  Note:  Any isolated unit can be
combat supplied if, built up by supply unit of that type (see
menu).


						Page 13



UNIT IDENTIFICATION:

Strength Bar: Vertical line on left side of marker shows what
percent of original strength remains.

Combat Points: First of two numbers displayed at lower left
of marker shows the strength of a unit at the time of combat.
This number indicates attacking or defending strength but
does not reflect terrain bonuses.

Movement: Indicates movement points available to the unit.



						Page 14


UNITS:

Armor: Contain some of the highest combat factors but
cannot advance or retreat across unbridged rivers.

Infantry: Receives no road bonuses but defends well in
wooded areas.

Motorized Infantry: Nice to have on defense anywhere, very
mobile.

Artillery: These are very valuable and fire directly on
individual units up to 3 hexes away, but may never fire if
engaged by an enemy.  In this case artillery units participate
in battle like ordinary units but defend at half their attack
strength.  At the end of their turn, the Allies may target units
for defensive fire support (see menu).

Volkswerfers: German, only.  Unit is very slow but has a 
stinging attack value.  Always defends at 1/4 of its attack
strength.  Cannot fire on enemy units from a distance like
other artillery.

Infiltrators: German, only.  These units may be positioned
uring the German movement phase.  They may be placed
adjacent to or in the same hex with enemy units.  If
movement is made into enemy hex, the die will be rolled to
see if Germans have been recognized and rolled again at the
end of each succeeding turn they remain there.  Any time the
Allies attempt to collect one of their units from a hex
containing an infiltrator the die is again rolled.  If recognized
by Allies, infiltrator is destroyed.  If not recognized, the Allied
unit is diverted at random into an area of three hex radius
from the infiltrator and immobilized for the remainder of
the Allied turn.  Infiltrators may also divert "passing" Allied
units.  If an Allied unit wants to move from point A to point
B, and the only way to get there would be to pass by an
infiltrator, the recognition table must be consulted.


						Page 15


Infiltrators may be placed on roads or anywhere they can
divert the Allies and prevent them from reorganizing.  Also,
having an infiltrator unit in a dump or bridge hex, will make it
more difficult for the Allies to reach and demolish it.
Infiltrators have no attack or defensive strength and may not
participate in engagements.

Air Units:-When air units are in Raster, simply position the
pointer over any unit or dump you wish to bomb and press
left mouse button.  If unit is in a dump merely click on the
unit and both the dump and the unit may sustain damage.
Air may only be used in A.M. clear weather only.


TERRAIN: Affects all units in terms of movement and
combat.  Specific effect may differ for different types of units
(see table 8).


River Movement: Units attempting to cross a river must wait
one turn unless the river is bridged by a road or the unit started
its turn in the hex adjacent to the river at the point of
intended crossing.  Immediate movement across unbridged
rivers is permitted for units advancing or retreating as a 
result of battle resolution.  Armored units may never cross an
unbridged river.  In terms of combat, a unit's defense strength
is doubled in an engagement where all of the attacking units
are across a river from all the defending units.  This is lost
however, if only one of the attackers was not.


Siegfried Line: No Ally may enter-ever!  Allied supply may
never pass through these hexes.  All Germans in Siegfried
Line are tripled in defense.


Fuel Dumps: Automatically supplies friendly units at
beginning of game.  By default Germans own the two dumps
behind the Siegfried line unless an Allied unit is occupying
this hex.  The Allies own the other fuel dump areas unless a
German occupies the hex.  If a unit occupies a hex containing
an enemy dump, that dump will function as a supply source


						Page 16


for friendly units as long as it is occupied by at least one
friendly unit.  Unoccupied dumps supply their default owners.
Demolition of dump is also possible.  See menu.


Customization:-Before the simulation starts, you will be
given a choice of features to adjust for balance.  If default
conditions are desired, simply select OK.  Simulation will
commence upon selection.


Beginning: The Allied units are already deployed.  The
Germans units are placed on the hexes in their starting zones
(use "where" on menu function to see these).  Once the units
are placed, the computer will calculate its movement as
though the unit originated from that hex.  The unit may then
be collected and moved in normal way.  Other units may then
be deposited in the vacated hex.  After all units have been
placed, you are ready to start.


SEQUENCE:


Air Bombardment Phase: If weather is clear and A.M., air
attack is used.


Movement Phase: All units may be moved.


Combat Engagement Phase:-All units including artillery may
be set up for combat (see menu engage).


Combat Resolution Phase:-After all units have been set up for
combat, select "Resolve" from menu.  Battles are resolved as follows:

(1) Reinforcements are displayed in the raster.  Units must be
    placed in permitted areas (displayed by "where".  If units
    are unable to be deployed in indicated areas may be
    deferred by selecting "hold" from menu.

(2) Artillery resolution phase


						Page 17


(3) V2 Rocket (German only)

(4) Battle Resolution Selected in order by the attacker.  Note:
    The computer will position the window on an engagement
    of its own selection if there are no engagements visible
    at the time of selection.  If you wish to start the battle
    with another engagement simply reposition the window
    with "the big picture."

(5) Defensive Artillery Support (Allied only).  After this phase
    is complete, supply lines will be calculated and isolated
    units will have factors adjusted.


COMPUTER OPPONENT: Although it may require a few
minutes, the computer will do everything a human player
would do except much faster.  It will however, allow you to see
the engagements it has made before they are resolved.  When
you are ready to proceed, simply select "resolve" from the
menu.


VICTORY CONDITIONS: The German side has several ways
to win.

(1) the capture of Antwerp before Jan. 1, 1945.  All three
    hexes must be occupied by German units one full turn.
    This is the highest level of victory the German may
    receive.

(2) capture of the Leige and three of the 6 major cities,
    being defined as: Bastogne, Maastricht, Givet, Dinnant,
    Namur, and Huy.

(3) To score a tactical victory, all of these major cities.

(all of the above victory cities must be held for one turn.)

The Allied player wins simply by not allowing the German
player to achieve his objectives before Jan. 1.  Although a 
player may decide to quit they will receive a rating based
upon their performance to that point.


						Page 18


HINTS: The Allied player should fall back somewhat and try
to prevent the German from gaining control of bridges and
fuel dumps.  They should also stall for time awaiting
reinforcements and clear weather for bombing German
positions and supply.  The German player must move forward,
quickly seizing bridges, cities, and hopefully, fuel dumps.
Infiltrators may be used to help gain these objectives.  Supply
roads must be kept open.


						Page 19


(Editors Note:  Page 20 is a map of the general area, which I
cannot reproduce.)


						Page 20


		LOADING THE GAME

Boot with the disk supplied (this is necessary to set the stack at
21,000 bytes and assure maximum memory availability).  This will
produce the CLI prompt.

1

Simply type Blitz at the prompt and press the return key.  If there are
any "saved" files (page 9) on the disk, you will be given the option
of restarting the simulation from one of these.  If you decline to
restart (by selecting "cancel", or by leaving the field after "restart
from file:" blank, the simulation will start on Dec. 16, 1944 with a 
German attack.

The saved games are stored in The Directory wgames.  The
workbench commands dir and delete are included on the disk.

The Command:

1  Delete wgames/game1

will delete the file called game1 from The Directory (assuming The
Directory contained a file by that name).

The Command:

1  DIR wgames

will produce a listing of games in the directory.


						Page 21


Blitzkrieg at the Ardennes is not a "retread" of some game
that was developed for a 64 K machine and then brought
over to the Amiga virtually unchanged.  It was developed on
and for the Amiga.  The program grew very large.  Although
workbench had to be sacrificed to make room once inside
Blitzkrieg, full use of the Amiga Intuition user interface will
make use of the program easy.


						Page 22


		Key to Tables


		A	-	Attacker
		D	-	Defender
		b	-	Back
		a	-	Advance
		L	-	Lose
		E	-	Eliminated
		nr	-	No Reduction
		nm	-	No Movement
		blu	-	Both Lose one unit
		

			Table 1

			Artillery

			Odds A-D


Roll		1-2		1-1		2-1		3-1

1		L1/6		L1/5		L1/4		L1/3

2		L1/6		L1/5		L1/4		L1/3

3		L1/5		L1/4		L1/3		L1/3

4		L1/5		L1/4		L1/3		L1/3

5		L1/4		L1/4		L1/3		L1/2

6		L1/6		L1/3		L1/2		L1/2


						Page 23





			Table 2

			Odds A-D

Roll	1-4		1-3		1-2		1-1		2-1

1	nr		AL1/2		A&DL1/4		DL1/5		DL1/4
	AE Da3		Da2 Ab2		nm		nm		Db2 Aa1

2	AL2/3		AL1/3		nr		AL1/3		nr
	Ab2 Da2		Ab3 Da3		AE Da2		Db3 Aa2		blu

3	AL1/2		AL1/2		nr		A&DL1/4		A&DL1/4
	Ab3 Da3		Ab3 Da2		blu		Db2 Aa1		nm

4	nr		AL2/3		A&DL1/4		AL1/4		nr
	AE Da3		Ab3 Da3		Db1 Aa1		Ab1 Da1		Db3 Aa2

5 	nr		nr		AL1/2		nr		A&DL1/4
	AE Da3		AE Da2		Ab2 Da2		blu		Db3 Aa2

6	nr		nr		A&DL1/4		A&DL1/2		AL1/4
	AE Da4		AE Da2		Ab2 Da1		nm		Db3 Aa2



			Table 2, cont.

Roll	3-1		4-1		5-1		6-1

1	nr		nr		DL2/3		DL4/5
	blu		DE Aa4		Db3 Aa3		Db4 Aa4

2	DL1/3		DL2/3		nr		nr
	Db3 Aa3		nm		DE Aa4		DE Aa4

3	DL1/3		DL1/2		DL1/2		nr
	Db3 Aa3		Db3 Aa2		Db4 Aa4		DE Aa5

4	DL1/2		DL1/2		DL4/5		DL4/5
	nm		Db2 Aa2		Db1 Aa1		Db4 Aa4

5	DL1/2		DL1/3		DL1/2		nr
	Db3 Aa2		Db3 Aa3		Db4 Aa4		DE Aa6

6	DL1/3		DL1/4		nr		DL2/3
	Db3 Aa3		Db3 Aa3		DE Aa3		Db4 Aa4


						Page 24


			Table 3
	
		Infiltrator Elimination


			Turn

Roll		1-2		3-on

1		E		E

2		nr		E

3		nr		E

4		nr		nr

5		nr		nr

6		nr		nr



			Table 4

		      Bombardment

	Roll		

	1		L1/4

	2		L1/4

	3		L1/3

	4		nr

	5		L1/4

	6		L1/3


						Page 25


			Table 5

		 Bridge Demolition

				Infiltrator			Enemy Adjacent
				  in hex	Enemy		and infiltrator
Roll		OK		with Allies	Adjacent	in hex

1		YES		YES		YES		NO

2		NO		NO		NO		NO

3		YES		YES		YES		YES

4		YES		NO		NO		YES

5		YES		YES		YES		YES

6		YES		NO		YES		NO


			Table 6

		Bridge Construction

						Enemy
		Roll		OK		Adjacent

		1		YES		YES

		2		NO		NO

		3		YES		YES

		4		YES		NO

		5		YES		YES

		6		YES		YES


						Page 26


			Table 7

		Effect of Isolation on Unit
		    Strength - Movement

				Number of Turns Isolated

Class			1		2		3+

Armor			L1/4-L1/3       L1/2-L2/3       L2/3-all

Motor Infantry		L1/4-L1/4       L1/3-L1/2       L1/2-L1/2
  Artillery		

Infantry, V.W.,		nr-nr		L1/4-nr		L1/2-nr
Paratrooper


			Table 8

		Effect of Terrain on Unit
		    Defense Strength

			Terrain

Class		Forest		Mountain	City		Siegfried

Armor		1X		2X		2X		3X

Motor Inf.	2X		2X		2X		3X

Artil.		2X		2X		2X		3X

Infant		3X		2X		2X		3X

V.W.		2X		2X		2X		3X

Paratrooper	3X		2X		2X		3X


						Page 27



			Table 9

		Effect of Terrain on Unit
		  Defense Mobility
		(Movement Points Expended per hex)

			Terrain

Class		Forest		Mountain	Clear		Road

Armor		5		3		1		1/2

Motor Inf.	3		2		1		1/2

Artill.		3		2		1		1/2

Infant		2		2		1		1

V.W.		2		3		1		1/2

Paratrooper	2		2		1		1




						Page 28