				BLOOD MONEY

			     CONGRATULATIONS!!

...you've just got your hands on the ultimate arcade game. A whole megabyte of
gaphics,250K of sampled sound,and a maelstrom of death,destuction,and discovery
awaits you. If you survive,you'll be set up for life;and if you don't.....

This booklet gives you all the information you need to get the most out of your
software purchase. It includes all the background information you'll need to
get into the game,together with technical details provided by the programmer
himself so that you can truly appreciate what's happening on your computer
screen.

THE GAME.....
Blood Money takes you on an Alien Safari across the untamed horizons of four
hostile planets. The organisers charge varying ates of admission to each planet
but have devised a unique way of rewarding successful hunters. You can see
their brochure on the centre pages for more information.

As young Spondulix,savouring the delights of the holiday planet Thanatopia,you
yearn for excitement before returning home. Unfortunately,you cannot hope to
raise the $100 required for entry to the safari,so you have no alternative but
to sit and mope all day,with nothing to look forward to but your final
examinations in Venusian Accountancy.

Then,one day,a letter arrives in the post. It's from your parents. When you see
what's inside,you know your time has come...

				CONTENTS

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS				PAGE 4
DOCUMENT FOUND IN AN ABANDONED THANATOPIAN
       MOTEL ROOM				PAGE 6
ALIEN SAFARI PROMOTIONS BROCHURE		PAGE 8
GAME CONTROLS					PAGE 10
WEAPONRY					PAGE 11
THE INSIDE STORY				PAGE 12
YOUR WARRANTY					PAGE 15

				3

			LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

First:always switch off your machine for at least 30 seconds before loading the
game. Failure to do this may result in virus contamination of the BLOOD MONEY
master disk. See the virus warning opposite and the warranty notice on page 15
for further information.

Switch on the computer. If the display prompts for a Kickstart disk,insert one
into the internal drive. When the display prompts for a Workbench disk,insert
Disk 1 of BLOOD MONEY into the internal drive. Insert Disk 2 into the drive
whenever you are prompted to do so.

You need two joystick for the two player game. For the one player option,insert
a joystick into the second joystick port.

Once the game has been loaded and has cycle through the title screens and
introductory sequence,the player selection screen will appear. Full
instructions on how to play the game appear on page 10.

				4

			LOADING TIPS

If you prefer,you can skip the introductory sequence and jump straight to the
player selection screen by pressing the fire button and the mouse button
simultaneously(or both fire-buttons if you have two joysticks connected).

If the title screen(box cover illustration)has not appeared within 45 seconds 
then there may be a problem with your computer system. Check that the computer
is connected up properly and that the above sequence of instructions has been
followed correctly. If you are sure that your computer is functioning(i.e.
other software is working correctly)and are still unable to load BLOOD MONEY
then you may have a faulty disk,in which case you can obtain a free replacement
from Psygnosis. All Psygnosis products are fully guaranteed-see page 15 for
details.

				5

Star Date 21.32.2121

Dear Mom,

Thanks very much for the postal order for 200 credits. As soon as these lazy
Thanatopians open the post office I'll go and cash it. I really need it as
well. Everything here is much more expensive than back on Venus-I had to pay 60
credits the other day just to have my blood changed(the atmosphere here means I
have to do it twice as often as home). And yes,of course I won't waste the
credits on anything stupid like an Alien Safari where you try to conquer four
planets full of the most amazingly nasty alein creeps-and pay with your life if
you fail.

	You know me mum-I certainly wouldn't do anything as dangerous as that.
The desk clerk at the motel gave me a brochure for the Safari the other day,and
boy,did it look mean! Lots of people try it,but nobody has ever come back
alive. And they make you pay 200 credits for the priviledge of trying! And
while these happy holidaymakers are desperately trying to kill monsters and
stay alive,ASP are charging people here to watch them on live video relay. I
spent a few credits(just a few,honestly)watching them yesterday. It was tough.
Really tough. But very exciting too...
	But as I've said,I'm far too sensible to try anything like that. I
mean, if I didn't come back I'd never be able to take the Venusian Accountants
examinations,spend the rest of my life going between the office and the house,

				6

marry my beautiful fiancees Flip and Flop(how are Flop's zits by the way? and
is Flip back in one piece after the operation?),have 96 beautiful little
children like you and Dad,and then retire to the Sunny Skies Senior Citizens
Planet to doze away the remaining 246 light years of my life....
	No, I wouldn't want to give up all that just for the sake of the most
exciting quest a Venusian could make,travelling through four strange and
frightening planets,changing from submarine to helicopter to jet pack to rocker
fighter,earning credits and buying weapons to slaughter the evil monsters
attacking me. No,you know you can count on me to do the sensible thing,mommy
dearest.

Your loving son


Spondulix

P.S. Just to give the folks back home something to laugh about,I've enclosed
the Alien Safari Promotions Inc. brochure.
Something else,isn't it?

				7

			ALIEN SAFARI PROMOTIONS

			       Present....

The space safari challenge of a lifetime!

	The BLOOD MONEY Sweepstake Safari

Yes,holidaymaker,four fun packed planets await you on the adventure you've been
yearing for all your dull,humdrum life! Alien Safari Promotions are pleased to
offer you entry to the unique BLOOD MONEY Sweepstake Safari.

		Just look at these stunning features...

			TREMENDOUS VALUE FOR MONEY

Enter for as little as 100 credits-but you pay with your life if you fail!
Succeed and you'll be the richest,most famous creatue in the whole universe.

			NO NONSENSE SCENARIOUS

No fussy intergalactic armistice regulations,no protocols,no handshakes,no
complicated forms to fill in. Just kill everything in sight. Remember,there are
no friendly aliens around on ASP Safaris. We guarantee total hostility.

			UNIQUE BIO-GENETIC REWARD SYSTEMS

ASP scientist have got some real hot cookies in the genetic engineering
department. We've subtly altered the body chemistry of certain aliens on each
planet to give the truly murderous big game hunter big cash rewards. Find out
where the money really goes when you pop the weasels!

				8

			ENHANCED AGGRESSION POTENTIAL

Simply dock in at an equipment centre and spend some of that loot on the extra
weaponry you're going to need-bombs,reverse missiles,multiple warheads,shields
you name it,your blood money can buy it.

			OUR PROMISE TO YOU

Plunder all four planets,using the four different vehicles we provide,and we
GUARANTEE you'll leave a very rich and very famous holidaymaker indeed.
Naturally,if you don't get through,you're dead. But you'll have had a holiday
your loved ones will never forget.

JUST TAKE A LOOK AT SOME OF THE GREAT FRIENDS YOU'RE GOING TO MEET ON YOUR
DREAM HOLIDAY. THEY'RE DYING TO MEET YOU...LITERALLY!

			THE PRICE IS RIGHT!

Planet 1 - only 100 credits to sample the delights of Gibba,the most hostile
planet of the Numm System. Helicopter gunship is laid on,but watch out for the
floor and ceiling gun emplacements...

Planet 2 - 200 credits gets you a valid hunter's license for Grone. It's worth
every one. Transport on Grone is by submarine,and this strange undersea world
contains a multitude of colorful and frightening opponents.

Planet 3 - 300 credits and you can land on the terrifying terrain of Shreek.
This is a very superior planet indeed. Traveliers are provided with the latest
in personal jetpack systems. Lots of plunder can be taken here,but you'll need
the weapons it can buy-the natives are extremely unfriendly.

Planet 4 - Yes,everyone's heard of Snuff. The ticket costs 400 credits but we
at ASP believe that this planet offers the ultimate in blasting and plundering.
We should add that no-one has yet returned from this particular trip.

Small Print

Intergalactic Space Safaris can accept no responsibility whatsoever for any
accidents that may occur on our holidays,nor for any loss of limbs,eyes,
internal organs or any other parts of the body. Travel is entirely at the
customer's own enormous risk. It is not possible to arrange insurance for this
holiday.

				9

			     WELCOME ABOARD!

...we KNOW you're going to have a ball! Just to make sure you relish every last
moment of the ASP experience,we thought we'd spoil the fun a bit by telling you
how NOT to get killed within the first ten seconds of your trip. In fact,to
make things especially easy,we'll even give you a few instructions on how to
operate your personal flight console.

The view on your computer screen is relayed to you direct by ASP Holovision
Satellite Enterprises and shows our cameras' view of your ship(if it still
exists!)as you jaunt through the worlds of Gibba,Grone,Shrek,and Snuff. We
chose these worlds because of the extraordinary diversity of wildlife-all of it
enchantingly hostile-and...well,we think the welcoming committee says it all.

Your craft is controlled by joystick. Of course we hope you've chosen an ASP
Super Slayer Mk. IV,but if not,no matter,though perhaps we should point out
that the Super Slayer is guaranteed to prolong active life by at least a minute
and that without it you don't stand a dog's chance. Your stick should be
inserted into Joystick Port 2(i.e. the port NOT normally occupied by your ASP
Dyna-Rodent Mouse Controller).

Naturally we realise that the excitement may prove too much for some of you.
For that reason,we've made provision for you to be accompanied by a sucker...
sorry.friend of your choice. Ensure that he has adequate life insurance and
that he plugs his stick into the port normally occupied by the mouse
controller.

Some of the scenes you may encounter are slightly disturbing. In fact,you may
pass out momentarily with terror. If you do,try your best to hit the spacebar
first,pausing the action. When you've recovered your nerve,hit fire to
continue.

Everyone likes a bit of music to murder by. F3 on the Player Selection Screen
bring syou the rousing National Anthems of the Tone Terrorists of Delta 5.
Those of you who really want to savour the action can use F3 to toggle between
the music and the sound effects picked up by the microphone mounted on your
ship(or space suit for those lucky players who savour the landscapes of
Shreek).

In the highly unlikely event of your obtaining a high score,write-enabling disk
2 will enable your score to be saved to disk.

Finally,in case of emergency,you may press the ESCAPE button to ABORT the
mission and return. There is absolutely no shame attached to this action,which
is-of course-what any sane individual would do as soon as he catches sight of
Gibban wildlife,let alone the inhabitants of Snuff. Just one small point-wimp
out,and we'll break both your legs. Now just sit back,relax,and enjoy!

				10

				FIREPOWER

Here at ASP we've really gone overboard in our choice of tours for the 2121
season. The planets on offer give you unparalleled opportunities for death and
destruction,and to help you,we've provided a bit blasting selection of weaponry
available at nominal charge in Equipment Shops throughout the planetary
systems. Here's your firepower checklist:

$100 Support missile,skybound.

$100 Support missile,earthbound.

$150 Neuron Bomb. There are four bombs available. The first two selected are
programmed for short-rnage destruction fore and aft of your vessel. The second
pair are designed for long range targets.

$150 Support rear-fire missile.

$200 Long range missile.

PLUS...
we also have the pleasure of offering the following branded pilot-survival
systems,all supplied by well-known and reliable manufactures:

$200 'Kleen Heels Supa-Drive' We chose the 'Kleen Heels' drive for its
uparalleled service record and combination of maximum thrust with minimum cost.

$250 'Norton Thunder-Thru' The Norton has a remarkable reputation for boosting
health and efficiency. Relied on by the professionals,the Norton is guaranteed
to put an extra tiger in your tank for those awkward moments when the natives
are getting especially restless and life seems...well,limited.

$250 'Dr. Martens Aero-Soul Mk VI'  As everyone knows,the Mark VI aero-soul
provides clone duplication without the unfortunate side-effects associated with
the Mark V model. Guaranteed to put an extra body in the lifebank should you
run out of personal backups.

				11

			   INSIDE STORY

DAVID JONES,PROGRAMMER OF BLOOD MONEY, TELLS YOU ALL ABOUT THE GAME YOU'VE JUST
BEEN PLAYING...

Hi. I'm 23 years old and come from Dundee in Scotland. I was the programmer of
Menace,an earlier release under the Psyclapse label,which was hailed at the
time as the 'best Amiga blast' on the shelves. Although we were pleased with
the product-it was my first game every-here at Psygnosis we wanted to do
something more...something special. Blood Money is the result...

First let me tell you a bit more about myself and the background to the the
program. I work from my bedroom at home where I share space with one of
Psygnosis' 25m/hz 386 IBM compatibles,two Amigas,and an Atari ST. I like the PC
for business but when it comes to games it's the Amiga that really gets me
going.

I'm also a great fan of shoot-em-ups. I programmed Menance simply because,at
the time,there didn't seem to be any decent games for the Amiga. To some
extent,Blood Money is a further development of the Menance concet,but goes
much,much further. Menace,for example,used the hardware scroll on the Amiga but
I abandoned that in Blood Money and started using the blitter to scroll the
screen,which speeded up the game because it made certain sprite operations far
easier to handle.

The Amiga has a great sound chip as well,but it hasn't been nearly used to its
full extent. Even now I have probelms finding the right sounds for games,but
that's no problem when you work with Psygnosis-Ian Hetherington first spotted
the Blood Money track,and I think you'll agree that Ray Norrish had done us
pround-there's around 250K of sampled sound for you to enjoy.

What we really wanted in Blood Money was a game that ran on a home computer but
looked as if it could have come straight out of the arcades. That meant
increasing the difficulty level(Menace was much easier to complete)and also
boosting the action on-screen. And,of course,the graphics had to be superb.
Together with Tony Smith,who did the graphics for the game,we've managed to
squeeze a whole megabyte of graphics data into the program.

				12

			     SPRITE POWER

Much of that graphics data is there because of the complexity of the sprites.
The first thing we had to do with Blood Money was increase the power of the
sprite handling routines. I did this by writing my own graphics handling
language,consisting of sixteen basic commands,which could then be used to issue
instructions to each sprite individually.

Therefore I can send an instruction to a sprtie commanding it to GO TO a
particular area of the screen,then make it SPLIT into two different sprites and
make each one individually controllable.

Because of the complexity and the size of the sprites,this process can become
very complex. On the third planet,for example,you'll be confronted by fighter
planes that come towards you while the planes bank and turn away into the
distance. Altogether,this involves 19 frames of animation,each stored as a
separate sprite. That takes up a lot of space.

It also took me quite a while to sort out the collision problems with those
planes,because as soon as they bank away from you,they move into a different
visual plane and must therefore not collide with the player ship. I had to use
my sprite handling language here pretty carefully to avoid unwanted effects.

YOU TOO?

Ever since Menace,people have asked Psygnosis what it takes to produce a really
good game. I think there are several factors involved,but one thing that does
help is a good knowledge of hardware. When I left school I went to work with
Timex in Scotland,doing development work for the early Spectrums. I started by
writing assembler test programs and ended by building my own hardware add-ons,

				13

including hardward break-point generators that could vector my program to any
address in memory and a little device that copied the ROM automatically into
RAM for me to edit.

Another important factor,of course,is support from the people you're working
with. Coping with the program coding AND the graphics AND the sound would be
impossible without support,which,of course,Psygnosis are always ready and able
to give!

Finally,my background taught me to be thorough in my approach to programming
problems. The sprite control language is a good example of this approach. You
can see it working particularly hard in the sequence at the end of level 2,
where the three snake guardians are all multi-sprites,each segment being
controlled separately. there was some rather tricky maths involved here as well
to ensure that the movements was smooth and co-ordinated.

Right now I've got two objectives-finish my training in Microsystems at the
Dundee Institute of Technology(yes,I do my programming at night!)and work on my
next game. I'm not giving too much away,but if you look at the introductory
sequence for Blood Money,where the meteorites are tumbling towards you,you
might get a hint or two...

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
			BLOOD MONEY FACT BOX
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Graphics data				1 mbyte
Sound data				250K music
					16K effects
Music sample rate			8mhz
Maximum sprite size			100 by 144 pixels
Max no of frames for single sprite	18
Screen update				16 times a second
Player ship update			50 times a second
Joystick scan				50 times a second
Project duration			8 months

				14

BLOOD MONEY DOCS BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE SOUTHERN STAR WITH ASSISTANCE OF RAP.