Possums' Temporary Emergency Replacement DocDisk Presents -
                STIR CRAZY Featuring BOBO    by Infogrames

                         From the collection of DR.J

Bobo is perhaps the oddest inmate of Inzeeslammer.   He's been there for 17 
years  now,  and his biggest dream is to get out.   He'll try  anything  to 
escape,  and sometimes he manages it.  But inevitably he will be recaptured 
to spend yet another night in his cell dreaming of the outside world.

Inzeeslammer  is a really peculiar prison which tends to make  the  inmates 
behave childishly.   Everything is an excuse for fun, even the daily chores 
- which can get them in trouble.


                            LOADING & START-UP

Make sure that the computer is properly connected.
Insert Disk 1 in the drive.
The program will load automatically.


                           PRINCIPAL OF THE GAME

The program is divided into six separate games.  When the menu appears, you 
have  to  choose  whether you want to play all of the  games  or  just  one 
particular game.

NUMBER OF GAMES:

Move the joystick or cursor keys to the left or right to make the number of 
the  game  you  want to play appear on the card in  the  bottom  right-hand 
corner of the screen.  If you want to play all of the games, select ALL.

Confirm by pressing the fire button or space bar.

NUMBER OF PLAYERS:

A  dotted line will appear and you have to type your name using  a  maximum 
of ten characters.  Use the backspace to rectify a character.  After typing 
your name,  confirm by pressing Return.   If there is more than one  person 
playing (a maximum of six players is allowed), each player has to input his 
name.   If  you  make  a mistake,  press ESC in order to  go  back  to  the 
selection  menu.   When the last player has typed his  name,  press  Return 
twice.  The game will load automatically.

DEMO:

If your press Return without inputting a name, a demonstration of each game 
will be shown.  Press ESC to leave the demonstration.


HIGH SCORE:  This is the best score obtained in one game.
VERY HIGH SCORE:  This is the best score obtained in the whole 6 games.

COMMANDS COMMON TO ALL 6 GAMES:

P     To pause the game.  Press any key to continue.
ESC   Quits the game and returns to the menu.
F1    Shows a demonstration of the actual game.  Press ESC to quit.

At  the end of each game,  press the space bar or fire button in  order  to 
make the next game load.  

The game can be played with a joystick or keyboard (cursor keys).


                          THE CANTEEN  - Game #1

Bobo is on table duty and has to serve six prisoners who arrive one by one, 
then  give them a second helping when they ask.   All of this must be  done 
very quickly because the prisoners can get really mad if they're not served 
immediately.

COMMANDS:

To move Bobo:  (use the joystick or arrow keys)

     Up (North), Down (South), Right (East), or Left (West).

Bobo can only walk up and down the room when he is situated in the middle.

To serve one ladle of soup, press the fire button or space bar.

To take a full saucepan, press the fire button or space bar.

Every now and then,  Bobo has to replace the empty saucepan with a full one 
(which is on the serving hatch).  Move Bobo towards the hatch and press the 
fire button or space bar.

SCORE:

You gain points each time Bobo serves a ladle of soup.

                       PREPARING POTATOES  - Game #2

Bobo has to peel a pile of potatoes which gradually gets bigger as he  goes 
along.  He has to do them as quickly as possible so as not to be surrounded 
by potatoes.

COMMANDS:  (use the joystick or arrow keys)

1-  To take a potato:  move joystick down.
2-  To peel a potato:  move joystick left and right.
3-  To throw a potato:  Fire button or space bar.

The potato in Bobo's hand is represented by a large potato situated at  the 
side of his chair so that you can see if it has been peeled  properly.   If 
it hasn't, it will be thrown back onto the pile!


SCORE:

You  gain points for each properly peeled potato and a bonus each time  you 
finish peeling all the potatoes in the pile.

                            WASHING  - Game #3

Washing the floor is the chore that he likes the least,  because the  other 
prisoners are inclined to walk on it.   They leave footprints everywhere so 
he  has to start all over again so that it is immaculately clean  when  the 
prison warden inspects it.

COMMANDS:  (use the joystick or arrow keys)

Bobo's movements whilst washing:

                  NW  N  NE
                    \ | /
                  W ----- E
                    / | \
                  SW  S  SE

To  obtain the diagonal directions on the keyboard,  press two keys at  the 
same time (e.g. Left key and Up key for North West).

When Bobo is not washing the floor,  he will move faster if your press  the 
fire button or space bar and a direction.

Sometimes,  you have to soak the mop in the bucket (which will only  appear 
when it's needed).   To do this,  press the fire button or space bar whilst 
Bobo  is  near  the  bucket.   you can  prevent  people  from  entering  by 
positioning Bobo in front of the door which is half-open.

SCORE:

You gain points whilst you are washing the floor (moving the mop).  You get 
more points if you make someone turn back and even more if you stop someone 
from entering.

A  Bonus  is  gained according to the state of the floor  when  the  warden 
enters.

                         THE TRAMPOLINE  - Game #4

It  is  the  warden's break-time in Inzeeslammer  and  the  prisoners  have 
decided to take advantage of it by trying to escape.   They jump from their 
cell window and Bobo is responsible for catching them on the trampoline  so 
that they can jump over the outer wall.

COMMANDS:  (use the joystick or arrow keys)

Bobo move the trampoline:  Move joystick left and right.

The prisoners love jumping on the trampoline.  The more you make them jump, 
the more points you gain when they jump over the wall.


SCORE:

You  gain points each time a prisoner jumps over the wall.   An  additional 
bonus  is  awarded according to the number of bounces  the  prisoners  made 
before jumping over the wall.

                      THE ELECTRICAL WIRES  - Game #5

Bobo  succeeded  in  escaping  from the prison  and  he  runs  along  three 
electrical  wires,  jumping  from  one to the other so as  to  avoid  being 
electrocuted.

COMMANDS:  (use the joystick or arrow keys)

To make Bobo jump to the left:  move the joystick left.

To make Bobo jump to the right:  move the joystick right.

Watch out for the sparks.   Try to take the green cylinders.  The game gets 
quicker as you go along.

SCORE:

The  number  of points is calculated according to the length of  time  Bobo 
stays  on  the wires.   A bonus is gained each time Bobo  touches  a  green 
cylinder.

                         THE DORMITORY  - Game #6

But,  as we mentioned earlier, Bobo always returns to the prison in one way 
or another.  And in the evening in his cell which he shares with five other 
prisoners,  he couldn't sleep because of the snoring.  He has to have peace 
and quiet and the only way to silence their snores is to give them a gentle 
nudge without waking them.

COMMANDS:  (use the joystick or arrow keys)

Bobo's movements:

     Up      To go up the ladder.
     Right   To go right.
     Down    To go down the ladder.
     Left    To go left.

To jump over the chamberpot:  Fire button or space bar.

To nudge a prisoner:  Fire button or space bar.

To go to bed:  Fire button or space bar.

You  have to try to sleep in your own bed.   When you have managed to  stop 
all the prisoners from snoring,  Bobo can go back to his bed to sleep for a 
while until another prisoners snores... Mind the chamberpot: if Bobo knocks 
it over, he will wake all the prisoners!

SCORE:

You gain points when Bobo sleeps.

