BOMB BUSTERS DOCS:
if you only have 512K, disconnect all other drives!
While booting the game, when you see a black and white flicker on
the screen, press fire to shorten loading time.
After booting, you are asked for a level code. After you have
completed every 10th level, you will be given a code word, that
way, you will be able to skip the easier levels.
After you reach the title screen, press fire or F2 to start the
game. Any other key will let you view the high scores and enter
the selection menu.

THE SELECTION MENU:

Press F1 to select between 1 & 2 players. In the 2 player mode,
you may select the direction controlled by each player by
adjusting the Multi-controller as follows:
1 - player 1 controls the direction
2 - player 2 controls the direction
1\2 - both control the direction
1u2 - both players must select the direction at the same time to
move
Press ESC to return to the title screen

OBJECT:
The object of the game is to collect all the bombs. Always defuse
the blinking ones first, they are about to explode. You get mmore
points for collecting the active ones, but be careful not to be
near one when it explodes!

USe these functions to play:
left\right - moves you in that direction
fire button - regular jump\flight
fire button + up - extra high jump\flight
down - cancels the flight
ESC key - cancels the game
any other key - pauses the game

If you hit too many things while jumping, you will lose a life.
If your man moves by himself it is a magnet but you can escape by
moving in the opposite direction. A teleporter will bring you to
a different location on the screen.

BONUSES:
these will fly across the screen:
B (bonus) - bonus points
P (power pill) - whenyoucollect this bonus, all enemies blink and
you can eliminate them by touching them, after awhile, they
return to normal.
L (lives) - increase # of lives you have left.

Everything else on the screen is your enemy. Watch out for the
robot, he will move right towards you. All contact (with rare
exceptions) is lethal.

The game is over when all lives are lost, a laughing GAME OVER
appears. Press the fire button to get to the high score list and
enter your name if you have scored high enough. By pressingthe
fire button & moving the joystick up you can go to the beginning
and try again! (and again and again!)

                                          docs by *SONY*