Bonanza Bros.
Typed by Dohi <hosza@szabinet.hu>.

BONANZA BROS(tm)

[Cover picture of two robots talking omitted:]

ROBO: I'm Robo, who the hell are you?!!
MOBO: I'm Mobo, who the hell are you?!!

SEGA(tm)
ARCADE HITS MARKETED BY
U.S. GOLD(r)


SCENARIO

Mobo & Robo Bonanza the reformed villains were sitting quietly
watching TV when suddenly the picture crackled and the shadowy figure
of a mysterious stranger appeared on the screen...

"Good Evening Boys,

I've got a job for you that is right up your alley. My businnesses are
being burgled. I wish to hire you to test my security force.

I have placed certain items in each building for you to gather. If you
can retrieve them all, I will reward you.

I'm depending on you boys..."


CONTROL SUMMARY

Move your character across the screen using LEFT/RIGHT controls, move
to the front or back of the corridors using DOWN/UP controls, fire
your stun-gun by pressing the FIRE button for a short time and jump by
pressing the FIRE button for a slightly longer time.


Playing The Game

Take control of Mobo and/or Robo and guide them round the various
buildings mentioned by the unknown TV star and remove the required
items.  In order to complete your task you must take care not to be
spotted or caught by the various guards and traps which make up the
security system.  Hide behind objects or run up/down stairs to avoid
the guards, use your stun-gun or a quickly opened door to knock them
out for a short while.  Once you have collected all the required
items, make your exit via the roof and your waiting airship. Be
careful though, because if you are caught by the guards you will be
thrown into jail.


THE PLAYERS

Robo Bonanza:

The smarter of the two brothers relies on his brains and stealth to
achieve his aims.


Mobo Bonanza:

Mobo doesn't have the brains of his brother, just muscle.
Unfortunately it is between his ears, but comes in useful when in a
tight situation.


THE ENEMY

Junior Security Guards:

These guys can be seen at various points around the buildings either
snoozing or on patrol. If they are snoozing, it is possible to sneak
past them. If they are patrolling then you must either evade or shoot
them.

Senior Security Guards:

These guards are more efficient on their job and will raise the alarm
if they spot you. In addition to this they can only be shot from
behind.

Catering Staff:

Found only in establishments where cooking takes place, these are
innocent looking but nonetheless dangerous adversaries who use dinner
plates as rather lethal frisbee type weapons.

Guard Dogs:

You won't see one of these too often, but when you do, you'd better
show a clean pair of heels or he'll show you a sore pair of ankles!

Heavies:

These are the security staff with the unorthodox, and over the top,
methods - they throw bombs at you so you'd better knock them out
quickly.


This is all the information that you have at your disposal, but if you
keep your eyes open you may find other obstacles to bar your way or
things to help you avoid detection.


(c) 1990, 1991 SEGA(tm). All rights reserved. Bonanza Bros(tm) is a
trademark of SEGA ENTERPRISES LIMITED. Published by SEGA EUROPE
LIMITED.  Distributed by U.S. Gold Ltd., Units 2/3 Holford Way,
Holford, Birmingham, B6 7AX. Tel: 021 625 3366.

Copyright subsists on this program. Unauthorised copying, lending or
resale under any exchange or repurchase scheme in any manner strictly
prohibited.