                       BOULDERDASH CONSTRUCTION KIT
                       -------- INSTRUCTIONS ------
                                ------------

         Typed in by Wolverine/Likely Lads 27-12-91. 


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
ATARI ST - turn off computer. Insert game disk and switch on. Using the mouse
double click on the LOADER.PRG file displayed. The program will now load.

AMIGA - Insert game disk & game will load automatically.

When the program has loaded, you will be given the choice of using the
Construction Kit or playing the game. Press the appropriate key and the 
program will then run the section desired.

THE GAME
--------
The object of Boulderdash is to search through caves and collect the 
indicated number of diamonds in the time limit. The way to solve the caves is
usually very simple, but not at first apparent. Please read the description
of the game elements in the CONSTRUCTION KIT to understand more about the
different aspects of the game.

PLAYING THE GAME
----------------
Once the game section has finished loading, you will be asked for a file-name
type GAME1 (this is a set of 16 pre-defined caves) or the name of one of the
games you have created using the kit.

You can move your character, Rockford, around the cave using the joystick. If
you find you cannot complete the cave you are on, pressing ESCape will make
Rockford commit suicide! You can then start the cave again. You are awarded
an extra life every 500 points.

CONSTRUCTION KIT
----------------
By using this part of the program, you can create your own Boulderdash caves
and intermissions. You can also make a complete game by using upto 64 screens
in any order of caves and intermissions. These designs can be used with the
BOULDERDASH IV game.

On the ST, control of the edit screen is by mouse. Clicking the right button 
or pressing ESCape leaves the menu that you are currently in. On the AMIGA
use the cursor keys and space.
STARTING: When editing for the first time, you will be presented with a menu
that gives the choice of editing a current cave or intermission or creating
a new one. Use the mouse or keys to move the pointer on the menu and click on
the desired option.

Along the top or side of the screen you will see a number of icons. Reading 
from left to right their functions are decribed below (to select an icon 
press the left button).

DIAMOND:In every cave a certain number of diamonds need to be collected to 
win, and to leave the cave.

ENCHANTED WALL: Looks like any other wall, except when hit by an object, it
will 'mill' for a certain time. During this time, it will turn boulders into
diamonds and vice-versa.

WALL: A regular wall used to build spaces and paths. It can't be crossed, but
can be destroyed by explosions.

TITANIUM WALL: This wall is indestructable.

GROWING WALL: If there are no obstacles next to it, this wall will grow into 
any free space.

EXTRA ROCKFORD: These won't move, but you must protect them from being 
destroyed by boulders etc.

DIRT: Used as a filler. Stops all objects except Rockford.

FIREFLIES: They explode on contact, killing Rockford. They are destroyed by
dropping boulders on them, or by contact with Amoeba.

BUTTERFLIES: They behave as Fireflies, except they produce diamonds when 
they explode.

AMOEBA: This grows through dirt, and unless confined (when it will turn into
diamonds)will eventually turn into boulders.

SLIME: Looks like the Amoeba, but allows rocks and diamonds to pass through.

HIDDEN EXIT DOOR: This door looks just like the Titanium Wall, and is 
obviously difficult to find.

EXIT DOOR: This exit will be revealed as soon as the required number of 
diamonds have been collected.

ENTRANCE: This is where Rockford starts the cave.

COMMANDS
--------
LINE MODE (Press L) - This draws a row or the current icon selected. Click 
for the start position, and click again for the end position.

RANDOM - Selecting the Dice icon will place 20 of the selected objects on the
game screen randomly.

ERASER (Press E) - This selects an empty space, which can be used to delete
misplaced objects.

CLOCK (Press V) - This allows the timings and counters to be altered.

COLOURS (Press C) - This changes the colours. In the colour menu, select the
colour to change and press the button, the R G B indicators can be changed by
using the mouse. Press the left button to select a new colour.

TEST (Press T) - This tests the screen you are editing. Use the joystick to
control Rockford. You have one life only.

MAIN MENU (Press M) - This selects the Main Menu described below.

NEW (Press N) - This selects a new screen, and clears the cave/intermission
that you are working on.

Other functions accessed by keys only are:
F - Full screen (View the whole playing area).
S - Sound on/off.

NOTE: On the ST, pressing O swaps between scrolling play area and non-
scrolling play area. On the Amiga to view the different areas of the play 
screen, select full screen (F) and then move the cursor to the new area.

MAIN MENU
---------
Using the main menu, you can set up the cave/intermission parameters, load,
save, restart a cave, access the disk commands and the games options.

GAMES OPTIONS
-------------
This allows the player to link together different caves and intermissions.
Use the mouse or keys to select the caves and intermissions. Alter the Y/N
option to decide whether the player can access that cave from the main game.
You can then save your sequence to disk. NOTE: PLEASE USE A SEPERATE DISK TO
SAVE YOUR CAVES AND SEQUENCES.

A NOTE ABOUT CAVES AND INTERMISSIONS: A standard Boulderdash 'game' consists
of a total of 16 caves and 4 intermissions. The caves are made up of 4 TV 
screens of maze etc and this is where the player must collect the required
diamonds. After every 4 caves the player is rewarded with a 'bonus-game', the
Intermission. This is just a single screen, where he/she can score extra
points or lives. Obviously, using this kit, one can alter the number of caves
and intermissions to any number of sequence.

Boulderdash is a registered trademark of First Star Software Inc.
Boulderdash Construction Kit and Rockford are trademarks of First Star 
Software Inc. Boulderdash was created by Peter Liepa with Chris Grey.
Audiovisual material copyrighted 1989 First Star Software Inc. All Rights 
Reserved.

Published by Wicked Software, Brooklands, New Road, St. Ives, Huntingdon,
Cambs PE17 4BG ENGLAND Tel 0480 496497 Fax 0480 495605.

Thats all folks!
