                               BRATACCAS
                               ~~~~~~~~~
  
INTRODUCTION   
 
Welcome to Brataccas the first Interactive Video. This product will work 
on the Atari 520ST, the Commodore 512K Amiga and the Apple 512K Fat Mac. 
The sticker on the front of the package indicates which you have 
purchased (Irrelevant as you wouldn't be reading this file if you'd 
purchased the original yourself, would you ??). 
 
QUICK LOADING INSTRUCTIONS 
To participate immediately in the Interactive Video, please follow these 
instructions: 
If you have difficulty at any stage, please refer to inside Brataccas 
for more detailed instructions. 
 
1.  Set up your computer but leave the power off. 
2.  Insert the disk into your main or internal disk drive (Amiga owners 
Kickstart first). 
3.  You can now turn your system on. 
4.  Brataccas will load automatically. 
5.  The title screen will load, you should then wait for the main program 
to load and the message "PRESS ANY KEY" to appear, if you do so, the main 
program will load and run automatically. 
6.  You can now control the hero Kyne, with the mouse on your computer 
and begin your journey into Brataccas. 
 
BRATACCAS INSTRUCTIONS 
  
All works of art must bear a price in proportion to the skill, taste, 
time, expense and risk attending their invention and manufacture. These 
things called dear are, when justly estimated, the cheapest.  John 
Ruskin 
 
THE STORY SO FAR 
 
You are now Kyne, Kyne is our hero. 
 
Kyne is a fugitive, a man with a price on his head. Framed for a deed he 
did not commit; that dreadful felony genetic fraud -- 'The Crime Against 
Humanity'.  He is now hunted by authority and underworld alike. 
 
Kyne was a government scientist, a genetic engineer. A brilliant and 
creative worker, he developed a process for the creation of a superbeing. 
Naively, Kyne hoped his creation would be put to work for the benefit 
of mankind but predictably it was not to be so.  The government in their 
infinite wisdom had decided that a race of killing machines, an army of 
domination and death, was an apt use for such technology. 
 
Faced with such a prospect, Kyne stopped work and refusing to reveal 
details of his research when into hiding, choosing to forsake his career 
rather than work on a project so repugnant to his morals. 
 
The government issued a warrant for Kyne's arrest claiming that he was 
plotting to sell these genetic techniques to the underworld, thus making 
him guilty of crimes against the human race. Instructing security 
forces throughout the Earth system, to find him at all costs, the 
government declared him dangerous -- wanted dead or alive. 
 
Meanwhile, the underworld's interest was aroused.  As a fugitive he might 
be persuaded to work for them; his skills had many diabolical uses and if 
he did not submit, they could always sell his corpse to the authorities. 
And so the forces of lawlessness joined in the search. 
 
Kyne, forced to flee from Earth, now knew that he must clear his name and 
expose the government -- the alternative was to face a life of hiding, 
living with the fear of death or imprisonment.  He knew that somewhere 
evidence must exist and all of his searches led to one place, a small 
mining asteroid in the outer Solar System.....Brataccas!!! 
 
You are Kyne, but can you survive the Brataccas experience... 
 
THE PLACE CALLED BRATACCAS 
 
Brataccas is a self-contained world.  The first of the outer asteroids to 
be colonized; it was initially used extensively as a forward base for 
exploration. As the years passed, Brataccas became a favorite haunt of 
asteroid miners, the only place where it was possible to break the tedium 
of their humdrum existence. 
 
Prosperity bred corruption and lawlessness. Organized crime moved in. 
Brataccas became a shadow world; a dangerous place to venture into; a 
center of duplicity and double-dealing. An ideal cover for the activities 
of the corrupt government officials who are Kyne's persecutors. 
 
The human race moved onward toward the stars. Brataccas now ostracized, 
had become a self governing unit. A place of legend. Your only 
destination. 
 
The incandescent clouds of the teleport fade; you are now on Brataccas. 
You have little knowledge of your mission. You know only that you stand 
tried and convicted in absence, of a crime you did not commit -- 'The 
Crime Against Humanity'. Your only hope is that somewhere within the 
depths of Brataccas lies proof of your innocence. 
 
But what is it? Where is it? You can only guess. 
 
There is no help at hand. The asteroid inhabitants understand only bribery, 
corruption and opportunism. You are in danger; you must get moving; your 
only way forward is down the lift and out of the arrival bays. 
 
But what will you find beyond the sliding door? Brataccas....a world of 
mystery and surprise. 
 
The framed picture of an ABP patrol craft hanging on the wall reminds you 
that the Asteroid Belt Police are never far away. You must keep moving.... 
whilst you stand still other characters in this world are living their 
day. Whether you like it or not the world of Brataccas grinds on..... 
 
There is only one way forward..... 
 
MEET THE INHABITANTS 
 
There is a cast of characters in Brataccas, approximately 60 in all, 
although some of these characters are clones, in appearance, they are not 
identical in personality. 
 
YOU -- OUR HERO 
 
Your name is KYNE. Your dress is alien. Forced to wear the cumbersome 
helmet of the newly arrived earthman on Brataccas, who is as yet 
unaclimatized to the peculiar semi-pressurized atmosphere.  Armed only 
with a simple sword (for percussive energy-based weapons are banned to 
protect the atmospheric integrity of the Brataccas environment) you are 
free to do as you wish and go where you will.  Initially, to almost all 
the other characters you are an unknown quantity and your presence on the 
asteroid is a secret; it is up to you when you choose to reveal your 
identity, you will be asked...... 
 
THE SNITCHES 
 
Gossip is their trade and their habitate is the bars and entertainment 
areas. Each is instantly recognizable as an individual. Learn this well 
for some are friendly, some are not. For a list of those who will/will 
not, might/might not, do/do not, have/have not betray/betrayed/about to 
betray you would you now please turn to page 27. 
 
(Typist note:  Page 27 of the instruction book is printed "This Page 
Intentionally Left Blank".) 
 
THE BAR OWNERS 
 
They remain behind their respective bars and serve drinks and gossip all 
day. They will readily take information from snitches and sell/pass it on 
to the police or henchmen when it suits them. One of them knows your 
true identity from your earth days....make sure he does not recognize you 
when there are other people about. To find out which barman this is, please 
turn to page 27 of this booklet.  (Typist note:  Again, this page of the 
instruction book was intentionally left blank.) 
 
THE POLICE 
 
All Asteroid Belt Police (ABP) look alike.  They all carry swords and are 
generally nasty. They don't seem to like anybody or anything. Their leader 
is Commander Stopp.  They are never corrupt...are they?, they therefore 
are very, very unlikely to respond to bribery. 
 
COMMANDER STOPP 
 
Horribly disfigured in a space laser fight.  He now finds it necessary to 
move around the asteroid in his custom built 'hoverdish'. With his red 
beard and bald head he is an obvious character.  He is the chief of 
police, he is also the man who.... 
 
THE GUARD DROIDS 
 
The droids are mechanical robots which hover about.  Their only task is to 
protect the official areas of the asteroid.  They will seek out intruders 
and check that such intruders are carrying valid passes.  They will 
destroy anybody who is trespassing.  If a droid is killed in action 
another will be sent to take over that droid's duties. 
 
THE BUREAUCRATS  The next five characters perform official duties. 
 
Asteroid Administrator          He administers the asteroid 
Police Dispatcher               He dispatches the police 
Droid  Dispatcher               He dispatches the droids 
Comms Controller                He controls the comms 
Tannoy Operator                 He operates the tannoys 
 
Illuminating stuff eh....A further explanation of their duties and what 
will happen if you kill them is contained on page 27 of this booklet.  
(Typist note:  Page 27 is blank). 
 
THE HENCHMEN 
 
They are the servants of the evil Kol Worpt. They can be seen going about 
their business of collecting information and protection money or simply 
enjoying themselves in the bars. They have their informers.  They are 
probably as good as you are at sword fighting so do not challenge them 
lightly. When one of them, easily identifiable from the table on page 27 
(again, blank), has collected his protection money from 'the person giving 
it to him' he will take it to 'the person he is taking it to', he does 
this on a fairly regular basis (BIG HINT). 
 
LASH 
 
Lash is Kol Worpt's hired assassin. He is a creature of habit. His habit 
is killing people. He is easily identifiable by his green skin and 
reptilian appearance.  His speech also is sssssssslurred. He isssss by 
any measssssure a sssslimey character. This hissssing is normally heard 
just before you die.  He is an expert swordsman and should be challenged 
only when you feel lucky. You should also bear in mind that his alien 
skin is as tough as the blade of your sword, so fighting him is pointless, 
just run for cover. 
 
KOL WORPT 
 
A truly evil being. Easily identifiable in his white suit beautifully cut 
around his gross frame.  This small bald arch villan will stop at nothing 
to keep his secrets safe.  You are advised though to allow him to live 
for he alone does not have the information you need.  For details of the 
other person/persons holding information please turn to page 27 of this 
booklet (Typist note:  The guys that wrote this booklet are real funny, 
everyone knows that page 27 is blank). 
 
THE ENVIRONMENT AND OBJECTS 
 
It is possible to pick up/put down the passes, bottles, money bags, 
electro bombs, and the evidence. You will find these objects on tables 
and shelves around the asteroid. Very rarely will you find them on the 
floor. Try dropping something in front of other characters.  You may 
carry multiple objects.  Scattered around Brataccas you will find many 
strange objects and devices such as: 
 
Switches. They can be used to turn other objects such as lifts, cameras, 
tannoys and video screens on and off.  You can therefore exercise a 
degree of control over the communications and working of the asteroid. 
Turning these things on and off is a crime so do not get caught. 
 
Cameras.  Committing murder is one things, doing it on video is another. 
You never know who might be watching as images are sent to the police 
throughout the asteroid. 
 
Tannoys.  If you want to know what the police are up to just listen to the 
official(?) tannoys. 
 
Video Screens.  Keep an eye on these.  Playing space invaders is all very 
well but watch out for the news flashes. 
 
Pass.  Extremely useful if you want to stay alive. And avoid.... 
 
Electro Bombs.  Very, very useful if you want to stay alive. They give out 
a massive pulse of electro magnetic radiation when activated by contact 
with electronic circuitry. 
 
Money Bags.  The root of all evil, they can be traded, it pays (pun) to 
remember where they are. 
 
Scrolls.  They are.......well, thats for you to discover. 
 
The evidence!!!!!  What is the evidence? 
 
CONTROL AND INTERACTION 
 
On the screen your window into the world is represented as a room.  This 
room will have entrances, exits, lift shafts, wall, etc., all of which 
you will find have 'normal' properties.  That means that if you walk 
across a lift shaft you will fall down it, walk into a wall and you will 
bounce off, walk into a door (these are automatic for convenience and just 
to make the coding more difficult, we like it that way) and it will open 
and you can pass through.  Just to make things easy (and even easier to 
program, we like it more this way) we make the passing through a door a 
complete event, you cannot stop half way through. This technique of 
'implied action' i.e. once you have decided to do something such as pick 
an object up, go through a door, stab somebody, etc., then from your input 
up to the conclusion of that action is controlled (most of the time (we 
like it anyway)) by the program. 
 
When you meet a character in a room he will either ignore you or you may 
enter a 'situation'.  In a situation, and heavily dependent on the 
circumstances prevalent at the time one of the following may occur: 
 
Whilst you may not be involved in a normal conversation, you may observe 
others talking. Watch them closely because many tips and snippets of 
information can be acquired here.  They may well be discussing you and 
your mission. 
 
A multiple choice conversation is where your choice of response to a 
question will effect the immediate and future flow of the game. These 
multiple choice sessions normally start when the character interacting 
with you asks a question and you Kyne responds 'MMMMM....SHALL I....', at 
this point all activity freezes until you have made your choice, so as 
not to prejudice you in the time taken to choose your reply.  What happens 
then is that the bubble you are speaking will cycle round the possible 
responses including a number of valid replies and 'SAY NOTHING'. For 
example a multiple choice conversation between you and a Snitch might 
be: 
 
    Snitch to Kyne:  "WANT TO KNOW ANYTHING?" 
    Screen Freezes 
    Kyne:            "MMMM.....SHALL I....." 
    Cycle Start      "ASK FOR INFORMATION?" 
                     "ASK ABOUT EVIDENCE?" 
                     "ASK WHERE CAN I GET A DRINK AROUND HERE?" 
    Cycle End        "SAY NOTHING" 
 
When the option you require is showing you press the left mouse button, 
the game then restarts and the consequences of your choice will be acted 
out. 
 
Should a character wish to fight with you he will normally say something 
aggressive like "COME HERE YOU **** ****" whilst drawing his sword. The 
more observant amongst you will probably realize that this character 
is hostile.  The less observant of you will shortly die.  Remember that 
for all offensive actions there are equal and opposite defensive actions. 
It is very useful to try and learn in what sequence the opposition might 
string his action together, you may spot an opportunity to attack (VERY 
BIG HINT).  Remember all characters have different levels of combat 
skills and therefore all have different aggressive styles (VERY VERY BIG 
HINT). 
 
You may get yourself arrested or taken somewhere (BIG HINT). This will 
mean that you the player will lose control and you will be taken to a 
destination. The exact mechanics of this arrest will be determined by 
previous game play: If you have previously been arrested and escaped you 
will be 'wanted' therefore no questions will be asked other than 'Do you 
wish to resist arrest or submit?'. If you are a known killer the police 
may not bother trying to arrest you but kill you on sight. 
 
IF (WANTED &&! = DEAD (SUSPECT)--{ 
         ARREST (SUSPECT, JAIL_LOCATION); 
} 
Sorry wrong terminal!! 
 
You may also find yourself challenged along the lines of "DO YOU 
HAVE...." or "ARE YOU CARRYING....." It is wise not to lie as characters 
will be able to see what you are carrying and will react to a false 
reply. 
 
GENERAL POINT 
 
You will see from the previous examples that there are numerous 
opportunities for the characters to observe what is going on and have 
their experience enhanced.  This can be done from conversation, from 
action or from location. With the benefit of this experience the 
characters behavior will change and when next encountered he will react 
accordingly. 
 
THE FIRST QUEST 
 
Play it and see.  You may learn what your quest is.  Obviously the answer 
is on page 27 for those of you who cannot wait. 
 
WHAT CAN GO WRONG 
 
Everything. 
 
IS THERE LIFE AFTER DEATH 
 
We consider this product to be a life simulation therefore we consider 
staying alive to be a fundamental requirement and condition of 
participation. 
 
SCORE AND LIVES 
 
There are none. How many lives do you want anyway. There are worse things 
than death on Brataccas. 
 
HOW TO PARTICIPATE 
 
Now it's your chance to participate in the world of Brataccas. By 
pressing any key on the keyboard Brataccas proper will load and you can 
now control Kyne with the mouse. 
 
On each machine, one key enables you to load the options menu at any time, 
on the Amiga it is the Help Key.  Within this document whenever we refer 
to the option key, it is this key on your system. 
 
By pressing the option key on the keyboard, the Main Options screen will 
load within several seconds, and you will be able to select the main 
options described below.  At this point you may choose how to continue, 
by pressing the appropriate function or number key as shown on the 
screen. This is the method of making a choice on this screen and all 
subsequent option screens. 
 
MAIN OPTIONS 
 
Use the following function keys on the Amiga for: 
 
F1 to reenter the world of Brataccas 
F2 to save the current state of Brataccas 
F3 to load a saved state of Brataccas 
F4 to start Brataccas afresh 
F5 to enter Movie Mode 
F6 to choose the control device 
 
At any time on the other option screens, you may return to the Main 
Options menu by pressing the option key (Amiga HELP). 
 
F1: Reenter Brataccas Option 
 
The use of the F1 key at this stage will take you back into the world of 
Brataccas to the same position at which you left it. At any stage in 
Brataccas you may use the option key to get back to the Main Option 
screen. This also allows you to pause the software. 
 
F2:  Save the Current Game Option 
 
If for any reason you wish to temporarily cease participation (like sleep 
or a wish to maintain an advantageous position) you may at any time save 
to disk the current state of Brataccas. You will need a separate disk 
on which to save the state of Brataccas. On the Amiga it need not be 
specially formatted as Brataccas handles this automatically and it may be 
used several times over.  However this disk may only be used with 
Brataccas, as the format is incompatible with your machines standard 
operating system, and all existing information on this disk will be 
destroyed. This disk must not be write protected when used. 
 
Upon selecting the F2 key from the Main Options menu, you will be faced 
with a new screen asking you to choose which file you wish to save the 
current state onto.  You may save up to 5 different states of participation 
on one disk.  Remove your Brataccas disk and insert the disk onto which you 
wish to save.  To save a state press the appropriate key (F1 through F5 
on the Amiga). The current state of Brataccas will then be saved. You 
will need to replace the Brataccas disk when requested. 
 
F3: Load a Previously Saved Game Option 
 
This option allows you to reestablish an old state of Brataccas that has 
previously been saved with the save game option. Select F3 from the 
options menu. You load a file in the same manner as you save a file. 
Remove the Brataccas disk and insert your save disk. Now press the 
appropriate key to load your saved game. e.g., if you saved your old game 
under F4 then press F4 to reload it.  The software will also tell you if 
that file is not used and nothing will be loaded. Once loaded remove your 
save disk and reinsert the Brataccas disk. You may then return to 
Brataccas in the state loaded. 
 
F4: Start a New Game Afresh Option 
 
By pressing F4 you will reset the state of Brataccas and reenter the 
world afresh. It will take a few seconds for it to load off disk. 
 
F5: Toggle Movie Mode Option 
 
Pressing F5 will toggle the software in and out of Movie Mode. This will 
run constantly until the Option Key is pressed, in which case you will be 
returned to the Main Option menu. You may then press F5 again, to 
toggle back to normal playing mode. Movie mode puts Kyne under computer 
control and allows you to set back and watch him do the hard work. 
 
F6: Set Control Mode Option 
 
Pressing F6 will allow you to choose whether to control Kyne with the 
mouse or keyboard. It will also allow you to choose which keys work in 
which direction, to suit your own personal requirements.  Any key may 
be used in each option (except the option key and function keys). The 
default settings are Z for left, X for right, O for up, K for down and 
the space bar for action. If you make an error selecting your keys go 
back to the main menu and repeat the process. 
 
HOW TO CONTROL KYNE 
 
You are now ready to control Kyne and take a truly active part in the 
world of Brataccas. 
 
Because of the wide range of possible movements, control appears to be 
more complex in Brataccas than in a conventional product. However, there 
is no need to feel daunted by this; every movement works on the basis of 
IMPLIED ACTION. 
 
IMPLIED ACTION means that the computer will interpret all moves in a 
logical manner, i.e., you imply a movement to the computer rather than 
give specific instructions. As a participant in Brataccas, you will come 
to realize that this logical interpretation allows you to control the hero 
Kyne in an intuitive way. 
 
As Kyne appears on screen, he will walk, run, jump, pass through a doorway 
and fight with his sword exactly how and when you want him to. True, you 
might need a certain degree of practice and experience before you have 
completely mastered your control techniques. 
 
The best way to become skilled in Brataccas control is by practice.  
Nevertheless one or two examples and explanations here will point you in 
the right direction. 
 
There are four basic stances Kyne will be in: 
 
FACING FORWARD where Kyne appears to be looking at you. 
FACING LEFT 
FACING RIGHT 
FACING AWAY where Kyne has his back to you. 
 
There are also two modes of action Kyne will adopt: 
 
NORMAL which allows normal movement such as walking and running. 
ACTION which allows combat movement with your sword if it is drawn. 
 
In Brataccas there are several methods of control: the keyboard, the 
standard mouse supplied with your computer. The control device is 
selected from the Main Options screen; the default is the mouse. 
 
With each control movement there are four basic terms to describe their 
use. These are single movement; emphasized movement; action; and double 
action. (Note that these terms are used throughout this User Guide). 
We will now describe some combinations of these movements. You may wish 
to try each to see which you find the easiest. 
 
MOUSE CONTROL OF KYNE 
 
SINGLE MOVEMENT represents the standard manner of mouse movement -- 
across a surface in left and right, and up and down directions. This 
allows Kyne to walk and jump, the down direction allows you to pick up 
objects off the shelves and tables. 
 
EMPHASIZED MOVEMENT is the same as single movement but with the addition 
of holding down the right side mouse button on the mouse. This allows Kyne 
to run, turn around, walk through doorways, and proceed with other more 
decisive movements. 
 
DOUBLE ACTION involves holding down the right and left side buttons on the 
Amiga mouse. If you hold down both buttons and push the mouse up Kyne will 
draw his sword. If you hold down both buttons and pull the mouse down, 
Kyne will put away his sword.  Double Action motions left and right 
control the more vicious fighting actions. 
 
KEYBOARD CONTROL OF KYNE 
 
SINGLE MOVEMENT represents simple keyboard actions -- pressing Z for left, 
X for right, O for up and K for down (these are the default settings, use 
the main options screen to modify them). This allows Kyne to walk and 
jump. Note that these keys may be changed to the ones of your choice from 
the Main Options screen. Pressing down will pick up objects off the 
shelves and tables in Brataccas. 
 
EMPHASIZED MOVEMENT is the same a single movement but instead of a single 
press, a rapid double press and release is used. This allows Kyne to run 
turn around, walk through doorways and proceed with other more decisive 
movements.  Emphasized movement down will pick up objects off the floor. 
 
ACTION CONTROL involves the pressing of the action key (usually space 
bar). This stops Kyne when walking or running and allows him to stand 
still.  Holding down the action key puts Kyne into ACTION mode -- 
allowing right arm combat movement with the sword with the up, down, left 
and right keys. Action also selects the option you want when the multiple 
choice thought-bubbles appear (See Controlling Kyne's Thoughts later). 
 
DOUBLE ACTION cannot be used with the keyboard as it can with the mouse. 
Instead, to draw the sword use an emphasized movement up with the action 
key held down, and to put the sword away use an emphasized move down with 
the action key held down (the space bar is the default action key). 
 
Below are some examples of how Kyne move in a particular stance with a 
particular control movement: 
 
   Facing right state 
       Single movement right            Walks right 
       Single movement up               Jumps right 
       Emphasized left                  Turns and faces away 
 
   Facing away state 
       Single movement left             Turns and walks left 
       Emphasized movement up           Walks through center 
                                        doorway or into a switch 
 
  Facing left state 
       Emphasized left                  Runs left 
       Double action up                 Draws sword 
       Action up                        Parries with sword 
       Action right                     Retreats right with 
                                        sword 
       Action on its own                Stops Kyne 
 
The important point to remember is: 
IMPLIED ACTION works on the basis which is both logical and natural.  
Therefore the actual memorizing the movement details is far less 
important than practicing and following your instincts as to control. 
 
CONTROLLING KYNE'S THOUGHTS 
 
At certain times during the course of using Brataccas you will need to 
control Kyne's thoughts as he comes across various situations. This is 
done by using the multiple-choice thought-bubbles. The software 
automatically shows the thought-bubbles with the options appearing within 
it.  When a thought-bubble appears, the world of Brataccas will freeze 
and you will have as much time as you require to make your choice.  An 
example of the use of thought-bubbles is when carrying multiple objects, 
selecting which object to put down. 
 
The thought-bubble appears and a question such as "MMMM, SHALL I..."  is 
displayed. Within the thought-bubble the options then appear one after 
another. At the end of the list the first option reappears and the 
sequence repeats as before. To make your choice of which action you wish 
Kyne to perform, press the left mouse button when the option you require 
is visible. One of the options displayed allows you to get out of this 
situation without performing any action; this is signified by the bubble 
displaying "do nothing" or a similar message. 
 
Kyne then performs the action appropriate to your choice.  Brataccas then 
continues. The bubble showing your choice will be displayed for a short 
time. 
 
Remember that you can take as much time as you wish; everything else in 
Brataccas is frozen while you make your decision. 
 
CONTROL SWITCHES 
 
One additional feature which we will reveal at this stage are the various 
control switches around Brataccas. These can be toggeled on and off by 
walking into them as if they were central doors. 
 
We will leave you to discover their various functions....more details 
Inside Brataccas. 
 
FINALLY INTO BRATACCAS 
 
If you have just loaded Brataccas, you will see Kyne standing in the 
teleport in the upper left hand corner of the Arrivals Bay.  At this point 
you can take control of Kyne and begin your exploration of Brataccas. 
We recommend at this stage that you experiment with your overall control 
of Kyne. Beware! Your presence will already have been detected. The World 
of Brataccas never ceases to move. 
 
It does not really matter whether you have fully digested the information 
in this booklet. Your ability to control Kyne (and your awareness of 
prevailing conditions!) will improve each time you participate in 
Brataccas.  There will come a time when you do not have to think about 
control; it will come so naturally that you can devote your entire 
attention to surviving and participating. 
 
After a while, Kyne will not be a mere character on screen. YOU will become 
Kyne -- his thoughts and problems will be your own.

End..........