			   Breach II

BEFORE YOU PLAY...

Back-up Those Disks!

Breach 2 is not copy protected and we encourage you to back-up your disks
prior to play.  In fact, if you haven't done so already, now would probably
be a good time!

Problems Running Breach 2

If you should expereince a problem in running this software on your
computer, Omnitrend provides telelphone assistance several times per week. 
Call (203) 658-6917 for the current assistance schedule.  We regret that
our staff cannot answer any questions regarding game hints.

Should you run across a bug in the program, please drop us a note. Be sure
to include the version number of the game (this can be found on the game
title screen) as well as a description of your computer system.  All
correspondence and disks should be mailed to:

Omnitrend Software, Inc.
MailStop 400
P.O. Box 733
West Simsbury, CT 06092

Limited Media Warranty

Omnitrend Software, Inc. warrants all media for a period of ninety (90)
days from the date of purchase.  Should you experience a problem within
that period, return the defective disk along with dated proof of purchase
(do not include the manual or the game box). Should you have a problem out
of warranty, Omnitrend Software will replace the defective disk for
$8.00. We regret that we are unable to return any packing materials you
use to ship your disk. Omnitrend Software, Inc. will not be responsible for
replacing media free of charge within the warranty period that has been
subjected to misuse or excessive wear.

Limited Software Warranty

This software and the enclosed manual are sold "As Is" without warranty to
their performance.  The entire risk as to the results and performance of the
program is assumed by you. The Limited Software Warranty is the only
warranty of any kind, with expressed or implied, including but not
limited to the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose that is made by Omnitrend Software, Inc.

Neither Omnitrend Software, Inc. nor anyone else who has been involved in
the creation, production, or delivery of this program shall be liable for
any direct, indirect, or incidental damages arising out of the use, the
results of use, or inablity to use such product even if Omnitrend Software,
Inc. has been advised of the possibility of such damages or claim. Some
states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for
consequential or incidental damages, so the above limitation may not apply
to you.

				2

                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

Getting Started..................................................4
	Your Computer
	Starting Breach 2
	Creating Your First Squad Leader
	Starting Your First Game

The Scenario.....................................................7
	The Concept of the Scenario
	Order of Play
	Movement Points
	Deploying a Squad
	Scenario Ratings
	Mission Briefing
	Victory Conditions
	Advancing Your Squad Leader
	Saving a Game in Progress
	Ending a Game
	Making Your Own Scenarios
	Chaining Scenarios
	Skill Level
	The Map Grid
	Playing With Other IGS Products
	Where To Go From Here

The Assignment Screen..............................................11
	The Assignment Windows
	If You Have A Mouse
	If You Don't Have a Mouse
	The Buttons
	Just Starting Out?

The Game Screen....................................................14
	The Map Window
	The Marine Statistics Window
	The Time Remaining Display
	The Buttons
	Displaying The Map Grid
	Turning Off the Sound

Your Marines.......................................................20
	Basic Characteristics
	Classes of Marines

Opponents..........................................................23

Objects............................................................25

Terrain............................................................30

The Scenario Builder...............................................35
	Running the Builder Program
	The Builder Screen
	Starting a New Scenario
	Opening an Existing Scenario
	Saving a Scenario
	Closing a Scenario
	Quitting the Scenario Builder
	The Cursors
	The Map Grid
	The Palette Window
	The Map Window

Scenario List......................................................42

Quick Reference....................................................44

				3

GETTING STARTED

Your Computer

IBM/Tandy

System Requirements

IBM-PC, Tandy, or Compatible computer with at least 512K of memory, MS-DOS
(or PC-DOS) 3.0 or higher, and CGA, EGA, VGA, or Tandy compatible graphics.
A Microsoft, Tandy, or compatible mouse is optional.  CMS and AdLib sound
boards are supported.

Playing Breach 2 on Floppy Disks

Start your computer using DOS or a hard drive.  Once you have the "A>"
DOS prompt, place your Breach 2 game disk in drive A.  Type "BREACH2" and
press [return] to start the game.  To run the scenario builder, type
"BUILDER".

Playing Breach 2 on a Hard Disk

Copy all the files from your Breach 2 disks to your hard disk.  Make sure
the default drive is set to your hard disk.  For example, if your hard disk
is drive C, type "C:" and [return].  You will then see a "C>".  Type
"BREACH2" and press [return] to start the game.  To run the scenario
builder, type "BUILDER".

Using a Mouse

Breach 2 supports a Microsoft, Tandy, or compatible mouse.  Be sure that
your mouse driver is installed properly before running the game.

Using the Creative Music System (CMS) or AdLib Sound Board

Breach 2 uses the extensive features of the CMS and AdLib sound boards to
produce stereo sound effects.  Upon running the game, you will be allowed
to select which of these cards you have installed.

Amiga

System Requirements

Any Amiga computer with at least 1 megabyte of memory.

Playing Breach 2 on Floppy Disks

Place the Breach 2 disk in the floppy drive and turn on the computer.  When
the workbench screen appears, click on the Breach 2 disk icon.  A window
will open showing the contents of the disk.  Double-click on the Breach 2
file icon to begin the game.  You should double-click the Scenario Builder
icon to run the scenario builder.

				4

Playing Breach 2 on a Hard Disk

Copy all of the files from the Breach 2 disk into a drawer on your hard
disk.  Double-click on the Breach 2 file icon to begin the game.  You
should double-click the Scenario Builder icon to run the scenario builder.

Multitasking

If you use your Amiga for multitasking, you will need a method of moving
the Breach 2 screens to the back since the screens do not have a normal
title bar.  The F10 function key will move the game to the background.

Atari ST

System Requirements

Any Atari ST computer with at least 512K of memory and a color monitor.

Playing Breach 2 on Floppy Disks

Place the Breach 2 disk in floppy drive "A" and turn on the computer.  When
the desktop screen appears, double-click on the Disk Drive "A" icon.  A
window will open showing the contents of the disk.  Double-click on the
BREACH2.PRG file icon to begin the game.  Double-click on the "BUILDER.PRG"
icon to begin the scenario builder.

Playing Breach 2 on a Hard Disk

Copy all of the files from the Breach2 disk into a folder on your hard
disk.  Double-click on the BREACH2.PRG file icon to begin the game. 
Double-click on the "BUILDER.PRG" icon to begin the scenario builder.

Starting Breach 2

To begin the game, start the Breach 2 program according to the instructions
in the previous section for your computer.  The game will require you to
enter a word from the manual.  Be sure to include all bold faced titles
(except for the section title at the very top of the page, the "Getting
Started" title on this page for example).

The game will then display the select screen.  This screen lists the
available scenarios, squad leaders, and games.  more on this in the "Select
Screen" section of the manual.  For now, we will lead you into starting a
game quickly so you can see what it looks like.

				5

Creating Your First Squad Leader

Click on the "Create" button in the squad leader window (press "C" if you
don't have a mouse).  A window will appear allowing you to name a new squad
leader character.  Type in the name and press the return key.  The new
squad leader will appear on the list.

Starting Your First Game

Now that you have created a squad leader of your own, let's play a
scenario.  If you don't have a mouse, skip to the next paragraph.  Click on
the scenario titled "River Crossing".  It should now be highlighted.  Click
on the squad leader you just created it should also be highlighted.  Click
on the "Make" button in the game window.  A window will appear allowing you
to enter a name for the game you are about to play.  Type in a name and
press return.  Another window will appear asking for the skill level. 
Click the mouse pinter on beginner.  After a few seconds, the game should
appear in the game window.  Click on the game and it should be highlighted.
 Now click on "Play" and the game will begin.  Skip the next paragraph (it
is for players without a mouse).

Repeatedly press the tab key on your keyboard.  You will see a highlight
bar move between the three windows.  This is how you select which window
you want to work with.  Press the tab key until the scenario window is
selected.  use the up and down arrow keys to highlight the "River Crossing"
scenario.  Now press the tab key to highlight the squad leader window. 
Select the squad leader you just created by pressing the down arrow key. 
press the "M" key to make a new game.  A window will appear allowing you to
enter a name for the game you are about to play.  Type in a name and press
return.  Another window will appear asking for the skill level.  Press the
"B" key for beginner.  After a few seconds, the game should appear in the
game window.  Press tab again to select the game window.  Press the down
arrow key to select the game you just created.  Now press "P" to begin the
game.

The screen now showing is the game screen.  This is where the battles take
place!  Before we can get you playing, though, we must outline the way
scenarios are played.

				6

THE SCENARIOS

The Concept of the Scenario

Scenarios are combat situations you must bring your squad leader into in
order to advance him through the ranks.  Squad leaders are assigned a squad
of up to 9 marines.  In order to win the scenario, certain victory
conditions must be satisfied.  These conditions are different depending on
the scenario.  Scenarios take place on a playing field that is composed of
50 squares by 50 squares and 5 levels.

Squad Leaders are soldiers of the Federated Worlds Special Forces (FWSF)
and operate under the jurisdiction of the Federated Worlds.  The Federated
Worlds is a government of stars in the local group.

Order of Play

Scenarios are played in rounds that are composed of two phases.  First is
the player phase followed by the enemy phase.  In each of their phases, the
player or enemy perform all their movement and combat.  Each round consumes
30 seconds of game time (important since scenarios have a time limit).

Movement Points

Most every action the player and enemies perform require movement points. 
Each marine and enemy are give a certain number of movement points (mp's)
at the beginning of each round.  Once all of the movement points for a unit
have been exhausted, that unit must wait until the next round before doing
anything else.  Movement points are based on the unit's class, vitality,
and encumbrance.  A more complete description of this appears later in the
section on Marines.

Deploying a Squad

Marines enter a scenario through a special square called the entry square. 
No two marines or enemies can occupy the same square at the same time, so
this square must be clear in order for more marines to enter.

You can continue to move a marine until he runs out of movement points.  If
you are finished with a marine or you wish to move others and come back to
him later, you can.  The "Game Screen" section will describe how to do
this.

Scenario Ratings

Scenarios are rated to allow you to determine how hard it will be to win. 
Ratings are (in increasing order of difficulty) Easy, Medium, Hard, Very
Hard.

Mission Briefing

Each scenario contains a briefing that you can review at any time.  This
will detail the background of the scenario as well as possibly containing
hints on how to go about completing the mission.

				7

Victory Conditions

One or more of these conditions will have to be met in order to win:

Rescue Prisoners - You must rescue all the prisoners in the scenario. 
Rescuing a prisoner means taking them as you would any other object in the
game.  If this is a victory condition, be sure none of the prisoners are
killed or else you will lose.

Capture DataPacks - You must capture all the DataPacks in the scenario. 
This means you must take and hold them.  If this is a victory condition, be
sure none of the DataPacks are destroyed or else you will lose.

Destroy DataPacks - Basically the opposite of capturing DataPacks.  You
must destroy all the DataPacks in the scenario.

Exit Combat Zone - all the surviving marines in your squad must leave the
scenario through a special terrain square called an exit square.

Kill n% Opponents - At least n% (it varies by scenario) of the opponents in
a scenario must be killed.

Occupy n Occupation Squares - At least n (again, this varies by scenario)
occupation squares must be occupied.  This means that your squad members
must be standing on at least n of a special terrain square called an
occupation square at the same time.

All scenarios also have a time limit.  Once the time limit is reached, the
scenario will end.  You must satisfy the victory conditions before this
limit is reached.

A mission orders window can be displayed at any time.  This window will
show the victory conditions and which ones you have already satisfied.

Advancing Your Squad Leader

Your overall objective is to advance your squad leader.  You do this by
successfully completing scenarios.  The more active a squad leader is in
battle, the more likely it is he will see some kind of improvement at the
end of a successful scenario.  Shooting accuracy is important, but cracking
and detecting abilities should be honed as well.

Your squad leader begins as an Ensign, and will advance in rank as his
abilities progress.

				8

Saving a Game In Progress

You have the ability to save a game at any point.  This means you can stop
playing and resume a game later.

Ending a Game

A game will end when the victory conditions are met or your squad leader is
killed.  If your squad leader dies, the game is erased and the squad
leaders statistics will revert to what they were before beginning the game.

Making Your Own Scenarios

You can create new scenarios or modify existing ones by using the scenario
builder program.  The section "Your Computer" that described how to run the
Breach 2 game also describes how to run the scenario builder.  There is
another section later on in this manual that describes how to use the
scenario builder.

Chaining Scenarios

When making scenarios, you can specify that one or more scenarios are to be
"chained" together.  This means that when one scenario is completed, the
game will automatically load the next scenario in the chain.  This allows
for larger missions that will not fit in the normal space of a single
scenario.  When chaining, the Squad Leader's condition will carry over to
the next scenario.  Two things may happen to the rest of the marines; (1)
You may be given a new squad or (2) Your squad and their condition will
also carry over.  Which of these take place depends on how the scenarios
were created.  Normally, the mission briefing will tell you which will
happen.

A Squad Leader that is promoted when chaining from one scenario to another
is considered a field promotion.  If he is killed in action, or does not
complete the scenario, the promotion will be void.

Skill Levels

There are two levels you can play, beginner and experienced.  The
difference between the two levels is the way in which you see the
surrounding terrain and the intelligence level of the opponents.  If you
set the skill level to beginner, all of the squares surrounding your
marines will be visible.  If you select experienced, you will not be able
to see through walls and closed doors.

The Map Grid

When first starting out playing Breach 2, it can sometimes get confusing
when moving your marines through the 3-D landscape.  Pressing the F6 key
when in the game screen will turn on the map grid.  This is a grid which
will be superimposed over the map only when tracing a path for your marines
to move.  The grid will help you to see exactly where the paths can be
traces.

				9

Playing With Other IGS Products

Interlocking Game System (IGS) is a unique method of allowing separate
games to combine with one another to form one huge game.  Breach 2 is able
to be entered by other Omnitrend IGS games as though they were all one big
game.  This means your role playing character (in the case of Breach 2 the
Squad Leader) can adventure through many games.  Breach 2 scenarios can be
part of a surface attack in one game or a spaceship's boarding sequence in
another.

Breach 2 is a non-controlling module, meaning it will be run automatically
by another IGS parogram. Check with your dealer or contact Omnitrend for
information about other games that are part of the IGS system.

Where to Go From Here

By now you are probably wondering when you will get to play the game. 
Well, now that you understand the basic idea behind the scenario, it is
just a matter of learning how to control your marines and knowing how the
objects and opponents work.  You should refer to the section "The Game
Screen" to learn about all the different controls.  The objects and
opponents are described in their own sections.  The objects section will
list the objects and describe how each is used.  The opponents section will
describe how each opponent attacks and the best ways to defeat them.  An
additional section on terrain squares describes each type of terrain, any
strategic advantages, and how many movement points it takes to cross.

When you are ready to end this sample mission and begin a real game, you
will need to refer to the section "The Assignments Screen" which will
describe how to manage games and squad leaders.  There is also a handy
section "The Scenarios" which summarizes the scenarios that come with the
game.

Finally, once you get the hang of things, the last section is a quick
reference page which lists all of the commands in the game.  Try the
commands out using the sample game you have already started.  The sample
scenario is there so that you can get used to the game.  When you feel you
are ready, begin with one of the easy scenarios and work your way up. 
You'll have your squad leader to 2nd Lieutenant in no time!

				10

THE ASSIGNMENT SCREEN

The Assignment Windows

The Assignment Screen is a collection of three windows.  The largest
window, "Available Scenarios" lists the scenarios available for your Squad
Leader to command.  Next to the name of each scenari is the difficulty
rating.

The next window, titled "Squad Leader List", displays the Squad Leader
characters that are available to play.  This list will be empty until you
create your own Squad Leaders.  Next to the Squad Leader name is the name
of the scenario they are currently commanding.  If they are not currently
engaged, this will show as "Available", meaning this Squad Leader can begin
a new mission.

The remaining window is titled "Scenarios in Progress".  It lists the
scenarios that any Squad Leaders are currently commanding.  When you start
a game, you select the scenario you want to play and the Squad Leader you
command.  You will then be able to give the mission a name.  This name
appears in this list.  Next to the name of the scenario in progress
(mission) is the name of the scenario it is based on.  The list will be
empty until you select a Squad Leader and a Scenario to play.

If You Have a Mouse

Any item in a window can be selected by pointing to it and clicking the
mouse button.  At the bottom of each window is a row of buttons.  These can
also be selected by pointing to them and clicking.

The Available Scenarios window also has two additional buttons, one on each
side of the window name.  These buttons, which look like up and down
arrows, will "scroll" the list of scenarios in the event that there are
more scenarios available than will fit in the window all at once.  Clicking
the mouse on the up arrow will scroll the list up.  Clicking on the down
arrow will scroll the list down.

				11

If You Don't Have A Mouse

The "tab" key on the keyboard is used to select the window in which you
want to select an item.  If you press this key repeatedly you will see the
title of each window change color alternately (try it).  Once you have
selected the window you want, use the up and down arrow keys to select an
item.  The buttons below each window can be selected by typing the first
letter of the button name.  For example, to select the "Create" button in
the Squad Leader window, press the "C" key.  In fact, anytime you encounter
buttons with names on them anywhere in the game, you can select them in the
same fashion.

The Available Scenarios window also has two additional buttons, one on each
side of the window name.  These buttons, which look like up and down
arrows, will "scroll" the list of scenarios in the event that there are
more scenarios available than will fit in the window all at once.  Pressing
the page up (PgUp) key on the keyboard will scroll the list up.  Pressing
the page down (PgDn) key will scroll the list down.

The Buttons

The buttons below each window do the following:

Available Scenarios Window

Remove - Removes the selected scenario from the disk.
Add - Adds scenarios from additional Breach 2 scenario disk (available
directly from Omnitrend).  See "Additional Scenario Disks" on page 13.
Quit - End the game.

Squad Leader Window

Create - Creates a new squad leader.  You will be required to enter a name
for the Squad Leader.
Examine - Shows the current stats for the selected Squad Leader.
Delete - Deletes the Squad Leader from the disk.

Games In Progress Window

Make - Starts a new game.  You will be allowed to enter a name for the
game.
Play - Play the selected game.
Stop - Stop a game in progress and make the Squad Leader available for
other missions.

				12

Just Starting Out?

If you are just beginning to play Breach 2, the first thing you will want
to do is make a Squad Leader character.  You can use the one you created
for the sample scenario or make a new one.  If you want to make a new one,
select the create button and enter a name.  If you want to reuse the sample
Squad Leader, you will first need to check and see if he is available.  If
you completed or lost the sample scenario, he should already be available. 
If you just saved the sample scenario in progress, you will need to select
it and use the stop button.

Once you have a Squad Leader available, select on of the easy scenarios
and select the make button.  Enter a name for your mission and press
return.  When asked for the skill level, select beginner.  The mission will
now appear on the Scenarios in Progress list.  Select that mission and then
the play button.  Now you're ready for battle!

Additional Scenario Disks

You can purchase additional scenario disks directly from Omnitrend.  You
can also create scenario disks of your own using the Scenario Builder
program.  The "Add" button allows you to access these additional scenario
disks.  The button will do two different things depeinding on the type of
disk drive you are using:

Hard Disk - If you are playing on a hard disk, selecting the "Add" button
will copy scenarios from a scenario disk in the first floppy drive onto
your hard disk.

Floppy Disk - If you are playing on a floppy disk, selecting the "Add"
button will allow you to replace the disk currently in the drive with
another scenario disk.  If you select a currently available Squad Leader
before selecting "Add", you will have the option of moving the Squad Leader
to the other scenario disk.  For instance, suppose you purchased a scenario
disk from Omnitrend.  You want to use your favorite Squad Leader "Conrad"
with the new missions.  You would select "Conrad" from the Squad Leader
list (presuming he is available), then select the "Add" button.  A window
will appear asking you if you want to move "Conrad" to the other scenario
disk.  If you select the yes button, "Conrad" will be moved to the new disk
and you will be able to begin new missions.

				13

THE GAME SCREEN

The Game Screen

The game screen is where your Squad Leader commands his missions.  The
large map in the center of the screen displays the surrounding terrain,
objects, and opponents.  The surrounding windows and buttons are used to
control the scenario.

The Map Window

The map window displays the terrain surrounding the currently selected
marine, with the marine at the center.  The windows is broken up into an
invisible 9x9 grid in which you can move your marine.  Some sections of the
terrain may not be visible at the experienced skill level.  This is due to
the fact that you cannot see through walls or closed doors.  At the top of
the window is a bar showing the name of the mission being played. 
Bracketing this name is the rank insignia of the mission Squad Leader.  The
map window allows you to do the following:

Move the Current Marine - The current marine (at the center of the display)
can be moved to another location in the map window.  When he reaches his
destination, the map window is shifted to place him back at the center of
the window and new terrain is displayed.  The marine can only be moved onto
valid terrain squares (see the Terrain section) that can be seen and only
as long as the marine has enough movement points.

Marines that are standing in a square with smoke will not be able to see
any of the surrounding squares, and thus, will be unable to move.  The map
window will appear with the marine at the center and the surrounding
squares will all be grey.

Moving the marine is done by tracing a path from the square he is in (at
the cneter) to the destination square.  If you don't have a mouse, skip to
the next paragraph to learn how to trace a path with the keyboard.  Tracing
a path with the mouse is done by pointing at the current marine, pressing
and holding down the mouse button, then moving the pointer along the path. 
As you trace the path from one square to the next, the number of movement
points remaining (displayed in the marine statistics window) will change. 
You can backtrack the path if you make a mistake.  When the path has been
traced to where you want the marine, release the mouse button.

				14

To move the marine using the keyboard, press the "P" key to begin tracing a
path.  You can now use the keyboard keys to trace the path in 8 directions.
 Each time you press a key, the patyh will extend one square in that
direction.  As you trace the path from one square to the next, the number
of movement points remaining (displayed in the marine statistics window)
will change.  You can backtrack the path if you make a mistake.  when the
path has been traced to where you want the marine, press the middle key on
the keypad (the "5" key).

Move the Map Cursor - The map cursor is used for some of the keyboard
commands.  It is turned on and off by pressing the F6 function key.  It
will turn on automatically upon starting a scenario if you do not have a
mouse.  The map cursor appears as small brackets surrounding a map square. 
The map cursor may be moved around the map by pressing the arrow keys in
the direction you want to move the cursor.

Select Another Marine - If there is another marine on the map you want to
control, you can select him as follows (if you don't have a mouse, skip to
the next paragraph).  Point to the marine with the mouse pointer.  Hold
down the "Alt" key and click the mousebutton.  That marine will then become
the current marine and the map will shift to display him at the center.

To select another marine with the keyboard, first make sure the map cursor
is on.  The map cursor is turned on and off by pressing the F6 function
key.  Select the marine by moving the map cursor to his location, then hold
down the "Alt" key and press the "Z" key.

Change the Current Marine's Facing - The direction the current marine is
facing can be changed as follows.  With a mouse, move the pointer to one of
the eight squares surrounding the marine, then hold down the shift key and
click the mouse button.  With the keyboard, move the map cursor to one of
the surrounding eight squares, hold down the shift key, then press the "Z"
key.

Fire a Weapon - The current marine's armed weapon can be fired at a square
as follows.  With the mouse, just pint to the square and click the button. 
With the keyboard, move the mouse cursor to the square and press the "Z"
key.  In order to fire at a square, the marine must be facing within 45
degrees of the square.  Otherwise you will have to change the marine's
facing.

				15

The Marine Statistics Window

The window to the right of the map displays statistics about the currently
selected marine.  At the top of the window is the name of the marine.  The
stats displayed are:

Movement Points - The number of movement points remaining this round.
Vitality - The current vitality.  A warning box will appear here if the
vitality drops below 30%.
Health - The current health.  A warning box will appear here if the health
drops below 50%.
Encumbrance - The current encumbrance level.
Accuracy - The marine's shooting accuracy.
Detect - The percentage chance of this marine making a successful detect
with a detector.
Crack - The percentage chance of this marine making a successful crack with
a crack unit.
Ammo - The number of rounds available in the marine's ammo clip.

Clicking the mouse at the top of the window (where the marine's name is
shown) will display a list of all the marines in your squad.  Keyboard
players can display this list by pressing the "L" key.

The Time Remaining Display

In the upper right hand corner is a display showing the total remaining
time in the mission.  When this number reaches 00:00:00, the mission will
end.  Each round consumes 30 seconds of mission time.

The Buttons

The rest of the game screen contains buttons that perform various
functions.  You can select a button by clicking on it with the mouse, or by
pressing the keyboard key that is assigned to the button.

				16

The Arm Weapon/Detonate Remotes Button (or "A" Key)

Pressing the arm weapon button will bring up a window enabling you to
select which type of weapon you want the currently selected marine to use
when shooting.  Displayed will be selections for Unarmed (no weapon), Three
types of guns (described in the Objects section0, and Psionic Stun
(described in the Marines section).  If a marine is not carrying a certain
type of gun, or does not have psionic ability, the appropriate selection
will be unavailable.  The word "Unavailable" will appear beneath selections
that cannot be selected.  To select a weapon with the mouse, just point to
the check box to the left of the weapon name and click the mouse button.  A
check mark will then appear in the box (unless the weapon is unavailable). 
To select a weapon with the keyboard, press the first letter of the weapon
name ("U" for Unarmed, "S" for stun pistol, etc.)

If you hold down the shift key when clicking the mouse button (or pressing
the "A" key without a mouse), a window will appear asking you if you wish
to detonate remote charges.  See the Objects section for more information
on remote charges and how to use them.

The Open Door Button (or "K" Key)

Pressing the open door button will allow the current marine to open a door
he is standing next to.  With the mouse (after pressing the open door
button), point to the door you want to open adn press the mouse button. 
The door must be next to the current marine.  With the keyboard (after
pressing the "K" key), press the keypad key corresponding to the direction
of the door.  For example, if the door is above and to the left, press "7"
on the keypad.  If it is directly to the right, press "6".  If you are on
the door, press "5".

The Use Shaft Button (or "S" Key)

Pressing the use shaft button will allow the current marine to change
levels by using liftshafts or dropshafts (see the Terrain section to
identify these shafts).

The Take Object Button (or "T" Key)

Pressing the take object button will allow the current marine to take an
object he is standing next to or standing on.  With the mouse (after
pressing the take object button, point to the object you want to take and
press the mouse button.  The object must be next to the current marine or
the marine must be standing on the object.  With the keyboard (after
pressing the "T" key), press the keypad key corresponding to the direction
of the object.  For example, if the object is above and to the left, press
"7" on the keypad.  If it is directly to the right, press "6".  If you are
on the object, press "5".

				17

The Drop Object Button (or "D" Key)

Pressing the drop object button will display a window listing all of the
objects the current marine is carrying.  The window is large enough to
display up to 5 objects at a time.  If the marine is carying more than 5
objects, you can click on the up and down arrow keys (keyboard players can
press the "PgUp" and "PgDn" keys) to scroll the list.  Select the object
you want by clicking on its name (keyboard users can use the up and down
arrow keys).  To drop the object, click on the drop button (or "D" key). 
To cancel the drop, press the cancel button (or "C" key).  No more than one
object can occupy a single square, so you cannot drop one object on top of
another.

The Use Object Button (or "U" Key)

Pressing the use object button will display a window listing all of the
objects the current marine is carrying.  The window is large enough to
display up to 5 objects at a time.  If the marine is carrying more than 5
object, you can click on the up and down arrow keys (keyboard players can
press the "PgUp" and "PgDn" keys) to scroll the list.  Select the object
you want to use by clicking on its name (keyboard users can use the up and
down arrow keys).  To use the object, click on the window's use button (or
"U" key).  To cancel, press the cancel button (or "C" key).

What happens now depends on the object you selected to use.  See the
Objects section for instructions on the use of each object.

The Scale Button (or "W" Key)

Pressing the scale button will change the map into a "wide angle" view of
the surrounding terrain.  Information for this view is provided by the
current marine and other marines moving through this area, detectors, and
crack units.  Only terrain that has been seen by marines or detected by the
detectors and crack units will be displayed.

The wide angle view consists of a 21x21 area with the current marine at the
center.  Terrain squares are represented by colored squares to distinguish
the terrain pattern.  When scouts use the wide view, all opponents will
appear as orange squares.  There is also a 40% chance that scouts will pick
up hidden proximity charges which will appear as yellow squares.

				18

The Next Marine Button (or "N" Key)

Pressing the next marine button will change the current marine.  The
current marine advances to the next marine in the squad list.  After you
have moved to the last marine in the list, pressing this button will cycle
back to the first marine in the list.  Remember, you can also directly
select any marine appearing on the map.  See "The Map Window" earlier in
this section for more information.

The Next Round Button (or "R" Key)

Pressing the next round button will advance to the enemy combat phase. 
After the enemy completes movement and combat, the time remaining will
decrease by 30 seconds and return you to the beginning of the player phase.

The Save Game Button (or F1 Function Key)

Pressing the save game button will temporarily halt the mission.  If you
are at the beginning of the player phase, you will be able to save your
current location.  Otherwise, if you leave the mission at another point in
the round, your location will not be saved. Your progress since the last
point you saved will be lost.

The Mission Orders Button (or "O" Key)

Pressing the mission orders button will display a window listing the
victory conditions that must be met in order to wind the scenario.  A check
box appears to the left of each victory condition.  A check mark will
appear in the box if the victory condition is satisfied.

The Mission Briefing Button (or "B" Key)

Pressing the mission briefing button will display a window with the mission
briefing.  You should read the briefing upon beginning the scenario.

Displaying the Map Grid (F7)

Pressing the F7 function key will cause a grid to be placed on the map
window that outlines the terrain squares.  Beginners will find this useful
to help in tracing movement paths. Press this key again to turn off the
grid.

Turning Off the Sound (F8)

Pressing the F8 function key will turn off the sound.  Pressing the key
again will turn it back on.

				19

YOUR MARINES

Basic Characteristics

All marines and Squad Leaders share the following basic characteristics:

Movement Points - Each marine is given a certain number of movement points
at the beginning of each round.  Almost all of the activities a marine can
perform require movement points (MP's).  Combat activities such as taking
an object, firing the gun, moving, and using an object can all be done in a
single round until the movement points are exhausted.  If you do not have
sufficient MP's for the activity you want to perform, the computer will
warn you.  It is not necessary for a marine to use all of his movement
points.

Unused movement points will not accumulate.  A marine with no movement
points remaining cannot be selected with the next marine button.  When the
movement points are exhausted, the computer will automatically select the
next marine.  If no marines remain with movement points, the player phase
will end.

Vitality - Vitality is a measure of how well-rested a marine is.  The
higher the vitality, the more moves a marine has available in subsequent
rounds.  If a marine were at the 50% vitality level, he would have 50% of
his maximum number of moves available.

At the beginning of a mission, a marine's vitality is always 100%.  As a
marine moves about, his vitality is reduced at the same rate as his
movement points.  If a marine with 100% vitality fired a gun (3 mp's), his
new vitality would be 97%.  Vitality is replenished at the rate of the
health percentage divided by 4, which means the maximum rate is 25% per
round (100/4).

If a marine's vitality drops to 0%, the marine is considedered stunned and
he may not move until the next round.

Health - Health is a measurement of the physical condition of the marine. 
When a marine's health drops to 0%, he has died.

Encumbrance - This is a measure of the load on the marine.  Each object the
marine is carrying contributes to his encumbrance.  The greater the
encumbrance, the fewer movement points the marine will have each round. 
Opponents will be more likely to target a marine that has a heavy load.

Accuracy - This is a measure of the shooting accuracy of the marine.  For
marines with psionic talent, this is also a measure of the accuracy of
psionic stuns.

Detecting - This is a measure of the marine's ability to use a detector.

				20

Cracking - This is a measure of the marine's ability to use a crack unit.

Ammo - This is a count of the total number of ammo rounds in the marine's
ammo clip.  Yu can add to the number of rounds by using an ammo pack.  The
marine will not be able to fire any guns if there are no rounds in the ammo
clip.

Classes of Marines

Marines fall into the following classifications:

Squad Leader - The squad leader is your main character.  This is the only
type of marine that is independent of the missions.  Squad Leaders have
ranks as follows:

	Abbreviation	Rank
	-----------------------------------
	EN		Ensign
	2L		2nd Lieutenant
	1L		1st Lieutenant
	LC		Lieutenant Commander
	CM		Commander
	CP		Captain
	CO		Commodore
	AD		Admiral
	RA		Rear Admiral
	VA		Vice Admiral
	FA		Fleet Admiral

Newly created Squad Leaders begin as Ensigns.  Upon a successful completion
of a mission, there is a possibility that the Squad Leader will improve his
Accuracy, Cracking, and Detecting skills.  In addition, depending on the
improvements, he may be promoted in rank.  Once the rank of Fleet Admiral
is reached, no further promotion is possible.

The chance for advancement depends on how much the Squad Leader
participates in combat.  In addition, advancement in cracking and detecting
skills requires the successful use of these devices by the Squad Leader
during the mission.

Once the Squad Leader reaches the rank of Admiral, he has developed a
psionic ability that can be used just like the Psionic Talent marines.

The game will keep track of several other statistics for the squad leaders
including number of missions, number of kills, and combat time.  These
stats can be examined from the Assignment Screen.  Other stats from
completed missions will be saved.

				21

Marauder - The marauder is the basic marine.  They carry heavy armor and
have a fairly high level of mobility.

Scout - Scouts have very light armor, making them faster than marauders.

Infiltrator - Infiltrators have medium armor and an average degree of
mobility.  Infiltrators are very adept at using crack units.

Psionic Talent - Psionic talents wear the same armor as scouts.  They have
the ability to stun an opponent with their minds.  An opponent so stunned
will be unable to function in their next phase.  In addition, since
vitality regenerates slowly, it will take several rounds before the
opponent is back to full movement strength.  Psionic stuns will not travel
through doors or walls.  It is possible to stun your own troops, so be
careful.  You cannot stun any opponent that is not a life form (Fun
Emplacements, Robots, Bipeds, and Seekers).  In addition, tanks cannot be
stunned as their armor protects the aliens inside.

				22

OPPONENTS

The Opponents

There are a variety of opponents your squads will encounter during their
missions.  These opponents are quite intelligent.  Their general strategies
and method of attack are described in this section.

Beast

The Beast is a carnivorous creature resembling a small Tyrannosaurus Rex. 
Beasts walk on their hind legs.  Their attack is by biting and thus, must
be in an adjacent square to attack.  They are semi-intelligent and can
smell out an opponent.  They are attracted to loud noises, including
gunfire.  Fortunately, Beast are somewhat slow.  Their hide is thick and
somewhat resistant to laser fire.

Marauder

Marauders are similar to your own marines.  They carry laser pistols and
may have grenades, rockets, and other offensive weapons.  They may also use
camo suits, making them hard for you to see on the map.  In fact, marauders
with camo suits will be almost impossible to spot in dense terrain such as
rubble and jungle.  Marauders are highly intelligent and will use the
surrounding terrain to the best of their advantage.

Alien

Alien soldiers are lightly armored and, as a result, are very fast.  Aliens
almost always have psionic abilities.  They have the capability to emit
beams of energy from their bodies.  These beams have a bit less strength
than a standard laser pistol.  Aliens may also carry grenades and other
offensive weapons.  They are fairly intelligent and will use a combination
of their beams and psionic attacks very effectively.

Terradon

Terradons are primitive flying animals.  They attack by swooping down and
biting the victim.  Because they are constantly in flight during combat,
Terradons are extremely fast and maneuverable.  Their scaled body does not,
however, provide much protection from attack.

Gun Emplacement

Gun Emplacement are stationary defensive posts that operate by programmed
instructions.  They will attack any marine that comes within range.  They
fire a dual beam that has almost twice the power of a laser rifle.  Gun
Emplacements are stationary and will not move.  They can, however, rotate
the guns to fire in any direction.

				23

Wadgel

The wadgel is a small, weasle-like creature that attacks by firing quills
from its tail.  Wadgels are not known for their intelligence.  They will
attack almost anything moving, except another wadgel.  Their small size and
low intelligence makes a single wadgel more of a nuisance than a danger. 
However, in large quantities they can be quite dangerous.

Tank

Tanks are floating platforms that hover approximatly 75 centimeters above
the ground.  They are controlled by small, highly intelligent alien
creatures from a control cavity inside.  Tanks have a single-barreled laser
cannon and are higly maneuverable.  They also have a heavy armor plating,
making them difficult to destroy.

Robot

Robots are intelligent, programmed machines.  They are all copies of an
original that was designed to seek out and destroy an individual named Dr.
Smith.  During the copying process however, the program was scrambled. 
Robots will now attack any of your marines, thinking they are this Dr.
Smith.  They fire a form of plasma energy from their claws.  Robots tend to
attack with the precision of a well designed computer program.  This makes
their method of attack somewhat easy to predict.  However, due to the power
of their weapon, the robot should be taken quite seriously.

Biped

Bipeds are robots that walk on two legs.  They contain a single laser
weapon of equivalent power to a laser rifle.  Bipeds are semi-intelligent
and are capable of using the terrain to their advantage.  The armor on a
biped is adequate, but not impenetrable.

Seeker

Seekers are small floating orbs of unknown origin.  Some say they are
remnants from a long dead race.  Orbs will destroy any human life form it
encounters.  They have the ability to warp space around them, allowing them
to pass through walls.  Orbs usually have psionic abilities and always have
a beam weapon that can fire in any direction.  Seekers can only be
destroyed with remote charges.  Any other weapon may temporarily disable
the seeker for up to 5 rounds.  These are extremely dangerous opponents and
should be avoided at all costs.

				24

OBJECTS

The Objects

This section lists all of the objects and how they are used.  Following the
name of each object is the number of encumbrance points (see the Marines
section for a description of encumbrance points) they consume and the
number of movement points it takes to use.  For example, the smoke grenade
appears as "Smoke Grenade (Enc 1 - MP 5)."  This means a smoke grenade uses
1 encumbrance point and take 5 movement points to throw.

Objects are used by selecting the use button.  See the Game Screen section
for a description of this button.

DataPack (Enc 1 - MP 0)

A Data Pack is a small cartridge that stores data.  Some missions will
require that you must either capture or destroy DataPacks.  Capturing a
DataPack means that they must be taken and held by your marines.  There is
no way to use the DataPack.

Prisoner (Enc 1 - MP 0)

Some missions will require that you rescue prisoners.  Rescuing a prisoner
means that they must be taken and held by your marines.

Rocket Launcher (Enc 7 - MP 0)

Rocket launchers are needed to fire rockets.  In order to use the launcher
to fire a rocket, you should select the rocket itself after pressing the
use button.

Smoke Grenade (Enc 1 - MP 5)

Smoke grenades are small palm-sized devices that, when thrown, will explode
in a cloud of smoke.  This smoke will last the duration of the round. 
Opponents caught in the smoke cloud will be unable to function.  Opponents
around the cloud will be unable to see through it.  When selecting the
smoke grenade from the use button, you will be allowed to select the square
you wish to toss the grenade into.  The marine need not be facing this
square.  Pint the mouse at the square and click the mouse button.  From the
keyboard, use the map cursor to select the square, then press the "Z" key. 
The throwing range is 3 squares.

Personal Shield (Enc 2 - MP 0)

A personal shield is an electronic device that absorbs energy from laser
hits and explosive devices.  Its function is automatic once the marine is
carrying the shield.  Shields normally absorb approximately 20% of the
energy from an attack.

				25

Grav Shoes (Enc 4 - MP 10)

Grav shoes are electronic boots that, when worn, cause the marine to hover
approximatly 23 centimeters off the floor.  Once worn, moving onto any
terrain square consumes only one movement point (2 for diagonal moves). In
addition, grav shoes will allow marines to traverse deep water and blank
terrain squares.  When wearing grav shoes, the marine will be unable to use
any other objects except guns.

To wear the grav shoes, select them from the use button.  To remove them,
select the use button again.  Instead of the normal use window appearing,
the marine will, instead, remove the grav shoes.  Grav shoes will be
removed automatically at the end of the marines turn.  There is
approximatly a 5% chance that the marine will be injured upon removing the
grav shoes. In addition, the marine will be killed if he removes the grav
shoes over deep water or blank terrain squares.

Neutron Bomb (Enc 2 - MP 6)

A neutron bomb is a flat, disc shaped object about 31 centimeters in
diameter.  When thrown, it will explode, releasing radiation deadly to life
forms.  This explosion will do no damage to the surrounding terrain or
mechanical opponents.  When selecting the neutron bomb from the use button,
you will be allowed to select the square you wish to toss the bomb into. 
The marine need not be facing this square.  Point the mouse at the square
and click the mouse button.  From the keyboard, use the map cursor to
select the square, then press the "Z" key.  The throwing range is 3
squares.

Camouflage Suit (Enc 5 - MP 0)

A camouflage suit (also known as a "camo suit") will cause the marine to be
almost completely invisible when worn (except to seekers which use a form
of radar).  Marines will be harder for the enemy to detect when on dense
terrain like jungles and forest.  A suit is worn upon taking it. In
addition, due to its bulk, it is impossible to carry a camo suit without
actually wearing it.

Laser Pistol (Enc 1 - MP 3)

A laser pistol is the standard issue weapon of the FWSF.  It can inflict a
fair amount of damage to any opponent it hits.  A laser pistol is armed by
selecting it with the use button or the arm button (both will do the same
thing).  It consumes no movement points to arm the weapon.  The weapon is
fired according to the instructions in the Game Screen section of the
manual.  Firing the weapon takes 3 movement points.  Each discharge of the
weapon consumes 1 ammo round.

				26

Laser Rifle (Enc 2 - MP 3)

A laser rifle is a premium weapon.  It can inflict substantially more
damage than a laser pistol.  A laser rifle is armed by selecting it with
the use button or the arm button (both will do the same thing).  It
consumes no movement points to arm the weapon.  The weapon is fired
according to the instructions in the Game Screen section of the manual. 
Firing the weapon takes 3 movement points.  Each discharge of the weapon
consumes 2 ammo rounds.

Laser rifles can only be fired a maximum of five times per round.  After
that, they overheat and will not cool down enough to permit operation until
the next round.

Stun Pistol (Enc 1 - MP 3)

A stun pistol will stun any opponent it hits.  It inflicts little damage to
the opponent.  A stun pistol is armed by selecting it with the use button
or the arm button (both will do the same thing).  It consumes no movement
points to arm the weapon.  The weapon is fired according to the
instructions in the Game Screen section of the manual.  Firing the weapon
takes 3 movement points.  Each discharge of the weapon consumes 1 ammo
round.

Crack Unit (Enc 9 - MP 9)

A crack unit is a special device primarily designed for use by the
Infiltrator marines (although any marine class can use one).  In order to
use a crack unit, the marine must be standing on or next to a computer or
control panel.  If the crack is successful, it will deump all of the floor
plans for the current level from the opponent's computer system.

To operate a crack unit, select it from the use button.  A window will
appear if the crack was not successful.  Either way, the map window will
clear and display the entire 50x50 level represented by colored squares. 
If the crack was not successful, only the data gathered by the marines
movements will be displayed.  Otherwise, all wall squares will be
integrated with the data already gathered.  When finished viewing the map,
press the mouse button or any key on the keyboard.

				27

Detector (Enc 9 - MP 15)

A detector is a special device primarily designed for use by the
Infiltrator marines (although any marine class can use one).  a detector
will pick up opponents and proximity charges and relay their positions.

To operate a detector, select it from the use button.  A window will appear
if the detect was not successful.  If successful, the map window will clear
and display a 21 x 21 area surrounding the current marine.  The surrounding
terrain will be represented by colored squares.  The bright red squares
represent enemy units.  The bright yellow squares represent proximity
charges.  When finished viewing the map, press the mouse button or any key
on the keyboard.

Medikit (Enc 3 - MP 9)

A medikit is a small, non-reusable package used to heal wounds.  When
consumed, it has the effect of increasing the health and vitality of the
marine by up to 50%.  a medikit is used by selecting it with the use
button.

Ammo Pack (Enc 2 - MP 8)

Ammo packs contain 50 rounds of ammunition to be used with weapons.  An
ammo pack, when used, will release the rounds into the ammo clips built
into every marines uniform.  These rounds are actually power charges,
making them compatible with all weapons.  An ammo pack is used by selecting
it with the use button.

Proximity Charge (Enc 5 - MP 0)

A proximity charge is a small explosive canister that detonates when any
object moves into the same terrain square.  Proximity sharges have the
explosive power of a grenade.  The proximity charge will not be visible, if
placed onto dirt, grass, or high terrain squares.  Scouts have a 40% chance
of detecting hidden proximity charges (see the description of the scale
button in the Game Screen section for more information).

To use a proximity charge, simply drop it.  It will not be armed until the
marine moves off of the square.  To pick up a proximity charge, move to an
adjacent square and take the object as normal.

Foxhole Maker (Enc 7 - MP 20)

The foxhole maker is a portable, powered shovel that automatically forms
foxholes in grass or dirt.  To use the foxhole maker, select it with the
use button.

				28

Chronokleptic Tablet (Enc 1 - MP 1)

The chronokleptic tablet, if taken, will temporarily accelerate your
movement ability.  This means that in the following round after taking the
tablet, your marine will gain 15 movement points (although it consumes 15
movement points in the current round).  This is useful in the event you
require a marine to perform some task (such as moving into a combat area,
setting a proximity charge, and leaving) that requires more movement points
in a single round than normal.

The tablet can be taken by selecting it with the use button.

Rocket (Enc 3 - MP 5)

A rocket is basically a propelled grenade.  It has a range of 50 terrain
squares and the explosive power of a grenade.  The marine must be carrying
a rocket launcher in order to fire a rocket.  When fired, the rocket will
travel in the direction the marine is facing.  To fire a rocket, select one
with the use button.  A rocket will continue to travel even after leaving
the map window until it hits a target or the level boundaries.

Grenade (Enc 1 - MP 5)

Grenades are small palm-sized devices that, when thrown, will explode where
it lands.  Grenades are fairly powerful and can level light walls.  When
selecting the grenade with the use button, you will be allowed to select
the square into which you wish to toss the grenade.  The marine need not be
facing this square.  Point the mose at the square and click the mouse
button.  From the keyboard, use the map cursor to select the square, then
press the "Z" key.  The throwing range is 3 squares.

Remote Charge (Enc 5 - MP 10)

Remote charges are radio controlled explosive charges.  They will detonate
when one of your marines sends a coded destruct command.  Remote charges
are more powerful than grenades and will actually bring down heavy walls. 
The charges are armed by selecting them with the use button.  This will
drop the object in the square in which the marine is standing.  The charges
can be detonated at any time, from any level, by holding down the shift key
and clicking the mouse pointer on the arm button.  From the keyboard, hold
down the shift key and press "A".  All remote charges that have been armed
will respond to the destruct signal.  It is not possible to selectively
detonate armed charges.  Any marine can detonate a charge, not just the
marine that armed it.  You can disarm a charge by taking it.

				29

TERRAIN

Terrain Squares

Each square on the scenario map contains one terrain square.  The terrain
squares are described in this section.  Following the name of the terrain
is the number of movement points it takes to enter that terrain square. 
For example, the entry for table appears as "Table (5 mp)", meaning it
takes 5 movement points to enter a square with a table.

Heavy Walls (2mp)

Marines can walk on all heavy wall squares, but cannot cross from one side
of a wall to another.

Thin Walls (2mp)

Marines can walk on all thin wall squares, but cannot cross from one side
of a wall to another.

Shafts (5mp)

Shafts are transport tubes that carry marines from one level to another. 
You can pass through a shaft square without actually using the shaft.  In
order to change levels, you will need to select the shaft button when in a
shaft square (see the Game Screen section).  It is dangerous to stand in a
shaft square from one round to the next.  If an enemy decides to use the
shaft, the marine will be crushed by the shaft vehicle.  Conversely, you
can destroy any opponents standing on shaft squares by using the shaft from
another level.

Power Door (2mp)

Marines cannot pass through closed power doors.  A power door can be opened
with the open door button (see the Game Screen section).  Opening a power
door requires 10 movement points.

Steel Door (2mp)

Marines cannot pass through closed steel doors.  A steel door can be opened
with the open door button (see the Game Screen section).  Opening a steel
door requires 5 movement points.

Glass Door (2mp)

Marines cannot pass through closed glass doors.  A glass door can be opened
with the open door button (see the Game Screen section).  Opening a glass
door requires 3 movement points.

				30

Table (5mp)

Tables occupy a good portion of the terrain square.  You can, however,
stand in the same square.

Chair (4mp)

You can traverse squares with a chair.

Controls (5mp)

These are control panels that interface with alien computers.

Dresser (6mp)

Dressers occupy a good portion of the terrain square.  You can, however,
stand in the same square.

Bed (5mp)

Beds occupy a good portion of the terrain square.  You can, however, stand
in the same square.

Terminal (5mp)

These are terminals that interface with alien computers.  Crack units are
able to tap into these terminals to download data.

Machine (6mp)

These are some form of alien machine.  Their purpose is unknown to you.

Stun Field (8mp)

These are fields of energy.  When passing through a stun field, there is a
chance the marine will be stunned.

Transporter (6mp)

Transporter pads, if stepped on, will transport you to another area.

				31

Fuel Tank (0mp)

Fuel tanks contain highly explosive chemicals.  If they are hit with a
strong laser blast or grenade, they may explode.  Marines cannot enter a
square containing a fuel tank.

Computer (5mp)

Computers are alien machines and you cannot use or access them.  Crack
units can interface with these machines to download data.

Worker (6mp)

Workers are rather unobtrusive semi-human slaves that function in a
zombie-like state.  They cannot attack or defend.  You can stand in the
same square as a worker.

Lockers (6mp)

Lockers occupy a good portion of the terrain square.  You can, however,
stand in the same square.

Blank (1mp with gravshoes)

Blank squares are areas of empty space.  They usually exist between ships
in missions that take place aboard spaceships.  Blank squares cannot be
entered unless the marine is using gravshoes.

Metal Floor (3mp)

Metal floors are steel gratings.  The texture of the steel makes walking a
bit more effort.

Plain Floor (2mp)

Plain floors are usually found inside buildings.  They are made of a
concrete material.

Deep Water (1mp with gravshoes)

Marines cannot enter deep water squares unless they are using gravshoes.

Shallow Water (4mp)

Shallow water is water up to one meter deep.  Marines can traverse shallow
water.

				32

Dirt/Water (3mp)

These squares are a combination of dirt and shallow water, a shoreline.

Grade (5mp)

Grades are transitions from high terrain to normal terrain.  The steep
slope makes these hard to walk on.

High Terrain (3mp)

High terrain is elevated about 9 meters above the normal landscape.  It
provides those on it with a strategic advantage.  Accuracy in shooting will
be increased somewhat when firing from a high terrain position.

Dirt (2mp)

Dirt is firmly packed soil and is easy to traverse.

Grass (2mp)

Grass is easily traversable.

Foxhole (6mp)

Foxholes are small holes in the dirt that provide some cover.  Marines or
opponents in foxholes will have a defensive advantage, meaning it is harder
to hit someone in a foxhole.  In addition, damage from grenades and charges
will be lessened.

Light Vegetation (4mp)

Light vegetation is comprised of tall underbrush and bushes.  It can be
traversed.

Jungle (9mp)

Jungle is very thick vegetation.  It can be traversed, but is extremely
difficult.

				33

Forest (6mp)

Forests are tall trees and thick underbrush.  It can be traversed, but with
some difficulty.

Entry/Exit (3mp)

Entry and exit squares are the means by which to enter and leave the
scenario.  Marines will enter, one at a time, from the entry square.  To
exit a marine, leave him on the exit square when selecting the next marine
or next round button.  There is only one entry and one exit square in a
scenario.

Occupation (2mp)

Occupation squares are strategic locations in a mission.  The victory
conditions may require your marines to hold or occupy a certain number of
these squares.  Holding an occupation square means simply to stand on it.

				34

THE SCENARIO BUILDER

Running The Builder Program

Breach 2 includes a scenario builder that allows you to modify other
scenarios or create your own.  See the Getting Started section for
information on how to run the builder program on your computer.

The Builder Screen

The builder screen consists of three windows.  Upon running the program,
only two of these windows will appear at first.  The window in the upper
right contains terrain squares.  This is referred to as the "Palette
window".  The window below that is the "Info window" and contains
information on the scenario map and the currently selected terrain square. 
The third window is the map window.  It does not appear until you open a
scenario for editing.  A bar above the map window will display the name of
the scenario when one is open.

Starting a New Scenario (F1)

The F1 function key will begin a new scenario (provided one is not already
open).  The map window will appear and the terrain for all levels will
default to a plain floor.

Opening an Existing Scenario (F2)

The F2 function key will open an existing scenario for editing.  A window
will appear displaying names of existing scenarios.  The window is large
enough to display up to 5 names at a time.  If the disk contains more than
5 scenarios, you can click on the up and down arrow keys (keyboard players
can press the "PgUp" and "PgDn" keys) to scroll the list. Select the
scenario you want to edit by clicking on its name (keyboard users can use
the up and down arrow keys).  To open the scenario, click on the window's
use button (or hold down the "Alt" key and press the "U" key).  To cancel,
press the cancel button (or hold down the "Alt" key and the "C" key).  To
open scenarios on another disk, see page 41 under "Accessing Additional
Scenario Disks".

Saving a Scenario (F3)

You can save the currently open scenario to the disk by pressing the F3
function key.  This will not close the scenario, allowing you to continue
editing.  To save the scenario to another disk, see page 41 under
"Accessing Additional Scenario Disks".

				35

Closing a Scenario (F4)

Pressing the F4 function key will close the currently open scenario.  If
you have made any changes since it was last saved, you will have the option
to save these changes.

Quitting the Scenario Builder (F5)

Pressing F5 will quit the builder program.  If a scenario is open and
changes have not been saved, you will have the option ot save the changes.

The Cursors (F6)

If you have a mouse you can skip this paragraph.  Pressing the F6 function
key will display cursors on the map and palette windows.  These cursors
appear automatically if you do not have a mouse.  The cursor on the map
window is moved using the four arrow keys.  The cursor on the palette
window is moved by using the I, J, K, and M keys for Up, Left, Right, and
Down respectively.

The Map Grid (F7)

Pressing the F7 function key will draw grid lines in the map window
(assuming there is a scenario open).  This will make it easier to place the
terrain squares in the proper location.  Pressing this key again will turn
off the grid.

The Palette Window

The palette window displays all the terrain, object, and opponents that can
be placed on the map.  The "[" and "]" keys will change the palette.  The
"[" will move up the list and the "]" will move down the list.  The palette
types are Walls and Doors, Interior, Exterior, Objects, and Opponents.  you
can select a palette square with the mouse by pointing to it and pressing
the mouse button.  Keyboard players select a palette square by moving the
palette cursor to the square and pressing the middle key in the keypad (the
"5" key).  The selected square will appear in the info window.

The Map Window

This is the window where you build the scenario maps.  The map window
displays a 9x9 section of the map at one time.  The infor window will show
you the current level being displayed and the (x,y) coordinate of the
center square.  The map window can scroll around the entire 50x50 area of a
scenario level by using two sets of keys.  The first set scrolls the map
one square at a time.  This is accomplished by holding down the shift key
and pressing the arrow key in the direction you want to scroll.  The other
set of keys moves the map 8 squares at a time.  These keys are "Home",
"End", "PgUp", and "PgDn" to move Left, Right, Up, and Down respectively. 
You can change the level being displayed by using the "+" and "-" keys.

				36

The following commands can be done within the map window:

Placing a Palette Square - The currently selected palette square can be
placed on the map by pointing to the map square and pressing the mouse
button.  Keyboard players can move the map cursor to the square and press
the "Z" key.  Note that there are certain restrictions on placement.  For
instance, a deep water square cannot be placed on a map square that has an
opponent or object since it cannot be traversed.  For details on these
restrictions, see the Terrain section.

Special consideration must be made to removing objects and opponents that
you have placed in error.  The "Blank" squares located on the object and
opponent palettes work to erase opponents and objects.  If placed on the
map, they will not affect the actual terrain but will instead remove the
object or opponent.

Adding Text to Map Squares - Map squares can contain a line of text that
will appear when a player marine walks over it for the first time.  Text
can be added to the square by holding down the "Alt" key and clicking the
mouse on the square.  Keyboard players can hold down the "Alt" key and
press the "Z" key after selecting the square with the map cursor.  There is
a limit of 20 squares per scenario that can have text.

Adding Text to Objects - Objects can contain a line of text that will
appear when a player marine takes the object for the first time.  Text can
be added to the object by holding down the "Shift" key and clicking the
mouse on the object.  Keyboard players can hold down the "Shift" key and
press the "Z" key after selecting the object with the map cursor.

A window will appear showing the destination X, Y, and Level.  You can
select the coordinate you want to change by clicking on it with the mouse
pointer.  Keyboard players can use the tab key to move from one to another.
 The backspace key will erase any numbers in the box, allowing you to type
new ones.  When finished, click on the Ok button to save or the Cancel
button to cancel.  Keyboard users should hold down the "Alt" key and type
either "O" for Ok or "C" for cancel.

				37

Modifying an Opponent - Opponent characteristics can be modified from the
defaults set when the opponent is first placed on the map.  Opponents are
modified by holding down the "Shift" key and clicking the mouse on the
opponent.  Keyboard players can hold down the "Shift" key and press the
middle key on the keypad (the "5" key) after selecting the opponent with
the map cursor.

A window will appear with all of the current stats on the opponent.  You
can click the mouse on any of the boxes containing numbers to edit the
information.  Keyboard users can use the "Tab" key to move from one box to
the next.

The health check boxes and the check box for psionic ability can be changed
by clicking the mouse pointer in the box.  Keyboard players can hold down
the "Alt" key and press the key corresponding to the first letter appearing
to the right of the box.  For instance, to change the health status to goo,
hold down the "Alt" key and press "G".  When finished, click on the Ok
button.  Keyboard users should hold down the "Alt" key and press "O".

Special Note:  Setting a Marauder's bonus moves to the maximum will allow
him to use a camo suit.  Setting an Alien or Marauder's encumbrance level
higher will allow them to use maore rockets and grenades.

Naming a Scenario ("N")

Pressing the "N" key will display a window allowing you to name the
scenario and set the difficulty level.  You can click the mouse pointer in
a check box to set the difficulty.  Keyboard users can hold down the "Alt"
key and press the key corresponding to the first letter appearing to the
right of the box.  For instance, to set the difficulty to medium, hold down
the "Alt" key and press "M".  You can click the mouse pointer in the check
box to set the difficulty.  The edit box on the screen allows you to enter
the name for the scenario.

When finished, click on the Ok button to save or the Cancel button to
cancel.  Keyboard users should hold down the "Alt" key and type either "O"
for Ok or "C" for cancel.

Setting the Victory Conditions ("V")

Pressing the "V" key will display the victory conditions window.  You can
click the mouse pointer in the check box to set the conditions.  Keyboad
users can hold down the "Alt" key and press the key corresponding to the
first letter appearing to the right of the box.  For instance, to set the
"Exit Combat Zone" condition, hold down the "Alt" key and press "E".  Note
that you cannot select both "Destroy DataPacks" and "Capture DataPacks"
since this would not make sense.  For the same reason, you cannot select
both "Hold n Occupation Squares" and "Exit Combat Zone".

				38

There are several "text boxes" on the screen for entering numbers such as
the time limit.  These numbers can be changed by clicking the mouse pointer
on them (or using the "Tab" key) and then entering the number.  If a number
already exists in the box, you can use the backspace key to delete the
numbers.

When finished, click on the Ok button to save or the Cancel button to
cancel.  Keyboard users should hold down the "Alt" key and type either "O"
for Ok or "C" for cancel.

Filling a Level ("L")

You can fill an entire level with the selected terrain square by pressing
the "L" key.  You will not be allowed to fill with object, opponents,
shafts, transporters, or entry/exit squares.

Filling the Screen ("S")

You can fill the entire screen with the selected terrain square by pressing
the "S" key.  You will not be allowed to fill with object, opponents,
shafts, transporters, or entry/exit squares.

Viewing the Entire Map ("W")

Pressing the "W" key will cause the entire 50x50 level to be displayed in
the map window.  Each square is represented by a colored block to
differentiate the terrain types.  Once the level is displayed, you can use
the mouse pointer to restore the window to normal, but at a different
location.  For instance, if you click the mouse pointer in the lower left
portion of the level, the map will return to normal.  You cannot move to
another portion of the level from the widee angel view without a mouse.

Creating Marines ("R")

Pressing the "R" key will display a window for creating new marines.  You
can click the mouse pointer in a check box to set the class of the marine. 
Keyboard users can hold down the "Alt" key and press the key corresponding
to the firs letter appearing to the right of the box.  For instance, to set
the marine's class to "Infiltrator", hold down the "Alt" key and press "I".
The edit box on the screen allows you to enter the name for the marine.

When finished, click on the Ok button to save or the Cancel button to
cancel.  Keyboard users should hold down the "Alt" key and type either "O"
for Ok or "C" for cancel.

				39

Modifying Marines ("F")

Pressing the "F" key will display a list of the marines created so far. 
The window is large enough to display up to 5 names at a time.  If the
scenario contains more than 5 marines, you can click on the up and down
arrow keys (keyboard players can press the "PgUp" and "PgDn" keys) to
scroll the list.  Select the marine you want to modify by clicking on his
name (keyboard users can use the up and down arrow keys).

There are three ways to modify a marine:

Delete - Click on the delete button (or hold down the "Alt" key and press
"D") to delete the selected marine from the scenario.

Outfit - Click on the outfit button (or hold down the "Alt" key and press
"O") to outfit a marine.  This means you can select objects you want the
marine to be carrying into the scenario.  A window will appear with a list
of all of the objects and the quantity the marine is carrying.  You select
the quantity to change by clicking on it with the mouse pointer (or using
the "Tab" key).  At the top of the screen are displays showing the number
of free objects (there is a limit of 60 per scenario), the maximum
encumbrance of the marine, and the current encumbrance of the marine.  You
cannot exceed the maximum encumbrance for the marine, give him more than 15
objects, or exceed the 60 object limit for the scenario.  When finished,
click on the Ok button (or hold down the "Alt" key and press "O").

Examine - Click on the examine button (or hold down the "Alt" key and press
"E") to examine and edit the marine stats.  You can click the mouse on any
of the boxes containing numbers to edit the information.  Keyboard users
can use the "Tab" key to move from one box to the next.  When finished,
click on the Ok button (or hold down the "Alt" key and press "O").

When finished, click on the Done button.  Keyboard users should hold down
the "Alt" key and type "D".

Editing The Briefing ("B")

Pressing the "B" key will display the briefing window.  You can type in or
edit a briefing for the scenario.  The briefing usually contains the
background on the mission, plus an overview of the mission objective and
possibley some hints.

				40

Chaining Scenarios ("C")

Pressing the "C" key will display a window allowing you to select a
scenario to chain to once the currently open scenario is completed.  The
window is large enough to display up to 5 names at a time.  If the disk
contains more than 5 scenarios, you can click on the up and down arrow keys
(keyboard players can press the "PgUp" and "PgDn" keys) to scroll the list.
 Select the scenario you want to chain to by clicking on its name (keyboard
users can use the up and down arrow keys).  To select the scenario, click
on the window's chain button (or hold down the "Alt" key and press the "C"
key).  To cancel, press the remove button (or hold down the "Alt" key and
press the "R" key).

Threading

You can "thread" objects, opponents, and terrain text by pressing the "O",
"P", and "X" keys respectively.  Threading means that the map window center
will shift each time you press a thread key, placing objects, opponents, or
terrain text at the center.  For instance, suppose you have placed 5
objects in the scenario.  Repeatedly pressing the "O" key will move the mpa
from one object to another allowing you to locate all of the objects.

Diplaying Totals ("T")

Pressing the "T" key will display the total number of objects, opponents,
and terrain text you have placed on the map.  Click on the Ok button (or
hold down the "Alt" key and press "O") when you are finished viewing the
totals.

Undo ("U")

Pressing the "U" key will remove the last terrain squares placed since the
last time you selected one from the palette.

Accessing Additional Scenario Disks (F9)

You can edit or create new scenarios on another disk by pressing the F9
function key.  This will allow you to remove the current disk and replace
it with a disk of your own for creating your own scenarios, or a scenario
disk from Omnitrend.  This really only applies if you are playing on floppy
disk.  If you are playing on a hard disk, you can still change to another
scenario disk on the floppy drive, however there is no need since hard
disks allow for so much storage.

				41

SCENARIO LIST

Grotto Gave Preserve
Difficulty Rating: Easy

Synopsis: A FW scientific shuttle has crashed in the Grotto Game preserve. 
We have located their position with the craft's emergency beacon.  rescue
the scientists on board and destroy all computer datapacks so they don't
fall into unfriendly hands.

Strategy:  You don't have a lot of time.  You must get to the crashed
shuttle and rescue the scientists before it sinks.  Follow the river to the
crash site.  Remember, your orders are to rescue and not to waste time
killing everything in sight.

River Crossing
Difficulty Rating: Easy

Synopsis: The UDP is on one side of the river and you are on the other. 
Some of your men have been equipped with our new Grav Shoes.  Most of the
enemies troops don't have this capability.  Eliminate at least 50% of the
enemy troops.

Strategy: Most of the UDP troops don't have grav shoes so use this to your
advantage.  Also remember that rockets can hit things past your field of
view.

Officer Rescue
Difficulty Rating: Medium

Synopsis: Rescue a captured FWSF tactical officer.

Strategy: Use your smoke grenades to confuse the enemy.

Water Landing
Difficulty Rating: Medium

Synopsis: You're being dropped off a short distance from shore, within
wading distance of the coast.  Locate the trails that go inland and occupy
two important junctions until FW forces arrive.

Strategy: You've been picked by enemy radar so some UDP troops will
probably be waiting for you.  Secure the area you'll be dropping into the
first round with your scouts so there won't be any surprises.

Enemy Listening Post
Difficulty Rating: Hard

Synopsis: You are ordered to attack a small UDP listening post in the
jungles of Kam.  Capture any datapacks you find.

Strategy: After capturing the datapacks try to use the UDP's transporter
facilities to get to your pickup point.

Hill 501 Assault
Difficulty Rating: Hard

Synopsis: You are to destroy all UDP datapacks that control their defense
positions on and around Hill 501.

Strategy: Most of the UDP troops are in foxholes.  Use explosives to weaken
those positions before using laser fire.

				42

UDP Troop Garrison
Difficulty Rating: Very Hard

Synopsis: We're transporting you right into the interior of a UDP Terror
Troop Garrison.  You only have 20 min. to eliminate 60% of the enemy,
rescue our undercover agent and transport back to your landing craft.

Strategy: Don't rush your squad leader into combat right away, wait a few
turns.  Use your scouts to soften the enemy up first.

Alien Encounter
Difficulty Rating: Very Hard

Synopsis: An unknown Alien race has kidnapped an engineering officer from
one of our Dagger class vessels.  Rescue the officer and retrieve any
computer datapacks that may shed some light on these strange alien beings.

Strategy: The aliens 3 level ship is easy to get lost in since all levels
are of similar design.  Keep track of where you're at and where you're
going.

Mazes of Doors
Difficulty Rating: Very Hard

Synopsis: We're sending you into an unknown multi-layered military
facility.  Retrieve datapacks and prisoners.

Strategy: Divide your squad into two teams so each team will be able to
check out the two landing areas.

Seeker and Destroy
Difficulty Rating: Very Hard

Synopsis: The UDP has developed a very lethal anti-personnel weapon called
the seeker.  Destroy the seeker production datapacks that run the factory's
computers.

Strategy: Good luck on this assignment, you'll need it.  The seekers are
tough to destroy and can go almost anywhere, and through anything.

Squad Leader Strategy and Tactics

1. Take your time.  In many of the scenarios (but not all) time isn't a big
factor.  Don't rush head on into situations where members of your squad
have low vitality.  Waste a turn here and there to bring vitality back up
to (or close to) 100%.

2.  At the beginning of any scenario make sure your landing (entrance) area
is secure.  Use the scouts in your squad (the ones with large amount of
movement points) to explore your landing grid.

3.  When your Squad Leader is just starting out and accuracy and extra
movement points are low, use him as a clean-up man to gain advancement and
experience.  Have another squad member weaken an opponent with a grenade or
a laser shot before going in for the kill.

4.  Use the crack unit as soon as possible.  It's hard to win when you
don't know where you're going.

5.  Conserve your explosives (grenades, remote charges, etc.) and try to
use your lasers when possible.

				43

QUICK REFERENCE

The following are summaries of the key commands you can use in Breach 2. 
This is provided for your use once you learn the basics of the game.  This
section covers only the main commands.  There are other key combinations
required for most of these main commands.  Refer to the specific section of
the manual dealing with these commands for more information.

The Assignment Screen

A		Access additional scenario disks
C		Create new Squad Leader
D		Delete selected Squad Leader
E		Examine selected Squad Leader
M		Make a new game
P		Play the selected game
Q		End the game
R		Remove the selected scenario
S		Stop the selected game
Tab		Change the selected window
UpArrow		Move the select bar up
DnArrow		Move the select bar down
PgUp		Scroll the scenario list up
PgDn		Scroll the scenario list down

The Game Screen

A		Arm Weapon/Detonate Remotes
B		Mission Briefing
D		Drop Object
K		Open Door
L		List Squad
N		Next Marine
O		Mission Orders
P		Trace Path
R		Next Round
S		Use Shaft
T		Take Object
U		Use Object
W		Change Scale
F1		Save Game
F6		Toggle map cursor
F7		Toggle grid
F8		Toggle sound

The Scenario Builder

B		Edit Briefing
C		Chain Scenario
F		Modify Marines
L		Fill Level
N		Name Scenario
O		Thread Object
P		Thread Opponent
R		Create Marine
S		Fill Screen
T		Display Totals
U		Undo
V		Victory Conditions
W		View Entire Map
X		Thread Text
-		Level Down
+ 		Level Up
[		Previous Palette
]		Next Palette
Home		Scroll Map 8 Squares Left
End		Scroll Map 8 Squares Right
PgUp		Scroll Map 8 Squares Up
PgDn		Scroll Map 8 Squares Down
Shift/Arrow	Scroll Map 1 Square in Direction of Arrow
F1		New scenario
F2		Open existing scenario
F3		Save scenario
F4		Close scenario
F5		Quit Scenario Builder
F6		Toggle cursors
F7		Toggle map grid
F9		Access additional scenario disks

				44
============================================================================
Breach 2 docs are brought to you by The Southern Star for M.A.A.D.