BREACH

Breach is not copy protected and we encourage you to backup your disk prior to 
play.  If you haven't done so already, now would probably be a good time!

Whenever the manual refers to "the mouse button", and your mouse has more than 
one button, use the lefthanded button.  Breach only uses the lefthanded button.

"Clicking" means "press the mouse button".  "Shiftclick" means "hold down one 
of the shift keys and press the mouse button at the same time".

The "current marine" referred to throughout the manual, is the marine who 
appears in the center of the Combat Window and whose statistics appear in the 
Marine Statistics Window.

Starting Breach

To play Breach, boot up the Breach Program disk and doubleclick the "BREACH" 
icon (Breach will come up automatically on the Macintosh).  When the program 
finishes loading, the Breach title screen will appear.  To continue, click the 
mouse or press any key on the keyboard.

Security Check

In order to play Breach, you must correctly complete a security check.  To 
complete the secuurity check, enter the word from this manual whose location is
given by the dialog box.  "Words" are any string of characters with a space or 
punctuation at either end.  Once you have entered the correct word, the program
will continue.

Starting a New Game

Select "New..." from the Scenario menu.  An item selector box will appear.  All
of the names that appear are scenario files.  These scenario files contain all 
the data for your combat squad, the opponents, and maps of the combat area.  
What you are going to create is a game file.  This is a combination of a 
scenario file and a squad leader file.  More on the squad leader file later.

Page 4

Once you have selected a scenario file, the scenario item selector box will be 
replaced by a squad leader selector box.  This is where you select the squad 
leader for your game.  A sample swquad leader "SMITH" is included with your 
game.  Later on, you'll probably want to create a squad leader of your own u
sing the Scenario Builder.

Now you have to name the game file in which your current game is going to be 
stored.  Once you have done this, the program will save the new game file to 
the disk and your game will start.

Important:  When a game file is created, it erases the squad leader file you 
have selected and incorporates it into the game file.  This ensures that the 
squad leader file can be used only by one scenario at a time.  The only ways to
recover the squad leader file are:  win the game in progress or delete the 
scenario with the "Delete..." menu entry.  Deleting a game file outside of the 
game will also erase the squad leader file which has been incorporated into it.

Order of Play

Player Phase  Each round begins with the player having the option to move all, 
some, or none of his marines.  You can move a marine until he runs out of 
movement points or you click the Next icon.

To enter the enemy combat phase, shift click the Next icon.  If all of your 
marines have used up their movement points for the roudn, the computer will 
automatically enter the Enemy phase.

Each Player Phase takes 30 seconds of game time.

Enemy Phase:  When the enemy attack phase begins, the marine statistics window 
will change its title to "Attacks" and the legend "Enemy Movement..." will 
appear.  Enemy troops appear in the combat window only when they are attacking 
your men.  At the end of the enemy phase, the player phase begins again.


Page 5

Movement Points

Each marine is given a certain quantity of movement points (mp).  All of the 
marine activities except for changing the view scale (more on that later) take 
up a certain number of points.  For example, moving onto a clear terrain square
costs 2 mp, while firing a gun takes 5 mp.  The combat activiites such as 
taking an object, firing the gun, moving, and using an object can all be mixed 
at your discretion during the same turn.

If you do not have sufficient mp for the activity you want to perform, the 
computer will inform you with an alert box.

If all of the movement points for the current marine have been exhausted, the 
program will automatically advance to the next marine in the squad.

Movement points for each marine are based on:  the marine's suit type, the 
vitality of the marine, and the marine's current encumbrance.

Deploying Your Squad

The marines in your squad always enter the scenario through the entry square.  
The entry square must be clear in order for your marines to enter.  If a marine
is unable to enter, the program will jump to the enemy combat phase.

You can continue moving a marine until he runs out of movement points, gets 
stunned, or you click the Next icon.  each time you click Next, the program 
will advance to the next marine in the squad who is in the combat zone, is not 
stunned, and has at least one movement point.

In addition, you can make any marine who is visible in the combat window the 
current marine by holding down the Alt. key and clicking the desire marine. 

Since marines carry only their guns and armor into a scenario, many scenarios 
provide a staging area where the marines pick up additional equipment which has
been placed near the entry square.

If detectors and crack units are available, use the whenever possible.  By 
saving time searching for your objects, you raise to odds of successfully 
completing your mission.


Page 6
 
Encumbrance

There are fifteen different types of objects which may be found in a scenario. 
Each of those objects has an encumbrance value.  Encumbrance is a measure of 
the object's bulk.  Obviously, the bulkier the type of object, the fewer of 
them the marine may carry.

Carrying a large number of encumbrance points has two disadvantages.  One, the 
weight reduces the number of available mp's per turn.  Two, marines carrying a 
large quantity of encumbrance points are more likely to be selected as a target
by enemy forces.  (M.A.A.D.)

Mission Briefing

The mission briefing is a short description of your combat mission.

Briefings usually include information as to the type and strength of enemy you 
will be fighting and hints as to the location of any mission objectives.

Victory Conditions

The victory conditions are:

Rescue prisoners  You must rescue all of the prisoners in the scenario if this 
is one of the victory conditions.

Capture data paks.  This works the same way as rescue prisoners.

Exit cobat zone:  All of the marines in your squad must find and use the exit 
square if this is one of the victory conditions.

Kill n% opponents:  At least n% of the opponents in the scenario must be killed 
if this is one of the victory conditions.

Scenario time limit:  All of the other victory conditions in the game must be 
satisfied before the time limit expires.  All scenarios have a time limit.

All of the victory conditions are nonexclusive, that is, more than one may be 
in effect for a given scenario.  Thus, in order to complete a scenario you may 
have to rescue prisoners and move all of the squad's marines through the exit 
square before the time limit expires.


Page 7

Mission Status

By using the Mission Status function, you can tell which victory conditions 
have been satisfied and which need more work.

The possible status displays are:

Victory Condition       Complete                   Incomplete
  
Rescue Prisoners        All prisoners Recovered    Not all prisoners recovered.
Capture Datapacks       All datapacks recovered    Not all datapacks recovered.
Kill n%  Opponents      Kill objective completed   More casualties needed.

Fighting the Enemy

If the enemy is using grenades and rockets, avoid clustering your marines.  Try
to keep at least one square between each one.  This way, you avoid having three
or four casualties from a single grenade blast.

Conversely, grenades and rockets are most effective against clusters of the 
enemy.  Unless you have a large quantity of grenades or rockets, it is wisest 
not to "waste" these weapons against single targets.

Battle robots are very dangerous opponents.  Two hits from their cannon are 
enough to destroy virtually any marine.  In addition, they move quickly and 
their armor is quite tough.  It is a good idea to use grenades against battle 
tanks before trying to destroy them with your marine's guns.

Improving Your Squad Leader

Your overall objective is to improve your squad leader.  You can do this by 
successfully completing scenarios.

The more active a squad leader is, the more likely he will see some kind of 
improvement at the end of a successful scenario.  Shooting accuracy is very 
important but cracking and detecting skills should be honed as well.

It is rumored that squad leaders who are excellent shots and have a passing 
knowledge of detecting and cracking are sent to a special advanced training 
school (STAR) which gives them the skills necessary to complete a STAR level 
scenario.



Page 8

Saving a Game in Progress

In order to save a game in progress, you must be at the beginning of the Player
Movement phase.  You may select menu entires, but clicking any of the icons or 
the combat window will prevent you from saving your game.  This is the only 
point at which you can save the game before quitting.

Closing a Game Without Saving

Select "Close" from the Scenario menu.  When the program asks you if you want 
to save the game, click No.

Quitting Breach

Use "Quit" from the Scenario menu to exit the program.  If you select this at 
the beginning of the Player Movement phase, you will be given the option of 
saving your progress before closing.  At any other point, the program will 
quit without saving.


Page 9

The Combat Window

The combat window is the largest window on the screen.  During the player 
combat phase, the current player marine will always appear in the cneter of the
combat window.  During the enemy combat phase, the current enemy marine will 
appear in the center of the combat window.

The Marine Statistics Window

The marine statistics window has several functions.  During the Enemy Cobat 
phase, information on enemy attacks are shown in the marine statistics window. 
During the Player combat phase, this window displays the battle statistics for 
the current player marine.  These statistics are:

Moves:  the number of moves left in the current marine's turn.

Vital:  the vitality of the current marine.  If the vitality drops below 30%, 
it will be displayed in red as a warning.

Enc:  the current encumbrance of the marine (NOT the maximum encumbrance).  
This figure will be displayed in green if it is greater than 0.  This serves as
a reminder that the marine is carrying an object.

Shoot:  the accuracy of the current marine's shooting.  If the marine is also a
psionic talent, this is a measure of his stun accuracy as well.

Detec:  the percentage chance the current marine has of successfully operating 
a detector.

Crack:  the percentage chance the current marine has of successfully operating 
a crack unit.

Ammo:  the current marine's ammunition supply in his gun.  This figure does not
include ammunition in ammo clips he may be carrying.  Ammo clips must be used 
in order for their ammo to be added into this figure.


Page 10

Countdown Timer

The countdown timer displays the amount of time remaining in the scenario.

Wideview Display

The wideview display is a 21 by 21 composit map of the terrain surrounding the 
current marine.  It can be displayed by clicking on the Change Scale icon.  
Information for this wideview is provided by other marines moving through the 
area, scouts using detectors, and infiltrators using crack units.  


Page 11

DROP OBJECT

Click this icon to drop an object

A dialog box will appear with a list of all the objects the current marine is 
carrying.  Note that the marine's gun and armor will not appear on this list as
they may not be removed.  If the marine is carrying more than five objects, the
space between the dialog box scrolling arrows will trun grey.  Click on the 
name of the object you want to drop and then click "OK".

There are several reasons you might want to drop something.  A very good reason
is that you no longer want to carry something because of its encumbrance 
penalty.  You might want to transfer an object from one marine to another.  In 
addition, the shield works only if you drop it.

A dropped object always lands directly underneath the current marine.  Only one
object may be in a square at a time.

It takes 1 movement point to drop an object.

USE SHAFT    

Click this icon whenever you are on a liftshaft/dropshaft that you want to use.

If the corresponding square above the liftshaft (or below the dropshaft) is 
blocked by another marine, the mouse pointer will change into a stop sign.  If 
the corresponding square is blocked by an opponent, the opponent will be killed
and your level will be changed.

It takes 5 movement points to use a shaft.

TAKE OBJECT

Click this icon to take an object.

You can take any object directly adjacent to or in the same square as the 
current marine.  The object must be visible; you cannot take an object directly
from another marine.

The mouse pointer will turn into a pointing hand.  Click this on the object you
wish to take.

Some objects have special messages written on them.  These messages appear 
whenever the object is taken.


Page 12

Whenever an object is taken, it increases the marine's total encumbrance.  
Encumbrance affects the number of movement points your marine will receive at 
the beginning of a turn.  Therefore, heavily laden marines will not move at 
their highest speed.

It takes 1 movement point to take an object.

USE OBJECT
jClick this icon to use an object.

A dialog box will appear with a list of all the objects the current marine is 
carrying.  If the marine is carrying more than five objects, the space between 
the dialog box scrolling arrows will turn grey.  Click on the name of the 
object you want to use and then click "OK".

All of the objects and their uses are detailed in the section "Objects and 
their uses."

The objects require varying amounts of movement points to use.  They are:

     Object      Movement Points
        
	grenade		5
	Demo Charge	5
	Stimulant		3
	Ammo			8
	MediKit		7
	Rocket		5
	Launcher		5
	Crack Unit	9
	Detector		15
	Shield		N/A 
	Grav Belt		10
	Prisoner		N/A
     Datapack		N/A		

Shield is activated by dropping it.

OPEN DOOR

Click this icon to open a door
adjacent to the current marine.

The mouse point will turn into a small key.  Place this key over the door you 
want to open and click the mouse.  If you have enough movement points, the door
will open.


Page 13

The doors require varying amounts of movement points to open.  Glas doors 
require 3, Steel doors require 5, and Power doors require 10.

FIRE GUN/PSIONIC STUN

Click this icon to fire the current marine's gun.

The gun will fire in the direction that the marine faces.  Each firing consumes
one round of ammo.

Whenever this icon is clicked and there is at least one round of ammo in the 
current marine's gun, a beam of energy will be emitted.  This beam will travel 
in a straight line away from the marine until it strikes: a wall, solid rock, a
shaft, a closed door, a fuel tank, an opponent, or one of your own men.

When a beam stops in a particular square, the computer determines whether or 
not the beam hit the target.  This is based on the current marine's accuracy 
percentage.  If the beam does hit the target, a "splash" of energy will appear 
on the target.  This holds true for the opponents as well.  If the beam hits an
opponent, the amount of health damage that the gun generates is subtracted from
the opponent's health, minus the amount of protection his armor provides.

				Suit			Gun
				Protection	        Damage
						  

Squad Leader			75%			40%
Marauder			5%			30%
Scout				55%			15%
Infiltrator			45%			15%
Psionic Talent			0% 1			15%
Enemy Marine			55%			30%
Alien				45%			15%
Beast				0% 2			15%
Overlord			55%			40%
Battle robot			75%			40%
Autogun				75%			40%

1:  Psionic talents carry a gun which is only effective against injured or 
    damaged opponents.
2:  Beasts'biting generates 45% damage.


Page 14

For example, an enemy marine (suit protection = 30%) is hit by a shot from your
squad leader (gun damage = 75%).  The result is that the enemy marine would 
lose 45% health (75%30%=45% loss).

The same holds true for your own marines.  Note that it is possible to shoot 
your own troops by mistake, so look before you fire.

Fuel tanks are useful to hit, as long as you aren't too close to them when they
explode.  Being in the midsts of a fuel tank explosion is the equivalent of 
standing on a demo charge when it goes off.  However, if you can position your 
marines correctly, this effect can be exploited with impressive results.  A 
word of warning:  fuel tanks will chain react.

Psionic Talent type marines execute psionic attacks by shift clicking the gun 
icon.  Enemies successfully stunned by a psionic talent will not be able to 
move or fire druing the next enemy attack phase.

Firing a gun requires 3 movement points.  A psionic attack requires 10 movement
points.

NEXT BUTTON

Click this button to switch current marines.  This will advance you to the next
marine in your squad or, if you have just moved the last marine in the squad, 
loop back to the squad leader.  Shift click the Next button to enter the enemy 
combat phase.

CHANGE SCALE BUTTON

Click this button to get a "wide angel" view of the surrounding terrain.  
Information for this wideview is provided by other marines moving through the 
area, scouts using detectors, and infiltrators using crack units.  
