BUBBA 'n' STIX Instructions
===========================


Please note: This text file was typed from a very low quality scan and the names in the "Welcome" section were only barely decipherable and are likely to contain errors. 


Virus Warning
-------------

This product is guaranteed by Core Design Ltd to be virus free. Core Design Ltd accept no responsibility for damage caused to this product through virus infection. To avoid the risk of infecting this product with a virus, please follow these simple instructions: -
1. Before loading the disks, make sure that they are write-protected. This prevents any virus writing itself to them.
2. Always switch your machine off for at least 30 seconds before loading the game. Failure to do so may result in virus contamination of the master disks.
3. Never put the disks through a virus killer as this will destroy the information on the.


Loading Instructions
--------------------

This Game requires an Amiga with at least 1 Meg of RAM.
1. Turn off your computer.
2. Plug a joystick into port 2.
3. Turn on the computer.
4. Insert the Amiga Kickstart disk if so prompted into the computer's internal drive. (Amiga 1000 only).
5. When the Workbench icon appears, insert disk 1 and follow the on screen instructions.


Loading Tips
------------

Should the title screen not appear within 45 seconds of turning on your machine, there may be a problem with your computer system. Check your computer connections and that the above instructions have been correctly carried out. If you are sure your computer is functioning correctly (i.e. other software loads successfully) and are still unable to load, then you may have a faulty disk.

Core Design Ltd will replace free of charge any disks that have manufacturing or duplication defects. When returning damaged products, please return DISKS ONLY directly to Core Design Ltd for immediate replacement.


Welcome
-------

Can BUBBA 'n' STIX avoid the cruel clutches of Waldo and consequently find their way home? - Or will they become permanent residents of Urtnurkle T. Poink's Theme Park and Zoo? Can they stop a fun-balloon animal invasion fleet from conquering the galaxy? Where is Zitt 'n' Zott's Magical Funhouse - and who are they anyway? And how can you smuggle wood through Spenollan customs?

The answers to these burning questions - and many more - are yours to discover when you join BUBBA 'n' STIX in their cosmically comical quest!


Joystick Controls
-----------------

If you'd like Bubba to walk left or right, then push the joystick in that direction. To make Bubba break into a run, from his casual walk, quickly release the joystick and push it back again in the same direction. If you want to make Bubba jump, you simply push the joystick up. To make Bubba crouch down, pull the joystick down.

To make Bubba throw Stix, press and hold down the joystick fire-button until Stix is thrown. To make Bubba swing Stix like a baseball bat, tap the fire-button. Stix can also be used like a pool cue; to do this, tap the fire-button while Bubba's in a crouch. To cause Bubba to use Stix on an object or part of the landscape, push Bubba against the object/langscape and press the fire-button.