		B U B B L E    G H O S T    ( A C C O L A D E )

	The crazy inventor Heinrich Von Schtinker is dead. Or so we thought
until the night watchman told us his fantastic tale of the haunting of Von
Schtinker's old castle. Yes it has been confirmed. Heinrichs' spirit
(a.k.a. Bubble Ghost) has been seen blowing a bubble throughout the macabre
halls of his ancestral home. Your job is to help Bubble Ghost move the
bubble through the 35 rooms of the castle, past all the mad inventions of
Von Schinker. Once the the little ghostie makes it through, the haunting 
will cease.

SETTING UP THE GAME

 [G]ame lets you play a one or two player game. During a two player game,
    play alternates after each bubble pop.

 [P]ractice lets you practice any level of the game. This is useful when a level
    is giving you trouble. You have six bubbles to practice with. To exit 
    press ESC. You can not practice Level 35.

 [D]emo gives a demonstration of the game.

 [H]all of Fame lets you review high scores. Click the left mouse button to
    exit.

KEYBOARD COMMANDS

  Ctrl-P: Pauses the game. Press CTRL to unpause.
  Esc: Returns you to the selection screen.

GHOSTLY MOVEMENT

	Bubble Ghost is indestructible. He can touch and cross over any 
object without injury. Unfortunately, the bubble is not so lucky. If it 
touches any object, it pops. Note: The ghost may touch the bubble without 
popping it. You start with 6 bubbles (% in your bubble pouch, plus the one 
you are blowing on), but you can get more (see EXTRA LIVES). The number of 
bubbles shown at the bottom of the screen indicates the number of bubbles 
in your bubble pouch.
	Use your mouse to move the ghost around the screen. To move the
ghost to another angle, click the mouse buttons. The left button rotates him
counter-clockwise, while the right button moves him clockwise. Rotate the
ghost to blow a bubble around corners and contraptions. To make the Bubble
Ghost blow, press the Spacebar.

MOVING THE BUBBLE

	To move a bubble, Bubble Ghost must blow on it. To blow, press the
Spacebar. The distance between the bubble and the ghost affects the strength
of the blowing action. The closer they are, the more the bubble moves. Don't
blow too long without letting Bubble Ghost breathe, or he'll turn red in the
face and you will lose point. In addition to blowing the bubble, Bubble 
Ghost must blow on objects in the castle to clear the way for the bubble
(see TRICKS & TECHNIQUES).

COMPLETING A LEVEL / EXTRA LIVES

	There are 35 rooms (levels). To complete a level, blow the bubble
across the screen to the exit. Some levels have more than one exit. These
`Secret passageways' let you skip levels and bypass some of Von Schtinkers'
inventions.

	You start with 6 lives (bubbles). If a bubble pops, you lose a life.
Extra lives are awarded after successfully completing the following levels:
5, 11, 17, 23 and 29.

SCORING POINTS

	Points are awarded after completing a level described below:

Effective breathing techniques:

 If you complete the level without turning Bubble Ghost red, you earn 1000 
points.

Time left on bonus counter: 

 At the bottom of the screen is a long horizontal bar that keeps getting 
shorter. This is the bonus Bar. The faster you get through the room, the 
higher your bonus. If you pop a bubble, the bonus counter does not reset for
the next bubble. It continues from where it was when the first bubble popped.

Discovering castle secrets:

 Bubble Ghost must blow on objects in the castle to clear the way for the 
bubble. Solving one of these puzzels earns you 5000 points.

TRICKS AND TECHNIQUES

 In addition to the secret passageways, there are other mysteries in the 
castle. Bubble Ghost must blow on certain objects to clear the way for the
bubble. We don't want to give it all away, but if the candle was making
things too hot for you, what would you do< You'll never get by unless you
discover their secret. There are other secrets, but...