       Full documentation to BUBBLEGUN
       Typed up by IGGY/HELLFIRE

LOADING

Simply switch on your Amiga and insert disc 1 in the internal floppy drive.
The game will then load.

The Game

You play the part of a crocodile, and your objective is to find your way
out of each level, eventually wining your freedom. The game contains 40
levels, and on completion of each level a password is obtained giving
access to the next level.

On each level, there is an exit gateway which is opened when you pick up the
exit key. The exit key will normally be well hidden, and the main problem is
finding it. Once you have the key you just need to walk to the exit to
complete a level. However, there is a time limit within you must do this,
and you also lose energy by coming into contact with the other creatures
inhabiting the level - if you lose all your energy, or run out of time, you
die and have to start the level again.

In addition to the exit key, there are other objects that can be picked up.
These are normally shown enclosed in a square, and as such can be easily
recognised. Below are some of the objects to be found on level 1.

E  = EXTRA ENERGY
-> = DOUBLE SPEED
T  = EXTRA TIME
I  = INVULNERABILITY

There are also chests on the level, which can be opened (by simply walking
over them) when you hold all three pieces of the key for that chest. This
reveals the contents of the chest. The chest and key pieces are colour coded
- to open the chest with the green lock requires you to be holding the three
pieces of the green key. Note that you can only hold three objects at one
time, and the three currently in your possession are shown at the top of the
screen.

It should also be noted that when you pick up the exit key, it disappears -
you do not carry it around with you - and the words "exit open" are displayed
at the top of the screen. When "exit open" is displayed, all you have to do
is walk to the centre of the exit gate to finish the level.

You will also find extra pellets for use in your gun - at the top right of
the screen the number of pellets you have is shown. As long as you have some
pellets, you can shoot bubbles at the other creatures - if you hit one, it
becomes temporarily encased in a bubble, and you must then pop the bubble by
jumping on it to kill the creature. Stand over the pellets and pull down to
pick them up.

Picking up pieces of fruit and gems (by walking over them) will give you
points. Every time you collect 500 points you gain an extra 10 seconds of
time.

CONTROLS

The game is controlled via a joystick as follows:
push left/right    :run left/right
push up            :jump
pull down          :pick up object (you must be standing over it)
press fire         :fire your bubble gun

keyboard: P (pause on/off), Q (quit when paused).

THE GRID
At the top of the screen the following is shown, from left to right:
Energy: when this runs out you die!
Exit open/shut: indicates whether or not you have found the exit key.
Score: Your score!
Objects held: up to three objects in your possession
Time: Time left
Pellets: number of bubble gum pellets for your gun.

SPECIAL FEATURES

Some levels contain doorways that will let you pass through to another
screen - these are normally indicated by a downward pointing arrow. To pass
through, stand in the centre of the doorway and pull down on the joystick.
You will also find pressure pads in the floor which activate barriers,
location transporters (stand in them and pull down) and spaces across which
you must build bridges (by collecting the bridge blocks and dropping them at
the indicated spot).

IGGY/HELLFIRE