INSTRUCTIONS FOR BUG-BASH!
==========================

TYPED BY EXECUTIONER OF PROPHECY!
---------------------------------

The time is early morning; the place a usually tidy black garden, well cared
for by the humans. But to your dismay you notice that your domain has become
very untidy overnight. As you look up you see swarms of insects and bugs 
flying about mindlessly; with no apparent intentions of helping you clear
up the mess. It would pear that the `Evil-Slug' has been up to his old
tricks again, and brain-washed the insects and bugs with a wicked spell.

It soon dawns of you that it is going to take several days rather than hours
to clean up and restore order in the garden. Quickly arming yourself with an
insecticide spray gun you begin your quest.

Good luck!

LOADING THE GAME:

AMIGA 500 OR 2000

1) Insert the disk marked BUG-BASH in drive "A"

2) Switch on the computer

3) The program will then automatically load and run.

AMIGA 1000

1) Insert the system disk.

2) When the work-bench disk appears on screen, insert the disk marked
BUG-BASH in drive "A"

3) The program will then automatically load and run.

CONTROLS:

Joystick port 2

UP:                 Take off and fly in all directions
DOWN:               Pick up an object when on the ground
LEFT/RIGHT:         Walk/fly left or right
FIRE-BUTTON:        Fire insecticide spray gun
MOUSE-BUTTON:       Press left  button to pause,
                    press again to resume

GAMEPLAY:

Your task is to clear up all the trash in the garden by placing it in the
trash can. When a piece of trash is picked up, it may be dropped by flying
directly above the trash-can. You will see and hear the falling piece of
trash.
You can only pick up one piece of rubbish at a time, and you cannot drop
fruits or other pick-ups into the trash can.
Keep clear of the menacing bugs or blast them with your spray-gun. You will
be awarded points for each insect destroyed.
You cannot shoot the caterpillars which eat away at the magic mushroom. This
is fair enough as they won't hurt you either.
However, given enough time, they will eat up all your energy supply.
Various other pick-ups may appear throughout the game. These may be worth
points or help you out of a tricky situation.
A full list of bonus pick-ups etc., can be viewed on the game introduction
screens after loading.
After tidying up each garden, and ridding it of bugs, you will be faced by a
large end-of-day guardian. It is up to you to work out the best strategy to
kill it or get past it.

STATUS AND SCORING:

At the bottom of the screen is the player's status bar. This shows from left
to right; The score, Time left and Energy level.

1) THE SCORE
This will increase when shooting insects, picking up fruits and dropping
trash into the trash can.

A larger score bonus may be given at the end of each day cleared.

2) THE TIME
This will decrease as the day progresses. You may be able to extend the time
left if you can find a clock.

It also gets darker as the day goes on.

3) ENERGY LEVEL
This will decrease when being hit etc.

It will increase if you shoot a magic mushroom or pick up a mini-mushroom.

GAME END:

The game ends for the following reasons:

1) You have lost all of your energy.

2) Time has run out.

3) You have completed the game by killing the "Evil-Slug"