Bump'n'Burn From Mindscape - Full Docs
Typed In By: Charon/GOD

The speed! The thrills! The spills! Glory goes to those who survive the ultimate racing experience - The Bump N Burn Championships!

Staged on the racetracks and roads of Toonia`s seven kingdoms, the event is a no-holds-barred rumble where the only rule is anything goes! Each of the kingdoms sends it's bravest driver to compete against the ruthless Count Chaos, reigning champion and winner of all previous Bump N Burn tournaments. He will stop at nothing to retain his unbeaten record.

Will you join the ranks of failed challengers or can you dethrone Count Chaos?
Speed to succeed!
VERSION DETAILS:

The standard version of Bump N Burn will run A500, A500+, A600, A1200 and A2000 Amiga's. 1 Megabyte of memory is required, if your Amiga has 1 Megabyte of CHIP memory (as found on 500+, 600 and 1200 machines), extra sound effects will loaded.

The Amiga 1200 enhanced version will only run on A1200 and A4000 machines. This is because of improved graphics that use more colours than a standard Amiga can display.
OPTIONS

To select. move joystick up or down to the required option. Then move left/right or press fire.
PLAYER MODE

Move left/right to select. Choose between 1 player full screen, 1 player split screen (with course map) and 2 player split screen for head to head racing!
SPEED MODE

Move left/right to select. Choose between Learner, Normal or Speed freak.
CHARACTER SELECTION

Move left and right to choose a character without going to the selection screen. Press fire to open the character journal. View each by moving the joystick and pressing fire. Be sure to choose carefully, as each character and vehicle has different characteristics.
GAME

Press fire to select and start the game. You will then be asked to choose an area of Toonia to race in. Simply move the selector over the desired area and press Fire. If you finish a race quickly, you may have to wait for the other drivers to complete the course before the race is over.
EXIT

Press fire to return to the hi-score table.
VEHICLE CONTROL

The vehicles are controlled using joysticks.

Left            -       Turn Left
Right           -       Turn Right
Push Forward    -       Fires a shot (if ammo collected and selected)
Pull Back       -       Activates Weapon
Fire Button     -       Accelerate
`P` Key         -       Pause
Esc             -       Return to main screen.

All Vehicles are equipped with Radar (visible on your control panel). This shows the position of other racers in front and behind your vehicle. Use the radar when planning attacks on following vehicles.
THE MAP

You may choose the order in which you tackle each area of Toonia. You must complete all areas to finish the game.
THE WAR TORN CITY

The home of Colonel Carnage, tanks trundle across the road and aircraft drop bombs overhead. Huge craters scar the landscape and barbed wire fences block the lanes. Above all, avoid the Mines!.
THE RACE TRACK

Built for speed, this is the domain of Mr. Fabulous. An ideal test-bed for vehicle handling, the track has vast banked curves filled with extra weaponry.
THE FROZEN FJORDS

Eric the Eskimo will feel at home here. Snowballs roll down the road, hopping penguins latch onto your car and patches of ice make the going very slippery indeed!.
THE FALLEN FOREST

Trees lie on the road and old cranes swing wildly out of control. The narrow bridges make river crossing perilous. The Buck Tooth Beaver Bros. should enjoy the advantage here.
THE HAUNTED GRAVEYARD

Frank N Steiner come from this part of Toonia. Apart from the various ghouls and spectres, players must avoid the pagan pumpkins and pools of gipper. Make sure you bring a pair of thick brown trousers.
CANDYWORLD

The coolest colour scheme in Toonia awaits visitors to Loretta Lamour's home town. Hairdryers blow you off course, fizzy bottle tops are fired from all angles and bouncy popcorn try to halt your progress.
THE VOLCANO

Home of the Dodgy Dino's, the Volcano is highly active. Watch out for flying fireballs spewed from the Volcano's fiery innards. Prehistoric birds will try to pick up the unwary racer and drop them off the mountain. Rickety bridges cross deep chasms, so don't fall off!
BONUS ITEMS

Star tokens are deposited on certain parts of the course. Drive over them to pick them up. Once collected, the star will change into a random weapon or other useful item. This is displayed on the control panel. Pull back on the joystick to activate the weapon. Push forward on the joystick to fire a shot (if shots are collected).
SHOT

Supplies 5 shots capable of knocking other drivers off the road. Each character has their own personalised shot weapon.

        BEAVER BROS.  (icon 1)      COLONEL CARNAGE (icon 2)
        DODGY DINO'S  (icon 3)      ERIC ESKIMO     (icon 4)
        MR. FABULOUS  (icon 5)      FRANK N STEINER (icon 6)
        LORETTA LAMOUR(icon 7)

Homing Shot

Similar to a normal shot in appearance, but tracks the nearest target with deadly accuracy.

        BEAVER BROS.  (icon 8)       COLONEL CARNAGE (icon 9)
        DODGY DINO'S  (icon 10)      ERIC ESKIMO     (icon 11)
        MR. FABULOUS  (icon 12)      FRANK N STEINER (icon 13)
        LORETTA LAMOUR(icon 14)

(ICON 15) OIL SLICK - Places a patch of oil on the road behind the vehicle. Any vehicle that runs over the oil will skid uncontrollably!

(ICON 16) MINES - A highly explosive weapon that is detonated by another vehicle running over it.

(ICON 17) INVULNERABILITY - Magical device that makes the vehicle impervious to attack for a short period.

(ICON 18) TURBO - Provides a temporary burst of acceleration.

(ICON 19) SMOKESCREEN - Hinders visibility behind the vehicle when activated.

(ICON 20) BUMP POWER - Allows the player to knock other drivers off the track.

(ICON 21) WALL - A solid wall is placed behind the player, slowing down any vehicle which hits it.

(ICON 22) SUPER JUMP - Allows the player to launch the vehicle into the air, avoiding any obstacles.

(ICON 23) INVISIBILITY - Makes the vehicle temporarily invisible. This is not the same as invulnerability!

(ICON 24) MONEY - Gives the player ten extra coins to spend at the shop.
THE SHOP

At the end of each race the players may visit Professor Fourstroke McChoke (ICON) in his vehicle upgrade emporium. Players may soup-up their vehicles in exchange for money collected during the race (ICON 25)

The areas in which you may upgrade you vehicles are as follows:
TYRES

Provides better grip, therefore minimising skids and improving overall handling.
ENGINE

Increases the top speed of your vehicle.
ACCELERATION

Increases the rate of acceleration.
EXTRA BUMP POWER

Improves car strength and therefore reduces bump damage.

Every time an upgrade is purchased the upgrade power bar is highlighted by one more section. Once the power bar is at maximum, no more upgrades if that kind may be purchased.
THE SCOREBOARD

At the end of each race the scoreboard will be displayed. Points are awarded according to final race position. After all the areas are completed, the contestant with the most points is declared Bump N Burn Champion.

WARNING! It is not known how Count Chaos will react if he is subjected to his first ever defeat.......
HINTS AND TIPS

   1. Use every devious, underhand and downright dodgy tactic that you can (remember, it's not cheating!!)
   2. Remember that shot weapons must be activated by pulling back on the joystick, then fired by pushing forward.
   3. If captured by Prehistoric Birds, Ghost, Penguins or UFO's, wiggle the joystick left and right to escape.
   4. If you fail to finish in the top four positions at the end of the race and have to use a credit to continue, one section will be knocked off all your upgrades.
   5. Beating the lap record earns extra cash!
   6. If you see any flags on the course, collect them!
   7. Make good use of the radar! It is extremely useful for stopping pursuing drivers.
   8. Get close to the car in front and slipstream past.
