		    Text file for Bureaucracy

     You have recieved an advert for the " POPULAR PARNOIA "
	 magazine with many fine articles.

		 ARE YOU A PARANOIA PERSON?
	 If you can answer these sixteen questions, you're a Paranoia
	 Person, and Popular Paranoia is for you!  If you can't answer
	 these questions, don't you think there are things you ought
	 to know?

      Every month, Popular Paranoia gives you something new to worry about!

 ()What chemical is the international health conspiacy using to destroy
   our valuable body fat?

 ()How many health fascists are there in the FDA?

 ()What do Ronald Wilson Reagan,Daniel Miguel Ortega,Dwight Eugene Gooden
   and Johnny Herman Carson have in common (and a menace because of it)?

 ()What device is being used to keep track of the whereabouts of the
   American citizens?

 ()Where is the centre of communist insurgency in the United States?

 ()The existence of which one of the fifty states of the union is a fiction
   invented by the Trilateral Commision for its own nefarious purposes?

 ()What left-leaning organization foiled the coup d'etat directly after the
   assassination of John F. Kennedy, leading to decades of crypto-communist
   government in America?

 ()What is the breeding ground for most major diseases?

 ()How do they learn so much about you?

 ()By what percentage do students who exchange digital watches with multiple
   partners increase their chances of contracting bubonic plague?

 ()What local government-subsidized programme poses the greatest threat
   to home privacy?

 ()What is Mexico unleashing on the United States for refusing to give them
   a major league baseball franchise?

 ()What secret FBI surveillance method is masquerading under the guise of
   public service?

 ()Who is their leader?

 ()What well-meaning legislation was actually a communist-inspired plot
   to destroy the American family?

 ()How are the dentists of America conspiring to destroy the minds of
   our children?

			REGULAR FEATURES INCLUDE:

    WHO'S OUT TO GET YOU?
      You're on the the hit list of everyone from food and drug
      manufacturers to the President of the United States. Learn to
      watch out for, and why.

    ENTERTAINMENT What you do on the weekend could kill you! Did you know
      that students who exchange digital watches with multiple partners
      increase their chances of contracting bubonic plague by 300%? find
      out how to protect yourself.

    FOOD You won't be surprised to learn that YOGURT is the breeding ground
      for most major diseases. we'll examine dented cans, unwashed bakery
      attendants, lima beans, lard, salad bars and a host of other
      potential hazards.

    SURVEILLANCE Government agencies use a veritable army of surveillance
      methods, many of them masquerading under the guise of public services.
      We'll tell you how TRAFFIC HELICOPTERS follow your daily activities,
      phone taps monitor your coversations, and cable tv threatens your
      home privacy.

    MEDICINE Your child's teeth are only inches away from his brain. But
      have you ever considered what happens each time the dentist gives
      him a shot of NOVOCAINE? We'll show you why it's wrong to trust
      doctors, medicines, hospitals, and anything else that tries to tamper
      with your body.

    YOUR HOME Learn the best protection devices, from automatic weapons
      to attack dogs. We'll also look into flammable upholstery, insect
      infestations, microwave ovens, dark corners, radon gas, bats in the
      attic, and rats in the sewage system.

    PERSONAL PROBLEMS So you suspect your friends don't like you? You
      think your mother is paying them off to spend time with you? ARE
      you convinced your fly is open? that you'll be rushed to the
      emergency ward wearing tattered underwear? that you'll commit a
      terrible faux pas in front of an important person? Well, it's
      probably true.


	      AND INFORMATIVE STORIES LIKE THESE EVERY MONTH:

    HOW DO THEY LEARN SO MUCH ABOUT YOU?
      When you find your GARBAGE cans overturned and the plastic bags
      ripped open, you probably think some dog or raccoon has been
      sniffing out a snack. Well, think again. Your garbage contains
      personal information ranging from your bank and utilities account
      numbers to your consumer preferences and private correspondence.
      We'll teach you how to keep your garbage safe from prying eyes,
      including a rundown of alarm systems and incineration methods.

    LETHAL CHEMICALS FROM A TO Z We ingest dozens of chemicals daily
      in our food, air, water, and personal products. Fluoride mottles
      our teeth, ASPARTAME destroys body fat, flourocarbons ravage the
      ozone layer. This handy tear-out guide will keep you on the alert.

    AMERICAN GOTHIC A terrifying tour of 50 states.  Are you aware that
	OHIO is the center of communist insurgency in the United States?
	Have you discovered that DELAWARE is a fiction invented by the
	Trilateral Commission for its own nefarious purposes? You will
	learn the facts you need to know to combat the powers seeking
	to overwelm you.

    THE NUMBERS GAME The number of letters in your name reveals more than
	you imagine. People with three letters in thier name bring good
	luck, since luck comes in three's. Those with six letters in their
	first, last, and middle names, such as Ronald Wilson Regan,Danial
	Miguel Ortega, Dwight Eugene Gooden, and Jonney Herman Carson, are
	a menace to all around them, since 666 is the number of the devil.
	Learn what your name reveals in this upcomming feature.


    ROOTING OUT QUEEN MUM An exclusive, behind-the-scenes look at their leader
	the fiendish QUEEN MUM.

    THE POWERFUL NFL A stunning expose of a powerful leftist organization.
	Did you know that an NFL game preempted the televised announcement
	of a coup d' etat directually after the Kennedy assassination?
	The coup was foiled, and decades of crypto-communists government
	ensued.

    INSECT WARFARE Mosquitos injected with encephalitis viris, KILLER BEES
	unleashed by vengeful Mexicanos, Black Widow eggs hidden in your
	junk mail. South American insectologist Jose Santa Fe reveals the
	secrets of insect warfare and tells you how to protect yourself.

    THEY'RE ON YOUR TRAIL AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINES are but one method banks
	use to track and control American citizens. They've made you dependant
	on them.  You can break free! Find out every thing you need to know
	about home safes,full cash purchases, printing your own checks, and
	more.

    GOODBYE, SONNY The GI BILL gave veterans the chance to go away to collage
	and buy their own homes, without a thought to the parents, left
	behind. Editor Harold Regan, examines the ultimate cost of this
	communist-inspired plot.

    HEALTH FASCISTS How many health fascists are there in the FDA? If you
	don't know, you should be reading Popular Paranoia.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
				HAPPITEC
		  "WE'LL BRING A SMILE TO YOUR COMPUTER"



	Occupant
	5 Hippo Vista
	Rhinocerous, New Jersey   81818


	Dear New Employee,

	Welcome to Happitec Corporation!  As you know, the Happitec motto
	is "We'll bring a smile to your computer."  We aim to make people
	happy, and that includes our employees here at Happitec.  You have
	already learned of the many benefits we offer you!  In turn, we
	expect you to make US happy by being a dedicated, responsible
	employee.

	How do you make Happitec happy? No problem!  We keep things rolling
	smoothly simply by following the rules and regulations set down by
	out founder and president, Leo J. Zereb.  And to make sure you learn
	every one of these rules and regulations, we're sending you to a
	special training seminar at Happitec International Headquarters in
	Paris France!

	That's right, you're going on a tow-week, all expences-paid trip to
	Paris, courtesy of Happitec.  you'll enjoy a six-day training
	seminar with experienced Happitec staff members.  Then you'll thrill
	to a full week of fun in the City of Lights!  And that's not all!
	You'll also get $75 spending money!  Does that put a great big
	Happpitec smile on your face, new employee?

	The $75 money order is in the mail to your new home.  To obtain your
	airline ticket, simply take this letter to your travel agency.	Then
	you're on your way to Paris!  Be sure to be on time for your flight.
	We've found that new employees who miss the training seminar usually
	arn't very happy at Happitec.

	See you at the office!

	Happily yours,


	Ollie Fassbaum
	Manager
	The Happitec Corporation




	       THE HAPPITEC CORPORATION, MAJOR OFFICES AROUND THE GLOBE
You convinced your fly is open? That you'll be rushed to the emergency ward 
wearing tattered underwear?
