                Burning Rubber (c) OCEAN Full Documentation       
                               
             Doc typed by Chronos of Hoodlum!



BURNING RUBBER....
Fast Fred here (seven times Burning Rubber World Champion), I'm
glad you could come along, now I'll tell you what it's all about...

  I've been running these little underground races for the past
five years and , take my word for it, those cops sure do get mad!
I guess you'd be waiting to join in this year huh??
Well ok, let me tell you how it started.



  I took over the running of my dad's "Fast Fred's Speed" shops. I'd
always enjoyed competing in the races and when daddy, bless his
wheel trims, went to that big old race track in the sky i knew to keep
his dream alive.



  What you have to do is quite simple, get yourself a car then come 
along to Fast Fred's (the 2nd) Speed Shop and get lots of fancy
'soup-ups' for your hot hatch, you know the kinda thing -Notros,
Super Chargers Etc... Then by using Fast Fred's race route mapping
system you can pick your rout along from the start to the finish
of the race



  Each race starts fromone of my world wide speed shops, so this
gives you the chance to spend any spare cash on repair work and
soup-ups



  So all you have to do now is wait for the white flag to fall and
burn some RUBBER!



LOADING:
--------
CBM AMIGA:

  Your game pack should contain four disks. These disks are labelled
as INTRO, MAIN, EURO and USA. To start playing insert INTRO disk
into drive 0 and switch your Amiga on. The game will load automatically.
At various times during the courseof play you will be asked to insert
a paricular disk. It will be referred to by name, so insert it in any
disk drive attached to your Amiga.




CONTROLS:
---------
The game may be controlled by Mouse, Joystick and Keyboard, or a 
combination as follows:

Automatic (Joystick control)

Joystick up      -Accelerate

Joystick Down    -Brake

Joystick Left    -Turn left

Joystick Right   -Turn right

Fire             -Nitro

Return           -Nitro


Manual (Joystick control)

Fire + up        -Gear Up

Fire + down      -Gear down

Joystick Up      -Accelerate

Joystick Down    -Brake

Joystick Left    -Turn left

Joystick Right   -Turn right

Return           -Nitro

Note: When trying to change gears using the joystick, it must first
be in a cental position before moving it up or down.


Automatic (Mouse)

Left mouse button   -Brake

Right mouse button  -Accelerate

Left                -Turn Left

Right               -Turn right

Return              -Nitro



Manual (Mouse & Joystick)

Left mouse button   -Brake

Right mouse button  -Accelerate

Left                -Turn Left

Right               -Turn right

Return              -Nitro

Joystick up         -Gear up

Joystick down       -Gear down


Manual (Keyboard & Mouse)

Keys 1-5            -Change Gear

Right Mouse Button  -Accelerate

Left Mouse Button   -Brake

Left (mouse)        -Turn left

Right (mouse)       -Turn Right

Return (Keyboard)   -Nitro


Additional keys:

ESC                 -Quit the game

P                   -Pause the game

Press any other key not mentioned above the view the map screen.


DIFFCULTY SELECTION:
--------------------

The game features there different difficulty settings. This setting
changes the amount of damage your car sustains on colliding with 
something, and also the leniency of the Police with regard to
speeding.



MUSIC SELECTOR (A1200 ONLY):
----------------------------

In the main screen you will a sound option. This will allow you to
choose between sound effects, Rock music or dannce music. The past
forward and rewind button on the stereo are used to change the music
type.



CAR SELECTION SCREEN:
---------------------

Use your mouse or joystick to position the arrow pointer. Click
on the <> Icons to cycle trough the cars and then click on OK to
make you selection.



FAST FRED'S SPEED SHOP:
-----------------------

Use your mouse or joystick to position the arrow pointer and highlist 
available items to purchase. Click on an item to bring up the item
sub menu, and you may purchase any highlighted item. If no items
are highlighted you already have them or you need more cash!

Click on CANCEL to ecit without buying an item (Or press ESC)

Click on BUY to purchase a highlighted item.

Click on EXIT to leave the shop.

The items listed below are available in 3 levels. With each level the
advantages gained from the item are increased.




MAP SCREEN:
-----------

The map screen in controllled by joystick only.
Move the joystick in the appropriate directory to select your route.
Press the fire button to move the arrow pointer around the map. You must
plot you route from the start point to the chequeured flag, and once
you have done this, the game will commence.

Each junction can only be crossed once. When you are at a junction 
and select a directory the computer will remember that direction for
your course map.
If you return to a junction and select another directory  then this
new route will be remembered and the old direction forgoten.



THE RACE:
---------

The car is steered depending on the control method you have selected.
The idea of the each race is to not only finish first, but to do
so with minimal damage to your car. This will allow you to save
your money for better equipement and then make the job of winning
easier. Your car suffers damage when you hit something. This
'something' can include trees, bushes, road signs, pedestrians and
even on coming cars. The faster you are going and the more robust 
the thing you hit is, the more damage your car will receive.
Oviously, hitting a car travelling towards you will be a lot worse 
than hitting a bush at the side of the side of the road.
So remember - only the stages will position you on the right.

NOTE: The difficulty setting affect the amount of damage you
      receive in any particular situation.
      
      
The other main thing you will find different in Burning Rubber is 
the use of fonctions. During the course selection you will have 
chosena route. When you come close to a junction a large arrow will
appear at the top of the screen indicating the direction you
chose. You will also see a number countdown givingyou the distance
to the junction.
When you need to turn left or right at a junction, slow down to
about 40mph and turn in the appropriate direction when you reach
the junction. Keep turning until you are right round and back
on the correct side of the road. With practice you can take
these junctions at speed, and even leave the braking until the
last minute.




A1200 VERSION ONLY:
-------------------
 
Above the normal display screen a 'rogues gallery' depicts position
of all the competitors in the race. The person closest to the left
hand side of the display is the leader, and if your picture is on the
right then you're certainly not winning.




COURSE INFORMATION:
-------------------

SCOTLAND: Few junctions, slight bend on roads, no weather conditons.


LONDON: Few junctions, slight bends on roads, night time conditions,
       poor visibility. High police activity.


AMSTERDAM: few junctions, average bends on road, no weather conditions.
          Light police activity.
          

PARIS: Few junctions, average bends on roads, storm conditons, poor
      visibility.          
      
       
GERMANY: Average junctions, average bends, blizzard conditions, low
        police activity.  
        

BARCELONA: Many junctions, sharp bends, obstructions on road, low 
          police activity


WASHINGTON: Average junctions, average bends, no weather conditons,
           High police activity.


NEW YORK: Average junctions, average bends, no weather conditions,
          High police activity, high pedestrian area.


RUSHMORE: Bad junctions, extremebends, sand storm conditons obstructions
         on road, average police activity.
         
         
LAS VEGAS: Average junctions, average bends, night time conditons
          average police activity, long course.
          
          
LOS ANGELES: Bad junctions, extreme bends, high police activity, 
            froggy (sic!) weather conditions, average police activity


FLORIDA: Bad junctions, extreme bends, extrme police activity,
        High pedestrian area.
        
        

BURNING RUBBER:
---------------

It's program code is copyright of OCAN software limited and may not
be reproduced, stored, hired or broadcast in any form whatsoever
without the written permission of OCEAN limited.

This software product has been carefully developed and manufactured
to the highest quality standarts. Please read the instructions for
loading, carefully.

This game has been tested and checked for viruses. Please do not use
any form of disk utility with any OCAN product as it may corrupt
the data and render the disk unsuable.

Game (c) 1993 Ocan Software limited. All Right Reserved!!


FULL DOCUMENTATION TYPE BY: ------> CHRONOS of HOODLUM

GAME CRACKED BY:------------------> THE BLACK CAT of HOODLUM

ORIGINAL SUPPLIED BY:-------------> T.F.B