Prison

Written by Paul Edwards.

On the body which says 'I talked' you will find a compu card when you search it. Next you will come across a body which says 'I pirated this game' search it to find a watch. Strap the watch to your wrist. Use the compu card to open the door which says 'keep out'

Next turn right and kick the droid repeatedly to kill it. Then search the nearby crate to find a code plug. Then insert the code plug into the entry port to open the doors.

In the next area turn right and search a bed to find a glittering gem then search the nearby wardrobe to find a garish tie. Then carry on further right, search in front of the machine which has three coloured wires to find a bomb. Pull the red wire to disarm it. Then search slightly to the right to find the high explosive. 

Now you have to go all the way back to the far left of the area (I think)and locate a room which has an exit which is blocked by debris. Anyway you can tell when you've got the right room by searching in front of the area where you think the exit is. Drop the explosive to clear the debris and run like hell.

Go north to find the stooge's hideaway, be nice to him as you will need his help a lot, trade the glittering gem with him in exchange for the vending token. Then wait outside Eddie's club till 21:00 when they open and use the garish tie to get inside. Go into the storeroom at the back of the club and pick up the wooden plank. Then find the gap which is just too wide too jump, which I think is to the north and right. Place the plank on the edge of the gap and if you time your jump perfectly you should be able to get across.

Use the vending token in the ticket machine to get your train ticket. Choose the inner city as your destination. Give the ticket to the robot guard and he will allow you to pass. In the inner city go straight to the arcade and search the furthest machine to find a fully loaded gun. Just hold down the fire button to fire it. 

Somewhere around here is the 1st part of the spaceship that you will need to escape Prison, it can be found by searching a dustbin which is in front of a gap in the wall which has a banner draped across it. You can tell when you're at the right place as you will come under constant attack from the aliens.In total there are 6 pieces to the ship, I got all the way to the end after missing this piece the first time round.

Then go into the jungle-like area and jump over some mines and lava to find a control plug. Go back the way you came to where there is a gap jump over this to enter the block building. Take the lift to the first floor and go right, use the code plug to get past the locked door. You should now find the 3rd code plug. Use this plug to open the locked door on the far left of the ground floor. You should have found the cigar and matches by now. 

Now quickly make your way back to the jungle area and hang around a bit. The stooge should eventually appear, when he does trade the cigar and matches with him in exchange for information. He should tell you to meet him outside the bank at 8:00. You have to move quite quickly to get there on time. When you meet up with him again swap your by now empty gun with him in exchange for the bank vault combination. Look in the vault to find a one credit coin.

The 2nd part of the spaceship can be found at the top of the builing in B block. You can gain access to this building by replacing the robot secretary's with the replacement one you found in the robo repair shop. Again you can tell when you're getting close because you will be besieged by enemies.

Then use the one credit coin you found in the bank to activate the teleporter. Go into the supplies building and take the fuel and mine detector. Also visit the security bulding you can pass straight through the door with bars on it and go into the backroom. If you now go as far right as possible and search you will find some hidden food to replenish your health.

Use the mine detector to clear the clusters of mines blocking your progress. You need to arm the detector before you drop it as close as possible to a mine cluster and then walk way. Enter the building, I think there may be a note about a broken lift here. There are two lifts here you want to take the one which can be found by going right then north.

On the upper floors you should find a welding torch fill this with the fuel but do not light it yet. Find a metal grate somewhere near the top of the building then light the welding torch and use it to cut away the grate cover, then climb inside.

Turn right and pull the lever to shut down the energy field blocking the door. Search the crate to find an identity glove. Pass the glove over the scanner to shut down another energy field. Unfortunately Zorf will now stun you and make you search for a servo unit he needs. To find this go through the teleporter next to him.

Firstly find a crowbar and use it to pry a wheel off a machine, drop the crowbar and take the wheel. Attach this wheel to a turning point on a pipe and use it to shut off the poison gas. Next there is a room which has 4 holes with electricity arcing across them. Your objective here is to trap the stooge. Shut down the electricity across one of the holes and allow the stooge to go inside then flick the switch to trap him. Do not let him out until he agrees to give you something useful, namely the servo drive.

Give the servo drive to Zorf and he will reward you with the 3rd part of the spaceship and the dongle software. Before you use this software go back through the door with the scanner do not forget to take the identity glove with you so you are not locked out. Then go left to find the 4th spaceship part. This is, however, very heavily defended and you may have to sacrifice one of your three lives in order to get it.

Then go back to Zorf's place and go through the teleporter and use the dongle software to activate the previously non-functioning teleporter. Pick up the heavy rock on your left and place it on the pressure pad to deactivate the force field. Then turn right to come across a room with 3 levers pull the 2nd and 3rd ones to safely pass. Pick up the heavy boot and go back the way you came but be sure to push the 2nd and 3rd levers back to their original postion or you will be electrocuted.

Use the heavy boot on another pressure pad to pass through a door. Search the broken droid to find a starter solenoid. Then search the far right of the same room to find some more food. Use the starter solenoid to repair the medical droid. Then pick up the white hot plasma and quickly give it to the droid. He will then ask you what you want him to create, choose the plague cure. Also don't forget to pick up the bronze tablet from here. 

Give the plague cure to the plague victim and you will get the 5th spaceship part. Carry on and search a table with newspapers on it to find a rusty old key. When you come to the bridge use the bronze tablet to pay your toll. Then use the rusty key to open the old door.

Next turn right to meet the trash king. If you get him 3 pieces of the right trash he will give you the 6th and final part of your ship and a teleport pass. You will find the first piece of trash in plain view if you keep going left. To find the 2nd you must pull a lever, you will then hear a thudding sound coming from the right. Go right to find the 2nd piece of rubbish which has just dropped out of a rubbish chute.

The 3rd piece of trash can be found in the furnace room. DO NOT pull the lever immediately before this room or I think you will incinerate the valuable trash. Once you have the last part of the ship and the teleport pass you can enter the teleporter which will take you straight to the launch bay. Pick up the travel brochure and enter the launch bay to complete the game.      