Pang


 CHEAT MODE:

 On the map screen quickly type 'WHAT A NICE CHEAT'.
 The screen will flash purple and you are now able to skip levels
 by moving the cursor anywhere on the map.

 TIPS

Theres a lot of levels to pang, 59 I think, so heres some tips for the
hard ones;

STAGE 2-5
Shoot away all the platform sections on this level, a brown and white
object will fall, so collect it for an extra life.

STAGE 3-9
The three balls in the top left enclosure can only be reached if you
shoot away the platform beneath them, but you can't do it with the
Vulcan missile.  If you do get one, get a bomb to split them so they
can fall down.

STAGE 4-12
Shoot all the platform sections for an extra life.  Work from the left
and the large ball on the right will remain trapped until you are
ready to destroy it.

STAGE 5-13
Go straight to the top right, just past the end of the top platform,
and blast at teh balls as they bounce off the end.  A couple may
escape, so go back to the left end and finish them off.  Shooting the
platform sections on this level will give you a shield.

STAGE 5-15
Go up the ladder and treat this as a normal level.  The first power up
is always a vulcan missile which is OK if you can finish the whole
level before any of the small balls manage to make their way under the
platform.  If you get stuck down there with them you will need a wire
at least, and a powerful wire at best.  Shooting all the platforms on
this level gives you a power wire.

STAGE 7-19
The ground is covereed in ice, making changes in direction a haphazard
affair.  Work from the centre to one side, destroying everything as
you go, then backward and repeat this pattern until the level is
clear.

STAGE 7-20
Clear the lower level before the upper.  Go to one side, and as the
large ball bounces back from the wall, go under it, split it into
smaller ones, and collect the power-ups.  Using these makes the rest
of the level easy.

STAGE 8-22
Take the balls one at a time, the other two will stay out of your way,
and soon you will be given a power wire, and a twin wire to clean up
with.

STAGE 9-26
Shoot all the platform sections for a power wire.

STAGE 9-27
You are in a hollow, so run left then right for a power-up, shoot some
more and another will drop just to your left.  Go up the ladder and
run off the end of the platform to pick up the power-up.  Now you are
out of the middle, stay out!

STAGE 10-28
The trapped ball(s) cannot be released if you have a Vulcan missile.
Shoot the third platform from the left as soon as possible, so that
the bonus pick-up drops all the way to the ground.

STAGE 10-29
Shoot the large ball when it is directly above the gap in the
platform, and the power-ups will fall directly onto you, which you
need to complete this level.

STAGE 11-31
The floor is uneven, making it impossible to collect some of the power-
ups, so don't count on them.  There are also some very bizarre bounces,
so look out.

STAGE 11-33
If you have the Vulcan missile you can't finish the level.  Go left, up
the ladder, go right of the end of the platform, and you are in a
position to do some damage to the two balls at the top right, go left and
up the next ladder, left and up the short ladder, run off the left-hand
side of this ladder and you can get the last ball to finish.

STAGE 12-35
When you have destroyed all the other balls, so there is one left, go up
the ladder at the left and walk over the last ball.  As you fall off the
right-hand side, go left and you will land on the platform below it.
From here you can finish.

STAGE 13-37
Go right and get the three small balls thet fall down to make life
easier.

STAGE 14-41
This level places one ball behind another to decieve you, so as you hit
one, the other just keeps coming.

STAGE 14-42
Very difficult level, but shooting all of the platforms gives a freeze.

STAGE 15-43
Half of this level is icy, shoot all of the platform sections for a
freeze.

STAGE 15-45
Shooting all the platforms gives a Vulcan missile.

You should now arrive at Easter Island, and get a Jeep ride into the
Pacific sunset.

End.