Project-X


 TIPS:

 Always select the Crux II battle ship. Although it's quite slow and
 has heavy inertia it packs a hard punch and starts off with enough
 weaponry to ensure your ship soon becomes able to deal with stronger
 enemies. Don't use Speed power-ups on the Crux II until you've nearly
 powered up your craft completely, otherwise the inertia is unbearable.
 Power up your Plasma as soon as possible - you can power it up to eight
 times. Once it's powered up five times it becomes very effective.
 Don't be tempted by the Laser or Magma weapons, they aren't as good for
 general blasting.
 Pack as many homing missiles on as you can, up to a maximum of four.
 These are effective when there's lots of enemies on screen.
 Power up the Build-Up weapon, and press [A]. This enables you to hold
 the fire button down and build up a massive laser, which is useful
 against end of level nasties (e.g. the nasty on level one can be
 destroyed with just one shot). Go back to autofire by pressing [A].
 Always play in Arcade mode if you want to progress further than level 2!
 Always keep your craft in the middle of the screen towards the left
 side. This way you will always be aware of things approaching you.
 Don't be greedy! there are more than enough power-ups available.
 When killed, your weapon strengths decrease by 25%, so if you collect
 two homing missiles you will be left with one.
 It pays to dodge some enemies rather than fight to destroy them all.

 It was alleged that upon reaching the first end of level baddie and
 flying through it's open jaws would transport you to a bonus stage
 from which you could gain some extra lives. Well unfortunately it's
 not true. This tip was printed by Amiga Action, whose purpose was
 to see how many other Amiga magazines would copy from their own.

 It's also been said that on level two, when you die, if you quickly
 fly down under the scenery you'll find yourself in an enemy free
 tunnel for the rest of the level. Well it's true that you might not
 encounter any enemies down there but you will find a few rockfalls,
 thus loosing some lives.

 The one trick that I can confirm however is when you reach the end
 of level two baddie, quickly fly into the top right corner of the
 screen and stay there. Now if you're powered up with homing missiles
 you can safely fire then at him until he dies. Obviously the more
 missiles you have the quicker he'll die. I don't know if you can
 perform this little trick in the special edition of the game.