Fantastic Dizzy

On the title screen, hold down 'L SHIFT', 'S', 'U', and 'B'.  You will
then be presented with a new menu called "Subgame Cheat Thing" where
you can pick from 6 subgames:

Puzzle Hole
Puzzle Swap
Bubble
Minecart
Archery
Zaks Tower

Once you exit the this menu the game will start.  
Press 'F10' to automatically gain 6 lives.


Solution:

INTRODUCTION
------------

This game,  being by  far the  biggest in  the  Dizzy  series  is
excellent.   There are  plenty of puzzles to sort out and it will
surely take  you months  to crack  without this excellent solve!!
There is not one set solution, although it is possible to write a
solution as  I have here because the puzzles are always the same.
You may  find better  orders in which to do the various 'jobs' in
the game,  and thus  save time,  but I  doubt it  because no this
solution has  a very  clever order  to it, and no journey is ever
wasted!!

Th problem  with writing  a solution  for this game is that it is
very difficult  to explain  directions where  there are countless
platforms and  ramps going off in all directions, all in the same
screen.   Because of  that, you  may have  problems following  my
exact directions.   Perhaps a better way for you to play the game
would be to learn the directions to various locations so that you
don't have  to rely  on mine  so much  - otherwise you may end up
getting rather lost I'm afraid!

I have  split the game into three parts. The first centres around
the tree-house  area of  the game,  by far  the biggest  and most
complex.   In this  section you  will stray  from the  tree house
once, I  think, and  this is  only to  get a much needed elevator
key.

Section two  covers the  town section  of the  game. The  town is
split into three streets, and is probably the second largest area
in the  game.   I do  stray from  the street  a  few  times,  but
everything I do at this stage of the game revolves around getting
these streets  done and  out the  way.  Most of the times I stray
from this  area is when I am going back to the tree house section
to drop things off, because this is my main storage point for the
many items you'll find in the game.

The final  section covers everything else in the game.  There are
several more  areas, and  you will visit them all more than twice
-   many more like ten times!  The reason that they're not all in
their own  sections is  because each  of these remaining areas of
the game  have very  few thing to do in them, so having a section
for each  one would  be pointless.  There is  a lot  of  crossing
between non-ajacent areas, by travelling through others, and this
means that  there are several points where you have to go through
either the tree house or the streets, even though the majority of
these areas are already complete.

To complete the game, you must collect 250 stars!  This is a very
difficult  task   because  there  are  so  many  that  you  could
accidently miss  some and  not notice.  Later on you realise that
you have  missed three  somewhere, and  that means  you've got to
search the  whole game  again to find these. I suggest that every
new area  you go  into, if you can, you search it when you enter,
then you  search it  again before  you leave.  Also, remember new
areas can  be reached  when you collect items, so these new areas
need to  be searched  too.   (For example,  when you  collect the
flippers you  can search  parts of the sea not reachable from the
bed itself, because you can then swim!!)

I have  talked about some of the stars in this solution, but many
I have  left out.   The ones I have mentioned are the usually the
ones I  can use  to help  me describe  the layout of the room, or
which  particular   platform  I  am  talking  about  (often  very
difficult, I might add!!).

One final  note before  I start  the solution:  This game is very
difficult, and  even with  this solution  it will  take you  over
three hours  to complete.   As  it is,  it's taken  me nearly six
hours to  type the  solution as  I play,  and I  am a pretty fast
typer.   What makes  it worse  is that  you can't  save, so don't
start playing  until you've  got a long time in which to complete
it in.

Okay, are you sittin' comfortable, then eyes down for....

Section One  -  The Tree House Befuddlement
-------------------------------------------

The beginning of the game finds you in your own cosy little house
high up  in the tree-tops of the Yolkfolk tree house.  This first
location requires little initiative at all really. Simply collect
the key, the stars, and the fruit if you want to, and use the key
on the door to allow passage outside.

Once outside,  your first  job is  to clear up the bottom of this
section by  doing a  few simple  chores which will help you later
on.   To do  that, first walk left and collect the plank of wood.
Now retrace  your steps,  past your house, and make your way down
to the  base of  the tree house by doubling back on yourself when
you get past the first spider so you walk out of the screen going
down.   In the  next screen,  fall down  again so you land on the
grass at the bottom.  From there, go right, under the spider, and
drop the  plank of  wood just before the spike-pit to make a nice
bridge over the hazard.

You should  now be able to cross the spikes, so do so and collect
the can  of weed-killer  as you  pass.   Carry on going right and
leave this  section so  you enter  a countryside  area where  you
begin on a big pile of rocks.  Here, make your way right, collect
the mushroom,  and go  over the  bridge to find the spanner.  Now
double back  on yourself and this time enter the mines by leaving
the left-most screen in this section in the bottom-most corner.

Once in the mines, head right and continue until you are standing
in front of a great machine.  Once there, drop the spanner to get
it started, then, go back left collecting the elevator key as you
go.  When you get back to the box again, jump up and right to get
back above  ground. From  here, jump up and left to get back onto
the rocks sticking in from the left of the screen, and climb them
to get back into the tree-house section again.

Once you  reach the  tree house section again, keep walking left,
go over  the spike-pit,  through the  elevator, and over to where
the next  elevator key  lies.   Unfortunately, we  have to  leave
something here  momentarily because we are already carrying three
things and  we need  to get that key.  It doesn't matter what you
leave, so  drop the  first thing  that comes to hand before using
the key  you just  picked up  on the elevator to your right. When
you get  to the  top, drop  off the  left of this elevator onto a
lower platform,  then drop off the lft of this ontop the grass at
the bottom. Now you can pick-up what you just left behind for the
key, before retracing your steps up the lift.

From there,  go right,  under the two spiders and to just left of
the, egg  eating plant.   There,  drop the  can of weed killer to
kill the  egg-eating plant!   Now  go back left, jump up onto the
higher platform, and go back to just outside your house.

This is  a good  place to  drop things because they will all stay
visible, so  drop all you have got in your inventory so far  (the
mushroom and the elevator key, hopefully), before continuing left
once again.   You should soon come to a dead-end around here, but
you should also find another elevator key, this time for Denzil's
elevator.

Once you  have that,  go back,  past your  house, under  the  two
spiders, past the killer weed, and take the lower of the paths so
you leave  the screen  with the rope in, at the bottom-right hand
corner.  As you go along here, look out for a door key.  When you
reach it, collect it, then go back the way you came to the screen
with the  rope in,  and this  time jump up and right to land on a
new platform.

On here, walk up the ramp, then jump up and left when you get the
opportunity, and  take the  next ramp,  this time out of the top-
left hand  corner of  the screen.   You should now be in a screen
with the  meeting house  just peeping in at the left, but instead
of going towards that, jump right to land on a new platform, then
head right collecting the key on the way.

When you  reach the  next screen,  one with  a lift in, drop your
elevator key on this, and take the ride up to the top. Now go off
left and use Denzil's front door key on the house you should come
across.   Cool!   Now you've  got access  to Denzil's Pad! Whilst
you're here,  you may  as well  collect the straw from the screen
left of Denzil's house, and take it into the house, to be dropped
on the  bench just left of the table with an iced up egg on! Also
whilst you're  in the house, collect the star and the food before
leaving the way you came.

In your  inventory you  should now  have just the key for Daisy's
house.  You may as well use that now, so go all the way back down
to the  screen with  the rope  in, then  go out  of there  at the
bottom-right to  where you  found Denzil's  key last  time.  This
time, however,  continue right, up the ramp, and to where there's
a ramp  leading up  and left, a star, and a spider.  When you get
there, jump  onto that  ramp and take it up into the next screen.
Now jump  right again  to get  onto  the  platform  with  another
spider, and  walk right along this until you're standing right in
front of Daisy's house.

Here, drop  your key to gain access, then go in.  Poor old Dizzy,
eh?   Ah well,  the best  thing he  can do is to collect the cage
from the  little table  by the big cabinet, the key on the floor,
and all  the stars  and fruit  too. When you've got all you need,
head outside  again, then  retrace your  steps  to  back  outside
Dizzy's house again.

When you  arrive, I'm afraid that there's a little bit of waiting
around to  do now  because you  must use  the cage  to catch  the
little purple fluffle that keeps running around round here. To do
that, wait  until it's  about to run past you, then drop the cage
on top  of it.   Good shot!  You should now have a caged fluffle!
When you have the captured creature, you may as well drop him for
now because  you can't give him to anyone yet!  You can also drop
Dozy's door key because his house will be the last one you visit.

So, now,  with nothing  in your inventory, head left and go under
the two  spiders again,  past the  killer weed, and jump onto the
platform with the rope on.  Now collect this rope and the star at
the top  of the  platform before  jumping across  onto  the  ramp
leading to  the top-right  of the  screen.   Walk a little way up
that, then  make the  jump left  like you  did last time when you
went to  Denzil's house  - you  should now  be back at the screen
with the  meeting place  towards the  left, and  this time  we're
gonna go into its open door.

Once inside,  collect the key from the left of the building, then
leave, and this time head left out of the screen.  Continue along
the ramp  into the  dip, then  back up  again, immediately  above
Dizzy's house.  When you reach the next screen, one with a lemon,
a star  and a  spider, jump  onto the small platform to the right
where the  spider menacingly  swings up and down!  Once on there,
drop the rope to swing across to the other side of the gap.  When
you reach the other side, go right, out of the screen at the top,
then jump left at your first opportunity to get onto the platform
with the spider.

From on  there, walk  left and  keep going  all the way until you
reach the  end of  the platform with nothing but a lone key. When
you reach  this point, collect the key then walk over the side to
land near  the edge of another platform. Take the ramp back up to
the top-right  and pass  the place  where you  swung on the rope,
going down  and eventually,  if you  take the right path past the
meeting place,  under the weed, and past the two spiders, all the
way back to your house again.

Your next exploration around the tree-house will involved meeting
Grandpa, so  you'll need  to take  the relevant elevator key (ie,
the one  for Grandpa's lift), the key to his house, and the magic
mushroom thingy.   When you have these three things, and to check
press the  [SHIFT] key  to pop-up  your inventory,  leave to  the
right and  take the  usual process  up to the meeting place. Once
there, go right and up the lift to Denzil's pad.

When you  reach this  building, continue  past it left, then jump
left when  you get  the chance  so you  land on the platform with
another spider  on. Now  continue left  and when  you  reach  the
platform where  you went left to get the door key, this time jump
right to land near yet another spider.  (This right jump may need
to be taken from the screen below in order to land on the desired
platform).   No go  under this spider, collecting the star on the
way, and  this time jump left just before you hit another spider,
so you land on a ramp leading to the top-left of the screen.

When you  get to the top of this you should immediately stop just
before a  spider with  a lift to the left of him.  Time your walk
under this  spider, then go up the lift by dropping your elevator
key on it.  At the top, go right and drop your door key on top of
Grand Dizzy's  front door  to gain access to his house.  However,
don't go  inside yet.   Instead,  continue right  and collect the
empty potion bottle at the end of the platform.  From there, fall
of this  platform, and  then  walk  left  when  you  hit  another
platform at the bottom.

Down there,  collect the  star plant as you go, the take the jump
up and  left   (just past  the spider)  so you retrace your steps
back to  Grand Dizzy's lift.  From there, go back to the top, and
this time  you may enter through the front door.  Once inside, go
talk to  Grand Dizzy  if you  like, then  walk to in front of the
cauldron  to  the  right,  and  drop  all  three  items  in  your
inventory.   You should now be blessed with a medicine potion, so
walk back  over to  Grand Dizzy again, and drop it by him to make
him better.   Now take the golden egg, together with all the food
and stars  in this  place, before  making your  way down the tree
house, all the way back to your house again.

When you  arrive, drop the egg and this time collect the Pogie in
the cage and the rope again.  Now go right, to the meeting place,
then on  to Denzil's  house.   From there, go left, make the jump
left again,  and continue  along until  you reach the place where
you made that right-hand jump from just out of the screen to land
by the  spider.   Make that jump again, go under the spider, then
continue up  the ramp  going right, and go under the next spider,
then under  another, until  you are  on a  platform in the screen
above Denzil's pad.

When you  get there, carry on going right, collecting the star on
the way,  and continue  until you  reach the  end of the platform
with another  elevator key  on it.   Collect  this, then make the
jump left  so you  go up  the ramp leading out of the screen top-
left.   You should  now arrive  at Dylan's  house. From here, use
your elevator  key on  the lift,  then, at the top, head left and
continue past  Dora's house.   When  you get  to the  edge of the
platform, drop  off, then  go left  for a tiny bit before jumping
right onto  the platform with the pear on.  Get to the far right-
hand edge of that then drop the rope to swing across to the other
side.

When you  land on  the other side, collect the door key that lies
there, then  fall off  the far right edge of that platform so you
land back  at the  bottom of Dylan's lift.  This time, head right
and use  the door  key on his house, and then enter when the door
is open.  Once inside go up to Dylan and talk to him. You'll find
that he wants to look after Pogie the Fluffle while Daisy's away,
so drop  the cage  on the  table by him, and Dylan will repay you
with a  pygmy cow!   Wowee!   Before you leave, collect this cow,
the fruit  and the  other star,  then head outside and go back up
the lift.   From  there go right and continue through two screens
or so  until you  rezch the  end of the platform.  Art this edge,
drop-off the side.
Once there,  drop off  this platform  too, this time to the left,
then go right a little and collect the 1 ton weight from the edge
of that  platform.  Now go back up the ramp and fall off the left
of that  platform, back to Dylan's house again.  From there, take
the lift up again, and then go right so you end up back where you
fell off  the first  time. However,  don't do that, instead, drop
the 1  ton weight  where you see the little hook at the bottom of
the platform above.

That should,  in turn,  weigh down that platform, allowing you to
get up.   But, don't do that yet!  Instead, make your way all the
way down  to Dizzy's house again. When you arrive you should have
the rope and the cow in your inventory, and two door keys and the
golden egg  outside your  house.  This time, drop the cow and the
rope and take the two keys.  When you have this, head all the way
back to  where you  dropped the  1 ton weight, and this time jump
onto the  weighed down  platform and walk all the way up the ramp
that goes out of the screen to the top-left.

When you reach the top, you should arrive at a screen with Dozy's
house to  the right and another spider.  Whilst you're here, jump
across to  Dozy's house  and  unlock  his  front  door  with  the
relevant key. There is no point going in yet, though, because you
don't have  the cymbals to wake Dozy yet!  When the door is open,
go back left, under the spider, and fall off that platform to the
left to land near Dora's house.  From there, unlock her door with
the last door key, and this time you must go in.

When you  get inside, there isn't much to do.  Simply collect all
the stars,  the food,  and also  Dora the Frog from on the table!
When you've  got it  all, go  back outside  and then jump off the
platform to  the left.  When you land, walk left, over the top of
G. Dizz's  lift, then jump off left again so you land all the way
back down at the bottom of the tree-house.  Oooch!  (If you don't
jump right  from the  edge, you may land on another platform, not
the bottom.  If this happens, jump left again so you DO reach the
bottom!)

When you  get to  the bottom,  walk right  a bit  until  you  are
standing in  front of  Prince Charming,  then drop  Dora the Frog
there.   He will  give her a big kiss and then she will be saved!
When that's  all over, go back up the lift to your right and make
your way  back home  again, making  sure you  DON'T  collect  the
cross-bow before you go.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
Congratulations, you have now completed the Tree house section of
the game.   Of  course you  will be going back here time and time
again throughout  the rest  of the  game, but  you have completed
nearly all  the chores  here, so  you won't  stay  for  any  long
periods any more!!
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Section 2  -  The Roads to Ruin
-------------------------------

Throughout all  the game  so far,  the storage area for items has
been outside  Dizzy's house.   Well,  since we  won't be going up
into the  tree house  very often  any more, a more sensible place
would be  at the  bottom of  the tree  house.  Because  of  that,
collect the  three items from outside Dizzy's house, then go back
down again, to where Prince Charming stood.  There, drop the egg,
but not  the other  two things  because these  are still  useful.
From now  on this  area will  be our  storage suite!! (Watch out,
though, don't  drop anything behind the trees otherwise you might
forget they're there!!)

When you have the cow and the rope, and the egg and the cross-bow
are near Price Charming, it's time to go on.  Your first location
is the town, so head left and out of the screen, into the Crystal
Falls area, making sure you collect the meat as you go.  When you
get into the new zone, go down the hill and drop the meat as soon
as you  get to  the level  ground at the bottom  -  that will get
rid of  that monster that tries to eat you.  Now, continue along,
collecting the bag of gold as you go, and stop when you reach the
falls.

Now then,  these falls  can be  hard, so  watch out.  In order to
cross them,  jump into  the middle just as the barrel gets to its
biggest size  as it  goes over  the lower  part of the falls.  As
soon as  you land  on the  barrel, immediately  jump off again to
land safely on the other side.  You may now like to get the extra
life by clicking on the scroll and doing the Wizard's puzzle.

When you've done that, make your way left through the rest of the
section and  you will  finally end  up on  the edge of town. Your
first job  is to  get rid  of the  bag of gold, so go through the
first door  you come  to, and  into Troll  Tunnel.  Once  inside,
approach the Troll, making sure you don't get too close. Now drop
the bag of gold.  Next, carry on through the tunnel, and when you
reach the  end and  get into Bridge street, head left and collect
the rum barrel from the edge of the pier.

When you  have the  barrel, go back through the troll tunnel, and
this time  take the  second door  you  come  across  down  Castle
Street.   When you  arrive at Dock Street, give the barrel of rum
to Blackbeard  the pirate  and he will leave.  This gives you the
chance to nip on board his ship.  Once on board, make your way to
the top,  above deck,  and carry  on right  until you  reach  the
boxes.

Stand on  top of  these boxes  and jump  right  to  land  on  the
platform, then jump back left to land on an even higher one.  Now
jump left  again to  get onto  the lower  of two platforms before
using the  rope to swing across onto another platform towards the
right of  the screen.   From  there, walk  right to get the star,
then jump  back left  onto the  next platform  up.  Now jump left
again to  arrive at the top-most platform - the one with the pear
on.  From there, jump left to collect the star, then use the rope
to swing across again, watching out for the annoying bird.

Now jump  up onto  the shorter  but higher platform above the one
you're on, before collecting the winch wheel. When you have that,
fall back  off the  platform to  the right before making your way
back off  the ship,  through the door, and back to Castle Street.
If you  now walk  right a  bit to where the umbrella is, you will
have come  to what we will turn into a temporary storage area for
this section.

Firstly, drop  all that  you're carrying  except the  rope,  then
collect the  umbrella too.   When  you have  those two things, go
back right and make your way to the main storage area  (by Prince
Charming).   There, drop  the rope and the umbrella, then collect
the cross-bow.   Now go back again, over the water fall, and back
to Castle Street.

From here,  we are  now going  to go  and play  the first  of the
arcade sections  in this game  -  'storming troll castle'.  To do
this we  need to  take the  winch wheel and the crossbow, so take
these, then  go through the first door again.  When you arrive at
the other  end of  the tunnel,  walk left and take the first door
you come across here too, collecting the crow-bar as you go. Once
at the  other end  of this  tunnel, go  left again,  and take the
first door   (one  in between two lamp-posts).  Finally, go right
and you  will eventually  come to  a portcullis  blocking a  huge
door.  Drop the winch wheel by the small black square to the left
of this and then enter.  The game will now begin.

The idea  of the  game is  quite obvious - move the target around
and use  the space-bar to fire arrows at the tiny trolls that pop
their heads  up in windows, behind the bushes, and in between the
ramparts.   The game  is very  easy and you should soon have won.
When you do, you will walk into the Troll Castle.

When you do get inside, jump onto the chairs and onto the various
platforms, exploring the whole area.  It's not a difficult place,
but quite difficult to explain.  Basically, go everywhere, making
sure you  check for  exits at the top of the screen by jumping up
when you're  in reach  of the  top.  There are plenty of stars to
collect and  a bit of food too.  The only item you need to get is
the D.I.Y.  rope bridge kit which is right at the top-left of the
castle.   To get  there, get  to the left hand wall, then jump up
and left  onto a  platform.  From here you should see a rat and a
spider with  a chair.   Simply  get onto  the chair, avoiding the
rat, then  jump onto  the platform  with the  bridge  kit  whilst
avoiding the spider.

When you  have got  everything, and you're are sure that you have
got EVERYTHING,  exit back out the way you came and get to Castle
Street again.   You  may now  leave the crossbow bow outside here
because it  is useless  now you  have stormed the castle, even if
you need to go inside again.  Now go all the way back the way you
came, back to the start of castle street where you left the cow.

When you  arrive, drop  the crowbar  and the  bridge kit and this
time collect  the cow.   It's  time to  go to market! To do this,
first of all it's the same as to go to the castle: take the first
door on the left, then, at the other side of the tunnel, the next
door to  your left.   After  this, in Dock Street, go all the way
left, past the door in between two lamp posts, and past the extra
life which  you can  take if you like.  All the way at the end of
the road  you should come across another door a couple of screens
before the  water.   Go into  this, through the tunnel, go right,
past a door, and to the market.

Once you  arrive,  you  should  see  the  stall  holder  standing
impatiently by his own little stall.  Walk up to him and drop the
cow and  you should  be blessed  with a  magic bean.    Now,  I'm
afraid, it's  all the  way back  to the  start of  Castle  street
AGAIN, back  the same  way that  you came!  When you arrive, take
the bridge  kit, keep the bean, and take them all the way back to
the main drop-off point by Prince Charming.  Then come back, over
the falls again, and collect the crow-bar.

When you  have the crow-bar, there should be nothing left at this
location.   Good!   Now walk  along left and take the second door
again.  When you get through the tunnel, walk right and enter the
ship. This  time you  will need  to explore  the vessel properly.
There are  two things to collect: the sticks of dynamite, and the
winch handle.   The  dynamite is right at the bottom-right corner
of the  ship, and  to collect the handle, go right from where you
enter the  ship, and  take the  first opportunity  to  drop  down
through the  ship.   Where you  land, you  should find the handle
stuck underneath a trapdoor.  To open it up, drop the crow bar.

When you  have both  of these  things, make sure you have got all
the stars, then make your way back above board and go right, past
where you  jumped up last time, and along the plank.  When you go
far enough  right, Black Beard himself will pop up behind you and
make you walk the plank!!

-----------------------------------------------------------------
Congratulations, you have now completed the Troll Town section of
the game.   Of  course you  will be going back here time and time
again throughout  the rest  of the  game, but  you have completed
nearly all  the chores  here, so  you won't  stay  for  any  long
periods any more!!
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Section 3  -  Creating a Cafuffle in Cloud Castle's Conundrums
--------------------------------------------------------------

Now follows  another arcade section along the lines of the antics
you played  in Bubble  Dizzy.   The idea is to use the bubbles to
get yourself  back to  the surface  of the  water. Make  sure you
collect all the stars as you go up, and don't panic if you miss a
bubble because  you have  plenty of time.  Try not to stay on one
bubble too long because otherwise it will pop, so it's probably a
good idea  to jump  onto another,  every time you get the chance.
When you  get near to the top, move towards the right, so you can
jump off  in that  direction when you reach the top.  If you make
the jump  successful you  should land on a little island near the
beach.  Good Luck!

At the  end of  this little  game, as  I've said,  you land  on a
little island.  Here you will find the aqualung and a star.  When
you've collected  both these things, jump off the island left and
then walk  out of the water left, onto a much bigger beach.  From
there, continue  walking left,  ignoring the pick-axe because you
don't have  enough room for it in your inventory!  Instead, carry
on left and in the end you will get back in the countryside area,
just right  of the Tree House section.  In this bit, just keep on
going left,  and make the jump over the hole that leads down into
the mines.   One  screen later  you should  reach the base of the
tree house.

Once there, continue left, past the lift, and to our main storage
area again   (by Prince Charming).  Your next exploration will be
down into  the mines,  so drop the winch handle and the aqualung,
and collect  the umbrella and the golden egg.  Keep the sticks of
dynamite.   Now go  back right, into the countryside section, and
into the hole in the ground that leads to them.

Once in  the mines,  go left  and take  the lift  that goes  down
(this has  been activated  by you  operating the machine with the
spanner back  at the start of the game).  Now go right, fall down
the gap  in the  floor, then  go right again.  When you reach the
next lift, go down this too, and then go left.  At the far end of
the tunnel,  skip the axe because you don't have room for it yet,
and fall through this gap too.

You should now be in the deepest and least charted tunnels of the
diamond mines.   Down  here there  is plenty  of flying  lava, so
watch out.   I  have told you to bring along the umbrella because
it is said that this protects you from this lava.  From where I'm
sitting, it  doesn't make  any difference,  so stay  on your toes
even if  you have  got it, and keep dodging the whole time. Carry
on right,  over several bridges, all the way to the other side of
the level.  This involves  going down one lift too.  When you get
there, dodge  the spider,  then take  the lift  up. Go  left past
another spider,  then drop  the sticks  of dynamite at the end of
the wire. Now stand over the plunger and push it down by pressing
[ENTER] or whatever your 'select' button is.  Now watch the rocks
fly!

When the  rock has  been broken up, get onto the box then jump up
and right.   Now  continue across, collecting the star as you go,
and get past the dragon and over to the Shamrock.  As soon as you
get this,  the dragon  starts breathing fire, so drop your golden
egg next  to the  one already  there, and  he will stop to return
your favour of returning it's egg.

When you  have the Shamrock, go back over the lava pits and then,
at the  far left  hand side, jump up and right to get up a level,
next to  the axe.   Now  collect this  before heading all the way
back, the  way you came, back to the base of the tree house where
Prince Charming is.

From there,  drop the umbrella and the Shamrock, but keep hold of
the axe.   Now  collect the  aqualung again  too, and  head  back
right, through  the countryside,  and onto the bridge there. Once
on top  of this  bridge, get yourself lined up with the star (ie,
on top  of it)   then  drop the axe to break open the bridge. You
should now  fall down,  collecting the  star as  you go. When you
land in the water, go right, avoiding the fish, collect the star,
then jump onto the platform with the cymbals on and collect these
too.  Finally, collect the star to the right, then go all the way
left and exit the water back into the mine again.

From there, take the cymbals and the aqualung back to the base of
the tree-house  again, where we've left all the goodies  (items).
Now drop  the aqualung and take the cymbals up the lift, and into
the tree-house  again.   Make your  way up  to the meeting place,
then up Denzil's lift, all the way to the left side of the level,
then double  back on  yourself to reach where you found the star-
plant for G. Dizz's potion.  Continue along there until you reach
the far  right-hand side  of  the  level,  then  double  back  on
yourself again to reach Dylan's house up the ramp.  Now go up his
lift, right,  onto the  platform that's  been weighed  down,  and
finally up to Dozy's abode again.

There, go  through the  door and  wake him  up  by  dropping  the
cymbals.   When he wakes, he should give you a thick rug.  Now go
all the  way back  to the  bottom of the level and drop this rug.
Next, collect  the shamrock  and the  aqualung. Take  these left,
through the  countryside area,  over the  newly hacked-up bridge,
taking care not to fall into the water, and onto the beach.  From
there, collect the pick-axe as you go, and enter the sea.

Once you've got your toes wet, walk along the sea bed, collecting
the stars  and stuff  as you  go.   Eventually you drop down into
even deeper  sea where  you should  first go  left to  collect  a
couple of stars, then go back right to the ship-wreck on the sea-
bed.

For now,  however, ignore  this wreck, and instead continue right
until you reach a dead end with just one star in it. Collect this
star, then  go back  and drop  the pick axe on the section of the
floor only  one rock thick.  If you do it in the right place, you
should see  a big  bubble come  up from  the hole. If Dizzy falls
down this  hole, don't be tempted to get the stars yet, and don't
get the coin as it is useless. Instead, just jump back out again.

Now, walk  left and  climb aboard the ship-wreck, making your way
to the  top where the treasure chest is. You can now collect this
because you  have had room for it since you dropped the pick axe.
Go back  and climb aboard one of the big green bubbles as they go
up.   When the  bubble is about to burst, jump off it right, then
make your way up the rocks onto the beach at the top.

Once on  the beach,  walk past the sand bag, and walk right up to
the cliff on the far right-hand side. Now drop the treasure chest
to make a platform to get up on. However, before you do go up, go
back left  and collect  the sand-bag.  Now stand on the chest and
jump up into another countryside area.

First of  all, collect  the star.  Now continue right and stop on
the left  side of  the broken bridge.  Now drop the sand bag, and
this will raise the log in the water. Magic, eh? Go back a little
bit, then  jump right  into the water.  When you land on the log,
jump back out the other side, then continue along, collecting the
match on the way.  When you reach Shamus the Leprechaun, drop the
Shamrock and  he will  run away with it, very happy with himself.
Now, I'm afraid, you must go all the way back the way you came to
the tree  house again.   You  know the  routine: through the sea,
onto the  beach, through  the country  side watching  out for the
broken bridge, and finally to where Prince Charming is.

This time,  go up  the lift again, and make your way first to the
meeting place,  then right to Denzil's lift, up this, and left to
his house.   When you arrive at the building go inside, then drop
the match  whilst standing in front of the straw.  When Denzil is
thawed through,  he'll give  you his  flippers as a present. Take
these back to the drop-off point too.

When you  arrive, take  the bridge kit together with the aqualung
and the  flippers, and  head all the way to first the beach, then
to the shipwreck at the bottom of the sea again. Once in the sea,
practice a  bit of  swimming. You  swim by pressing the direction
you want  to go,  together with up, continuously, but not holding
the keys  down.   When you  get quite good at it, swim around the
whole area  collecting the  many stars  hidden above  the sea-bed
screens near  the rocky  ceiling.   When you  have them all, swim
right until  you reach the rocks, then climb up them to reach the
right-hand beach once more.

Once on  the sand,  continue right,  over the chest, and into the
area with  Shamus in.   Continue right, jumping on the log in the
water, and jump over the little pit with Shamus in.  Now continue
right, past the snail, and into the next pit.  Here, play for the
extra life, then, when the game's over, leave the pit again, jump
across it  to the right, then leave this area by jumping right up
into the Graveyard section.

Continue right,  past all  the creatures  and the  spooky church.
When you reach an area with what looks like a pile of manure on a
very thin section of floor, jump onto the platform to the left of
this, and  drop the  bridge kit  near to  the right-hand edge. If
you're in the right place, you should now have a fine little rope
bridge to  get across  the gap.  Walk across  this  bridge,  then
collect the  skeleton key  on the  next platform  along. When you
have that,  continue right  and enter  Bridge street  in the town
again.   Make your  way through the doors and eventually get back
to the  start of  Castle Street  again.  There, go right, through
the country side, over the crystal falls, and back to the base of
the tree house again.

When you  arrive, make  your way  over to  the storage area, then
drop the  aqualung and the flippers.  Now collect the bean. Next,
go right again, and drop out of this section, and into the mines.
Now go  left, down  the lift,  right, through the hole, and left.
Soon you will reach a mine car.

This next  bit is the other arcade section of the game.  You will
be in  the mine car going along a load of mine tracks.  There are
other cars trying to get in you way, track dead-ends to kill you,
and dangerous rocks falling in from all sides.  The correct route
is marked out with stars, but you must be on your toes if you are
to get  to the end.  One general rule is:  turn if you can.  This
is not  correct all  the time, but it will usually work.  The aim
is to  reach the  final exit   (there  are 4 exits in all)  which
will take  you to  Bridge Street  in town.   If you hit any other
exits you will be taken to another areas of the game  (either the
beach, the  mine, or  one of  the countryside  ares).    If  this
happens, go  back in the door that you'll find there, and you can
give the mine-car ride another go.  Watch out near the end of the
track because  it gets  faster and  faster and this final section
can be  very hard.   Watch out for any stars missed along the way
as well, because you're gonna have to get these again later on.

When you  finally make it to the right exit, you will be standing
in a  little tunnel at the far left hand side of Bridge street in
town.   Make your way along here, collecting the spade as you go,
then get  the star  and get  past the  rat.   Now double  back on
yourself and  take the  steps up  and out of the left side of the
screen.

When you  arrive in  the graveyard,  continue along until you are
just under where you built the bridge earlier. Now drop the spade
and you  will be  taken down  into the  ground and  into a secret
cavern.  Collect the bucket from where you are standing then fill
it by  standing in  the pool  to your  right and dropping it in -
remember to  pick it up again once it's full!  Now get out of the
water and,  evading the  droplets from the ceiling, exchange your
bean for the trampet you'll find by going left a bit. Collect the
final two  stars in  the cave,  then go back and drop the trampet
where the  bucket was.   Now  go back and get the bean, then jump
back on  the trampet  to get  back to ground level again, back in
the graveyard.

When you're  back above  the surface, go left all the way through
the rest  of the  graveyard, and enter the countryside bit again.
Make your  way over  the two  pits and  to where there's a little
sign with  a picture of a bean on it.  Drop the bean just left of
here and it will grow into a lovely big beanstalk.  You must also
drop the  bucket of  water and  the skeleton  key near by because
you'll need these in a few minutes.

Now go  all the  way back  through the  graveyard,  along  bridge
street, to  the start  of church  street, over the crystal falls,
back  through  the  countryside,  and  finally  to  where  Prince
Charming is  - again!!  Don't worry, this should be the last time
you have to make this tedious journey.

When you  arrive, collect  the thick  rug, the rope and the winch
handle, then  make the  return journey, back all the way you came
to the  bean stalk.   Climb  straight up  it by standing in front
then making  jump straight  up.   When you reach the first cloud,
make your  way across  this, and jump off at the right hand side,
collecting the  star as  you go.  When you have the star, go back
to the previous cloud, and this time jump off to the left.

Make your  way along  these clouds  to the  left,  then  use  the
slightly higher cloud as a stepping stone to the row of clouds at
the top of the screen as soon as you can. Now go right along this
higher row  of clouds,  taking the  melon as you go, then stop at
the right  hand side  of the  cloud with  the  bean  stalk  going
through.  Time this next jump so you evade the butterfly and land
on the small cloud to the right, then jump to the right again.

When you  are up into the next screen, make another right jump to
land on  that tiny  cloud, then  jump left  from the left side of
that to land on the cloud by the bean stalk.  Jump left from this
to land  on the cloud the other side of the stalk, then jump left
again to  land on  the cloud  with the  star.    Evade  the  next
butterfly with a timed jump onto the next cloud to the left, then
fall onto the next cloud to the left  (one with the fruit).

Next, jump  left again, then dodge the final butterfly to land on
the cloud  with cloud castle on it.  Don't worry, you cannot fall
through this  cloud!   When you  land outside the castle, use the
winch handle on the door and you will be able to get in.
When you  get inside,  simply drop all you have  (the rug and the
rope)   then go  back outside again because we now need to go and
get the skeleton key and the bucket of water from the base of the
bean stalk.

When you  have them,  make your way through the clouds again, and
make that  final jump  to cloud  castle.  Once inside again, make
your way  left, collecting  the stars  as you go.  When you reach
the lit  fireplace, drop the bucket of water to quench the flames
-  that will give you access to the final few stars to the right.
When you've done that, go back and collect the rope and the rug.

When you  have those,  the final three objects, go up the lift by
the exit,  by using  the skeleton  key.  Jump off left at the top
and go  under the  spider, dodge the rat, and get onto the table.
Collect the  star then  jump onto  the platform that the spider's
hanging on.   From  there, right to land by a bed of spikes. Drop
the rug  on these to protect yourself as you walk, then jump onto
the left  side of  the rug  and make a jump left to where the rat
walks backwards and forwards.

From there,  collect the  star, then  jump up  and right onto the
platform.   Jump back  off that to get the star to the left, then
get onto  it a  second time,  and this time jump off right to get
the star,  then right  twice more to get the other one.  When you
have them both, carry on right to get a last one, then go all the
way back down to where you laid the rug.

This time  go all  the way over the spikes, by walking right, and
dodging the  rat as  you go.  At the far side of the platform use
the rope  to swing  across on  the hook.  From on the chair, jump
over the  fire to  get the  star to  the right  of that,  then up
towards to  strawberry to  get the  star there.   Now jump on the
platform with that strawberry on, and jump off the far left of it
to get  onto the  next platform.  Collect the star on there, then
jump up  and right,  through the hole in the two platforms above.
Now collect  the penultimate  star just  off to the left and play
the extra life game if you like.

When all  that's done,  get right  to the  right hand side of the
platform below  the fireplace,  and jump off right to land on the
platform with  the final  star.   Collect that star, then jump up
and right  and continue along that platform, dodging the two rats
as you  go.   Now, if  you've collected  all the  stars, you will
finally be able to enter Zak's tower by continuing right.

This last  bit is  a final  arcade end  to the  game. Well, I say
arcade, it's  a bit  of both.   The  idea is  to reach the top of
Zak's tower   (and  it is huge)  dodging what look like egg-sized
bowling balls that Zaks is throwing down by the bag-full.  If you
get hit,  you lose  lots of  energy, but if die, you at least get
returned to where you died.  It isn't too hard - I did it without
dying once   -   and  when you finally reach the top then its the
show-down.

At the  top of  the tower  you'll see  yourself (obviously), Zaks
standing on  a platform  to the left, and Daisy on her own little
platform above  him.   There is  also another  platform which  is
opposite the  one with Zaks on, and that leads all the way to the
right-hand wall.   Leaning  against that  wall is a giant mirror.
The idea  is to  get onto this platform, then jump once when Zaks
fires at  you, and  again when  the shot rebounds off the mirror.
This is easy, and when you've done it you've won the game.

At the  end of  the game,  the shot that rebounded off the mirror
will hit  Zaks and  he'll explode  into loads of tiny pieces. You
then have  to guide  Dizzy to  Daisy's platform  (not hard!). You
then get  some sort of sad music as they have a big kiss, then it
shows a  big screen  with the  two of them standing in front of a
big heart.   It's  not an excellent ending, okay, but it's one of
the most satisfying games to complete ever!! (Especially when you
didn't lose a single life!!!!)

By the resident master of Dizzy Series games (yep, I've completed
them all!!)

SIMON BURROWS