                         SOLVE FOR FASCINATION
                         ---------------------

This was a pretty weird game, but since it's been so damn slow lately
with the releases I figured what the hell, I'll try anything. Anyway,
here is the solution to the game (from memory):

                          Part 1:The hotel

To open the suitcase use the code AARGH. Open the drawer next to the 
fridge and put the adapter in the socket. Plug the toothbrush plug
into the adapter and turn the brush on and take the vials.Now put the
adapter back in the drawer. Open the fridge and hide the vials in the
icecube tray. Fill the tray with water from the pitcher. Close the 
fridge and plug the cable in the socket to turn it on. Now go to the
lobby and get the keyring from the table and the token from the ashtray.
Give the keyring to the receptionist and she'll give you a pool key.
Click on the phone directory which is below the porn mag and write down
the phone number you find which changes from game to game. Also flip
through the porno and on one of the pages make note of the torn corner 
and write down those 3 numbers. Go back to your room and make a phone
call using the number you found in the directory. Write down the code
you're given. At the pool talk to prisca to get the flashlight. To get
the pendant, switch on the pool light which is to the right of the 
barmaid, and it will appear on the bottom of the pool. Talk to the
barmaid and choose cofee. Take some of the sugar for later on. Go into
the locker room, and use the pool key on the locker. To open the battery
compartment of the walkman, use the token on it and then take the batery.

                        Part 2: Q.U.L

Go to the office, and give the sugar cube to the dog, then take the
storeroom key. At the parking lot, unlock the storeroom door, and use
the flashlight to search the closet. All the way to the mid-right is
a hook. Push it and everything will be clear. Take the car key from
the pocket. Use the car key in the red car. Talk to the bum. Kick the
tire.Take the keycard from the car seat. Make another phone call using
the token, and make not of the 3 digit # you are given. Go back to the
parking lot and use the keycard in the slot and then enter that 3 digit
number.When you see the dead guy, click around his hand and you'll see
he has a napkin and take the microcassette inside it. On one of the 
books there's a spring. When you press it, a cable will appear. Pull the
cable and take the recorder. Press the button on the right tit, and play
the cassette in the recorder. 

                       Part 3: Lingerie/Lab

Take the news.(You should have 6 newspapers by the end of the game).
Go into the middle booth and open the shoebox and take the shoe.From
the third booth make your way to the private door. When you open it,
you'll notice a bell on top. Make sure to take it before going in.Unroll
the picture of the guy, and take the padlock key. Also take the magnetic
label on the top-left hand side.Move the packages till you find the safe.
Open the lock with the key. Use the shoe on the bar. Use the magnetic
label on the safe to open it. The combination is DOC (make sure you turn
the knob after each letter). In the lab, take the scalpel from the set
of instruments. Take the closet key and gas mask from the labcoat. Use 
the closet key in the closet, and take the photo. Smash the jar with
the 2 vials with the shoe and take 'em. Rewind the answering machine and
then play it. Rewind it again and press the erasure button so no one 
finds out.Go back to the hotel.

                      Part 4: The Hotel

In your room take the box of chocolates and the club-label pin which is
on the carpet. Click on the glass bottle on the table. Use the phone to
call the receptionist(press 0). Go down and convince the inspector that
you're clean. Use the following response:1-2-1-2-1. Take the newspaper.
After he's gone you'll notice a slip of paper on the floor. These are
the last 4 digits of Lou Dale's phone # (the 1st 3 are from the porn
mag). Go to your room and call that number. For more information,
consult the directory.

                     Part 5:Chemistry time

Search the car, and note all the clues. Take the 10 bucks from the wind-
shield wiper. Get the news from the trash can. Put the photo in the slot
below the door. Use the scalpel in the keyhole, and click back on the 
slot. In the kitchen, first open all the cabinets.Take the cloth and wet
it by running the faucet and using it on the water.Wear the mask and use
the detergent,caustic soda and ammonia in the basin to cause toxic fumes.
Open the hatch all the way and then click on the basin. Quickly fit the
damp cloth in the slot where the fumes are seeping through to protect
yourself. When you talk to Lou Dale, take the ring. Now go visit Kenneth
Miller at the Red Blue Club.

                    Part 6:Miller=Archie

Take the news from the garbage to the right. Give the bouncer the club
label pin and the 10 dollars and he'll let you in. Talk to Miller using
the following responses:1-2-1-2-1. When you're in bed, give him the
chocolates.Notice that his tattoo says he's really Archie. You can also
use your pendant on his. Take the ring from his hand and then enter the
other room. Talk to the parrot and take the cigar from his mouth. Also
take that little net from on the ground. Switch the fishtank light on
and click on the seashell. Use the seafood you see there and click it
on to the shell. Use the net on the shell to take the pearl. Take the
eyepatch from the head and fit the pearl in the eye. Stick the cigar in
the head's mouth. Click on to the panel and use Archie's stamp ring on
the print.

                   Part 7:The Mansion

To convince the man you're innocent, use this response:1-2-2-1-2-1.At
the bathroom take the syringe out of the wastebasket and then open the
jar with the two eyes in it. Use the syringe on the formalin that the
eyes are held in. Push the secret button on the wall to the left and
click on the perfume spray bottle. Fill the bottle with the formalin
and go back to the inspector. When he asks you for the vials, spray his
eyes. In the mansion lounge, pick up the 6th news and use the flashlight 
and signet ring on the microscope and make note of what you find. Look 
at the painting of the nude woman who's having a dream and click on to 
the trigger. Next click on to the wheel above the organ and press the 
right button which turns the organ on. Now allign the wheel to the proper 
zodiac sign which you get from the signet ring. Since this is a euro ware, 
you must know that the europeans write dates in the order of date, month, 
then year.So for example if the date from the ring is 13-09-50, then just 
click on the wheel's left button 2 times(it moves counterclockwise) so that 
it faces just like a nine on a regular clock.Next play the notes that are 
inscribed in the flashlight on the organ. If you don't know how to play the 
piano then this should help you:(This is what you will see but without the 
letters and of course it will look much better-forgive me).

            C+   D+      F+    G+  A+
              \ _  \ _    \  _  \ _  \ _  
             __! !__! !__ __! !__! !__! !__ __
            !  ! !  ! !  !  ! !  ! !  ! !  !  !
            !C ! !D ! !E !F ! !G ! !A ! !B !C !
            !  !_!  !_!  !  !_!  !_!  !_!  !  !
            !  ! !  ! !  !  ! !  ! !  ! !  !  !
            !  ! !  ! !  !  ! !  ! !  ! !  !  !
            ----------------------------------------

After you play those notes, a secret passage will appear and you will be
trapped. Just put the six newspapers on the table and then take the lighter
from the dead guy's pocket and light the newspapers. An alarm will go off
and congratulations, you've finished FASCINATION. Now get ready for the
lame ending...


                                                   -The Pharoah-
                                                      1-7-92