Fire Force


 CHEAT MODE:

 Start the level as normal with just one bazooka shell.
 Arm the weapon and press the fire button, making sure that you keep
 your finger on the button so that the rocket does not get launched.
 Now with your finger still on the fire button, press [Escape].
 Go to the armoury and get rid of all of your rockets. Now you can
 start a mission with an infinite supply of bazooka shells.
 The same applies to all of the other weapons as well.

	  			          
			     FiREFORCE SOLUTiON          
		  		       	
Yes,I know the game is old but no one has done a solve for it and Im bloody
bored! So,here goes....
  
GENERAL TiPS
------------

Using The Knife: Your knife is a very powerful weapon when used correctly
                 and essential when on a stealth mission. As  soon as you
  		 see an enemy,hit the floor and wait for them  to come to
		 you. If they dont,crawl (dont walk)  towards them.  When
		 you in striking distance,stand up and use your  knife to
		 to stab  them  or, if you're a  professional, slit their 
		 throat.

Using Firearms:  When using a gun,always lay down and fire as many of the
		 enemy guards are unable to hit you on the  ground. Shoot
		 them as soon as you see  them  -  if you know when  they 
		 appear, its possible to shoot them before they even come
		 on screen. This is especially important when killing the
		 members of the elite enemy forces,identifiable by  their
		 red berets.
		 If you know that  there is an  enemy soldier  coming  up 
		 that is not in you current firing range,prepare your gun
		 before you get to them so you are able to quickly  shoot
		 up or down at them. This avoids having  to aim while you
		 are being shot at from all angles.
  
Using Grenades:  These are essential when destroying land mines placed by
		 the  enemy and  can be  directed  to go  in  a  specific 
		 direction by moving the cross-hair around the  character
		 and releasing fire to throw the grenade.


MiSSiON ONE
-----------
 
Equipment: AKM Rifle
	   9 X AK47 Mags
	   5 X M26 Grenades
	   3 X Field Dressing Packs

 Select the gun as soon as  you start the mission.Drop onto the floor under
the truck and kill  the enemy  that aproaches as  soon as he comes onto the
screen. 
 The leader of the enemy forces (the one with the beige beret) can be found
at one of the following locations:either down from TANGO 8,up from Tango 21
,up frpm TANGO  36 or up and  left from TANGO 37. Once  you have found him,
kill him and the accompanying guard and leave the building.
 When at TANGO 28/29 you  will need to  use a M26 grenade to kill a soldier
and destroy some land mines. Now advance to your pickup point at TANGO 41.

MiSSiON TWO
-----------

Equipment: AKM Rifle
	   4 X AKM47 Mags
	   2 X M26 Grenades
	   2 X Field Dressing Packs
	   5 X C4 Explosives

 As soon as you land at the  drop-off point,switch  to the gun and kill the
enemy soldier with the red beret. Push on until you reach the first  hut at
BRAVO 7. Go inside to collect the first aid if you need it, then leave  and
destroy the hut with C4.
 To destroy the next hut at BRAVO 10,you should first kill the two soldiers
situated around the hut,kill the enemy soldier at the top of the tower  and
then finally destroy the hut. You will need to use a couple of M26 grenades
after  destroying the next  hut at  BRAVO 14 and then  progress to BRAVO 26
where you can blow up the hut for extra points. Now  go to the pickup point
at BRAVO 29 to complete the mission.

MiSSiON THREE
-------------

Equipment: M177 CAR15 Rifle
	   5 X M177 Mags
	   5 X C4 Explosives
	   2 X M26 Grenades
	   2 X Field Dressing Packs

 On this mission,you really need to search all the buildings,and keep count
of the number of SAM missiles you have destroyed - you must blow up five to
complete the mission. A  good way to do this  is to  lay the explosives but 
not  detonate  them as you  can  see how many  explosives  you have laid by 
looking to see how many highlighted detonators there are.
 Advance to ALPHA 7 and enter the building there. Kill  the enemy soldiers.
Go upstairs,kill the other enemy soldier,place  an explosive by the SAM  in
this room if theres one here and then  search both soldiers to see  if they
have any ammunition. Exit and proceed to ALPHA 13.
 Go up the ladder and enter the door at the top. Follow the stairs down and
then down the stairs behind the crate in the next room. You should now be
in a room with four crates stacked in the shape of an upside down T. Behind
these are more stairs. Go down these,which take you past the wall and carry
on until you find the exit  out of the  building,placing  another explosive
next  to any SAMs you see. Dont go  out of the exit, but instead  go up the 
stairs where you may find another SAM.
 Once  this is  destroyed,go back  down the stairs and out the exit, making 
sure to crouch down when you come out as two soldiers are waiting here.Kill
them and progress to the next exit, then go  upstairs and destroy any  SAMs 
you find. Find the exit from the building at ALPHA 27 but  do not leave the
building. Instead go right and shoot as soon as you enter the room.
 Go up the stairs,shoot the enemy  and then go right, where you may  find a 
SAM to destroy. Go up,destroying any more missiles you see and then down to
the exit.Leave the building,kill the enemy and go up the ladder at ALPHA 28
.Progress on to ALPHA 33 where you will be pick up.

MiSSiON FOUR
------------

Equipment: MP5 Sub-Machine Gun
	   2 X MP5 Cartridges
	   6 X C4 Explosives
	   4 X Field Dressing packs

 You will be dropped at map reference  point OMEGA 0. As this is a  stealth
mission it is important that little noise is made,so use your knife  at all
times.
 Wait until you see a log at OMEGA 1  and then hit the  floor and start  to
crawl. This  will  stop the enemy  gun  from  firing  at you which is  very
important as this is,remember,a stealth mission. Crawl  until you  get past
the gun bunker and kill the enemy inside.
 Now move on to OMEGA 9 where you will find the first  hut that contains  a
hostage. Kill the enemy g uards outside  the hut with your  knife  and then
go into the hut. Kill the guard inside and free the hostage by  cutting his
bonds with your knife. Before you leave the hut,drop a C4 plastic explosive
pack in the hut so you can create a diversion when all  the  hostages  have
been rescued.
 Repeat this procedure for each of the hostages in the huts at OMEGA 12,15,
18,20,23 and  24  and then  progress to  the  pre-determined pickup  point,
detonating the explosives to create that diversion along  the way. Mission
accomplished!

Hostage Note: After the successful hostage rescue operation, men on the
              front end mission roster that were  previously  listed as
              Missing In Action my now be active and available for duty
              if they were one of the captive hostages.