FLOOR 13 PARTIAL WALKTHROUGH (in a sad state of repair) 
by Orlanth, as posted in Home of the Underdogs Forums
http://www.the-underdogs.org/

General tips: 
Put pursuit and surveillance teams on virtually everyone, and attempt at least a discreet search of almost every home and location. When interrogating, use Procedures One or Two as long as the suspect is "still healthy", otherwise use Procedure Zero. Keep an eye out for prominent groups and individuals which oppose the govenment, and smear and discredit them even when this is not necessary for the mission; this will generate quick political capital and please the P.M. (though they never do seem to come through with that knighthood..) 

----------------- 
Regular Scenarios 
----------------- 

The Santiago Suicide 
A noted defence journalist is found hanged in his hotel room. A relative later claims he was murdered to suppress his knowledge of dealings between MI5 and Iraqi intelligence, and is seen to make contact with the Mossad. 
Ransack the dead journalist's hotel room to remove evidence of the Iraqi plot. Discredit the relative and the agent, who hold anti-government views. 

Blackfriar's Bridge 
Rear Admiral Sir _____ is found hanging from Blackfriar's Bridge. 
Search the dead admiral's home to find a note with the name of a contact, who is also deceased. Search this man's house and discover an unidentified headless corpse. A search of the bridge reveals the engraved letters "P2". Wonder what that means.. Actually you don't appear to need to do anything at all. 

The Aluminium Metoxide 
Traces of a noxious chemical are discovered in the municipal water supply, causing a Greenpeace activist to criticize the government health spokesman. 
Discredit Greenpeace and the activist, and ransack her home to seize the evidence. Surveillance of the activist reveals her communication with an "environmental consultant" employed by the Disciples of Pramod. Keep a watch on the consultant and tail the spaced-out hippies who come to see him. If you discover the location of their laboratory in time, ransack it to remove the source of the contaminant. 

The Peace Dividend 
A retired General doesn't seem too thrilled about defence budget cutbacks.. Surveillance of the General reveals he is involved in a plot to make the nation appear vulnerable, and the conspirators will meet shortly at Bignall Air Base. 
Unknown. Assaulting Bignall at the time of the meeting may kill the General and prevent him revealing the plan, but this apparently still doesn't prevent fake Soviet jets from strafing a Nottingham suburb. 

The President's Son 
A complex and difficult scenario. The US President's son is attending Cambridge, bizarre precautions requested by the Secret Service are about to force the security officer to resign, and the presidential kid is being targeted for abduction by the German Red Army Faction. 
Ransack the officer's house to secure the resignation letter, and immediately kidnap the European terrorist before he's caught in a drug bust. Interrogate him until he reveals his contact, then tail the contact to an abandoned warehouse and ransack it to abort the plot. I think the guy hiding the kilo of cocaine is a red herring. 

The South African Shipment 
Boerclay's Bank (ha ha) is involved with the South African arms trade. 
Surveillance of the arms dealer reveals the shipment will soon be left at a local dock. Ransack the docks shortly after it arrives. 

The Tie Rack 
A government supporter owns an international chain of tie shops implicated in a Columbian drug smuggling ring. Searching the shop reveals an invoice for some suspicious pharmaceutically-named neckwear. 
Ransack the shop on the date of the invoice (I think?) 

The Nuclear Train 
An opposition councillor objects to the "nuclear train" passing through his borough. 
Unknown. The councillor can be discredited, but the government will still eventually drop its case against him. 

The Vivisectionist 
A university professor is criticized by an animal rights group; he later admits to torturing ferrets and blames the government funding system. 
Immediately infiltrate the animal activist group; you'll discover the professor is actually a member. If the infiltration goes deep enough, the group will be neutralized and drop their allegations. 

The ICCB Affair 
The Columbians are embezzling millions from ICCB and several people close to the government have gotten involved. 
Ransack the suspect's home to remove evidence of fraud, then keep him under surveillance. Find the time and place of his meeting and send in an assault team 15 minutes later. 

The Food Mixer 
A prototype "food mixer" has been stolen from an advanced defense laboratory several weeks before an important by-election. 
Follow the supiciously lax security officer until he meets with a contact. Monitoring this contact reveals that the food mixer emits mind-altering rays and will be used by the Blue Nun to interfere with the election. The contact will meet with another operative; follow this man to a local garage and ransack it to recover the "mixer". 

The Loony Lawmaker 
An eccentric local councillor defects to the governing party but soon becomes a severe embarassment. 
I think she needs to be abducted or removed. 

El Sendero Luminoso 
The Shining Path has embarked on a massive wave of terrorism targeted at the interests of several South American countries. 
Infiltrate with a very large number of agents to neutralize the group -- you often can't do this in time to prevent some very damaging attacks. 

The William of Orange Figurine 
The police are ordered to protect a prominent Unionist on an IRA hit list. Phone tap reveals his continuing involvement in assassinations of IRA leaders. 
He must be abducted ASAP to prevent a series of embarrassing deaths. 

The Holiday Homes 
The Sons of Glendowr target holiday residences in Wales while a Welsh nationalist MP denounces the government. 
Immediately smear the MP to reduce the impacts of his attacks. Attempt to infiltrate and discredit the Sons of Glendowr. 

The Missing Royal 
The Sons of Glendowr have kidnapped Prince Harry! You have two weeks. 
Often this can't be done in time. Quickly infiltrate the Sons to find which of the three suspects is involved (generally the "known government supporter"), interrogate this person to locate the kidnapper, then question the kidnapper to recover the Prince. 

The War Crimes Tribunal 
A new war crimes bill is about to pass the House of Lords but is opposed by an influential MP. 
Surveillance of the opposing MP reveals his neo-fascist group is about to meet at the Bunker Club; target this meeting with a heavy assault team, delaying by 15 minutes to ensure all the members have arrived. 

The Corn Cirles 
A professional hoaxer admits his involvement in the recent rash of crop circles, and mocks the credulity of the media. He soon vanishes abruptly. 
Ransack his flat and remove the immense, glowing pyramid found there. Actually, this doesn't appear to be necessary. 

The Duke and the Docks 
Unknown. Apparently the Duke of Avon is committing a series of grisly and politically costly murders; yet he's far too prominent to abduct or assassinate. Search of the docks yields a champagne cork. Hmm? 

The Personal Problem 
A member of government wants to resign due to unspecified "personal problems". 
Watch and follow him to discover he has put a "hit" out on his mistress. Immediately kidnap her and ransack her home for their love letters. 

The Naughty Novelist 
A writer of obscene literature is criticized by the public prosecutor. Search of the writer's home reveals a message from the Illuminati, who plan to publicize the prosecutor's "nocturnal habits". 
Indeed the prosecutor makes frequent trips to King's Cross station, and embarrassment apparently can't be avoided without his abduction or removal. 

The Prurient Playwright 
A writer of slightly less obscene plays is targeted by a prudish government censor. 
Ransack the writer's home to remove evidence of the censor's complaints. 

The Satanic Scribbler 
A subversive (but non-obscene) novelist pens a manuscript that apparently describes a member of the establishment. 
You don't appear to need to do anything. 

The Win Chen 
A local Chinese restaurant is a center of violent activity by the Tongs. 
Search the restaurant to find an invoice with the name of their "supplier". Put him under surveillance until he's asked to make an arms delivery, then ransack the restaurant to seize the weapons. 

The Witch Trial 
A suspected Satanist on trial is surprisingly exonerated by the presiding judge. Wiretapping the judge reveals an intrepid reporter is investigating the story. 
Unknown. By following the judge and reporter, we see them each visit the Church of Old St. Nicholas; ransacking the church removes the corpse hidden there but not before it's seen by the reporter. The reporter can be discredited but this doesn't seem to affect her story, and she's a bit too prominent to be "removed".. 

The North Sea Papers 
A civil servant's report highlights critically low North Sea reserves, causing rising oil prices and criticism of the Secretary for Energy. 
Searches reveal both men have apparently been paid off by the chairman of an oil firm, but a phone call to the Secretary's home later suggests he was framed. Discredit the civil servant and he will admit to the fraud. 

The Voyage of the Maggy 
The professor in charge of an impressive manned spaceflight project is reluctant about covering up the fact that it's really all a fraud.. 
He must be abducted or otherwise "removed". 

---------------------------------------- 
Protocols of the Secret Masters of Thoth 
---------------------------------------- 

The Pod People 
The Masters direct you to curb the growing influence of the Body Snatchers. Soon after, a high official in military intelligence is replaced by a relative unknown with a bizarre psychiatric history (yep he's the Pod Person). 
Follow the General until he visits Hyde Park, search it to find the Pod he has hidden there, then immediately abduct him. 

The Pod People, Part II 
A local industrialist suddenly shuts down his automobile plant and shows other signs of irrational and paranoid behavior. 
Yes the Pods have him as well. Tail him to the factory, which you'll find he's converting to Pod production, then have him abducted. Discredit the union leader before he makes trouble. 

The Home Secretary 
There are three candidates for this vacant post. The Secret Master must be the one selected. 
Immediately slander the Minister Without Portfolio as he is not a government supporter. The right-wing Minister for Education is more difficult. Keep her under surveillance and you'll find she's planning to stage the release of a serial killer for some extra "tough on crime" appeal. You can't stop the jailbreak but can immediately remove the criminal after it occurs, foiling her plan. 

The Assassin's Bullet 
The Masters require that you protect one of their number from assassination. The Secret Master in question publicly denounces a local crime boss, earning his severe displeasure. 
The accused criminal must be abducted or killed. 

The Church of the Subgenius 
The Masters want to shield the Church of the Subgenius from prosecution. They appear to be involved in a complex murder/inheritance scheme. 
Unknown. I abducted the man who had recently willed all his money to the Church, but this didn't seem to do it. 

The Hypocritical Forces 
One of the Secret Masters is targeted by the morality police for frequent nighttime "trips" to Kings Cross Station. 
Solution unknown. 

The Graphic Arts School 
The Masters ask you to thwart the growing power of the Bavarian Illuminati. 
Follow the small-time crook and kidnap the forger he leads you to. Interrogate him to find a connection to the "graphic arts" philanthropist. Abduct him and infiltrate the Illuminati.

** END OF FILE **