                                  KICK OFF - HINTS

As your opponent gets ready to make a shot hold down fire and it will be
blocked.

 1. To score within the first few seconds of a restart, trap the ball,
charge straight up the pitch and shoot as you approach the penalty spot
- there is a good chance it'll go in. The computer teams are wise to
this tactic, but they tend to foul you on the way instead of tackling,
so the run can continue from the free kick - you may even get a penalty!
If someone uses this tactic against you, the best thing to do
is intercept the attacker - don't just chase him. Wait for control to
switch to a defender in his path and then move up the pitch towards him
to make the tackle. However, because everything happens so fast, it is
frequently a matter of resorting to hacking the attacker mercilesly to
the ground - brutally effective.

 2. Corners

     Another good scoring chance. There are two main method for putting the
     ball in the net. Either pull the ball back into the middle of the penalty
     area where a waiting player can blast it home, or float it across the
     goal mouth for an incoming forward to nudge it in - there is a good
     possibility that the ball will even curve in and score directly this
     way.
     Never hit the ball low to near post because the keeper will always
     collect it. Also beware of lofting the ball deep into the area because
     in this position it is much harder to control.
     Defending against corners is difficult. You quickly have to spot what
     sort of kick is being taken and then get someone to the ball to clear
     it. The most dangerous kick is the in-swinger across the goal, because
     you are likely to put it in you own net! With these you just have to
     hope everyone misses and it goes past.

  3. Penalties

     A 90% success rate can be achieved by following these instructions. Wait
     until the arrow is approaching the middle point and give a sharp tap on
     the fire button. Anything more than the shortest of taps will send the
     ball sailing over the crossbar. If you leave the shot until the arrow
     has reached or goes past the middle, the ball will almost certainly go
     wide.

  4. Throw-Ins

     Don't hack the ball straight upfield from a throw in, because it
     invariably goes out again. What you have to do is angle the ball infield
     before kicking it. Alternatively, you can dribble the ball, but this is
     more hazadous because there are always opposition players at close range
     to throw-ins that may tackle you.

  5. Passing And Shooting

     There are two main methods for kicking the ball - the kick-on-the-run
     and the trap-and-kick. The KOTR is quicker and goes further, but it is
     very hard to get it to go anywhere other than the direction you've been
     running - although 45,90 and even 180 degree changes of the direction
     are possible with a quick change of joystick angle just as the ball is
     kicked. This is also the method for changing direction when dribbling.
     To perform the trap-and-kick method, the fire button has to be pressed
     down just before the player runs into the ball, then held. He can then
     swivel round freely and kick the ball in any direction by releasing the
     button. Theoretically, it will be passed to another player, but you still
     have to aim. This is particularly handy if you are running in the wrong
     direction and when used well can result in very accurate and satisfying
     safe passing manoeuvres.

  6. Dribbling

     Because the ball i not `stuck' to the end of your boot as in most other
     footy games, dribbling is an art that has to be learnt. Running in a
     straight line is easy, but changing direction isn't. 45 degree changes
     are possible by hitting the diagonal at the moment, but anything else
     requires a quick sidestep or detour around the ball, so that it can be
     approached from another angle. It sounds difficult, but with practice
     you get used to the timing of the actual contacts with the ball while
     dribbling, so that changes of direction can be made quickly and easily.

  7. Tackling

     The easiest method of dispossesing someone on the ball is just to run
     into them. However, if you're approaching from behind and they are
     getting ever nearer to the goal, have no hesitation in hacking them
     down - as long as it is outside the penalty area. Professional fouls
     are best used when the ref is easy-going - or better still blind!!

  8. Referees

     Pay attention early on how the ref reacts to fouls. If he is whistle-
     happy then try to dribble with the ball a lot. Hopefully, several of the
     opposition will get sent off or give away penalties. If he does not give
     yellow cards straight away, then feel free to hack the opposition down
     whenever necessary.

  9. Goal Kicks

     It's crucial to learn how to win the ball from the goal kicks and again
     there are two main methods. Either time the run to collide with the ball
     just as it bounces, allowing you to dribble away immediately, or hit the
     fire button with the joystick centred to leap into the air and head the
     ball on. The second tactic can gain valuable ground quickly. If these
     prove too difficult then try to trap the ball when it comes down by
     holding down the fire button.

 10. Human Opponents

     They are very susceptible to the charge straight up the pitch, so always
     go for it. Try to trap the ball in the penalty area and wait for your
     panicking opponent to hack you down, giving a penalty. It works a treat
     - and will really annoy them, to boot!
     One final tip for when playing against a human opponent...  Whenver you
     score a goal, shout "YEAH!" really loudly and repeatedly punch the air.
     This doesn't half rattle your opponent!

 11. Computer Opponents

     Possession is the key: give them too many chances and they will always
     score. Go for 4-4-2 or 5-3-2 formations so that you have plenty of
     defensive and midfield control. 4-3-3 is pretty useless and 4-2-4 is
     only for the brave who reckon they can out-play the computer - a tall
     order.
     The ultimate challenge is the USSR team because they are so fast. The
     trick to remember with them is not to futiley chase the ball-carrier
     with your (generally slower) players, but to wait for control to switch
     to a player in his path, then clear from the tackle.