                          T H E   K R I S T A L 
                              (Playing guide)

1.Find the Beggar and give him Skringles, twice. Dancis automatically takes
the pommel from his cup.

2.Find  Gloop  (that's  the  small space-suited alien) and ask "What do you
do?".  He should then divulge some information and proffer an invitation to
the Palace.

3.Head  for  the  Palace  and  tell  the  Guard  "I have an invitation". On
entering  the  Palace, proceed to Nedrod's room and ask him four questions.
He  will  then  divulge  the  necessary  information  about Captain Frake's
mission.

4.Visit the Kring, listen, and then accept the Skringles offered.

5.Meet  the  Princess  and say "It's a secret". Take the Ring of Belz which
she gives.

6.Collect  the scroll from the arch to the right of the green door and take
it to the Transporter Room.

7.Buy  some Froodle and Frandanas from Sereena in the market square town to
increase strength. 5 Skringles should do it.

8.Give charity to Boris the Butler.

9.Enter  the  green door, go through the centre arch and head left. Go into
into the Spaceport and on board the ship.

10.Select  the top icon for Zapminola. When travelling in space, it is best
to  decelerate  as  soon  as  aliens  appear.  Try to keep them as small as
possible  while  shooting  them  and their bullets. As soon as the wave has
been  disposed  of,  accelerate towards the planet but be ready to slam the
anchors  on  as  soon  as  more  creatures appear. Continue like this until
planetfall.

11.On  Zapminola,  find  Aunt  Polly  and  ask  "Who are you?". Proffer the
necessary Skringles and accept the Multipep.

12.Collect the key from the left side of the Town Square. Enter the Kring's
Head,  use the key to go upstairs, and collect the Heatpro Tabs from by the
side of the bed. Return to the ship.

13.Select  the  icon  for  Glysta.  On  arrival,  defeat the Swordsman (for
experience) and pick up the Psychisorber at the right.

14.Return to the ship and select the icon for Feltina.

15.Immediately  take  the Heatpro Tabs as protection against the heat (what
else?)  and  then  find  the Sword of the Spheres (this cannot be collected
unless the Pommel is already in Frake's inventory).

16.Practice some more sword fighting and the return to Zapminola.

17.Find the White Pirate and give to the Minolan children's fund.

18.Give Skringles to Malagar and go into the Kring's Head.

19.Buy Grelge and Fissionchips for extra strength.

20.Go upstairs and listen to the radio.

21.Board the ship and pick any destination.

22.Follow  the  Blue  Scorpion  through the Magic Ring. After the Redheaded
Pirate  and  the  Princess have passed, use the Ring of Belz (it won't work
unless the scroll has been collected).

23.Ask  Malvalla  "Where  am I?". Accept the Belt of the Celestial Sisters.
Dancis returns to his ship automatically.

24.Select the icon for Magno.

25.To  survive the Brain Cell, Frake needs a minimum of 100 strength points
and  35  psychic points. On being released, Dancis must kill Redhead with a
final swordfight.

26.Confront  Finn  Shadock  in  psychic  combat;  he can be defeated if the
Psychisorber has been collected and Frake out-shoots him.

27.Once  Shadok  has  been despatched, enter the door which opens and watch
the finale..............Harmony has now been restored to the Universe!!!!