                                O B I T U S

                                   Hints

This will explain how to get started and get you to the first dungeon you
need to explore.

                                  FIRST

You are standing in front of a KEY. Thats right, the big chunk of silver
on the ground in front of you! CLICK on PICK and then move the hand over
the glob of metal on the floor (KEY) and CLICK again to add it to your
inventory.

                                  SECOND

MOVE WEST either with your joystick or click on [ W ] in the direction box
in the lower middle portion of the screen. You will be standing in front
of an huge oak door.  CLICK on USE and drag the hand over to the little
keyhole located in the center of this menacing door.  I know you have been
sweating up till now, but you can grab a towel because the door in front
of you should be open by now.

                                  THIRD

MOVE NORTH to exit the gigantic tower you were stuck in all this time!
Soon you will be standing in front of a tree.

                                  FOURTH

When you are starting in the forest, you will be facing NORTH-WEST.  Every
time you MOVE EAST you will be facing one more cardinal direction in the
direction you move.  I.E.- If you are facing NORTH and you MOVE EAST, you
will now be facing NORTH EAST.  If you move EAST again, you will be facing
EAST.

MOVE EAST and MOVE EAST again.  You should be facing an open path in the
forest.  MOVE NORTH (also means FORWARD) or push up on your joystick until
you find a pack of sticks lying on the ground (ARROWS!).  CLICK on PICK
and move the hand over to the picture of the arrow pack.  CLICK on the
arrows and they will be added to your inventory.  If you ever want to get
some detailed information about the objects, move the arrows located to
the right of the object window either up or down to select object, then
click in INFO and move the hand over to the object in the window.  You
will now be in the info selection screen.  You can now check how much
weight something is and what quantity of that object you have left.

These are the first few steps you should do to get you started in this
relatively simplistic game.  Now just roam around the forest and pick up
any objects you may find in the forest.  When you see archers or knights
you may want to TALK with them first.  You may also trade with them by
clicking on INFO and then click on the figure in front of you.  It will
display information about the character and you can click on trade and
then the object you wish to trade. You will want to find the woman who
gives you the keys (needed for Drakehurst's Castle).

Then you will want to get the blue gem from the woman in the upper part of
the forest as well.  After you supply up, find the road that leads to the
Eldon Mines.  You will have to run and jump over arrows in this sequence
but when you get to the end, you enter the dungeon of the mines.