	OIL IMPERIUM.....

  To succeed at this game calls for amixture of guile, gamble and strategic 
thinking. There are two ways to play OIL IMPERIUM. Play safe or take risks.
Start by playing safe and take risks later.
 
  In the first month you should buy only three or four expert reports. Then
after having bought a tank for your oil, set out to purchase two oilfields
side by side. It involves losing time, but in the end you'll find out which
oilfields are worth buying. If you want to play risky, buy your oilfields
without the aid of an expert report. This way you'll save money and time -
and that will stand you in good stead later in the game. It's a rule of 
thumb always to start off modestly, keeping your costs sensibly low but
trying to keep your profits as high as possible.
 
  Before you start the game, think about what you want to do and then think
through every single step. If you spend too much time fiddling with the menu
commands you may not be able to sell your oil for one month. However, selling
oilfileds to raise capital isn't really worth it. You need these fields later
in the game, and of course you'll need to buy oil tanks before buying oil
fields. Bear in mind that several oilfields clustered together can be turned
into what is known as a 'combination'. You will achieve economies of scale
and be able to drill for oil much more cheaply.

  To start with an average-size tank is big enough, but later you should
purchase bigger ones. Start with average tanks to keep check on the amount
of space you use. Obviously, though, extra storage is useful if somebody
sabotages your tanks. 

  In order to build up a global empire you have to be able to successfully
speculate on the world's commodity markets. Each region has a different
market price; therefore it pays to think through and select carefully before
selling off production areas. Oilfiled fires, of course, can be disastrous.
You can call for Ted Redhair if one breaks out, or save on the cost and fight
it yourself. Use more dynamite for larger fires; but move your technician
well away from the area once he has set the explosives. Remember, also, that
sometimes newspapers provide you with information before the telephone will.

  Start drilling using low pressure. Later, you should always use specialists
to save time. Drill as vertically as possible.

  Burning oilfields are marked in RED. 

  It's important that you plan the route for the pipeline BEFORE it's laid.

  If one player cannot pay his debts other players can help him. For example,
other players can buy an oilfield for $10 million, even though it's only
worth $5 million. Once the debtor is in the black, he should pay back this
money with interest added. OIL IMPERIUM gives you the chance to out-JR even
JR himself.

  Contracts can be made with saboteurs. As your client they will offer to
blackmail opponent's oil purchasers, rob their banks, blow up oil tanks or
set fire to their oilfields. It's great fun doing the dirty but don't be too
trigger happy: cheap saboteurs are more likely to get caught, and if you do 
go to court costs can be high, especially during the early stages of the game
when your cashflow may be lean.

 
	typed by DOUG.....