                           E M M A N U E L L E 
                              (Playing guide)

Your  first  task  is  to  collect  the 3 Statuettes. The first of which is
situated  in  Rio.  It  can  be attained by clicking on the beach. You will
notice a Yacht. Click on the Yacht and a rather irate captain will appear.

Tell  him  "I'm  looking  for  adventure" and he will give you a trinket of
aphrodisiac  potion.  Once  done,  stay on the beach and click on series of
buildings nearest the mountain. You will enter the Casino. Buy a cigar from
the  woman  with  the  tray  and give it to the man sitting at the roulette
table.  He  will take you away and eventually give you a statue. Next go to
Favelas - which is on the mountain in Rio - and buy the toucan.

Fly to Igacua and click on the cliff at the waterfalls. You will be treated
to  a  truly dreadful animation sequence that results in the capture of the
second  statue.  While  you're  here,  it's time to lose your virginity! If
there's  a  girl  in  blue at the Reception Centre then chat her up. If you
fail,  or  she  isn't there, then go to the waterfalls and come back again;
continue until you're successful.

Now  travel to Manuas and tell the doorman that you want to go to the Opera
House. If he says "It's closed but I can get you in at a price", accept. If
you travel straight to the Opera House and you're told that the performance
is over, keep on trying as your reward is the final statue!

Once  accomplished click on the lift button and with any luck another young
floozie  will  appear  in  the  lift.  Ask  her if she can read between the
floors.  Be  warned:  if you cock it up, she won't come back! With that you
magically transport to a garden party.

There  you  will see more floozies, including the one that you have already
bonked;  click on her and give her the item at the bottom right corner when
prompted. Then tell her how sensual she looks and how all the men have been
staring  at her. With that she will obligingly drop her knickers out of the
window and one of your statues will flash!

Travel  to  Salvador  and tell the doorman that you want to go to the Lower
Town.  Hopefully you will see a yacht. If not go back to the hotel and down
to  the  Lower  Town  again.  It's certain to be there the second time! Now
click  on  the  yacht  and........surprise, surprise......yet another young
floozie.  She  will  take  you to Rio and give you an enjoyable time on the
way.

At  Rio  there  will  be two floozies waving at you! Click on the left hand
girl  and  chat  her  up  with  either a phrase that includes art, music or
instruments.  Both will be required, but they can come in any order. Accept
a  naughty  night  with  her  and the other girl will ask to join in (jolly
decent of her!).

Once completed you should now have enough eroticism to find Emmanuelle. Bet
you  forgot about her, didn't you?! If your eroticism is over 75, go to the
Hotel  and  try  to  find the Barman. Once found ask him about Emmanuelle's
next  destination.  If  he  doesn't  know  then  you've  got  to repeat the
procedure.  Eventually  you  will  weedle  out  of  him the information you
require. That done, go to the Airport and you'll meet her!

If  you're  wondering  about  using  the  third statue, try chatting up the
floozie  at  the Reception in Salvador. If you're successful then she might
just  tell  you  the room number of a bloke you need to see. If she doesn't
(which is 99.9% of the time!) don't jump into bed with her as it uses vital
eroticism  and  energy.  If  you get the number, then go to the appropriate
room  and  a  bloke  will give you some tips and a mask. With that mask you
will be able to go to the Carnival at the top of the town where you chat up
the  girl  in  the  foreground  with  the  mask. By bonking her you'll have
achieved all three things.

A  FEW  USEFUL  TIPS:-  The woman at the Reception Area in Rio gives you an
energy restorer and keeps coming back if you don't.......you know what! The
helicopter  serves  no  use at all (other than giving you extra strength in
fights).  If,  at  the  Hotel  Reception,  you  ask the man if Emmanuelle's
staying  at  the  Hotel  and  he  gives you a room number, visit it for the
best.......errrrrrr,  worst scene in the game! (depending on your own point
of view!!).