EXILE WALKTHROUGH

*General Notes:*

It's in any case better to save too frequently than to miss one save
operation; in particular, RAM savings should be performed before any
puzzle in order to be on the safe shore by saving on disk afterwards.
The position or location where you're currently at should also be saved
frequently in order to be able to beam yourself back to a place with no
dangers or hazards. The save points mentioned as follows are merely a
couple of important ones amongst lots of other useful spots. There too
are lying around grenades lining the paths here and there which you
would typically pick up as a beginner. But since there's not much room
left for other items, better refrain from picking them up. Moreover, as
those bangers are scarcely needed, it's generally sufficient to carry
around one or, at most, two of them.

*The Game:*

Grab the grenade lying on the surface and use it for flying underneath
the turret towards the chasm with the barrier. Destroy it by letting the
grenade drop on it, and get the hell out of there immediately! Drop down
through the newly-created opening and push the robot over the cliff. The
robot explodes instantly and gives way for an energy pod you should
snatch promptly. Now, on the upper left, you can see your first weapon,
so select it and try to get a bit more familiar with targeting. Now
destroy the flying drones and collect the grenade you found. Your next
destination is the main cave, where you can blow up a door by skilfully
placing the explosive and set free a floating robot thereupon. Lure it
in eastward direction until you arrive at an entrance of a smaller cave,
featuring a rapidly and fiercely firing tower. Don't forget to save your
teleport position while being at this place! As soon as the cannons open
fire on you, the blasts will destroy the robot, whereas you're
teleporting yourself away at the very same instant. Your trusty
tin-buddy will leave behind the second weapon for you, the Icer, which
you pick up, of course.

SAVE your game and fly upwards through the duct above the fire, then,
with your thumb firmly on the fire button, whizz past the hornet's nest
as fast as you can. There, you grab the key and beam back. Now fill your
bags with the frogs from the pond (YUCK!) and feed them to the Imps, one
after another. The stuff the natives will throw at you isn't that
essential for your quest, but well, if it's lying around there, you may
as well grab it anyway. Now fly into the right wing of the cave (above
the tower you visited before), open the unsealed door and pick up the
Booster, then move to the loose flag left of the Imp nest and hit the
switch until the stone barrier above the fire opens up. Now push the
flag aside and fly into the room with the empty bottle. Don't forget to
remember your teleport position, and, after throwing the bottle through
the door that closes again immediately afterwards, teleport towards the
outside. In case it didn't work the first time: the door can be reopened
anytime by pushing the switch two times. The bottle is now filled with
water from the pond with the frogs and put with EXTREME care onto the
closed stone barrier above the fire.
(Save your game!)
As soon as you touch the switch to your right, the barrier will open and
the bottle will drop into the fire and cause the fire to be extinguished
immediately. Beam to the spot, pocket the RCD and don't forget to pick
up the bottle again, which, preferably, should be deposited at an
easily-remembered place. Once you get hold of the Imps' torch, carefully
light it at the fire and fly into the duct above the pond with the
frogs. Take out the birds residing there using the torch or the Icer,
and hush along the long corridor to the left, past a non-operational
transporter and a likewise non-operational robot named "Chatter". Get
rid of those birds: the simplest way by far to do it is by using the
torch, but likewise, the Icer will do its duty after a while. Drop the
torch. From this place, you can get to the western section of the cave
structure later on.

Again, make your way to the surface and look for another key lying
somewhere in that storm-riddled area. Destroy the first watchtower using
your Icer and, just as you did it in the beginning, drop down to the
ground. This time, however, use the RCD to unlock the door on the
right-hand side, shoot the first robot so that it slides over the cliff
and take it out subsequently. Then, step on the table on the further
right and aim your weapon in southwestern direction to force it into
leaving its regular place. You can use it as a shield for pushing the
other robot on the far left, in order to get it conveyed by the
transporter, using the switch on the ceiling. Now make your way down
through the hole to deal with the floating spheres. The switch will
activate Chatter, but you cannot control him yet at this stage. Do
remember the room with the two transporters because it can be reached
from almost anywhere. Try out the teleporters now, but remember to beam
back every time. You should be able to push the object located on the
grid by simply aiming a few precise shots at it, then fire some more
shots to push it into the transporter on the right. Follow it and take
care to have the rubber dinghy with you. The left transporter leads you
to the "Pericles", but if you shoot at the switch determining the
targets of the Beam-O-Mats, you can get to a tower (level it with your
Icer), together with some flying spheres. Fire some shots through the
transporter and thus, cause the key to get drawn straightaway into the
wind tunnel, then go to the upper right and save your game shortly
before you arrive at the duct. Let yourself draw into by the suction of
air, grab the key and teleport back. Make your way across the channel
with the aid of your Booster and use the rubber dinghy for blocking the
switch in order to permanently keep open the door in the tunnel
downstairs. As you have this key as well, you go to the transporter you
previously pushed the robot into, then from this spot directly to the
room upstairs, with the robot killing the birds in the one downstairs in
the meantime (provided it hasn't done that already before). The door can
be opened using your RCD, and the tower instantly opening fire on you
should cause the robot to be taken to the happy hunting ground, by dint
of some manoeuvering skills. Well-hidden behind a safe wall projection,
you now aim diagonally at the Protection Device to make it drop from the
ceiling; it might be that you're required to go back to the cave where
the booster was located to pick it up, though. Now beam back to the room
with the twin transporters, make sure that you're carrying a grenade in
your backpack, and enter the left transporter. After it has reached its
destination, switch off the right teleporter, go across the wind tunnel
and go through the doorway still kept open by your rubber dinghy. Now
run fast through the auto-closing doors and use the switch on the ground
to collect the Energy Pods, then fly outside and upwards until you can't
go up any further, and save your game. Make your way through the
mushrooms towards the left, then go down, where you can pick up
"Fluffy". Throw him towards the area with the mushrooms, teleport and
pick him up again. Take him to the rightmost room, towards the loose
flag near the fire. There you push him through the hole, so that he
drops into the fire, and wait until he activates the switch and sets
free the cup located on the lower right. Fly all the way up now, then
left and again down, where you take out the beehive by throwing a
grenade at it. Now you can pick up the cup, fill it with water and go
back cautiously to the flag you use for throwing the cup into the fire.
Now up, left and to the lower right, past the extinguished fire and when
picking up the key, don't miss the rock either, which is located next to
the key.

Make your way back to the rubber dinghy by means of your Booster and
against the air draft, straightaway down into the wind tunnel. At the
bottom of the duct, go past the Imps to a large egg that you smashed on
the ground. Let loose the hatched bird towards the fish so that you can
reach another key by diving. After bagging that, you can get through the
duct back to the place where the beehive was previously located, and
through the gap past the shell in order to take out the spiders with the
Icer. Now go further right, down, right and again downhill towards the
small mushroom field. Save your position and fly quickly through the
mushrooms.

After recreating yourself, you pick up some maggots you can use as a
bait to lure the "companionable" frog creature out of its cave. Then,
trail it across the mushroom field and the underlying wind tunnel and
push it to the right, while shooting down all worms crawling around
there. Your "companion" will now push all others into the devastating
fire lurking on the left side. Push the big block onto the water, where
it can swim. If the fire creature attacks you, try to drag it into the
water. You can now safely drop any "spare" maggots you might still have
in your inventory. After this action, dive down at first (save your
game!), then further onward to the upper left, where you will get
involved into a fierce fight with small fish. But don't take all of them
out at a time! Instead, bag some of them. On the ground, turn to the
right and free a fish, so it will drag you through the mushrooms. Then
bag it again, which will make you drift to the surface again
automatically. As soon as the shell there sees a fish, it will release a
Radiation Pill from its hole, which you should pick up immediately. Now
teleport back on the double, killing ALL remaining fishes this time
(also the ones you bagged before!) to make it possible to safely salvage
the chunk of Coronium. Leave this chunk in the small corridor above the
swimming block and back out of this place for now in order to replenish
your energy reserves.

This works as follows: First, drop everything from your inventory except
the RCD and collect a couple of mushrooms from a field (act quickly,
don't wait until they dissolve!) You can burn them up by placing
yourself close to a fire and pressing the "G" key until all of them are
burnt up, which causes new Coronium crystals to be produced. Now you go
back to the twin transporters, where you save your game at once. Push
the crystals into the sleeping Chatter one after another, switch off the
left teleporter by aid of your RCD and quickly fly up in the air between
these two ones. Remember to pick up the whistle near the tower before
you beam back. Your next task is to look for Fluffy and deposit him next
to Chatter. Again, save your game and, after pushing the switch, enter
the right of the two transporters. Blast the watchtower with your Icer,
unlock the door and take out the drones upstairs. Beam back and, this
time, take Fluffy with you into the transporter. Throw him through the
gap at the upper end and wait until he has pushed the button for you and
returns back to you, then unlock the door to the (now defunct) turret
and again, shove Fluffy into a small cave which contains the second
whistle. Shoot at him to make him jump; otherwise, just wait for him to
hand you over the whistle. Abandon your sonny now and fly out of the
room on the opposite side, up, again right and past the other defunct
turret. As long as Energy Pods appear, keep pressing that switch. Now
teleport back towards the two transporters. You are finally able to
control Chatter now! One whistle awakes him, the other lets him spit out
one energy ration after another. You can now keep feeding him with
crystals which he turns into energy until you consider yourself to have
gained enough energy eventually.

Having had enough of that thing, you go back to the swimming block, and
from there, to the up and right where you should place yourself exactly
between the switch and the dome and save your game immediately, too.
Drop the RCD at this very spot and place yourself directly before the
door. Aim your weapon above the RCD at the switch and shoot, which will
cause the door to open, you will be catapulted straightaway through the
doorway, the RCD will hit the switch, and the door will slam shut behind
you. Pick up the chunk of Coronium and place it next to the slab.
Teleport back, bag the RCD and again, shoot at the switch while waiting
before the door. You're catapulted against the rock, whereupon you fire
at the invisible trigger on the right, which will cause the slab to move
to the left. In this very instant, teleport to bump against the switch
and close the door. Pick up the Coronium that now should be located on
the left-hand side of the vertically-operating door, then place it onto
the swimming block near the door and let the other one drop on it: the
detonation that follows will destroy the door leading to the left.
Looking around, you can see some drops of acid, a solid door and two
crabs emerging from their hideout near the door. Two more chunks of
Coronium are now required to destroy both the door and the crabs, but
this time you will have to produce them all by yourself.

Make use of the mushrooms and the fire to generate more Coronium
crystals. Just repeat that procedure again with the switch and the dome,
but this time you will encounter a slime creature you'll have to feed
with a crystal first, which will thereupon grow stiff so you can take it
with you and hold it underneath an acid drop, causing it to be changed
to a crag of Coronium! Fantastic isn't it, this one can now be taken to
the door that's to be blown up where you may need to throw it OVER that
horde of crabs. A second block of Coronium can be found near the bird's
nest, so just place this one onto the other by an exact throw, get the
hell out of there in time by teleporting, and ... this door is history,
too. Your way leads you further westwards and through the next security
transporter, where you need the CODE from the MANUAL. On your way back,
press the switch and take the big fish. Now you can make your way to the
west, across the ground of the wind tunnel, through the two caves and
the newly-opened doors near the Imps towards the very last cave. Keep
the fish in your hand throughout your walk. Manoeuvre it through the
underwater jungle, to enable it to keep away the nasty small fish from
you so they can't pester you, then go back and get some more Coronium
crystals.

Having bagged the crystals, go back to the tarn where you used the
rubber dinghy before, and hustle it towards the left into the next cave.
Place yourself on the very east end and make sure to save both your
position and your current game. Again, use shots to manoeuver the boat
through the gap underneath the water surface area and follow it, whereas
the raft prevents you from getting a freebie meet-and-greet with a shell
that would have enjoyed to suck you inside. Now go to the lower right,
where another slime creature is lured from inside the ground by a couple
of noisy shots. The stiff-grown dude is put onto the boat, then push the
switch, which makes the two buddies be drifted upwards: if it doesn't
work the first time, just restore your saved game and try again. Now
teleport upwards again, catch the emerging slime creature and drag it to
the left, where the big fish is supposed to be still on piranha patrol.
While repeatedly pushing and pushing "Slimy" before you and shooting,
you make your way further onward through the leftmost hole and
eventually, upwards again. Then get that thing through the opening,
behind which acid drops make him change to another Coronium chunk, even
while still up in the air. Jam the RCD beneath the switch on the left,
so that the door is opened and closed in definite intervals. Snatch the
block (and then the RCD again, too) and make your way back to the air
duct. Drop the thing, save your game and ... you guessed it, get some
more crystals once again. Beam back, fly to the surface with your
Coronium chunk and progress to the western cave, where that mysterious
"rune door" can now be burst open eventually.

Now go back again to the twin teleporters and feed the attending Chatter
guy with the crystals you brought along for him. The lever must be
pulled in such way to make the transporter on the right lead to the west
passage. Then use the RCD to deactivate it, lure Chatter into the
beaming station (just use your whistle again) and switch it on. Trudge
left with Chatter until you arrive at the entrance into the western cave
structure. Save your game. Now go down, past the pond on the right, down
the duct and right at the third fork. Push Chatter upwards through the
pipe, which makes him start to fight a whole nest full of invisible
birds, whereupon you could (rather: should) lend him a hand by making
use of your Icer. It's actually similar to real life: invisible things
and, of course, birds too may become visible temporarily by an impact of
mushrooms! On your way to the right, a patrolling robot can be taken out
easily by just luring him towards the canyon with the high-voltage
generator and teleport yourself out of there in the VERY last instant.

Hopefully, you remembered the spot where you left the bottle behind
before, because that puppy will now be needed again. Fill it with water
near the fireball generator and drop it carefully underneath the pipe.
Fly up through that previously mentioned pipe, save your game, return
back to the bottle and throw it high into the air. Teleport and
immediately, catch it again! Use the bottle to extinguish the fire on
the lower right and likewise, grab the fire protection. After you have
saved your game, throw your "hip flask" straightaway towards that
spark-spraying thingie. This beast should now hardly have a stitch on
you anymore, so you can go past it and finish it off easily using the
Plasma Gun you can pick up from here as well.

With this weapon, you can now also destroy the fireball generator by the
lake at the entrance, which you should do on the spot now. Then make
your way down again, where you must remember to save your game first
before taking out the flying spheres. The switch is for closing a
slightly distant door, which will protect you from a shell from now on.
Now walk upstairs, left, down, left again, past the aforementioned shell
and down. Here is located another shell sucking wasps from a vespiary,
which you can destroy with your plasma gun. Wait until the shell has
calmed down again before picking up the PX312. Now walk left through the
cave, up, left again and down and make sure to keep collecting mushrooms
from the ceiling throughout. These mushrooms can be changed to Coronium
crystals by shooting straightway down with the Plasma Gun and holding
them into the flame that emerges. Having created the crystals, you now
make your way further downward to a shell sucking in sleeping slime
creatures and Coronium chunks. Use your PX312 to bump a slime creature
PAST the shell and the acid and immediately after that, feed it with a
crystal, then use the weapon again to place a drop of acid onto the poor
chap and change him into one of the known explosive rocks! Drag that
rock on the opposite side of the cave, upwards and right until you
arrive at a door you can blast with another explosive rock you can
produce the same way you did it with the first one; ideally though, try
to blow up the appearing robot at the same time you blow up the door.
Having both your spore protection and the Plasma Gun with you, you can
now produce new Coronium crystals whenever and wherever you want it.

From the entrance tarn, follow the tunnel again past the shell to the
right, where you can just give full scope to your baser human instincts
by taking out all frog manikins, maggots ... and maybe even Imps, too.
You can even make the bouncing bombs destroy their own launching base by
just repelling them with your PX312. Now you can pick up the RCD for the
heavy ordnance from your ship. The next droid you encounter should
ideally be got rid of with the aid of the Pericles' rocket propulsion.
In order to do that, use the right one of the twin transporters to
teleport you to the western passage, where you directly activate the
next transporter. The switch behind the door of the engine room needs to
be adjusted in such way that, when switched on, it both triggers the
engine and shuts the door. Save your game near this switch and your
position when standing on the engine itself. As soon as the tin-buddy is
approaching you, you can teleport and make it scrap itself by the flame
of the rocket propulsion, whereas some plasma shots shouldn't be too bad
either ...

From the location you picked up the PX312 before you can also acquire a
snail further upward that is released on the ground of the cave towards
the sunflowers and (in case of emergency: by a couple of skilful
pushes), forced to eat them all up. Beyond the location of the mushroom
field on the far right, you take out the explosive rabbit by avoiding
the unstable ground at the same time, and follow along an air duct
downstairs, whilst taking out the flying scourges with your Plasma Gun.
As soon as you arrive above the tower, save your game, then aim at the
door by shooting diagonally down at it. The missile will open fire at
the spheres, destroying the doors! Now throw the Coronium crystal
downwards, behind the tower, to make it blast the rock inside the shell
far below, which will calm down immediately again, so continue flying
left, picking up the very last key. Make your way upwards, left and down
to the final cave, where you can throw a first glance at the recharging
station.

Teleport all the way back to the ship, right into the armoury. Switch on
the transporter, push the cannon inside and follow its way. Continue the
same way, conveying everything to the teleport by means of the lift and
save your game. Use the lift as a pulley to hoist the ordnance into the
transporter, go in yourself, and as soon as you arrive at the
destination, finally use the Plasma Gun to shoot it to the right, taking
care that your shots are pointed above the turret. Now point the cannon
directly at the turret and fire it using your RCD, which will cause the
turret to get levelled eventually. Now head into the transporter with
your giant gun and switch it on using the switch below. Push the cannon
down the slope and underneath the machinery. Just a few shots later, the
door beyond the big chasm doesn't form an obstacle anymore either. Use
your PX312 at this point to shove the cannon over the hole into the
transporter, then teleport back to the lift-transporter device. Proceed
the same way as described with the table. Now you are close to the
shell, which had the Coronium chunk within its mouth before. Blast the
turret located beyond the small opening by jockeying your well-proven
fire-spitter onto the table and aiming a couple of skilful shots at it.
The Energy Pod dropping down triggers a switch on the ground which opens
the previously locked door for you. Again, save your game.

Deal with the robots on your way down and blast away the twin-doors on
the left. Open fire on the switch and make the cannon get conveyed
through the trap door, save your game near the door, shooting again at
the switch and teleporting out of there. Now it should be possible to
get through the door very quickly. The door near the waterfall can now
be destroyed using the same well-proven method. Take the heavy rock with
you and upwards, where it is thrown onto the raft, which works as a sort
of watergate controlling the inflow. This makes the water level rise,
which on its part slows down the flow of the waterfall, so that you can
now pass it easily. A little bit further upstairs, you can already see
the Destinator behind a locked door, but at first you're forced to deal
with an extremely intractable robot at the lower left of the room. This
dude can be repelled using your PX319, whereupon you save your game in
its vicinity. After having advanced backward even more again, it's easy
to just teleport behind him and make him get pushed into the water by
firing a decent lot of shots at him. Back in the room with the
transporter, save your game before you get into the robots' recharging
room via the Beam-O-Mat in the center. There you damage the droid
currently worked at and drag the sphere into the teleporter to your
right. Block its way back to the transporter leading to the recharging
station by dragging it towards the upper left. Now the robots can't
recharge anymore, which is going to make the whole thing a lot easier
from now one, doesn't it.

Beam back to the transporter room and enter the right transporter. Take
the rock off the controlling raft and push up the raft, which will cause
the the water level to rise at lightning speed, and as the two Coronium
chunks explode, it will cause the maggot generator to get blasted
likewise at the very same time. The valve closes, and the caves fill
with water, which makes lots of special doors get opened all of a
sudden. Again, teleport to the transporter room and climb up towards the
Destinator, which, due to the unsealed door, can now easily be carried
into the transporter on the left side. As soon as it's inside the
transporter, throw it into the teleporter on the ceiling, free the two
crew members and convey them upwards. Save your game there. Follow the
air duct upstairs, the slope upward to the left, towards the
transporter. Activate it and enter it, then continue right into another
airflow taking you back to the surface. Fly into the main cave and use
the teleporter to the west cave, which is located above the first Imp
nest. Now place yourself left of this transporter and switch it on using
your RCD. The two beaming stations will now produce a deadend loop,
which you (after saving your game, of course!) try out instantly. After
a short while, Triax appears himself, in person, and walks straightaway
into our prepared deadly trap.

You merely need to get back to your crew now, get them and the
Destinator back on board and put the latter one into its designated
place in the cockpit:

Now you're again on your way, trying to reach the borders of infinity
and maybe even many, many more...

 
CONGRATULATIONS!

YOU'VE MADE IT!

( Author: Gunther Off - translated to English by A. Eibach (andi3@gmx.net))