BATMAN - THE CAPED CRUSADER

We were able to come up with maps but we have found that there are 
different versions (why do they do that!) around and our versions  are not
compatable.  We have placed them in the map system in case  you have that
version.

Since writing the above paragraph, I have placed onto the map  portion of
this program two versions of the Penguin game and one  version of the
Joker.  I have also placed text versions of each  game to assist you.  This
hint disk is over two months late  because of the efforts made to map this
game.  There may be,  though the company denies it, modifiable maps.  They
seem to  change very slightly, and just enough to get you lost.

Unfortunately, this game is just about impossible to display on a graphic
map.  The problem lies with the amount of back-tracking you have to do to
complete the game.  The map is also not logical and makes mapping 
absolutely impossible.  If you try and map it yourself, good luck!  

The best way we have been able to figure out is a walkthrough.   Sorry, but
its the best we can do.  You will want to take each set of instructions and
when completed, pause the game.

When you are walking make sure to collect as many food items as possible.
The Joker game is easier than the one against the Penguin.  Kick  the rats
away as much as possible.  As you get further into the  game their damage
is increased.  The food you pick us will  completely fill you energy to
capacity.  Only use them when you  are very low.

Using this walkthrough it took two of us, one reading and one playing, to
over two hours to complete the game.  This game really needed some kind of
save feature!

Use care, it is very easy to get lost.  

Some general hints:   Always try and take on the henchmen in a  small
screen.  Avoid the large screens, it takes too much time for  you to do
damage and the smaller penguins, rats do too much  damage.  Once you have
found a small screen to do fighting, fight  the henchman and pick up the
food.  Walk two screens away and  return and the henchmen will return and
you can kill him for more  food. Do this until you have all your inventory
filled.

NOTE:  If you walk just about all the way to the right or left and  allow
just enough room for the henchmen to turn you can hit him  and he will fall
back and you can will continue to hit him over  and over.  Each henchman
takes eight hits to kill.


                       Batman vs the Joker

To get to the Joker you will first have to disarm 10 bombs.

To be able to eat you must first get the teeth and use them.  (Batman
without teeth?)

Some versions have a False Nose that you can use.  If you find it,  use it
and the enemy won't recognize you.

Don't use the wooden shoes or clogs.  They will slow you down.   Sneakers
though, will speed you up temporarily.

You don't have to be right under the bombs to defuse them, just  use the
pliers while in the same screen.

You will begin in the park.

Go right and up through the door and collect the Bat-o-rang.

Select the Bat-o-rang by clicking on it and clicking on the hand.

Now go down through the door, right, and down through the door, and right. 
 You should be able to get the light bulb.

Once you have the light bulb, go left until you get to the crowbar. Get the
crowbar.  

Once you have the crowbar go left into the dark area and use the light bulb
 by clicking on it and the hand.  Go left till you see the hut.

Use the crowbar by clicking on it and the hand to get into the hut.

Get the flashlight and use it. Drop the light bulb.

Now go down through the door and get the gas mask.

Now go down through the door, left and then up through the door. Get the
carrot.

Now go down through the door, right, and right again, up through the door.
Put on the gas mask and go right.

Now go down and left and down. Then go down the ladder. 

Now go right till you find the ladder going up.

Climb up the ladder, go up and get the teeth.  Use the teeth.

Go down through the door, right, up through the door and up throught the
door again, and then go left.

Climb down the ladder, and go left, then climb up the ladder, and down
through the door and then go left.  Get the fish.

Now, go right, down and right. Get the money.

Now go up through the door, right, down through the door, right, up through
the door and you should see a ladder.

Climb the ladder get the ears, use the ears, drop the ears and go back down
the ladder.

Now go down through the door, go right and up through the door, go right
and up through the door.  Now go left and you should see a ladder.

Climb up the ladder, then go right, down through the door, left and down
through the door. Get the pliers.

(Once you have the pliers it is now time to disconnect all the bombs you
have been passing.  You disarm them by standing below the dynamite charge
and click on the pliers and the hand.)

Go up through the door, right, up through the door, left and you will come
to a ladder.

Go down the ladder. Disarm the bomb.

Go right, down through the door, left and down through the door. Continue
left and disarm the bomb.

Now go up through the door, left, down through the door, left and up
through the door, and again up through the door. Disarm the bomb.

Go left. Disarm the bomb.

Go left, down through the door, get handcuffs and up through the door. Now
go right till you come to a ladder.

Go down the ladder and then right. Disarm the bomb.

Now go right and up the ladder, then right and down through the door and
down through the door again, then go left and up through the door. Disarm
the bomb.

Go down through the door and climb down the ladder and go left. Disarm the
bomb.

Now go left and climb up the ladder.  Go up through the door. Disarm the
bomb.

Go right, up through the door, left, down through the door and left. Disarm
the bomb.

Now go up through the door. Disarm the bomb.  Drop the pliers.

Go down through the door, right, up through the door, right, down through
the door, left and down through the door. You should see a ladder.

Climb up the ladder, go right, up through the door twice, go left. Climb
down the ladder.

Go left and climb the ladder, down through the door twice, right, up
through the door, right, down through the door and continue right till you
can go no further.

Go up through the door, right and up through the door, left and climb the
ladder.

Go right, down through the door, left, down through the door, right, up
through the door and you have entered the carnival. 

Go left into the tent and up through the door and take camera.

Use the camera and drop it.

Go down through the door twice and right twice.  Go up through the door
twice, and go left.

Use money on slots and get the ammo.  Note: drop the money here when you
have picked up the ammo.  You may have to come back again and why waste the
carrying space.  You can only carry one ammo clip.

Now go right and then go down through the door twice, right twice and then
go up through the door. Get the gun.

Now go down through the door, go right and then go up through the door.  
Get the coconut.  

Go down through the door and right twice.  You will be at a shooting
gallery.

Click on ammo and gun and then fire at ducks.  You must hit all of them. If
you don't and run out of ammo, then go back to the slots and use the money
to get more ammo and come back here and do it again.  

When you win, get the sunglasses.

Drop the gun and any ammo then go left and up into the mouth.

Use sunglasses.

Get the turkey and go left and you should be at a ladder.

Climb up the ladder, go right.  You should now encounter the Joker.
Whenever you encounter him, you must hit him till he leaves.  If you don't,
he will not be at the end when you take him out.  Watch out for his bad
breath.

When he is gone, go up through the door twice and fight him again.

When he is gone, go left twice and fight him again.

When he is gone, go right, down through the door, left and hit him again.

When he is gone, down through the door, left and take the elephant.

Climb down the ladder and go right and up through the door. Get the milk.

Go down through the door, go left and down through the door, go left and up
through the door, go left and down through the door. Pick up the object and
use it and drop it.

Now go up through the door, right and up through the door.   Climb up the
ladder.

Go up through the door and get the dagger.

Now go down through the door, left and then down through the door and then
continue left till you meet the Joker.

Start hitting him again.  He will not run away!  If he is not here, you
didn't fight him somewhere above, go look for him.  

He will fall to the ground.  Now use the handcuffs on him.  Get the card he
will drop.

Now go right twice, up through the door and left.  You should see a wall
size picture of the Joker.  Use the card next to it (its a secret door).

Walk through the card, Go left and collect the can of food.

Now go down through the door and climb down the ladder.

Go right, down through the door twice, continue left till you can go down.

Go down and you should be at the Rollercoaster.

Go right and climb up the ladder.

Continue right till you see another ladder.  Climb up this ladder.

Go left and duck from the birds.

Continue left and you will come to Robin.  Use the knife to free him.

TAA TAAAAA  Game over.

================================================================
Ok, now for the Penguin.

Good luck on this one.  I only know of two people who have been  able to
complete this game!  Even with this walkthrough, the small  penguins take
so much out of you that its near impossible... but  here goes:

The aim of the game is to find the Penguin's master computer and  place a
virus disk into it.  

In the BATCAVE:

Go left and get the Bat-o-rang.  Activate it by clicking on it and  the use
hand.

Now go down through the door and left.  Get the grenade. Now go right two
rooms and pick up the wrench.  Get the wrench and  use it.  Now drop it. 
The computer is now fixed.

Go right and get the key and badge.  Then, go left and through the  door
and get the disk.  Use the disk.  It will be gone when you  use it.  Now go
through the door twice and exit the batcave.

In the town.

Keep going left and get the sneakers.  Use them (they have limited  use)
and they will speed you up.  Now go right to the rope and go  up.  As fast
as possible, go right and pick up the flashlight.   Now go left to the rope
and back down.

Now go right till you reach the part where the policeman shoots at  you.
Quickly use the badge.  Now go right and pick up the rope.

Now go right to the rope and climb the warehouse.  On top go right  till
you get to the door at the end of the buiding.  Use the key  and enter the
door.

Go left, get the food and go left and get the magnet.  Now go  right till
you come to a door and go in it.  Go right again and  when you see the door
go through it.  

Go right again you will see a room called Shadows Everywhere.  Go  through
that door and go right.  Get the food.  Now go left and  use the grenade. 
There will be a flash.

Now go through the door and left.  You will find a room called  Getting You
Down?.  Now use the rope.  You will now be in the  stockrooms.

Go left and get the lift key.  Then go right through the only  door.  If
you have your sneakers, use them.

Go right, down, right and get the knife.  

Now go left and through the door until you are in a room filled  with
umbrellas.  Use the flashlight.

Go right and up through the door.  Now go left and get the dart.

Now go back to the lift.  When you get there, use the key and you  will be
returned to the top of the wharehouse.

Drop the flashlight and lift key and go to the room where you blew  up the
wall.

Use the dart in the room with the dart board.  A safe will be  shown.  Get
the pass key and leave.  Go back to the ground level  to the place where
the mansion door was.

Use the pass and you will now enter the Penguins Lair.

Go left and then up and get the key.  Now go back to the room  where you
entered the mansion.  No go up through the door, left,  up the stairs and
righ til you reach the end of the corridor.

Now go down and get the video tape.

Go left and back down through the door.  Go right, then down,  right again,
and up through the door.  Now left, and up. then  right.  Use the key and
to through the large white door and go  right and get the virused disk.

Now go right, up, left, up through the white door with cabinets  next to it
and then go right.

Get the trumpet and use it.

Now go right into the Penguins computer room and use virused disk.  Done! 
(whew!)