Blood Money


 CHEAT MODE:

 Press the [Help] key, then the number [1] or [2] key to replenish
 your supply of lives or money respectively.


	Tips by David Moore.                      typed by DOUG.....

FIRST.....
The first planet you should go to is the one with the submarine - the reason
for this is you can collect at least twelve lives. The only weapons you need
are the up and down missiles. If you die, get the missiles immediately
because you need them to get maximum money.                                                              
Just before you reach the snakes, go to the middle of the screen and start
shooting. If you have the up and down missiles, you will only have to hit 
them a few tomes. Watch their patterns, and you can manoeuvre around them
easily. You have to shoot the snakes in the head to quickly destroy them.

SECOND.....
The second planet you should go to is the red planet - the hardest one. Get
the up and down missiles as often as you can because you wont survive very
long without them. If you finished the green planet with about ten lives
you will probably use about half of these on this stage. When you get the
chance, collect as much money as you can to ensure a regular supply of
weapons and lives. At the end of this stage you confront a round face with
little arms all the way round it. Shoot all the arms 'till they disappear,
but be careful, because they continually shoot balls at you. Make sure you
have the up and down missiles otherwise you will have no chance.

THIRD.....
The next planet to go to is the helicopter one - the easiest. On this you
don't need any weapons at all apart from the ones you get anyway! This
planet is easy, and it gives you a chance to collect a few more lives. At
the end of this stage you get a spaceship that goes up and down and fires
at you. Just shoot the middle of it by keeping your chopper lined up with
it' centre.

FOURTH.....
The final level to tackle is the one with the man. Again get the up and down
missiles each time you die, and once again collect money for lives and 
weapons. If you have the up and down missiles you shouldn't have any trouble.
At the end of this stage you get a sort of pointed snake with lumps on it's
back. Blast all the lumps and then shoot it in the mouth.