                                ZANY GOLF

Loading Zany Golf

Welcome to Zany Golf, home of the unconventional putt. To load the game,
put the game disk in your boot drive and turn on your computer. At the
introduction screen, press a number from 1 to 4 (depending on the number
of players) and you'll start the game.

If you don't want sound, press <control>-S. You can pause the game at any
time by pressing <ESC>.


Viewing the Course

The Preview screen is the first thing you'll see at each hole. It shows the
layout for the entire hole. This screen also lists any tips, special
instructions, and bonus information. To leave this screen and tee off, click
your mouse button. You can return to a hole's Preview screen any time by
pressing H or ?; press any key to resume the game.

Once you get on the course, your view isn't limited to what's on the screen.
Move your mouse to the edge of the screen and another section of the course
will scroll into view.


Putting the Ball

The mouse is your putter. Spot the cursor on top of the ball, press and
gold the mouse button until you see an "X" beneath the cursor, and move the
mouse in any direction. You'll see a dotted white line that indicates the
distance and angle of your putt. The farther you pull the mouse back, the
harder your putt. (There's a limit to how far back it will go, so don't
expect to whack the ball off the course!) Let go of the mouse button to
putt.

If you don't like the starting point for your ball, move your cursor to any
of the other starting points and click the mouse button to respot your ball.

If your ball is hidden behind an obstacle, press the space bar and the
computer will spot the cursor on the ball for you.

If you change your mind about putting, put the cursor back on the ball.
When you see an "X" beneath the cursor, you can safely release the mouse
button without putting.


Keeping Score

Your goal is to complete all nine holes in par or better. If you do, you'll
get a special reward. Par is the maximum number of strokes it should take
for you to get the ball into the hole. You'll find the par value for each
hole on the top left corner of the screen. You can still successfully
complete all nine holes without getting par or better, but you won't get
the special reward.

The box (or boxes if there's more than one player) in the top right corner
of the screen shows how many strokes you have left. After you get the ball
in the hole, any strokes remaining are carried over to the next hole. The
total strokes you get for a hole comes from adding up two things: the par
value for that hole and any strokes left over from the previous hole. The
only exception is the first hole, where you start out with 5 strokes.

Let's say you complete the first hole in two strokes , giving you three
extra strokes. The second hole is par 3; add this value to the extra
strokes and you'll get a total of six strokes for the second hole. Any
strokes left over from the second hole will carry over to the third hole,
and from the third hole to the fourth hole, and so on.

If you don't run out of strokes before getting the ball into the hole, you
get to advance to the next hole. If you do run out, you'll go to the score
card where you can start the game over again.

To call up the score card anytime, press S; press any key to return to the
game.


Getting Bonus Strokes

The Preview screen lists any bonus opportunities for the hole. In addition
to a hole's regular bonus opportunity (if it has one), there are two types
that can appear at any hole: hitting the fairy with your golf ball or
completing the hole while the timer bonus is running. You can get up to
four free balls with the timer bonus - it all depends on how fast you putt.
You'll see a clock and four balls on the top left corner of your screen. As
time ticks by, one ball will disappear. If you finish the hole while four
balls are still on the screen, you'll get four free balls; if you finish
while three balls are on the screen, you'll get three free balls; and so on.


........Complete Manual provided by THE HELLION  &  THE CORSAIR........