                        T A N G L E W O O D
 
You've never played an adventure like TANGLEWOOD!  -- TANGLEWOOD 
is ALL graphics (over 700K of them), is totally mouse-controlled, 
and has NO text entry.  No hunting through the dictionary, or 
knowing the right answer (if only you could get the program to 
understand!). 
 
You control 5 mining mobiles, each with its own separate programs 
and data, searching the vast surface of planet Tanglewood for 
priceless D-crystals, and perhaps even an Ice Emerald.  Venture 
into the six uncharted regions which require special computer 
data, and where skilled operators are rare.  Go underground into 
the mines and risk the possibile corruption of your mobiles' 
programs.  Brave the unpredictable landslips of the earthquake 
zone.  And to make things tougher still, keep dodging the hostile 
mobiles which a rival company is using to try to stop you.  They 
have stolen the documents which give you alone the right to mine 
the planet, and hidden them deep in the multi-floored complex 
which is their headquarters, protected by vigilant computers. 
 
You're involved in a desperate race against time.  In 10 days the 
inter-galactic court meets to decide your fate -- and without 
those documents you've no hope.  Somehow you must win the trust 
and support of the native Tanglians, a race whose culture is 
almost impossible for earthmen to understand.  Only they are 
likely to provide you with the means to succeed -- if you can 
pass their weird initiation tests. 
 
TANGLEWOOD is played in real time.  There are some things that 
have to be done at night, when the topside temperature falls to 
tolerable levels -- and only at night will the mysterious 
D-crystals function.  There are over 3,000 locations which you 
can visit, out of a total of nearly 12,000, and unlike those 
infuriating games when you discover after 3 weeks that you should 
have done something different at the beginning, it's nearly 
always possible to finish TANGLEWOOD unless you do something 
delibrately stupid, like stamping on the disks. 
 
                     THE BACKGROUND OF TANGLEWOOD 
 
A CHALLENGE 
 
It all began one bright spring day when you found a tattered blue 
envelope waiting on the mat outside your door.  It was from Uncle 
Arthur, a friendly but faintly black-sheepish sort of uncle, 
known for unusual (and unsuccessful) business ventures, usually 
connected with distant planets.  Uncle Arthur was now in trouble.  
He knew of your brillance with computers, so had turned to you 
for help as his only hope. 
 
He was the sole owner (or so he claimed) of the mining right to 
T'ngl-y-wd, a small, undistinguished planet in a remote galaxy.  
He had purchased these rights from a large company who had 
unloaded a lot of useless property in an attempt to improve their 
cash flow.  Little had come of it, and the planet was about to be 
added to the long list of Arthur's might-have-beens when a series 
of extraordinary events occured. 
 
To make a (very) long story short, one of Arthur's mining mobiles 
had been used to rescue a local inhabitant from the clutches of a 
rogue T'ngl-dog.  This usually benign animal had been badly 
disoriented by a particularly violent earthquake, and had gone 
astray.  The rescued inhabitant turned out to be the great sage 
of T'ngl-y-wd, and in gratitude, the local people showed Arthur 
(via the mining mobile), certain secret properties of some 
pretty, but otherwise unremarkable stones, which had previously 
been ignored. 
 
The properties of these stones - now christened Dog Crystals - 
might prove to be of great value, and might even have military 
potential.  Their close relative, the very rare Ice Emerald could 
have important industrial use. 
 
Sadly, Arthur talked too much over a beer one night, and the news 
leaked out.  The Big Boys began to muscle in. 
 
The company who (Arthur says) sold him the mining rights, now 
maintain that they never did so.  They have re-established their 
operational base on the planet, with a hastily assembled new 
security system.  They are deploying short-range Disrupter 
Mobiles to damage Arthur's own vehicles.  Furthermore (Arthur 
claims), they have stolen the documents which gave him sole 
mining rights, and are bringing a case in the Inter-Galactic 
Court to have him thrown out.  Right may be on Arthur's side, but 
what's right when faced by big money? 
 
His only chance is to find those documents before the court case 
- which gives him ten days.  To make matters worse, his latest 
Mobile Operator, who was making some progress, has vanished under 
suspicious circumstances, and there is no time to get another.  
He appeals to you, with your knowledge of computers, to help him, 
and promises you a large share of the profits if you succeed.  
Well, you've got nothing special to do over the next few days - 
so why not give it a try?  You may suspect that Arthur's side of 
the story may not be the only one, but he might just be telling 
the whole truth for once (and after all, family is family!).  One 
thing's for sure, you expect to find some pretty rickety 
equipment, knowing Arthur's preference for second-hand hardware 
whenever he can get it (good thing he didn't have any say in the 
selection of Pyour @excellent, top quality computer equipment!).  
Even so, you could hardly have expected the antique load of junk 
you find when you get started.  Computers out of the 20th century 
- and who on earth wrote the software?  The only help you've got 
are the notes Arthur's last operator, P.A.T., made before he 
vanished (just in case anything "happened" to him). 
 
                   NOTES ON T'NGL-Y-WD (BY P.A.T.) 
 
THE HISTORY 
 
Discovered in the early 21st century by a Hungarian Gypsy with 
vaguely Celtic ancestors, it is called PTanglewood@, since nobody 
(apart from the locals, and Pete Lyon) can pronounce its name. 
 
THE CULTURE 
 
The local inhabitants are called T'nglians.  They are basically 
friendly and seem to be on our side, though difficult to contact.  
There are rumors that they are telepathic.  Ritual is very 
important to them, even when it seems to have absolutely no 
purpose.  They are basically non-technological, but have 
strangely adopted and adapted a few of our ways (in addition to a 
few strange traditions of their own!). 
 
SPACE FLIGHTS 
 
There is a daily shuttle flight to the three moons - Neera, 
Fahtha and Furthers.  We can not figure out why - they're only 
barren chunks of rock!  It is suspected the journey is some sort 
of ritual observance. 
 
TRADING 
 
There are four Trading Centers, but they each have their own 
system.  T'nglians only seem to offer what they think you need 
(and they are not always right).  Each center used only one form 
of currency, but only to accomodate us (T'nglians themselves 
don't use currency) - but they don't seem to understand the 
system properly:  they won't give change!  All trade requires 
proper ritual protocol first. 
 
TELEPHONES 
 
We have no idea what they use these for.  They possibly may be an 
integral part of some elaborate initiation ritual, or may even be 
just a practical joke.  They must be answered, however, the 
T'nglian etiquette requires a reply to any form of 
"communication", even when it does not seem to make sense. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS 
 
There are currently two known forms of information exchange.  One 
is straight forward and direct, and our mobiles can translate it 
with no problem.  Other forms require correct ritual response 
(such as when trading).  One of the mobiles has a collection of 
the known necessary data for this second form, but the disk was 
left in one of the bases, and we don't know which one! 
 
T'NGLIAN BASES 
 
Due to recent developments, we can't get to either of the two 
allied bases.  One's the earthquake zone, and we can't get the 
road repaired since a landslide buried the equipment.  The other 
requires understanding of a particularly obscure T'nglian ritual.  
We suspect the local church is somehow involved. 
 
INITIATION RITUALS 
 
T'nglians won't completely trust us until we've passed various 
tests.  Trouble is, they won't let us know what the tests are!  
Surprisingly, their trust seems to be based on our skill at 
following the rituals rather than on our integrity! 
 
DOG CRYSTALS 
 
We haven't found any of these yet, but the great T'nglian sage 
told us the following:  The crystals are inert during the day due 
to the great heat of the T'nglian sun.  At night they may be 
tuned into certain electronic frequencies that will then feed off 
the tiny quantities of radiation such as our mining mobiles give 
off.  They are breathtakingly beautiful.  Also (and this is what 
interests The Military), once they are tuned in they will protect 
their hosts against certain forms of nuclear energy, and are able 
to absorb and store great quantities of toxins without harm to 
themselves.  The T'nglians claimed to have used them in their 
political negotiation ceremonies for years.  (You can believe all 
of this if you want - though it may be just a local, old wives' 
tale, or superstitiously used as another part of their weird 
ceremonies). 
 
ICE-EMERALDS 
 
These are apparently very rare (so rare you may never find one).  
They are closely related to Dog Crystals, but absorb heat.  They 
could therefore be very valuable in industrial applications which 
need small efficient cooling systems.  They are also made inert 
by exposure to the T'nglian sun, though probably because they 
very quickly absorb as much heat as they need. 
 
                           OPERATOR'S MANUAL 
                         THE OPERATING SYSTEM 
 
RITTER-PAVLOVSKY TRANSFER (EARLY VERSION): 
 
It's ancient!  Modern systems use a development of 
Ritter-Pavlovsky Transfer, but Arthur couldn't affort that.  We 
use a hybrid of pre-digested data plus an early form of R-P 
transfer for unmapped areas.  This means that what you see is not 
what is actually there (so don't believe it just because you see 
it!).  The map of the planet's surface is continually re-created 
from mobiles' pre-recorded data.  For unmapped areas (like the 
forest), we have to switch to R-P transfer, and it's as primitive 
as the original pioneering system. 
 
As it is usually impossible or incomprehensible to provide an 
exact image of alien landscapes, the mobile matches what it 
actually sees against its data banks, and provides us with the 
nearest equivalent in Terrain terms.  Since data banks are 
limited, views which are actually different may be transmitted to 
us looking the same.  There is also a time-lapse while the 
computer carries on the conversions, so that the mobile cannot 
transmit continuously.  By the time the picture gets to us, the 
mobile has moved on - it may have gone around full circle, or 
found a dead end and returned, changed direction, etc.  There is 
no guarantee that if you go back the way you came, you will get 
back to where you started, although you often do.  In the early 
days, this used to drive operators crazy until they learned to 
use the mapping techniques well known from certain sorts of 
computer game (imagine, they used computers to play games in the 
old days!).  It's tough, but not impossible. 
 
                               CONTROLS 
 
THE CONSOLE 
 
Everything on the console works by mouse control - you don't need 
to type anything in.  If you want to use something, or open it 
up, click on it with the left mouse button.  If you want to know 
more about it, use the right mouse button.  There are 7 switches 
on the console, and five numbered buttons.  These are easy to use 
(with the left mouse button).  There are 5 smaller screens apart 
from the main one.  On the top is a picture of the mobile (if it 
hasn't been zapped), then there are three frames that show what 
it's carrying.  The bottom screen is used by the mobile to show 
anything it finds (these objects don't show on the map - see 
notes on the OPERATING SYSTEM). 
 
To pick something up, drag it to the carrying screens; reverse 
the procedure to drop something.  It won't drop anything where 
there's already something (it confuses the computer), or in 
certain other places where it might not be retrievable.  Be 
careful - the hostile mobiles sometimes collect the things they 
find (and steal from us when they zap our mobiles) and hide them 
in their Control Center. 
 
MOBILE MOVEMENT 
 
You may move the mobiles by joystick or mouse.  The F10 key lets 
you activate and deactivate the joystick.  When the joystick is 
activated, the mobile will be controlled by the joystick around 
the planet.  However, the mouse is still used to select the 
necessary controls on the console. 
 
With the joystick deactivated, the mouse is used for both mobile 
movement and selecting the necessary controls on the console. 
 
DIALS 
 
The dial on the top left is the HHeat Gauge@.  This changes 
between red and white during the day, and between light blue and 
deep purple during the night.  Bands move across the gauge to 
give a visual impression of the time.  The PDay Elapsed Number@ 
is also shown. 
 
The yellow dial below the mobile picture is the HEnergy Gauge@. 
 
The dial to right of text indicates when an object is found. 
 
STEERING 
 
When you call a mobile (with the numbered buttons) it will appear 
in the center of the screen - or if it's in a building or a base, 
the building or base will appear center screen.  To set the 
mobiles in motion, move onto the main screen (the bulb comes on), 
and click either button.  The mobile will then follow the 
mouse/joystick movements if it is able.  If it was hidden in a 
building, you'll have to direct it out before it will appear.  If 
it can't move, it won't tell  you - it just won't move.  If it 
gives you a reason for not being able to move into a certain 
area, then one of the other mobiles probably has the ability to 
go there.  All the mobiles have limited energy, and will stop 
when they run out.  They recharge automatically while one of the 
others is being used - but it's not good to get caught out in the 
open and energy can be difficult to judge (seeH Computer 
Reports@). 
 
HNote:@  Steering with the mouse can be tricky until you're used 
to it.  When you start, imagine the mouse is in the center of a 
small four-pointed star, and use the points as your directions.  
The biggest move rules, so if you've shifted the mouse a long way 
right, that direction will rule until you move back again, or 
move even further in another direction.  Very small moves are 
enough to change direction, and if you anticipate a turn 
slightly, it helps. 
 
To stop, click again with either button.  Since all commands are 
effective with the buttons up, hold down the button a little 
longer than usual to be sure. 
 
In some sections (i.e. during R-P transfer), you will get an 
arrow on the screen.  The PNorth@ (rust colored and pointing 
upward) pointing arrow will cause a change of LOCATION in 
whatever direction you are facing (and due to the problems of R-P 
transfer, that may not be the direction you thought you were 
facing).  The green arrows (PWest, East @andP South@) will cause 
a change of DIRECTION only (turning on the spot), not a change of 
location. 
 
COMPUTER REPORTS 
 
While you're moving, the computers are fully occupied keeping 
track of your position.  You can only get updates on things like 
energy, time of day, heat and so on, when you leave the main 
screen (and then, of course, the hostiles start tracking you). 
 
THE MOBILES 
 
Most of these are fit for the scrap yard.  They've not been 
properly maintained, and most of them have bugs in their data 
(for example, all climbing data seems to have been corrupted). 
 
HMobile 1:@  This is a pretty ancient mining model, but it works 
fairly well.  It was reinforced with extra plating for defense 
against Disrupters, but it didn't work and all we've got now is a 
very heavy mobile.  It also lost its mining data somewhere, so 
you can't even get the thing into the mines at present.  However, 
it has been adapted to use simple tools. 
 
HMobile 2:@  A bit more modern than Mobile 1, but not necessarily 
any better.  It's still got its mining data, but the climbing 
data has gone awry.  It's been fitted with a fancy jet-propulsion 
program to help it jump short distances, but it won't work!  Also 
its shock-absorbers keep seizing up - they've got an oil leak or 
something equally ludicrous. 
 
HMobile 3:@  This one is similar to Mobile 2.  It has some data 
which is supposed to work in conjunction with a gravity reducer 
to reduce its weight.  Ideally, it could then go into the swamp.  
But guess what?  The gravity reducer's been lost.  Arthur reckons 
it went into one of the lakes during the big earthquake.  
 
HMobile 4:@  This is supposed to have an adaptation to let it go 
on water as well as land.  It's also supposed to have the 
tool-using extension like Mobile 1.  I wish I knew more, but we 
can't even contact this one, since the opposition stole its 
receiver aerial.  The mobile's in its base but useless.  If the 
aerial can be recovered, it goes in the bottom left section the 
base. 
 
HMobile 5:  @This is the most modern of the lot - but it's got to 
stay near water during the day because the cooling system can't 
cope with land temperatures.  Some idiot also had the bright idea 
of programming it not to go into any buildings (to protect it or 
something).  Still, it is invulnerable to disrupters, and it has 
a new repair program to fix any of the others if they get zapped, 
though the program's only on Beta-test.  This one might just turn 
out to be the most useful of the lot. 
 
All mobiles will tell you where they are, and whatever they know 
about what they're carrying.  Just click the right switches.  
They also report any other communications directly, including 
messages from the Opposition's computer. 
 
                            THE OPPOSITION 
 
There's not much information available but here is what we know: 
 
Their mobiles have limited intelligence and range.  If you keep 
moving, they're not very good at tracking you down, but if you 
stop - watch out!  Also they constantly run out of gas, and new 
ones have to be sent out.  They haven't gone into buildings that 
we know of. 
 
Their Control Center is protected by a computer system which I 
managed to hack into very briefly before I was noticed.  It seems 
to work in two ways.  The external system will zap any 
unrecognized mobile unless it is protected.  The internal system 
allocates a security level to any mobile which gets in - and 
that's where the bug is, if there is one.  If you get past the 
external system, the internal one assumes you must be authorized, 
even if it doesn't recognize you.  The only trouble is that so 
far we haven't been able to get in!  Also, use of the internal 
computer itself is probably part of the security system, so if 
you get in to use it at all, you probably must be a recognized 
user. 
 
In the end, the best plan might be to somehow cause a power 
failure in the system, but the problem is how (unless the Dog 
Crystals really do work like the old sage said). 
 
                              SUMMARY 
 
HMovement and commands:  Mouse-controlled 
 
1.  To summon a  mobile, click on one of the numbered mobile      
          buttons (left hand side) 
2.  Move  mouse pointer  onto  the  main screen  (bulb in lower  
right      corner will come on) 
3.  Click mouse to start mobile movement 
4.  Mobile follows mouse 
5.  Click mouse to stop mobile movement 
 
Movement and commands:  Joystick-controlled 
 
1.  To summon a mobile, click on one of the numbered mobile 
buttons         (left hand side) 
2.  Then maneuver the mobile with the joystick 
 
OBJECTS 
 
To pick up an object, drag it from the PFound@ screen to any one 
of the three PCarrying@ screens.  To drop an object, reverse the 
process of picking it up.  You cannot drop objects: 
 
a)  Where there is already another object 
b)  Off the main map 
c)  Certain locations wich might later change 
 
To use or open an object (i.e. a box), use the left button to 
click it on.  To get information about an object or a program in 
the HMobiles @suite of programs, use the right button to click on 
it. 
 
HNote:@  to simplify things a bit, whenever you have used an 
object correctly it is simply removed from the game.  This gives 
you less to worry about. 
 
HSWITCHES 
 
(Don't read this section if you'd rather find out by experiment.) 
 
There are 4 switches at the foot of the main screen.  From left 
to right: 
 
1.  Quit game (confirmation required). 
2.  Save or restore game (up to 5 files).  To restart use either 
and        select RESTART from window. 
3.  Sound on/off. 
4.  Pause. 
 
Only Switch 1 will work before a mobile had been selected.  So to 
restore a saved game, load the program, select a mobile, then use 
Switch 2. 
 
There are 3 more switches underneath mobile picture.  From left 
to right: 
 
1.  Suite of programs. 
2.  Brief location description, and sometimes more.  
3.  Time warp (moves from day to night and vice-versa). 
 
DIALS: 
 
1.  Top left - Heat/time gauge. 
2.  Under mobile picture - Energy. 
3.  To right of text - indicates object found. 
 
The console is only updated when you stop moving and exit the 
main screen. 
 
                              CONCLUSION 
 
Tanglewood is a game designed to challenge and develop your 
problem solving abilities rather than your reflexes.  It may seem 
foreign and incomprehensible at first, but that is how it should 
be!  The conclusion to Uncle Arthur's saga depends on your skill 
in unraveling the mysterias of Tanglewood.  Take time to learn 
the layout of the planet and the charisterictics of your mobiles 
-  your perseverance will soon be rewarded with remarkable 
discoveries of many kinds.  You may even come to consider 
Tanglewood a habitat worthy of permanent relocation...but we 
doubt it!

End.........
