          R         -------------------------------         R
          A           TEAM SUZUKI  -  (C) GREMLIN           A
          S         -------------------------------         S
          T     THESE DOCS WAS WRITTEN DOWN BY: RASTAN!     T
          A                                                 A
          N                     1 9  9 1          '100%     N

THE MAIN MENU
-------------
Althought Team Suzuki is more of a simulator than an arcade
game, the controls and menu system have been designed to
make working your way through the game as straightforward as
possible. As a consequence, most of the information you will
need is presented on the screen, and to chose any particular
option, just move the mouse pointer over it and hit the left
button.

On loading the game, the first screen you will be faced with will
offer you the choise of motorbike by engine size, and the choice
of practice, a single race, or a full season. The smallest bike,
Athe 125cc, has automatic gears, and is therefore the easiest to
control. The Lager bikes, as well as having manual gears, are
faster, and so winning on these bikes is much more difficult.

Practice will take you straight to the grid of
an empty circuit, where you will be able to
familiarise yourself with the controls of the
bike.

You will also make your choice of control
methods on this screen. There are three
sets of controls, indicated over the page.

Normal Controls
---------------
As well as being able to chose from the options menu, pressing
the HELP key will toggle between the normal and alternative
controls. Normal controls are:

Right Mouse button: Increase Revs.
Left  Mouse button: Decrease Revs.
CTRL : Change up a gear (not used on 125cc)
Shift: Change down a gear (not used on 125cc)

Alternative Controls
--------------------
Right Mouse button and roll mouse forward: Increase revs/
Accelerate.
Left Mouse button and roll mouse forward: Change up a gear.
Right Mouse button and roll mouse backward: Brake.
Left Mouse button and roll mouse backward: Change down a
gear.

Joystick Controls
-----------------
Joystick controls are also available, and are as follows:
Left: Steer Left
Right: Steer right
Up: Accelerate
Down: Brake
Up and Fire: Change up a gear
Down and Fire: Change down a gear

'Over Shoulder'
---------------
In any mode, these is an option to look over
your shoulder and check out who's ap-
proaching you, or catching up with you.
This is done by pressing the space bar.
Releasing the space bar will return you to
the normal viewpoint.


SINGLE RACE
-----------
Choosing the single race option will take you to another manu
with the following options.

EXTRA TRACKS: This option is included to allow tracks other than
the sixteen already included to be loaded in. These tracks will
be made available from Gremlin Graphics at a later date.

QUALIFY: Go straight to the grid to qualify. Qualifying takes place
before any race. Whatever time you achieve in qualifying, you
will qualify for the race, but your position on the grid is deter-
mined by your fastest lap time, even if you crash of quit.

LAPS PER RACE: The default for the number of laps per race is
five, but this can be changed, allowing up to fifty laps per race.
The number is changed in jumps of five laps each time, and is
changed up by clicking on the right mouse button, and down by
clicking on the left.

TRACK: This allows you to change the track that the single race
will take place on. Use the left and right mouse buttons to move
through the tracks until you find the one that you wish to race
on.
You will also be given the option to enter your name on this
screen at any point by simply typing it in and hitting ruturn
key.

FULL SEASON
-----------
If you choose this option, then the choices
you will be offered are as follows:

Load Game: You will be given the opportu-
nity to load and save your poistion after
every race should you wish to do so. This
option allows you to load up a saved
position. As well as saving your own data, this will store data for
all of the other riders.

Save Game: This option allows you to save a position to disk
after any race. The instructions on how to do this are presented
on screen. Although the option to save to ram is availabled, this
can only be used three times a season.

Extra Tracks: A for single race.
Qualify: A for single race.

Laps per race: A for single race.

On this screen the current standing of the racers will also be
indicated after each race has been completed. Again you will be
given the option to enter your name on this screen. Type your
name and it will automatically be entered into the league table.

RACING
------
Once you are in the race, an indicator in the top left hand corner
will indicate your current lap time, your best time underneath
this, and the number of laps to be completed underneath this.

Bike Damage
-----------
Should your bike collide with another bike, or move too far off
the road you will sustain a certain amount of damage. A
message will be flashed up onto the screen indicating the
nature of the damage, and should you have too many collisions
during one race your bike will become so damaged it will not be
able to complete the race, and your race will be over.

Position Indicator
------------------
As you complete a lap in a race, your
position will be flashed up onto the screen
as well as when you overtake an opponent.

Other Options
-------------
Team Suzuki is probably the smoothest scrolling polygon racing
game ever, but believe it or not, it can be smoother and faster.
Here'z how. As well as working out the position of all the
polygons and then drawing them to the screen, the computer
also has to draw your dashboard sprite. If you think you can
manage the race without the dashboard sprite, then try it.
Decause the computer doesn't have to think about the dash-
board, it can spend more of its time making the polygons
smoother.

As the default option, the other bikes are left riderless in order
to keep the game smooth and fast. However, there are riders
available, and these can also be toggled on and off. Although
the game isn't quite as smooth with riders on the other bikes, it
does heighten the realism. Of cource, which combination you
prefer to use when playing are as follows:

Toggle riders on/off:M
Toggle Bike dashboard on/off:C

These options can be toggled at any point during the game,
including whilst you are racing. This allows you to experiment to
find the option with which you are most comfortable.

Viewpoints
----------
As well as the standard first person perspective point of view,
the bike can also be watched from several
other points of view when in practice mode

1-Front view from the bike.
2-Back view from the bike.
3-Fixed Position Camera view.
4-Camera view angels relative to the bike.
5-Camera view angels relative to North.

Views four and five can be altered by using the following keys
on the keypad.

2-Rotate up.
4-Rotate left.
6-Rotate right.
8-Rotate down.
Up Arrow key-Zoom in.
Down Arrow key-Zoom out.

These options only apply during practice, and during racing you
are limited to the options 1,2 and 3 only.

Action Replay
-------------
After a race the last fifteen to thirty secounds of a race are
recorded and are shown following the conclusion of a race.

Other Keys
----------
Q: Auit qualification, or race you are currently competing in.
ESCAPE: Quit the game completely.
BACKSPACE: Pause. Any key will
continue the game.
<:   Darken the screen.
>:   Lighten the screen.
P:   Display position
D:   Display damage

KEYBOARD CONTROLS
-----------------
[HELP] Toggle between normal and alternate controls
[CTRL] Change up a gear (normal mode only)
[SHIFT] Change down a gear (normal mode only)
[SPACE] Look over shoulder
[M] Toggle riders on/off      [D] Display damage
[C] Toggle bike dash-board on/off   [P] Display position
[1] Front view from bike      [2] Back view from bike
[3] Fixed postion camera view      [4] Cam. view Angle relative to bike
[5] Camera view Angle relative to north

Keypad (In view modes 4&5 above)
--------------------------------
[2] Rotate up            [4] Rotate left
[6] Rotate right         [8] Rotate down
[Up Arrow] Zoom in         [Down Arrow] Zoom out
[Q] Quit qualification/race      [Esc] Quit game completely

                                                  Made by Rastan!!
           -----------------------------------------------------
            END OF DOCS! END OF DOCS! END OF DOCS! END OF DOCS! 
           -----------------------------------------------------