------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 |                                         |  
                 |          T E A M   Y A N K E E          | 
                 |                                         |  
                 |       U  S  E  R    G  U  I  D  E       |                                          
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    
                       A C K N O W L E D G E M E N T S
    
         Amiga and Atari ST                        Steven W. Green
         Implementation                            Richard T. Horrocks
  
         IBM PC Conversion                         The Assembly Line
  
         Graphic Design                            Kevin R. Ayre
  
         Addition Graphic                          Gareth B. Williams
         Design
  
         Loading Sequence                          Richard L. Yapp
         Design                                    John G. Wood
  
         Additional Design                         Peter Hellings
                                                   David M. Pringle
    
         Documentation                             Antony J. Bond
         Design and Typesetting                    + [RYGAR]
  
         Additional Documentation                  Marisa H. Pauwels 
         Design                                    & [RYGAR] 
  
         *ASCII TYPING*                            [RYGAR] (WOW! YEAH!!!)
  
        Team Yankee the computer game is based on the novel Team Yankee by
                  Harold Coyle, copyright [c] 1987 Presidio Press
 
             Unauthorised publication and all that shit is prohibited 
                                All Rights Reserved

           Software Copyright  [c] 1990 Oxford Digital Enterprises Ltd.

                       Software published by Empire Software

          Empire Software * 4 The Stannets * Laindon North Trade Centre
         Basildon * Essex SS15 6DJ * Tel: 0268 541126 * Fax: 0268 541125
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                C O N T E N T S

Figures                         Figures vii

Prologue                        Prologue ix

Chapter 1                       Setting Up  1
                                      Making a backup  2
                                      Loading Team Yankee  2
                                      Using Hard Disk Drives  3

Chapter 2                       Controls  5

Chapter 3                       The Start-up Screen  7

Chapter 4                       Vehicle Identification  11

Chapter 5                       The Breifing Screen 13

Chapter 6                       The Gameplay Screens  17
                                      Quadrant View  19 
                                           Quadrant 3-D View  20
                                           Map Quadrants  21
                                           Status Quadrant  23
                                      Full Screen Mode  24
                                           Full Screen 3-D View  25
                                           Full Screen Map View  26
                                           Full Screen Status View  28

Chapter 7                       The De-briefing Screen  29

Chapter 8                       Vehicle Types  31
                                      M-1 Abrams  32
                                      M-113  33      
                                      M-2 Bradley  34
                                      ITV  35
                                      T-62  36
                                      T-72  37
                                      BMP-2  38
                                      BTR-60  39

Chapter 9                       U.S./Soviet Organisation  41
                                      U.S. Organisation  42
                                      Soviet Organisation  43
                                      
Chapter 10                      How To Play Team Yankee  45
                                      Training Scenario  46
                                      Strategy  49
                                      Higher Ranks  51
                                      Terrain  52

Glossary                        Glossary  53

Nato Military Symbols           [RYGAR] - It's The IFF-Pic, DUDE !

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                F I G U R E S

Chapter 3                       The Start-up Screen  7
                                Figure 3.0      The Start-up Screen  8
                                Figure 3.1      Player Registration Menu  9
                                
Chapter 4                       Vehicle Identification  11
                                Figure 4.0   Vehicle Identification Screen  12

Chapter 5                       The Briefing Screen  13
                                Figure 5.0      The Breifing Screen  14
                                Figure 5.1      The Artillery Overlay  16

Chapter 6                       The Gameplay Screens  17
                                Figure 6.0      Quadrant Mode Screen  18
                                Figure 6.1      The Map Quadrant Screen  22
                                Figure 6.2      The Status Quadrant Screen  23
                                Figure 6.3      Full Screen Mode  24
                                Figure 6.4      Full Screen Status Mode  28

Chapter 8                       Vehicle Types  31
                                Figure 8.0      M-1 Abrams  32
                                Figure 8.1      M-113  33
                                Figure 8.2      M-2 Bradley  34
                                Figure 8.3      M-901  35
                                Figure 8.4      T-62  36
                                Figure 8.5      T-72  37
                                Figure 8.6      BMP-2  38
                                Figure 8.7      BTR-60  39

Chapter 10                      How to Play Team Yankee  45
                                Figure 10.0     Training Scenario Map  47

[RYGAR] - These Figures are not in this ASCII file you should understand that
          it is impossible to make figures like tanks,maps etc, in ASCII..
          BUT, I might do them on Deluxe Paint later !  If you got any Pics
          together with this doc, then i did them !.. hehe   [RYGAR] 901108

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                P R O L O G U E

The background for the scenarios of the computer game
Team Yankee lie in the book of the same name by Harold
Coyle. A New York Times Number 1 bestseller, Team 
Yankee is THE definitive tank warfare novel. It is the story
of a U.S. Army tank unit in Germany during the opening
days of a third world war fought with conventional weapons.
The hero of the book is an Army captain called Sean Bannon,
who commands a reinforced tank company with two tank
platoons and a mechanized infantry platoon assisted by
antitank vehicles. The name of that company is Team 
Yankee.

At the start Bannon and his men are put on alert after a clash
of warships in the Persian Gulf - a chilling echo of the current
world political climate. (CLI-Mate ? [RYGAR] HEE HEE) Hostilities
begin when the Russians strike across the German border. Bannon's
wife and children are hurriedly evacuated back to the United States
admidst confusion and danger. Nobody really believed that
this could happen:

       Both  Colonel Reynolds and  Captain Ban- 
       non stood  there transfixed,  staring at
       the point where the two Russian jets had
       disappeared  up  the  valley.   Bannon's
       mind was almost numb.  He kept trying to
       convince himself that  maybe they hadn't
       really seen two Russian jets.   Maybe he
       was mistaken.  It  had  to be a mistake.
       The thought, "We can't really be at war.
       That  isn't  impossible,"  kept  running
       through his mind.

After a long day and night of waiting, the second day of war
sees the Russian first echelon forces break through and enter
the valley which Bannon and his troops are defending.

At the start of the First Battle there has been a sudden
detonation in the village at the centre of the valley:

       "ROMEO 25 - THIS IS MIKE 77 - SPOT REPORT
       - 5  T-72 TANKS MOVING WEST - GRID 190852
       - CONTINUING TO OBSERVE - OVER."   Bannon
       snapped his head to the left.   There was
       no need to use a map.  There was only one
       place  the  Russians would  be,  and that 
       was  between  the  forests   2200  meters 
       away.....

Team Yankee acquits itself well in the following action and
the Russian attack is repelled. The Team is now relieved
from its position, so that it can spearhead an offensive to the
north which will take it into the flank of 28th Soviet Guards
division. The move up north, a few miles to the rear of the
line, is performed in the dark. All of the supporting C
company gets lost on the way, so Bannon and his men are
forced to launch an attack through the woods towards
Arnsdorf with no support at all.

       As the Team passed between  the two tree
       lines  and rested  the small  hill,  the
       terrain beyond opened up before it.  The
       hill that was Objectuve LOG was directly
       in front about four kilometres away.  As
       the Team moved out from its last  cover,
       all  eyes  for  kilometres  around  were
       turning  on  it. The  other  people, the
       Soviets, also watched.  Reports  flashed
       to their commanders.  Gunners threw down 
       their mess tins and  slid into position.
       Loaders  and  ammo bearers  prepared  to
       load the next round.......

After frantic action, Team Yankee runs through Objective
Log, and rushes onwards to Hill 214 overlooking Arnsdorf.
Bannon desperately tries to call hIs team to a halt over the
radio - but it is out of action - and he then loses hIs tank as
well.

Finally, he makes it up to Hill 214 on a PC 
to discover that the rest of the Team has successfully taken it. 
Bannon decides that this hill, won at such cost, would be defended
from any Russian attempts to retake it until support arrives. As
the light falls, the Team sEes a Russian motorised rifle company
arrive in Arnsdorf. The defense of Hill 214 has begun. Close
on midnight the Russians start a three-pronged attack on the
hill:

       Two of the BTR's  were  starting to fire
       at Bannon's tank. Bannon decided to take
       them out first.  Grabbing  the override,
       he slued the turret to the left.
       "GUNNER - HEAT - TWO  BTR'S - LEFT BTR!"
       "FIRE!"
       The first HEAT round found its mark just
       below the small turret on the BTR.   The
       impact   and  the   internal  explosions 
       caused the BTR to swerwe to the left and
       out of the battle............
       Kelp watched as a  figure came up out of
       the T-72's hatch and looked to the rear.
       The  turret   began  to  travers  round.
       "SHIT! HURRY OR WE'RE DEAD MEAT!" yelled
       Kelp.........

After a close-fought night encounter Team Yankee succeed
in repulsing everything the Russians can throw at them. As
the dawn of the next morning breaks they are relieved by A
company of the 78th Mechanized Infantry. Team Yankee
are now the prestige group of the battalion. After a few days
rest behind the lines Bannon is informed that his team is to
spearhead an advance of the entire brigade deep into enemy
territory. Initially this was to take them up a tree-lined valley
past the town of Issel, onto Korberg:

       The   sudden  realization  that   he  was
       running  side by side with  a Polish tank
       was numbing.   It was  the  sensation  of
       urine ([RYGAR] - Urrk) running  down  his
       leg that  galvanised  Avery into  action.
       He began to slew the turret and issue the
       fire command.     "GUNNER - BATTLESIGHT -
       TANK!"   The  target was so near  and the 
       thermal  sight  so uniformly  green  that
       Tessman  didn't  recognize  the object in
       his sight as a  tank....Avery  fired  the
       main   gun   from  his  override  without
       bothering  to  go down to his sight.  The
       report of  21's  gun  and the   impact on
       target  were as one.  The T-55 veered off
       to the left, and began to burn.

After some vigorous fighting and attacks from deep inside
the forest, Team Yankee make it up to the top of the first
valley, where it turns eastwards past Langen. It becomes
clear that they have met only the lead elements of an entire
tank brigade. Major Jordan and Bannon sit down to discuss
how they can possibly hold their position:

       After studying  the   terrain, they dis-
       cussed  the  various   ways  the Soviets
       could come.  Both were in agreement that
       they  probably  would  not  try sneaking
       through the woods again. Odds were, they
       would  try  to bull  through  this time.
       Hence  division's  and  brigade's belief
       that   they   would   use   the   Langen
       Gap........

The problem is, YOU won't have Major Jordan to help decide
on your strategy, In Team Yankee the computer game, you
will never be sure whether the Russians are going to play by
the book or not. All of the above Scenarios form the game
you are going to have to master. There is only one way to find
out whether or not you're up to it........

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                Setting Up

Making A Backup Copy

Make a copy of your Game Disk before you attempt to play
the game. Before you make a copy, ensure that the game
disk is write protected by either attaching a write protect
strip (5.25 disk) or opening the write protect notch (3.5"
disk). User your copy while playing the game (ensuring that
it is write enabled, since information is written to the disk
during play) and only use the original disk for making
further copies. If you are unsure of how to copy a disk, read
the manual for your computer. (Or use X-copy maybe? [RYGAR])

Loading Team Yankee

IBM PC And Compatibles

Insert your operating system disk and wait until you see the
a> prompt on your screen. This game will perform Blah blah
sorry im not typing more of this IBM Pc bull.. [RYGAR]

Commodore Amiga (This is What we WANT! [RYGAR])

Performance will be enhanced if you disconnect all external
disk drives and peripherals and ensure no other software is
running. Turn on your computer and insert your Copy (Crack!)
of the Team Yankee game disk at the Workbench prompt.
(A1000 users should insert their Kickstart disk first.) After
a few moments the loading sequence will commence. If you
wish to halt this at any time then hold down the left mouse
button. Once loading has been completed you will be
presented with a filing screen. Read about how to proceed
in Chapter 3.


Atari ST   (I'm not typing this either haha sorry! [RYGAR])

USING HARD DISK DRIVES

IBM PC and Compatibles

(Skipped... [RYGAR])

Commodore Amiga

For details about hard disk installation look at the Read.Me
file on the game disk. To do this, boot with your normal
Workbench disk and then insert the game disk and double
click on the TY disk icon and then double click on the icon
labelled Read.Me

Atari ST

(NEIN !!!   I'm skipping this shit too.. [RYGAR] )

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                Controls   

The game is designed to run using keyboard, analogue
joystick or microsoft compatible mouse on the IBM PC. On
the Atari and Commodore Amiga, the game may be run
using either mouse or keyboard, although mouse control is
recommended. In the following documentation the phrases
"click on icon X" and "press fire with the pointer over icon
X" are synonomous and should be taken to mean either:

[a] Place the pointer over icon X and press the return key.
[b] Place the pointer over icon X and press the fire button of
the joystick (IBM PC only).
[c] Place your pointer over icon X and press the left mouse
button.

Keyboard Shortcuts

Using certain keyboard shortcuts instead of directly using
the pointer can become a quick way to perform certain
actions, especially when you are not using a mouse.

Key                          Action

F1 or 1                  Choose Platoon 1                        
F2 or 2                  Choose Platoon 2
F3 or 3                  Choose Platoon 3
F4 or 4                  Choose Platoon 4
F7 or 7                  Select map view for chosen platoon.
F8 or 8                  Select 3d view for chosen platoon.
F9 or 9                  Select status view for chosen platoon.
F10,F0 or 0              Toggle between map, 3d and status
                         view for chosen platoon.
Escape                   Toggle between "Quadrant" and "Full
                         screen" views
Delete                   Quit game
Help                     Pause game

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                The Start-up Screen

The first screen of the game resembles an open filing cabinet
for the simple reason that all of the information about your
performance can be accessed from here. Figure 3.0 shows
a representation of this screen. On the front of the filing
cabinet there are three icons which look like labels. The
leftmost icon is the QUIT GAME icon. If you click on this
icon then you will be asked to verify whether or not you wish
to quit the game. The middle icon is the CREDIT icon,
which provides information on the game's designers. You
are also able to choose the desired language for play, by
clicking on the language icon at the lower part of the credit
window. The rightmost icon is the PRACTICE icon, which 
allows you to play a practice scenario.
This Scenario will familiarise you with the control of the
game, without stretching your tactical expertise. It is highly
recommended that you attempt to master this scenario be-
fore you pitch yourself into full-scale war. If you wish to
practise, then go to chapter 5, which details the next portion
of the game. There are also details about the practice sce-
nario in chapter 10 - How to play Team Yankee

There are eight files available in the filing cabinet, and each
one can hold information about your exloits. When you
first start to play the game you will be hold the rank of private,
and the default name on the left hand side of each file marker
is PFC. Bannon. Sean Bannon is the major character in the
book Team Yankee. On the right hand side of each file
marker your will see the characters #1. This represents the
First scenario or `chapter' of the game.The game has a total
of five chapters. You must start at the first and you will only
be allowed to progress to the next chapter if you are 
victorious in the previous one. If you wish to start playing the game
proper, then you must register yourself as a new player. To
do this, locate the pointer over one of the eight file markers
and press fire. The relevant file will now spring up from the
cabinet, and you will be presented with all of the file
contents. See Figure 3.1 below. (Not Included [RYGAR])

You may now type in the name you wish to use in the area
at the top of the registration menu. The program will auto-
matically append all of your combat records under this name
in the filing cabinet. Underneath your name you will see
your strike rate under KILLS and LOSSES. This details the
number of Soviet vehicles you have disabled and the number
of your own vehicles which have been lost, respectively,
under your command. In the middle of the file is detailed the
name of the scenario, or `chapter' which will take place if
you proceed into the game. At the bottom of the file there are
three icons. If you select the PLAY option before a name has
been entered a confirmation box will appear requesting you
to register your name.

The leftmost icon is the PLAY icon which take you into the
briefing screen for the first scenario, described in Chapter 5,
once you have successfully passed the vehicle identification
stage, detailed in Chapter 4. You will not be allowed to play
the game until you have typed in your playing name. The
middle CANCEL icon causes the current file to go back into
the filing cabinet. The rightmost RESET icon causes all of
the campaign information under the current filename to be
erasedm in case you wish to start your campaign over again.
You may have the information for up to eight different
campaigns stored in your filing cabinet. We have made life
easy for you by writing all of your compaign information to
the filing cabinet automatically at the end of each scenario
you successfully complete. You may only play a particular
scenario at any one time as one of the characters in your filing
cabinet. If you succeed in your first battle, then your
scenario chapter will increment by 1 and you will be able to
proceed to the next battle.

There are five separate chapters to the Team Yankee cam-
paign. If you manage to succeed in the whole campaign then
you will be rewarded with a promotion to the next rank of
Corporal. You will then have to replay each of the five
chapters under your new exalted position. But beware,
because as you progress, so the tactical skills you will have
to deploy become more complex and demanding. It will take
total success in a further four ever more draining campaigns 
until you can attain the highest rank of Captain. Victory in
Team Yankee is not going to be simple!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         
                            Vehicle Identification

[RYGAR] - Not really needed since your playing a cracked version i hope.. but!
          here goes anyway:

If you are playing the full game rather than the practice
scenario, then you will have to suffer the rigours of a vehicle
identification class before you are allowed near a tank. The
screen will show the profile of a particular NATO or Warsaw
Pact vehicle, which you must identify by clicking on the
correct vehicle name on the right hand side of the screen.

You will be shown three screens with profiles of three
different vehicles, and you must identify all three correctly
to proceed. See figure 4.0.

NOTE: The vehicle identification screen will show 10 different views of the
      vehicle you must identify together with a rotating view in the
      centre.

In the mayhem of battle it is imperative that you can tell at
a glance the difference between an M113 and a BMP-1, if
only because if you shoot the wrong one you will be killing
men who are on your own side! If you study the section in 
the manual on vehicle types (chapter 8), you should be able
to graduate through vehicle identification school with flying
colours!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             The Breifing Screen

The briefing screen, shown in figure 5.0, presents all of the
information which is available from intelligence for your
forthcoming scenario, and also allows you to set up artillery
bombardments where applicable. The name of the forth-
coming engagement is shown at the top centre of the screen.

In the central part of the screen, to the left, you will see a full
map of the battlefield. This displays all of the major features,
forests, roads, rivers and villages. It also shows the disposi-
tion of your forces for the start of the battle.

Each platoon of Team Yankee is represented by an Ameri-
can flag. There is also an overlay on the map which is
referred to in the briefing text. To the right of the map is a
notebook, which details all of the important information
which intelligence can provide before the battle. You may
flip through this notebook by clicking on the arrows at the
bottom or top of each spage, where applicable. There is
nothing to prevent you from reading through the notebook as
many times as you wish. Beneath the map you will see
displayed the battle start time on an LCD display at the
bottom of the screen.

The cross swords icon will take you into full battle.
After you have clicked on this you will be asked to confirm
that you wish to go into battle. Make sure that your are fully
prepared!

The notebook icon reactivates the notebook if you have
previously activated one of the next two icons. This contains
your briefing from Company HQ based on all known infor-
mation before your engagement.

The eye - or information - icon is a special feature which
allows you to glean further information from the map. When
you are in information mode place your pointer over the
map, and you will notice that it changes shape into a cursor.
If you click at any point you will notice that a flashing box
will appear on the map. This box appears at the closest point
of special interest relative to your cursor position. The
notepad will now display the particular information about
this position on the map. You will find out important facts 
relating to your platoon and local topography when you use
this feature. Alternatively, now that you are in information
mode, you can llok at all the special points of interest simply
by clicking up or down through the notepad. When you get
to a new page, the new point of interest will flash on the map.

The cannon icon allows you to set up artillery barrages in
advance of the battle. You are not able to access artillery
during theh battle itself. You will be allowed to create a
number of separate barrages of HE (High Explosive), 
DPICM (Dual-Purpose Improved Conventional Muni-
tions) and SMOKE shells. See figure 4.1

The precise availability of artillery will depend on your
scenario and rank. The precise details of each barrage that
you set up for the battle may be varied on the overlays which
appear on the notepad once you have clicked on the cannon
icon.

By pressing either of the two arrows next to the timer on the
overlay you may alter the start time for a particular barrage.
Clicking on the red cross stops that barrage from taking
place. The location for a particular barrage is shown by a
flashing yellow square on the map. This location may be
changed by moving the cursor over the map and clicking at
the desired position. At lower levels of rank you will often
find that artillery is either not available or is preset to a useful
value. For further information on the available artillery
types, please read the glossary at the end of the manual.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                           The Gameplay Screens

Team Yankee is unique, since the game not only allows the
player full control over each of the four platoons in the Team,
but can display the actions of all four platoons simultane-
ously! This means that you have access to all 16 vehicles in
the Team, and you are going to have to become proficient at
managing all of them. Team Yankee is designed to test your
leadership and tactical skills to the quick. You can display
in either "quadrant mode", shown in figure 6.0, where all
four platoons may be controlled at once, or "full-screen
mode", shown in figure 6.3, where the display homes in on
just one platoon.

You have the flexibility to display either an overhead map
view of the surrounding area, a simulated 3-d view of the
battlefield, or a status screen showing the performance of all
vehicles in a platoon. Irrespective of which screen mode you
choose during battle, there is a constant column of informa-
tion to the right of the screen.

Just beneath the Team Yankee logo there is a white flag, or
game QUIT icon, which allows you to exit the battle. You
will be asked to confirm this decision before you can quit.

To the right is the game PAUSE icon, which allows you to
take a break or take your breath during battle. Underneath
you will find the TIME display, which gives the time in
hours, minutes and seconds on a 24 hour clock. You should
keep an eye on this to note forthcoming artillery attacks or
when your scenario involves a deadline. Beneath the clock
there are two STRENGHT histograms topped by Russian
and American flags, These show the relative strenghts of
the two sides, calculated according to casualty and morale
factors. At the bottom of this column you will see your
RANK displayed graphically, this obviously differs accord-
ing to the rank you have reached. Along the bottom of the
screen there is a single text line which will display any vitally
important information. You will be told about forthcoming
artillery strikes, casualties in your team or hits on opposing
cavalry.

Quadrant View

When you first enter the game you will be in "quadrant
mode", where the active part of the screen is split up into four
sections relating to each of the four platoons of Team
Yankee. The upper row of icons in each quadrant allow you
to alter what is viewed on the screen - see figure 6.0. The
leftmost ion will expand the view of that particular platoon
to occupy most of the screen - in this "full screen mode" you
will be offered extra features - but you will not be able to see
all of the action. In the middle the name of the platoon is
displayed. To the right there are three icons. The map icon
changes the view to a map quadrant with a plan view of the
battlefield. The 3-d view icon changes the view to a 3-d
simulation of the battlefield. The status icon changes the
view to a status screen. The icon corresponding to the
current viewing mode is shaded in yellow. Chapter details
how to access these features bY using the keyboard.

Quadrant 3-D view

When the view in a quadrant is the 3d display, then unDer-
neath you will see the following icons:

Two red arrows which form a rotate icon, allowing The
player to rotate the view clockwise or anticlockwise through
360 degrees. This is equivalent to rotating the gun turret - IT DOES
NOT ALLOW YOU TO ALTER THE DIRECTION IN
WHICH YOU ARE TRAVELLING. Between the two rotate arrows lie two 
compasses: the upper (red) compass
shows the direction in which you (i.e. the gun turret) are
facing; the lower (green) compass shows the direction in
which the vhicle is facing. If you click on the central part
of the compass, then your view will rotate towards the
direction in which you are travelling.

To the right of the compasses are five icons which represent
the various types of weaponry available to the unit. Click-
ing on any of these is equivalent to a command to the loader
to load a particular shell. WHen the shell is selected the icon
clicks in (like a button) and when it is loaded the icon lights
up. You will also hear a signal when the weapon is available
for firing. The weapon loading times accurately reflect the
time taken for a vehicle to re-arm itself in battle. See Chapter
8 for more details. Once a weapon is fully loaded, the pointer
becomes a set of sights when moved over the 3d display.
Clicking at a particular point on the landscape leads to the
shell being aimed at that point (with some predetermined
inaccuracy factors). The five available weapon types, from
left to right, are:

HEAT - a high explosive anti-tank round (see glossary);
SABOT - an armor-piercing tungsten shell (see glossary);
TOW - a high-range anti-tank missile (see glossary, and
note in particular that this may only be fired when your 
vehicle is STATIONARY);
SMOKE - a smoke grenade which allows enemy vision to
be obscured (see glossary);
MACHINE GUN - which is always available to the player
and has an `infinite' number of rounds (see glossary).

Most platoons will not have all weapon types available (for
instance, the M1 Tank does not carry TOW missiles). If a
weapon is not available then that particular icon will not be
displayed.

Once the platoon has no more loaded shells of a particular
type there will be a delay before it is possible to use them
again, according to the re-load times of your weapons.

The operation of all these screens is "non-modal". This
means, for instance, that while your are waiting for one
platoon to load its weaponry, you are free to do anything you
wish with any othere platoon.

Map Quadrants

The major capability of the quadrant map screen (see figure
6.1) is to alter the movement and formation of any platoon.
The whole of the map may be viewed at once, or you may
zoom into any portion of the battlefield using the icons to the
right of the map, All of the major features of the battlefield
are displayed on the map - roads are light grey, rivers are
blue, forests are green shaded clumps, and buildings are
marked as red and white boxed.

There are two zoom icons represented by magnifying 
glasses. Clicking on the upper zoom icon magnifies the
resolution of the map. Clicking on the lower zoom icon
demagnifies the map. There are seven levels of magnifica-
tion. On the lowest level the whole width of the battlefield
- 4 miles across - is displayed. On the highest magnification
the width of the map is 0.2 miles across.

The full width of the map in miles is displayed as a number
between the two zoom icons. If you have a mouse, and you
are not viewing the whole battlefield, you may scroll the map
in any direction by locating the pointer over the map and
depressing the right mouse button. The map will then scroll
at a speed and direction relative to the position of the cursor
from the centre of the map. 

In order to move your platoon you have to provide informa-
tion about the destination and the pseed of the platoon. Place
the pointer over the map, locate the desired location to which
you wish to move to, and press fire. A crosshair will be left
on the screen which shows the end point of the current
movement. Now go to the slider bar and set the desired
speed of travel. You may do this either by clicking on the
arrows at the top or bottom of the slider bar, to increase or
decrease the platoon speed respectively, or by clicking the
pointer at the point on the slider you wish the bar to reach.
The current speed is displayed, in miles per hour, under the
bottom arrow of the slider bar.

The expected time of arrival, or ETA, at the present
destination is printed at the top of the right hand side of te
map quadrant. Note that only one destination is allowed for
any platoon at any time.

This destination may be altered at any time, irrespective of
whether or not the platoon has reached its destination. The
maximum speed of any of your vehicles is 50 miles per hour.
The maximum speed you may achieve depends on the 
terrain type across which you are travelling. The fastest
terrain type is road, followed by cross country, forest and
then river, which is the slowest terrain type. If you wish to
travel by the fastest possible means, try to find a suitable
road.

Status Quadrant

The Status Quadrant (Figure 6.2) is accessed by clicking on
the status icon. Each of the four vehicles in each unit will
then be displayed on this "status" screen (By now you will,
hopefully, be able to recognise and identify the profile of all
of your vehicles!) To the right of each vehicle are two bars.
The lenght of the upper bar represents the morale of the
personnel in the vehicle. Morale is improved when the
vehicle achieves a hit on a Warsaw Pact tank, and decreases
when the platoon is fired at, or when there are losses on the
American side.

The lower bar represents the effiency of the vehicle and its
personnel. The efficiency decreases when the vehicle has
suffered some damage from opposition fire power.

The values of morale and efficiency affect the ability of your
platoon to strike the opposition accurately and switly when
a command to launch a weapon is raised. If a vehicle is
terminally damaged it will turn red on the status screen. That
vehicle and any remaining personnel will be left behind
when the platoon moves on. War is no place for the faint
hearted! If all of the vehicles in a platoon are disabled, that
platoon becomes ineffective, and a red status screen will be
displayed permanently

Full Screen Mode

It is possible to concentrate your view on just one single
platoon by clicking on the top left icon of any of the
quadrants. This will take you into "full screen mode" for that
platoon (see figure 6.3). The top row of icons in this mode
are identical in function to those in quadrant mode. The only
difference you will note is that all of the platoons are named,
and the current platoon in view is highlighted in yellow. If
you click on any platoon name then the screen will change
to a full screen view for that platoon. The game remebers
what type of view was last displayed for that platoon, and
this same type of view is displayed for the platoon in full
screen mode.

Full Screen 3-D View

The type of view is identical to the quadrant 3-d view, only
it is larger, and there are additional facilities available for
use. The control panel underneath the view has the follow-
int icons:

Enging Smoke   Clicking on this icon causes your platoon to
produce engine smoke. This will prove very useful in
confusing your enemy if you find yourseelf in a tight corner.

Infra-red (or thermal) imaging.   This system will be vital
to see what is happening when it is dark, or when Russian
forces are covered by smoke. Anything which produces heat
can be imaged using a thermal sight - you will soon get used
to identifying vehicles by their thermal image. This feature
is very useful for identifying vehicles camouflaged on the
edge of forests. Contrary to popular belief the thermal image
generated in a modern tank is green and not red.

Rotation icon and compass display.   These work in the
same way as in quadrant view, and the mouse shortcut
still applies.

Zoom.   When this icon is accessed the central portion of the
screen is magnified by a fator of 10. You will find the zoom
facility essential for spotting vehicles which are over 500m
away. Since the range of some of your (and the enemy's)
weapons is over 2 km, using the zoom feature may save your
life. Note that when you are in zoom mode your speed of
rotation is slower than in normal viewing mode.

Weapons.   These icons work in identical fashion to the
quadrant weaponry icons. The only difference is that the
number of remaining missiles for eah type is displayed
underneath each icon. If you have 100 or more of a particular
weapon, the number displayed will be 99.

Laser range finder.   Underneath the weapon displays you
will find the laser range finder, which lights up red when in
use. The range finder will lok on to a reflective target (such 
as an armored vehicle) if the firing cursor is placed directly
over the object. You will know that the system has locked
on because the cursor changes shape to a rectangle. The
range finder, however, will not keep a moving object perma-
nently locked - so it is easiest to use on a stationary target
when you are stationary. Remember, though, that when you
are stationary you present an easier target for you opponents
if they have spotted you. Although using the range finder
will increase you shooting accuracy, it does not provide a
100% hit rate. Clicking on this icon will toggle range finding
on and off.

Full Screen Map View

The full screen map for a particular unit has all the capabili-
ties of the quadrant map as mentioned earlier, with some
additional features. On the map itself you will see that the
flags relating to each Team Yankee platoon have a number
next to them - these relate to the platoon number of that unit.
The extra icon features to the right of the map are as follows:

Scroll icon.   The four arrows underneath the ETA display
allow you to scroll your map in any of the four directions. If
you click on the region in the centre of the arrows the map
will automatically centre on your platoon position.

Dead Stop icon.   This red icon, just to the bottom left of the
speed slider bar, causes your platoon to come to a dead halt
when clicked.

Wide formation icon.   This increases the spacing between
vehicles in your platoon to 100 metres. You might wish to
increase your formation spacing if you are travelling in file
through a narrow gap. If you are spotted while you go
through the gap, then you will have more time to react, since
your spacing is greater.

Narrow formation icon.   This reduces the inter-vehicle 
spacing in your platoon to 50 metres.


The bottom six icons of the vertical column to the left of the
screen allows you to change the formation type of the vehicles
in your platoon:

In line - places your vehicles in a line abreast relative to your
direction.
                                     
Column - places your vehicles in a line ahead relative to
your direction.
                             
Echelon right - places your vehicles on a left to right
diagonal relative to your direction.
                                         
Echelon left - places your vehicles on a right to left diagonal
relative to your direction.
                                 
Wedge - places your vehicles in a wedge formation.
                                                
Vee - places your vehicles in a vee formation.
                              
Full Screen Status View
                                                           
As in the quadrant status view, the morale and efficiency of
each vehicle in a platoon is displayed. The extra information
provided in full screen view shows the number of each
weapon type each on of your vehicles has remaining. All
vehicles in Team Yankee are armed with an 'infinite'
number of machine gun rounds. Particular damage to any
vehicle is displayed in red. See figure 6.4

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            THE DE-BRIEFING SCREEN

A scenario in which you are involved may end for a number
of reasons. You may have won because you have reached a
desired attacking position, held a defensive position for
enough time, or destroyed the majority of the opposing
forces. You may have lost because you have not gained a
desired attacking position, held a defensive position for long
enough, or lost too many of the vehicles of Team Yankee.
The victory criteria alter according to your rank, so your
game performance will have to improve as your rank in-
creases.

When the end of the scenario has been reached you will be
told the outcome in the text line at the bottom of the
gameplay screen. You then have the option to click on ThIs
line in order to view the de-briefiNg screen, or to quit the
game using the white flag icon. The reason we Have
provided thIs option is for the case when you have WON a
scenario, but have lost so many veHicles tHat you would
rather retry the scenario again. Remember that if YoU win a
scenarIo and complete by moving onto the debriefing screen
then all of your gameplay infOrmation is written to disk foR
the start of the next scenario. You may review the status of
aLl of your platoons before making your decision. Note that
if you have LOST the scenario, then you will have to replay
the scenario again and no information is written to your
game disc.

If you move to the de-briefing screen, then you will recieve
a summary of what your campaign has achieved. Once you
have noted the comments on this screen then press fire to
return to the start-up filing screen.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   
                             Vehicle Types

M-1 Abrams Main Battle Tank

Specifications
--------------
Crew                4
Weight (Tonnes)     54.5
Full Lenght (cm)    977         
Engine Type         Turbine
Road Range (km)     498
Max Speed (km/h)    72.4 [RYGAR: Not bad 'ey? For a Tank...]
Max Speed Off-road  48.3                          
Frontal Armour (mm) 380                  
Main Gun            Smooth                 
Calibre (mm)        105
Effective Range (m) 2500             
Maxrate (round/min) 8       
Total Rounds        55
HEAT Rounds         Yes
SABOT Rounds        Yes
TOW Rounds          No

The M-1 Abrams is the fastest and best protected main battle 
tank in service with any army in the world today. Its 105 mm
gun is extremely effective and, while it does not have the
muzzle velocity of the 125 mm hypervelocity smoothbores
of Soviet tanks, its advanced ammunition and very effective
ballistic computer combine to give comparable or superior
performance.

New SABOT ammunition (see glossary) has recently in-
creased this effectiveness. The thermal sights, allowing the
gunner improved visibility through smoke and darkness,
give the vehicle a unique combat advantage over its adver-
saries.

The M-1 uses `Chobham' composite armour, which con-
tains a large outer layer of hard steel, with sucessive inner
layers of other metals and ceramics. This type of armour
very effectively absorbs the heat from the hot gasses of
HEAT ammunition. The cost of each M-1 tank is in the
region of $2,500,000. 

---

M-113 Armoured Personnel Carrier                   
                                        
Specifications                                     
--------------                                          
Crew (+Squad)       2 (+11)                                  
Weight (Tonnes)     11.2                                  
Full Lenght (cm)    486                                 
Engine Type         Diesel                                  
Road Range (km)     321                                 
Max Speed (km/h)    64.4                                
Max Speed (Water)   5.8                              
Frontal Armour (mm) 38                                 
Main Gun            Machine                           
Calibre (mm)        12.7                              
Effective Range (m) 500                              
Maxrate (round/min) N/A                       
Total Rounds        1200                            
HEAT Rounds         No                
SABOT Rounds        No                                
TOW Rounds          No                                     

The M-113 is the basic armoured troop carrier in the U.S.
Army, and has been since the Vietnam War. It was designed
`to provide a lightweight, armoured personnel carrier for
armour and infantry units capable of amphibious and air-
drop operations, superior cross-country mobility and adap-
tations to multiple functions'.

The all welded aluminium hull protets the crew from small
arms fire and shell splinters. It is fully amphibious, being
propelled in water by its tracks. Successful adaptions
include the M163 Vulcan self-propelled anti-aircraft gun,
the M577 Command Post and the M901 Improved TOW
Vehicle.                         

The M-113 is going to be replaced by the M-2 Bradley
Infantry Fighting Vehicle, but the slow procurement rate
means that many US mechanised units will continue to use
the M-113 into the 1990's.             
                                               
---                                   
                   
M-2 Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicle                
                   
Specifications                                 
--------------                               
Crew (+Squad)       3 (+6)                                    
Weight (Tonnes)     22.7                                    
Full Lenght (cm)    645                                      
Engine Type         Diesel                              
Road Range (km)     483                                    
Max Speed (km/h)    66                                      
Max Speed (Water)   7.2                                   
Frontal Armour (mm) 60                                   
Main Gun            Cannon                                 
Calibre (mm)        25                                     
Effective Range (m) 1000                                  
Maxrate (round/min) 100                          
Total Rounds        900                         
HEAT Rounds         No                        
SABOT Rounds        No                  
TOW Rounds          2+5

The Bradley is a reasonable protected infantry carrier and is
extremely mobile and well armed. The hull of the M-2 is of
welded aluminium armour with additional laminate fitted to
the hull front, sides and rear. It is full amphibious, being
propelled through water by its tracks.

By 1987 only 3000 Bradleys had been delivered to the US
Army out of a procurement of nearly 7000 vehicles. The M-
2 has come under considerable fire from critics due to its
expense and slow delivery. Critics also suggest that its
inferior armour protection will hamper its ability to operate
with the M-1 tank. An effort is being made to equip battalion
scout platoons with Bradleys, however, and this is the case
in the novel Team Yankee.

The M-2 has extra firing ports to side and rear and can carry
a full rifle squad. It is worth noting the the M-2's TOW
missiles may only be launched when the vehicle is station-
ary.

---

M-901 Improved TOW Vehicle (ITV)

Specifications
--------------
Crew                4                      
Weight (Tonnes)     11.2                   
Full Lenght (cm)    486
Engine Type         Diesel
Road Range (km)     321
Max Speed (km/h)    55                   
Max Speed Off-road  N/A                 
Frontal Armour (mm) 38                  
Main Gun            None
Calibre (mm)        -                  
Maxrate (round/min) -                 
Total Rounds        -                        
HEAT Rounds         No                     
SABOT Rounds        No                  
TOW Rounds          2+10                    
Effective Range TOW 4000m             

This is a variant of the M-113, mounting the `hammerhead'
armoured TOW launcher in an overhead mount.

The launcher assembly contains twin TOW launch tubes,
wIth another 10 launch missiles carried in the hull. This
gives the ITV the ability of to park with the entire vehicle
behind cover and only the missile launcher exposed. The
launcher can also be reloaded from inside the vehicle.

A major disadvantage is that the armoured TOW launcher
and ammunition carried internally have badly overloaded
the chassis and reduced its mobility significantly. Also, re-
member that a TOW missile can only be launched from a
stationary vehicle.

The ITV is the standard anti-tank missile carrier of the U.S.
Army, having first entered service in 1979.

---

[RYGAR - The next four vehicles are Warsaw Pact...]

T-62 Main Battle Tank

Specifications
--------------
Crew                4                      
Weight (Tonnes)     37.5
Full Lenght (cm)    933                  
Engine Type         Diesel                       
Road Range (km)     450
Max Speed (km/h)    50                  
Max Speed Off-road  N/A
Frontal Armour (mm) 200
Main Gun            Smooth
Calibre (mm)        115                     
Maxrate (round/min) 3-5
Effective Range     1500m
Total Rounds        40
HEAT Rounds         Yes             
SABOT Rounds        Yes
TOW Rounds          No

First fielded in the 1960's the T-62 was the first major tank
to use a smooth bore gun.

There were sever limitations due to engineering design, 
which for example, meant that reloading could only accur at
a set turret angle and barrel elevation.

The T-62 has now been superceded in fron line service by
more modern types, such as the T-72. It is still found in
second line Soviet units and in the armed forces of the other
Warsaw Pact nations.

---

T-72 Main Battle Tank

Specifications
--------------
Crew                3                 
Weight (Tonnes)     41                       
Full Lenght (cm)    953                        
Engine Type         Diesel
Road Range (km)     450
Max Speed (km/h)    70
Max Speed Off-road  N/A
Frontal Armour (mm) 250                 
Main Gun            Smooth
Calibre (mm)        125
Effective Range     2000m
Maxrate (round/min) 6-8
Total Rounds        39                  
HEAT Rounds         Yes                   
SABOT Rounds        Yes                 
Anti-Tanks Rounds   No

The T-72 is one of several modern tanks that equip the Red
Army, and was its main battle tank throughout the 1970's.

It is logical, progressive development of the T-62, incorpor-
rating a larger gun, improved fire control system, better
protection and a more powerful power plant. The strange
drums on the back of the T-72 are long range fuel tanks.

In the late 1980's a new model was spotted, which had a
bulging turret front, known colloquially as the `Super Dolly
Parton'. 

---

BMP-2 Infantry Fighting Vehicle

Specifications
--------------
Crew (+Squad)       3 (+6)
Weight (Tonnes)     14.5
Full Lenght (cm)    674
Engine Type         Diesel
Road Range (km)     500
Max Speed (km/h)    70
Max Speed Off-road  N/A                    
Frontal Armour (mm) 19                
Main Gun            Auto-Cannon          
Calibre (mm)        30                   
Effective Range     1000m               
Maxrate (round/min) N/A             
Total Rounds        40
HEAT Rounds         No
SABOT Rounds        No
Anti-Tank Rounds    Yes
Anti-Tank Range     4000m

BMP is an abbrevation for Bronevaya Mashina Piekhota, 
or "Armoured Vehicle, Infantry".

The BMP-1 was the first infantry fighting vehicle in the
world to mount a cannon and antitank missile armament,
thus giving the rifle squad the ability to engage enemy
armour at substantial rangeS With a reasonable prospect of
success.

The newly-introduced BMP-2 is an improved version with
a larger turret which mounts a 0 mm auTocannon, and an
AT-5 `Spandrel' anti-tank missile.

---

BTR-60 Armoured Personnel Carrier

Specifications
--------------
Crew (+Squad)       2 (+12)
Weight (TOnNes)     10.2
Full Lenght (cm)    722
Engine Type         Petrol
Road Range (km)     500
Max Speed (km/h)    8
Max Speed Off-road  N/A
Frontal Armour (mm) 9
Main Gun            Machine
Calibre (mm)        14.5
Effective Range     500m
Maxrate (round/min) N/A
Total Rounds        500
HEAT Rounds         No         
SABOT Rounds        No          
TOW Rounds          No        

The BTR-60 is a wheeled armoured personnel carrier which
equips many Soviet motorised rifle units.

The advantage of a wheeled vehicle is higher road speed,
lower manufacturing costs, and generally increased case of
maintenance and mechanical reliability.

The main disadvantage is that a wheeled vehilce loses moRe
of its road speed when travelling croSs-country - however, it
is sufficiently fast on the road that it can keep up with most
tracked vehicles cross country.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
------

                        U.S./Soviet Organisation

U.S. Organisation

The largest unit in the U.S. Army with a fixed organisation
is the  division, which is normally either deployed as a
mechanized or armoured division. The basic building
blocks of these divisions are battalions. An armoured
division will have six armoured batallions, five mechanized
battalions, three artillery battalions, and one battalion each
of armoured cavalry (reconnaissance) and attack helicop-
ters. Mechanized divisions are similar, but have six mecha-
nized battalions and four armoured battalions.

Each armoured  battalion consists of four tank companies
and a headquarters (HQ) company. The HQ company 
consists of 331 officers and men - more than twice as many
is in an entire Soviet tank battalion. In addition to extensive
command, control and support elements, the HQ company
includes a heavy mortar platoon of six 4.2 inch self-pro
pelled mortars and a scout platoon of six M-3 Bradley
cavalry fighting vehicles.

The four tank  companies are the heart of the battalion's
combat power. Team Yankee is organised around one such
company. At full strenght the company has 62 officers and
men 14 M-1 Abrams tanks. The company is divided into
three platoons of four tanks each. There are also two extra
tanks which are commanded in battle by the CO and the XO.

Although the U.S Army organises its battalions as pure tank
or pure infantry, in practice combined arms combat together
at much lower levels. Standard practice in the field is to have
an armoured battalion and a mechanised battalion swap one
platoon with one of the other companies in the battalion,
giving a battalion two pure companies, one tank-heavy
company team and one mech-heavy company team.

This is exactly the procedure that has been followed in the
novel Team Yankee. Bannon's company has been attached
to the 1-78 Infantry Battalion in exchange for its own A
company. This leaves the 1-78 battalion with its own B,C,
D companies, its anti-armour company, headquarters com-
pany and Bannon's tank company. Lieutenant Colonel Rey-
nolds, the battalion commander, then removed one of Ban-
non's tank platoons (1 platoon) and gave it to his own B
company in return for one of its mechanised infantry pla-
toons. (The resulting B company is known as Team Bravo.)
In the novel Team Yankee, Bannon's team therefore con-
sists of 2 and 3 Platoons (containing 4 M-1 tanks each),
Mech Platoon (containing 4 M-113 armoured personnel car-
riers) and HQ Platoon (containing 2 M-1 tanks and 2 ITV's).
In the game Team Yankee, in the interests of playability, we
have replaced 2 of the M-113's in Mech Platoon with 2 M-
2 Bradley vehicles. Hence, at the start of the game, you will
have at your disposal the following:-

Unit 1      HQ Platoon       2 x M-1 Tanks and 2 x ITV's
Unit 2      2 Platoon        4 x M-1 Tanks
Unit 3      3 Platoon        4 x M-1 Tanks
Unit 4      Mech Platoon     2 x M-113 APC's
                             and 2 x M-2 Bradley's

Soviet Organisation

Soviet mechanised infantry is called Motor Rifle troopes.
They are carried either in armoured personnel carriers (e.g.
BTR-60's) or in infantry fighting vehicles (BMP's). The
principle differences between these two are that the BTR is
wheeled, lightly armed and armoured, and designed for
cheap mass production, while the BMP is tracked, heavily
armed, and considerably more expensive. The shock troops
of a division will be mounted on BMP's while the bulk of the
motor rifle troops are carried in BTR's.

The largest formations in the Red Army with a fixed
organisation are divisions. There are three principle types of
combat divisions: tank divisions, motor rifle divisions, and
air assault divisions.

Tank divisions consists of one motorised rifle regiment in
BMP's, three tank regiments and one artillery regiment. The
tank regiment of the tank division consists of three tank
battalions, one motorised rifle battalion in BMP's, one
artllery battalion, one reconnaissance company, one anti-
aircraft company and one engineer company. The tank
battalion of a tank regiment has only 135 officers and men.
It consists of three tank companies and a small battalion
headquarters. Each tank company has three platoons of
three tanks each plus a company commander's tank, giving
a total of 31 tanks.

Motor rifle divisions are composed of one tank regiment,
two motor rifle regiments in BTR's, one motor rifle regiment
in BMP's and one artillery regiment. Each motor rifle
regiment consists of three motor rifle battalions, one tank
battalion, one artillery battalion, and one company each of
antitank missiles, air defense guns and missiles, reconnais-
sance troops and mortars. A motor rifle battalion based on
BMP infantry fighting vehicles consists of three motor rifle
companies, one mortar company, one anti-craft platoon,
one automatic grenade launcher platoon and various small
non-combat support units. The motor rifle company, with
over 100 men, consists of a company headquarters, three
motorised rifle platoons and one fire support platoon. Each
motorised rifle platoon consists of 29 officers and men,
divided into three rifle squads, each of which is carried in a
single BMP.
                          
In Team Yankee the second echelon of Soviet attack, which             
is faced in the First Battle, mainly come from a motorised               
rifle battalion, mainly composed of BMP's and T-72's.         
                                                                      
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     
                         HOW TO PLAY TEAM YANKEE                
                                                                         
In Team Yankee, we have been scrupulous in our attempts to            
convey the urgency of modern tank warfare, within the               
constraints imposed by the computer medium. All of the               
action in the game is closely based on battles which are                 
described in the book Team Yankee. The best advice on how                
to play the game is therefore simple - read the book! In                
order to keep your attention, though, we have made subtle              
changes to scenarios, so that you will never know exactly               
what to expect. Particularly in later stages of the game you         
will find that the enemy is even more powerful and cunning          
than in the book.                                                    
                                                                      
When we designed this product we had to make a hard choice              
between total accuracy of simulation and features which we              
felt would enhance the gameplay. It may annoy the purist,               
but when accuracy and gameplay conflicted, the game                   
always won out! Another important feature is our belief that             
the player should be able to pick up the game and play                
without leafing through a 300 page manual. However, you           
will undoubtedly benefit from reading through the docu-          
mentation and, hopefully, from reading this section.            
                                                                  
The Training Scenario                                            
                                                                  
The training scenario, accessed by clicking on Practice                
Game icon, has been designed to give you a clear idea of how              
to control an individual platoon as well as all of Team                 
Yankee. The scenario is laid out on a circuit which is                 
modelled on a standard training range - see figure 10.0.                  
Your objective is to traverse the road linking points A to B,              
leaving certain units strategically placed along the way. If              
you can achieve all of the aims of the training run then you               
will be very well prepared to go into full battle. The                 
following instructions are more substantial than those you          
will find on the briefing screen.                            
                                                                    
At the start your four platoons are placed around point A.             
Unit 1, containing 2 M-1 Abrams tanks and 2 ITV's, is facing          
the three other units of Team Yankee. Unit 2, with 4 M-1              
tanks, is straight ahead to the east in column formation. Just           
to the north is unit 3, also with 4 M-1 tanks, and just to the            
south is unit 4, with 2 M-113's and 2 M-2 Bradleys. At the              
start you will be in `quadrant' mode, with a view of the            
battlefield from each of the four units. You should now             
familiarise yourself with the controls at your disposal in            
quadrant mode. Now, home in on the `full screen' view for              
unit 1. Straight ahead of you, you will see the other vehicles          
of Team Yankee. You will be able to examine them more                
closely by using magnify mode. Examine the facilities              
available in full screen mode using the Expand View icon            
described on page 24 of the manual.                        
                                                                    
A few minutes after the start there will be a parade of all of            
the vehicles you will meet in the game traversing the track            
from C to D. The parade will start at 12:02, so make sure you           
are in position on time. When each vehicle comes past, try           
to identify it from the photographs of each vehicle in section          
8.                                                         
                                                                  
Once the parade has finished you should move unit 1 along               
the road to the east, just over the point where it crosses the             
river. When you come alongside two trees on either side of              
the road, stop immediately. Directly in front of you there are             
4 vehicles. Two are Russian made BMP-2's and the two                 
others are American ITV's.                                          
                                                                
Once you have identified which is which you should try and              
destroy the two Russian vehicles. Load up a HEAT missile                
and turn on the laser ranging facility. Make sure that you               
learn what happens when your rights have 'locked on' to a              
target, and then fire. If you hit the wrong vehicle you will be          
told in no uncertain terms!                                      
                                                                    
Once you have accomplished this first objective you should              
leace unit 1 where it is, and get your other three units onto the         
road. Try to see if you can get used to moving your units             
while on the quadrant view. Move units 2,3 and 4 past unit            
1 and take them round the road until you find the next                 
position where there are two trees straddling the road. Stop              
at this point and move into full screen mode for unit 2. At this          
point you will find 4 Russian BTR's in front of the tree line           
to the west, and four American M-113's on the tree line to the            
east. If you have difficulty locating them then turn on your           
infra red display. You will find that in battle the infra red          
display is invaluable for uncovering vehicles camouflaged                
by forest cover. Again, you should try to destroy the Russian           
vehicles - use your SABOT weapons this time.                      
                                                                    
Leaving unit 2 at this position continue along the road with             
the remaining two units. Just before the road turns west at             
the top of the training are you will find another position               
straddled by two trees. Stop here and this time search for the            
two nearby units of vehicles. One unit is composed of T-             
62's. Try to see which weapon types are needed to destroy            
them.                                                           
                                                                    
Leave unit 3 behind, and with the remaining unit (4) continue       
around the circuit until you reach the track through the forest.        
Along the track at the very centre of the forest you will find           
a single T-72 - see if you can locate and destroy it. Beyond            
the forest, on the road leading south you will find the point         
at which unit 4 is to halt - again marked by two trees. You          
must now locate the nearby Russian tanks and destroy them.        
                                                                    
If you have got this far, then you will know that you have learnt         
the basics of control which will be important to succeeding            
in Team Yankee. However, you will have one final lesson              
to learn. And that is how to attack enemy vehicles simulta-          
neously while in quadrant mode. At 12:30 precisely each of            
your four units will have a short time in which to destroy            
moving targets simultaneously. Make sure appropriate                  
weapons are loaded for each unit. Point unit 1 towards the             
south-east, unit 2 to the north, unit 3 to just north of west and         
unit 4 to the north. Keep your eyes peeled. If you can destroy         
all of the Russian tanks as they move from forest cover, then           
you will know that you have mastered all of the basices of the          
game. You can now go out and KICK SOME ASS!               
                                                               
Strategy                                                       
                                                                 
Before launching yourself into a scenario it is best to use the         
briefing information to decide on your strategy for the             
forthcoming battle. Quite often you will be expected to             
position your vehicles very quickly at the start of the sce-            
nario (particularly if it is a defensive scenario). Through             
practise you will learn the strike power of Team Yankee's as            
well as the Warsaw Pact vehicles. The information in                  
Chapter 8 referring to vehicle types and the additional infor-         
mation in the Glossary will give you an idea of the relative           
strengths and ranges of all of the weapons that you will use             
or come up against. For instance, a BTR has very little             
armour and is only armed with a machine gun.                 
                                                              
If you are in a platoon manned by M-1 tanks, you therefore           
have very little to worry about from a BTR, and you should           
dispose of them at your leisure, while considering that the             
threat from a T-72 is rather more potent. Your TOW missiles            
on your M-2's and ITV's are your most potent weapons in              
terms of strength and range, but remember that your vehicle          
MUST be stationary before they can be fired. Because you             
have to control four tank platoons simultaneously in Team             
Yankee, we have not been strictly accurate in our operation          
of these wire guided missiles. Instead of leaving you to             
control and aim the missile over its flight of up to 15 seconds          
(thus causing you to relinquish your control of everything            
else that is going on), we have treated the TOW as a normal          
missile - once launched it will strike the area you have aimed         
at.                                                      
The loading times for all of the missiles are accurately              
presented and reflect the length of time it takes for a missile         
to be loaded after the tank commander (you!) has ordered his          
gunner and loader to set up a target. It is part of the frustration      
of war that it takes some time to load an appropriate missile            
when confronted by a new and threatenging target.                 
                                                                 
It is worth remembering that tank battles are often fought at           
long range, and in particular that a platoon of tanks in the            
middle of an open plain are `cannon-fodder' for suitably               
placed opposition. The tree line of forests provides very               
adequate protection for tanks. In Team Yankee, you will find            
that the first 100 metres or so of forest provides you with          
cover, and yet allows you to look out clearly onto the              
battlefield. As soon as you fire, however, you will give your          
opponents a chance to locate you for a certain amount of            
time. Remember that your opposition will often use the             
same tactic of hiding within the tree line. Your infra-red             
sights will often be invaluable to spot vehicles which would           
otherwise be hidden in the tree line.                         
                                                                 
The magnify mode on the 3d view is very powerful. Since             
you should be able to destroy a vehicle which is well over a         
mile away from you, you will often need to use the magnified          
sights in order to locate the enemy before they spot you.             
When you are being attacked try to locate the precise                
vehicles which are firing at you, since they will be the most            
potent threat. It is obviously more urgent to dispose of a            
threat which is attacking you rather than one which is             
attacking another unit.                                        
                                                          
The position of known Soviet units will often be marked on          
the map displays with a flag representing each unit. These          
flags will be displayed either when the player should have              
the units in his sights or when there has been information            
recieved from intelligence. However, just because a Soviet           
flag does not appear on the map near to you does not                
necessarily mean that there are no enemy units nearby. For                
instance, if a Soviet unit is in a forest or near the tree line of         
a forest, there will normally be no information presented on            
the map screens. It is up to you to seek and hunt down the               
enemy.                                                            
                                                                    
Higher Ranks                           
                                                              
The first five scenarios you will complete in Team Yankee           
will be at the rank of Private (First Class), or PFC. You will         
have to pass through three more campaigns at three higher             
ranks - Corporal (Cpl), Sergeant (Sgt), Staff Sergeant (SSg)           
- before you reach the ultimate rank of Captain (Cpt). The             
strategy you will have to pursue will be increasingly more           
subtle as you progress. Your opposition will increase in             
number and will perform increasingly more ingenious and             
daring tactics in order to circumvent your victory. On the           
first rank the Russian maneouvres will all be to a set formula,          
which you should be quick to master once you have learned          
the basics of control and sensible tank warfare tactics. Later         
on, they may well surprise you, so you will have to look out          
for all sorts of devious approaches. At the lower levels you         
will always have your weapons, morale and vehicle damage          
reasonably restored between scenarios. Later on, you will          
find that you will have to conserve all of your capabilities in       
order to provide an effective fighting force in the next         
scenario. Modern tank warfare is very close to attrition!         
                                                                
Some later scenarios will take place at night. In these cases        
you will find that all of your normal external views are          
completely dark. The only way to fight will be to use your            
infra-red views. At first this will seem quite disconcerting,           
but you will have to learn to cope!                     
                               
Terrain                         
                                                             
There are many different types of terrain over which you can             
move in Team Yankee. You will only be able to achieve your               
full operating speed while travelling over roads, which are            
denoted in grey on the map and in your 3d view. Travelling              
over cross-country reduces your speed and increases the              
amount of `pitch' which you will encounter in your 3d view.           
This will make the engagement of the enemy that much more           
difficult. Your speeds on the tree line of forests are further          
reduced, but these regions do provide some camouflage              
from your opponents. Inside forests you may find hidden            
tracks which will allow you to make faster progress, al-            
though you will find that these are often used by the enemy.         
It will often be useful to locate these tracks and incorporate        
them in you strategic plan. Rivers provide the slowest type       
of terrain over which to cross, and can leave you exposed to      
enemy fire while you are crossing them.                             
                                                           
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       
                                   GLOSSARY
                                                      
BMP-2          A Soviet fully tracked infantry-fighting vehicle mounting a
               30 mm cannon, an antitank guided missile, and a 7.62 mm
               machine gun. The BMP carries a crew of three and a six-man
               infantry squad. The BMP provided the prime motivation for
               the design and production of the Bradley fighting vehicle.
                                                      
BRADLEY        An armoured fighting vehicle that comes in two version, the
               M-2 mechanized infantry fighting vehicle version and the
               M-3 scout version. Both have a two-man turret that mounts
               a TOW missile launcher, a 25 mm chain gun and a 7.62 mm
               machine gun mounted coaxially.
                                                     
BTR-60         A Soviet eight-wheeled armoured personnel carrier. This
               vehicle comes several versions, from the original, which
               has an open top, to the BTR-60PB, which is completely
               enclosed and carries a small turret mounting a 14.5 mm and
               7.62 mm machine gun. In addition to the personnel carrier
               version, the BTR-60 serves as a command and control 
               vehicle, close air support vehicle, and other such uses.
                                                   
C.O.           Short for Commanding Officer.
                                                
DPICM          Short for dual-purpose, improved conventional munitions.
               This is an artillery round that contains many small submuni-
               tions or bomblets that are capable of defeating the thin
               armour located on top of armoured vehicles as well as being
               effective against personnel and other "soft" targets.
                                           
DRAGON         A medium antitank guided missile launcher. Man-portable,
               the Dragon is the infantry's medium range antitank weapon,
               with a range of 1000 metres.
                                               
HEAT           Short for high explosive antitank, a round that depends on a
               shaped charge explosion to penetrate an armoured vehicle's
               armour. Because the round contains high explosive, it has a
               secondary role as an antimaterial round. A typical muzzle
               velocity might be 1100 metres per second, with a penetration
               of over 150 mm in reactive armour. It is, however, much
               more effective against APC's than tanks, for which SABOT
               or TOW ammunition is more appropriate.
                                                       
ITV            Short for Improved TOW vehicle. A modified M-113
               armoured personnel carrier that has an anti-tank guided mis-
               sile launcher mounted on a small rotating turret. TOW
               stands for tube launched, optically-tracked, wire-guided
               anti-tank guided missile. The TOW is currently the heaviest
               antitank guided missile in the U.S. Army's inventory ca-
               pable of hitting a tank-sized target out to a range of 3700
               metres.                                
                                        
MACHINE GUN    Every tank and personnel carrier in Team Yankee carries an
               M2 caliber 0.50 machine gun, nicknamed `Ma Duce'. This
               is the same heavy machine gun used in World War 2 - and
               serves as a tank commander's weapon. Additionally, each
               tank is provided with two `M240' 7.62 mm machine guns.
               One is mounted coaxially next to the main gun - hence the
               nickname `Coax'. The second M240 is mounted freeswing-
               ing outside the loaders hatch - its main value being that the
               two machine guns are interchangeable, as well as giving the
               loader something to hang on to when the tank is moving!
                                                  
M-1            This is currently the main battle tank of the U.S. Army. It has
               a crew of four, mounts a 105 mm main gun, an M2 calibre
               0.50 machine gun, and an M240 7.62 mm machine gun. The
               54-ton tank is powered by a 1500 horsepower turbine engine
               and is capable of 45mph. The fire-control system incorpo-
               rates a laser range finder, a solid state computer, a thermal
               imaging sight, and other electronics that allow the main gun
               to fire while on the move with a high degree of accuracy, day
               or night [RYGAR - Watch my Picture of this tank! YEAH!]
                                                        
M-113          Until recently, the M-113 was the primary U.S. Army
               armoured personnel carrier. Weighing 11 tons, it has a crew
               of two, driver and commander, and the capacity to carry an
               entire infantry squad. The M-113 is normally armed with a
               caliber .50 M2 machine gun located at the commander's
               position. Because infantry cannot fight while mounted, the
               M-113 is being replaced by the M-2 Bradley fighting ve-
               hicle. The M-113 still remains a mainstay in the U.S. Army,
               performing support roles on or near the front.
                                              
MECH           Short for mechanized or, in the case of Team Tankee,
               mechanized infantry.
                                              
SABOT          The word is actually French for shoe. Here, it is the name of
               an antitank round. SABOT is short for armour-piercing fin-
               stabilised discarding sabot (APFSDS). The round consists
               of a small tungsten alloy or depleted uranium penetrator that
               has a diameter smaller than the diameter of the gun tube. To
               compensate for this, the penetrator is seated in a boot that is
               the same diameter as the gun. This boot, called the SABOT,
               falls away after the round leaves the gun, leaving the pene-
               trator to continue to the target. The SABOT round has a very
               effective armour penetration out to 2500 metres. More
               useful against tank armour than a HEAT round.
                                                     
SMOKE          Smoke is very usefully generated in battle in order to obscure
               the location of vehicles from the enemy. There are three
               ways in which smoke can be produced in the battlefield. M-
               1 tanks and M-2 Bradleys have smoke grenade launchers
               on the sides of the turret. These can be fired forwards, giving
               a short-lived smoke-screen. The same vehicles can also
               produce engine exhaust smoke, which produces a smoke
               screen from the vehicle's rear, and which will move with the
               vehicle if it is in motion. Artillery smoke is very useful
               when called in just before an attack on an enemy position, to
               obscure you from their view.
                                             
T-62           A Soviet tank with a four man crew and mounting a 115 mm
               smoothbore gun, a 12.5 mm and a 7.62 mm machine gun.
               Though considered obsolete, it is still very capable and
               found in many Warsaw Pact units.
                                                        
T-72           A Soviet tank with a three-man crew and mounting a 125 mm
               smoothbore gun, a 12.5 mm and a 7.62 mm machine gun.
               The elemination of the fourth crewman is achieved by using
               an automatic loader for the main gun. Special armour and a
               sophisticated fire-control system make it a powerful foe that
               is difficult to stop.
                                              
TEAM           A company-sized unit that includes both tank and mecha-
               nized infantry platoons. Unlike a peacetime company, the
               number and type of platoons in a team can vary according to
               its assigned mission. In the case of Team Yankee, the Team
               initially has two rank, and one mechanized infantry platoon
               as well as two improved TOW vehicles.
                                                  
THERMAL SIGHT  A sight that detects heat emitted by an object and translates
               it into a visible image for the gunner or commander.
                                              
TOW            Short for tube-launched, optically-tracked, wire guided
               antitank guided missile. The TOW is the U.S. Army's 
               current heavy antitank missile with a range of nearly
               4000 metres. The guidance system provides a high proba-
               bility of hitting a tank-sized target out to its maximum range.
               A TOW missile can only be launched from a static vehicle.
                                     
TRACK          This term can be used to refer to the caterpillar tracks
               of a vehicle, or any tracked vehicle, other than a tank. For
               some perverse reason tanks, although having tracks, are not
               referred to as `tracks'.
                                          
WARSAW PACT    A military alliance founded by the European Communist 
               countries to counter NATO. Consists of Soviet Union,
               Poland, German Democratic Republic [RYGAR- eeehrr dunno!),
               Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria and Roumania.
                                           
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        
END.............
