			The Temple of Apshai Trilogy

Table of Contents

Introduction........................................3
	The Oracle of Apshai

The One Minute Adventurer...........................6
	Five Steps to the Gates of Apshai
	Thirteen Ways to Stay Healthy

The Rules of Apshai.................................10

The Apshai Scrolls
A Master Reference Guide............................22
	The Temple of Apshai
	The Upper Reaches of Apshai
	The Curse of Ra

Legends and Lore...................................76
	The Legend of the Apshai
	DUNJONQUEST

				1

			Package Contents

The DunjonMasters here at Epyx have decreed that each special computer
system package contain everything you need to enjoy and fully appreciate
the rich and terrifying fantasy adventure the Temple Trilogy's three realms
have in store; The Temple of Apshai, The Upper Reaches of Apshai and The
Curse of Ra.

	Game Disks: Contains the three Temple of Apshai Trilogy computer
adventures: The Temple of Apshai, the Upper Reaches of Apshai and the Curse
of Ra.  If you purchased a Commodore/Atari version, each side of the disk
contains a complete version of the game for each computer system.  Side 1
is for the Commodore and Side 2 is for the Atari.

	Apshai Command Card:  The Apshai Command Card provides you with a
handy "at-a-glance" reference card of all the special Commands for moving,
fighting and looting treasure in the three Trilogy realms.  In addition,
the Command Card also offers special joystick and mouse control
instructions for the computer system indicated on the card.

	The Book of Apshai:  This Book of Apshai offers a complete
testament of legends, lore and fascinating background information on the
classic Temple of Apshai Trilogy.  Here you will find step-by-step
instructions for quickly mastering the "Rules of Apshai."  The "Thirteen
Ways to Staying Healthy" reveals secret teachings and advice on surviving
in the dungeons.  And the chilling "Oracle of Apshai" calls forth
adventurers of every realm to destroy the evil power of the Curse of Ra. 
You'll also find complete detailed descriptions of each room and Level
within the three Trilogy realms - all 568 of them to be exact - in "The
Scrolls of Apshai" The Book of Apshai offers you, the serious adventurer, a
complete testament of fantasy.

	IBM or Macintosh Apshai Guide:  If you purchased an IBM PC or Apple
Macintosh version, a special "handbook" has been included that will contain
important operating system and game play instructions.

				2

                      The Oracle of Apshai

The Sphinx is drowsy,
	Her wings are furled:
Her ear is heavy,
	She broods on the world.
"Who'll tell me my secret,
	The ages have kept? -
I awaited the seer
	While they slumbered and slept...

		- Ralph Waldo Emmerson

	You are a lone adventurer, strong of sinew and keen of blade and
mind.  Your senses must be sharp as the talons of an eagle, to warn you of
swift dangers.  You must be strong.  Only the stoutest of constitutions
will stand against the rigors of the journey that lies ahead.  Yet, you
must be subtle.  Only a deep mind can fathom the mysteries to be unfolded. 
Sometimes, when strength falters, only sleight of hand will save you.

	Yet all will not be darkness.  At times your quick wit with a
wandering monster or cleverness in parlay with the Innkeeper will greatly
advance your course.  Such is intelligence.  Logic will also be
indispensable to you.

	In the end, when all visible resources are depleted, you will fall
back upon ego - the well of the self which is man's last reserve.

	I could tell you tales of horror and madness, but this would not
serve.  The Trilogy of Apshai, like truth and beauty, cannot be told.  You
must experience to know.  The ear is to listen, the heart is to feel, the
soul is to know.  These three are the simple truths of Apshai.

	So the realms of Apshai are three: first, the Temple; second, the
Upper Reaches; and last, The Curse of Ra.  Of these three I can only say
that the first is a depth of blackness - its evil power lashes viciously at
those who dare to enter its very heart.  To survive, you war-like spirit
must be raised to a fever pitch.  The second knows tragedy, and the sage
laugh that turns away from terror and horror.  It also knows the path of
the spirit, shown by the priests.  And the third is a place of blinding
sand and mazy rooms which are the sanctuary of the Sphinx - the spirit, the
last mystery.

	To fight or flee, such will be your dilemma in the Temple of
Apshai.  It's said the Minotaur of Crete knew of such mazes.  Therein you
will meet creatures hard and soft - carrion beasts and the foul leech. 
Therein, it is said, lie gems of many colors, and healers such as the
lilly.  Of the friends you meet, natural and unnatural, some may help you
on your way.  You can speak with some of them in this place of many
tongues.

				3

	"No cross, no crown" was said by the religious in ancient times. 
The price of glory is pain.  Your mark of courage will be your body, laced
with wounds and battered by blows.  You will need salves and elixirs to
heal yourself after combatting the monsters of the Temple.

	Within the Apshai Temple there is a compression of experience. 
Time seems to slow as you tread the massive halls, their sheer number
presenting a veil to the senses.  Then a creature laughs at you, and time
stops.  For this realm, sharpen your sword well.  Gather treasure, and know
that the journey to the Altar of Ra, in the third realm, is long.

	After the eternal horrors of the Temple, you will seek respite in
the second realm, the Upper Reaches.  You will still find struggle, but it
will wear a different face, of both comedy and tragedy.  Instead of blood
on monsters you'll find ketchup on a chicken.  Can the Gods be crazy, or
are they laughing at you!  The effort of combat will now bring you to your
knees, as you struggle onward.

	In the Upper Reaches you will find "Benedic's Monastery," and
"Merlis the Mage."  These places of prayer and magic spells may help show
you the way.  You will find old bones which lay where they fell, daggers
still clutched in skinless hands.

	Here, the tearing of limbs by rabid monsters has left spirits
crazed in the night.  The dead cannot sleep and the living cannot awaken
from their nightmares.  The simple souls who sought to strive and gain are
now caught in eternal anguish.

	Many before you welcomed death by flame, by sword, by sand.  But
you must go onward into the third realm, The Curse of Ra.

	How long can you endure!  This you will know in the third realm. 
Here is a place where wealth of the senses is transcended by a greater
importance.  For, it is said, only the Secret of Ra can relieve the curse
that afflicts those here on land.

	You will pass the "Well of Forever."  You will meet creatures of
the desert - scorpions, jackals, the dust wraith.  Sand storms will dim the
glitter of diamonds.  Beyond the Sphinx is the Pyramid.

	When your travail is greatest, think of Ozymandias:

I met a traveler from an antique land
	Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone
Stand in the desert... Near then, in the sand,
	Half sunk, a shattered visage lies...

And on the pedestal these words appear:
	"My name is Ozymandias, King of Kings.
Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!"
	Nothing beside remains.  Round the decay
of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare
	The lone and level sands stretch far away.

		- Percy Bysshe Shelley

				4

	But, no grip of hand is surety against every terror, or poison. 
The truest heart may fail when it sees the blackness of the dungeon, or
itself.

	All that lies before you cannot be foretold, even by the Oracle.  I
can tell you that the greatest adventure lies not in the din of sword or
shield, or in the rapacious hoard of silver and diamond.  Nor in the gleam
of distant sunsets, or the firm visage of mailed warriors who guard ancient
kingdoms.  It lies within.  Within Apshai.  Within you.

	I knew.  The quest was to begin.

				5

                    The One Minute Adventurer

If you cannot resist the lure of the dungeon, and must rush forth, these
Loading Instructions and the Five Steps to the Gates of Apshai will help
you survive for at least "one minute..."

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Listed below are loading instructions for the Commodore 64/128, the Apple
II systems (IIe, IIc and II Plus) and Atari Computers, 800 series.  Special
loading instructions for the Apple Macintosh and the IBM PC XT and PC Jr
are included either on the back of the Apshai Command Card or in a special
booklet that may be included in your package, if you purchased one of these
versions of The Temple of Apshai Trilogy.

Apple II	Set up your Apple II Home Computer as shown in the owner's
		manual.

		Plug in your joystick as shown in the owner's manual.

		Insert the Temple of Apshai Trilogy disk into the disk
		drive with disk label facing up.

		Turn on the computer.

Atari Home
Computer	Set up your Atari Home Computer as shown in the owner's
		manual.

		Plug your joystick into Port One.

		Turn on the Atari disk drive.

		Insert the Temple of Apshai Trilogy disk into the disk
		drive with the Atari disk label facing up.

		Turn on the computer.

Commodore
64/128		Set up your Commodore 64 Home Computer as shown in the
		owner's manual.  For Commodore 128: Set the system to
		C-64 Mode.

		Plug your joystick into Port Two.

		Turn on the computer and disk drive.

		Insert the Temple of Apshai Trilogy disk into the disk
		drive with the Commodore disk label facing up.

		Type: LOAD "*",8,1 and press the RETURN key.

Commodore
64/128		Make sure your computer is turned off.

With Fast Load	
Cartridge	Insert the Fast Load Cartridge in the cartridge slot of 
		your computer.  For Commodore 128: Set the system to C-64
		Mode.

		Turn on the computer and the disk drive.

		Hold down the Commodore key [C=] and press the RUN/STOP key
		to quickly load your game.

				6

Five Steps to the Gates of Apshai

Once you've properly loaded The Temple of Apshai Trilogy disk, the time has
come for you to set out upon your personal fantasy adventure into the
fabled dungeons of Apshai.

1	Select a Character: The Innkeeper menu screen will appear first. 
	Have the "Innkeeper" select a character for you.  Select C> from
	the menu.

2	Name the Character: The following Character Screen lists the
	attributes of the adventure character selected for you.  Name your
	character and type in his (or her!) name. (A name can be up to 12
	characters long.) Press RETURN.

3	Purchase Weapons and Armor:  After you've named the character, the
	next Innkeeper Screen summarizes your character and lists his
	Weapons, Armor and amount of Silver.  A menu of choices are listed
	at the bottom of the screen.  Select any one, and a new Innkeeper
	"Purchase" screen will greet you and ask you for what you're
	willing to offer.

4	Haggling:  The retail prices for the Innkeeper's "adventureware"
	are listed at the bottom of the Purchase screen.  If you're in a
	hurry, you can go ahead and pay "retail" and enter the dungeons
	broke - the Innkeeper will take you for all you're worth!  Or you
	can Haggle with the Innkeeper and save yourself a few silver pieces
	for when you're in dire need of a broad sword to clean out a nasty
	little section of the dungeon.

5	Enter the Dungeons:  First select G> ENTER THE DUNGEON from the
	Main Innkeeper screen.  Next select from "Dungeon Screen" any one
	of the three Temple of Apshai Trilogy adventure realms: The Temple
	of Apshai, The Upper Reaches of Apshai or the dreaded Curse of Ra.
	Once you choose the realm, you then select one of the realm's four
	Levels to Enter.  Level One is the easiest and of course Level Four
	will be the most challenging.  If you make a mistake or change your
	mind press [0] for the next selection choice and you can "Exit" to
	Main Innkeeper screen.

	Go ahead... Enter the dungeons... you may be just in time for lunch
	...

				7

          	Thirteen Steps to Staying Healthy

1. Building a Character: It's easiest at first to let the Innkeeper choose
a character for you - one who will embody a balance of Strength,
Constitution, Dexterity, Intelligence, Intuition and Ego.

2. Buying Weapons and Armor: Don't arm yourself to the hilt.  Remember, you
have to carry your Weapons and Armor.  A heavy sword cuts down on your
mobility - a Great Sword requires two hands, which means you can't carry a
shield.  You'll soon grow tired, weary and despite your impressive
appearance down at the "Ye Olde Dragon Tavern," in the heat of battle,
you'll perform like a giant tortoise on its back!

3. Entering the Temple:  Try out Level One of a new realm.  The three
Trilogy realms all offer different strange and terrifying challenges, so
it's smart to take it easy at first.  Learn the first new rooms thoroughly,
checking for hidden traps, doorways and the monsters that join you for fun
and games.  Note the intensity of their attacks, how badly you were wounded
and how much strength you retained after an attack.

4. To Move:  Point your character in the direction you want to go by
pressing letter keys (If you have a joystick or mouse, refer to the Apshai
Command Card):

[L] Left, [R] Right, [V] Vote-face (turn around 180 degrees)

Press the number keys 0 through 9 to Move that many steps.  The character
will Move the number of steps you entered after you press the number.

5. To Fight: Fighting Commands are represented by letter keys on your
keyboard.  To mix it up with a monster you press the appropriate letter
key: [A] (Attack) is a simple stroke with your sword, while [T] (Thrust) is
a complete attack more likely to wound your enemy, but also more likely to
end in your being hurt.

6.  Wounds and Fatigue:  Despite your best efforts, you will suffer Wounds.
 Salves (bought from the Innkeeper) and Elixirs (found in the dungeons) can
heal you.  Fighting and moving cause Fatigue, which is a rating of your
energy.  You can simply stop moving in order to rest and regain your
energy.  If Fatigue reads 100% you are in great shape.  If it's below zero
(0), you are too tired to defend yourself.  Similarly, if Wounds are 100%
then you're perfectly fit.  Keep an eye on your character's Fatigue and
Wounds rating - it's the key information you need to make snap decisions on
whether to stand and fight or cut and run!

				8

7.  Levels:  Each of the three Temple Trilogy realms has four Levels for a
total of twelve Levels.  Level One will always be the easiest.  Monsters
grow progressively fiercer and more intense in Levels Two thru Four.  But
the treasures and rewards are richer.

8. Chance and Probability:  How fast are you - the mortal - press the
Command letter keys or the red fire button on the joystick will not help
your character in a sword melee with a giant Apshai ant.  The outcome will
be determined by your character's Wounds and Fatigue, Strength and Weapons,
whether he stands close enough to the enemy to strike them, and so forth.

9.  Monsters:  They either haunt and terrorize a single room, or wander the
passages and rooms of Apshai in search of prey.  Thus by fleeing a room you
can only escape the "single room" Monsters.

10.  Commands:  Keep the Apshai Command Card in front of you.  It has most
of the basic Commands and instructions you'll need for your adventure into
the dungeons of Apshai.  There are Commands that locate and open Secret
Doors, discover hidden Traps, administer healing Elixirs and allow you to
speak with monsters.

11.  Experience:  The longer your character survives the grueling adventure
into the dungeons of Apshai, the more Experience he (or she) gains.  As
long as you don't turn your computer off, this "experience" remains with
your character as you proceed through the various Levels of the three
Apshai realms.  Even if you are slain and rescued by Lowenthal the Wizard,
your character will retain his existing Experience rating.  The higher your
Experience, the better your chances are of meeting the evermore terrifying
challenges of the Temple dungeons (see "Experience" on page 19).

12.  Treasurers:  A glittering collection of Treasurers are hidden within
the dungeons of Apshai.  Use the "Get" command to pick them up.  Once out
of the dungeon, the Innkeeper will be more than pleased to help you
evaluate your Treasure.

13.  Magic:  You'll discover wonderful and exotic forms of Magic in special
healing potions, and in weapons of unusual power and in odd herbs and
flowers.

				9

                      The Rules of Apshai

Characters and Equipment

As in other role-playing games, in the Temple of Apshai Trilogy, the
incredibly complex factors that make up the simplest human being have been
abstracted into a few basic characteristics, related numerically from a low
3, to an average of 10 or 11, and up to a high of 18.  The higher the
number, the greater/higher/stronger is the attribute.  A 90-lb. weakling
might have a Strength of 6 or less, while the average pro football player
would have a Strength of 14 or more.  In published "Dungeons and Dragons"
games these numbers are typically obtained by rolling three dice; in this
case, however, the computer generates them randomly.

There are Six Basic Attributes - three physical and three mental - used in
The Temple of Apshai Trilogy to give a distinctive character to each
dungeon adventurer:

Strength determines how physically strong your character is: how much
weight (treasure and equipment) he can carry, for instance.  The Strength
attribute also controls how heavy a weapon he can use and how much damage
one of his blows will do to whomever (or whatever) he's fighting.

Constitution is a measure of health and endurance - great physical fitness.
The higher the Constitution, the farther a character can run before
collapsing, and the more wounds he can sustain before dying.  Since the
ability to move or fight without becoming exhausted is also responsible for
keeping an adventurer alive, this is perhaps the single most important
attribute.

Dexterity is a matter of reflexes, coordination and even eyesight.  Someone
with high Dexterity has an edge in weapons use; he's more likely to hit
what he's aiming at and is better at keeping his shield between an
attacking weapon, claw, or mandible and his mortal self.  Someone with a
really low Dexterity might be so clumsy he would have trouble hitting the
proverbial barn door.

Intelligence is reasonably self-explanatory, although in DUNJONQUEST it is
limited to what might be termed left-brain intelligence: the ability to
reason logically and to express oneself verbally.  In many systems
(including the one on which DUNJONQUEST is based), Intelligence is
connected with the ability to work magic.  In The Temple of Apshai Trilogy
the major function of Intelligence is to affect a character's ability to
bargain with the Innkeeper or to parley with monsters.

				10

Intuition, the complement of Intelligence, is a measure of right-brain
functions (real and hypothetical): spatial perception, getting an answer
from "inadequate" data, an awareness of the spiritual or mystical aspects
of the universe, ESP, and plain, pure luck.  Someone with a high Intuition
attribute is more likely to detect Secret Doors, Traps, and unpleasant
surprises.  A character with an exceptionally low Intuition might be doing
well to find an open doorway without a signpost.

Ego measures mental toughness and willpower.  A character with a strong Ego
can more easily influence others (the Innkeeper or monsters) and is more
likely to fight fiercely despite his wounds ("When the going gets tough,
the tough get going," as the saying goes).  Someone with a weak Ego will
not do as well when the tide of battle turns against him.

All three physical attributes may influence your choice of Equipment,
which, in the Temple Trilogy includes five kinds of bladed weapons
(swords), a bow and arrows, five types of armor, and two different sizes of
shields.  Generally, the bigger, heavier, and more expensive an item, the
more effective it is, although heavier Equipment is more tiring to wear,
use and carry.  A larger sword is naturally capable of doing more damage
than a smaller one (though not every time), but it takes more strength to
use.  A character with low Strength is restricted to the lighter weapons. 
The most powerful weapon, a Great Sword, requires two hands and,
consequently, cannot be used with a shield.

Because it is not Fatiguing and is, at least until a monster gets within
chomping range, the safest form of combat, firing arrows at a beastie from
a distance is often desirable.  However, arrows will only hit if the
monster is on a straight line vertically or horizontally away from you, and
a good sword blow may do more damage.  Trying to play Robin Hood while an
unpleasant critter is chewing or clawing on your arm is also dangerous, but
distance-shooting certainly saves wear and tear on the armor (and body).

If you are hit, bit or struck, the armor you are wearing will protect you
from some damage.  The attack has to penetrate a layer of leather or steel
to get at the stuff that counts - your tender flesh.  Plate Armour
naturally provides much more protection than leather.  Shields make it
harder for you to be hit, although a particularly good chomp may glance off
the shield, the armored sleeve, and your character's body.  A large shield
is, obviously, a bigger barrier to such incursions than a smaller one, but
in the hands of a character with high Dexterity a small shield may be
nearly as effective.

Characters From Past Adventures

If you have played other Adventure Games - either on computers or with
published "Dungeons and Dragons" games - and wish to bring one of your
favorite characters from another game into The Temple of Apshai Trilogy,
you are welcome to do so; instead of having the Innkeeper create a new
character for you, enter the attributes of your old one.  (Note, however,
that these must be within DUNJONQUEST's "human" range of 3-18).  Depending
on the game system you are used to using, you can substitute Intuition for
Wisdom, Luck, Power, and Charisma for Ego; while these are not exact
correspondences, this is the easiest method of "translation".

If you are bringing in "high-level" characters, you should be aware of
certain important differences between DUNJONQUEST and other systems. 
Neither attributes nor "hit points" are raised wholesale with increases in
experience.  A 10th-level fighter is formidable but not a Sherman tank. 
Also, the limits of a microcomputer-based system do not yet permit the use
of all the different sorts of magic items you may have picked up in
published "Dungeons and Dragons" games.

				11

If you wish to buy things from the Innkeeper, you should note that The
Temple of Apshai Trilogy is on the silver standard.  If you are used to
playing on a gold standard, please alter your gold pieces to silver and
your silver to copper.  (You may reverse the process if you wish to take
your Temple Trilogy treasure back into your usual adventure game world).

The first two Levels of each of the three Temple Trilogy realms are
appropriate for 1st to 3rd level "Dungeons and Dragons" characters, while
the lower Levels are more suited to 4th to 6th level characters.

We invite you to project yourself into the labyrinth.  See and touch the
treasures, hear and smell the creatures that inhabit the place.  Discover
for yourself the fantasy world of Apshai!

The Innkeeper

Since the rules of the Temple of Apshai Trilogy game are actually
programmed into the computer's memory, there is very little you need to
know to play the game.  There are, however, a few basics you should be
familiar with to make the best decisions during your adventure.  The
following material describes the use of the Innkeeper and DunjonMaster
segments of the game system, the Commands for Controlling your Character,
Gaining Experience, Evaluating Treasure, and Resurrecting a Character who
dies.

Generating A Character

When the Temple of Apshai Trilogy begins, the wily Innkeeper greets you
with a few suggestions:

A> Restore a Game in Progress: If you have saved a game on a disk, then
this selection restores that game.

B> Load a Character From Disk: If you have saved a character on a disk,
this selection loads your character and escorts him to the Inn.

C> Create a New Character at Random: This selection asks the Innkeeper to
create a character (your playing piece).  The Innkeeper will generate a
character randomly and display his (or her) attributes on the screen.

				12

D> Enter Thine Own Character:  This selection allows you to enter your own
character (perhaps one you have used in some other adventure game).  The
DunjonMaster (computer program) will prompt you for each one of your vital
statistics and possessions.

Once you have decided on a name for yourself, all of the above information
should be written down so that you can re-use it at a later date.

The Innkeeper creates a character - your playing piece for the game.  This
simply involves answering a series of questions put to you by the
Innkeeper.  For your first game you'll probably want the Innkeeper to
create your characters, so you will select C> from the main Innkeeper
screen.  In later forays into the dungeon you may want to enter in
characters created in other fantasy role-playing games, or you may want to
reuse a previously generated character (see Experience).  You may take the
same character into the dungeon as often as you like, until the character
dies (see "On Death And Dying").  If you have asked the Innkeeper to create
a character for you, he will create the following on your Character Screen:

The Innkeeper's Character Screen

The Innkeeper has helped you create the heroic character who will challenge
the ancient mysteries and horrors of the fabled Temple of Apshai Trilogy. 
The chosen one must then be outfitted with purchases of armor and weapons
befitting his ilk, temperament and courage - and budget.  The full
Innkeeper screen now appears:

The Innkeeper Screen

A young put adventurer: "Huptu" before a trip to the Innkeeper.  With his
pauper's budget, he will be lucky to leave with a decent sword and an arrow
or two.  The Innkeeper gives him about two minutes before being "slain" and
resurrected by a "cleric".  But he'll gain valuable experience.  He's got
plenty of brains, a healthy ego and no common sense - but if he keeps
trying he could be a major force amongst adventurers.

				13

Purchasing Equipment

The Innkeeper will query you for Purchases of Swords, Shields, Armor, a
Bow, Arrows, and healing Salves.  For each of the first three categories,
several items are listed in the order of their effectiveness, with the
first item being the least effective.  For example, under Armor the
Innkeeper displays the following list:

Purchase Screen

Type		Weight		Offered Price

Leather		9			30
Ring Mail	22			100
Chain Mail	31			150
Partial Plate	47			250
Full Plate	63			1000

Leather Armor is the least effective type and Full Plate is the best.  It
is also true that the more effective types of Weapons and Armor weigh more,
and so are more tiring to carry and use (see Fatigue).

Haggling

Appearing next to each item for sale is an "offered price."  But you have
to Haggle with the wily Innkeeper for a fair price by entering a number
less than the suggested price.  You can, however, only purchase those items
listed.  Any other items, such as magic weapons, magic armor, and alas,
more money, have to be found in the dungeon.

The Temple Awaits...

The time has come to enter one of the three realms of The Temple of Apshai
Trilogy.  Word has spread amongst the denizens of the dungeons: "A new
adventurer has left our friend the Innkeeper..." To begin your adventure
select G> ENTER THE TEMPLE, the Realm, and last, a Level from the Innkeeper
menus.  "He may be just in time for lunch..."

				14

The DunjonMaster

Entering and Exiting the Dungeon

When you first Enter a realm Level, you will be just inside the door of the
first room on that Level.  You will always Enter a Level of the dungeon at
the same place.  From that point on, you are free to roam about on the
Level as you please.  To leave the dungeon or to move to a different Level,
you must first Exit the dungeon, then re-enter at the entrance to the next
Level.  The four Levels for each of three Trilogy realms are described in
detail in The Apshai Scrolls Master Reference Guide beginning on page 22.

The Apshai Adventure Screen

The Apshai Adventure Screen is divided into two windows:  The Map Window
and the DunjonMaster Window.  As you move through the Trilogy realms, The
DunjonMaster renders a graphic map of the passageways and rooms of the
dungeons on the Map Window.  Your character's status, including the number
of the room you are currently in, your physical condition, and how much
weight you are currently carrying are displayed on the DunjonMaster Window.
 The DunjonMaster reports blow-by-blow accounts of battles with monsters in
the bottom part of the DunjonMaster Window.  Messages are also posted in
this section.  There are a number of possible messages, and more than one
of these may appear at the same time.  The circled numbers in the
illustration correspond to the descriptions under the sample display.

The Apshai Adventure Screen

1 - The number of the Room you are in.  Passages are also given Room
    Numbers.

2 - Shows your level of Wounds - see On Death and Dying

3 - Shows your Fatigue level - see Fatigue.

4 - Shows how much Weight you are carrying.

5 - Shows how many healing Salves you have.

6 - Shows how many healing Elixirs you have.

7 - Shows the number of Arrows you are carrying.

8 - Shows the number of Magic Arrows you are carrying.

9 - Tells you what Monster you are fighting.

10 - Relays Messages and Battle Reports.

11 - Describes the last Treasure you found plus other important Messages.

				15

Apshai Commands

There are a number of keyboard Commands available to you for maneuvering
your character through the Trilogy dungeons.  These Commands are discussed
below under three major headings: Movement, Battle, and Special Commands. 
The Apshai Command Card included in your game package summarizes them and
their meanings.  Make sure that the Apshai Command Card you have is
applicable to your computer system.

Movement

Check "Movement" on your Apshai Command Card.  Movement lists all the
movement commands used for your computer type.  For some computer versions,
you must face the direction in which you want to move by turning left,
right, or completely around (volte-face); then, you actually move when you
enter the speed (0 to 9 feet per "turn").  For other versions, such as the
IBM PC, you simply move up, down, right, or left by pressing the cursor
arrow keys on the numerical keypad.

It is important to remember that the faster you move - the more steps per
turn - the more tired you become (see Fatigue).  Since monsters cannot
follow you out of a room, you only need to "run" for short intervals. (Of
course, if there is a monster in the next room...)

Movement: First turn your character in the direction you want to go: (1)
Right, Left or Volte-face (turn around 180 degrees); (2) You select the
"speed" from 0 to 9 feet per "turn".  If you select "1" the character will
take one step in the direction pointed.  Select "9" and the character will
"leap" nine steps in that direction.

Joystick and Mouse Control:  If you have a joystick or mouse connected to
your system you can move the character using these control devices.  The
Apshai Command Card provides specific joystick or mouse instructions
designed for your computer system.  But keep in mind, a joystick or mouse
doesn't offer any "realtime" advantage in terms of speed and reflexes as in
arcade-style video games - just convenience.  The omniscient DunjonMaster
reserves the right to judge the speed, power and outcome of your attacks.

Battle Commands

There are several Battle Commands to choose from when doing battle with
monsters:  Attack, Thrust, Parry, Bow and Arrows and Magic Arrows.  Battle
Commands are represented by letter keys on your keyboard and for your quick
reference are listed on your Apshai Command Card.

Attack is a single swing of the sword, but you must be within striking
distance of your foe or the DunjonMaster will display the message: "TOO FAR
TO HIT."

Thrust is an all out attack meant to inflict mortal wounds upon monsters -
but also more likely to end in your being hurt.  Although a Thrust
increases your chances to strike and damage monsters, it also makes it
easier for the monster to return the favor.  A Thrust also requires more
energy which means your Fatigue rating drops substantially.

Parry helps shield you against a monster's attack while you conserve your
energy (Fatigue).  But if you Parry, you'll find it more difficult to hit
the monster.  Parrying also allows you to rest and regain your energy
without letting your guard down.

Bow and Arrow:  When attacking with a Bow and Arrow, you must be facing the
monster (and the further away you are the better, since the monster cannot
hurt you

				16

unless it is within the melee distance).  If you try to fire an Arrow while
the monster is within striking range of you, it becomes much easier for the
monster to get a taste of you since you won't be able to fend off his
attack - the DunjonMaster correctly assumes you are now hitting the monster
over the head with a wooden Bow.

Magic Arrows also are good long range weapons, however a Magic Arrow is
more likely to hit its target and does more damage than a standard arrow. 
Magic arrows can only be found in the dungeons, since no one who has them
is likely to sell them.  Firing either type of Arrow generally allows you
to regain spent Fatigue.

Special Commands

The Special Commands vary from healing yourself to attempting to talk to a
monster.  Each Special Command is listed on your Apshai Command Card and
described in the following paragraphs.

Opening Doors:  Nearly every room has at least one Door (also see Secret
Doors below), which must be Opened before  you can go through it.  To Open
a Door, go up to within one foot of it.  While facing it, (be sure you are
aligned correctly) five the "Open Door" command.  The Door will then Open,
and you may walk through it to the next room.

Once a Door has been opened, it will stay Opened until you go to a
different Level or reinitialize the game.  The Door also remains Open when
you save the game.

Secret Doors:  Secret Doors are hidden from view and must be located before
they can be opened.  To locate a Secret Door, use the "Examine Wall for
Secret Door" command listed in the Apshai Command Card.  You must be facing
the wall you are examining, but you don't have to be next to it.  The
DunjonMaster will respond with: "NOTHING" or "A SECRET DOOR!"

Do not be fooled by a "NOTHING" response; sometimes Secret Doors are only
located after the wall has been examined several times.  When the Secret
Door is found, open it the same way you would an ordinary door.

Traps:  A Trap may come in any one of a number of forms, ranging from darts
that spring out from a treasure chest to a pit in the floor of a room. 
They can be located anywhere in a room, but a room does not have to have a
Trap.  You can search for a Trap by following the Trap instructions on the
Apshai Command Card.  As with Secret Doors, it is possible to miss a Trap,
but again, you can search all you want.  When you search for and find a
Trap, its location becomes obvious, and you can usually avoid it by going
around it.

Finding Treasure:  All Treasurers in the Trilogy realms are described in
the Treasures section by Level, in The Apshai Scrolls.  To find out what
kind of Treasure is in a particular room, you must first move to within one
foot and grab it, using the appropriate command.  (Before doing so, it may
be wise to search for Traps.)  The DunjonMaster then displays the number of
that Treasure which can be referenced to The Apshai Scrolls section.  The
DunjonMaster keeps track of all your Treasures for you and lists each at
the end of your adventure, back at the Inn (refer to Evaluating Treasure).

Note:  If you find a sword in the dungeon, you must leave behind your old
sword before you can use the new one.  Swords are jealous of their
possessor's attentions!  You always have the option of ignoring the new
sword and keeping your old one.

Dropping Treasure:  If you should decide after picking up a Treasure that
you don't want it, you can put it down again at any time using the "Drop
Treasure" command and then entering the number of the Treasure you want to
Drop (refer to the Apshai Command Card).

				17

Harken or Query:  All characters visiting the Temple of Apshai Trilogy have
special Listening Powers.  By using the appropriate command on the Apshai
Command Card, you can sense the presence of another creature in the next
room, even on the other side of a wall or closed door.  This command only
works if you are facing the wall or door you want to listen at.  It is
similar to the find Traps and Secret Door commands in that there is a
percentage chance you will not hear anything, even if there really is a
monster lurking in wait for you.  When this command is used, the
DunjonMaster tells you that you found "NOTHING" or you are given the name
of the lurking creature.

Speaking with Monsters: Speaking with Monsters is another ability you have
as a traveler in the dungeon.  The command gives you a chance to avoid
fighting with a monster.  If the monster is in a good mood when you speak
to it, it will tell you to pass by and leave any treasure it is guarding
untouched.  However, if you then attack it or distrub the treasure, the
monster will pursue you.  But beware!  Some monsters hate adventurers!

Healing:  There are two items you may use to Heal your wounds:  Salves and
Elixirs.  Either of these may be taken at any time, including during
combat.  However, the monster would then get a free swing.  You can rest
while you are healing yourself.

Salves:  Each Salve purchased from the Innkeeper will heal some of the
wounds you have taken.  This percentage varies depending on your character.
 The DunjonMaster keeps track fo how many Salves you have, and upon
applying one, automatically adjusts the count remaining.  You can see the
change of the number next to the Wounds healing on the DunjonMaster's
screen.  If you attempt to use more Salves than you have available, the
DunjonMaster will display the message: "NONE LEFT."

Elixirs (Ylixirs):  These exotic liquid refreshments work the same way as
Salves, except they are more powerful and heal a larger percentage of your
wounds.  Elixir's must be found as Treasure and cannot be purchased from
the Innkeeper.  To execute the command, press the appropriate key
identified on your Apshai Command Card.

Fatigue

Your Fatigue rating simply determines how much energy you have at any given
time.  Exceptional exertion results in spent Fatigue, but what constitutes
exceptional exertion and how much Fatigue you Expend depends on your
character.  Walking normally and firing arrows generally allow you to
regain Fatigue.  Activities such as running, fighting, and carrying heavy
loads all take more energy.  The amount of energy you Expend for any
activity is also affected by your wounds.  The more you are wounded, the
more it costs you in Fatigue to perform an activity.

If you use up more Fatigue than you have (if a negative number is displayed
for Fatigue), you fall on the floor and pant.  You will not be allowed to
attack or move until you have recovered (that is, until a positive number
is displayed).

The DunjonMaster keeps track of an displays for you the amount of energy
you have left.  Therefore, if the display reads: "FATIGUE 100%", all of
your energy is available.

Regaining Spent Fatigue

While you cannot accumulate more energy than you started with, you can
Regain previously spent energy in a variety of ways.  The fastest way is to
stop your movement altogether (although this may be dangerous).  You can
also Regain it while firing an arrow or simply walking more slowly. 
Executing special commands also allows you to gain back Fatigue.  Each time
you rest, however, you have a chance of meeting a wandering monster (see
Monsters).

				18

Evaluating Treasure

Once you are safely back at the Inn, the Innkeeper lists all of the
Treasure you found during the adventure and adds the value of your
treasures to your silver.  If you intend to keep your character for use in
future sessions, save him to disk, or make a not of the total so that you
can re-enter it at a later time.

Experience

Each time that you successfully venture into the dungeon you acquire
Experience points, which means you become a better and more powerful
adventurer.  This number is determined for you by the DunjonMaster and is
based on what you accomplish while in the dungeon.  Essentially, as you
gain Experience, you become able to handle more difficult situations - you
will notice improvements in your character.  These improvements come in
"jumps" and may not be immediately obvious.  One improvement is that it
becomes easier for you to hit a monster and more difficult for the monster
to hit you.

Once The Temple of Apshai Trilogy program is loaded, it keeps track of your
Experience points on a cumulative basis.  That is, if you return to the Inn
to purchase more supplies, the DunjonMaster remembers how many Experience
points you earned on that adventure and adds it to them the Experience you
gain for the next adventure.

Saving Characters and Games

The DunjonMaster keeps track of your character's Experience, Fatigue,
Treasure, Weapons and Strength and will continue to perform this task until
you leave the dungeons and Save your character, quit the game and generate
a new character or simply turn off the computer.  If you Saved the
character to a disk, all the character's key attributes at the time they're
saved - the Innkeeper's Character Summary screen - will be remembered by
the DunjonMaster when the character is loaded for a new adventure.

The Temple of Apshai Trilogy program system has been designed to save one
game and up to fifty adventure characters on the program disk.  The Apshai
Command Card or Apshai Guide (for IBM PC and Macintosh) provides more
specific Save instructions and information for the computer system you own.

Save a Game:  You can save a Temple Trilogy game by entering the "Save
Game" Command at any point or time in the game.  You don't have to return
to a menu screen - the Save Game Command for your computer system is listed
on your Apshai Command Card and is entered directly into the keyboard.

Save a Character:  To Save a character, you can either enter the "Save
Character" Command directly into the keyboard at any point or place in the
game, or you can select the "Save Thy Character to Disk" menu choice from
the main Innkeeper screen.  The exact instructions for your computer system
are listed on your Apshai Command Card.

				19

The Body and Soul

On Death and Dying

Any time a monster attacks you, there is a chance (depending on the type of
armor you are wearing) that it will penetrate your armor and Wound you. 
The DunjonMaster keeps track of and displays how much damage you have taken
on a percentage basis.  The number displayed next to Wounds is always the
percentage that you have left.  For example, if the display reads: "WOUNDS:
90%," you are still relatively healthy because only 10% of you has been
wounded.

You may Heal yourself at any time with either a Salve or an Elixir (see
Healing).  You can continue to function normally until you reach 0% or less
(except that your Fatigue expenditure increases).  At that point you are
dead.  However, there is a chance you can be "raised from the dead."  The
following paragraphs explain this phenomenon in more detail.

Getting Yourself Resurrected

If after all that hard work you should find yourself slain, don't panic. 
All may not yet be lost.  After all, you are not the only adventurer in the
dungeon and some kind soul, having stumbled across your body lying on the
floor, may drag you out to safety and see to it that you are Resurrected. 
Of course, having gone to all the trouble, he will most likely want
something in return as a thank you.

If you should die, you - and all your possessions - may simply be eaten by
a wandering monster. (Fresh adventurer is considered to be a delicacy by
the monsters inhabiting the dungeon).  This is the worst case.  You may
also be found by one of three characters: a dwarf, a wizard, or a cleric,
all of whom will ask for some type of payment.  The DunjonMaster tells you
immediately which of the four cases has occurred.

				20

Dungeon Dwellers

Friends of the Dungeon

The Dwarf:  The second worst case is to be found by Olias the Dwarf.  While
he will not eat you, he will take all your money, including any gems and
jewels, and any magical items you might have.  This includes magic swords,
armor, and arrows.  You will be alone but you will be very poor.

The Magic-User:  Lowenthal the Wizard is only slightly easier to please
than Olias.  In return for your life, he will take any special magical
items you might have, leaving you with your cash, gems, jewels, weapons,
and armor.

The Cleric:  The fortunate ones will be found by Bendic the wandering
priest.  This kind soul (if he can find his way out of the dungeon), will
resurrect you and simply ask that you make a donation to his sect after you
get back to the Inn.

Monsters

Although a complete description of the types of Monsters in the dungeon is
contained in the Apshai Scrolls "Monsters of Apshai" section, it is helpful
to know that Monsters can be either Fixed or Wandering.  With a Fixed
Monster, each time you go in a Level of a realm, that monster (and all
other items) reappears exactly where it was previously.  These monsters are
normally there to guard a particular treasure.  A Wandering Monster is
generated randomly by the DunjonMaster and may appear anywhere at any time
on the appropriate Level.

You do not have to fear running into the most powerful monsters on the
first Level of any of the three Trilogy realms.  Some discretion is used in
generating them and only first Level monsters are generated for the first
Level of a Trilogy realm.  Don't be surprised though, if you find what
first appears to be the same monster on more than one Level, and then
discover it to be tougher than you remembered - it too has gained some
"experience."

Neither Fixed or Wandering Monsters ever follow you out of a room, but they
will be waiting for you when you go back into that room.  Temple of Apshai
Trilogy Monsters are extremely patient...

				21

                        THE APSHAI SCROLLS

A Master Reference Guide

	The following guide is arranged by game: first The Temple of
Apshai, then The Upper Reaches of Apshai, and last The Curse of Ra.  Each
game is further broken down by Level. Detail on Rooms, Traps and Treasurers
is presented by Level as well.

Temple of Apshai.................................................23

	This underground Temple is the last remembrance of the once mighty
race of Apshai.  Steel your sword well for the dangers that lie ahead. 
This may be a land of gems beyond compare, but it's also filled with
monsters fierce and foul.

Upper Reaches of Apshai..........................................50

	The small town sitting above the ruins of Apshai is now open to
adventurers for exploration.  The Innkeeper's Backyard, Merlis' Cottage,
Olias' Cellar, and Benedic's Monastery offer everything from the dead
refusing to stay in their graves to peculiar happenings in the vegetable
garden.

	There's clearing, painting and repairing to be done in the houses
and yards above Apshai.  Perhaps not quite what you imagined when you
started out, but there's aplenty!  150 Rooms await.

Curse of Ra.......................................................62

	Welcome to the fabled land of Ra, home of the Sphinx, the Pyramid,
the Altar of Ra, and through it all the Curse.  This is the last of the
Apshai journey, wherein you will learn the secret of the Curse, and perhaps
learn your own fate.

				22

                         TEMPLE OF APSHAI

			     Monsters

Antmen - These creatures look like six foot long ants walking upright on
their hindmost legs with the other four legs free for manipulation.  There
are significant differences between the classes of antmen but unfortunately
these differences are only discernible to other antmen.  They attack with
their mandibles and sometimes with their forelegs as well.

Carrion Beasts - These creatures resemble squids equipped with spindly
legs.  They generally have six tentacles with which they maul and crush
their prey.  Their bodies are covered with a thin but hard carapace and
they are able to travel along walls and ceilings.

Centipedes - This represents a nest of the little buggers such as might
take up residence under a chest or in some remote crevice.  Their bites are
mildly poisonous.

Ghouls - are misshapen creatures with longer than normal arms, wicked
claws, and a mouthful of razor sharp fangs which they ably employ to crack
the bones of their prey.  They have tough hide and stand about seven feet
tall.  They are said to eat the soul of their prey as it exits the dying
body.

Giant Amoeba - This creature is a mass of gray protoplasm which has a
strong solvent effect on living flesh.  They range from six to ten feet in
diameter.

Giant Ants - These huge insects are four to six feet long and travel
quickly on their six legs.  They attack their prey with their large
mandibles.  They are entirely encased in a hard shell.

Giant Bombardier Beetles - are about three feet in diameter and fly around
on a pair of glossy wings.  They can generate a good speed on their little
wings and attack their prey in bowling rushes.

Giant Fire Beetles - These melon sized creatures are copper red beetles
which are capable of generating tremendous heat within their bodies with
which they attack they prey.  They have a think shell but move about very
quickly on the wing.

Giant Leeches - A disgusting rubbery grey, these are two or three feet
long.  They travel about on a trail of slime and drain their prey of body
fluids within their sucker mouths.

Giant Mosquitos - have a three or four foot wingspan and maneuver their
slender bodies about rapidly through the air.  They insert their
proboscises into their prey and drain the body fluids.

Giant Rats - are four feet tall at the shoulder and have nasty teeth.  They
are dirty creatures and are recognizable by their musky smell.

				23


Giant Spiders - look like a tarantula-black widow hybrid with a harry black
body and black and red banded legs.  They are reputed to be quite poisonous
as one might expect from the four or five foot size.

Giant Termites - are two to three feet long and move about on flimsy wings.
They have soft shells and are brown in color.

Giant Ticks - are foot long ticks and are dark brown or black in color. 
They are hard shelled and leap about on their strong hindmost legs.  They
drain body fluids with their proboscises.

Giant Wasps - are three or four feet in length and their thorax is tipped
by a paralyzing stinger.  They are very mobile and will attempt to sting
their prey into submission before burying their prize for future
consumption.

Jellies - are formless masses of translucent jelly about three feet high
and six or eight feet across; their touch dissolves flesh.  They have no
socially redeeming value.

Skeletal Bats - These feral creatures are bare skeletons of bats with red
ember-like eyes.  They have wingspans of two or three feet and will attempt
to bit their prey with their sharp fangs.

Skeletons - are the animated skeletons of men which now stalk the
underground passages in search of victims.  They are said to devour the
soul of their victim as it exits the dying body.

Spiders - This represents a whole nest of small spiders.  These little
killers are coal black and have white eyes.  They inhabit small dark spaces
such as the insides of chests.

Swamp Rats - are two to three feet long and are famed for their ravenous
appetites.  They will fearlessly attack anything that moves or has a strong
smell and they eat anything they can swallow.  They come in your choice of
decorator colors.

Vampire Bats - These creatures inhabit the darker recesses of the dungeon. 
They are generally black and have wingspans around three feet.  They bite
their victims with their razor sharp fangs and drink the blood which flows
from the wound.

Wraiths - These ghostly creatures appear as skeletal figures garbed in
hooded frocks.  Their eyes are fiery points of light within their cowls. 
They move effortlessly about leaving no trace of their passing and are
capable of passing through solid matter at will.  Many have died under the
chill touch of their bony hands.

Zombies - These creatures are animated corpses which stalk the dark
passages in search of prey.  They sometimes utilize weapons garnered from
their poor victims.  They too are said to devour the souls of their victims
as these exit the dying bodies.

				24

			      Level 1

                     Rooms, Traps, Treasures

Level 1 - Rooms

Room One - The smooth stonework of the passageway floor shows that advanced
methods were used in its creation.  A skeleton sprawls on the floor just
inside the door, a bony hand, still clutching a rusty dagger, outstretched
toward the door to safety.  A faint roaring sound can be heard from the far
end of the passage.

Room Two - A stream runs through this natural stone chamber.  A narrow
landing adjacent to the corridor at the north end of the chamber allows
easy access to the stream.  The water flows in from a cut in the west wall
and flows out under the north wall near the landing.  In an alcove near one
end of the landing there are many urns and pots.  The water is very clear
and appears to be about three feet deep.

Room Three - A finely carved and painted mural fills the east wall of the
passage, opposite the opening, depicting men tilling the soil.  A ransacked
backpack rests under the mural.  A roaring sound can be heard from the
north.

Room Four - is a smoothly carved passage with a native granite ceiling.
Slippery green moss fills every crack and crevice in the room, and the air
is filled with its heavy scent.  An empty purse lies in the southwest
corner.  A droning sound can be heard.

Room Five - is a pond-filled room with a small landing to the south.  The
surface of the sluggish water is covered with moss and a number of black
lilies rest peacefully upon the green matting.  The water can be found to
be about three feet deep and flows almost imperceptibly in under the west
wall and out under the east wall.  Some of the lilies can be reached from
the landing.

Room Six - Water flows into this chamber from the northern part of the west
wall and out again through the southern part of the same wall.  The surface
of the water is covered with moss and multi-colored lilies, some within
reach of the landing.  Experiments will reveal the water to be about three
feet deep.

Room Seven - The moss-covered water in this chamber appears to be three
feet deep, also.  A rusting suit of platemail can be seen on the murky
bottom.  White lilies rest on the surface of the pool.  Water flows into
the chamber from under the east wall and out under the west wall.

Room Eight - is a passage with smooth stone walls and floor and a native
rock ceiling.  A loud roaring sound may be heard from the north.  A
humanoid skull rests on the floor in the middle of the passageway.

Room Nine - is of roughly hewn stone.  The floor has been levelled by
manmade means, but the walls and ceiling are native rock.  Cobwebs fill
every crack and hang from the ceiling, dancing slowly in the slight breeze.
A cloying, sweet odor fills the air.

				25

Room Ten - The air of the room is filled with a cloying, sweet aroma,
causing the senses to reel.  The walls of the room are covered with moss
which is largely brown and dried with only a few pale green patches
remaining.  Breaking off any part of the green moss will reveal it as the
source of the aroma.

Room Eleven - A mist drifts into the corridor from an opening in the west
wall and a deafening roar is heard.  Moss covers the floor before the
opening to the west and a rusty sword lies on the mossy stone.

Room Twelve - The floor, walls, and ceiling of the chamber bear the marks
of tools.  A glow fills the opening to the east and a foul, musty odor is
in the air.

Room Thirteen - The room is well lighted by the phosphorescent glow
emanating from the greenish-yellow algae covering the high ceilings of
native rock and well-worked stone walls to the north and south.  A broken
bow lies in two pieces on the floor near the east wall.

Room Fourteen - A loud roaring sound may be heard from the west end of the
passage. A pyramid of medium-sized stones fills one corner of the north
wall at the east end of the corridor.

Room Fifteen - is an irregular cave of native rock.  The walls and floor
are covered with a heavy matting of multi-hued moss.  The walls are
brilliant reds, greens, and blues, while the floor is a pastel yellow.  A
wooden box lies topless in the middle of the cavern floor.  Inside lies a
well-made cloak.  The material of the cloak seems to shimmer in the
torchlight.

Room Sixteen - Here you find the source of the roaring sound.  A stream
flows into the chamber from the south, across the large water wheel, and
plummets into a pit in the floor of the cave.  The bottom of the pit cannot
be seen, but experiments will indicate that it is a very long drop.

Room Seventeen - Only the floor has been smoothed in this chamber, the
walls and ceiling having been left in the natural state.  The air smells of
decaying vegetable matter.  A small mound of stones against the west wall
in the north end of the passage partially blocks the way to the north.

Room Eighteen - The passage reeks of spoiled and rotten matter.  A strip of
cloth sticks out from beneath a mound of dirt in the southern portion of
the passageway.

Room Nineteen - Small bones litter the floor of this chamber and crunch
under the boots of the incautious traveller.

Room Twenty - The walls of the room are covered with algae.  Most of the
algae is black and rotten, but the few remaining brown patches have a nutty
aroma, and, if tasted, are reminiscent of spiced bread.

Room Twenty-one - The west wall of the cavern shows the marks of carving
tools, but the rest is natural rock.  The floor of the room is overgrown
with mushrooms of two varieties.  One has broad, flat caps and is white
with brown splotches, while the second variety has black, tightly rounded
caps.

Room Twenty-two - This cavern is also overgrown with the same types of
mushrooms as are found in room twenty-one.  A skeleton lies among the
mushrooms still clutching the remnants of a sack.

				26

Room Twenty-three - The native rock walls of the room are covered with
algae.  Most of the algae is black and rotten, but the remaining brown
patches have a nutty scent and taste like spiced bread.  The exoskeleton of
a huge ant lies in the middle of the chamber.

Room Twenty-four - is a mossy, carved stone landing.  The air is very humid
and smells of damp and mold.  A slime-covered sack rests against the
eastern wall of the landing.

Room Twenty-five - A stagnant pond fills the south end of the carved stone
chamber, with a narrow landing at the south end.  White mold covers the
surface of the water, save the southeast corner, where a gold-colored
seaweed is in evidence.  Tests will reveal the water to be three feet deep,
but the bottom of the pool cannot be seen through the murk.

Room Twenty-six - A shallow pond fills most of the room.  The surface of
the water is covered with a white mold, except in the northeast corner
where a clump of golden-brown seaweed is visible.

Room Twenty-seven - The floor of this tunnelled passage is streaked with
slime.  A well-wrought iron candlestick lies at the southern end of the
tunnel.

Room Twenty-eight - The tunnel floor is streaked with a stinking slime and
littered with small and medium-sized stones.

Room Twenty-nine - The odor of the slime coating the entire chamber floor
is overpowering.  A trickle of water runs down the eastern wall and a small
pool has formed in a depression in the southeast corner of the room.  A
rigid body in a finely woven cloak lies in the northeast corner.

Room Thirty - The smoothly carved northern and southern sections of the
chamber contrast sharply with the native granite found in the middle of the
room, suggesting that is has been widened out from a natural passage.  A
quiver and some arrows lie on the floor in the middle of the chamber next
to a sword and a broken bow.

Room Thirty-one - is a narrow, low tunnel of native rock.  Small slides of
earth and rock line the sides of the passage with a larger fall of stones
near the eastern end of the tunnel.  A skeletal hand protrudes from the
rockfall, an inscribed bronze ring visible on one of the fingers.

Room Thirty-two - is a rough, five-foot wide tunnel with packed dirt walls,
floor, and ceiling.  A shining trail of dried fluid runs the length of the
tunnel and the air smells of vanilla.  Strange clicking sounds echo faintly
through the passage.

Room Thirty-three - A shiny trail runs the length of the packed-earth
tunnel and the odor of vanilla fills the air.  The clicking grows louder.

Room Thirty-four - A trail of shiny excretions run the length of the
passage and the vanilla odor is stronger than before.  The clicking sound
is clearly audible from the north end of the tunnel.

Room Thirty-five - is a rough cave, carved out of the dense earth.  The
vanilla odor clogs the nostrils and the clicking noises are still audible
from within.  A handful of gems litters the dirt floor before the western
wall.

				27

Room Thirty-six - Vanilla fills the air and the clicking sound appears to
emanate from nearby.  A fresh slide of earth against the north wall reveals
the glitter of gems amid the fallen earth.

Room Thirty-seven - The odor of vanilla is strong and the clicking sounds
continue.  The east wall is studded with a number of glittering gems.

Room Thirty-eight - The tunnel appears to have been dug out of the hard
earth.  A familiar trail runs the length of the passage and the odor of
vanilla is heavy.  The clicking sound begins to fade.

Room Thirty-nine - The floor of the passage is lined with the excretion and
the aroma of vanilla fills the air.  Clicking sounds echo faintly through
the passage.

Room Forty - has been dug out of the surrounding hard-packed earth.  The
odor of vanilla becomes exceedingly strong, but the clicking sound is
barely audible from within.  Gems can be seen gleaming from the south wall.

Room Forty-one - The trail of dried fluid is heavier here and the odor of
vanilla is almost unbearable.  The clicking sound grows louder in this
passage.

Room Forty-two - The vanilla odor is cloyingly thick.  Bones and gems
litter the floor along the north wall.  The clicking sound is plainly
audible within the cave.

Room Forty-three - The aroma of vanilla makes the senses reel and the floor
of the room is covered with the shiny stuff previously observed.  Bones lie
scattered across the floor and the clicking sound grows fainter from
within.  Gems stud the south wall.

Room Forty-four - The tunnel floor is heavily coated with dried fluid and
the aroma of vanilla is overpowering.  The strange clicking sounds are now
quite loud in this passage.

Room Forty-five - is a large cavern.  The shiny stuff is lighter inside
than in the connecting tunnel, but the vanilla odor is strong.  The
clicking sound appears to emanate from within.  A pile of shiny cocoons
fills the northern half of the room and gems are scattered about the dirt
floor.

Room Forty-six - The vanilla odor is still strong.  The ceiling of the
cavern is hung with the moldering bodies of various creatures, mostly men. 
The shiny stuff is heavy on the floor and the clicking sound is heard
clearly.  Gems are visible in the dust of the cavern floor.

Room Forty-seven - The clicking is replaced by a droning sound.  A skull
and some bones lie next to a quiver of arrows.

Room Forty-eight - The droning continues to echo from within the cavern. 
An elaborately carved sword hilt sticks out from under a heap of rocks. 
Bootprints lead up to the pile, but no other signs of disturbance can be
seen.

Room Forty-nine - is a narrow, high-ceilinged passage.  Small slides of
earth and stone line both walls of the tunnel.

Room Fifty - A forgotten backpack rests on the slimy stone against the
middle of the north wall.

Room Fifty-one - A rotting wood cabinet stands in the southwest corner of
the chamber, the brass lock of the cabinet broken.

				28

Room Fifty-two - is a smoothly worked passage.  Shallow alcoves line the
north wall, but are empty save for dust and an old boot that crumbles at a
touch.  The carpet of dust on the smooth floor is undisturbed.

Room Fifty-three - The north and west walls of the chamber are lined with
racks of rusty farming and stoneworking implements.

Room Fifty-four - A dusty wooden chest sits in the southeast corner, the
iron lock rusted through and the wood decaying from the dampness.

Room Fifty-five - is a rough stone cave save for the smoothly carved north
wall.  Dust covers the floor of the room several inches thick and cobwebs
hang from the ceiling and fill every crack of the floor and walls.  A small
box is visible in the dust in the southwest corner.

Room Fifty-six - is a passage with rough stone walls and floor and a native
granite ceiling.  The south wall of the passage is faced with smooth
squarish stones near the far end, while the floor and other walls are of a
rough stone.  A foul, musty odor fills the air and a thin layer of moss
coats the floor at the extreme end of the passage.

Level 1 - Traps

LILY TRAP - The lilies give off a cloud of fine powder which causes severe
swelling in your throat.

NEEDLE TRAP - A needle springs from the lock in the immediate vicinity of
your hand.

PIT TRAP - A ten foot pit opens beneath your feet.

SPEAR TRAP - A spear thrusts out of the cabinet as it is opened and then
retracts.

MOLD TRAP - The yellow mold on the floor gives off a cloud of spores as it
is stepped on.  These spores cause a severe coughing fit.

				29

Level 1 - Treasurers

T01 - Several of the lilies can be reached.  A vague memory of the healing
properties of some Apshasian flowers prompts you to pluck them for later
perusal. 

T02 - The delicate fragrance of the moss prompts you to place a sample in
your pack for later investigation (see Incense Moss) 

T03 - Any plant that glows in the dark must be worth something to someone
so you bag some (see Phosphorescent Algae). 

T04 - A beautiful cloak, wondrously light, yet tough as nails. 

T05 - The aroma of the plant overcomes your better judgement and you taste
a bit of it.  It is delicious and builds strong bodies twelve ways (see
Food Algae). 

T06 - Having enough to worry about at present your forgo sampling the
mushrooms for the time being and take some of each type for future
examination. 

T07 - Having spent some time up and down the coast you know of several
varieties of useful seaweed so you take some along (see Kelp). 

T08 - In a pocket of the deceased you find four gold pieces. 

T09 - the arrows all have silver points. 

T10 - Resting in the dirt are five small diamonds. 

T11 - Eight small diamonds rest in the earth. 

T12 - Four small diamonds rest in the earth. 

T13 - Laying in the dirt are seven small diamonds. 

T14 - The arrows have silver points. 

T15 - The sword has mithril worked into the blade, the hallmark of magical
arms and armor.  There are also two gold pieces on the body. 

T16 - Inside the cabinet you find arrows with mithril worked into the
points. 

T17 - This much copper has got to be valuable so you slip the ingot into
your sack (see Copper Ingot). 

T18 - Inside the box you find two hundred silver pieces and a diamond ring.

T20 - Nothing of value.

				30

                              Level 2

                      Rooms, Traps, Treasures

Level 2 - Rooms

Room One - is a passage with native granite walls.  The ceiling and floor
have been carved level.  A low scraping sound vibrates through the floor. 
The air has the musty smell of age and death.  The dust on the floor is
heavy near the walls, but a clear path has been worn down the center of the
passage.

Room Two - The walls of the tunnel have been smoothed and widened with
carving tools.  A brass-bound wooden door is set into the north wall near
the west end of the passage, its broken lock hanging from the corroded
hasp.  The scraping sound continues.  The dusty path continues straight for
a way, then disappears into a side passage to the south.

Room Three - The dust on the stone floor shows signs of small animals, but
is otherwise undisturbed.  The iron-bound door in the north wall hangs from
rusty hinges.  A simple sliding bolt secures it.  The scraping sound can be
heard through the floor and the fragrance of cut wood freshens the air.

Room Four - The east wall is of cut and worked stone.  The brass-bound
wooden doors in the north and south walls are secured by rusty iron locks. 
The tracks of small animals crisscross the floor between the doors and the
air smells of must and rot.  The sound of flowing water can be heard
through the floor and a low rumbling can be heard in the east end of the
passage.

Room Five - is a corridor with stonework evident on the walls and floor. 
The ceiling is of carved rock.  The wooden doors to the east and west hang
from tarnished brass hinges.  The scraping noise vibrates through the floor
and the worn dusty path continues down the center of the corridor.

Room Six - Two doors, one to the east and one to the west, are wooden and
hang on brass hinges.  The scraping sound grows fainter and the worn path
along the center of the corridor continues.

Room Seven - The north wall of the corridor is native granite, while the
others are masonry.  The worn path leads to a wooden door in the west wall
from which dangles a heavy iron lock, now unfastened.  The hinges of the
door show signs of frequent use.  The scraping sound can still be hard
faintly.

Room Eight - The path runs the length of the passage, then bends and
disappears to the north.  The door in the west wall is iron-bound wood and
hangs ajar from rusty iron hinges.

				31

Room Nine - The stone in the east wall only shows signs of workmanship. 
Racks of motheaten robes, wadmal grey in color, fill the interior of the
room.  Against the north wall stands a locked cedar cabinet and rack hung
with the remains of more elaborate black and green robes.  A pungent odor
fills the air and the dust of the floor is undisturbed.

Room Ten - Furniture of various types is stacked around the walls and the
entire floor is covered with a layer of fine sawdust.  The air is heavy
with the smell of different woods.  A low scraping sound can be heard
through the floor.

Room Eleven - A strong, musky odor intermingles with the smell of decay. 
Casks and crates are stacked along the walls and in rows down the center of
the room.  The sound of flowing water can be heard through the floor and a
vibration can be felt.

Room Twelve - A bench along the west wall of the small chamber holds a neat
array of jeweler's tools and a small forge on the sough wall holds glowing
embers.  The dusty floor shows signs of recent disturbance and a strong
smell of vanilla is in the air.

Room Thirteen - All four walls are covered with a heavy layer of soot. 
Rusty tools and scrap iron litter the floor, several weapons in various
states of repair among them.  A large forge against the north wall shows no
signs of recent use.  The dirty floor is covered with a black, grimy dust.

Room Fourteen - is a small cave with stonework on the east wall and the
other walls, floor, and ceiling of carved rock.  An iron chest sits against
the south wall with the key still in the lock.  The floor shows signs of
recent use.  The floor shows signs of recent entry and the air smells
faintly of vanilla.

Room Fifteen - three of the walls are lined with shelves containing
dust-covered beakers, phials, and jars.  Evil looking substances in jars
marked "eye of newt", "hair of frog", etc. occupy a table in the center of
the room.  An even layer of dust covers the floor.

Room Sixteen - is a chamber with stonework on the east and west walls.  The
other walls, floor and ceiling are carved rock.  A long table in the center
of the room supports a network of flasks and tubing with a rusty iron oil
burner beneath one end.  A table against the south wall holds beakers of
colored liquids with strange inscriptions and a desk in the southwest
corner holds a tray with a pitcher of slime-covered milky liquid.  Scraps
of paper litter the floor around the desk.  An even layer of dust covers
the room.  The doorways to the east and west are obscured by shredded
tapestries embroidered with strange glyphs.

Room Seventeen - is a small chamber.  Tables covered with bolts of rotten
cloth press against the walls.  The low scraping sound can be heard faintly
through the floor.

Room Eighteen - Mounds of sawdust cover the floor of the small room.  The
air smells of decayed wood.  The scraping sound can be heard clearly from
the east.

Room Nineteen - The door in the west wall is wooden and has no latch.  The
musty smelling room is filled with dusty weaving looms and other spinning
and sewing devices.  The scraping sound can be heard through the door.

				32

Room Twenty - Leather hangings on the west wall cover a doorway.  The room
is littered with sawdust and rusty woodworking tools.  A metal shaft runs
from floor to ceiling in the southwest corner, attached to a large sawblade
by a complex system of gears and levers, all rusty from age and disuse. 
The scraping sound is now very loud.  If you move one of the levers, it
will cause a loud screeching beneath the floor.

Room Twenty-one - A small sack lies against the wall at the west end of the
passage.  A well-worn path runs the length of the corridor.

Room Twenty-two - At the far end of the narrow passage there is a door of
brass-bound oak inscribed with strange glyphs.  These give off an eerie
green glow.  The floor is covered with an even layer of dust.

Room Twenty-three - Strange implements litter a table in the center of the
room.  Here and there are various cages with the remains of animals.  Jars
filled with a viscous liquid and holding a miscellany of body parts from
assorted creatures are stored in racks on the north wall.  The door to the
east is made of wood and is secured with a rusty iron bolt.

Room Twenty-four - A desk sits against the north wall and a table and chair
against the south wall.  Along the east wall is a bed with a chest visible
beneath it.  The floor is covered with an unbroken layer of dust.  The
sound of flowing water can be heard from an opening in the northeast corner
where a stream flows beneath the flooring.

Room Twenty-five - Remnants of books and scraps of paper rest on a rack
along the north wall while a desk fills most of the south wall, and a
cabinet and bed are flush with the east wall.  The sound of flowing water
comes from an opening in the northeast corner where a stream flows beneath
the flooring.

Room Twenty-six - Large vats and tubs are set into the floor of the small
chamber and heaps of rotting clothing litter the room.  The sound of
flowing water can be heard through the moss-hung doorway to the east.  The
dusty floor is undisturbed and the air smells of damp greenery.

Room Twenty-seven  - An underground stream flows through an opening beneath
the eastern half of the floor.  The walls and floor of the room are covered
with moss and a malodorous slime.

Room Twenty-eight - The eastern door is wooden and is secured with a simple
latch.  The room is filled with tables against the north and south walls,
holding a variety of metal working tools, all rusty with age.  A small
forge against the south wall is filled with litter.  The scraping sound is
heard loudest in the northeast corner where a metal shaft runs from floor
to ceiling and is connected to a bank of grinding wheels by a complex
system of gears and levers.  Moving the levers causes the metal shaft to
spin in place and a grinding sound comes from the attached gears.

Room Twenty-nine - Shelves lining the walls hold a variety of rusted and
corroded metal scraps.  The sound of flowing water can be heard through the
dusty floor.

Room Thirty - is a large cavern with stonework on the west wall and the
western half of the south wall.  Bales, casks, and crates line the walls
and the shelves in the middle of the room.  The air smells of musk and rot,
and the tracks of small animals abound.  Water can be heard flowing beneath
the floor.

				33

Room Thirty-one - is a small cave.  Racks of rusty weapons line the walls.

Room Thirty-two - A loud roaring sound can be heard from the northern end
of the passageway and bits of bone litter the floor.

Room Thirty-three - is a short passageway.  A rumbling sound can be heard
from the opening to the north.

Room Thirty-four - A table and four chairs sit in the middle of the room
and two goblets lie on the floor nearby.  Footprints crisscross the dusty
floor.  The wooden door to the north stands ajar.  The eastern door is
wooden with iron hinges and has a small barred window at eye level.  A low
rumbling sound is audible from the west.

Room Thirty-five - Dark stains cover the carved stone floor in front of the
door to the west.  The air smells of antiquity and death.

Room Thirty-six - Dark stains mar the floor of the passage and moans and
the rattling of chains echo faintly through the corridor.

Room Thirty-seven - The dark stains are thicker here and the sound of moans
and rattling chains grows louder.

Room Thirty-eight - is a large natural cavern.  Manacles hang from the
north wall, one set still supporting a human skeleton.  Various braziers,
irons, and larger implements of torture line the east and south walls.  The
air is musty and the moaning and clanking continues through no source is
evident.

Room Thirty-nine through Forty-six - also form a narrow passage.  The doors
to the south are iron.  Each has a small barred window at eye level and a
small slot at ground level.  All are locked with slidebolts.  Clanking
chains and sorrowful moaning echo through the passage.

Room Forty-three through Forty-six - also form a narrow passage.  The doors
to the south are iron.  Each has a small barred window at eye level and a
small slot at ground level.  All are locked with slidebolts.  Clanking
chains and sorrowful moaning echo through the passage.

Room Forty-seven through Fifty - are small, cramped cells.  Each cell has a
wooden plank suspended by chains on the north wall.  clanking and moaning
echo faintly through the cellblock.

Room Fifty-one through Fifty-four - are small cells much like the others. 
The clanking and moaning can be heard throughout.

Room Fifty-five - is a large natural cavern, except for the western portion
of the south wall, which is stonework.  A large waterfall plummets from the
ceiling to a pool in the rear of the cavern, blanketing the area in mist. 
The chamber reverberates with the roar of the cataract.  Lying near the
bank of the pond is a moss-covered sack.  The air is filled with the fresh
scent of the many mosses and ferns growing about.

Room Fifty-six - Six cots line the west wall with six lockers placed along
the north wall.  A table and three broken chairs stand against the east
wall.  A strip of cloth lies on the stone floor next to the table.

Room Fifty-seven - Dark stains and pieces of bone dot the floor.  Faint
moans echo through the corridor.

				34

Level 2 - Traps

CEILING TRAP - A steel blade descends from the ceiling, sweeps down the
corridor in a long arc and then retracts.

NEEDLE TRAP - A needle springs from the lock very near to your hand.

PIT TRAP - A ten foot pit with pointy spikes in the bottom opens beneath
your feet.

SPEAR TRAP - A spear thrusts out of the wall and then retracts.

X-BOW TRAP - A crossbow quarrel fires from the wall opposite the door as
you enter the room.

Level 2 - Treasurers

T01 - After coaxing open the cabinet you find a silver candelabra, six
silver trays and a bronze skull ring with mithril specks for eyes.

T02 - Fifty silver pieces.

T03 - On the workbench you find a small gold ingot and a tiny box with two
small rubies inside.

T04 - You stumble across a finely worked cloak (see Magic Cloak).

T05 - On a shelf on the south wall you find two small silver ingots, two
copper ingots and a tiny box with three small diamonds inside.

T06 - Finding nothing of value in the room you pour the milky liquid into a
waterskin, just in case you happen to be dying of thirst in the desert some
day (see Milky white Potion).

T07 - After jimmying the lock you find five hundred copper pieces and four
hundred silver pieces as well as a porcelain talisman inscribed with
mithril runes (see Magic Talisman).

T08 - On a back shelf of one of the racks you find a finely honed blade
worked with mithril.

T09 - The moldy sack splits at your touch spilling its contents of sixty
gold pieces to the ground.

T10 - A search of the lockers reveals that aside from rotten clothing, one
contains six hundred copper pieces, another contains a sack with sixty gold
pieces, and the last holds two hundred silver pieces and a diamond ring.

T11 - The sack contains one hundred silver pieces and thirty gold pieces.

T12 - Under the mattress on the bed you find a moneybelt containing two
hundred silver pieces and thirty gold pieces.

T13 - Seven silver coins.

				35

                             Level 3

                     Rooms, Traps, Treasures 

Level 3 - Rooms

Room One - is a natural passage with the floor carved level.  Scattered
bones litter the area and a forgotten backpack rests against the wall half
way down the passage.  The floor shows signs of frequent comings and goings
and the odor of vanilla is strong in the air.

Room Two - is a natural cavern.  The opening to the north has been carved
through the rock.  Bones litter the floor along the walls.

Room Three - is a natural cave.  Many bones litter the floor along the
walls.  The opening to the east has been dug through the rock wall.

Room Four - is a large cavern.  Human and animal tracks mark the dusty
floor.  A bright glint is visible near the top of a slide of rocks in the
northwest corner.

Room Five - is a natural cave with a leveled floor.  The body of a giant
rat lies in the southeast corner.  The dusty floor shows signs of
disturbance.

Room Six - is a natural cavern.  A pile of litter fills the southwest
corner.  Animal tracks can be seen on the dusty floor and the air smells of
musk and decay.  The opening to the north shows tool marks.

Room Seven - is a natural cave.  An old boot lies near a mound of earth in
the southwest corner.  The dusty floor is undisturbed.

Room Eight - is also a natural cave.  The opening to the west has been
carved through solid granite.  Small slides line the walls and a heap of
bones fills the southwest corner. 

Room Nine - is a natural gallery with a high vaulted ceiling and a rough
stone floor. A heap of litter and bones fills the southeast corner and the
floor shows the tracks of large animals.  The air smells of musk and decay.
The opening to the south has been widened with carving tools.

Room Ten - is a large natural cavern.  Tracks lead into the chamber that
suggest something heavy being dragged.  The floor is covered with slimy red
muck.  A pile of body parts and gnawed bones occupies the northwest corner
and the air reeks of decay and death.

Room Eleven - is cave with little evidence of use in the dust on the floor.
A brilliant glint of light beckons from the dust of the southeast corner.

				36

Room Twelve - is a small cave with leveled floor.  The opening to the east
has been carved through solid rock.  The dusty floor is largely undisturbed
save for a small slide of earth in the southwest corner.

Room Thirteen - is a small cave.  The dirt floor shows the tracks of large
animals.  Bones litter the northwest and southwest corners.

Room Fourteen - is a wedge-shaped cavern with the ceiling sloping to meet
the floor in the southwest corner.  The dusty floor is much disturbed near
the opening to the east.  A smelly mound of trash fills the southwest
corner.

Room Fifteen - is a natural cave.  A large boulder fills the northwest
corner.  A bony hand protruding from beneath it still clutches a small
ruby.

Room Sixteen - is a small cave.  The opening to the west has been carved
through the rock.  The dusty floor if undisturbed.  A pouch is visible on
the belt of a corpse lying in the southwest corner.

Room Seventeen - is a narrow tunnel bored through native rock.  The rough
stone floor is littered with bones and a small skull rests in the north end
of the passage.  No tracks can be seen.

Room Eighteen - is a natural passage. A small sack rests against the south
wall halfway down the passage.  The air is filled with a musky odor.  The
earthen floor is covered with the tracks of small animals.

Room Nineteen - is a passage with the floor and walls of carved stone and a
native stone ceiling.  The opening to the east has been carved through the
rock.  The dusty floor shows signs of much activity.  A discarded cloak
lies against the west wall.

Room Twenty - is a narrow excavated passage.  An abandoned backpack rests
on the floor in the eastern end of the passage.

Room Twenty-one - is a narrow passage.  Half of a giant rat lies in the
southern end of the passage.

Room Twenty-two - is a narrow passage.  The opening to the north has been
carved through the stone wall.  The dusty floor shows signs of some
disturbance.

Room Twenty-three - is a narrow passage.  The air smells faintly of
vanilla.  A rusty pick lies in the dirt at the western end of the passage.

Room Twenty-four - is a natural tunnel through the rock.  Some signs of
digging are evident at the southern end of the passage though no toolmarks
can be discerned.  The air is filled with the scent of vanilla and the
floor shows the marks of frequent comings and goings.  Scraping and
clicking sounds are faintly audible from the north.

Room Twenty-five - is a small passage carved through the surrounding rock.

Room Twenty-six - is a well trafficked passage with carved rock walls,
floor and ceiling.  A broken shovel protrudes from a mound of earth near
the north end of the passage.

Room Twenty-seven - is a narrow corridor that shows signs of frequent
passage.  A litter of small bones lines the walls and a well-preserved
human skull grins from against the north wall halfway down the passage. 
The air smells faintly of vanilla.

				37

Room Twenty-eight - is a rough, narrow tunnel.  The floor is bare except
for a skeleton near the opening to the south.  Cobwebs hang in the passage
and scraping and clicking sounds can be heard from the west.  The air
smells strongly of death and decay.

Room Twenty-nine - is a small cave with the floor carved level.  The dusty
floor shows some marks of disturbance toward the opening to the east.  The
opening to the north has been carved through the stone.  A single emerald
gleams from midway up the west wall of the cave.

Room Thirty - is a small, unoccupied cave except for a scattering of bones
and a small heap of offal in the northeast corner.

Room Thirty-one - is a small excavated room. The room is coated with dust
and the air is heavy with the odor of decaying flesh.  An antman body lies
half buried under a slide of earth in the southeast corner.

Room Thirty-two - is a small excavated room.  A discarded basket lies in
the southeast corner.

Room Thirty-three - is a huge vaulted cavern with a leveled floor.  The
walls show the marks of ancient mining operations and a heap of rusting
tools sits in the northeast corner.  The floor shows marks of occasional
transit through the opening to the west, which has been widened with tools.

Room Thirty-four - is a natural cave.  The cave is covered with dust and
the air is foul.  A human body lies in the southwest corner.

Room Thirty-five - is a large natural cavern.  The rough stone walls and
vaulted ceiling are draped with filmy webs.  The entire southeast corner is
obscured by a huge web.  The dusty floor is littered with a variety of
bones and exoskeletons.

Room Thirty-six - is a smallish excavated chamber.  A mound of freshly dug
dirt in the northeast corner evidences a yellow glitter. 

Room Thirty-seven - is a long cavern with bones littering the floor.  A
foot-worn path runs between the two openings.  Off the path, travel is
hindered by the many and bizarre rock formations.  One of these resembles a
giant hunting insect.  A dead antman lies in the northwest corner.

Room Thirty-eight - is a large cavern with the floor carved level.  A worn
path runs between the two openings.  A large wooden box is set against the
wall in the southeast corner.

Room Thirty-nine - is a small natural cave.  The dusty floor evidences much
disturbance.  Scattered bones litter the dust and a discarded backpack
rests in the northeast corner.  The air smells of ancient death.

Room Forty - is a natural cave with rough stone walls, floor and ceiling. 
The aroma of vanilla fills the air.  The southeast corner holds a heap of
fresh earth with the glint of gold visible.

Room Forty-one - is a natural cave.  The opening to the west has been dug
through the earth but shows no toolmarks.  The floor is well trodden and
the smell of vanilla fills the air.  A pile of baskets leans against the
wall in the northeast corner.

Room Forty-two - is a natural cave.  The floor shows marks of frequent
passage and the walls bear the marks of recent digging.  A small basket in
the northwest corner holds gold nuggets.  The air is thick with the smell
of vanilla.

				38

Room Forty-three - is a natural cave.  The openings to the south and east
have been dug through the earth but show no toothmarks.  The floor is much
travelled and the walls show signs of recent digging.  A small basket in
the southwest corner holds a few gold nuggets.  The air is thick with the
smell of vanilla.

Room Forty-four - is a huge natural cavern with a leveled floor, although a
few stalactites hang from the roof.  The opening to the north has been dug
through the rock.  A heap of stones stands in the middle of the cavern. 
There is a faint draft of air blowing from north to south through the
cavern.

Room Forty-five - is a small chamber with the walls, floor and ceiling
chiseled smooth.  The dust shows a heavily trafficked path through the
opening to the west and a less clear trail through the opening to the east.
The air smells faintly of vanilla.

Room Forty-six - is a cave.  The dust shows a beaten path between the two
openings.  A pile of bones litters the southeast corner.  A faint smell of
vanilla is in the air.

Room Forty-seven - is a small cave with the floor carved level.  The floor
shows tracks from t he southern opening to the center of the room where a
small pile of gnawed bones rests.

Room Forty-eight - is a cavern.  A path in the dust runs between the two
openings.

Room Forty-nine - is a natural cave.  A well trodden path in the dust runs
between the two openings and the air smells faintly of vanilla.  A small
pile of rusty weapons litters the northwest corner.

Room Fifty - is a smallish cave with the floor carved level.  A well worn
path runs between the north and south openings.  The air smells faintly of
vanilla.  A stack of rusty tools leans against the east wall.

Room Fifty-one - is a small excavated chamber.  A well-worn path runs
between the north and west openings with a fainter trail to the east.  The
air smells faintly of vanilla intermingled with the odor of decayed flesh. 
A newly slain antman lies in the southwest corner with a spilled basket of
gold nuggets nearby.

Room Fifty-two - is a natural cave with fantastic stalactite and stalagmite
formations.  The air reeks with a pungent stench.  a corpse lies just
inside the opening.  A tattered sack rests against the wall in the
northeast corner.

Room Fifty-three - is a natural cave.  An unbroken layer of dust covers the
floor.  A heap of stones fills the southwest corner of the room.

Room Fifty-four - is an excavated room.  A well-worn path marks the floor
between the two openings and the faint smell of vanilla is in the air.  A
pile of bones rests in the northeast corner of the cave.

Room Fifty-five - is a natural cave with the floor carved level.  A well
trodden path runs between the two openings and the air smells faintly of
vanilla.

Room Fifty-six - is a natural cave.  The opening to the north has been dug
through the earth without the benefit of tools.  The walls show the marks
of recent digging.  The air smells heavily of vanilla.  A small basket
holding a few gold nuggets sits on the floor in the southeast corner.

				39

Room Fifty-seven - is a natural passage with the floor carved level.  The
dusty floor shows some signs of passage.  A small mound of fresh earth
occupies the middle of the corridor.

Room Fifty-eight - is a natural cavern with a rough stone floor.  A
skeleton in the southwest corner still wears the remains of a rotting
backpack.  Small bones litter the floor.  Torchlight creates vague shadows
that suggest beasts, or worse, lurking in the corners of the chamber.

Room Fifty-nine - is a narrow passage.  The opening to the north has been
dug through the earth but shows no toolmarks.  A well-worn path runs from
the opening in the west wall into the northern passage.  The air smells
faintly of vanilla.

Room Sixty - is a huge vault with stonework walls and floor and a native
rock ceiling.  rude statues and carved pillars picture men and half-men. 
As the figures become more bestial, the workmanship becomes more primitive.
Ancient tools and artifacts lie all about the chamber.  Small stone doors
of cunning device line the east and south walls.  Several of these are
open, revealing three by three by six foot openings into the rock.  A
shroud hangs from one of the open cavities.  Glyphs of unknown symbology
cover the walls.  The dust of the floor is thick and undisturbed.  The air
smells of musty antiquity and death.  Several urns and coffers in the
southeast corner gleam with jeweled brilliance.

Level 3 - Traps

CAVE IN TRAP - There are no traps per se in the Apshaian mines.  One never
knows, however, when a rock might loose itself and cause severe damage to
those unfortunate enough to be standing below.  For this reason it is
highly recommended that all visitors wear helmets while wandering through
the ancient caverns.

Level 3 - Treasurers

T01 - Two gold nuggets.

T02 - Three gold nuggets.

T03 - Four gold nuggets.

T04 - Five gold nuggets.

T05 - Six gold nuggets.

T06 - Nothing of value.

T07 - Two small diamonds lay in the dust.

T08 - One small ruby lays in the dirt.

T09 - Resting in the earth is one small emerald.

T10 - Laying in the dirt you find one sapphire.

T11 - One small diamond mingles with the earth.

T12 - One small emerald and one small diamond gleam from the dirt.

				40

T13 - One small ruby and one small diamond lay in the earth.

T14 - Inside the backpack you find three hundred gold pieces, a pearl ring,
and emerald ring and a sapphire bracelet.  In a pocket on the body you find
a diamond ring.

T15 - Inside the sack you find three small diamonds, a small ruby, a ruby
chalice, a silver chain and a pearl ring.

T16 - A small pouch containing two small diamonds and a small ruby.

T17 - In the corner you find a small sack with two small diamonds, a small
sapphire, a small ruby and a diamond goblet inside.

T18 - Behind the large web is a heap of two hundred gold nuggets.

T19 - A search of the chests and coffers reveals forty-five small diamonds,
ten small emeralds, seven small sapphires and four small rubies.

T20 - Nothing of value.

				41

                              Level 4

                      Rooms, Traps, Treasures

Level 4 - Rooms

Room One - is a natural passage with the floor carved level.  A well
trodden path in the dust of the floor runs the length of the corridor.  The
door at the end of the corridor is of iron-bound wood and has a small,
barred window at eye level.  The air smells faintly of vanilla.

Room Two - has stonework walls, floor and ceiling.  The dusty floor is much
disturbed and the air smells strongly of vanilla.  A wooden table and four
chairs stand in the middle of the room.  The door to the west is wooden.

Room Three - is a passage with an even layer of dust covering the floor.  A
discarded sack rests against the west wall halfway down the corridor.

Room Four - A table and four chairs occupy the middle of the room.  The
dusty floor shows some large animal tracks and the air smells faintly of
vanilla.  a rusty sword leans against the wall in the southeast corner.

Room Five - A well-worn path in the dust runs the length of a corridor and
the air smells of vanilla.  The door to the west is actually a set of
double oak doors.  The hinges look well oiled and marks in the dust on the
floor betray recent opening.

Room Six - A path in the dust runs the length of the corridor.  The corpse
of a giant rat lies in the center of the corridor.  The door to the west is
double and made of thick oak.

Room Seven - is a huge chamber with stonework on the floor, ceiling and all
but the west wall, which is of carved rock.  The room is filled with rough
cots and the west wall is lined with a variety of chests.  The floor shows
signs of frequent disturbance and the smell of vanilla is heavy in the air.

Room Eight - is another huge chamber.  The dusty floor shows signs of
frequent usage and the air is filled with the smell of vanilla.  Rough cots
line the walls and stand in rows in the middle of the room, each with a
nondescript wooden box beneath it.

Room Nine - is a large room with masonry work everywhere but for the west
and south walls.  The latter are carved from native granite.  The walls are
draped with the tattered remains of tapestries depicting a great battle
between two armies.  One army consists of men clad in ringmail while the
other includes a wild mix of men, ant men, and skeletons.  The banners of
the second army show a praying mantis-like figure in green on a field of
jet black.  Two gold plaques hang in the southwest corner.

				42

Room Ten - is a small armory.  Racks of rusty weapons line the west and
south walls.  The dusty floor is undisturbed and the air is foul.  An
untarnished sword in a separate rack rest below an indecipherable iron
plaque in the southwest corner.

Room Eleven - is an ornately decorated passage.  A moldering skeleton in
tattered leather armor lies against the rusty iron door at the end of the
passage.  There are no tracks in the dust of the floor.

Room Twelve - is a passage with an even layer of dust covering the floor. 
The air smells of decay with a hint of vanilla.  The skull of a mule rests
against the wall outside the wooden door to the north.

Room Thirteen - is a corridor.  A worn path on the dusty floor runs the
length of the corridor and the air smells of vanilla.  The door to the
north is brass-bound wood.

Room Fourteen - is a small room.  A shelf on the west wall holds a small
dark chest with a key in the lock.  The south and east walls are hung with
an assortment of rusty arms and armor.  The dusty floor shows no sign of
disturbance and the air is foul.

Room Fifteen - A decrepit bed occupies the north wall, a desk the south
wall, and a table the middle of the room.  The corners of the room are
draped in cobwebs.  A partially eaten and unrecognizable body rests in the
southwest corner of the room.

Room Sixteen - is a largish room.  A small desk stands against the wall to
the south and a larger desk occupies the west wall.  The dusty floor shows
faint marks of disturbance and the air smells musty.  The door to the west
is of brass-bound wood and stands ajar.

Room Seventeen - is a largish room.  Remnants of cloth and leather hangings
cover the walls and the air carries a strong aroma of vanilla.  The dusty
floor is well travelled.  A large cabinet stands against the west wall of
the room.

Room Eighteen - is a small room.  The north and south walls are hung with
worn and battered shields and arms.  The east wall bears a large plaque of
beaten gold which appears to be an award of some kind.

Room Nineteen - is a large room with the south wall of carved rock.  The
room is austerely furnished with wooden planks hanging from chains on the
east, west, and south walls.  The floor is covered with mouldering straw
and the air reeks of decay and vanilla.  A dead rat lies in the center of
the floor.

Room Twenty - is a small room that appears to be a natural cave except for
the west and north walls.  A large chest stands open in the southeast
corner of the room.  The west wall is covered with soot as is the western
part of the ceiling.  Bones are scattered over the dusty floor and the air
carries a strange sickly sweet odor.  From the chest comes the gleam of
jewelry and gold.

Room Twenty-one - is a wide room with a large bed occupying the west wall
and a rack of tattered robes in the northwest corner.  A desk covered with
scrolls stands against the east wall.  There are large animal tracks in the
dust of the floor and the air reeks of vanilla.

Room Twenty-two - A well trodden path in the dust runs up and down the
corridor and to the doors on the north and south walls.  The air smells of
vanilla.  The doors themselves are wooden and have no locks.

				43

Room Twenty-three - A well-worn path in the dust runs the length of the
corridor and to the door in the north wall.  The latter is brass-bound oak
and in good repair.  It bears a strange inscription that glows with a green
light in the gloom.  The air smells of vanilla.

Room Twenty-four - is a long narrow room with wooden doors at either end. 
The walls are covered with arcane hieroglyphs and tapestries bearing the
same glyphs hang beside the doors.  The room looks often-used and the air
smells heavily of vanilla.  There are many wooden cots with tattered
mattress in the room.  A large chest occupies the northwest corner of the
room.

Room Twenty-five - is a large room with hieroglyphs inscribed in the dark
slate walls.  Stone benches occupy the western half of the room.  Although
much worn by wear, strange hieroglyphs and scenes showing intermingled
insects and men can be seen carved in the sides and backs of the benches. 
Blocks of stone, hollowed out on top in the shape of bowls, protrude from
the walls at irregular intervals.  Ornate black metal braziers hang from
the ceiling about the edges of the room.  Against the east wall is a raised
black marble altar, carved with glyphs that give off a faint, eerie green
glow. On the altar itself is a large marble statue of a praying mantis,
forelegs outstretched and mandibles open.  The eyes of the mantis are great
rubies - a fine treasure if you dare grab them! A human skull stares
eyelessly from the steps leading to the altar.  The doors to the north and
south are of brass-bound oak, while the doorway to the east is covered with
a worn tapestry.

Room Twenty-six - The dusty floor is marked by the tracks of large animals
and the air reeks of musk.  The doors to the north and south are of plain
wood and have no locks.

Room Twenty-seven - The floor bears the tracks of large animals.  The
partially eaten carcass of an antman lies near the western end of the
corridor.  The door to the north is brass-bound wood and stands unlatched. 
The air smells heavily of decay and musk.

Room Twenty-eight - is a long, low-ceilinged room, lines with long stone
tables running in rows north and south across the room.  The dusty floor
shows the tracks of large animals and the room reeks of musk and offal. 
The doors to the north and south are wooden and have no locks.

Room Twenty-nine - is a smallish room furnished only with rotting cushions
strewn about the floor.  Tattered tapestries hang on the east and west
walls showing scenes of obscene and bloody sacrifice before a mantis-shaped
god.  A shiny object protrudes from beneath one of the cushions near the
center of the room.

Room Thirty - is a passage with wooden doors to the north and south.  The
dusty floor shows the tracks of large animals and the air reeks of musk. 
The empty carapace of an antman lies at the eastern end of the passage.

Room Thirty-one - is a passage.  The dusty floor shows the tracks of large
animals and the smell of musk is in the air.  Faint clicking sounds can be
heard from the east end of the passage.

Room Thirty-two - is a long room with the ceiling and upper parts of the
walls covered with a heavy layer of soot.  Three large stone ovens line the
north wall and a long grill occupies the eastern half of the south wall. 
The dusty floor shows the tracks of large animals and the air reeks of
musk.

				44

Room Thirty-three - is a small storeroom.  Heaps of grain line the walls
and a dead giant rat rests in the southeast corner.

Room Thirty-four - is a room filled with shelves of rotting books and
scrolls.  A desk stands near the brass-bound door to the north and a glass
case occupies the southwest corner of the room.  Inside the case is a
well-preserved volume bound in leather and bearing a title in
indecipherable script.  The floor is covered with an even layer of dust and
the air smells of decay.  The door to the east is wooden and hangs ajar
from its rusty hinges.

Room Thirty-five - A bed occupies the north wall with a desk on the south
wall and a large cabinet against the east wall.  The dusty floor shows no
signs of disturbance.

Room Thirty-six - is a largish room with stonework walls, floor and
ceiling.  The room is furnished with ramshackle chairs, tables and cushions
and the remains of books and scrolls litter the apartment.  A large desk
and chair occupy the center of the east wall.

Room Thirty-seven - The east end of this room holds a number of wooden
targets painted with human silhouettes.  The southermost target still has
some arrows stuck in it.

Room Thirty-eight - The floor of the room is covered with the remains of
straw mats.  A variety of pieces of martial equipment litter the mats along
the walls.  In the northeast corner, a bony elbow pokes through a rent in a
suit of rusty chainmail.  A gnawed thighbone lies near the door.

Room Thirty-nine - The dusty floor shows the tracks of large animals and
the air reeks of musk.  A discarded backpack rests on the floor in the
middle of the passage.  The door to the east is brass-bound oak.

Room Forty - The floor shows a worn path through the opening to the north
and the air smells of vanilla.

Room Forty-one - The dusty floor shows many tracks of large animals and the
air reeks of musk.  The doors to the south and east are brass-bound wood. 
A moldy sack rests in the eastern end of the passage.

Room Forty-two - The dusty floor shows no signs of disturbance although the
air smells faintly of vanilla.  The corpse of a man in leather armor lies
in the north end of the corridor.

Room Forty-three - The doorway to the west is covered by a worn tapestry
and the air smells of decay.  Shelves line the east wall and hold a variety
of articles forged of shiny metal.

Room Forty-four - The south wall and ceiling of the passage are carved of
native rock.  The dusty floor is much disturbed, especially near the
brass-bound wooden door to the south.  The corridor smells strongly of
vanilla.

Room Forty-five - A faint trail in the dust runs the length of the corridor
and the air smells faintly of vanilla.

Room Forty-six - is a passage with stonework on the west wall and the other
walls, floor and ceiling of carved rock.  The dusty floor shows a faint
trail running the length of the corridor along the west wall and a hint of
vanilla is in the air.  A discarded backpack rests against the east wall in
the north end of the passage.

				45

Room Forty-seven - is a passage like 46.  The path in the dust continues
along the west wall.  A rusty sword rests on the floor near the middle of
the passage.

Room Forty-eight - is a passage like 46.

Room Forty-nine - is a passage with stonework on the south wall and the
other wall, floor and ceiling of carved rock.  A faint path on the dusty
floor leads along the south wall and the air smells slightly of vanilla.  A
broken bow and an empty quiver rest against the north wall halfway down the
passage.

Room Fifty - is a passage like forty-nine.  The carpet of dust is slightly
disturbed near the eastern end of the passage, but is otherwise unbroken. 
The everpresent smell of vanilla continues.

Room Fifty-one - is a passage like forty-nine.  The floor is covered with
an even layer of dust and the air smells of decaying flesh. A small wooden
box lies tipped over on the floor in the middle of the corridor.

Room Fifty-two - is a passage with stonework on the south wall and the
north wall, floor, and ceiling of carved rock.  The dusty floor shows no
signs of disturbance and the fetid air smells of ancient death.

Room Fifty-three - is a passage with stonework of the south and west walls
and the other walls, floor, and ceiling of carved rock.  A moldering sack
sits on the floor, in the southwest corner of the corridor.

Room Fifty-four - is a passage with stonework on the south wall and the
north wall, floor and ceiling of carved rock.  The dusty floor evidences
some activity near the south wall.

Room Fifty-five - is a passage with stonework on the south and east walls
and the other walls, floor, and ceiling of carved rock.  The upper portion
of the corridor is sheathed in cobwebs and a larger web fills the south end
of the passage.  A small sack lies near the west wall partway down the
corridor, silver pieces spilling from its mouth.

Room Fifty-six - The dusty floor is marked with the tracks of large animals
and the air smells of musk.  A cleanly picked skeleton reclines against the
west wall halfway down the passage.

Room Fifty-seven - is a passage with stonework on the south wall and the
north wall, floor and ceiling of carved rock.  A brass plate lies in the
dust in the middle of the corridor.

Room Fifty-eight - is a small alcove.  The south wall is of carved rock. 
The air smells strongly of vanilla and the floor shows frequent
disturbance.  A black stain marks the floor near the east wall.

Room Fifty-nine - is a small entryway with the walls, floor and ceiling of
stonework.  The dusty floor reveals frequent comings and goings and the air
smells strongly of vanilla.

Room Sixty - is the western extremity of room twenty-nine.  The walls,
floor and ceiling are stonework.  The floor is covered with the spoor of
large animals and the air reeks of rot and musk.  A heap of partially eaten
human and antman bodies fills the southwest corner.

				46

Level 4 - Traps

LILY TRAP - When you disturb the chest you reveal some lilies which give
off a cloud of fine powder that causes severe swelling in your throat.

DAGGER TRAP - As you examine the cabinet a stiletto with a dark stain near
the top thrusts itself toward you and then retracts.

FLAME TRAP - A jet of flame roars out from the wall above the chest as you
disturb the contents.

PIT TRAP - A twenty foot pit with a bed of spikes at the bottom opens
beneath your feet.  Still alive?  Rough footholds have been dug in the
eastern side of the pit.

SPEAR TRAP - Three spears thrust out of the wall at waist level and then
retract.

Level 4 - Treasures

T01 - Thar's gold in them thar plaques.

T02 - The solitary sword has mithril slivers worked into the blade.

T03 - Inside the box you find eighty-four platinum pieces, fifty-five small
diamonds and a neatly folded cloak with mithril threads interwoven through
the fabric (see Magic Cloak).

T04 - The body wears a moneybelt with sixty-five gold pieces inside.

T05 - The chest holds sixty gold pieces, fifteen small emeralds, an emerald
bracelet, two diamond stickpins, two gold chains and a pair of fine leather
boots with mithril embedded in the soles (see Magic Boots).

T06 - The runes on the cover prove to be flecked with mithril which prompts
you to stash the book in your backpack for later perusal (see Magic Book).

T07 - The arrows have mithril slivers worked into the points.

T08 - Beneath the body in the corner you discover two large sacks, each of
which contains two hundred and fifty gold pieces.

T09 - Neatly arranged on the shelves are five platinum crosses, two
platinum offering plates and two platinum candelabras.

T10 - Scattered in the dust you find fifty gold pieces.

T11 - You find thirty gold pieces scattered in the dust.

T12 - The small sack proves to be more than it appears holding ten thousand
silver pieces but weighing much less than one would expect.

T13 - The gold plaque won't fit into your backpack but you decide to carry
it along anyway.

T14 - Two large rubies.

T20 - Nothing of value.

				47

                       Master Treasure Key

Coinage Valuation
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 Silver Piece = 10 Copper Pieces	10 Silver Pieces = 1 Gold Piece
100 Silver Pieces = 1 Platinum Piece
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BAUBLES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gems					Miscellaneous

Small Diamond		100 SP		Copper Ingot		20 SP
Small Emerald		200 SP		Platinum Candelabra	3500 SP
Small Ruby		400 SP		Platinum Cross		2500 SP
Small Sapphire		300 SP		Gold Ingot		 450 SP
Large Ruby		3000 SP		Gold Nugget		50 SP
Jewelry					Gold Plaque		2000 SP
Diamond Goblet		2000 SP		Platinum Plate		1000 SP
Diamond Ring		 300 SP		Silver Arrow		   1 SP
Diamond Stickpin	1000 SP		Silver Candelabra	200 SP
Emerald Bracelet	5000 SP		Silver Ingot		100 SP
Emerald Ring		 500 SP		Silver Tray		100 SP
Gold Chain		1000 SP		Ruby Chalice		1100 SP
Pearl Ring		200 SP		Diamond Goblet		2000 SP
Sapphire Bracelet	1600 SP
Silver Chain		 900 SP

FLORA

Food Algae		 5 SP		The values given are for the 
Incense Moss		30 SP		quantities contained in each
Kelp			 5 SP		respective treasure.
Mushrooms		 6 SP		Lilies
Phosphorescent Algae	 5 SP		When eaten, each acts exactly as a
					healing potion.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MAGICAL ITEMS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Magic Arms - These items are enhanced to varying potencies the exact nature
of which is unavailable to adventurers.  It it known that certain powerful
blades glow the a light of their own.  Beware of cursed items.

Magic Books - These items most commonly increase certain characteristics of
the reader although other effects are not unheard of.  Their effect is
permanent.

Magic Boots - Rumor has it that these boots enable the wearer to run like
the wind.

Magic Cloaks - These Apshaian creations are said to protect the wearer from
physical injury.  This protection is by no means absolute.

				48

Skull Rings - These rings have some power in relation to the living dead
which wander the underground passageways.  The exact nature of these powers
in unknown but they have figured in several miraculous escapes from the
foul miscreants.

Magic Talismans - These trinkets endow the holder with wondrous powers of
mental perception.

White Milky Potion - This is simply a commonly known healing potion.

With the exceptions of the arms and the magic books, all of the magic items
found in the ruins are enchanted with spells peculiar to the Apshains and
lose their power permanently if they are ever taken from the complex.

				49

                    THE UPPER REACHES OF APSHAI

				50

                             Level 1

                     The Innkeeper's Backyard
                     Rooms, Traps, Treasures

	The innkeeper has graciously assented to your cleaning up the yard
behind his inn.  He has warned you of the possibility of a thief in the
neighborhood, however, and dark rumors concerning peculiar happenings in
the vegetable garden have been circulating lately.  Be careful.

Level 1 - Rooms

Room 1 - A wise roadway with a large rock in the center.  The inn lies
off-stage to the west.  To the north and south are picket fences in need of
a little paint.

Rooms 2-3 - A small yard choked with weeds and littered with garbage.  To
the north is a large barn, to the east an alley, and to the south the
stable area.  To the right of the barn door are stacks of rotting garbage. 
Just to the left of the door is a small bonfire in which you notice a gleam
of something other than flame.

Rooms 4-5 - Once used as a stable, this part of the yard and the roofless
enclosure now smell of soap.  The weeds are patchy, and there are traces of
suds in the grass.  Inside (Room 5), wet laundry hangs on a line in the
corner.

Rooms 6-7 - The main stable area.  The walls of the old building are full
of badly patched holes, and many planks are loose.  The packed earth shows
little sign of recent activity.  Inside (Room 7), cobwebs clog the corners,
and mice are scurrying about the remains of someone's lunch.

Rooms 8-10 - The barn.  The place is obviously ill-kept, and straw and
feathers are everywhere.  You hear honking to the right and loud clucking
to the left.

Room 11 - A narrow alleyway between the barn and the stable.  It is thick
with weeds, but a narrow path down the center is worn down from the tread
of many feet.  Ahead is a gate with a low fence - the entrance to the berry
patch.

Rooms 12-35 - The innkeeper's berry patch.  It must be the right time of
the year, because every bush seems laden with luscious, ripe berries. 
Since the innkeeper has given his permission, and you're hungry, you decide
to grab a basket and do some picking.  What you don't eat you can always
sell in the village for a few copper pieces.  While wandering through the
bushes, you notice some tomato plants beginning to supplant the berries in
some spots.  There is, in fact, an entire tomato garden next to an old tool
shed on one side of the berry patch.  The berries are spread over a low
hill that begins to slope steeply near the back hedge.

Rooms 36-39 - A large shed.  Tools and debris are scattered about.  Signs
of recent usage and a sort of rumbling sound coming from somewhere within
alert you to the presence of someone - or something - inside.  Could it be
the thief?  Or something more sinister?

				51

Room 40 - You have stumbled across an unknown or long-forgotten passage
that seems to lead into the hill.

Room 41 - A large cavern displaying clear signs of habitation.  It's dark
in here, and you keep stumbling into things, but something on the floor
glimmers faintly.

Rooms 42-45 - A vegetable garden.  Aside from a few struggling carrots,
there seems to be nothing here but tomatoes.  Some of these, however, are
huge - bigger than pumpkins.  Near the gate you discover a dead chicken. 
Closer inspection shows that it is covered not with blood but with ketchup!
 What can this mean?  And what else may be hidden beneath these strangely
menacing vines?

Level 1 - Traps

FLAME - You stepped right in the bonfire!  Watch where you are going!

DUST - Try not to kick up so much dust next time.

NEEDLE - Some of these bushes have needle-like thorns.  Be careful.

FLIES - If you insist on walking through garbage, then you should expect to
put up with a few flies.

Level 1 - Treasures

T01 - All that glitters is not gold.  In fact, in this case it's copper - a
copper piece that someone carelessly dropped.

T02 - A big cluster of berries hangs in the bush in front of you.

T03 - There are small eggs in a nest here, and you risk a fowl attack to
grab them.

T04 - You find a copper ingot, 750 copper pieces, one silver arrow, 23
silver pieces, 14 gold pieces, two small emeralds, and a partridge in a
pear tree.

T05 - Near a hoe you find some arrows which may be of use.

T06 - In a worn leather purse you find 6 copper pieces, 7 silver pieces, 3
gold pieced, and a small diamond.

T08 - The laundry consists of a few shirts and a pair of pants.  They are
wet, not in your size, patched, and certainly not worth taking.

T09 - A large piece of stale cheese - the main attraction for the mice.

T11 - Some crockery, mostly broken, now empty but smelling of bad ale.

T20 - A large rock of no value.

				52

                              Level 2

                         Merlis' Cottage
                     Rooms, Traps, Treasures

	Merlis has disappeared somewhere - vanished, owing you wages for
repairing and painting the fence around his cottage.  With some
trepidation, you have decided to venture forth into his abode in search of
the lost wages.  You suspect Merlis has done this deliberately, to tease or
test you; however, you also suspect that if you do something serious (such
as harming his cats), he may become very angry - and it never pays to make
a magician mad.

	Prepare for some strange and peculiar effects in the course of your
investigation.

Level 2 - Rooms

Room 1 - The small foyer of the cottage of Merlis the Mage.  A pale,
greenish light emanates from nowhere in particular, and the walls are
decorated with arcane symbols and spooky magical stuff that no double
maintain Merlis' image but don't impress you. Much.

Room 2 - Along, narrow hallway filled with remarkable lifelike sculptures
of men and beasts.  Paintings of the village - strangely distorted but
oddly vivid - hang on the wall.  The scenes seem to move when you are not
looking at them.  Sounds you cannot identify emanate from the walls.

Rooms 3-5 - The corridor widens into a large reception area with many
doorways.  The chairs - seats for those waiting for an appointment in
Merlis' magic hall - have seen much use.

Room 6 - Merlis' den.  A desk is covered with scrolls and magical
paraphernalia, and the shelves are lined with dusty tomes.  The apparatus
looks so dangerous and the runes and symbols so forbidding, you are afraid
to go near most of the stuff.  However, out in the open is an ordinary
chest.

Room 7 - A laboratory.  There are many bottles and jugs you are afraid to
touch and some complicated machinery.  There is a small crack in one wall
near the ceiling and a door on the east side.  Over the door a sign warns,
"DANGER - DO NOT ENTER."

Room 8 - the crack leads to a huge nest and landing area on the roof of the
cottage.  It is not visible from below.  The large flying creature -
evidently one of Merlis' strange animal friends - that usually occupies the
area is not here.  Looking around, you see what looks like a large egg to
one side.

Room 9 - Another laboratory.  This one is filled with cages of small
animals.  A sign reads: "PLEASE LEAVE OR YOU MAY SCARE THE EXPERIMENTAL
ANIMALS TO DEATH!"

Rooms 10-11 - Merlis' hall of magic.  A large table occupies the center of
this dimly lit room.  There is a chest in one corner and a huge tapestry
covering the

				53

back wall.  While moving around through the room, things appear to shimmer
every now and then; you suspect there may be more here than meets the eye.

Room 12 - A back room in the cottage.  There is a door leading out the back
of the house into a forest.  There are some empty phials on the floor of
the otherwise tidy room.

Rooms 13-17 - A path leading from the back door through the woods.  It is
bounded by large, old trees and tall hedges; the shade of the forest is
deep.  A buzzing sound grows louder as you go east.

Room 18 - A small meadow in the woods, completely enclosed by trees.  The
smell of clover is strong, and a large, white box hums with activity to the
south.

Room 19 - The narrow closet is lined with shelves on which rest various
strange objects.  You find your courage beginning to desert you and wonder
if there is really anything here worth the risk.  Perhaps you'll find
something...

Rooms 20-21 - An enchanted hall in which Merlis keeps his cats.  The
carpeting is expensive but covered with hair, and the room is finely
decorated with chairs and tables of fine workmanship.  There is a chest
near one wall.

Level 2 - Traps

CROSSBOW TRAP - From high in a tree comes a loud "SPROINGG!" but nothing
else.  Originally intended to keep unwanted visitors out, this useless trap
was fortunately forgotten.  No one even bothered to put an arrow in it.

Level 2 - Treasures

T01 - In an elegant chest adorned with feline figurines you find 250 silver
pieces.

T02 - These insects must be magical indeed to produce such a delicious and
tasty liquid.  Drinking some makes you feel marvelous, and you risk a sting
or two to grab a honeycomb full of the stuff.

T03 - Hanging on a tree is a quiver with some interesting arrows in it.

T04 - In a brass-bound chest you find 500 copper pieces.

T05 - You decide to show Merlis a thing or two and take what you are sure
is a magic wand.  Unfortunately, it is so magical that it turns into an
ordinary stick as soon as you take it out of the cottage.

T06 - When you open the chest, you find the only things inside were moths.

T07 - Inside a silver-laid chest that seems magically bonded to the floor,
you take 100 gold pieces.

T20 - A large eggshell - of value only to a large egg.

				54

                              Level 3

                          Olias' Cellar
                     Rooms, Traps, Treasures

Level 3 - Rooms

Rooms 1-2 - A forest near the castle of Olias the dwarf.  You are
surrounded by the sights and sounds of the great outdoors; dappled
sunlight, the fluting of birdsong, the trickling of a distant brook. 
Nearer to hand, there is an annoying hum in the air and the smell of
something unpleasant.

Rooms 3-4 - A well-traveled courtyard in front of the castle.  The dust in
criss-crossed with tracks of horses and small animals.  The gate of the
castle to the north is closed and solidly barred.  Olias may have taken
your one and only magic sword, but a frontal assault is out of the
question.  A more discrete approach is called for.  Fortunately, you have
heard rumor of a cave complex underneath the castle that Olias uses as a
cellar and storehouse.  Unfortunately, you have no idea how to get into it.
There is an old and rickety shed to the south, but it does not look
enticing.  Still...

Room 5 - Well, well.  This may be the cave entrance you were looking for. 
It's dark in here, but there appears to be an opening across from you, and
there may be a cleft to the north, near a pile of loose stones.

Room 6 - The dark shed is full of junk, but there may be something
worthwhile in all this.  Watch your step, though.

Room 7 - A huge, drafty cavern with a man-made (or dwarf-wrought) door at
one end.

Room 8 - A hidden arsenal.  On the far side of the room you see a quiver
filled with arrows.

Room 9 - Another cavern, the corpse of another adventurer, and another
quiver.  Also a minor obstacle.

Rooms 10-13 - These passages connect several large caverns.  They are
narrow, dim, dank, and a bit drafty.

Room 14 - Bat City.  The cav-in that sealed the entrance to this large
cavern also seems to have awakened about a zillion bats, which are now
filling the air with their winged bodies and eerie, screeching cries. 
There may be another way out near a pile of rocks on the other side of the
cavern.  Protruding from beneath the pile is a skeletal arm gripping a
sword.

Room 15 - Among the other objects in this storeroom is a sword that looks
somewhat familiar.  Could it be yours, lost on a previous adventure and
appropriated by the greedy dwarf?  To find out, you'll first have to do
something about the snakes.

Room 16 - A cavern inhabited by particularly large and unpleasant bats.

				55

Rooms 17-19 - A series of interconnected caverns off a breezy passageway. 
There are holes and ridges in the floor; footing is treacherous.  Room 19
is a storehouse of interesting items.

Rooms 20-23 - A long, winding corridor.  There is a substantial breeze from
the west; it grows in strength as you move in that direction.  It whistles
audibly in your ears, at least until a cave-in seals off part of the
passage.  (You are either clumsy or unlucky, or Olias has mined these caves
carefully to discourage unwanted visitors.)

Room 24 - A small alcove.  As you enter, dozens of spiderwebs cling to you.
(Shades of Raiders of the Lost You-Know-What!)

Room 25 - Another alcove.  What's that on your foot?

Rooms 26-27 - As this part of the cave widens, a familiar, pungent odor
grows progressively stronger.  You clearly deduce that this is the den of
some furry animals.

Rooms 28-30 - A winding corridor that grows lighter and windier as you move
to the south.

Room 31 - This portion of the cave shows signs of careful workmanship, as
if the natural cavern has been deliberately enlarged.

Room 32 - This low passage slants upward.  There is a light at the end of
the tunnel.

Rooms 33-34 - These hand-hewn rooms obviously serve as a storehouse for
some of Olias' accumulated loot.  Your attention is drawn to the ornate
chest in front of the far wall in Room 34.

Level 3 - Traps

PIT TRAP - As you are walking, you accidentally fall into a trap meant for
small game.

CROSSBOW TRAP - A crossbow quarrel flies from a hidden niche in the wall
across from you.

SPEAR TRAP - A hidden mechanism thrusts a spear at you.

NEEDLE TRAP - As you try to open the chest, a tiny spring thrusts a
poisoned needle at your thumb.

CEILING TRAP - As you walk in the cave, the vibrations of your tread causes
a large stalactite to fall upon you.  The Surgeon General has determined
that this is hazardous to your health!

CAVE-IN - Whether an accidental falling of loose rock or a deliberate trap
set by Olias, there are many cave-ins here.  They may seal off an entrance
or exit to a cavern or passage and, if you are underneath, may cause injury
or even death.

CREEPING CRUD - The exact nature of this slimy, amoebic life form is
unknown, but it is large, hungry, and extremely dangerous.

				56

Level 3 - Treasurers

T01 - In the quiver you find normal arrows.

T02 - In the quiver you find magic arrows.

T03 - An old set of armor.  Worthless as protection, it might be worth
something melted down.

T04 - When mixed with some herbs you happen to have, any venom you can
recover from the dead snakes' poison sacs will act just like a healing
elixir.

T05 - On the floor you find a Skull Ring with diamond flecks for eyes.

T06 - Three gold coins.

T07 - As far as you can tell in the poor light, the sword seems to be
finely made and rust-free.

T08 - The sword is an ancient one made of bronze - an interesting curio of
no practical value.

T09 - The shiny object on the ground is a fine pearl ring!

T10 - Olias is not the only pack rat around here.  You find a collection of
worthless beads of various colors, 3 gold nuggets, a leather pouch
containing 11 gold and 4 platinum pieces, 7 small diamonds, 2 small
emeralds, a small ruby, and a large ruby.

T11 - On some skeletal remains you find a silver medallion.

T12 - A pouch contains 10 matching small emeralds.

T13 - The only interesting object here is a gold medallion.

T14 - There's more here than you can carry, but, being nearly as greedy as
Olias himself, into the largest sack you can find you stuff 10 silver
ingots, 3 gold ingots, a silver candelabra, 2 gold chains, and various
minor bits and pieces (to fill up the cracks) worth another 500 silver
pieces.

T15 - This is the creme de la creme; an emerald ring with a matching
bracelet, a pair of jade cats worth about 2500 silver pieces each, a dozen
platinum pieces, and a gem-studded, glowing belt.  You have no idea what
sort of magic it possesses, but you decide to wear it from now on.

T20 - A glittering piece of genuine iron pyrite of no redeeming social
value.

				57

                              Level 4

                        Benedic's Monastery
                      Rooms, Traps, Treasures

	Benedic, the wandering priest of an unknown god, has informed you
that the once peaceful Gebite monastery has been plagued recently by an
unearthly disturbance.  The dead refuse to stay in their graves; in sleep,
the monks are beset with troubling dreams; and some of them are becoming
positively anemic.  Many believe it a punishment for their sins, and the
monks are unable - or unwilling - to deal with what appears to be the work
of a powerful vampire.

	If you are up to the challenge, fame and glory can be yours!  Also,
if you want to be crass about it, you can have whatever treasure the
vampire, its minions, the living dead, and any other inhuman monsters may
have accumulated.  Food and drink are yours for the asking; healthful herbs
and plants from the garden you may take; and other gifts major and minor
may be offered.  These you may accept or decline as you please, but under
no circumstances should you disturb the monks or attempt to steal their
personal possessions, or the most dire consequences may ensue.

	You have been warned!

Level 4 - Rooms

Rooms 1-4 - A large, walled courtyard covered with loose dirt and strange,
glittering gravel.  To the right of the arched entrance, there is a large
stack of hay for travelers' weary animals.  In the center of the court
there is an immense, beautifully carved statue of a bearded man; he's
smiling beatifically and appears to be offering you something in his
outstretched hand.

Rooms 5-12 - A long arched corridor running along the west side of the
courtyard. Many doors, both open and closed, line the corridor, but the
only light comes from the barred arches fronting the courtyard.  The stone
walls are thick, and the air is cool.

Rooms 13-20 - Small cubicles or cells that serve as bedchambers for the
Gebite monks.  Each has a thin straw pallet on a stone platform, a small
shelf holding various personal items (some interesting, some not), and a
very little else.  Some are occupied; so, if you are going to investigate,
do so quietly and cautiously.

Rooms 21-28 - A large, walled garden divided into long aisles.  You are
surprised by the amazing variety and abundance of plants, and at times you
must cut your way through the shrubs and vines to walk the narrow paths.

Room 29 - A kitchen.  The counters are covered with grease and dust, and
what must be a month's worth of pots, dishes, and utensils are precariously
piled halfway to the ceiling.  A terrible stench is coming from somewhere.

Room 30 - A small pantry.  The foul odor originates here.  The pantry is
filled with old, stale, stinking - no, reeking food.  Would anyone really
eat this stuff?

				58


Room 31 - The dining room is as much of a mess as the kitchen - or nearly
so.  Its sole inhabitant, the singing monk, is surrounded by crockery and
an almost tangible alcoholic cloud.  Falling off a bench without spillng a
drop from the jug he's holding, he staggers happily toward you.  Want a
swig?

Room 32 - This obscurely placed room must be an infirmary or embalming
chamber.  Bandages and bottles of strange liquids litter the tables and
shelves.  There is a sign:

	OUT ON A HOUSE CALL.  HELP YOURSELF TO
	WHATEVER YOU NEED, AND DON'T GET BLOOD
	ON THE CARPET.
			- Welbius, Monk

For some reason you have a vision of a fatherly, white-haired man,
compassionate and concerned but cheerful, and sense that there have been
many miraculous healings here.  Although the room is dark, you feel
uplifted as you leave.

Rooms 33-44 - A long, narrow, winding spiral staircase taking you far
underground.  The footing is treacherous, the lighting bad, and the railing
separating you from a fall into the abyss is cracked or broken.  Near the
bottom, you hear clicking noises and detect a faint smell of vanilla.

Room 45 - The stairs level off into a narrow, dank passage.  Although the
room is uninhabited, you sense great danger near.  You can barely see the
close walls, but you discern a very particular arrangement of bricks along
the south wall.  The masonry swings aside at your touch.

Room 46 - A large chamber of earth and stone.  The smell of vanilla and the
sense of impending doom are now overwhelming.  Perhaps that tricky door has
kept the native Apshaians from discovering the way into the monastery.  You
are not the first to find this room, however, for several skeletal corpses
in ripped and smashed remnants of armor lie about.  Near one is a
particularly interesting sword, but unfortunately moving shapes can be seen
moving in a dark hole in the floor.  It looks like trouble in River City.

Room 47 - A long, dark earthen chamber with a heavy sarcophagus at one end.

Rooms 48-49 - A large cemetery adjoining the monastery.  An eery rattling
and moaning seem to come from t he very ground.  Many of the tombstones are
ornate and finely carved, but some graves are open, as if the process of
burial had been interrupted.  One casket is adorned with familiar,
glittering stones.

Room 50 - A large chapel or meditation room.  Although there is ample space
for all the monks to assemble, only one is in the room.  He offers you a
book on which to meditate.

Rooms 51-52 - Smaller rooms evidently intended for solitary meditation,
these are ablaze with candlelight.  A monk suggests you might feel better
with a candle or two to dispel the darkness.

Rooms 53-56 - Narrow, enclosed hallways, dark but still peaceful.

				59

Level 4 - Traps

MOLD - As you rummage about, your hands and arms become covered with
disgusting rot and mold.

DUST - A strong breeze blows up a whirlwind around you; the dust stings
your eyes.

PIT - You fall into an open grave.  Be more careful when walking through a
cemetery.

NEEDLE - Some of these plants have prickly thorns and needles.

FLAME - It is only a minor burn, but you should not be so careless when
handling a lit candle.

CAVE-IN - Everything comes crashing down with a noise loud enough to wake
the dead.  The monks are not likely to be pleased, and you're just lucky
nothing hit you on the head.

Level 4 - Treasures

T01 - Among various peculiar vials, you find some containing a milky white
potion.

T02 - An amulet of gold.

T03 - An amulet of silver.

T04 - An amulet of brass.

T05 - Amazing! It's actually a find gold needle!

T06 - Evidently you were hungrier than you though, and this bit of stale
bread looked the least old.

T07 - What a haul: a silver candelabra, two silver chains, a diamond goblet
with traces of a reddish liquid inside, 13 platinum pieces, 128 gold
pieces, and 666 silver pieces!

T08 - This rough robe can't be worth much and probably belongs to someone,
anyway. Put it back.

T09 - From the rich earth you pick several large, white mushrooms.

T10 - A candle.

T11 - These herbs look unfamiliar but promising.

T12 - Another candle.

T13 - Some greasy, grungy pots and pans.  Unless you're planning to become
a door-to-door salesman or to volunteer for dishwashing duty, put them back
and get out of there.

T14 - Apparently the Apshaians were not the only ones to know the secret of
growing these lilies.  Amazed by your good fortune, you pick a few of the
healthful plants.

T15 - A crock of ale.

				60


T16 - It is a book called The Secrets of St. Gulik.

T17 - An empty hand, that's what you are offered.

T18 - As far as you can tell at a glance, the sword looks well made.  There
is also lots of other stuff here, if you could take the time to get it. 
Unfortunately, you seem to be occupied...

T19 - Some nice red, ripe tomatoes.

T20 - At first the stones look valuable, but you soon realize that they are
only worthless gravel from the courtyard polished up a bit.

                       MASTER TREASURE KEY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Food				Baubles
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Berries		2 CP		Brass Amulet		5 SP
Herbs		3 SP		Silver Amulet		25 SP
Eggs		5 CP		Gold Amulet		50 SP
Tomatoes	1 SP		Silver Medallion	40 SP
Chicken Soup	4 SP		Gold Medallion		100 SP
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Miscellaneous
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bronze Sword	4 SP
Used Armor	10 SP
Gold Needle	1 SP

CP = Copper Piece		SP = Silver Piece

For further information, consult the MASTER TREASURE KEY in Temple of
Apshai.  Anything not listed cannot be valued and is probably worthless.

				61

                          THE CURSE OF RA

                             Monsters

Cobra - This large, green or black snake flattens its head when angry.  Its
venomous bite can kill a man instantly.

Jackal - This ferocious, dog-like creature scavenges the desert in search
of dead or dying flesh to rip apart for its ravenous appetite.

Tarantula - This hairy spider is found in dank passages.  Its sting is not
deadly but should nevertheless be avoided.

Scorpions - Relatively large insects with nasty stinging tails, scorpions
crawl upon the victim they are attacking and deliver many injurious blows.

Wild Camel - Found exclusively in the desert, this typical, everyday, wild
camel kicks viciously with its sharp hooves.

Sphinx - The Sphinx is a large creature with the head of a man, the body of
a lion, and the wings of an eagle.  It is rumored that a human can pass one
only after solving a difficult riddle.

Criosphinx - Similar to the Sphinx, the Criosphinx has the head of a ram
instead of a human.  While attacking they are especially vicious, since
they are able to attack simultaneously with their paws and their sharp
horns.

Gryphon - This type of creature has the head and wings of an eagle and
torso of a lion.  It loves to talk and will start up a conversation at the
drop of a sword.

Lynx - This intelligent creature of the cat family prefers an arid habitat.
It has the stalking instincts of predator cats and the swiftness of a
jaguar.

Skeleton - A sword-wielding human skeleton, it is brittle and weak but
attacks with a ferocity unmatched by living beings.

Dust Wraith - A swirling vortex of dust surrounds this unembodied spirit. 
With amazing speed and dexterity to guard its holy sanctuaries, this
unearthly creature uses wild magic to thwart any unwary explorers in their
lairs.

Giant Basilisk - This is an extremely large lizard-like monster which feeds
on any flesh it lays its cold questing eyes upon and devours it without
hesitation.

Magical Statue - As you approach this large stone statue, it comes to life
and begins to attack you.  It cannot move but can wreck havoc with anything
that comes within reach, instilling more than the usual wounds.

Mummy - The sarcophagus springs open to reveal the most dreaded of the
undead.  This once-man is now only a dusty, cloth-enwrapped incarnation of
its former self, but it is powerful beyond reason, relentless and
ferociously attacking any who dare disturb its evil tomb.

				62

                              Level 1

                         Well of Forever
                    Rooms, Traps, Treasures

Level 1 - Rooms

Rooms 1-4 - You are standing in a vast desert.  There must be some way to
enter this small pyramid which lies before you.  If the legends are indeed
true, then this monument is the gateway to the fabled Well of Forever.

Room 5 - You found the entrance.  In a corner there is a chest.  A small
tunnel leads onward and downward into the darkness..

Rooms 6-8 - These dimly lit tunnels slope steeply down, making it hard to
resist moving on downward.

Rooms 9, 10 - These tunnels are steeper yet.  You are slipping and sliding
down the passages.  Although better lit, they appear unused for at least a
century.

Room 11 - You fall out of the passage a good twenty feet down onto a solid
stone floor.  As you recover your senses, you see the Glyphstone.

Rooms 12-15 - These are artificial  passages which lead steeply upward and
out into the desert.  Around the edges are natural caverns formed by
underground springs.

Rooms 16, 17 - These chambers are filled with fine spider webs.  A small
gem glitters in one corner.

Room 18 - Across this natural chamber, you can see your image in a mirror. 
Many slithering forms lie at your feet.

Rooms 19-21 - These are low-ceilinged caverns.  It is damp, and various
potions and ornaments from cultures long past lie scattered about.

Rooms 22-25 - Around you lies the vast desert.

Level 1 - Traps

Ceiling Trap - From the ceiling shoot small darts that have an irritation
venom on their sharp tips.

Dust Trap - Dust and sand blow around you violently, stinging your eyes.

Needle Trap - A small needle coated with a weak poison springs out of the
chest and toward your hand.

Pit Trap - This is the Pit of Infinity.  Quickly!  If you can just grab the
edge... (Better luck next time).

				63

Level 1 - Treasures

T01 - A small naturally formed diamond.

T02 - Some normal arrows are in the chest.

T03 - The mirror is solid silver.

T04 - A golden Ankh lies on the ground near your feet.

T05 - This is a copper figurine of a small animal.  It can't be worth much
but you decide to take it along anyway.

T06 - This is it!  The object of your quest, the legendary Glyphstone.  You
feel enlightened by its presence.

T07 - These potions in the strange vials appear to be perfectly good
elixirs.  You decide to take them with you.

				64

                              Level 2

                            The Sphinx
                     Rooms, Traps, Treasures

Level 2 - Rooms

Room 1 - You are in the desert directly in front of the Sphinx.  To the
east, you can see its entrance; visible to the north and south are its
front feet.

Room 2 - You are still out in the desert but much nearer the Sphinx.  The
front feet now tower above you on either side.

Room 3 - Just in time!  Right after you entered the room, a sandstorm
started outside and covered the entrance.  Looks like you'll have to find
another way out.  This large room has sand everywhere and no other object
at all.

Room 4 - In this large chamber, you see some traces of other adventurers
(hope you are good at riddles) and a stairway to the east.

Room 5 - You are in a stairway, which leads up to the second story of the
Sphinx.

Room 6 - This small room shows signs of wealth - tapestries, small rugs. 
To the west is a stairway leading down.

Room 7 - This sparsely decorated room contains lots of empty stone tables
and shelves.  To the west you see a much larger chamber, lavishly
decorated.

Room 8 - In this very large room, the walls are adorned with tapestries,
fancy rugs cover the floor, and stone tables hold countless scrolls and
other useless objects.  To the west you see the doorway to a
strange-looking corridor.

Room 9 - An object appears on the ancient floor of this corridor, although
it does not shine.  toe the north a pivoting stone is across what may be a
doorway to wealth.

Room 10 - You note that there is not much of a buildup of dust in this
small room.  To the east is a pivoting stone (exactly like the other one
already open ot reveal another long corridor.)

Room 11 - What happened?  You are now in a lonely (?) corridor with many
odd footprints in the dust.

Room 12 - In this small room, the walls are decorated with plain pictures
of the Egyptian gods.  Exits are to the north and south.

Room 13 - This room smells of something, possibly some terrible beast.  The
only thing visible is a leather pouch with tattered edges.

Room 14 - There appears to be nothing at all in this room, not even a trace
of dust.  To the west you see a stairway that leads up to the head of the
Sphinx.

				65

Room 15 - Another stairway.  Going west will take you up to the head of the
Sphinx.

Room 16 - You are in the head of the Sphinx, and many animal tracks
criss-cross the floor.  To the north you see a stone on a pivot swung open
to reveal a doorway.

Room 17 - The stone pivoted to close off the doorway.  The corridor leads
west, but you can see a doorway to the north leading into one of the ears
of the Sphinx.

Room 18 - This is an ear of the Sphinx.  Little appears to be in this room.

Room 19 - More and more animal tracks in this corridor which continues to
the south.  There is a doorway west.

Room 20 - This is the nose of the Sphinx.  Sand on the floor and openings
in the nostrils are visible.  There is also a strange amount of cobwebs in
the corners.

Room 21 - This long corridor has an opening to the south where the other
ear is located.  To the east another stone is pivoted to reveal an opening.

Room 22 - In the other ear of the Sphinx, you spy a small chest.

Room 23 - The corridor ends suddenly.  This lonely dead end has walls
filled with ancient cuneiform writing and hieroglyphics.  The only exit is
to the west, from whence you came.

Room 24 - In this dimly lit corridor, a profound buildup of dust covers the
floor.  Stirring up the dust as you walk, you see an exit to the north.

Room 25 - You are now quite sure that you have wandered into one of the
front feet of the Sphinx.  A doorway has been cut into the stone to the
west.

Room 26 - You must squint now to see your way through the darkness and the
dust stirred up as you walk.  A bright light shines to the south.

Room 27 - Quite a shock to your dark-adjusted eyes, this room is very well
lit, as if someone were waiting for you.

Room 28 - It's suddenly dark again.  Is that something furry rubbing your
leg?

Room 29 - you have just gone into one of the front feet of the Sphinx.  By
way of some mysterious source of light, you can see a large pivoting stone
which is closed across what seems to be a doorway to the south.

Room 30 - This dusty corridor evidently has not been traveled recently by
anyone.  It continues to the east.

Room 31 - The corridor appears to go into the body of the Sphinx. 
Continuing on is very enticing.

Room 32 - Seeing a large stone pivoted to reveal the rest of the corridor
is a welcome sight.  The corridor, you are sure, leads into the body of the
Sphinx.

				66

Room 33 - SURPRISE!  Immediately, after you walked through the doorway, the
stone pivoted across it and won't budge.  Do you get the feeling that you
may have incurred the wrath of the Pharoahs or some Egyptian god?

Rooms 34, 35 - This passageway opens into one of the Sphinx's back feet.

Rooms 36, 37 - You seem to be in the backmost part of the Sphinx.  The dust
here is marked with several non-human footprints.

Room 38 - This is the other back foot.  There appears to be nothing of
value on the stone shelves set into the wall.

Room 39 - You finally find a way into the interior body of the Sphinx.  You
note with alarm that there are many non-human footprints in the dust.

Room 40 - Cobwebs cling to you as you walk this lonely corridor.  Or is it
lonely?

Room 41 - A strange scent fills this room, and just breathing it gives you
a sense of well-being.  The smell is coming from a small pouch towards the
far end of the room.

Rooms 42, 43 - This east-west running corridor has a goodly amount of
non-human footprints in the dust.  Best be on guard for anything
mysterious.  An exit to the south through a pivoted stone reveals a
doorway.

Room 44 - You are obviously not alone in this footprint-laden passageway. 
To the east, north, and south are doorways.

Room 45 - Nothing of significance lies in this passageway.  To the east,
another pivoted stone shows a doorway into a chamber.

Room 46 - You recognize the strange scent filling this chamber.  It seems
to be emanating from a small pouch in the room.

Room 47 - In yet another corridor, you see a large room to the east.  To
the west you see another corridor whose walls are decorated with some type
of hieroglyphics, possibly a warning.

Room 48 - A dusty platform dominates the center and back of this room.  On
the platform you spy some small shiny objects glittering strangely.

Room 49 - Outside of the Sphinx, you have come upon an oasis.  Lucky for
you, you are very thirsty and need the water.

Room 50 - You can see the desert sands to the west.  Some strange sense
tells you that you missed something.

Room 51 - A secret section of the Sphinx!  Some shiny objects are visible
at the far end of this room.

Room 52 - In this large room the sound of growling is almost unbearable,
and you see the glint of gold.  To the east is another stone pivoted open
to reveal a doorway.

				67

Level 2 - Traps

Needle Trap - As you rummage through the chest of jewelry, you prick your
finger on a poisoned needle.

Flame Trap - Quickly and silently, a shape flies overhead and pours a pot
of boiling oil upon you.

Cave-in Trap - One of the stone steps under you crumbles, causing you to
fall flat on your face.

Pit Trap - Watch it!  You almost fell out the nostril!  Luckily (?), your
fall was stopped by a sharp spear sticking out from the side of the
nostril.

Level 2 - Treasures

T01 - A very old and dusty quiver filled with normal arrows lies near the
upward-leading staircase. 

T02 - As you travel across the room, you chance upon some mysterious
Egyptian herb in a pouch which makes you feel wonderfully well.  (When
eaten, these herbs act exactly as healing elixirs.) 

T03 - As the panel shuts behind you, it hurls a pouch containing 2 gold
pieces. 

T04 - In a neat little pile, you find a silver offering tray and a pouch
containing 3 gold pieces and 1 small ruby. 

T05 - On a dusty stone platform lie a silver dagger and a small sapphire.

T06 - A collection of gold and silver jewelry are found in the small and 
rotting wood chest. 

T07 - A small stone cabinet contains a sapphire ankh of the Egyptian god of
darkness, Zukar, 2 gold bracelets, and a silver coin. 

T08 - Aha! A small diamond, 3 gold nuggets, 3 gold pieces, 100 silver
pieces and a diamond ring. 

T09 - A moldy pouch containing 2 platinum pieces, 8 gold pieces, and 200
silver pieces. 

T10 - Could it truly be???!!! Yes!  It is a solid gold statue of a jackal.

T11 - In the corridor you find a clay tablet with cuneiform writing on it. 
Don't even ask!  We don't read cuneiform either. 

T12 - Left over from the mysterious pot, you find a bronze ladle. 

T13 - Too bad, you have no use for this broken chariot wheel (except as a
souvenir of your trip to Egypt). 

T14 - Some dust sparkles of mithril.  Deciding to see how long it will
last, you apply it to some nearby shafts of rotting wood, and it turns them
into magic arrows.

				68

                              Level 3

                            The Pyramid
                      Rooms, Traps, Treasures

Level 3 - Rooms

Room 1 - You are on a great desert looking at the pyramid.  There must be
some way to get inside.

Rooms 2-22 (excl. 12) - Surrounding the pyramid, much the same as Room 1.

Room 12 - This is your small tent, with your supplies inside.

Room 23 - You've found the entrance to the pyramid!  Before you are two
tunnels, one leading up and one leading down.  you decide to take the one
leading down.

Room 24 - You are following the downward tunnel.  You can see a small room
ahead and hear strange noises.

Room 25 - The snake pit! Maybe the other tunnel would have been better! 
There is a sword standing point down in the ground ahead of you.  If only
you could reach it...

Room 26 - You have left the snake pit.  If you turn around now, you can
take the upper path, but going east takes you out of the pyramid.  The roof
near the exit appears to be cracking.

Room 27 - You take the upper path.  BEWARE!  You are now entering the major
chambers of the Pharoah's tomb.

Room 28 - You see two doors leading off from this room.  Hieroglyphs cover
the walls.

Room 29 - This room, smelling of death, also has many hieroglyphs.  You can
see a small ring in a disk and a picture of Osiris, the god of the
underworld.

Room 30 - A long hall has murals and hieroglyphs all along the walls.

Room 31 - Another hall.  You can see something straight ahead.

Room 32 - The hall curves and you feel a slight breeze.  The hieroglyphs
are much larger here.

Room 33 - The breeze is stronger.  You can see a weapons rack ahead.  There
is a huge ankh symbol on the far wall.

Room 34 - A small hall.  Going north, you descend a few steps.

Room 35 - A small room with many murals.  On the far wall you recognize a
picture of Ra, the sun god.  The paintings seem to stare at you.

				69

Room 36 - This room is well furnished with velvety objects and fabrics.  Th
walls are bare of either murals or hieroglyphs.  You spy a small talisman
in one corner.

Room 37 - This room has many cushions and beds, made of smooth, silky
materials.

Room 38 - There are many murals painted all along the walls.  You spot
something of interest to the south.

Room 39 - Racks and shelves line the walls containing many items of unknown
purpose.

Room 40 - The entire room is filled with beautiful glasswork.

Room 41 - This is a room with sand on the floor and a huge statue.

Room 42 - This is obviously an enbalming room.  An open sarcophagus stands
against the wall.

Room 43 - A large altar sits in this comparatively small room.  Hanging
along the walls are ornate tapestries.

Room 44 - Cryptic writing and hieroglyphs line the walls of this hallway,
which is gradually descending.

Room 45 - Signs of earlier adventures fill the room.  They include
skeletons, broken swords, shields, etc.

Room 46 - Statues stan along the walls.  There is a faint beating of sand
outside the north wall.

Room 47 - Sand lines the walls.  The sound of sand beating the north wall
is almost unbearable.  In the northeast corner you spy a vial.

Room 48 - Here, too, you hear sand beating against the north wall.  An
animal bladder lies in the northeast corner of the room.

Room 49 - A huge statue dominates this rather large room.  As you enter,
the statue springs to life.

Room 50 - Hieroglyphs and pictures line the wall and seem to suggest to you
that this was once a magician's chamber.

Room 51 - Another small room.

Room 52 - This room is filled with hundreds of odds and ends from centuries
ago.  A through search may reveal interesting results.

Room 53 - The floor is covered with sand.

Room 54 - This room is bare of any objects other than some sand along the
floor.  You can hear a faint beating of sand in the distance and see
something interesting to the east.

Room 55 - You are in a hallway.  The walls are filled with ornate
tapestries.  You kick up some sand as you walk through the room.

				70

Room 56 - You are in a hallway.

Room 57 - This rather large room has a very low ceiling.  A huge statue
suddenly comes to life as you enter.  You also spy a shiny statue in the
northeast corner under what appears to be a cracking ceiling.

Room 58 - The extensive buildup of dust in this small corridor indicates
that is has not been used for a long time.

Room 59 - This is a room filled with furniture of another era.  You notice
what appears to be a weapons rack.  Maybe you should search it???

Room 60 - You see the sparkle of Mithril near the southeast corner of this
huge room.

Level 3 - Traps

Dust Trap - The desert winds blow up a biting dust that stings the skin,
burns the eyes and makes breathing difficult.

Cave-in Trap - A weak portion of the ceiling gives way and many huge stones
fall toward you.

Spear Trap - As you approach the door, it opens just wide enough to allow a
spear to fly through and then quickly closes.

Flame Trap - The picture of the sungod seems to glare at you for an
instant.  Suddenly the room fills with flames!  There are no more pictures.

Ceiling Trap - A very sharp sword was hanging, blade down, by a thread on
the ceiling high above you.  The thread breaks!

Needle Trap - There is a tiny needle in the talisman which contains a mild
poison.

Crossbow Trap - A huge crossbow comes down from the ceiling and fires a
magic arrow at you.

Pit Trap - A fifteen foot pit with a bed of steel spikes opens beneath your
feet.

Level 3 - Treasures

T01 - Some magical arrows lay in a cabinet near the wall.

T02 - A shiny and finely forged sword is thrust into the floor at your
feet.

T03 - These are powerful healing elixirs.

T04 - Some arrows in a small quiver outside the tent.

				71

T05 - You recognize this to be a skull ring, having certain powers over the
undead.

T06 - On the altar there are three large rubies!  They are worth nine
thousand silver pieces!

T07 - In the chest you find 40 small diamonds.

T08 - This magic talisman gives you great powers to see and hear.

T09 - Inside the sarcophagus, you find a diamond necklace.

T10 - In the corner of the room you find five small emeralds, five small
diamonds, and two small rubies.

T11 - Several scrolls are in this room.  Since they seem to be in familiar
characters, you try to read them.  You fail, but feel truly enlightened
just looking at them.

T12 - These are a large pair of spectacles.  You try them on and somehow or
another your range of vision seems to have increased.

T13 - Gazing into this fine mirror, you feel better about yourself, so you
continue to explore the pyramid.

T14 - This fine felt feels good around you, so you decide to wear it. 
Odd... your burden somehow feels lighter ...

T15 - you recognize this potion as the milk of certain snakes.  It is used
to increase a man's ability to endure. You drink it.

T16 - This is a beautiful crystal.  Although it is only worth a few
silvers, you decide to take it along anyway.  As you pick it up, it
dissolves in your hands, leaving you nothing but a tingly sensation.

T17 - You notice six gold nuggets in the sand.

T18 - You see eight gold nuggets on the ground.

T19 - You really struck it rich on this one!  There are ten gold nuggets
lying in front of you.

T20 - A beautiful solid gold statue.

				72

                              Level 4

                            Temple of Ra
                      Rooms, Traps, Treasures

Level 4 - Rooms

Rooms 1-3 - Open desert in front of a large carved-out cliff face lies
around you.  Objects strew the sand.

Rooms 4-10 - You stand in a large area at the foot of a cliff which has
been cut to form a small canyon.  Here stands a statue of Ra.  It has been
carved out of the cliff and stands 50 feet tall on two large stone
pedestals.  There are unlit incense containers before each foot of the
statue.  Underneath the large leg-like columns is a tall stone door.

Room 11 - This armory has many racks of rotting wood containing old weapons
covered with a thick layer of dust.

Room 12 - These long walls are covered with detailed murals.  Hieroglyphs
depict men and animals working and building large structures.  It seems
that the room is devoted to the telling of the history of this land and of
its many wonders.

Room 13 - It must be a storage room of some kind.  It is filled to the
ceiling with clay and wooden artifacts.

Room 14 - The dimly-lit room is filled with human bones.  A dusty table in
the far corner is covered with brushes, paint, and other object.s

Room 15 - A tiny sand-filled compartment.  The thick layer of dust on the
floor is smooth and untrodden.  Strange! since the door show much use.

Room 16 - The floor of this deep sunken pit is covered with the
half-decayed corpses of several men.  Then you notice the writhing bodies
of deadly snakes - not many, but enough to have stopped these other brave
explorers.

Room 17 - Another small compartment much like 15.  It also has an unwanted
occupant.

Room 18 - A natural cavern has been carved into a small ante-chamber.  The
floor is thick with a coarse sand.

Room 19 - More of the ante-chamber.  You notice a rise in humidity and see
moisture on the wall near the corner of the room. It does not appear at
first glance to be water.

Room 20 - Going through a crack, you find yourself on a wide set of stairs.
An outstretched body lies off to one side of what you are sure must be the
entrance to the main temple room.

Room 21-28 - Very narrow passageways cut in the stone.  You must still be
at least 20 feet above the ground level, having discovered a door at
waist-level.

				73

Room 29 - You are trapped! A stone falls to block the way you came.  The
gigantic room is littered with limbs and half-eaten carcasses of
unidentifiable beasts.  It must be the sacrifice area for this unholy
place.  A strong light emanates from an adjoining hall.

Room 30 - A bright light beams at the end of a short wide hall.  An altar
is aglow with a burning, blinding aura. (A fitting tribute to the God of
the Sun).

Room 31 - A small alcove just off the main hall, offering relief from the
blinding light, but with a gleam of its own.  The long-dead priests of this
temple must have used this as a sacred worship room.

Room 32 - A short, wide hall.  Near the end you spot a brilliant object
shining with the radiance of the sun.  It is protected by some unnatural
force, which seems impassable.  To either side of the hall are small
alcoves.  There must be some way around that invisible barrier.

Room 33 - Another small alcove much like 31.

Room 34 - The main room of the temple (you turned out to be right).  There
are many pedestals and statues, but one near the back of the room catches
your eye.  it stands taller than the others and gleams with an expansive
radiance.  The floor is smooth and dust-covered.

Room 35 - Another short, wide hall.

Room 38-42 - Imagine that!  The thing is hollow with intricate and tricky
passages leading up the legs and into the chest and head!

				74

Level 4 - Treasures

T01 - Amid various other armaments which are unusable, you find some arrows
still in good condition.

T02 - He won't need these anymore, but from what you have seen so far, you
will: magic arrows.

T03 - Some broken clay jugs, probably worthless.

T04 - A large, silver offering tray.  Polished up a bit, it should bring a
nice price.

T05 - Water indeed!  This fine liquid will come in handy to soothe whatever
ails you.  You stop to fill a few vials.

T06 - Two small diamonds lie in the dirt.

T07 - A large, beautiful tapestry hangs over the doorway.  The figures sewn
into the fine fabric seem to indicate danger or warning.

T08 - You stop just long enough to strip this bag from one of the bodies. 
Worth it, too.  The bag contains 40 gold pieces.

T09 - On the table you find a primitive book. Within it are examples of
every hieroglyph you have ever seen.  Practical, you suppose, but
worthless.

T10 - At the head of the statue you find, embedded in the wall, with light
pouring through it, a large ruby.  OHHHHHH! It must be the eye.  You
remember seeing it from below.

T11 - A large gold statue with a bird head.  Lifting it is a
disappointment.  It must be hollow as it weighs only a few pounds.  You
remove it from its pedestal anyway, and stuff it in your pack.

T12 - WOW!!!! A diamond-studded platinum altar.  It weighs a bit, but is
well worth taking along.  As you heave it from its low base, you notice a
strange power surrounding you.  It could have more uses than you first
guessed.

T13 - A chest half-buried in the sand.  Opening it reveals nothing.  An
empty chest; how cheap!

T14 - This is the carcass of a dead camel being ripped apart by these
vicious beasts.

T15 - There is still some unburned incense here, if that's what you like.

T20 - Just a pile of sand.  You initially though there might be something
buried here, but it turns out to be a dead end.  As you kick the sand
around, you hear a hoarse whispering voice which seems to be cheering you. 
You can barely make out, in this part of the canyon, someone or something
chanting, "RA, RA, RA."

				75

                       MASTER TREASURE KEY

Gems

Small Ruby		400 SP
Small Sapphire		300 SP
Small Diamond		100 SP
Large Ruby		3000 SP
Small Emerald		200 SP

Jewelry

Diamond Ring		30 SP
Silver & Gold Jewelry	80 SP
Diamond Necklace	1000 SP
Gold Bracelet		50 SP
Silver Chain		40 SP

Miscellaneous

Silver Tray		100 SP
Silver Dagger		40 SP
Silver Mirror		150 SP
Gold Ankh		30 SP
Copper Figurine		45 SP
Gold Jackal		1800 SP
Bronze Ladle		5 SP
Chariot Wheel		7 SP
Gold Nugget		50 SP
Bag of Gold		400 SP
Hollow Gold Statue	300 SP
Platinum Altar		10,250 SP
Solid Gold Statue	5000 SP
Sapphire Ankh		100 SP

SP = Silver Pieces

				76

                    THE LEGEND OF THE APSHAI

	For more generations than any many now living can count, this
forgotten corner of the ancient earth has devoted itself to Geb, God of the
Earth.  Into this place came the worshippers of Apshai.  The Insect God,
who laid claim to a superior sacred learning.  However, dark rumors spread
of the foul and sorcerous practices of the Apshai cult.  The Gebite
priests, fearing these gristly rites, lead their people to drive the
outlanders from their midst.

	Fleeing south, the Apshaians were shortly halted by a vast,
uncrossable swamp.  Unable to go back to the Gebite village and unwilling
to essay the perils of the swamp ahead, the High Priest of Apshai prayed to
his patron for guidance.

	That night, as the priest prayed, a young brother and sister
wandered away from the encampment.  The girl returned to camp, crying, and
said that her brother had fallen into a great, silent pit.  although deep
in his meditation, the priest sent out a search party, but to no avail. 
The pit appeared bottomless.  Nor had the Insect God given any solace or
direction to the distraught priest.  The people of Apshai knew not which
way to turn.

	Yet at dawn the next morning, the boy came back.  He had indeed
fallen into the pit, but had landed on a shelf not too far below the
surface, and there lain unconscious.  Awaking after nightfall, he wandered
through many chambers until he reached a salt sea.  Too weary to go on, he
collapsed on the sand.  A light touch awakened him and he looked up to see
a six-foot-long ant.  Despite his worship of the Insect God Apshai, he fled
into the water to escape this manifestation.

	As he swam to the farthest wall of the cavern, he noticed the
waters taking on a greener hue.  A dim glow came from the murky depths, and
he swam into the light.

	When he surfaced, drawing in great breaths of air, he rejoiced in
the restoring warmth of the sun.  As he climbed the rock face of the
coastal bluff, he noticed that the water was receding.  The clump of red
seaweed that had caressed him as he swam out of the cavern was now hanging
limply across the opening in the rock.

	When he heard this story, the priest fell to his knees in thanks. 
Their prayers had been answered.  The people of Apshai had found a home.

	In the caves beneath the coastal bluff, the Apshaians plowed the
underground fields and planted the strange crops which they knew would
flourish in that sunless place.  They hewed out new passages and reaped a
harvest of gems and gold from within their new cavern kingdom.  Their power
was beyond question.  Finally, they were even accepted by the Gebite
priests, who were won over by the tribute of gems and incense sent to them
every year.

	The Gebite people, however, grew restless and full of apprehension.
 While none knew the exact nature of the dread Apshai rites, sordid rumors
spread, and every year young people disappeared.  The priests of Geb were
too pleased counting their new wealth to hear these pleas - besides,
nothing could be proved.  Without the sanction of their priests, the people
prayed for three years while the Temple of Apshai was constructed within
the cavern by the sea.  They prayed for two more years while a plague of
insects from the swamp beset them.  And they prayed five years more, while
the priests of Geb continued to burn Apshaian incense moss during the
Gebite rites, even though the crops failed and animals were barren.

	Finally, the Gebite's prayers were answered.

				77

	One day the earth shook.  Stumbling out of their tottering temple,
the shaken priests found the tumbled ruins of what had once been their
town.  following the cries of the villagers, they hurried up the shore to
the dwelling place of the Apshaians.  Dust billowed at the cliff face and
heavy rocks tumbled where the sand had been.  The opening of the cave was
closed. Apshai was no more, or so it was believed.

	Over the years the village was rebuilt, and the Gebite priests
renewed their power over the common folk.  For many years the caverns were
seldom visited and never disturbed.  Generations passed, and memory faded
into legend.

	Then, during the reign of High Priest Nemdal Geb, a movement arose
to excavate the old temple in search of the Apsai gems and gold.  A noted
engineer was hired, and the huge, ancient temple and then the ancient
passageways, one by one, were cleared.  The underground gardens that still
flourished in the darkness were rediscovered, as were the shops, and
finally the mines with their precious gems and minerals.  Nemdal Geb
decided to continue the excavation in hopes of recovering the lost
knowledge of the Apshaians.  This proved to be an ill-fated decision.

	Shortly after the fourth passage was cleared, whole work parties
began to disappear.  Soon no one would enter the fourth passage, and
eventually the other passages and the temple cavern itself became unsafe.

	The Curse, as that's what it seemed to be, spread to the town of
the Gebites.  Strange diseases scourged the people.  Soon merchant ships
would not stop at the harbor, for fear of the plagues.  Commerce, and the
population, dwindled.  The town was again facing disaster.  In response to
the people's cries, Nemdal Geb led the other priests of Geb and the
strongest warriors of the town in a quest to end forever the Curse of
Apshai.  They entered the fourth passage, and none returned.

	And so the power and mystery of Apshai remain.  Few enter the
forbidden caverns, and fewer return.  The Curse grows there, and only the
bravest of adventurers can unveil that mystery.  Only by plumbing the
depths of the world of Apshai can the Curse he relieved here on land.  And,
it is said, stones of rare value and wealth beyond compare still lie
within.
				78

                        APSHAI COMMAND CARD

                        For Commodore Amiga

LOADING

1. Set up your Commodore Amiga as shown in the Owner's Manual.

2. Plug in the mouse as shown in the Owner's Manual.

3. Turn on your computer with Kickstart 1.1 in the Internal Drive.

4. When the computer asks for the Workbench Disk, insert the TEMPLE OF
   APSHAI TRILOGY program disk into the disk drive with the label side up,
   and the Trilogy program will boot automatically.  (If you have already
   put in the Workbench Disk, insert the TEMPLE OF APSHAI TRILOGY program
   disk.  Double click on the Apshai disk, and a picture will appear with
   the words Apshai Trilogy.  Double click on it to boot the program.)

5. If you are going to use the joystick, make sure it is plugged into port

2.

                          MOVEMENT COMMANDS

Key		Action			Key 	Action

0		Rest for One Turn	L	Turn 90 degrees to the Left

1-9		Move from 1 to 9 feet	V	(Volte-Face) Turn Around 180
						degrees

R		Turn 90 degrees to the Right	

SPACEBAR	Each Press, Move Forward 1 Foot

Position the mouse pointer where you want the character to move, then click
on the left button.  The character will move to the position you marked, if
possible.  If the character is not facing in the right direction, you must
click twice; once to change the character's direction, and the second time
to move the character to the position you marked.

			BATTLE COMMANDS

Key		Action			Key 	Action

A		Attack			F	Fire an Arrow

T		Thrust			M	Fire a Magic Arrow

P		Parry (Defense)

You can also select Fighting commands from the Battle menu using the right
mouse button.

			SPECIAL COMMANDS

Key		Action			Key	Action

E		Examine Wall for	!	Speak with a Monster
		Secret Door

O		Open Door		H	Heal (Apply a Healing
						Salve)
S		Search for Traps	Y	Ylixir (Drink a Healing
						Elixir)
Q		Query (Listen) for
		Monsters

RETURN		Room Description

To drop a Treasure, select the item to be dropped from the Inventory menu
with the right mouse button.

SAVE

Using the mouse pointer, select the appropriate options with the menu
button and then release the button when the pointer is over the Save
option.

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================