                                TENNIS CUP

MOVEMENT

Moving the joystick in any of the 8 directions will move you're player in
that direction. Simple enough. You must learn to guage the shot and move to
that spot.
 
HITTING THE BALL

There are a number of shots available to you. Topspin, lobs, smashes, drop
shots, and volleys are all available. 

To hit the ball move to the correct position and press and hold the
joystick button. 

To swing release the button. The computer automatically selects a forehand
or a backhand shot dependng on the position you are on the court.  

While you are holding down the button you can further control your shot.
Make sure you keep the joystick in the desired position untill after you
have released the joystick button. 

Move the joystick left or right to send the ball in that direction. 

Keep the joystick centered for a forward shot. Moving the joystick forward
or backward to select the spin on the ball. 

Holding the joystick forward gives the ball topspin from the baseline.
Topspin shots bounce lower and faster off the court making them harder to
hit. 

Holding the joystick backward results in underspin, producing a drop shot.
Dropshots tend to bounce higher and slower. Keeping the joystick centered
gives you neutral spin. 

Combinations of these shots are possible. If you move the joystick forward
and to the left you will hit a topspin shot to the left.

The shots that are available depend on you're position on the court and
you're opponents position. When you're opponent is at the net another shot
is available: the lob. Pull the joystick back and the ball will sail over
you're opponents head. When you're opponent hits a lob at you you're only
choice is to hit a smash. Move the joystick left or right to send the ball
in that direction.

THE SHOTS

From the Baseline:

  Forward---------- straight with topspin
  Forward Right---- right side topspin
  Right------------ right side
  Back Right------- right side drop shot
  Back------------- forward drop shot
  Back Left-------- left side drop shot
  Left------------- left side
  Forward Left----- left side topspin

From the net:

  Forward---------- deep volley 
  Forward Right---- deep right volley
  Right------------ right midcourt volley
  Back Right------- right dropshot volley
  Back------------- forward dropshot volley
  Back Left-------- left dropshot volley
  Left------------- left midcourt volley
  Forward Left----- deep left volley

Opponent at Net:

  Forward---------- forward topspin
  Forward Right---- right side topspin
  Right------------ right side
  Back Right------- right side lob
  Back------------- forward lob
  Back Left-------- left side lob
  Left------------- left side
  Forward Left----- left side topspin
                   
SERVING:

Serving the ball is a lot like hitting. Press the joystick button and hold
it then release to swing at the ball. Moving the joystick to the left or
right will send the ball left or right. Moving the joystick forward gives
you a deep, Powerful serve.

TENNIS CUP OPTIONS:

After loading you see the main menu.

1 Player:

When you select one player, you enter the player editor.

Use the joystick to move through the selections. You can load an existing
player from disk, or create a new player. To create a new player, name him
and select his country. All players skills begin at 50%. You have 30 points
to add to skills. You can even deduct points from existing skills for more
points. You can save your new player to a data disk. To save your players
to a data disk, you must have a blank formatted disk ready before you
begin. 

SINGLES EXHIBITION:

When singles is selected, you must select your opponent or create an
opponent. To select your opponent, move your joystick left or right to see
the 32 top seated opponents. Press the button to select. When you create
your opponent, it is best to lower all of your opponents skills when you
first start to learn the game.When you are finished select continue. You
must now choose the type of court you would like to play on. The match will
be one set, best of three sets, or best of five sets. See options to change
the match length. You may end the match at any time by pressing ESC.

DOUBLES EXHIBITION:

You must first choose your doubles partner. You can choose from the two
seeded players that come from your players country. Move joystick left or
right to see both players. Press the button to select. You must now choose
an opposing team. You may choose from 31 teams from other countries.

TRAINING:

When you select training, you must choose a shot you wish to pratice:
Baseline, Volley, or Smash. After you choose your shot, the automatic ball
machine will help you pratice the shot. The longer you pratice with the
machine, the harder and faster the shots become. You may end your training
session at any time by hitting ESC.

TOURNAMENT:

You may select from one of the worlds great tournaments: Flushing Meadows,
Melbourne, Roland Garros, or Wimbledon. After selecting a tournament you
will play the top seeded computer opponents through the quarter finals,
semi-finals, and on to the finals.

DAVIS CUP:

When you select Davis Cup, you must compete in both singles and doubles
compition to make it to the finals.

CHAMPIONSHIP:

Championship play offers a twist. As you play each match, your players
skills will improve as your play improves. You can save these improvements
to your data disk. By selecting TOURNAMENT, you will be put into one of the
major tournaments. You are now able to save your players improvements to
your data disk. When you select TRAINING in championship mode, as you
pratice with the machine, your players skills will improve. You can save
these improvements to your data disk.

OPTIONS:

Selecting options lets you select match length, and game speed. Move
joystick left or right to select options.


                                   -==+ Pirate Pete +==-