        TERMINATOR 2  -  THE ARCADE GAME  - FROM VIRGIN GAMES
           Documentation typed in on 29-11-93 by FairLight!

THERE IS NO FATE BUT WHAT WE MAKE


Ten years ago the maschine of Skynet sent a Terminator from 
the future to kill Sarah Conner. They failed. Now the maschines
will try again. Their new target: the future leader of the
resistance - Sarah Conners son, the young John Connor. As before
a lone warrior will be sent to protect him. The only quesion is:
who will reach John first?

There are seven devastating stages to complete. Use all available
firepower to destroy everything expect the human lives dedicated
to the destruction of the maschines. The fate of the world rests
on your shoulders....


THE TITLE SCREEN
----------------

You will know that TERMINATOR 2 has loaded when the credits appear.
A short introductory sequence will then set the scene.

Press return to skip the introductory sequence.

The Title screen will then appear with two options:
"StartGame" and "Options screen":   Press the arrow cursor keys
to move the highlight.  Press the RETURN key to select the highlight-
ed option.

OPTIONS SCREEN
--------------

The options screen allows you to change the set-up of your game. You
can move around the screen by pressing the up and down cursor keys.
the left or right cursor keys will cycle through the list of 
available choices.

Starting the game will automatically save your choices: alternativly
you can exit back to the attract demo mode by pressing ESCAPE.

PLAYER 1 Choose a method of control from MOUSE or JOYSTICK. Select
NOT ACTIVE if this player wont be entering the fray. Note that at 
least one player must be active!

PLAYER 2 As above. The addition of second player will increase the 
intensity of the opposition.

SOUND CONTROL allows you to select MUSIC & EFFECT or simply sound fx.


WHAT CAN YOU EXPECT TO SEE DURING PLAY
--------------------------------------

The playfield is where all the action happends, as seen through your
eyes. Sometimes the view is static (And extremly hectic), but more
often it moves from right to left (and is no less chaotic).

You start with a maschine gun and 25 guided missiles. Shoot anything 
that attacks you.

* Move the mouse or joystick shaft to direct the gun sight.

* Press the lefthand button or joystick firebutton to fire the gun.

* Press the righthand button or the spacebar on the keyboard to launch
a guided missile.

GUNSIGHT: used to direct your shots.

GUNPOWER: The mascine guns Gunpower depletes when the lefthand mouse
button or joystick is held down and rises when the button is released.
The number of bullets you fire decreases as the Gunpower decreases.
Short, sharp concentrated bursts are the order of the day.

GUIDED MISSILES REMAINING: these babies are more powerful then gunfire.
Extra Guided missiles can acquired during play.

SCORE:  You can earn points by shooting anything that attacks you - 
and anything else that takes your fancy, provided it isnt a human
member of the resistance. Big bonus points are also up for grabs. For
further details, see PERFORMANCE ANYLYSIS.

ENERGY: The bar shrinks every time a shot or grenade or missile hits
you.

CREDITS: Used to continue play. You start with four credits.

HOLD IT!: Press the P key to freeze the action. Press the ESC key 
when the action is frozen to quit play and return to the Title screen.
Press the P key when the action is frozen to resume play.


KICKING KIT!
-------------

Additional hardware is dotted throughout the levels. When you see any 
of the following, shoot them to pick them up.  Kit is usually found
in cases but sometimes is hidden - so shoot everything.

KIT CASES : They hold different types of kit. Shoot them to open
to reveal the contents.

GUIDED MISSILES: They usually come bundles of four, each one 
containing three Guided Missiles.

RAPID FIRE RECHARGE: Boost your Gunpower to the MAX.

EXTENDED RAPID FIRE COOLANT: Boost your Gunpower to the max for aprox
20 seconds.

FULL RECHARGE: Boosts your energy to the max.

SMART BOMBS:  Shoot them to blow up all enemy units seen on screen.

PLASMA PULSE ENGERGISER: Temporarily enhances the destructive power
of your maschine gun.

SHIELD:  Temporarily minimises the damage inflicted by enemy shots.

EXTRA CREDITS: Increase your available credits - up to a maximum of 
nine.

MINI GUN: This state of the art, rotating action, six barel firepower
temporarily replaces the maschine gun. Its the beefiest beast of a 
weapon you will get to use in Terminator 2: The Arcade Game. The
minigun doesnt last for long, but while it does.... Blast away!

SHOTGUN SHELL:   Each one provides three shots.

CANISTEAS: Shoot them to blow up anything nearby.

COMPUTER CHIPS: Blow them out of any computer you see then shoot them
again to recieve one of the following: Bonus,ExtraPower,ExtraShells or
a full recharge.

M79 GRENADE LAUNCHER: It fires 40 mm high explosive ammunition and 
temporarily replaces thr Guided missiles.


PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
----------------------

When you complete a level, the way you played is assessed before your
very eyes.

You are informed of the quantities of different enemy characters you
destroyed and the accuracy of your shooting. Bonus points are awarded
accordingly. These are also special level-specific bonuses - the most
common being the Damage Bonus give for trashing the scenery. Note
that points are deducted for any human causualties, and your enemy
is topped up to the max before your begin the next assualt.

BEST TODAY
----------

Nice one - you scored enough points to earn a position in the top 10
scores of the day (the lowest default is 10.000 points).

Use the gun sight to select three letters.

Select SPACE to use a blank letter.

Select DEL to remove the last letter chosen.

Select ENTER to register the letters.

Note that the scores are lost when you turn off your computer.


CONTINIUE?
-----------

If you have any credits remaining when your energy has run out you 
can choose to resume play from exactly where you left off.

Press the lefthand mouse buton or the joystick button before the timer
reaches zero to continue play.


THE SEVEN LEVELS
----------------

Each level concerns a key situation in The Terminator 2 story.
Will you reach the end? 

The Battlefield
---------------

Los Angeles,July 11,2029. Three billion human lives ended on August 
29,1997. the survivors of the nuclear fire called the war Judgement 
day. They lived only to face a new nightmare: the war against the
maschines.... Can you survive the onslaught of t-800 Endoskeletons,
Flying hunter killers, a ground hunter killer and Missile launchers?

The Human Hideout
-----------------

Infiltrator units reported in our sector. Protect all human life from 
the T-800 Endoskeletons and Cyborgs, and the Orbs.

Trip to skynet
--------------

Human alert. Skynet has used its time field generator to send a
terminator back to kill young John Connor. You must stop it. 
Skynet is also out to destroy the John Conner of the future and
crush his rebellious force. Defeat a swarm of Flying Hunter Killers 
and then defend John Conners truck from attack on its way to the
Skynet base.  A rear gunner will do his best to help take care of 
any Flying Hunter killers but there are also dozens of T-800 
endoskeletons running around. Have you got what it takes to earn
a Super Track Bonus?

SKYNET
-------

Move out!  The skynet perimeter is swarming with flying hunter killers.
Blow open gate leading to penetrate Security level 2 and enter the 
inner sanctum where t-800 Endoskeletons and Cyborgs, Flying Hunter
Killers, Orbs, Silverfish and a ground hunter killer lie in wait.

CYBERDONE SYSTEMS
-----------------

You have been sent back through time to protect young John Connor from 
the T-1000. Destroy everything to prevent Cyberdyne creating Skynet 
and destroying mankinds future. Try not to shoot John Connor or his
mother, Sarah, who regulary appears to desposit shotgun shells on 
the floor. A vast SWAT team will throw everything it has as you make
your way through the main building to labatory. At the heart of
Cyberdone, the arm and Central Processing Unit of the first terminator
(sent back in time to destroy Sarah Connor) are stored. If John Connor
cannot reach the parts, they will be used by Cyberdyne to creats Skynet
and the bleak future of mankind will be assured.

VAN CHASE
-----------

You have escaped from Cyberdyne in a SWAT van. John and Sarah are inside.
The T-1000 is in pursuit in a helicopter which it will use to ram the van.
Blow the helicopter away before it does any damage. Beware! If the 
T-1000 survives it will command an 18-wheel tanker and continue its 
chase.

THE STEEL MILL
--------------

This is the confrontation you have been waiting for.. The T-1000 has
trapped you in the steel mill. Protect John Connor. Heres a handy hint:
try blasting holes in the tanker full of liquid nitogen.


KNOW YOUR ENEMY
----------------

Prepare yourself for all atttackers in the present - and the future.

T-800 ENDOSKELETON
------------------

All model 101s carry standard-issue battles rifles. Some endoskeletons
also have plasma grenades (and some of them jump!). Intelligence reports
a growing rumour that Cyberdynes new, stronger, gold-coloured Endo-
skeletons are in production, so keep your eyes open - and keep cool.

T-800 CYBORG
-------------

They all carry maschine guns. When they get in close, shoot away the
synthetic skin before blasting the endoskeleton beneath.

MISSILE LAUNCHERS
------------------

Their missiles are destructive - and plentiful.

FLYING HUNTER KILLER
---------------------

Their sweeping search-lights pick out ground based resistance 
strongholds. Blow the Flying Hunter Killers away before they shoot
missiles at you.

GROUND HUNTER KILLER
----------------------

These future tanks are big and bad. Blow away its sidemounted beam
weapons and head unit first. Beware of their endless supplies of
missiles.

ORBS
----

They usually hatch from synthetic "eggs" which fall on to the screen.
Orbs are armed with maschine guns - and they move fast!

SILVERFISH
----------

Sliver sliver sliver.. Dont let them get up close!

SWAT TEAM
---------

The crack police squad members are all highly trained and armed 
with M16 maschine guns.

LABORATORY TECHNICIANS
----------------------

Clothed in protective suits, they throw flasks full of acid.

T-1000
------

The ultimate danger. An advanced prototype of a new terminator.
Its shape changing abilities are impressive - and deadly. It 
cannot ne reasoned with or bargained with, and it will not stop
until it acquires its target... or is terminated.


PLAYING ADVICE
---------------

* Get a second player to join in - it helps enormously!

* Shoot any scenery in the background - it may contain some bonus.

* Aim for the weak-spot of the enemy characters: the head. This 
action may reveal a computer chip.

* Hang around at the beginning of the Skynet level and build up your
weapons supply.




TERMINATOR 2 - THE ARCADE GAME 
[C] 1993 Virgin games/Acclaim entertainment LTD