                       TETRA QUEST     by Microdeal

                       From the collection of DR.J

INTRODUCTION

The First Galactic Games are about to start.   Athletes,  unsurpassed  from 
every  world,   assemble  in  the  arena  for  a  superlative  display   of 
gamesmanship.   Flags whirl high above the stadium while the crowd roars in 
anticipation.

Phoebus,  the Sun God,  smiles as he prepares to ignite the Olympic  flame.  
Then...a  messenger,   panting,  desperately  climbs  the  ancient  stairs.  
Phoebus pauses waiting for the bearer of bad tidings to approach.  The news 
is ominous.

The legendary 6 Phoenix Tablets, without which the games cannot begin, have 
been stolen.   A jealous act of vengeance by the inhabitants of  TetraDome, 
who were not invited to compete.

THE LEGEND OF TERADOME

The Tetroids have a challenge of their own.   They have split each  Phoenix 
Tablet  into  64 pieces and cunningly hidden each piece in one of  the  six 
provinces of their world.

Phoebus lowers his head.   Millennium ago,  as a young Demi-God, he battled 
in  TetraDome.   He  remembers the evil that abounds in this world  of  384 
sections.

He remembers the "Spitters",  those dreaded pits which generate the  deadly 
Aliens from the heart of TetraDome.   The Acid and Oil Slicks, the Mutating 
Deflectors, the fiendish Joysticks which...

He  also remembers how the Tetroids,  with their impish sporting  instinct, 
devised obstacles that could be twisted into advantages.

With bated breath, the crowd awaits as Phoebus delivers the challenge.

THE TETRA QUEST

"I will bestow my power on whoever is brave enough to make the Tetra Quest.  
Who  becomes  the Tetra Questrian and accepts the challenge  must  know  no 
fear, must dive and swoop like the Might Phoenix.  Indeed, He will actually 
have the Power to become a Phoenix and soar above that fiendish  four-level 
world.   Use the power wisely.   Remember,  TetraDome has many sections and 
you must conserve your strength.

Now,  who  will rise from the ashes of these,  My Games,  and bring me  the 
Phoenix Medallions??"

For  a moment,  you are blinded by a flash from his golden eyes,  then  you 
walk towards him...


SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

Tetra  Quest  runs on any Commodore Amiga computer with a color monitor or color 
television.   The program also requires the use of a joystick (a  precision 
joystick is highly recommended).

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

To  load  Tetra  Quest,  simply place the Tetra Quest master  disk  int  he 
default  drive,  then switch on your computer.   Tetra Quest will  autoboot 
from the disk.

THE INTRODUCTION SCREEN

Once the game has loaded Tetra Quest will display its intro  screen.   From 
this screen you can do several different things.

     1)  Start a new game.  (Press the fire button on the joystick.)
     2)  Re-start an old game.  (Press F10.)
     3)  Visit the high-score table.  (Press F9.)
     4)  Wait a few seconds until the demo starts.

THE CHALLENGE OF PHOEBUS

The  objective  of the game is to collect the fabled  "Phoenix  Medallion".  
Each  piece  of  the Medallion is hidden on a  quadrant.   There  are  four 
screens to a quadrant.   On each screen there is a gold coin, to reveal the 
position  of  the Medallion piece you must collect the gold  coins  in  the 
correct order.

The  Tetra  runner  is controlled by the joystick.   You  can  collect  the 
Medallion  pieces and the gold coins simply by running over them  with  the 
Tetra Runner.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS

     F1  - Toggle sound effects.
     F2  - Toggle music track.
     F3  - Restart.
     F4  - Pause/unpause.
     F9  - View high score.
     F10 - Password play.

GAME PLAY KEYS

     Space Bar  - Remove all deflectors from screen.
     Keypad 0   - Activate Phoenix.
     Keypad *   - Buy a Phoenix.
     Keypad +   - Exchange Phoenix power for points.
     Keypad -   - Exchange points for Phoenix power.


ON-SCREEN OBJECTS

     Man - Tetra runner, the character you control with the joystick.
     Switch - Walk over the switches to rotate the gates.
     Gates - These rotate to connect and disconnect parts of the quadrant.
     Teleports - Walk into the Teleports to "jump" to other parts of the
        quadrant.
     Arrows - Movement of the Tetra Runner is restricted to directions
        indicated by arrows.
     Spitter - Aliens are generated and released from here.

ON SCREEN DISPLAYS - SCORE BAR

There  are three information areas displayed on the score  bar.   They  are 
from left to right as follows:

     Runners  - Lives left.
     Quadrant - Quadrant number.
     Score    - Players score.

On the right hand side of the screen,  there are two game indicators.  They 
are:

     Phoenix sign - Indicates how many Phoenix lives you have left.
     Phoenix tube - Indicates how much Phoenix power remaining.

OTHER SCREEN INFORMATION

As  well as the normal aliens that attack you from the Spitter,  there  are 
several special aliens.   These creatures are not connected together as the 
normal creatures are.

The creatures are:

Acid  -  When shot the acid is spilled and it will dissolve  parts  of  the 
quadrant.   After  a  short  period  of  time  the  limbs  will  regenerate 
themselves.  All acid creatures are worth 500 points when shot.

Oil - when shot,  the oil leaves a grey blob.   If the Tetra runner crosses 
this blob,  it will spin out of control.   All oil creatures are worth  500 
points when shot.

Glue  -  Leaves a gold blob when shot.   If crossing the  blob,  the  Tetra 
runner  will be stuck for a short amount of time.   All glue creatures  are 
worth 500 points when shot.

Paint - Leaves a blue blob when shot.   Cross the blob and you  will  trail 
paint  over the limbs  of the quadrant.   The aliens can follow  the  paint 
trail.  All paint creatures are worth 500 points when shot.

Deflectors - When shot these creatures mutate to a static bar.   These bars 
then "DEFLECT" your laser fire along the limbs.   If you are clever enough, 
you can shoot around corners,  or even complete loops!   All deflectors are 
worth 250 points when shot.

The other creatures coming from the Spitter are deadly on  contact.   Avoid 
them at all costs.

HINTS FOR PLAYING TETRA QUEST

Each  level to Tetra Quest is four screens deep.   On each of  the  screens 
there  is  a gold coin.   To get to the coin you will  maneuver  the  Tetra 
runner along the limbs,  avoiding all aliens.   Your route to the coin will 
take  you  through the Teleports and across the gates.   You  may  have  to 
switch  many different gates to connect a path of limbs to reach the  coin.  
If  you cannot find a way to the coin there is a special way.   Your  Tetra 
runner  can  mutate  into the Phoenix.   To do this  requires  these  three 
things:

     1)  You must have a Phoenix life left.   (Indicator is top right.)  If 
not, you can buy a Phoenix life by pressing the asterisk key on the numeric 
keypad.

     2)   You must have enough Phoenix power in the power  tube.   If  not, 
power can be bought or sold using the + and - key on the numeric keypad.

     3)   The Tetra runner must not be on the outside edges of  the  limbs.  
You must be one step inside the edges.

To  start  the  mutation,  press "0" on  the  numeric  keypad.   While  the 
transformation takes place hold down the fire button on the joystick.   The 
Tetra runner is now the free flying Phoenix,  which can be moved around the 
screen  by the joystick as normal.   You must keep the joystick  firebutton 
held down while maneuvering the Phoenix.   Flying the Phoenix uses a lot of 
power,  so  be careful when using this process.   To go back to  the  Tetra 
runner, just release the fire button on the joystick.

     NOTE:   If  you  do not land the Phoenix on one of the  limbs  of  the 
level, you must transform yourself back into the Phoenix and then land on a 
limb to continue your quest.   If you are unable to do so,  you have failed 
in your quest and you must abort the game.

PLAYING A GAME FROM A PASSWORD

When you complete every fourth level of Tetra Quest,  a random four  letter 
password is generated and displayed on the screen.  For example:

     "YOUR NEW PASSWORD IS XXXX"

When you finally die the last password generated is saved to the disk along 
with  your  score.   You can restart a game of Tetra Quest from  the  level 
where you last got a password.  To do this, press the F10 key while you are 
at  the Introduction screen.   The names in the High Score table  are  then 
displayed.   Move the joystick to highlight your name,  and press the  fire 
button on the joystick to select that name.

You  will then be asked to type the four letter password.   If you  get  it 
right  you  will continue the game from the point where  the  password  was 
generated.   This feature enables you to continue completing levels of  the 
game  without  having  to  redo  any of  the  last  that  you  successfully 
completed.  There are a total of 96 levels to Tetra Quest.