  DOCS FOR THUNDERBIRDS

  THE SCENARIO

  The year is 2063. On a remote island in the Pacific Ocean lives retired
industrialist Jeff Tracy and his sons. To the outside world they are the 'idle
rich'. The reality is something different.
  Deep under the island is an underground complex. This is the base of
International Rescue, an organisation dedicated to the saving of lives.
  Orbiting high above is Thunderbird 5, a space station monitoring all radio
signals for a hint of an emergency. Within Tracy Island are Thunderbirds 1,2,3
and 4. All ready at a moments notice to be launched to any point on the earth
or in space. The International Rescue organisation is headed by Jeff Tracy and
the vehicles piloted by his sons Alan, Gordon, John, Virgil and Scott.
  All the Thunderbirds craft were designed and built by a brilliant scientist
and engineer Horatio Hackenback the III, known within Thunderbirds as
'Brains'.
  International Rescue is a secret organisation, and for it to continue to
function it must protect the identity of its agents and the location of its
base and craft.
- More (Y)/N/NS? 
  To help in this it uses many agents around the world who's job it is to get
information about possible threats.
  The British agents who are Thunderbirds most able team are Lady Penelope and
her butler Parker, for Penelope, being an English aristocrat is often a useful
cover. As well as having to contend with natural disasters the Thunderbirds
also have an arch-enenmy, the Hood, who has sworn to stop at nothing until he
has stolen the secret designs of all the Thunderbirds craft

  You have joined International Rescue, it is your task to save lives across
the world and stop the evil Hood.

  BASIC PLAY

  The Thunderbirds computer game is in 4 parts of increasing difficulty. The
objectives of each part is detailed later in this guide. You can control two
Thunderbirds characters, one at a time. The character which is under control
can be moved around the 'Action Area' under your control to perform certain
tasks. These must be performed to solve various problems and puzzles which
block your progress to the objective of the Mission.

  OBJECTS

  To help you solve your individual tasks you can take 4 objects from a
- More (Y)/N/NS? 
selection of 6. Each character carries 2. The choice of what to take is yours,
experience will help you decide the objects that are best suited for each
Mission and who should take it.
  Other objects will be discovered in the Mission locations, these can be used
individually or together with another object.
  A character may drop an object which may then be picked up and used by
another.


  CONTROL

  You may control your Thunderbirds character with either the keyboard or
joystick.
  The following keys are used.

O - climb up or enter lift (joystick up)
K - climb down or drop/pickup object (joystick down)
Z - go left (joystick left)
X - o right (joystick right)
Return - use highlighted object (joystick fire)
Space - swap character
1 - highlight object 1
2 - highlight object 2
- More (Y)/N/NS? 
H Help, which names the objects the character is holding.
If you wish to abort the Mission at any time you may do so by pressing shift
and Q at the same time.

  HINTS

  To complete Thunderbirds we recommend that you make maps of each Mission
with
notes as to the location and use of objects. All Missions are solvable within
the time provided.


  SCREEN LAYOUT

  The screen displays all the information you require. To the top left are the
character displays. These show you the characters you are currently working
with, together with a picture of each Thunderbird are the objects they are
carrying and a health level. If the health level reaches zero then that
character is unconscious and the Mission will be aborted. If one of the
objects
is highlighted then this indicates that this object is active and may be
'used'.

- More (Y)/N/NS? 
  TEXT

  Below the character display is a text line which shows any words that any of
the characters may say. You should read this as sometimes it contains clues as
to what you should do.

  TIME
 
  In the top right of the screen is a timer, all your missions are a race
against time. The clock will begin at a maximum of 99 and count down to zero.
If it reaches zero and you have not completed your task the Mission is
aborted.
The later Missions have less time to complete, so planning your moves is
vital.

  MISSION 1 - MINE MENACE

  An explosion has destroyed the lifting gear in the Santa Peuablo Mine
leaving
2 miners trapped in the mine cage deep below the surface.
  Conventional rescue services will arrive in a couple of hours-this will be
too late-the mine is flooding from a damaged valve on the mines's pumping
station. Alan, Virgil and Brains are to attempt a rescue using TB2 to pull the
- More (Y)/N/NS? 
cage up the shaft to safety. To do this both Alan and Brains must reach the
stricken men to attach the grab and save the day. Alan starts his journey in
the control room near the surface, while Brains is transported in the MOLE
underground to start his rescue.

  You are presented with 6 items before the mission begins, only two of which
can be carried by each character, so two must be left behind.

  Your characters are:

  BRAINS
  ALAN

  The objects are:

  Torch
  Lamp 
  Laser cutting tool
  Bag of gobstoppers
  Klaxon
  Grease Can

  Hint
- More (Y)/N/NS? 

  You must first use Brains to find a hammer to fix the small winch lift and
then a spanner to re-start the pump which will stop the mine flooding. Leave
Alan to his own devices till you have done these things.



  MISSION 2 - SUB CRASH

  A revolutionary new submarine, the Oceanic Star, is undergoing sea trials
when it is struck by a mine. It sinks out of control and comes to rest on the
rim of an under sea Volcano. The crew escapes leaving only the Captain to shut
down the nuclear reactor which is going critical - he is overcome by the
radiation. The Nuclear Reactor will explode and cause a terrible disaster to
local marine animals - as well as setting off a chain reaction of volcanic
destruction. The reactor must be shut down, but you must work quickly before
the Sub slips off the rim into the Volcano and the hull is crushed by the
pressure or melted by the heat.

  Your characters are:

  GORDON
  ALAN
- More (Y)/N/NS? 

  The choice of equipment is as follows:

  Two Aqualungs
  Radiation Pills
  Can of 'Shark-away' shark repellent
  American Express card
  Copy of Kine Magazine

  Hint

  Beware radiation!
  Coloured cards are used to control the reactor, among other things.



  MISSION 3 - THE BANK JOB

  After the Submarine in mission two surfaces, small fragments of a certain
type of limpet mine are found embedded in the hull. The Thunderbirds must find
out who planted it. The only problem is that the records of the company which
made this mine are in the vault of the Bank of England. Lady Penelope and
Parker must get into the Bank of England and retrieve the document from the
- More (Y)/N/NS? 
main vault. They only have a limited amount of time before the Bank opens.
They
start at the back of the Bank and are immediately confronted by a guard.
  You must get the document, but you must not get caught or run out of time.
Lady Penelope would not like prison food so be careful.

  Your characters are:

  LADY PENELOPE
  PARKER

  The objects you can take are:

  Clockwork mouse
  'Snoozy' sleep spray
  Stethoscope
  Dynamite
  Iron bar
  Mirror

  Hint

  The lift is a heavy problem.
- More (Y)/N/NS? 



  MISSION 4 - COUNTDOWN TO TERROR

  The file obtained by Thunderbirds agents in the vault identifies the source
of all the Thunderbirds problems as their arch-enemy the Hood. Worse than
that,
he is in possession of a film taken at the sub rescue of the Thunderbirds
craft. If this film is not recovered before it can be computer analysed all
Thunderbirds Secrets will be sold to the highest bidder. Information obtained
by Lady Penelope through the World Intelligence Network points to a small town
called Dry Gulch in Arizona. Thunderbirds 1 and 2 take off immediately. While
airbourne the HOOD interrupts TV broadcasts and threatens to launch a Nuclear
Missile at London if a ransom of 4 Billion dollars is not paid by the World
Bank within 3 hours.
  The primary objective is to stop the HOOD from launching his missile but you
must also find the Film.
  Remember- Thunderbirds are the only people who can stop him-his only threat.
The missile must be either disarmed or desroyed, and the HOOD must be stopped.

  Your characters are:

- More (Y)/N/NS? 
  VIRGIL
  SCOTT

  The objects you can take are:

  Two pairs of dark glasses
  Tube of super glue
  Yoyo
  Gun
  First aid kit

  Hint

  Your on your own with this one. F.A.B.



  -END-
