                    TYPED BY    THE  TWINS   OF TRILOGY

                                T  I  M  E
                                ~~~~~~~~~~



PLAYING TIME

 In the game TIME you have complete control over the movements and
actions of your character. Figure 1 shows a typical screen from the
game, and the functions of the icons on the lower part of this screen
are described below. In order to access any particular icon, move your
mouse pointer over that icon and click on either mouse button.
 The middle row of icons determines the movement of your character in
the game. Clicking on any of the four directions - either facing into
or out of the screen, or facing left or right. The two icons to the
right of the centre will move your character at increasing speeds to
the left.
 The lowest row of icons represent all of the other actions which you
can perform in the game:

 One icon is an EYE which opens when you pass an object of interest.
When the eye opens, you can stop and examine the object simply by
clicking on the EYE. There may be more than one object in each
location. Extra objects can be examined in turn by clicking repeatedly
on the EYE. If the objects you are examining is a computer, then
clicking on the EYE icon logs you onto the computer. There are
computers in most satellite locations.

 The second icon is the DROP icon which allows you to drop an object.
You can select which object to drop by clicking on the relevant monitor
screen in order to highlight it, and then click on the DROP icon.

 The third icon is the TAKE icon which allows you to take any object
you are examining, so long as it is movable. Just click on the TAKE
icon when the objects is being examined and you will be able to take
it.
 The object will then be displayed on one of the four monitors at the
top of your console. Because you may carry only four objects at once,
there are only four monitor screens.

 The fourth icon is the TALK icon. If you wish to have a conversation
with someone, then approach them and click on the TALK icon. If they
wish to speak to you then they will do so, otherwise they might just
smile or frown at you. If you wish to read through any speech faster
than it appears on the screen, then click on the mouse button (so long
as the mouse pointer is not pointing at any icon) to bring up the next
piece of conversation.

 The fifth icon is a special purpose icon which relates to particular
objects. To give a simple example, if you select a food pill that you
are carrying then the icon will be highlighted. If you now click on the
icon you will eat the food pill. A more complex example occurs if you
select, say, a hammer. The icon will not be activated until you examine
(using the EYE icon) some other object which you can hit with the
hammer. Unless the icon is highlighted it cannot be used.

 The sixth icon is the GIVE icon, which allows you to offer any of the
objects you are carrying to another person. Highlight the object you
wish to give and then approach the person you wish to give it to.
You may only give them an object after you have engaged them in a
conversation with the TALK icon.

 Much of your time will be spent travelling about the HISTORISAT, which
is a satellite in goecentric orbit around the earth. The design of
21st century satellites still puts space at a premium. This means that
certain parts of the satellite are connected via a 'multi-door' system,
which provides a multiple connection to other parts of the ship. These
multi-doors are clearly marked by a sign with three horizontal bars
near the relevant exits. By clicking on the DOOR icon, you can alter
the destination of a multi-door.
 On the HISTORISAT you will locate some time machines which will allow
you to travel back in time. When you are time-travelling, the DOOR icon
becomes a RECALL icon which will return you immediately to the space
station. Unless you are mortally injured this will be your only method
of return.



TECHNICAL NOTES

A) COMPUTERS: The Historisat is equipped with the latest Neuro Token-
Ring Computer System. This means that you need only look at a terminal
(using the EYE icon in order to log on. There are clearly displayed
neuro-computers in most locatios. The user interface is meu driven, and
their operation is self-explanatory. You will find that computers in
different functions. However, all computers give you the facility to
LOAD and SAVE your game position. You can EXIT from the game only by
using a computer terminnal.

B) TIME MACHINES: It may surprise soem readers that time travel will be
mere formality by the year 2047. It took exactly 100 years from the
publication of Einstein's General Theory of Relativity to discover the
'grainy' nature of past light cones. In simple terms this means that
the time traveller may only go to certain node points in the future or
the past. This severely limits the number of potential dates which may
be targeted. It also means that every machine needs to be tuned very
carefully to a particular date. One final and important restriction is
that the time traveller may not carry any items on the journey. As
always, the best method of discovery of these principles is to
practice.....

The End

             -----  AGAIN ANOTHER 100% POWER-TYPING  ----

                ---  DONE BY THE TWINS OF TRILOGY  ---

                          --  IN DECEMBER  --