			   TINTIN ON THE MOON

			   INSTRUCTION  GUIDE

                       TYPED BY THE TWINS/ DEFCON

 The first rocket to the Moon is about to be launched from the Atomic
Research Centre at Sprodj in Syldavia. On board are Tintin, Snowy,
Captain Haddock, Professor Calculus and the engineer Wolff...
 The army of technicians make their final checks. The rocket is all set
for take-off. Sirens and loudspeakers blare out the signal to evacuate
the launch area. The gantry ramps fall slowly aside. Time: 1:29 a.m.
The countdown is under way. 5-4-3-2-1. Ignition! In an explosion of
flame and smoke, the mighty space ships lifts off the pad, heading for
Earth orbit.

NOTE: At any moment you can freeze the game by pressing the "P" key.
To continue playing, press any key.


STARTING THE GAME

 To start, press the Space bar, when you see the picture of the Earth
control station.
NOTE: If you see the disk icon "Disk n'2", replace diskn'1 in the drive
by diskn'2.

PART ONE: THE JOURNEY THROUGH SPACE

 Now you take over the controls of the rocket. It's your job to take
our friends to the moon. You'll have to avoid the meteorites and catch
the yellow and red spheres on your way.
       - The yellow spheres stock you up with energy.
       - You'll have to catch 8 red spheres to go over to the next
         stage.

Commands for piloting the rocket:

  - Joystick: Just push your joystick in the direction you want to go.
  - Keyboard: Use the arrow keys to guide the rocket in whatever
    direction you want. Press two keys at the same time if you want
    diagonal flight.
  - Mouse: move the mouse in the direction you want to go to.

Indicators:

 The series of numbers situated on the left of the screen indicates
your energy level.

 The series of numbers situated on the right of the screen indicates
your score.

 At the buttom of the screen is a line which shows your distance from
the Moon.


IN THE ROCKET

 Your job is to guide Tintin through the various rooms in the rocket.
You`ll have to disarm the bombs. put out fires, free his companions 
and catch that dastardly Colonel Boris! There are the four conditions
which have to be fulfilled to go over to the next stage.

 Note: You`ll first have to get the extinguisher. When it is empty (it
will flash on the left-hand side of the screen), fetch another one. To
take an extinguisher, TINTIN must simply touch it (it will appear on
the left-hand side of the screen).

   Warning : in this part of the game, you cannot play with the mouse.

   Commands for moving Tintin :
 
  - In normal gravity:

                                  Tintin climbs a ladder                         

                         Tintin jumps left  \|/  Tintin jumps right
                          Tintin goes left -- -- Tintin goes right                                    
                              Tintin ducks  /|\  Tintin ducks                                    
                                 Tintin climbs down a ladder                                        
                                      
  - In Zero gravity:
 Tintin floats through the rocket's various compartments.
To change his trajectory, use the joystick or arrow keys just before he
bounces off something, keep the direction during the bounce then
release.
To switch from normal to zero gravity (and vice versa), press F1.

   Commands to activate the extinguisher:

 To take an extinguisher, TINTIN must simply touch it.
You make use of it by giving a direction (joystick or keyboard) and
pressing the fire button or space bar simultaneously.

  The bombs:

 The bombs set by Colonel Boris are indicated at the buttom of the
screen. They are transferred one by one into the yellow frame (bottom
left corner of the screen) as TINTIN defuses them.
Note: An alarm signal will announce when a bomb is about to explode.
 - To disarm a bomb, Tintin must simply touch it.

  Other action possibilities:

 - To free someone, Tintin only has to touch him (prisoners are
   indicated in the left border of the screen).
 - To capture the hateful Colonel Boris, Tintin must sneak up from
   behind and jump on him! But he can also use the foam extinguisher.

MOONLANDING

 When you're close enough to start landing procedures, you'll
momentarily lose the control. Take a well-earned rest as you sit back
and watch the Moon get closer and closer. Then the rocket will turn
round. It's time to take over the controls again!

 To land you'll have to brake the speed by regulating the auxiliary
engine. This last test will allow you to convert the energy remaining
into the score...

  To increase auxiliary engine power:

On the joystick...............use the Fire button.
On the keyboard...............use the Space bar.
On the mouse..................click the left button.

SCORE TABLE

 If you have realized one of the 10 best scores, you can save it. To
write your name. make the characters scroll using the keys <UpArrow>
and <DownArrow>. Then to go the next character press <RightArrow>.
Press RETURN to confirm your name.

 Note:The disk must not be write protected!

 To play once more, press any key.

GAME OVER

 If you have lost, you'll see the message "GAME OVER".
To play once more, press any key.

 THE END ---  TYPED BY THE TWINS OF DEFCON IN AUGUST.