                               SKID ROW

                               presents

              TOM LANDRY STRATEGY FOOTBALL DELUXE EDITION

Technical Reference Guide

Amiga Requirements

Tom Landry Strategy Football Deluxe Edition offers more features than any
other football game on the Amiga and is very memory-intensive.  For this
reason, we strongly recommend a hard drive and 1.5 Megabytes of RAM.  
Although TLSF Deluxe will run on systems with 1MB of RAM, you may encounter
difficulties, especially if you load Workbench and have windows open.
If your machine has only 1MB of memory, you may have to boot from a copy
of Disk 1 of TLSF Deluxe.  (Always play with copies of the original disks!)
The TLSF Deluxe Editor runs easily in 1MB.

Installing TLSF Deluxe to Your Hard Drive

(1) Boot from your hard drive, not the game disk.
(2) Open the disk labeled DTLSF1.
(3) Double-click on the Install DTLSF icon.  You will be prompted to
select a partition or drawer where you want TLSF Deluxe.  If you wish
to bypass this step, or don't use the User-startup file, you will need
to make the assigns yourself.  The Three assigns are DTLSF1:, DTLSF2:,
DTLSF3:, and all three should refer to the directory created by the
installation program.
           
NOTE: The installation program modifies your User-startup file to make
the assigns necessary to run TLSF Deluxe.  If you wish to bypass this 
step, or don't use the User-startup file, you will need to make the
assigns yourself.  The three assigns are DTLSF1:, DTLSF2:, DTLSF3:, and
all three should refer to the directory created by the installation
program.

Starting the Game

(A) From Workbench: Open the DTLSF1 disk and double-click on the game
icon, labelled FOOTBALL.
(B) CLI users: Move to the DTLSF drawer and type Football and the
game will load and run for you.

Don't Ever Play With Your Originals

The disks are not copy-protected because we believe you should have the
confidence of backing up your disks, as well as copying the program to
your hard drive.  Many other publishers don't give you this option.
Please prove them wrong by not abusing our trust.  Pass the word, not the
disk!  If you are playing the game from your backup copies of the original
disks, you should make sure that the disks are named DTLSF1, DTLSF2, and
DTLSF3, since the program will have to look for certain files.

User Validation

Following the opening credits sequence is the user validation screen.
This screen shows an offensive play diagram and prompts you to enter a 3-
character password printed in the TLSF Deluxe User's Guide.  Turn to the
page in the User's Guide which shows the exact same offensive play diagram.
Locate the correct password printed below the diagram and enter this
password from your keyboard.  If you have entered the correct password,
the TLSF Deluxe main screen will appear.

(Fuck that, SKID ROW cracked this bitch!)

Loading the TLSF Deluxe Editor

The TLSF Deluxe editor is a separate application.
(A) From Workbench: Open the DTLSF1 disk and double-click on the game
icon, labelled EDITOR.
(B) CLI users: Move to the DTLSF drawer and type Editor.

Not Enough Memory

Workbench, disk drives, hard drive partitions, and background applications
all take up memory.  If you have only 1 Megabyte of RAM, you may find it
necessary to boot off your copy of the DTLSF1 disk.  This method of
running the program bypasses Workbench and starts the football game
directly.

Modem Play

Playing AMiga to PC-Compatibles.  Because the Amiga architecture differs
from PC-Compatibles, TLSF Deluxe leagues must be converted if they are
to be shared between the two platforms.  To avoid confusion, the conversion
program exists only on the Amiga.  Hence, if sending a league from your
Amiga to a PC, you must first convert it.  Likewise, when you receive a
league from a PC to your Amiga, convert it upon receiving it.

Running the League Conversion Program.  From the CLI, type convert_lg
at the CLI prompt.  From Workbench, double-click on the Convert_lg icon.
You will then be asked for the name of the input league to convert,
then the name of the converted league being created.  The current and
new leagues must have different names.

NOTE: If you are running the conversion program from the Workbench,
you'll need to close the window when done.

Troubleshooting.  Users with high-speed modems may sometimes encounter
difficulties because their modem is forcing flow control.  If you 
encounter any problems connecting using your high-speed modem, you
should disable XON/XOFF and RTS/CTS flow control.  We suggest the
following steps:

   (1) From the main screen, select CONNECT to go to the telecomm screen.
   (2) At the telecomm screen, enter the following string in the Answer
   string box: AT&K (this disables all flow control).
   (3) If you are the answering machine, now enter your answering string
   (ATS0=1, ATA, etc).  If you want, you can save your answer string
   as: AT&K S0=1 or AT&K ATA, etc.
   (4) The dialing machine proceeds as normal.  Again, if you wish,
   you can include the AT&K in your dial string.  Users with call-
   waiting may be interrupted during play.  We suggest you include the
   command to disable call-waiting in your dial command.  Consult your
   local phone company to determine the command; *70 is an example.

 
                             USER'S GUIDE

Getting Started

A Word from Coach Landry

I've been asked many times what it takes to become a successful
head football coach.  Is it preparation?  Knowledge?  Personnel
and time management skills?  Dedication?  Determination?

The answer is no secret - it takes all of these factors and a lot
more, even a little bit of luck!

Tom Landry Strategy Football (TLSF) is the first strategy football
game which tests your coaching ability in all of these areas.  In
fact, TLSF is more than just a game, it's a football simulation which
offers you everything real coaches have at their disposal - and more!

Even though pro coaching is a complicated business, we have designed 
TLSF so that it can be enjoyed by beginners and experts, alike.  Extensive
online help - including football fundamentals, rules, and terminology -
is available if you want it.  Plus, in the Ask Landry option, I share my
advice and philosophy in numerous play situations, based on down and
distance, field position, score, and time remaining.  And play-calling
is easy - just point and click and your team is off and running.

Football has been a very important part of my life, and I am happy to
share some of my coaching experience with you in TLSF.  Even if you
don't aspire to become a pro football coach, I hope TLSF will enhance
your understanding and increase your enjoyment of football - either as
a player or a fan.

                                           Tom Landry
Designer's Notes:

Our goal is designing TLSF Deluxe Edition was to create the most
entertaining football game on the market.  One reason we're confident
we have achieved this goal is that we've spent a great deal of time
evaluating requests and suggestions from owners of the original version
of TLSF.  In fact, almost all of the enhancements to this Deluxe
Edition of TLSF have come about as a result of valuable input from our
users.

We wanted to make TLSF Deluxe more than just an entertaining game,
however.  Coach Landry's extensive involvement in the project in the
form of advice, suggestions, and critiques has helped make TLSF
Deluxe the most complete and realistic simulation of football
you'll find, with the emphasis on real football strategy.

With the League Editor you can create leagues of College or Pro
teams and create 16-game professional seasons (using pro rules to
create pairings).  You have access to modify all of the team and
individual attributes, including team colors and detailed coaching
strategies.

In League play, you can try to coach your team to the playoffs and
the Championship Game.  Throughout the season, you can view the
division standings, league leaders, and teams' season stats.  There's
even a "Sunday Night Recap" in which you can recap all the games
of the current week (films automatically catch all the scoring plays
for you to watch in instant replay).

Of course, you'll have to contend with real penalties (some teams get
flagged more than others), injuries, (losing your quarterback for the
season makes your task pretty tough), and weather.

In Exhibition games, we've included a Scenario Editor.  A complete
coaching clinic, the Scenario Editor enables you to create any
scenario you want and play it.  Perhaps you would want to see how
you would do in a two-minute drill, down by 4, in a blizzard!

And with a modem, you can play your coaching rivals in other cities!

Our modular approach to playcalling is the most flexible and powerful
interface in any football game.  You have literally thousands of plays
available to you - a "playbook on the fly," just like in real life.
However, you'll also find playcalling simple and intuitive!

With all of these features and more, we hope you'll find TLSF Deluxe
to be the ultimate strategy football game, providing you with the
full coaching experience, simulating all of the "tools of the trade"
that coaches on the field have.

Kerry Batts

Before Playing

Following are some important points you should know before playing
TLSF Deluxe:

1. Games are either Scheduled or Exhibition.  In scheduled games,
the team selections are limited to the pairings for a given week in
the scheduled.  In exhibition games, you may select any two teams
to play and may modify the game conditions.

2. When using the Telecomm option, you are responsible for ensuring
that both players are using the same league.  If playing a scheduled
game, both players must also be using the same schedule, and be at the 
same week.

3. On "cycle" buttons (which cycle through a list of options), clicking
on the right side of the button advances through the list; clicking
on the left side backs up in the list.

4. Don't overlook the wealth of information available to you in the
online Help.  We've included a glossary of football terms, descriptions
of offensive and defensive formations, running and passing plays,
and much more.  Whether you want to know more about which pass patterns
to throw against zone coverage, or how to best defend against the run,
it's all here!

5. Even in scheduled games, go to the Scenario Editor to get pre-game
information on the game conditions.

6. Locate the GO! button in the lower right corner.  This button is
used to exit most screens.  Other buttons on the lower panel allow
you to save and load games and quit the game.

7. On the defense screen, clicking on the miniature playing area pops
up a dialog box describing your opponent's offensive formation and
strong side.

8. The TLSF Editor is an executable utility program that is separate
from the main TLSF Deluxe application.  Please consult your TLSF Deluxe
Technical Reference Guide for instructions on how to load the TLSF
Editor.

9. The leagues (and the custom schedules which are bound to those
leagues) that you create and save in the TLSF Editor will appear in
the Load a League menu in the main TLSF Deluxe application.

League Play

Playing Scheduled Games

TLSF Deluxe season schedules include 16 games and three rounds of playoffs,
with the Landry Bowl Championship Game (see Appendix C for how playoff
teams are determined).  From the main screen, toggle the game type
button from Exhibition to Scheduled.  If the two teams currently selected
aren't scheduled to play this week, you'll need to click on Select Teams
to select a matchup.  Either team's coach can be Human or Computer.

Figure 1.  Toggling the Game Type Button

At the end of the game, season stats are automatically updated.  To
view the season stats, leaders, records, etc., go to the Current
Season screen, from the main screen.

Note: Please see the section entitled, The TLSF Editor for information
on creating custom schedules using the Schedule Editor.

Computer Simulation of Games

At the Select Teams screen, you can opt to have the computer simulate
this week, or even the whole season.  You can also have the computer
simulate individual games by selecting a matchup, then setting both
coaches to Computer.  (For fast play of individual games, turn off
animation at the Preferences screen.)

Figure 2.  The Select Teams Screen

When simulating a week, the computer quickly plays each remaining
game in which neither team has a Human default coach.  This allows
you to play scheduled games with your favorite teams each week and
let the computer play all of the other games of the week automatically.

Example:  If you favorite team is Dallas, you can create a custom
league in the TLSF Editor which designates Dallas as having a Human
default coach.  When you load this league in the main TLSF application
and select Scheduled Games, you will be able to play all of the other
teams' games automatically.

Note: Please see the section entitled, The TLSF Editor for information
on designating a default Human coach for a given team.

When simulating an entire season, the computer simulates all games
each week, until you interrupt the simulation.  At the end of the
season, you are given the option of continuing the simulation or 
playing the playoffs yourself.

A note about the computer simulations.  The computer does play
complete games, rather than just "estimating" the result.  Season
stats, records, and injuries are automatically updated.  Computer-
coached teams use the playcalling tendencies for the teams (these
can be modified with the TLSF Editor).

Team Standings

From the Current Season screen you can access a wealth of information
regarding league play, including the team standings.

Figure 3.  The Current Season Menu

In TLSF Deluxe professional leagues, the same rules used in the pros
are used to determine division leaders:

   1. Overall won-loss record
   2. Head-to-head records
   3. Best won-lost-tied percentage in divisional games
   4. Best won-lost-tied percentage in conference games
   5. Best won-lost-tied percentage in common games
   6. Best net points in division games
   7. Best net points in all games
   8. Coin toss

In college leagues, teams are ranked by won-loss records.

League Leaders

League leaders in 18 different categories are available at any time.
Track the rushing and passing leaders, who has the longest reception,
scoring leaders, etc.

Figure 4.  League Leaders

Team Stats

You can view each team's compiled season stats, as well as how 
opponents have done versus each team.  View total stats or average
"per-game" stats.  Both team and individual stats are given.

Reviewing the Week's Games

All completed games of the current week are available for recap.
Just select a matchup from the list of games, and you can view the
final game stats for the teams and individuals.  Game films capture
all the scoring plays for the week's games.  For your records,
you can print the game stats and all scoring drives.

Viewing the Schedule

You can view (and print) the season schedule by team or by week.

Figure 5.  Viewing the Schedule by Team

Clearing the Season

Clearing the Season clears all injuries, records, and statistics,
allowing you replay the season from the beginning.

Today's Game

The Scoreboard

Most information you need during the game is available with a glance
at the scoreboard.  The teams are displayed, with the home team being
on the bottom.  A light to the left of the teams indicates which team
currently has the ball.  Directly to the right of the team names are
three small lights which indicate the number of timeouts remaining
for each team.  Farther right, the six larger boxes display each
team's score by quarter, including overtime, and the scoring totals. 
The right side of the scoreboard displays the game time and quarter,
down and distance to go, and the line of scrimmage.

Figure 6.  The Scoreboard

Selecting a League

With the TLSF Editor, you can create custom leagues with custom
schedules, including college leagues.  Click on Load a League to
select the league for today's game.  (See the section entitled,
The TLSF Editor for more details.)

Scouting the Teams

Once you've loaded a league, you can scout the individual teams.
Click on Scout Teams to select a team to view.  You can view the
team's offense, defense, or playcalling, and print the team's roster
of starters and subs.

Selecting the Teams and Coaches

Click on Select Teams to set today's opponents.  If playing a scheduled
game, choose from any remaining scheduled game for this week.  In
exhibition games, you can select any two teams.  There are 3 ways
to play, in addition to telecomm play:

   o Human vs. Human
   o Human vs. Computer
   o Computer vs. Computer

Figure 7 illustrates how you may select any of these options from the
Today's Game section of the main screen.  Each button may be toggled in
two positions - Human or Computer - via the point-and-click interface.
If, for example, you (Dallas) want to play against the computer (Buffalo),
you would click on the button next to Buffalo until Computer is displayed.
In the same way, you would click on the button next to Dallas until
Human is displayed.  Once play has begun, these options may not be
changed unless you quit the game.

Figure 7.  Three Ways to Play

Human vs. Human.  This option provides the greatest variety in play while 
requiring, perhaps, the greatest amount of skill.  You can play with 
another person at your location, or you can play with someone at a remote
location via a modem.  Refer to the Telecommunications section in this 
manual for detailed instructions on playing TLSF Deluxe using a modem.

Human vs. Computer.  This option still requires the same amount of skill
as before, but now you are pitting your play-calling skills against those 
of the computer.  When playing against the computer, TLSF Deluxe randomly 
selects plays based on statistical data pertinent to the way each pro team 
plays.  For example, Houston likes to run the Run and Shoot offense, so the 
computer randomly calls plays based upon Houston's team statistics.

Computer vs. Computer.  If you just want to sit back, relax, and enjoy 
watching your two favorite teams play, then choose this mode of play.  
You will still be able to see what plays the computer calls as you cheer 
your team to victory.  You may stop play and return to the main screen
at any time by pressing any key on the keyboard.

The Computer vs. Computer option is also for when you want to play a
quick game of football.  To speed up the game, click on the Preferences
button and turn off the animation option.  To play an even quicker game, 
click on the Preferences button and turn off both the animation and the 
computer's calls.

Game Conditions and the Scenario Editor

In scheduled games, game conditions depend on the time of year and the
home team's site and stadium.  With exhibition games, however, you have
complete control over the game conditions and initial scenario.  You
can access the game conditions for the current game by clicking on the
Scenario Editor button at the main screen.

Figure 8 shows the Scenario Editor screen.  The Scenario Editor may
be used when:

   o you do not have time to play a complete game
   o you want to practice particular game situations (two-minute offense,
     etc.
   o you want to relive some of football's greatest plays.
   o you want to view the weather conditions for today's game.

Figure 8.  The Scenario Editor

To change the data in any field within the Scenario Editor, simply
click on that field and type in the new data using the keyboard.
Using the Scenario Editor is both simple and quick.  For example,
if you want to practice your fourth quarter two-minute offense,
simply click the game clock  TIME  2:00  with the mouse pointer changing 
the clock (using the keyboard) to 2:00 remaining in the game.  Next
change the QTR (quarter) to FOURTH. and set the score, weather, ball
possession, and yardline marker to whatever you wish depending upon
the game conditions you want to set up.  Clicking on GO! saves your 
selections and takes you back to the main screen.  Clicking on GO! from 
the main screen starts your two-minute offense drill.  Clicking on NEW 
GAME resets the Scenario Editor data fields to the default values.

Coaching Essentials

Consider the Weather

Before starting the game, go to the Scenario Editor to view today's
weather.  During the game, simply click on Weather to get an update.

Scout Your Opponent

Both before and during the game, scout your opponent!  A coach who
ignores his opponent's strengths and weaknesses is asking for trouble.
It's also a good idea to scout your own team, if you're not well
acquainted with it.

To scout your opponent during the game, select Scout - select Subs
to view your own team.

Make Substitutions 

From the Subs screen, you can select reserve players.  Sometimes a 
reserve may be weaker overall, but may be stronger in a particular
area.  For instance, some reserve running backs are better receivers
than the starters.

Watch the Game Stats

For an objective snapshot of how you and your opponent are doing,
select Stats.  You can see how individuals are doing, as well as how
both teams are doing overall.  Pay attention to time of possession,
since defenses can tire late in a game if left on the field too much.

Access Online Help

The online Help provides crucial information about many different facets
of football.  If you haven't been to a football clinic, don't ignore this
option.  In addition to a glossary of football terms, there's in-depth
discussion of the different aspects of football.  There's also much 
information specific to TLSF Deluxe.  The online Help is context
sensitive.

Ask Landry

Advice from Coach Landry is available to help you understand the
particular situation, and what options are best in this situation.
At the advice screen, select GO! to exit, or click on Suggest to let
the Coach recommend a play for you.

Manage the Clock

Managing the clock is a critical aspect of playing a good football game.
Even some of the best coaches fail in this area, and it can cost the
game.  So that you can manage the clock effectively, the clock menu
is provided which allows for several options (see Figure 9)>

It is recommended that you select the option to have the clock
menu displayed whenever the clock is running if you are trying to
conserve time; in which case you should also tell your ball carrier
or receiver to get out of bounds to stop the clock.

Deal with Penalties and Injuries

Penalties and injuries are an unfortunate part of every game.  Unlike
most football games, TLSF Deluxe includes all the penalties which occur
in real football.  You can set each team's penalty rate in the TLSF
Editor.

Some penalties are optional, whereas others are not.  During play when a 
penalty does occur; the referee will come on-screen to explain the 
infraction.  If, for example, the penalty is against your opponent, you 
will be given the option of accepting or declining the penalty.  If the 
penalty is against you, your opponent (human or computer) will of course 
choose to accept or decline the penalty.  When playing against the 
computer, the computer will make the best choice for itself in regard to
penalties.

Evaluate Game Films (Instant Replay)

Instant replay is a very powerful tool used by coaches, players, officials, 
and fans.  Selecting Replay from the command bar enables you to control 
both the speed and direction of the replay.

Note: The Instant Replay VCR control panel can be relocated by clicking
on the up/down arrow at the left end of the panel.


Offense

Calling Plays

TLSF employs a modular approach to calling offensive plays.  This approach
is simpler and far more powerful than the playcalling in other games.
While most games have a separate playbook, we know that coaches in real
life create plays on the fly during games, changing individual components
of plays.  They might try the same run from a different formation, for
instance, or send a different man in motion, or add playaction.

Figure 10.  The Offense Screen

With this approach, you have literally thousands of plays available at your
fingertips.  Yet, changing a play is as simple as clicking on a button.
Your offensive playcalling is only limited by your imagination!

Selecting an offensive play consists of selecting a formation, the strong
side (right or left), the specific play, and the assigned ball carrier
or receiver.  You can also send any flanker in motion and add playaction
fakes to any pass.  Of course, "trick" plays are included!  The play is
displayed on the miniature playing field.

Formations

There are 12 offensive formations available:

Running Formations:
   o Pro I (strong for inside runs - traps, slants, counters)
   o Power I Right (Pro I which cheats to the right)
   o Power I Left (Pro I which cheats to the left)
   o Brown (strong inside runs to the weak side and Fullback)  
   o Blue (strong inside runs to the strong side) 
   o Short Yardage (strong inside runs up the middle /off-tackle)

Passing Formations:
   o Run and Shoot (four wide receivers stretch the defense)
   o Trips (four wide receivers, three on one side)
   o Shotgun (gives the QB more time to read the defense)
   o Shotgun/4WR (powerful, but not as much pass blocking)

Balanced Formations:
   o Pro Set (good for outside runs and passing)
   o One Back (good to both sides, passing, counters)

Note: For each formation, you can also decide which side is the "strong"
side - the side having more receivers.

The Running Game

While passing is more exciting, the running game is important in 
establishing control of the game and consuming the clock.  All runs work
better against "pass" defenses, but traps and draws work particularly well.
Use traps to attack middle blitzes and the 3-4 or shifted 4-3 lines.
Use draws to attack zones and Nickel defenses.

Middle Runs.  Middle runs are designed to test the defensive line strength
by running the Back directly over the Center.  The middle runs that
are available are:

   o  Line Plunge
   o  Middle Trap 
   o  Draw
   o  Drop to Knee

Inside Runs.  Inside runs are also designed to wear down the defensive
line.  If your offense can establish a good running game, then you
will limit the time your opponent has the ball.  The inside runs that 
are available are: 

   o  Slant Left
   o  Slant Right
   o  Counter Left
   o  Counter Right

Outside Runs.  Outside running plays are designed for a quick back who
can round the corner without being caught.  If he is quick enough, the
back will not be tackled until he reaches the defensive secondary.  The
outside runs that are available are:

   o  Sweep Left
   o  Sweep Right
   o  Reverse

Note: Outside runs are also good for attacking Nickel defenses, which
have one less linebacker.

The Passing Game

Short Passes.  Short passes are easiest to complete and can even replace
the running game for some teams.  They work best against zone coverages
and are much less effective against man to man.  If you're patient,
and the defense keeps staying in zones, use these to "nickel and dime"
your way downfield.

Short Routes:                           
   RB: Circle, Flat, Flare, Delay, Shuffle        
   WR: Zoom, Hitch, Quick Out, Slant     
   TE: Slant In, Slant Out, Delay        

Medium Passes.  Medium passes actually consist of two sets of near-
identical routes, one deeper than the other.  For instance, the sideline
route is deeper than the square out.  Deeper routes take more time to
develop but can get more yardage, of course.

Medium Routes:
   RB: Hook, Come Back, Square Out, Sideline
   WR: Cross, Square Out, Sideline, Hook, Come Back, Square In, Fade
   TE: Cross, Square Out, Sideline, Hook, Come Back

Long Passes.  Long passes stretch the defense and are great for attacking
man to man coverage.  They're also important when you need to pick
up a lot of yardage at once.  If the running backs are covered by 
linebackers, it's often a mismatch.  Against blitzes, you should keep
a back near, as a "hot" receiver.

Long Routes:
   RB: Corner, Out and Up, Fly, Post
   WR: Post, Corner, Fly, Hook and Go
   TE: Post, Corner, Fly, Hook and Go

Finesses Passes.  Finesse passes try to take advantage of some leaning
in the defense.  Screens are used, for instance, to slow a pass rush.
If the defense keeps focusing on the pass, especially with zone coverage,
use screens against him.  The "Hail Mary" pass is a last-ditch desperate
pass.  The Halfback Pass and the Flea Flicker are trick plays designed
for use against a run defense.  They should be set up by establishing
a good running game and shouldn't be called too often.  (It's harder
to fool the secondary a second time).

Defense

Calling Plays

On the defense screen, TLSF Deluxe offers the same modular approach to
playcalling that is used in the offense screen.  You have hundreds of
defensive combinations at your fingertips, giving you full flexibility
to adjust your defense to meet the offense at their strengths and
tendencies.

Figure 11.  The Defense Screen

Note: For help in recognizing your opponent's offensive formation,
click on the miniature playing area.  A dialog box will display the
offensive formation and strength.

Defensive sets consist of the focus (run or pass), basic formation,
lineshift, and secondary coverage.  In addition, with man to man
coverage you may blitz the Weak Safety and any linebackers, and
doubleteam a particular receiver.  Against the run, you may direct
your linemen and linebackers how to key.

Focus

Although your men must be able to respond to each play, they initially
look for a particular type of play: run or pass.  When defending the pass,
the linemen rush harder, straight toward the quarterback, and the
linebackers immediately begin dropping away from the line.  When
focusing on the run, the linemen hold their ground and the linebackers
hesitate.  Obviously, being right helps the defense considerably,
while being wrong puts them at a disadvantage!

Formations

There are seven basic formations:

Run Defense:
   o Flex (safest, basically a staggered 4-3)
   o Short Yardage (risky, but very good when needing just a few yards)
   o Goal Line (open to big gains, this 5-2 has lots of big, slow guys)

Pass Defense:
   o Nickel (generates good pass rush, decent versus most runs, replaces
     a linebacker with a fifth defensive back)
   o Prevent (3-2-6, poor pass rush, accepts small gains to prevent
     big ones)

Balanced Formations:
   o 4-3 (good against both run and passes, good pass rush)
   o 3-4 (less pass rush, better versus sweeps and short passes)

Shifting

Formations with 4-man lines can shift the linemen in anticipation of the
point of attack.  There are five shifts available:
   o Over (shift to the offense's strong side) 
   o Under (shift to the offense's weak side)
   o Tight (squeeze the inside runs)  
   o Wide (line up outside the blockers)
   o Stunt (generate a much stronger pass rush)

Coverage

Defenses normally use three pass coverages to stop an offense: Man To Man, 
2-Deep Zone ("Halves"), and 3-Deep Zone ("Thirds").  Generally, Man to Man 
coverage is best against short passes, and it allows linebackers to blitz, 
whereas the 2-Deep Zone is best against medium passes.  The 3-Deep Zone is 
best against long passes.  To select the coverage you want to use, just 
point and click on the COVERAGE button.

Blitzing

Blitzing linebackers and defensive backs can cause offenses major
headaches, though they also create dangerous holes in the defense which
good offenses may exploit.  Blitzing can increase offensive mistakes and
cause fumbles but can also give up big yardage.  As you select different
men to blitz, watch the miniature display.  Blitzing the safety puts a lot
of pressure on the quarterback, and the corners have to try to keep their
receivers inside.  Outside patterns are a little easier, while inside 
routes are more difficult (though, if caught, can yield big gains).

Keys 

When the RUN button is displayed, you will have the option of retaining
normal keys, or keying on the flow or on a particular man.  When the PASS
button is displayed and you are in man to man coverage, you may
choose to Double Team a primary receiver.

Special Teams

The performance of the special teams often plays a decisive role in the
outcome of a football game.  A punter who can consistently bury the
opposing team inside their own 20 helps his defense out considerably.
The punt or kick returner who breaks free for a long return can fire
up his team and put pressure on the opposing defense (even better,
he can score, which really fires his team up).  And a proficient field
goal kicker is worth his weight in gold, especially in close games.

On kickoffs, the kicking team has the option of onside, squib, or deep
kicks, and the receiving team decides how to line up his team.  On punts
and fieldgoal attempts, the defense can put on a heavier rush, which
increases the chance of a block but also increases the chance of 
roughing the kicker.  Or they may want to hold up and watch for a fake
kick.

Post-Game

Following the completion of a game, the FINAL GAME STATS will automatically
be displayed on the screen.  To view the statistics of the Visiting Team,
point and click on VISITOR.  Once the visitor's stats are displayed, you
may choose to review the rushing, receiving, passing, and the total
yards.  To view the Home Team's statistics, point and click on HOME.
Once your stats are displayed, you may choose to review the rushing,
receiving, passing, and the total yards.

Note: You also have the option of printing out the Final Game Stats
by clicking on the Print button.

Clicking on GO! takes you to the End of the Game screen where you may
view the scoring drives and update the season stats.

View Scoring Drives

Clicking on the VIEW SCORING DRIVES button takes you through each scoring
drive of the game.  The type of score (touchdown, field goal, or safety)
is indicated at the top of the screen along with the following information:

   o  who scored
   o  in what quarter the score occurred
   o  the game clock time
   o  the number of yards covered in how many plays
   o  The amount of time the drive consumed.

To view each additional scoring drive, click on the Next button; to
back up and look at previous drive, click on the Prev button.  During
the review of the scoring drives, you may opt to review the game film.
To do this, click on the Replay button in the command bar to review 
whatever scoring drive you want.  The message, Please Wait While We
Load the Film, will be displayed until the game film is ready to be shown.
At this point, the actions you need to review the film are exactly
the same as for the instant Replay.

Note: You also have the option of printing out the statistics of all
your scoring drives by clicking on the Print All Drives button.  

When you are finished viewing the game film of a particular scoring
drive, you may click on GO! to take you back to the End of Game screen.

If you want to save the game you just finished playing, click on the
Save button located in the command bar.  Then click on the first
available numbered line on the Save screen, enter an appropriate
filename, and press the Enter key.  Saving a complete game will enable 
you to review and replay scoring drives.  When you return to the End
of Game screen, you may click on GO! in the command bar to return to the
TLSF Deluxe main screen.

Update Season Stats

Season Stats are not automatically compiled with college or mix leagues.
However, you can still compile the stats and records if you wish by 
clicking on the Update Season Stats button.

Telecomm Play

Clicking on Connect in the Telecommunications box on the main screen
allows you to play TLSF Deluxe with a friend at a remote location, 
provided both of you have a modem.  Figure 12 shows the Telecomm screen
in which data can be entered via the mouse and keyboard.

Figure 12.  The Telecomm Screen

Establishing a Connection

On the Telecomm screen you need to select:

   o  Dial command for your modem (often ATDT or ATDP)*
      To disable your call-waiting, consult your local telephone
      company.  A common command is *70 (for example, the command
      would be "ATDT *70").
   o  Answer command for your modem * ATS0=1 signals it to answer on the
      first ring ATA signals "auto-answer."
   o  Baud rate (of course, both machines have to be the same).
   o  COM PORT (for PC-compatibles), either: COM1, COM2, COM3, or COM4.
   o  Select Dial or Answer for remote connection, Null Modem for a 
      direct connection.

If connecting directly via a null-modem, both machines simply select the 
Null Modem button.

If connecting via a modem, you need to decide beforehand which player is
going to call and who is going to answer, and select the appropriate
buttons.  The TLSF software will dial and establish the connection.  If
successful, you will be returned to the main screen.  If you cannot
connect, a message will notify you of the problem, such as The line's
busy.

Starting the Game

Once you have established a connection, the player who initiated the call
(the caller) will begin gameplay by clicking on the GO! button at the main
screen.  (The player who answered the call must wait for the caller to
begin gameplay.)

One player at a time has control, and the other player will see a message
like Your opponent is deciding.  The person in control can set all the
game options that are normally available (instant replay, consult Landry,
make player substitutions, etc.), including Chat with the opponent.
The current offensive and defensive screens reflect each player's 
previous non-kicking call, so you can keep tabs on each other's 
tendencies.

Chatting with Your Opponent

Clicking on the Chat button opens two windows for typing messages to each 
other.  Chatting is not available if either player is viewing animation or
consulting Landry.  Once the chat windows are open, you can each type 
messages to each other.  Your text appears in the upper window, and your 
opponent's messages appear in the lower one.  Either player can exit the 
chatting mode by clicking on the Exit button.

Note: "Forcing" a Chat while it is your opponent's turn could seriously
disrupt telecommunications.  Therefore, it is recommended that you only
initiate a Chat when it is your turn to call the next play.

Hanging Up

When you have finished playing a game and have finished viewing the post-
game highlights, return to the main screen and click on Disconnect at
the Telecommunications box.

Note: If you decide to stop the game and resume it at a later time, it
is imperative that both players save the game before disconnecting.
Simply click on the Save button in the command bar at the bottom of the
screen.  At the save screen, click on an empty line, enter a filename,
and press the Enter key to save the file.

Troubleshooting:

   o Check to make sure you are both at the same baud rate.
   o When playing exhibition games, be sure both of you are using the
     same league.  
   o When playing scheduled league games, be sure both of you are using 
     the same league and schedule.

Game Preferences

This screen allows you to set game conditions.  A check mark in the box
next to the condition means the condition is enabled.  To deselect a
game condition, click on the box you want to deselect and the red check
mark will disappear.  

Note: Preferences may be changed during a game by clicking Prefs in the 
command bar at the bottom of the screen.  In scheduled games, some 
preferences are automatically on.  Homefield advantage is on in every
game (other than the Landry Bowl), including playoffs.  Injuries,
fatigue, and modern timing are also kept on.

The following conditions may be set for your game:

o Use modern timing
     Until recent years, the clock stopped if a player went out of bounds
     or if there was a penalty on the play, and it did not restart until
     the ball was snapped.  Modern rules, however, try to speed up the
     game.  Under modern rules, officials restart the clock after kick
     returns, players going out of bounds, and declined penalties,
     after the chains have been moved.  There are exceptions to these
     rules; however; in the final 5 minutes of the 4th quarter or final
     2 minutes of the 2nd (and overtime quarters), the clock does not
     restart until the ball is snapped.

o Injuries
     This option makes players susceptible to injury.

o Fatigue
     Players tire at a normal rate; substitutions can be made for tired
     and/or injured players.

o Homefield advantage
     Playing in front of the hometown fans offers a distinct advantage;
     also, many domed stadiums offer an advantage in that the crowd noise
     can be a factor in whether the visiting team can hear audibles at
     the line of scrimmage.

o Play sound effects
     Sound effects are built into the program which will enhance your
     enjoyment when playing TLSF Deluxe.


o Ball Color
     You have the option of choosing a Normal or a Highlighted football  
     for the animation sequences.

o Music
     Music is played at all menus and submenus, but not during animation
     sequences.

o Show digitized PICS
     Whenever you score a touchdown, field goal, safety, or incur a 
     penalty, a digitized referee appears on the screen to signal the
     points scored or the infraction.  You may turn off this feature
     to speed up game play.

o Show animation
     When this option is selected, you will the see the players on the
     playing field throughout the game.  You may turn this feature off
     to speed up game play.

o Show computer's calls
     When playing computer vs. computer, or human vs. computer, you will
     see what offensive or defensive play the computer calls.  You may 
     turn this feature off to speed up game play.

The TLSF Editor

With the TLSF Editor, you can create your own leagues of teams from
any year and create realistic schedules.  Or you might opt to design
a league of teams from different years (for instance, some great teams
from the past).  You can even create college leagues, complete with current
college rules.  In addition to editing the league and schedules, you can
edit the teams and individual players.

Notes: The TLSF Editor is an executable utility program that is separate
from the main TLSF Deluxe application.  Please consult your TLSF Deluxe
Technical Reference Guide for instructions on how to load the TLSF
Editor.

The leagues (and associated custom schedules) that you create and save
in the TLSF Editor will appear in the Load a League menu in the main
TLSF Deluxe application.

Figure 13.  The TLSF Editor Menu

After you load the TLSF Editor, the first screen you will see is the
Select League screen, where you click on the league you wish to load
and edit.  If you are using the TLSF Editor for the first time,
you will select the default league that appears on the Select League
screen.  You will use this default league as a starting point for
creating a customized league of your own.

A Word of Caution:  Changes to the league are not saved until you
save the league!  Click on Save at the bottom of the screen.  When
you are ready to save your newly created league for the first time,
be sure to give this new league a name that is different from the default
league that came with TLSF Deluxe, otherwise you will overwrite data
contained in the default league.

Leagues

First decide what type of league this is to be - college, a mixture
of pro teams from different years, or a normal single season league
of pro teams.  Rename the league, conferences, and divisions to 
whatever you like.

Figure 14.  The League Edit Screen

Teams

Click on a team to edit and you will see the main team edit screen.
Here you can rename your team (and its abbreviation) and set its
default coach.  Set the default coach to Human for any teams you
wish to play manually when using the Scheduled Game option in the
TLSF Deluxe application.  Set the default coach to Computer for the
teams that you want the computer to coach automatically in simulated
Scheduled Games.  When the computer is coaching a team, it will use
certain tendencies, and it will have a particular approach to the game,
depending on what "style" you set for it.  For example, a gambling
coach is more likely to go for it on 4th and one.

In addition to setting the team's penalty rate, you can also set the 
weather conditions at the team's home stadium.  Cold sites, for 
example, are increasingly likely to have snow late in the season.
The four buttons across the bottom of the screen allow editing of the
four main subcomponents of each team - Offense, Defense, Special
Teams and Team Colors.

Figure 15. The Team Edit Screen

Offense.  

There are three aspects to the offense: the abilities of individual
players, how the offensive unit performs as a whole, and the coach's
playcalling tendencies.  At the offense unit screen, you can set the
offensive line's abilities (as a unit) in both pass and run blocking.
Also, you can set the preferred formations for whenever the computer
coaches the team. 

Figure 16.  Editing Offensive Players

Offensive Players.
   You can set the starters and reserve players at all the key offensive
   positions.  The editor allows you to quickly change players' names 
   and attributes.  To quickly change all a player's attributes to a
   value, click in the box next to Initialize All Values and enter the
   value (1-9) you want for that player.  Note that halfbacks have
   passing attributes because they throw from both halfback passes and
   fake kicks.

Offensive Playcalling.
   Coaches usually take different approaches depending on where their
   team is on the field, breaking the field into roughly three areas:  
   inside their own 20, between the 20's, and in the "Red Zone" (scoring
   range).  For each area, percentages are given for each down and
   distance (second and long, for instance).  Use this screen to define
   how the computer coach guides this team.

Defense.  As in the offense, the defense must be viewed both as individuals
and as a unit.  On the main defensive screen, the overall defensive unit
is defined.  The individual players can be modified on a separate screen.

Special Teams.  At this screen are the kicker, punter, and return men.
The kicker performs on kickoffs, fieldgoals, and point after touchdown
kicks.  As in real life, punters differ in strength, hang time, and
accuracy.  Some punters are better at nailing their opponents inside
the 20, for example.  Finally, define the abilities for the kick and 
punt return men, including how much the individual is used.

Team Colors.  The team's colors can be set by cycling through the available
colors with the Prev and Next buttons.  Some teams prefer to wear white at
home, while others prefer to wear their colored jerseys.  You can set the
team's home preference.

Schedules

In addition to modifying the league and teams, you can create complete 
16-game pro schedules, including a bye week for each team.  Using actual
professional league rules, the schedules generated for each team depend
on a number of factors:  the team's standing at the end of the previous
season, and the year of the schedule being generated.

Figure 17.  The TLSF Schedule Editor

Creating a Custom Schedule.  To create a custom schedule, follow these
steps:

o Enter the year of the schedule.  Simply click in the text box and enter
  the desired year.

o Next, decide how you want to rank the team standings for the previous
  year:  Do you want to rank them yourself, or do you want the computer
  to rank them randomly?

o If you want to rank them manually, click on the Manually Adjust Rankings
  button and rearrange the rankings within each division.  If you want
  the computer to rank the teams, click on the Use Random Rankings button.

o Note: After the computer has randomly ranked the teams, you may click
  on the Manually Adjust Rankings button to view the rankings.

o Click on the New button to generate a new season based on the parameters
  you have just chosen.

o Click on By Week or By Team to view the newly created schedule.  (You
  may also print the new schedule.)

o Click on the Save button in the Schedules box, enter a filename for 
  your new schedule, and press Enter to save.

Note: Do not confuse the Save button in the Schedules box with the
Save button in the command bar at the bottom of the screen.  The former
is for savings schedules; the latter is for savings leagues.

Building a Custom League and a Custom Schedule.  To bind a custom
league and a custom schedule together, follow these steps:

   o Load the league of your choice by clicking on the Load a League
     button on the main screen of the TLSF Editor.
   o Load the schedule of your choice by clicking on the Load button
     in the Schedules box on the TLSF Schedule Editor screen.
   o Save the combined league and schedule file by clicking on the 
     Save button in the command bar at the bottom of the screen
     (See Figure 18).  It is recommended that you use a unique
     filename for this new file.

Figure 18.  Binding League and Schedule Files Together

Note: Although only one schedule is linked to a league at a time, you 
can save different league/schedule permutations for loading and replaying
later.

Appendix A: What's New in TLSF Deluxe

o A full-blown editor is now included to allow editing of leagues, teams,
  men, and schedules.  In keeping with the design of the original TLSF,
  you'll find our editor to be one of the friendliest and most flexible
  you've used in any game.

o League play now takes TLSF to a new level of game play.  Multi-game
  injuries can wreck your season.  Season stats and records are 
  automatically maintained, and league leaders and division leaders
  are tracked.  Real playoffs include a wildcard round and the 
  championship Landry Bowl.

o Offenses now have five new formations (Blue, Power I Left, Power I
  Right, Shotgun 4 WR, Trips) and can switch the Tight End to the other
  side by setting the "strong side" to the left or right.

o In the original version of TLSF, the only offensive player sent in motion
  was the first flanker.  You can now select either flanker to go in
  motion.

o New pass patterns have been added, such as the Shuffle and the Hook
  and Go.

o In addition to shifting over and under, the defensive line can now
  shift inside and outside, and even stunt (god on passing downs).

o While blitzing in the original TLSF was simple, it was incomplete.
  Now you can customize your blitzing, giving specific orders
  to each individual linebacker.  Also, you can now send the weak
  safety on a safety blitz!

o The Instant Replay VCR control can now be located at either the top or
  bottom of the screen to reveal different portions of the field.

o Finally, we've added print routines to allow you to print stats,
  drives, rosters, etc., either to a file or directly to your printer.

Appendix B: League Rules and Penalties

Unlike most football games, TLSF Deluxe includes all the penalties
which can occur in a real game.  Penalties can occur before and
after turnovers, can be offsetting, can be enforced on the following
kickoff... well, you get the idea.  With TLSF Deluxe you get real
penalties, and real headaches - just like coaches in real life.

We have used real league rules in both the college and pro leagues
(of course, the rules in real life seem to change yearly).  For
example, in determining schedules and playoff teams, we emulated the
algorithms used by pros.

Appendix C: Playoffs

Twelve teams make the playoffs.  In each conference, there are three
divisional winners and three wildcard teams.  The first week of
postseason play is the Wildcard round - four teams from each conference
play.  The next week is referred to as the "First Round" and involves
the remaining eight teams.  The four winners of that round then play in 
the Conference Championship games.  Finally, for the grand prize,
the two conference champions meet in the Landry Bowl at a neutral
site.  The rules for determining divisional leaders are described in the
League Play section of the manual, and the rules for determining the
wildcard teams are similar.

Appendix D: Computer Play

When playing a computer opponent, the computer uses the tendencies for
that team.  In special situations, like a two-minute offense, it 
switches to other, more appropriate logic.  Also, the computer tracks
your playcalling by field position, down, and distance.  For instance,
if it notices you are tending to run inside on second and 5, it
modifies its defense - just like human coaches do.  However, if your
running game is faltering, it may just ignore your run.

Conversely, if the computer picks up that you play a lot of man to man
coverage on first and 10, expect some longer passes.  Just a note here -
under no circumstances does the computer "cheat" or "know" your call,
so what you call is important.

Appendix E: Game-winning Strategy

TLSF Deluxe has a wealth of football strategy available at your
fingertips.  Selecting the online Help brings up over 20 different
topics to help you develop winning strategy during the game when you
need it.  The following information is meant to supplement the online
Help.

Football Strategy

In the early days of football, teams relied almost solely on guts.  
However, as the game progressed, innovative coaches like Lombardi,
Shula, Landry, Walsh, and Gibbs have continually found ways to give the
other teams headaches.  With proper understanding and use of formations -
offensive and defensive - even weaker teams can often find an edge over
stronger opponents.

The same holds true for the other components of the game.  Winning
offenses use motion and misdirection, while successful defenses confuse
their opponents with shifting lines, blitzes, and different pass 
coverages. 

TLSF Deluxe offers you all of the tools of the trade that "real" coaches 
use.  Your assistant coaches have scouted your opponent and you can check
their reports at anytime to recognize player strengths and weaknesses.
As the game progresses, you should check the game stats.  These can
often reveal whether your opponent is focusing on a particular back or
receiver, or leaning heavily on the run or pass.  They may also show
that you are over-playing your own hand and need to mix up your
plays a little bit more.

If you are playing against a computer coach, the scouting report even
tells you his offensive tendencies for different parts of the field.
Of course, those tendencies are not much use in lop-sided games, or
against human coaches.

Field Position

The football field is 100 yards from your goal line to your opponent's 
goal, and where you are on the field should play a major role in your
playcalling.  Most coaches break the field up into five areas.

Inside the offense's 20 is the dangerous part of the field.  If you
make one mistake here, your opponent likely has at least 3 points.
Good quarterbacks will throw the ball away rather than be sacked or
force the ball into a crowd.  Rarely do you see pitches, reverses, or
screens within the 20 yardline.

From the 20 up to the 35 yardline, the offense can open up, but still
has to avoid turnovers and sacks.  Second and 9 isn't too bad, but 
second and 15 is real tough between the 20 and 35 yardlines.

Offenses can call just about anything (playaction, misdirection, trick
plays, bombs) between the 35 yardlines.  Defenses usually go with zones,
especially late in a game, but sometimes use blitzes to rattle the
offense and perhaps force a mistake or at least a wasted down.

Inside the 35 yardline, the offense is usually in field goal range,
and almost never punts.  The key here is to avoid losing yards, so the
offense will call short and medium plays.

Inside the 20 yardline is the most difficult part of the field from
which to score.  Pass routes must become shorter and the quarterback
must get rid of the ball quicker.  It is important to try to score
either a touchdown or at least a fieldgoal every time you are within
your opponent's 20 yardline.

Passing

To have a successful passing offense, receivers must know their routes
and the quarterback must be able to hit his receivers.  Nothing is more
frustrating than completing a ten yard pass on 3rd and 14.  The 
quarterback also must be able to read defensive formations and to call 
audibles at the line of scrimmage when necessary.

The very short passes (Flare, Flat and Zoom) are designed to outwit
blitzing defenses.  Short passes are used to pick up 5 to 7 yards.
Medium routes are good for 10 to 12 yards, while deep, medium, routes
can usually yield about 13 to 16 yards.  Long passes are good for at
least 20 yards.

Generally, man-to-man coverage is best against short passes; 2-Deep
zones, against medium passes; and 3-Deep zones, against long passes.
However, each defensive formation has its strengths and weaknesses.
For instance, the 2-Deep zone is great against fly and corner patterns,
but weak against posts.  In man-to-man coverage, the presence of a 
Free Safety can make the difference between a long completion and a 
deep interception (the Weak Safety is "free" if he doesn't have to
cover a receiver).  Zone defenses are usually known for causing
interceptions.  Man-to-man coverage allows linebackers to blitz,
which can cause loss of yards and fumbles.

Offenses can attack man-to-man coverages with long passes, especially
fly patterns and passes to backs (who are usually faster than the
linebackers trying to cover them).  Also, man-to-man coverages are
usually not as good against runs, unless blitzing with Run focus.
Attack zone defenses with short passes, draws, screens and playaction
passes.  

Running

The three types of runs are the power runs, bread-and-butter runs, and
finesse plays.  Power runs are used to wear down a defense, or when
you need just a yard or two.  The Line Plunge is the main power run.

The off-tackle runs (slants) and sweeps are your basic runs.  Slants
are a little safer than sweeps, especially versus the 3-4 defense,
while sweeps have more potential for longer gains.

If the defense is over-pursuing ("keying on flow"), the offense has to
call misdirection plays - counters and traps.  Traps are particularly
strong against zones and Nickel formations.

Offensive Formations

There are three basic groups of offensive formations: strong running
sets, strong passing formations, and balanced formations.  Using 
different sets can keep your opponent off balance.  Use the strengths
of each formation, but also mix in some running from passing sets.

If you want a strong running game, especially inside, use mainly
the Pro I and Brown formations.  The Brown is particularly strong for
the fullback running off the left tackle, while the I is very good
for inside runs.

For a more balanced attack, at the cost of some inside strength, use
the Pro Set and One-back offenses.  Both of these sets open up the
one-back set is excellent for running counters.

If you want a wide-open game, use the Run-and-Shoot formation.  This
offense spreads the defense across the field and gives the quarterback
plenty of choices for receivers.  If your quarterback has a slow release,
or cannot find open receivers, plan on a lot of quarterback sacks.

The Short Yardage and Shotgun formations are specialized formations;
use them when you need them.  They are particularly good for run and
pass plays.

Defensive Formations

While the offense uses formations to maximize strength, the defense
uses different sets to try to anticipate the offense's point of attack.
Different formations are stronger against plays and weaker against
others.

One of the most interesting defensive positions is that of the Free Safety.
Actually, there is no Free Safety position.  Rather, there are two
defensive safeties on the field - the Strong Safety and the Weak Safety
(the names have nothing to do with their strength).  The Strong Safety
is responsible for covering the Tight End in man-to-man pass coverage
or a deep zone in zones.  The Weak Safety may also have an assignment.
In zone coverage, he covers a deep zone.  However, in man-to-man coverage,
if all the receivers are already covered, he becomes a "free" safety.
From there, he can react to the ball and often assists on both runs
and passes.  He can also be used to double-cover a receiver.

Short zone coverage gives the defense five zones approximately ten
yards beyond the line of scrimmage, and two deep zones extending to the
remainder of the field.  Short zones are very tough on medium and long
passes, except posts.  The deep zone set has 4 short and 3 deep zones,
which is not quite as good against medium passes, but is better against
the deep passes.

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW
