                             Medway Boys & Ikari

                                 - Present -

                                   TOOBIN'     

                       65 Lines (2045 Bytes Decrunched)

                    Docs by **  P H A N T O M   L O R D **


                                  THE GAME
				  --------

Toobin' - The fisrt game of its kind. Join Biff and Jet, the tube-dudes, as
they cruise the baddest rivers in and out of this world!

                               GETTIN STARTED
			       --------------

A game for one or two, play either Biff or Jet in search of the most
outrageous party they can find. Guide the tube-dudes to places even your
travel agent dosen't know about!

Each river contains new and exciting backdrops to the varied obstacles that
you must negotiate. Pick up tin cans that you'll find in the rivers to
defend yourself against the shoreside creeps like punks, fly fishermen,
swamp monsters and even kamikaze penguins. Watch out for sticks, branches
and spiked logs that can easily burst your tube.

Paddle through the gates for mega-bonuses, but don't bump the poles or
you'll halve the score. Hot toobers can rack up the points this way. Don't
lag behind 'cos the big gator is just waiting to catch those slow toobers
at the back. Hold tight as you challenge the white water rapids.

Toobin's got lots of special features like simultaneous two player action
for double the fun, and higher levels with wild and varied rivers from the
Amazon to Mars!, taking in the Nile and the Colorado along the way.
Complete the rivers and you can join in the partying!

                                  CONTROLS
				  --------

JOYSTICK CONTROLS
-----------------

Left:			Paddle Left
Right:			Paddle Right
Up:			Paddle Forward
Down:			Paddle Back
Fire:			Throw Can

AMIGA
-----

Player 1:		F3 selects Joystick or Keyboard
Keys:			A, D, Z, X, SPACE
Player 2:		F4 selects Joystick or Keyboard
Keys:			Numeric Keypad
			4, +, 2, 3, 0
Pause:			F1
Quit:			SHIFT 2

                               T H E   E N D .