                         T O P  B A N A N A

                                D O X

  All about KT
  
  Introducing KT in her first game - Top Banana.  As well as saving
  the world KT's Talents include singing and dancing in the video
  for her latest record 'Global Chaos', which is a re-mix of the 
  Top Banana soundtrack.

  TOP BANANA

  Our planet is under threat - not from slimy aliens or evil wizards
  but from direct consequences of our own greed and stupidity.  Every
  moment sees further demolition of the rainforest, more leaking nuclear 
  waste, land floods caused by melting ice caps and much needed food
  rotting in locked warehouses.  Your task is to combat those forces 
  which are worlds tilts into oblivion you must redress the balance 
  through positive action.  To aid you in this task you are invested 
  with a great power - that power is Love.  Use this power to repell 
  the agents of destruction.  By spreading Love your enemies will
  vanish, or even begin to help you.  You will be able to stem the tide
  of flood, neutralise the acid rain and release the hoarded fruits of 
  the World's produce for all to share.  If you succeed then you 
  will have proved your skill and courage in the material world. 
  Consequently, you will be offered the opportunity to seek ultimate 
  wisdom in the Mind-Scape and achieve the status of Top Banana.  Here 
  you will be battling with the figments of your imagination, your dreams
  and nightmares, hidden fears and memories.  This will be your greatest 
  challenge.

  THE GAME

  Top Banana has four seperate Worlds each made up of three levels which
  become progressively more challenging.  The aim is to achieve the status 
  of Top Banana by completing all four worlds.  Use your Love to neutralise
  enemies as you work your way vertically through the levels jumping from
  platform to platform.  You will find plenty of nourishment scattered
  throughout the World although it is wise to be selective about what you
  eat in such a hostile environment.  As you progress you will be able to
  increase your score which is displayed at the bottom right hand corner
  of your screen.  The best scores will be logged on the hi-score table.  
  You must be aware of continual danger of flooding from below.  Like an
  old TV, if it's causing problems give it a tap! Collect as much Love as 
  possible when it is offered to you since this will give you the added 
  vitality to go on when things start to get really nasty.  Other objects 
  will be offered which may provide a much needed power-up to your jumping, 
  shooting and running or may prove more trouble than they are worth.
  There are many dangers, not only to you but to the environment itself.

  THE WORLDS Rain Forest

  The rich, dark Tropical rain forest provides you with your first 
  challenge.  Many of the skills you learn here will be essential to your
  later progress.  As you get deeper into the forest, and nearer to the
  secret hoard, the humidity will rise and the undergrowth will thicken.

  Chainsaws and bulldozers have only one purpose - destruction.  Love will
  be an effective weapon against them, but not against some of their nastier
  friends.  If you want to get ahead get a head.  Learn which fruits and 
  nutritious and which are poisonous.  The forest will not only be slow to
  point out the difference.  Occasionally you will be offered a slap-up
  meal - make sure it's the one you ordered.  If you want to make use of
  all the lift facilities make sure to turn them on with the correct switch
  Don't hang around to admire the scenary.  Remember the whole forest is
  sinking as the water level of the planet rises.

  THE WORLDS Metal-City

  A manic Metal-City is a loveless place.  The fumes of greed and decay 
  choke the air as Corporate powers plot against each other behind a tiny 
  facade of techno-gloss.  Here, the spoils of destruction are invested in
  vulgar Logos and noisy advertising jingles which are designed to seduce
  you into compilance.

  As you enter, the City is decaying.  It is swarming with mutated metal
  machines which patrol every street.  Many sectors are flooded with 
  polluted water.  You can swim through them, but only for as long as you
  can hold your breath.  The platforms are rotten and loose.  You cannot
  assume that your next step will not be fatal.  Nor are you immune to the 
  blobs of radio-active waste which float through the narrow streets.
  Some of the lifts are operable but not reliable.

  THE WORLDS Temple 

  Before you can go forward on the path to Enlightenment you must complete
  your final task in the Earthly domain.

  You have entered a decaying temple whose beautifully decorated interior
  is crumbling beneath your feet.  Using the wisdom and skill you have so 
  far displayed you must protect yourself and your surroundings from enemies
  more ruthless than any you will have yet encountered.  You may enjoy 
  watching American football even though the rules may seem strange.  But
  in this game the rules are simple.  They dont like you! Save your breath
  for the zones of burning well-heads.

  THE WORLDS Mind-Scape
  
  Dazed and confused in a purple haze, your mind spins in the psychedelic
  hip-house.

  By now you will have proved yourself a person of great courage, skill
  and determination.  But the gaining of ultimate wisdom is the greatest
  prize and the psychesphere of Enlightenment will yield its treasures to
  only the most worthy Banana.  Now you are on your own, just you, your
  fears, dreams, and illusions.  The Mind is notorious for playing tricks
  and deceiving itself.  Who can you trsut if not yourself? remember, an
  open mind opens closed doors.

  INSTRUCTIONS

  To minimise the risk of viral infection turn your computer off for 30
  seconds before inserting the Top Banana disk 1.  If you are using a 
  joystick connect it to port 2.

  Key Control

  F1 = VIDEO   Q = QUIT   P = PAUSE

           @
           |
           |
      Z---- ----X      Return = FIRE
           |
           |
           ?
  
  During the video sequence press any key to load the game.

  Press fire to start the game.


WORD UP CREDITS!!
  -----------------

     Concept and Design: HEX
                 Coding: Miles
               Graphics: Kerel Dander, Sophie Smith, Miles
         Music Design &
            Programming: Kerel Dander, Miles
       Music Production: Matt Black, Jonathon More, Coldcut
       Product Design &
              Marketing: Robert Pepperell

End...........

