                      DOC TO TORVAK - THE WARRIOR 
                     ----------------------------- 
                        BY MR.THOMPSON / DEFJAM
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
Before loading Torvak, please ensure that your disks are write-protected.

COMMODORE AMIGA
---------------
Turn off your computer and disconnect any unnecessary peripherals.
Insert Disk A and switch the computer on
The program will load automatically. Follow any on-screen prompts.

ATARI ST
--------
As per the Amiga instructions.

                            TORVAK - THE WARRIOR
                            --------------------
THE TALE
--------
The Tormanian wars were enough to make any man never want to raise his 
sword again. Standing on the outskirts of his homeland, Ragnor, Torvak 
thought back to his emotional departune nearly five years earlier. How
he had missed his family and friends and the tranquil life of the
settlement. With less than an hour's walk, the horror of the war started 
to re-emerge in his mind's eye as he contemplated his return.
Startled by the screeching of eagles overhead, he sensed that something 
was wrong. As he approached the edge of the settlement, the stench of 
rotting corpses hung heavily in the air. Hesitating before venturing 
further, he forced himself through an opening at the edge of the forest 
confirming his worst fears.
A darkness covered the once green and fertile land and all around him 
lay the ruins of the once thriving village. Turning towards where his 
home once was, he started to run hoping to find some sign of life, 
knowing deep down it was unlikely.
As he got closer, he heard a voice.
"Torvak!...............................Torvak!"
Stopping instantly, he looked around in the direction of which the voice 
had come. Then he saw the twisted figure of :The Elder". Racked with pain, 
The Elder told Torvak about the arrival of the Necromancer and the dark 
shadow he had cast over the land. Looking into the eyes of The Elder, 
Torvak knew the path he must now tread.
Armed with a double headed axe, you play the role of Torvak. Set out 
across the land of Ragnor with your mind set on a sole task - to avenge 
the evil Necrmancer and bring peace back to your homeland.
The game consists of five scrolling levels of increasing difficulty.

LEVEL 1 - THE VILLAGE
---------------------
You start your journey from your home village of Ragnor. Venture forward 
leaving behind the corpses of family and friends, a sight which will 
haunt you forever.
Although close to home - this land is still plagued with an array of 
odious creatures which include - Orcs, Rockmen, Killer Wasps, Giant Maggots 
and Poisonous Caterpillars. Be prepared to meet the Archer too!

LEVEL 2 - THE SWAMP
-------------------
Only a short distance from your homeland is the dank and eerie land of 
swamps containing yet more perils to hinder you in your quest. Included 
is The Swamp Monster, Zombies, Jumping Piranhas, Winged Dragon Bats and 
The Rat Man.
Beware also as the swamps contain areas of quicksand as well as regions of 
volcanic activity.

LEVEL 3 - THE MOUNTAINS
-----------------------
After the swamp land you begin a heady ascent into the mountains of Ragnor.
Waiting for your blood are Eagles, Scorpions, Grey Goblins, Rockmen and a 
multitude of Trilobites. Take care crossing the waterfall - one wrong step 
and you'll drown!

LEVEL 4 - THE JUNGLE
--------------------
The penultimate stage of your adventure takes you into the depths of the 
jungle. Beware of getting lost. You'll need to map your progress through 
the maze of undergrowth as you go. Here you may encounter members of the 
only remaining 'lost tribe' - a primeval race of female warriors still 
thirsty for human blood! If you're still alive, you'll pass by the lost 
temple just before you reach the jungle boundaries, leaving only the final 
level to be faced!

LEVEL 5 - THE CASTLE
--------------------
This is the final level and brings you within reach of the evil Necromancer 
who lurks somewhere within the castle walls. Once inside the castle, you 
will pass through a variety of rooms, eventually being drawn into the 
castle dungeons, the lair of the Necromancer.
Throughout your quest you'll find a variety of weapons to use in combat 
against the Necromancer's hordes of evil minions.

THE WEAPONS
-----------
There are four different weapons throughout the game which are to be found 
at various stages. Each weapon begins with a low hit power, but these can 
all be built up by collecting power-ups during the game.

Double Headed Axe : This is the only weapons in your possession at the  
                    beginning of your quest. It has a short hit range.
Broadsword        : This weapon has a medium hit range and is an excellent 
                    all-round weapon which, unlike the Axe, can be used for 
                    low sweeping hits.
Warhammer         : The Warhammer is slow to use and has a short hit range. 
                    Its advantage is that it can be built up to be a 
                    powerful weapon at its best when used at close quarters.
THE MORNING STAR  : The Morning Star is the most powerful weapon which 
(Ball & Chain)      can be collected. It has a long hit range and is a 
                    very useful weapon for close combat.

Throughout the levels collectable items will be released by destroying 
certain aliens and special statues. Each statue takes two hits to destroy 
with a basic weapon. The initial hit will crack the statue which then 
crumbles after the second blow, revealing a bonus item.   
        
ARMOUR
------
When carrying armour hits from enemies are cut down by half. There are two 
different types of armour, silver and gold, giving Torvak protection from 
five or ten hits respectively.

SPEED UP
This makes Torvak's reaction in combat much faster, enabling him to make 
more hits in a shorter time.

EXTEND
This increases Torvak's maximum vitality enabling him to last longer in 
combat

ENERGY ORBS
There are two different sizes of orbs which are found within the various 
levels. These replenish your energy by varying amounts depending on its 
size.

TREASURE
Various treasures are littered around the game. Some are obvious but some 
are hidden which if found give Torvak bonus points.

POWER UP
When collected, these give Torvak more hit power against his adversaries. 
Stronger enemies can thus be killed with less hits.

MAGIC
-----
Finding the magic potion allows Torvak to use the magical powers of his 
current weapon. Care should be taken as each potion collected only allows 
five or ten spells to be cast, depending on the strenght of the potion.
Magic spells are cast by holding down the fire button whilst a small 
"power-up" symbol appears at the top of the screen. A spell is cast when 
the fire button is released. The spell is cast in the direction the 
joystick is held, so the spell will either be cast up, down into the
ground, or horizontally through a line of enemies.
Magic spells can be quite devastating, but are also slow to power-up and
quite impractical in close combat situations.
Each weapon has a similar effect when using it with a magical spell, apart 
from when the spell is cast down into the ground, whereby each weapon has 
its own special power.

END OF LEVEL CREATURES
----------------------
At the end of each level, Torvak will have to defeat a guardiancreature. 
Only if he succeeds in doing this may he progress to the next level.

               Level 1 - The Stag
               
               Level 2 - Insectoid

               Level 3 - Gryphon

               Level 4 - Dragon

               Level 5 - Serpent in the Skull

        End of the Game - The Necromancer 

CONTROLS
--------
All movement is controlled by the joystick.
To switch between Music and Sound Effects - press 'M' during the game.

CTRL - Pause Game                                                 
ESC  - Quit                      Jump Up                                      
                          Jump Left |  Jump Right                                
                                  \ | /                             
                       Walk Left___\|/___Walk Right                               
                                   /|\                                    
                                  / | \                               
                                    |                                   
                                  Crouch                                      
                                                                       
When Torvak jumps, holding the joystick in the direction that he is jumping 
lengthens Torvak's jump.                                                                      

Fire Button Pressed Makes Torvak wield his current weapon           

When Torvak has magical powers, holding down the fire button builds up his 
magical power. When the fire button is released, if Torvak's magic has been 
built up fully, the direction of the joystick determines how Torvak's 
magical weapon is directed.                                                                        

Otherwise, Torvak's magical weapon is directed according to which way Torvak 
is facing.                                                                           
NOTE For a full description of weapon magic - see the relevant section of 
the manual.