                           TRACON II: AMIGA
                               ADDENDUM
      
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

Ref.: Chapter 1 - Pages 5-6

TRACON II Amiga requires the following computer system:

   o Amiga 500, 1000, 2000, 2500, 3000 with at least 1 Meg of Ram, NTSC
   or PAL video modes are supported, see chapter 8 for more details on
   selecting the correct video mode.
   o At least one floppy drive.  Tracon II is not copy protected and may
   be installed on a hard drive for better performance.
   o AmigaDOS 1.2 or greater
   o Mouse

PACKAGE CONTENTS

Ref.: Chapter 1 - Page 7

When you open this product, you should find three basic elements:

   o The main program manual and this ADDENDUM, which highlights changes
   or additions to the manual for TRACON II Amiga.  Read both before using
   the program.
   o Two 3.5 disks - Program and Support.
   o An audio cassette for a synchronized demonstration.

There are no hidden files or copy protection.

INSTALLING AND RUNNING TRACON II

Ref.: Chapter 1 - Pages 7 - 12

Before even installing TRACON II, you should read the Read.me file
included on the Program disk.

Insert the Program disk into any drive and double click on the TRACON II
disk icon.  A window should open, and you should see two drawer icons
labeled TRACON II and Fonts, and one project icon labeled Read.me.
To see the Read.me file, simply double click on the icon.

FLOPPY DISK SYSTEMS

You will find two 3.5 distribution diskettes in the TRACON II package.
The disk labeled Program contains the TRACON II program, some auxiliary
files, the sector files and their associated voice files, and the scenario
and demonstration files.  The disk labeled Support contains the main
TRACON II voice file.

To run TRACON II from floppy(s),

   o insert the Program disk into your drive.  If you have more than one
   floppy disk drive, insert the Support disk into the second drive.  
   Than either:
   o Reboot your computer and TRACON II will automatically start, or
   o Double click on the TRACON II disk icon, then double click on the
   TRACON II drawer icon.  From the TRACON II drawer, double click on
   the TRACON II tool icon.

To run a TRACON II demonstration:

   From CLI (Command Line Interface - see your Amiga User's Manual):
   o type the TRACON filename where the filename is one of the demo files
   on the Program disk (you do not have to enter the filename extension),
   or From Workbench:
   o select the desired demonstration project icon by clicking on it once,
   then
   o Press one of the Shift keys and double click on the TRACON II tool
   icon.  The selected demonstration filename will be passed to the program.

If you are running from a single floppy system, the program will ask you
to insert the second disk after you have started a scenario.

HARD DISK SYSTEMS

To install TRACON II onto your hard drive:
  
   o insert the program disk into any drive and
   o double click on the TRACON II disk icon.

When the window opens,

   o drag the two drawers (TRACON II and Fonts) into your hard disk
   window.

The Fonts drawer must be copied onto the system partition of your hard
drive, since TRACON II will look for its fonts in the default sys:fonts
drawer.  The Tracon drawer can be dragged to any partition you have.

You must also copy the main voice file from the Support disk into the
TRACON II drawer that you have now created on your hard drive.

To run TRACON II from your hard drive:

   o double click on the TRACON II drawer icon.

When the window opens:

   o double click on the TRACON II tool icon.

Run a demonstration file in the same manner as described above.

EXITING TRACON

Ref.: Chapter 1 - Page 12

You can shut down TRACON II any time and exit out via the FILE menu
Exit command.  If you are running a simulation, TRACON II will popup
a requester showing the results of the scenario.  Clicking on OK
will then take you out of TRACON II.

QUICK REFERENCE

Ref.: Chapter 1 - Page 15

The Radarscope menu contains the following selections, each of which
will control what is drawn on the screen:

   Display
                 Fix Names   Airways        Airways & Names
                 Boundary    Ground         Compass
                 Sweep       Radar Rings    Weather

   Color... 
                 The color requester that is attached to this menu item 
                 will enable you to change the colors of TRACON II even as 
                 you play.

   Zoom in + 
                 Zooms in one or two levels (2x or 3x)

   Zoom out -  
                 Zooms out one or two levels (2x or 3x)

   Menu Title
                 Allows a TRACON II screen to be pulled down for access to
                 other screens that may be active.

   Panel Buttons
                 All Display fields (above) on the menu can also be 
                 selected via the panel buttons, this enables or disables
                 those buttons.

   Auto Scroll
                 Whenever a new aircraft is selected via the flightstrips,
                 having this enabled will cause the radarscope to speed
                 scroll until the selected aircraft is within view.  Handy
                 for keeping track of all your aircraft when you are in 
                 zoomed in mode.

The Detail Menu contains the following selection changes:

   Airport

                 All airports in a currently loaded sector will be attached
                 to the Airport menu item, and replace the dialog boxes.

   Sound
                 Pilots
                 Pilots & controllers
                 Noise

                 These fields are now on the menus and not in a dialog box.

ON-LINE HELP

Ref.: Chapter 3 - Pages 18 - 19

TRACON II has Online Help available via the Help key.  Pressing the Help
key will pop up a requester showing you information about using the keyboard
to play TRACON II.

KEY      AIRCRAFT SELECTED                NO AIRCRAFT SELECTED

Enter    Takeoff                          Select strip a/o
Back     Disregard                        Cancel
;        <<command>>; then <<command>>
+        Zoom in                          Zoom in
-        Zoom out                         Zoom out
F10                                       Force next update
/        Move leader to <arrow keys>

Right Amiga key + one of the following:

   R    Turn right (heading)...
   L    Turn left (heading)...
   C    Climb and maintain...
   D    Descend and maintain...
   S    Change speed to...
   N    Resume normal speed/navigation.
   T    Cleared direct to...
   H    Handoff to Tower or Center
   O    Hold at
   A    Say heading and airspeed

SELECTING AIRCRAFT

Ref.: Chapter 4 - Page 2

The first part of each command requires that you "select an aircraft,"
which can be done either of two ways:

   1) Click once on the aircraft icon or its flightstrip.
   2) Use the arrow keys to highlight the desired flightstrip, then press
      Enter (Return).

KEYBOARD CONTROL COMMANDS

Ref.: Chapter 4 - Page 3

Keyboard commands are given by holding down the Right Amiga key and
pressing one of the following keys:

Keys Command                     Cursor pad keys   Parameter

R    Turn right (heading)...     Right arrow       000 or 00 degrees
L    Turn left (heading)...      Left arrow        000 or 00 degrees
C    Climb and maintain...       Up arrow          hundreds of feet
D    Descend and maintain...     Down arrow        hundreds of feet
S    Change speed to...                            knots
N    Resume normal speed/nav.
T    Cleared direct to...                          fix name 
H    Handoff to Tower or Center
O    Hold at                                       fix name
A    Say heading and airspeed

As shown above, the cursor keys are duplicate for the Turn right, Turn
left, Climb/Descend and maintain commands.  They are used quite often
so this is just one more way you have to control the aircraft.

If you press the wrong key, the backspace key will undo it, and you can
then repress the correct one.

MOUSE CONTROL COMMANDS

Chapter 4 - In addition to pages 8 - 11

DIRECT...
   If you are in the Zoomed in mode on the radarscope, a fix that you
   might want to click on could be out of view.  Simply hold down the right
   mouse button and scroll the radar over to the fix that you want, then
   select it with the left mouse button as you normally would.

To issue a stacked command using the mouse, press either Shift key when
selecting the final parameter of a mouse command.  The mouse command box
will repop and you may stack another command after the one you just 
issued is completed.  See keyboard control commands for more information
on stacking commands.

Controlling The Simulator - Chapter 5

The Airways, Fixnames, and all Display items that appeared in dialog
boxes now appear in the pulldown menus.

Colors...
   The Colors... menu item will bring up the color requester.  Colors can
be changed on the fly and saved from this requester.  TRACON II will
automatically load those saved colors from the file colors.cfg if one
is present.  Previously color values were stored in the Tracon.ini file
and had to be edited to make the changes permanent.

Zoom in and Zoom Out
   Two levels of zoom are available in TRACON II.  Selecting Zoom in
will make the radarscopes magnification 2x or 3x.  Selecting Zoom out
accomplishes the reverse.  Even zoomed in at 3x, all of the radarscope
is available for viewing since the radarscope can be scrolled in real
time as the program runs.

New features in TRACON II Amiga

Airport information is available in either of two ways:
   o Double clicking on the airport position with the right mouse button.
   o Selecting the airport from the Detail Airport menu item.

Aircraft information is available in one of three ways:
   o Selecting Aircraft info from the Detail menu.
   o Double clicking on the aircraft target with the right mouse
   button, or
   o Double clicking on the aircraft's flightstrip with the right
   mouse button.

Scrolling the radarscope is done by pressing and holding the right
mouse button down while moving the mouse in the radarscope viewing area.

Scrolling the second line of the flightstrips is available in one of two
ways:
   o Using the left and right arrow keys after selecting a flightstrip,
   o Depressing and holding the right mouse button down while moving
   the mouse back and forth over a flightstrip.

TRACON.INI

This file contains the following changes from the PC version:
   o The Monitor field is now Video
   o The two modes supported by TRACON II are NTSC_VIDEO and PAL_VIDEO.
   NTSC_VIDEO    320x200 resolution
   PAL_VIDEO     320x256 resolution
   o The field Radar_Rings had been added so that the user can display
   the radar rings independently of the sweep.
   o Values possible are On or Off.
   o The field SmallFont no longer exists.

Three new fields have been added to complement their function via the
RadarScope pulldown menu.
        Menu_Title
        Panel_Buttons
        Auto_Scroll
   o Values possible are On or Off.

The field Voice_Data has been added to allow more control over how
you wish the voice data to be utilized.
   o Values possible are FromDisk or From Cache
   A value of FromDisk means you want TRACON II to always load voice
   data from disk each time it needs it.  This is useful if you have
   limited memory and cannot or do not wish to keep all the voice data
   in memory at one time.  The voice data is disposed of after is has
   been used.  A hard disk user might also want to use this option
   since loading voice data from the hard disk would be faster than
   floppy.

   A value of FromCache means that as the voice data are needed by the
   program, they will be loaded, but they will not be disposed of.  So
   as the scenario progresses, more and more voice data will be resident
   in memory.  Accessing the voice data from memory is alot quicker than
   from disk and makes the program run smoother.  If you have the memory,
   this is the best way to go.     

COLORS.CFG

This file holds the current color selections for TRACON II.  Deleting this
file will make TRACON II revert back to it's default color scheme.

SECTORS INCLUDED WITH TRACON II Amiga

The following nine sectors are included in TRACON II Amiga.  Los Angeles
(LAX.SEC) is the default sector for the program.

Boston          BOS.SEC           London         LON.SEC
Miami           MIA.SEC           Munich         MUN.SEC
San Francisco   SFO.SEC           Paris          PAR.SEC
Chicago         ORD.SEC           Amsterdam      AMS.SEC

THE END