Treasure of the Savage Frontier JOURNAL ENTRIES

Journal Entry 1

(not included! [RYGAR])

Journal Entry 2

        The leader of men, wrapped in thick furs, faces you, arms
raised. As he prepares to speak, many Northmen and smaller Ice
Hunders push behind you.

"I am Bjorn, Son of Bjorn, Chief of this village," he begins.


Journal Entry 3

        "The Lord's Men have broken throught the wall of the southeast
tower and into the dwarves' stronghold. Lord Geildarr intends to surprise
Milzorr and the others and slay them while they sleep. You may be able to
reach the area throught the tower, or from the north throught the dwarven
fortress.

"If the trap works and the dwarven leaders are ambushed, the rebellion will
be doomed! Good luck to you, and thanks for showing mercy on these helpless
enemies."


Journal Entry 4

        "Brave adventurers," he continues. "You are facing powers great and
evil, forces beyond your current means. You must fight hard and use every
resource of your strength and wits if you are to prevail. But there is hope."

Rabgar pauses to peer into the eyes of each member of the party. "I charge you
with a quest, the quest of the three dungeons. Succeed and you shall be the
stronger. Fail and your weakness shall be your downfall."

The old man's voice abruptly quiets, as he struggles to strighten his back
and stand fully upright. "Seek the dwarves throughout the land; hear what they
have to say. They are your friends. They shall direct you on your quest. And
when they cannot, let Silvanus be your guide!"

Rabgar stoops, grasping his stick for balance, then turns and wanders away.


Journal Entry 5

"Thank you for entering this battle and helping us against the Zhentil
invaders.

"We contol the area of Llorkh south of the river, as well as our ancient
stronghold. More dwarves are coming from the hills to help us, but more
Zhentarim stragglers from Ascore keep arriving, too.

"We need to wear down the Zhentarim before we attack the Keep and go after
Lord Geildarr himself. If we clear the rest of the town he will have to keep
sending soldiers and monsters to try to stop us, and soon the forces remaining
at the Keep will be weak enough for us to face them and regain our city."


Journal Entry 6

        We looked around us at the ring of Zhentarim solders, each with
a crossbow aimed squarely at our hears. Lord Geildarr pushed his way through
to face us, as sneer of satisfaction slicing across his twisted face.

"So," he taunted us, "the heroes of Ascore have arrived to rescue the dwarves!
Your trap has worked perfectly your majesty!"

Grazoun came forward, shaking his fist defiantly, while staying behind
Geildarr's robes. "The dwarves of Llorkh don't need your help! We have a
dwarven king again, and it is Kind Grazoun the Great!"

"Your majesty, I suggest that these bandits be thrown into your dungeon."
Geildarr's suggestion sounded like a command, and the soldiers pulled us
away even before the newly-named king could reply.


Journal Entry 7

        Sifting through the mess, we found one handwritten page that was still
partially legible. It held a reference to someone whose name ended with the
letters "amon," and something about his "foolish death on the horns of his own
brazen overconfidence."

Farther down the page were whate looked like directions to or from (we could
not tell which) a place far off to the East. Then, in another's writing,
scribbled hastily over the directions, was "gate Keep."

It was impossible to make out anything else.


Journal Entry 8

        Lying in front of us was the sketeton of a man, his leather armor torn
and scattered.

From the bloodstains on the floor we could see that this was no ancient
artifact. The corridor appeared to lead only to a storage area, but some poor
wretch had come this way and met a monster so fearsome that now only his
bones remained.


Journal Entry 9

        One man stands to speak. "I am the Big Fish in Cold Water. My people
are the Ice Hunters. Our leader, Bleak Sky at Morning, expects your coming.
He knows what you would know. Seek him. Go to IceWolf. Two of my people and two
Northmen await your arrival at the Northern dock. Go there. Hurry. The eveil
men in black robes are close behind."


Journal Entry 10

        "My name is arbarkas, and I am from a village called Windycliffs on
the Sword Coast. Recently both Windycliffs and Leilon were sacked by ruthless
buccaneers from Luskan, and much of the village lies in ruins.

"Swearing revenge on the cowards who burned my home, I set out to offer my
sevices to the Lords' Alliance. A group of volunteers was leaving Waterdeep
to come to Llorkh to help the dwarves, and I joined them in their mission.

"But no sooner did we arrive then we were ambushed by a force of men
and monsters. My companions were killed, and I was overpowered and taken
prisoner.

"Lord Geildarr himself questioned me. He was very disappointed to hear we
had just arrived and knew nothing of the dwarves' plans. He had just animated
that skeleton to kill me when you came in.

"I would be very careful to search all evenmies carefully for any kind of
crystal. I know not what the powers of these crystals may be, but they were
very careful to shatter them rather then let the stones call into our hands.
There are threee different colors and no single person is ever entrusted with
more then one."


Journal Entry 11

        Dear Friends,

Since you are reading this note I presume that you have won the battle for
Llorkh, and that Milzorr and his people are now free.

And, I suppose, if you're not reading this note you have died nobly in support
of a Good cause and are worthy of great honors as well.

But, to save time, I will deal only with what you are to do if you are still
alive. Please come see me in Secomber as soon as you can, for I will have more
information on the strange goings-on in the land.

Be prepared before travelling across the wilderness to Secomber. The snows
are coming early this year, and the roads are dangerous with the drifts make
travel slow. If the river starts to freeze the boat rental shops will not be
open, and you will be forced to march overland.

Erek and I await your arrival. I believe he is quite excited at the prospect
of being rude to you once more.

                        -Amelio Amanties of Secomber


Journal Entry 12

        The men in the small boar rowed away in a great hurry, and the crew 
began to run about the decks frantically, cursing at every step.

"What's going on?" we asked one sailor as he hurried by.

"Something's wrong at the docks 컴 there's fighting there. Have to swing
'round to the old pier!"

Our vessel slowly tacked northward, and an hour later we disembarked onto a
rickety, disintegrating dock. Around the town looks like an armed camp, with
soldiers running everywhere and worried looks on all the faces.


Journal Entry 13

        "Dear friends, I am glad you have returned to see me once again. I
have learned much since we last spoke.

"A renegade beholder from Zhentil Keep has established  a headquaters in
Port Llast. There it hopes to prepare a safe haven for a large number of its
hideous fellow monsters from across the Great Desert.

"They plan to go to the towns and cities of the Savage Frontier and
coordinate a renewed attempt by Zhentarim to overrun the region through
the Great Desert. We must find the beholder and stop this plan before it 
starts!"


Journal Entry 14

        "I believe, my lord, that the story might be true. The young man
appears to know nothing of the...."

Here Cortarra had stopped in the writing of her letter. What we would give to
learn the secrets it might have contained!


Journal Entry 15

        "I am Bjorn of the Sea. We Ice Hunters are setn to greet you. Do not
fight the Northmen 컴 it was a mistake to make them enemies. They believe you
have angered Tempus and will attack you. Seek our leader, Bleak Sky at Morning.
He knows the way."

Journal Entry 16

        The guards stopped us at the gates of Waterdeep and demanded to know
our business. Several had crossbows and looked nervous 컴 they had heard all
the talk to impending war and were ready to shed the blood of the first Luskan
spies they set eyes on.

"We're the Heroes of Ascore," we called out, "and we bear a letter for Lord
Piergeiron from the famous magic-user Amelior Amanitas of Secomber."

The guard Captain looked at us through narrow, suspicious eyes. "Let's see
this letter."

We handed him the envelope Amanitas had given us. "We don't know what
information it contains, but it is urgent that it reaches Lord Piergeiron."

The captain glanced at the letter, then signalled for a troop of his men to
escort us 컴 or to prevent us from escaping. "Follow me," he ordered. "We will
go directly to the castle."


Journal Entry 17

        "Sorry, but there was a big fire after the Zhentarim fought the
Heroes of Ascore here. Now we have to rebuild that whole northern section of
town 컴 no one's allowed to go that way.

"They say Vaalgamon himself burned his local headquarteres to keep it from
falling into our hands. He was afraid if we Loudwater city gueardsmen got
hold of his plans we'd have stopped the whole invasion even before he got
to Ascore!

"You knew the Heroes of Ascore fought here, too, didn't you? Before they
went up to Ascore, I mean. Had a pitched battle with an army of Zhentarim
force right here in these streets. We city guardsmen fought right beside them
I was on the front line, myself, for the final battle before the bridge.
Almost got the strike a blow at old Vaalgamon himself but then he turned and
ran!

"So when they tell you of the Heroes of Ascore, remember Loudwater, too. If
they were here they'd tell you, loud and clear. Without us city guardsmen they
might never had made it out of Loudwater!"


Journal Entry 18

A strong, young dwarf in ring mail of burnished copper stepped forward. "We are
in need. Our mind has been taken. All whome we send into the shaft then never
return. Their last, terrible screams reach our ears, but we know nothing more."


Journal Entry 19

        "I believe, my lord, that the the story might be true. The girl appears
to know nothing of the..."

Here Cortarra had stopped the writing of her letter. What we would give to
learn what secrets it might have contained!


Journal Entry 20

        A man in purple and blue robes at the head of the crowd opens his arms
wide and proclaims, "Our Heroes! We are free from the great snowmonster and his
minions!"

As the throng cheered, he came to each of us in turn and shook our hands. "I am
the ShearMaster, brother of Menaster, head of the Triumvirate of Fireshear, and
leader of this town. I and my people thank you."

A commotion swept through the crowd of newly-freed miners. "What of our friends
at the docks?" someone called out.

"Yes, you are right! We must go to the docs, to the west!" the ShearMaster
called out. "Free the docs from the great evil there! Hurry! Heroes of
Ascore, will you lead the way?"

The crowd quited and looked anxiously to us for a reply. Wighout hesitation, we
all nodded and shouted "To the docks!"


Journal Entry 21

        A portion of the note was soaked in blood and was illegible. The part
that remained read:

"...been prepared and are being sent south. We created a different one for
every mission in the plan, with coded names to make them easy to identify.
Our superstitious enemies will help us spread the instruc..."


Journal Entry 22

        Beneath his swirling red hair the man's face was covered with patterns
of tattoos. A dark shadow covered much of his forehead, and the lines across
his features seemed to change even as we watched.

For a moment the eternal smile of a down appeared, followed closely by the
image of tear falling from one eye. He carried a mask on a stick in one hand
but in contrast to his face, its features were completely plain and unadorned.

And, as a citizen of Farr Windward, he bore the bold red circle tattoo on his
left forearm.

"I am Ougo," he said, pumping each of our hands in greeting. "When I lived
in Neverwinter I was called Ougo the Strange." He smiled at us and winked.
"You know, I have a tattoo on my back depicting the mural on the
ceiling of the Temple of Oghma in Neverwinter!"

We all indicated how impressive this was, and, perhaps mercifully, Ougo
the strange let the matter drop without forcing us to admire this tattoo.

"Why is everyone outside so happy?" we asked.

"Because this is the house of Haalbok, and he just died this morning."

"That is so strange!" we exclaimed.

"Ah, how clever! I see you understand my point about being strange!" Ougo
the strangle said, smilling.

We all looked at each other, completely confused.

From the back row of the party came a single, soft voice. "I'm sorry, but I
don't understand. Why is everyone happy that Haalbok is dead?"

Ougo the Strangle nodded. "I will be happy to explain what your companions
already understand. Haalbok is now free from Farr Windward, so we celebrate for
him. Death is normal 컴 he has returned to normalcy. We are given everything
else in Farr Windward: Food clothing, entertainment.

"Freedom is the one thing we have to seek out for ourselves, and he has found
it! Let us celebrate!"


Journal Entry 23

        The bird crackled derisively as we stepped inside, and Erek slammed
the door in its face with a great swing of his massive right arm.

"Blasted bird." Erek told us. "You should ignore everything it says! Amanitas
tought it to discourage travelling merchants and welcome vistors. Now it
welcomes the merchants and chases away all his friends! How can anyone stand
a creature so stubborn and ill-tempered as that?

"Just this week I've been besieged by one loudmouthed man selling food dicing
contraptions, another with a book called 'You Can Improve Your Charisma!', and
a woman who said that for ten platinum pieces she would help me lose fifty
pounds by eating nothing but celery!

"Amanitas is in here. He's been waiting for you." Escorting us into the library
Erek grunted to indicate our arrival and stalked out of the room.


Jounal Entry 24

        "I am called Siulajia, and I was raised in the High Forest. My father,
Lezoul of the Great Oaks, protects groups of pilgrams who travel up the Unicorn
Run into the forest to pay homage to the Goddess Mielikki.

"One day, not long ago, I was hunting near the edge of the woods. I saw
something moving in the trees, and soon a tattered, ragtag party of orcs, men,
and ettins came beating through the underbrush. They were stragglers from the
battle at Ascore.

"I turned to slip away 컴 and ran right into the arms of a hill giant coming
the other way. He called to the others, and one, a man in a black cape, said
they should bring me along as a gift for Lord Geildarr. I feigned interest in
meeting him so they might let down their guard and allow me to escape.

"But my plan went wrong. When we arrived and Cortarra heard that I wanted to
meet Lord Geildarr, she became jealous and had me pplaced in chains. Instead
of making them let down their guard, my ruse had turned a pwerful sorceress
into an enemy! Why she didn't kill me on the spot I'll never know 컴 she seemed
fascinated with the work of my father.

"In any case, I am grateful to you all for rescuing me from the trap of my own
making."


Journal Entry 25

        "There are shops on the road that leads west to the docks. You may find
unusual items in some places, common ones elsewhere. An inn lies just west of
here.

"Be careful of locked doors here in town 컴 people have goods here they don't
want inspected. Some of the goods are bads, and some have thier own opinions
about being inspected." He chuckled at his little joke, and his breath smelled
like dead barnacles.

"You don't look like you're ready to take on the kinds of enemies you'll find
in Mintarn and Orlumbor, but when your party grows stronger come back to this
little down and you'll be able to book passage to go there. There are two docks
on the western end of town. Ships at the north one go to Mintarn, and the
southern ones go to Orlumbor. Get there by 6:00 in the morning to travel 컴
and whatever you do don't snoop around the docks after dark."

We thanked him and moved on, grateful for the chance once again take a deep
breath.


Journal Entry 26

        "It's you! It's your!" the guard told us, a delighted smile covering
his face. "You're the Heroes of Ascore!"

We admitted that we were in fact the celebrated adventurers.

"Amelio Amanitas, the great wizard from Secomber, was here looking for you only
days ago! He flew over this very sopt in a great ship suspended in the air from
waht looked like a gigantic, nulticolored balloon!

"He told us that if we saw the Heroes of Ascore we were to tell you to come see
him in Secomber, that your help was needed urgently once again, and that he nad
something important to give you!"

We all looked at each other the message in each pair of eyes was the same. It
was time to hurry to Secomber.


Journal Entry 27

        "I'm concerned that more and more warships flying the flag of Waterdeep
keep appearing in the harbor. These are not regular warships but sleep-hulled
galleys filled with warriors. I don't like it...don't like it at all!

"While you're here, steer clear of Farr Windward 컴 it's an exile colony
of the crazed, the obsessed and the misfits from the mainland. I detest having
it here on the island 컴 I'd like to open the games and let them all go home.
But after so many generations of treaties there is nothing I can do."

Journal Entry 28

        The soldier wore the distinctive uniform of Waterdeep. "You're here!" he
shouted, turning to the crowd. "Hey everyone, it's the Heroes of Ascore!" The
patrons broke out into spntaneous applause. Frankly, we were both embarrassed
and pleased with all the hoopla.

The soldier faced us once more. "We're the escort from Waterdeep. We were sent
to help guard the ambassadors from Neverwinter and Mirabar for the rest of the
journey. They're not here yet, but they are expected to arrive this evening.

"We'd heard you'd be coming with us 컴 this is such a thrill!"


Journal Entry 29

        "I've always been friendly to Waterdeep, and how do they repay me? They
send their soldiers to take over our docks!" The Tyrant paced madly, to and fro.

"They say they are protecting the Trackless Sea from the pirates, but there was
no pirate ships based here 컴 I've always seen to that! If they don't get out
now, I care not for the size of Waterdeep's navy 컴 I will declare war against
them and starngle them from the seas!"


Journal Entry 30

        The room seemed to be the bedroom of a farmhouse. All the furniture was
gone, and a line layer of straw on the floor was the only bed.

We thought it was strange taht they didn't take away our weapons, but then we
examined the door and the boards covering the windows. They were made of heavy
wood beld together by steel fittings and when we hacked at the door with our
swords we could hear guards on the opposite side laughing.

"Keep trying!" they called out. "By the time you carve your way through this
door the High Captains of Luskan will be sipping tea in the palaces of 
Waterdeep!"


Journal Entry 31

        "Whoa, that was a close call! I'm sure glad we came along!

"Malchor Harpell really is that the tower of Twilight, and I think he's 
probably safe there. But Krakens and hooligans from Luskan have taken over the
town.

"They have monsters locks in corrals at some of the local ranches. I hate to
think what they're planning to do with them!"


Journal Entry 32

        The robed man looked up for a moment suprised. "You are the Heroes of
Ascore!"

We nodded and said, "Yes."

His ancient eyes peered at us intently. "You have risen to great heights,
and all in the Northern Realms know of you heroism. But to climb still higher
you will first have to fall to great depths.

"The mountaintop of honor awaits you once again, but you will have to survive
to see it only if you are skillful and brave 컴 and if you remain loyal and
faithful to your cause.

"If you fear death do not go on, for it shall stalk your every step. If you
have doubts, if you are unsure of the rightness of your quest, do not go on,
for only through a unity of purpose and spirit you will survive."

We paid the old psychic, thanked him and departed, looking in each others'
eyes for the glint of undaunted determination he had said would bring us
through.

It was still there.


Journal Entry 33

        Guards in strange uniforms stepped up to inspect the party. "You may
stay in Farr Windward as long as you wish," they told us "but when you leave
none of the citizens may come with you.

"Farr Windward is maintained by the major cities of the Sword Coast as a
comunity for thoese who are unable to live with others in normal society. 
Please understand its importance and its benefits, and respect its rules.

"Remeber, the penalty for attempting to escape from Farr Windward 컴 or helping
others to escape 컴 is death!"


Journal Entry 34

        The dream seemed so real! The women pulled at the chains, twisting
something in the locks until they fell away and we were freed!"

They pulled us away through the water, swimming rapidly even as they dragged
our armored bodies with them. Their long hair undulated in the underwater
breeze, and they seemed to smile at us to show that everything would be all
right. Such a lovely dream this was!

Our precious air stayed tightly sealed within our lungs, but its life still
seeped away. As the darkness came rolling in like evening fog and covered the
last peacks of our consciousness, we looked up into the beautiful faces of
these women who carried us and smiled. If this was death by drowning, it was as
sweet a death as there could be....

We awakened, shivering, in a freezing cavern 컴 but we were still alive!

"Quick, get more blankets! They're still too cold!" The voice was that of
someone accustomed to command, and we opened our eyes to see a circle of faces
looking down at us in the dim torchlight.

As more blankets were wrapped around our trembling bodies, we realized that the
women were not a dream. Hair still wet, they stood side by side with the others,
peering at us with concern. Beside them were a group of elves.

"They'll be all right," the leader told them, seeing the same look in thier
eyes. "If you hadn't been there are the moment they fell in, they never would
of made it. You can see 컴 they can only breathe air."

"The didn't fall in. They were thrown in," responded one of the women. "They
were thrown in. With chains and locks. Thrown in off the pier."

"That's right," we told them and then proceeded to explain how the letter
givin to us by Amanitas had been switched with the incriminating note,
presumably while we were prisoners in Leilon.

"I knew we escaped from there too easily!" chimed in a voice from the back of
the party. "That was the whole point, to capture us and plant that letter to
discredit us with the Lords' Alliance!"

The elf leader nodded. "Even we elves of the sea, who avoid the problems of
the land whenever possible, have heard of the Heroes of Ascore. If you
enemies had simply slit your throats you would have been transformed into
martyred gods and inspired the Lords's Alliance to fight on. This plan was more
clever, becuase it was the leading city of the Lords' Alliance that sentenced
you to death!"

"We have no choice," we told them. "We must go back and defeat the evil plans
of our enemies. Only then will the Lords' Alliance know that we aren't
traitors!"

"Thanks to the Sirines of the Trackless Sea, you will have the chance," the
elf said smiling. We sturggled to our feet to thank them for saving our lives,
and there was much embracing among everyone.

"Sadly, the harbor is too we guarded for us to take you back the way you came,"
the sirines's leader told us after we had settled down to eat.

The elf nodded. "I agree. The only way out of these caverns by land is
full of danger, but it is just that 컴 the only way. One room here connects to
the passageways of an ancient dungeon outside of Waterdeep. We have blocked the
entrance, but you will be able to move the stone and pass through.

"The dungeon is inhabited by dangerous monsters, so please, rest here and
save your strength before you go." Warm broth was severd, and we passed
many hours sharing stories with the elves and sirines who had saved our lives.


Journal Entry 35

        "Those tattooed Kraken squid lovers, they'll suck you dry faster then
a snake in the great Desert in the noonday sun.

"And they don't want to pay the money they was offerin', neither. I
weren't gonna do it for less. And old Jasper, be my guess he weren't neither.
But he don't know they lowered the price yet.

"Maybe you oughta go an' chat with him. His ranch is right due east o'here.
Right across from the stables."


        We opened the hastily-scribbled note.
It read:

Kaarno 컴

Golozz the Greedy says he's going to toast you with his breath and eat you
for dinner tonite unless he gets the gold you promised him from that ship we
took off  Leilon! He's not joking! He could burn this whole village to the
ground at any moment!

You know how his moods are 컴 you can't use logic with him! I heard him roaring
through the walls last night while I tried to sleep!

Get him that gold, and fast!

        -Osalt



Journal Entry 37

"It's an invasion! Soldiers from Waterdeep have taken over the docks as a base
to fight the pirates!

"Why would they do this to the Tyrant? He's always fought the pirates of 
Luskan!

"You know, the Tyrant is fair and honest with the people of Mintarn, but he is
a Tyrant when it comes to keeping our island independent! There's talk of
war against Waterdeep!"


Journal Entry 38

        "The great lie you have just uncovered is a plan we have prepared for
some times, for just as our enemies have spied on us, we have spied on them.

"When we heard you had arrived in the city, we set the plan in motion 컴 with
the help  of the Heroes of Ascore we knew that we could finally succeed where
so many others had failed.

"My dear friend Ougo here organized the celebrations throughout the city,
knowing they would stretch the spy network to its fullest as they tried to
follow each small group. We knew that with the help you could find and eliminate
the two places we needed to destroy in order to free the city.

"But one more step remains in our plan, and we must take it now." He examined
the brand which was recovered from the spies's secret chamnber, did something
to it we couldn't see, then returned it.


Journal Entry 39

        "Strange-looking men in Waterdeep uniforms have been pilaging the
country side. I'm a veteran of the troll wars; I fought for Waterddeep for
twenty years. One look at this scurvy lot told me they're not from any army I
ever served in.

"The farmers around here have turned agains Waterdeep and the Lords' Alliance
becuase of the attacks. I went to a town meeting and tried to tell them it was
a trick, someone dressing up like soldiers.

"They thought I was a spy and threw me out. I'm lying there face-down in the
mud, and no sooner do they vanish back inside then I see the dirty pants-leg
of a Waterdeep uniform six inches from my face.

"The imposters dragged me down here to silence me permanently. If you hadn't
come along I;d have been monster food, sure as anything. Thank you, and
may help protect you on your quest!"


Journal Entry 40

        "Pirates have been attacking merchant ships up and down the coast, 
including those bound for my home in Gundariun. Many of our sailors were killed 
and a number of vessels lost.

"I started going to sea with the merchant ships 컴 against Father's wishes, of
course 컴 to try to find out what was going on. The last vesse I was on
reached Mintarn safely after fighting off two attacks, and I learned of this
supposed Waterdeep invasion."

She looked down at the dead guards. "This is the first time I've ever seen
soldiers from Waterdeep with tattoos of a purple squid on their arms!
These are Krakens!"


Journal Entry 41

        "I see you may be going west to the town of Farr Windward. It is on
the other side of a very long tunnel through the mountains 컴 so long that it
will take you days just to pass through it.

"Farr Windward itself is on a rocky peninsula on the western edge of the
island, atop high cliffs that make escape by the sea impossible, Guards
prevent the inhabitants from leaving through the tunnel.

"You can come and go as you wish, but remember that Farr Windward can be a
dangerous place, filled wiht the outcasts of every city on the Sword Coast, and
the descendents of past generation of outcasts.

"Each resident has a bright red cirle tattooed on his or her forearm. They may
never leave, and the penalty for assisting in an attempted escape is death."


Journal Entry 42

        No one must know of your prisoner's location 컴 or that such a person
even exists. If you are asked, say only several traitors to Luskan have been
arrested for spying on behalf of our enemies and that you have them under
guard. Anser NO question about the family of your prisoner.


Journal Entry 43

        He pulled his arm away quickly, but it was too late! Heated by some
form of magicle fire, the brand had left the telltale mark of Farr Windward
upon his arm.

"You cannot do this to me! This...This will never come off! I'm normal but
with this....No one will ever believe me!" He stood up and raced around the
room, screaming maniacally, "I'm normal! I'm normal! I'm normal!" over and
over again.


Journal Entry 44

        "Of course it's the fools from Triboar, and this time they've gone too
far!" shouted one man.

"Kidnapping the Waterbaron! This time it's no joke 컴 they're out to take us
over!" yelled another.

"It's all about gold, and their greed for nothing else! They want to control
trade all up and down the valley!"

"They're jealous becuase we're right on the Long Road and they're not, so
they get less trade then us! Now they want to take over Yartar and keep
everything for themselves!"


Journal Entry 45


        "What are you celebrating?" we asked a reveler.

"Haalbok is dead!" he replied, punctuating his remark with a flourish from his
wooden flute.

"Who was Haalbok?" we asked. "Did you really hate him that much?"

"No, you silly people! We all loved Haalbok! HE was one of the leading men in
the city! He was intelligent, kind, well balanced...and very normal!"

We were incredulous. "Then why are you celebrating?"

The man looked at us as if we were total idiots. "Is there not enough misery
in the world already? We do not pour water into a flood, or add oil to a fire
when it burns our neighbor's house. With miser why should our courise be
different?"


Journal Entry 46

        As you enter Triboar. follow an alley in the northwest area to the
farthest door. Knock 3 times and say "Northwaters." The men there have some very
important information for us. You are to gather that information and bring it
home so we can use it for planning our defense.


Journal Entry 47

        "Those blasted pirates almost go us that time!" the angry ship captain
told the Harbormaster. "If the wind hadn't shifted so we could run with the
current they'd have caught us for sure!

"I won't go out again until something's done! What's Haeromos thinking, huh?
That they'll get bored and go away?" He pounded his fist on the railing.
"These are rich waters for pirates 컴 and the fisherman never changes ports
when the fisk keep leaping on the deck!"

The Harbormaster nodded. "I thought that's what the out-of-towners were here
foor, the Heroes everyone flaps their lips about so much. Thought the first
Captain hired 'em straight from Waterdeep. Guess not, though."

The Captain grunted his disgust at what was being done.

"Shouldn't give up yet, though." the Harbormaster added, trying to sound
positive. "We should keep a look out. Maybe someone'll be along to help..."


Journal Entry 48

        A man stood beneath the arches on the far side of the room, looking
out to sea. We crossed to his side, looked down, and realized this was the top
of a high cliff. Far below us sharp rocks reached upwards from the shore,
looking like a thousand huge stone bayonets shoved handle-first into the sand.

The man wavered at the edge, as if about to jump. We jumped forward and pulled
him back, asking, "What's wrong? Whatever it is that troubles you, jumping to
your death is not the answer!"

"Nothing is wrong," he replied in a normal, even pleasant voice. "It's just
that every so often someone in Farr Windward jumps from the leap. No one has
jumped for quite a while, so someone has to step in and maintain normalcy. We
all have duties, obligations as citizens of Farr Windward, and I don't care
what they say on the mainland. Farr Windward is a place of normalcy."

We thought for a moment, then said, "Didn't you know? Someone jumped just
two days ago! Everyone's been talking abou it 컴 didn't you hear?"

Suddenly the man's face filled with relief. "Whew! I'm glad you told me!
Otherwise I'd have jumped and it would have been such a waste!"

He bid us farewell and walked away happily.


Journal Entry 49

        "Thank you for releasing me!" Redbeard exclaimed, massaging his wrists
after we had cut the tight ropes that held him.

"Thier leader was a bad one, he was. He'd have killed us all soon, once he'd
made sure he wouldn't need us.

"They called him Lord something or another, so he must have been an important
one, he was. He kept reciting how his plan was working so perfectly. He said
he was holding the southern flank, that forces from the Way Inn and Daggerford
would be sent north towards Waterdeep.

"Pirates would blockade Waterdeep, and none of its allies would help becuase
they all thought waterdeep was attacking its neighbors. Once the city was close
to starvation, he bragged that one morning he himself would march into Lord
Piergeiron's bedchamber and raise the man's head on a pike"

Redbeard looked around at the remains of the monsters and Zhentarim that
filled the room. "I s'pose Lord Piergeiron can sleep late this morning after
all."


Journal Entry 50

        The tall, barrel-chested man on the stage pronounced his commands, but
there was a starnge look in his eye. Or perhaps it was a look that wasn't in
his eye 컴 the gleam of life was somehow missing.

Yet everyone in the room  stood in rapt attention, including our party. There
was something about this man, his bearing or stature, that compelled us. He
gave detailed instrctions on the coming navel blockade of Waterdeep by the
combined fleets of Ruathym and Luskan, and we listened in forzen horror.

But somehow the words we were hearing and the man who delivered them did not
match. It was just a hunch, pure instinct at best, but could be be under the
control of someone else? This man looked nothing like a scurvy ally of Luskan.
Could he have been charmed by a magic-user, who pulled the once-powerful
puppet's strings from a relative safety offstage?


Journal Entry 51

        "The Zhentarim and their hideous monsters came rolling into town
like a tidal wave! My guards and citizens fought bravely, but we were
overwhelmed! I had to hide in here to escape certain death!"


Journal Entry 52

        "I am captain Redlet 컴 a name I acquired courtesy of a shark with
sharp teeth and a first made with a sharp tongue.

"You comin' along breakin' that spell is a brace of salt air in the morning!
I hate these Luskan Low Captains and their filmsy-robed magic men! I hate this
alliance!

"When those cursed pirates came here with their talk of conquering Waterdeep,
I didn't listen 컴 but the First Axe swallowed it like a marlin takes a bait.

"One again Luskan had what it wanted, the First Axe was the first Axed, and I
would up in the brig! With their threats against innocent hostages they
forced me to command the fleet, My fleet, to blockade Waterdeep!

"When I refused to order attacks on defenseless merchants, they had one of
those long robed daffodils from the Hosttower cast a spell on me to make me
say the words they wanted my men to hear.

"But that was then and this is Now! Now we have the Heroes of Ascore fighting
by our side! We'll send the scurvy lot o'them to blow bubbles with the fish in
Luskan Harbor!"



Journal Entry 53

        We are close to finding the Waterbaron! I know that he is being held
somewhere here in Triboar. How do these simpleminded fools think that they can
hide him for so long in this hayseed town?

The new areas in the Northwest part of town are suspicious, and I plan to search
them as soon as possible. The army of Triboar is growing, but still no match for
us. The Lord Protector is mad if he believes he can defeat us!



Journal Entry 54

        "The Zhentarim stormed into town with a great force of men and monsters,
and captured us before we could organize our resistance.

"We might have held out longer, but the duke turned and ran away! So much for
the man who claims to be descendant of that brave bow with a dagger who founded
this poor town.

"You should know that your movements were being watched from the momment
you entered town. Just as you launched your attack upon this stronghold, the
Zhentarim sent out messengers. They were to warn their allies at the Way Inn,
to the south, that you'd be coming. If you hurry to the edge of town perhaps you
can intercept them in time and still surpirse the enemies there!

"The south door to this room leads to the street. And come to any of our shops
when you return to Daggerford. We will make sure you are rewarded for your 
heroism!


Journal Entry 55

        The book is a history of Ruathym, with much about its early
days and founders. Many pagers are devoted to their leaders, who bore
the title "The First Axe." Rhaumon Bloodaxe is the first such kind
mentioned.

The early days of the island nation where turbluent, filled with frequent
wars against Luskan and other coastal cities.

One later chapter describes an old waterfront mansion, the original
residence of Bloodaxe. It tells a story that the long dead king has
never truly left the mansion, and that only loyal residents of Ruathym may
stay there safely.


Journal Entry 56

        We walked down the ship's gangplank and onto the pier. The Captain
and crew stood waiting there, heads hanging in shame.

The Harbormaster said, just loudly enough for us to hear, "It's a strange
day when the captain comes home in a rowboard and the passengers fight off
pirates and bring his ship back to port!"

The Captain kept his eyes on the warped planking of the ancient pier, saying
nothing.

Then the Harbormaster raised his voice to address the big crowd that was
gathering to see what was going on.

"The First Captain said Heroes would come to help PortLlast, and the did
not lie! Three cheers for the Heroes of Ascore! They have won a great victory
in our war to reclaim the Trackless Sea from the Pirates! Now, and forever,
they will be our Heroes too!"

As the crowd roared its approval, the Harbormaster leaned over to us and
whispered. "The First Captain hsas something for you. He lives in a mansion in
the southeast corner of town."


Journal Entry 57

        "The pirates have created much sadness and despair in Port Llast. They
have burned his temple 컴 you can see the scorch marks on that wall 컴 attacked
the merchant ships, and taken over the northernwest corner of the village.

"And we keep finding their little scraps of paper. 'You shall have good
fortune today', is all they ever say. What is the hidden code? For whome does
this have meaning?

"These papers of good fortune have brought us nothing but sorrow."


Journal Entry 58

        "Threee cheers for the Heroes of Ascore!" the Fat Man bellowed to
the crowd. They gave three great. lusty roars. "There!" he says, "The Heroes of
Ascore are still heroes here in Neverwinter!

"We hear your recent mission to Leilon went poorly, when our poor ambassador
disappeared. Messengers from Waterdeep said you were responsible for the 
kidnapping, but we didn't beleive it. Did we believe it, everyone?"

"Nooooo!" roared the crowd that filled the tavern.

"We've had messengers from Waterdeep tell us all sorts of crazy things. Big
cities confuse people, make them believe silly tales when they should be giving
the tale-teller a skeptical eye. No one here in Neverwinter tells tall tales, do
we everyone?"

"Nooooo!" the crowd cried once more, to the Fat Man's delight.

"But enough of this. I hear that you're here to find the kindappers and prove
to everyone that these stories were naught but poppycrock. You've come to the
right place! BaRKEEP! a round for my friends!"


Journal Entry 59

        "Froal said that you could save us, that you'd somehow defeat their
plans and rescue us! And now you've done it!

"As you now know, the Krakens captured the Neverwinter Ambassador Froal and
myself in Leilon. They imprisioned you and then purposely allowed you to escape.
How that furthered their plans I do not know, but they later brought us here
to Neverwinter and told us you had been blamed for our disappearance.

"The forces of the Lords' Alliance may have sccourned the countryside, but
never thought to search for us here in Froal's back yard. Before you arrived I
had begun to despair of ever being rescued.

"Froal himself is being held in one fo the other gardens 컴 he is a noble man
and must be rescued! I shall make my way to Lord Nasher and tell him of these
events. I am certain that a great reward awaits you when the last Ambassador is
saved!"


Journal Entry 60

        "My father, the Waterbaron, has been kidnapped! He is being held by
the Triboarians! They are mustering an army against us, becuase they thing
we will crumble like a sand castle before the rising tide!

"But they are wrong! I have assumed leadership in my father's absence, and we
will defend our homeland against Triboar! They will be made to pay for this!

"My father will be so proud!"


Journal Entry 61

        "Throughout the years of Fireshear," the dwarf continues. "We quit ones
have lived here, beneath the town, in and around this chamber. There are never
many of us, but we do know of the events and of the people above.

"The recent happenings are evil, and behind them is a very evil being. It is a
large spherical creature 컴 four of us saw it when it came, but only one of us
returned. The others remain stone-solid. like the bones of the mountains.

"The evil is a lard round monster, with many eyes 컴 and powers. A glow or a
twinkle, and our friends were stone. Others simply vanished or fell dead.

"Take care as you explore! The monster remains in Fireshear, near the docks. It
must be destroyed, or the town will become wholly evil, and we Quit Ones shall
be gone."


Journal Entry 62

        Skattered across the desk were several maps of the farmlands around
Waterdeep. A number of them had been crossed off, with notes such as "Burned"
and "Poisoned crops." Others were marked with a lard "X."

Another note was a list with only two entries:

More uniforms

Weapons  Force crests from Waterdeep



Journal Entry 63

        "The Waterbaron of Yartar has been kiddnaped, and we're being blamed by
his people! War will break out between our towns if we do not find out who
really commited this crime, becuase Yartar will attack us for something we
didn't do!

"If they attack we'll defend ourselves and save our city from conquest, but
we'd rather find the Waterbaron and avert a needless war.

"We need to find out who it is who wants Yartar and Triboar to fight and
destroy each other 컴 it is in their hands that we will find the Waterbaron!"


Journal Entry 64

        When he had solidified from the exploding black cloud that appeared
so suddenly beside us, he begain to speak.

"You have done very well, Heroes of Ascore! You have removed the Kraken slime
from the pond of Longsaddle. You have destroyed thier plans to house monsters
here for use in battles against Mirabar, Triboar, and Yartar.

"You have the gratitude of teh people of Longsaddle, and of all the Savage
Frontier!

"But you cannot rest, not yet! More Kraken and Zhentarim plots are still
unfolding!

"Soon the autumn meeting of the Council of Mirabar will be held in that
powerfull northern city. They will vote there on whether to support the
Waterdeep and the Lords' Alliance in the battles against Luskan.

"Without their help the tide of battle might turn against us, and the Krakens
are working mightily to show the Lords' Alliance as wak, corrupt, and
backstabbing. They hope that Luskan and Zhentarim allies will win, so that
together they will control the North.

"Only the Heroes of Ascore can uncover all their plans in time, then go to
Mirabar and present proof of the Kraken deceptions! May Helm guide you on your
way!"


Journal Entry 65

not here! -RYGAR

Journal Entry 66

        "Great adventurers! I have just now been recording your acts of
heroism while they are fresh in my memory. I shall transmit this letter to
all members of the Lords' Alliance, and your names shall right throughout the
Council Halls in the great City of Waterdeep!

"The deceptions of Luskan, the Krankens and the Zhentarim have been exposed, but
our victory is not yet certain.

"You may have heard stories of a great and powerful magical item, a Gem
created in ancient times to fight the great evils of its day. We know little more
of its powers and its history.

"My brother leads the miners of Fireshear. He has written to me of the Gem, and
may know more. You must seek him out.

"In no event can we allow our enemies to gain the Gem, for if the stories of the
ancients are true its power could crush our mightiest battlements."


Journal Entry 67

        "Long have we waited," the old man said, his words measured and
thoughtful. "From grandfather to father, from father to son, from generation
to generation, has the secret been passed. 600 years have we waited. And now you
have come."

The old man rises. He gestures to the rear of the room, to a door. "The way is
there. Long have we watched. Long has it waited. Through the door you must go.
Climb the steepest climbs; find the Lair of the Dragon. The ancient power you
seek is there, in the great cavern."


Journal Entry 68

        "The dwarves of Mirabar and their King thank you for your efforts
in saving our city" He bowed low, and descneded from his throne to arrroach
our party.

"But greater events still threaten us. You may have heard stories about a
magical Gem from ancient times, and the chance that it may be rediscovered.

"To the north and west of here lies The Ice Peak, a mountain that rises from
the freezing waters of the Trackless Sea. It was the ancieant home of the 
merciless white dragon named Freezefire, who terrified the Northern Realms
for Centuries.

"It was this magical Gem that was used to destroy Freezefire centuries ago,
although we have no record of how the deed was done. The powerful magic item
may still be there, awaiting adventurers with the strength and courage to come
find it in the barren wastes.

"It was the same dragon Freezefire that stole the treasure of our ansestors,
treasure that generations labored mightily to wrest from the hearts of so many
northern mountains.

"We are going to the Ice Peak to find the hoard of the White Dragon. We seek
the Gem to strengthen the Lords' Alliance, and to keep it from our enemies.
And we seek to recover the gold stolen from our ancestors.

"We hope that you, too, will choose to come to the Ice Peak, and help us in this
noble mission."


Journal Entry 69

        "Freezefire's lair, the Gem, the Heroes of Ascore have arrived before
we could find the way. All is wrong! I have failed! The masters will torture me
and never let me die!

"The Masters of Hellgate Keep, they sent us to stop you, they sent us to
retrieve the Gem. And now my group is lost, I am lost, and I have failed!" The
man slumps limply against a boulder in complete despair.


Journal Entry 70

        Raurym's massive jowls jiggled as he talked, and with every word
the chicken scraps stuck in his beard would dance in a macabre revue.

"You adventurers(chomp)have done a(chew)splendid job! Come feast with me!"
Raurym grabbed a dagger and used it to tear a chunk of meant from the roast
beside him before driving it point-first into the table.

We had already decided that the food did indeed look good, and sat down to
enjoy the meal.  After we had eaten our fill(which in ruaym's case was enough
to empty several local ranches)we retired through a hidden door in the back of
the room.

Seated in a plush chair in his comfortable study, Raurym told us, "Now that the
city is for sale for the moment, what are we going to do about the Gem?"

He reached into a large bowl beside his char and stuffed a fistful of candies
into his mouth. "If our enemies find it before we do, everything you've 
accomplished will be lost." Another mass os sticky candy entered his mouth,
some brightly colored pieces saving themselves from destruction by clinging to 
his thick, red beard.

"We think it is somewhere in the Ice Peak in the hoard of the long-dead
dragon Freezefire. Of course,(more candy) the Krakens almost certainly know as
much or more than we do.

"And the dwarves(more candy) they claim that Freezefire's hoard is really
theirs. Now,(more candy) that simply is not true! My great great grandfather,
Prejudge Raurym, himself, brought his own greath wealth norht when he moved
here, and the dragon stole it from him and his people!

"Now,(more candy)I would send an army to the Ice Peak now, but we still have to
defend Mirabar against raids by ogres and(more candy)orcs and ettins and so on.

"So, I'm afraid our hopes must rid with you." He reached for the bowl once more
and frowned to find it empty. Reaching beneath his chair, he withdrew a large
velvet bag from which he poured a stream of nuts and raisins.

"The gem must be recovered to ensure the safty of the north. When it comes to
the division of any treasure you may recover,(nuts and raisins)I will depend
upon your sense of honor."


Journal Entry 71

        "I have been successful in spreading the word amoung our people
that Triboar had no hand in my kidnapping. Thanks to you, the relations
between our towns are normal once again."

The Waterbaron laughed, the first time we'd ever seen him do so. "Of course
normal relations with the Triboar means that sometime this week a placard will
appear on the statue of me here in the town square. It will cover the
inscription and say 'Jilbo the Goatherder.'

We looked at each other, not sure whether or not to laugh.

"I suppose," said the Waterbaron, "that you have to be born here to appreciate
Yartar-Triboar humor."


Journal Entry 72

        "No sooner did I arrive in Ruathym than some fool pirate guards 
ambushed me. What was I thinking? Daydreaming about going home to Gundariun and
rock-climbing in all my favorite places, I suppose. In any event they came up
behind me, and I woke up with a big headache in a Luskan troop ship that brought
me here.

"I was just about to break free from these ropes when you came along, really."


Journal Entry 73

        The Lord Protector eyed us supiciously. "If you have come to demand our
surrender, you have severely miscalculated the mettle of the people of
Triboard!"

"Nothing could be farther from the truth, honorable Lord Protector," the
Waterbaron began, and then told the story of his kidnapping. We added details
as he went, confirming how the Krakens and their allies had tried to turn the
two towns against each other.

"Before my return to Yartar," the Waterbaron begain, "I shall transmit a
message to my son. He is to order my troops to search out every Kraken 
stronghold in the city, and inform the pupulace that the people of Triboar
are innocent of any hostile acts against Yartar. I shall remain here as your
hostage as proof of my good faith until you can see that all threats to
Triboar cease."

The Lord Protector strode forward and embraced his counterpart. "Our
towns have often been rivals in the past, but in the end you and I have always
had a bond of trust. No hostage is necessary. You word 컴 and the Heroes of
Ascore 컴 is good enough for me. I shall order our forces to hunt only for
the Krakens, and to help the people of Yartar in any way they can."

Bothe leaders turned to us and repeated their thanks. "Without you," they
said, "thousands of innocent people would of been killed in a useless war!"
We bowed and prepared to leave and continue our mission.


Journal Entry 74

        "It is good to see you all again. Since we last talked on Mintarn I
have learned so much.

"Ruathym is backing Luskan in its plan to blockade Waterdeep, despite the fact
that they are ancient enemies.

"Ruathym's power lies in its fleet,  one of the strongest on the Trackless Sea.
Captain Redleg is their commander. His men say he commands the fleet, but not
with his own voice 컴 he may be under someone's magical control.

"This is no empty threat. As powerful as Waterdeep is, it lives and dies by its
trade across the seas. If the combined fleets block the harbor and they lay
siege to the city gates, it is possible that even Lord Piergeiron's power would
be sufficient to save the city.

"We must go to Ruathym and find Captain Redleg. With or without his help, we
must break the Ruathym-Luskan alliance.


Journal Entry 75

        "They cam out of the hills and holes and mountains. Huge white furry
snow monsters. They brought white hounds from hell. They left at us in our
sleep, in our mining, in our business, in the very center of our city.
No mercy. No Mercy.

"They killed everyone. We could not stop them. And our leaders they carried
away. The ShearMaster gone. What will happen to Fireshear, to us..." With a
deep sigh the gnome's voice fails, and he is dead.


Journal Entry 76

        I have great news! The Heroes of Ascore were just here. They interceded
at the council just in time, exposed the Kraken plot to divide the Lords' 
Alliance, and unmasked their spies! The Krakens were posing as Neverwinter 
Representitives.

I have sent the Heroes on to you, with the hope that from there they will go
to the Ice Peak. Please give them every hopsitality. They may be the answer
for our quest for the Gem. I shall be along as soon as possible.


Journal Entry 77

        "The Ice Peak is a very dangerous place. and your enemies have
knowledge of your coming. You will arrive at the chief city, as fast as 
possible.

"Head east to the settlement called Bjorn's hold. His people care not for
Luskan, but watch for enemies everywhere.

"Next go North to the village of Icewolf. It is a town of genttle people, the
Ice Hunters, but Northmen also live there. If the stories are true, it is from
Icewolf that you will be able to set out in search of the Gem. Good luck!"

We climbed into a small boat, and minutes later they had rowed us out to a ship
waiting close to shore.


Journal Entry 78

        "It is said," one very old, leather-skinned Ice Hunter begain, "That the
Lair of the ancient Draong Freezefire was in the Peak above us. With his power
he held all in terror. In his heart he held great greed.

"It is also said that the dragon tormented the old city of Nimoar's Hold, now
known as Waterdeep. Then a man of great courage, Stramling the Wise, called
upon the magic of the land. He gathered to himself all great power and tempered
great evil with itself. He created The Gem.

"On a field in high summer, to his people Stramling presented this most
marvelous and magical Gem. High aloft he held it, and it gleamed in the 
sunlight. And this brought forth Freezefire, just as Stramling had desired.

"The beast swooped down upon the man, attacking him, striking him to the ground
with the great wind from its wings. It tore the Gem from Stramling's hands with 
its mighty claws. Off the dragon flew with its new treasure, to its lair high on
the Ice Peak.

"And there the dragon stayed. Upon no man or beast did Freezefire make evil 
again. The centuries past, and the story was forgotten. But somewhere deep 
within the Ice Peak lies the dragon with its hoard. And the Gem."


Journal Entry 79

        Unfolding the heavy paper, you see carefully written, gold script 
letters that read:

"Our time has come. Pick up their trail at Mirabar, and follow to the Ice
Peak. Let them lead you to the Gem, then take it! Be sure their bodies are 
burned, broken, and very dead. A quick return will ensure a great reward.
Failure will ensure death...death wirhout end."


Journal Entry 80

        We broke the shackles that held the man, and he thanked us with a
sense of urgency in his voice. "Be warned: Tranjer Rolsk in a very evil man.
He supports those in Luskan and their pirates. Stay away from him!

"We know why you are here and wish to help. You must seek our leader, Bleak
Sky at Morning. Hurry! Go East to Bjorn's Hold, then, from the North pier,
take a board North to Icewolf."

Journal Entry 81

        "I am Bahriit. Did you see my sign, my fine sign? IT is the finest
sign in all of Fireshear, don't you think?"

Tears rolled down his cheeks. "They killed my three apprentices, those
monsters! Did I help? No, I ran away. But they didn't find me! But they killed
my apprentices. They killed them all and I ran away and they killed them...."

"Did you see my sign? Isn't it lovely? No one else in Fireshear has such a
sign... so lovely...." He trailed off into repetitive gibberish, and 
reluctantly figure and moved on.

Journal Entry 82 & 83 are maps, i dont have them! [RYGAR]

End............
