        /--------------------------*----------------------------------\
       ;|                   PrOuDlY PrEsEnTs                          |,
        |                                                             |
       /                 FuLl EnGlIsH DoCs FoR:                        \
      :\                                                               /:
      . |             ->   TREBLE CHAMPIONS II   <-                   | .
        |                                                             | 
        \--------------------------*----------------------------------/       
        ;                                                             :

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS 

AMIGA: Switch on your Amiga and insert the game disk when the Amiga disk
prompt is displayed.

CONTROLS

Keyboard only. NOTE Ensure that the CAPS LOCK is off.

THE GAME 

Your career as a football club manager in treble champions2 will extend to a
maximum of 30 seasons. Your objective during this period is to win the 
Treble. The Premier league championship, the League Cup and the FA Cup.

The directors of your chosen club will expect steady progress to be made in
your challenge to win promotion to the premier league. At the end of each 
season your position as club manager will be reviewed by the directors. When
your future with the club will be decided. The priority of the directors is 
to win promotion to the premier league and if they decide that you are not
making progress quickly enough you may be sacked.

As a general guide you will be expected to win promotion from each of the
lower divisions within 3 seasons. You will automatically be sacked if you 
finish in the bottom two positions of the conference league.

When you have achieved promotion to the premier league. You can then start 
your challenge for the Treble and see how many trophies you can win for your
club during your 30 year career as club manager.

TREBLE CHAMPIONS II offers a choice of 3 skill levels and the option to start
from any of the 5 divisions - The Premier League, Divisions 1, 2 or 3 or the
Conference league.

THE ULTIMATE CHALLENGE IS TO WIN THE TREBLE ON SKILL LEVEL 3 STARTING FROM 
THE CONFERENCE LEAGUE.

After entering your name as manager and then entering your Team name, your 
team will be listed as team A in your chosen division. Use option EDIT from
the main menu to see if your chosen team is already listed. Press T to
search the 5 divisions, if your team is already listed simply select the team
reference, type in a new team name and press 0.

TIME MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

Each week you will have a limited time for club management. The number of
hours available is displayed on the Main Menu. Club Management Time is
adjusted as follows:

Arrange a Board Meeting    -4 Hours (i options)
Arrange a Bank Loan        -4 Hours (D Finance)
View Other Teams           -1 Hour (F Teams)
Offer for a Player         -2 Hours (F Teams)
Arrange Friendly Match     -2 Hours (P Friendly)
Negotiate Contract & Wages -1 Hour per offer (L Terms)
Special Training/Coaching  -1 - 5 Hours ( You Select)(J Coach)

MAIN MENU

Press the Ref. required A-R

EDIT-Press T to edit Team Names or P to edit your players names. Press the
Team or Player Ref., type in the new name and then press 0. You can only
enter a name for a reserve after he has been promoted to the first team
(see RESERVE PLAYERS).

MAIN LEAGUE-Only after you have played your first league fixture.

SQUAD-Squad details.
Players Ref: A-V
Status: P=Picked. S=Sub. 1 or 2= 1 or 2 match ban. I= Injured.
Player type: G=Goalkeeper. D=Defender. M=Midfield. F=Forward. Player Name:
Ability Rating 1 to 9 max.
Form/Fitness: 1 to 5 max.
Age: All players retire at 35.
Potential: Lists accumulated Potential points - see Option `coach
Goals Scored: Appearances: NOTE: Goals and appearances are only updated for
league and cup matches watched and will not include friendly matches.

FINANCE - interest on loans is variable and payable once a week. 

DATA - Confirms your skill level and difficulty level and your next FA cup
and/or league cup opponents, the division they play in and the match venue
(Home or Away or neutral), and details of any friendly matches arranged. The 
saved game number is also listed if you are playing from a previously saved
game.

TEAMS - To View the squad of any other Team, select the division required
and the Team Ref:

GAMES - Lists your next League or Cup fixture.

LEAGUES - League Tables for all Divisions.

OPTIONS - Select the option required by pressing the appropriate key.
Auto results - Switch on if you do not wish to list the full league results
after each match. (0=Off 1=On)
Results only - Switch on if you do not wish to watch your next match. Note:
You will always watch Friendlies and Cup Matches.
Save Game - You can save up to 3 seperate games onto your save game disk.
Game Speed - Press E to select the game speed for your matches from 1
(fastest) to 9 (slowest).
Board Meeting - Press F to call an extraordinary board meeting (You can call
2 meetings per season and you will need 4 hours management time to arrange
each meeting). This option calls on the Board of Directors to give you a
vote of confidence and is useful to asses the current feelings of the
board on your performance before the decisive vote at the end of the season.
Note: You will not be sacked as a result of these extraordinary meetings
( sacking will only occur at the end of the season), and you may find that
some Directors will have changed their view by the end of the season.
Your position in the League and the number of seasons you have played in a
particular division will be the important factors in the Boards decision.

COACH - Coaching and fitness Training. Coaching is applied to groups of 
players(ie. Defenders, Midfielders, Attackers), Younger players and 
reserves in your squad may have the potential to improve their ability rating
by upto 4 points. All players have potential points accumulated through
Coaching. When the potential points exceed a players current ability rating
his abilities will improve by 1. If after regular coaching there is no 
improvement on a player's potiential counter then he has already achieved
his maximum potiential. NOTE: Players with long term injuries may suffer 
with a loss of Ability which can be recovered through coaching, but this 
will not be possible with older players. Injured players will not benefit 
from Fitness training or coaching.

MEDICAL / DISCIPLINE - Booking = 3points. 12points = 2 Match Ban.

TERMS - Player Ref - Name, Ability; Age; Contract; Wage; Transfer list.

	Press O to place a player on the transfer list. You are more likely
to receive offers for players on the transfer list. Press F to remove a 
player from the transfer list.

Players contracts will range from 1 - 5 years.

Press N to negotiate a new contract and then press the player's ref. You 
can only negotiate a new contract when the players existing contract has
expired (IE. contract = 0).

RECORD - For a record of your clubs progress and details of the previous
Premier League Champions and FA Cup Winners.

CUP - Full cup draw and results for all completed FA Cup rounds.

GROUND - For details of your standing and seating capacity and current ticket
prices. Maximum = 40,000 seated and 20,000 standing. The optimum ticket 
prices will depend on your division, your league position, and your opponents
division and league position, and your ground facility rating. the higher
your your facility rating the more you can charge for your tickets 1 = lowest
rating 9 = highest rating. You should aim to improve your ground facilities 
as you progress through the divisions. A facility rating of 2 or 3 may be 
acceptable in division 3, but you may lose large numbers of spectators with 
the same facilites and the same ticket price in the higher divisions.

Press B to build addional seats and standing capacity or to improve your
ground facilities.

Press S once for each new block of 500 seats, press T for each new standing
terrace of 1000 or press V to convert standing into seats.

Press F to improve your ground rating facility rating. You can only improve
your ground facility rating by 1 grade per project, and you cannot start a new
building project until your current project has been completed. Press A to 
agree the project and confirm the number of weeks it will take to complete the 
work.

FRIENDLY - You can only arrange a friendly match during the first 5 weeks of 
the new season. You will need 2 hours of management time to arrange a
friendly. You may have some difficulty arranging a friendly with a team that 
is more than one division above you. Teams in your division will not play you
in a friendly once the season has commenced.

RESULTS - For a complete list of your results during the current season.

PLAY - To play your next fixture.

THE MATCH

After selecting your team and 2 subs you will be shown the program listing
the two teams and the subs. The Match Screen shows the Team strength's for
Goalkeepers, Defence, Midfield and Forwards and the total Team fitness level
plus a running record of match details showing the level of POSSESSION
(i.e Quality possession in and around the penalty area), the number of shots
at goal and goals scored.

HOLD DOWN THE X KEY DURING THE MATCH IF YOU WISH TO BRING ON A SUB. Enter the
Reference of the Player to come off and then enter the Reference of the player
to come on.

MATCH/GAME FACTORS: TOTAL ABILITY FOR GOALKEEPER, DEFENCE, MIDFIELD & FORWARDS
TOTAL FORM & FITNESS AND HOME ADVANTAGE.

Home advantage, overall team fitness and the strength of your midfield will be
important factors in the amount of possession you have and it's up to your
forwards to convert this possession into shots at goal and to score goals.
their ability to do this will depend on the strength of your opponents defence
and the ability of their goalkeeper.
 You can adjust the match speed by HOLDING DOWN THE F(faster) OR THE S(slower)
KEYS DURING THE MATCH. 1 = Fastest
            9 = Slowest

You can select any team from your squad of 22 players and any formation, but it
is important to select a balanced team. A team with a significant advantage in
fitness will be stronger, particularly in the later stages of the match.

After the match you you'll be shown the financial & attendance report. For home
matches this report will list the total attendance for seating and standing and
, where applicable the number of spectators locked out of the ground looking for
either seating or standing. This will indicate that you may have under-charged
for tickets or that your ground capacity is too small for your current division.

RESERVE PLAYERS - Reserves may have the potential to improve their ability
through coaching. If a reserve improves through coaching he is promoted to the
first team squad and you can enter his name under EDIT.

TRANSFERS - You cannot buy a player after the transfer deadline which will be
confirmed under the DATA options.

BUYING A PLAYER - You can only buy a player if you have RESERVE player of the 
same type in your squad. You will need atleast 3 hours of management time to 
buy a player. Find the player you want by using the OPTION "TEAMS" from the 
Main Menu. Select the division you wish to scout, then the team ref', and 
then press P and select the player's reference for his age, Skill/Ability 
rating and his estimated value. After buying a player remember to enter his 
name in the squad listing (EDIT).

SELLING A PLAYER - When you sell a player his place in the squad is taken by 
a reserve. You cannot sell reserves. Offers for injured players are likely 
to be well below their normal value.

MIDWEEK MATCHES - Include all FA Cup replays and all the league cup matches and 
replays, except the league cup final.

GENERAL NOTES - Non league teams do not play in the league cup. The FA cup 
starts in round 2. Rounds 1 & 2 and the semi-final of the league cup are 
played over 2 legs.

END OF SEASON - After the Cup final press R to start the end of season 
routine, but first ensure that the AUTO RESULTS is switched OFF under options
if you wish to see the final league tables and promotion and relogation 
details. At the end of each season the Club directors will vote on a motion
of confidence in your performance as manager. Their support for you will 
largely depend on your skill level, the number of the seasons you have played
in your current division and your final league position. These factors will
apply to all divisions except for the premier league. Once you have reached
the premier league, the directors decision on your future with the club will
mainly depend on your skill level and your final league position.

If you are sacked you must re-load to start a new game.

The top 2 teams in the division 1,2 and 3 will be promoted and the bottom 2
teams in the premier league, divisions 1 and 2 will be relegated. Only the 
top team from the conference league will be relegated. Teams finishing in 
18th position in the premier league and division 1 and 2 will go into the 
play-offs with the teams finishing 3rd, 4th, and 5th from divisions 1, 2
and 3 respectively. Play off matches are played over 2 legs(Home & Away). 
If your team is involved in the play-off matches you will play the first
leg of your first round match after the end of the season routine has listed
the final league tables, before the directors end of season vote.