          Here are the codes for TRIANGO!
         /------------------------------\

here are 16 outa 20 of the needed codes, if you boot and dont get one,
then by all means please do boot again...

letter   line   page  code
------   ----   ----  ----
  2       2      5     O
  4       2      10    Y
  2       5      21    L
  3       3      19    D
  1       2      6     T
  2       4      7     N
  4       3      5     L
  2       4      15    E
  3       2      7     R
  3       2      18    E
  1       2      13    T
  2       3      11    H
  1       4      9     C
  5       4      12    I
  1       4      8     W
  3       2      14    E


     Triango
     
     
     
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
     
     Introduction
     Getting Started
     User Interface
     Game Elements
     	TrianGO Board
     	Stones
     	Players
     How to Play
     	Object of the Game
     	Placing Stones
     	Creating Triangles
     	Capturing
     	Scoring
     	Three or Four Players
     Strategy
     Triango Menus
     	File
     		New Game
     		Save/Load Game
     		Save Log
     		Print Log
     		Quit
     	Edit
     		Edit Board
     		Change Sides
     		Undo Move
     		Hide Commands
     	Players
     	Options
     		Clear Score
     		Show Score
     		Print Move
     		Last Move
     		Sound Off
     		Hint
     Figures
     	1.  Two-Player Game Board
     	2.  Four-Player Game Board
     	3.  Placing Stones on Perimeters
     	4.  Numbered Points on the TrianGO Board
     
     Page 1
     
                                  INTRODUCTION
     
     Congratulations on your purchase of TrianGO.  You are about to experience a
     game that provides all the challenge and excitement of your favorite board
     games, but is new and unique.  TrianGO combines the mental stimulation
     ofchess and the strategic cunning required to play GO in a colorful,
     innovative game.
     
     In order to run the program, you will need to have your TrianGO user's
     manual on hand whenever you boot up the TrianGO program.  It is, therefore,
     very important that you DO NOT LOSE YOUR TrianGO USER'S MANUAL.
     
     When you boot up the TrianGO program, a dialog box will appear asking a
     question in reference to the manual.  You will have to refer to your user's
     manual in order to answer this question correctly.  If you fail to answer
     correctly, another dialog box will appear to give you a second change to
     answer the question. Failure to answer the question correctly a second 
     time will end the TrianGO program and send  you back to the computer's
     operating system.
     
     The following pages explain the rules of this game and how to play it on
     your computer.  So turn on your computer, boot up the game, and enjoy
     hours of entertainment with TrianGO.
     
     Page 2
     
                                   GETTING STARTED
     
     Your TrianGO diskdette is not copy protected, so before playing TrianGO,
     make a back-up copy of the original diskette (see your computer owner's
     manual for instructions on how to do this).  Use your back-up copy when
     booting the game.
     
     To boot TrianGO:
     AMIGA:  Turn on your computer system with your KickStart disk (version
     1.2 or greater).  When the prompt appears to insert the WorkBench disk,
     put the TrianGO diskette in the drive. Your computer will load the TrianGO 
     program.
     
     Apple IIe/C/GS:  Put the TrianGO diskette in the disk drive.  Turn on your
     monitor and the computer.  Your computer will load the TrianGO program.
     
     Atari ST:  Place the TrianGO diskette in the your disk drive.  Turn on your
     computer.  When the desktop appears, double click on TRIANGO.PRG.  Your
     computer will load the TrianGO program.
     
     Commodore 64/128:  Turn on your computer system in the usual manner
     (if you have a C128, hold down the Commodore Key while turning on the
     computer.)  After the READY prompt appears, type:
     			LOAD "*",8,1
     and press RETURN.  Your computer wil load the TrianGO program.
     
     
     IBM PC & Compatibles:  Turn on your computer system using your DOS
     disk.  When the DOS prompt appears, put the TrianGO diskette in drive A. If
     you are not in drive A, switch to drive A, by typing A: and pressing ENTER.
     Then, type:
     					triango
       and press ENTER.  Your computer will load the TrianGO program.
     
     Macintosh:  Turn on your computer using the system diskette or hard disk. 
     Insert the TrianGO diskette into the disk drive and click on TrianGO.
     
     Page 3
     
                                   USER INTERFACE
     
     All moves in TrianGO are made by pointing with the cursor and selecting
     items on the screen.  To move your cursor, point and select.
     
     Atart ST, AMIGA, Apple IIGS, and Macintosh:  Use the mouse to move
     the cursor.  Press the mouse button to select.
     
     Commodore 64, Apple IIe/IIc:  Use the joystick to move the cursor.
     Press the joystick button to select -or- Use the cursor keys to move the
     cursor.  Press the RETURN key to select.
     
     IBM PC & Compatibles:
     When using the keyboard:
     Cursor keys:  	Moves the arrow
     Space Bar:	Selects an item indicated by the cursor.
     Enter Key:	Selects the default button (with thicker border) in dialog
     			boxes
     Ins Key:		Selects the OK button in dialog boxes
     Esc Key:		Cancels menu, dialog-box, and caputre operations
     Backspace Key:	Deletes a charcater in a filename
     C Key:		Performs a capture
     U Key:		Takes back a move (undo)
     L Key:		Allows you to see the last move
     H Key:		Allows you to get a hint from the computer
     When selecting commands from the menu bar or pull-down menus, select
     the capitalized letter or number.
     
     When using the joystick:
     -Use the joystick to move the cursor, and press the joystick button to
     select.
     
     When using the mouse:
     -Use the mouse to move the cursor.  Press the mouse button to select an
     item or to pull down menus from the menu bar.  Highlight the desired
     command and release the button to select.
     
     Page 4
     
                                    GAME ELEMENTS
     
                                    TrianGO Board
     
     TrianGO is played on a unique playing field which is
     different from that of any other board game (see figure 1).
     The perimeter, or outer edges of the playing field, is
     composed of 6 double lines.  The remainder of the 
     hexagon-shaped field is composed of 21 lines which cross 
     to form the many triangles that make the game of TrianGO
     so exciting.  The board contains 55 points (where the lines
     intersect) on which a player may place his stones.
     
                                       STONES
     
     The pieces in TrianGO are round, colored stones which are
     placed on the points of the playing field.  The stones in
     TrianGO are available in four colors.  The color of each
     stone is dependent on your computer's graphics capability.
     Each player begins the game with a total of 14 stones of a
     given color.  These stones are located in each player's box.
     Stones which are captured by a player during the game are 
     also placed in this box.
     
                                       PLAYERS
     
     The game of TrianGO can be played with up to four players.
     When playing TrianGO against a computer opponent, you
     may only have a two-player game.  When there are three or
     four players involved in a game, the screen is adusted to
     include these players (see figure 2).
     
     Page 5
     
     The order in which the players place their stones on the
     board (ie. who starts first) can be determined in the
     following ways:
     
     1.  While in edit mode (see Edit Board command), you
     can select one of the players to be the active player.  The
     last active player selected when you exit edit mode will be
     allowed to make the next move.
     
     2.  You may use the Change Sides command to change
     the order of turns.  When playing against the computer, the
     default is for you to start the game.
     
     Regardless of the order chosen, turns will always alternate 
     in a clockwise direction.
     
     As mentioned before, you can play against the computer,
     or against one, two, or three players.  when you play
     against the computer, you will have the option of choosing
     one of five skill levels for your computer opponent. These
     levels, listed in ascending order of difficutly, include:
     Novice, Intermediate, Expert, Master, and Grand Master
     Computer.  The more difficult the skill level chosen, the
     longer the computer will take in making a move.  For
     example, if you are playing the computer at the Grand
     Master level, the computer, on its turn, will take a few
     minutes to evaluate its possible moves.  If you don't want
     to wait for the computer, you can use the CONTROL key
     to force the computer to make amove.  When you press
     the CONTROL key, wait a while, until the computer
     finishes the current evalution of one of its possible moves
     and makes its move on the board.  Note, that if you do
     interrupt the computer, it will make its move based on the 
     information it evaluated before the interruption.
     
     Page 6
     
                                     HOW TO PLAY
     
     TrianGO is played by placing stones on the empty points of
     the playing field.  Play begins with an empty board.
     
     The first player begins by placing astone (from the upper 
     right box as the default) on any point on the board.  The
     second player (counting turns in a clockwise direction)
     places a stone next, and play continues with players
     alternately placing stones on unoccupied points on the
     board or capturing stones.  Stones are placed on the board
     in an attempt to create triangles and capture opponents'
     stones.
     
                                 OBJECT OF THE GAME
     
     The object of the game of TrianGO is to be the last player
     able to make a move.
     
                                   PLACING STONES
     
     To place a stone in TrianGO, select the appropriate
     unoccupied point on the playing board.  When a point is
     selected, the player's stone will appear on that point.  The
     top stone on each player's stack will be highlighted as it is
     about to come into play.
     
     The following rules apply when placing stones on the board:
     
     1.  You can place a stone only on an unoccupied point.
     Page 7
     
     2.  You may not place your stones on all three points of a
     perimeter (marked by double lines).  You may place
     stones on both or one of the end points of the perimeter, or
     only on the center point (see figure 3).
     
     3.  You may have a maximum of six stones in total on all
     points of the perimeters.  If you try to place a stone on a
     perimeter, and you already have six stones placed on the 
     perimeteres, the stone will not be placed, and you
     computer will beep.
     
     Once a stone has been placed on the playing field, it may 
     not be moved.  The only way a stone will be moved is if a
     caputre is involved (see chapter on Capturing).  If a player 
     makes a capture, all of the player's stones which were in
     that triangle are retrieved.  They can then be brought back
     into play.  Any of an opponent's stones that have been
     captured by a player are permanently out of the game.
     
                                 CREATING TRIANGLES
     
     A triangle is created when one player's stones are
     positioned on three points (the corners of the triangle) that
     can be connected with straight lines (the borders of the
     triangle) which contain one or more points.  A triangle must
     contain a minimum of six points.
     
     There are two types of triangles that can be created in
     TrianGO. These are empty and full triangles.
     Page 8
     
     Empty triangles don't contain any of an opponent's
     stones (but they may contain a player's stones). An empty
     triangle creates territory that is controlled by the player
     who formed that triangle.
     
     A full triangle contains one or more of an opponent's
     stones. Only a full triangle can be removed (captured)
     from the board.
     
     TrianGO provides you with the feature of outlining
     triangles that have been created.  If there is an opponent's
     stone within a triangle, the triangle is sahded to show that 
     it is a full triangle. The outlining and shading of triangles
     matches the color of the player's stones. In the situation
     where two or more triangles overlap, the colors will merge
     to create a shaded area thatshows where the two
     triangles overlap.  After a triangle has been captured, the
     outlining or shading will disappear (see also Hide
     commands.).
     
                                      CAPTURING
     
     When you create a triangle which has an opponent's
     stone(s) within it or on its borders, you have the option of
     capturing all the stones contained in that triangle.  On each
     subsequent turn, the CAPTURE button will appear on the
     screen. This sign will tell you that you have the choice of
     Page 9
     
     capturing the triangle or placing another stone.  (The only
     time you will be forced to capture is if you have no more
     stones to place.)  If you continue to place stones, you can
     create more than one full triangle, and the CAPTURE
     button will continue to appear until all your full triangles
     disappear.  The triangle can disappear in two ways:  you
     make a capture that removes the triangle from the board,
     or your opponent makes a capture that removes one or
     more of the three stones on the corners of your triangle.
     
     If you choose to caputre, select the CAPTURE button.  If
     you have only one full triangle, it will be automatically
     removed from the board.  If you have two or more triangles
     on the board which contain an opponent's stone, you
     must indicate which triangle to capture.  This is done by
     selecting enough corner stones which make up the
     desired triangle, such that the triangle is differentiated
     from your other full triangles.
     
     A capture is treated asa turn in TrianGO.  When a caputre
     is made, the player removes all of his, as well as his
     opponent's stones from within the triangle and along the 
     borders of the triangle.  The player's stones that were
     recovered can then be reused in play.  The opponent's
     stones that have been captured are out of the game.
     Page 10
     
                                       SCORING
     
     Players continue to place and capture stones until there is 
     only one player able to make a move.  The last player able 
     to make amove wins the game and receives one point.
     When a game is completed, a message will appear on the
     screen announcing the winner of the game.
     
     The number of stones that have been captured has no
     effect on scoring.  This is an important factor to remember
     when planning your TrianGO strategy.
     
     
                                THREE OR FOUR PLAYERS
     
     TrianGO allows up to four players per game (see figure 2).
     Each of these player's stones are displayed in a different
     shade or color.  when there are three players, the fourth
     player and the extra set of stones will not appear on the
     screen.
     
     The players decide among themselves which color of
     stones they will use and hwo will start first.  Then, using the
     Change Side (or Edit Board) command, they indicate to
     the computer which player (color) makes the first move.
     Page 11
     
     The three- or four-player game is played almost exactly
     like a two-player game (the computer is not involved in
     these games), but there is one difference.  During play in a
     two-player game, if a player runs out of stones, that player
     has lost.  In a game with more than two players, this is not
     always the case.  If, for example, the third player is outof
     stones, but still has an empty triangle on the baord, and an
     opponent places a stone within that triangle, the triangle
     can be captured on player three's turn.  The stones that are
     recovered from that capture can then be brought back into
     play.
     
     The winner is the last player who has a stone to place.
     
     When playing a game with more than two players, you may
     capture more than one player's stones within a triangle.
     Also, a game that involves more players concentrates
     more on capturing, because there are fewer opportunities
     to maintain safety along the edge once a player has a
     substantial lead in the game.
                                      STRATEGY
     
     Once you have learned to play the game of TrianGO, you
     will want to improve your playing strategy.  The following
     section offers a few suggestions to help you improve your
     playing strategy and to make TrianGO that much more fun
     to play.
     
      It is not always the best idea to capture full triangles too
     quickly.  when you capture a triangle, you weaken your
     board position.  If you have a large, full triangle which
     controls quite a bit of territory, you can fill it with stones,
     create other triangles, and at the same time control a
     majority of the board.
     
      When you have full triangles on the board (triangles
     which are eligible for capturing), it is often a good idea to
     fill these triangles with your stones.  When you do finally
     capture the triangle, you can recover more of your stones
     and have them availabe for further use in the game.
     
      Try to avoid placing stones in the center of the board on
     points which will not be occupied by your full triangles. the
     points in the center of the board are the weakest positions
     to place your stones.  Also, try to avoid creating triangles
     which will be destroyed when a capture takes place.
     
      Try to force your opponent to take full triangles as soon
     as possible. This is done by creating your own full triangles
     which contain the corner stones of your opponent's full
     triangles.
     Page 13
     
                                    TRIANGO MENUS
     
     The commands available in TrianGO are invoked through 
     the use of a number of pull down menus located at the top
     of the screen.  The commands are categorized by their
     functions, and each menu contains commands which
     relate to a different aspect of the game.
     
                                        FILE
     
     The File menu will display mainly commands which
     involve reading or writing informato to the disk.  When
     you select File, a pull down menu of these commands will
     appear.
     
                                      NEW GAME
     
     The New Game command will erase the current game,
     clear the board, and reset the stones for a new game.  You
     can selec this command at any time to start a new gaem. 
     If you are in the middle of the game at the time the New
     Game command is selected, a message will appear to
     ensure that you want to start a new game.  If you start a
     new game and do not save the current game, it is erased
     from the computer's memory. Note, that the New Game
     command must be selected after each completed game in
     order to start the next game.
     Page 14
     
                                   Save/Load Game
     
     The Save Game command will save the current game to
     the disk.  When Save Game is selected, a dialog box with
     the files of the current directory is displayed.  Enter the
     neew name or select a file name displayed in the directory
     to overwrite an existing file.  All moves that have been
     made in the current game as well as the score count of
     games played will be saved to the disk.  You can also use
     the Save Game command to save the current score, if you
     decide to change the number of players in the game.
     
     The Load Game command will load a previously saved
     game, including the saved score.  When a dialog box
     appears displaying the files of the current directory, select
     the file name for the game you would like to load.  Select
     OK to load the game.  Select Cancel to return to the current
     game.
     If you wish to keep the current score, select Cancel when
     the question "Restore saved score?" appears.
     
                                      SAVE LOG
     
     The Save Log command will save an ASCII file of all
     moves that have been made during the current game.
     When the Save Log command is selected, a dialog box
     appears displaying the files of the current directory. Enter
     the file name for the log you would like to save and select
     OK.
     Page 15
     
                                      PRINT LOG
     
     Selecting the Print Log command will print the current log.
     This log includes every move that has been made from the
     beginning to the present point in the game.  The log
     describes moves on the board using numbers.  These
     numbers correspond to points on the board shown in
     figure 4.  You may print a log of a game until you issue a
     New Game command. When you start a new game, a
     new log is begun.  If you want to cancel the Print Log
     command, select the Cancel box that appears on the
     screen during printing.  When using the Print Log
     command, you must remember to turn your printer on.
     
                                        QUIT
     
     The Quit command allows you to exit the program.  A
     dialog box will be displayed to confirm that you would like
     to quit.  Selecting OK will exit the program without saving
     the game.  Selecting SAVE (which only appears when the
     game is in progress) will save the current gaem and then
     exit the program.  Selecting CANCEL returns you to the
     current game.
     Page 16
     
                                        EDIT
     
     The Edit menu contains comands which edit the game
     and game board.  This includes editing before, during and
     after a game.
     
                                     EDIT BOARD
     
     Selecting the Edit Board command allows you to
     rearrange the positions of stones on the board as well as
     to indicate which player will start the game.  when you
     select this command, it is indicated by a check mark, and
     all CAPTURE buttons are displayed on the screen.
     
     The following rules apply when the Edit Board command is
     selected:
     
     1.  The top stone on the active player's stack will be
     highlighted.  The active player is the player who is most
     directly affected by the editing actions.  For example, you
     can manipulate the active player's stones on the board, or
     add to and/or subtract from the active player's store of
     captured stones.
     
     2.  In order to make a player active, use the cursor to select
     any stone on that player's stack.  If there are no more
     stones in the player's box, select the area of the box wher
     the stack is normally located.
     
     3.  To place an active player's stone on the board, use the
     cursor to select any valid point on the board.
     
     4.  Selecting a player'sstone on the board brings that stone
     back to his box.
     Page 17
     
     5.  Selecting an opponent's stone on the board captures
     this stone and removes it to the active player's box.
     
     6.  Selecting a captured stone in a player's box places this
     stone back in the respective opponent's box.
     
     7.  Selecting a captured stone in the opponent's box
     captures this stone to the active player's box.
     
     8.  Selecting the opponent's CAPTURE button moves the 
     active player's stone from his box to the opponent's box.
     
     9.  Selecting the active player's CAPTURE button,
     captures the player's full triangle (if any) from the board. If
     the active player has more than one full triangle on the
     baord he must select the triangle to capture by clicking on
     the corners of the desired triangle such that the triangle is
     differentiated from other full triangles on the board.
     
     10.  When exiting the Edit board command (this is done by
     selecting Edit Board again), the game will resume at the
     current board position, and the last active player is the
     one who makes the next move.
     
     The last rule can be used to choose which player starts
     first.  For example, if you're playing against the computer,
     and you want the computer to make the first move, select
     the Edit Board command, make the computer the active
     player by selecting its top stone, and exit the edit mode
     (see also the Change Sides command).
     Page 18
     
                                    CHANGE SIDES
     
     The Change Sides command is normally used when you
     are playing against a computer opponent.  When the
     Change Sides command is selected, the stones you were
     playing will be played by the computer, and the
     computer's stones are now yours.  In other words, if you
     were playing player 1's stones and you select Change
     Sides, you will now play player 2's stones.
     
     When playing against the computer, you can use Change
     Sides and Edit Board commands to indicate the player
     who starts first and the color he uses.  Below is a list of
     possible choices and the actions needed to implement
     those choices.
     
     1.  Player wishes to start first and wishes to play the box
     on the right side of the board:  This is the default for the
     game.  No further action is needed.
     
     2.  Player wishes the Computer to start first, playing the
     box on the right side of the board:  Use the Change Sides
     command to switch places with the computer.
     
     3.  Player wishes the Computer to start first, playing the
     box on the left side of the board:  Use the Edit Board
     command to select the top stone in the left-hand box and
     then exit edit mode.
     
     4.  Player wishes to start first, playing the left-hand box:
     Use the Edit Board command to select the top stone in
     the left-hand box.  Select the Change Sides command,
     and then exit the edit mode.
     Page 19
     
     The Change Sides command can also be used at the
     beginning of two-, three-, and four-player games to
     indicate the player who starts first.
     
                                      UNDO MOVE
     
     The Undo Move command allows you to back up the
     game, one step at a time, until the very beginning of the
     game.
     
     When you are playing against a computer opponent,
     selecting this command will remove the last stone that was
     placed by the computer as well as the last stone placed by
     you.
     
     When the Undo Move command is selected, the last stone
     to have been placed will be removed from the board and
     returned to the appropriate player's stack of stones.  If the
     last move is a capture, all stones that have been removed
     during the capture will be returne to their original positions
     on the board.  Each time you select the Undo Move
     command, a stone will be removed from the board (or
     stones will be returned to the board, if the last move was a
     capture), until you are returned to the beginning  of the
     game.
     
     Note, that is you Undo the last move of a completed game,
     the score for that game will be erased.  The score will
     return when a final move is made.
     Page 20
     
                                    Hide Commands
     
     The Hide commands are used to supress the display of
     players' triangles.  This means that when a triangle is
     created, both empty and full, the shading will not appear
     on the screen.  This adds an extra difficulty to the game,
     because the players must keep track of the triangles
     mentally without seeing them on the screen.
     
     There are four Hide commands available, one for each
     player.  The format of the Hide commands will look like
     this:
     
     				Hide (color/player)
     
     The color will correspond to the colors of the stones used
     by each player.  For example, if you select Hide Blue, the
     shadings for all triangles formed by the player using the
     blue stones will not appear on the board.
     
     Select the color for the player whose triangles you would
     like to hide.  You can hide the trianlges for all the players in
     the game, or for a selected few. When you are playing a
     two-player game, the Hide command will only hide the two
     colors being used.  The Hide commands for the third and
     fourth player will be dimmed.
     
     When any one of the Hide commands is selected, they are
     indicated with a check mark. To re-display triangles,
     select the appropriate command a second time.
     Page 21
     
                                       PLAYERS
     
     The Players menu contains the commands which allow
     you to choose the number of players for the game.  You
     may choose between playing against the computer or
     playing against one, two, or three human players.  The
     Players menu also contains the commands which
     determine the skill level at which the computer opponent
     will play.
     
     The first half of the Players menu contains the commands
     which determine who will play the game.  Select the
     Computer vs Player command when you want a computer
     opponent.  Select 2 Players when you want a two-person
     game.  Select the 3 Players comand when you want a
     three-person game, and select 4 Players when you want a
     four-player game.  When you select either the 3 Players
     command or the 4 Players command, the screen wil be
     adjusted to include the additional stacks of stones.  A
     check mark next to the command will indicate which
     command has been selected.  The first command,
     Computer vs Player, is the default.
     
     Note, that when you change the number of players, the
     computer will ask you if you want to clear the current
     score.  The current score it is referring to is the cumulative
     score total for games played so far.  Select OK to clear the
     current score count of games played.  If you want to save
     the current score count, you must save the current game
     using the Save Game command before changing the
     number of players.
     Page 22
     
     The second half of the Players menu contains the
     commands which tell the computer at what skill level to
     play.  The choices are: Novice Computer, Intermeditate
     Computer, Expert Computer, Master Computer, and
     Grand Master Computer, with Novice Computer being the
     least difficult and Grand Master Computer being the most
     difficult.  The command which has been selected will be
     marked with a check mark.
     
     Note, that the skill level chosen will affect not only the
     way in which the computer plays, but also the time the
     computer takes to make each move.  As the skill level
     increases, the computer will take longer to make each
     move.  For example, the Novice Computer opponent wil
     take a few seconds to make a move, while the Grand
     Master Computer opponent will take several minutes
     (response time also depends onthe type of computer).
     
     To force the computer to make a move, based on the
     information it has collected so far, press the CONTROL
     key and wait until the computer finishes its current
     evaluation and makes a move.
     Page 23
     
                                       OPTIONS
     
     The Options menu contains an assortment of different
     game options.   These options can be used to help you in
     playing the game, showing you the game standings, and
     in altering other aspects of the game.
     
                                     Clear Score
     
     TrianGO will automatically keep a running total of the
     number of games that have been won by each player. The
     Clear Score option, when selected, will return each
     player's score to zero.
     
     When you select the Clear Score option, a message will
     appear on the screen to confirm that you want to reset the
     scores to zero.  Select OK to confirm.  Select Cancel to
     return to the current game.
     
                                     Show Score
     
     When you select the Show Score option, a box will appear
     on the screen displaying the current scores. If there are
     only two players, there will only be two scores displayed.  If
     there are additional players, the score box will show the 
     scores for all players in the game.  Select the OK button to
     return to the current game.
     Page 24
     
                                     Print Move
     
     The Print Move option allows you to print a continuous log
     of a game, as it is played. This log describes moves on the
     board using numbers shown in figure 4.  When Print move
     has been selected, it is marked with a check mark.  This 
     option can be turned on or off at any time.
     
                                      Last Move
     
     The Last Move option allows you to see the last move
     made on the board.  This option can be useful when
     playing against the Master or Grand Master Computer
     opponent.
     
                                      Sound Off
     
     The Sound Off optin will turn the sound of the game on
     and off.  The default is to have the sound on.  When you
     select this option for the first time, the sound will be turned
     off.  A check mark next to this option will indicate that the
     sound has been turned off.  To turn the sound back on,
     select the Sound Off option a second time.
     Page 25
     
                                        HINT
     
     The Hint command allows you to get help from the
     computer as to the best moves that you should make,
     given the present board positions.  There are three levels
     of hints that you can use:  Expert Hint, Master Hint, and
     Grand Master Hint.  The quality of the hint improves as you
     move from Expert Hint (default level) to Grand Master
     Hint.  The time that the computer takes to give the hint
     increases as well.  Once you have selected the
     appropriate level of the hint, select the Hint command in
     order to view the hint that the computer suggests.
     
     Note, that you can use the CONTROL key in order to
     force the computer to give you a hint based on the
     information it evaluated before the interruption.  When you
     press the CONTROL key, you must wait until the computer
     finishes the current evaluation and blinks your stone in the
     suggested position on the board.
     
     Note, that the Hint comand can only be used in a
     "Computer vs Player" or a "2 Player" game.