                             TRINITY

                    The Illustrated Story of

                               The

                            ATOM BOMB

The Atom - Friend or Foe

	Within the tiny atom lies a tremendous power.  This power first
entered the modern world as a means of destruction, unleashing a terrible
fury on countless thousands.

	But like any great force, the atom can also be used to serve man.
Atomic power plants provide clean, dependable energy.  Nuclear-powered
submarines glide beneath the North Pole. Numerous lives are saved by
radiation treatment.  And radio-isotopes analyze soil, plants, and animals
to help increase food production around the world.

	How did we first harness this amazing power? Let's go back in time
to find out...

Atomic Facts: Stranger Than Fiction!

	If you wanted to make a necklace of atoms 25 inches long, and
strung them together at the rate of one atom per second, it would take over
200 years to complete the strand.

	A drop of water contains 6,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 atoms.

	There are 25,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 atoms in a breath of air.

	Atoms travel all around the world and even through outer space. 
With each breath you inhale atoms that were once a part of great men such
as Leonardo da Vinci, celestial objects such as Halley's Comet, and nuclear
explosions such as the Trinity Test.

                                2

The year is 1939. The free world watches with growing alarm as the shadow
of Nazi Germany spreads across Europe, led by the man who will one day be
known as History's Greatest Villain.

	"The Master Race will prevail!"  "Sieg Heil!" "Sieg Heil!"

In January, the great Danish physicist Niels Bohr comes to Washington, D.C.
"The Germans have split the atom!"  "My God!" "Incredible!"

"If Hitler builds an atom bomb, nothing will stop him!"  "The world will be
plunged into a thousand years of darkness!"

"We must be the first!"

                                3

The scientists draft an urgent letter to the president.  "We're unknown
immigrants! Roosevelt will never listen to us!"  "Will you sign our
letter?"

Albert Einstein

President Roosevelt decides to take immediate steps...  "This requires
action!"

...and not a moment too soon!  Pearl Harbor, Dec. 7, 1941.

The army appoints Colonel Leslie R. Groves, the man who built the Pentagon,
to head the atom bomb project.  "If you do the job right, it can win the
war!"  "We'll make you a Brigadier General!"

"It's my patriotic duty!" "I accept!" Top Secret - Manhattan Project.

                                4

On December 2, 1942, scientists at the University of Chicago, led by Enrico
Fermi, produce the world's first atomic chain reaction.  "The reaction is
self-sustaining!"  "It works!"  "Now we can make nuclear fuel for the
bomb!"

A secret laboratory is set up in the mountains of New Mexico to design and
build the new weapon.  "I'll get you anything you need.  Men! Money!
Materials!  Will you do it?"

Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer becomes director of Los Alamos.  "It's my
patriotic duty! I accept!"

                                5

Oppenheimer and his fellow scientists work long and hard to make the atom
bomb a reality.  "Plutonium will make a bigger explosion!"  "It'll never
work! Let's stick with uranium!"  "There's no time to argue! Try both!"

"Oppie, did you hear the news?"  "Not now, Kitty! We're so close!" [Berlin
falls, V.E. Day]

After two years, the bomb is almost ready.  "Here's an isolated place, but
we still need a code-name for the test."  "Let's call it..."

"...TRINITY!"

                                6

A 100-foot steel tower is erected in the New Mexico desert, miles from the
nearest town.  "What do they call this place anyway?"  "Jornada del Muerto"
-- the Journey of Death!"

The "gadget" is in a shack at the top of the tower.

Final assembly takes place in a deserted ranch house nearby.  "Hand me that
screwdriver."  "It'll never work!"

                                7

In the pre-dawn hours of July 16, 1945, V.I.P.'s from all over the country
gather on a hillside twenty miles from the tower.  "This suntan lotion will
protect us from atomic rays!"  "I must be alert.  The Russians will want a
detailed account."

The tension is almost unbearable.  "Zero minus twenty minutes!"  "Keep an
eye on him!"

"Four...three...two...one..."

ZERO!!! [clock reads 5:30:45]

                                8

[atom bomb explodes successfully]

"The war is over."

Truman and Churchill are jubilant with the news.  "The Japs will have no
choice but to surrender!"  "It's the second coming in wrath!"

"...and America will prevail!"

                                9

On August 6, 1945, an American B-29 bomber exacts a terrible vengeance on
the city of Hiroshima.  "Bomb away!"

"It...it's my patriotic duty."

Nagasaki meets the same fate three days later.  "I hear an airplane."

Truman addresses the world after V-J Day.  "It is a harnessing of the basic
power of the universe!"

                               10

But the American monopoly on A-bombs is short-lived.  "Ready to test,
Comrade!"  "Our spies did their job well!"  "It'll never work!"

American is shocked by the news.  "The world will be plunged into a
thousand years of darkness!"  "Our national security is in jeopardy!" 
[newspaper headlines: Reds Explode A-Bomb]

But Dr. Edward Teller is a man with a vision.  "If we find a way to fuse
hydrogen, we can build a super-bomb!"  "Impossible!"  "It would require a
temperature of millions of degrees."

"I can provide such temperatures!"

                               11

November 1, 1952, on a remote island in the South Pacific...  "It's all set
to go!"  "Let's get out of here!"  "It'll never work!"

...Teller's H-Bomb is born.

                               12

Today, underground tests help us to build more and better nuclear weapons. 
"Four...three...two...one..."

Our scientific know-how helps us to defend the free world behind an
orbiting "umbrella" of high technology.  "We could intercept and destroy
strategic ballistic missiles before they reached our own soil."  "We could
Intercept and destroy strategic ballistic missiles before they reached our
own soil."  "It'll never work!"

                               13

Now that America's new space defense system is in place, the entire planet
is safe from the threat of atomic war.  "It's Peter Pan, dear...'The boy
who would not grow up!'"

"Our children can live secure in the knowledge that these thousands and
thousands of obsolete missiles, built in the old days of mutual fear and
distrust, will never need to be used!"

The End.

                 Instruction Manual for Trinity

If you've never played Infocom's interactive fiction before, you should
read this entire instruction manual.

	If you're an experienced Infocom player, just read Section I: About
Trinity.

                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

Section I: About Trinity

Preface to the Story . . . . . . . . . . . Page 15
Some Recognized Verbs. . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
Sample Transcript and Map. . . . . . . . . . . .16
About the Author . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
Acknowledgements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
Bibliography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18

Section II: About Infocom's Interactive Fiction

An Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
	What is interactive fiction? 
	Moving around
	Turns and scoring

Starting and Stopping. . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
	"Booting Up" 
	Saving and Restoring 
	Quitting and Restarting 

Communicating with Infocom's Interactive
Fiction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
	Basic sentences 
	Complex sentences 
	Talking to characters in the story 
	Vocabulary limitations 
 
Special Commands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22

Tips for Novices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
	Eleven useful pointers about interactive fiction. 
 
Common Complaints. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24

We're Never Satisfied. . . . . . . . . . . . . .24

If You Have Technical Problems . . . . . . . . .24

Copyright and Warranty Information . . . . . . .25

Quick Reference Guide. . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
	This is a brief summary of the most important things to know about
interactive fiction. 

Section I: About Trinity

Preface to the Story

You're neither an adventurer nor a professional thrill-seeker.  You're
simply an American tourist in London, enjoying a relaxing stroll through
the famous Kensington Gardens.  When World War III starts and the city is
vaporized moments after the story begins, you have no hope of survival.

	Unless you enter another time, another place, another dimension.

	Escaping the destruction of London is not the end of your problems,
but rather the beginning of new, more bizarre riddles.  You'll find
yourself in an exotic world teeming with giant fly traps, strange
creatures, and other inconveniences.  Time and space will behave with their
own intricate and mischievous logic.  You'll visit fantastic places and
acquire curious objects as you seek to discover the logic behind your
newfound universe.

	And if you can figure out the pattern of events, you'll wind up in
the New Mexico desert, minutes before the culmination of the greatest
scientific experiment of all time: the world's first atomic explosion,
code-named Trinity.

                               15

Some Recognized Verbs 
 
This is only a partial list of the verbs that Trinity understands.  There
are many more.  Some of the verbs listed can be found in all Infocom
stories; others are included especially for Trinity. Remember that you can
use a variety of prepositions with them.  (For example, LOOK can become
LOOK  INSIDE, LOOK BEHIND, LOOK UNDER, LOOK THROUGH, LOOK AT, and so  on. 
 
ASK		EXAMINE	POUR	TOUCH
ATTACK		EXIT	PULL	UNFOLD
CLIMB		FILL	PUSH	UNLOCK
COUNT		FOLLOW	RAISE	UNSCREW
CUT		KNOCK	SHAKE	UNTIE
DIG		LIE	SHOW	WAKE
DRINK		LISTEN	SMELL
DROP		LOOK	STAND
EAT		OFFER	THROW
ENTER		OPEN	TIE

Sample Transcript and Map 
 
This transcript is not from Trinity, but it does show many of the typical
things you might use in the story.  It contains some simple puzzles and
their solutions, and will give you a good idea of how Infocom's interactive
fiction works. The player's sentences appear in capital letters after each
prompt (>).  The map represents the terrain in the sample transcript as you
might have drawn it.

                                      !------------!
                                      !   Pond     !
                            ----------!   Shore    !------
                                      !-----|------!
                                     / Down |
                                    /       |
                                   /   !-----------!
                                  /    ! Sunny     !
                                 /     ! Hill      !
                                /      !-----------!
                    !----------!
                    ! Pit      !
                    ! Bottom   !Table
                    !--|-------!
                       |in
                       |
                   !---|-------!
                   ! Garden    !
                   !-----------!
Sunny Hill

Here atop Sunny Hill, a great beech tree grows.  From the top of the tree
you can see old Mr. Langosy's farm to the west and your parents' farm to
the east.  But as you lie on your back under the copper-colored leaves, you
are oblivious to everything but the warm lazy breeze and a faint shout in
the distance.

>LISTEN TO THE SHOUT
You can hear your mother calling you, and your brothers, sisters, and
father, to lunch.

>GO EAST
You'll have to stand up first.

>STAND UP
Reluctantly, you get to your feet. A platypus crawls down out of the beech
tree and waddles hurriedly north.

>FOLLOW THE PLATYPUS
Pond Shore

You're standing by the southern shore of Berube Pond. You can ascend Sunny
Hill to the south, go to old Mr. Langosy's raspberry patch to the west, or
follow a path to your family's farmhouse to the east.

The platypus crawls down into a semi-hidden pit and disappears.

>LOOK IN THE PIT
It's dark as a new-moon night in the pit.  You can see only a few feet
down, but not the bottom of the pit.

>INVENTORY
You are empty-handed

>JUMP INTO THE PIT
You jump feet-first into the pit, and fall a few feet... ...and fall some
more... ...and some more... ...and some more... and finally land with a
slight "thud."

Pit Bottom
You're standing in a small round room.  A long dark passage above you
disappears into black nothingness.  In a corner of the room is a square
glass-topped table, and in the south wall is a tiny door, not more than 12
inches tall.

>OPEN THE DOOR
The door is locked.

>PUSH THE DOOR
The door won't budge.

                               16

>LOOK AT THE TABLE
The table is about 3 feet tall, with spindly wooden legs and a clear glass
top.  On the table is a white mushroom with a label attached.

>READ THE LABEL
The label says, "Eat me."

>SMELL THE MUSHROOM
It smells just like a white mushroom.

>EAT THE MUSHROOM
[taking the white mushroom first[

Despite warnings from...from someone (your sister? your mother?_ about
eating unfamiliar fungi, you take a tentative bite from the mushroom.  Then
you notice that the table is growing larger, and larger still.  The white
mushroom you're carrying gets heavier and heavier, and you notice that it
too is growing.  The door in the sough wall grows in height, and the room
itself seems to expand in every direction.  Suddenly, everything stops
growing (or perhaps you stop shrinking).  You notice that the door (which
is now slightly taller than you) has a keyhole.

>LOOK THROUGH THE KETHOLE
[This story doesn't recognize the word "kethole."]

>OOPS KEYHOLE
Through the keyhole, you can see a lovely garden on the other side of the
door.  Platypuses cavort happily on the lawns and in the pools.

>KNOCK ON THE DOOR
Still peering through the keyhole, you see a smiling platypus wearing a
party hat waddle over to the door.  "Hello," it says cheerfully.

>PLATYPUS, UNLOCK THE DOOR
"The key is on the table."  The platypus waddles away from the door.

>LOOK AT THE TABLE
The table looms over you like Everest over Hillary.  Way overhead, you see
a key through the glass, which you're sure wasn't there before.

>TAKE THE KEY
The key is out of reach.

>CLIMB THE TABLE
Don't let that Sir Hillary analogy get to your head.  The legs of the table
are too smooth and slippery.

>LOOK AROUND
Pit Bottom
You're standing in a small round room.  A long dark passage above you
disappears into black nothingness.  In a corner of the room is a square
glass-topped table which looms over you like Goliath over David.  Way
overhead, you see a key through the glass.  In the south wall is a closed
door.  In the shadows of another corner is a black mushroom

>TAKE THE BLACK MUSHROOM THEN EAT IT
taken

You take a timorous taste of the black mushroom  Then you notice that the
table is growing smaller, and smaller still.  The mushrooms you're carrying
get lighter and lighter, and you notice that they too are shrinking.  The
door in the south wall gets tinier and tinier, and the room itself seems to
contract in every direction.  Suddenly, everything seems to stop shrinking
(or perhaps you stop growing).

>TAKE THE KEY
Taken.

>EAT THE MUSHROOM
[Which mushroom do you mean, the white mushroom or the black mushroom?]

>WHITE
You take a confident chomp from the white mushroom.  As expected, the table
grows larger, the mushrooms get heavier, the door in the south wall grows,
and the room itself expands in every direction.  Eventually, everything
stops growing (or perhaps you stop shrinking).

>UNLOCK THE DOOR WITH THE KEY THEN OPEN THE DOOR
Okay, the door is now unlocked. You swing open the door.

>GO IN
Garden

As you enter the garden, platypuses start to file out the door, talking
excitedly to each other.  "Great party!  To bad you missed it!"  one
platypus mentions to you.  The last platypus turns off a light and closes
the door behind him, leaving you in the dark.

                               17

About the Author

"Professor" Brian moriarty built his first computer in the fifth grade. 
This early experience with electronics led him to seek a degree in English
Literature at Southeastern Massachusetts University, where he graduated in
1978.  He lives near the bridge in Historic Concord, is a member in good
standing of the National Hawthorne Society, and accepts full responsibility
for his previous Infocom title, Wishbringer.

Acknowledgements

The author wishes to thank Ferenc Szasz, Professor of History at the
University of New Mexico at Albuquerque, for his valuable advice and
assistance.

	Grateful acknowledgement is also made to Richard Ray and Loretta
Helling of the National Atomic Museum, Kirtland AFB; Bill Jack Rogers, Los
Alamos National Laboratory; and the Public Information Office of White
Sands Millile Range, whose cooperation helped to make this story possible.

	The photograph of the Trinity Site monument is by the author.

Bibliography

Curious readers may find the following materials of interest. [did not
list]

                               18

Section II: About Infocom's Interactive Fiction

An Overview

	Interactive fiction is a story in which you are the main character.
Your own thinking and imagination determine the actions of that character
and guide the story from start to finish.

	Each work of interactive fiction, such as Trinity, presents you
with a series of locations, items, characters, and events.  You can
interact with these in a variety of ways. To move from place to place, type
the direction you want to go.  The first time you find yourself in a new
region, it's a good idea to become familiar with your surroundings by
exploring the nearby rooms and reading each description carefully.  (You
may notice that Trinity occasionally refers to a location as a "room," even
if you are outdoors.)  As you explore, it is helpful to make a map of the
geography.

	An important element of interactive fiction is puzzle- solving. 
You should think of a locked door or a ferocious beast not as a permanent
obstacle, but merely as a puzzle to be tackled.  Solving puzzles will
frequently involve bringing a certain item with you, and then using it in
the proper way.

	In Trinity, time passes only in response to your input. You might
imagine a clock that ticks once for each sentence you type, and the story
progresses only at each tick.  Nothing happens  until you type a sentence
and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, so you can plan your turns as slowly
and carefully as you want. 

	To measure your progress, Trinity keeps track of your score.  You
may get points for solving puzzles, performing certain actions, or visiting
certain locations.  A perfect score is to be strived for, but of course
having fun is much more important.

Starting and Stopping 
 
Starting the Story:  To load Trinity, follow the instructions on the
Reference Card in your package. 

	After a brief introduction to the story, you'll see a description
of the Palace Gate, the opening location.  Then the prompt (>) will appear,
indicating that Trinity is waiting for your first command.

	Here's a quick exercise to help you get accustomed to  interacting
with Trinity.  Try the following command first: 
 
>GO NORTH              
 
Then press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.  Trinity will respond with:

Broad Walk

A brooding statue of Queen Victoria faces east, where the waters of the
Round Pond sparkle in the morning sun.  Peering between the perambulators,
you see Black Lion Gate far to the north, and Palace Gate to the south.

A sudden cloud of pigeons fills the air!  They circle overhead and
congregate around a nearby bench, where an aged woman is selling bags of
crumbs.

Then try:
  
>LOOK AT THE OLD WOMAN
 
After you press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, Trinity will respond:

You get the feeling that she's been selling crumbs on this same bench, year
after year, since well before you were born.  Her face is lined with care
for her feathered charges, who perch on her round shoulders without fear.
"Feed the hungry birds!" cries the bird woman.
 
Saving and restoring:  It will probably take you several days to complete
Trinity.  Using the SAVE feature, you can continue the  story at a later
time without having to start over from the  beginning, just as you can
place a bookmark in a book you are  reading. SAVE puts a "snapshot" of your
place in the story onto  another disk.  You should also save your place
before (or after) trying something dangerous or tricky.  That way, even if
you have gotten lost or "killed" in the story, you can return to your saved
position.
                               19
 
	To save your place in the story, type SAVE at the prompt  (>), and
then press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.  Then follow the instructions for
saving and restoring on your Reference Card.  Some computers require a
blank disk, initialized and formatted, for saves.  Using a disk with data
on it (not counting other Trinity saves) may result in the loss of that
data, depending on your computer.  You can save your position as often as
you like by using additional blank disks. 

 	You can restore a saved position any time you want. To do  so, type
RESTORE at the prompt (>), and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.  Then
follow the instructions on your Reference Card.  You can then continue the
story from the point where you  used the SAVE command. You can type LOOK
for a description of where you are.
 
Quitting and restarting:  If you want to start over from the  beginning,
type RESTART and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. (This is usually faster
than re-booting).  Just to make sure, Trinity will ask if you really want
to start over.  If you do, type Y for YES and press the RETURN (or ENTER)
key.

	If you want to stop entirely, type QUIT and press the RETURN (or
ENTER) key. Once again, Trinity will ask to make sure this is really what
you want to do. 
 
	Remember when you RESTART or QUIT: if you want to be able to return
to your current position, you must first use the SAVE command.

Communicating with Infocom's Interactive Fiction
 
In Trinity you type your sentence in plain English each time you see the
prompt (>). Trinity usually acts as if your sentence begins "I want
to.....," although you shouldn't actually type those words.  You can use
words like THE if you want, and you can use capital letters if you want;
Trinity doesn't care either way.

	When you finish typing a sentence, press the RETURN (or  ENTER)
key. Trinity will respond by telling you whether your  request is possible
at this point in the story, and what happened as a result. 

	Trinity recognizes your words by their first nine letters, and all
subsequent letters are ignored.  Therefore, DEMONSTRAte, DEMONSTRAtor, and
DEMONSTRAtion would all be treated as the same word by Trinity. 

	To move around, just type the desired direction.  You can  use the
eight compass directions: NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST,  NORTHEAST, NORTHWEST,
SOUTHEAST, and SOUTHWEST.  You can  abbreviate these to N, S, E, W, NE, NW,
SE, and SW, respectively.  You can use UP (or U) and DOWN (or D), IN and
OUT will also work in certain places. 

	Trinity understands many different kinds of sentences.  Here are
some examples. (Note that some of these items do not actually appear in
Trinity.) 
 
>WALK NORTH 
>DOWN 
>NE 
>GO UP
>GET THE LEDGER BOOK
>READ THE SIGN
>LOOK UNDER THE BED
>GO OUT
>POUR THE WATER INTO THE POT
>EXAMINE THE LARGE RED MACHINE
>PUSH THE BLACK BUTTON
>GIVE THE SHOE TO THE SALESMAN
>SHOOT THE ELEPHANT WITH THE GUN
>GIVE THE FLY TO THE FROG
>CLIMB THE FENCE
>JUMP INTO THE PIT

                               20
 
	You can use multiple objects with certain verbs if you  separate
them by the word AND or a comma.  Some examples: 
 
>TAKE THE BOOK AND KNIFE
>DROP THE YELLOW BALL, THE SPOTTED FROG, AND THE PEANUT
>PUT THE LADYBUG AND THE SPIDER IN THE JAR

	You can include several sentences on one input line if you 
separate them by the word THEN or by a period. (Each sentence  will still
cause time to pass.)  You don't need a period at the  end of the input
line.  For example, you could type all of the  following at once, before
pressing the RETURN (or ENTER) key: 
 
>READ THE SIGN. GO NORTH THEN TAKE THE CROWBAR AND MALLET 
 
If Trinity doesn't understand one of the sentences on your input line, or
if something unusual happens, it will ignore the rest of your input line
(see "Common Complaints" on page 23). 

The words IT and ALL can be very useful.  For example:

>TAKE THE APPLE. POLISH IT. PUT IT IN THE BOX
>CLOSE THE HEAVY METAL DOOR. LOCK IT
>TAKE THE SHOE. EMPTY IT. PUT IT ON
>TAKE ALL
>TAKE ALL EXCEPT THE WET EGG AND THE KEY
>TAKE ALL FROM CABINET
>DROP ALL BUT THE PENCIL

	The word ALL refers to every visible object, except those  inside
something else.  If there were an apple on the ground and an orange inside
a cabinet, TAKE ALL would take the apple but not the orange. 

	You will meet other people and creatures in Trinity.  You can
"talk" to some of these beings by typing their name, then a comma, then
whatever you want to say to them.  Here are some examples:

>LOIS, HELLO
>SALESMAN, TELL ME ABOUT THE PLATYPUS
>WILLY, PUT ON THE GLOVE THEN THROW THE BALL
>HARRY, TAKE THE GUN, SHOOT THE PENGUIN

Notice that in the last two examples, you are giving a person more than one
command on the same input line.  But remember: most people in the story
don't care for idle chatter.  Your deeds will speak louder than your words.

	There are three kinds of questions that Trinity understands: WHO IS
(someone), WHERE IS (something), and WHAT IS (something).  For example:

>MELVIN, WHO IS HOWARD?
>ANITA, WHERE IS THE MAP?
>OLD WOMAN, WHAT IS PLUTONIUM?

	Trinity tries to guess what you really mean when you don't give
enough information.  For example, if you say that you want to do something,
but not what you want to do it to or with, Trinity will sometimes decide
that there is only one possible object you could mean.  When it does so, it
will tell you.  For example:

>UNLOCK THE DOOR
(with the key)
The door is now unlocked

	If your command is ambiguous,  Trinity will ask what you really
mean.  You can answer most of these questions briefly by supplying the
missing information, rather than typing the entire input again.  You can do
this only at the very next prompt.  For example:

>CUT THE ROPE
What do you want to cut the rope with?
>THE KNIFE
As you cut the rope, you hear a loud crash in the tent.

or

>TAKE THE BUTTERFLY
Which butterfly do you mean, the delicate magenta butterfly or the fat
yellow butterfly? 
>DELICATE The delicate magenta butterfly flutters away as you reach for it.

	Trinity recognizes over 2000 words, nearly all that you are likely
to use in your commands.  However, Trinity uses many words in its
descriptions that it will not recognize in your commands.  For example, you
might read, "The full moon is bright and clean, and the wagons case eerie
shadows."  However, if Trinity doesn't recognize the words MOON or SHADOWS
in your input, you can assume they are not important to your completion of
the story, except to provide you with a more vivid description of where you
are or what is going on.  

                               21

Special Commands 
 
There are a number of commands which have special meanings. You can use
them over and over as needed.  Some count as a turn, others do not.  Type
the command after the prompt (>) and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.   
  
AGAIN - Trinity will respond as though you had exactly repeated your
previous command.  For instance, typing SHOOT THE MONSTER WITH THE LASER
GUN then typing AGAIN would be like shooting the monster twice in a row. 
You can abbreviate AGAIN to G. 
 
BRIEF - This tells Trinity to give you a full description of a  location
only the first time you enter a it.  On subsequent  visits, Trinity will
tell you only the name of the location and any objects present. This is how
Trinity will normally act, unless you tell it otherwise using the VERBOSE
or SUPERBRIEF commands. The SUPERBRIEF command tells Trinity to display
only the name of a place you have entered, even if you have never been
there before.  In this mode, Trinity will not even mention which objects
are present.  Of course, you can always get a description of your location,
and the items there, by typing LOOK.  In SUPERBRIEF mode, the blank line
between turns will be eliminated.  This mode is meant for players who
already very familiar with the geography.  The VERBOSE command tells
Trinity that you want a complete description of each location, and the
objects in it, every time you enter a location, even if you've been there
before.  
 
DIAGNOSE - Trinity will give you a brief report of your physical condition.

INVENTORY - Trinity will list what you are carrying.  You can  abbreviate
INVENTORY to I. 
 
LOOK - This tells Trinity to describe your location in full detail. You can
abbreviate LOOK to L. 
 
OOPS - If you accidentally mistype a word, such that Trinity doesn't
understand the word, you can correct yourself on the next line by typing
OOPS and the correct word.  Suppose for example, you typed TAKE THE CLUB
FROM THE GIAMT and were told "[I don't know the word 'giamt'.]" You could
type OOPS GIANT rather than retyping the entire sentence. 
 
QUIT - This lets you stop.  If you want to save your position  before
quitting, follow the instructions in "Starting and  Stopping" section on
page 18. You can abbreviate QUIT to Q. 
 
RESTART - This stops the story and starts it over from the  beginning. 
 
RESTORE - This restores a saved position made using the SAVE  command.  See
"Starting and Stopping" on page 18 for more  details. 
 
SAVE - This puts a "snapshot" of your current position onto a  storage
disk.  You can return to a saved position in the future  using the RESTORE
command.  See "Starting and Stopping" on page  18 for more details. 

SCORE - Trinity will show your current score.

SCRIPT - This command tells your printer to begin making a  transcript of
the story as you venture onwards. A transcript may aid your memory but is
not necessary.  It will work only on certain computers; read your Reference
Card for details.
 
SUPERBRIEF - See BRIEF above. 

TIME - This gives you the current time of day in the story.  In Trinity,
using this command does not advance the story's internal "clock".  You can
abbreviate TIME to T.
 
UNSCRIPT - This tells your printer to stop making a transcript. 
 
VERBOSE - See BRIEF above.  
 
VERSION - Trinity responds by showing you the release number and serial
number of your copy of the story.  Please include this  information if you
ever report a "bug" in the story.
 
WAIT - This will cause time in the story to pass.  Normally, between turns,
nothing happens in the story.  You could leave your computer, take a nap,
and return to find that nothing has  changed.  You can use WAIT to make
time pass in the story without doing anything.  For example, you can wait
for a specific time, or wait for an event to happen, etc. You can
abbreviate WAIT to Z. 

                               22

Tips for Novices 
 
1. Draw a map.  It should include each location, the directions connecting
it to adjoining locations, and any interesting objects there.  (See the
small sample map that goes along with the sample transcript on page 20.) 
Note there are 10 possible directions plus IN and OUT. 

2. Examine all objects you come across.  Most objects in the story that you
can pick up are important for solving one or more of the puzzles you'll run
into.

3.  Save your place often.  That way, if you mess up or get "killed," you
won't have to start over from the beginning.  See page 16 for instructions.

4.  Read the story carefully.  There are often clues in the descriptions of
locations and objects.  Even strange or dangerous actions may provide
clues, and might prove to be more fun!  You can always save your position
first if you want.  Here's a silly example:

>PUT THE SADDLE ON THE PONY
As you drop the heavy saddle onto the pony, the animal is crushed by the
weight, and it falls down, legs splayed.

Here you have a clue that you should find either a lighter saddle or a
sturdier horse.

5.  Unlike other "adventure games" you may have played, there are many
possible routes to the end of Trinity.  Some puzzles have more than one
solution; other puzzles don't need to be solved at all.  Sometimes you will
have to solve one puzzle in order to obtain the item(s) or information you
need to solve another puzzle.

6.  You may find it helpful to go through Trinity with another person. 
Different people may find different puzzles easy and can often complement
each other.

7. If you really have difficulty, you can order a hint booklet and a
complete map using the order form in your package.  You don't need this
booklet to enjoy the story, but it will make solving the puzzles easier.

8.  Read the sample transcript on page 20 to get a feel for how Infocom's
interactive fiction works.

9.  You can word a command in many different ways.  For example, if you
wanted to pick up a yellow hoop, you could type in any of the following:

>GET HOOP
>TAKE THE HOOP
>PICK UP THE YELLOW HOOP

If you type in a command that Trinity doesn't understand, try rephrasing
the command or using synonyms.  If Trinity still doesn't understand your
command, you are almost certainly trying something that is not important in
continuing your adventure.

                               23

Common Complaints 
 
Trinity will complain if you type a sentence that confuses it  completely,
and will then ignore the rest of the input line.  (Unusual events, such as
being attacked, may also cause Trinity to ignore the rest of the sentences
you typed, since the event may have changed your situation drastically.) 
Some of Trinity's complaints: 
 
THIS STORY DOESN'T RECOGNIZE THE WORD "__________".  The word you typed is
not in the story's vocabulary.  Sometimes using a synonym or rephrasing
will help.  If not, Trinity probably doesn't know the idea you were trying
to get across. 
 
THIS STORY CAN'T UNDERSTAND THE WORD "_______" WHEN YOU USE IT THAT WAY.
Trinity knows the word you typed, but couldn't use it in that sense. 
Usually this is because Trinity knows the word as a different part of
speech.  For example, if you typed PRESS THE LOWER BUTTON, you are using
LOWER  as an adjective, but Trinity might know LOWER only as a verb, as in
LOWER THE FLAG.

THERE AREN'T ENOUGH NOUNS IN THAT SENTENCE.  This usually means your
sentence was incomplete, such as EAT THE BLUE or PUT THE BOOK IN THE.
 
THERE WERE TOO MANY NOUNS IN THAT SENTENCE!  An example is PUT THE SOUP IN
THE BOWL WITH THE LADLE, which has three noun "phrases," one more than
Trinity can digest in a single action.  YOU CAN'T SEE ANY ________ HERE! 
The item you referred to is not accessible to you.  It may be somewhere
else, inside a closed  container, and so on. 
 
THE OTHER OBJECT(S) THAT YOU MENTIONED ISN'T (AREN'T) HERE.  You referred
to one or more items in the same sentence, some of which aren't present or
accessible.

YOU CAN'T REFER TO MORE THAN ONE OBJECT AT A TIME WITH "______."  You can
use multiple objects (that is, nouns or noun phrases separated by AND or a
comma) or the word ALL only with certain verbs.  Among the more useful of
these verbs are TAKE, DROP, and PUT.  An example of a verb that will not
work with multiple objects is  EXAMINE; you couldn't say EXAMINE ALL or
EXAMINE THE BOWL AND THE SWORD. 
 
THAT SENTENCE DIDN'T MAKE SENSE. PLEASE REWORD IT OR TRY SOMETHING ELSE. 
The sentence you typed may have been gibberish, such as TAKE ROPE WITH
READ.  Or, you may have typed a reasonable sentence but used a syntax that
Trinity does not recognize, such as WAVE OVER THE MOUNTAIN.  Try rephrasing
the sentence.

We're Never Satisfied 
 
Here at the Infocom, we take great pride in the quality of our stories. 
Even after they're "out the door," we're constantly improving, honing and
perfecting them.

	Your input is important.  No matter how much testing we  do, it
seems that some bugs never crawl into view until thousands of you begin
doing all those wild and crazy things to the story.  If you find a bug, or
if you think a certain puzzle was too hard or too easy, or if you have some
other suggestion, or if you'd just like to tell us your opinion of the
story, drop us a letter!  We love every excuse to stop working, and a
letter from you is just such an excuse!  Write to: 

	Infocom 
	125 CambridgePark Drive 
	Cambridge, MA  02140 
	Attn: OPPIE
  
If You Have Technical Problems 
 
You can call the Infocom Technical Support Team to report "bugs" and
technical problems, but not for hints to solve puzzles, at  (617) 576-3190.
If your disk develops a problem within 90 days  after purchase, we will
replace it at no charge.  Otherwise,  there is a replacement fee fo $5.00
(U.S. funds).  If you call to report a bug, please provide your version
number, which you can  find by typing VERSION.  Please return the
registration card from you Ballyhoo package if you'd like to be on our
mailing list and  receive our newsletter, The New Zork Times. 

Copyright and Warranty Information 
 
Limited Warranty 
 
This software product and the attached instructional materials  are sold
"AS IS", without warranty as to their performance.  The entire risk as to
the quality and performance of the computer  software program is assumed by
the user.  However, to the  original purchases of a disk prepared by
Infocom and carrying the Infocom label on the disk jacket, Infocom warrants
the medium on which the program is recorded to be free from defects in
materials and faulty workmanship under normal use and service for a period
of ninety (90) days from the date of purchase.  If during this  period a
defect on the medium should occur, the medium may be  returned to Infocom
or to an authorized Infocom dealer, and  Infocom will replace the medium
without charge to you.  Your sole and exclusive remedy in the event of a
defect is expressly  limited to replacement of the medium as provided
above.  This  warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may also
have  other rights which vary from state to state. 

 	N.B. After the warranty period, a defective Infocom disk may be
returned to Infocom with a check or money order for $5.00 U.S. funds for
replacement. 
 
Quick Reference Guide 
 
1. To start the story ("boot up"), see the separate Reference  Card in your
Trinity package. 
 
2. When you see the prompt (>) on your screen, Trinity is waiting for your
input.  There are four basic kinds of sentences or commands that Trinity
understands: 
 
A. Direction commands:  To move from place to place, just type the
direction you want to go: N (or NORTH), S, E, W, NE, NW, SE, SW, U (or UP),
D, IN, or OUT. 
 
B. Actions:  Just type what you want to do.  Some examples:  READ THE BOOK
or OPEN THE DOOR or LOOK THROUGH THE WINDOW or GIVE THE BALL TO THE CAT.
Once you're familiar with simple commands, you'll want to use more complex
sentences are described in "Communicating with Infocom's Interactive
Fiction" on page 19.
 
C. Commands given to other characters:  Talk to characters in the story by
typing their name, then a comma, then what you want to say to them.  For
example:  FRED, GIVE ME THE AXE or OLD MAN, HELLO.
 
D. Special commands: Some commands, such as INVENTORY or VERBOSE, give you
specific information or affect your output. A list of these appears in the
"Special Commands" section on page 21. 
 
3. After typing your input, you must press the RETURN (or ENTER) key before
Trinity will respond. 
 
4. Your location in the story is displayed at the top of your screen on a
special line called the status line.
 
5. You can pick up and carry many of the items you'll find in the story. 
For example, if you type TAKE THE FLASK, you will be  carrying it.  Type
INVENTORY to see a list of the items you are carrying.
 
6. When you want to stop, save your place for later, or  start over, read
"Starting and Stopping" section on page 18. 
 
7. If you have trouble, refer to the specific section of the  manual for
more detailed instructions. 

                               25

                          Trinity Site
                             Where 
                        The World's First
                         Nuclear Device
                         Was Exploded On
                          July 16, 1945

	"On that moment hung eternity.  Time stood still.  Space contracted
to a pinpoint.  It was as though the earth had opened and the skies split. 
One felt as though he had been privileged to witness the birth of the
world."  William L. Laurence, Eyewitness

            Interactive Fiction Reference Card for the 
 
                         COMMODORE AMIGA 
 
This booklet tells you how to run your Infocom story on your  computer, and
provides a few other handy bits of information. 
 
I.  What You Need 

Required: 

	Amiga computer  
	For Interactive Fiction PLUS only: A monitor that supports 
        an 80-column display, such as an RGB-type monitor. 
 
Optional: 

	256K memory expansion cartridge (for faster execution; 
        especially recommended for Interactive Fiction PLUS) 
	Extra 3-1/2 double-sided disks (for SAVEs)	 
	A second disk drive (for convenience with saves) 
	Compatible printer (for SCRIPTing) 
 
II.  Making a Backup Copy 

In accordance with the licensing agreement in your package, we  recommend
that you make a backup copy of the original story disk for your personal
use.  See your hardware manual for instructions on how to make disk copies.
Store your original disk in a safe  place and always start the story from
the backup. 
 
III.  Starting the Story 

Turn on the Amiga and wait for the Workbench to appear. Insert  the story
disk and open the disk icon into a window, then double- click on the story
icon. 

The story can also be started from within the Command Line  Interpreter
(CLI).  If the default drive and directory are not  the same as the
story's, they must first be changed with the "CD" command (for example, CD
DF1:) Then type in the story name. 
 
IV.  Talking to the Story 

Whenever you see the prompt (>), the story is waiting for your 
instructions. If you make a mistake, use the backspace key to  erase the
error.  When you have finished typing in your  instructions, press the
RETURN key.  The story will respond and  the prompt (>) will reappear. 

	If a description will not fit on a screen all at once,  "[MORE]"
will appear at the bottom of the screen.  After reading the screen, press
any key to see the rest of the description. 
 
V.   The Status Line 

At the top of the screen is a status line.  This line is updated after
every move to show your current position in the story.  Depending upon the
type of story, it may also show other  information. 
 
Score and Moves 
 
In stories that keep a score, such as the ZORK underground  adventures, the
right side of the status line will show something like this: 
	Score: 245/920 
The first number is your score and the second is the total number of moves
you have made.  In the example above, you have 245  points in 920 moves. 
 
Time 
 
In stories that keep track of the time, such as the mystery  thriller
DEADLINE, the right side of the status line will look  something like the
following: 
	Time: 9:22 a.m. 
This shows the current time of day in the story. 
 
VI.  SCRIPTing 

You can use the SCRIPT command to print out a transcript of your moves as
you go along.  SCRIPTing is an optional feature which is not necessary to
complete the story and may not be available with certain hardware. 
 
1.   Connect the printer to the appropriate port at the back of 
     the computer.  Use the Preferences tool (see Section IX) to
     make sure the system is configured correctly for your 
     printer. 

2.   Turn on the printer and make sure it's ready. 

3.   Type SCRIPT at the prompt (>) to start the transcript.  To 
     stop the transcript, type UNSCRIPT. 

4.   SCRIPT and UNSCRIPT may be used as often as desired. 
 
If a problem occurs with the printer, the story will "timeout"  (appear to
hang) for 30-seconds or so, then a printer error  message will appear.  If
you don't correct the problem before the 30 seconds are up, scripting is
automatically cancelled. 
 
VII.  Saving a Story Position 

You can save your current position in the story to any disk in  any drive,
space permitting. The save disk must not be write-  protected. No other
data on the save disk will be affected. 
 
1.   Type SAVE at the prompt (>).  A message will appear asking 
     you to choose a name for the save file. 

2.   If you want to SAVE to the story disk itself, just enter a 
     file name and press RETURN. 

3.   If you want to save to another disk, you must prefix the 
     file name with either the name of the second disk (e.g., 
     Saves:) or the name of the drive containing it (e.g., DF0:). 
     The prefix is needed even if the two disks were swapped 
     using a single drive.  If the save succeeds, the prefix 
     becomes the default prefix, and need not be typed again for
     the next save. 

     The disk drive will spin for several seconds. If all is 
     well, the story will respond: 
		OK 
	If it responds: 
		FAILED 
	consult the Troubleshooting section (see Section XI). 
 
	After saving your position, you may continue with the story.

     NOTE: The file "Icon.Data" is used to create icons for new 
     save files. If you delete this file, new save files will not
     have visible icons. 
 
VIII. Restoring a Saved Story Position 
 
You can return to a previously saved story position at any time.  Type
RESTORE at the prompt (>).  The most recently saved or  restored position
will be displayed as the default.  Then enter  the name of a save file, as
in Section VII. 

	If you want to return to the default position, you can just press
the RETURN key. 
 
IX.  Amiga Preferences 

Several aspects of the story presentation can be changed using  the Amiga
Preferences tool, including text size (60 or 80  columns, except for
Interactive Fiction PLUS, which requires 80  columns) and color.  The size
can be changed only before the  story is started.  You also use Preferences
to specify your type of printer and the port to which it is connected.  The
Amiga  supports both parallel and serial devices. 
 
X.  Memory Usage and Multi-tasking 
 
On a multi-tasking computer such as the Amiga, all tasks share  the
available memory.  Some tasks may require that a certain  amount of memory
be available to work correctly.  Also, actions  like opening and resizing
windows or loading a printer driver can use large blocks of memory. 

	When the Infocom story loads, it will normally leave a  minimum of
64 Kbytes (32 Kbytes for Interactive Fiction PLUS).   This can be changed
by starting the story from the CLI with a  special argument of the form
"F/n", where n is the new minimum  number of free bytes (for example,
Deadline F/32000). If you  supply an argument, memory use statistics will
be displayed when the story loads. 

	You may need to increase the amount of free memory if, for 
example, you are running several tasks and switching between them causes
the system to hang.  On the other hand, you can probably  decrease free
memory if you are running only the story.  This may reduce or eliminate
disk activity on versions of the Amiga with  limited memory. 
 
X.  Troubleshooting - Load, SAVE, RESTORE and Other Problems 

A. If the story fails to load properly, or SAVE/RESTORE or SCRIPT fails,
check each of the following items.  If none of these  offers a solution,
consult your Commodore dealer for assistance.

1.   Inspect all disks carefully for any visible damage. 

2.   For SAVEs, make sure the save disk is not write-protected 
     (the small opening in the corner of the disk should be 
     covered). 

3.   For SCRIPTing, make sure the printer is connected properly,
     enabled for printing, not out of paper, etc. 

4.   Try again; the problem may be only momentary.  If all else 
     fails, you can call the Infocom Technical hotline at (617) 
     576-3190.  Please note that this number is for technical 
     problems only, not hints. 
 
B.  If the story produces an error message, run the following 
    procedure: 
 
Restart the story.  When the initial screen appears, type $VERIFY and press
the RETURN key.  The disk drive will spin for a minute or so, and a message
similar to one of the following will appear:

1.  "DISK CORRECT".  The disk has not been damaged and the data  is intact.
 If you are having problems, they are most likely  hardware related.  It is
also possible that there is a bug in the program.  If you suspect that
there is a bug, call the Infocom  Technical Hotline. 
 
2. "DISK FAILED" or "DISK READ ERROR".  This reply indicates  either
hardware trouble or disk damage.  Repeat the $VERIFY  procedure several
times.  Also try the $VERIFY process on another computer (such as your
dealer's).  If the story ever replies  "DISK CORRECT", the problem is your
hardware.  

	If you repeatedly get a negative response on more than one 
computer, the disk has most likely been damaged.  Please send the disk only
to Infocom for testing and replacement.  

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================