                              SKID ROW

                              presents
   
                           TRUMP CASTLE II

                The Ultimate Casino Gambling Simulation

                            User's Manual

Contents
--------

Introduction ......................................... 1

Getting started ...................................... 2
        Requirements ................................. 2
        Loading ...................................... 2
        Starting the Program ......................... 2
        Input Devices ................................ 3
        Special Keys ................................. 3
        Help ......................................... 4
        Bankroll ..................................... 4

Playing the Game ..................................... 5
        Exit the casino .............................. 5
        Visit the cashier ............................ 6
        Visit the east hallway ....................... 6
        Visit the west hallway ....................... 6
        Read the hotel newspaper ..................... 6
        Save the game ................................ 6

The Games ............................................ 7
        Roulette ..................................... 7
        Craps ........................................ 9
        Blackjack ................................... 10
        Video Poker ................................. 13
        Baccarat .................................... 14
        Slot machine ................................ 16

|Page 1|

Introduction
------------

Welcome to TRUMP CASTLE II, the all new Ultimate Casino Gambling
Simulation by the fabulous Trump Castle Casino Resort by the Bay in
Atlantic City.  Enjoy all the glamour, games and thrills of trying
to capture a king's ransom - just as if you were really inside Trump
Castle.

Experience the super-charged atmosphere as you move about the
spectacular casino.  Catch conversations around the gaming tables and
explore the luxurious accommodations and facilities of this deluxe
resort by the bay.  Digitized photos, animation, plus realistic 
graphics and sound bring the kingsize excitement of Trump Castle
right to your computer screen.

TRUMP CASTLE II offers six popular gambling games - Baccarat, Blackjack,
Craps, Roulette, Video Poker, and Slots - each with multi-player
capabilities.  Enjoy simultaneous casino action for up to four players,
or practice strategies playing multiple hands.  Game play follows 
the rules and regulations of the New Jersey Casino Commission (except
Video Poker)*.

Your complimentary Trump Castle Gaming Guide is a handy reference on
the odds and payouts for your wagers.  Plus, you'll find a discount
coupon to stay at the Trump Castle Casino Resort - a valuable bonus,
good for your next visit to Atlantic City.

From the digitized photos, animation and sound to the realistic game
play, multi-player capabilities, free gaming guide and more - TRUMP
CASTLE II sets a new standard for casino computer programs.  So get
ready for unlimited excitement and fun.  Whatever your game, it's a
safe bet you'll love the challenge and thrills of TRUMP CASTLE II.  
Good Luck!

* These rules and regulations may change from time to time.  Always
confirm all rules in effect prior to actual gambling.

|Page 2|

Getting started
---------------

Requirements

In order to run Trump Castle II you will need the following equipment:

   o An Amiga 500, 1000, 2000, 2500 or 3000 computer
 
   o 1 megabyte of RAM

   o KickStart 1.2 or higher

NOTE: Please be sure you have the computer properly hooked up and are
familiar with its operation.  If there are questions about the
computer, please refer to your owner's manual.

Loading

Boot your Amiga as you normally would.  When you are asked to insert
the Workbench disk, insert Trump Castle II Disk 1.  If you have two
disk drives, insert Trump Castle II Disk 2 in drive DF1.

Starting the Program

Once loaded, the program will display an opening sequence.  At any 
point during the opening, press the SPACE BAR to start the game. 

Copy protection

After the program displays the opening sequence, you will be asked to
enter a word from the enclosed Trump Castle Gaming Guide.  Look under
the indicated heading in the gaming guide and type in the requested
word and press ENTER.

-= FUCK THAT... SKID ROW REMOVED THIS INCONVENIENCE =- 

Player's names

Before you start playing the games, you are asked to enter the names
of one to four players.  Enter the name for Player #1

|Page 3|

and press ENTER.  Continue for each player that is going to play.  After
you have entered all of the player's names, point at the GO ON button
on the lower right and press the mouse button.

Retrieve Saved Game

If you would like to load a previously saved game, press F1.  The names
of the most recently saved games will be listed.  Press the 
corresponding function key to load, or F10 to cancel.

Input Devices

The Trump Castle II program can use either the keyboard or mouse for
user input.

Keyboard:

If you prefer, you can use the keyboard to control some parts of the 
game.  

Each of the six games has options displayed on the screen.  Some of the
options have function key names next to them.  To activate one of these
options, press the corresponding function key.

Mouse

Move the cursor around the screen.  Press the left mouse button to
'click` on items.

Special keys

Below is a list of keys used throughout the program:

CTRL-ESC - Exit straight to operating system (doesn't save high score)
SPACE - highlight click area
F10 - show all click areas

|Page 4|

Help

On-line help is available in each of the six games.  To access the help
screen from within a game click on the Help box.  See the sections on
each game for more details on how to use the help screens.

Bankroll

Each time you start the game, you will have $1,000.  You can use this
money anywhere in the casino.  Use all of your gaming ability to
build upon this bankroll.  If you have one of the 10 highest bankrolls
when you quit the game, you will be added to the Top Ten list.

|Page 5|

Playing the Game
----------------

Trump Castle II uses a point and click interface.  Each screen in the
game has one or more areas that you can 'click`-on to select an option
or perform some type of action.  Also, many of the people in the program
have things to say.  By repeatedly pressing the SPACE BAR or right
mouse button you can highlight each area that is available on any given
screen.  Also, pressing F10 will show a box around each and every
available click area on the screen.

To select an area with a mouse, point at the area and press the button.
To select an area with the keyboard. press the SPACE BAR until the
desired area is shown, then press the ENTER key.

The first thing you will see after the opening sequence is the lobby.
From the lobby you can access any of the following options:

Exit the casino
Visit the cashier
Visit the east hallway
Visit the west hallway
Read the hotel newspaper
Save the game
Play roulette
Play craps
Play blackjack
Play poker
Play baccarat
Play slot machines

Descriptions of each option follow.

Exit the casino

Choose this option to leave the casino.  You will be downstairs
preparing to get the Trump Castle bus.  Choose the bus to leave the
game, then press Ctrl-Esc to exit to the operating system.

|Page 6|

Visit the cashier

If you run out of money, you can go to the change booth and receive
$1,000.

Visit the east hallway

You will be looking down the east hallway of the casino.  There are
several things here that you can take a look at, and rooms that you
can go into.  (Remember pressing the Space Bar or right mouse button
will show you everything that is available.)

Visit the west hallway

You will be looking down the west hallway of the casino.  There are
several things here that you can look at.

Read the hotel newspaper

You can scan through to see what is happening at the casino.  High scores
are always shown on Page 3.

Save the game

The program will show you the players' names and their bankroll amounts.
Enter a valid filename up to 8 characters in length and press ENTER.
The program will save the current game to that file.  The program can
only save ten games.  Each time you save a new game, the oldest 
previously saved game is erased.

|Page 7|
  
THE GAMES
---------

If you are not familiar with basic casino rules, please refer to the
Trump Castle Gaming Guide included in this package.  It explains
the basic rules for Blackjack, Roulette, Craps, Baccarat, and Slots.
Help is also available in each of the games.

By selecting a game you will go to that area of the casino.  You can see
what the other players have to say and then play the game.

Roulette
--------

After selecting roulette from the lobby, you will find yourself standing
from the lobby, you will find yourself standing around the roulette
table with several people.  Most of the people here have something to
say.  Use the space bar to see the different options that are available.
When you are ready to play, 'click` in the middle of the table.  Trump
Castle II offers two types of roulette, 0 and Double 0.  When asked,
choose the one that you want to play.  You will then be asked to select
the table minimum.

Placing bets 

The name of the current player, along with their chip color and bankroll
appears on the upper part of the screen.  Each player can take turns 
placing bets between each spin.  To switch the current player, either
'click` on the current player's name or press the F8 key.

With a mouse

Place the pointer over the table at the point at which you would like to
place your bet and 'click` the button.  A box will appear around the
selected spot.  Select the amount of the bet by 'clicking` on the chips
on the bottom of the screen.  The value of the chips are, from left to 
right, $1, $5, $25, $100, $500.  For example, to bet $55, 'click` twice 
on the $25 chip and once on the $5 chip.  Each chip is added to your bet
because the + on the bottom of the screen is highlighted.  To bet the
maximum allowable bet, 'click` on the Max box.  To bet the minimum 
allowable, 'click` on the Min box.  The total

|Page 8|

amount of the current bet is displayed on the lower righthand portion
of the screen.  Continue placing bets in this manner.

To reduce a bet, 'click` on the - box on the bottom of the screen.
Now, each time you 'click` on a chip, that amount is subtracted from
your bet.  Remember to 'click` on + when done subtracting.

When all bets are placed, 'click` on the Spin the Wheel box.

With the keyboard

A box surrounds the currently selected betting position.  Use the cursor
keys to move the box around the board.  Once the box is positioned
over the desired bet location, use the function keys to place the
chips down.  Each time you press a function key, the amount of that
chip is added to your bet because the + on the bottom of the screen
is highlighted.  The chips are, from left to right $1, $5, $25, $100,
$500.

To reduce a bet, press the - key on your keyboard.  Now, each time you 
press F1-F5, the amount is of that chip is subtracted from your bet.  
Remember to press + when done subtracting.

When all bets are placed, click on the Spin the Wheel box to spin the
wheel.

Clearing a bet

To clear a bet off of the roulette table, position the betting box
over the bet and 'click` on the C on the bottom of the screen.

To clear all the bets for the current player, 'click` on the Clear All
box.

Help

To access the help screen, 'click` on the HELP box.  The help box will
appear on the top of the screen.  For each type of available bet, the
name of the wager is given along with the odds and an example of where
the bet would be placed.  The bets are lettered A through L.  'Click`
on any of the letters, or press the corresponding key on the keyboard
to see an example.  A chart of all allowable bets is also available
by pressing F2.  This chart is also printed in the Gaming Guide.

When you are finished with the help screen, 'click` on the GO ON box
or press F9.

|Page 9|

Quit

To go back to the lobby of the hotel, 'click` on the Quit box.

Craps
-----

After selecting craps, you will see the craps table with several other
guests standing around.  You can see what they have to say and then
'click` in the middle of the table to play.  You will be asked to
select a table minimum.

The name of the current player, along with their chip color and bankroll
amount will be displayed on the upper portion of the screen.  Each player 
can take turns placing bets between each roll of the dice.  To switch 
between players, 'click` on the current player's name or press the F8 
key.

Placing bets

With a mouse

Place the pointer over the table at the point at which you would like to
place your bet and 'click`.  A box will appear around the selected spot.  
Select the amount of the bet by 'clicking` on the chips on the bottom of 
the screen.  The value of the chips are, from left to right, $1, $5, $25, 
$100, $500, $1000.  For example, to bet $125, 'click` on the $25 dollar 
chip and then on the $100 chip.  Each chip is added to your bet because 
the + on the bottom of the screen is highlighted.  To bet the maximum 
allowable bet, 'click` on the Max box.  To bet the minimum allowable, 
'click` on the Min box.  The total amount of the current bet is 
displayed on the lower part of the screen.  Continue placing all bets 
in the above manner.

To reduce a bet, 'click` on the - box on the bottom of the screen.
Now, each time you 'click` on a chip, that amount is subtracted from
your bet.  Remember to 'click` on + when done subtracting.

When all bets are placed, 'click` on the Roll box to roll the dice.

|Page 10|

With the keyboard

A box surrounds the currently selected betting position.  Use the cursor
keys to move the box around the table.  Once the box is positioned
over the desired bet location, use the function keys to place the
chips down.  Each time you press a function key, the amount of that
chip is added to your bet because the + on the bottom of the screen
is highlighted.  The chips are, from left to right $1, $5, $25, $100,
$500, $1000.

To reduce a bet, press the - key on your keyboard.  Now, each time you 
press F1-F5, the amount is of that chip is subtracted from your bet.  
Remember to press + when done subtracting.

Clearing a bet

To clear a bet off of the betting box over the bet and 'click` on the 
C on the bottom of the screen.

To clear all the bets for the current player, 'click` on the Clear All
box.

Help

To see help on a specific available wager, place the betting box over
the wager on the board and 'click` on the Help box.  A description of
the bet, along with payoffs will be displayed.

Quit

To go back to the lobby, 'click` on the Quit box.

Blackjack
---------

After selecting Blackjack, you will be seated at a blackjack table in
the casino.  There will be many other people around the table.  You can
see what they have to say and then 'click` in the middle of the table
to play.  You will be asked to select a table minimum ($5, $25, $100,
$500).

At Trump Castle, Blackjack is played will six decks of cards.

Up to four hands can be played at any time.  All four hands can be played
by one player, four players can each play one hand, two players can
each play two hands, or any combination.

|Page 11|

The name of the current player along with their bankroll amount is shown
at the top of the screen.  If the player has nay bets on the table, the
total of all his/her bets is shown in the center of the top of the screen.

The four playing positions are represented by white boxes on the screen.
Press the F7 key or 'click` on the Hand box to switch playing positions.
The current position is surrounded by a box.  Press the F8 key or 'click`
on the current player's name to change players.

Note: When making bets, start with the first betting position (upper
right) and move clockwise.

Placing bets

With a mouse

Select a betting position and player as explained above.  Select the
amount of the bet by 'clicking` on the chips on the bottom of the
screen.  The value of the chips are from left to right: $1, $5, $25, 
$100, $500, $1000.  For example to bet $200, 'click` on the $100 twice. 
Each chip is added to your bet because the + on the bottom of the screen 
is highlighted.  To bet the maximum allowable bet, 'click` on the Max box.  
To bet the minimum, 'click` on the Min box.  The total amount of the 
current bet is displayed on the lower part of the screen.  Continue 
placing bets in the above manner.

To reduce a bet, 'click` on the - box on the bottom of the screen.
Now, each time you 'click` on a chip, that amount is subtracted from
your bet.  Remember to 'click` on + when done subtracting.

When all bets are placed, 'click` on the Deal box.

With the keyboard

Select a betting position and current player as explained above.  Select
the amount of the bet by pressing the function keys.  Each time you
press a function key, the amount of that chip is added to your bet
because the + on the bottom of the screen is highlighted.  The chips
are, from left to right: $1, $5, $25, $100, $500, $1000.

|Page 12|

To reduce a bet, press the - key on your keyboard.  Now, each time you 
press a function key, the amount is of the chip is subtracted from your 
bet.  Remember to press + when done subtracting.

When all bets are placed, click on the Deal box to deal.

Clearing a bet

To clear a bet, select the betting position and 'click` on the C on
the bottom of the screen.

Game play

The dealer will deal cards to each position that has made a wager.
After all of the hands have been dealt, a pointer will appear next
to the first position.  The player who has wagered in this position
will be given several options at the bottom of the screen (Hit, 
Stand, Split, etc.).  The player will make his/her choices by 
'clicking` on the appropriate boxes.

When that player stands or busts, the box will move to the next 
position and that player can make his/her choices.

If the dealer's face card is an Ace, each player will be offered 
insurance.  Follow the instructions on screen for placing insurance
bets.  'Click` on the Hand button, or press F7 to place insurance
on the desired hands.

After all of the players have made their choices, the dealer will
either stand or take a hit.  After the dealer stands or busts, all
winning bets will be paid.

Help

To obtain help with the Blackjack game, 'click` on the Help box.

Quit

To return to the lobby, 'click` on the Quit box.

|Page 13|

Video Poker
-----------

When you select video poker, you will see three video poker machines.
'Click` on the center machine to play.  You will be asked to choose
to play the $1, $5, or $25 machine.

The name of the current player and their bankroll amount is shown on 
the top of the screen.  'Click` on the current player's name or
press F8 to change players.

Video Poker allows you to play 1 to 5 coins.  'Click` on the desired
number of coins.  After the coins are put into the machine, 'click`
on the Deal box to deal the cards.  Below each card is a box showing
its current state (Hold or Draw).  'Click` on this box or the card to
toggle the card.  After you have made your choices, 'click` on the Deal
box to re-deal.

Help

To see a chart of payoffs, 'click` on the Help box.

Quit

To return to the lobby, 'click` on the Quit box.

|Page 14|

Baccarat
--------

After selecting Baccarat, you will find yourself seated at a Baccarat 
table.  You can see what your tablemates have to say and then 'click` 
on the middle of the table to play.  You will then be asked to select 
a table limit ($20, $100, $500).

There are four places at the Baccarat table.  All four places can be 
played by one player, four players can each play one place, two players 
can each play two places, or any combination.

'Click` on the Place box or press TAB to switch between places.  A
box appears over the current position.  Press the F8 key or 'click`
on the current player's name to change players.

Placing bets

With a mouse

Select a player and one of the four positions on the table.  There are
3 allowable bets at each position: Tie, Bankers, Players.  Choose the
desired bet by 'clicking` on it, or by 'clicking` on the up and down
arrows that are displayed on the screen.  A box will surround the
currently selected bet location.

Select the amount of the bet by 'clicking` on the on the chips on the 
bottom of the screen.  The value of the chips are from left to right: $1, 
$5, $25, $100, $500, $1000.  Each chip is added to your bet because the + 
on the bottom of the screen is highlighted.  To bet the maximum allowable 
bet, 'click` on the Max box.  To bet the minimum, 'click` on the Min box.  
The amount of the current bet is displayed on the lower part of the screen.  
Once a bet is made in one of the four places, it can be moved between the
Tie, Bankers, and Players position by clicking on the up and down arrows
shown on the screen.  Place any remaining bets using the same method.

To reduce a bet, 'click` on the - box on the bottom of the screen.  Now, 
each time you 'click` on a chip, that amount is 

|Page 15|

subtracted from your bet.  Remember to 'click` on + when done subtracting.

When all bets are placed, 'click` on the Deal box.

With the keyboard

Select a player and one of the four positions at the table.  There are
three allowable bets at each location: Tie, Bankers, and Players.  Choose 
the desired bet by pressing the up/down arrow keys on your keyboard.
A box will surround the currently selected bet location.

Select the amount of the bet by pressing the function keys.  Each time
you press a function key, the amount of that chips is added to your
bet because the + on the bottom of the screen is highlighted.  The
chips are, from left to right: $1, $5, $25, $100, $500, $1000.

To reduce the amount of a bet, press the - key on your keyboard.  Now, 
each time you press a function key, the amount of the chip is 
subtracted from your bet.  Remember to press + when done subtracting.

When all bets are placed, 'click` on the Deal box to deal.

Clearing a bet

To clear a bet, select the betting position and 'click` on the C on
the bottom of the screen.

To clear all bets for the current player, 'click` on Clear All.

Help

To get help with the Baccarat game, 'click` on the Help box.

Quit

To return to the lobby, 'click` on the Quit box.

|Page 16|

Slot machine
------------

After choosing to play the slot machine, you will see several guests
standing in front of a row of machines.  You can see what the guests 
have to say and then 'click` on the rightmost machine to play.

You will be standing in front of a $1 slot machine.  The name of the
current player along with their bankroll amount is shown at the top
of the screen.  To change the current player, 'click` on the current
player's name or press F8.

The slot machine will accept from 1 to 3 $1 coins.  To put the
coins in, 'click` on the desired box.  As the coins go in, the
corresponding payline lights up on the machine.  After the coins
are placed in the machine, it will automatically spin.

Quit

To return to the lobby, 'click` on the Quit box.

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW