             THE FULL DOCUMENTATION TO TURBO TRAX FROM ARCANE!

TURBO TRAX

Your driving skills are about to be tested to their limits. Turbo Trax
contains 25 of the most grueling courses any driver could hope to encounter
set over 5 different terrain types. You will be pitting your skills against
5 other intelligent and tactical racers as you speed through cities and 
across deserts in what is surely one of the finest arcade racing games you
will ever play. You will have to perform well to advance to the higher 
stages where the tracks are tougher and the opposition are even meaner.
Only the best can hope to enter the final one on one battle to find out
who really is the King of Speed. To give you a chance the circuits are
littered with bonus features including turbos, spanners, and cash. Perhaps
buying upgrades for your car will give you that edge you need, but be
careful - a car that races faster can crash harder too!. If you're not
ready for the race season yet you can practice any track, racing against
other drivers or choose to race against the clock with the option of
saving your lap times so you can see if you have shaved a few hundredths
off that "unbeatable" time. You can even link up to a friend's computer
and see if you're up to the challenge of human opposition. Turbo Trax is
the ride of your life and it's going to take all of your skill, courage
and daring to cross that finish line first.


INSTALLING TURBO TRAX TO HARD DISK

You can install Turbo Trax onto hard disk from Workbench. Insert disk 2
into your boot drive and double click the Turbo Trax disk icon, then double
click on the install icon, and follow the on screen instructions. To play
Turbo Trax double click the Turbo Trax icon.

TURBO TRAX MAIN MENU

When you load the game you will see three menu options:

"Start" will begin the game with the currently selected game configuration.

"Options" will allow you to change the game mode and other settings.

"Exit" will take you back to Workbench.


TURBO TRAX OPTIONS MENU

When the options menu is selected you will see these options:

Race - Changes between the four game modes. (See Turbo Trax game modes)

Audio - Toggles music and sound effects on and off.

Disk - Load or save you best times. You will need a formatted disk to put
       you saves on.

DO NOT TRY TO SAVE ON YOUR GAME DISKS. YOU MUST MAKE A SAVES DISK IF YOU
WANT TO SAVE YOUR TIMES.


TURBO TRAX GAME MODES

There are 4 modes of play avalaible in Turbo Trax: Arcade, Practice, Time
Trials and Link up.

ARCADE MODE is where the action really starts. There are 6 stages to
complete.

The first 5 stages contain 4 races each. In each race you will have to drive
against 5 opponents. To enter the next stage you will have to score enough
points in your earlier races. Points are awarded according to your position
at the end of a race - the higher your position the more points you get. If
you don't get enough points to qualify you will lose a credit and have to
start the stage again. As you only get 2 credits to start with you will have
to drive with a degree of care while still keeping your foot on the gas if
you want to be a winner.

In the sixth and final stage there are 2 races to complete before you get to
the ultimate test of your skills, the one on one race off. From the first
race on the computer controller cars will become more and more challenging
and aggressive. If you make it to the final race expect no mercy from your
opponent who will have no intention of losing the most prestigious race in
the game.

During the races you will see coins on the track. To collect the coins
simply drive over them. You are also awarded a cash bonus for coming 1st,
2nd, 3rd, or 4th. These coins can be used in the shop after the race to
improve the performance of your car. (See Turbo Trax shop) If you crash
into walls or opponents your car will be damaged. When the damage is too
severe your car will be wrecked and your race will be over. You can repair
damage to your vehicle by collecting the spanners that are dotted around
the circuits. Once you complete a race your car will be totally repaired
ready for the next heat.

PRACTICE allows you to race against computer controlled cars on any of the
25 tracks in the game. Your vehicle will be chosen automatically. Once you
have selected the track you want to race on you will be taken to the Turbo
Trax shop. You will have a set amount of money with which to upgrade your
car as you see fit. You won't get points for practice races but they do give
you a vital opportunity to get a feel for the tracks. You stand a better
chance of winning races in arcade mode if you know what twists and turns a
track coontains.

TIME TIRAL lets you drive on any of the 25 tracks without the interference
of any other cars. Yes, it's just you, a stop watch and the open road! Don't
think this is an easy option though. You can save your lap times so you will
quickly be in competition with yourself. You may start by taking whole
seconds off your best time but before long you will have to push the car
and yourself to the limit in the hope of knocking a few milli seconds off in
your quest for the ultimate lap. As in practice mode your car will be chosen
automatically.

LINK UP is the final race option. This allows you to link up to another
computer and race against a human opponent. You can pick the type of terrain
you want to race on but not the exact track of the vehicles you will use.
Then select how many races (1-9) you wish to have. While playing you will
always appear as the red car and your opponent as green regardless of which
computer you are using.


TURBO TRAX SHOP

The coins you pick up in races and any prize money you may win can be spent
after the race in the shop. There are four upgrades to choose from:

Acceleration - will get you to high speeds quicker.

Turbo - will make turbos on the track last for longer.

Power Steering - will help to get you round those tight bends.

Tyres - will improve your car's road holding.

You begin the game with everything at grade 1. Each upgrade can be bought
up to 4 times to take them to grade 5. Be careful with your souped up car
as crashes will not only damage the vehicle but destroy the upgrades. Even
if you repair your car with a spanner pick-up any upgrades you have lost 
will not be returned. You will have to buy them again.


TURBO TRAX TRACK FEATURES

On the tracks you will find these features:

Oil, black ice and bumps will to varying degrees affect your race by causing
brief but critical control loss. If you're not careful you could find your
car spinning at high speed toward a wall or into the path of the opposition.

Bonus cash can be spent after a race to improve your car's performance.

Spanners repair your car. They are the only way to repair your car during a
race.

Turbos stay on the track in the same place all the time and give you a burst
of speed when you drive over them. They are the key to winning races.


TURBO TRAX SCREEN DISPLAY

While racing your total race time in minutes, seconds and milli seconds,
your current lap and your race position are displayed in the top left of
the screen. At the bottom right your revs, speed and damage are displayed.


CONTROLLING YOUR VEHICLE

The controls in Turbo Trax are very simple. To accelerate hold down the
fire button, to decelerate release the fire button. Pushing the joystick
right will rotate your car clockwise, pushing left will rotate your vehicle
anti-clockwise.


VEHICLE INFORMATION

There are five types of vehicle in Turbo Trax:

INDY CAR. A low centre of gravity gives the Indy car great handling and its
sleek aerodynamic shell design is built for speed. A good performer all
round makes this vehicle the best of the pack.

4x4 TRUCK. Heavy, robust construction makes the 4x4 a solid no-nonsense
racer. The 4x4's acceleration isn't as good as some other vehicles but it
has enough staying power and durability to compensate.

JEEP. The 4x4's baby brother, the jeep has higher acceleration but is sill
quite solidly built. Though not as tough as its big brother the Jeep can
still handle the strain of rugged races.

DUNE BUGGY. Light construction and a low centre of gravity make this a fast
and manoeuvrable vehicle. Although not as powerful as some of the other
vehicles the Dune buggy is very responsive and good in difficult conditions.

SPORTS CAR. A powerful engine delivers quick acceleration and sports
performance means that even at high speed the sports car can make tight
turns. The Sports car's designers have sacrificed durability for speed and
handling.


TURBO TRAX SCENARIO INFORMATION

In Turbo Trax you will race on five different terrain types.

ICE. No driver relishes the prospect of driving on ice but in Turbo Trax we
want you to race on it. Beware, lose concentration on ice and you may find
yourself slipping off the track and into trouble.

INDY CAR. Purpose built for speed the Indy courses offer great grip. With
hairpin bends and chicanes to negociate your going to need all the road
holding you can get. At these speeds all it will take is one bad corner to
end your race in disaster.

DESERT. Sun, sand but no sea, in fact not a drop of water for miles. Don't
let the blistering heat distract you as these tracks will test even the best
racers skills. The baking hot sand will offer little grip so be prepared to
really sling your car about if you want to win in these extreme conditions.

FOREST. Rally style action as you weave through the forest up to your axel
in mud. Slip and slide your way through the woodland with care, the mud
won't make it easy to corner at high speeds but that's a chance you'll have
to take.

CITY. Usually packed with traffic the city streets are clear today. Watch
out though, these twisting streets wern't designed for racing. You'll have
to drive well to avoid ending your race parked round a lamp post.


QUICK TIPS

Practice makes perfect. It's hard enough to race against demanding
competition without having to worry about when the next bend is coming. By
familiarising yourself with the track layouts you will take a lot of
pressure off yourself when you're racing. This will leave you free to
concentrate on fast lap times rather than just getting round in one piece.

Remember where the turbos are. The more you hit the better.

Find the quickest way round corners. If you cut the corners it may save
valuable time. Don't go off the track though, as that will do your car and
your position no good at all.

Find the most effective way to customise your vehicle. If you don't strike a
balance in what you buy it may become harder to win races rather than
easier. For example, it's no good having a very fast car if it steers like
a brick. All your money will have bought is the ability to hit walls faster.

Every terrain type will require a different approach. The best way round an
Indy track isn't necessarily the best way round a snow track. Look at how
the terrain affects your vehciles handling and alter your driving style
accordingly.

Good Luck!


                          WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE!

                   DOCUMENTS TYPED BY FLT UK - 19-Aug-95