                                  TURBO

  There are three modes of play joystick vs computer, joystick vs
Joystick or joystick vs modemlink.

JOYSTICK VS. COMPUTER
  In  this  mode  of   TURBO   your adversary  is  the   computer.  One
joysticks  is  required. The STATUS WINDOW  is  at  the  right  of  the
screen.  Inside  the  Status window is a timer, which counts down  from
99 to 00.

JOYSTICK VS. JOYSTICK
  In this mode of TURBO your adversary  is  another human rather than
the  computer.   Two  joysticks are required.  The  playing  screen  is
divided into  two  parts,  one  for each player.  The  STATUS WINDOW is
at the top of the screen.

JOYSTICK VS. MODEMLINK
     In this  mode  of  TURBO  your adversary  is  the  computer.   One
joysticks is required.  The  STATUS WINDOW  is  at  the  right  of  the
screen. Inside  the  Status  window is a timer, which counts down  from
99 to 00.

GAME PLAY
  You have  just  entered the death race. There are no  rules,  and  no
judges, just you in  your  modified race  car.  There  is   one   catch
though,  your   oppenents  want  to reach the  end  of  the  coarse  so
much, they're  willing to kill you. The race coarse  is  a  stretch  of
area  starting in the city, running through the  country, and ending in
the  desert.  Weapons can be  found on the  coarse  left  by  destroyed
enemy  cars.  Use   these   weapons against  your   enemies.  You  must
reach the end of the coarse  before the timer clocks out.

THE STATUS WINDOW
  SPEEDOMETER:  This   shows   your speed.   Caution  to  take  corners
slowly

  SCORE:  Points  are  awarded  for distroying the enemy.

  RADAR: On  your  status window is a Police  Radar  detector, and will
inform  you  when  your  are  being chased by the police.  Try  not  to
upset  the  police,  there  already upset  people  are  racing  through
the city at 120  MPH  killing perestrians.

JOYSTICK CONTROLS
      Press up on  the  joystick to go   forward,  pulling  back  stops
you, left and right will  turn  you in  these  directions, pressing the
fire  button will activate any current  weapon you may have  ats  the
moment.

WEAPONS
  Wheels:  When  you  pick  up  the wheels you  go  about  30%  faster,
you  may  also  break  faster. Good for  stopping infront   of  trains,
also  for  trying to make  it  over the tracks  before  the  train  get
there. Wheels may also be  used  in conjunction with oil,  grenades and
missiles.

  Spikes: This offer the only shield from other cars and moter-
cycles, and can also be used in conjuction with the oil, grenades
and missiles.

  Oil: Here is a fast  way  to  get rid of tail gaters, drop  a  little
oil,  and  they'll  realize they're not as SLICK as they  thought  they
were.

  Grenades:  An  essencial item  in every Death racers Kill-Kit

  Missiles:   Missiles   give   you explosive  power  at  a   distance,
good  for  removind  enouying  road obsticles,  like  your  enemy.   In
conjuction  with  the  spikes,  the missiles make a perfect combo.

SOME HINTS
  As nice as it would  be  to  race the  streets  ,  death   racing  is
still  illegal, so killing an enemy car  or  motorcycle will  bring  on
the police, unless your real  good, or have  spikes, your going to have
to pull over  or  the  police  will push you off the road.
  Keep an eye on  the  map  to  the right of the  viewing screens, this
map shows where  you  are  relitive to  the end of the  race.  if  time
is  running out, you should  consider  pushing  more  for  using  the
WHEELS to get you farther, at  this speed  you  may  not  be  able   to
control the car as well,  so  watch out  for  perestrians. If your
making good time, then grab  the  missiles  or  grenades and  start
raking in the points.

End.
