                                  Turrican II

                             docs typed by MERKWooD

The Legend Of Turrican Continues...


Morgul, the three-headed incarnation of evil, has finally been destroyed! But
you, Turrican, cannot rest because your most dangerous and most noble mission
is yet to commence...

A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away, brave rebelliosu fighters destroyed
the menacing hordes of the MACHINE and it's tyranny-spreading satellite, which
circled the planet of the brave, the planet called Landorin.

The evil moon has gone, but Landorin wasn't free. The MACHINE still ruled the
surface of the planet. The Landorins retreated to the inner core of their
world to await their destiny...DEATH. The machines and mutants, however, went
on to roam through the deserted ruins of a long-lost paradise in search of the
entrance to the secret caves.

Before, the Landorins retreated, they managed to send a desperate cry for help:
A last radio signal floats through the endless reaches of the tri-solar system
and off to the farthest reaches of the universe. The cry is heard, and a man
has to be found...A man with the courage to face the hordes, a man to free the
last survivors of Landorin, a man on his most dangerous adventure...TURRICAN.

Go out to seek the MACHINE and its' slaves, collect the weapons and ships of
an ancient civilization and free the planet Landorin forever!


Turrican travels through 5 different worlds in which he will be confronted by
various perils. In the middle of the game he has to enter a space ship and
fight through 3 levels with this hyper fast-moving ship. Ever changing enemies
will constantly try to destroy you. You will have to use your weapons skill-
fully to survive the various levels. To assist you in battle, further weapons
and extras may be obtained during your journey, e.g. forceshields and extra
lives. Examine every level closely, you will find new surprises and useful
items everywhere.


How To Play The Game


General information: The game is played with joystick and keys. Owners of an
Amiga may use a joystick with two independent fire buttons. This is explained
below.

Joystick up:
    Player jumps. If he is the gyroscope mode, he will transform back to
    normal again.
Joystick down:
    Player ducks away, e.g. from enemies.
Joystick down and press spacebar:
    (For Amiga joystick down and press second fire button.)
    The player will transform into a gyroscope. While in this state the player
    is invincible and will destroy enemies on touch. The gyroscope spins
    automatically, and can only be directed to move left or right with the
    joystick. This shape also allows you to pass through narrow corridors.
    Turrican may transform into a gyroscope as often as he wants to. Only in
    the gyroscope mode he can place mines... The mine is placed on the ground
    and explodes shortly afterwards. Various enemies around can be dealt with
    in this manner.
Joystick left/right:
    Moves player left/right.
Keeping the fire button depressed:
    The player can activate a flash of lightning (Surround) and may direct it
    (as long as the firebutton is held), by moving the joystick left (lightning
    rotates anti-clockwise) or right (clockwise). The lightning can be of
    different lengths. At the beginning of the game it stretches over half the
    width of the screen. By gathering up extras it can be extended to stretch
    over the whole width of the screen.
Pressing fire button briefly:
    Player fires.


The Weapons


Multiple Shot - The multiple shot can be increased by collecting the right
symbols. That means in the end this weapon has 5 shots.

Laser - The laser has a high penetration rate, making it very effective when
fighting against several enemies simultaneously. The laser fire horizontally,
and can be increased in strength by up to 5 times by gathering up the
corrosponding symbols. The laser will then increase in width and become more
effective.

Bounce - This shot can be increased in strength by up to 3 times. Very
efficient in narrow passages or caves. When twice in strength, the balls burst
into smaller balls bouncing back from the walls.

Power Lines - (Spacebar or second fire button) Releases two energy beams,
moving right and left over the full height of the screen. All enemies in range
will be destroyed. Should an obstacle bar the way, the beam will be terminated.

Super Weapon - Pressing the firebutton and space bar(or second fire button)
simultaneously will activate the superweapon. Once per life Turrican can
activate this weapon. It is the most effective weapon as all weapons systems
are activated simultaneously. The window at the bottom left indicates whether
this weapon is still available.

CTRL - Pauses game (fire button to resume).

ESC - Quit the game and return to the introductory sequence.


The Symbols


6 Pointed Star             - Hidden Extra

Red Multiple               - Multiple shot, or increases strength of same

Green Laser                - Laser, or increases strength of same

Purple Bounce              - Bounce Shots, or increases strength of same

Blue Surround              - Extends Lightning

Light Blue Shield          - Force Shield; invincibility for a short duration

Yellow 'P' Power-Up        - Recharges energy

White 'L' Power Line       - Player gains an extra beam

Grey '1 up' One Up         - Player gains an extra life

Yellow Smart Bomb          - Destroys all smaller opponents on the screen


Diamonds - Pnce the player has gathered up 100 diamonds, he receives another
'CONTINUE'. The maximum number of CONTINUES is 5 and you start with 0 CONTINUES
(that means there are exactly 599 diamonds hidden). You can view the number of
CONTINUES at the bottom left.


The player has 3 lives at the beginning of the game. He can lose them in 3 ways

1. Time, indicated on the display, runs out.
2. The player losses all of his energy by touching enemies and getting shot.
3. The player falls into an abyss.


If you lose a life the number of energy beams will default to 3. Surround,
multiple, bounce and laser will be reduced - if not already at minimum
strength.


The Display


The player can gain the following information from the display(left to right):

- Number of lives (upper left corner of the screen)
- Number of CONTINUES (diode display)
- Time
- Number of diamonds
- Number of energy beams
- Score (upper right corner of the screen)
- Energy (above score)

Highscore Table - follow instructions on the screen.

If you achieve a top score, you may enter the highscore table. After entering
your name press RETURN.


Tips And Tricks


- Try to use all weapon systems. Think carefully which system will best help
you in a given situation.
- Use the gyroscopes! Remember you can use them as often as you want. Don't
forget you are invincible and can use mines!
- Collect as many lives and Continues as possible.
- Never give up - there is always a solution...
- Do not always take the easiest way - there are hidden secrets everywhere.