                            TWIN TURBO'S                                


Welcome viewers to this, the final day of the 19th annual interplanetary
terra-race meeting.as expected the stadium is packed with frenzied race
fans awaiting the final race which will decide this years interplanetary
drivers championship. now back to murray at the studio....

features.
---------
six punishing race circuits which will stretch both driver and car to the
outer limits of endurance and beyond.

simultaneous dual player mode;featuring two independant smooth scrolling
displays. race against the clock or go head to head with a friend.

thumping sonic graffitti soundtrack, and turbo blowing `tau zero` level
intro music.

brilliant,fast and furious gameplay,addictive to the maximum!!! (dont look
at me thats what it sez)

loading instructions [amiga/atari st]
--------------------
ensure that your computer has been switched off for at least 60 seconds
immediately prior to loading game. switch on your machine and insert game
disk in your df0. the game should load automatically. in case of difficulty
please remove any additional hardware and try again.
if the game fails to load on the first attempt leave the disk in df0 and
reset your machine the additional pieces of intro music are not available
on an atari st with a single sided drive.

the game
--------
on the title screen press f1 and f10 to select players. press 2 to select
keyboard/joystick control. only 1 player may use the keyboard controls. a
joystick connected in port 1 controls player 1 (left hand track) and a
joystick in port 2 controls player 2 (right hand track)

there are 5 levels in all. bonus points are awarded at the end of each
level for remaining time and turbo energy. if the timer runs out before you
reach the finish line, `your out`!!!.

keyboard controls
-----------------
left..........left cursor key
right.........right cursor key
accelerate....q
brake.........space bar
turbo.........tab
quit..........escape

                                 THE END