  WISHBRINGER
    Part 1

 Opening:  The game begins in the middle of a daydream on a hilltop near
the post office.  When you, a lowly mail clerk, snap back to reality,
you should enter the post office. Crisp will give you an envelope to
deliver to the Magick Shoppe.  It will be approximately 3:00 pm and you
will have until 5:00 pm to deliver the letter -- plenty of time to
explore the village.
 Poodle:  The first obstacle you will encounter will be the poodle. 
Retreat.  Go to the cemetery.  Stall until the gravedigger leaves, then
enter the grave and get the bone. Take the bone to the poodle and
proceed north.
 Finding Things:  Explore the entire village.  Miss Voss will give you a
violet note (don't loose it).  Check out the statue and the fountain. 
Get the coin.  Enter the police station and get the candy.  At the
Wharf's End, you will find a dying seahorse -- throw it back into the
water.  North of the Arcade in the Tidal Pool you will find a shell.  In
the church, you might try to take the candle.  At Edge of Lake read
message in sand.  On Lookout Hill, you'll find a horseshoe.
 Bridge/Trail:  Cross the Bridge.  Be careful on the trail; jot down
directions -- you'll need them later.
 Magick Shoppe:  Enter the Magick Shoppe and deliver the letter.  Take
the can and pay close attention to the description of the cat.  Exit the
Magick Shoppe and things will have changed!  For instance, the post
office will now be a tower.

  WISHBRINGER
    Part 2

 Can of Nuts:  If you are curious about the can of nuts, open it but
save game first.  To get back across the bridge, you must give something
to the troll.  If the gold coin doesn't work, try the can of nuts.  The
troll will open it then drop it.  Retrieve the can and look in it. 
Ahah, it has a false bottom!
 Curfew and Boot Patrol:  Cross the bridge and read the sign. Curfew
begins at 6:00 pm.  You must dodge the Boot Patrol.  If you do get
arrested, there are ways to get out of the jail:
 First time -- move the bunk and enter the hole to the underground.
 Second time -- use a wish (Freedom).
 Third time -- you will get thrown to the sharks but the seahorses will
rescue you if you did the right thing for the dying seahorse earlier.
 I believe it is necessary to get arrested at least once in order to get
the blanket.  [Note: The game can be won without using any wishes.]
 Church:  Notice the change since last time you were here. You will now
be able to take the candle although you don't need it -- the stone
provides light.
 Underground:  There are three ways to get to the underground area:  (1)
From the jail cell, (2) from the hinged tree stump on Lookout Hill, and
(3) from the open grave.
 Grue's Nest:  You will find the grue's nest in the underground.  Put
the blanket on baby grue and get the grue's milk and earthworm from the
refrigerator.  Once you have the earthworm, go to the fountain.
 Token:  Put the earthworm in the fountain and get the token. You will
find useful in the Arcade.
 Cemetery:  The umbrella is in the cemetery.  Don't dilly-dally, just
get it and go.  The north gate is best.  If the Vapors get you and
scatter your possessions, you will be able to find them again.

 WISHBRINGER
   Part 3

 Mailbox:  Sooner or later you will encounter a big hungry mailbox.  It
can become a pain, so take a walk on the Rocky Road and watch for a
Shimmering Trail.  You will find a friendly little mailbox.  Arrange for
the two mailboxes to meet.
 Magick Word of Power:  At Edge of Lake, you'll find a pit with a
platypus trapped in it.  A branch from the dead tree can be put in the
pit to rescue the platypus.  The platypus will make an "x" in the sand. 
Dig there.  Get the whistle and blow it.  You will then visit Misty
Island where you will receive a hat.  Take the hat to the pelican and
learn the magick word of power.
 Movie Theater:  Use the gold coin to buy a ticket.  The gravedigger
will have a box labeled "3-D Glasses" but it will be empty.  Go on into
the theater and look where people throw stuff to find a used pair.  Wear
the glasses and enjoy the movie.
 Hellhound:  There's more than one way to get past him.  You can use a
wish -- Darkness works nicely.  You can read someone else's mail.  Or
you can go via the arcade.  Don't attempt this too early in the game.
 Arcade:  Examine the game machine and look at the screen. Insert the
token and move the joystick so your position on the screen grid matches
where you want to be in the village. When you reach the Hilltop
position, push the Red Button.
 Tower:  Say the magick word of power which you got from the pelican. 
The drawbridge will be lowered.  Enter the tower but beware -- it's a
trap.  You will be carried away to the Torture chamber (locked in
chains).  You can use a wish here or simply give the violet note to
Crisp.  After he leaves, get the white coat and take the key from the
pocket.  Unlock the chains.  Be sure to read the note.  Go up into the
tower.  Wear the 3-D glasses.  Examine the control panel and turn off
the Security Switch.  Get the broom.  Examine the black cat -- no white
spot on forehead -- wrong cat!  You can try taking it to the Magick
Shoppe but it will be a waste of time.  To exit the tower, you must
lower the drawbridge.  You will find paintings on the wall in the Round
Chamber.  Moving one will reveal a crank.
 Upon meeting the hellhound again, remember the violet note. Although it
referred to the poodle, it is quite effective with the hellhound.
 Cottage:  Get the steel key from the bookcase.
 Library:  Use the steel key to unlock the door.  Go to the Museum part
of the Library where you will find a cat sculpture in a display case. 
You will have to break the case (with the broom, perhaps).  The cat
sculpture will have a hole carved in the forehead.  Put the stone in the
hole and your adventure will be over!
 
WISHBRINGER is copyrighted
   by Infocom, Inc., 1985.
 This walkthru is copyrighted
    by Terry Clayton, 1985.