                                Xenomorph Tips

By BMK and JAK. Edited by PARASITE.


XENOMORPH THE GAME:
The  game  starts  on  your  own spaceship (levels 1 through 3) Furthermore
there  is  a  moonbase (levels 4 through 10) and the caverns (levels 11 and
12) The goal of the game is to fly off into space.  Therefor you must press
that green button in the first console you encounter.  A console is a brown
panel  you'll find everywhere throughout the game.  Behinde it you can find
food,  drinks,  first-aid,  weapons,  ammo, keycards, circuit-boards e.t.c.
Don't  press  it  immidiatly,  the ship will self-destruct!  First you must
replace all burned out IC's on the circuit-board in the console opposite to
the one I just spoke about.  Also you must refill three empty consoles with
Anti-Matter on level two (You need fuel, you now!) And finally you must put
two  disks  in  that first console I just mentioned.  Then you can fly off.

GENERAL TIPS
Don't  skip levels.  There could be some valuable items.  Skip them only on
your way back up.

Always  know  your  way  to  a recharge console.  Your weapons run on empty
sooner than you think.

The  best  weapon  in  the beginning is the second one you find.  (It looks
like  a German Luger from WW II) It's very effective.  There are about four
clips  in  the  game.   You'll also find two clips for a gigantic powerfull
weapon.   Fill  them  and keep it with you until you find that weapon.  (On
level 11A) With it you'll find a third (empty) clip.

Weapons  on  batteries are not as effective as you would them to be.  Loose
them as soon as possible.  (Especially that red pistol)

On some weapons you can select a level 1, 2 or 3.  The higer the level, the
more powerfull is your shot.  (And the sooner it will be empty)

On most mines you'll see the same.  This time you can select how many times
an alien can step on it before it explodes.

Be  carefull  with  the flying mines.  (They look like nuclear warheads) If
they can't find an enemy, they come back for you.  These are the only mines
that can hurt you too.

Save your grenades for the grenade-launcher for the alien in the vehicle on
level  12.   There  you'll need all the firepower you can get.  Behind this
alien you find the two disks you must put in you computer on level one.

You  don't necessarely need food and drinks.  It keeps up your vitality bar
(The blue one) and thus your speed in the game.  But you won't die.

The first-aid consoles: 0) Drink Injection
                        1) Vitality Injection
                        2) Health Injection
                        3) Health Pills
                        4) Food Pills
                        5) Drink Pills
                        6) Radio-Activity Pills
                        7) Health Pills
                        8) Vitality Pills
                        9) Food Pills

The  only  ones  I  used are the radio-activity pills (The white bar on the
right) when I took The anti-matter upstairs.

Be  carefull with the use of your keycard for food and drinks (The blue one
with the black line on it) It has a limited amount of points.  In the food/
drinks  consoles are numbers (From 1 to 5) I don't know the exact amount of
points  on  your  card  but the points on the consoles will be substracted.
You  will find a new card in the lower levels.  You'll also find a new card
for  the  recharger/first-aid.   But  if  you use the first-aid to much you
can't  recharge!   When  I  wanted  to  find  out how the first-aid console
worked, I couldn't recharge anymore until I found myself a new card.