                                  Q-BIC DOX
                                  ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

COPYRIGHT:

    The Qbic program, its code, graphic images, sound effects, music
    score and documentation are copyright (C) 1992 Codemasters

PLAYING THE GAME:

    You control Qbic with the joystick. Qbic can only jump
    diagonally. Therefore, you must turn the joystick by 45 degrees
    in clockwise direction. So 'up' will become 'back/right', 'down'
    becomes 'forward/left', 'left' becomes 'back/left', and 'right'
    moves Qbic 'forward/right'. (There is an alternate control method
    available, see the 'BUTTONS AND KEYS' section.)

    Be careful not to jump off the pyramid - you can't fly! Jumping
    onto a spinning disk will take you back to the top of the
    pyramid.

    The object of the game is simple: on each pyramid, change the
    colour of all the cubes into the target colour. The target colour
    is shown in the top left hand corner of the screen. You will
    encounter various characters while doing that.
    In order of appearance:

    Spheric - You will see a lot of these. It is the simplest of your
    enemies. All you can do is dodge them.

    Snakey - Bounces down the pyramid as a large purple ball. Once
    hatched, he will pursue Qbic relentlessly. If you can, jump onto
    one of the spinning discs, just as Snakey is about to get you.
    This animal must be far-sighted. Mind you, his eyesight improves
    with age!

    Cling - This is what is called a 'sidewalker'. Disregarding
    newtonian physics. Hint: if you time it right, you can jump over
    them!

    Cool - Blue, that means he is safe to touch. Cool as he is, he
    doesn't look where he's going and will jumble up your work. Jump
    on him to send him away.

    Magic - These blue crystals come like a gift from heaven! When
    touched, their magic spell will freeze everything on the pyramid,
    apart from Qbic himself. During this magic time you may jump
    around freely, but be quick - it won't last forever...

BUTTONS AND KEYS:

    Press the fire button to begin a new game. During the game, the
    fire button is used to speed up the bonus countdown and the 'Get
    Ready!' screen.
    Pause the game by pressing the 'P' key, or the space bar. Press
    again to resume play.

    The escape key aborts the game, and takes you back to the title
    screen. During the attract sequence, the escape key is used to
    turn the page.

    At any time, but not during the game, pressing F1 or F2 will take
    you to the control selection screen. If you find the diagonal
    joystick hard to get used to, try the 'straight' control method.
    See what you like best. Use F1 or F2 to select.

    At any time, but not during the game, pressing the HELP key will
    show you the info screens.

NOTE:

    The program will try to save the high score information to the
    current directory. If you do not want the program to write to
    your floppy, flip the write protect tab, and cancel the
    requester. If you are running Qbic from a hard drive, make sure
    that the current directory is ram:, or something like that.
    The competition for spelling my name correctly is still open...


THANKS:

    To Ned for help with the graphics. To John for saying 'Boit!' for
    no apparent reason. To all the Puntettays for eating cheese.

                       -------------------------------
End..............
