                                    Q * BALL

                         Amiga tm Quick Reference Card!

     

     

     WHAT YOU NEED:

     Amiga Computer

     Single Disk Drive

     Color Monitor

     

     LOADING THE PROGRAM:

     1.  Turn on the monitor and your computer.

     2.  When the Kick Start disk icon appears on the screen, insert a Kick

     Start Disk (VERSION 1.2) into the disk drive.

     3.  When the Work  Bench disk icon  appears on the  screen, remove the

     Kick Start disk and insert the Q * BALL disk into the disk drive.

     4.  The program  will load  into your  computer's memory  and the demo

     screen will appear.  

     

     CONTROLLING THE GAME:

     The game  is controlled completely with the  keyboard.  Use the cursor

     keys  to rotate the  cube to change your  view of the  balls.  Use the

     RETURN key to shoot.  You  may shoot at any time after positioning the

     cue ball.  You  have 60 seconds to take a shot.   A shot will be taken

     automatically  when the timer reaches  (0).  If the timer  runs down 3

     times, the game will end and you will be returned to the demo screen.

     

     THE RULES:

     

     The object is to sink the  red balls in the (8) corner pockets.  Bonus

     points are  awareded for the amount  of time left on  the timer at the

     end of each shot.  Each time a red ball is pocketed, you must sink the

     yellow ball  for bonus points.  The yellow ball  will be put back into

     play each time it is sunk.  If there are no red balls left in the game

     cube, you must sink the yellow to end the game.

      

     PLAYING THE GAME:

     

     Press the space bar to exit the demo screen.

     

     Choose a 1 or 2 player game.

     

     In two-player mode, each player has his or her own settings, which are

     reset at the start of each turn.

     

     SHOOTING:

     

     To  take a shot, use  the aiming keys (detailed  on the Reference Card

     portion  of this  document) to  position the  "GHOST" cue  ball at the

     projected impact  point of your shot.  The ghost  image will appear at

     the point at which  your shot's projected path intersects with another

     ball  or with  the wall of  your cube.  You  can move  the ghost image

     left, right,  up, down, towards you, and away  from you with the keys. 

     These movements are in relation to your current view of the cube.  You

     can use  the rotatoin key to  find a view of the  cube which helps you

     line up your shot (like walking around the table in billards).

     

     SPIN:

     

     Once you shot  is lined up, you need to set  cue spin.  The cross hair

     indicates where  you  will  strike the  cue  ball  and thus  how  much

     "ENGLISH"  will be applied to  the ball.  Note that  top and back spin

     have  a much  more  pronounced  effect  in three  dimensions  than  is

     possible in the more mundane, two-dimensional game of pool.

     

     

     DEFINITION OF KEYS:                 

     

     RETURN  -    Shoot

     UP-ARROW     Flip 900 vertically

     LEFT-ARROW   Rotate Clock

     RIGHT-ARROW  Rotate Counter-Clockwise

     DOWN-ARROW   Flip 900 Vertically

     

     Before  taking  a  shot,  you have  the  opportunity  to  designate  5

     settings.  These settings will appear  in the message bar on the right

     of the screen  as: Position Cue Ball, Aim Cue  Ball, Set Cue Spin, Set

     Power and  Set  Friction.  Use  the  Enter key  to  move to  the  next

     setting.  You may change any or all settings before each shot, or keep

     the same settings.

     

     Use the numeric keypad to:

     1.  Positon the cue ball (up, down, left, right)

     2.  Aim the cue  ball using the  "GHOST" target image  (up, down, left

     right, near, far).

     3.  Set the cue spin using the crosshairs (up, down, left, right).

     4.  Select real or planner mode for cue spin. (Real/Planner Key).

     5.  Set the Power Level (left, right).

     6.  Set the friction level (left, right).

     

     DEFINITION OF NUMERIC KEYPAD:

     

                       7/NOTHING  8/UP      9/FAR

     

                       4/LEFT     5/REAL    6/RIGHT

                                  PLANNER

     

                       1/NEAR     2/DOWN    3/NOTHING

     

     REAL or PLANNER MODE:

     

     Choose between Real and Planner modes.  Real is a full  

     

     three-dimensional mode,  while planer  takes the  shot as  if it  were

     being played on a pool table.   This has bearing on the effect of your

     spin  setting.  In three-dimensional  (REAL) mode, top  or bottom spin

     will cause  the impacted balls to  move up or down  in relation to the

     cue ball.  In Planer mode, this doesn't happen.

     

     POWER:  Set the power with which you will strike the ball.

     

     FRICTION:

     

     Since  there is no gravity  to affect the balls'  path, the only thing

     slowing them  down  is friction  with the  air  around them  (and  the

     resultant  impacts with  other balls).   You can  control the Friction

     Coefficient of the air for each  shot.  A large FC will slow the balls

     down more quickly  while a tiny FC will keep  the balls bouncing for a

     LONG time.

     

     Once  all the above settings  are adjusted, take the  shot by pressing

     the fire  key  (detailed  on the  Refernce  Card).  All  settings  are

     retained for  you from turn to  turn.  If you like,  you can take your

     shot  at any time  by pressing the  fire key.  This  will use whatever

     setting are in effect at the time.

     

     THE TIMER:

     

     The countdown  timer starts at the beginning of  each shot.  It is set

     initally to sixty seconds, and  when it reaches zero, the shot will be

     taken...whether you are ready or not.  The number of seconds left when

     you take your shot directly affects you score.

     

     SCORING:

     

     Hitting a red ball straight on:          1 x Timer

     Sinking a red ball:                      10 x Timer plus 500

     

     Sinking  multiple red  balls:  A  bonus modifier  for every additional

     ball sunk; i.e. if 3 reds are  pocketed, the first will give 1 x (10 x

     timer + 500) the second 2 x (10 x timer + 500) and the third 3 x (10 x

     timer + 500).

     

     Hitting the yellow ball stright on:      1 x Timer

     Sinking the yellow ball:                 10 x Timer + 2000

     Foul shots:                              Sinking the wrong ball,

                                              scratching (sinking the

                                              cue ball), or missing

                                              altogether: minus 500.

     

     

      THIS DOCUMENT WAS PREPARED COMPLIMENTS OF ANCHORAGE'S BEST, 

                             

                            CAPTAIN CRUNCH!!