QUADREL

USER'S MANUAL
Home of the Underdogs - http://www.theunderdogs.org/

The greatest games are usually the ones with rules easy to understand. 
Inspired by the theorem of the four colors, QUADREL is a perfect example of
this adage. 
Played by only one player against the computer or by two players, the game
looks quite simple: you have to paint on the screen spaces of different
shapes.
The difficulty consists in the fact that each player has a limited number of
colors at his disposal, and that two shapes touching one another cannot be of
the same color.
With QUADREL, we can promise you one thing: you are going to make use of all
your neurones...

I/ LOADING THE GAME

ATARI ST
Insert the disk in the internal drive and switch on your computer.

AMIGA 500 & 2000
Insert the disk in the internal drive and switch on your computer.

AMIGA 1000
Insert the Kickstart disk in the internal drive and switch on your computer.
When the Workbench screen appears, insert the QUADREL disk in the internal
drive.

AMSTRAD CPC DISK
Switch on your computer. Insert the disk in the internal drive. Type 'RUN
"QUADREL"' and press the <ENTER> key.

AMSTRAD CPC TAPE
Switch on your computer. Re-wind the tape. Press the <PLAY> key on the tape
recorder. Type 'RUN' then press the <ENTER> key.

IBM PC & COMPATIBLES
Start up your PC with your DOS disk. Insert the "QUADREL A" disk in drive A.
Switch to drive A by typing 'A:', and by pressing the <ENTER> key. Type
'QUADREL', then press the <ENTER> key to start the game.
If you wish to load 'QUADREL' on drive B:
  Insert the "QUADREL A" disk in drive B.
  Switch to drive B by typing 'B:' and by pressing the <ENTER> key.
  Type 'SWAPAB' then press <ENTER>.
  Type 'QUADREL', then press <ENTER> to start the game.
You must then select the option corresponding to the graphic card you are
using, this by pressing:
  <F1> for the CGA mode (4 colors).
  <F2> for the EGA mode (16 colors).
  <F3> for the VGA mode (16 colors).
  <F4> for the TGA mode (Tandy 16 colors).

II/ CONTROLS

To control the game you can use the mouse, the joystick or the keyboard
(depending on the computer you have).
All selections are made by clicking on the screens or by using drop-down
menus.

III/ THE THEOREM OF THE FOUR COLORS

What about a short mathematics lesson before playing ?
The theorem of the four colors demonstrates that you can fill any type of map
with only four colors without ever having two contiguous colors.
This is true for any type of map: geographical, geometrical, or a map with
the most crooked outlines you could think of.
This theorem was recently demonstrated, but do not worry, we are not going to
do it here.
Lots of people tried to contradict this theorem but failed.
QUADREL is actually a fun way to apply the theorem and you will soon
understand why its demonstration could fill the pages of a dictionary.

IV/ OPTIONS

QUADREL gives you the possibility to choose between three different types of
game with three different possible levels each (they modify the number of
colors you have at the beginning of a game).
You can play against the watch and be in the scoring board, or play without
limited time.
Just click to see the drop-down menus.

THE FREE ONE-PLAYER MODE
This is the easiest type of game.
The computer asks you to select amongst different maps the one you are going
to play with.
Then, you will have to fill it with the assigned number of colors, according
to the theorem and as fast as you can.

THE CONTROLLED ONE-PLAYER MODE
The sole difference with the free One-Player mode is that the computer tells
you what shape you must fill.
Maybe you think it is easier...

THE TWO PLAYERS MODE
You can play against the computer or against a human opponent.
When you have selected one of these two options, the computer asks you to
choose the map you want to play with.
This type of game is different from the two others.
Here, you have to keep your opponent from painting the shapes of the map.
The colors are not evenly distributed between the two players: the color
player #1 possesses in large quantity is the color player #2 will have in
minimum quantity, and vice versa.
Now, you have to find the right strategy to defeat your opponent.
All right, one example to give you a clue...
Player #1 has a lot of blue. So, player #2 will try to block him by filling
as many shapes as he can with the blue he has so that player #1 will not be
able to place all the blue he has on the map. But be careful, do not let him
block you...
The game is over when one of the two players cannot paint any more shape.

When you play the One-Player mode, you have access to the Help menu which
allows you to erase a shape you just filled, or to ask the computer what
would be the best way to play. Still, each time you ask for help you get a
penalty of 30 seconds.

V/ THE TEAM

PROJECT MANAGER:    Christophe GOMEZ
DESIGNER:           Najib CHELLY
PROGRAMMERS:
  AMIGA ST version: Benoist ARON
  PC version:       Clement IYEYEMI
  CPC version:      Christophe DELMAERE
GRAPHICS:           Emmanuel VASSE
MUSIC:              Michel WINOGRADOFF
THANKS TO:          Bernard AURE
                    Olivier RICHEZ
                    Dominique TRIANA
                    Laurent WEILL