A Question of Sport
Typed by Belgarath


Game Features

Welcome to "A Question of Sport", the home computer version. Introduced by David Coleman, with team
captains Ian Botham and Bill Beaumont, you at last have a chance to compete in the B.B.C.'s most
popular TV Sports Quiz of 1988 on the same kind of one-to-one basis as your favourite sporting stars do
on the show itself. You can play as Bill's or Ian's team with the options of a one or two-player game.
You can pit your wits against your family, your friends, or if you're own your own, against
your computer - and you don't have to wait for the show to appear on TV. Now you can play whenever
you feel in the mood!

When loading the game you will be asked whether you want to play a one or two-player game. Move
the cursor over your choice and SELECT. On some versions of the game you will be able to define the
keys you want to use (see PLAYING INSTRUCTIONS) as well. Choose your specialist subject by selecting
the correct icon from the icons at the sides of the screen. Then select your other two team members
so that they best compliment your team captain's specialist subject. The computer selects its team
members. If you are playing a two-player game your opponent will be asked to select his or her team
and specialist subject. At some stage you will be asked to choose which block of questions you
want to answer.

The game has six exciting rounds that will test your knowledge of the sporting world to the limit.

The first is a "Pictureboard" round. This is an individual round. Each member of each team will be asked
one question. The first question will be asked of a member of team one, the second of a member of
team two. Thereafter questions will alternate. Each individual will be asked to choose one of the twelve
numbered squares displayed: it will highlight to reveal the Olympic type sports symbol for the sport the
question will be about. Wait while David asks the question, then select your answer from the four displayed,
using the cursor and SELECT. If you get it right, you'll get 2 points; if you answer incorrectly, or "TIME
OUT" is called, the opposing team will be given a chance to identify the correct answer for 1 bonus point.
Each question will be asked only once.

Round two is called "Mystery Personality". This is a team round. Each team will be asked to identify the
"MYSTERY PERSONALITY". You'll be given three clues to the personality's identity. After each clue, you
will have a choice to select your answer from a choice of four: you will get 3 points if you answer correctly
on clue *1, 2 points on clue *2 and 1 point on clue *3 - but BEWARE! - if you answer incorrectly your
turn is over. So if you can't answer clue *1 or *2, DO NOTHING - wait for the next clue. But if you
answer incorrectly or, "TIME OUT" is called on the last clue, the opposing team will be given a chance
to identify the correct answer for 1 point from the four shown.

"Home or Away" comes next:. This is and individual round. Each member of each team will be asked to
select one question, either "Home or Away". The home question is one on your specialist subject: Away is
on a different subject. There's 1 point for each correctly answered Home question and 2 for a correct Away
answer. The first question will be asked of a member of team one, the second question will be asked of
a member of team two. Thereafter the questions will alternate. If you answer incorrectly, or "TIME OUT"
is called, the opposing team will be given a chance to identify the correct answer for 1 bonus point from
the four answers shown.

"What Happens Next" speaks for itself. This is a team round. Each team will be asked one question.
You will be given an outline of an event. Then David will describe four possibilities of "What Happened
Next". Finally you will be asked identify from the four options shown the correct answer. Beware - David
will describe "What Happened Next" only once!

Round five is the "Quick Fire Round". You get 45 seconds to answer nine questions. After each question
you'll have a chance to select your answer from a choice of four. However whether you are playing the
1 or 2 player game, the first person to select an answer will stop the clock. David will tell the team
who answered first whether their answer was correct and if it is, they will get 2 points. If not the
opposing team will get 1 point. Only the first answer selected for each question will be considered.

The last round is another Pictureboard round: all you have to do is select from the remaining squares
and answer the questions they conceal - your last chance to prove your mettle!

To ensure that this version of "A Question of Sport" provides many hours of entertainment and education,
it has been designed to minimise the repetition of questions and answers. Selected versions of "A Question
of Sport" will therefore prompt you after you have played four games to load a new question block (to
do this see the playing instructions). Other versions may start to repeat some questions after four games.
When this happens you are recommended to select another question block which contains fresh questions.

"A Question of Sport" is an enthralling game for young and old alike and the only limit is your own
knowledge. Good Luck!


Loading Instructions

Atari ST   Insert Disc and Reset
Amiga      Insert Disc and Reset
PC         When on appropriate drive, with disc inserted,
           log onto disc drive (eg. A: Return) and type
           QOS Return


Playing Instructions

Atari ST

Joystick and Predefined Keys.

Player 1 -     Joystick Port 1
               Cursor Up = UP
               Cursor Down = DOWN
               Cursor Left = LEFT
               Cursor Right = RIGHT
               Right SHIFT = SELECT

Player 2 -     Joystick Port 0
               Q = UP
               Z = DOWN
               X = LEFT
               V = RIGHT
               Left SHIFT = SELECT

Both Players - F1 = SLOW SCROLLING SPEED
               F2 = MEDIUM SCROLLING SPEED
               F3 = FAST SCROLLING SPEED
               F9 = 16 SHADE TOGGLE
               F10 = ABORT


Amiga

Joystick and Predefined Keys.

Player 1 -     Joystick Port 2
               Cursor Up = UP
               Cursor Down = DOWN
               Cursor Left = LEFT
               Cursor Right = RIGHT
               Left SHIFT = SELECT

Player 2 -     Joystick Port 1
               Q = UP
               Z = DOWN
               X = LEFT
               V = RIGHT
               Right SHIFT = SELECT

Both Players - F1 = SLOW SCROLLING SPEED
               F2 = MEDIUM SCROLLING SPEED
               F3 = FAST SCROLLING SPEED
               F10 = ABORT


PC

Joystick and Predefined Keys.

Player 1 -     Cursor Up = UP
               Cursor Down = DOWN
               Cursor Left = LEFT
               Cursor Right = RIGHT
               Return = SELECT

Player 2 -     Q = UP
               A = DOWN
               O = LEFT
               P = RIGHT
               Space Bar = SELECT

Both Players - F1 = SLOW SCROLLING SPEED
               F2 = FAST SCROLLING SPEED
               F3 = (When pressed on the first screen) = HELP
               F10 = ABORT



Typed by Belgarath