                                 SKID ROW

                                 presents

                     QUEST for GLORY II: TRIAL by FIRE
 
                             Technical Manual

Page 1 follows:
---------------

   Table of Contents
 
What is Quest for Glory? .................. 2

Creating a Character ...................... 2

The Story thus Far ........................ 6

Living in this Crazy World ................ 7

Combat .................................... 9

   How to Read this Manual

All Systems ............................... 12

Amiga ..................................... 16

All Systems - How to Play ................. 16

Trial by Fire Menus ....................... 18

Communicating with Quest for Glory ........ 21

Interacting with Quest for Glory .......... 23

Page 2 follows:
---------------

WHAT IS QUEST FOR GLORY?

   Quest for Glory combines the character development and combat of
fantasy role-playing games with the basic adventure game concept
of exploring and solving its puzzles.  Trial by Fire is the second
Quest for Glory scenario.

   The essence of role-playing is that you must try to think as your
character would when faced with a dilemma.  In Quest for Glory II, you
can choose from three basic character types - the strong fighter,
the mysterious magician, or the wily thief.  Each has the same goal:
to find Arus al-Din and restore him to the rank of Emir of Raseir.
Each character will, however, set about accomplishing that goal in a
different way.  The magician may use spells to overcome some obstacles,
but might not survive a pitched battle with a monster.  The thief must
find a crafty way around the same problem that the fighter or magic
user would approach directly.

   Experience can be a tremendous asset to you as a hero.  Your
attributes will improve as you play the game.  Tasks that are beyond
your ability early on may become less difficult as your skills
improve.

   Conversation is a very important element of Trial by Fire.  You
will meet many strange people and creatures in Shapeir.  To learn about
your surroundings and your quest, it will be necessary to speak with
everyone you meet.  Like your character, the beings you meet will
have distinct personalities, and their skill and knowledge may lie
in different areas.  You'll want to ask specific questions, and find
out all you can.

   Every hero must deal with his share of foul and ferocious monsters.
If you want to be a hero, you'll have to fight or avoid them, as they
don't tend to favor discussion.  Each battle you fight with provide
you with valuable experience, and many victories will yield treasure
that you will need to buy food and equipment.

   A hero's life isn't always serious, though.  Between desperate
encounters with terrible monsters and life-and-death decisions lie
many light-hearted, humorous and downright silly moments.  Shapeir
is a strange place with a multi-faceted personality, as you will
soon see.

Creating a Character

   Before beginning your adventure, you'll choose from three basic
character types - The Fighter, The Magic User, or The Thief.  Your
selection will determine much about the sorts of obstacles you will
encounter, and the means by which you will over-

Page 3 follows:
---------------

come them.  Choose CREATE CHARACTER from the starting screen.  You will
see the character selection screen.  Choose the highlighted character
from the character selection screen by pressing [ENTER] key or by
pointing with your mouse and clicking (multi-button mouse users will
use the left button).


First of all, you can import your character from Quest for Glory I. If 
you are like me and didn't finish it, you can create a new character. 
The choices you have are Fighter, Magic-User and Thief. 
 
Importing a Character From Spielburg

   If you successfully completed Quest For Glory I: So You Want To Be
A Hero, your hero can travel to Shapeir by magic carpet and once again
help you defeat evil.

   Locate the diskette on which you saved your hero after the QFGI
victory celebration.

   Load Trial By Fire, insert the saved hero diskette into a drive
and choose IMPORT CHARACTER.  A file selector box will appear on the
screen, listing the files on the disk in drive A:.  If your Hero is
in another disk or directory, choose CHANGE DIRECTORY.

   Use your mouse or [Arrow] keys to highlight the name of the file
containing your saved Hero, then click on the Import box or press
[ENTER].

   To go back to the initial selection screen, choose CANCEL, or press
[ENTER].

   Each type of character comes with its own set of skills and abilities,
some specific to the character type, some common to all three.  Every
type has pre-assigned point values for appropriate abilities.  In
addition, you will begin the game with a 50 point 'pool' to assign to
the areas in which you wish your character to be strongest (see
Assigning Skill Points, below).

   After you have chosen a character, you must name it.  You may type
in any name you like.

The Fighter:

   The Fighter depends upon his skill with weapons, his strength and
his vitality to survive the rigors of life as a Hero.  His weapon is
his sword, and his best defense is his shield.  We recommend that you
play a Fighter if this is your first Quest for Glory adventure.

The Magic-User: 

   The Magic User must rely upon his intelligence and the successful
casting of magic spells.  He can best protect himself by avoiding
close combat.

Page 4 follows:
---------------

The Thief: 

   The Thief counts on his skills, stealth, and agility.  His weapon of
choice is the dagger, and he prefers to throw it from a distance.  He
can best defend himself in combat by dodging.
 
Assigning Skill Points

   To highlight a skill, use the mouse cursor or the up and down
[Arrow] keys.  To assign points to a skill, press the right [Arrow]
key.  Each time the right [Arrow] key is pressed, 5 points will be
assigned to the highlighted skill.  Press the left [Arrow] key to
subtract 5 points from a skill.  (You may not reduce skill points
below the original value of that skill.)  For 'fine tuning' use the
[+] and [-] keys to add or subtract one point at a time.

   To attain a skill not normally available to your character type (such
as lock-picking for a fighter), choose the desired skill from the skill
menu and assign points using the procedure described above.  Acquiring
a new skill costs 10 points, which means the minimum skill level
of 5 will require 15 points from the 'Points Available' pool.  These
will be assigned automatically.

Page 5 follows:
---------------

   Points for Health, Stamina or Magic cannot be changed by you directly.
The values for these attributes will change automatically as you gain
experience, suffer damage and modify certain skills.

   Strength is important in performing physical activities, especially
combat.  The Fighter must be strong to be effective.

   Intelligence will enable the Magic User to succesfully learn and
cast spells, and will benefit all characters when engaged in mental
activities, such as out-thinking opponents in combat, or trying to
think effectively.

   Agility is important during combat, and vital to lock-picking and
stealth.  The Thief cannot prosper without high agility.

   Vitality determines how much damage a character can sustain, and
how quickly he will recover from damage and strenuous physical activity.
High vitality is particularly useful to the Fighter.

   Luck can aid you in many subtle and mysterious ways, and is especially
important to the Thief.

   Honor aids your interactions with those characters who live their
lives by a code of honor.  Honor points must be earned - they can not
be assigned directly.

Skills:

   Weapon Skill determines the character's ability to land a successful
blow in combat.

   Parry is the ability to block an opponent's blow using a wepon or
shield.

   Dodge is a skill used to avoid a blow by ducking or sidestepping it.

   Stealth is the art of moving quietly and discreetly, taking advantage
of shadows and other camouflage when sneaking around.

   Pick Locks is the skill that allows a character to triumph over locked
doors, chests, etc.  A lock pick of thief's tool kit is necessary
to use this skill.

   Throw determines your character's aptitude for throwing and
accurately hitting a target with a small object such as a rock or a
dagger.

   Climb is the skill that allows a character to scale difficult
surfaces.

   Magic is the basic skill required to learn and cast magical spells.

   Communication is the skill of putting your thoughts in order and
expressing your self effectively to others.

Page 6 follows:
---------------

   Each character also posseses attributes that are set automatically
based on certain skills and abilities:

   Health Points gauge the amount of damage a character can suffer
before he will die.

   Stamina Points determine how much energy a character has to perform
physical activities.  When Stamina points are low, the character is
tired.  He will fight less effectively, and may be injured more easily.

   Magic Points measure the amount of mana or magical energy a
character has, and therefore how much magic he can perform.  When magic
points are gone, the character will be unable to cast spells.

   Skills and abilities improve with practice.  The skills your
character exercises frequently will improve more rapidly, while
those left unused will remain fixed at their original levels.
Your character can only advance in skills in which he has at least
five points.

   The Story Thus Far...


   You begin Trial By Fire flush with the success of your last
adventure (as depicted in Quest for Glory I: So You Wan To Be A Hero).
As you recall, you arrived in Spielburg with little but your Famous
Adventurers' Correspondence School diploma.  But now you are the
Hero of Spielburg, having defeated the brigands and driven Baba Yaga
from the valley.  You also made many important friends, including the
Archmage Erasmus (and his faithful companion Fenrus), and the Baron
Stefan von Spielburg.  Your friendship with the Kattas Shema and
Shameen, and Abdulla Doo the Merchant, has led to your current quest.

   You are now riding with Abdulla and the Kattas on the merchant's
magical carpet, recovered from the briagand's stolen treasures.
After a long and harrowing journey, you at last arrive in the magnificent
city of Shapeir.  Unfortunately, just when you thought you could take
a well-earned rest, you discover that Shapeir has problems of its own.
A Hero is needed here, too!

   Now you must become your character, and learn to think as he would,
use his unique skills to experience the land of Shapeir, and be a Hero
on your Quest for Glory.

Page 7 follows:
---------------

Living in this Crazy World

   Just as in real life, there are basic things a person must do to
stay alive.  You will need to eat a couple of meals each day.  If you
are carrying food, you'll eat automatically, but try not to run out
of rations.  Be especially careful not to run out of water. In the
desert, water is life itself.

   You'll also need a certain amount of rest or sleep to regain Health,
Stamina and Magic points.  Without rest or sleep you will use these
points quickly.  Sleep is best accomplished in the safety of an inn.

   Also, as in real life, basic necessities often cost money.  To earn
money, you can fulfill a quest (thereby obtaining a reward), or defeat
a wealthy monster.  The thief has other options.  The coin of the realm
of Shapeir is unlike that of Spielburg.  Here, 100 brass centimes=
1 golden dinar.  Supplies such as food, equipment, magical spells
and healing points can be purchased from the local merchants.

   You will carry most of your equipment in a backpack.  The amount you
can carry is determined by your strength and the weight of the
equipment.

   If for some reason you are in a hurry (a monster on your tail, or
some such thing), type run to move more quickly.  Don't run too far
though, or you'll soon become tired.  Type walk to resume walking
normally.  Characters with points assigned to STEALTH can also sneak
when appropriate.

Finding Your Way Around Shapeir

   The city of Shapeir, in contrast to the quaint Alpine village of
Spielburg, is an ancient and thriving metropolis.  Many first-time
visitors find Shapeir's dense maze of streets and alleyways almost
overwhelming.  Outside the gates is the seemingly endless Shapeir
Desert.

   The keys to keeping yourself oriented in this vast realm are proper
use of a map and compass, taking advantage of such clues as street
signs and the knowledge of local citizens.

The Map

   Purchasing a map in the game will help your character find his way
around the streets of Shapeir without getting hopelessly lost.  Once
your character has a map, you can type "use map" anywhere in the streets
and plazas of Shapeir.  Then, simply place your cursor on a map location,
click the mouse button or press [ENTER], and your character

Page 8 follows:
---------------

will walk directly there (unless, of course, something gets in his way).
Until you have visited a location (such as a particular shop), it will
not show up on the map.  As you explore the city, you will discover
more places and your map will become more useful.  It's better than
getting lost.

   To exit the map, press [ESC].

The Compass

   A compass is a very useful item for navigating the trackless
desert, or even finding your way around town.

Street Signs

   Even natives of Shapeir sometimes need a reminder as to where they
are going and which way they are heading.  (Wizards in particular
are notorious for having dificulty in this area.)  For this reason,
street signs are prominently posted at all major intersections and in
the plazas.  Plaza signs also often include direction symbols.

Asking Directions

   One way to find locations you haven't visited yet is to talk to the
locals.  A clear, concise set of directions may be your reward.  (Of
course, that rather depends on whom you ask!)

The Saurus and Desert Travel

   Distances in the desert can be deceiving, and it is easy to lose your
way.  A well-trained desert Saurus purchased from a reliable dealer can
mean the difference between exploring the desert in comfort and death
from sunstroke or dehydration.  Whether you are walking or riding, never
travel in the desert without a full waterskin.  Night travel is also a
good way to avoid the desert blazing sun.

Winning the Game

   When you complete Quest for Glory II successfully, you will be given
the opportunity to save your character for use in Quest for Glory III:
Shadows of Darkness.  You will be asked to insert a formatted, writeable
disk.  Save this disk, as it will allow you to begin Shadows of Darkness
with your character from Trial by Fire.

Page 9 follows:
---------------

Talking to Other Characters

   You will meet many strange beings in Shapeir - some human, some
otherwise.  Most of them know things that you don't.  By speaking with
them you can gain some of that knowledge.

   Everyone you meet will understand sentences in which you ask about
something in their areas of expertise.  You might ask about magic when
speaking with the Astrologer or the Enchantress, or ask about heroes
when you visit the Adventurer's Guild Hall.  You'll want to jot down
anything that seems important, as your conversations will provide you
with most of the clues you'll need to save the land and once more prove
your worth as a Hero.

   Many of the replies to your queries will suggest additional 
questions to ask, or lead you to others who can provide you with
useful information.  For example, when you ask Shameen about his inn,
you will learn of the poet Omar.

Combat

   The world is full of monsters and villains, and if you want to stay
alive long enough to become a Hero, you really ought to learn to how to
fight them.   A clash will occur any time a monster comes near enough
to strike your character, or when you type fight.

   Combat can take place in the room where you encounter a monster 
(allowing more movement and strategy), or the screen may change to a
close-up view of the monster.

   When you encounter a monster, you will need to react quickly.  You
can throw daggers or cast an appropriate spell while the monster is 
still at a distance, or you can type fight to engage in battle.  While
in combat, you can cast some spells, but you won't have time to use
healing or other potions.

   In Quest for Glory II combat, you can Attack, Parry, Dodge, or Cast
spells (assuming your character has the appropriate skills).  All
combat moves are made with the numeric keypad (see chart).  In general,
the top row of keys (7, 8, and 9) represent Attacks, the middle row
(4, 5, and 6) represent Parries, and the bottom row (1, 2, and 3)
cause your character to Dodge.

   A Swing is a powerful blow that generally does more damage than a 
Thrust.  However, it takes slightly longer, giving your opponent a 
better chance to defend himself.  Choose a High Swing or Low Swing
to take advantage of weaknesses in your opponent's defense.

Page 10 follows:
----------------

   The direct Thrust is faster and harder to defend against, but leaves
the attacker more open to a counterthrust.  Use a Thrust when accuracy
is more important than damage, as against a fast-moving but lightly-
armored opponent.

   All attacks benefit from careful planning and timing.  Parry or Dodge
your opponent's attacks while preparing your next blow.  Attacking too
quickly will make you tire rapidly, and you will not hit as often as
when you delay your thrusts.

   The Parry, most often practiced by Fighters, is the art of blocking
your opponent's attack with your weapon or shield.  Parrying is quicker
than dodging, and less tiring, but must be timed properly to stop the
enemy attack.

   Dodging is the art of physically avoiding your opponent's attacks.
It is the only defensive skill available to most Theives and Magic
Users, and can also be crucial to Fighters when facing a clearly more
dangerous opponent.  Watch your enemy carefully - anticipate his
moves, and choose the proper Dodge accordingly.

   Spells which may ordinarliy be used in close combat include:
Flame Dart, Force Bolt, Zap, and Dazzle.  When in doubt, Run Away
(but watch your backside!)

Numberic Keyboard Keys:
 
           7- Swing High   8- Thrust        9- Swing Low 
           4- High Parry   5- Middle Parry  6- Low Parry 
           1- Dodge Left   2- Dodge Back    3- Dodge Right 

   In terms of combat strategies, timing and defense are both 
important in Quest for Glory II.  Try to strike when your opponent 
is 'open'.  and anticipate his attacks to better defend yourself.

   If you feel that the situation has gotten out of hand, you can
type escape, or press [CTRL-E] to retreat.

   Many battles can be avoided, and it might be wise at time to do
so.  Combat, how-

Page 11 follows:
----------------

ever, is one of the best ways for an aspiring Hero to practice and
improve skills.  Each time you defeat a monster, you'll gain valuable
experience that will increase your chances in future battles. 
Remember, always search the body of your opponent after winning a 
battle, for some creatures carry money or other useful items.

   In most cases, Status Bars are displayed during combat, keeping
you informed of Health, Stamina and Mana (magic energy) points for
your character.  As you become injured, Health points diminish.  You
will use Stamina points as you work hard at fighting or using your
skills.  When Stamina points are depleted, energy is drawn from 
Health.  When Health points are gone, the character is dead.  A Health
bar is also displayed for your opponent, to show how badly it is
injured.  Your opponent's Stamina is not displayed, since it would
not be obvious to you during combat.

Thief Skills

   Thief characters have two special skills: 'Pick Locks' and 
'Stealth.'  To use these skills type pick lock to gain entrance to
a locked door, or sneak to move quietly.  When you are finished
'sneaking,' type walk to resume walking normally.

Magic

   A Magic User begins the game with several spells.  For a 
thorough discussion of these spells and their effects, see the
Famous Adventurer's Correspondence School Manual, pages 5-8.
The spells he possesses will be listed in his inventory.  Also listed
will be the number of Magic Points needed to cast a spell, and the level
of skill the character has in each spell.  His spell casting will improve
with practice.  To use a spell, type cast (or press [CTRL-C]), then
type the name of the spell.

   Targeting Spells

   In Trial by Fire some spells must be targeted.  If you cast such a
spell, a targeting cursor will apppear onscreen.  The targeting
cursor is in the shape of crosshairs.  Use the mouse or [Arrow] keys
to move the cursor to where you want to cast the spell, then click
your left mouse button or press [ENTER].

   The spell's success will depend on your skill in magic in general,
and your skill with that spell in particular.  Practice pays.

Page 12 follows:
----------------

How to Read this Manual

   Throughout this manual we will use the following ways of representing
information:

   MENU COMMANDS will be capitalized.
Example: SAVE, RESTORE, QUIT, PAUSE GAME

   Typed commands will appear as bold type.
Examples: 'type: ask about shapeir' 'type: cd \sierra'

   Portions of the command line not meant to be typed will not appear
in bold type.  For example, in the line 'type: cd \sierra', 'type:'
should not be typed.

   [Keystrokes] will appear in brackets setting them off from the 
surrounding text.  The brackets are not keystrokes and should not
be typed.
Examples: [Spacebar], [Tab], [PageUp]

    Two or more keys that should be pressed at the same time will be
separated by a hyphen (-).  This hyphen is not a keystroke, and should
not be typed.
Examples: 'Press [CTRL-I] to view your inventory.'

   The terms 'disk', 'floppy disk', and 'diskette' are used 
interchangeably to refer to either 3.5" or 5.25" external data
storage disks.  The term 'hard disk' is used to refer to a fixed,
no-removable data storage disk.

ALL SYSTEMS
-----------

PLEASE NOTE:  If there is a README file on your game diskette, it may
contain important information and instructions that were not available
at the time the documentation and other materials for this game were
printed.  Failure to review the README file before installing the
program may result in unexpected consequences during the installation
and/or running of the program.

GETTING STARTED: DISKETTE DRIVES

   It is always advisable to make back-ups of your master program
diskettes to increase the life of the masters and guard against
accidents.  Follow your computer's instructions to make copies
of all game diskettes.

Page 13 follows:
----------------

   If you will be playing from diskettes rather than a hard disk,
you will also want to format a blank diskette for saving games.
In fact, saving games to diskettes is a good idea, even if you are
playing the game from your hard disk.  Follow your computer's
instructions to format a blank diskette and keep it handy for saving
your game as you play.  For some helpful tips on saving games,
see the 'Saving Your Game' (Page 22) and 'Interacting with Quest
for Glory' (Page 23) sections of this manual.

   When installing your program, you may be prompted to insert a
'Drivers' disk.  If you receive this prompt, please examine your
disks and insert the disk marked 'Drivers' and press [ENTER], so
that the appropriate drivers will be loaded.  Some games do not include
a separate 'Drivers' disk.

Page 16 follows:
----------------

AMIGA
-----

INSTALLING THE GAME

NOTE: RENAME your copies of all game disks to remove the words 'COPY
OF' from the disk name.  If the words 'COPY OF' are not removed from 
the disk names of ALL the copies, the system will continue to ask
for the original disk, and will not run the game.

   1. Boot your system with Workbench, and double-click on the INSTALL
icon.

   2. Follow the on-screen prompts, choosing your selection with the
mouse by clicking once on the item.

   3. You will be asked if you wish to install the game on your hard 
disk.  If you do NOT wish the game to be installed on your hard disk,
select NO.  If you want to install the game on your hard disk,
select YES.

   4. Using your mouse, select which hard disk you wish to install
the game onto.

   5. Follow the on-screen prompts to complete the installation.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

From Floppy Diskettes:

   1. If you have less than 1 megabyte of memory for your Amiga, 
disconnect any external drives while your system is off.

   2. Insert Disk #1 into drive DF0:.
 
   3. Turn on your system.

From Hard Disk:

   1. Load Workbench and double-click on your hard disk icon.

   2. Double-click on the SIERRA drawer.

   3. Double-click on the drawer for the desired Sierra game.

   4. Double-click on the game icon.

Page 17 follows:
----------------

ALL SYSTEMS
-----------

HOW TO PLAY

MOVING YOUR HERO

   You may move your character on the screen with the [Arrow] keys,
the numeric keypad, or the mouse.  To halt your character's steps
with the keypad, press the number 5, or press the last used direction
key again.  Do not attempt to move the character to start and stop
continuously, resulting in very slow progress. 

   Using the mouse, position the arrow to where you want the character
to move, then click the left mouse button.

Cursor Keys:

  Up Arrow - UP
  Down Arrow - DOWN
  Left Arrow - LEFT
  Right Arrow - RIGHT

Numeric Keypad:

  7 - NW
  8 - N
  9 - NE
  4 - W
  5 - STOP
  6 - E
  1 - SW
  2 - S
  3 - SE

SPECIAL CURSORS

Quest for Glory II uses special mouse cursors during certain modes
of play.  The shape of each cursor shows you what actions are 
available to your character at that time.  If you are not using 
a mouse to play, the special cursor will usually appear in the lower
right corner of the screen to inform you of the current mode.

Dagger - When you see this cursor, you can move your character and/or
         type commands.

Face - When you see this cursor, you can neither move your character
       nor type commands.

Page 18 follows:
----------------

Shield - This cursor is for aiming targeted spells or when throwing
         something (see Targeting Spells, page 11).  You will see this
         cursor then you cast a spell that must be targeted.  Move
         the cursor to the place onscreen where you want to aim a
         spell.

TRIAL BY FIRE MENUS

   When you press [ESC], a menu bar will appear at the top of your
screen with several menus that can be opened to show the command
choices available to you.

   Use the left and right [Arrow] keys to open a menu, and the up and
down [Arrow] keys to highlight items within a menu.

   If the menu choice opens a screen with two or more choices, use the
[Tab] key to move between the choices.

   Press [ENTER] to select a highlighted command.

   Press [ESC] to return to the game without choosing a command.

      Menu........................Shortcut Command Keys

      Sierra Menu
 
         About Quest for Glory II..... [Ctrl-G]
         Help......................... [F1]
         Silly Clowns................. [Ctrl-Y]

      File Menu

         Save Game.................... [F5]
         Restore Game................. [F7]
         Restart Game................. [F9]
         Quit......................... [Ctrl-Q]

Page 19 follows:
----------------

      Game Menu

         Faster Animation............. +
         Normal Animation............. =
         Slower Animation............. -
         Sound Volume................. [Ctrl-V]
         Turn Sound on/off............ [F2]
         Arcade Difficulty............ [F4]
         Game Detail.................. [F6]
         Game Time Scale.............. [F8]

      Action Menu

         Cast Spell................... [Ctrl-C]
         Fight........................ [Ctrl-F]
         Escape....................... [Ctrl-E]
         Pause Game................... [Ctrl-p]
         Repeat Last Command.......... [F3]

      Information Menu

         Inventory.................... [Ctrl-I]/[Tab]
         Character.................... [Ctrl-S]
         Time/Day..................... [Ctrl-D]
         Ask About.................... [Ctrl-A]
         Tell About................... [Ctrl-T]
         Look At...................... [Ctrl-L]
         Read Map..................... [Ctrl-R]
         Compass Heading.............. [Ctrl-H]/[Backspace]

OTHER SHORTCUT KEYS

      [Spacebar]...................... Repeat last command
      [Shift-Click]................... Look At

Page 20 follows:
----------------

   SHIFT-CLICK* is a feature that will allow you to 'look' at a person or
object using your mouse.  Place the mouse arrow on the desired person
or object, then hold down the [SHIFT] key and press the mouse button.
You will now receive a descriptive message.

* Please note: Multi-button mouse users should use the RIGHT mouse
button, and need not press [SHIFT].

GAME SPEED CONTROL

   At times it may be useful to slow down the speed of the game
animation in order to negotiate a trcky section, or observe 
something more carefully.  At other times, you may wish to speed up
game actions.  In Quest for Glory II, animation speed is controlled by
the [+] and [-] keys, or by selecting a choice from the Speed menu,
using the mouse or [Arrow] keys.

GAME TIME SCALE

   You can adjust the speed at which days and nights pass in the game
by choosing GAME TIME SCALE from the Game menu.

GAME DETAIL

   If your computer system is running the game too slowly, you may 
want to adjust the amount of nonessential animation in the game.  At
the beginning of the game, Game Detail will be automatically set at
the best level for your system's speed.  This level will be shown
on the Game Details screen as OPTIMAL.  You can adjust the detail 
level at any time during game play by choosing Game Detail and
making another selection from the Game Detail Screen.  NOTE: WE DO NOT
RECOMMEND SETTING THE DETAIL LEVEL HIGHER THAN THE OPTIMAL LEVEL FOR
YOUR SYSTEM.

ARCADE LEVEL

   You can set the difficulty level of arcade sequences (combat and
skill-based puzzles) using the ARCADE LEVEL option in the Action menu.

USING THE MOUSE (optional)

   Your mouse will be useful to you in moving your character, and in
learning about your surroundings.  To move your character using the
mouse, position the arrow to where you want the charcter to move,
then click the left mouse button.  In many scenes, you can find out
about a person or object by using the [SHIFT-CLICK] feature described
above.

Page 21 follows:
----------------

EXAMPLES OF COMMON COMMANDS

Communicating with Quest for Glory II

   Many characters in the game will have information of one kind or
another for you.  To talk with a character, type: ask about [character,
subject or object] (for example: ask about the brigands) or press
[CTRL-A], then type [character, subject or object].  Using a mouse,
choose the menu command ask about.  Try different approaches, and
remember : talk to everyone you meet!

   You may encounter objects you need along the way.  To take an
object, type: take [object].  For example, take the note.  You will
need to use the objects you acquire as you explore.  You can try
different things such as typing: use the [object], or give the 
[object] to [character].  Different approaches to a puzzle may bring
about a different outcome.

   Pay close attention to details.  To examine objects, type look at 
the [object], (for example: look at the table), or press [CTRL-L],
then type the name of the object.

   Using a mouse you can also use the 'Shift-Click' feature described
above.  To get a general description of the current room or scene,
type look, or use your mouse to choose LOOK from the menu.

RETYPING COMMANDS

   If you wish to repeat a command select REPEAT LAST COMMAND from the 
ACTION menu or press the [CPACEBAR] or [F3].

INVENTORY/SPELL LIST

   If you wish to see the items you are carrying and/or the magic spells
you have, select INVENTORY from the Action menu, press [CTRL-I], or
press the [TAB] key.

   You will see a list of the items you are carrying and the spells
(if any).  An asterisk (*) will appear next to any spell that is 
currently active.

   Press [ENTER] or [ESC] to resume play.

PAUSING THE GAME

   If you wish to pause the game, select PAUSE from the Action
menu, press [Ctrl-P] or [ESC] or [ENTER] to resume play.

Page 22 follows:
----------------

SAVING YOUR GAME

   If you wish to save your game, select SAVE from the File menu, or
type save, or press [F5].  To allow for errors in judgement and 
creative exploration, we recommend that you frequently save your game
in progress, and that you save several different games from different
points as you play.  You will always want to save your game before
encountering potentially dangerous situations.  You should also
save your game after you have made significant progress.

Please note: If you're playing from diskettes, you must have a 
separate formatted diskette ready before you can save a game.

   If you choose to save games to your hard disk, we suggest you
create one or more saved game directories or folders on your hard disk.
See your computer's instructions for creating directories or folders.

   You may name your saved games using the standard English phrases.
For example, if you are standing by a fountain, you might call
your game 'standing by fountain', or simply 'fountain'.

RESTORING YOUR GAME

   Select RETORE from the File menu, or type retore, or press [F7].
You will be prompted to select the game you wish to restore.  (On
a single drive system, you will be prompted to insert your save
game disk.)  Highlight the desired game and select RESTORE.  If the
game you wish to restore is in a different directory, select CHANGE
DIRECTORY.

   Please note:  If you do not have a mouse, use the [TAB] key to 
toggle between RESTORE and CHANGE DIRECTORY.

QUITTING YOUR GAME

   If you wish to stop playing, select QUIT from the File menu,
or type quit, or press [CTRL-Q].

RESTARTING THE GAME

   If you wish to restart your game at any time during play, select
RESTART from the file menu, or type restart, or press [F9] key.  The 
game will begin at the opening scroll.

Page 23 follows:
----------------

INTERACTING WITH QUEST FOR GLORY II

   You can generally interact with the game by simple commands
consisting of as little as a noun and a verb.  For instance,
the command sit in the chair can be shortened to sit chair, or
even sit.  Unless otherwise directed, follow all typed commands
with [ENTER].

   A message window will appear after you enter each command, and at
other times during the game.  When you have read the message, press
[ENTER] to remove the window and resume play.

   Trial by Fire understands many common verbs.  Here are some you
might try:

   ASK        CLOSE      FIGHT    MOUNT    RIDE     STAND

   BARGAIN    DISMOUNT   GET      MOVE     RUN      TELL

   BET        DRINK      GIVE     OIL      SEARCH   THANK 
 
   BUY        DROP       GO       OPEN     SHOW     THROW

   CAST       EAT        JUMP     PICK     SIT      USE
 
   CLIMB      ESCAPE     LOOK     READ     SNEAK    WALK

   
   LOOK everywhere.  Thoroughly explore your surroundings.  Open 
doors and drawers, lookunder things and behind things for valuable
objects and clues.  Look closely at all objects you encounter or you
may miss important details.

   EXPLORE each area of the game very carefully.  Search every area
of Shapeir.  Be careful!  There are many hazards awaiting you!

   DRAW A MAP as you progress through the game.  Make a note of each
area you visit, and include information about objects found there and
dangerous areas nearby.  If you miss an area, you may miss an
important clue.

   ASK ABOUT anything you think a character might know.  This is by 
far the best way to learn what is really going on in Shapeir.  But use
discretion!  Some characters will be friendly and helpful.  They may
give you valuable information and advice.  Others may mislead you.

Page 24 follows:
----------------

   Some Common Things to Ask About:

Shapeir    Raseir   Rumor     Money     Elemental    Monster

Weather    Name     Magic     Sultan    Emir         Guild


   GET objects you think you will need.  You will come across a
number of objects that may be of use to you later, but don't overload
your character.  The amount that you can carry will vary depending 
on your strength.  You can see an inventory of items on hand by 
pressing the TAB key at any time.

   USE the items you have picked up to solve problems in the game, or
to help you to make progress and discover more clues.

   BE CAREFUL, and remain alert at all times - disaster may strike
in the most unlikely of places.

   DON'T GET DISCOURAGED.  If you come to an obstacle that seems
insurmountable, don't despair.  Spend some time exploring another
area, and come back later.  Every problem in the game has at least
one solution, and some have more than one.  Sometimes solving a 
problem one way will make it harder to solve the next one, and 
sometimes it will make it easier.  If you get stuck, you might try
backtracking to an ealier point in the game, then choosing a 
different path.  

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW
=========================================================================

                              SKID ROW 
 
                              presents 
  
                         QUEST for GLORY II 
              Famous Adventurer's Correspondence School   
  
 
ADVANCED ADVENTURING COURSE 
 
So you had to be a Hero? 
 
   Now that you've been on your own in the real world of high- 
powered adventuring, you have probably discovered that there is more 
to this hero business than was covered in your Famous Adventurer's 
Correspondence School Handbook.  (After all, why should we tell you  
everything at once when we can make big bucks selling you additional 
manuals?) 
 
   In your everday Quest for Glory, you are bound to encounter situations 
of such magnitude and unbelievable stress that you probably say to 
yourself, "Maybe I should have taken the Famous Accountants'  
Correspondence Course, instead." 
 
   Relax.  We here at the Famous Adventurer's Correspondence School  
have the information you need.  For just 10 golds, plus 25 silvers 
shipping and handling, we will send you your free copy of the Famous 
Adventurers' Correspondence School's "Advanced Adventuring Manual". 
This manual will help you survive the everyday stress and strain of 
marauding monsters, malicious magic, and corporate managers to 
achieve the acme of your adventuring activities. 
 
   You, too, can become an "Advanced Adventurer".  Guaranteed, or 
double your money back (minus shipping and handling charges). 
 
FAMOUS ADVENTURER'S 
CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOL 
12345 Aerris Way 
Silmaria 
 
                            Table of Contents 
 
                     How to be an Advanced Adventurer 
 
What is an Advanced Adventurer? ................................... 1 
 
Combat Careers .................................................... 3 
 
Advanced Magic Using .............................................. 5 
 
Wizard's Institute of Technology .................................. 5 
 
Occult Occupations ................................................ 6 
 
Basic Spell Usage ................................................. 7 
 
Advanced Spell Usage .............................................. 8 
 
Advanced Thieving Techniques ...................................... 9 
 
Purloiner's Positions ............................................. 10 
 
Professional Adventuring Organizations ............................ 11 
 
Special Southern Supplement ....................................... 13 
 
Page 1 follows: 
--------------- 
 
                   How to be an ADVANCED Adventurer 
 
What is an Advanced Adventurer? 
 
   When an adventurer becomes bored with bravery, fatigued with fighting, 
or ho-hummed about heroics, it's time to start thinking upward mobility. 
You're in the hero business now, and you can't just rest on your laurels. 
You must explore strange new worlds, seek out new life and new 
civilizations.  A hero must boldly go where no man (or woman) has gone 
before - and come back alive.  
 
   Advanced Fighting  
 
   Now that you've mastered the basics of combat - the thrusty thrust, 
the brash slash, the ordinary parry, and the hodge-podge dodge - it's 
time to discuss the backbone of battle, the essence of the fracas, the  
gist of the joust, the peanut butter and jelly of true pugnacity - 
Strategy and Tactics.  As the Old Adventurer would put it: 
 
         " You got to know when to fight'em 
  
            Know when to be polite to'em, 
  
      Know when to dodge away and know when to run 
  
            You've got to practice fighting 
  
                Any time you're able, 
  
       'Cause there ain't (sic) no time for practice, 
  
             When the monsters come."  
 
   Now it is true that some people confuse strategy with tactics, 
and vice versa.  Here is a simple mnemonic to help you keep straight 
which one is which: 
 
   "If it is prophylactic and emphatically didactic, then it's not tactic."  
  
Page 3 follows: 
--------------- 
 
Combat Careers 
  
Career Paths for the Successful Fighter 
 
Warlord 
 
Hero 
 
Paladin 
 
Career Paths for the Not-Quite-So-Successful Fighter 
 
Combat Instructor 
 
Security Guard 
 
Babysitter 
 
Warlord  
 
   This is the perfect job for the aggressive, gung-ho type fighter.  
If you have the moxie for mayhem, the obsession for aggression, the 
resolution for revolution, and a few friends, then you, too, can have 
a successful career in pillaging and looting.  Imagine yourself at 
the head of an entire army, storming the countryside and leaving only 
havoc in your wake.  If you love the smell of naphtha in the morning, 
this is the job for you. 
 
     Remember - it's "Loot before pillage, sack before burn".  
 
Hero  
 
   To be a Hero is, of course, one of the preferred occupations for  
Fighters of all times and climes.  Receiving the adulation of a  
grateful peasantry (and often as not a few members of the fairer - 
which which is to say, preferred - sex) can do wonders for your ego. 
The more substantial rewards from those of means can also be very useful 
when it comes time to advance one's education and career with our  
marvellous Famous Adventurers' Correspondence School supplementary 
materials. 
 
Page 4 follows: 
--------------- 
 
Paladin  
 
   The Paladin is the Goody-Two-Shoes of champions and the Dudley-Do- 
Right of defenders.  The job is clearly not for everyone.  If you are 
willing to be bold for no gold, risk your name without acclaim and 
campaign without gain, this could be the occupation for your emulation. 
A Paladin is a hero's hero (and he can have him).  Frankly, Paladins 
constantly become involved in extremely dangerous quests like slaying 
Dragons, and rarely survive long enough (or earn enough) to pruchase 
our all-important F.A.C.S. pamphlets.  
 
Combat Instructor  
 
 
   It has often been said that "Those who can, do, while those who 
teach, survive."  Of course, this is generally repeated only by those 
who have never taught.  Combat instructors, Drill Sergeants, Samurai 
Sensei and others of their ilk have two great advantages over most 
members of the violent vocations - they collect steady pay, and  
eventually Social Security. 
 
Security Guard  
 
   If you have pangs about pain, misgivings over martyrdom, and are  
terrified of torture, then the more modest monotony of being a 
watchman may be for you.  The security guard's life is fairly free 
of strife, but sadly susceptible to extinction by ennui. 
 
Babysitter 
 
   There are few jobs more dangerous, or less rewarding, than that of 
the Combat Nanny.  On the whole, you're better off charging Dragons 
than changing diapers. 
 
Page 5 follows: 
--------------- 
 
Advanced Magic Using 
 
   Having mastered the basics of magic and gained skill in a few spells, 
it comes the time for a fledging Thaumaturge to figure out what he (or 
she) wants to do with him-(or her-) self.  It is all very well and good 
going around impressing the rubes with a few trivial gestures of your 
hands, or broiling a few brigands with your Flame Darts, but merely 
showing off your magic is hardly the be-all, end-all for a professional. 
Besides, it doesn't pay particularly well. 
 
   Now is the time to go beyond what you learned in Spellcasting 101. 
If you are tired of low-paying jobs with no security, you need to 
quest for glory.  You, too, can be upwardly mobile!  It's time to 
start learning some real magic. 
 
   The best way to improve the status of your spells is to travel to 
a place where Wizards congregate.  Through the city of Shapeir travel 
many experienced magic users on their way to the Wizard's Institute 
of Technocery.  This city is thus a good source for advanced scrolls. 
Whether you wish to commit to the study and time it takes to become 
a true Wizard, or just pick up a few incantations, a journey to  
Shapeir is definitely a step up the magical corporate ladder. 
 
Wizard's Institute of Technology 
 
   The Wizard's Institute of Technocery, or WIT, is the ultimate 
University of the Occult.  Within its ivory towers, the aspiring 
Wizard can learn the inner nature of magic.  Of course, it takes time, 
dedication, and a true love of learning to master the many mysteries, to 
become the complete conjuror. 
 
   Naturally, the Wizards of WIT do not wish to be found by any riff- 
raff of a would-be wonder-worker.  After all, any yahoo can do hoodoo, 
but WIT's hallowed halls are reserved for the few, the proud, the elite - 
the true Wizards.  While the entrance to WIT is reputed to be in Shapeir, 
the Institute itself is said to exist on another plane.  The entrance is 
well-hidden from all but those meant to find it.  If you are among them, 
careful application of your knowledge should soon point the way. 
 
   Before you can become a full-fledged student, you will be given a  
series of entrance examinations.  Failure is not held against you -  
as long as you are willing to try again.  These trials are a learning  
experience in themselves.  
  
Page 6 follows: 
--------------- 
 
Occult Occupations 
 
Career Paths for the Successful Magic User 
 
Royal Magician 
 
Wizard 
 
Archmage 
 
Career Paths for the Not-Quite-So-Successful Magic User 
 
Court Jester 
 
Computer Programmer 
 
Corporate Magician 
 
Royal Magician 
 
   While perhaps not the most prestigious of possible professions for 
the profound prestidigitator, the position of palace performer is 
preferable to pecuniary paupacy.  More precisely, it pays. 
 
   Wizard 
 
   Weigher of wonders, theorist of thaumaturgy, mediator on mysteries, 
the wandering Wizard is a savant of sorcery, a watcher of weird, and an 
academician of enchantments.  Delving deep in mystical manuscripts, the 
Wizard seeks to know the True Meaning of Life, the Universe, and how 
to do the voodoo that the Zulu do to you. 
 
Archmage 
 
   The Archmage is the epitome of Power.  the elite of enchanters, the  
creme de la creme of conjurers, the nonpareil of necromancers.   
Archmages are pretty hot stuff, in fact. 
 
Court Jester 
 
   Whilst not as dignified as some of the other occupations.  Court 
Jesters, Stage Magicians and street entertainers have one thing that 
makes them the envy of other professions - an audience.  Having someone 
to appreciate the subtle spin- 
 
Page 7 follows: 
--------------- 
 
ning of a spell, the incalculable incoherence of your incantations, 
or just to laugh at your jokes, is well worth the price you pay in 
prestige. 
 
Computer Programmer 
 
   Just because you are incompetent at incantations, klutzy at 
conjurations, or a dud at divination does not mean you can't work 
magic.  You, too, can have a successful career in computer programming. 
Just send away to our Famous Computer Programmer's Correspondence 
School for further details. 
 
Corporate Manager 
 
   If you prefer the power of the pretty bureaucrat - having people 
constantly wait upon you, passign down directives on Wednesday 
which must be completed by Tuesday, and sitting in an air-conditioned 
office while less clever Magic Users are flame-broiling fiends in the 
hot Summer sun - then the job of Corporate Manager is for you.  Let 
others do your work for you.  Even the simplest Calm spell is more 
sufficient to make friends and influence people, encouraging those of 
lesser ability (such as Computer Programmers) to work long hours of 
unpaid overtime on your behalf. 
 
Basic Spell Usage 
 
   The more skill a Magic User has with a spell, the greater the 
effect and duration of the spell. 
 
Calm 
 
   This was developed for avoiding awkward situations, such as physical  
combat.  It relaxes the natural aggressive tendencies of things in the  
area of the spell for a short duration.  Once in actual combat, however,  
it is ineffective.  A calmed opponent will just calmly eat you. 
 
   With advanced skills in this spell, it is possible to calm even non- 
living things. 
 
Dazzle 
 
   Erasmus's Razzle Dazzle produces a bright flash of magic which  
temporarily blinds an opponent.  This, of course, presupposes that  
the opponent has eyes. 
 
Detect Magic 
 
   This spell is used to perceive an aura of magical power which  
surrounds objects which have had spells cast upon them.  It can also  
be used to find invisible creatures and things.  
 
Page 8 follows: 
--------------- 
 
Flame Dart 
 
   This offensive spell projects a ball of magical fire towards an  
object.  
 
Open  
 
   This intially is useful fo unlocking simple locks, but can be used  
to open doors when the caster is sufficiently skilled.  Unfortunately,  
it will not affect most magical locks or doors, or those doors barred  
on the other side.  
 
Trigger 
 
   R. Roger's Reactivating Ritual, or "Trigger", is used to 'set off'  
operating magical spells already cast upon some object.  Thus a Magic  
User can avoid damage from magical traps.  Trigger can sometimes be  
used to both 'turn on' and 'turn off' certain spells.  
 
Zap 
 
   The Leyden's Latent 'Lectrical Discharge spell, or 'Zap', allows a  
caster to place magical energy upon a weapon.  This is released when  
the weapon strikes an opponent, increasing the amount of damage.  
  
Advanced Spell Usage 
 
Force Bolt  
 
   Aronson's Arcane Arbalest of Action and Reaction, or 'Force Bolt',  
is a magical globe of energy which is used to push against something in  
the distance.  Becasue it can 'bounce' off an object, it can be used  
against things not in direct line of sight.  When properly aimed, a  
Force Bolt can be made to bounce several times before releasing all  
of its energy.  It may be used as an offensive spell.  
 
Levitate 
 
   Ellen's Enchanted Elevator, or 'Levitate', spell allows the spell  
caster to move up and down at will.  This is ideal for getting the  
book you need off the top shelf of your library or for dusting the top  
of your refrigerator.  This spell continually drains the caster's Spell  
Points while in use. 
 
Reversal 
 
   Kirkov's Cosmic Karma Cookies or 'Reversal' reflects offensive  
spells back upon the caster.  Cast this spell before entering magical  
combat.  It should be noted that when two opposing Magic Users both  
use this spell, the results can be very dangerous to spectators. 
 
Page 9 follows: 
--------------- 
 
Advanced Thieving Techniques 
 
Warning: If you have not studied the F.A.C.S. Cutpurses' Curriculum, do 
NOT read this section!  This contains classified, top-secret  
information for Theieves' eyes only. 
 
   You have your toolkit and the skill to unlock the securest safe, 
the stealth to sneak by the surliest security guards, and the dexterity 
to direct your dagger to your desired destination.  You practice  
daily; honing your skills every chance you get to create that finely 
tuned machine that is your body.  Now it is time to talk about the 
tools of the trade. 
 
   Rope - In the words of the immortal Sam 'the Man' Ganges, "You  
   gotta scope the rope if you wanta cope."  
 
   Oil - This is often overlooked as an essential part of the thief's 
   equipment, but it happens to be very handy.  Squeaky hinges on   
   cabinets and doors can create the creak that causes the cops to  
   capture a crook.  Oiling hinges reduces the noise considerably.  
   Oil is also useful for moving heavy objects. 
 
   Thief Sign - The recognition signal used among Thieves is one of 
   the most closely-held secrets of the Consolidated Thieves' Guilds. 
   But you are a Thief, right?  No peeking now, the rest of you! 
 
   O.K.  To make the top-secret Thieves' sign, first place your thumb  
   upon your nose with the hand held perpendicular to your face, and  
   the fingers outspread.  Then wiggle your fingers while focusing  
   your eyes upon your thumb and patting your belly with your free  
   hand.  You should make the sign whenever you believe yourself to be  
   in the presence of a fellow practitioner.  However, you should be  
   aware that not all politicians will recognize this symbol - some  
   of them are scabs. 
 
   Improvisation - There does come a time when even the best of thieves 
   gets caught without his equipment, and he really needs to open a lock. 
   True, you may be standing before a locked door at the dead-end of a 
   corridor of the castle of the black  prince who has sworn an oath 
   to torture all thieves, with his two neanderthal guards marching 
   towards you, only to discover that you left your lockpick in the 
   shirt that you sent to the laundry this morning, but it is very 
   important in this sort of situation not to panic.  Analyse the  
   situation.  Is the door simply latched on the other side?  If so, 
   a simple insertion of your Thieves' Guild card should flip the latch. 
   Is the door unlockable with a skeleton key?  Then any thin, metal 
   probe such as the pin that was in the black prince's feathered hat  
   which you just happen to find in  
 
Page 10 follows: 
---------------- 
 
   your backpack can be used to click the lock.  Is the door firmly 
   bolted on the other side and does it resist all your attempts at  
   breaking it down?  Then put the hat of the black prince on your  
   head covering most of your face, stroll towards the guards,  
   give them a lecture about their appearance, telling them not to  
   slouch, letting them know that you will not tolerate sloppiness,  
   and then push on past, leaving them to think that the black  
   prince has poor taste in clothes combinations.  All you need is a  
   little imagination, and you can get through any situation. 
 
  
  
Purloiner's Positions 
 
Career Paths for the Successful Thief 
 
Playboy  
 
Chief Thief 
 
Godfather 
 
Career Paths for the Not-Quite-So-Successful Thief 
 
Tax Accountant 
 
Politician 
 
CEO 
 
Playboy 
 
   What thief can't imagine himself (or herself) in a fancy oceanside 
resort, gambling and gallivanting by day with beautiful (or handsome) 
members of the opposite (or whatever) sex unable to keep their hands  
off you, and steathily sneaking by night into the cabins of the rich 
tourists and accumulating more wealth to fritter away the next day? 
 
Chief Thief  
 
   Rising to the head of the of the Thieves' Guild is high status in 
this workaday world.  To gain this coveted position, it is important  
to have contacts.  Be sure to impress any Chief Thieves you meet and 
go out of your way to demonstrate your talents.  Remember, it's not 
who you know, it's whether they know you.  
 
Page 11 follows: 
---------------- 
 
Godfather 
 
   To really become a Godfather, it helps to have plenty of relatives. 
You must learn to use bad grammar and mumble when you speak.  Above all, 
be generous.  If someone has something you want, make him an offer he 
can't refuse. 
 
Tax Accountant 
 
   If you think juggling figures and balancing budgets doesn't 
take a lot of agility, try it someday.  For a real test of agility, 
try balancing two sets of books! 
 
Politician 
 
   It's a dirty job, but somebody's got to do it. 
 
CEO 
 
   See politician. 
 
Professional Adventuring Organizations 
 
Adventurer's Guild 
  
   This place is where adventurers can get together, relax, and chat 
about monsters.  It is a good place to catch up with the local gossip 
and to learn about local employment situations.  Be sure to sign in 
when you first enter a strange town to give yourself official  
Adventurer Status.  Otherwise, the locals might mistake you for 
a vagrant and have you arrested.  It's an easy mistake. 
 
Eternal Order of Fighter (EOF) 
 
   This organization is for real Heroes.  This means no pansy Magic Users 
or slimy Thief scum will be admitted.  Only the best and the baddest 
can join the 'Eternal Order of Fighters'.  You got to have true grit  
and heavy mettle.  We're glad you're bad and we're keen you're mean. 
"EOF - The Guts, The Glory, The Greatest!" Membership by invitation only. 
 
Thieves' Guild 
 
   This benevolent organization provides a thief with the comfort of a 
home away from home.  Where else can you relax in public knowing noone 
is looking through the Wanted ads for you?  Where else can you be certain 
the jolly 
 
Page 12 follows: 
---------------- 
 
stranger next to you is attempting to pick your pocket?  How else can 
you be bailed out of a strange jail? 
 
   The way to locate the local Theives' Guild is to contact a local  
thief by use of the Thieves' Sign.  Once you have found the guild and  
identified yourself, it is not uncommon to be asked to prove your  
identity.  A simple test is often given to prove your worth to the  
organization.  Accomplishing this trial will improve your position  
in the guild.  Failing the test will earn you the rank of 'convict.' 
It is recommended that you do not fail. 
 
Page 13 follows: 
---------------- 
 
Special Southern Supplement 
 
The Land of Shapeir 
 
   Shapeir is a small Sultanate in the South.  It consists of two 
major mountain ranges surrounding a desert of sand dunes.  Its climate 
is arid and extremely hot in the Summer.  It has two major cities: 
the capital, Shapeir, in the north, and Raseir in the south.  Shapeir's 
principal income is from imports and exports as it is along a major trade  
route.  It is noted for its exotic scenery and fascinating bazaars. 
 
Background and History 
 
   The twin citied were built around Katta settlements (see Sentients of 
Shapeir) protected by mountain barriers.  Magical springs which never 
run dry create the central fountains of the cities.  Both Raseir and 
Shapeir were designed as mirrored cities, with the Sultan's Palace in 
Shapeir, and the Amir's in Raseir. 
 
   Some thousand years ago, a Marid called Iblis (see Djinn) attempted  
to rule the world and turn all men to slaves.  He created a city in the  
desert and tried to summon the Djinn to his side.  The Sultan Suleiman bin 
Daoud in turn summoned all the magical Djinn he could bind, and a great 
war occured.  Iblis was defeated and bound into the form of a statue. 
Ruins remain near Raseir of what is now called the 'Forbidden City.' 
 
   The Sultan is the absolute ruler of the realm.  The current Sultan, 
Haruan alRashid, is noted for his wisdom and judgement.  The Emir is the 
governor of Raseir.  During the past year, The Emir of Raseir is rumored 
to have disappeared, and there have been diquieting tales about the  
current political situation. 
 
Page 14 follows: 
---------------- 
  
Desert Survival 
 
Water - Without it, you are just a heap of bones covered with sand.  It 
is best to carry several waterskins when traveling in the desert.  
Water is available in the cities and at occasional oasis. 
 
Saurus - The friend you can depend upon for roaming the dunes.  This 
creature makes an excellent mount.  It is fearless, loyal, and quick 
to defend its master against monsters.  It is obedient and willing to go 
wherever its master wishes.  Most critically, it can always find its 
way back to the place where it is stabled, so it never gets lost.  A 
properly trained Saurus will understand such simple commands as 
"go home," "Stay," and "Get off my foot."  Your Saurus - Don't leave 
town without it. 
 
Caravans - For long distance travel of any sort, it is best to join a 
caravan. 
 
Money 
 
   The basic coin of the realm is the Dinar, a gold coin equal in value 
to the gold coin of Spielburg.  The people of Shapeir also use centimes, 
which are small brass disks.  The current rate of exchange is one silver 
to ten centimes, and ten silvers (or one gold) to one dinar. 
 
   When visiting the city of Shapeir, it is wisest to first seek out a 
Money Changer, who will exchange your coins.  This person will usually  
retain a small percentage as an exchange fee. 
 
Sentients of Shapeir 
 
There are several intelligent races associated with this region. 
 
Humans  
 
   Humans are a relatively new race to this area.  They created the cities  
and towns which occasionally dot the landscape of Shapeir. 
 
Gnomes 
 
   Small humanoids with a frivolous outlook on life.  Gnomes, as  
always, go anywhere they choose to go in order to have fun.  Since 
mankind seems to be the butt of many of their jokes, wherever humans 
congest, Gnomes are pests, as they frequently know magic.  If you  
become the victim of one of their practical jokes, it is best to grin 
and bear it. 
 
Katta  
 
   Katta are small feline-like humanoids which have adapted well to  
dealing with human society.  They resided for centuries in the region around 
where Raseir was built., but are now found throughout the Southern 
regions.  They are gifted artisans and talented merchants. 
 
Page 16 follows: 
---------------- 
 
Centaurs 
 
   Half horse and half human, the Centaurs roam the deserts of Shapeir  
in nomadic herds.  They make excellent guides for this region, since they 
take pride in knowing the desert like the tips of their tails.  Centaurs 
are extremely honorable, but have no sense of humor.  They do not get  
along well with Gnomes. 
 
Liontaurs 
 
   The Liontaur looks like a cross between a human and a lion.  They  
reside primarily to the south of Shapeir in their great kingdoms of  
Tarna.  Occasionally a young male will wander into the Shapeir lands.  
Liontaurs are fierce fighters and very proud, so it is best not to  
annoy them.  
 
The Land of Enchantment 
 
When Shapeir is called the 'land of enchantment', it is not simply 
a motto.  There are many magical beings residing here. 
 
Djinn 
 
   Djinn and their relatives, the Djinn, Shaitan, Ifreet and Marid,  
are magical creatures of high intelligence found primarily around the  
lands of the Shapeir.  They are all shape-changers, but most frequently 
take man-like forms.  They are occasionally found trapped in items such  
as bottles and rings.  Releasing a Djinni from such an item can be very  
dangerous.  
  
              Djann take the shape of animals, live in the mountainous  
              areas, and are seldom seen. 
   
              Djinn are commonly associated with air.  Tales are told  
              of wishes being granted to whomever releases a Djinn from  
              an item.  Tales are also told of the Djinn destroying the  
              one who released him. 
  
              Shaitan prefer to live around streams and running water.  
              As this is an extremely arid region, Shaitan are  
              extremely rare.  
  
              Ifreet are fiery creatures that prefer the remote dunes  
              of the desert.  
 
              Marid are the most powerful of all the Djinn. 
 
Page 18 follows: 
---------------- 
 
Enchanted Creatures 
 
   Much of the magic in Shapeir has to do with shape-changing.  It is 
not uncommon for humans to be turned into animals, animals into humans, 
and snakes into Trademark Lawyers.  It is wise to be wary around Wizards  
and Djinn to avoid this occupational hazard. 
 
Endemic Monsters of the Desert Regions 
 
   Creatures endemic to the desert regions have one outstanding 
characteristic - they are tough to kill.  The evolutionary reasons 
for this are rather obvious.  A monster, as always, is defined as 
"that which attacks before asking questions". 
 
Jackalman 
 
   Jackalmen are jackal-like humanoids that revel in packs.  They are 
cunning and prefer to attack things previously wounded. 
 
Brigand  
 
   Desert brigands roam the desert in search of unwary travelers 
to waylay.  They are tough fighters and experts at desert survival.  
Tribes of brigands occasionally band together to attack caravans. 
 
Griffin 
 
   The griffin is a highly intelligent creature which seldom attacks 
humans.  However, this cross between an eagle and a lion is a 
ferocious fighter, and is extremely tough.  it is difficult to kill, 
and will retreat from battle if seriously injured.  Once its anger 
has been aroused, however, it will not forget an enemy.  Griffins 
can be found nesting on the rocky ledges of the mountains surrounding  
the desert regions. 
 
Terrorsaurus 
 
   This is an extremely quick-footed creature well adapted for racing 
down and disemboweling prey with the deadly claws upon its hind feet. 
Like most species of sauruses, this one is not noted for its brains. 
 
Moose 
 
   The rare southern desert Moose, a benevolent and fraternal creature, 
is frequently found congregating in groups around a drinking hole. 
It is extremely dangerous to approach at such a time, since you will 
probably be forced to wear a silly hat and be dunked into the pool. 
It is also advised to avoid the stampede when the Moose discover that 
the only thing to drink is water. 
 
Page 20 follows: 
---------------- 
 
Scorpion 
 
   The giant black desert Scorpion is one of the deadliest creatures 
upon the sands.  Its claws are capable of inflicting deep wounds. 
The tail has a stinger which contains a deadly poison.  One sting 
brings death to the one stung.  Anti-venom pills are available, but 
are of no avail against multiple stings.  Unless a fighter has an 
extremely good defense against the tail, he or she should avoid this 
monster.  Retreat from combat usually means a stab in the back. 
 
Magical Creatures 
 
Elementals 
  
   Elementals are created by magical spells placed upon the primal  
elements of Earth, Air, Water, Pizza and Fire (Some theoreticians 
suggest that there are only four real elements, but most modern 
scholars agree that fireis undoubtedly a basic element).  The Elementals 
have the characteristics of their associated element. 
 
Masikh 
  
   This distant relative of the Djinn is frightening and dangerous  
to encounter.  It is invisible, distinguished only by the movement in  
the sands and the fearful reactions of animals in their vicinity.  
Ghouls 
  
   Supernatural creatures of the undead which prey upon the living.  
The very touch of one's claws has a chilling effect upon the victim  
similar to frostbite.  The more wounds the ghoul makes, the more the  
victim's movements are slowed, until he finally collapses.  It is best  
to avoid damage from Ghouls entirely.  
 
SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW 