Pac-Land
--------

When the title screen appears, type 'AVALON'. The screen should flash,
indicating that you've activated the unlimited lives cheat. If that doesn't
work, try the following:

Start a 2 player game.  Make it as far as you can with player 1. With player
2 you must be able to make it as far as the fairy to collect your boots. Now
that you have gotten your boots, you are going backwards to where you
started. Push the third cactus on the way back, and a yellow pacman will
appear. Get it, now kill player 2.  Continue playing with player 1. Every
time player 1 dies, get the yellow pacman with player 2 and kill player 2
immediately. As long as you keep getting the yellow pacman with player 2,
player 1 will never die.

LEVEL 1: Jump on the fire hydrants to reveal cherries. On the
third fire hydrant, go to the right then walk against it. Your pacman
will now be wearing a blue cap, which means the little ghosts dropped
from the planes can now be turned inti 200 points on every hit. Jump
over a car coming from the right, wait until it turns around, jump on
top of it as it moves to the left, and you will find no more ghosts
appear on the screen. To pick up a bonus at the end of the level, jump
when the "E" of "TIME" appears.

LEVEL 2: Jump on top of each cactus to get the cherries.
Finish off in the same manner as level 1.

LEVEL 3: Keep your finger on the jump button to reach the end
of the logs easily. Run fast at the springboard and jump when you see
the springs pressed. Tap the joystick to the right to get over the
pool.

LEVEL 4: Just sit back and watch the computer take over.

LEVEL 5 and 6: These are easy with the boots as you go back
over the previous two levels. At the end of level 4, jump on the last
step to get a bonus. At the end of 5, jump when you see the whole of
your wife in  the picture.

LEVEL 7: Watch out for the double decker busses, but if you do
the same car trick as in level 1, you'll have a clear ride. Jump at
the end when "E" appears.

LEVEL 8: This is all swimming pools. Just wiggle like mad and hope!