POWERDROME
----------

   OVAL : The secret with this track is to use as musch afterburner as
possible, but without blowing up your engines. Keep your eye on the
temperature gauge. This track is fairly wide, so switch the centering field
OFF and pick up speed. Go around as fast as you can.

   ANTACORP : A difficult track. Turn the centering field up to four or
five, which will put you in the middle of the course. When you go through
the underground chicane, hold down the right shift key. This will take you
through the vertical scanner without slowing down; then straighten.

   CLORTEK : Shortly after the start line, you will encounter a trench.
Don't waste your time flying through it; just go over it. When you reach the
pressure gate, which is around half way, don't slow down. If you're going to
crash into it then slow down. Hopefully this won't occur, but in this
instance its no use fighting the consequences. When you come out of the
exit, switch the afterbunrers on. Go for speed on this next stretch.

   OTYAKA : It's main section's underground, very dark and at first quite
difficult. The track careers from left to right so turn the centering on at
around level five. Once you emerge into the open, you'll come across a nasty
right hand hairpin, so hold down the centering key again. This section takes
some practice.

   BANZAL : So name because it really is the hardest track. Crank the
centering up as much as possible but reduce it down to six if feasible and
necessary. You'll encounter the same kind of underground dip as on the
Otyaka course, so use the same tactics. If you get through this you are
GOOD.

   APOCALYT. This section has an alarmingly tight hairpin situated three
corners from the start. Take it using centring mode.
   While underground you will go through a loop de loop. You get through
this using gentle movements of the mouse, with centring set around six. This
should see you right.

   ESTORIA : Back into sunny climes and a fairly wide track. Bomb around the
course with a low centring setting or none at all.

   GENERAL : As you've probably noticed, the centring field is a pretty
useful gizmo in this game. Specifically introduced to the Amiga version,
the centring field should make Powerdrome accessible to beginners.