                        PUTTY 
                        =====


 CHEAT MODE:

 When the high score screen appears after a game, type 'HEADLIKEAHOLE'
 and press [Enter] on the keypad (you do not need to get a high score).
 You should now have infinite lives and will be able to skip levels by
 pressing the function keys.

 Although the above cheat was copied straight from a System 3 help sheet
 people are having trouble getting it to work. Can anyone shed some light.


 TIPS:

o   At the start of the game, go left out of the gym door to finish the
    level quickly.

o   Look for things that stand out of the scenery, because they could
    contain hidden bonuses.

o   Always keep on the move.

o   Punch, squash or absorb anything and everything that moves.

o   On the later levels give the Bots cups of coffee to stop them
    from moving.

o   Always drop long distances - as long as there are no spikes
    to break your fall!

A ROUGH GUIDE TO FINDING BONUSES...
-----------------------------------

Level 1-1   Absorb the spider to get some food. Jump to the putties in the
            window for a score bonus.

Level 1-2   Jump around to find watches.

Level 1-3   Go to the bottom-right of the screen, and jump to receive a
            score bonus.

Level 2-1   The tree at the top of the level gives you extra score, and the
            tree at the bottom gives you Dweezil power.

Level 2-2   The first tree gives you a score bonus, and the one above it
            gives you a pair of false teeth if you jump.

Level 2-3   If you jump on the lowest tree on the right you will receive
            the all-important bubblegum.

Level 3-1   Mould into a rabbit to kill the Gut Buckets, and turn into an
            Electro Worm (?) to kill the light bulbs. Jump at the top for
            extra power-ups.

Level 3-2   To get Dweezil power, jump on to the picture. Jump near the
            planet to activate Uncle Ted.

Level 3-3   Jump at the girl`s face and the computer screens in order to
            get an arrow and an elevator.

Level 4-1   Jump at the middle door at the bottom to activate Uncle Ted. At
            the top of the level, jump at the right gong to get an
            elevator.

Level 4-2   Jump at the middle door to activate Uncle Ted, and at the
            dragon symbol for bubble gum. Jump on the door for an elevator.

Level 4-3   Jump on the symbol on the right for an arrow.

Level 5-1   There are plenty of bonuses to be found on this level. The best
            one to get is the dustbin - to obtain this you have to jump on
            the cannonballs at the top of the level.

Level 5-2   Some of the igloos have food in them.

Level 5-3   Some of the igloos have food in them.

Level 6-1   Jump around to get arrows.

Level 6-2   There are bonuses in the pictures.

Level 6-3   Jump near the tower for a surprise.