Addams Family Cheats

PASSWORDS:

 V121B - Pugsley.
 V&YKW - Granny.
 VD2RL - Wednesday.
 VL#R4 - Fester.
 &1#1F - 1st power-up.
 ?1S1M - 2nd power-up.
 BLSRS - 3rd power-up.
 #Z6D? - End sequence.

 For Morticia, use the 3rd power-up code, go to the piano room and wait
 for the Addams Family music to play. Now open the self sealed door and
 finish the last level.


 CHEAT MODE:

 There was a cheat in some early versions of the game only. To find out if
 you have a copy then enter '11111' as a password to start with 100 lives.


 GENERAL HINTS AND TIPS:

 In the hall of rooms, go to the bottom left of the screen and press up
 on the joystick to reveal a hidden door. Now enter the door and on the
 next screen, directly above you is another hidden door which hides
 even more doors and extra lives.
 To get four extra lives each time the game has ended, walk past the
 continue door to the left until you enter a secret room where you can
 collect them.

 The Graveyard
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 Go left and climb up the hangman's noose. Get the fez and fly up to the
 top left of the screen. Collect the invincibility pill and land on the
 right chimney.
 Go down the chimney and go down to the bottom left of the screen.
 Walk left and you'll enter a new room. You will come to a very high wall.
 To get over it you must jump onto the small wall beside it and go one
 pixel to the edge.
 Walk through the next wall and jump up and to the left. To get the
 invincibility pill, walk through the wall to the right of it.
 Keep on going and you will come to a room with three extra lives.
 Now jump up on the chimney. Pull down on the joystick and you will enter
 another room. Now leave that room and jump off the roof! Walk right and
 go down the hole in the ground. Go left and you'll find a bonus room.
 Jump up and right and collect the points. The rest of the level is easy,
 just remember to duck under the bats. When you reach the end go right
 and collect the money.
 The is another level beyond this but ignore it, it's a waste of lives.
 Exit the level. Now you are outside again, only there's a lot more
 baddies. Make sure to avoid the nasty looking tree! Go into the house.
 Go into the bottom left room. Climb the tree. To kill the bird you must
 jump on his head six times. To do this, hide at the end of a branch where
 you are safe. When the bird passes beneath you jump on her quickly and go
 back to where you were. Once the bird is dead leave the room.

 Wednesday
 ~~~~~~~~~
 The room to the bottom right (Conservatory) contains Wednesday.
 First of all the walking helmets can't be killed without you losing a
 heart, so avoid them. Shortly before you meet the first three spiders you
 should see a running shoe. Go right and walk through the wall to find
 bonus room.
 Just beyond the spiders is a switch. To get to it jump onto the ledge
 beside the spikes, jump onto a flying nasty and then jump again to reach
 the switch. By the way, this tactic is very important; the game cannot be
 finished without it.
 To complete the new room you must use the ramps effectively. Walk up
 these to increase your jumping power. You will come to a point where a
 dozen flying nasties are flying over some spikes. Jump on them and when
 they are all dead you can fall into the secret room beneath them.
 When this sub level is complete you will enter a new room. Fall down onto
 the spike nearest to you and it becomes a block. Go left and you will
 find an extra life and points. Jump up and right for another power up and
 more points.
 This level is full of spikes, so remember when there's a spike above and
 below you, a short hop is most effective. When this sublevel is completed
 you will enter a graveyard. Watch out for the pumpkins, they drop fire on
 you.
 Enter the little building at the end. Wednesday is in here. Bear in mind
 the tactic I mentioned earlier on this level! You often have to use the
 bubbles the fish fire as launch pads.
 There is only one very hard point to this level which consists of a number
 of small ledges. You must stand at the very edge of each ledge and use
 large jumps to succeed. It's very frustrating I'm afraid! To dodge the
 star-shaped guillotines you must pass under them when they're up.
 To kill the end of level boss, dodge the skulls and use the two bricks
 as launch pads for your jumps. Jump when the skulls leave the screen.
 There is also a bonus room under where Wednesday is standing.

 Granny
 ~~~~~~
 Granny is in part of the top right room (Kitchen). When you enter the
 room go left. The switch is at the very top of the level. There are two
 bonus rooms, one is in the top right corner and the other is in the top
 left one. Pull down on the top of the oven to enter.
 There are bonuses to the right of the information box, any of the switches
 in this room let you get to them. To avoid the nozzles which shoot fire
 you must jump just after they fire.
 The bouncing fireballs can be avoided by jumping when they are at their
 lowest point. To dodge the hopping fireballs duck under them when they
 are at their highest point.
 The flying stars travel in circles. Walk past them just as they pass you.
 There are also slow moving stars and they can be dodged by walking past
 when they are at their furthest point from you.
 Speed is important in this level, many of the moving bricks pass through
 lava, so you must jump on them before this happens. Always go as close to
 a platform's edge as possible to maximise your jump.
 When you reach Granny go to the far right-hand corner of the room.
 The boss passes by you three times. The first time, he can be hit, but
 on the other occasions he turns his spikes towards you.
 You can duck most of the fireballs, but sometimes he fires a low shot
 which you must jump over. When he is dead you will appear on top of the
 oven. Walk past the level entrance and go into the deep freeze.
 You must kill as many penguins as possible because otherwise they will
 follow you. You must use the tactic I mentioned earlier to get past some
 of the higher walls. The snowman at the end of the level can only be hit
 when he's in snowman form.
 He's invincible when he becomes a snowball. Watch out for the icicles;
 if you stand between them you will not get hurt. If you kill the snowman
 then you are awarded four hearts per life.

 Pugsley
 ~~~~~~~
 The top room (Games Room) contains Pugsly.
 There are three types of very harmful nasties on this level. The ball and
 chains can be dodged by jumping past when they are at the furthest point
 away from you. The nasty who fires the disk can be killed by jumping at
 him when the disk has past you. Once he is dead the disk disappears.
 Finally the chains of disks can be dodged by walking past when the chain
 has just past you. Some of these chains also appear in the Granny level.
 You must use the cannon balls as launch pads for your jumps, as in the
 other levels. To kill the boss you must jump on the top of his head when
 the discs leave the screen. Be quick though, they reappear very quickly.
 Duck in a corner the rest of the time, so you can't be hit.

 Uncle Fester
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~
 The room to the top left (Portrait Gallery) contains Uncle Fester.
 This level is quite long. The jumping nasties are easy to kill - just
 jump on them when they are at their lowest point. In the case of the
 flying ones, kill them when they are a standard jump's distance away.
 The same goes for the unicycle baddies in the majority of cases, as well
 as for the green mem, the knights, who are unarmed, and for the men on
 green ducks with lances. There are also knights in this level who throw
 swords. Jump on them when they turn their backs on you. The suits of
 armour can be dodged by walking past when the mace just passes you.
 If a jump is required, then use a low-powered one, and wait until the
 mace is halfway through its swing. Later on you will come across book
 worms. Use the unicycle tactic on them.
 The paperweights are best avoided, but if you must kill them use the
 unicycle tactic again, only this time be quick, because the weights move
 very fast. There are also spring-powered baddies, who follow you like the
 penguins.
 Jump at them when they are at the lowest point of their hop. You will
 come to a room with a train in it. The track will kill you, as will the
 sharp cogs. To avoid them look at their positioning, you can either jump
 over them, or duck under them.
 If you are going to jump over them then stand on the funnel of the engine.
 If you want to duck, then stand on the lowest point of the train, and
 duck.
 Thw witch is very hard to kill, you must jump on her when she's at the
 lowest point of her swoop. You also have to use Uncle Fester as a jumping
 point by standing on his head. When she's dead, exit the level.

 Morticia
 ~~~~~~~~
 Morticia is in the middle room (Music Room). Don't forget you have to
 save the others first. Go into the middle room and wait for the music
 to stop. The wall at the right side of the room drops and you can go in
 the door. In the third maze room go left until you reach a door.
 This leads to a money pit and two new doors. The left door leads to a
 bonus room and the right door leads to a new level. All the nasties here
 use a movement pattern that some other sprite uses elsewhere in the game.
 The bird uses the pattern of the green flying eye in the snowman level.
 The green blob moves the same as the bouncing flame in the oven.
 The rolling rock moves the same as the snowballs in the deep freeze.
 There are skulls and ball and chains too. There are also fish which can
 be killed by swimming over them and touching your feet on them. Be warned
 though because you move slowly in the water. There are flying mouse-like
 faces as well, who move the same as the flying nasties in the garden
 level.
 To kill the end of level boss you must dodge the hammers. Stand on the
 right most part of the low right ledge when you want to hide. To begin
 with he jumps to the right. To attack him jump onto the top of the
 pedestal and jump down on him.
 After your first attack, he hops once on the top of the pedestal and then
 jumps to the left. From now on, however, he hops once on the pedestal,
 then down onto the ground in the middle and then to the right. He hops
 once more on the top of the pedestal, then on the middle ground and then
 to the left. When he's dead you've won! Enjoy the end sequence!



 MORE HINTS 1:
                           

#1:	In case ya don't already know....to get 4 free lives each time your
 game has ended, walk past the CONTINUE DOOR to the left and there is a
room where you can collect them!

#2:
        Go up immediately into the hall of rooms, walk left until you are
under the door above you...push up. You are now in a secret room.  Collect
the shit in that room, THEN walk up directly up that door and push up--there
you will find a MASS amount of treasures, 1UPS, and other goodies!

  Who the fuck needs a trainer? This game is loaded with 1ups everywhere!

  
 MORE HINTS 2:
 
 
 #1  When you begin, in front of Gomez's house, go to the left and climb the
noose, there you will find a hat that will allow you to fly.
 
 #2  You may fly down into Gomez's Chimneys, there you will find extra lives
and many $ signs.. 
 
 #3  In the house there are several DOORS, if you go into the VERY TOP door
then as you get past the level, past the various cannons, and blades, there
comes the LAST door, you know, the LEVEL DOOR.  WEll DONT go in there!  Jump
above it (on top of) and push UP. It will open a new secret door, IN here,
you will see below you many riches.. hehe well to get them, go in front of
the door on the right, by the hinges, and jump up, till you get on top of the
glowing border, then go either to the left or the right and jump off.. you
will collect several thousands i bonus, and you will get some other neat
shit.  To get back up, simply stand under the door on the right and jump.
Then go into the door (on the right.) (it is a "warp zone") --HERE it gets
tricky.. go into the door, THEN GO INTO THE NEXT DOOR!! In other words, there
you are.. in front of the door on the right, you go in, then you are in front
of a door in another area, well go RIGHT BACK IN.. this will put youin a
variable BONUS room... Get the money, then go to the FAR RIGHT wall where the
"blade spitter" was.. then while pushing UP, JUMP UP. Then go into the door
on the right. (after you climb to the top (in the wall)). ok, now you are in
a room with a couple blade thingys swinging.. well walk off the wall, and
then go UNDER The door (in the wall, there is another bonus area).... (you
will be going to the left)  ok, now as you guessed, complete this area, by
going all the way to the right, then DONT GO IN THE DOOR.. jump on top of it,
there you will find another door if you push the joystick UP. If you dont get
all the money, and the life, then jump on top of the door to the right, and
then you can walk through that wall and get the stuff you missed... hehe
 NOW go into the door, and then go in the door that we used to go to the warp
zone.. complete the area.. (this is the main guy).. Password is K1Y1H. (easy
to kill this guy... just jump on him.) But you arent done YET! Go into the
"tube" that the kid was standing on.. and you will find a nice profitable
DROP!!HEHEEH  
 

End...................
