`                   AMBERSTAR - Thalion
`                 Playguide by Brian Burke

Part 1 - Introduction, General Information and Hints

~Introduction.

Amberstar is a large, colourful and enjoyable RPG. The
programmers' objective was to out-Ultima the guys at Origin.
Having never played an Ultima game whether they've succeeded or
not I don't know. What I can say is that the control system is
excellent once you've sussed out that the manual, though seemingly
comprehensive, does not provide all the answers to which icon does
what. You can't beat a bit of hands-on experience.

I understand that folks trying to play off floppies on the Amiga
have had a problem but the guy I spoke to at Thalion in Germany
seemed to think all was OK now. Playing off a hard drive with only
1 meg you'll need to use Control-D to cut out Workbench loading.

The task is to find 13 parts of the Amberstar and join them in a
special place to allow the party access to the Fortress of
Godsbane and thus smite down the nasties. Piece of cake!

The Graphic presentations come in four types of display.

The opening scene finds your character in Twinlake Graveyard in an
Ultima style scene. Some interior scenes replicate this such as in
a house, a Guild or an Inn. Scrolling is a joy throughout.

Entering a town or a cellar etc brings up a scene that's a cross
between SSI and Dungeon Master. Until a Compass or the Staff of
Direction is obtained the only way to tell which is North or South
is to use the auto-mapping facility.  In Cellars and underground
locations the auto-mapping will not work unless a Torch is
activated.

Leaving a Town, Cave or Tower brings an overhead view reminiscent
of Faery Tale. The game map is very large and whether your Party
is walking, riding, sailing or flying you will encounter dawn,
day, evening and night changes. This is reflected by the amount of
map that you can see on screen. Time can be accelerated by use of
the "Zzz" icon.

The final scenario is the Battle mode. The less active amongst us
will be delighted to know that this is not realtime. Actions, such
as fight or cast magic spells and movement can be planned on a
character by character basis and a single icon press will carry
out those instructions. You just sit back and drink your coffee
whilst the hapless protagonists slug it out crying such
encouragement out as "Hit him, you twit" and so on.

~Character Set-Up.

Although the game starts with a single character who becomes your
alter-ego you do need, in time, to fill all six character slots up
with a selected group. The character stats need to be created
prior to starting the game proper. Be patient and keep the dice
rolling until you are satisfied with the figures.  Subsequent
promotions will enable such attributes like Strength, Attack and
Parry prowess, Read and Use Magic scrolls, Swimming, Pick Locks,
Find and Disarm Traps to be increased.

~Movement over the Map.

At an early stage it is advisable to buy a horse from the Stables
in Twinlake.  This means that you only lay out 150 gold for your
single character. Subsequent additions to the Party all clamber
upon the back of this poor creature without detriment to its
performance! If you've two characters when you buy a horse then
it's 300 Gold and so on.  Having a horse means that Rivers can be
crossed without losing Life Points by not having sufficient
swimming skills. You'll also not be allowed to enter Lakes or the
Sea.  To enter Woods and Forests though you must be on foot so
will have to park Dobbin in a place where you can find him (her)
again.  Think I'm joking? - this is a BIG game.

Twinlake offers Rafts for sale but two of these are to be found
for free. One at the end of a jetty on the western shore line and
another in the north west of the map. A Boat, on the other hand,
you have to buy at some point. As these cost 5000 Gold it'll be a
little time before you acquire one. Whilst this sum of money can
be found in Crystal I recommend that you use that to fund other
purposes first. Boats can be bought in Crystal or from an
extremely remote island in the north west.

Later in the game a "Blue Disc" can replace the horse and best of
all the ultimate way to travel is via your own tame Eagle - shades
of Questron (no gambling in this game though).

Finally there's a method known as "The Windgates". These are
croquet type hoops that transport the Party, from a central island
to the south of Twinlake, to locations that are close to points of
interest.  Before the Windgates can be used the artefact that
enables them must be obtained. There are two of these to be found.

~Fighting & Character Promotion.

As usual sending the baddies to their version of Valhalla is the
only way to gain Experience. Entering each relevant Guild gives
your character information as to how many points are required to
reach the next level. Each promotion costs so have your purse
available.  Some classes cost more than others.

At each promotion you are invited to allocate points to the
disciplines I described above. Briefly these should initially be -
Warriors - Attack/Parry skills
Thief - Pick Locks
Paladin - Read and Use Scrolls OR Attack/Parry
Wizards - Read and Use Scrolls
There are also Monk and Ranger classes which I did not employ but
who are available in the game.

Misreading the manual I mistakenly thought my Human character
could enter a multitude of classes so when I'd acquired 30
experience points I beetled into the Warrior Guild for my extra
skill points and to receive my extra Life Points. When I then
tried to enter another class and was turned away I was
inconsolable. In the event I was well pleased as I set up my
Battle formation with a Warrior at either side of the first row
with all four weaker characters on the back row.

The Warriors cannot advance beyond the second row of the grid.
The enemy come down the screen towards your team and can only be
hit by the front men if they are adjacent or directly in front of
your characters.  Black Wizards are the guys with offensive
spells. They can cast spells on any retreating baddies in
individual or group mode dependent on the type of spell. White
Wizards are the Clerics and Grey Wizards cast defensive spells.

~Healing and Defence.

It's as well to cast Anti-Magic spells as soon as you enter battle
and follow that up with Armour Protection and Weapon Power in
subsequent turns. Healing your folks when they are poisoned, go
mad, blinded, stunned or made ill is a pain and expensive. Some of
those ailments take your character out of a battle scenario so be
warned.

Herbs can be bought that offer an "on-line" cure mode. There's a
shop in the north west of Illien, the Elf Village that sells -
Dolden - use to heal Poisoning.
Blueplant - use to cure Madness.
Redplant - reverses Ageing.
Drelben - cures Paralysis (stun).
Packets of Herbs - cure Sickness (disease).
Using these is much cheaper than the Temple healers.

Potions are also available that do the same job. Again there's a
shop in Illien to the south of the Herb shop and the Monks Guild
also stock a good many. I can't replicate all the Potion symbols
due to the limitations of my keyboard but hopefully you'll
recognise which is representative of what from those below -

M = Healing 5 potion.  This is the preferred one.
N = healing
D = cure Poisoning
1X1 = replace spell points _
X = Replace Spell Points This is the preferred one
{ = cure Blindness
The same with an additional half a chevron = cure Disease(sickness).
P = cure Paralysis (stun)
There's also one for "Treat Weapon with Balsam". Go on - get the edge.


~Weapons and Special Objects.

As your Party root and loot their way through dusty crevices and
rusty Chests they come across all manner of goodies. Practically
everything is worth taking as this is the way to fill your purse
with Gold.  The bad news is that you are limited by the strength
of each character as to just how much weight each can carry. There
is an on-screen statistic that will tell you this.  The Shops in
Illien, Twinlake, Gemstone, Crystal and Snakesign all do
reasonable second hand deals so these are the places to bring your
Treasures and turn 'em into cash. The Shop in Crystal is run by an
enterprising fellow who's open all day, every day. The others have
homes to go to and their opening hours can be read outside each
shop.

Frankly, apart from Torches and empty Flasks you can find most of
the armour and weapons as you go. Torches are essential to
progress in the Sewers and Cellars. Unless they're lit the Automap
facility will not register and you simply can't see. Once an area
has been mapped then by all means save your stock and alternate
between map and direction arrow mode as you retreat or re-enter a
previously mapped level.

The weight problem and the sheer number of objects, potions and
scrolls you find will have you scuttling through areas more than
once.  For this reason it's as well to have a manual version of
the on-screen map to hand.

The fact that an object is "special" will become apparent by
virtue of its resale price. In Twinlake and Snakesign are Wise
Men who will identify those items. Beware as once identified they
won't look at that item again so to quote Terry Wogan "Write it
down". Each object costs 250 Gold so best to save outside the shop
and restore when you've submitted those objects you want
Identifying.

I won't claim this list as exhaustive by any means but here are
some notes I made -

~Armour -

`Object _____________ Attribute ____________ Class

`Metal Helmet ..      Shield 6           Warriors & Paladines
`Horn Helmet ..       3 + Damage 2       War / Pal / Ranger/ Thief
`Iron Ring ..         1                  All
`Brooch of Gala..     1                  All
`Hat ..               1                  All
`Armour of Geb..      10 + Strength 15   Warrior / Paladine
`Chainmail ..         8                  Warrior / Paladine
`Banded Mail ..       10                 Warrior / Paladine
`Mithral Mail ..      12                 All
`Girdle of Thieves .. 9                  Thief
`Robe ..              2                  All
`Robe of Nut ..       5                  Wizards
`Robe of Nickademeus ..                  Wizards
`Necklace of Bala ..  2 + Damage 2       Thief / Ranger
`Silver Ring          Picklock Skills
`Dagger               Damage 4           All
`Assassins Blade..    18 + 10 Speed + 15 Attack - Thief
`Shortsword ..        8                  War / Pal / Ranger / Thief
`Morning Star ..      14                 War / Pal / Ranger
`Firebasher ..        15                 Warrior
`Icebiter..           20                 War / Pal / Ranger
`Two Handed Sword..   20                 Warrior / Paladine
`Simitar ..           25                 All except Wizards
`Sickle of Returning  20                 Thief/ Monk / Wiz / Ranger
`BucklerShield ..     2 + Damage 2       War / Paladine / Ranger
`Tower Shield ..      12 + Life Points 5 + White Magic
`                    + Reincarnation 5   Paladine / W.Wizard

Wand of Winds - creates STORM damage - All
Globe of Harachte - creates LIGHT 3 spell- All
Pipe of Levitation - levitates Party - All
Orb of Magic - creates a Magic Sphere x 5 - All
Wand of Light - guess!

One to avoid even picking up is the "Coat of Moira" - there are
two of these and they are cursed. Not only that but they weigh a
ton too. A "Remove Curse" spell is the only way to lose them once
in your inventory.

There are other special objects that you will find on your travels
and others that you will be rewarded with in return for completing
sub-quests for characters in the game. Once these items are in
your Inventory clicking the Action Icon on them will make them
fulfil a purpose. Some, like the flute you receive for destroying
an evil Dragon and is subsequently used to summon an Eagle, remain
as part of your luggage. Whilst others, such as the Compass and
Clock, are transported to a grey display window on the right of
the screen.

~Character Interaction.

You can only learn about your quest(s) from "Talking" to the other
characters in the game (They all look like they're exercising on a
pogo stick). Some of these will be able to join your party if you
have room.  It's possible to be ruthless and drop a character,
pick up another one, filch all their goodies, then go back and
have the other guy join up again. Once a character has been
dropped they can be found again in the place that you first met
them.

Only those characters who speak the same language as the
individual you're trying to converse with will get any sense out
of them.  Otherwise you receive a negative message so be sure your
leading character is the appropriate one.

}From memory I believe the only words present in your on-screen
vocabulary at the start are "Hello" and "Key". Either keep a
pencil and paper record of these words or develop a good memory as
key words are added to this list each time you talk. For example
talking to the little girl outside your parents home in Twinlake
brings out keywords such as "Felix" (her cat) and so on. For this
reason and the fact that some dialogue responses contain keywords
required later in the game it is important to take a note of all
conversations. Not verbatim but certainly noting keywords and
names. The same is true for pictures on the wall of some rooms.

~Saved Game, Life & Death.

The bad news about Amberstar is that there is only ONE saved game.
Yes, just the one. Mistakes you don't make in this game. It's true
to say that you can die once and then be resurrected. Should this
fate befall the Party your dead bodies are transported to a
helpful Wizard, name of Shandra, who lives in Twinlake. He then
tells you that's your lot or that he can only help once more.  The
trick is to retreat when the odds are against you and to keep at
least one character's Life Points up all the time. This should
preferably be a Paladin or a White Wizard.  Keep the Rod of
Resurrection handy once you've found it.

Emerging from a Battle licking your wounds you ponder how to
regain your health. Resting is the answer, but you must have
Rations to consume in order to restore Spell and Life Points.
Rations are obtainable from Twinlake - cost 15 gold, Crystal -
cost 12, Gemstone - cost 10, Snakesign - cost 10 or Manyeye Cave
Village - cost 30 gold.  An alternative to spending money on
Rations, but effective for Life Points only, is to bathe in the
Healing Pools found in the Crypt which is located in Twinlake
Cemetery.

~Building a Party.

There are a number of characters in the game who are willing to
help you solve your quest. Frankly you'll get absolutely nowhere
without them.  Here is a list for your recruitment campaign -

Character ____ Class ____ Where Found
Drobonir - Warrior - Gemstone Inn
Trasric - Black Wizard - Crystal - Jewel Inn
Grylan - Paladine - Crystal - unclassified & weak at first
Silk - Thief - Twinlake - Dragon Inn
Satine - Grey Wizard - Tower of White Wizard Guild
Boldina - Thief - Dragon Keep - Castle of Gelinda

Melchlor - Monk - Snakesign Village
Crag - White Wizard - Tower of White Wizard Guild
Sheba - Ranger - Cave of Manyeye village - in her house
Spike the Dog - Animal - Twinlake - in the kitchen of your home
Shir'kar the cat - Mera's House - garden

You certainly need Black Wizard skills. A Thief is essential.
Characters with Grey & White Wizard ability are also vital.  I'd
suggest that the Warrior is your number one recruit.

Build your initial Experience points by walking over or sailing
under bridges.  Make sure the Warrior and Black Wizard are with
you.  This way you fight single Bridge Trolls on a random basis.

Fighting the first Rats in Twinlake Sewers is also good
preparation for your characters' first promotions. It's important
to get Life Points under your belt to eliminate the frustration of
early deaths.

~General Hints.

It took me ages to realise that, although I could click the mouse
button on Clothes and Weapons to take them from the Inventory and
place them on the Figure, in order to action say, a torch, I had
first to click on the Hand icon in the lower right of the Monitor
screen and then on the Inventory item I wanted to action.

The game isn't exactly linear BUT it is true to say that some
places are easier than others. My explanatory is in the order in
which I tackled the game which isn't necessarily the easiest path
but I do know and will advise which areas were hard.

There were two scenarios where doors closed behind the Party
irrevocably. This is no fun when there's only one saved game and
it's midnight and you know that it'll take ages and three days to
get out in one piece. Not only that but you don't know if you've
enough Life Points and equipment to stay the course! The two
places are - Pharaoh's Tomb and The Cave under the Whirlpool. This
latter area should be left till last as it's quite (British
understatement) tough.

You will need to leave areas from time to time in order to unload
your Inventory. Keeping a note of your characters' Experience
Points will enable you to see just when they can gain those vital
additional Life Points and Spell Casting & Learning Points. All
this takes time.  Until you acquire the Map Locator in the
Swampstation to facilitate this activity it's a task that you have
to live with.

When learning scrolls it's best to save the game first as a degree
of "SSI type" dice rolling takes place. One time you fail and the
next it's OK. Watch the words as the scroll turns to dust whether
successful or not. For this reason SAVE between scrolls as well.

Read signs and Signposts as these will give you trigger words in
your speech Inventory.

~TWINLAKE.

Map Reference x axis first then y - 210/215

Town area can be mapped on a 32 (horizontal) x 28 (vertical) grid.

Your start point is in Twinlake graveyard standing close to the
grave of your parents. Use the "Eye" icon to look around and head
northeast to find the Crypt. Use the "Zzz" icon to advance time
and stop when Gwendoline appears.

Read the notice outside the Crypt first and make a point of
reading these and the signs outside Shops and guilds as you come
across them. They give you keywords also and thus facilitate
conversation. Hang around till midday to meet Gwendoline. She's
pretty distraught. Say "Hello" and watch the keywords for further
conversation.

She requests that you obtain the Flower (Rose) of Sadness which is
to be found in the Halls of Peace. She doesn't know where this is
but if you talk to Olfin, who's to be found in the Jewel Inn in
Crystal, he'll be only too pleased to tell you that this is a cave
entrance located northeast of Crystal in a rocky but desert area.

Staying in the Crypt note the two Healing Pools and advance time
to midnight in order to meet Sir Marrilion, Gwendoline's better
half. Speak to him of Gwendoline to obtain the Key to the Tomb.
In here find a Sword, Armour and 589 Gold. Both Sword and Armour
can only be used by a Paladin so it's best just to take the cash
for now and return later for the other stuff. There's a little guy
in Crystal who's dying to get his hands on these things. More of
him later.

Leave the Crypt and head for the Cemetery exit in the southwest.
The only other thing of interest here is a statue in the southeast
of the graveyard.  Entering the town brings up a different
perspective and enables the Auto Mapping facility. Click on the
icon to see where you've been. A super assistance to manual
mapping.

The first place to head for is your parents' home. This is located
down a passageway which is off the lane opposite the Shop and past
the Food Shop.  You will meet Sunni, a small girl, in this area.
Say "Hello" etc to learn that she has lost her pet cat Felix.
Whilst she makes reference to the Cemetery the poor feline is
actually held prisoner in the Sewers. The reward when you return
Felix is that the lead character in your Party at the time learns
the gift of talking to animals. She also offers to sell you Hats
at a price of 3 Gold.

But before you enter the Sewers you have lots to do first. Use the
Key on the Lock of your parents' home. Enter. In the Dining Room
find a Magic Picture in an alcove to the right behind the table,
use the "Eye" icon.  Actioning this transfers the picture to the
large grey area in the mid-right of the screen and enables you to
see if it's night or day.

In the Kitchen you meet Spike the Dog. When you have the gift of
talking to animals he can join your Party. He's great at Rat
eating but I never found anywhere that enabled Animals to be
promoted so his Life Points always stayed at 40. Better really to
develop another class of character but useful in a battle until
you fill up all six slots.

At the end of the long corridor in the northeast find a Chest
with a small Key and an old Robe. Use the key in the Bedroom to
the east and find a Wardrobe stuffed with 487 Gold, Armour,
weapons, a potion and Boots.

Leave the house and head south to find the Dancing Dragon Inn.
Talk to everyone in here. One guy is an old friend and refers you
to Jonathan's House (note the spelling) which is located to the
nor' nor' east of Twinlake - tucked just in the trees. The key to
the house is in a bush at the side of the path to the house before
you enter the trees.  Jonathan's house is an entire separate area
and should not be entered until you have found the crowbar which
is to be found in a barrel. The barrel is located near the top of
the steps which lead down into the cellar. Again the cellar is a
completely separate area which, in time and the right key, links
up with Jonathan's house. More of that later.

In the Kitchen meet the Cook and say "Quest". He wants you to find
his ring.  Recovering it from the Sewers means that he gives you a
Crystal Ball in exchange. This should be actioned when your Party
is trekking through the woods and you're hopelessly lost. It
provides an aerial view of the surrounding countryside, just
enough to get your bearings. It does have a limited usage so I'd
suggest saving the game prior to use then restoring and heading
off in the right direction.

In the area to the north of the Dining room meet Breth, who's mine
host. In the cellar you'll find an old Wine Bottle for which he'll
pay you 100 gold.  Accompanying him will be Silk. He's a Thief and
well worth recruiting.  He's carrying three lockpicks for a start.
Only use these if he fails to open chests or locks by hand. Ensure
that you develop his Lockpick skills up to 95% before any other
skill then concentrate on Search.  Also in the Inn is Cyrlis the
Cat. When you've acquired the gift of speaking to Animals she'll
tell you where to find the hidden door to the Thieves' Guild.

It's really not worthwhile staying in an Inn as it only costs
money and you can rest just as effectively outside the city or in
your parents' home.

Time now to visit Shandra. His house is located in the east of the
town, just past the entrance to the Lord Chancellor's quarters.
Shandra's appearance is time related so hang around in his bedroom
till he shows if he's not elsewhere in his house. Say "Hello" to
obtain the key to his Laboratory.  In the chest in here are lots
of goodies. Just note them for now as you won't have room to store
them all and it would be tragic to have to sell the Potions and
Scrolls just to make room in your Inventory.  Come back when your
Party is larger and you have the appropriate Wizards.

Shandra tells you of a female Wizard waiting in the Grey Wizard
Tower. This Tower is located on an island off the northeast
shoreline and can be reached by either raft or boat. If swimming
skills are good I guess you could goose grease yourself and strike
out that way. The Map picture on the wall in Shandra's house
serves no purpose so ditch it if you've picked it up.

If you say "Potion" to Shandra and give him an empty flask he'll
mix you a Healing 5 potion, very useful in the early stages when
you're trying to build experience stats.

In order to start acquiring those vital points head south from
Shandra to visit Karwain, the Lord Chancellor. Say "Hello: Quest:
Sewers: Key" to obtain the key to the Sewers. You'll have passed
this door en-route from the cemetery.

The Shops in Twinlake sell Rations and Arms. In the Armoury shop
is also an item called a "Bernstein". This is a translation error
from the original German as in English it means "Amber" which you
need when you enter the Swampstation area.

In summery we've now identified the following sub-plots/quests:

1. The Sewers
2. Dragon Inn Cellar
3. Jonathan's House
4. Halls of Peace
5. Tower of Grey Wizards.
I've listed the above in terms of difficulty.

Presuming that you're still alone, now is the time to recruit some
assistance. A Warrior and a Black Wizard are necessary for sure so
I recommend that Gemstone and Crystal are visited, in that order,
before coming back to Twinlake. As stated earlier this is a big
map so it'll take a couple of game days to find Gemstone.

~GEMSTONE.

Map reference 129/369

Map on a 19 x 19 grid. Entrance door is in the south.

Located in the southwest, tucked between two mountain ranges.

Not a great deal to find here. There are a couple of specialist
Shops. One, in the east, sells Tools and for sure you need a
Pickaxe.  The crowbar you should already have from the Dragon Inn
in Twinlake. In northwest of the town is a Jewel shop. It can be
useful to convert your excess Gold into gems.  Obviously the
Shopkeeper takes his cut, and how, when these transactions occur.

Drobonir, the Warrior, is waiting in the Inn. The counter clerk,
Andamael, is useless for now but does come into play later in the
game. Take Drobonir and together head northeast to Crystal.

~CRYSTAL.

Map reference 235/120.

Map on a 28 x 28 grid. The entrance gate is in the south.

Located in a bay on the mid east of the island.

A much more interesting place than Gemstone, there's a fair bit to
do in Crystal. Take the right fork as you enter and find the
entrance to the Jewel Tavern. Standing in the entrance hall is
Captain Brix. He's looking for Orlando, the Landlord who's
hovering outside the Wine Cellar which is to be found south of the
kitchen area.

Inside you meet two potential recruits. Grylan is hanging around
one of the corridors. He is a wannabe Paladin. Make his day by
taking him on but beware that initially he's as weak as you are.
Like your character he needs experience points.

Of far more use is Trasric, the Black Wizard, he's to be found
through a couple of bedrooms near where Grylan is. He tells you
where his Guild is which is only accessible by boat. More of the
Tower of Black Wizards later.

In one of the rooms you meet Thonion. As you admire the pictures
on his wall he tells you of the White Gates and how one is able to
Teleport around the island provided one has the appropriate
artefact. The necklace, for that is the artefact, is to be found
in the Temple of Sansri. However the Temple is on the small island
off the south coast and is only accessible in two ways.

Firstly by air, you need to have access to the Eagle. Secondly by
fulfilling the quest set by Gwendoline whereby the Rose of Peace
is returned to her in Twinlake Crypt. In return she gives you a
Teleport spell that takes you right into the heart of Sansri's
Temple. Be warned that it's tough getting out again though.
Another option is to sell the Rose to Olfin who tells you about
"the Flower". He'll pay you around 5500 Gold for it which is just
about the right amount to buy a Boat.

There's an old man looking for Kevin, the Bard. Kevin's drowning
his sorrows in a bar in Illien, the Elven Village, and he can wait
for now.

In the garden find a pond. Making sure that you don't lose Life
Points by staying in the water too long, hop over to the tree to
find 5000 Gold and a Parchment. This, I think, refers to The
Sphere of Opening which is hidden in a Plant Pot in the room with
many Plants. Go south and east in this room to find the Sphere. It
is this that will open the circle of rocks guarding the Black
Wizard Tower.

In the kitchen meet Erek the cook and the Landlady who directs you
outside to meet Orlando. He's a bit busy right now but will
help you once you present him with a Golden Wine Goblet. The
Goblet is hidden in his Cellar. In return he presents you with an
Old Key which will open up the keyhole in the wall which is
en-route to the Paladin Guild in Crystal. Before you go charging
off into the cellar your Party needs to obtain a few promotions
first so keep exploring the rest of Crystal for now.

Leaving the Tavern head north and east to find a Shop. In the shop
is an old woman and the shopkeeper behind the counter. The woman
warns of the dire consequences of visiting Dreblin, the Lord
Chancellor. Don't be tempted, as I was, to waste your precious
lockpicks on either the door to his room or the Chest in the room.
In the Chest is a sarky message that says the equivalent of "Yah,
Boo, Sucks". This shop is open all day every day and you and the
sarky shopkeeper will do good business together.

Head east to find the Market area. To the lower east here find the
Ration Shop.  A place you will visit frequently as it's easier to
find Crystal then Gemstone and the price difference is only 2
gold.

To the northeast of the Market down a passage meet Firlas. Poor
fellow has lost his Bone of Wisdom in Twinlake. Your reward for
safely returning it is a Runic message and more importantly a
Piece of Amberstar. But first you must complete Twinlake Sewers,
return Felix the Cat to Sunni who gives you the gift of talking to
animals and then recruit Spike the Dog from your parents' kitchen.

A healing Temple is around here and right in the north is the
Boatyard where you can spend the 5000 gold you've just acquired.
My recommendation is that you save this money for Rations and
suitable armour and weaponry. The Black Wizard Tower is by far too
tough a place for the Party right now.

Moving west you'll see the Lord Chancellor's House in the
southwest.  By all means walk in and have a look round. Talk to
his wife, crying in the kitchen, and his son, cowering in the
Bedroom.  You won't be able to enter the cellar area yet as the
Seal on Dreblin's Signet Ring is required as a pass key.  The ring
is deep within Jonathan's House. Make a note of the four portraits
on the wall in the entrance hall. You need this information later
on inside Dreblin's Cellar area.

Upstairs is dangerous as monsters are lurking in a room there.
Use the Retreat option to escape or at least SAVE before taking
them on.  When you "eye" the Globe up here the message is
"Mortals, Look deep into my eyes and see the pain my Prince is
preparing for you. No-one can stop the plans of Prince Bralkur. He
will suck your soul from your body the way you suck an egg."
Fighting talk indeed. The Teleport in the Bedroom takes you
downstairs to just outside the Cellar.

To the north on the western side you'll eventually find the
Paladins' Guild. In here you can buy White Magic scrolls. A
thorough exploration of the Paladin area will have revealed a
Keyhole in the wall. The key for this is obtainable from Orlando
once you've given him the Golden Wine Goblet from his cellar. In
the chest that is then revealed find 657 Gold and another Piece of
Amberstar.

So after exploring Crystal so far there are a few more sub-quests:

1.  Twinlake Sewers
2.  Jewel Tavern Wine Cellar
3.  Halls of Peace (to find Rose)
4.  Jonathan's House
5.  Black Wizard Tower
6.  Dreblin's Cellar *
7.  Temple of Sansri

~*DREBLIN'S CELLAR

This is a tough area and should only be tackled after a few class
promotions.

The cellar is an area that does not auto-map. It contains lots of
monsters which need clearing before you find Dreblin. Mummies and
Skeletons are occupying the Crypt where you will find a key with
which to release the imprisoned Dreblin. The strategy for the
cellar should be to take one monster on at a time and then nip
upstairs to recover, Save, and clear the next one and so on.

In one section you'll come across three graves, one of these
conceals two Blue Mushrooms. These aren't for eating, they enhance
your attributes when administered to you by Mera the Witch. Keep
the mushrooms in your Inventory until you find her house which is
to the west. Find the jetty on the western shore and go southeast
to discover her house and hand her the Mushrooms. Red ones enhance
your Speed and Blue your Strength.

Having noted the portraits in Dreblin's entrance hall is necessary
to complete the Cellar. In the final section Puzzlemouths will ask
you who is -

The Rooster = Calwell
The Pirate = Maltor
Mourner= Fenora
Blue Pearl = Leonore

You will go through several doors till the Party comes across a
large Water tank. Defeating the Demon here gives you a cage key
with which to release Dreblin from his prison. Wait for the wooden
Bridge to fall into place before entering.

Talk to him to receive a reward for rescuing him. In his chest are
loads of useful things. A clock that you can "action" which will
then show the time in the large grey window on your Monitor
screen. A Girdle of Thieves which considerably aids the picklock
ability of your thief. 1584 Gold. An Iron ring that gives Shield
assistance. Two Swords that'll help attack skills. And of course a
Piece of Amberstar.

-----------------------

My suggestion now is that you either head west and explore Illien
or return to Twinlake and, with your new recruits, explore the
Sewers. To build up some points before going down the Sewers try
crossing Bridges to fight the Trolls that then appear. Should you
head north of Crystal on the paths you will find the Orcs too
tough for an embryo Party.

~TWINLAKE SEWERS

Located in the northwest area of the town.

Map on a 14 x 14 grid.

Prior to climbing down the ladder search to find 3 torches under
some rubbish by the barrels. Ensure that you have a few torches in
your Inventory.  The auto-map will show where you've been if your
light goes out but won't record any fresh territory.

The first brush with Rats is just along the initial passage.
Choose the attack icon to ensure that your Party get the first
hits in, otherwise the baddies bash you instead. Explore every
nook and cranny. Select a Lead Character who has good Search Stats
otherwise you may miss something.

In the south east find a dead body, goodies here include 3
precious lockpicks. In the centre west find the Cook's Old Ring.
Returning it in exchange for the Crystal Ball. In the very centre
is a major battle. Defeat the Rat King to rescue Felix the Cat and
pick up the Rat King's Head. Hand the head to Lord Karwain to
receive 600 Gold reward and hear about Firlas.  Searching the east
side of the Lair after the fight you discover the Soldiers who
failed in their mission.

Return Felix back to Sunni to receive the gift of talking to
animals.  You can now nip home and recruit Spike the Dog. Guess
who's got Firlas's bone buried in the Garden! Yup. Next time
you're through Crystal drop in on Firlas to return the bone and
receive a Piece of Amberstar as a reward.  The Runes on the scroll
read "Oh Talmit, Goddess of the future! Let me look deep into your
eyes - Find 13 parts - go to the clearing where many rivers wind.
Altar in Forest of Unity - Thank you, Talmit, for letting me see"
After, or indeed during, completion of the Sewers sell your excess
Inventory.  Keep the good stuff, buy some more rations, tour the
appropriate Guilds for promotion and head to the next location.
Practically wherever you go now (in an area) you'll need either
Light Spells or Torches so stay well equipped.

The next 3 areas are all much of a muchness in terms of
difficulty.  It may be better to go to the Cellar areas before
taking on the Orcs in Jonathan's House so you can build up Life
Points etc.

~JONATHAN BURGAND'S HOUSE.

Map reference 232/196
Map first level on a 13 x 13 grid.
Map second level on a 23 x 23 grid.
Map third level A on a 8 x 13 grid.

Map third level B on a ........... this level is long, long, very
long. It actually connects up with the Dragon Inn Cellar level
two.  Up to the point that these meet it can be mapped on an 8 x
80 grid.

Located to the northeast of Twinlake. The key referred to in the
Dragon Inn is hidden in a bush. The bush is just off a corner of
the path before entering the trees to enter the house proper.
Don't go near the house if you haven't already found or bought a
crowbar. You can buy one in Gemstone or find one near the entrance
to the cellar (in a barrel) in the Dragon Inn.  As you approach
the house the Party falls into the southeast area of the cellar
(within level 2).

Use the crowbar on the door to explore the cellar. In the
northeast find 26 Gold and some torches. In the southwest are
clothes to be found. The exit stairs up to Level 1 are in the
west.

Entry to Level 1 is in the southeast corner. Four Orc battles to
go through in this level. The good news is that the door to the
outside world is in the centre south and you can come and go at
will. You'll need to do this to offload your excess baggage and to
buy rations so you can recover Spell and Life Points. Don't forget
to use the Crypt pools in Twinlake Cemetery as you're so close.
These only replace Life and not Spell points though.

You need Orc communication skills to pass the time of day with the
guy in the northern room. As I didn't have that we'll carry on! A
door in the northwest has a trap that could blind your leader so
if the screen goes black the game's not crashed, it's just that
you can't see.

I had to wait a long time to develop sufficient picklock skills to
enter here but try your luck with the Thief anyway. The chest
beyond has loads of Scrolls, 325 Gold, a good sword, good helmet
and other useful treasure. The stairs down to the rest of Level 2
are located in the northeast.

Entry point is north just right of centre. Search to flush out
more Orcs. Round a winding passage to find a door to your left.
Break this down with a crowbar but don't enter the Teleport in the
south just yet.

~THE LOST ISLAND.

The reason why is that you Teleport to a "Lost Island". The only
way back from here is via another Teleport that is concealed
behind a locked door.  This door is resistant to lockpicks and can
only be opened by means of a key obtainable from the Castle of
Gelinda on the Dragon Island. The bad news is that the Dragon is
sitting on the wretched thing.

On the Lost Island is the body of Olgur, the missing Orc, there's
a few bits to pick up before entering the House. In the house the
southeastern room contains a Chest with 1248 Gold, 5 Potions and
2 Scrolls and a vital Piece of Amberstar.  Then use the key on the
western room to access the Teleport back. I guess that having a
Teleport Scroll could be an alternative option?

Go right and north instead to find a door south halfway along this
corridor.  There are then three doors off each side of this long
passage south.  The first door west, the second door east and both

third doors, west and east, conceal Orcs so expect trouble. Just
keep popping out as before to recharge your attributes.

Through the door south there is another Orc battle. Going left or
right in the corridor beyond takes the Party to two different
areas.  The eastern stairs lead to the long, long, long passage
that eventually links up to the Dragon Inn (Area B) whist the
western stairs lead to Jonathan's Laboratory (Area A).

Let's go to the smaller section first. Down the stairs to see a
Puzzlemouth.  Naturally the answer is "Jonathan". Watch the
spelling. The passage then opens up the rest of the area. Beware
of three spinners in the room beyond. Use the auto-map feature to
see which in direction you are headed.

There is a door in the southeast of this room that leads to a
room with Teleports. Your objective is to reach the door in the
southwest of this area.  Behind the door is the Laboratory.


~Teleport System
~---------------
`                           Door
`                                     7 Teleports to 2
`               1   2    3     4      3      ..      9
`                                     1.. 2
`               5   6  Pillar  7      6..13
`                                    12.. 4
`       8   9  10  11    12   13     16..11
`                                    10.. 5
`                  14    15   16     14..15
`                                    18..17
`       Lab Door   17    18           8.. 4

Look in the Barrels to find a Parchment. There are more Diary
entries on the Tables. The Signet Ring that'll allow entry to
Dreblin's Cellar in Crystal is here.

In the Chest are a few Treasures including a Tunnel Key that is
the means of opening up the passage from Area B to the Dragon Inn.
If your Thief isn't up to opening the Chest then you'll have to
return when his skills are improved.

The Diary entries are significant as they lead you to other areas.
The Blue Disc device is a travelling bubble that enables the Party
to move over land or shallow seas. It is located in Pharaoh's
Tomb.  The entrance to the tomb is in the southeast of the island
near rocks in a Desert area.

The Locator Device gives you grid map references and is very
useful for finding your way around. The device is deep within the
Swampstation. The reference to "Water" in the Diary entry is the
means by which you flush out the blockage in the sewerage system.
More of that later.  The Swampstation is located in the southwest.

Now return and head down the other set of stairs to enter the
long, long.. you know the rest.. passage. This heads north. Fight
Rats about a third of the way up. Beyond the point where the
passage takes a left is a door that leads south.  Take this route
before heading north.

The passage winds its way right down to a square room with a
Chest. On the way meet two sets of Rats before encountering
another set in the room itself. The chest is booby trapped so have
someone qualified disarm the thing.  Inside are goodies and Black
Wizard scrolls. Somewhere in this area is more Treasure in another
Chest. My records have a note of what you find but not where. In
this chest is a Compass which you should "Action".  Direction
notes then appear in the Grey Window on the right of your screen.

Haul the Party back to head north. Firstly on the east side to
find and fight Rats through the second door east. Then north up
the western side. Keep west through a door to fight more Rats and
discover a Chest with Scrolls and other Treasures. The Silver Ring
will give the Thief additional Lockpick skills.

Advancing up the other passage brings you to a Keyhole in the
wall.  Use the Tunnel key here to enter the Dragon Inn - Level
Two. Keep north and east to find an empty Flask, Healing Scrolls
and other treasure.

You can continue if you wish through the Cellars to exit
eventually in the Dragon Inn but I'll do that section as if you've
entered from the Inn.

New Quests discovered -

1. Swampstation

2. Pharoah's Tomb

~DRAGON INN CELLARS

Dragon Inn located in Twinlake.

Map Level One on an 18 x 23 Grid.

Map Level Two on an 8 x 8 Grid (before it connects with Jonathan's
Cellar)

The entry point is in the mid-north. Turning right follow the
passage north to find a Flask. Then south to a room where there
are doors to the west and east.  Explore the eastern door first.
Initially heading south then north to find another Flask and then
south to use a crowbar on a door south.

The door west here leads to a battle with Rats then west again to
go north to fight a Wine Slime. After disposing of this green
mucus you find a few goodies. Head to the small room beyond to
pick up an Old Flask of Wine that Breth, the Innkeeper, will pay
100 Gold for.

Return to the room where the door led west and use crowbar again.
Then north before heading south through a south door to fight more
Rats. East of this point find another Flask down a passage. Then
south again through a door to fight Rats. Go east down a long
passage to enter a false wall and descend stairs to Level Two.
At the end of level 2, which is pretty small find the Keyhole in
the Wall that needs the Tunnel Key from Jonathan's Laboratory to
open up the route into his cellars.

~JEWEL INN CELLARS

The Jewel Inn is to be found in Crystal.

Map Level One on a 23 x 23 Grid.

Map Level Two on another long long etc grid - 88 x 5.

Entry Point is is the northwest corner heading east. After
passing through the first door find a door to the south heading
east.  This is the way to go. There is another door south round
the corner but there's nothing and no-one in the rooms beyond.

Through the door east head either north or south. The doors south
along the northern passage lead to another barren area. Go to the
southern passage and use your crowbar on the wall south (about 5
squares in from the eastern corner).  You'll pass two drunken
Goblins before fighting Goblins through a door south.  Find a door
west and then travel south and west to fight more Goblins at the
end of a passage.

Back to go north and west through a door, round a couple of
corners and another Goblin battle. South and head west to bash
another set of Goblins. Go north from here round yet more bends,
keep west and south to finally discover a Chest containing Flasks
and a Golden Wine Goblet.

Give this goblet to Orlando who'll reward you with the Old Key.
This key then fits the Keyhole in the Wall in the area south of
the Paladins' Guild in Crystal. The wall opens up and leads to a
Chest containing 657 Gold and a vital Piece of Amberstar.

The stairs down to level two are nearby, go west and south. Down a
passage with three doors off. Behind each door are Goblins to be
fought. Again the door east conceals Goblins. Explore and keep
heading east.  One of the small rooms has a Chest. In the chest is
a message and 1296 Gold.

The parchment reads "I would remind you again that you must be
more careful!  We don't want that old fool Orlando to notice that
we are selling him his own Wine!" signed Captain B. Much to my
disappointment showing this to Orlando or Captain Brix produced no
response.

You will fight another five sets of Goblins before emerging on an
Island.  Beware for there are more Goblins on the Jetty and in the
surrounding landscape.

----------------------------------------------------------------

Time now to tackle the Wizard Towers. Each of the Towers has a
fast track route to the Guild contained within. It's tempting to
enter the password straight off BUT in doing so you won't gain the
experience that builds your Party's statistics. The Puzzlemouths
ask for the name of the Guild's founder and of course this is the
last Puzzle you solve. I'll provide the solution but only at the
point that the puzzle appears.

In terms of easiest first -

~WHITE WIZARD TOWER.

Map reference 280/168.

Located southeast of Crystal.

Map on a 23 x 23 Grid.

Entry point is in the mid east heading west. The Puzzlemouth is
before you.  Head north and then south to enter a room with loads
of Teleports.

`            1    2    3
`            4    5    6           All but 5, 7 & 10 take you back
`            7         8           into the passage north
`            9   10   11           5 takes you back to the entrance
`           12   13   14           Access 7 and enter 10.

The correct Teleport takes you north. Head round a bend or three
to find stairs leading to a small passage. There are three of
these.  Beware the spinner in the third one.

Going south you enter a large room. Walking only on the bones make
your way to the door in the southeast corner. Through the door
and go west ignoring the Teleport to the east. Half way along the
passage is a false wall to the south.  You may have to trigger
this by visiting the Statue at the end of the passage who has the
message "There is no way past me".  Twice through the false wall.
Going west at the end of the passage south leads to a barrel
containing eight torches. Head east through a couple of doors to
find and fight Skeletons. The lower ones in the three rooms are an
illusion.

Round and round the passages to find the Statue of the Founder
whose name is "Kasimir". Back and north to find the Guild entrance
and meet Crag, a level six White Wizard inside. Crag has a useful
staff should you choose to recruit.  Head east from the guild to
use the password on the Puzzlemouth.


~TOWER OF GREY WIZARDS.

Map reference 090/138

Located on an island off the northeast coast.

Map on a 28 x 28 Grid.

Entry point is in the mid south. At the intersection to the north
the Puzzlemouth is to the north. Go west through two doors and
north through the second door to find two Flasks at the end of the
passage. Head south to find two Mushrooms in one alcove and three
Flasks in another. Shandra, the Wizard in Twinlake, will place
Healing 5 Potions in your Flasks if you say "Potions" to him and
Mera will convert the Mushrooms to Strength or Speed enhancements.

Go north but beware the spinner in the narrow section. There are
three more Mushrooms to be found in a corner to the northwest.
Travelling east then north you discover a passage with five
Teleports. Each one takes you to an independent area in the
northern area of your map.

Taking the most western Teleport first will take you to the mid
north.  From your arrival point go north and through a door east
to fight Orcs. Return to the Teleport which takes you back to the
intersection below the Puzzlemouth.  Unfortunately this happens
each time so you have to traipse all the way back through the
dreaded spinner to the Teleport passage.

Next Teleport in from the west takes you east of the area you've
just been to.  Follow the passage round to meet Orcs and Goblins
through the door and enter the Teleport in the north.

The centre Teleport lands you in an area to the extreme northwest
of the map. Go north to obtain some valuable treasures. In the
Chest are Wands of Light and Fireballs; also here is a Staff of
Direction and most vital of all a Staff of Resurrection. Return
then to the Teleport.  The Teleport second in from the east goes
to the extreme northeast of the map.  Fight Orcs in the east and
Teleport back from the opposite corner.  The final eastern
Teleport takes you into the remaining northern slot where you
dispose of more Orcs before Teleporting back to the intersection.

}From the intersection now go east. Travel round the walls to avoid
a spinner in the next two room east. The doors north and south in
the first room lead to empty areas but head north in the second
room. Go west and north to encounter Mummies. North again then
west to find a door west.  Search the passage south before going
through the door to discover 359 Gold and a Torch.  Through the
door search the barrels in the centre of the room to find useful
Herbs and four Torches. The Herbs will cure sickness etc that the
Mummies cast on you. See the Introductory notes in an earlier part
of this playguide to see which Herb cures what.

Along the passage west to have a tough battle with more Mummies.
The Staff of Resurrection will probably come into its own now.
Follow the passage round and round till you arrive at a locked
door. Use the Thief to pick the lock and find the Guild entrance
in the southern passage. Inside the Guild the Party meets Satine,
a level six Grey Wizard, who will be a great asset to your Party.

To the north of the Guild find the Statue of the Founder
"Landonis" at the end of a short passage. Back to the southern
passage and enter the password in the Puzzlemouth.

~BLACK WIZARD TOWER.

Map reference 266/306.

Located at the end of a rocky section that can only be accessed by
sea or air.  To gain entrance to the Tower you must first have
obtained the Sphere of Opening from the Plant Room in the Jewel

Inn in Crystal. Use this on the altar and the circle of rocks will open.

Map Entrance Level on a 33 x 33 Grid

Map Level One on a 23 x 23 Grid

Map Level Two on a 13 x 13 Grid

Entry point is in the mid south. The Passage turns east at the
Puzzlemouth and stairs lead to the next Level.

}From the stairs head southeast to find a Pit halfway down a
corridor.  If you have a Rope now is the time to use it otherwise
just drop down and take the Hit Points. The next few battles are
tough. I suggest that you SAVE before dropping down just in case
the Party is still too weak to take on the three sets of Skeletons
that guard this room.  Head east when the Skeletons are done with
and find a door north.  There are more Skeletons through the door
and beyond them find 238 Gold and three Torches. Exit the room and
head south to a room with loads of false walls.  Cross the room to
exit into a corridor in the northwest corner of this room.

`                     E W E

`           E W E W E X E X E X E      Door
`                                             KEY - E = Empty Space
`           X E X E W E W E W E W
`                                                   W = Wall
`           E W E X E W E X E X E
`                                                   X = False Wall
`           E W W E X E X E W E W
`                                                   T = Teleport
`           T W E X E W E W E X E

The Teleport sends the Party west into a corridor where Skeletons
are waiting for you. There's another set round the corner to the
north. Follow the passage east and explore north before entering
the door east.  Find a bit of Gold and three Scrolls in the
alcove.

Through the door and into an area with 14, yes fourteen Teleports.
Thirteen you can see and one you can't. Naturally it's the one you
can't see that is the correct one. All the others send you back to
rooms earlier in the level so you have the pain of finding your
way back again. The real Teleport is accessed from the north of
the central pillar. Enter the false wall to be sent into an
alcove.

}From the alcove find Skeletons waiting to the north. Zap them and
enter the door north and fight another set of Skeletons. The rooms
beyond have doors galore. Not only that but there are three
spinners along the central corridor.  More Skeletons lurk in the
room to the extreme west. Make your way east to exit this area to
the north.  You now follow passages in an anti-clockwise route. At
the extreme northwest is a door behind which is 198 Gold and a
good Helmet.  Go south to find more Skeletons with another lot
much further on.  Finally enter a door to find a Teleport which
takes you to the bottom of a long corridor north.

Up the corridor to enter a door to the south and Teleport again
into a small room in the east of the map. Through the door and
round to fight Skeletons in the south. Enter another room to
Teleport again to the east.  South through the door and head north
fighting Skeletons as you enter another room in the northeast and
Teleport again.

Head south from the next room and head west to dispose of yet more
Skeletons.  Just look at your experience statistics now!  Retrace
steps and go north then east at the crossroads and yes, Teleport
again. From the room in the northern area go south to Teleport for
the last time on this level. South through the door and fight
Skeletons en-route to the Stairs which lead to Level One.

Your entry point is just mid east in the centre of the map. Go
north meeting Skeletons just before a door north. Up and round and
fight two more sets of Skeletons in the northern passage. As you
head south peek into the room east to find three robes. Continue
south through the door and wend a torturous route to the south
west corner of the map to enter a door north.  Bash the Skeletons
within and find Two Lockpicks, a Dagger and 99 Gold east of here.
North and east to discover Stairs up to Level Two.

Entry point is in the mid south. Go north and fight Skeletons in
the western passage. Again in the north corridor before entering a
door south.  Just west through the door are two Flasks and a
smidgen of Gold.  South round the houses to find the Statue of the
Founder in a southern alcove, "Nicademus".

The Guild entrance is to the left and stairs down on the right
through level one and down again to the Puzzlemouth on the
entrance level. Enter the password and out into the light of day.
In the Guild look in the Barrels to find Dried Herbs and Three
Blue Mushrooms.

This in NOT an advertisement.

You have reached one of The Spoiler Centre mirror sites. This address may go inactive soon. 
Please use http://www.the-spoiler.com for all your walkthrough needs. 
It might be a good idea to bookmark www.the-spoiler com now. Thank you.
~Amberstar

Solution obtained from The Adventure Probe BBS.

`                   AMBERSTAR - Thalion
`                 Playguide by Brian Burke

~Continued from previous article...

~MERA'S HOUSE (SPRITE CAVES)

Time to make use of those Mushrooms by exploring Mera's garden
shed.

Map reference 140/265

Map on a 33 x 48 Grid

Located southeast of the jetty on the west side of the island.

After you've talked to Mera and benefited from her magic mushrooms
talk to her to discover that she's lost her Broom. Enter the
garden to say "Mera" to the Puzzlemouth. If you don't have a full
complement of heads you can recruit the cat. Talk to the cat
anyway to learn of the Frog Pond.

Go down the ladder to enter the Caves in the southwest corner.
Two steps in, you Teleport to the east. Enter the false wall south
and the wheel on the wall opens the northern end of the passage
you just Teleported from.  Regain this passage by moving east
through a false wall and head north then east to enter a door
west. Enter the Teleport to be transported into the centre east of
the map.

Ignore the Teleport to the north here as this sends you back
outside the Caves.  Instead head northeast to find the Labyrinth
Key. Now thread your way to the southwest of this area to find a
Keyhole in the Wall where you use the Labyrinth Key. This opens up
the route to the south and east.

Just before the door east is a passage with a wheel at the end.
Ignore this for the moment. The wheel opens up a passage behind
you to the west. Go east and thoroughly explore the area to the
east. You'll find five sets of Gems.  You'll receive around 550
Gold for each gem from the Shopkeepers.

After picking all the Gems up go south and west to find three more
sets of Gems and a Puzzlemouth in the southwest corner. This
puzzle took me ages, the answer is "Sprite". The passage to the
west opens up and at the end is the missing Broom.

Back to the small passage with the wheel. Once activated go west
and down a passage west. Watch for the spinner halfway down. Enter
a door north.  Thread your way through a series of False Walls and
impassable passages to enter a door to the east in the northeast
section of this maze.  Ignore the Teleport to the southeast as it
takes you back outside to caves.

In the passage west there are some Rocks. These are an illusion.
You must now cast an Anti-Magic spell to avoid being Teleported
out the caves should you step beyond the rocks. Explore the rooms
to the north to find four Chests containing Jewels and Gems.

Once through the room with many pillars you head south and east to
go up to the northeast where the Sprites concede defeat. Now
return to one of the exit Teleports to return the Broom to Mera.
She tells you of the Frog Pond.

~THE FROG POND.

This is located to the southeast of Mera's House. Enter the trees
and the Pond area is enlarged. Talk to each Frog until one answers
and tells you his sorry tale. Swim to the island in the centre and
underneath the rock is a Piece of Amberstar.

~HALLS OF PEACE.

Warning - you are advised to have decent swimming stats before
entering.

Map reference 315/076

Map on a 9 x 18 Grid but there are Five non-Automap areas off.

Located in the rocks at the end of the Desert northeast of
Crystal.

Entry point is in the mid south. Meet the Puzzlemouth and say
"Jasmin".  This name derived from talking to Olfin in the Jewel
Inn in Crystal. Forward to meet a Planthulk to the east and
another in the room south of here.

Going through the door north and heading west will bring another
Planthulk battle. North and east via Area C meet the final
Planthulk monster.  Taking the five outer areas in the following
sequence -

~EDCAB

Area A. - Fight Krakens on the shore line, hang about and tempt
them onto the beach, or in the shallows if your swimming abilities
are up to it.  When they're all kaput head to the opposite shore
line and take the Lily from the altar.

Area B. - Same tactics as in Area A with the Krakens. The target
shoreline is to the west. Then north to discover the Forget-me-not
flower on the altar.

Area C. - This links rooms together. You'll now meet Trents which
are Tree Monsters and they're tougher than Krakens. There are a
few of these to dispose of before crossing a bridge to find
another cave entrance.

Area D. - More Krakens. Head north to find Clover.

Area E. - Krakens yet again. Then go northwest to find the altar
and a Rose.

Head for the Temple and use your flowers in the following order -
Cloverleaf, Rose, Lily and Forget-me-nots. Head north to hear the
voice telling you that you are worthy. You can now either sell the
Flower to Olfin for around 5500 Gold or be noble and trade it with
Gwendolin for a Teleport directly into Sanri's Temple. If you're
low on experience and hits points I'd recommend calling in on
Olfin and taking the cash.


~ILLIEN - THE VILLAGE OF THE ELVES

Map reference - 157/134

Located west of Crystal in a clearing deep in the woods.

Map on a 23 x 16 Grid.

There are entry points north, south, east and west. Entering from
the north you will immediately see statues. The statues carry the
names of the Guardians of the Eyrie. More of the Eyrie in a
moment. The names are -
      Tillien - the First Guardian
      Gelinda - the Second
      Solomon - the Third
      Elathon - the Fourth
      Pelanis - the Fifth

Pelanis is the current Guardian and it is he you must talk to
to learn of the quest you must undertake. Successful completion
gains the gift of a magic flute that summons your own personal
flying machine - a friendly eagle.  Pelanis lives in the southeast
of the town. He'll tell you the tale of the female Dragon and how
she threatens the Eyrie. You must destroy the unhatched dragon egg
and slay the Dragon as well.

To reach the island home of the Dragon you can use a raft that is
moored at a jetty to the northwest of Illien. The Dragon's pretty
tough so your Party need to be in good shape before confronting
her.

Elsewhere in Illien is a very useful Herb shop in the northwest
and an even more useful Potion shop south of here. Wandering
around this area is Samrais who'll tell you about the Dragon and
Pelanis. There's a shop in the centre of the village and a Temple
is in the southwest. In the southeast is a Ration shop where
rations only cost 10 Gold.

The pathway to the Inn is from the east. Before taking the
northern route to the Inn go south and talk to Bothor. Say
"Amberstar" to receive a letter to his uncle Donner. Donner is
working a mine in the south of the island. The entrance is
directly west of the jetty which itself is west of Gemstone. Cross
the river to find the cave entrance.

In the Inn there's an amusing encounter with the landlord's wife,
particularly if you've noted the ladder outside the Inn earlier.
You'll find Kelvin inside. He'll tell you about his lost Harp and
that the Riddle Master has it. The Riddle Master's Tower is
located on an island way down southeast of the island. Take a
bearing from the most eastern point east of the White Wizard Tower
and sail your boat south until you sight the island. Use the
Crystal Ball as a navigation aid. You'll also meet Thaer who tells
you about the harp.

Sub quests identified, in order of battle difficulty -

   1. Donner's Mine
   2. Tower of Riddles
   3. Dragon Island


~DONNER'S MINE.

Map reference 090/359

Cave entrance in rocks located due west of Gemstone. You can
enquire about Donner in the Inn.

Map on a 28 x 9 Grid.

Entry point is from the southeast heading west. Keep south and
west to use your Pickaxe on rocks prior to fighting Caverats to
the north.

Forgive my memory but I believe that there's a set of Bones to be
found at the end of the passage here. Search them to find loads of
Treasures - 845 Gold, 3 Lockpicks and weapons, armour and a
Potion.

Return to take a passage north. Keep north to go west through a
door and west again to fight more Caverats. Go south then west and
meet Spiders.  Follow the passage north and just before the
passage turn east again find the door that leads to Donner. At the
end of the passage east is a barrel containing four Torches.

Look for Donner and give him Bothor's letter. He'll then tell you
about the Dwarven Crown into which is set a piece of the
Amberstar. The Dwarves live in a Volcano in a valley to the east
of Twinlake. If you bring the Crown back to Donner he'll prise the
Amberstar free for you.

Take the letter Donner gives back to Bothor in Illien. He'll tell
you about the Puzzlemouth password necessary to enter the Dwarf
Mine.


~TOWER OF RIDDLES.

Map reference - Tower - 365/368
                Riddle Masters House - 377/361

Located on an island way down southeast of the main island.

Map 5 levels - all on 9 x 9 grids.

Visit the Riddle Master in his house to talk about Kelvin and his
Harp.  The Riddle Master throws down a challenge and gives you the
Key to his Tower which is located on a nearby island.

Entry point on the first section is from the east. Use the key on
the first door and go northwest to find a Puzzlemouth. Say "Ear".
This opens up a door behind the Party in the centre of the map and
releases Rats. Fight the Rats and head northeast to find Stairs to
the next section.

Entry point here is from the northeast heading west. A passage
south leads to a Pit which merely drops you down to level one.
Take the second passage south and fight more Rats then head east
through six false walls before going north to a Puzzlemouth.
There's another Puzzlemouth two squares west of this one - go
south and north again to find it. The Riddles are inter-related
and took a 'phone call to Germany to resolve. I was climbing the
walls for a week and my Thesaurus wasn't helping at all.  To the
question "It flew featherless, into a tree leafless. Who ate it?"
The answer is "Sun". To the question "A woman came mouthless and
ate the Bird featherless. Who was flying?" The answer is "Snow".
Easy when you know how!

The correct answers open up a corridor east in the western passage
where Rats are waiting. Ignore the Teleport to the south as it
merely sends you back down again. Head north and east to climb
another set of stairs.

Entry point in the Third Section is from the mid-east. Ahead of
the Party is a Puzzlemouth. "What has no body but is still
visible?" answer "Shadow". The rocks to the north disappear. There
are Purpurslimes (yes, that is the right word!) waiting to the
northwest and east. Once disposed of, go to the western corridor
and south through a door to meet another set of these strangely
named monsters.

Round a couple of corners to another Puzzlemouth. To the riddle
"Neither air nor wind are as fast as I, I travel through worlds
never seen by human eye. I am here and there in seconds", forget
turning up your copy of Cosmos, the answer is "Thought". The rocks
south of the first Puzzlemouth open up allowing access to Stairs
in the southeastern area.

Entry point on the fourth level is heading north in the eastern
half of the level. There's an anti-light square on the third
square up just before the door. Ignore the Teleport in the passage
south beyond the door as this takes you right back to a sarcastic
Riddle Master. Enter the door that leads south to find a
Puzzlemouth. "Once white as snow, then green as clover, then red
as blood. You know me well". Answer "Cherry"

The route south down the extreme west passage opens but you must
fight three sets of Skeletons on your way to the next Stairway. In
addition there are two Anti-light squares in the southern passage.

Entry point in the fifth and final section is in the northeast.
South through a couple of doors to fight Rats just beyond the
second door. Then through a third door in the west to fight
Purpurslimes. North to a Puzzlemouth, "It is a beautiful bridge.
No man has ever crossed it. It is a wonderful sight because the
waters hang over it". Answer "Rainbow".

The wall north opens and you fight another set of Purpurslimes.
There are then four sets of stairs in front of the Party. From the
west -

1. Fight Purpurslimes in the north and south rooms.

2 Go north to find the harp in a Chest to the west. You can use
the Teleport to exit the Tower.

3. Go south to fight Sprites and Goblins.

4. To the north and south fight Skeletons and Mummies.

Return to the Riddle master and use the "EYE" on the Harp to
receive the last riddle. "You do it all the time. It is nothing
but it is everything. It is the greatest riddle of all in the
Universe" (wow!). Answer "Life".  I think that you now receive a
Scroll.

Back to the Tower to use the harp at the point in the first
corridor where you hear the Harp. A door opens up to the south.
Head west fighting one set of rats and discover 2158 Gold, A
Sickle of Returning (Boomerang), a Pipe of Levitation and a Wand
of Winds.  Hightail it back to Illien and return the harp to
Kelvin who gives you a Piece of Amberstar as a reward. It's fun to
play the Harp as there are 19 separate pieces of music with some
intriguing titles, I was quite loathe to hand it back!


~PHARAOH'S TOMB

Be ____ well prepared with Rations and potions before entering the
Tomb. The wall closes behind the Party after the first Puzzlemouth
so the only way out is via the correct Teleport after umpteen
battle or in a wooden box back to Shandra (and that's presuming
you haven't "died" earlier in the game and blown your resurrection
staff).

Map reference 290/270

Map Nine areas - Entrance area 7 x 11: Then 18 x 18: There are
then six Shrine areas which all appear on the same Auto-Map so
it's either six times 21 x 10 OR one 43 x 32. The final graves
area 23 x 23.

Located in a Desert area in the southeast near the coast.

Entry point is in the south. Head north to the Puzzlemouth and say
"Relanukh". Move north and pray you're well equipped as the wall
closes behind the Party. At the junction go east and south to
descend stairs to a new section. Head east through a door and keep
east to meet your first, but by no means last, encounter with
Skeletons. Through the next door and round the corner to find a
Chest with a Sun Key.

Back upstairs now to go west and south down the next set of Stairs
to another point in the next level. North to find a door where you
need to use the Sun Key. Fight more Skeletons through this door.
Keep east till you find a long passage leading north and pass over
four sets of Bodies. Yuk!.

Through the door west and south down the corridor to find six
Teleports, three to the east and three to the west. All take you
to separate areas in the Shrine level. Each of these relate to the
name of a God and it is under these names that I'll explain each
section. Firstly the eastern Teleports north to south -

GEB - Entry point is in the northwest. Head east after the first
door and, passing a door south, fight Skeletons in the northeast.
Return to the door south and go west, fighting Skeletons through a
door west. South and then east again and another battle before
finding a Puzzlemouth. Say "Geb" and the wall opens to the east
allowing progress north. Battle with Mummies and Skeletons to
allow you free access to a Chest containing the Armour of Geb.
Through the door east to find the Teleport back to the Red Circle
square just north of the original Teleport.

BALA - Same entry point. Once through the third door head north to
find the enemy through the second door north and again in the
northeast area. Back to head through the door south and head
progressively east to find another Puzzlemouth. Take time out to
dispose of Skeletons to the north just before you enter the door
to the Puzzlemouth. Say "Bala" to go north. After the battle find
a Black Necklace in the Chest. Then teleport back to the Red
Circle.

SOBEK - Same entry point. South then east stopping only to bash
Skeletons hiding behind a door to the north in the southern centre
of the map. Then north. Skeletons again behind a door west in the
mid-eastern area. West past one more set of Skeletons to say
"Sobek" to the Puzzlemouth and the battle.  Find a good Longbow in
the Chest.

Now the Teleports to the west in north to south order -

NUT - South then east just past the first door. Go north to
scatter the Skeletons before continuing south and east. In the
southern passage take the passage north to find another set of
Skeletons then regain passage and south before going north to the
Puzzlemouth. Say "Nut" and it's the same format. In the Chest is a
Robe.

HARACHTE - Yes, I think they did miss an "I" out but when you see
the Levitation (sorry - Lavitation !) Scroll spelling you know
that Thalion's Quality Control lost some vigilance somewhere along
the way. Same entry point and same scenario. Three sets of
Skeletons to bash before finding the Puzzlemouth in the southeast
and saying "Harachte". In the Chest is the Staff of Harachte.

GALA - This area's a little trickier due to the Spinners. Watch
your Compass as there are two down the central corridor and
another in the central southern area. Again three sets of
Skeletons to find before locating the Puzzlemouth in the
southeast. Say "Gala" and find a Broach of Gold and Diamonds in
the Chest.

Now we're done with the Teleports so it's back to the northern
passage to continue west. You will turn south, keep south and
ignore the passage west for now. In the passage south go the end
of each alcove where you'll be asked to show each of the Treasures
obtained from the Chest. There are three in this area - Geb, Bala
and Sobek. The other three are to the west of the map.

En-route to the Harachte, Nut and Gala alcoves find a Chest in the
northwest containing a Rope and a Spade. Battle with Skeletons
just south of this point. In the southwest area is also a Chest
containing a Rope and a Pickaxe. You'll fight Skeletons before
reaching the chest.

Upon showing the last Treasure return to the northern passage to
find the way open to a Teleport. Enter this to be taken to the
Graves area.

GRAVES AREA - Entry point is in the southeast heading north. You
cannot pass the light ahead of you. Enter a false wall just before
the light to either east or west. Skeletons are waiting for you.
Head north after the fight a couple of strides and return through
a false wall to the original passage having bypassed the light.

There are loads of crossroads in this area. Salient points are
that there are two spinners at crossroads, one around the central
northeast and another in the southwest. Another spinner in the
central northwest area is next to an area with doors galore. There
are Mummies and Skeletons to fight here. The light in the central
north passage Teleports you to the bottom of a passage in the
northeast. One light in the southwest Teleports the Party slightly
southeast, not far. And the light next to where you land sends you
back again.

There are three sets of Skeletons beyond the false wall. One set
in the northeast and the other two to the southwest. The
interesting section is to be found in the northwest area of the
map. In the central west find a door north with alcoves each side.
As you pass through, the wall will seal behind you. Each alcove in
the passage ahead contains a Chest in which there are Treasures
beyond the dreams of avarice (thanks to a certain C.Dickens for
the quote). There's far too much to carry so be reassured that you
can enter Pharaoh's Tomb again and ultimately carry off all seven
Chests worth of goodies.

First you have to get out of here. Rest now and recharge your
Health and Spell casting points. As you step on the square that
leads to the third alcove the wall ahead opens. Revealed now are
Mummies and Skeletons plus the dreaded Relanukh. After the battle
recuperate as there is another set of Skeletons waiting outside
near an Oasis.

The Piece of Amberstar is in the third Chest up on the east side.
The Blue Disc is in the fourth Chest up on the west. When you've
loaded your Party up head north to find two Puzzlemouths. Don't
enter any of the three doors yet as two of them are death traps.
To the question "What does everyone want to become but no-one want
to be?" say "Old", and to "Hole by hole - but still it holds" say
"Chain". The eastern door is then the only one remaining so it's
north into the sunlight. The Tomb entrance is north of the Oasis.
Fight the last set of Skeletons and hightail it to the nearest
Shop in your new found transport.....

~SWAMPSTATION

Map reference 172/286.

Map on a 38 x 37 Grid.

Located in the south, to the northeast of Gemstone.

Access is gained via a small house. Go past the old lady and south
to gain entrance. Entry point is in the southeast heading north.
At the Puzzlemouth say "Water". A passage south leads to rocks
that can only be unblocked by "unlocking" eight separate keyholes
which are located deep within the Swampstation. The water thus
released clears this set of rocks and another set further along
this passage. The "Keys" are various precious stones that the
Party find in other island locations as well as two actually in
the Swampstation.

Head north again and take the next passage west. Fight three sets
of Swamp-rats in this area. There's nothing else of interest here.
Return to passage and head north again before yet again going
west. The door north yields up more Rats. West again to another
door north to find a Yellow painted circle.

Not to bore you with the rest of this area. The circles to
discover and their relevant keys are -

Yellow Circle  - use Bernstein (German for Amber and can be bought
                 from the Shop in Twinlake)
Brown Circle   - use Earth Stone (find in the southwest area)
Multi-Coloured - use Rainbow Stone (find in a Chest in the
                 northeast)
Blue Circle    - use Topaz (? found on your travels elsewhere)
White Circle   - use Diamond (find in Pharaoh's Tomb, Grave area)
Green Circle   - use Emerald ditto
Red Circle     - use Ruby ditto
Light Blue     - use Mountain Crystal (? found somewhere)

I apologise for the two stones whose source I don't know. Frankly
until you enter the Swampstation you haven't a clue that the
Stones have a purpose and can't be sold just like the Gems can. I
was storing them up for a rainy day and didn't realise their
significance.

Other rock areas can be cleared with a Spade in one instance and a
Pickaxe in another. In the far northwest is reference to the Rune
chart that came with the game. Rather irrelevant halfway through
the game! In the northeast is a Chest that contains a Paper that
gives you the Keyhole/Key relationship described above. There
aren't many Rats to fight, roughly three sets in the northwest,
one in the northeast, one in the centre and two in the southwest.

The Map locator is found once both sets of rocks in the south
passage are cleared. "Action" it to place it in the grey window
and from now on it's much easier to find your way around the
island.


~DRAGON KEEP

Map reference 102/078

Located on an island northwest of the the island. Travel northwest
of the northern jetty on the raft that's waiting there.

Map two areas - one on a 19 x 27 Grid. The other on a 29 x 29 Grid.

Entry point is from the mid south. Head north to meet Bolina, a
Thief.  If you've room recruit him as he's got some useful items.
Say "Gelinda" to the Puzzlemouth to open up the wall north. The
door ahead leads to a Large Lock which needs an Eagle Key to
activate it. Both the passage east and west have Firebirds waiting
to ambush you. The Puzzlemouth to the west needs the answer
"Lugthir".

The password is obtained by seeing a Statue in the northeast area
of the map. To reach it, take the passage east of the Large Lock.
Beyond the first set of Firebirds are another four sets in the
southeast area and two more in the north.

The Puzzlemouth opens up the wall and the Party teleports to the
second section of the map. The new area is entered at a crossroads
in the eastern section. To the southeast are two sets of
Firebirds. Through the door west and north to fight two more sets
and find a Teleport. Don't enter this yet as it is the route back
to the Puzzlemouth on the first level.

Take the door east again and again fight two sets of Firebirds.
Take either eastern door north or south and east again to one
set of Firebirds.  East once more to find two more sets of
Firebirds. South now through a door to another lot of Firebirds.
Then south down the passage to another door south. For
completeness sake go west and north before entering the door south
to blast the penultimate set of Firebirds.

Through the door south then west, south, east then south and west
to fight the last set of Firebirds. In the western alcove is the
Eagle Key. Use the Teleport in the other passage to land right in
front of the door that leads to the Large Lock. Use the Eagle Key
on the lock to open up the wall north of the lock. Take the stairs
up.

There's room to map this new section on your Level One Map. Just
miss one square north as you enter the Old Hall of Knights.
Through the door north and keep north to fight Firebirds in the
northern passage. Then through the door west to enter a room with
a door south. Gird up your loins and so on as the Dragon awaits.
She's got around 500 Hit Points to dispose of so I hope you've got
plenty of Tornado spells or scrolls to use on her.

Once you've overcome the dreaded Dragon go south to find the nest
with the Egg and a Piece of Amberstar. In addition you recover the
Key that will unlock the door to the Homeward Teleport on
Jonathan's "Lost Island" to recover another Piece of Amberstar.
There are also four Gems here and a Broach of Luck.

Take the Egg back to Illien and give it to Pelanis. In return you
receive a super present - the Flute that gives you the power to
call on the Eagle and thus fly everywhere. One of the first places
to zoom off to is ....

~THE GUILD OF MONKS

Map reference - 177/044

Located in the middle of a Swamp in the northeast of the island.

No automatic mapping available but it's only a small area.

Land on the island and say "Mork" to the Puzzlemouth. Strictly
speaking you shouldn't pick this information up till you've been
to Snakesign Village where the Party can meet with Melchlor. Enter
the Guild to meet Balthar. Say "Quest" and he'll tell you about
Bothor, the Jewellery Dealer in Gemstone. He'll also refer to The
Guild of Rangers where you should go to meet Annorel. Also say
"Library" to be referred to his wife Melina.

Saying "Document" gives a reference to Melgrim who was one of the
thirteen wizards who cast the spell against Tarbos. He's gone to
ground in a cave beneath the Whirlpool and has a piece of the
Amberstar. Leave this area till last.

Go west and meet Melina and say "Potions", then go south to
discover the stock that she tells you of. You can also buy lots of
useful potions in the Guild so use that Gold up and purchase Spell
Regeneration and Healing 5 Potions.

~GUILD OF RANGERS

Map reference 080/233

Located on an island off the west coast of the main island.

Enter the Guild and go north. If Annorel is not around accelerate
Time until she appears then ask about the "Amberstar". She'll tell
you that the original Rangers' Guild is elsewhere, in the Bay to
the right of Crystal, and that there is a piece of Amberstar
hidden in the old Cellar rooms. You'll then receive a Rod of
Opening with which you open up the entrance to the Guild.

~DWARF MINE

Map reference - 260/225

Located in the north of a swamp. The swamp is northwest of
Pharaoh's Tomb.  Make sure you have a Levitation scroll before
entering.

Map three areas - all on 19 x 19 Grids.

Once you arrive on the "sandy" part outside the Mine Entrance the
Party has to fight Spiders and Caverats. After the battle read the
sign "Doras Mine" then go to the Puzzlemouth and say "Sarod". This
password is obtained from Bothor after Donner's letter is
delivered.

Enter the mine only to fall down after four steps into another
level.  Head north then either east or west to discover a Teleport
in the south. You are sent southwest. Go through the door north
and fight Rats before travelling east. Ignore the Teleport in the
passage to the south of the door east for now. You will need to
return here when all areas of the Mine have been explored. The
Teleport takes you back to the corridor in which you fell when
first entering this level.

Follow the corridor round then north to fight more Rats. North and
east to meet Spiders. East again and south. At a junction south
first go west and down a corridor east, just before a door west,
use a Pickaxe on the Rocks to reveal three sets of Rats. At the
end of the passage find one red and one blue mushroom. Take these
to Mera's House to benefit.

Through the door west fight Spiders. Return to the junction and
head east and south. Beyond the door south fight another set of
Spiders before seeing a set of Stairs to the next (and third)
level.

The Stairs take the Party to enter this level from the southeast
corner. Fight Spiders before wending your way east and then north
to battle some Rats. North again through two doors. Keep north
once past the second door and enter a false wall. Follow the
passage round to find a Chest containing a Mine Key.

Regain the corridor east and make your way to a set of Stairs in
the southeast region of the map. You'll fight another lot of Rats
and two sets of Spiders en route. The centre area of the map will
be accessed later.

Now we're back on the Entrance level. Heading from the east beware
the Spinner at the first crossroads. Initially go south past some
Rats to discover three torches in a Barrel. Then straight north
from the crossroads through a door and then east and north to zap
Rats again. More rats through a door west in the northern
corridor. Keep west to fight Spiders in the west before heading
south. Through the second door south a "Shadow" drops down in
front of the Party. Make his day and keep south. Fight again in
the south at the end of a passage.  Then east and north to use the
Mine Key on a Keyhole and discover the passage out to the fresh
air.

Back now to the first level to enter the Teleport mentioned
earlier.  From the corridor you land in stand beneath the Pit and
use a Levitation spell. You are taken up to level two. Enter the
door north.

To the east through the door find a Chest with 546 Gold and some
Mithral Mail. Down the adjacent alley find two Gems and 859 Gold.
The corridor to the west leads south through a door to the Crown.
Back down the pit to follow the convoluted route out of the mine.
Take the the Crown back to Donner's Mine for him to extract the
Piece of Amberstar.

~OLD RANGER GUILD

Map reference 310/107

Located on an island in the Bay east of Crystal.

Map two levels - one on a 9 x 18 Grid. The other on an 18 x 19
Grid.

Use the Rod of Opening obtained from Annorel (from the new
Ranger's Guild) to enter from the southeast. Before heading north
enter the door at the end of the passage to find various articles
of Clothing. Don't take or wear the Clothes of Moira as they are
cursed and weigh tons. Do grab the Robes of Nickademus.

North then and through the door to be confronted by three sets of
Bloodsuckers! In the alcove ahead find 45 Gold and an Iron Ring.
The door to the southeast hides more Bloodsuckers and 23 Gold plus
a Buckler. West of the door is an alcove with 29 Gold and a Silver
Ring. Search all the alcoves in this section to find other small
portions of Gold and Treasures.

North again to discover a Staircase down to the next level. Before
descending go west and through a door north to find 89 Gold and a
Gem. More vital Treasure is to be found going east and keeping
northeast through a false wall to find another Staircase down.
This leads again to another section of the lower level. Enter the
door west of the staircase to open a Chest that contains 7 Torches
and a Rusty Key.

Return to the first set of stairs and descend into a smallish
area.  Make your way east to find Ranger bones and lots of useful
items plus 348 Gold. In the north of this section are a set of
Bloodsuckers.

Back upstairs and down the other set of stairs and head east,
there's nothing of use to the west. As you travel east look in the
first set of alcoves north and south to pick up loads of useful
Herbs. Keep at least one Packet of Herbs to give to Atacar in the
Cave of Manyeyes later in the game.  Through the door east to
encounter Bloodsuckers and again through the second door south. Go
right down to the southeast to polish off another set.

Use your Pickaxe on the Rocks to the west and fight two more sets
of Bloodsuckers before using the Rusty Key on the Keyhole in the
Wall. A door is created to the south. Enter it and go north
through two doors to be rewarded with the discovery of a Chest
containing a Piece of Amberstar, 7 Gems and 825 Gold.

~SNAKESIGN VILLAGE

Map reference - 217/345

Located on the large island due south of the main island. Can only
be reached by flying on the Eagle or by use of the Windgates and
you can't use those unless you've got the Artefact that's inside
Sanri's Temple!

Map Snakesign on a 15 x 15 Grid.

There are four points of entry to the Village, north, south, east
or west. In the southern area meet Melchlor, a Monk who tells you
about Sansri the Goddess of Snakes. Say "Mork" and "Temple" for
further information. Note the ladder leaning against the locked
window for a smile later on upstairs in the Inn.

To the west is the Food shop, rations here only cost 5 Gold so
stock up here in future if money is a problem. In the northwest is
a Healer who you'll need if you haven't equipped yourself with the
appropriate healing Herbs once inside Sansri's Temple. To the
northeast meet Shi'ra who Melchlor referred to earlier. Say
"Temple" to be advised that the Entrance to the Temple proper only
opens at Midnight. To the east also is a Wiseman who'll assess
(Identify) your possessions for a price.

In the southeast is a Shop that sells an item you'd have given
your eye teeth for earlier - yes, it sells Lockpicks amongst other
things!  Programmers can be right so-and-so's now and then.

In the centre of the Village is the Tower Inn. Speak to the young
man inside to learn that, once inside the Temple, stepping on the
Snake symbols causes the male members of the Party damage.
Upstairs meet the Landlord's wayward wife who seems to think
Woodpeckers can climb ladders!


~TEMPLE OF SANSRI

Map reference - 199/357

Located southwest of Snakesign Village.

Map 5 areas. Entrance level on a 19 x 28 Grid - this has a small
             sub-level on a 6 x 9 Grid.
             Sanctum level on a 19 x 28 Grid.
             Two Tower levels on 9 x 9 Grids.

Entry point is from the mid-south. Go north and wait until
Midnight then slip into the Temple after fighting Snakes. In the
next room there's a Pit to the east that you should avoid. It
drops into a small sub-level with three Teleports. The northern
one takes you back into Snakesign Village and the other two take
you into the vestibule.

Going west you will receive damage as you pass over the Snakesign.
Fight more Snakes before passing through the door north. More
Snakesigns in the next room but head north via either east or west
door. The Statue you pass advises the Party that it needs to find
eight signs and join them.

North to fight Snakes and then use a Pickaxe on the Rocks ahead.
Behind them find Treasure amid the bones, Potions, Lockpicks, 875
Gold, Brooch of Luck, Iron Ring, excellent Armour of Endurance and
a super Scimitar (these things cost a fortune).  You cannot
progress north now without entering false walls to the east and
west. These by-pass the closing walls. Both the eastern and
western routes should be explored.

First the west. Going west through the false wall note the Sign
"P" from the Puzzlemouth. Head north then east to see Stairs down.
Leave these till all the Entrance level and the Towers are fully
explored. Head south fighting two sets of Snakes. Look out for and
avoid the Snakesigns in the floor. You can get through by entering
false walls. Eventually you'll see a passage south that leads to
Stairs up to the Left Tower. To the west and north at this point
is a set of Snakes to dispose of.

You enter the Left Tower from the southeast. Head north at the
junction and find a Puzzlemouth with the sign "T" in the eastern
passage.  Regain the corridor west and enter the door north to get
an "E" sign. Along the corridor passing through an anti-magic
square then relight your lamp and head north and pass through a
Blindness trap before fighting Snakes. Onwards over a Snakesign in
the floor.

In the northwest search the corpse for 621 Gold, 4 Torches, 2
potions, a Snake Ring (which is needed on the lower level, you
must ensure that the Ring is actioned by a Female character) and
clothing.  Through the door east fight Snakes and obtain the sign
"E".

Now return to enter the false wall east. Again ignore the Stairs
that lead to the same level down that the other set of stairs to
the west do. Going south fight two sets of Snakes and again you
can side-step the Snakesigns in the floor by the use of false
walls. Same scenario as before with Snakes to the east before
climbing up into the Right Tower.

Enter the Right Tower from the southwest. Through the door north
is the sign "N". East and north to fight a set of Snakes before
entering the door west for an "R" sign. Fight two more lots of
Snakes before encountering a Snakesign in the floor and a Poison
Cloud trap beyond. Enter the door for an "S" sign.

Back now to enter one of the two down staircases. Entry is in the
mid-north. Gain the main corridor via a door south and firstly
explore west.  Through another door south after a few bends. Fight
the Snakes and walk through the Snakesign maze to find another
door south. Once through you'll see two adjacent doors. The
eastern door leads a scrap with Snakes and the southern one to
another door south. North of here use your Pickaxe on the Rocks to
find, I think, a Small Golden Key.

South again to find a door and use the Golden Key. Fight more
Snakes then over the Snakesign to discover three alcoves and a
Statue. The message on the Statue says "Sansri". The central
alcove contains a Chest with loads of good goodies - 2549 Gold
(hope you're not too weighed down as there's loads more to come),
Globe of Harachte (gives Light when actioned), Brooch of
Waterwalk, Bi-handed sword etc. The two other alcoves should be
entered as they both raise the level of your Characters' skills.

Back then to the entrance corridor to go down the eastern route.
Fight Snakes in the east first. Entering the door south you'll be
confronted with moving walls. Make your way south watching out for
two Snakesigns in the floor en-route. Through three more doors
south, fighting a set of Snakes after the second door, to enter a
false wall going east.  Once in the false wall head north then
east through another false wall then south to gain access to a
passage east. To the north in this passage talk to the Puzzlemouth
to get the "S" sign then use your Pickaxe on the Rocks to the
south to step on a Pressure Plate that triggers an opening in a
passage to the west. To access this opening return to the first
false wall and go south to see the opening to the west.

There's a Stun Gas trap before confronting the Puzzlemouth and
saying "Serpents" which is the result of the sign anagram. The way
opens into the Inner Temple. Fight the Snakes then action the
Snake Ring, only a Female character can do this, to enter the
Throne Chamber. After the battle look behind the Throne to find
loads of Treasure, Gold x 2563 & 2857, the Wind Necklace, Sansri's
Collar and Whip.

Enter the wall behind the Chests to find the Piece of Amberstar to
the right and the Pact between Marmion and Bralkur. There's also
another 4256 Gold which I doubt you'll be able to carry. Make sure
that you've mended and healed everyone before entering the
Teleport as there's a further three battles ahead before the Party
can leave by the final Teleport. Now you can use the Windgates or
use the eagle to fly around.

The map location of Windgate Island is 118/313.

~CAVE OF MANY EYE.

Map reference - 146/011

Located within the Whirlpool which is north of the main island.
Be warned that this is a tough area and that characters should be
well equipped with Potions, Rations and Light spells before
entering. There is no way back until the castle has been found and
explored.  However - should entry be via the Windgates a key is
needed, as the key is only to be found on the other side of the
door ...  you do need to first enter by the Whirlpool but can
use the Windgate if you need to return rather than go through the
pain of walking through the Marshes.

Maps - the cave area needs to be hand drawn and it's a bit of a
pig.  I've attempted below to show roughly where the places of
interest are.
`-----------------------------
` Sand                 Sand           -----------------------------
`------               --------          Grass   "Ships End village"
`       Entry point    Sand             ---------------------------
`       Ship wrecks   --------
`-------              ------------      ---------------------------
` Sand     ------       Marsh
`-------    Sand      ----------------------------------
`          ------

`                                       ----------------
`         -----------------               Treasure north of Volcano
`          Sand      Marsh              -------------
`                 ---------
`--------
`CASTLE                -------
`               Marsh
`            -------    -----
`  Grass
`----------------------------            --------------------------

Map two main areas - Castle of Manyeye Tower level on a 33 x 33
               Grid and the other level on a 23 x 23 Grid.
               The Village is small enough not to bother mapping.

Once you've landed the Party needs Light. Avoid the shipwrecks as
they cause damage. You'll almost immediately encounter an Octopus
or two. These beasts have something in the region of 700 hit
points, they are really tough cookies. I think that there are
around four sets of these yo-yos around.

Make your way to the Village and enter the Inn to meet Atacar
downstairs on the patio. The Statues have no significance. If
you're weighed down with Gold there's a good chance to get rid of
some by buying a Scimitar from the counter. Say "Aching" after
greeting him and give him a Packet of Herbs. He tells you about
the Treasure Map hidden in a tree close to his brother's grave.
Say "brother" and "Manyeye" for more. The tree is located south of
the grave with the fresh flowers.

The map shows part of the cave with a Volcano at the centre. This
is to be found in the southeast and is en-route to the Castle.
Search just to the north of the Volcano, the north pile of ash.
The Chest you find contains two lockpicks, a Piece of Amberstar,
2478 Gold, Horn of Food, Orb of Magic, an Assassin's Blade and a
Mace.

Still in the Village visit the house to meet Sheba, a level seven
Ranger, talk to her to learn the story of Manyeye. If you've a
spare slot recruit her otherwise it's off to find the Castle via
the Volcano and the Treasure. Doubtless you'll encounter many
Swamp creatures on the way. Go southeast then west, north and
west through a Marsh then south past the sand through another
Marsh. South through a narrow channel and west, then north onto
the grass and finally to the Castle ...


~CASTLE OF MANYEYE

Entry point is from the mid-south. The door shuts behind the Party
as you walk forward. At the first crossroads go west and south
into an alcove to search Bones and find lots of Treasure including
a Tower Shield, a two-Handed sword, a Metal Helmet and Plate Mail.
Head into the southwest region to fight Skullhunters and use your
Pickaxe on Rocks to expose a set of Stairs up.

Up the stairs find a false wall to the east then go north to fight
Skullhunters in the Laboratory to the south. Ensure that you
trigger the Pressure Plate by stepping on the Symbol in the north
before leaving. These Pressure Plates open up walls in a
particular area later in the Castle.

Return to the entrance crossroads and go into the southeastern
region.  Again just one set of Skullhunters here and, to the north
from the fight, a set of Stairs up. Up the stairs you find a girl
imprisoned in a cage. Dispose of the two Mutants before hearing
her story. She can't be released until the Cell Key has been
located. This will be found later in the Castle. Before leaving
enter the north wall of the Cage room to step on the Symbol.

In the northeast find another gang of Skullhunters. Beware of a
spinner at a crossroads in the mid-east of the map. Go west at
this point, fight more Skullhunters and find a Red Statue. Examine
the Statue twice to find two Gems. West and south of the statue
climb to the stairs.

At the top of the stairs go east to find Melgrim's Diary. Now west
to the Knights Hall, note the wine goblets - brrr. There are
Skeletons in the southern room but avoid the Pit as it dumps you
back outside the castle. In the northwest open the Chest to
discover the Cell Key that'll allow the girl in the Cage to be
released. There are two sets of Skullhunters to dispose of. In the
south is a Bedroom with a Chest that contains 6420 Gold but more
importantly a Master Key for use on the next level. It is to this
area that you will need to return once all the Pressure Plate
Symbols have been activated.

Back then to release the girl only to find her transforming into a
Doppleganger. Defeat the monster to be rewarded with a Necklace of
Defence and be thanked by the girl's spirit as she transforms into
a Skeleton.

Go now to the mid-west area of the map enter through a door west.
As you head west you pass through anti-Light squares whether going
the northern or southern route. Travel clockwise round a series of
Statues that give, collectively, the following message - " Find.
The (beware the spinner between this statue and the next) Secret
doors. Meet him. Way. Is. Manyeye. From.  Only. Escape. The". I'm
sure you get the gist.  Back through the door and north to find a
Teleport. Bash the Skullhunters before entering it and be sent
into the northeast area of the map. North to fight Skullhunters
then east and south to use Pickaxe on Rocks to expose more Stairs
up.

Upstairs read the sign on the door "Transporter Room". So this is
the place referred to in the Diary. To the north is a room with
three Teleports.  The western passage has a door west. Fight the
Skullhunters then go south through a false wall to step on another
symbol. Avoid the centre of the three Teleports, it's a trap. The
picture on the wall says "Transformer defective, please do not
use" Ho ho ho, Thallion! The other Teleports say something about
New Force.

Back down to go right into the northeast corner and enter a
Teleport that returns the Party to an alcove in the southwest of
the map. Retrace your steps to the place where you first
Teleported and go west. Look out for a spinner at the crossroads.
Keep west then north past Skullhunters and round to another
staircase up.  The sign upstairs says "Storeroom" and there are
Packets of Herbs to be found in the northwest barrel. Fight
Skullhunters then find loads of Herbs in the northeast. Enter a
false wall and in the southeast step on the final symbol.  Before
returning to the stairs in the centre of the map explore the
mid-north area to find four alcoves. From west to east the alcoves
contain Armour & Robes, Weapons, Helmets and then Five Torches &
Six Potions. There are a set of Skullhunters to the west of the
alcoves.

Back upstairs to find that a passage has opened up in the north
allowing the Party to progress. But first you must go through a
series of traps. A Blinding Light in the first room and a Green
Mist in the second.  Finally Poison Gas Spores causing you Disease
in the third.

Onwards then to enter the next Level. Entry point is from the
southeast. Proceed west, onwards through a false wall. Should you
explore the northern passage first you find a message saying "If
you find no way search where it is not possible". Once through the
wall another message to the north of here says "You will see at
the centre, the centre, and next to it is the only true way to
go".

Make your way southwest to find three Teleports. The western one
takes you into the northeast area where you find three more
Teleports. Use the centre one here as the other two transport you
back to the start of the level.  Again you'll see three Teleports,
again take the centre one as the other two again lead back to the
start. Now in the third room are three more Teleports.  Once more
take the centre Teleport to the room south and fight Mutants
there.  Go east and south to discover a Chest with a Piece of the
Amberstar plus ten Gems. Return west to Teleport back into the
southwest.

Back again in the southwest take the eastern Teleport to be
transported to the northwest. Immediately fight Mutants. Before
going north to Teleport back go south and through a door east to
discover loads of scrolls.

It's Wizard Heaven here. Once past the Mutants there are White,
Grey and Black Wizard Scrolls galore. I dread to think what level
one needs to be to learn some of these as even at the end of the
game before the final confrontation I didn't have enough
experience to learn some of these.

Once loaded up return to the north to be Teleported back and now
enter the Middle Teleport to be transferred to the mid northeast
of the level.  Travel south passing a group of Mutants and then
north. Ignore the door north for the moment and go south again
then west past more Mutants. Continue past the doors north and
south, there's nothing behind them, to the crossroads where
there's a Spinner. To the north and through the door east are
twelve Potions to be found. To the south and through the door east
are two Iron and Silver Rings plus a magical Necklace and Dagger.
I didn't enter either the northwest or southwest Teleports, at a
guess they land you back at the start of this level.

Back then to the door north and use the master key on the lock.
SAVE the game and enter the door west to fight Manyeye (also known
in SSI games as a Beholder). Cast Anti-Magic spells at him and
you'll win the day. After the battle you receive the Gate Key and
gain a Windgate Necklace. Leave this room to head north and east
to use the Gate Key on the door east that leads to the Windgate
and out.

~ALTAR OF REUNIFICATION

Map reference - 049/329

Located in a forest clearing in the southwest of the island.

Now you have all the pieces of the Amberstar it's time to join
them together. This then provides the key to let the Party enter
the Fortress of Godsbane and thus to the endgame battle. The
pieces must be laid in a strict order. Failure means gameover
time. Herewith the correct order -

`       1. Lay Knowledge           =   Mork
`       2. Lay the Ally            =   Bralkur
`       3. Lay Master of the Sea   =   Sobek
`       4. Lay Mother of Life      =   Gala
`       5. Lay Falsehood           =   Sansri
`       6. Lay Friend of Eagles    =   Nut
`       7. Lay Evil                =   Lord Tabros
`       8. Lay Power of the Earth  =   Geb
`       9. Lay Mother of Death     =   Bala
`      10. Lay the Fire            =   Harachte
`      11. Lay the Traitor         =   Marmion
`      12. Lay what is coming      =   Talmit

On laying the final section the Amberstar appears in the same
window as the compass and map locator etc. On then to Godsbane.

~FORTRESS OF GODSBANE.

Map reference - 209/047

Located within a Mountain range in the northeast. Only accessible
by Air Eagle. The building near here can be explored at any time.
There are a few Skeletons and Ghosts to vanquish and one or two
Treasures to find.

Map three levels, the first on a 38 x 38 and then the Tower and
Cellar levels both on 13 x 13 Grids.

Entry point is from the mid-south. Once through the first door
possession of the reunited Amberstar will open the second.

At the junction go west. Be wary down this corridor as at each
crossroad there is a Spinner. In the southwest are two sets of
Yellowslimes to fight and a third set up the first passage north.
Head north at the final crossroads of the Spinner corridor and go
east. Down the third passage south is a Chest containing a host of
good Scrolls, Hurricane, Earthquake, Conversion of Dust, two
Reincarnation and Salvation Scrolls plus a Magic Sphere and two
Potions.

At the end of the passage east is a door north. Avoid the centre
of this room as there are four Spinners here. Go north and west
disposing of Yellowslimes in the north. Through the door west
round a twisty passage and fight another set before passing
through a door north and finding another load of Yellowslimes. To
the west is another set but your way lies east.  Make your way
east then north meeting two sets of Yellowslimes.  Then west and
south past another set before entering a door south in the centre
of this area and flattening the final band of Yellowslimes. Hop
down the stairs into the Cellar.

Go either east or west in the Cellar to find doors east and west
and battle a set of Yellowslimes in each room. The passage north
in the centre of the southern corridor finds Bralkur blocking the
door north. Fear not, he's easy to beat. In the Chest beyond is a
Disintegration Scroll and a Staff of Runes which serves as the Key
into where Marmion meets his nemesis.

Return to your entry point on the first level and go east till you
find the door north. Fight Yellowslimes - save your magic
spellpoints as these guys are resistant. Then west and north to go
east through a door. South here through a door south then east.
Through two doors north to find an area with four Teleports in the
centre.

The southern Teleport takes you just to the southwest of your
position. Round the bend to Teleport into a corridor in the west.
No go here.

The eastern Teleport takes you to the southwest and the Teleport
ahead lands you in the same corridor as the southern one, only
just a little further on.

The northern Teleport takes you just west and again you Teleport
into the corridor as described above.

Finally the Western Teleport takes you again west but this time
the Teleport you enter next sends you north. You immediately have
to fight Yellowslimes. Head south after the battle ignoring the
Teleport down the passage east you pass en-route. This
northeastern area contains three more sets of Yellowslimes. After
wiping them out find a door in the mid-north heading south and
enter to climb a staircase up to the Tower level.  In the Tower
you'll find Cavetrolls to the east and west. When you've destroyed
them travel south to go north into the centre of the map fighting
a band of Cavetrolls and Yellowslimes on the way.  Use the Staff
of Runes you found in the Cellar on the Keyhole in the wall to
access the door that leads to the final confrontation.  Note that
the wall closes behind the Party as you advance. Moving into a
candlelit room you encounter Twelve Wizards and the dreaded
Marmion. They attack. You will be unable use magic against the foe
but do cast Anti-Magic spells. Keep your front men hacking until
you destroy all the enemy. Then walk forward into the Light to
activate the Amberstar.

Shandra then provides an escape Teleport back into Twinlake where
Lord Karwain addresses the Party. Sit back and enjoy a
satisfactory end game sequence.

                              - o -