                  ANOTHER WORLD - COMPLETE SOLUTION
                  =================================


If you just want to have a crack at a later section without using the
solution, then try these codes:

             -----------------------------------------------
            |   Code    Posistion                           |
            |-----------------------------------------------|
            |   EDJI    In the lake                         |
            |   HICI    In the prison                       |
            |   FLLD    In the sewers                       |
            |   LIBC    Next to first recharger             |
            |   CCAL    In the caves                        |
            |   EDIL    At the end of the caves             |
            |   FADK    Standing on T-shaped rock           |
            |   KCIJ    At the temple entrance              |
            |   ICAH    By the pool                         |
            |   FIEI    At the pool with powerline down     |
            |   LALD    At the start of the blast run       |
            |   LFEK    In the tower baths                  |
             -----------------------------------------------

Section 1: 
The Mountains - Code EDJI

When you appear after the experiment, you are beneath a lake, so push up 
to swim to the surface. When you read the top, walk right onto the next
screen before the creature pulls you back into the water. On the next two
screens, deadly slugs fall from the ceiling and crawl towards you, so
finish them all off with low kicks (the black slug is harmless).

When you reach the end screen, walk right until the black bear/lion/
panther or whatever it is appears, at which point you should run like the
wind to the left. Keep running as fast as you can until you reach the 
rock overhang next to a vine. Leap onto the vine in order to escape from
the creature. When the vine breaks it will drop you off to the right, run
right as fast possible until you are knocked down. Two strange guards 
will come on, shoot the lion and then take you prisoner.

Section 2:
The Prison - Code HICI

You will now wake up in a cage with the alien that saved you from the
lion-type thing. When the view pulls back, push the joystick left and 
right in time with the swinging to cause the cage to rock from side to
side. Eventually, the rope will break and the cage will fall onto the
guard. When your new friend runs away, bend down to pick up the gun then
run after him.

Shoot the guard, then follow your friend left. Run back to the right 
until your mate starts trying to unlock the door. Face left and put up a
sheild, then keep blasting away at the guards until the door is open. Put
up a final sheild, then run right. When you are both on the lift, go all
the way down to the bottom of the shaft (you could go to the top and look
at the view first if you want).

Go to the left and shoot the power switch on the wall, then go back to 
the lift. Wait for your friend and go up one floor. Go left and blast the
door with a big beam, then drop down through the teleport panel. Walk 
onto the next screen and wait for your mate. When he appears, go up 
through the teleport and walk left. When he catches up, your friend will
open the sewer, at which point you should drop down and and roll off the
bottom of the screen. The sewer pipes are dark, with only your immediate
vicinity being lit at all, meaning that a nasty fall could occur, so 
first roll left until you drop down then roll right, drop down, roll 
right again drop down, roll left drop down and then roll right.

When you drop into the next corridor, go left into the Gun Charging 
Room. Go to the right and blast away the three sheild doors with big 
beams. Recharge your gun once more then run to the right. Go through the
tunnel towards the daylight, and as soon as you come out of the doorway,
blast the guard. Carry on to the right and stop on the very end of the
broken bridge. Leap as far as you can to the right to try and land on 
the ledge below. If you fail and land on the spikes, then you`ll have to
try and get closer to the edge of the bridge. When you land, blast a 
hole in the wall on the right and walk into the caves

Section 3:
The Caves - Code CCAL

Walk right and drop down the shaft, then drop down the next hole on the
right. Walk off the right-hand side of the T-shaped rock and continue
right. Jump off the edge, OVER the spikes and run halfway onto the next
screen. Quickly run a short way back to the left, then judge the timing 
to get safely past the first rock. Wait until you can rush under the 
second rockfall, then run onto the next screen until you are hidden 
behind the big rock.

Wait until the next two rocks hit the floor at the same time, then run 
to the middle of the screen. Watch the timing of the next rock, then run
underneath. Remember to look out for the tentacle monster and run left
about halfway up the slope. Turn around and get a big beam ready. When 
the tentacle monster come back down, blast it to smithereens. Go right, 
run past the tentacles and jump over the mouths that are in the floor.

Head to the right, kill all the tentacles with big beams and jump over 
the mouths. When you reach the shaft, do two small jumps to get past the
hole and the mouth, then run right until you reach a wall. Blast the wall
away then head back to the left, watching out for mouths and tentacles,
until you reach the falling rocks once more. Run up the slope and 
continue to the top of the slope on the next screen. Turn off to the 
right and fire at the pterodactyl. He should then wake up and start 
flying around.

Go left and jump across onto the stalactites. Keep jumping from one to 
the next until you are on the one next to the tentacle monster. When the
pterodactyl is drawn up by the creature, jump across to the remaining
stalactites and jump off the left-hand side of the screen. You should 
now be on the top of the T-shaped rock. Run off the left-hand side, then
face the right and blow the support away. Run up the slope to the upper
cave.

Go to the right, jumping all the holes until you reach a cave with a 
load of water above. Stand on the far left and blow the supporting rocks
away. Quickly run to the left, jumping the holes as you go (tricky) until
you are standing on the stone panel to the left. The water should blast 
you up to safety. Run up the slope to the right and blow the door away,
then run right past the waterfall.

Section 4:
The Temple - Code KCIJ

You should now be in a room with a tunnel beneath, where your friend is
crawling. Walk down the steps on the next next screen and put up a 
sheild. Blast the guard that appears then run. Jump over the stairwell 
and continue right until you reach three security doors with a guard 
behind them. Walk forward but DON`T open the doors! Put up a sheild, the
take a step towards the doors to open them. As soon as the guard launches 
a bomb, walk left so that the doors close. The bomb will bounce off the
doors and kill the guard. Once he`s dead, run to the right and blast the
door away.

Go right and up through the teleport. Recharge your gun in the chamber,
then go back through the teleport and off to the right. Crouch down and
wait. Watch for the reflection in the glass orb, then wait until the 
guard has stopped walking and is directly beneath the orb. Shoot the rope
from a crouch and listen to make sure that it hits him. If it dosen`t,
he`ll start shooting at you, so go left and re-enter the screen to try
again.

Go back to the left and go down the first set of steps. Drop down through
the teleport and face left. Don`t whatever you do, go right! Put up a
sheild and kill the guard that appears, then head left until you reach 
a large chamber with steps on the left. Go to the top of the steps and 
face right. Shoot the rope so that the lights fall down, then go back to
the right.

Continue right under the teleport, at which point a guard will come on 
and punch you in the face. When he picks you up and starts talking, Push
left and press fire. He will then drop you, so run left and pull down to
perform a stunt roll and pick up the gun. Keep pulling down and press 
fire when you get into a crouch to kill the guard.

Run onto the next screen until you are in the second archway. Put up a
shield to your left then quickly put one up to the right. Blast both the
guards (this isn`t easy so be patient), then go right to the pool of 
water. Swim down to the bottom of the pit and go left into the cave. Keep
swiming left until you reach a cave with two shafts above. Swim up the
left-hand shaft to get some air, then swim down to the lower shaft into
another cave. Climb onto the ledge in the right and shoot the power 
cable. Now swim back up to the top of the pit where you dived in. Go to 
the right and climb out of the water.

Go right, past the concussed guard and drop down the shaft. As soon as 
you hit the floor, face right and blast the door away, then leg it! Keep
running through the doors until you reach a dead end. Face left and put up
a shield, making sure that it`s to the left of the trap-door in the
ceiling. Blast the guards that come in and make sure your sheild doesn`t
run out. Eventually, your mate will reach down and grab you, pulling you 
to safety.

When you are in the upper room, wait for the ceiling to crumble so that 
the rocks fall on the guard below, then go right into the black tank. 
After the tank has rolled out into the arena, a window will appear in 
the top left of the screen. Hit the bottom button to call up more 
controls, then hit the bottom left button, then the top green button to 
the left of the red one. The escape pods will then be launched.

Section 5:
The Tower - Code LFEK

As soon as the pod has landed and you jump out, run quickly to the 
right. After you come out of the doorway, put up a shield and kill the 
four guards that come on, then run to the right. Keep running right, past
the window that your friend bursts through, until the ground is blown 
from beneath you. A guard will catch you and fling you aagainst the wall.
After he has kicked you onto the next screen, quickly crawl right by
pushing the joystick to the right. Don`t touch the fire-button yet! 
After a struggle, the guard will throw your friend off the ledge, leaving
him dangling by his fingertips.

When the guard reaches the middle of the screen, press fire and push 
right to pull the lever. The guard will then be destroyed. Press fire and
right to pull another lever, then quickly crawl to the left. When you 
reach the shaft of light you will be transported to the roof and pass out
with exhaustion. Your friend will then appear and whisk you off to safety
on the back of a giant prehistoric bird.