                            COLORADO SOLUTION

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


THE WINNEMUCCA FOREST
Starting from the canoe, head east into the next screen. Load your gun
and shoot the Iroquis that makes his way towards you, and then
continue East and enter the forest. At the crossroads take the upper
trail and head back West. When you arrive at the screen with the
Archer, go behind the trees to avoid his arrows, and then use the
knife of hatchet to dispose of him. In the next screen you will come
against the Iroquis chief; use the hatchet to kill him, and take the
necklace and skin. Go back to the last crossroads, and climb the
mountain, being careful not to fall off the edge (save the game at the
peak). Pick up the nuggets at the top of the mountain, and then climb
all the way back down and return to the first crossroads. Go east from
here, until you come across another archer. To kill him, hide in the
first recess, and cause him to shoot an arrow by moving diagonally
backwards and forwards. Then place yourself in his line of sight, make
a jump and take cover in the second recess. Cause the archer to fire
another arrow and then use the knife or hatchet to kill him. Be
careful of the jump in the next screen, and then carry straight on.

MAC BIGGIE
Swap the nuggets, skin and necklace with him, and if necessary, drink
the potion. Now continue walking East and climb to the end of the
blind alley.

THE CANYON OF DEATH
Climb up, avoid the Apaches and then continue East; take care at the
jump. On the other side you will be attacked by two Apaches; use the
gun to disopose of these two, and then save the game. Continue on the
lower road until you get to the next screen. as soon as you enter,
move into the recess and reload your gun. Fool the archer into firing
at you, then move back out of the recess and shoot him; walk East.
Kill the Apache you come across with the knife or hatchet. Do the same
in the next screen, and then walk East again. Yet again, take care on
the two jumps, and after you have got to the other side, reload your
gun. Use the gun as soon as you enter the next screen, and then use
the axe or knife to get rid of the Apache Chief. Change the powder
horn (freeing one icon), pick up the necklace and the peace-pipe. Go
back to the fork, and take the staircase; at the top of the stairs
reload the gun, and as soon as you arrive in the next screen, use it;
reload the gun once more, shoot the next apache you come across, and
use the axe or knife to finish him off.

MUSIC
Drop the peace-pipe in front of the Hopi chiefand swap it for the
silver bullet. Return to the first room in the canyon, make two left
turns, and pick up the nuggets. Then return to the forest.

MAC BIGGLE
Trade the nuggets and the necklaces, drink a potion and return to the
canoe.

BIG BEAR FOREST
Take a right turn twice and then prepare to fight the first of the big
bears. there are three methods that can be used, but the best is the
third one. You can kill the bear with a stick of dynamite, and then
one bullet; you can use one complete powder charge; or fight him with
thee knife. When the bear is dead, go right for two passages, take the
passage at the back to save the game, and then come back to the second
passage (in front of the tree on the right) and cross the field of
rabbits. When you fight the wolf, the best thing to do is hit it
immediatly with a low blow from the axe, otherwise you will have to go
back a place to let the wolf pass in front of you can give it a low
blow with the axe, or you can avoid it by moving in a straight line.
Continue right, and pick up the nugget.

THE GANG DOWN THE MINE
Throw the dynamite into the pile of rocks, then reload your gun and
shoot the miner. Now select the knife or axe and strike at the miner
who will then run away. Start moving right, and when you get to a
blind alley, kill the miner you find there. Follow Huck through the
mine were a passage will open up (if there is a tree icon, you can
pick up a nugget in the room to the right of the secret passage room);
take this passage and at the first fork take the trail at the back. Go
over the jump, and at the second fork, teke the door at the bottom.
Reload the gun, shoot the miner and then finish him off. Go to the
second fork and take the door at the back, reload the gun, and on
entering the room, take a few steps forward and shelter in the recess.
Make the Old Timer shoot, then use the gun in the low position to deal
with him. Take, and read the parchment, drop it. Go right and throw
the dynamite into the pile of rocks, then go to the peak where you can
save. Return to the first fork, and go through the lower door; kill
the miner with the gun, knife or axe. In the next room advance
gradually , and when you hear the waggon, take a diagonal step into
the recess (pick up the nugget if the icon is avaliable), then carry
on right and kill the miner. Continue right and you will find the
leader of the miners, if you have some dynamite left, use it to kill
him. Otherwise use another weapon. Pick up the lager nugget, and
return to the forest, and to the canoe.

IN CHEYENNE COUNTRY
Go right twice, jump over the fire,  turn  right. Pick up the skin (if
the icon is not available, put down the object, pick up the waterskin,
swap it at Biggies store for  the  gunpowder  horn, pick up the object
you put down). Forest fork; take the upper road.

MAC BIGGLE
Swap all the nuggets. Right, second fork; take to one at the back
behind the tents. Make sign of peace to the Medicine-Man, then find
out what the parchment says. Go back to the first fork, take the lower
road in the front of the tent. Fight the ginat in the same way as the
bear. Go right, make the sign of peace to Chief Two-Moons, find out
what the parchment says; return to the canoe.

TERROR IN THE WOODS
Move right four times, kill an Indian, right, Mac Biggle, kill the
chief, and take the necklace and the skin.
MAC BIGGLE: Swap the necklace and skin. The silver bullets and potions
can be left there; the powder horn can be swapped and you can drink
the potion.
Return to the third room in the forest, and take the passage at the
back to the right of the rock. Climb the mountain and fight indian
(you can avoid him but be careful of the drop). Archer in the next
room: reload the gun beforehand, crouch down on entering, cause the
archer to shoot and arrow with standing/crouching action, then use the
gun. Jump and then right.

TWO-MOON'S SON
At the foot of the peak, save and then climb the mountainside to the
level of the sticks. Climb and at the top fight the Condor. Take the
papoose. Return to the mine, return to the cave using the lift. Go
back down the mountain, pick up the silver bullet you had put down. In
the second room in the forest, use the passage behind the large bush.
Left, reload the gun and kill the indian using any weapon. Right, jump
right.

THE MEDALLION OF COURAGE
Return to Chief Two-Moons and put down the papoose. Recover the
madellion. Take canoe at the beginning of the camp, go back to the
forest. Move back up the mountain; save in the cave and leave the cave
by the right. Keep on going right killing all animals you encounter.

IN THE KINGDOM OF THE DEAD
Save again. passage behind the burial-place on the right. Note the
contents of the parchment, go right, pass in front again and go to the
right. Kill two wolves, right. To kill the lone wolf, load the gun
with the silver bullet, take two steps to the right, then use the gun,
shooting low. Because you have the medallion you will not be hurt by
the great spirit; take the canoe.

POWHATAN'S CAVE
Save your position. Take the right blind alley, and climb at the
bottom. if you take the right, kill the bear with the dynamite and the
gun, or in the traditional way. Return to the left, and choose the
barrel on the extreme left (move back to avoid the blast of the
explosion); the passage of the great cross is open. Left and take the
lift. Return to the mine, go back to the fork, then go to the back or
return to the peak.

POCAHONTA'S GOLD MINE
Right, place the medallion in front of the chief, the passage opens,
and thats it!

End.