Crack Down


 CHEAT MODE:

 Pause the game and hold down the keys that make up 'SMURF'.
 The following keys are now enabled:

 [1] - 999 lives.
 [2] - 999 units of ammo.

 You can also type in 'ASTRA GTE' for the same effect.


                           CRACK DOWN SOLUTION

Typed in by SIDEWINDER for LSD.


CRACKING TIPS
Supplies of ammunition come in two forms: 20 shot either way for cannon or
machine gun so don't go out your way to collect extra bullets unless ammo
levels are low.
Transportation tiles make machine gun soldiers appear frequently. 'Hug' the
walls as often as possible.  Also do not move off the end of a wall while
someone is firimg at you, or you will be shot.  Electric doors are operated
from a short distance - watch for men on the other side.
On later levels (8+), men appear from nowhere (teleportation devices
possibly?) - be on your guard!  Cannon is more effective than gun as it
passes through men, dead useful for racking up bonuses caused by multiple
guards standing behind each other when a cannon fires.  Use diagonnal
movement to move that bit faster towards cars, barriers, buildings (or
anything else that provides cover from enemy fire).

THE LEVELS

LEVEL 1 (3 Bombs to plant)
Nice and easy level to start with.  Just watch for men standing guard.  Go
along the top to avoid the lower generator where the enemy tends to hang
out.

LEVEL 2 (3 Bombs to plant)
Again, very simple.  Look out for men appearing from inside cars as there
are quite a few along the top.  Try to stay along the bottom.  Smart bomb
the group of men by the exit for convenience and to save live lives (namely
yours!)

LEVEL 3 (3 Bombs to plant)
Watch the acid!  And also the machine gun guards near the exit.  Take a
wide berth past the flamethrowing guard, his long range fire isn't nice -
'hug' the bottom if you can and then sneak up the side to the last bomb
area and then exit.

LEVEL 4 (4 Bombs to plant)
Here are some electric doors to play with; just watch for men on the other
side!  Also plenty of men appear using the tiles near the exit.  Run
diagonally straight up to the exit and pray (judicious use of smart-bombs
is recommended).

LEVEL 5 (5 bombs to plant)
Five bombs to place, so waste no time.  Like level 2, watch for men
from cars.  To get over the moving floor, simply walk along the wall
as the floor starts to close.  You can get by the swinging wrecking
balls with few problems providing the guards have been eliminated.

LEVEL 6 (5 bombs to plant)
Plenty of guards to blast you now in long corridors (useful to have a
cannon ready for this level).  Hug the wall edges when sneaking up on
guards and use the boxes for cover.  Watch for chasms and machine gun
guards covering crosses on the far side.  Also, groups of guards just above
the bridges.

LEVEL 7 (4 bombs to plant)
There are a lot of touch sensative cracks in this level's floor.  You can
see where the ground is cracked so best avoid altogether: Taking the lower
route is generally best as there are less holes to avoid.  On this level
Kung-Fu men appear to attack, they just need to touch you to kill!  Shoot
the controls to open the bridge.

LEVEL 8 (6 Bombs to plant)
More electric doors to contend with.  Rather simple stuff really but the
level is quite long winded, and can prove a long haul if you don't use the
map to remember the correct route through.  Time is tight so don't stop to
admire the view and from this level, men start appearing from nowhere so be
on your guard!!

LEVEL 9 (4 Bombs to plant)
Time for the conveyor belts.  Just move the joystick the other way to stop
movement, try to cross the belts at the edge of the area where the belt
emerges from the wall.  There are 5 men guarding the third cross, so be
careful.  Also there are men on the exits so a smart bomb or two come in
handy.

LEVEL 10 (5 Bombs to plant)
A very dangerous level, as men appear frequently and you can easily be
caught in crossfires.  Stay alert and keep on the move, hugging the walls
when cornered.  Once again there are guards at the exit so smart bomb them!

LEVEL 11 (5 Bombs to plant)
This is easy compared to the previous one!  Using the radar watch where the
guards are on the other side of the groups of conveyor belts.  Stick to the
sides when crossing the last set of 4 conveyor belts.  Also, there is an
ambush over the bridge so either arm up with cannon or smart bombs.

LEVEL 12 (4 Bombs to plant)
Men stationed practically everywhere so keep that trigger finger pumping!
To use the moving platforms over the acid, just push right (or left) and
hold it there to walk over.  The last area is a simple maze, but the
fencing is deadly to the touch close up.  Take your time, better to arrive
at the exit late than not at all.

LEVEL 13 (5 Bombs to plant)
The cannons fire randomly when you're in range so quickly sneak round the
corners and move down out of line of fire to nip past the cannons, when
possible.

LEVEL 14 (10 Bombs to plant)
Things get tough with ten (!) bombs to plant in the men making machine
level, so there's no time to stop!!  The bubbles are harmless, the men
are'nt!!

LEVEL 15 (5 Bombs to plant)
The middle is a long maze, with men appearing all over the shop so hug
those walls!!  For the lasers the sequence of 8 blasts is 1 down, 2 down, 3
down, 4 down, 8 up, 7 up, 6 up and then 5 up before repeating.  Time it
well or else!!

LEVEL 16 (0 Bombs to plant)
The final level and you'll be pleased there are no bombs to plant!  Trouble
is you've got to time it well to get through the mesh doors.  Go in the
middle and run through just as they start opening (without stopping).  You
should just make it.  For the conveyor belts stay in the middle watching
for guards as you move across.  Then it's plain sailing to the end!!

You get bonuses for ammo left, 5000 points for each smart bomb left
and 100,000 points for each life left!!  Then read the endgame message and
prepare to play again!

End.