  			 MINDSHADOW

			   Part 1

 Well, here we are again, all set for another adventure, but without any elfin
swords or magic lamps. You awake on a deserted island suffering from amnesia.
Your mission, if you accept, is to save yourself and to regain your memory.
There are a few tricky puzzles to solve and saving the game at various spots is
recommended. Also, as in other adventure games, it is a good idea to map your
surroundings. The graphics are adequate and the parser, although not as good as
Infocom's, does work. Remember to examine and search everything you find in
your journey.

 There are two unique commands built into this game. The most critical function
is the "THINK" command. When a clue is found, type in the word THINK (followed
by the clue that you found) and hope for the best. If you haven't thought
enough you'll never solve the game. The other command is the "HELP CONDOR"
function. The game has a help list built into the program that you can call on
if you need a push in the right direction. The only problem is that it can be
called up only three times during the game. After that you are on your own.

 Let's get started. You awake on a deserted beach with a spectacular view of
the ocean. In fact, look at the ocean but but don't go in the water. Go N, then
enter the hut and take some straw. Examine the trash can and take the candle.
Well, you don't really need it. Exit the hut then go E.

 Take a piece of steel from the dory, then go E again and take a vine. Go W, W,
S, and drop all but the vine. Go E, and you should be at the edge of a cliff.
Tie the vine to a rock then go Down. Enter the cave and examine and search all,
then take a rock from the ground. Dig in ground. Take the map, then E, Up, W.
Look at the map, then N.

 At this point, you might want to save the game. Go N, N, E, N, E, E, S, S, E.
Search the trunk and take the bottle, but don't drink it. Go W, W, N, W, W, S,
W, S, S, S. Drop the map, then take the piece of steel and the shell. Listen to
the shell. Type, "BANG ROCK WITH STEEL OVER STRAW TO MAKE FIRE". Drop the rock
and the piece of steel, then wait. When the boat comes, offer the captain the
bottle.

				   Part 2

 You should now be on the pirate ship and the captain will have left you alone
to go exploring. Go N, W, and talk to the doctor. Go S, then fight with the
man. Go S again and take the meat cleaver. You can also eat the fish if you
like sashimi. Go N, N, E, S, S, S, W, then cut the chain with the meat cleaver.
Go E, N, N, E, E.

 You should now be in England. Go E, E, E, S, and search the sleeping man. Take
the hat and the money, then go N, W, W, S.  Give the man 5 pounds and take the
pole. Go N, W, and get the debris with the pole. Drop the pole, then take the
newspaper.  Read it. Remember to remember. Go E, N, and talk to the man. Give
the man 5 pounds and remember the password (it may vary with different disks).
Go S, E, N, E. This is another good spot to save the game.

 Talk to the woman, then give her the hat. Go E. Examine the drink, then follow
the man. Go S, W, then take the hat and look inside the hat. Rather then leave
a tip, you can kiss the woman. Go W, N, E, then type, "CHANDRALT" or whatever
the password is in your game. Give the man 200 pounds for your ticket then go
W, S, S, W, N, N, and enter the airplane. Remember to remember.

 You should now be in beautiful downtown Luxembourg. Go N, W, then BOOTH 11.
Talk to the man. If that doesn't work, search the man. Take the note and the ID
card, then read both of them. Go E, E, N, N, W, Up, N. This is another spot to
save the game.

				   Part 3

 Go W, then DUCK. Examine the room and take all. Read the parchment. Go E, S,
Down, E, S, and now we are going on a little nature hike. Go E, E, E, S, and
dig in the ground with the shell. Drop the shell, then take the leaflet and
read it. It sure does look like a bank account number.

 Go N, W, W, W, W, and talk to the woman. Type in the bank number then open the
box. Take the gun, then drop the box. Go E, N, W, Up, N, N, N, N.

 This is it. Save the game again, then E. Shoot the man with the gun, then take
themessage and read it. Now, if you have remembered all the names and found all
the clues, you should regain your memory and solve the game by using the THINK
COMMAND.

 Type "THINK ARCMAN". "THINK BOB". "THINK MASTERS". "THINK JARED". "THINK
TYCOON". "THINK LUXEMBOURG". "THINK WILLIAM". At this point, a new screen
should appear with the entire story of your trials and tribulations.
