Ishar 3


 CHEAT MODE:

 Move the mouse pointer to the far left of the screen as possible,
 now press and hold down [Ctrl], [Alt] and [V] simultaneously and
 then hit the left mouse button. This will replace all your lost
 energy points.


 WALK-THROUGH:

 At the start, visit the person opposite. He will indicate the position
 of Typhus Mernith's observatory on the map. Go to a shop near the city
 walls and buy some lime liquor, then go to the town entrance and buy a
 pass from the guard. Visit Typhus, give him the liquor and he will give
 you the playing card. He will then show you where Mather Fudius is on
 the map.
 Visit Mather Fudius and pick up the scroll from the ground. Go to the
 inn and listen. When Erkh Moltus is speaking to you, buy him some food
 then listen to him again. Answer 'Yes' when he asks a question.
 At Mather's, give him the card when he says 'Out'. Wait until you see
 the gate, then click on it to go through.
 In the forest, head east to find a passage where there is a bear.
 Go past it, then south, all the way down. Head east to find a racoon on
 a rock. Take the scroll and return to Mather's via the gate.
 Give the scroll to Mather, take the key and when he indicates a house
 on the map, go and fetch the magic flask and the pendant. Walk to the
 tavern, south of the theatre, and put the pendant on. Listen and recover
 the Kelonia powder. Buy the other potions in the shops then return to
 the racoon, give him the potion and recover the item.
 Go to the theatre in the rich town and enter it after 7pm.
 Listen to Gulnar and give him what you got from the racoon.
 Wait for the gate to appear at 2am and go through. In the jungle, head
 south-east to find the tribe with a chief. Kill him, find a crystal to
 the south-west and go back to the town.
 Walk back through the theatre gate and head east. Walk for a short while,
 then go south to find a piece of a meteor in a dead end. Go back into
 town and find a garden in the rich town. The meteor is near the north
 wall: put the piece you found in the jungle on it to make the gate
 appear, and go through it. In the mountains, find the event generator
 towards the north-west. Put the crystal on it and then head back to town.
 Find the gate that has just appeared in the north-western part of the
 town. Go through it before 12. In the dungeon, you need to free the
 captive princess. She is in a room filled with lava. You must pass on
 three slabs to make the cage drop. Enlist the princess' help then go
 back to town.
 Find an inn, and get some rest. In a dream, a character tells you to go
 to a house indicated on the map. Go to this house, take the key from the
 fountain and enter to find five guards' uniforms. Go to the palace,
 wearing the uniforms and make the princess wear a helmet as well.
 Take the helmet off in front of Zoltar and enlist his help.
 Go back to the forest where Zoltar and Thina will leave.
 Head back to the town where Mather will give you a second crystal.
 Place the second crystal on the generator in the mountains and then go
 back to town. Go back to the mountains again to find a belt on the ground
 towards the north, then head into town again. Go back to the forest
 wearing the belt, go east and at the end, head south.
 Find a house with Zoltar's son and his wife. He hands you a key while
 the wife protects you from the dragon-fire.
 Head back to town. Go to the door which leads to the dungeon and go
 through it after 12. Finally, find the dragon and defeat him.
 You've completed Ishar 3 - well done!