JOAN OF ARC
-----------

   DEFENCE OF THE WALL: As soon as the screen changes start pressing fire to
launch rocks. Use oil when time is short or when two or more enemies are
coming up the same ladder. Even though it says that oil is limited, there
are at least five cauldrons at your disposal.
   ENTRY INTO TOWN: As soon as the screen has loaded push right and keep
pushing right until the end. When an enemy appears keep fire pressed until
he is slain. Release fire and your man should run straight up the
drawbridge. Repeat this until you get into town.
   ATTACK ON THE WALL: Push the joystick forwards as soon as the screen
changes. Keep pushing forwards until the wall is taken. Use the fire button
to ward off the rocks until the top is reached.
   GAME STRATEGY: At the start of the game ORLEANS must be taken. Select
Start A Campaign and then displacement to move north into Orleans. here you
should encounter your first battle.
   BATTLE WARFARE: Hold your ground and wait to be attacked. As soon as the
enemy move, shower them with arrows and then with mortars. Move your troops
forward to protect your archers and send your cavalry out(they are likely to
be killed). While your troops are fighting, remember to fire your arrows if
the remainder of the enemy moves forward to attack.
   On the defeat of the enemy, choose Offensive and attack Orleans. Use the
'Entry in to town' and 'Attack on the Wall' tips to succeed. After capturing
Orleans move north east into Champagne and take Rheims to crown the king.
After the coronation move north taking each town in every province until you
have reached the northern most province. Sweep anti-clockwise until each
province has been taken.
   Joan's army soon becomes depleted; choose Royal Army and then
modification to top up her army. About 2,000 archers and 3,000 troops are
enough. To pay for this collect the tithe in September but forget about the
other taxes. This will avoid any uprising, but means that you will have to
ransom some hostages. Choose Diplomacy and then Liberation, deal with Henry
VI and use Regnault of Chatres and Tremoille as ambassadors, the meeting
place does not really matter.

               R A N S O M   D E M A N D   G U I D E L I N E S

               Duke of Bedford                     $4,000,000
               Duke of Warwick                     $2,000,000
               Duke of Gloucester                  $2,000,000
               John Talbot                         $1,000,000
               Count of Suffolk                    $1,000,000
               Cardinal of Winchester              $1,000,000
               Captain Falstaff                    $1,000,000

   If you are really desperate halve the ransom. If your coffers are
overflowing, execute one of them using the Royal Justice Menu, which will
reduce the number of armies that Henry VI can control.
   Any French characters caught should be executed promptly. If there are no
hostages when payday comes choose Helping Hand and kidnap one. Do not try
for the Dukes because these attempts are most likely to fail. Remember to
pay well - $20,000 is the right incentive. If Joan is caught, Richemont, War
General is a good replacement.