Jurassic Park


 PASSWORDS:

 Password   Level
 ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~
 8EB75C3D - Triceratops
 EEE774OD - Stegosaurus
 DED7CC15 - Gallimimus
 AE974C2D - Spitter 1st
 7E673455 - Spitter Gate
 7E673455 - Pterodome 1st
 BE974C35 - Pterodome Boat
 BE874425 - Brachiosaur
 AE874425 - Brachiosaur Boat
 DE5FB8C5 - Intermediate
 CE5FBOC5 - Main 3D
 FE6FA80D - Maintenance
 FE7FAOD5 - Power On
 9E0F98ED - Dark Cave
 DE476415 - Sequence


 TIPS:

 Jurasic Park Walk-Through:

 1. T-Rex Paddock:
 You start near a wrecked car, First of all find a motion sensor and open
 the bunker door. Head for the bunker in the south west corner of the
 paddock, collect the tool box from inside the bunker and then head for
 the pipe entrance near the start.

 2. Drainage System:
 Find the key card (take your first left at the starting position) collect
 the crate which is right, up and left from the key card. Push the crate
 into the water and push it to the north east hand side of the sewer, push
 the crate in front of Lex and she will climb onto it. Take Lex back to
 the start of the level and exit.

 3. T-Rex Paddock:
 Find Tim who will be hiding in a random location. With Tim, Lex and the
 key card, find the gate in the north west corner of the paddock.
 Walk through the gate to exit.

 4. Triceratops Paddock:
 The kids have run away - forget them for now. Head for the break in the
 fence to the north west. Collect as much fruit as possible along the way.
 Enter the paddock and head north to the entrance to a long channel.
 Enter the channel and run south. Grant will drop the fruit to delay the
 Triceratops. Exit the channel to the south and head east. Drop in to the
 enclosure with the second big Triceratops. Dodge the Triceratops as it
 charges and trick it into raming the wall. When the wall has finaly
 collapsed run south. When clear of the Triceratops turn west and collect
 the key card and then enter the bunker in the north east corner.

 5. 3D Access Tunnel:
 Just reach the exit.

 6. Stegosaurus Paddock:
 Head north using boulders to get up and down high cliffs.
 Find the kids on the bridge in the north west corner of the paddock.
 Head west past the bridge to exit.

 7. Gallimimus Paddock:
 Go south west and find a barrel pearched on a cliff edge. Push the barrel
 off the cliff, and then head north to the bunker. The kids will get
 scared and lock them selves in to a bunker. Head west into the stampede,
 once through it go south to an east west channel. Drop into the channel
 and run east to collect the flares. Use the flares to destract the T-Rex
 whilst running east, cross the small ditch and then through a flare into
 the ditch. The T-Rex will get stuck behind the flames.
 Find the key card slightly to the north, open the tunnel door with the
 key card. With the kids exit the paddock to the west.

 8. Dilophosaur Paddock:
 Leave the kids at the main gate. Enter the Dilophosaur paddock via the
 hole in the ground under the fence. Head north east and find the motion
 sensor terminal, open the bunker door. The bunker is south of the
 Pterodome, collect the key card. With the key card enter the Pterodome.

 9. Pterodome:
 Find the key card which is hidden underneath some eggs in a nest.
 With the key card exit to the east.

 10. Brachiosaur Paddock:
 Find the motion sensor in the north west side of the paddock. Open the
 Pterodome door from the terminal. Find all the embroys and Nedry's key
 card. With the embroys and Nerdy's key card go through the gate in the
 fence and through the door back into the Petrodome.

 11. Ptrodome:
 Find a boulder to the west, push the boulder off the cliff and use it to
 head north. Find the switch that controls the extending bridge over the
 river. Shoot the switch and cross the river. Exit the Pterodome to the
 south west.

 12. Dilophosaur Paddock:
 Follow the jungle path to the west, find the raft floating in the river
 and jump onto it. The raft will take you to the east and out of the
 paddock.

 13. Pterodome:
 Just follow the current for a while. Just before the waterfall, jump off
 the boat onto the south bank. Follow the path down to the base of the
 waterfall land. Jump back in the boat. Follow the current again.

 14. Brachiosaur Paddock:
 Jump off the boat onto the island in the lake, use the terminal to open
 the gate in the fence. Exit through the gate to the south west corner.

 15. Dilophosaur Paddock:
 Go west, open the gate in the fence using a motion terminal, then exit
 to the west. Now head north and exit through the main gate.