 TASS TIMES IN TONETOWN
          Part 1

 On Getting There and Getting Tass

 Quoth the bard: "You're so square (baby I don't care)."

 Gramps is missing. His bed hasn't been slept in for several days. This
man may have the brains of Dr. Who, but he is, nonetheless, in trouble.
 Start your rescue mission by going south into the kitchen, then check
out the cookie jar. Take the key and go back north then west. From that
hallway, you could go south into the bedroom but you'll gain nothing.
Instead, unlock the hallway door, enter the lab and drop the key.
Examine the fish bowl and take the guitar picks. Pick up gramps's book
then go east. Turn on the generator power by throwing the switch, then
enter the hoop. Welcome to Tonetown!
 You're at a construction site with a trench leading north. Follow
alongside the trench north then enter the trench. You'll find an oddly
silvered jar, which you should keep, then leave the construction area by
going east.

 You may have noticed someone following you and muttering (well,
snarling actually) about what a stupid tourist you are. That's the
villain, Franklin J. Snarl, and right now you're as conspicuous to him
as Ronald Reagan at a Star Trek convention. It's important for you to
blend in with the local population fast, and that means getting tass.
"Tass" is what the ancients used to call "hip."
 Go south then east into Chaz's Boutique. Look in the dyeorama, and
realize (if you've done some exploring) that "feather foils" are all the
rage; shell out 10 picks (the local form of barter) for your pink
mohawk. Go east to the clothing section and purchase the Troppowear
jumpsuit along with a hooplet (if you check out the tabloid which
accompanies the game, you'll discover that Slippy Shirts are stockpiling
faster than Adam computers; ignore them). Don't forget to WEAR your
items before leaving. No dressing rooms; if you want to be tass you just
have to show your "***".

 Quoth the bard: "Ennio Way You Want Me (that's how I will be)."
 With your tass new look, there's a job waiting for you at the newspaper
office. Go south from the boutique until you've reached the Tonetown
Times. The newspaper for sale in front of the building is the same
newspaper which accompanies the game. Enter the building and address the
editor by name, Nuyu. (Nuyu's name can be found in the opening titles
for the game as well as the enclosed Tonetown Times). Based on your good
looks, you'll be given a camera and an assignment. Go east to Ennio's
office and turn on the printer and terminal. Follow the instructions to
obtain a press pass. Go west then north to leave the building.

 Leave the jar here then go north four times until you reach the rock
concert. At the concert, talk to the woman whose name turns out to be
Stelgad. Show her your press pass, and you'll be escorted back stage to
meet the Daglets. First, be sure to take a group picture, then you'll
have a few minutes for an interview. They're excited about their new
instruments called Zagtones. Go ahead -- try to take one, and they'll
find an extra for you to keep. Make careful note of what they say about
their recent cancellation at the Tower. When intermission is over, go
south again four times back to Nuyu. Give him the photo and he'll send
you on your main mission: find Gramps. Remember what he says about Ennio
and Snarl.

 TASS TIMES IN TONETOWN
         Part 2

 Pick up the jar, and, from the newspaper building, go north 2 times and
turn east. This is Fast Freddie's Restaurant and local house of Saturday
Night Fever. Take the mitts and wear them. If you wish you may drink a
Fizzie and order a glo-burger. Leave by going west. Go north once then
turn east. Here at Flo's Party Supplies you can listen to her sad tale
about what happened to her skating rink, but it's more important for you
to buy one of her masks. Take the black mask and wear it, then go west.
 Go north to the concert in the park then turn east. Here begins the
mysterious wetlands where many have disappeared; so you may wish to save
your game. Go north six times, being careful not to stop along the way
in the heavily covered mushroom grounds -- the stuff is almost like
quicksand. When you reach the cliff, get a red devil, which will
automatically go into your special jar.

 Go south six times then turn west to the concert, then west once again.
Now read the description carefully. If Ennio says "I SMELL SNARL MEAT"
then DON'T go down the well! Snarl is there and he'll end the game for
your having invaded his private sanctum! Instead, walk around a little;
listen to the music of the Daglets. Come back in a few moves.
 If Ennio does not smell Snarl, then save the game and go down the well.
At the bottom turn west. There is one of those amazingly stupid, but
toothsome, monsters down here. His name is Philbert and he could finish
you in one bite, except that with the mask you seem to resemble his
master Franklin. Go west again then north three times and up the ladder.
 The watchdawg (sic) is easily placated by Ennio. Go north. From here,
if you wish, go west and explore Snarl's mansion. When you're done,
return to this spot and go east. Unlock the gate but don't open it.
There are two strange creatures guarding that gate on the other side,
who will sound an alarm if it opens. You'll deal with them later.

 Go west then south and reenter the tree. Go south three times then
east. Once again, if Ennio "smells Snarl meat" DON'T continue east. WAIT
until Ennio no longer senses the villain. If it's safe, go east again
then back up the well.
 Drop the mask, then go east, south, and west. Here is Snarl's Pet Shop
where he's been pushing some questionable creatures on the public. If
Snarl isn't here, read the clock on the door to see when he'll return.
Examine the alarm equipment or simply type "wait" a number of times
until Snarl returns. Buy one of his pets, a lovable one named Blobo, and
leave the shop by going east.
 Go north, west, north and west, where your new pet will desert you but
dig up one of Snarl's valuable possessions: his debossed metal card
(check out the lost-and-found section of the Tonetown Times). Sweet
lovable Blobo is gone, but take the card and go south.

 Quoth the bard: "Well that's alright, Grampa."

 Go east three times then north twice and then east again three times.
There are hazards all along this route, and any sightseeing may end the
game. But if you're curious about a tribute to an old friend from
another company which is now a part of THIS company, try entering the
cave (whew!).
 Go east again then go north three times to the boat. Enter the boat and
steer west. Go south once then west and finally north. Here is the
infamous tower. Go north into the tower and west into the elevator.
Insert Snarl's card in the slot and push Button 5. Go east to...GRAMPS!
Hit cuffs with zagtone and go back west into the elevator with Gramps at
your side. Push Button 1, go east then south and finally enter the boat.
Leave the island by going south, then continuing west.

 TASS TIMES IN TONETOWN
         Part 3

 Quoth the bard: "My eye is shaking and my nose is weak."

 Go west from the dock into the forest. Go north to the devil-tree, and
this time get a mushroom. Go back south and then west. Here are the
strange guards who are preventing you from opening the gate into Snarl's
estate. Throw mushroom at eye (or nose) and you've put them out of
business. Open gate then go west. Continue west twice into the house and
north into the laboratory.

 Quoth the bard: "Shake, Rattle, and Snarl."

 While Gramps and Snarl are struggling, it's time to remember Nuyu's
wise words: Sick (or sic) Ennio on Snarl. Quick! Give Gramps his lab
book. Talk to Snarl now if you care to hear the story of how the monster
came to be.
 Finally, open the jar and the lightning will put Snarl out cold. Push
Snarl through the hoop.
 Welcome home, and pity the three poor creatures who once were your
enemy. Visit Tonetown again? Any time!

 TASS TIMES IN TONETOWN is published by Activision, Inc.