Theme Park


 CHEAT MODE:

 There are a number of cheats turning up for this game. I'm not too
 sure if they all work so you'll just have to try them and find out.

 Firstly, load the game from disk 3 keeping your finger pressed down
 on the [C] key the whole time. Now select a 'New Game' and when you
 get to the map screen you should notice that your name has been
 changed to "It's You Buddy". You will now start the game with a
 substantial amount of cash.

 You could also try calling your park 'FLIGHT SIM' to receive the
 sum of 200k instead of the usual 130k.

 Enter your name in as 'Demo' for a ready made park.

 Also enter LIVE CASH as follows:
 Position a bouncy castle anywhere in the park and put the entrance
 and exit anywhere you like. Now pause the game until you notice the
 writing above the entrance speeding up, now press these keys:
 [L], (pause), [I], (pause), [V], (pause), [E] (pause), [C], (pause),
 [A], (pause), [S], (pause), [H], (pause), [P] and [P]. You should
 now get a new shop and ride every year.

 Allegedly entering your nick name as 'HORZA' will allow you to press
 [Ctrl] and [C] for more money while [Alt], [Shift] and [Z] gives you
 all of the rides.

 Another cheat is to open your park with just one ride and put all your
 money into researching shops (put game speed to maximum to speed things
 up). When research into shops has finished you will get the amusement
 arcade and all the lights on the research screen should turn white.
 You should now find that all the rides are available and you won't have
 to do any more research. Care ful you don't waste all your money though
 - or you won't be able to afford any new rides!

 Your park gets its fame from your most impressive user definable
 rides, so if you want the biggest, fastest, longest, highest and
 most expensive roller-coaster in the world, follow these simple steps:

 1. Place your roller coaster doorway.
 2. Build the smallest loop you can around it, using the least
    number of sections possible.
 3. Open it up, and then close it down immediately. You've only been
    charged for a tiny ride.
 4. You can now remove the puny loop and really go to town on the
    roller coaster, without spending another penny.


 PLAYERS GUIDE:

 Path Planning
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 This is a simple concept but fiendishly difficult to put a good plan
 into action. It's all too easy at the start of a game to be tempted to
 laypaths everywhere. Then, an hour into the proceedings people are
 banging into everything, getting lost and wandering the wrong way
 through exits. If all this happens you may as well start again, but with
 a little forethought this needn't happen. Planning is the key to the
 overall success of the theme park but (without trying to get deep) the
 pathways are the veins that carry the blood supply around so concentrate
 on getting it right first time. Initially just lay the minimum of paths
 needed to get people to your rides and stalls. There's no point in
 getting congested early on in a game. As the park begins to build up,
 start seriously thinking about using the one-way arrow system.
 Be extremely careful to examine every section of path that adjoins a
 section with a one-way arrow on it. It's very easy to slap down a couple
 of markers and inadvertently close off the only access route to your
 attraction. If used correctly, arrows can be an efficient method and
 moving the little folk around sections of the park they may not normally
 go to by choice, like that expensive novelty shop.
 Another vitally important feature is the signposts. Be sure to signpost
 your exit, the toilets and all your best rides so that people who want
 to take advantage of the facilities can at least find them.
 Don't have people running around dying for a pee, and try to keep a
 Super Toilet near each gut-wrenching ride so that people can get there
 if need be!

 Staff
 ~~~~~
 These are the people who'll smile in the rain, won't mind having kiddies
 tormenting them and know everything about the running of the business.
 Entertainers are there to keep people happy but you have to keep them
 happy too. If an employee's morale is low because of wages or whatever,
 then you won't get the best out of them and they will not be as
 entertaining as they should. At this stage you have two options, the
 first of which involves sacking the perpetrator and pringing in fresh,
 enthusiastic blood. The second is to hand out a nice pay rise and
 hopefully get a bit of appreciation for being a nice boss.
 Entertainers aside, it is obviously vital to get enough handy men to keep
 the park tidy and clean, and mechanics to fixx all your knackered rides.
 Keep them well paid and they'll fix more and clean more. If the worst
 comes to the worst and your guys are threatening a walkout then haggle
 for a short while, but under no circumstances let them walk out.
 You can't afford strike action as it will cripple your park so even if
 you have to backtrack and risk making yourself look stupid, make sure
 you get an agreement at all costs.

 Thoughts
 ~~~~~~~~
 Keep a careful eye on the thought bubbles that appear above the punters'
 heads as these are a fine indication of the mood of the people.
 Try to respond to a problem if there are a lot of people with the same
 thought, For example, if they think your cola is too expensive, that's
 easy to sort out. Trickier problems to solve are when people are just
 unhappy with what they're getting full stop. It may be that you rides
 aren't exciting enough, or that they find the park scruffy and
 uninviting. You will have to judge this mood for yourself.
 Fixing such problems can generally be more expensive. If people think
 your park is boring then the only way to improve it is to put more
 thrilling rides in and they don't come cheap. It's a vicious circle
 that you'd really be better not getting involved in in the first place.

 Miscellaneous
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 Keep your visitors happy by keeping them well fed and watered.
 People are less likely to complain if their bellies are full.
 Price the goods carefully because if people decide not to buy because of
 cost then they'll be unhappy because they feel they are being ripped off
 and also because they are hungry.
 Operate on the principal of 'if they have money in their pockets, it's
 yours for the taking'. They've brought it to spend it, so get it off them
 in places like novelty shops, burger bars and, of course, your oh-so
 exciting rides.
 For God's sake, get your toilets cleaned regularly. Filth is bad for
 business and if the word gets around that your park is unhealthy custom
 will drop off and you'll get little men with clipboards arriving to check
 things out.
 Think a couple of rides ahead. Leave space for decorations like trees and
 walls. Wall off your bigger rides so that little kids can't wander around
 the danger areas. Everything like this improves your position in the
 rankings.
 You want your guests to be able to visit every area of your park, giving
 them as few descisions about direction as possible, while not forcing
 them around with too many one-way signs. In short, what you want to do is
 this: Split them up the moment they arrive by taking the entrance paths
 on routes to the left and the right. Then build yourself a loop, so the
 entire park is accessible. Complete the loop first, then place rides and
 stalls the moment they come through from research. Open up after placing
 a ride on each side of the loop. Avoid duplicating rides, unless you're
 feeling particularly flushed with cash.
 Leave room on the edges of your park for your second wave of expansion.
 You'll want a second loop over the original.
 Place a balloon shop by the entrance for the moment your guests arrive.
 The balloons will make them happier for the duration of the visit, as
 well as making some easy money.
 Link ride exits to the thoroughfare with a short path, then place a
 one-way sign on it to stop guests from wandering up the wrong route.
 By placing the exit close to the ride entrance, your guests won't be
 disorientated when they come off the spinny-pukey affairs.
 Allocate and zone one handyman to each side of the park in the early
 stages, then later in the game, go up to six.
 Put your shops directly onto the path. Then place the rides behind them.
 Place your biggest rides deep into the park. That way the guests will
 walk through all your stalls and shops to get there.