Transarctica


 CHEAT MODE:

 On the option screen, place the mouse pointer in a corner of the
 screen and press the left mouse button, [Ctrl] + [Alt] simultaneously
 to access the cheat mode. You can now:

     Click in the top left corner - Super train (fully loaded).
    Click in the top right corner - Super train and a super strong enemy.
  Click in the bottom left corner - Super scenario (everything).
 Click in the bottom right corner - Gives you victory.

                        TRANSARCTICA - SOLUTION
                        -----------------------

Although this solution is for the all-improved A1200 version of the game,
it should be relevant for the A500 version as well.

First, turn off the train combat. Let the computer calculate the results.
If you have plenty of soldiers then don`t worry! You will win most of the
time. If you have cannon and machine-gun cars, spread them evenly through
the train, which should take care of any enemies heading in your general
direction.

Stay well supplied! This is very important. Buy one or two additional
tenders to store all your coal. Now buy (or pilfer) some XL merchandise
cars and you`re in business. Throughout the game it is imperative that you
continue to trade. No trade equals no money. No money equals no cars. No
cars equals no train. An no train and you lose!

Start by transporting some wood from Helsinki to Amsterdam. If you`ve made
a profit, buy a crane and some tank cars, and ship alcohol from Amsterdam
to Copenhagen. Buy some prison cars (preferably XLs) and go to Louxor and
pick up some slaves. When a mine opens, go to it. Anthracite mines have
priority over lignite mines (you can always trade for lignite) and get as
much as possible.

Now go to Turin - slightly north of which is an apparent dead-end. Drive
down the track, and locate the special location at the end. Note the number
you are given, and head for Rum, north-east of London. You`ll need to buy a
bridge, buy the drill and place it up front before making for the special
location below Taoudeni (near the starting point). At Baku (93.43) purchase
a harpoon and stick it down in front of the drill. Drive onto the bridge
north of the Leeds Station workshop and the monster will be killed. You can
now enter the workshop, snaffle the harpoon and drive back over the bridge
you just cleared. Then go onto the next bend and set all the switches for
the dead-end on the next side.

DO NOT GO ANY FURTHER! The railroad ahead is mined. Make sure that you have
rails and at least five line inspection cars to send out in front. As soon
as the track blows, head off to repair the thing, and send out another line
inspection car. Repeat this procedure until you reach the (invisible)
station at the dead-end near Turin, and you will be rewarded with a Geiger
counter. Go to the `Spies` option, and put a spy at every tunnel entrance.
Put the remainder above Kiev. As soon as one of your spies finds a
building, have him let off his dynamite. You will now get a message that
the passage to the Gycode (your mission objective) is clear. Go to Omsk,
buy an additional boiler, then go to Delhi. Make sure you have an awesome
combat train. Head into the mountains using the tracks that leaves from
Delhi. Drive down to your goal, sending line inspection cars in front for
safety. And that, as I am bound to conclude, is it.