Turbo Out Run


 CHEAT MODE:

 After the countdown, type 'WEARPEEPEL' to enable these keys:

        [D] - Extra turbos.
        [T] - Extra time.
        [B] - Jump back a level.
        [N] - Next level.
        [F] - See ending.
        [G] - Loose a credit.
 [1] to [9] - Jump to corresponding level.

 Also, if you pause the game and press [F3], then push the joystick
 forwards, you will get 10,000 extra points.

 TIPS:

   Go for the manual gearbox at the start - the auto isn't flexible enough
for really steep corners. Use the turbo sparingly - and only when you know
it is safe to do so. The car becomes difficult to control at high speed.

   Throughout the game you will see a blonde poseur in a 959 trying to 
overtake you. Sometimes your girlfriend decides she's had enough and gets
out of your car into the 959 at a Staging Post. However if she stays you 
get a kiss and a million points. Furthermore if she stays for another four
stages you get a two million point bonus and so-on. The bad news is, there's
no real reason as to why she stays or goes - not even whether you crash or
not.

	NEW YORK
   Fairly easy this one - full speed  all the way and little need for 
steering if you can stay in the centre of the track. Use the turbo
immediately at the start and then again as soon as it has run out - you
won't overheat until later.

	WASHINGTON D.C.
   Once through the check-point activate the turbo to shake of the police
car (listen out for the siren just before he arrives on screen) and whizz
through the storm. If the police car catches up with you he'll hassle you
and try and hit your car - very frustrating. There are a couple of nasty
twists that come up suddenly - the best way to tackle them is to stay on
the inside of the corner, which also means you avoid any cars lurking 
around the bend. Watch out for the water on the sweeping roght hander - 
brake too late and you'll end up in the trees. You'll zoom around this
with practice.

	PITTSBURGH
   Snow storms throughout this stage make it quite tricky to see the corners
until they are right under your bumper so take care until you know the 
route. The first two corners can be taken at full throttle, but from then on 
it's gears and brakes all the way. Turbo away from the police car as before.
When coming up to the third major corner beware - its a very sharp 90 degree
left hander. Change in to low gear, stamp on the brake and throw the wheel
hard left and you'll drift round. Accelerate once the car is straight again.
This technique is used throughout to overcome nasty corners - so once
mastered the game instantly becomes easier.

	INDIANAPOLIS
   Nice long straight right after the C.P. - so use the turbo while you can.
First corner must be taken in low gear - it starts gently enough but soon 
whips round to throw you out into the side.

	STAGING POST NUMBER 1.
   At the end of every four stages you get the chance to customise the car - 
choose HIGH GRIP TYRES this stage.

	CHICAGO
   The first of the night driving stages means the corners come from nowhere.
Watch out also for the bumps in the road. Strangely similar to INDIANAPOLIS
in layout!

	ST LOUIS
   This stage is mostly confined to two stages throughout. Shake off hassle
from the police car when you can. The cops try to knock you into the signs
which will flip you over if you're not careful. Be very careful of the sharp
left-hander at the bottom of the hill. At the point where the road gets
split bythe barrels, stay over to the left hand side to avoid the bumps on
the other lane. Hitting the barrels scores extra points but slows you down.

	MEMPHIS
   The road snakes around alot - timing is essential through the valleys of
rocks. This one takes practice to learn the route and where to brake.

	ATLANTA
   Another snowy one! Fairly wide road doesn't make things too hard although 
the drifts cover the outside lanes - so stay central while you can.

	STAGING POST NUMBER 2.
   Select the SPECIAL TURBO from the remaining options, it makes you accelerate
that much faster.

	MIAMI
   Use turbo instantly here because your engine will be cold. Watch out for 
the first corner, though - it is very tight indeed. At one point the road
narrows to one lane. Use the turbo down the hill and into the palm lined
avenue, once again with a nasty corner at the end.

	NEW ORLEANS
   The first two corners can be taken flat out. Keep an eye out for the 
'S-BEND' sign - low gear and brakes are needed to get through. Once through 
the valley there is a fast straight section before one more set of 'S-BENDS'.

	SAN ANTONIO
   As in New Orleans the first two corners are easy but after that the four 
lanes road splits into two seperated by trees. Don't try and cross through
the gaps - you won't make it! Stay to the right, the left has bumps and road
blocks on it. Watch out too for the oil in the road at the right hander.

	DALLAS
   Desert section with a very wide bare road. Use the turbo where you can,
but beware the unmarked corners - they have strategically placed boulders
just at the point where you spin off! Beware too the rubble on the road and
the unmarked 90 degree corners - generally a very tricky level.

	STAGING POST NUMBER 3.
   You get given the HIGH POWER ENGINE like it or not - although it doesn't
actually make a blind bit of difference.

	OKLAHOMA CITY
   Low bridges and fields of yellow flowers. Lots of nice 90 degree left-
handers that aren't marked at all. The fourth corner must be taken very
slowly otherwisw you'll end up in the front room of one of the houses at
the side of the road.

	DENVER
   This is definately the hardest stage of the game - heavy blizzards 
throughout and little sign-posting. Once onto the wide sweeping freeway
stay dead centre and don't steer!! Use the turbo while you can. There is 
only one other place to use the turbo and that is after the S's at the end
of the freeway to the C.P. Take the S's at a walking pace to have any chance
of survival. As soon as you see the sign for the C.P. don't relax because
there's one more valley. When you see the real end of the stage use the
turbo if available.

	GRAND CANYON
   Take the first left hander very slowly, otherwise simple.

	LOS ANGELES
   The final stage and probably the easieston the game! Take the corners
fast but try not to come of the road at any point - its crowded with buildings.

	THE FINISH
   As a photo couldn't be got of this screen a brief description will have
to do! There is a big close up of the FERRARI F40 with the driver and his
girlfriend sitting on the bonnet facing away from you, arm in arm. 
   The PORSCHE 959 poser drives up, gets out of his car, sobs, gets in and
roars off again!


	docs typed by DOUG.....