                       TYPHOON THOMPSON:
                       =================

  A good way to pick up Sprites and avoid enemy fire is to fly underwater.
This is done by tilting forward as much as possible and then igniting the
turbo booster. While underwater you can still collect Sprites and are safe
from most types of Flyer - but there are certain kinds which will follow
you under. To return to the surface, fire your weapon.

  Once you have destroyed all the Flyers and collected all the sprites, a
circle of red lights flashes around the Treasure Dome in the centre of the
village. Fly over any of of these lights to exchange your captured sprites
for the artefact you are after.

  The easiest Flyer to beat is the Bumper. These simply bump into you and
spoil your aim, but also follow you underwater and knock you to the
surface.

  The Zapper is the nastiest Flyer of all - it can fly both above and below
the water. It pauses when it gets close to you and then suddenly rushes
towards you. It destroys both you and your jetsled on contact.

  The Forcer is protected by a repellant forcefield which pushes you away
from it. It isn't particularly dangerous, but is's difficult to hit as you
have to shoot from long range.

  Wompers bounce across the water towards you, and if they come into
contact with your jetsled you're history.

  Suckers pull you towards them, destroying your jetsled if you get too
close.

  A common problem is that when a Sprite is released from its Flyer by
shooting it, there's precious little time to capture it before it returns
to its pod. To overcome this, lure the Flyer as far away as possible from
the village and shoot it there. You've then got plenty of time to capture
the Sprite before it can get back to the village.

  Spitters fire at you constantly. They are most accurate if you stay
still, so keep on the move to confuse them.

  Bubblers are like spitters, so the same tactics apply, ie: keep changing
direction to avoid their bullets, but watch out - when they die they
release a barrage of bubbles in a last-ditch attempt to kill you.