                                NINJA REMIX
                                -----------

               Typed by NEC and supplied by, erm....... NEC!


System 3 Software....

Rarely does a company make as dramatic an impact as did System 3 Software with 
the award winning game, The Last Ninja.  ( Aint it true!! )  This software
innovation proved to be a major advance in home computer entertainment -
achieving critical acclaim from the media and game players around the world.

System 3 Sfotware has established a reputation for developing innovative and
exciting software.  Our aim is to provide the games player with hours of 
thrilling entertainment, through challenging and imaginative game play, plus
the most sophisticated player-interaction available for this type of game.
And now with over 8,000 man hours invested in planning and development.

Ninja Remix is a game set in the interactive fantasy genre.  It features
adventure style puzzles, dynamic on-screen action and a high degree of
player control.

Because we are always conscious of your demands for ever better products, we
have incorporated many of your suggestions in this game.  For example: playing
against the clock and having a score relating to your performance to.

To get the most enjoyment out of this game, we suggest you read all of the 
instructions (and story) throughly.  This is not just a simple action game.
Later in this booklet we give you some hints to get you started.

We hope you enjoy our latest game, and lookking foward to entertaining you
again in the near future.  ( Myth is still two years old!!  Must be a good un)



The Last Ninja
--------------

After two hundred years of the Fujikawa clan rule, the most extravagent of all
the Shogunates, the farmers and the common folk decided it was time to leave
their homes and travel to the Togakure Mountains where they would establish
a clan of their own.  And so was born the Ninjutsu, the mystic Shadow 
Warriors.

Four centuries later, the Ninja became the most feared warriors of the day,
feared by even the bravest Samurai and the most powerful of the Shogunates.
The Ninja's mastery of weapon crafts and powers of mental control, ensured
a swift and merciless victory over all enemies.  It took years for a person
to become a master of Ninjutsu, years of arduous training forging the body
and mind into a death dealing machine.

Kuntoki, the evil minded Shogun of the Ashikaga Clan, had long envied the
power and ability of the Nija brotherhood and would do anything to possess
the secrets of their power.  Believing that the only way to obtain the
knowlege he hungered for was to destroy every Ninja.  To this end, Kunitoki
swore an oath to all his gods that he would bring about the Ninja's total
destruction.

Once every Ten years all the members of the Nija brotherhood must ravel in
pilgrimage to the island of Lin Fen.  There they must pay homage to the
shrine of the White Ninja, the founder of the brotherhood, and receive more
knowlege from the Koga Scrolls - the repositiory of all Ninja knowlege.

Seizing the opportunity, Kunitoki used all his knowlege of the Black arts
to summon forth evil spirits and dwellers of the nether worlds to do his
bidding.  Unleasing the full force of his wrath, Kunitoki directed his evil
hordes to the island of Lin Fen, there they slaughtered all the Ninja
brotherhood.

Now nothing stood in the way of Kunitoki achieving his ni ultimate goal,
possession of the Koga scrolls and the arcane knowlege of the Ninjutsu.
When his evil horde had completed their task, Kunitoki set sail for the
island accompanied by his elite force of palace guards and samurai
officers.

Once they established themselves on the island they would begin training in
the ways of Ninjutsu.  Soon, the evil Shogun would be the master of his own
Ninja, and no one would be able to stop him.

Unknown to Kunitoki not all the Ninja had be slaughtered, one had escaped
the slaughter on the island, a young Ninja Warrior, The Last Ninja.

When all the Ninja brotherhood had set off on their pilgrimage to Lin Fen,
there was always a warrior left behind.  His task was to guard the other
sacred shrine of the Ninja, the Bunkinkan shrine.  This tradition had gone
on since the earliest records of the brotherhood.  It served two purposes,
to guard a most sacred artefact and to ensure that there would always be a
Ninja warrior left should some disaster befall the brotherhood during its
pilgrimage.

Armankuni was not pleased to have been chosen for guard duty, he was young
and eager to learn ever more about the ways of Ninjutsu.  He had
desperatley wanted to attend the scroll reading ceremonies on the island.
Now he would have to wait until his brothers returned and gain the knowlege
second-hand from them.

Word soon spread that there had been an unatural disaster on the island and
all the brotherhood had been wiped out.  Gathering all his courage,
Armankuni swore an oath of revenge on the Bunkinkan shrine that he would
wreak a terrible and bloody revenge for the death of his brothers.

Armankuni had been to Lin Fen only once before, as a young acolyte newly
joined the brotherhood.  He knew it was a natural fortress and that there
was a secret passage leading into the palace.  When Armankuni arrived at
the island his memory faltered, and with it, some of his initial courage,
the passages that he thought he remembered were different.  He knew there
was no tuening back, he had sworn an oath and with that foremost in his
mind he pressed onward.



LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------

IMPORTANT: Always swith off your machine for at least thirty seconds prior
to loading this game.  Not observing this rule will make you vulnerable to
virus infection.

Switch on the computer.

Insert game disk A into the internal disk drive (DF0).

The programme will then automatically run from the disk.

After the initial part of the program has loaded, the screen will display a
message prompting you when to insert disk B or C.


SAVE GAME FEATURE
-----------------

At the end of every stage of the game, you are given the option of saving
the game.  When you load up the game at the start, you are asked if you
wish to begin a new game or load in a previously saved game.

The saved game has to be recorded on the disk that is currently in the
drive when you are playing the game, do not use a formatted blank disk on
which to save the game.


GAME CONTROL
------------

The game can only be played using a joystick.

In order to create greater play realism, all the movements are relative to
the Ninja's position in the play area.  It is recommended that first time
players take some time to familiarise themselves throughly with the full
range of movements available.

The first screen has been deliberately left without hazzards so the player
can play and practice the moves available.

JOYSTICK MOVEMENT CHART
-----------------------


			    8 	1   2
			     \	|  /
			      \ | / 
			       \|/
		           7----|-----3
 			       /|\
			      / | \	
			     /  |  \
			    6   5   4

The main jogging movements are activated by pushing the joystick in one of
the four diagonal directions.  The forward motion movements are releative
to the way the Ninja is facing on the screen.  For example, if the Ninja is
facing away from you(up screen) then pushing in direction 2 on the joystick
will make him move forward.

To turn the Ninja around you must roll the joystick round, through the main
points on the joystick, till the Ninja is facing the direction you want him
in.  For example, if the Ninja is facing in direction 2 (up screen) and you
wish to turn him around (through 180°, facing down the screen) then roll
the joydtick through positions 1, 8, 7 to 6.  Of course, you can also go
the other way round as well.

To make the Ninja do a half turn(from facing up Right to left), you use the
example above, but stop at position 8.  Learining to change the Ninja's
direction is fundamental to effective play of the game.  It is important
that you master this movement techniques prior to moving on in the game.

As face-to-face combat features heavily in this game, the Ninja has the
ability to walk backwards from any direction he is facing.  For example, if
the Ninja is facing direction 2 and he is under attack, then pulling back
into direction 6 will make him back away from his opponent.  Alternatively
you can turn him around to escape from an adversary, but sometimes there
just is'nt enough time!

There are many items around the game that the Ninja must pick up and to do
this correctl, the Ninja must be precisely positioned on the road way.  By
using joystick positions 1, 3, 5 and 7 you can move him across the road
way and into position (see pick up description later).

The following is a complete list of all the basic joystick functions:-

NOT HOLDING A WEAPON, WITHOUT FIRE BUTTON PRESSED

2, 4, 6, 8	-Relative main forward movement
1, 3, 5, 7	-Fine degree movement across road way

NOT HOLDING A WEAPON, WITH FIRE BUTTON PRESSED

2, 4, 6, 8	-Crouch down and block
1, 3, 7		-Punch
5		-Kick

HOLDING STAFF OR SWORD, WITH FIRE BUTTON PRESSED

2, 4, 6, 8	-Block, Crouch down
3		-Stab forward
7		-Mid height slash
1		-High slash
5		-Kick

HOLDING NUNCHAKUS, WITH FIRE BUTTON PRESSED

2, 8		-Spin the weapon (to increase power)
4, 6		-Block, Crouch down
3		-Forward Strike
7		-Slash
1		-Punch
5		-Kick

HOLDING SHURIKEN, WITH FIRE BUTTON PRESSED

2, 4, 6, 8	-Crouch down
3, 7		-Throw Shuriken
1		-Punch
5		-Kick



SPECIAL MOVES AND FEATURES
--------------------------

Somersaulting
-------------

The Ninja can somersault in any of the four main movement directions
(2,4,6,8).

To make the Ninja somersault, press the fire button while the Ninja is
moving forward, then move the joystick in the direction you want the Ninja
to somersault.

There are three different distances the Ninja cam somersault, this is
determined by which position on the joystick is used.  For example, the
Ninja is moving in direction 2 he will do a middle distance somersault and
if he was moving in direction 3, he will do a short distance somersault.
Mastering the different distances the Ninja can jump is essential to
overcome some of the hazards during the game.

Certain hazards, like jumping from one stepping stone to another, require
the Ninja to be standing still prior to somersaulting.  In these special
situations, the joystick should be in the central postion (neutral), press
fire button and push the joystick in the direction, and choice of distance
you want the Ninja to travel.



PICK UP OBJECTS
---------------

This function uses the crouch movements to collect objects on or near the
road ways.  The important thing is to remember as in real life, to pick up
anything, your hands must be touching the object.  So to with the Ninja,
his hands must actually touch the object in order for him to collect it.
Once you have identified the location of an object, position the Ninja so
that when his hands are outstretched, during the crouch move, they will
make contact with the object.  When this occurs, the object will
automatically be added to the Ninja's inventory and displayed in the status
area.  Objects to be collected will flash when you first come on the
screen. 

As mentioned earlier, practice of these movements before getting deeply
into the game is essential.  Take time out on the first screen to become
familiar with all the movements and functions and you will be able to gain
full enjoyment from this exciting and skilful game.


OBJECTS TO BE COLLECTED DURING THE GAME
---------------------------------------

Pouch		-Essential to carry your booty around in

Key		-Nearing the end of your tether?  This opens the door to
success

Nunchakus	-An essential weapon

Apple		-Crap Computer!  Or essential for extra life

Sword		-An essential weapon

Smoke bomb	-You will be able to smoke out the source of the fire

Claw		-Claw your way up to the top, and down again

Glove		-This is a good habit to pick up

Staff		-An essential weapon

Shuriken	-An essential weapon

Penis		-An essential weapon!!

Amulet		-To give is far greater than to receive

Flower		-Somewhere, there is a vase waiting for you

Rope		-Don't just run out, clamber for a while

Bottle		-Sweet dreams are made of this

Scrolls		-Once found, your quest is at an end.


GAME PLAY
---------

Foloowing are some basic hints and tips to help you accomplish your task.
Remember as with all great adventure games, things may not always seem as
they really are.  Also, we have not given away too much, there is still a
lot for you to find out for yourself.

As general points for all stages of the game:-

It si a wise idea to make a detailed map of the game as you play it - not
all roads "lead west" as they say!.  On yor map it is a good idea to mark
all the key elements like the type of guard (if there is one), any object
or objects you might find on a particular screen, location of weapons.

There is help around the game;  there are four fountains of knowlege that
can be consulted and shrines that will offer you divine insight into what
to look for - if you show the right, humble attitude.  When you have been
told to look out for something in particualr, it can be found on the next
screen usually!

Once you have collected an object it is then available for use.  Some
objects will only be effective in special locations(this is always related
to the nature of the object) while others, like the sword for example can
be used anywhere.  To use an object or weapon you must select it by cycling
through the Ninja's inventory - pressing the H key will list all the
objects in the status area.  Pressing the space bar selects the weapon you
want to use.

If you ever need a bit of time to stop and gather your thoughts, pressing
F7 will pause the game.

It is important that you have a good search around the screens, some of the
objects/weapons are cunningly hidden on the screen; and sometimes there
might be more that one on a screen!



FEATURES
--------

The following is a list of the different locations (stages) of the game:-

STAGE1 -THE WILDERNESS many of the objects you will need to successfully
complete the whole game will be here.  Leave no stone unturned, search
thouroughly.

STAGE2 -WASTELANDS not only are there important objects to be found, you
must also conquer the threatening mountains of Lin Fen.

STAGE3 -PALACE GARDENS There are numerous hazards to overcome, and if that
were not enough, the guards have taken an even greater dislike to you.

STAGE4 -THE DUNGEONS or moreappropiately known as the palace of nightmares.
Make plenty of maps, and more maps otherwise you might find this stage just
to (a)mazing for words.

STAGE5 -PALACE (low level) if you think that getting into the palace was a
stiff problem to solve, wait till you get inside!

STAGE6 -PALACE (the inner sanctum) the Shogun's private rooms, don't get
over awed by the sights, your final goal is close at hand.



STATUS AREA
-----------

The status display is divided into different sections.

At the bottom left are the stamina and endurance meters, these tell you
what condition both you and an opponent are in when locked in deadly
combat.

At the upper right side ar the collect/found/using object displays.  Their
functions are to tell you what to collect, what you already have collected,
what you are currently using.  At the bottom centre of the display is a
panel that tells you what weapons you have collected ( this information is
permanently on display ).

LIVES
-----

You begin the game with three lives on stage1, finding the life givining
object will give you one extra life.  To help you a little, if you begin
stage2 with only one life you will receive another immediately.

INVULNERABILITY
---------------

In order to overcome certain hazrds/opponents etc. you will have to resort
to the use of Ninja magic.  The magic takes on various forms, some of which
the source is hidden behind trees, rocks, even the likes of big boiling
pots or it might evn be litterally undrfoot.  The magic is collected the
same way as any other object - but nothing will be displayed in the found
section of the status area.  Instead the Ninja will exhibit some changes to
itself - albeit short lived.