                          Last Ninja III Quick Docs
                  Typed By Slayer & Action Man Of QUARTEX

Keyboard Controls
-----------------

P - Pick up

M - Music or sound effects option

Spacebar - Select weapon / objects

Help - Pause / Unpause

Esc - Abort game

 At any time durung the game you can chose between full contact cound 
effects or music by pressing the M key.

The game can only be played with a joystick.

Joystick Controls
-----------------

Basic Movement

 To change the direction the Ninja is facing, roll the joystick 
handle through all the positions until you are facing the 
direction you want.

TO WALK FORWARDS  Push the joystick in the direction the Ninja is facing
TO WALK BACKWARDS   Pull the joystick in the opposite direction to the 
one the Ninja is facing.

Special Movement

TURNING THE NINJA  Roll the joystick through all the positions until 
you are facing the direction you want.

SOMERSAULT  If the fire button is pressed while the Ninja is moving,
then he will somersault in that direction.

PICK UP   To pick up objects/weapons the button must be pressed and
the joystick pulled down-left or down-right (Diagonal)

------------------------------------------------------------------
Note: This move is also used at certain points of the game for 
placing  objects in a desired order or poisition.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Joystick Controlled fighting movements
 
 To activate the fighting moves, the Ninja should be stationary and 
the fire button pressed.

       Unarmed Moves                         Armed Moves
 
      Kick     DOWN                          Stab     UP
     Punch     UP                     Cross Slash     RIGHT
                                   Overhead Slash     LEFT
                                             Kick     DOWN
                                       Block Move     WALK BACK AND FIRE
 Throwing Moves (Shiraken, etc.)

          Throw     Right or Left


GENERAL TIPS
------------
 
  The first aspect of the game you master are the joystick controls. The
highly interactive nature of the game is required because of some of the
complex moves the Ninja character has to peform. A high level of 
competance at the controls will enhance your game play considerably.
 Because of the adventure elements our second sudgestion is that you 
should get into the habit of recording what happens on each screen. This
will enable you to obtain higher scores with repeat pley.
 The last point is, NEVER take anthing for granted - some things are 
not as they appear. Be curious, nosey, etc. and examine everything.