              LAST NINJA 2 DOCS TYPED BY N-R-G/INNER CITY 

    	       Released on 04/07/90 at 00:15:26 (hehe!!)


The Ninja, know as The Mystic Shadow Warriors, were the elite fighting
force of Ninth Century Feudal Japan. They were dedicated to the fine tuning
of their bodies into fighting machines. Their attributes were many and
varied; they were masters of weapon craft, assasination, stealth and
invisibility and many belived them to be in control of the supernatural.
A real master of the art of Ninjutsu could even anticipate an opponents
move ... and thoughts.

To achieve this high level of skill all initiates had to undergo years of
rigorous training. Correct application of these skills required cunning,
dexterity and total mind control. Students of the Ninja arts drove
themselves on to try to achieve the state of self-perfection and a closeness
to their god. Therefore martial arts fighting disciplines became the
highest, most honurable path to perfection. Unfortunatley, some Ninja were
to abuse their powers ... 

The Ninja were nearly wiped out of existence during a purge in the Twelth
Century. But now they are back and more powerful than ever ... Back with a
vengance!

The struggle with the Evil Shogun, Kunitoki, had taken it's toll. For many
months after regaining control over the island of Lin Fen, Arnakuni, the
new master of the Ninjutsu, fell into a deep deprssion at the loss of his
brethen. He reflected again and again upon his struggle against Kunitoki,
and always came to the same conclusion - it was only the end of the battle,
not the end of the war.

After more than a year of languishing upon Lin Fen, Armakuni was prepared
to reinatate the way of the Shadow Warrior to it's former glory. With the
Koga scrolls in his poccession all that Armakuni needed now were the
disciples to follow his guidance and the teachings of the ancient
manuscripts.

As the word spread about the mainland that a new master has the scrolls and
was about to begin training, the men began to arrive. They were the sons of
the fighting elite - the Samurai.

A new order of Ninja slowly began to take shape. But this time the training
was going to be more intense than ever before. Never again would they be
caught of guard and be defeated without honour.

During a training session of the Inner Circle - the Masters elite of the
elite - a strange feeling came over the class. It was as if time had
abrutly stood still, as if they were the only people left in the world. As
Armakuni rose from his meditating positon a strange pulsating light
enshrouded him. Concerned with what they saw, the class tried to rise and
go to his assistance. But they were fixed in their positions, no one could
move.

The intensity of the light grew around Armakuni until all who were
witnessing the scene were forced to cover their eyes. When the light faded
and finally dissapeared, the students leapt to their feet. What had
happened? Were was the master?

"What is happening?" shouted Armakuni. But no one could hear him. It was as
if he was invisible and in a sound proof box. Why wasn't his class rushing
to his aid to help him break free? Why did he feel the sharp thorns of
fear, while inside he was as calm as the deep seas? What game were the
ancients playing with him? His questions found no answers as he slipped
unwillingly into uncounsiousness.

Slowly Armakuni was standing on a wooden floor surrounded by strange
objects that vaguely reminded him of musical instruments. Behind him is a
curtain parted slightly in the middle. As he tries to focus his eyes on the
surroundings his mind is sent spinning. He sees strange gigantic shapes,
covered with mirrors, reaching to the very doorstep of the heavens.

"Where am I?" shouts Armakuni. Trying to get some control over his rushing
emotions he calls upon all his reserves of courage. He must try to make
sense of the insanity surrounding him. Taking a moment to mediatate,
Armakuni suddenley experiences a strange chilling sensation. There is a
force in this land, a force he has not felt since the final battle with the
Evil Shogun, Kumitoki.

"Could he here? Has some cruel trick of fate brought the two of us together
again?" thinks Armakuni. As these thoughts rush through his mind, Armakuni
begins to realise that their destinies must be forever interweaved and
wherever evil forces try to hold sway over mankind, Armakuni is the one
chosen to vanquish it.

Armakuni's immediate concern is to explore his surrounings. He must find
some means of defending himself against the unknown dangers that lie before
him. Although Armakuni was torn from his own time with nothing more than
the clothes on his back, he has total belief in his abilities.



LOADING INSTRUCTIONS:
---------------------

Set up your computer system as detailed in your user manual ensure that all
none essential peripherals are disconnected. Faliure to do so may cause
loading difficulties. Swith on computer and inset disk.

CONTROLS:
---------

Use a joystick to control the Ninja plus the following keys: 

		HELP:	Select object held
		DEL:	Select weapon held
  		J:	Rotate joystick orientation by 45 degrees
		F1:	Turn music off
		F2:	Pause/Unpause
		F10:	Quit

BASIC MOVEMENT:
---------------

To change the dirrection the Ninja is facing - roll the joystick handle
through all the positions until you are facing the direction you want.

To walk forward - push the joystick in the direction the Ninja is facing.

To step backwards - pull the joystick in the opposite direction to the one
the Ninja is facing.

To drift accross the path - push the joystick in the direction you want him
to veer (this applies to walking forwards and backwards).

SPECIAL MOVEMENTS:
------------------

To activate the pickup, press the fire button then pull the joystick bottom
right or bottom left diagonally.

To pick an item from pathway or the background you first have to positon
the Ninja correctly. The Ninja must be facing the object you want to
collect and be close enough so that when he bends down, his hands will be
touching the object. Once the Ninja's hands have touched the object it will
be automatically picked up and displayed in the status area. It is then
added to the Ninja's inventory.

SOMERSAULTING:
--------------

To make the Ninja somersault, either to avoid attack or to overcome some
hazard, such as jumping from one wall to another, you should make the Ninja
run in the direction you want him to somersault, and while he is moving
press the fire button. Because the Ninja can move in three dimensions, he
will jump along the path or across the path depending on which direction
you push the joystick: diagonal up - across and up the path, sideways -
across the path horizontally (the Ninja can only somersault forwards).

GENERAL TIPS:
-------------

The first aspect of the game you should master are the joystick controls.
The highly interactive nature of the game is required because of some of
the complex moves the Ninja character has to perform. A high level of
competance at the controls will enhance the gameplay considerably.

Because of the adventure elements our second suggestion is that you should
get into the habit of recording what happens on each screen. This will
enable you to obtain higher scores with repeated play.

The last point is, never take anything for granted - somethings are not as
they appear. Be curious, nosy, and examine everything. 

CLUES:
------

The following clues to some of the objects and hazards you may come across
in your travels. They are listed in the 'load' order, not necessairly in
the order in which you have to find them. In the spirit of all good
adventures ... we have not told you the whole story.

KEYS:
There are grate keys and not so grate keys. In the beginning they are a
hard bunch to find.

TRAPDOOR:
Get a good grip and punch your way through this problem.

MAP:
This map is a bit flash, it can reveal a lot.

NUNCHUKAS:
Pulling off this two part problem could make you flushed with success.

SHIRAKAN:
You'll have to box clever to reach the stars.

STAFF:
Reaching new heights, these staff will do well.

BOTTLE:
Wino(t) trap around the streets and grab a drink while you can.

SWORD:
Shop around for the best buy, it could be a real steel.

HAMBURGER:
(quote) "Greater love hath no man than this, that he lay down his extra
hamburger for a friend".

CREDIT CARD:
You'll get extended credit when you gain access. It will really lift your
spirits.

COMPUTER TERMINAL:
Your numbers up if you don't act like an elephant.


THE FINAL PROBLEM IS ALWAYS IN THE PICTURE, SAFLEY:
---------------------------------------------------
The game is played in a variety of enviroments. The following are a few
cryptic clues as to the sort of places you will be visiting.

LOAD ONE : CENTRAL PARK
The key to success is to gain new heights then go for a frolic on the
river.

LOAD TWO : DOWNTOWN MANHATTEN
The busy street can be paved with danger. Stepping out before your time
could really flip you out. If you're really sophisticated, you can get down
to it and make a grate exit.

LOAD THREE : SEWERS
Typically deep, dark and dank. There'll be no torch carrying here, You'll
just need lots of bottle.

LOAD FOUR : OPIUM FACTORY
Meet a real cool cat, but be careful, you might get a shock along the way.
Tread carefully before taking a quick dip.

LOAD FIVE : OFFICE BLOCK
Entrance here is no big secret. You could become a real terminal case
before you get to meet your biggest fan and become star struck.

LOAD SIX : SHOGUN'S RETREAT
Drop in to see your arch enemy. If you're dumb enough it might not be too
alaraming. After that it's full steam ahead. Careful, if you get cornered
you might have to do a six point turn.