                      L E A T H E R N E C K


Player Control

   Leatherneck is a one, two, three, or four player game.
Two men are controlled with joysticks in the normal game
ports. The other two men are controlled with the joysticks
plugged intothe special MicroDeal dual joystick adaptor
(attached to the parallel port on your computer). This is
optional and not necessary to be able to play the one or
two-player game. At the start of each game any man who is
not under direct control of a player will die in a few
seconds, so the selection of 1,2,3, or 4 players is auto-
matic. A game can be started by pressing an joystick
button.

   Note: When a game is started you must make some
   sort of joystick movement or the computer will
   think you do not wish to play, and your player
   will die.



The Game

   The object of the game si to score points by surviving
and advancing as far as possible through the treacherous
jungle. You will have to defend yourself vigorously in order
to survive the enemy attacks. You must avoid the enemy, their
machine gun fire, and grenade explosions. To advance, simply
walk up the screen while defending yourself with your own
machine guns and hand grenades.

   You will receive another cammando warrior at 10,000 points.
The program will save the top 3 scores to disk. The other 
scores will only be saved until the machine is rebooted.

   Caution: If you are playing as a team, avoid
   shooting you team members, or throwing grenades
   where the explosion may endanger them. Advance
   as quickly as possible, but beware of being in
   too much of a hurry.


Status and Score Windows

   On the right hand side of the screen is a status area which
displays for each player; a score, number of lives remaining,
current weapon in use, and the amount of amunition left for 
that weapon. A bullet in the status area represents how much
amunition you have left for your current weapon. When the bullet
is full you have maximum ammunition, as you fire your weapon,
the bullet will slowly become shorter until it is completely
gone. You will not be able to use that weapon again until you
collect more ammunition.

  Ammunition supplies can be found along the way and are
picked up automatically by walking over the box. Ammunition
boxes contain equal amount for each weapon, so don't rely on
just one weapon. A heavy machine gun has a longer range, a
light machine gun will fire faster, and grenades can be 
thrown over obstacles. 

Note to Dr. Icepick - to make this easier to understand, a
heavy machine gun is like Stroh's regular, a light machine
gun is like Stroh's light and the grenades would be like a
keg of draft.


Weapon Controls

   Your current weapon can be changed one of two ways. The
first is by moving your joystick rapidly right, left, then
right again. Secondly a player may change his weapon by
striking a key on the keyboard. The keys are listed below.

   Player 1   Any key to the left of the 7, Y, H, B keys
              inclusive, on the QWERTY keyboard.
   Player 2   Any key to the right of the 8, U, J, N keys
              inclusive, on the QWERTY keyboard.
   Player 3   Any of the arrow keys may be used.
   Player 4   Any key on the numeric keypad.


Joystick Controls

   Player 1       Is controlled by a joystick in the non-
                  mouse port on the computer.
   Player 2       Is controller by a joystick in the mouse.
   Players 3 & 4  Are controlled by joysticks plugged into
                  the MicroDeal joystick adaptor cable.


Function Keys

      F1     Aborts the current game.
      F6     Switches on/off player 2
             (You must press F6 to enable Player 2)
      F8     Pauses current game.
      F9     Resumes play.
      F10    Switches on/off the 3 & 4 player mode.

         Note: If the F6 key has been pressed to
         activate player 2 and a mouse is connected
         you will not be able to advance up the screen.
         Also, if the F10 key has been pressed to
         activate the 3 & 4 player mode and there is
         a printer cable connected, you will not be
         able to advance up the screen. To correct
         this, simply press either F6 or F10 to turn
         off the unused players.



This file was laborously typed by Stanley.

Before I quit, I want to say "HI" to The Emperor,
Dr. Icepick, The Magafer and of course John DePain.
