                   THE LEGEND OF KYRANDIA



                  Table of Contents 
 
 
 
   History of Kyrandia..................... 
 
   How To Play: 
  
   Getting Started........................ 
 
 
 
   Basic Instructions: 
 
   Using A Mouse To Play.................. 
 
   Keyboard Controls...................... 
 
   Objection Manipulation................. 
 
   Game Screen............................ 
 
   Options Menus.......................... 
 
   Loading A Game......................... 
 
   Saving Games........................... 
 
   Game Controls.......................... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              The History Of Kyrandia 
 
 
  Deep Within The Ancient Forests, the enchanting world of 
Kyrandia has long been known as the most magical of the 
ancient Kingdoms. 
 
  Many centuries before our story, King William the first 
created a covenant with the Natural kingdom.  The residents 
of Kyrandia and the Natural world were made partners in a 
plan of mutual care and protection. 
 
  An enormous gem, now known as the Kyragem, emerged from the 
ground on the spot where King William stood. 
 
The gem was given to the people of Kyrandia by the Land as a 
symbol of this sacred alliance.  It was the responsibility of 
the Royal family to ensure the safety of the Kyragem. 
 
  Before the Kyragem, Magic only existed as unconnected 
fragments of a temporary nature. The Kyragem has concentrated 
the magic in Kyrandia that anywhere else in the kingdom of 
man. 
 
  The simple stone masons faced with the difficult task of 
building a vault to house the magical artifact developed the 
first uses of the Kyragem's powers. 
 
  Originally used as the source of magic for the protective 
covering about the gem itself, the powers were later also 
used during the construction of the wondrous Castle Kyrandia. 
 
  The descendants of these early craftsmen passed on 
knowledge of the magic to the following generations. Each 
geneation added to the knowledge, and expanded the 
applications to various sites throughout Kyrandia. 
 
 Many years later, abuse of the magical powers became common 
and the magic was used daily for even simple tasks.  As a 
result, Queen Thelia the Strict created the Order of Royal 
Mystics to organize and control all magic from the Kyragem. 
Choosing from among those stone masons posessing knowledge of 
the various forms of magic, Queen Thelia established the four 
mystical disiplines of Alchemy, Spirituality, Scrolls, and 
Gem Lore. 
 
  The Royal Mystics celebrate their humble orgins each year 
with the festival of mortar, which is believed to be the 
luckiest week of the year. 
 
 During the reign of King Bernard the fourth, nearby nations 
became jealus of Kyradia's prosperity and declared war. 
Several long years of brtal attacks almost rined Kyrandia. 
Reluctant to use magic as an offensive weapon, King Bernard 
eventually employed the magic of the Kyragem to turn the 
invading armies against the evil of their own commanders. 
Thus began the friendly alliances that endure today with 
Kyrandia's neighboring lands. 
 
 Benjamin the Gardner, nephew of King Bernard, and first king 
of the modern lineage, spent his lengthy tenure occpied with 
the complete re-creation of the forests and natural wonders 
that had been so horribly destroyed by the invading armies 
during his childhood. 
 
  The Roya Mystics assisted Benjamin in his work, and 
installed many of the magical natural wonders that exist to 
this day.  Many historians also credit Pantos, a tailor to 
the court of Kyrandia, with the invention of trousers durning 
this period. 
 
  Recent history has not been kind to Kyrandia.  The 
enlightened reign of King William the Generous ended 
tragically not long ago when Malcom, a friend of the family 
and jester to the court, murdered both king and queen, and 
seized the Kyragem. 
 
  For a brief and terrifying moment, Kyrandia was at the 
mercy of Malcolm.  Fortunately, Kallak, chief of the Mystics, 
and father of the slain qeen, was able to create a magical 
seal that prevented Malcolmfrom leaving the castle. 
 
  Fearing for the safety of his grandson, Kallak chose to 
leave the palace and raise young Brandon in a rural are 
beyond the Timbermist woods and far away from the castle now 
inhabited by the captive usuper Malcolm. 
 
  Orphand as an infant, and sole heir to the throne of 
Kyrandia, Brandon has been kept ignorant of his royal status 
by his protective grandfather. 
 
  Despite its long and gloris history, all is not well in 
Kyrandia today.  Denied further access to the Kraygem, the 
Royal Mystics are unable to replenish their magical stores. 
 
  Reseres are scare, and the Mystics have been forced to 
disassemble more protective enchantments every year in an 
effort to maintain enough power for the spell which restrains 
Malcolm. 
 
  Now Grown To adulthood, Brandon will soon be drawn into the 
madness of Malcolm.  Alone in his confinement, and unsable to 
escape, Malcom has carefully planned his revenge.  He has 
worked against the bonds that hold him and ploted against all 
Kyrandia, as none would crown him king. 
 
 
    At this very moment the shackles which held Malcolm have 
failed! Malcom has broken free, and his vengeful spite has 
already begun to destroy the land.  Brandon is Kyrandia's 
only hope.  You must guide him before it is too late! Focus 
your magic.  Restore the Kyragem, and claim your rightful 
place in the legend of Kyrandia! 
  
 
 
 
                     Getting Started: 
 
 
  The introduction to Kyrandia will begin once the game has 
been loaded.  If you are in a hurry, or have already wathced 
the introductory scenes, you may bypass the introduction 
scenes by presing any key.  If you do, the 'Load A Game' menu 
will appear, and you may either load a previosly game or 
begin a new game. 
 
  You will find Kyrandia easy to learn and fun to play.  All 
characters and game items are activated simply by pointing 
and clicking with your mouse.  The first few scenes are not 
immediately dangerous to the Brandon, so feel free to roam 
about for a few scenes as you get comfortable. 
 
 
 
 
 
           Using a Mouse to Play or: 
           Clicking around Kyrandia: 
 
 
 
  All of the game playing activities in Kyrandia can be 
easily controlled by using your mouse.  Only the left button 
is needed.  The middle and right buttons that you may have 
are not used in this game. 
 
  The mouse is connected to the pointer arrow [cursor] on 
the monitor screen, and any movement of your mouse will 
result in a corresponding movement by the pointer on the 
screen. 
 
  You play the game by moving the pointer to an area or on an 
object and then pressing on the mouse button.  This activity 
is called 'clicking'.  Clicking Brandon Around Kyrandia. 
 
 
   The Main character in this game is named Brandon.  You as 
the player will control the activities and even the fate of 
Brandon by clicking him around the scenes of Kyrandia.  Click 
on the left side of the screen, and Brandon will walk in that 
direction.  Click to the right, and Brandon will obediently 
walk to the right. 
 
 
     In many cases, Brandon will walk to the exact spot where 
you clicked.  In other cases, Brandon may not be able to walk 
as far as you wish.  In those cases, Brandon will walk as far 
as he possibly can.  You can often re-direct Brandon even as 
he is walking if you change your mind. 
 
   You can walk Brandon out of the scene in wich he currently 
appears by clicking on the edge of the scene in the direction 
you would like him to go.  He will walk to the edge, and then 
appear in the adjoining area as it is displayed. 
 
  Notice that the shape of the pointer will change when it is 
positioned on a scene edge or doorway through which Brandon 
may pass.  This is an indication to the player that clicking 
there will exit Brandon from the current scene, and send him 
into the adjoining area. 
 
  Although Brandon can usually walk up, down, left or right, 
he will often find himslef in areas where his movements are 
restricted.  The pointer will change to a NO GO sign when 
there is an area through which Brandon cannot pass. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                Using a Keyboard to Play: 
 
 
The keyboard controls for Kyrandia are similar in function to 
those for using a mouse.  The on-screen pointer can be 
maneuvered by using the numeric keypad.  Once you have 
positioned the pointer where desired, pressing the ENTER key 
or INSERT SPACE bar will serve the same function as clicking 
the left button on the mouse, and will initiate all walking 
and other activities. 
 
 
 
 
              Object manipulation, or: 
              Carrying on in Kyrandia: 
 
 
 
  You can make Brandon pick up, carry, and use many of the 
objects that appear in Kyrandia simply by clicking on them. 
For example: you make Brandon pick up the apple that is 
hidden in the pot in his home by positioning the pointer on 
the pot and clicking. 
 
 
  The apple appears and 'becomes' the pointer.  This is an 
indication that the apple is Brandon's active possesion. 
Moving the Mouse will now allow you to move the apple around 
the screen. 
 
   Once the apple becomes the pointer, several options are 
available to Brandon.  You may have Brandon add the apple to 
the items he is carrying in his knapsack by positioning the 
apple down below the screen in one of his inventory slots, 
and the clicking to release it.  the apple/pointer will 
remain until it is either released into the knapsack 
inventory, released somewhere in the scene, or otherwise used 
or dropped.  Once the apple in his knapsack, Brandon will 
carry the apple with him as he moves about Kyrandia. 
 
  Another option you have with the apple is to make use of 
it.  There are many things to find in Kyrandia, and the 
employment of various objects in necessary to solve some of 
the puzzles Brandon is likely to encounter.  In the case of 
the apple, it may be used by having Brandon eat it.  If you 
picked up the apple and click it on Brandon, he will aet 
apple and an apple core will remain. 
 
  There are also number of actives areas and objects in 
Kyrandia that Brandon cannot pick up.  Clicking on these 
areas, and clicking objects on these areas will often 
initiate actions.  For example: Clicking on the purple pot in 
Brandon's home will expose the contents of the pot, which is, 
in this case, an apple.  Brandon will be as surprised as you, 
and will likely make some comment about finding the apple. 
The pot also has further potential for action.  Once the 
apple has been removed, other items may be dropped in.  The 
apple core may be disposed of in a hygenic manner by dropping 
in.  The apple core may be disposed of in a hygienic manner 
by dropping in into the pot. 
 
   Most of the other people in Kyrandia will speak to Brandon 
briefly upon meeting him, and can be prompted to speak at 
greater length by clicking on them.  Some of the people may 
require that brandon bring specific objects to them [and that 
you click these items on them] before they will continue 
their conversations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  The Game Screen: 
 
 
  The game screen in Kyrandia is divided into two distinct 
areas are distinguished.  The upper portion of the screen 
displays the graphics depicting the current location of the 
principal character Brandon.  If you move Brandon far enough 
in one diection, the game screen will change to display his 
new surroundings.  You, as the player, cannot view any other 
areas.  Access to certain areas may not be allowed to Brandon 
unless specific game puzzle condirions are satisfied.  For 
example, Brandon may need to assist Herman in repairing the 
broken bridge before he can cross into the Timbermist Woods. 
 
  The bottom section of the game screen has four parts.  On 
the left side there is a blue gem labeled 'OPTIONS'. 
Clicking on this icon will pause game play and activate the 
appearance of a menu of the choices available to you. 
Further instructions about your options concerning saving 
games, adjusting game controls, and quitting or resuming play 
are availble by selecting and click on the desired option. 
For more information on saving games see the section 'SAVING 
GAMES'. 
 
   The middle of the lower screen section shows two rows of 
rectangular slots which may be used to carry items for 
Brandon.  This area is analogous to Brandon's 'knapsack'. 
Anything placed into the inventory of the knapsack will be 
carried with Brandon from scene to scene until it is either 
used or discarded.  If you wish to store more objects than 
you have slots, you may have to create stockpiles, or 
remember where you left a particular item. 
 
  The right side of the lower screen has an area reserved for 
the display of a magic amulet.  If you are successful in 
guiding Brandon towards its disvovery, the gold flame will 
appear.  The frame supports four gems which may or may not 
become activated, depending on your direction of Brandon. 
Activated gems will be brightly colored, and clicking on them 
will iniiate specific activities.  un-activated gems cause no 
actions, and are colored black. 
 
  In between the upper display screen and the three lower 
areas is a narrow area that covers the full width of the 
screen.  This is called the message box.  Text displayed here 
may either to identify the specific area of Kyrandia 
currently shown or may comment on the status of things in 
Kyrandia.  When you click on the apple the message box will 
say 'Apple Taken'.  Move the apple into Brandon's knapsack 
inventory and the text will read 'Apple Placed'.  Release the 
apple somewhere in the scene the text will show 'Apple 
Dropped'. 
 
 
 
                  The Options Menu 
 
 
   By clicking on the options icon on the game screen you 
will activate a menu which includes headings titled 'Game 
Controls', 'Load a Game', and 'Save a Game' 'Quit Playing' 
and Resume Game'.  Clicking on a head will activate a sub- 
menu within that area. 
 
 
 
 
 
                   Loading a Game 
 
 
 
   Clicking on 'Load a Game' in the main options menu will 
activate 'load a Game' menu.  You may then make a selection 
that allows you to either start a new game, or reload a game 
that you have previosly saved.  Although you may save a 
number of different games, only five will be displayed on the 
menu at any one time.  By clicking on the scrolling arrows 
you may move up and down within the list. 
 
 
                    Saving Games 
 
 
  Clicking on the 'Save this Game' on the main options menu 
will activate display of the 'Save a Game' menu.  When you 
save the game you are currently playing, you may place it 
into a empty slot or you may keep it in an already titled 
slot.  Saving a game into an already occupied slot will 
replace the prvious game with the version you are currently 
saving. 
  Clicking on the scrolling arrows will allow you to move the 
list of your saved game up and down.  Selecting to save a 
game will activate a name box into which you can type a 
description of the game you are saving.  You may name your 
saved games however you wish. 
 
 
  As a matter of practice, it is advisable to save the game 
frequently as you progress.  It is particularly advisable to 
save your game before you explore situations that may be 
hazardous to Brandon. 
  
                     


                    THE END