                   L E G E N D  O F  T H E  L O S T

                              D O X

  LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
  --------------------

  Insert disk and turn on your computer on.

  
  CONTROLS
  --------

  All movements are joystick controlled.

  P to pause the game, Q to quit, and S to toggle between music and 
  sound FX (ST Only).


  THE SETTING
  -----------

  Remember the old jungle films, where the men were men and women tripped
  on every branch! Now's your chance to relive the excitment of yester-
  year as you seek revenge on the unknown inhabitants in a remote part
  of deepest Africa.

  You play "JACK' - a down on his luck pilot who has hit the bottle once
  to often.  Having gone to the local airfields control tower to see if
  you can speak to your stewardess girlfriend, you hear her plane get 
  shot down!


  YOUR PLAN OF ACTION
  -------------------

  Your first action is to fly over the African landscape in hope of finding
  the wreckage - and Jane.  Suddenly, high powered jet aircraft start 
  buzzing your old bi-plane.  It's their missiles against your bullets
  as you dive and twist your way to victory.  Watchout! A lucky shot hits
  your aircraft and you spin and spin and spin ...


  JOYSTICK CONTROL
  ----------------

  Move the joystick in the direction you wish to fly and press the fire 
  button to fire.

  ... Having parachuted just in time, you find yourself on the ground
  miles away from anywhere.  Heading for the high ground, you start 
  walking towards the volcano which seems to dominate the skyline.  
  Something stirs in the distance, you ignore it ... but it's getting 
  closer - is it friend or foe? You can't ignore it now - it's RHINO!!! 
  instinct tells you to shoot and run.  Run as hard as you can to reach
  the deserted village at the foot of the volcano ...


  JOYSTICK CONTROL
  ----------------

  Left or right to move your man.  Press fire button to get your target
  and aim by moving the joystick, press fire button again to shoot.

  ... Knowing that the villians are somewhere inside the volcano, you
  clamber up and over the rocks, treading carefully, trying not to fall.  
  A falling pebble breaks the silence, a second follows then a third  
  and then rock slide! your only chance is to run, jump and crouch your 
  way to shelter ...


  JOYSTICK CONTROL
  ----------------

  Move the joystick in the direction you want to move your man.  
  Pressing fire makes him crouch, releasing fire and he jumps.

  ... Seeking shelter leads you to enter a cave which forms part of 
  the volcanos body.  You search for Jane - is she alive? stealth, 
  strength and luck will required to find out the fate of your girl ...

  
  JOYSTICK CONTROL
  ----------------

  Left or right to move your man, diagonally down to jump, push up to
  climb the ladder, push down to descend.

  ... With tremendous skill and courage you may be lucky enough to find 
  your girl.
  NO time for hugs and kisses - you've got to set the detonator, avoid 
  the enemy and run, remembering the short time you have to escape...

  DO this and dont lose your girl, and romance will be your reward at 
  the top of the lost falls!!


  CREDITS
  -------

  Doc's : Mr.SCARFACE Of CRYSTAL!
   Game : ENERGIZE