   |||||| ||||

  -LEGEND-DOCS-

   |||||| ||||



   Legend is a nice interactive adventure/strategy game based world

conquest.  The overall objective of each player is to conquer and develop

his or her own territory while distrupting the progress of the other player.

The game may be played against either the computer or another human, and

the players (excepting the computer) are able to select their alignment

(benign - good, or malign - evil.)



   After answering the above simple questions, the computer will randomly

determine who will play first.  The players will have these major options

during their turn:



  MAP        - Take a birds-eye view of the world with armies and buildings

               in place.  You can select INFO here and receive more specific

               information regarding a selected territory.



  STATUS     - View your income (per turn), your current money, number of

               territories conquered and owned, and your current spell

               points.



  CHARACTER  - Browse through this rogues gallery of various armies to find

               one or more that will suit your standards (or money.)

               The cost to hire a specific army is listed under "point

               cost".  This amount will be deducted from your gold at the

               time of purchase.



   SPECIAL   - These special characters, units, and weapon will aid your

               armies in combat, increase your spell efficiency,

               assassinate enemy leaders, or steal enemy gold.  The special

               units are Thief, Xelfar, Wenlock, Assassin, Militia,

               Catapult, Scouts, and Dragon.  Only one of each exists, so

               one or the other of the players may possess each one...

               not both.  Switch to another set of Special units by clicking

               on one of the four listed and then select "swap".  The other

               four units will then be displayed for selection.  Exit to the

               main menu by choosing "return".



   TROOPS    - This will list your character armies, along with their

               statistics and descriptions.  You may also recruit more

               troops into an army.  The "point cost" will be deleted from

               your gold, and the computer will randomly add more troops.



   SPELLS    - Each spell has a full discription within the game, along with

               their spell point costs.  The spells are:



                    Sorcery                       Theomancy

               Fireball      Bow             Death         Cure

               Lightning     Teleport        Life          Tremor

               Charm         Berserk         Curse         Fear

               Shield        Sloth           Bless         Heal



   END TURN  - Select this to relinquish play to the next person or to

               go to the deployment/move/attack phase if the other player

               has already taken his or her turn.



   BUILD     - These buildings/structures each have their own unique

               properties by which they may benefit you.  They can be

               expensive for what you get, but will pay off in the

               long run.  An army must occupy a territory with a building

               in it for you to gain from its benefits.  The various

               buildings are:  Keep, Mine, Tavern, Temple, and Monolith.



   LEGEND    - Copyright information.



   QUIT      - Reboot game.  You will be asked to verify your selection.





   Overall, the game is enjoyable, but can sometimes get tedious or

frustrating.  To get the hang of the game, I recommend using the person vs.

person mode and simply controlling both forces.



   The dragon is an extremely powerful ally, but care must be taken in

dealing with him.  The Thief and Assassin work for money.  If you don't keep

their pockets full, they'll up and leave their barracks empty.  Keep extra

cash on hand if you have hired either of these.  The Monolith is important

to the potent magic user... the more you build, the faster your power will

recharge and grow.



   Good luck.