                                LET'S SPELL AT HOME

Typed by SIDEWINDER for LSD.  Edited by PARASITE.


There are three Let's Spell scenario programs.  AT THE SHOPS, AT HOME, and
OUT AND ABOUT.  They can be played independantly or the disks can be
interchanged during a game.

Once a program has loaded you will be presented with a title screen.  If you
have purchased an additional scenerio disk then you may change disks now.
Just follow the prompts to go on.  Next you can view an information summary
screen if you wish.  Lastly a menu picture ( of a house if you are using this
disk or another scene if using another scenerio) will appear.  The mouse
pointer is a little girl but this can be changed to a little boy by pressing
the right mouse button.
        If the child is moved into a room, and the left mouse button is pressed,
the screen fades and a new one displaying the scene chosen will appear.
        The pointer becomes a pointing hand and moving this over the screen will
cause a bell to ring when it is over an item on the screen.  Pressing the
left mouse button replaces this screen with a spelling screen.

THE SPELLING SCREEN
This shows a lower case alphabet set, a finish box, an 'oops' box, two small
teddies, a teddy's face, a picture of the item selected and a thermometer.

LEVELS OF PLAY
To select the lower age group (4 to 6) click on the small teddy with the
pointer using the left mouse button.  The spelling of the item in the picture
will appear as uncoloured boxes.  All the child needs to do is place the
pointer on matching letters in the alphabet grid and click the mouse left
button.  The first box will fill with colour.  This is done until all the
boxes are filled and then the finish box is clicked on.  If a mistake is made
clicking on the oops box will uncolour the last box filled.
        A correct answer is rewarded with a smiling face, a tune and a message.
the screen then switches back to the room.  THE TUNE CAN BE STOPPED BY
PRESSING THE LEFT MOUSE BUTTON.  A wrong answer is greeted with a sad face
and the word is respelt.  As this is done the correct letters are associated
with a bell sound whereas incorrect letters are associated with a shooting
sound while the letter is changed to the correct one.  The child can then try
again.
        The next age range (6 to 9) can be selected by pressing on the larger
teddy (this is the default setting).  No letters will appear and the child
has to spell the word without help.  This is done in the same way as in the
lower age group.  It is adapted in the same way as standard primary school
techniques to help those who have just progressed up from letter matching
(age 5 - 7).
        This is the LOOK, COVER, SPELL and CHECK method.  If the teddy's eyes
are clicked on, the word is displayed and sounded for about four seconds.
the child can have a go at spelling it.  Success and failure are treated as
before.
        Lastly in both age ranges and with the cover method the help of a
thermometer can be obtained by clicking on it.  This will show a rise of
temperature when the pointer is close to the correct letter.  IF THE MOUSE
MOVES OFF THE ALPHABET GRID OR MORE LETTERS HAVE BEEN USED TO SPELL THE WORD
THAN ARE IN IT THEN THE THERMOMETER WILL FREEZE.  This can give the child
some measure of independance from the parent.
Exiting the screen is via the wayout sign and returns you to the main menu
(home in this game).  Exiting here gives you the chance to change the
scenerio disk for another one.  Just answer no to the question "Are you sure"
and then follow the prompts.  Answering "yes" will finish the game.  A list
of the words spelt correctly in this session will then be shown.  This list
can be printed out (Epsom or IBM printer) to keep a permanent record for you
to assess your child's progress.  I hope that this program will reward and
stimulate your child to improve it's spelling and word recognition.  The aim
is to allow the child's imagination to play "at home" (or whatever other
scenerio disk is chosen) and in the process discover the shape of words
associated with everyday objects and to learn how letters sound.

End.
