            Leviathan 
            Copyright/Publisher: English Software, Release Year: 1987,
           

                  INTRODUCTION
                  A space game inspired by the ZZ Top video "Rough Boy". 
                  Featuring:
                  - Left and right diagonal scrolling landscapes. 
                  - Totally manoeuvrable Leviathan spaceship: It flies, it 
                  shoots, it flips! 
                  - True perspective graphics: Be amazed as Leviathan passes 
                  behind land based hazards. Ground cannon, flack machines, 
                  lightning bolters and masses of aliens. 
                  Dazzling music, continuous sound effects and progressive skill 
                  levels. 
                  SCENARIO
                  Leviathan takes you thirty-three seconds into the future, 
                  where pop videos inspire crazy fantasies in the minds of 
                  ordinary people. Your objective (we were going to call it a 
                  mission, but that´s a bit pretentious, don´t you think?) is to 
                  seek out and destroy enemy ships in three excitingly different 
                  planet zones: 
                  MOONSCAPE (Leviathan master program) 
                  CITYSCAPE (Landscape one) 
                  GREEKSCAPE (Landscape two) 
                  GAMEPLAY
                  Each zone must be crossed, Leviathan destroying all the enemy 
                  ships in each zone within the allotted time. If successful, 
                  select the next skill level, or cross to the next zone, if you 
                  dare. 
                  You have limited fuel (audible warnings will keep you on your 
                  toes), unlimited missiles, five lives plus a bonus life every 
                  5.000 points, and most have the will to succeed! 
                  Extra fuel can be collected by landing on the arrows near the 
                  fuel pods in the cityscape, and in all three scapes you can 
                  shoot the spinning fuel cubes (FCUBES) in the space sectors. 
                  Watch the diagonal arrows flashing green to guide you in the 
                  right direction to find those elusive aliens, and keep your 
                  three smart bombs in reserve: You can use them to eliminate 
                  all your enemies! 
                  (Smart bombs that also blow themselves to smithereens aren´t 
                  really that smart, but they do play their small part in the 
                  short history of space shoot-em-ups). 
                  THe timer will monitor your gameplay: If it runs out, you will 
                  just have to start again, Sorry! 
                  JOYSTICK CONTROLS
                  Use a joystick in port two. 
                  During the title screen mode, push the button to go on to the 
                  option screen. 
                  Use the joystick/button to select game options on the option 
                  screen. 
                  In the cityscape, after landing to refuel, push the button to 
                  take off again. 
                  KEYBOARD CONTROLS
                  [F1] key will reset your game to the option screen. 
                  [F3] key will reset your game to the title page and title 
                  music, which is a pretty smart tune (one of Dave´s best!). 
                  [F5] key will jump to the Hi-Score screen. 
                  [F7] key toggles pause mode on/off. 
                  [SPACE] will explode three smart bombs in each game, so use 
                  them wisely. 
                  FURTHER INFORMATION
                  For those who are just too impatient, wanting to know the 
                  exact shape, colour and appearance of all your enemies, before 
                  you´ve even been confronted by them, watch the central monitor 
                  at the start of each new game: Behold and fear ten different 
                  aliens for all to see! 
                  CREDITS
                  Programmed by Michael Hedley 
                  Graphics by Richard Hare, Colin Brown, Michael Hedley, Paul 
                  Docherty and Mark Kelly. 
                  Music and sound fx by David Whittaker. 
                  Game idea by Philip Morris 
                  Game title by Ralph Frumin 
                  Copyright 1987 English Software Tm.