          .ЭиииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииЭ.
          :         ________                     ъ______              :
          :         \_     / ______  ___________ |   __ї______        :
          :         /     /\/   _  \/   _  \    \|   \   ____/        :
          :        /     /  \   !   \   !   \    Ъ   /\__Ю  \         :
          :       /     /    \_ А    \  А    \      /    !   \        :
          :       \___________ї______ї_______/ Џ___ї_________/Mb      :
          :                             ї______Ј                      :
          :                                                           :
          иЭ.........................................................Эи
                                     
                                    Presents                       19/02/94
                              
                      FULL DOCS TO LIBERATION - CAPTIVE II    
 
              
               SUPPLIED BY :-) Pyth0n       TYPED BY :-( ANIMAL 

                       


YOU'RE WELCOME TO THE 29TH CENTURY!

29th Century Earth is a dying world, ravaged by increasingly common adverse
weather conditions and commercially exploited under the control of huge state
corporations. These corporations have been abusing the planet's resources and
forcing it into ruinous decay. One such corporation is Bio-Corp, who won the
Imperial contract two decades ago to supply their sister organisation
Securi-Corp with the latest technological advances in law enforcement. By
diverting the Emperor's attention towards Imperial affairs in the Wolf 359
system, these corporations have risen unopposed to crush the spirit of the
people of Earth...

   ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

                          +++ EXTREMELY TOP SECRET +++
                       +++ SCARLET CLASS ACCESS ONLY +++

To: J.Taverner
     Securi-Corp

Date: March 18th 2898

Re: Securi-Droid XVLI series

Jason, 

Officer Gene Runciter (#26354) from the Delta Division has just uploaded a
classified report to Internal Affairs which has been intercepted and passed on
for my attention. Following is a copy of that report. I'm sure you will agree
that it makes interesting reading. I assume you will be able to locate the
source of the problem? After all, we don't want to have to scrap all the hard
work and money that Bio-Corp have invested in the Securi-Droid series over the
last fifteen years do we? This incident could seriously jeopardise our work
contract with the Empire.

I also trust that you can instruct Lucas to deal with his internal problems
quickly and efficiently?

I await your reply with interest.

Max Polokov
M.D of Law Enforcement, Securi-Corp (An ACRG Company, by Imperial Appointment)

   ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Securi-Corp DataFax Transmission #100867

Sender: Runciter, Gene (Officer 26354)
Division: Delta
Subject: Councillor Dran, case #996601

I was instructed by Sergeant Lucas to pick up Councillor Dran for routine
questioning regarding possible funding violations related to the Fraud Act of
2893 at 14:00 on the afternoon of March 14th '98. I remember I had problems
with my patrol vehicle's computer that day so I had to drive under manual
control. On arrival, Councillor Dran insisted that he had done nothing wrong
but he agreed to accompany me to the station if it helped to expose any
possible fraud within the council.

We arrived back at the station at 15:10. New Securi-Droid model XLVI, serial
#8673b was assigned to interview room 35 to conduct the routine questioning,
along with Officer Lubo Luft who would be observing. Councillor Dran was led
in for questioning at 15:45. At 17:10 I noticed that the Securi-Droid had not
yet concluded the interview. Upon entering the room I found the Councillor and
Officer Luft lying dead on the floor, the Securi-Droid lying next to them. It
had deactivated itself. I immediately went to report the incident to Sergeant
Lucas, who disregarded standard procedure and had the bodies removed. A team
of technicians arrived at 17:25 and took the Droid away. Standard Internal
Investigation Procedures (8 through 16) were completely ignored by Sergeant
Lucas and I was instructed to remove any record of Councillor Dran's presence
from the station records. I was also instructed not to discuss this matter
with anyone.

I tried to find out why video monitoring hadn't taken place during the
interview and was informed by Officer Hickman that the entire video system had
been down due to the severity of the magnetic interference that afternoon. He
also suggested that a number of patrol vehicle auto routing systems had been
affected in the same way.

The very next day on March 15th '98 Mark Leonard Jadva was accused of the
murder of Councillor Dran and was imprisoned in the Alpha Detention Centre
without trial. They found the body and the alleged murder weapon in his
apartment that morning. Officer Luft's death was announced that evening as a
victim of a brutal drug gang war in the Gamma Sector. No explanation was given
for why she was in that area at the time, and no one in the division thought
to ask either. That was the most worrying part because everyone in the
division knew that she was strictly a desk bound officer. She had no reason to
be in the Gamma sector.

Upon bringing this matter up with Sergeant Lucas today I was instructed to
remain "loyal" and was re-assigned to Desk duty.

I have been forced to bring this information to the attention of the I.A.D and
hope that justice will prevail. I fear that there may be a conspiracy within
the Division to try and cover up this 'droid problem. The Union has been
opposed to the introduction of this new 'droid series for quite some time, and
this incident might provoke a strike if it was proved that the XLVI series was
flawed and a potential hazard to the safety of Securi-Corp agents and the
general public.

Officer Gene Runciter.

   ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Date: March 19th 2898

Mr. Polokov,

Our small problem with Officer Runciter has been taken care of. I have the
best technicians in the sector working through the Securi-Droid designs. I am
sure that the problem will be rectified soon. In the meantime I believe it
might be prudent to maintain Operation Liberty as a temporary emergency
measure. We have more than enough room in the Detention Centres to cover any
further 'accident'. We have already discovered the possibility of disruption
in the main circuits caused by magnetic interference, possibly from the
magnetic storms. We are investigating this glitch further.

Operation Liberty should give us the breathing space we need to find out why
the droid malfunctioned. Everything is being done to ensure that this doesn't
happen again.

J.Taverner.

   ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ABOUT THIS MANUAL

Beginners should read the Quick Start Beginners Guide first. Once you are
proficient at the basic skills needed to move, manipulate items, survive
combat and talk, you should read the remainder of this manual. Liberation
offers the most comprehensive game system yet devised in a Role Playing
Adventure and whilst it might seem a little daunting at the start, it will
soon become like second nature.

Players who are using a mouse should read the manual and then refer to the
mouse control section at the back, as it differs from the CD32 controller
method in many ways.

QUICK START BEGINNERS GUIDE

To control your four 'droids you need to learn the basic skills required for
Movement, Item manipulation, Combat and Conversations.

QUICK CONTROL OVERVIEW

Moving the 'droids is achieved by using the directional control on your CD32
controller. Shooting is done by pressing the coloured buttons on the
controller, (one button for each 'droid). Anything related to manipulating
objects is done in conjunction with the flat top right switch. Again, the
coloured buttons are used to specify the 'droid you wish to use.

Pressing and using buttons and icons on screen is achieved in conjunction with
the flat top left switch. During this mode, the coloured buttons all serve the
same function and are not 'droid specific. Pressing and holding down both left
and right switches together in the main view will allow you to 'look' up,
down, left and right when used with the directional control pad. You will
learn about these control modes in more detail if you follow this Quick Start
Beginners Guide through to its conclusion.

This guide assumes that you have loaded LIBERATION and have viewed the
introduction and entered the game.

You are now viewing the main screen. There are a number of VDU's along the top
of the screen, and a large text window at the bottom. In the middle you can
see the main view. This is transmitted back to you by the current 'droid
leader and is the view from his eyes. You can tell which of the droids is the
leader by looking at the four 'droid panels (two either side of the main
view). One of the panels has a small icon on it that looks like a pair of red
eyes in the top left hand corner. This shows that the red droid is the current
leader at the start.

The four droids are easily identified by the colour of their clipboards as
shown on these panels. As you can see the colours are green, yellow, red and
blue. This also conveniently ties in with the four buttons shown on your CD32
controller, and this will come in useful later.

MOVING 'DROIDS

You won't get very far unless you learn how to move the 'droids around.
Movement is very simple. By pressing up on your controller, the 'droids will
take a step forward. By pressing down they will step backwards. Pressing left
will turn them left, and pressing right will turn them right. The 'droids all
move together as a group by default, so when one moves they all move.

These basic moves should see you through most situations. However, you should
be aware that during combat it isn't a good idea to turn away from the enemy.
For this reason, you can modify the way movement works by entering Battle
mode. To enter Battle mode, press the PAUSE button on your controller. The
'droid clipboards on each panel are highlighted red to remind you which mode
you are in. You can now step sideways when you press the left or right
switches at the top of the controller instead of having to turn on the spot in
that direction as you would normally do. Try this now if you like. All the
other normal moves are still available as before during Battle mode. To return
to normal left/right turning movement, press the PAUSE button again.

LOOKING AROUND

You can look (or glance) up, down, left and right without moving the 'droids.
Hold down both the top left and top right flat switches which are located
along the top edge of your CD32 controller. With both switches held down,
press up, down, left or right on your directional control pad and you will see
the main view glance in the same direction.

ITEMS

You will need to learn how to pick up items, store items and use items if you
are going to succeed in freeing the captives. There are many different types
of item, including weapons, Cred Cards and 'droid devices. One of the most
common item types you will discover are keycards. These are used to unlock
specific doors. The number on the card must match the number on the door.
Unlocking doors with keycards is explained in more detail in the main manual.

UNLOCKED DOORS

You start the game standing outside the City Records Office. You can see the
door ahead of you, and the sign telling you what the building is. Walk
forwards towards the door and keep going as if you are about to bump into it.
At the last moment you will hear a hum and the door will open and allow you
through. What actually happens is the door automatically scans the 'droids and
checks for access permission. Once permission is verified, the door will open
and let them through. Doors inside buildings do not use scanning techniques
and are either open, closed or locked. Closed doors will open automatically
when anything moving gets within a certain distance. Obviously, locked doors
won't open unless unlocked first with the correct keycard.

You are now just inside the City Records Office. However, we are going to cut
short your visit and walk back outside for the moment, so turn around and walk
towards the door. After a moments pause (for scanning) it will open once again
and let you back outside.

USING FACILITIES

To your left you will see a computer terminal. Turn to face the terminal and
stand as close to it as you can. Now, press and hold down the right hand
switch which is located along the top edge of your CD32 controller. You should
notice an oblong shaped cursor appear over the terminal screen. This is
telling you that the terminal can be used or manipulated in some way. If you
keep the switch held down, then press any of the coloured buttons on your
controller you will access the terminal (which is a Navicom terminal used for
getting directions to specific locations).

Here you can see a list of names on the left and a group of eight small icons
in the top right corner. At the bottom of the screen it says "who is in
building" and the small A icon is currently lit up. You should still be
holding down the top right flat switch at this point. The first name on the
list is now highlighted by the oblong cursor. If you use the directional
control pad you can move the cursor across all the small icons. Move it over B
then press any of the coloured buttons on your controller. You are now shown
the list of building types. C will show you addresses and D will sort them
into alphabetical order if they aren't already.

Now, move the cursor back to the first entry on the list and press any button.
If the terminal is working correctly you will be given a list of directions.
If not, don't worry for now. You will come across many more of these terminals
as you progress in the game.

DROPPING ITEMS

You now know that the right hand top switch allows you to manipulate facilites
in a location. It can also be used to pick up, store and drop items. There
aren't many items lying around here so we are going to delve into the Backpack
of one of your four 'droids and take an item out, drop it then place it back
in the Backpack again.

Turn away from the terminal so that it is now to your left, and the door to
the City Records Office is behind you. Now press and hold down the top right
switch again. The cursor will appear in the middle of the bottom of the main
view as a line. This means that it can't find any items to pick up or
facilities to use in your current location. However, this does allow you to go
into the Backpack of one of your 'droids without having had to pick up an item
first.

With the right switch still held down, press and release the yellow button on
your controller. This will open up the yellow droids Backpack.

Here you can see the 'droids current inventory (what they are carrying). Once
again, the cursor is present. It starts off on the 'droid diagram on the left
hand side of this screen. If you use your directional control pad you can move
the highlight across the items either currently equipped on the 'droid (the
left hand diagram) or the items just being carried in the Backpack (on the
right).

We want to pick up an item, so we must firstly highlight any item from the
Backpack, then press the coloured button that represents the 'droid once (in
this case, yellow) to pick up the item. If you press a different button (e.g.
red) by accident then it will switch to the red 'droids Backpack instead. If
this happens, press the yellow button to return to the correct Backpack.

Once we have picked up the item, its name and other details will scroll along
the bottom of the Backpack window. Now, let go of all buttons and switches on
your CD32 controller. You will go back to the main view, but this time the
item you picked up should have appeared in the yellow 'droids panel to the
right of the main view. This means that the item is now waiting to be used or
dropped. If the item hasn't appeared on the panel, then you should go back
into the Backpack. The reason that the item has not appeared is because it
physically could not find a clear edge inside the Backpack to allow the item
to be slid out. Rearrange the contents so that one edge has a large enough gap
then go through the taking procedure again.

If we now hold down the right switch again, the oblong cursor appears in the
main view along with a representation of the item. Depending on the amount of
room in front of you, you might be able to use your directional controller to
move the cursor to a different area. (If you move the cursor into the top
third of the main view, you might want to throw the item). Anyway, with the
cursor in the lower third of the main view, press and release the yellow
button and the item is dropped onto the floor. Let go of all the buttons and
switches to finish.

TAKING ITEMS

We are now going to take the item and place it back in the Backpack. Whilst in
this example we are going to get the yellow 'droid to put the item back where
it came from, we could just as easily use one of the other 'droids instead and
store it in another Backpack.

With the item on the floor directly in front of your 'droids, press and hold
down the right switch. The cursor will automatically home in on the item. If
there was more than one item or facility that could be taken or manipulated,
using your directional control pad would move the cursor to highlight the
others in turn.

Now that the item is highlighted, press the yellow button. You will switch to
the yellow 'droids Backpack screen. Slowly slide the item into an empty space
and you should immediately notice that the items already in there will start
to move around when they come in contact with it! This is because the Backpack
only has a certain amount of room inside it, and you have to make room to
store the item. You can push the other items around until everything fits in.
At this stage you shouldn't have any problems doing this as there should be
plenty of empty space. Now press the yellow button once to place the item. (If
you were to press a different coloured button instead, you would switch to
another 'droid's Backpack). Letting go of the right switch will return you to
the main view.

It is always harder to remove items from the middle of a Backpack, as you have
to slide the item out by finding a clear route to the edge first. This will
often mean having to push other items out of the way. Sometimes it isn't
possible without dropping the item and picking up any that are blocking the
way and dropping them somewhere else in the Backpack before continuing.

STORING AND USING ITEMS

Items placed inside Backpacks are just being stored and carried for future
use. To actually utilise them they must be equipped on the 'droid or placed in
the hands on the 'droids panel. For example, a gun can't be used until it is
placed in the 'droids gun hand. This is found in the left hand diagram of the
'droid on the Backpack screen. Device upgrades are also fitted on this
diagram. A good example of how to use an item in a location can be found in
the main manual. See 'Opening doors with keycards' for further information.

STACKING ITEMS

Note that cred cards and ammo can be stored on top of each other (stacked) to
become one item. This saves you Backpack space and also allows to make larger
individual bribes when using the cred cards, or allows you to fit more ammo in
one go into a weapon (although you still won't be able to exceed the guns
maximum load).

COMBAT

Combat is quite straightforward for a beginner. From looking at the main view,
let go of the controller so that you aren't pressing or holding down any of
the buttons or switches. Now, press the red button. If your leader is still
the red 'droid you should not only hear and see a gun shot, but you should
also see both arms in the main view shooting forwards. If you then press one
of the other buttons, another 'droid will fire. Each coloured button when
pressed on its own will fire that 'droids current weapons.

If you only see one arm firing then either the leader 'droid only has one gun
(maybe the other one has been stolen by a Mugger!) or his second one has run
out of ammo. This is a useful visual reminder to get some more ammo!

When you shoot these weapons, you will notice the battery on the relevant
'droids panel flashes. This is because it uses up energy from the 'droid's own
power supply. For this reason, try and spread the shooting around between the
four 'droids.

During actual combat with an enemy, try to move around (use Battle mode).
Otherwise a still target becomes a (proverbial) sitting target!

CONVERSATIONS

There are two ways of entering a conversation. The first is you approach
someone and try to talk to them. Take it for granted that anyone who starts
attacking you isn't in the mood for a chat! If they don't start fighting then
you should try and communicate. To do this, walk up to the person and press
the right hand switch. The usual cursor should appear in the main view and
home in on the character. Now press any of the coloured buttons to start
talking. The text window below will split into two. The window on the left
displays anything said by the character. The window on the right contains the
first of the available responses your 'droids can make. You will also see some
icons in this window. The first two allow you to step forward and back through
all the available responses each time you press a button on the controller.
When you find one you like, use the controller to highlight the last icon (the
lips) which will confirm your choice. The chosen response will then appear in
the left window and will be said.

(Some responses have icons of their own, allowing you to choose from a list of
addresses or names. Simply keep the right hand switch held down as usual and
move the highlight to the icons then press a button to go backwards and
forwards through the available choices).

When a character has finished talking to you, the text window will revert to
is normal size. When you want to finish the conversation prematurely, just
turn away or move away from the character. You can always return later and try
talking to them again. If the character was expecting you to give them
something at the end of a conversation, a pair of lips will appear in the top
corner of the main view to remind you. If you walk away before the
conversation is over, some characters may not appreciate your manners and so
they might be less willing to talk to you next time.

The second way of entering a conversation is if a character approaches you and
starts talking. Either way you can conduct the conversation in the same way as
described above.

With these basic skills mastered, you should be able to survive for a while
and begin to get some leads that should eventually lead you to the location of
a captive. Good luck, and may your 'droid's circuits never blow!

THE MAIN SCREEN

Once you have loaded Liberation and have viewed the introduction you should
press any button on your CD32 controller. After a few moments you will be
presented with the main screen.

A - Main view ('droids viewpoint)

This is the view of the world as transmitted to your ABCCSI 5000XL/GTi
Briefcase Computer from the optical sensors of your 'droids.

B - The 'droids panels

You can access each of the four 'droids Backpacks from these panels, allowing
you to pick up, store, drop and use items. Information on the 'droids current
status can also be gleaned from here. The battery shows the current power
drain status. Extra devices and weapons put a strain on a 'droids battery, but
you can recharge them if you can find a power outlet. If a battery runs flat,
the 'droid is rendered useless until the battery is recharged.

The four icons found on these 'droid panels each have a different function:

Leader Eyes

Selecting this icon nominates this 'droid as the Leader. It also means that
the main view is being transmitted from this 'droid. If the 'droid has been
split from the main group, selecting this icon will switch the view from the
main group to him.

Inventory

This inventory icon will take you to the specific 'droid's Backpack screen.
Note that if you go into a Backpack using this icon, the four coloured buttons
on your controller are not 'droid specific and therefore any of them can be
used without fear of accidently switching Backpacks.

Leave Group

This icon will split the 'droid from the main group. This allows him to move
independently from the rest. To rejoin, just walk into the other 'droids and
you become one group again. You can split up as many 'droids as you like, but
under normal circumstances they should remain together.

Swap Position

Select this icon then select the same icon with another 'droid and they will
swap positions. At the start of the game, the Green and Yellow 'droids are at
the front with the Red and Blue at the back. If the front two get badly
damaged during combat, you may wish to swap them over. Whilst the layout of
the coloured buttons on your controller no longer match the 'droid panels when
you have swapped their positions, the colours still match (e.g. red button
still corresponds to the red 'droid).

C - Text Window

Text that appears here includes confirmation of the many actions performed by
the 'droids, their conversations and other relevant events. The up/down arrows
and the scroll bar to the right of this window can be used to scroll forward
and backward through any text shown here.

When you enter into conversations with other characters a number of options
are displayed in a new text window. These conversations usually involve
choosing from a selection of possible responses. To step forward and back
through the available replies you should select the small arrow icons. To
confirm your chosen response, you must select the last icon that looks like a
pair of lips.

To prematurely end a conversation (if you get attacked for example) simply
turn away from the character you are talking to. You can always try talking to
them again later. If the character is waiting for you to give them an item, a
pair of lips will appear in the top corner to remind you about the unfinished
business.

D - Device VDU's

As you advance you will be able to obtain new devices for your 'droids that
give them a wide range of new capababilities (including scanners, video bug
surveillance and much more besides). Once fitted, the devices appear on these
VDU's. Each droid can have 2 fitted at once, so you can have up to 8 VDU's in
use at the same time. The default number shown is 4, although this can be
changed by using the Video Preferences device and altering the screen layout
yourself.

The top left hand corner of each working VDU contains a small coloured marker
which indicates the colour of the 'droid that owns the device.

To use any of the buttons on an active VDU and many of the icons elsewhere on
the main screen, press and hold down the top left switch on the CD32
controller. A flashing highlight box is found on the Leader 'droid's Inventory
icon. You can now move this box around the screen and press any button on the
controller to access the button or icon currently highlighted.

You can have four or eight device VDU's shown at once. Those that have no
buttons or monitors are blank (i.e. they are not currently used by any
devices).

You begin the quest with a few pre-equipped devices:

Video Preferences

This device allows you to choose from a variety of customised screen layouts.
Each of the buttons has a different function:

1. Position VDU's

You can have four or eight device VDU's displayed, regardless of whether you
have enough devices to use them all or not. There are four possible
configurations available.

2. Position main view

The main view can be in one of three positions. It can also be switched into a
'Wide angle' view by sacrificing the 'droid panels. The choice is yours.

3. Movement cluster on/off

This cluster of icons is of most use to those people using an Amiga compatible
mouse. You can click on the movement icons to indicate the direction that you
wish to move in. The relevant icon will flash to indicate the movement of the
'droids. Turning the cluster on will reduce the size of the text window.

A. Do settings

This will activate the chosen Video Preferences and change the screen layout
accordingly. Once done, you don't need to keep this device fitted anymore as
it takes up valuable space that may be used by a more useful device later on.

Vector Preferences

This device allows you to adjust the level of detail used in the main view.
The lower the detail, the faster the game will run, but this will be at the
expense of the main view's visual appeal. As always, the choice is yours.

1. Reduce points

This will reduce the number of points used on the solid polygons that define
the 3D shapes. If you reduce the points, the 3D objects become simpler in
design.

2. Reduce fill

A special textured fill is used on many 3D objects. This option will alter the
way the fills are used.

3. Remove detail

This option will remove any extra details that are shown in 3D and leave the
view with only the bare essentials.

4. Remove light source shading

This option is self explanatory. This kind of shading is influenced by the
direction and intensity of light sources found in the 3D world.

A. Do settings

The A button is always used to execute the current settings and change the
preferences set by this device accordingly.

B. Font size

The font size can be set to Big or Small. With the small setting you won't
have to scroll back through text in the text window so often, but some
televisions or monitors won't be able to read the text clearly. If this is the
case, stick to the Big font which is chosen by default at the start of the
game.

C. Music on/off

This doesn't have anything to do with vectors. You can turn the in game music
on or off with this option.

D. Speech on/off

Self explanatory really. The digitised speech can be toggled on or off using
this option.

City Mapper - Manual

This is a very useful device which allows you to navigate your way around the
nine City Zones. It shows your current position, the roads and buildings, and
other important features including the location of Taxis which make travelling
around the City much easier. The manual version comes complete with its own
keyboard for input, allowing other characters to program it easily. Each of
the buttons found on this device serves a different function:

1. Zoom out

There are four levels of magnification available on the map. The Mapper starts
by default at the lowest level. Zoom out can only be used once you have zoomed
in.

2. Zoom in

This will increase the magnification level of the map each time you select it,
until you are at the highest level.

3. Follow me

This will tell the Mapper to centre the display on the 'droids current
location, which is displayed as a white arrow. The arrow points in the
direction they are currently facing. When they move, the Mapper will then
follow them.

4. Select route

This allows you to choose one of the four pre-programmed routes which may have
been placed in the Mapper's memory by another character. Simply give the
Mapper chip to any character who offers to program it for you. They will drop
it on the floor when they have finished. Don't forget to plug the chip back in
afterwards so that you can continue using the Mapper VDU as normal.

You can also get routes from terminals, located on the sides of many main
roads. These will give you specific directions to locations requested by you,
and you can then either walk or use a taxi to get there.

A list of the addresses already in memory can be displayed in the text window
on the main screen by using the info icon from the Backpack screen and then
clicking on the City Mapper's VDU. Addresses have to be programmed into the
Mapper first.

City Mapper - Comms

This is similar to the manual device, but it can only be used for navigating a
taxi to one of two addresses it can store. The Comms Mapper only has a serial
link and can therefore only be programmed and used by another computer. This
device only has a single button, which is used to access the addresses
currently held in its memory. Selecting an address is only useful if you are
in a Taxi, which will then download the information and auto-pilot you to the
destination. If you aren't in a Taxi, the Comms Mapper won't find anything to
interface with or navigate.

Mapper programming

(i) Manual Mapper

Firstly, you must find someone who knows how to get an address, and who is
willing to programme your manual mapper for you. If they ask you for a Mapper
to programme, take it out of a 'droids head or remove it from a Backpack and
then give it to them (following the usual procedure as though you were putting
a keycard in a slot). They will then either:

(a) Run away with it! (you get it back by catching and destroying them)

or

(b) They will place it on the floor after they have programmed it. You must
then pick it up and put it back in the head slot to use it immediately or
store it in the Backpack for later use.

(ii) Comms Mapper

Find a computer terminal. These are usually located in houses. Street
terminals can't programme a Mapper, they can only give you directions. Access
the terminal and look up City Census data. You must access the terminal with
the 'droid whose Mapper is to be programmed. For example, if you are trying to
programme the yellow 'droid's Mapper, it must be active (i.e. fitted in one of
the head slots, not just being carried in the Backpack). You then need to
press the yellow button on your CD32 controller to access the terminal. If you
are holding the Mapper in the 'droid's gun hand it will also programme it for
you, otherwise it will report that it could not find a device to programme.
The Mapper HAS to either be in use (fitted into a 'droid) or be in the
'droid's gun hand (i.e. swap a gun currently in use with the Mapper chip
temporarily) if it is to be programmed this way.

Placing items in the gun hand is a general method employed for using any kind
of computer devices with terminals.

If you try and programme more addresses into a Manual or a Comms Mapper than
they were designed to hold (four and two respectively) then the new addresses
will simply over-write the older ones. The only way around this problem is to
own more than one of each Mapper type!

You can also scroll around the city map. Hold down the top left switch and
highlight the map on the VDU, then press and hold down any coloured button on
your controller. With both of these now held down, pressing the directional
control will scroll the map around in any direction. This is essential for
finding a Taxi when you start the game. It is represented as a spinning white
marker on the map. Other important features are shown on the map as red
markers.

Fitting devices

If you switch to one of the Backpack screens, you will see the chips placed
either side of the 'droid's head on the 'droid diagram to the left of the
Backpack window. These chips are treated like any other item, so they can be
picked up and replaced easily.

When you fit new devices, use the Info icon next to the Backpack window to
identify the device and discover its functions.

TAXI!

Once you have found a taxi, walk forward as if you are going to bump into it.
You will enter the taxi automatically.

Manually driving a taxi

If you have no addresses in your City Mapper, you can try driving manually.
Press forward (up) to drive forward. Press back (down) to stop. Left will turn
left, and right will turn right but only if a junction is immediately ahead.

You are not allowed to drive the wrong way down one way streets. If the taxi
comes to a stop line (e.g. at a T junction) it will stop and wait for further
directions. The taxi will also stop at a roundabout and wait for directions.
Pressing right or forward will make the taxi go round the roundabout. Only by
pressing left when an exit is ahead on the left will the taxi leave the
roundabout.

To stop the car, press back to bring it to a halt. To step out press the flat
top right switch.

Using the Mapper in a Taxi

If you have a programmed City Mapper, select the fourth button on the device.
This will produce a new head up display (H.U.D) in the Main View. Go through
the available memories until you have the appropriate address. Now select the
small icon which looks like a tick (check) mark. The Taxi will now drive you
there. When the vehicle has stopped, press the flat top right switch then
press left or right to determine which side to get out of. Finally, press any
coloured button on your controller and you will step out of the taxi and
proceed on foot again.

Using a mapper to auto-pilot a taxi is a much easier and more efficient method
of travel than manual driving. This also helps to explain why most vehicles
will push your 'droids off the road without much warning. Taxis under
auto-pilot would stop to avoid a collision with a real person, but 'droids
don't count and are considered fair game!

THE CITY

As you alraedy know, cities are split into nine separate zones. Within each
zone the city is further split into different levels. Street level is where
you will find dwellings, other buildings and roads. The underworld is a dark
and dangerous level where various shady characters live, whilst life on the
roof tops can be equally dangerous out in the open.

The zones are laid out in the following formation:

Theta           Alpha           Beta
Eta             Kappa           Gamma
Zeta            Epsilon         Delta

The entrance into a new zone is easy to spot. The map won't scroll any further
yet some roads seem to continue off the edge. If you follow these roads you
will go through a tunnel and cross over into the next zone. You may also
notice a change in architectural style in the buildings.

HOW TO WIN

The ultimate aim of each level is to locate and free each captive who has been
unjustly arrested as part of the massive cover up operation initiated by
Securi-Corp. To do this, the 'droids will have to talk to many people who
might know important information, or at least know the location of people who
do know what you need. Try to avoid attracting attention to your 'droids as
they explore the various city zones. The path to justice is never straight. It
has many twists and turns. A word of advice - be careful who your 'droids
speak to and where they travel, because as the saying goes - there's more than
one way to dismantle a 'droid! Try not to stay in one location for too long,
as Securi-Corp are on constant alert for deviants and trouble makers. Just
remember that this is a corrupt and dangerous world. All is not necessarily
what it seems. Who knows who you can trust?

'DROID CONTROLS

The 5000 XL/GTi

Your view of the world is seen through the optical sensors of your four
'droids. Based in your H.Q. somewhere out in the mountains, you control each
one through the wonders of the 5000 XL/GTi Attache Brief Case Computer System.
Since your release from captivity you have been able to upgrade from the
500 XL/GT machine that served you so well before. One of the many features of
this latest model includes a much improved optical data relay, as you can see
from the main view.

Movement

Moving the 'droids is achieved by using the directional control pad on your
CD32 controller. Pressing forward will move your four 'droids forward,
pressing back will make them walk backwards. Pressing left will turn them left
and pressing right will turn them right.

As long as the 'droids are not split up, they all move together as one group.

Moving Inside

Moving around inside a building is simple. You can walk up and down staircases
without any trouble. Doors that aren't locked will open automatically as you
approach them. They can be closed again by using the door handle if required.
A locked door requires the correct keycard to open it.

Moving Outside

Moving around outside is a little more dangerous. The road system at street
level is one way only, with cars and other forms of transport driving on the
left hand side. Typically, City People are always in a hurry and won't give
you much of a warning before they hit your 'droids off the road! If you can
find a way down, you can explore the more dangerous world below the roads.
You can also reach the roof tops, but being out in the open could make your
'droids an easy target!

OPENING DOORS WITH KEYCARDS

Locked doors won't open when you walk up to them. You really need to know
which keycard is required so you must face the relevant locked door and try
the door handle which you will always see on the left of the door frame.

Whilst still facing the door, press and hold down the right switch on the top
edge of your controller. You will see the usual cursor appear in the main
view. This always moves to an item in the main view that it knows can be
manipulated in some way (maybe it can be picked up or used). In this case, it
has highlighted the door handle. Whilst holding down the top right switch,
press any of the four coloured buttons on your controller. A message will
appear in the text window below telling you the number of the required
keycard. Let go of the right switch and you can move around normally again.

Now that you know the number, you should explore the rest of the current
building to find the correct keycard. Once you have located the keycard you
need to place it in the 'droid's hand so that you can use it on the door.

We assume that the keycard you want is in a Backpack waiting to be picked up
and used. Press and hold down the right switch again. The cursor will appear
in the main view, and home in on the door handle. Use your controller to move
the cursor to the centre bottom area of the main view, where it will become a
straight line. Now press the coloured button to open the 'droid's backpack
that holds the keycard. After the Backpack screen has appeared, move the
flashing cursor over the keycard then press the correct coloured button again
to pick it up. Now release the right switch and you will see the main view.
The item is now in the 'droid's hand on his panel next to the main view.

Walk up to the door. Now press and hold down the right switch again. The box
appears in the main view and homes in on the door handle. However, this time
it also places the item over the handle. If you now press the coloured button
again, the door will unlock and a message will appear in the text window
below. Now walk into the door and it will open!

Keycards can only be used once. They then disappear and cannot be recovered.

It's worth remembering that you can open and close unlocked doors by using the
door handle. Closing a door behind you might give you those extra moments you
need to think during combat! The door machanisms are also quite powerful and
they can cause damage to anything trying to walk through as they are closing.

THE BACKPACK

Each 'droid can carry as many items as they can physically fit into their
Backpacks (also known as the inventory). Items are found either lying around
on the floor or hidden under things or inside containers, (enemies often leave
items behind once they have been defeated in combat). When you find an item,
stand the 'droids as close as you can without losing sight of it in the main
view.

Taking items

Your CD32 has two flat switches on the top edge. One on the left and one on
the right. To manipulate items, you use the right hand switch, so press the
right switch and hold it down. You will see a box appear inside the location.
It will automatically home in on the nearest item for you. If there is more
than one item available, you can move the box between the items by holding
down the right switch and pressing your directional controller left, right,
up or down.

There is always a central position at the bottom of the main view which allows
you to access a Backpack screen without having to pick up an item up first.

Once the item you want to pick up is highlighted by the box you can choose
which Backpack you want to store the item in. Whilst still holding down the
right switch, press one of the four coloured buttons on your controller,
(e.g. red). This will display the contents of that 'droids Backpack. By using
your directional controller you can now slide the item into the Backpack
window. The name of the item you have picked up will appear in the text window
in the lower half of the screen to tell you exactly what it is.

You should immediately notice that when you move the item into the Backpack,
the other items are pushed around to make room for the new one. (You should
also see details of the item and its exact weight scroll along the bottom of
the Backpack window as a text message. Once the item has been placed in the
Backpack, the collective weight for all the items is shown here instead).

When you have moved the item into the Backpack, press the same coloured button
on your controller again (e.g. red) to drop the item in place. Now let go of
the top right switch to close the Backpack and return to the main view. (If
you don't quite place it in the Backpack correctly and you let go of the right
switch, the item is placed in one of the 'droid's hands on his panel next to
the main view instead. If an item was already there, they will swap positions
and you now have the old item which can be dropped or placed in the Backpack
as normal).

If you have switched to a Backpack and found it full up, try pressing a
different coloured button to switch to a different 'droid's Backpack before
placing it inside.

Dropping items

To drop an item from a Backpack into a location, you need to return to the
Backpack screen. Firstly, ensure that there are no other items in sight from
the main view, then press and hold down the top right switch and press the
relevant coloured button as normal to get to the Backpack screen (e.g. red).

The flashing box that now appears is used to highlight the item you wish to
pick up. Move it using your directional control pad until the item you want is
highlighted. Now press the coloured button corresponding to the 'droid to pick
up the item. Let go of the top right switch and you will return to the main
view. The item is now in the hand of the 'droid (see the 'droid panel).

Some items have to be in a 'droid's hand to be used (e.g. a keycard) and under
those circumstances you would leave the item where it is for now. However, if
you want to drop the item simply hold down the right switch again and press
and release the 'droids coloured button on your controller. The item will now
appear on the floor in front of the 'droid.

Throwing items

You could always try throwing the item instead. Move the item around the main
view using your controller. When it is in the top third of the main view,
press the coloured button to release it. You won't be able to throw an item if
there isn't enough room in front of the 'droid.

EXTRA BACKPACK FUNCTIONS

On the right hand side of the Backpack window you cans see a vertical row of
five icons. To select them, keep the right hand switch held down then move the
flashing box over the icon and press any of the coloured controller buttons.

Info

This icon allows you to examine in detail any item in the Backpack or any
other device, button or icon on the main screen. It is paricularly useful for
discovering the functions of device upgrades (currently fitted or otherwise).
Selecting this icon a second time will turn it off again.

If you are holding down the right switch and have got info on all the items
you need to know about in the Backpack, keep holding down the right switch
then press and hold down the left switch. Now release the right switch and you
can info all the buttons, icons, and VDU's in the rest of the main screen
without having to leave the Backpack screen. You can then reverse the process
and go back to the right switch if you have unfinished business in the
Backpack. This routine for switching right switch to left switch and vice
versa can come in useful at other times too.

Attributes

This icon allows you to view all of the attributes for the 'droid (head,
chest, both arms and both legs). This information can be shown as text or, if
you select this icon again, as bar graphs covering the entire 'droid body in
one go. To select a different body area, move the flashing box into the left
side diagram of the 'droid. Move it around this diagram to highlight each body
region. Press any button on your controller to select it and the name of the
current region is displayed at the top of this screen.

If you look at the information as text, you can see that at the bottom of this
window are four buttons which correspond to the first four attributes in the
text. The currently selected attribute is highlighted white in the text list.
The rotating 3D 'droid on the left has numerous % figures appear on each limb
as it moves. These are the % for ALL the limbs for the currently chosen
attribute, (which effectively gives you an 'at a glance' summary for that
attribute over the entire 'droid's body).

Backpack

This will switch you back to the normal Backpack mode so you can take out or
put in items as before. This is the default mode when you first go to this
screen.

Repair

This icon allows you to repair and replace individual components on the head,
arms and legs of the 'droid. Simply pick up the damaged component and replace
it with a new or repaired one. You can info each component using the info icon
to learn what they are. by replacing components with better ones, you can
upgrade the performance of each 'droid so that they are stronger, faster, etc.

When taking chips off the circuit board, you should keep an eye on the bar
graph to the right of the display. Each bar is colour coded and you can get a
basic idea of what the chips do by seeing how they affect these bars when they
are removed or plugged back in.

Green - Strength
Yellow - Attributes
Red - Armour

Only those who are confident in what they are doing should ever try to adjust
the components. To help explain in detail what is possible, please refer to
Appendix I at the back of this manual, which is an extract from the original
Phi-Corp MSD 001899/XB Droid Tech Specs.

Disk Functions

This icon allows you to load and save your game. Select Save and a new menu
will appear, giving you the chance to have up to 3 save games in temporary
'RAM_Reset' memory and one in permanent 'Non-volatile' memory.

To save a game in 'RAM_Reset' memory, nominate a save game slot (1,2 or3). A
small keyboard will appear on-screen. You can add a comment to your save game
by selecting each letter in turn up to a maximum of 14 characters. When you
are finished, select the Return key from the on-screen keyboard and your
current position will be saved.

To save a game in 'Non-volatile' memory, your 'droids must NOT be inside a
building. They must be outside for the save to work.

To load a save game back into memory, select Load from the menu and then
select the slot containing the relevant save game file. It will now be loaded.

IMPORTANT - The RAM_Reset save game files are only retained in memory for as
long as the CD32 is turned on (although they will survive a hardware reset as
long as the power is not turned off). To store a save game file permanently
you will need to save to Non-volatile memory, which will keep the save game
file even after the machine has been turned off. Please note that other CD32
games may give you the chance to save to Non-volatile memory but only one file
can be retained there at once. Do not use this function with any other game
else you will lose your save game file!

Combat

Shooting your way out of trouble is both quick and easy. The coloured buttons
on your CD32 controller corespond to each 'droid so that when you press the
correct button, that 'droid will fire with his current weapon (for example,
pressing the red button will make the red 'droid shoot straight ahead).

To shoot and defeat an enemy, keep them in your sight at all times and keep
firing! Moving around should make it harder for the enemy to hit you, but
unfortunately it also works the other way around.

Each droid has two weapons ready and waiting to be used at the start of the
game. You can upgrade or replace these weapons whenever you come across better
ones. Some weapons can use more than one type of ammo clip (although not at
once!), whilst others are only good for hand to hand combat. Small weapons can
be concealed if necessary, but they don't have the same fire power as the
larger ones.

To change over a weapon, go to the 'droids Backpack screen. Move the cursor
into the left window displaying the rotating 3D 'droid. This will change into
the 'droid equipping window. This is where you can remove and replace device
upgrade chips which are positioned either side of the 'droids head. You can
also pick up the weapons here and place them in the Backpack, and do vice
versa with the replacements.

To fit an ammo clip into a gun, pick up the ammo and place it over the gun in
the 'droid equipping window. Now click once with the coloured button that
corresponds with the 'droid. You should hear the ammo clip slot into place. If
it doesn't then the ammo is incompatible with the weapon, or the weapon
already has a clip in place. Thankfully, automatic re-loading comes into play
during combat. If a weapon runs out of ammo, you will hear the click of an
empty barrel when you try firing, followed by a short rummaging sound then
another click as a new ammo clip is inserted. You may then continue firing as
before. (The automatic re-loading feature will always select the most powerful
ammo clips available from the 'droids Backpack. If you run out of ammo
completely, then the gun is useless until you can find some more).

Many of the weapons (and other device upgrades) use the 'droids own internal
batteries for power, so keep an eye on the battery shown on the 'droid's
panel. If power is running low and they are caught in a fight, try turning off
any of the extra devices to reduce the power drain. The battery is located in
the chest unit.

SHOPS

You can buy many different types of item from shops, and they are scattered
all over the nine zones of each city. Buying from shops is easy. Approach the
shop keeper and start a conversation. A list of items for sale will appear.
You can step through them using the usual icons.

To pay for an item you must place your cred card in the hands of your 'droid
on their 'droid panel first and then give them to the shop keeper. He will
then deduct the money from the cred card and place the items on the floor in
front of your 'droids. They can now pick them up and leave. If you don't have
enough money, the transaction will not take place.

TIME

Now that you've played Liberation for a while (and if not, why not?) you
should have noticed that the game is played in real time. What this means is
that for every one minute of time that has passed in the game, one minute has
passed in reality too (you do remember reality don't you?).

Time passes by in each City. Day and night comes and goes. Thanks mainly to
the increased crime rate at night, most buildings are only open between
certain hours. You might need to make a rendezvous at a particular time and
location, so if you don't know what time it is try asking someone or finding
a clock.

Sleeping

You might wonder why 'droids need to sleep. Strictly speaking they don't, but
there are advantages and disadvantages to sleeping.

Advantages

(i) Time goes by quicker when you sleep. Approximately 7 seconds of sleeping
equates to an hour of time gone by. If you're waiting for a shop to open,
sleeping can give the impression of speeding things up.

(ii) Armour can repair itself given time. Sleeping will enable the repairing
process to appear sped up.

Disadvantages

(iii) Muggers can steal items from your sleeping 'droids without waking them,
so be careful where you choose to sleep!

(iv) You can be attacked whilst asleep. Obviously, the 'droids will wake up
but the element of surprise will be with the enemy!

ZZZZzzzz....

To sleep, switch to the Backpack screen and remove a 'droid's head. Underneath
you will find a switch which can be turned off. When off, sleep is induced.
Press the right hand switch on your controller to wake up. If your 'droids are
woken by something, the switch will turn on automatically. To wake up
voluntarily, simply press either the top left or top right switches on your
controller.

Dont forget to refit the 'droids head again once they are awake! (The phrase
"dont't lose your head" has very different meanings between man and 'droid!)

HINTS AND TIPS

If a 'droid is unfortunate enough to be destroyed, try and pick up all that is
left of the various components and limbs and distribute them between the
remaining 'droids Backpacks. You should then find out how and where you can
initiate the necessary repairs and get the 'droid back on line.

Ensure that you don't leave important items just lying around. About the only
efficient system that works in the cities are the cleaning 'droids whose only
purpose in life is to keep all floors, walkways and roads free of obstacles.
Any items belonging to your 'droids that go missing can usually be reclaimed
later in the lost and found area within the local police station!

Try and turn off any devices when they aren't being used, otherwise they put
an unnecessary drain on the 'droid's battery. To recharge a battery, you must
find a power outlet in a building and select it. You should see a powerful
energy discharge which is automatically absorbed by the 'droid. Don't recharge
for too long in one place, as power drains are detectable by the police.

Talk to people as often as possible. Some people know a lot of useful
information, but remember that not everyone will tell the truth or try and
help you. All the people who live in the cities have mood swings, so if they
are unhelpful try coming back to them later on. Bribing or threatening them
might also give you a result, but not necessarily the one you were after!

Liberation responds to the way you play it. If you go around shooting all the
time, the police will summon up some serious fire power to neutralise your
'droids. All the noise from excessive gun fire is bound to attract attention
either way. On the other hand, a stealthy approach should keep your 'droids
out of trouble most of the time, but they will still have to resort to other
methods on occasions if they are to successfully locate the captives.

Hanging around on the street level in the middle of a road is not a sensible
idea. Most citizens won't even bother to hoot before they knock you out of
their way! Your 'droids could get knocked off the road all together and get
seriously damaged as a result.

If equipment is stolen from you by muggers, your best strategy is to chase
after them a.s.a.p. and get it back before you lose sight of them. You will
have to find and destroy the mugger to retrieve your stolen items.

MOUSE CONTROL

Before we explain mouse control in detail, a few common phrases should be
explained.

Left click - Move the pointer with the mouse over a particular area or icon
then click with the left mouse button to select it.

Right click - The same as above except you use the right mouse button instead.

Mouse control is quite different from using the CD32 controller, although some
may find it easier to use. The first thing you need to do is decide how to
move the 'droids. You could use the Video Preferences device to display the
movement cluster.

This group of icons allows you to move the 'droids forward, backward, turn
left and turn right. You can also climb up or down ladders. To use them,
simply left click on the direction icon you wish to move the 'droids and they
will move. The icon will momentarily flash to confirm the chosen movement.

There is another way of moving that doesn't require the cluster. Move the
cursor over the main view. You will notice that it changes shape depending on
where in the view it is positioned.

If you left click with the cursor in any of these positions the 'droids will
move in that direction. If you hold down the left mouse button they will walk
continually in that direction until you let go (or until they bump into an
obstacle!).

If you place the cursor in the middle of the screen you will see it change to
a new design. If you now move it slightly up or slightly down, the cursor
changes and looks as if it is looking up or down. The same will happen if you
move the cursor slightly left or slightly right. When it is in one of these
positions left click and hold it to 'look' up, down, left or right. Let go of
the mouse button when you're finished.

Taking items

This is quite easy using the mouse. Place the cursor over an item in the main
view, right click and hold it down. The cursor changes into a hand when you
are about to take an item. This isn't a 'droids hand, but an extra hand that
is generated by your 5000 XL/GTi Computer.

You can now do a number of things with the cursor, depending on what you want
to do with the item you are about to pick up. Each of the following assumes
that you are holding down the right mouse button in the main view.

(i) Move the cursor away from the item and it should change to a ? which means
it can't find anything to do. Move the cursor back over the item (with the
right button still held down) and it changes back to the green hand.

(ii) With the cursor shaped like a hand, left click and the item will be
taken. It is now in the hand and this change is shown by the cursor. The text
window will also report the name of the item you have just taken. Now move the
cursor around the main view. It may change from a hand holding an item to a
box with the item behind it. When this happens, it means you can do one of two
things:

(A) If you let go of the right mouse button, the item will appear in one of
the 'droids hands (see the panels next to the main view). This means that the
item is in his hand and is ready to be used (like a keycard has to be when it
wants to unlock a door). (If you change your mind, press and hold down the
right mouse button again and the item will reappear behind behind the box
shaped cursor as it was before).

(B) If you left click the mouse, the item vanishes! Let go of the right mouse
button and then left click on the Leader 'droids panel to display his Backpack
screen. You will find the item neatly packed away in his Backpack. This is
known as Auto Packing. If there isn't room for the item to be stored then it
will store it in a different Backpack.

Using items

Say you wish to unlock a door with a keycard. The keycard needs to be in a
'droids hand. Now move the cursor over the door handle and right click and
hold it down. The cursor will change into a hand that looks like it wants to
grab the door handle. Now left click and the keycard in the 'droids hand will
unlock the door. All items vanish when they have been used, unless they can be
used more than once. As keycards are for specific doors only, they vanish once
they have served their purpose. You can access computer terminals in a similar
way, although you don't need an item in a 'droid's hand to use one.

Shooting with a mouse

As you will already know, left clicking on a droid panel will switch to the
Backpack screen (clicking on the Inventory icon has the same effect). Right
clicking on the panel will make the 'droid shoot with his current weapons.

Using icons

To use any of the icons found on a device VDU, simply move the cursor over the
appropriate button and left click to select it. this also applies to other
icons and switches found in the game.

APPENDIX I

PHI-CORP MSD 001899/XB DROID TECH SPECIFICATIONS

I.i) Overview:

The Phi-Corp MSD seried droids maintain their AI capability via a distributive
processing net spread throughout the main chassis, with the exception of the
chest area. To simplify maintenance and part replacement all nodes of the
MSDDPN (tm) utilise the same components, although their internal structures
may be modified electronically by the ACNCE (Auto-Configuring Net Coherence
Electronics) which are printed onto the node circuit boards at the factory and
are not user serviceable.

II.i) Node circuit Boards:

The user serviceable elements of the MSDDPN are mounted on a circuit board
behind a blanking plate secured with 16 miniature crosshead screws. All node
circuit boards are superficially similar but are configured dynamically by
thin film electronics bonded to the reverse of the board. (N.B. The
configuration electronics are not user serviceable and Phi-Corp accept no
responsibility for any damage caused by unauthorised alteration thereto.)
Please note that MSDDPN NCBs on the /XB series droids are fitted with LED
activity meters for the three EAGAs (Electronically Alterable Gate Arrays)
permitting at-a-glance assessment of the current configuration.

II.iia) AI configuration electronics:

The AI configuration circuitry, which on the MSD series droids shares the NCB
with the Shield Driver circuitry (q.v.) consists of 8 (eight) power jumpers, 2
(two) line driver EAGAs and an MCROM (Multiple Configurable Read Only Memory).
Note that Phi-Corp ACNCE allows MCROMs to be exchanged across the net, their
functions being bound by their current resident node (CRN).

II.iib.1) User configuration of the AICE:

Configuration of the MSDDPN may be achieved either by direct replacement of
components, or by reconfiguring the internal electronics of the EAGAs by use
of the EAGA BEVA (BiPolar Electronics Validation Architecture).

II.iib.2) AICE configuration basics:

The MCROMs are driven by eight lines internally multiplexed to drive the four
AIFS's (Artificial Intelligence Function Slots) in which the ICs consist. Each
AIFS may be occupied either by a discrete AI function, which function will
depend upon the ACNCE installed upon the NCB, or by an AIFMS (Artificial
Intelligence Function Multiplier Stage) the function of which is to multiply
up the subsequent functions in the drive chain. Please note that the four
lines originating in the strength augmentation EAGA are variously divided down
by the MCROM multiplexing circuitry to prevent overloading of the MCROM,
whereas the four lines originating within the attribute augmentation EAGA are
buffered and hence may drive the MCROM at their full output capacity.

The eight MCROM lines are driven by the augmentation stages of the two line
driver EAGAs which are powered from the main bus via their respective power
jumpers.

II.iib.3) EAGA configuration:

The two EAGAs which drive the MCROM are identical in their internal
architecture, consisting in four discrete augmentation lines and a common
augmentation bus driven by any or all of and driving each of the discrete
lines.

Each of the augmentation stages within the EAGAs may be one of 3 types:-

Type 1:       Drives its discrete line at an output level of 1
Type 2:       Drives its discrete line at an output level of 2
Type 3:       Drives its discrete line at an output level of 2 and also adds
              an output level of 1 to the current level of the Common
              Augmentation Bus.

Use of the EAGA BEVA system will allow pairs of augmentation stages within the
EAGAs to be swapped thus permitting the AIFSs to be driven at the level
desired for the relevant function.

Note that the current output levels of the two EAGAs are indicated by the
green (strength) and yellow (attribute) bars on the AAG meters.

IMPORTANT: Please note that the EAGAs are sensitive to excessive vibration and
ionising radiation, which in extreme cases will cause augmentation stages to
degrade irreparably.

III.i) Shield Driver Circuitry:

The shield driver circuitry consists of a single EAGA, and its associated
power jumpers, which serves via Boolean gates to convert four non-biased input
lines into the three binary biased output lines by the shield driver
electronics. This binary bias on the output effectively means that the
leftmost line on the board has an output value of four, the central line two
and the rightmost one. The four gates which may be found within the shield
driver EAGA are presented below along with their associated truth tables.

   -------------------------
  | AND (Green) | AO1 |     |
   -------------------------
  |             | OOO |     |
   -------------------------
  |             |     | 1O1 |
   -------------------------
  | OR (Yellow) | OO1 |     |
   -------------------------
  |             |     | OO1 |
   -------------------------
  |             |     | 111 |
   -------------------------
  | XOR (Red)   | XO1 |     |
   -------------------------
  |             |     | OO1 |
   -------------------------
  |             |     | 11O |
   -------------------------
  | NULL        |     | NO1 |
   -------------------------
  |             |     | OOO |
   -------------------------
  |             |     | 1OO |
   -------------------------

Use of the EAGA BEVA system will again allow these gates to be swapped within
the EAGA.

Note however that owing to the limited component count of these ICs some swaps
may result in unexpected changes to the gate structure as the EAGA
automatically configures itself to use its full component count.

IV.i) MCROM Function equivalence table:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |  FUNCTION NO. | CRD  | FUNCTION      | CRD | FUNCTION   | CRD | FUNCTION |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |       1.      | Head | Bribery       | Arm | Brawling   | Leg | Dodge    |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |       2.      | Head | Computing     | Arm | Swordsman  | Leg | Climb    |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |       3.      | Head | Electronics   | Arm | Slug gun   | Leg | Jump     |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |       4.      | Head | Mechanics     | Arm | Energy gun | Leg | Hide     |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |       5.      | Head | Targetting    | Arm | Throw      | Leg | Run      |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |       6.      | Head | Streetwise    | Arm | Missiles   | Leg | React    |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |       7.      | Head | Interrogation | Arm | Sleight    | Leg | Lift     |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Extracted from Phi-Corp MSD 001899/XB Mi|Spec Droid Users Handbook (c)
Phi-Corp 2/8/2897. Reproduced with permission)