			Licence To Kill

	The Aim Of The Game.

Become James Bond in his latest adventure and destroy the evil drug smuggler
Sanchez. Guide 007 as he fights it out on Cray Cay over Miami bay and 
underwater on his way to the final confrontation in 18-wheeler fuel tankers.
Defeat Sanchez and give Bond what he wants - REVENGE.

	Scene 1

Part 1

Bond and Felix Leiter swoop low in their helicopter over Cray Cay to prevent
Sanchez escaping with his beautiful girlfriend. Avoid all tall buildings and
shoot out the gun emplacements as you gun down his jeep. Remember - the 
faster you fly the lower you go!

Part 2

Bond leaps into action and sets off on foot to catch Sanchez. Watch out -
many of Sanchez' henchmen have been deployed to ambush you. Duck and shoot
your way through while collecting extra magazines. Watch out for the oil
barrels as they explode after four direct hits. Can you make it back to
Felix in the waiting helicopter? Your wits and your 15-shot Beretta can make
the difference!

Part 3

Bond is lowered by rope from the helicopter as Sanchez attempts to escape
to Cuba in his aircraft. Guide 007 onto the back of the dodging plane and 
attach the tow rope. Remember Felix can't guide the pilot if you are in 
clouds and time is running out! Position Bond directly over the tail of the 
plane and press the fire button to "lock-on" - it's not as easy as it sounds.

	Scene 2

Part 1

007 dives into the thick of it as he interrupts a 'Drop' by the drugs 
smuggler. They set off in hot pursuit and Bond must swim for his life as 
divers are launched against him. Swimming underwater stops the boats from
firing, but what about the divers? Destroy the drug caches for a bonus. 
Armed only with a knife, can you hold out until the 'Drop' plane arrives?

Part 2

Harpoon the seaplane's pontoons and you're off in a high speed chase as you
waterski barefoot behind the seaplane. Watch out - high speed catamarana 
have been launched to catch you. Weave your way to the seaplane to gain 
control and escape!

	Scene 3

You have destroyed Sanchez' drug factory only to find he has escaped you once 
again. You must prevent Sanchez reaching the border with his drugs haul
stored in 18-wheeler tankers. In the chase sequence to end all chases you 
must destroy each tanker in turn until you reach the final tanker containing 
Sanchez. Be on the lookout - Sanchez has Stinger missiles to prevent you 
using your LICENCE TO KILL.
Once you have mastered each sequence, improve your score by going round again 
- but this time it will be much harder.

	Controlling Bond

Bond controls a variety of vehicles by moving left and right to dodge/steer.
Push forwards and backwards to accelerate and decelerate. When running, aim
by pressing the fire button to go into fire mode. Moving left and right
moves the aiming reticle and pressing the fire button again shoots in that
direction. Push forward to continue running. At certain times a reticle
will appear telling you to Jump, Shoot etc - press fire to do this.

Status Panel

Underneaththe 007 logo a system panel is displayed which changes with each
stage. This gives Altimeter/Radar/Ammunition rounds, countdown timer,
oxygen level, take-off speed and miles to border in sequence.
The bottom window displays the score/lives panel.


			@ 02/07/89 The Phantom Lord