                     >>>>>    L i o n h e a r t    <<<<<

' Intro '

You are at the first level if the intro appears on the screen on loading. 
to stop the intro, press the fire button on your joystick. 

' main menu '

from the main menu you can start the game, select various options, look 
at the instrucktions, or, if you loaded the programm from the hard disk, 
you can go back to the workbench. from the main menu you only need diskette 
2, unlessyou want to see the intro, in which case you will need diskette 1.

'' start game ''

once you have selected your options in the introduction , you're ready to go 
on the quest for lionheart.

'' options '' 
difficulty :

set the difficulty level to normal or hard - weaklings are not catered for.

joystick :

you can install joysticks equipped with two electrically independent buttons.

soundtest :

music 00 switches the sound off. the other values provide various diefferent
sound-tracks.

done : 
returns you to the main menu.

'introduction '
start the 'intro' again.
quit :
returns you to the workbench. the game ends. this menu is only available if
lionheart is installed on a hard diskand your computer has at least 1.8 mb 
of ram.

' controls '
valdyn ' the hero ' is controlled by the joystick connected to the second 
socket on your computer.

        joyst. right            valdyn goes right
        joyst. left             valdyn goes left 
        joyst. up               valdyn jumps up 
        joyst. down             valdyn ducks
        joyst. up and right     valdyn jumps to the right 
        joyst. up and left      valdyn jumps to the left 

the jump function is proportionally controlled; push the stick up a little
and valdyn only does a little jump. push it up further and valdyn jumps
as high and as far he can.

the fire button has a special function.
        press and a hold a fire button    valdyn draws his sword
        release the fire button       valdyn sheathes his sword

please note that valdyn sheathes his sword as soon as you let go of the 
fire button and that he only draws his sword and goes " en garde " when 
you press the fire button. i.e. he does not lunge.

with the fire button depressed :
        joyst. right    horizontal thrust of the sword to the right
        joyst. left horizontal thrust of the sword to the left
                joyst. up       sword thrusts upwards at an angle
        joyst. down     valdyn ducks
                

crouched with the fire button depressed :

 joyst. right   kick to the right 
 joyst. left    kick to the left 
 joyst. up      valdyn stands up 

valdyn can clibm  along or hang on to certain ropes and ledges and can 
balance on or walk along the ropes. to do this, make him jump onto the 
rope or the ledge. to fight when he is hanging , press the fire button. 

if you a joystick with two electrically independant firing buttons, 
the first button is used for ' drawing the weapon ' and the second 
is used for ' jumping '. proportinally controlled jumping is then 
controllled with fire button 2. 

the battle strike
the most effctive method of attack valdyn knows is the battle strike. for
this, pull the stick down during the jump and press the fire button. 
you must press the fire button several times to strike repeatdely.

in addition, use the following keys on the keyboard:

[p]     to pause the game 
[esc]   to interrupt the game 

confirm at the prompt by pressing [esc] again if you wish to end the game.
pressing any other key returns you to the game. 

[i]     background color interlace mode on/off.


        displays
during the game certain details are displayed at the top of the screen. 

at the left-hand side are two rows of hearts shown in three different 
conditions. the number of bright red hearts shows the total energy 
of one of valdyn's lives. if valdyn makes contact with an opponent, one of
the bright red heart turns dark red.

the total number of bright red and dark red hearts shows the maximum energy
of valdyn on one level. hearts wich are only shown in outline are inactive.
further details are given under "bonus points, energy crystals" and 
" energy drinks ".

next to the hearts is the display of the energy crystals already collected,
which you need to increase valdyn's energy.

next to the crystal display a sword indicating a value. valdyn may find 
various different sword along his way. the striking power of the sword 
is shown here.

the number of lives remaining for valdyn is shown at the far right. he 
loses one of his lives when the last bright red heart turns dark red. 

various special actions are displayed in the top right-hand corner of 
the screen.

- if you need to change the diskette, an animated diskette symbol appears 
  showing the number of the diskette required. 
- in many cases disk access is shown by a rotating disc symbol.
- pauses are indicated by the pause symbol.
- a warning message appears if you wish to end the game.

        bonus points 
energy crystals 
collect all the energy crystals you can find. when you hav ethe requisite
number, the active heart count increases by one, i.e one of the inactive 
hearts is activated.

energy drinks 
there are two different sizes of phials containing energy drinks to be
found on the levels. the small phials regenerate one of the dark red 
hearts so that maximum life energy is again available to valdyn. 
all the active hearts to back to bright red. 

life spheres
in a few areas you will find glowing life spheres which give valdyn 
another new life. the display at the top right on the screen is 
increased by one.

swords
valdyn starts his search armed only with a simple sword. look arround
carfully - you will find much better and more powerful weapons along the
way. keep an eye on the sword display on the screen. 

        tips 
familiarise yourself with the controls. practice all the movements and the
battle strikes before you go searching for lionheart.

you should especialy practice the battle strike jump: many of your opponents 
can be destroyed with this in one single hit! to repeat the battle strike 
several times you need only press the fire button again whilst pulling
down on the josytick. if valdyn hits his oppenent, valdyn is catapulted 
upwards. 
on each level there are hidden things which make the task easier for you.
on most level there is also a secret area which is very carefully concealed.
if you can't progress on one level, search through the previous levels in case
you missed thebonus points which would make it easier for you to progress.

note that valdyn alwways runs faster up or down slopes. this fact can be used 
to make him jump further. 

valdyn is a member of the cat people race. if he has to cross a river or get
through a flooded passageway you must remember that he cannot swim. for
this reason, it is essential that you always keep his head above water.

many of the plattforms valdyn must stand on during his travels can be made to
move like swings. pull the stick down during the swimming to increase its
movements. move the stick up to decrease the amount of swing. 
by the way.... in modus 'hard' you will not only attacked by harder enemies;
we also changed the levels itself. that means, that you have got two games
in one.

have fun while playing the game ...... 