HYPER TYPED BY    THE SPEED DEMON    IN 1991


                          LOMBARD RAC RALLY
                          =================

INTRODUCTION

Lombard RAC Rally is a challenging and realistic simulation of the world
famous car rally. Much more than a motor racing game, it will give you many
hours of undiluted pleasure while at the same time providing a thrilling and
searching test of your driving and strategic skills.

Achieving the nultimate objective - to finish the rally in the fastest time
- will not be easy, but thehn neither is the real thing! Night driving,
fog-shrouded roads, forest lanes and twisting mountainous tracks, all stand
between you and victory. The chance of laying claim to one of the greatest
prizes in the world rallying is within your grasp. Are you up to it?

OBJECTIVE

The main objective of Lombard RAC Rally is to take Your Ford Sierra RS
Cosworth into first place by beating the target times laid down for the
competition. There are no points or penalties - just drive like the wind,
watch out for other competitors and try to get to the end of the track in
one piece!

SELECTING FROM THE MAIN OPTIONS

Following the opening title, the screen will display all the main options.
Moving the joystivck up or down will highlight each of these options in
turn. To select a currently highlighted option, press the joystick fire
button.

THE FULL LOMBARD RAC RALLY

The full Lombard RAC Rally compels you to play all five legs of the Rally
(15 stages in all) and their predetermined sequence. However, you must first
prove your competence to be admitted in this supreme test of driving skills
by playing all five legs in any order you wish (see QUALIFYING) and winning
at least on prize overall.

When you have thus qualified, you may participate in the full rally by
selecting Full Lombard RAC Rally from the options. For each of the
prescribed legs must then be played in their proper sequence. The time taken
on each stage is accumulated and you will attain overall first place if you
achieve the target time laid down.

QUALIFYING

To qualify for the Full Lombard RAC Rally, you must play all of the five
legs at least once and must win a minimum of one prize overall (just finish
firstm second or third in any leg).

The individual legs, listed on the main options screen, are:

   Harrogate   -  Telford
   Telford     -  Harrogate
   Harrogate   -  Carlisle
   Carlisle    -  Harrogate
   Harrogate   -  Harrogate

You don`t have to compete in the full Rally. You may instead prefer to play
any or all of the legs in any order and as often as you like, simply for fun
and to sharpen your driving skills.

STAGES

Each of the five legs of the Lombard RAC RAlly consists of three separate
and consecutive stages. When an individual leg is highlighted, the panel on
the right of the screen will display, for that particular stage, the route
map, the route type and conditions, and prescribed times, the prize money
for achieving those times, and the names and times of the best runs achieved
in the current session.

Details of each of three stages are obtained by moving the joystick left or
right when an individual leg is highlighted. The highlighted number (1, 2 or
3) at the top of the panel indicates which of the three stages is currently
being referenced.

The Stage Types are road, mountain and forest.

The Stage Conditions are normal, night and fog.

DRIVING YOUR FORD SIERRA RS COSWORTH

To steer, move hte joystick left and right.

To accelerate, push forward on the joystick. Pull back on the joystick to
brake.

To change up a gear, press the fire button while pushing forward on the
joysick. To change down, press the fire button while pulling back on the
joystick.

One of the secrets to success in Lombard RAC Rally is timely gear changing.
The stages are full of twists and turns, hills and valleys, keen and poor
visibility - so it`s a good idea to be nifty with the gear stick to suit the
road conditions. Saving vital seconds is crucial.

Leaving the road surface will slow you down and damage the car. A minor
collision will cause the car to decelerate, but hitting an object with more
force will cause the car to stop. You`ll have to re-selectr first geare and
get going again as soon as possible. A violent crash may mean the end of the
race, or, more typically, valuable tim ebeing lost while your car is gently
repositioned on the road with first gear selected.

The control gauge planel displayed above the gear box shows vital data about
the condition of the Cosworth`s engine, suspejnsion and tyre wear.

The other three gauges produce technical data which is analysed by your
co-driver. Don`t worry about them.

To the right of the screen is the speedometer and the rev counter. These
display your current speed and the engine tick over rate respectively.

THe timer on the Cosworth`s dashboard indicates the cumulative elapsed time
for the leg in minutes and seconds. The timer attached to the map clipboard
shows the elapsed time for the stage.

During the full Lombard RAC Rally the dashboard timer will display the
lowest target time for the present leg. Failure to equal or beat this time
results in a `Time Out` and your rally will end. If this happens press the
fire button to return to the main menu where you can decide to try the full
rally again or select Start Again

WORKSHOP

You may visit the workshop at any time by selecting the Workshop option from
the main options screen or by pressing the W key during a stage. But beware:
If you elect to take your car to the Workshop while racing the time spent
there will be added to your overall time for that stage.

Provided you have money you can make desired changed or essential repairs to
your Cosworth. You may wish to visit the Workshop simply to check the
current state of your car. There is no obligation to spend your hard-earned
cash!

Any damage done to bodywork, suspension, engine or tyres is shown as a
percentage figure (maximum 99%) beside the relevant item on the right of the
workshop screen. The repait cost is &1 for each percentage point of damage.

To effect repairs, move the joystick until the appropriate part of the car
is highlighted (the respective box at the right side of the screen will also
be highlighted with a blue surround) and press the fire button. Press the
fire button again if you want to halt the repair (you might not want to
spend all your cash on that particular item). The cost os the repair will
automatically be deducted from your cash in hand.

To effect changes to the car, highlight the Parts box and move the joystick
up or down. The available parts will be shown in turn, each with the cost of
purchasing that component. Simply press the fire button to but the part you
require and it will be fitted, always assuming you can meet the bill! The
panel to the right of the parts bocx indicates the current specification of
your Cosworth.

To leave the workshop, highlight the Exit box and press the fire button.

Please note: Failure to pay due care to the state of your Cosworth and to
take necessary remedial acion will effects its performance and may even
render the car (and you!) unfit for rallying.

EARNING MONEY

There are two mays to earn money. The first is by winning big cash prizes
during the rally. The second is to indulge your ego in a TV interview.
Selecting the TV Interview from the main options allows you to take part in
the Lombard RAC Rally Trivia Quiz.

During the 40 seconds alloted you will be presented with a series of
questions on all aspects of the Lombard RAC Rally. Each question comes
complete with a choice of three answers. Simply select the one you think is
correct by highlighting A, B or C (move your joystick up and down) and press
the fire button.

The good news is that every question answered correctly wins you &50. The
bas news is that every question answered incorrectly will cost you &20. If
you fail to answer all five questions "Time out" occurs and all winnings are
lost. Still, the programmers have not been too unkind. No matter how badly
you fare at this option, your cash balance will never fall below zero.

One further thing. You are only permitted one TV Interview before each leg
of the rally.

PRACTICE

If you simply wish to practice, select this option from the main options
screen. Naturally, no prize money is available during a practice run.

DEMO

To see how it should be done, select this option and sit back and watch. The
game will also go into demo mode if left untouched for 50 seconds. You can
get back to the game by moving the joystick or pressing the fire button.

OTHER FEATURES

Pressing the spacebar will pause the simulation, enabling you to pop for a
quick oil change or to wipe the mud from your display. To continue, press
the spacebar again.

Hitting the Escape key immediately abondons the current activity and returns
you to the main option screen with all timings and earnings intact.

Should you wish to begin the simulation again from scratch, selecting the
Start Again option from the main menu will let you do just that.

HISTORY OF THE RALLY

The contrast between the Lombard RAC Rally today and the first one held 56
yeats earlier is remarkable. Although now a major event in what is arguably
the most exciting and toughest form of motorsport, the rally began life as
little more than a gentle, organised ramble round the English countryside.

The UK economy in 1931 was in a state of emergency. To help the balance of
payments situation it was decided to set up a British alternative to the
famous Monte Calro Rally and thereby stem some of the money being spent
abroad at this event and perhaps draw the public`s attention to the
attractions of British coastal resorts.

THE TORQUAY RALLY

As a result of what was to turn out to be a momentous decision, the first
British rally took place in March 1932. As Torquay was chosen to be the
finishing point, it was officially known as the Torquay Rally. The
contestants started their 1,000 milr route from Bath, Buxton, Edinburgh,
Harrogate, Leamington, London, Newcastle and Norwich.

The principle aim of those choosing the routes was to try and ensure that
everyone got to Torquay where the winner would be determined by a series of
tests. Of the 341 contestants, among whom were many peers of the realm as
well as racing drivers, 321 made it to the finish. The average speed on the
road sections was between 22 and 25 mph.

There are no overnight halts and among the casualties was one driver who
fell asleep at the wheel and rammed a telegraph pole, another who overturned
on the little ice there was on the route, and a further unfortunate who
collided with a horse just eight miles from the start.

TO THE SLOWEST THE VICTORY

The first of the three tests to decide the winner involved driving in top
gear as slowly as possible along 100 yards or Torquay promenade. This was
followed by an acceleration test, at the conclusion of which the distance
required to bring the car to a dead stop was measured. The use of a
complicated formula to achieve equity between the different cars had a
strange side-effect - the slower a motorist travelled in the first test, the
more favourable the result! The winner of this bizarre test, with an average
speed of 0.66mph, was Colonel Loughborough driving a Lanchester. As it
turned out, he was also the overall victor of what motoring history records
as the first ever RAC rally.

THE RALLY CONTINUES

With some changes, the event has held every year thereafter until 1939,
after which the Second World War brought it to an end. When the rally
returned in June 1951, it was granted international status. Bournemouth was
selected as the finish point and four starting locations were used -
Brighton, Cheltenham, Harrogate and Skegness. Tests were no conducted
throughout the rally. All routes converged on Silverstone, where the final
test was to complete a given number of laps at a minimum average speed per
class.

Ford stamped their imprint on the 1954 Rally. They took the manufacturers`s
team prize and a Ford Zephyr finished in third place. The rally was
cancelled in 1957, due to the Suez crisis and consequent petrol rationing.

The following year the RAC made every effort to encourage foreign entries by
placing the emphasis not on navigation but on speed, and planning to have a
starting point at Le Touquet in France. However, only one enttry from abroad
was received and that was from a Briton living in Sweden! As a result, the
Le Torquet control was dropped.

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION OF THE FORD SIERRA RS COSWORTH

ENGINE
Cylinders            4-in-line
Mounted              Front, north-south
Capacity             1933 cc (x 1.4 = 17900.2 cc)
Bore and Stroke      90.8 x 76.95mm
Compression Ratio    12:1
Valves/camshafts     16 valve/DOHC
Fuel System          Weber Magnet Marelli
Turbocharger         Garrett T3
                     6500 rpm
                     4500 rpm

TRANSMISSION
Gearbox              5 speed Gelrag close ratio
Drive type           2WD (rear)
Clutch/differentials Single-plate/rear viscous diff.

CHASSIS
Steering             Rack & pinion, assisted
Front suspension     Mc Pherson
Rear suspension      Semi-trailing arm
Wheel rim widths     5.0-8.75 x 16 in
Tyres                Pirelli
Front brakes         315 x 32 mm ventilated discs, AP calipers
Rear brakes          285 x 28 mm ventilated discs, AP calipers

DIMENSIONS
Overall length       4460 mm
Overall width        1920 mm
Height               1359 mm
Wheelbase            2609 mm

FORD TRIUMPHANT

By changing the date to November and devising a testing route, a higher
overseas contingent was attracted to the 1959 Rally. There were 16 foreign
entries, including the winner of the Monte Carlo Rally. The tough route took
the contestants from Blackpool to the Scottish Highlands and back through
Wales to finish at the Crystal Palace. Unfortunately, appalling weather in
the Highlands - snow, floods and fog - all but ruined the event.

Even so, it was to be a vintage year for Ford - they not only won the
manufacturer`s team prizr again but also finished in first position, again
with a Zephyr. Ford wear to go on to win the team prize in 1963, 1964 and
then in three consecutive years from 1977-1979, a hat-trick never since
emulated by any other company. In fact Ford have won the manufacturer`s team
prize more times than anyone else in the rally`s history.

TULIPS FROM HOLLAND

Thw 1960 Rally saw some movement away from public to private roads and there
was less navigational content. The contestants has use of a comprehensive
Tulip Road Book - a manual which, by the use of signs and symbols, gave
accurate directions linked to the distance from the previous control. The
book was based and named after a cheme successfully used by the methodical
Dutch in their own Tulip Rally.

In fourth place in the 1963 Rally was a BMC Mini-Cooper driven by Paddy
Hopkirk. THis was to be the beginning of the rise of the Mini.

In 1964, Ford were making their mark with a Cortina finishing in third
position. But in 1965 BMC cars led almost from the start to the finish. That
rally was won by the Finn, Rauno Aaltonen, driving a Mini-Cooper-S. BMC
Minis again dominated the rally in 1966 but FOrd struck back and a
Lotus-Cortine finished first. Other noteworthy facts about the 1966 Rally
were that this was the first appearance by a Lancia and there were entried
from two Grand Prix drivers, Graham Hill and Jim Clark.

TRYING TIMES

AN outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Britain caused the cancellation of
the 1967 rally but next year Ford were back in action, gaining third place
with an Escort. Dreadful weather conditions caused chaos to the 1971 Rally -
snow drifts and ice-encrusted roads caused total disarray and many cars were
brought to a complete standstill. So bad were the conditions that, in the
middle of a special stage, one car was even attempting to drive in the wrong
direction.

In contrast, the 1972 Rally was a huge success, mainly thanks to a larger HQ
control, a more compact route (1, 800 miles with 72 stages), better
organisation, and improved weather. The surprise winner, beating the
previous year`s victor (Stig Blomqvist in a Saab), was a Ford Escort driven
by Roger Clark with Tony Mason navigating. This was to be the first of
eight consecutive RAC Rally victories for the famous Ford car, three of
those wins (1973-1975) being gained by the combined efforts of Time Makinen
and Henry Liddon.

A CHANGE OF NAME

By 1974 the RAC Rally had become renowned as an event for the first rally
drivers and cars in the world and, following a successful liaisonship with
the Lombard Group, became known as the Lombard RAC Rally.

The year 1980 saw the Ford Escort`s string of first-place victories come to
an end, beaten into second place by Henri Toivenen and Paul White in a
Talbot Sunbeam-Lotus. The next three years were to be dominated by one of
the new breed of supercar, the turbocharged, four-wheel drive Audi Quattro.
Driven in 1981-1982 by Hannu Mikkola with Arne Hertz at his side and in 1983
by Stig Blomqvist with Bjorn Cederberg, the Audi Quattro broke all rally
performance expectations and in so doing altered the face of the world
championship rallying. Even so, a Ford Escort still finished second in 1980
and in 10981 took the Ladies` Prize, the eight time Ford had won this award.

FROM STRENGTH TO STRENGTH

Bringing events right up to date, the most recent four years have seen the
pattern change yet again. Now it was time for the other two cars to take
turns to win this famous rally. In 1984 and 1986, a Peugeot 205 took the
honours while in 1985 and 1987, a Lancia Delta reigned supreme. The 1985
highlight was another landmark in rallying history - the Austin Rover Metro
made its international debut and finished third.

What the future holds is anyone`s guess. Ford have undoubtedly made their
indelible mark on the rally`s history and will assuredly continue to appear
in the prize lists. What is even more certain will assuredl6y continue to
appear in the prize lists. What is even more certain is that Lombard RAC
Rally will continue to excite and entertain the motoring enthusiast for many
years to come.

PREVIOUS WINNERS

The first rally was held in 1932. Up to 1937 only class winners were
produced before a classification for overall winner was introduced.

YEAR     WINNERS                             CAR

1937     Jack Harrop                         SS Jaguar 2.5 litre
1938     Jack Harrop                         SS Jaguar 2.5 litree
1939     A F P Fane                          Frazer-Nash BMW 328
1940
to                          No Rally
1950
1951     Ian Appleyard/Pat Appleyard         Jaguar XK120
1952     Godfrey Imhof/Mrs B Frayling        Allard-Cadillac J2
1953     Ian Appleyard/Pat Appleyard         Jaguar XK120
1954     John Wallwork/J H Brooks            Triumph TR2
1955     Jimmy Ray/Brian Horrocks            Standard 10
1956     Lyndon Sims/R Jones/A Ambrose       Aston Martin DB2
1957                        No Rally
1958     Peter Harper/Dr E W Deane           Sunbeam Rapier
1959     Gerald Burgess/Sam Croft-Pearson    Ford Zephyr
1960     Erik Carlsson/Stuart Turner         Saab 96
1961     Erik Carlsson/John Brown            Saab 96
1962     Erik Carlsson/David Stone           Saab 96
1963     Tom Trana/S Lindstrom               Volvo PV544
1964     Tom Trana/Gunnar Thermanius         Volvo PV544
1965     Rauno Aaltonen/Tony Ambrose         Mini-Cooper S
1966     Bengt Soderstrom/Gunnar Palm        Ford Cortine-Lotus
1967                        No Rally
1968     Simo Lampinen/John Dravenport       Saab V4
1969     Harry Kalstrom/Gunnar Haggbom       Lancia Fulvia HF
1970     Harry Kalstrom/Gunnar Haggbom       Lancia Fulvia HF
1971     Stig Blomqvist/Arne Hertz           Saab V4
1972     Roger Clark/Tony Mason              Ford Escort RS1600
1973     Timo Makinen/Henry Liddon           Ford Escort RS1600
1974     Timo Makinen/Henry Liddon           Ford Escort RS1600
1975     Timo Makinen/Henry Liddon           Ford Escort RS1800
1976     Roger Clark/Stuart Pegg             Ford Escort RS1800
1977     Bjorn Waldegard/Hans Thorszeulius   Ford Escort RS
1978     Hannu Mikkola/Anne Hertz            Ford Escort RS
1979     Hannu Mikkola/Anne Hertz            Ford Escort RS
1980     Henri Toivonen/Paul White           Talbot Sunbeam-Lotus
1981     Hannu Mikkola/Anne Hertz            Audi Quattro
1982     Hannu Mikkola/Anne Hertz            Audi Quattro
1983     Stig Blomqvist/Bjorn Cederberg      Audi Quattro
1984     Ari Vatanen/Terry Harryman          Peugeot 205 T16
1985     Henri Toivonen/Neil Wilson          Lancia Delta S4
1986     Timo Salonen/Seppo Harjanne         Peugeot 205 T16 E2
1987     Juha Kankkunen/Juha Piironen        Lancia Delta

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE OFFICAL RULES

1. ELIGIBILITY

The event is a qualifying round for:
   The FIA Worl Rally Championship for Manufacturers
   The FIA Worl Rally Championship for Drivers
   The Triple Crown Championship

2. DESCRIPTION

The length of the rally will be approximately 1700 miles (2,700 km),
including 350 miles (560km) of special stages.

3. ROUTE RECONAISSANCE

Practising, reconnoitering or having prior information of the special stages
in the form of pace notes is expressly forbidden except under the following
conditions and on dates and times laid down:
   a) Competitors may traverse the stages at a maximum speed of 25mph
      (40kph).
   b) Rally cars not permitted.

4. ELIGIBLE COMPETITORS

Any person holding a currently valid FIA International Competitor`s licence.

5. ENTRY FEES

   a) With optional advertising proposed by the organisers:
      (i)   Entry paid three weeks before closing date: £640.
      (ii)  Entry paid one week before closing date:    £950.
      (iii) Entry paid by closing date:                 £1.250

6. TIME CARD

   a) Each crew will be given a book of time-cards on which the times to
      cover distances between time controls will appear.

   b) The crew is responsible for submitting the time card at the different
      controls and for the accuracy of the entries.

   c) The absence of a stamp of official mark from any control or the
      failure to hand in time card at each control will result in exclusion
      from the event.

7. TRAFFIC LAWS

Throughout the rally competitors must strictly observe the traffic laws of
the United Kingdom. Competitors shall always drive and conduct themselves
in a manner which shall not discredit the event or arouse adverse public
opinion.

8. REPAIRS

Repairs and refuelling are freely permitted throughout the whole event.

9. ADVERTISING

Competitors are allowed to affix any kind of advertising to their cars,
provided that:-

   a) It is authorised by national laws and organising conditions for World
      Rally Championship events.

   b) It is not likely to give offence.

   c) That it does not encroach upon the space reserved for plates and
      competition numbers.

   d) That it does not interfere with the crew`s vision through the windows.

10. SPECIAL STAGES

Crews are forbidden to drive in the opposite direction to that of the rally,
under pain of exclusion.