     Lords of the Rising Sun
     
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
     
     
     THE GEMPIE WAR
     	The Taira and the Minamoto
     	The Hogen Disturbance (1156)
     	The Fall of Yoshitomo
     	Dishonor in the Family
     	A Storm Rises from the East
     	The Fate of Yorimasa
     
     THE STAGE IS SET
     
     TWO WOULD-BE EMPERORS
     	Yoritomo
     	Yoshitsune
     
     MAPPING STRATEGY
     
     TROOP REVIEWS
     	Banners
     	Strategy tips for troop review
     
     TRAVEL
     	Outside/Inside Your Home Castle
     	Visiting Castles/Cities/Monasteries
     	Visiting the Imperial Palace
     
     MAP OF TWELFTH CENTRY JAPAN
     
     THE WAY OF THE SAMURAI
     
     ENCOUNTERS
     
     ON THE BATTLEFRONT
     	Engaging in Battle/Horseback Pursuit
     
     THE SOUL OF THE SWORD
     	The Siege - To Live by the Sword
     
     HEROES OF THE WAR
     
     RESUPPLYING TROOPS
     
     BESIEGED
     
     NINJA ASSASSINS
     
     THE NINJA
     
     SEARCH FOR THE IMPERIAL REGALIA
     
     SEPPUKU - TO DIE BY THE SWORD
     
     BECOMING SHOGUN
     
     
     
                                 THE GEMPEI WAR
     
     An epic struggle famous in history and legend, the Gempei War has
     provided a rich treasury of romantic tales, some authentic, others
     largely or entirely fictitious.  A huge library of literature has
     grown from the events and personalities of this fabled era.  Tales of
     the Gempei War may be said to constitute the Japanese equivalent of
     the Arthurian legend, rich in heroism and valor.  The interactive
     movie you are about to participate in combines the finest elements of
     fiction and reality to offer you an unforgettable entertainment
     experience based upon this action-packed time in word history. 
     Welcome to the Lords of the Rising Sun!
     
     The Taira and the Minamoto
     The political system of feudal Japan received its leadership from a
     number of great military houses.  The greatest were the Taira and the
     Minamoto. Both clans descended from the Imperial House and were
     founded by men who left the capital to seek greater opportunities for
     power and distinction in the outlying provinces.
     
     An important factor in the formation of samurai bands was teh
     aristocratic background of their leaders.  The Taira and Minamoto owed
     their founding to noble connections coupled with military skills. 
     Whereas aristocratic lineage may have been a great help in attracting
     followers, success in battle was absolutely vital.  These traits made
     the two families much in demand for marriage alliances and gave them
     priority in the selection of lands.
     
     The Taira established themselves at first in the Kanto district in the
     east where, as early as A.D. 935, they felt powerful enough to revolt
     against the central government.  The campaign against them, however,
     marked the rise of the Manamoto, who quickly built up a considerable
     following both in the Kanto district and in the provinces surrounding
     the capital.  The Taira reacted by extending their own influence along
     the shores of the Inland Sea.
     
     As the rivalry between the two grea, the Minamoto became the most
     successful. They formed an alliance with the Fujiwara (a dynastic
     family that dominated teh Japanese Imperial government from the 9th to
     the 12th century), suppressing a number of provincial revolts in the
     11th centruy and achieving a strong position for themselves in doing
     so.  In the 12th century, however, the Taira also succeeded in gaining
     a foothold at court, largely by providing support to the retired
     emperors.
     
     In 1156-1159, power changed hands, as Taira Kiyomiri took advantage of
     a succession dispute to seize power and remove most of the Minamoto
     from office.  For 20 years he was in complete control...and then came
     the first rumblings of war.
     
     The Hogen Disturbance (1156)
     One of the bloodiest battles in Japanese history, this bitter conflict
     for power erupted between the retired emperor Sutoku and his younger
     brother, the reigning emperor, Go-Shirakawa.  Sutoku attempted a cou
     d-etat with the support of the Minamoto Kiyomori, head of the powerful
     Taira clan, supported Go-Shirakawa in the ensuing conflict and emerged
     victorious, partly because of the defection of Tameyoshi's son,
     Yoshitomo.  Kiyomori ruthlessly executed his enemies and ordered
     Yoshitomo to cut off his own father's head.  Yoshitomo refused, but
     another Minamoto officer, saying it would be a disgrace to allow a
     Taira to execute Tameyoshi, carried out the unpleasant order.
     
     The Fall of Yoshitomo
     Dissatisfied with his share of the spoils from the bloody battle,
     Yoshitomo took advantage of Kiyomon's absence from the capital during
     the winter of 1159-60, one of the most colorful episodes in Japanese
     history.  Although taken by surprise, Kiyomori gathered what forces he
     could muster and advanced in a series of daring, cleverly executed
     maneuvers.  Victorious, he returned to the capital and annihilated his
     enemies, including Yoshitomo, who escaped, only to be killed while
     seeking refuge in eastern Japan.  Only Yoshitomo's two infant sons
     were allowed to survive, a leniency Kiyomori would later regret.
     
     Dishonor in the Family
     As the years passed, the sons of yoshitomo grew to manhood with a
     bitter hatred of the Taira.  Yoritomo, banished to the eastern
     province of Izu, would never forget that his father had once been the
     chief of a mightly clan and resolved that one day he would wield even
     greater power.  He slowly gathered allies from among the scattered
     remnants of the Minamoto clan and from Taira landowners, some of whom
     hated their powerful relatives.  Soon he would raise the battle
     standard of the Minamoto clan and take to the field to become its
     ultimate leader.
     
     Yoshitsune, virtually a prisoner in the monastery where Kiyomori had
     sent him as an infant, escaped at the age of fifteen and fled to the
     far north of Japan, where he spent his youth training himself to be
     the greatest swordsman in northern Japan.  Later he would search for
     his older brother, restore the honor of his fater, and become the
     Minamoto's ultimate warrior.
     
     A Storm Rises from the East
     The Gempei War began with a rising in 1180 by Minamoto Yorimasa, an
     agedcourtier who survived the Heiji Rebellion.  Yorimasa had been
     passive during the Heiji Insurrection, though he seemed to be on the
     side of the Taira.  In the years that followed, he came to be regarded
     by Kiyomori as completely reliable.  By 1180 he was 77 years old, and
     it was taken for granted that he presented no possible threat to the
     Taira oligarchy.  But this elder statesman harbored intense secret
     resentments, for he had once been gravely insulted by Kiyomori's son. 
     It also seems that he was made the object of jokes by the Taira.
     
     NOTE:  A recurring feature in any history of the samurai is the great
     magnitude that warriors attached to the repayment of debts - of
     vengeance as well asgratitude.  A personal humiliation, even when
     caused unintentionally, could not be overlooked; it must be avenged,
     regardless of how long the injured party had to wait.
     
     Such was Yorimasa's frame ofmind when, early in 1180, he got in touch
     with a prince of the Imperial House who had his own reasons for
     detesting the Taira, since he had twice been bypassed for succession,
     the second accasion being the enthronement of Kiyomon's grandchild,
     Antoku.  Yorimasa persuaded the prince to send a call to arms to
     Minamoto leaders in the east, with the promise that, after the
     overthrow of the Taira, the prince would ascend the throne.
     
     However, the rebellion against the Taira was poorly planned and badly
     coordinated, and soon the Minamoto band, allied with a company of
     warrior monks, had to withdraw south to join up with another monk army
     from nara.  had they delayed the rebellion it might have been possible
     to coordinate their effort with a general rising in the Minamoto
     heartlands to the east; but when the rebellion was hardly a day old,
     the Minamoto were once again put on the defensive, facing a huge Taira
     army across the river Uji.
     
     To support their defense, the Minamoto and their monk allies tore up a
     section of planking from the Uji bridge, which the mounted Taira
     samurai discovered as they tried to cross it in the early-morning
     mist.  Both sides proceeded to release arrows across the river as the
     mist cleared, and many individual combats took place on the bridge's
     broken beams.
     
     The Fate of Yorimasa
     The tom-bridge tactic did not succeed for long, as the Taira soon
     forded the river and attacked the Minamoto once again.  The climax of
     the ensuing battle took place close to the Byodo-in, an elegant villa
     built by a Fujiwara minister and converted into a monastery.
     
     In the last stages of the fight, Yorimasa rode off with the prince,
     but was struck by an enemy arrow.  Urging the prince to continue his
     flight, the old man turned back to Byodo-in.  There, just in front of
     the graceful central pavilion, the Phoenix Hall, Yorimasa, kneeling on
     his iron fan, disemboweled himself with his own sword.  Gallantly, the
     sons of Yorimasa managed to hold off the Taira long enough for their
     fater to perform what has come to be known as the classic act of
     seppuku (hara-kiri) by a defeated samurai on a battlefield.  He first
     composed a farewell poem, which he wrote on the back of his war fan,
     then cut two long slits in his abdomen, a slow and extremely painful
     way of dying.
     
     The bloody scene of the old warrier's hara-kiri is said to be the
     second on record, the first having occurred in 1170, with the
     self-sacrifice of another Minamoto captain.  So painful was seppuku
     that inlater years it became modified so that a friendly second would
     cut off the head of the man performing the act at the moment he cut
     himself open.
     
     Prince Mochihito and Yorimasa's rebellion was easily suppressed by the
     Taira, but the deep significance of the rebellion escaped Kiyomori and
     other members of the Taira. the blood that painted the waters of the
     Uji River red were quickly washed away by the rain.  But the storm of
     the Minamoto was yet to come.
     
     	+===============================+  
     	| Yorimasa's Farewell Poem      |
     	|                               |
     	| Like a petrified tree         |
     	| Which never blossoms          |
     	| My life has passed lonelily   |
     	| Never reaching fruition.      |
     	| How said is this last moment! |
     	+===============================+
     
     
                              The STAGE IS SET...
     
     As a dark cloud obstructs the setting sun, bloodshed blankets the
     countryside in the wake of Japan's fallen central government.  Brutal
     violence thrives as military powers intensify efforts to strenghten
     their holdings.  A new breed of man - the mounted samurai - has
     charged onto the scene.
     
     Landholders can no longer depend on royal protection against outlaws
     and predatory neighbors; they must arm their sons and submit
     themselves to the leadership of chiefs known for their fighting
     skills.  To gain additional strength, the warrior-chiefs of each samll
     region have banded together and offered their combined services to
     more important lords.  The lords in turn have pledged allegiance to
     still loftier noblemen who are members of royal families.
     
     Most warrior landholders have become associated with one ofthe two
     great military families, the Minamoto and Taira.  These families rank
     lower than the court nobles, though each claims descent from early
     emperors.  Both the Taira and the Minamoto have numerous branches,
     some of which are bitter rivals for land and power and only too apt to
     desert to the other side.  Both have well-established representatives
     in all long-settled parts of Japan and, in some locations, Minamoto
     and Taira estates lay side by side, mingled with those of lesser
     provincial families that give allegiance to one or the other.
     
                           TWO WOULD-BE EMPERIORS...
                              ONE CRUMBLING EMPIRE
     
     The Fate of the Minamoto clan rests in your hands.  Choose which
     brother you will become, then go forth to defate the ruthless Taira
     and restore family honor...so you may one day become SHOGUN!
     
     Yoritomo
     Yoritomo was the consummate politician and strategist.  From the age
     of thirteen, Yoritomo lived in Izu for twenty years, during which time
     he gained the special respect and interest of the people and powerful
     families there.  He must have impressed the local people as a man of
     extraordinary ability as well as noble heritage, for he successfully
     enlisted powerful local families to support his cause.
     
     Not only did Yoritomo's noble birth prepare him for greatness, but his
     mental and physical development was abnormally rapid.  From the
     Kamakura (hisinitial settling point) he built up a feudal network of
     relationships between himself, as overlord, and his vassals, whom he
     rewarded generously.  Throughout the Gempei war he remained in the
     east, controlling the conduct of the war, often directing his generals
     from a distance, in the style of a supreme commander.
     
     As Yoritomo, your political affluence will gain you the support of
     many allies.  Though you don't have the battlefield abilities of your
     younger brother, Yoshitsune, you do have much political clout, and may
     find favor with neighboring allies.  However, you may notice that as
     your borther's unwavering support gains you victories on the
     battlefield, it also gains him political influence....and someday his
     military prowess may threaten all that you have strived so hard to
     achieve!
     
     Yoshitsune
     Yoshitsune had incredible skill on the battlefield, and his name drove
     fear into the hearts of the Taira.  Legend has it aht Yoshitsune
     learned his swordfighting skills from the tengu (wood goblins, half
     man and half bird, who lived in the forests near Kyoto) and, as a
     result, mastered superhuman military arts.  Legends aside, he must
     have practiced swordsmanship very hard, as he displayed almost
     supernatural swiftness, scrupulousness, and courage in battle.
     
     As Yoshitsune, your reputation for genius as a battlefield tactician
     will be widespread.  However, you do not have the political influence
     of your brother Yoritomo, and must rely on your fighting abilities to
     improve your political position.  In fact, despite your brilliant
     success as a commander in battle, and the victories you have won for
     the Minamoto, you must be on the lookout for your vrother, for his
     wrath is implacable.  As your military might and leadership abilities
     grow, you increasingly become a threat to his hard-earned dynasty.
     
     
                                MAPPING STRATEGY
     
     Many castles watch over the great island of Japan.  Most fearful are
     those to the west, for there lies the heavily-guarded territory of the
     Taira clan.  If you conquer the Tairaand occupy all enemy-owned
     castles, you can make this land safe for the Minamoto once again.
     
     Maneuvering your armies will be a first priority; but before taking
     any action, you want to know the status of your troops.  As the result
     of scouting reports, you are able to envision (on your map) the
     positions, sizes, and strengths of armies (both friendly and enemy)
     throughout the countryside.
     
     NOTE:  Size and strength reports of enemy armies will only be rough
     estimates, for scouts who risk their necks to obtain exact numbers
     usually lose their heads in the process.
     
     Maneuver armies
     Any army currently resting at a destination point can be sent on
     maneuvers.  Each maneuver consists of going from the current location
     to any other location directly conected by a road or sea route (for
     example, an army stationed at Kamakura can move to either Shizuoka or
     Edo). New orders cannot be issued to a mobile army until it reaches
     its destination.  However, you may pause your advancing troops at any
     time to conduct a troop review.
     
     Strategic considerations
     - At the beginning of the ware, the Taira clan was based heavily in
     central Japanand in the western regions occupied by the Inland Sea. 
     the Minamoto were established in the wild eastern provinces.  Plot
     your military maneuvers to acquire strategic landholdings that will
     strengthen the Minamoto and reduce free travel by the Taira.  Keep in
     mind that a wise leader always conducts a detailed troop review before
     engaging his forces in battle.
     
     - Weather and seasonal conditions will have an effect on your armies. 
     Armies will suffer the least casualties under favorable weather
     conditions. Also, the amount of time it takes an army to move depends
     on whether it is travelling on land or by sea - armies move much
     faster by ship.
     
     - Be careful not to leave behind unprotected castles, for they will be
     vulnerable to enemy attack.  Defend your port-based territories well -
     they are susceptible to attack by sea!
     
     
                                 TROOP REVIEWS
     
     When a scout reports on the size and strength of your troops, you will
     envision the army standing before you.  The number of men displayed
     onscreen will be proportional  to the actual number of men in that
     army.  The army's general will also give you a visual signal
     representing the strength of his troops.
     
     Banners
     Read the banner to the left of your army for a visual representation
     of the troops' ratings in several specific areas.
     
     1.  Clan Symbol - This insignia identifies which clan the banner
     belongs to.
     
     2.  Sword skill - This ability is useful when fighting hand-to-hand
     combat or attacking retreating armies from horseback.  your sword
     skill is rated on a level from 0-5.
     
     3.  Royal items - This shows you how many of the four royal items you
     own (See Search for Imperisl Regalia).
     
     4.  Archery skill - This ability is useful when engaging in battle and
     protecting your castle from siege.  Your archery skill is rated on a
     level from 0-5.
     
     5.  Sieging skill - This ability is useful when sieging enemy castles. 
     Your seiging skill is rated on a level from 0-5.
     
     Your initial skill ratings are based on the abilities of the character
     you have chosen to portray.  As Yoritomo is a leader with very little
     battlefield skill, his sword and archery skills begin at a low rating. 
     Yoshitsune, on the other hand, is a fine warrior with very little
     leadership ability; his sword and archery ratings are high, but he has
     to gain respect as a leader.
     
     Strategy tips for troop review
     - Skill ratings are raised or lowered based on your performance - if
     you choose Yoshitsune as your character and perform terribly in battle
     sequences, your skill ratings drop.
     
     - If more than one of your armies are at the same location, you may
     order a troop review of any or all units by toggling between generals
     at the top of the screen.
     
     - If you choose, you may transfer skill points from one general's army
     to another.  Use this option to improve an army's skill in a weak area
     before sending them off to a new location.
     
     
                                     TRAVEL
     
     You will visit many interesting, exotic, and dangerous places.  Many
     opportunities await you at these stopping points.
     
     Outside Your Home Castle
     From outside your home castle, you have three choices:
     
     	1)  Conduct a review of troops;
     	2)  Enter your home;
     	3)  Return to mapping strategy.
     
     Inside Your Home Castle
     As the turmoil in your country denies you the luxury of rest, much
     time at home is spent in the council room making strategic decisions. 
     It is here you may decide to hire a ninja (assassin) to kill one of
     your most feared enemies.  The shirinken (throwing stars) sitting by
     your side represnt the number of ninjas you have available to carry
     out your clandestine operations.
     
     Strategic consideration:  If, for any reason, the ninja fails to carry
     out his mission, the changes of your plans being discovered are highly
     probable.  If caught, you will be forced to commit seppuku, as that is
     the only way to save face (and honor).
     
     Visiting Castles
     When approaching a castle, you have four strategic choices:
     
     	1)  Conduct a review of troops;
     	2)  If the castle is not under your ownership, you may request an
     alliance with the clan occupying the castle;
     	3)  If the castle is not under your ownership, you may siege the
     castle (see The Siege - To Live by the Sword); if the castle is not
     owned by any clan, you can take the castle.  Taking a castle costs
     men, but it is generally easier to take an unowned castle than to
     seige a controlled castle.
     	4)  Return to mapping strategy.
     
     Visiting Cities
     When approaching a city you have three strategic choices:
     
     	1)  Conduct a review of troops;
     	2)  If the city is not under your rule, you may request an
     alliance with the clan occupying the city;
     	3)  If the city is not under your rule, you can take it.  This
     maneuver costs men, but it gives you a new location to supply your
     troops;
     	4)  Return to mapping strategy.
     
     Visiting Monasteries
     When approaching a monastery you have three strategic choices:
     
     	1)  Conduct a review of troops;
     	2)  Request supplies. The priest at the monastery may or may not
     grant your request.  This largely depends on the monastery's current
     supply of goods (during seasons of harsh weather, supply levels are
     likely to be lower than usual);
     	3)  Return to mapping strategy.
     
     Visiting the Imperial Palace
     When approaching the palace you have three strategic choices:
     
     	1)  Conduct a review of troops;
     	2)  Visit the emperor.  The emperor may or may not choose to give
     you a piece of the Imperial Regalia (if he owns one).  This is largely
     determined by the overall rating of your army (leadership skills,
     battlefield skills, etc);
     	3)  Return to mapping strategy.
     
     
                             THE WAY OF THE SAMURAI
     
     The word "samurai" meant "one who serves," signifying the loyalty of
     the warrior to his emperor, his chief, and his clan.  In the twelfth
     centruy, after Yoritomo decreed that only sons of samurai could join
     the brotherhood, the samurai became an elite class.
     
     A boy destined to become asamurai learned to handle a wooden sword as
     soon as he was old enough to grasp a hilt.  When he was five years of
     age the boy's elders dressed him in armor and entrusted him with a
     sword of steel.  Young warriors practiced swordsmanship, archery,
     horsemanship, and jujitsu - the art of fighting without weapons. 
     Their teachers did more than simply drill the fledgling warriors in
     military skills; they imparted the virtues of the samurai.  For
     example, when a boy was cooking or sleeping, his master might come up
     behind him and strike him with a wooden sword in order to teach the
     boy constant vigilance.  From long fasts and barefoot marches through
     the snow, the boy learned endurance and a cardinal samuari virtue,
     fudoshin, the "immobility of the heart," an inner calm that endured
     even in the most desperate battle.
     
     
                                   ENCOUNTERS
     
     As your proud army approaches its destination, you may notice activity
     going on behind the towering gates.  To prepare for the encounter, a
     wise general wil take stock of the strength of his army and make
     prompt decisions as to his course of action.
     
     Allies or Enemies?
     It is wise to notice the banner color of the approaching army.  Are
     they a neutral clan?  Do they favor the Minamoto or the Taira?
     
     Based on your leadership ability and the strength of your army, you
     may request alliance with the encountered army.  However, if they are
     in alliance with the Taira, your only choice is to fight or flee.
     
     Peace or War?
     One of the most important decisions you make as a commanding officer
     is the decision to fight or retreat.  Consider greatly the strength
     and size of your army, the level of skill you have acquired, and the
     strength of the enemy. Once you decide to fight, you can still
     retreat, but not without losing some of your precious manpower.
     
     
                               ON THE BATTLEFRONT
     
     Gruesome descriptions of warfare between the two clans abound in the
     literature of the time.  One story describes a Minamoto raid on the
     palace of a retired emperor who was in league with the Taira.
     
     "Wild flames filled the heavens, and a tempestuous wind swept up
     clouds of smoke.  The nobles, courtiers, and even the ladies in
     waiting of the women's quarters were shot down or slashed to death. 
     When they rushed out, so as not to be burned by the fire, they met
     with arrows.  When they turned back, so they would not be struck with
     arrows, they were consumed by the flames.  Those who were afraid of
     the arrows and terrified by the flames even jumped into wells in large
     numbers, and of these, too, the bottom ones in a short time had
     drowned, those in the middle were curshed to death by their fellows,
     and those on top had been burned up in the flames."
     
     
     Engaging in Battle
     At teh scream of the attacking general, masses of samurai will collide
     in a to-the-death battle.  Manipulate your armies to take best
     advantage of your troops' strengths.  For example, an army with high
     archery skills needs to protect its archers, putting them in a
     position where they can attack opponents without being susceptible to
     enemy attack.
     
     Be prepared to retreat if the enemy seems to be getting the best of
     you.  It is better to face defeat and come back another day than to
     see your entire army wiped out at the hands of the bloodthirsty Taira.
     
     Horseback Pursuit
     If the opposing army retreats from battle, you will have the
     opportunity to attack them as they run.  Mount your horse and give
     chase to the retreating foot soldiers, slashing through those who come
     in contact with your mighty sword.  Swing your sword to the left or
     right, slaughtering soldiers on either side.  Trample those fools who
     would stand in the way of your charge.  But beware, contact with enemy
     soldiers will frighten your horse (it may throw you if you run over
     too many men).
     
     Wathc out for trees, rocks, and bushes as you rush toward the
     retreating soldiers.  If your horse collides with any of these
     hazards, it will send you tumbling to the ground, causing great
     suffering.
     
     If you defeat the fleeing soldiers, you will come face-to-face with
     the enemy general.  Attack him with your sword and don't miss.  This
     is an opportunity for great honor - to take home the head of the
     Taira!
     
     NOTE:  Do not trample the enemy general with your horse; it will bring
     great dishonor and a loss of leadership ability to the Minamoto.
     
     
                             THE SOUL OF THE SWORD
     
     The material symbol of the martial spirit of the times was the
     warrior's principal weapon, his sword.  In later years the privilege
     of carrying this deadly, razor-sharp blade came to be reserved
     exclusively for the knightly samurai.  A sword was not a weapon only;
     to the samurai especially it was the central object of an elaborate
     cult of honor.  Samurai were accustomed to sleeping with their swords
     beside their pillows; when a young samurai was about to be born, a
     sword was brought into the room, and when a samurai died his sword was
     placed beside his deathbed.
     
     Swords were thought to have miraculous powers and lives of their own. 
     Soldiers defeated in battle prayed at the shrines of the war-god
     Hachiman, asking why their swords had lost their spirit. Many stories
     have developed about the spiritual powers of famous blades.  One of
     these tells about two famous swordsmiths, named Muramasa and Masamune,
     who were almost equal in skill.  When a sword made by Mauamasa was
     held upright in a flowing stream, every dead leaf that drifted against
     the edge was cut neatly in two.  This was very grand, but not as great
     as Masamune.  When a Masamune sword was put to the same test, the
     floatingleaves avoided its edge and passed unhurt on either side. 
     Masamune's blade therefore possessed spiritual powers over the leaves
     and was superior to its rival.
     
     Teh Siege - To Live by the Sword
     A challenge awaits as you enter an enemy castle; for within its
     confines lie endless corridors and trick mazes.  Continue your search
     as it takes you into the deepest corners of the castle, for therein
     lies the central definsive work of the castle - The Keep.  Not only is
     the keep the most highly protected area of the castle, but it is also
     where you will find the general of the Taira!  Take no prisoners as
     you wreak a trail of havoc through the castle grounds, hacking your
     way through every obstacle - be it flesh or foliage.
     
     The Taira have also kidnapped a daughter of the emperor, and she is
     being held captive in one of the Taira's many castles.  If news of
     here whereabouts reaches one of your scouts, a message will arrive
     when you approach the right castle.  Find the missing princess and
     return with her alive.  If you succeed, great honor will be bestowed
     upon you.
     
     
                               HEROES OF THE WAR
     
     The savag struggle of supremacy between the Taira and the Minamoto has
     often been told in wonderfully vivid tales of glorified fighters. 
     From the Tales of Heike comes an account of how a warrior-priest
     allied with the Minamoto fought his way across the torn bridge of the
     Uji River.
     
     "[He] spring forward alone onto the bridge and shouted in a mighty
     voice, 'Let those at a distance listen; those that are near can see; I
     am Tsutsui Momyo Meishu, the priest; who is there in Miidera who does
     not know me, a warrior worth one thousand men?  Come on anyone who
     thinks himself someone and we shall see?'  And loosing off 20 arrows
     like lightning flashes, he slew 12 of the Taira soldiers and wounded
     11 more.  One arrow yet remained in his quiver, but flinging away his
     bow, he stripped off his quiver, cast off his footgear, and springing
     barefoot onto the beams of the bridge he strode across.  All were
     afraid to cross over, but he walked the broken bridge as one who walks
     along the street Ichijo or Nijo of the capital.  With his 'naginata'
     [pole sword] he mowed down five of the enemy, but with the sixth the
     blade snapped asunder...and flinging it away he drew his long sword,
     wielding it in the zigzag style, the interlacing corss, reverse
     fragonfly, waterwheel, and eight-sides-at-once style of fencing and
     cut down eight men.  But as he brought down the ninth with an
     exceedingly mighty blow on the helmet, the blade snapped at the hilt
     and fell splash into the water beneath.  Then seizing his dagger,
     which was the only weapon he had left, he plied it as one in a death
     fury."
     
     When Jomyo finally retired he counted 63 arrows sticking out of his
     armor, of which only five had pierced through.
     
     
                               RESUPPLYING TROOPS
     
     Battles take a heavy toil on your troops, and the effects of harsh
     weather and rugged travel conditions can be devastating to your men. 
     It is highly recommended that you periodically stop to resupply.  This
     can be done in several ways.
     
     - Visit a friendly location (one of your castles or cities).  There
     troops can receive food and shelter, and recover from their battle
     wounds.
     
     - Visit the Imperial Palace.  This is a neutral site, and if your
     political standing is favorable, your troops will be supplied with a
     warm place to stay and plenty of nourshing food.
     
     - Visit a monastery.  If their supplies are above normal, they will
     support your troops by providing food and shelter.
     
     
                                    BESIEGED
     
     If one of your castles comes under attack while you are there, you
     must join the defense.  Take your bow, grab your quiver, and prepare
     to fight.  The aim of your bow is straight and true, so all you must
     do is learn the timing of the weapon with which you will dispose of
     the oncoming enemy soldiers.  Learn to lead your target, for it takes
     time for the arrow to strike its destination.  You have a full supply
     of arrows, but only a limited amount of time before the advancing
     enemy soldiers succesfully invade your castle's keep.
     
     
                                NINJA ASSASSINS
     
     Always be prepared for surprise ninja attacks.  You will never know
     when an enemy may put a price on your head.  When you encounter a
     ninja, be prepared to defend yourself against his lethal blows.  Use
     your sword to block the shiriken from hitting you.  Several strikes of
     the shiriken is all it takes to put you to rest - permanently. with an
     agile defense, you can stop the ninja in his tracks.
     
     Ninja are stealthy and persistent.  It will require practice and a
     knowledge of a ninja's patterned movements to become adept at
     defending against his razor-sharp shiriken.
     
     
                                   THE NINJA
     
     Spies versed in kinjutsu, "the martial art of invisibility," the
     practitioners of this esoteric art guarded their secrets so well that
     little in known of them today.  As assassins, "cat burglars," and
     special agents they played an active though secretive part in most of
     the wars, plots, and counter-plotsof the feudal age.
     
     
                        SEARCH FOR THE IMPERIAL REGALIA
     
     The Minamoto have four sacred objects that can bring great honor to
     the one who possesses them.  Three of these items are symbols of
     sovereignty, representing the spirit of the Minamoto and its proud
     history.  The fourth regal possession is the emperor's daughter, a
     would-be princess, who will be the prized possession of any leader who
     marries her.
     
     The Shrine of Hachlman - officially called the Tsurugaoka, this
     ancient shrine was dedicated to Hachiman, the God of War and the clan
     god of the Minamoto.  This shrine was an important base for
     clan-centered religious activity.
     
     The Sacred Scroll - Ancient scrolls were considered sacred if they
     captured an important period of time in history.  This scroll is
     indeed valuable, for it depicts the honorable Yorimasa's demise, a
     defeat which still leaves great pain in the hearts of the Minamoto.
     
     The Sacred Sword - Transmitted down from one ruler to another for
     generations, this replica of a great battle sword ws treated as the
     authentic item, because it was the actual item that was passed from
     hand to hand as a legitimate sign of kinmanship.
     
     The Princess - Daughter of the emperor, the princess promises to be
     the prized possession of the leader who wins her heart. 
     Unfortunately, she has been kidnapped, and her whereabouts remain
     unknown.  Rumor has it that the Taira are holding her hostage in one
     of their castles.
     
                         SEPPUKU - TO DIE BY THE SWORD
     
     No one seems to know the precise origins of seppuku (hara-kiri, or
     cutting of the belly), but this excruciatingly painful form of suicide
     became, in due course, the means of death in four different sets of
     circumstances.
     
     1)  It was resorted to in order to avoid unutterable disgrace, such as
     capture by the enemy (as in Yorimasa's case).
     2)  It was performed as an act ofjunshi, suicide on the death of one's
     lord.
     3)  It was the ultimate way of protesting against an erring superior.
     4)  It was the capital penalty imposed on a warrior by the
     authorities.
     
     Seppuku was the prerogative of the samurai class.  Priests, peasants,
     artisans, and traders were neither expected nor allowed to choose this
     means of self-destruction.  A Kyoto nobleman, for example, might take
     poison.
     
     This suggests that hara-kiri was adopted primarily because it was a
     demonstration of almost super-human courage, the quality which ranked
     with loyalty as the highest indispensable virtue of the samurai.
     
     It is also the case that in Japan the abdomen (hara) was thought to be
     the very core of a man's being, in which were stored his spirit, will,
     and emotions.  The Samurai must be prepared to show his sincerity by
     exposing that core.
     
     In due course, death by seppuku was perceived to be not only
     courageous but also "beautiful," since it was an honorable and
     therefore aesthetically satisfying end to a life, however short, of
     dedicated service.
     
     
                                BECOMING SHOGUN
     
     If you capture all enemy castles, you restore the honor of the
     Minamoto clan and receive the powerful title of SHOGUN.
     
     Below are the symbols representing the levels of skill you can attain
     in your attempt to become Shogun.
     
     
     1.  Peasant
     2.  Recruit
     3.  Soldier
     4.  General
     5.  Master
     
                                   THE SHOGUN
     
     The title "Shogun" (an abbreviation of sei-i tai shogun: 
     "barbarian-quelling generalissimo") had first been used for military
     commanders commissioned for the 8th century Ainu tribes of northern
     Japan.  Initially, the shogunate (government of the shogun) was under
     the control of the emperor, and its authority was limited to control
     of the military forces of the country. However, the increasingly
     fedual character of Japanese socity created a situation in which
     control of the military became tantamount to control of the country,
     and the emperor remained in his palace chiefly as a symbol of
     sovereignty behind the shogun.
     
     The samurai leader Minamoto Yoritomo gained dominion over Japan in
     1185; seven years later he assumed the title of shogun and established
     the fist shogunate.
     
     
     
     Lords of the Rising Sun is based on the Gempei War in 12th Century
     Japan.  Read your manual for game background and strategy, and for
     information about the characters.
     
     The object of the game is to capture all the castles and become
     Shogun.  You cannot capture the Imperial Palace at Kyoto, nor any of
     the monasteries.
     
     SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
     
     Amiga 500, 1000, or 2000
     1 or 2 disk drives
     Mouse
     
     BACKUP COPIES
     Make a backup of Reel 2.  Play with the copy and store the original
     ina safe place.  You cannot backup Reel 1.
     
     Caution:  Do not write protect Reel 2, games are saved to this disk. 
     If the disk is write protected when you try to save a game, the game
     you're saving will be lost!
     
     HARD DISK INSTALLATION
     You can install Lords of the Rising Sun on your hard disk.  There is
     af file, StartLords, in the S directory on Reel 1 that explains the
     procedure.
     
     GETTING STARTED
     Turn on your computer and monitor.  At the Workbench prompt, insert
     Reel 1 into Drive 0 and Reel 2 into Drive 1 (fi you only have one
     drive, wait for the prompt to insert Reel 2).  The length of time it
     takes to load Lords of the Rising Sun depends on the amount of memory
     in your computer.  The more memory you have, the longer the loading
     time.  This is because the game takes advantage of larger amounts of
     memory, effectively creating a RAM disk.
     Bypass the title sequence by pressing the left mouse button.  This
     takes you to the Player Selection Screen.  This screen shows you the
     faces ofthe two Minamoto brothers.  Yoritomo is on the left and
     Yoshitsune is on the right.  Slide the mouse left to highlight
     Yoritomo's name, right to highlight Yoshitsune's name.  Once the name
     of the brother you want to become is highlighted, press the left mouse
     button to select him.
     
     NOTE:  To play a stricly strategic game, select Yoshitsune.  Since he
     is the better warrior, you won't be required to participate in the
     arcade sequences (although you may do so, if you wish).
     
     The game takes you to the "front yard" of your home castle.  The
     cursor is in the shape of a folded war fan.  Move the cursor over the
     banner at the left of the screen and your options appear at the bottom
     of the screen (this banner will be your menu throughout the game). 
     Press the left mouse button when you see the option you want to
     select.  If this is your first time to play Lords of the Rising Sun,
     select ENTER HOME.
     
     NOTE:  Any time you see the message TOUCH SWORD HILT TO CONTINUE,
     press either mouse button.
     
     Inside your home castle is a council room.  At the left of the room is
     your banner.  The five banners on the center wall are replicas of the
     banners of the generals in the war.  The first banner on the left is
     your brother's banner.  Next to that is the Taira banner.  The other
     three banners represent the Ronin.
     
     A seppuku (suicide) sword is to your left, under the banners, and
     three shiriken (throwing stars) are on the table beside you.  When you
     move the cursor over the sword, you have the option to COMMIT SEPPUKU. 
     The shiriken represent the number of ninja assassins you have
     available for hire.  Move the cursor over one of the banners on the
     wall to select an enemy to assassinate.
     
     NOTE:  Assassination is not an honorable act; if it fails, your only
     recourse is seppuku.  The more experienced a general you are, the more
     likely you will succeed at eliminating your enemies this way.
     
     When you exit your home castle and PREPARE TO MARCH, you go to the Map
     Screen.
     
     MAP SCREEN
     The Map Screen displays a map of 12th century Japan (similar to the
     map at the center of your manual).  The cursor is in the shape of a
     Samurai sword.  On the map are castles, monasteries, towns, ports, and
     movable armies.
     
     At the bottomof the Map Screen is a window that displays game messages
     that relate to your generals.  When a message concerning an encounter
     appears, you have approximately ten seconds to get involved;
     otherwise, the game continues without your intervention (see Encounter
     Screen).  The exception to this is your character (Yoritomo or
     Yoshitsune); he won't make any decision without your intervention. 
     When your character has an encounter, you automatically go to the
     Encounter Screen.
     
     The messages are color-coded to help you keep track of whether ornot
     they're strategically important to you.
     
     White indicates arrival messages (YORITOMO ARRIVES AT EDO).
     
     Yellow informs you of encounters (YOSHITSUNE ENCOUNTER).
     
     Red lets you know a conflict is underway (OSAKA BESIEGED).
     
     Orange indicates a city or castle has been taken by one of your
     generals (MIURA TAKES OSAKA).
     
     Blue are messages of death or defeat (MORI HAS BEEN KILLED).
     
     Green lets you know about victories (NORIYORI VICTORIOUS).
     
     Puple describes action by generals outside of your control
     (SATSUMA FORMS ARMY).
     
     Click and hold on a crane's head (on either side of the Message
     Window) to scroll the map left or right.  While the screen is
     scrolling, all movement and time passage on the map is halted.  Keep
     an eye on the activity at the left end of the map, since that is the
     territory of the Taira clan.
     
     Time is in motion only when you're in the Map Screen.  As the seasons
     change, so does the scenery (on the map and in the Encounter Screens).
     
     Keyboard Commands
     There are three keyboard commands available from the Map Screen.
     
     Up and Down Arrows - Use these arrows keys if the map isn't centered
     on the screen.
     
     s - This forces a summer display on the map, regardless of the season
     of the year.  The seasons till change, but you won't see the changes
     on the map. Use this if you prefer the visual effect of the summer map
     over the seasonally changing map.  Press S again to return to normally
     changing seasons.
     
     A - This speeds up the movement of time on the Map Screen.  Press A
     again to go back to normal time.  Normal time is automatically resumed
     whenever a message appears in the Message window.
     
     ESC - This pauses the game and brings up an Option Screen with five
     selections:
     
     Preserve History - Click on this to save a game in progress to Reel 2. 
     You must reboot to play again.
     
     Continue to Fight - Click on this selection to resumre gameplay.
     
     Launch a Rebellion - Click on this to start a new game.  If you make
     this selection, you can't change your mind and load a previously-saved
     game without rebooting.
     
     Resore History - This selection is only available when you first boot
     the game and a game is saved on Reel 2.  Click on this to reload the
     saved game (the game is removed from Reel 2 when you load it, so be
     sure to save again before you quit playing).
     
     
     Banners
     Each army is represented by a general carrying a banner.  The colors
     on the banners illustrate the loyalties of the generals.  Black
     banners with white markings are Yoritomo's men (black Minamoto); white
     banners with black markings are Yoshitsune's armies (while Nimamoto);
     red banners are Taira clansmen; and grey banners are Ronin
     (independent generals who owe allegiance to no one).  A gold top on a
     banner indicated Yoritomo, Yoshitsune, or the Taira leader.
     
     The dots on the Ronin generals' banners indicate the armies they are
     friendly toward.  Black dots indicate Yoritomo's friends; white dots
     demonstrate leanings toward Yoshitsune; and red dots show a Taira
     affiliation.
     
     Starting Positions for All the Armies
     The generals take up their positions at the beginning of each new game
     as indicated below.
     
     Black Minamoto				Black Ronin
       Yoritomo at Kamakura		  Shizuka at Kogoshima
       Miura at Mito			  Hojo at Gifu
       Yoshinaka at Maebashi
     
     White Minamoto				White Ronin
       Yoshitsune at Sendal		  Fujiwara at Moriaka
       Satake at Akita			  Tsunemori at Tokushima
       Noriyori at Yonezawa
     
     Red Taira					Red Ronin
       Kiyomori at Osaka			  Ashikaga at Hiroshima
       Munemori at Nagoya		  Takeda at Kumamoto
       Mori at Shimonoseki
       Tomomori at Himeji
       Shigehira at Matsue
       Tadanori at Okayama
       Shigemori at Kochi
     
     Gather Information
     Place the cursor over a location or general and press the right mouse
     button.  An Information Box pops up:
     
     	                     MEN STRENGTH
                                |     |
     		+------------------------------------+
     		|          |     -     -             |
     		| SELECTED |           -             |
     		| MAP AREA |     -         NAME      |
     		|          |                         |
     		+------------------------------------+
                                  ^
     			              |
     				Person or Place
     
     The left of the box shows the selected area of the map.  The right of
     the box shows the name of the castle, town, monastery, or general in
     that area.  Between the bars is a picture of the castle, town,
     onastery, or general.  A flag above the picture lets you see whether
     Yoritomo, Yoshitsune, the Taira, or the Ronin owns the location or
     commands the army.  the bars show the strength (health and supplies)
     and troop quantity for the indicated general or location.
     
     Place the cursor over the name in the right of the box and press the
     left mouse button to see if more than one person is in a location. 
     Keep clicking until you see all the information.  If you want to go
     back to the map activity, move the cursor off the box and press the
     left mouse button.
     
     You may participate directly in any one of your generals' activities.
     
     To get involved in an encounter or conduct a troop review, select one
     of your generals.  When the information Box pops up, click on the
     general's picture (between the MEN and STRENGTH bars) to see the
     Encounter Screen.
     
     Movement
     To move an army under your control, place the cursor over its general
     and press the left mouse button.  Hold the button down, drag the
     general to the desired location, then release the button. You must
     move your general along a road to a location adjacent to his current
     position.  If the general is at a location that has a port, you can
     move him to other port locations.  when a general goes to sea, his
     banner changes to a sail and you see him travelling by boat.  Once a
     man is on the road or on the sea, you can't change his direction; his
     course is set.
     
     you don't have to wait for one of your generals to finish his move
     before moving another man.  You can have all your generals on the road
     at once, if you like.  If you have two generals in one location and
     you want to move a particular one, select the Information Box.  Click
     on the generals' names until you see the one you want to move.  Then,
     move the cursor to the general and move him; only the general you
     selected in the Information Box will move.
     
     Strength is depleted as you travel.  Water travel is faster than land
     travel, so travel by water whenever possible.
     
     ENCOUNTER SCREEN
     Messages in the Message Window and flashing banners on the map
     indicate encounters.  An encounter in this instance can be anything
     from simply greeting another general to engaging in battle.
     
     If more than one of your generals is in the same location, all their
     forces will be combined in the ensuing encounter.  Remember, there is
     safety in numbers.  Use the Information Box to select the general you
     wish to be the leader.
     
     From this screen you can make several startegic decisions, depending
     on the circumstances.  The cursor is in the shape of a folded war fan. 
     Move the cursor over the banner at the left of the screen, and text
     describing your options appears at the bottom of the screen.  Press
     the left mouse button when you see the action you want to perform.
     
     Not all the Encounter Screen selections described are available in
     every situation.  The selections you have depend on the circumstances
     of the encounter.
     
     Review Troops
     This selection lets you get a visual image of your troops; the number
     of soldiers onscreen is the actual number of soldiers in your army. If
     there are 90 soldiers onscreen, your army numbers 90 or more.
     Move the cursor to a point just beneath the general's figure, and a
     message at the bottom of the screen says TROOP STRENGTH.  Press the
     left mouse button and watch the general's arm; he waves it from one to
     five times to indicate the strength of your troop (one is low, five is
     high).
     
     If more than one general is in the area, you can select NEXT GENERAL
     to review all your troops in the vicinity.  You can also
     TRANSFER SKILLS.
     
     Transfer Skills lets you take swaor, archery, and seiging skills from
     one general and give them to another.  When you select this option,
     two generls' names appear at the top of the screen, and both their
     armies are displayed.  If more than two generals are in the area, you
     can select NEXT GENERAL and transfer skills between three or more of
     your men.
     
     To make the transfer, move the cursor to a skill on the banner of the
     general you want to take skills from, and click either mouse button. 
     Each time you click, one skill point is transferred to the opposite
     general.  The level ofskills you can give a general is limited by the
     level of the most highly-skilled general involved in the transfer.
     
     Example:  You are transferring sword skills from Miura to Yoritomo.
     Yoritomo has a leve of two and Miura has a level of four.  You can
     only transfer two skill points from Miura to Yoritomo, giving him a
     level of four.  You can't give Yoritomo five skill points, since your
     highest-skilled general (Miura) only has four to start with.
     
     Since the skills of the general leading a battle or siege are the
     vital ones to the success of the endeavor, transferring skills is a
     good way to ensure that your top general has every advantage.  You can
     also use this option when one of your subordinate generals is gaining
     more skill than you and you fear he may be ready to leave your service
     and become a Ronin.
     
     Note:  You can't transfer Imperial Regalia from one general to
     another.
     
     Form Alliance
     This selection lets you attempt to make an ally of an encountered
     general.  If he accepts, his banner colors change to yorus and he is
     under your command.  He may refuse, with or without hostility.
     
     Demand Surrender
     When you approach an occupied castle, you can demand a surrender.  If
     your forces appear fearsome enough, you may succeed in this effort.
     
     NOTE:  Taria castles never surrender.
     
     Engage in Battle
     Make this selection and a view of the battlefield appears onscreen. 
     Your troops are arrayed against the enemy; the generals are on
     horseback.  To start the battle, click once on your general (if you
     have good archery skills) or move your troops into position.
     
     The cursor is in the shape of an arrow; this controls your archers. 
     Press the left mouse button to draw the archers toward the cursor;
     press the right button to push them away from it.  Press both mouse
     buttons together and the cursor changes to a sword; now you can
     control the swordsmen with the left and right mouse buttons.
     
     If the battles looks grim, you can retreat.  To do this, click on your
     general.  Retreating lowers leadership ability.
     
     If your opponent decides to retreat, you win the battle.  The enemy
     general blows his battle horn to call his troops.  If you wish to
     pursue them, click on the enemy general.
     
     Horseback Pursuit - As you gallop along on your horse, carefully
     avoiding rocks, bushes, and trees, you overtake the fleeing enemy
     foot-soldiers.  Press the right mouse button to hack soldiers to your
     right and the left button to slash to the left. You can kill soldiers
     by running over them with your horse, but the horse may get spooked
     and throw you.  If you do away with enough foot-soldiers, you catch up
     with the general himself.  Kill him with your sword for great honor,
     or lose dignity and leadership ability (as well as risking great
     injury) by running him down with your horse.
     
     Prepare to March
     This selection mobilizes your troops and takes you back to the Map
     Screen.
     
     Continue March
     This selection takes you back to the Map Screen, unless you
     encountered a surly general who wants to fight.  In that case, you
     can't leave until you do battle with him.
     
     Take City
     This selection lets you muster your troops and forcibly take over a
     city.
     
     Seige Castle
     This selection gives you the chance to break through a castle's
     defenses and take it over.  You begin at the gates of the castle and
     have to hack your way through the heavy wooden doors with your sword. 
     The left mouse button controls swordplay and the right button lets you
     shoot arrows.  The speed of the sun at the top of the screen is the
     key to how much time you have to succeed.  Each time you're hit by an
     enemy sword or shot by an enemy arrow, the sum moves more quickly. 
     The sun will rise, then set.  When the sun finally sets, your time is
     up.  The more men in your army, the more time you have to take over
     the castle.
     
     To take the castle, invade the Keep and eliminate the main guard (look
     for a helmet with a yellow symbol).  The path to the Keep is
     identified by the gray stones that outline it.
     
     Push the mouse to move north, south, east, or west (you cannot move
     diagonally).  You only need to press once to walk continuously in the
     selected direction.  To change directions, move the mouse in the
     direction you want to go.  To stop, nudge the mouse in the opposite
     direction to the one you're heading.  Keep mouse movements very small.
     
     Stay out of the water or you will lose all your siege time and your
     army will suffer heavy casualties as a result.  Only hack through
     wooden doors.  Listen to the sounds your sword makes as you chop;  if
     it sounds like metal on metal, you can't get through.  Some of the
     more difficult castles may have secret passages.  Bold experimentation
     is the only way to discover these places.
     
     One of the Taira castles harbors a kidnapped Princess (the emperor's
     daughter).  A message lets you know if you're sieging the castle where
     she's imprisoned.  If you want to rescue her, find her before you
     invade the Keep, or the Taira will move her to another location.  They
     will aso move her if you let her get injured in the escape attempt.
     
     NOTE:  If Yoshitsune is your character, you must play the siege
     interactively in order to rescue the Princess.
     
     RESUPPLYING
     As troops travel over the map, strenght is depleted.  In battle,
     soldiers are often lost.  Strengh can be replenished at friendly
     castles, monasteries, and towns.  Men can be acquired only at castles
     flying your banner.  To resupply, let your general rest awhile at the
     selected location.
     
     BESIEGED
     When your castle is besieged, you stand in a window and shoot arrows
     at the invaders. A yellow dot gives you a focus point for your aim. 
     Hold down the left mouse button to fit an arrow to your bow; release
     the button to fire the arrow.  The number of enemy soldiers you kill
     this way reduces the number your samurai warriors have to defeat in
     the battle going on (out of your view) in the courtyard below.
     
     NINJA ATTACK
     Be on the alert for attacks by ninja assassins.  Your enemies may hire
     these killers to sneak up on you when you least expect it.  Control
     your sword with the mouse to block the ninja's shiriken attack.
     
     IMPERIAL REGALIA
     Possession of any of these four royal items increases your leadership
     ability.  The Shrine of Hachiman is in Kamakura castle (Yoritomo
     always begins the game with this item in his possession, since
     Kamakura is his home castle).  You have to search for the Sacred
     Scroll, the Sacred Sword, and the Princess.
     
     SEPPUKU
     This is the honorable way to lose the war.  If you know there is no
     hope, you can retire to your home castle and end it all.
     
     If a ninja assassin you hired is caught, he may "squeal," forcing you
     to commit seppuku to save your honor.  In this case, the suicide is
     automatic -- you can't go home again.
     
     SKILLS & RATINGS
     High skill levels improve your performance in several areas.  But,
     your challenges are tougher when your skills are higher.  Skill levels
     also affect your ratings at the end of the game.
     
     Levels are numbered from 0 to 5 are illustrated on your general's
     banners.
     
     Sword skills - Better sword skills improve your army's swordfighting
     ability in battle.  Increase or decrease your sword skills in the
     Horseback Pursuit.
     
     Archery skills - Better archery skills improve your archers'
     performance in battle.  Increase or decrease your archery skills in
     the Besieged sequence.
     
     Sieging skills - Better sieging abilties improve your ability to take
     over towns and castles.  Increase or decrease sieging skills by
     sieging castles.
     
     Leadership skills - Better leadership abilities improve your abilities
     to lead armies in battle and to make alliances.  Increase or decrease
     leadership skills in battle.
     
     ENDING THE GAME
     If you capture all 19 castles, you win the game.  If you die, you lose
     the game.  Either way, you will see a screen showing your rating and
     depictions of the battles you fought.
     
     There are 25 possible ratings; they depend on the levels of battle
     skills and leadership abilities that you built up during the game, as
     well as how many pieces of the Imperial Regalia you collected.  Your
     rating is shown as one of five symbols.
     
     Peasant
     Recruit
     Soldier
     General
     Master
     
     The color of the symbol appears in signifies the level of your title. 
     The levels, from lowerst to highest, are:  Blue, Purple, Red, Silver
     (Grey), and Gold (Yellow).
     
     
     MOUSE COMMANDS
     Below is a quick reference to using the mouse when playing Lords of
     the Rising Sun.
     
     MAP
     Left button on cranes' heads:  Scroll left or right
     Left button on your arymy:  Give orders to move
     Right button on your army/castle:  Bring up Information Box
     Left button on your general in Information Box:  Participate as that
     general
     Left buttonon names in Information Box:  Change names in window
     
     BAMBOO TEXT MESSAGE
     Either button:  Continue
     
     REVIEW TROOPS
     Left button:  Choose an option
     
     IN YOUR HOME CASTLE
     Left button:  Choose an option
     
     HORSEBACK PURSUIT
     Left Button:  Swing sword to left side.
     Right Button: Swing sword to right side.
     
     BESIEGED
     Left Button:  Press and hold to load arrow; release button to fire
     
     
     
     SIEGE
     Left Button:  Swing sword
     Right Button:  Shoot arrow
     
     NINJA ATTACK
     Left button: ???
     
     BATTLE
     Left button:  Attract men toward the cursor
     Right button:  Repel men from the cursor
     Both buttons together;  Alternate between archer and samurai cursor
     Left button on general:  First horn -- attack; second horn -- retreat
     Left button on enemy general:  After he calls retreat, follow on
     horseback
     
     OPTION SCREEN
     Left button:  Choose an option