                           LORDS OF TIME

Flight Log
Entry #1: 1207
Date: Day 1

   Day One.  I'm starting a new journal in a strange new land.  Where I
am and what will become of me is still unknown.  But others will know my
fate, those who find this journal.  If I fail to escape this world and
find the answers to what's happened, they must carry on for me.  I know
that I am not crazy and this is not a dream.  Though I was unconcious for
a time, I have not left my senses.  I am in top physical and mental
condition and everything that occurred before and after hitting the 
anomaly is still very clear in my mind.

This is what happened.

   I am Major Thom a test pilot in the First Experimental Wing of the
United Air Force.  Before my arrival in this strange world, we were
testing the MDF-52, an experimental aircraft with a multidimensional
friction propulsion generator.  Declared safe to both pilot and craft,
pilots were still reluctant to engage the drive for more than a few
seconds, due to a flux anomaly that always appeared in front of the craft
upon activation of the drive.

   Eventually, it was my turn to fly the plane.  Wing Command was pushing
hard for a longer test of the MDF drive and swore the anomaly was
harmless.  I was not so sure of that, but I was confident that my skills
could take me around the anomaly if need be.

   At 10:00 hours, I taxied to the end of the runway and waited for my
take-off clearance.  My instructions were to fly in the test range over
the ocean.  I took the aircraft up to 10,000 feet and brought the
airspeed to Mach 1 and activated the MDF drive.  Within moments the 
ship's sensors detected the anomaly directly in front my craft.  I
could see it as a large oval distortion in the air some miles ahead
of me.

   Harmless or not, my instincts told me to avoid the anomaly.  I 
started evasive manuevers, but the anomaly changed its course to
match mine.  This was too serious and too unknown.  I tried to
disengage the drive, but it would not shut down.  Now the anomaly
was glowing lightly in front of me, an instant later, my craft was
flying directly into the heart of it.

   I remember an explosion, a horrible tearing sound, and a blinding
flash of light.  When my sight cleared I saw that the instrument panel
had gone dead.  I did not panic, but looked around quickly for the
horizon.  What I saw made me doubt me senses for the first time, but 
this was no hallucination.  Where there had been a pale green ocean
there was now a dark blue sea.  The morning sun had doubled in size
and was setting.  Ahead was a landmass covered not with the sprawling
city I had left behind, but with trees and fields.  I was in another
world and all I could wonder was, how and why?

   That's when I lost control of the plane.  As the craft dropped
into a groaning, spinning dive, I grabbed the First Aid Kit and fumbled
for the eject button.

   The bolts in the canopy exploded blinding me again with smoke, and
then I felt the seat launch me free of the craft.  But my head smashed
against something on the way out and I made the descent unconscious.

   What happened next made me doubt my sanity a second time, but again,
I'm sure it was real, as real as the hard foreign ground I'm sitting on.
Sometime during the night, I woke from my stupor, roused by a nearby
voice.  All I saw at first was the night sky, a disturbing spread of
unfamiliar constellations, then a face bent over mine.  It was an old
man, wearing a peculiar robe.  He moved his lips and though it was not
English he spoke, I somehow understood the words.  He told me to seek
the "human" King Tanor.  Again, I passed out.

   When I awoke this morning, in the middle of a large grassy plain,
the man was gone, but the dagger by my side assured me he had really
been there.  I also found a small empty sack nearby and it seems strange
but no matter how much I put into it, it never gets full or heavier.

   Now I stand on the brink of a great unknown, full of questions.
Was it some freak of physics that brought me to this place?  Did Wing
Command have something to do with it?  (The MDF drive should never 
have jammed.)  Or did somebody from this side send for me?  Why!

   Not knowing fills me with questions and determination.  I will head
out now to find some answers.  There may be dangers.  I may not survive.
This King Tanor is the only scrap of hope I have.  I will look for him.
But I must go now.  Something is moving through the trees.

End of Entry

WELCOME TO LORDS OF TIME

As the character, Major Thom, you have left or have been taken from your
world for a fantastic adventure in a land of mystery known only as the
Realm.  The world is yours to completely explore any way you wish.  Your
job is to do whatever it takes to get Major Thom out of the Realm alive.
You must feed him, give him rest, protect him, and help him follow the
thread of the mystery that will eventually send him back to his own
time.

As a newcomer, you do not know much about the Realm.  However, for those
who do wish a little more help, the following pages will provide some
additional information and hints for searching your objective.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:

Amiga: 500/1000/2000/2500/3000
Amiga DOS: 1.3 or Higher
Requires: Minimum 1 meg of memory
Supports: One or Two disk drives, Hard Drive, Joystick, Keyboard

Accelerator Boards: Lords of Time will work with most accelerator
boards.  The higher clock speeds will speed up the game play.  To
speed up or slow down the program pressing the "+" or "-" keys.
Repeatedly press the desired key until the game runs at a comfortable
speed for you to play.  This setting is stored within the save position
so this adjustment will only have to be done the first time the game
is played.

LORDS OF TIME, THE GAME:

Lords of Time was designed using a non-linear structure.  Some factors
of the game are randomized each time a new game is started.  These
changes keep the challenge different each time you play.

EXPERIENCE & SCORE POINTS:

Major Thom gains "Experience Points" each time he defeats a creature
or solves one of the various puzzles in the game.  Solving a puzzle
adds to the "Score" total.  (See SHOW PLAYER STATISTICS.)

GETTING STARTED:

The Lords of Time disks have no copy protection schemes incorporated
into the disks.  There is a manual based protection system that must 
be entered before you play the game.  You should back up these disks
once for actual play disks.  Store the original disks in a secure 
place.  Please do not copy, distribute or lend your game disks to your
friends.  Software Piracy only hurts you, by stopping development of
high quality programs like this.  Besides, it's against the law to
pirate software.

FLOPPY DISK INSTRUCTIONS:

Before playing Lords of Time from disks it will be necessary to format
a blank save disk and name it, LOTSAVE.  The program will ask for this
disk when saving or restoring game positions.

HARD DRIVE INSTALLATION:

To install Lords of Time to your hard drive, insert Disk One into any 
drive and click twice on the disk icon, then click twice on the LOTinstall
icon.  The install program will create all necessary directories and
copy the necessary files to them.

TO PLAY LORDS OF TIME:

To play Lords of Time make sure that your joystick is plugged into port
two.  Insert Disk one into DF0: then turn the computer on.  Or, open
the LOT drawer on your hard drive and double-click on the Lords-Of-Time
icon.  As the program loads you will see the credit and introductory
screens.

Once the introduction is complete a screen is displayed asking you to
enter a particular word from the manual.  After you have correctly
entered the word you are given the options of either starting a new
game or restoring a previously saved game.

THE PLAY SCREEN:

The play screen is divided into three sections: (World Screen, Stats
Boxes, Dialogue Box)

WORLD SCREEN:

   The upper half of the screen.  This is where you'll watch Major Thom
   explore and fight his way through the Realm.

STATS BOXES:

   Located along the right side of the World screen.  Displayed here
   are Major Thom's current health points, spell points and the amount
   of gold he is carrying.

DIALOGUE BOX:

   Located in the bottom half of your screen.  Menus, conversations, and
   all other text concerning the game appears here.

CONTROLLING THE GAME WORLD:

In Lords of Time all input menus appear in the Dialogue Box and all
selections are made with the joystick.  To make a choice from any menu,
highlight the desired option by moving the joystick up or down, and
press the fire button.

STARTING A NEW GAME:

After selecting the "Start New Game" option the following text will
appear in the Dialogue Box:

o TRY FOR A BETTER CHARACTER
o KEEP THIS CHARACTER

   DEXTERITY (VALUE)
   STRENGTH (VALUE)
   INTELLIGENCE (VALUE)
   HEALTH (VALUE)
   
Here is where you "build" your character.  The point values displayed
represents Major Thom's mental and physical characteristics.  These
attributes have a profound effect on Major Thom's survival in the
Realm.  A high intelligence value could put him on the road to becoming
a powerful magician.  High strength and dexterity values could help
turn him into a colossal warrior.  Each attribute is described below.

Dexterity: Represents the agility Major Thom has in avoiding blows
from attacking creature(s), hitting the creature(s), or how successful
Major Thom will be when picking a lock or trying to steal something
from a shop keeper.

Strength: Determines how hard Major Thom hits his opponents.  Also,
which weapons and armor he can wield and wear, and how successful
he will be at breaking down doors.

Intelligence: Directly affects how long and how effective some of the
spell cast by Major Thom will be.

Health: Reflects Major Thom physical condition.  He may lose health
points when he fights, by not eating regularly and by not sleeping
when he is tired.

You may accept or try for better values with the two options displayed
above the list.

TRY FOR A BETTER CHARACTER This re-rolls Major Thom's attribute values
(dexterity, strength, intelligence and health).

Once you are satisfied with the attributes values, highlight "Keep This
Character" and press the fire button.  A short narrative of the game
is displayed and then play begins.

CHARACTER MOVEMENT:

All of Major Thom's movement and fighting is controlled by the joystick.
Major Thom will move in the direction the joystick is pushed as long as
there are no obstacles in his path.  To fight, face Major Thom toward
his opponent(s), then press and hold the fire button.  (For more on
fighting, see MONSTERS & COMBAT.)

MAIN MENU:

The main menu is displayed by pressing the space bar.  All pertinent
options available to the player at this point of the game will be
displayed.  For example, if Major Thom is on the raft, the 'Get off the
raft' option will be in the menu.  The permanent options of the menu
with their keyboard equivalents are listed below.  (See QUICK KEYS
for the complete list of keyboard equivalents.)

   LOOK AT SURROUNDINGS      (L)
   INVENTORY  
   CAST A SPELL              (C)
   GAME OPTIONS              (G)
   SHOW PLAYER STATISTICS    (S)   
   LEAVE MENU

LOOK AT SURROUNDINGS:

It is vital to Major Thom's progress that he carefully examines his
surroundings.  This option gives a brief description of what Major Thom
can see, how many days have lapsed, and the time of day.  Pressing the
"L" key at any time will display this option.  Pressing the "Z" key
allows Major Thom to search the area directly in front of him (useful
for uncovering hidden items).

INVENTORY:

In order to survive and reach his ultimate goal of escape, Major Thom
will have to collect and use different items.  Up to 50 units of most
items can be carried.  Selecting this takes you to the inventory menu
which has the following options:

Use an Item: This allows Major Thom to use any item in his inventory. 
Major Thom can carry up to 50 units of most items.  This menu lists each 
item in the inventory followed by the quantity carried.

Select the item you want to use from the inventory and the program will
tell what can or cannot be done with that item.  For example, Major Thom
selects a potion from his inventory, the options 'Drink the Potion' and
'Apply the Potion to an item' will appear.  If you select 'apply' a list
of items in Major Thom's possession will be displayed, select the item
you wish to apply the potion to and the results will be displayed in the
Dialogue Box.  Pressing the "U" key at any time will bring you to this
menu.

Examine an Item: This allows Major Thom to dispose of unwanted items
in his directory.  Pressing the "D" key at any time will bring you
to this menu.

WARNING!!! This is NOT a drop function, when you discard an item it is
gone from the current game.

CAST A SPELL:

This brings up the list of the spells that Major Thom is carrying.
Casting the spell returns you to the game and displays any effect
created by the spell, it is accompanied with a message in the Dialogue
Box describing the result.  Pressing the "C" key at any time will bring
you to this menu.  (For more on spell casting, see POTIONS & SPELLS.)    

GAME OPTIONS:

Accessed from the Main Menu, you are presented the following options.
Pressing the "G" key at any time will bring you to the Game Options
menu.

Restore Previously Saved Game:

You may restore a saved position from any place in the game.
The options in this menu are:

   Restore Game From Disk: This displays a list of all saved positions.
   Selecting the "Leave Menu" option will exit without restoring the
   position.  (See FLOPPY DISK INSTRUCTIONS for additional information.)

   Restore Game From Memory: This restores the last position saved to
   memory.  Positions are either saved by the Auto-Save feature or directly
   by you.

Save the Current Game:

For the save function to work Major Thom cannot be inside any buildings,
caves or holdes.  The options in this menu are.

   Save Position to Disk: A menu will appear with positions 1 through 9
   and a leave menu option.  To save a position, highlight the position
   of your choice and press the fire button.  Any previously saved 
   positions will be written over.  Selecting the "Leave Menu" option
   will exit without saving the position.  (See FLOPPY DISK INSTRUCTIONS
   for additional information.)  
   
   Save Position to Memory: Saves the current position to memory only
   and will overwrite any previous saves to memory.

   Turn the Auto-Save Feature On/Off:
   This feature automatically saves your position to memory approximately
   every 7 minutes.  Selecting this option toggles the Auto-Save function
   on or off.  (This feature is great for exploration, but may not be
   advantageous during combat.  User discretion is advised.

   WARNING!!! Any position saved to memory will be lost when you exit
   the game!  Make sure you save to disk before you exit.

Start a New Game:

Use this function to completely restart a new game.

Quit the Game:

This activates the quit game function and asks if you really want to
quit.  Selecting Quit the game a second time exits the program.

SHOW PLAYER STATISTICS:

This option from the Main Menu displays the current Dexterity, Strength
and Intelligence values for Major Thom.  Additionally it shows you
how many points you have scored out of a possible 190.  This helps you
determine how close you are to solving the game.  Major Thom's 
experience points are shown along with the type of weapon and armor
being used.  Pressing the "S" key at any time will display this option.

LEAVE MENU:

At the end of each menu you will find the leave menu option.  This option
will either return you to the main menu or will return you to the game.

PAUSING THE GAME:

To pause the game for any reason simply activate the main menu by pressing
the space bar or any other menu by pressing the appropriate key.  
Pressing the "L" or "S" keys (Look at Surroundings or Show Player
Statistics) will not pause the game.

MONSTERS & COMBAT:

Major Thom is in constant danger of attack from the Realm's inexhaustible
supply of harmful creatures.  In the Lords of Time there are over 10
different classes of harmful creatures, and individuals in each class
have unique attributes.  While Major Thom may kill one spider with
relative ease, the next one may be strong enough to easily defeat him.

ARMOR AND WEAPONS: 

There are various types of weapons and armor available through out the
land and Major Thom may only use the weapons that he has the strength
to wield.  To arm Major Thom with a weapon go to the USE ITEM MENU and
select the weapon from the inventory.  While heavier armor provides 
greater protection, it also decreases Major Thom's ability to dodge
and hit his opponents.  Taking the various fighting classes at the
guild shops may help to offset this reduction.

DISTANT WEAPONS:

Some weapons (such as daggers) can be used either in "Hand to Hand"
combat or as distance weapon (throwing the dagger).  To throw a weapon
have Major Thom face his opponent, now press the fire button.  The
distance the weapon will be thrown is determined by the length of time
the fire button is held down.  The longer the button is held the
farther the weapons will travel.

POTIONS & SPELLS:

Magic is also very useful in getting through the Realm alive, some spells
are absolutely necessary to win the game.  There are over twenty spells
available for Major Thom to find or buy.  Each spell has a different 
level of difficulty and spell point value.  Once the basic spell casting
course is taken at the Guild Shop, Major Thom begins to accumulate
spell points.  If he tries to cast a spell that is beyond his ability
nothing will happen.  Listed below are just a few of the spells 
available for him to use.

   FISTAK'S MAPPING SPELL  Draws a map of the surrounding area on the
   screen.  (Basic Spell Casting)

   RAFT PROPULSION SPELL  Used to power the raft.  (Basic Spell Casting)

   PORTAL ACTIVATION SPELL  Activates the portals that will teleport
   Major Thom to the next portal location.  Travel with the portals
   is always in a clockwise direction.  (Basic Spell Casting)

   BESSAK'S MIND KICK SPELL  Does moderate damage to all creatures on
   the screen.  (Intermediate Spell Casting)

   ABILITY ENHANCEMENT SPELL  This spell allows you to increase any one
   of these attributes (dexterity, intelligence, or strength)  of 
   Major Thom by two points.  (Intermediate Spell Casting)

Note:  Some spells cannot be used indoors and the effect of other spells
only last for a period of time based on Major Thom's intelligence.
Some spells are contact sensitive and others are only good for one
specific use and then will disappear from the inventory.

Potions are a secondary form of magic in the Realm.  They require no
special training and use none of Major Thom's spell points.  There are
eight potions in the Realm that can be quaffed or applied to any item.
For an example: if Major Thom drinks the Clear Potion a portion of his
health points will be restored.  However, if this potion is applied
to his dagger it will add health points to any creature that's attacking
him.  Potions are accessed from the inventory through the USE ITEM MENU.

CONVERSATIONS:

Scattered through out the Realm are various castles, hamlets, towns 
and other locations.  In them you can often find friendly citizens
willing to speak freely with you.  It is very important that you 
speak to everyone.  That is the only way you can learn about the
Realm and how to escape from it.  Some people will ignore you or
might require a bribe for their information.

To converse with someone, stand directly next to them and the conversation
menu will appear with the following options:

   > ASK FOR THE PERSON'S NAME.
   > WHAT IS THE PERSON'S PROFESSION?
   > TALK WITH THE PERSON FOR A WHILE.
   > LEAVE THE PERSON.

Those individuals wanting money before they speak (mainly bartenders)
will bring up a payment request menu.  Move the joystick until the 
amount of gold you want to bestow on him is displayed and press the
fire button.

Guards: Stationed near city gates and other sensitive areas, these
sentinels will challenge Major Thom when approached and he is presented
with the following menu.

> TALK TO GUARD gives you the following options:

   > THREATEN THE GUARD.
   > ANSWER THE GUARD'S QUESTION.
     (A list of responses appears.)
   > OFFER THE GUARD SOME GOLD (DISCREETLY).
 
> ATTACK THE GUARD.  You may try to defeat the guard.

There is definitely a right way and a wrong way to deal with these men.

EATING AND SLEEPING:

It is necessary for Major Thom to eat and sleep on a regular basis.
Not eating will cause the players health points to drop.  Food and
drink (ale) can be purchased at various shops and can be carried by
Major Thom.

A sleep period must be taken once every twenty-four hours.  Lack of
sleep will cause health and spell points to fall.  Sleeping restores
some of the health and spell points and is useful in passing time
quickly.  To sleep stand near a bed and activate the main menu, next
select the sleep option.

Note: Major Thom cannot use consecutive sleep periods to rapidly skip
several days at a time.  He can only sleep again after 10 minutes of
game time have elapsed.

ABOUT THE REALM:

The Realm is a vast land of medieval fantasy for you to explore.  It
seems that most of the Realm is wrapped in a cloak of mystery.  It is
this mystery Major Thom must unravel in order to return to his own
world and time.  It will do you well to know a little about the
more mundane places located through out the land.  Here, is a list of
shops and other institutions Major Thom will have to frequent if he is
to succeed.

PLACES IN THE REALM:

In most villages and towns you will find various shops to purchase
the items Major Thom will need to explore the Realm.  These shops are:

The Guild Shop possibility the most important shop in the entire Realm.
This is where Major Thom will take the courses needed to develop his
fighting, lock picking, spell casting, and other abilities.  Some
courses have prerequisites (experience points, other courses, etc.).
The Dialogue Box will inform you of anything Major Thom lacks to take
a certain course (including gold).

The General Store is where he will find the general necessities of life
(such as food, torches and matches.)

The Armory is where he'll find various types of weapons and armor.

The Magic Store, Major Thom can purchase spells to cast and potions
that restore his health or invigorates his mind.

Homes and Inns this is where Major Thom will find a safe place to sleep
when he's tired.  be sure you search the building for useful items
before you leave.

Taverns to buy ale for himself (or others) and to gather information
from the local villagers.

To begin a transaction in any of these business just walk up to the 
counter and the general transaction menu will appear with the following
selections:

   > BUY AN ITEM
   > SELL AN ITEM
   > TRY TO STEAL AN ITEM
   > LEAVE THE COUNTER

When you select BUY AN ITEM a list of the shopkeeper's inventory appears.
Next to each item is it's current price.  The inflation rate in the Realm
increases by 1% per day.  Highlight the item you wish to purchase and 
press the fire button.  You will be told how many of that item Major
Thom can carry.  Use the joystick to select number of items to buy and
press the fire button.  (Use the joystick to select "O" if you wish
to cancel the transaction.)

Selecting SELL AN ITEM lists your total inventory.  Highlight the item
you wish to sell and press the fire button.  The shopkeeper will
examine the item and make you an offer which you can either accept or
reject.  The items you sell may have a higher value in certain shops
so watch what you sell and to whom.  If you have more than one of the item
you wish to sell a requester appears in the dialogue box.  Use the 
joystick to select the number of items you want to sell and press the
fire button.  (If you decide not to sell something use the joystick
to select "O" to cancel the transaction.)

When you TRY TO STEAL AN ITEM you may get something for nothing and add
5 points to Major Thom's experience.  But, be careful if you're caught
the shopkeeper will throw you out and will refuse to do business with
you for several days.

Select LEAVE THE COUNTER to conclude your business transactions.

OTHER PLACES OF INTEREST:

There are Mines located in the mountains.  With the right equipment
and a little effort Major Thom can earn enough to purchase the extra
items that he needs.

Libraries are located throughout the Realm.  This is where the unlearned
gain knowledge and the learned receive wisdom.  Major Thom, a foreigner,
cannot obtain a library card so he cannot check out any books.

The Bank this is the place to go when Major Thom is low on equipment
and short of funds.  Major Thom can leave some of his excess funds 
here to earn interest while he's out exploring.  Be careful when you
borrow money, the interest rates are high and the collateral can be
your life.

MAKING MONEY:

Money, in the Realm, is very important.  Major Thom will need gold in 
order to survive.  He'll find gold lying on the ground and hidden in
caves and dungeons.  He can obtain gold by selling items from his
inventory.  Some of the creatures carry gold which he can keep if he
defeats them.

BISSAK'S HELPFUL HINTS:

   Do not indiscriminately discard or sell items from your inventory
   for money.  Some items are necessary in solving the game.

   Drinking water from certain wells in the Realm will restore some
   of your health points and others will reduce them.

   Wet your toes before they become green.

   The tops of trees and buildings should be left alone.

   Powerful persons may demand the grandest of gifts.

   Mirror, mirror full of light which one takes me from current plight.

   A rock in flight opens doors in sight.

   Five levers when properly aligned brings the end to pain sublime.

QUICK KEYS:

C  brings up the Cast Spell menu.

D  brings up the Discard Item menu.
 
E  brings up the Examine Item menu.

G  brings up the Game Options menu.

L  displays information concerning the immediate area around Major Thom.

M  toggles the music on and off.

S  displays Major Thom's current statistics.

U  brings up the Use Item menu.

Z  searches any cabinet, fire place, clothing, etc.  Major Thom must be
   standing in front of the object to be searched.

End..................
