                 ANGEL EYES of VISION FACTORY PRESENTS:

                   L O R D S   O F   W A R   D O C S


                          GAME DESCRIPTION
  The kingdom is plagued by a fierce dragon and the king being a weak and
  feeble man has offered his kingdom to the strongest knight. This knight
  must prove himself worthy by defeating his rivals and the evil dragon.
  Four of the lands strongest men have been gathered for this task. The
  knights must engage in war amongst themselves until only one survives.
  these men will be forever known as The Lords of War.


                          LOADING THE GAME
  1. Plug a joystick into joyport #2.
  2. Follow the normal booting procedures as described in your computer
     manual.
  3. At the workbench prompt insert the "Lords of War" disk in the internal
     drive (DF0:).
  4. The game will now load.
  5. DO NOT remove the "Lords of War" disk at any time during the game.


                          GAME OPTIONS
  Once the game has loaded you will be prompted to "Select Type of Game".
  You may choose the following options by moving the joystick up or down
  and then pressing the joystick button.

  DEMO-In this mode the computer controls all four players. Press any key
  during the demo to exit.

  1 PLAYER - In this mode one player battles three computer opponets. Player
  one will use a joystick plugged into joyport #2.

  2 PLAYER - In this mode two players and two computer players battle one
  another. Player must use a joystick plugged into joyport #1.


                          SELECTING A CASTLE
  If you have selected a one or two player game you will be prompted to
  "Select Castle". A small image of the playfield will be displayed with a
  shield in one of the castles. Use the joystick to position the shield on
  the castle you wish to choose and press the joystick button to select and
  continue. This will be the castle you will be defending. Please note in a
  two player game players cannot select the same castle.


                          GAME LAYOUT
  The game consists of four castles, one in each corner of the screen, along
  with four players(human or computer)protecting those castles. Game stats
  such as score and remaining lives are displayed near each castle. The
  current level number and the "time until doom" gauge are shown at the
  bottom of the screen. Before the start of each level, a timer will appear
  in the corner of each castle and count down to zero. Once the timer has
  ended, the ball will move in random direction, from the center of the screen
  and the level will begin.


                          HOW TO PLAY
  The object of the game is to protect your castle while attempting to
  destroy your opponents' castles. The game involves a ball shooting around
  the playfield. When the ball hits a castle wall it will destroy a section
  of the wall. The number of hits to break through a castle wall depends on
  the speed and angle of the ball. Each player's movement is limited to the
  perimeter of his castle. Players hit, catch, and shoot the ball at opponents
  and also have the option of casting spells. A level is finished when a
  castle is destoyed(higher levels require two and three castles to be des-
  troyed). To destroy a castle the ball must break though its walls and hit
  the shield. Each player starts out with three lives and loses a life each
  time his castle is destroyed(computer players do not lose lives). When a
  player has no lives remaining that player is eliminated from the game. In
  a two player game with only one player left, the computer takes over
  control of the dead player's castle. You must survive the level to advance
  to the next one, thus if the castle is destroyed you must play that level
  again. In a two player game, if one player survives the level then both
  advance to the next level. Each new level contains different obstacles,
  faster and more intelligent computer players, and ball speeds. After
  battling through twenty different levels the player can then engage in a
  final battle with the dragon.

  MOVING THE PLAYER - Movement of the player is controlled with the joystick.
  The player will continue in a chosen direction until the joystick position
  is changed or the player reaches the border. Players can be moved even if
  not visible on the screen.

  CONTROLLING THE BALL - When the ball hits a player it will deflect in a
  different direction. Caution should be taken to avoid trapping the ball
  between the player and the castle since this may cause much damage to the
  castle. To catch the ball, press the joystick button when the ball makes
  contact with the player. Holding the joystick button down, without posses-
  sion of the ball, slows the player. Once the ball is caught the player can
  move around the perimeter of the castle(with the ball)at full speed. Releas-
  ing the button, when the player has been moved to the desired location, will
  fire the ball at an opponent. pointing the joystick in a different direction
  before releasing the button will change the angle the ball travels. For
  computer opponents, a higher levels, it will be necessary to master this
  technique to hit their castles. Holding the ball too long will cause the
  ball to automatically release.

  CASTING SPELLS - During the game the ball will ocassionally glow and may be
  caught to gain spell points. A player can accumulate a maximum of twenty
  spell points. Players(human and computer)receive some spells at the start of
  each level. If a player has aquired at least one spell point he may cast a
  spell. To do this, player must have possession of the ball. He must then
  point the joystick diagonally towards his corner of the screen and release
  the button(ex. Upper left castle would move the joystick up and left). At
  this point a list of spells will appear on the screen and the action will
  temporarily halt. Moving the joystick up or down will change the pointer to
  the current spell. At the bottom of the spell list are two power indicators.
  One shows current power for casting spells and the other shows power re-
  quired for that spell. If you have the required spell points, pressing the
  button will select the desired spell. Some spells may require a target
  castle. In this case move the joystick until the pointer points to the
  proper castle and press the buton.
  

                      
                          HIGH SCORES
  If your score is among the top one-hundred, you may enter your name in the
  high score list("Hall of Souls"). Use the ksyboard to type your name and
  press return when finished. If you would like to save your high scores,
  write-enable the disk BEFORE you enter your name and re-insert the disk back
  into the drive. DO NOT remove the disk once you have entered your name! To
  view the high scores, move the joystick up or down. To exit from high score
  screen press the joystick button.

  REMEMBER: DO NOT remove the disk from the drive at any time during game play


                             
                          OTHER FEATURES
  PAUSING THE GAME - To pause a game in progress, press space bar. To continue
  the game press any key.
  
  RESTART GAME - Press the ESC key to quit the current game.

  EXTRA MEMORY - For computers with at least one megabyte(1024k)of memory,
  the program will store the levels, graphics, and sounds into memory when
  they are initially loaded.



                          HINTS
  1. Whenever possible catch the ball.
  2. Shoot the ball at angles towards your opponents.
  3. Cast spells on castles that are almost destroyed.
  4. Increase your speed on higher levels if opponents block all your shots.
  5. Try and hit castles in the same place with your shots.
  6. Hit castle walls in the mid-sections rather than corner and end sections.
     This will allow you to break through faster(this will not work on higher
     levels).
  7. Protect your castle's mid-sections for the same reason stated previously.
  8. Use obstacles to bounce your shots. This will also confuse the computer
     players.
  9. Do not slow the ball speed down on higher levels. Computer players will
     be faster than the ball preventing any hits on their castles.
  10. If a computer player is blocking your shots, and you have increased your
      speed, try increasing the ball speed(on some levels this may be the only
      way to destroy an enemy).
  11. Try to destroy different castles in the earlier levels. This will give
      you practice for later levels that require more than one castle to be
      destroyed.
  12. Take advantage of spells cast on opponents by other players whether
      human or computer.
  13. Everytime a computer player is destroyed he will become "smarter" and
      will start to cast spells to speed himself up and to protect him when he
      is in danger of being destroyed.

  TWO PLAYER GAME HINTS:
  1. Choose castles that are at opposite corners of each other. This will
     allow both players easy access to both computer players.
  2. Pass the to each other to destroy the computer players.
  3. Don't kill each other unless you have no other option.



                          SPELL LIST
  Cancel Spell - Returns to the game without casting any spells.
  Increase Timer - Increases the amount of time left on the "TIME UNTIL DOOM"
                   timer (see below).
  Speed Ball - Increases the ball's speed (for that level only).
  Slow Ball - Decreases the ball's speed (for that level only).
  Speed Player - Makes your player move faster.
  Slow Enemy - Makes an opponent slower (timed).
  Confuse Enemy - Makes an opponent move in the wrong direction (timed).
  Freeze Enemy - Stops an opponent from moving (timed).
  Protect Castle - Makes your castle walls indestructible (timed).
  Freeze Enemies - Stop all opponents from moving (timed).
  Teleport - Takes you to the next level.
  Destroy Castle - Destroys an opponent's castle.
  Extra Castle - Awards an extra life.

  When a spell is cast on a player, a timer may pop up above that players'
  castle indicating how long the spell will last. A player may cast as many
  spells as desired but only one spell may be cast on a single player at any
  one time. If a timed spell is cast on a player, any previous timed spell
  will be cancelled.

  DOOMSDAY
  If the "TIME UNTIL DOOM" timer runs out before a level is finished, the
  dragon will appear in the center of the screen. It will rapidly fire the
  ball at the players. Once the dragon has appeared, players can no longer
  catch the ball or cast spells. This dragon will stay until the level is
  over and cannot be destroyed at this point in the game.
  
  THE FINAL BATTLE
  Once twenty levels have been completed the game will enter the final stage.
  In a two player game, if both players survive, they will enter a sudden
  death level, where both players complete against each other(no computer
  players)until one is eliminated. The surviving player will enter his castle
  and fight against the dragon. There are no castles to defend or destroy;
  only the player and the dragon exist. The player can move around the entire
  perimeter of the play area while the dragon flies around the entire screen.
  The player must hit the dragon several times with the ball to destroy it.
  The player may hold onto the ball for an unlimited amount of time. Once the
  ball has been fired it will continue to move until the player catches it
  again. Once you defeat the dragon you will become KING!



                          SCORING
              Points are awarded in the following manor....
     25 - Hitting the ball.             5000+ - surviving a level.
    50 - Catching the ball.            10000 - Destroying a castle.
  250 - Hitting a castle wall.         150000 - Killing the dragon.

                    H A V E   F U N ! ! ! -Angel/VF