Beware of   The Lurking Horror !!!
            ------------------

The League presents the important things from the package to this great
new Infocom adventure.

First of all: You won't get long without the password for the PC in the
start of the game.

TYPE 8 7 2 3 2 5 4 1 2
TYPE UHLERSOTH

This should help you get going...



The preface from the manual: In the Lurking Horror, you are a student at
G.U.E. Tech. You have braved a snowstorm to get to the Computer Center
and finish work on an assignment. But the snowstorm has turned into a
raging blizzard, and has trapped you in a complex of buildings late at
night. You are not alone, fortunately ... or perhaps, unfortunately.

Welcome to George Underwood Edwards Institute of Technology (G.U.E. Tech)

I (Mr.Who ???), recognizes all the following from my own education at the
University of Aarhus in Denmark. The following is from G.U.E at a Glance.

Welcome to G.U.E.!
You've probably been waiting to go to G.U.E. Tech for years - ever since
you realized that science and math were more important to you than just
about anything (except eating). And now here you are, in a community of
people who feel exactly the same way. Of course, the first thing in your
mind is academics, whether you can get a siminar with that Nobel Laurete
Physics professor how soon you can have 24-hr access to the Compute Center,
whether you can get credit through a work-study program. Most of these
questions can be answered by your freshman advisor or by the official
student handbook.

There are planty of other questions, however, that you should also be
asking yourself, questions that your advisor will be hard to put to
answer. Questions like, where can you find the best pizza? Where can you
find a date? Which dorms should you avoid? Should you subscribe to the
meal plan? Where can you go if you're feeling out of control?

This handbook attemps to answer some of these questions. Written by
upperclass students, G.U.E. At A Glance (sometimes known as GAAG) might
tell you things the Administration would rather you didn't know. But we
believe that you'd find them out anyway, and that you'll be glad it's 
sooner rather than later...

In spite of what your roommate will tell you, G.U.E. Tech does not have
the highest suicide rate in the country. However, it is a high-pressure
school. While you're wondering what happened to the distraught student who
used to sit next to you in Introductory Calculus, you might also be
wondering how you're going to get through midterms without cracking up

When things get tough, DON'T PANIC. Help is always available, and no one
will think the lesser of you for seeking it. Visits to the Counseling 
Center don't appear on your permanent record, and complete confidentiality
is maintained at all times.

SCHOOL TRADITIONS
=================
Lock Day - In a bizarre twist on Caltech's Ditch Day, seniors leave school,
after locking the cafeteria doors with intricate electronic equipment. 
Underclassmen must undo the electronic puzzles before they can eat.

Slug Stomping - Watch for the first slugs of the year and step on them.

Founder's Day - One night during the last week of spring term, the huge
bronze statue of George Underwood Edwards mysteriously disappears from
it's pedestal and shows up the next day in some totally offbeat spot. A
certain rowdy fraternity is rumored to spend the entire year planning 
this prank.

Final Scream - At a designated time during Final Exam week, everyone
screams in unison.

Pigeon Day - The President rings a bell at 6 a.m. one pring morning and
puts a statue of a giant pigeon on the lawn. No classes for the day;
free food at night.
 
Streamer Day - Take all the toilet paper rolls from the bathrooms and 
throw them out of the dorm windows.


Take care down in the cellars.........Mr.Who ??? of The League