	           Hacker II: The Doomsday Papers

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

The use of a printer is optional.

Apple II series computers

1. Connect an Apple Imagewriter printer to your computer through the Apple
Super Serial Card interface, or a compatible dot-matrix printer through the
Microtek Dumpling-GX interface; see your printer and interface manuals for
instructions.  Connect a joystick, if you have one, to your computer.

2. Insert the Actisource diskette in your disk drive, label side up.

3. Turn on your disk drive and computer.

Apple Macintosh computers

1. Connect an Apple Imagewriter printer to your computer.

2. Insert the Actisource diskette in your disk drive, label side up.

3. Turn on your computer.

Amiga computers

1. Connect a graphics printer to your computer; see your computer and
printer manuals for instructions.

2. Turn on your computer.

3. When so instructed, insert the Kickstart diskette in your disk drive.

4. When so instructed, insert the Workbench diskette in your disk drive. 

NOTE: If you have an Epson FX80 or RX80 or compatible printer, you may
insert the Actisource diskette; Hacker II will start automatically, and you
may skip the remaining steps.

5. If necessary, use Preferences to configure your printer; see your
computer manual for instructions.

6. Insert the Actisource diskette in your disk drive.

7. From the Workbench, open the Hacker II disk icon, then open the Hacker
II icon.

Atari ST computers

1. Connect an Epson, Atari, or compatible graphics printer to your
computer; see you computer and printer manuals for instructions.

2. Turn on and boot your computer; see your computer manual for
instructions.

3. If necessary, ensure that your printer is configured properly; see your
computer manual for instructions.

4. Insert the Actisource diskette in your disk drive, label side up, and
open the disk drive icon.

5. Open the HACKER2.PRG icon.

Commodore 64 and 128 computers

1. Connect a Commodore MPS801, Okimate 10, or equivalent graphics printer
to your computer; see your computer and printer manuals for instructions. 
Plug a joystick into port 1 of your computer.

2. Turn on your printer, computer, and disk drive.

3. If you have a Commodore 128, type GO64 and press RETURN.  When the
prompt ARE YOU SURE? appears, type Y and press RETURN.

4. Insert the Actisource diskette in your disk drive, label side up.  Type
LOAD"*",8,1 and press RETURN.

IBM PC, PCjr, Tandy 1000, and compatible

1. Connect an Epson FX80 or LX80 or compatible graphics printer to your
computer; see your computer and printer manuals for instructions.  Connect
a joystick, if you have one, to your computer.

2. Insert the Actisource diskette in your disk drive and turn on (or reset)
your computer.

JOYSTICK, MOUSE, AND KEYBOARD OPTIONS

You use the joystick or mouse in the standard manner - that is, by moving
the cursor to various areas on the screen and pressing the joystick button
or the left mouse button.  Sometimes you hold the button down; sometimes
you press and release it to activate or deactivate a feature.

See the table below for keyboard commands.

Text is entered from the keyboard in the standard manner.

Keyboard Commands

					Apple II series	IBM PC, PCjr,
							Tandy 1000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Disable joystick,			Ctrl D
enable keyboard

Enable joystick,			Ctrl E
disable keyboard

Pause Game				ESC         

Resume after pause			any key

Toggle sound on/off			Ctrl S		Ctrl S

Restart game from			Ctrl R		Ctrl R
beginning (not
functional during
printing)

Swap joystick axes			Ctrl X

Move cursor
  left					<--		<--
  right					-->		-->
  up					/|\ (II and	/|\
					     II+ - ;)
  down					\|/ (II and	\|/
                                            II+ - /)
 "Button" control			spacebar -	spacebar -
  - emulate joystick                    press once to   press and hold
  or mouse				"hold button    down; release
					down;" press
					again to "release
					button"

On Amiga, Atari ST, and Commodore computers, press the F1 key to restart at
any time.


MFSM Volume 1-                                              CIA-M-22543/B
Operator's Manual                                           July 4, 1986
                                  SECTION 1

                             GENERAL INFORMATION
1.1 INTRODUCTION

This document describes the operational aspects of the Multi-Function
Switching Matrix (MFSM). See the companion Maintenance Manual - Volume 2,
Part #CIA-M-22544/B for detailed maintenance and troubleshooting
information (not included in game package. Oh well!). This document, MFSM
Operator's Manual - Volume 1, presents General Information, Functional
Description, Controls and Connectors, and Operating Procedures for the
MFSM. Installation procedures are covered in a separate publication, MFSM
"Mark 5" Unpacking and Installation - Volume 3 (a security clearance of
Alpha III or better is needed to gain access to the installation document).

1.2 EQUIPMENT DESCRIPTION 

The MFSM is housed in a ruggedized metal casing which is designed for
optimal operation in adverse environmental conditions. It features a
sophisticated recorder, telemetry guidance capabilities, and
switching/interface circuits.

1.2.1 Power Supply

Power is supplied by special transformers and adaptors that automatically
adjust to voltages utilized at a local site. Because the MFSM is
principally used in clandestine operations, its transformer circuitry also
detects and masks power line analyzer device signals, rendering its
presence 

				1-1

		Figure 1.1 MFSM General View

				1-2

and location invisible to voltage security probes. Nickel cadmium battery
packs are provided for autonomous operation.

1.2.2 Phnordman Video Matrix

A Phnordman video matrix, consisting of four monitors can display and one
of the following system functions: target site security monitors, video
tape, telemetry guidance display, and site surveillance cameras.

1.2.3 Long-Range Transceiver

A built-in long-range transceiver transmits and receives encoded signals
via a secured satellite uplink system (satellites are in geosychronous
orbit). Highly advanced Adaptive Differential Pulse Coded Modulation
(ADPCM) circuitry is used to provide near real-time manipulation of the
MFSM subsystems. When coupled with the satellite uplink, the MFSM can be
placed anywhere on the earth, and can be controlled from any location.
Transmission delays are typically on the order on 10.77 usecs, due to
average atmospheric propagation factors.

1.2.4 Short-Range Transceiver

Another transceiver is used to control a variety of remote equipment from
the MFSM. This transceiver, which is part of the on-board Telemetry
Guidance System (TGS), features provisions for an interactive synthetic
aperture radar display of objects within a 5 mile square radius of the
unit. Mobile Remote Units (MRUs), model numbers G-665 or better can be
operated, as well as most Subterranean Remote Units (SRUs). See applicable
documents for details on interface requirements.

				1-3
1.2.5 Interfaces

The MFSM has provisions for a variety of video, audio, and digital
interfaces (including GPIB and RS-232C). An internal 68000 microprocessor
is used to control all MFSM subsystems, either by direct remote commands or
by programs, which can be transmitted and stored for future use. Once the
MFSM is installed at a remote site, it can be configured to intercept,
process, and emulate significant aspects of that site's command and control
network. Video systems can be monitored, controlled, and even bypassed with
the on-board Video Tape Recorder (VTR). Data buses can be accessed to
provide monitoring and control of digital systems. Automatic error
detection and encryption circuitry assures accurate, undetected operation.

1.3 RELATIONSHIP OF UNITS

The MFSM is installed at a remote site to monitor its transmissions and
control telemetrically guided devices. Uplink to a secured satellite system
transfers data to and from the MFSM to a central processing system, which
can be accessed through authorized computers or terminals.

				1-4

	      Figure 1-2. Overall System Configuration

				1-5

                              SECTION 2

                        FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTION

2.1 INTRODUCTION

This section describes only the functional aspects of the MFSM. Refer to
Maintenance Manual - Volume II for the accompanying Section 3 - Theory Of
Operation.

2.2 SYSTEM CONTROL

The SELCT pushbutton is part of the System Control circuit. The pushbutton
operates a switch which selects one of four display screens. The screen
selected is active for programming until the SELCT pushbutton is pressed
again. Only one monitor may be selected for programming at any time. Then
the next screen in a left-to-right and top-to-bottom sequence is activated.
The VHOLD pushbutton allows vertical sync of an active screen to be
corrected.

2.3 SITE MONITOR FUNCTION

The MFSM is patched into the target site's security system. The MON
pushbutton allows a remote operator to view what the site monitor operators
see as they scan their system. Because most installations utilize a
dual-monitor system, the MFSM monitor circuits can be switched between two
separate signals, by either pressing the MON pushbutton again or pressing
the +/- pushbutton while in the monitor mode.

				2-1

		Figure 2-1, Functional Block Diagram

				2-2

2.4 VTR AND BYPASS FUNCTION

Surveillance camera video signals can be overridden with images from the
MFSM Video Tape Recorder subsystem. A bypass switch (BYP) allows the target
site's currently active surveillance camera signal to be substituted with a
recorded video signal. The Video Tape Recorder is activated with the VTR
pushbutton. The VTR is actually a solid-state device which digitizes video
signals on up to 38 separate channels and stores them in virtual memory.
The internal bubble memory has a 5 gigabyte capacity which is refreshed
every 24 hours. Operation is identical to that of an analog VTR, and the
controls associated with the subsystem are also similar.

2.5 TELEMETRY GUIDANCE SYSTEM

The Telemetry Guidance System functions as follows: (1) it provides a
passive synthetic aperture radar display of all objects within a range of
5 square miles and (2) it integrates outputs from a monitor detector, the
target site digital traffic, and feedback from MRU's. Thus on one monitor a
remote operator can simultaneously view a floor plan rendering of the
target site, the present location of an MRU, the motion of site security
personnel, and a representation of which surveillance cameras are active
within the display parameters. Although the maximum range of the TGS is 5
square miles, it displays an immediate range of only 200 square yards at a
time. The TGS is automatically linked to the movement of any active MRU,
which then causes the display to be scrolled in accordance with the MRU
location.

				2-3

2.6 MOBILE REMOTE UNIT

MRUs can be activated by pressing the MRU pushbutton or any of the motion
control pushbuttons. It is recommended that the TGS is used in conjunction
with this operation, since MRU models compatible with most MFSM models do
not presently feature an internal camera.

2.7 CAMERA

The output of the target site surveillance cameras can be individually
viewed. Pressing the CAM pushbutton intercepts the "live" camera for the
corresponding channel selected.

				2-4

                              SECTION 3

                       CONTROLS AND CONNECTORS

3.1 GENERAL

In this section the location and function of all controls, indicators,
displays, and connectors are identified. Note that this portion of the
manual does not provide details on theory or operation of the elements
identified. See Section 4 of this manual for operating procedures.

3.2 CONTROLS

The major elements of the MFSM are the keypad control panels, the four
raster scan display screens, and backpanel connectors.

3.2.1 Keypad Control Panels

Different keypad arrangements of the keypad control panel are used,
depending on the MFSM model number and the operator's interfacing computer.
They are divided into two major groups: system control and VTR control.

3.2.2 Display controls

Operating procedures and interpretation of display controls are detailed in
Section 4.

				3-1

		Figures 3-1 and 3-2, Overall MFSM Views

				3-2

                  Figure 3-3, Keypad Control Panels

	         Figure 3-4, Phnordman Video Matrix
		
				3-3


TABLE 3-1,  Keypad Control Panel Elements
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item		Nomen-
No.		clature   	 Description
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

  1		SELCT           Used to select screens for activation.
				Selection occurs in a left-to-right,
                                top-to-bottom sequence.

  2		VHOLD           Vertical hold adjust mode switch

  3		CAM             Selects "live" camera for viewing

  4		MON             Gains access to target site internal
				closed-circuit security monitors. Two
				circuits are available for viewing: MON A
				and MON B

  5		VTR             Activates the Video Tape Recorder

  6		TGS             Activates the Telemetry Guidance System
				display on the screen selected

  7		+               Increments channels when in CAM and VTR
				modes. Toggles between site and security
				monitor circuits when in MON mode. Adjusts
				vertical hold on some models.

  8		-               Decrements channels when in CAM and VTR
				modes. Toggles between site and security
				monitor circuits when in MON mode. Adjusts
				vertical hold on some models.

  9		BYP             Toggles VTR bypass of site monitor channel.

				3-4

TABLE 3-1,  Keypad Control Panel Elements
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item		Nomen-
No.		clature   	 Description
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 10		MRU             Activates Mobile Remote Unit (MRU). Only
				one MRU can be active at any time.

 11		<<              Rewinds VTR tape

 12		STOP            Stops VTR tape. Causes screen to show blank
				until the tape is played. Indicated by
				highlight on pushbutton.

 13		PLAY            Starts VTR tape. Function activation is
				indicated by highlight on pushbutton.

 14		PAUSE           Pauses VTR tape. Function activation is
				indicated by flashing highlight on
				pushbutton. PLAY must be pressed again to
				restart tape.

 15		>>              Advances the VTR tape.

 16		L               Used in conjunction with MRU mode. Causes
				MRU to turn left

 17		F               Used in conjunction with MRU mode. Causes
				MRU to move forward

 18		B               Used in conjunction with MRU mode. Causes
				MRU to move backwards

 19		R               Used in conjunction with MRU mode. Causes
				MRU to turn right.

				3-5


3.3 BACKPANEL CONNECTORS

Backpanel connectors are hardwired on site. All cables and connectors
terminate in special adaptors that interface with the target site
terminals.

3.3.1 Video Inputs/Outputs

Camera inputs are taken directly from taps of a remote site's video control
center. Up to 38 channels are provided. The MFSM solid-state recorder
bypass output connectors (labeled MON OUTPUTS) are patched back into the
remote site switching unit. Bias and phasing mismatches are automatically
compensated for. A sync signal from the MFSM control microprocessor is
included with every VTR output to allow for precise synchronization with
the target system's timing devices.

3.3.2 Audio Inputs/Outputs

Although the BNC connectors for monitor inputs also carry audio signals,
the MFSM is equipped with 10 RCA-type stereo input and output jacks. These
are used for ancillary bugging purposes. These jacks can also be interfaced
with the Digital Audio Synthesizing Unit (DASU), Part #CIA-UYA-007/9 for
special highly sophisticated jamming and audio alteration purposes.

3.3.3 Data Acquisition Connectors

GPIB and RS-232C connectors form the lower part of the backplane panel. The
target site's digital traffic is routed through these connectors. In
addition, serial-to-parallel probes, signature analyzers, serial interface
probes, trace modules, remote control devices, etc. can be connected to
these ports. See the companion MFSM Maintenance Manual - Volume 2 for
details on connectors.

				3-6

	         Figure 3-5, Backpanel Connectors

				3-7
 
                              SECTION 4

                         OPERATING PROCEDURES

4.1 GENERAL

This section describes detailed operating procedures for the following
modes of MFSM operation:

        * Monitoring
        * VTR
        * Bypass
        * TGS and MRU

Operating procedures for menus and displays used to control parameters are
presented in this section. Initial turn-on procedures, basic programming
rules, and operating modes are discussed, respectively.

4.2 TURN ON PROCEDURES

Gaining access to the MFSM from an unauthorized microcomputer terminal is
virtually impossible. Uplinks are possible only when originated from
central computer control to offsite terminals.

4.3 BASIC PROGRAMMING RULES

A hand shaped cursor is used to "press" the appropriate pushbuttons on the
MFSM front panel. On microcomputers configured with a standard joystick the
cursor is positioned with the control column, and the desired pushbutton is
activated by pressing the joystick switch (typically #1). On microcomputers
configured with a mouse the cursor is positioned by moving the mouse, and
the desired 

				4-1

pushbutton is activated by pressing the switch on top of the mouse once. 

When a pushbutton has been pressed, the finger of the cursor changes to a
down position, and the lettering on the button is highlighted with color to
indicate the active status. Depending on the pushbutton pressed (and the
function in operation) the highlight may be momentary, it may continue as
long as the button is held down, or it may stay on until the pushbutton is
pressed a second time.

4.3.1 Selecting Display

To select a display, press the SELCT pushbutton. The channel indicator for
the next display in a left-to-right, top-to-bottom order will immediately
flash. The channel number is changed by pressing the + or - pushbuttons.

4.3.2 Adjusting Vertical Hold

Sometimes the vertical hold must be adjusted on a display. To do this,
perform the following procedure:

        1. Press the SELCT pushbutton to select the desired display.

        2. On systems equipped with a joystick:

                * Move the hard cursor to the VHOLD pushbutton.
                * Press and hold the joystick control button.
                * The VHOLD is highlighted.
                * While still pressing the joystick control button, move the
                  column forward to control the rate of bottom-to-top
		  vertical roll, and back to control the rate of
	          top-to-bottom roll.

				4-2

        3. On systems equipped with a mouse:

                * Press and hold the VHOLD pushbutton
                * The VHOLD is highlighted
                * Press the + or - button to control the rate of vertical
		  roll.
                * Press the VHOLD pushbutton again.

4.4 OPERATING MODES

The MFSM Monitoring, VTR, Bypass, and TGS/MRU functions provide extremely
powerful and flexible capabilities for sophisticated real-time remote
covert activities. In the MON mode, and operator may view a site's internal
monitoring system. In CAM mode, the operator may also view individual
cameras independent of it's monitoring system. The VTR mode allows for
playback and analysis of all the site's recorded activities. The BYP mode
enables an operator to intercept an internal monitoring system and
substitute its current channel with a taped image corresponding to the same
channel. Finally, the TGS and MRU modes provide information concerning the
relative displacement and disposition of hostile counterintelligence
forces, and allows command and control over friendly intelligence elements.
Successful use of the MFSM, therefore, depends on the ability of the
operator to manipulate all the resources available to carry out the desired
mission.

4.4.1 Monitoring

Monitoring takes place in two modes: viewing of a remote site internal
video security monitoring circuits, and viewing elements of those circuits
independent of the site central control.

				4-3
		
4.4.1.1 Viewing Security Monitors.  To gain access to internal security
monitors, preform the following procedure.

        1. Select the desired display monitor on the MFSM.
        2. Press the MON pushbutton
        3. The default monitor circuit is "A". Verify that the monitor
           status display indicates "SECURITY MON A (or B)"
        4. To change the current monitor, press the MON pushbutton again
        5. Verify that the monitor status display indicates the alternate
           monitor circuit.

4.4.1.2 Viewing independent Cameras.  Individual surveillance cameras at
the site can be isolated for viewing. To view a separate camera, the
appropriate channel for that camera must be activated. Perform the
following procedure:

        1. Select the desired display monitor on the MFSM
        2. Press the CAM pushbutton
        3. Verify that the monitor status display indicates "LIVE"
        4. Press the + pushbutton to increment channels and the -
           pushbutton to decrement channels

4.4.2 Video Tape Recorder Option

The Video Tape Recorder mode of operation is useful for display and
analysis of pre-recorded activity. Recording is continuously automatic, so
there are no provisions for "recording" an independent event, as with a
standard VTR. When a channel is set for display, the taped material is
transferred from a special buffer. 

				4-4

When a display on the MFSM has been selected and the VTR pushbutton has
been pressed, the VTR will then function in a manner similar to normal
analog devices. See Section 3 for an explanation of pushbutton functions
associated with the VTR. The display status indicates "TAPE" when the VTR
is active. To change the current tape channel number, press either the + or
- pushbutton. 

The sync signal that is recorded with the original image is automatically
shown during playback. That signal is present on the bottom part of the
screen as numbers that correspond to the minute and second of a one hour
period. Shuttle search is possible by pressing the PLAY pushbutton and then
pressing the >> or << buttons. A speeded image of the recorded material
will be shown, along with sync numbers at the bottom.

4.4.3 Bypass

The bypass mode allows the recorded image from a VTR channel to replace its
corresponding surveillance camera. To perform a monitor bypass, do the
following:

        1. Use one of the MFSM displays to show the VTR screen
        2. Select the VTR channel to be bypassed (using + or - pushbutton)
        3. If necessary, advance or rewind the VTR until the time sync
           values match those shown on a real-time display.
        4. Press the PLAY button on the VTR
        5. Press BYP to bypass the surveillance camera with tape.
        6. Verify that the monitor status display indicates "BYPASS CAMERA"

				4-5

To disable the bypass, do the following:

        1. Select MFSM display showing the bypassed camera
        2. Press the BYP pushbutton to return to normal VTR function.

			      WARNING

                 SOME SECURITY SYSTEMS CAN DETECT 
                      WHEN A SYCHRONIZATION 
               ERROR HAS OCCURRED. BE ABSOLUTELY 
                     CERTAIN THAT THE CORRECT 
              TIME SYNC SIGNAL IS PRESENT ON THE 
                         BYPASS CHANNEL.

4.4.4 TGS and MRU Modes

When the Telemetry Guidance System screen is present on any of the MFSM
displays, all pertinent information regarding active cameras, site
personnel placement, navigational information, and MRU location is
provided. To display the TGS screen:

        1. Select the desired display monitor on the MFSM
        2. Press the TGS pushbutton
        3. Verify that the monitor status display indicates "TGS-_______".
	   The current direction of the MRU is shown in the space after the
           dash.

Since location of an active MRU can also be shown relative to its
surroundings, it is best to control the MRU in conjunction with the TGS
display. Figure 4-1 explains the symbols used on the TGS screen.

				4-6

4.4.4.1 Controlling MRU Movement.  To Control an MRU displayed on the TGS,
perform the following procedure:

        1. On systems equipped with a joystick:

           a) Move the hand cursor to the MRU pushbutton
           b) Press and release the joystick control button
           c) The MRU button is highlighted
           d) Move the column forward to move the MRU forward, and back to
              move the MRU backwards.
           e) Move the column left to turn the MRU to the left, and right
              to turn the MRU to the right.
           f) Note that the TGS status display indicates the direction
              (EAST, WEST, NORTH, or SOUTH) the MRU is facing
           g) Centering the control column stops the MRU in its current
              position
           h) Press the MRU button again to release the MRU function.
           i) Verify that the MRU button is no longer highlighted.

        On systems equipped with a mouse:

           a) Press and hold the F button to move the MRU forward, and the
              B button to move the MRU backwards.
           b) Press and hold the L button to turn the MRU to the left, and
              the R button to turn the MRU to the right.
           c) Note that the monitor status display indicates the direction
              (EAST, WEST, NORTH, or SOUTH) the MRU is facing.
		
				4-7

4.5 SECRECY WARNING

The content of this manual is of the highest "TOP SECRET" classification.
Do not remove this document from its locked files. Operatives with proper
security operatives with receive sealed copies. It is unlawful to copy this
MFSM document onto magnetic tape or disk, or by any optical, chemical, or
mechanical means.

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================
