			THE HALLEY PROJECT:
		  A MISSION IN OUR SOLAR SYSTEM:
TRANSCRIPT OF P.L.A.N.E.T. TRANSMISSION ALPHA BRAVO NINER CHARLEY SEVEN
SEVEN SEVEN STROKE SEVEN DELTA NINER

			  FOR YOUR EYES ONLY
		TO BE READ ONLY IF AUDIO PLAYBACK DEVICE
		   IS NON-FUNCTIONAL OR NOT PRESENT

Coded transmission from P.L.A.N.E.T. follows.

Classified Code Red.

Tune to secure frequency ALPHA BRAVO NINER CHARLEY SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN STROKE
SEVEN DELTA NINER.

P.L.A.N.E.T. HQ To Star Pilot
RE: The Halley Project

Congratulations.
You have been chosen from the best pilots in the Solar System to compete
for a spot on The Halley Project team.

Your record indicates that you are an intelligent, resourceful, and skilled
pilot,  but those things are merely the beginning for a Halley pilot. To
take part in The Halley Project you also need courage, tenacity, and a
detailed knowledge of the Solar System. Unless you possess all these
qualities, back down  now.

WARNING: Reading this dossier will be interpreted as acceptance of this
assignment. If you do not wish to take part, DO NOT CONTINUE.

				1

  	      MISSION TECHNICAL REFERENCE GUIDE


THE HALLEY PROJECT:
A Mission In Our Solar System

				2

			THE HALLEY PROJECT:
		 A MISSION IN OUR SOLAR SYSTEM

		FLIGHT INSTRUCTIONS REFERENCE
			CARD:  AMIGA

Equipment Needed
Amiga computer
TV or monitor

DISK LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

1. Turn on your monitor and then your computer.

2. When the hand appears on screen, insert your Kickstart disk (included
   with your computer) into the disk drive.

3. When the image changes to ask for the Workbench disk, eject the
   Kickstart disk and insert The Halley Project program disk into the
   drive.

4. The program will load. After the title screen, you will see a letter
   from P.L.A.N.E.T. Headquarters. When you have read the letter and are
   ready to go on, press the left-most button on your mouse NOTE: You can
   skip over the opening screens if you want by holding down the left mouse
   button while the program loads.

5. Point the mouse cursor at the first numbered line and click the
   left-most button. Now type your name in the area provided and press 
   Return.

6. Point to the mission you wish to fly and click the button.

TO RESTART THE PROGRAM, press the CTRL key and the two AMIGA keys (A) at
the same time.

To erase all names and records, point to erase list and press the mouse
button.

				3

			THE CONTROL PANEL

                    (PICTURE OF CONTROL PANEL)

To accelerate in a certain direction, point to one of the direction arrows
in the control cluster and press and hold the left mouse button. (You'll
note that all decision-making except braking is done with the left button.)
The longer you keep the button pressed, the faster your speed will be.

To go into Hyperspace, increase your speed to 300, 000 km/s. When your
speed hits 300, 000km/s, the screen will change to show your entry into
Hyperspace, but you will not begin to travel until you release the mouse
button.

To brake, point to the B in the center of the control cluster and click the
mouse button or simply press the right button on the mouse. If you are in
Hyperspace, clicking the button will bring you to a complete stop. If you
are traveling at a speed of less than 300, 00km/s, each click will reduce
your speed by about 50%.

To change your field of vision, point to the L or R on the Field of View
Switch and hold down the mouse button to change your field of vision to the
left or right. NOTE: This does not change the direction in which your are
moving.

				4

To select your power level, point to the power controller, hold the button
down, and drag the lever toward the H (for high power) or toward the L (for
low power).

To engage the automatic landing system, point to the landing control lever
on the left side of the control panel and click the mouse button when the
Planet/Moon Finder blinks and beeps. NOTE: There is no special landing area
on Halley's Comet; simply fly into the comet to "land" on it.

To blast off from a planet or moon, click the mouse button when you are
looking at the view of the surface.

To see the radar screen, point to the small Radar Control Screen on the
left side of the Control Panel and click the button.

			THE RADAR SCREEN

To zoom in, point to ZOOM IN and hold the mouse button down. This will move
your vantage point in closer to your ship, but may not give you a full view
of all the planets at once.

To zoom out, point to ZOOM OUT and hold the mouse button down. This will
allow you to see more of the planets at one time.

To return to the control panel from the radar screen, point to QUIT and
click the mouse button.

				5

  			     MISSION
		    TECHNICAL REFERENCE GUIDE

MISSION CONTROL:

Program Authors: Omar H. Khudari and Thomas F. F. Snyder
Programming and Graphics: Omar H. Khudari, Chris A. Lutes,  Jr., 
Ed McNierney, Peter H. Reynolds, and Gabrielle Savage
Playtesting and Editorial Development: David A. Dockterman
Illustrations: Peter H. Reynolds
Music Composition: Thomas F. F. Snyder
Commodore 64 and Apple versions: Leonard Bertoni
Project Management: Richard D. Abrams

				6

NOTE: Before going any farther, listen to the mission briefing on the
enclosed cassette (if you haven't already done so). If you do not have an
audio playback device, read the transcript of the cassette at the back of
this dossier.

				7

To: Specially Selected Star Pilots
From: P.L.A.N.E.T.
Re: THE HALLEY PROJECT

By now, you should have listened to (or read the transcript of) the coded
transmission from P.L.A.N.E.T. We are pleased that you have accepted the
challenge to attempt to qualify for The Halley Project. Pilots, this is no
ordinary challenge, but you are not ordinary pilots. No mere neophyte could
hope to fulfill these requirements.

The 10 training missions you are about to begin will test even the best of
you. If you demonstrate the skill, knowledge, and cunning necessary to
succeed, you will be invited to join the final challenge, The Halley
Project. It's as simple as that.

Your briefing consists of the classified files listed below. You will find
them all in this dossier, your Mission Technical Reference Guide. Read them
carefully. They are designed to help you qualify for The Halley Project.
These top-secret files and the Flight Instructions Reference Card include
basic technical operating instructions for your spaceship and offer some
advice for locating and landing on planets. But you will need to summon all
your flying skill and knowledge of the Solar System to complete all your
training missions.

Following are brief descriptions of each top-secret file:

QUALIFICATION PROCEDURES FOR THE HALLEY PROJECT - a quick overview of the
training missions and the scope of the project.

STARTING THE MISSIONS: POWERING UP - how to get going on your first
mission.

THE CONTROL PANEL - describes the equipment on your spaceship control panel
and explains how to use this equipment to reach your destinations.

				8

NAVIGATING AND LANDING - explains how to use the program's Radar Screen and
the Simple Star Map (enclosed with this package) to locate positions of
planets and moons; provides step-by-step procedures for landing on planets
and moons.

THE HALLEY PROJECT MISSIONS CHART - lets you keep track of the planets and
moons you're directed to land on for each mission.

INTELLIGENCE-GATHERING RESOURCES - interesting books and articles that can
increase your knowledge of space exploration, astronomy, and Halley's
Comet. Some of them may help you solve the clues you are given with each
mission.

DEBRIEFING - procedures to help you remain in touch with the Solar System
after you complete your missions and return to Earth; includes star-gazing
activities.

TRANSCRIPT OF THE MISSION BRIEFING - a transcript of the briefing on the
enclosed cassette, for those of you who don't have an audio playback
device.

A FINAL NOTE FROM P.L.A.N.E.T. - a description of the challenges involved
in designing The Halley Project.

OTHER IMPORT DOCUMENTS

Also included in this package are a Flight Instructions Reference Card and
a Simple Star Map. Keep them handy; you will probably want to refer to them
frequently.

FLIGHT INSTRUCTIONS REFERENCE - a rundown of your equipment's technical
specifications, loading instructions, and some helpful hints on flying.

SIMPLE STAR MAP - a map of the major constellations, as seen through your
spaceship viewing screen. This map will be an invaluable help to you as you
navigate in space; without it, you will be merely a cosmic drifter. Note
that the Simple Star Map does not include every star visible from the Solar
System, but represents the view from your ship.

				9

			QUALIFICATION PROCEDURES
			FOR THE HALLEY PROJECT

You begin your quest to qualify for The Halley Project without a rank. To
join The Halley Project, you must master 10 ranks, from Raven to Starbird.
To advance a rank, you must fly the appropriate course, or mission, between
specified bodies of the Solar System, landing on each planet or moon as you
are directed.

As you begin each mission, you will be given instructions on the screen.
Due to the sensitive nature of this information, you will not have access
to specific instructions until you qualify for a specific mission. To
further protect the secrecy of the missions, the instructions are often
given as clues. You have to figure out where to go. To unravel the clue,
you may need to do a little research on your own before you sojourn in the
Solar System. For example, you might be told to land on a moon that has an
atmosphere. Unless you can determine which moons fit this description and
then maneuver yourself there,  The Halley Project isn't for you. NOTE: Due
to limitations in microcomputer technology, not all the moons of Jupiter
and Saturn could be represented properly in the program. You will not be
asked to travel to those moons that have not been included.

Keep in mind that each planet and moon revolves around the sun. Thus, each
has a "dark side" - the side that seems invisible because it's facing away
from the sun. Do not fear the dark side. Sometimes you may find your
landing clearance on that side. See the Navigating and Landing File for
additional information. Each mission begins and ends at the secret training
installation located on Halley's Comet. Successful completion of a mission
moves you to the next rank.

You will be timed, and the four fastest times will be recorded. Those with
the fastest times will have the satisfaction of knowing they are the most
qualified pilots in the galaxy. However, you don't have to be among the
four fastest times to qualify for The Halley Project.

Remember, only the best will endure P.L.A.N.E.T.'s tests to become part of
The Halley Project. You must advance through the ranks in the order listed
below.

1. Raven				6. Swift
2. Shrike				7. Nighthawk
3. Vulture				8. Falcon
4. Darter				9. Eagle
5. Condor			       10. Starbird

				10

Complete each mission in order. You cannot attempt the Nighthawk's mission,
for example, until you have completed all the missions before it. You can
redo missions as often as you like to improve your times. Listed below are
some challenge times worth flying for:

MISSION					TIME (in minutes and seconds)

1. Raven				3:00
2. Shrike				4:30
3. Vulture				8:00
4. Darter				9:00
5. Condor				9:00
6. Swift				15:00
7. Nighthawk				10:00
8. Falcon				15:00
9. Eagle				20:00
10. Starbird				20:00

You qualify for The Halley Project by completing the 10 missions listed
above. When you finish the Starbird mission, you'll be given a secret code
number. Fill out the RFC (Registration for Certification) included with
this dossier. The RFC must arrive at P.L.A.N.E.T. Headquarters by December
31, 1985, if you want P.L.A.N.E.T. to compare your performance with that of
other pilots. Give your secret code number and give the name you used
during your P.L.A.N.E.T. missions. If those credentials match the ones that
P.L.A.N.E.T. secretly assigned you, you will receive official certification
that you have qualified to participate in The Halley Project. Information
about the most exacting mission of all, The Halley Project itself, will be
sent to you at a later date.

THE FINAL CHALLENGE

Being accepted as a participant in The Halley Project, the final challenge,
is impressive. But the mysterious Halley Project itself also awaits. Hidden
within the program is the key to the final challenge, but details won't be
divulged...yet. To learn about The Halley Project's final challenge,
complete all 10 missions, and return the enclosed Registration for
Certification form. The RFC must arrive at P.L.A.N.E.T. Headquarters by
December 31, 1985, if you want P.L.A.N.E.T. to compare your performance
with that of other pilots. Then keep your eyes and ears open for the FINAL
CHALLENGE. P.L.A.N.E.T. will find you!

				11

STARTING THE MISSIONS:  POWERING UP

To get started on your mission, follow these steps:

1. Load the disk according to the directions on the enclosed Flight
   Instructions Reference Card.

2. After you've read the initial screens, you will see a name roster
   screen. Use the joystick * to select a blank line. Press the joystick
   button. Then type in the name you want to use as a pilot and press
   RETURN.

3. Choose the mission you want to fly by using the joystick to move the
   asterisk in front of that mission. Press the joystick button. (Remember
   that you must begin by flying the Raven mission. You can  repeat a
   mission you've already done to improve your time, but you must do the
   missions in order.)

4. Read the directions on the screen that tell you what your destination
   is. It will be a planet or moon.

5. Use the Radar Screen and the Simple Star Map to determine where your
   destination is and how to get there.

6. Navigate your way to and then land on your destination. (See the
   Navigating and Landing File.) Once you've landed, proceed according to
   the instructions on the screen. Press B to blast off for your next
   destination.

* Throughout this manual, the input device is referred to as the joystick.
Some versions may use the keyboard, a mouse, or other devices. Please see
your Flight Instructions Reference Card for information.

				12

			THE CONTROL PANEL

During each mission, you're seated at the control panel of your spaceship,
somewhere in our Solar System. From your Viewing Screen,  you see
constellations, stars, planets, and moons just as they appear in space.
Objects in space are very far away from each other. To help you reach your
destinations, you ship is equipped with some special  devices.

			(PICTURE OF CONTROL PANEL)

VIEWING SCREEN - You can observe all the space around you through this
Viewing Screen. Follow the steps on the Flight Instructions Reference Card
to change your field of vision to see different views. It's usually a good
idea to come to a complete stop before changing your field of vision.

DIRECTION POINTER - This device shows which direction you are moving. For
example, when you are moving toward a planet or moon shown on your Viewing
Screen, the pointer will be up at the top of the dial. When you are moving
away from an object, the pointer will be at the bottom of the dial. Thus,
it is possible to be looking at a planet but be moving away from it.

PLANET/MOON FINDER - The marked area in the center of the Viewing Screen is
your Planet/Moon Finder. The four marked corners will

				13

light up when a planet or moon comes within range. The Sun is always
visible through the Finder.

PLANET/MOON INDICATOR - As you approach an object and it becomes clearer;
its name and your distance from it will appear here.

POWER METER - Your ship has two power levels, low and high. High is best
for traveling great distances. It gives the engines more power. Low gives
you more control and is helpful when maneuvering for a landing. To select a
power level, press L for Low and H for High.

SPEED - Keep a careful watch on your speed. It is very easy to fly by a
planet or moon if you are going too fast. When your speed reaches 250,
000km/s (kilometers per second), you will hear warning sounds. At 300, 000
km/s, the speed of light, you jump to Hyperspace. In Hyperspace, you
travel at many times the speed of light.

TIMER - The timer keeps track of the time it takes you to fly each mission.
The timer does not run when you are not moving.

USING THE CONTROL PANEL

TO MOVE IN A DIRECTION, push the joystick in that direction. The longer you
hold the joystick in that direction, the faster you will go. (Pilots using
something other than a joystick should consult the Flight Instructions
Reference Card.)

TO GO INTO HYPERSPACE, increase your speed to 300, 000 km/s (the speed of
light). A warning buzzer will sound when your speed reaches 250, 000 km/s
to let you know you're approaching Hyperspace. Once in Hyperspace, your
distance traveled is reported in millions of kilometers.

TO SLOW DOWN OR STOP, press the space bar. If you are in Hyperspace, 
pressing the space bar brings you to an immediate stop. If you are
traveling at a speed less than 300, 000 km/s, each press of the space bar
cuts your speed in half.

TO CHANGE YOUR FIELD OF VISION, hold the joystick button down while you
move the joystick to the right or to the left. NOTE: This will not change
the direction in which you are moving. You may find it easier to come to a
stop first before changing your field of vision.

TO SELECT YOUR POWER LEVEL, press H for High Power or L for Low Power.

				14

TO ENGAGE THE AUTOMATIC LANDING SYSTEM, press A on the keyboard. You can
land only when the Planet/Moon Finder is blinking and beeping. See File
#00235THP-4 for more information about landing. 

(NOTE: THERE IS NO SPECIAL LANDING AREA ON HALLEY'S COMET; TO RETURN TO
P.L.A.N.E.T.'S SECRET INSTALLATION, SIMPLY FLY RIGHT INTO THE COMET.)

TO BLAST OFF FROM A PLANET OR MOON, press B on the keyboard.

TO SEE THE RADAR SCREEN, press R on the keyboard.

USING THE RADAR SCREEN

Your ship always stays at the center of the screen.

TO ZOOM IN, push forward on the joystick. When you zoom in, you see an
enlarged view of the small region of space near your ship. You may not see
all the planets on the screen at the same time.

TO ZOOM OUT, pull back on the joystick. When you zoom out, you see an
overview of the whole Solar System.

TO RETURN TO THE CONTROL PANEL, press R on the keyboard.

For a more detailed explanation of Radar Screen use, see the classified
Navigating and Landing File (#00235THP-4).

				15

		     NAVIGATING AND LANDING

Space is a big place, and it's easy to get lost. Who knows how many amateur
pilots are stranded somewhere in space because they never learned to
navigate using their radar and the constellations on the Simple Star Map?
Who knows how many are in eternal holding patterns because they never
learned landing procedures? Don't let these disasters happen to you.

NAVIGATING

Your Radar Screen and Simple Star Map (included with the program package)
are essential instruments for navigating through the Solar System. Use them
to help you go from one destination to the next.

RADAR - Press R to see the Radar Screen. Step-by-Step instructions for
navigating by radar follow. Let's assume that you have just started a
mission and that your destination is Earth.

1. At the beginning of each mission, a message appears on the screen
telling you your destination. The message may specify the destination or it
may only give you a clue. If necessary, do some research to decipher a
mission clue. In this example, your goal is to find and land on Earth.

As soon as you embark on a mission, you will immediately see a hugh white
sphere filling the Viewing Screen of your ship. That is Halley's Comet.
Your missions always begin at Halley's Comet, and your ship is always
moving away from the comet as the mission begins. As you get farther away,
the comet will look smaller and smaller. The tail will become visible. Keep
moving away from the comet until you are about 500, 000 km away. That will
give you a good look at it. You'll need to know what it looks like because
you will have to return to the secret training installation there many
times during your interplanetary travels.

				16

			    (PICTURE)

			 HALLEY'S COMET

2. Now begin braking your ship. You brake by pressing the space bar. Each
time you press the space bar, your speed is cut in half. Try to bring the
ship to a complete stop (0 km) when it is, say, 600, 000 km  away from the
comet. Then press R to check the Radar Screen. Find your current position.
You will see something like this:

			     (PICTURE)

			   RADAR SCREEN

				17

You are always the X in the middle of the circle. Halley's Comet is the
flashing dot that, depending on your position, may or may not be visible.
Remember that each mission begins at Halley's Comet. So, if you go right to
the Radar Screen at the beginning of a mission, Halley's Comet will also be
at or near the center of the screen.

NOTE: Each time you use the program, your exact distance from Earth and
your orientation may vary. Remember that all the planets and Halley's Comet
are constantly revolving around the sun.

The sun is the largest and brightest dot in the circle. It is truly one of
the universe's hot spots, too hot even for star pilots. That's one place
you don't want to go. The other dots are the planets. The names of the
constellations are located around the outside of the circle. The number at
the bottom of the screen indicates the distance, in millions of kilometers,
from you to the edge of the circle.

3. Locate your destination planet. In this case, you are looking for Earth.
(If your destination is a moon, locate the planet that the moon orbits.) To
identify a planet, start from the sun and count out toward the edge of the
circle. Earth is the third planet away from the sun. Only Mercury and Venus
are closer.

4. If at first you don't see anything helpful on the Radar Screen, zoom OUT
by pulling the joystick backward. Now the screen may look like  this:

			     (Picture)

			     ZOOM OUT

				18

5. If at first the planets appear tightly bunched on the Radar Screen, 
zoom IN for a closer look by pushing the joystick forward. Now the screen
might look like this:

		  	    (Picture)

		  	    ZOOM IN

6. Once you find your destination, pull the joystick back until your
destination is on the edge of the circle. For this demonstration, pull the
joystick back now until Earth is on the edge of the circle. Check the
distance scale on the bottom of the screen. That number (in millions of
kilometers) is the planet's distance from you.

				19

Your distance from Earth will vary each time you run the program. For
example, when you check the Radar Screen, you might find that Earth is 470
million kilometers away from you in the direction of Scorpio. The next time
you use the program and try to go to Earth, you might find that Earth is
370 million kilometers away in the direction of Sagittarius.

				(Picture)

		EARTH AT EDGE OF CIRCLE ON RADAR SCREEN

7. Notice where your destination is in relation to the constellations shown
around the circle. To use the example above, you might find that Earth is
470 million kilometers away in the direction of Scorpio. Once you have
lined up Earth with a constellation, look at the Simple Star Map to figure
out how to locate that constellation.

Simple Star Map The Simple Star Map does not include all the stars visible
from our Solar System. What it does represent is your field of vision as
seen through the Viewing Screen of your spaceship. On the Simple Star Map
you can see 12 constellations. The stars of these constellations are so far
away that, no matter how far you travel in our Solar System, they never
appear to move. They are fixed points that can guide you to your
destinations. Here's how: You have already used the Radar Screen to
determine how far you are from your destination (in this case, Earth).

1. Find the appropriate constellation on the Star Map. Let's say you are
looking for Scorpio.

				20

2. Press R on the keyboard to return from the Radar Screen to the Control
Panel. Make sure that you are still at a complete stop, then swivel through
your field of vision (see Flight Instructions Reference Card) until you
find your constellation on the Viewing Screen. If you are using a joystick,
make sure you keep the joystick button down while you swivel. Otherwise,
your ship will start accelerating again, perhaps in the wrong direction.

		 	    (Picture)

		SCORPIO AS SEEN THROUGH VIEWING SCREEN

It is often helpful to look for simple, distinct patterns in the stars. If
you locate one constellation, you can usually identify those near it.

3. With the constellation fixed in your Viewing Screen, look for your
planet. If you are not close enough to the planet, you will not be able to
spot it. In this case, Earth is not yet visible because it is too far away.
When you are close enough to have the planet in view, it may look like a
star. Compare what you see on the Viewing Screen to your Simple Star Map. A
"star" that doesn't appear on the map but that appears in  the
constellation you are viewing on the screen may well be the planet you
seek.

4. Once you spot your goal, you are ready to accelerate toward it and try
to land. To find Earth, you will first have to fly toward the constellation
until you get close enough to see Earth in your Planet/Moon Finder.

				21

LANDING

Landing on a planet or moon takes skill and practice. This is where the
true star pilot get to show their stuff. Let's continue to assume for now
that you are going to land on Earth.

USING HYPERSPACE - WHEN YOUR DESTINATION IS FAR AWAY  If you have followed
along so far, you have your bearings. You have used your Radar Screen to
line up Earth with one of the constellations. You know you are x millions
of kilometers away from Earth in the direction of one of the
constellations. For example, you might be 470 million kilometers away from
Earth in the direction of Scorpio. Through your Viewing Screen, the
constellation is visible. You are ready for your flight.

1. Make sure you are at a complete stop. That way you will be certain  to
follow a straight course once you jump to Hyperspace.

2. Set your power to High by pressing by pressing H on the keyboard. Move
your ship directly ahead - toward the constellation that you've lined up in
your Viewing Screen - by pushing the joystick straight forward. Your ship
will begin accelerating.

3. Increase your speed. A warning will sound when you reach 250, 000 km/s.
When you hit 300, 000 km/s you will jump to Hyperspace. In Hyperspace you
move quickly, traveling many millions of kilometers per second. The
distance you travel in Hyperspace is displayed on your Viewing Screen.
Remember that the distance indicated on your Radar Screen is the distance
between you and your destination, in this case Earth.

				22

			     (PICTURE)

  			    HYPERSPACE

WARNING: When traveling in Hyperspace, you will be moving faster than the
speed of light. It is very easy to "overshoot" your destination by many
millions of kilometers. Take extra caution when traveling at this speed.

4. When you are within 20 to 30 million kilometers of your destination, 
press the space bar to brake. For example, if you need to go 470 million
kilometers, brake when you reach 440 to 450. When you press the space bar,
you will come to a screeching halt.

5. If your destination is in sight, you will see the name of the planet or
moon and your distance from it displayed on the Planet/Moon Indicator on
your Control Panel. If Earth is in view now, keep it inside the Planet/
Moon Finder as you approach. To do this, you may have to adjust your
direction a bit. Landing will be a little bit like trying to hit a slowly
moving target. If your destination is not in sight, check the Radar Screen
to see how close you have come to your destination. If you still have more
than 25 or 30 million km to go, move into Hyperspace again very briefly to
get closer. Then go back to the Control Panel and turn your ship around
until Earth comes into view. If you cannot find Earth, you may have gone
too far. Check the Radar Screen to see if you overshot your mark. You may
find that Earth is now in the direction of one of the other constellations.
If that is true, 

				23

you will have to find that constellation in your Viewing Screen, just as
you spotted the first constellation, and then head toward it until "Earth"
shows up in your Planet/Moon Indicator.

ORBITING AND LANDING - WHEN YOUR DESTINATION IS CLOSE  Each planet or moon
has two landing areas, one on the bright side (facing the sun) and one on
the dark side (away from the sun). To protect the secrecy of the test
missions, the landing areas are changed from time to time. We can only tell
you that you must be within 100, 000 km of the planet or moon to be able to
land; you may get landing clearance at any point within 100, 000 km. This
is where your interplanetary experience will be invaluable. The more you do
it, the easier it will be. Follow these general directions each time you
want to land on any planet or moon. In this case, you want to land on
Earth.

1. When you are within sight of a planet or moon, the Planet/Moon Finder
will light up and you will see the name of the body and your distance from
it in the Planet/Moon Indicator. If you have gotten this far, Earth should
be in view. Center Earth in the Planet/Moon Finder and move toward it. (It
might be best to do this at Low power.)

			   (PICTURE)

		        EARTH IN SIGHT

				24

2. Move to within 100, 000 km of the planet. You will hear a rhythmic sound
to remind you that you are within 100, 000 km. Use the brakes to keep your
speed under control.

3. You must now locate a landing area on the planet or moon. If you are not
already at Low power, shift to Low and begin to orbit the planet. The
Planet/Moon Finder will flash and beep when you are above a landing area.
The Finder will register the landing area only when you are less than 100,
000 km from the planet or moon. Sometimes you may have to get closer before
you can land.

As you approach, be patient. Sometimes it takes a lot of orbiting before
you find a landing area. Keep moving from side to side. Remember that only
part of the planet may be visible. Don't forget to orbit the entire planet;
you may get landing clearance from the dark side or the light side. Do not
steer directly at a planet, especially when you get close. If you get too
close, you will crash, which delays your mission. If this happens, you will
see this message: "You crashed on Earth (or another planet), where you will
spend one month recovering." If you crash,  you will be assessed a time
penalty. Five minutes will be added to your time for that mission.

There are two exceptions to this orbiting and landing procedure:

Halley's Comet and the sun. Because we are not at liberty to disclose the
exact location of the training installation on Halley's Comet, we don't
expect you to find a specific landing area there. You need only fly into
the comet; P.L.A.N.E.T. will ensure that you return safely to the base.
Landing on the sun is not ever advisable; it's simply too hot.

4. When the Finder blinks and beeps to let you know it has located a
landing area, press A on the keyboard to activate the Automatic Landing
System. You will see a "Landing System Engaged" message on your Control
Panel.

				25

			    (PICTURE)

	            LANDING SYSTEM ENGAGED

5. The ship will automatically land. You will see a message telling you
which planet or moon you've landed on and indicating whether or not you
successfully completed part of your mission. Your next destination will
also be described. Again, the information you get about your next
destination may be in the form of a clue... You've already been warned that
you have to be more than good to qualify for The Halley Project.

6. Press any key to see a picture of the planet or moon you've landed on.
In this case, you will see a picture of Earth.

7. Plan your course to your next stop. The press B on the keyboard to blast
off.

				26

		THE HALLEY PROJECT: MISSIONS CHART

Use this chart to fill in mission destinations as you learn them. Once you
figure out the clue, write in the name of the planet or moon that is your
next destination. We need not remind you that this is confidential
information. Please keep it tucked away safely in your dossier.

Sometimes more than one planet or moon can be the right answer. If, for
example, you're supposed to land on a moon of Saturn with no atmosphere and
with a diameter of less than 1, 500 km, you can go to either Tethys or
Dione. Fill in either moon on your chart. Try different possibilities until
you find the one that gives you the fastest time.

Remember that the planets of the Solar System change positions as they
orbit the sun, so a given combination may not always be the fastest.

				27

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
MISSION			DESTINATIONS			FASTEST
							  TIME
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
1. RAVEN
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
2. SHRIKE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
3. VULTURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
4. DARTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. CONDOR
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. SWIFT
------------------------------------------------------------------------

				28

------------------------------------------------------------------------
MISSION			DESTINATIONS			FASTEST
							  TIME
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. NIGHTHAWK
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. FALCON
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. EAGLE
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. STARBIRD
------------------------------------------------------------------------

				29

		THE HALLEY PROJECT: DEBRIEFING

After you complete your training missions, you may face a difficult
readjustment period back on Earth. To remain in contact with activities in
the Solar System, you may want to do some star-gazing as part of an
on-going debriefing process.

All the stars you see in The Halley Project program and on the Simple Star
Map included with the package are found along the ecliptic,  a band of
stars that includes the paths the sun, moon, and planets appear to take
during the year. The portion of the ecliptic which can be seen on a given
night depends on your location and the time of year.

			    (PICTURE)

			   THE ECLIPTIC

Imagine that the Earth has an enormous ring or band wrapped around it - but
very far away from it. This rings is the ecliptic, and it will usually look
like a curved strip across the sky.

				30

			     (PICTURE)

 		   THE ECLIPTIC: ANOTHER VIEW

With some practice and a few helpful hints, you can locate in the sky some
of the stars and constellations from The Halley Project. To find stars in
the night sky, it is best to start with some familiar reference points.
Earth's moon, for example, can be used to pinpoint the ecliptic which, when
you are familiar with the program, will contain many recognizable star
patterns.

To get an idea of where the ecliptic is located at a given time, pick a
two-week period starting one week before a full moon. The weather columns
in newspapers usually contain a chart telling you when the moon's phases
occur. For each evening of that period, go outside at the same time and
look at the moon's location. You might want to keep a sketch showing your
view of the sky and draw the moon's position on it. After two weeks, you
will see the moon's positions form a curved band through the sky. That band
shows the location of the ecliptic for your location and time of year.
During the course of the year, the ecliptic moves up and down in the sky;
in the summer it is higher, and in winter it is down lower, near the
horizon.

Next, look for a simple but familiar pattern in the stars of the ecliptic.
The tight cluster of stars in Taurus (called the Pleiades), the twin stars
of Gemini, or the three bright stars of Scorpio, for example, are fairly
distinctive combination of stars. Once you find one constellation, you can
follow the ecliptic to pinpoint others.

Once you become familiar with some constellations and get your bearings in
the night sky, you can become a real stargazer. A variety of "star finder"
devices and simple telescopes are available to aid your stargazing.

				31

		INTELLIGENCE-GATHERING RESOURCES

There are many books about the different fields of astronomy and space
exploration. Below are just a few suggestions, both non-fiction and
fiction, for the beginning astronomer. To solve some of the clues in the
program, you may also want to consult an encyclopedia.

ASTRONOMY BOOKS

Allen, Joseph and Martin, Russell, Entering Space: An Astronomer's Odyssey.

Stewart, Tabouri & Chang, dist. by Workman, 1982. A realistic personal
report of an astronaut telling what space flight is really like.

Chapman, Robert and Brandt, John, The Comet Book: A Guide for the Return of
Halley's Comet. Jones and Bartlett, 1984. Basic introduction to comets,
featuring Halley's Comet.

Henbest, Nigel and Couper, Heather, The Restless Universe. London: George
Phillip, 1982. Interesting account of research and speculations about the
universe and its parts.

Moche, Dinah L., Astronomy - A Self Teaching Guide. New York: John Wiley &
Sons, Inc., 1981. An understandable presentation of the basics.

Rey, H. A., The Stars. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1980. An excellent
beginner's guide to the constellations.

Schaaf, Fred, Wonders of the Sky. New York: Dover Publications, Inc., 1983.
All about naked-eye viewing of comets, eclipses, rainbows, and other
phenomena.

Sidgwick, J. B., Observational Astronomy for Amateurs. Hillside, N.J.:
Enslow Publishing, Inc., 1982. Techniques for advanced amateurs.

Whipple, Fred L., Orbiting the Sun. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University
Press,  1981. In-depth information about the Solar System from a prominent
astronomer.

ASTRONOMY PUBLICATIONS

Astronomy. 625 East St. Paul Avenue, P.O. Box 92788, Milwaukee, WI 53202. A
magazine particularly suited to the amateur.

Sky and Telescope. Sky Publications, 49 Bay State Road, Cambridge, MA
02238. Excellent range of articles and information for beginners and more
advanced astronomers.

				32

SPACE TRAVEL

Michener, James, Space. New York: Fawcett, 1983. A fictionalized account of
the development of America's space program.

Wolfe, Tom, The Right Stuff. New York: Bantam, 1984. Popular tale of
America's early astronauts.

SCIENCE FICTION

Much popular science fiction involves visions of people in space, and there
are many excellent books. Below are two authors who have excelled at
combining science fiction with science fact.

Isaac Asimov is a prolific author of both fiction and non-fiction. He is
well-known for both. Among his most most popular science fiction works is
the Foundation series.

Arthur C. Clarke is also admired for the scientific background he brings to
his writing. Clarke is probably best known for authoring 2001: A Space
Odyssey.

Other popular science fiction authors include Ursula LeGuin, Frank Herbert,
and Ray Bradbury.

============================================================================
  DOCS PROVIDED BY RAP AND -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================