                             Medway Boys & Ikari

                                 - Present -

                                 HARD DRIVIN'     

                       87 Lines (3045 Bytes Decrunched)

                    Docs by **  P H A N T O M   L O R D **


                                  THE GAME
				  --------

It's MEAN. It's HARD. It's HERE! HARD DRIVIN', the ultimate driving
simulator, races on to your home computer from its runaway success in the
arcades. Now you can get behind the wheel of the world's top sports car on
a stunt course. Jump bridges, drive the speed track or even get dizzy on
the vertical loop - all in super realistic solid 3D. top drivers can
challenge the Phantom Photon in a head-to-head challenge, no holds barred
contest to find the top Hard Driver!

                               GETTING STARTED
			       ---------------

Hard Drivin' consists of two tracks - The Stunt Track and The Speed Track
each testing a different aspect of your driving skills. The Stunt Track
features three main stunts - the Bridge Jump, the Loop-the-Loop and the
Bank. Pay particular attention to the speed signs and your own velocity.
Driving at more than 60 miles per hour over the bridge will launch you into
the air to crash on landing, and under 60 mph means you won't jump far
enough. the 60 Minimum sign on the Vertical Loop means you will have to
drive at 60 mph or more just to stay on the loop as you spin through it! As
you practise you should be able to take the Bridge, Bank and Loop at more
than the recommended speeds. Make it to the checkpoints on the course and
you will recieve a time bonus. If you do a fast enough lap you can race the
Phantom Photon (the computer's car) in a race around the Stunt Track. The
Phantom drives a mean race and crashing means instant disqualification.

                                  GAME TIPS
				  ---------

Practise skid control - this can save valuable seconds, as can good road
position on the bends. Advanced drivers can usually take the bank at 110
miles per hour by going in on the right and steering heavily to the left on
exit - but watch that you don't go over the edge!

                                  CONTROLS
				  --------

Amiga, Atari ST, IBM PC : Use Joystick or Mouse for Steering : Joystick or
Keyboard for Gearchange.

STEERING:

The Panel has a small indicator in the centre to show steering position.

Mouse:		Steer Left/Right
		Left Fire Button - Accelerate
		Right Fire Button - Decelerate
		Both Buttons - Brake

Joystick:	Push Left/Right to steer
		Forward - Accelerate
		Back - Decelerate
		Fire - Brake

GEARS:

The panel has a current gear indicator on the far right. You can also
select automatic transmission.

Joystick:	Diagonal Up + Left - 1st gear
		Diagonal Up + Right - 2nd gear
		Diagonal Back + Left - 3rd gear
		Diagonal Back + Right - 4th gear
		Fire - Clutch

Keyboard:	Key 1 - 1st gear
		Key 2 - 2nd gear
		Key 3 - 3rd gear
		Key 4 - 4th gear
		Space - Clutch (Hold Down)

                               T H E   E N D .