                     Full Documentation To Harry`s Balloons

    GAMEPLAY

    It`s fast..., It`s Tricky..., a race against time  and  a  challenging
    prospect  for  any  games  player.  Its  a  game that demands all your
    attention and skill. You take control of Harry Hedgehog  through  many
    rounds,  experiencing  many  tasks  full of action and mayhem, forcing
    quick responsive joystick moves in order to keep aloft  the  balloons,
    watching the clock tick by.

    Take off some of the heat by allowing a friend to play alongside, in a
    2 player mode or play with  up  to  6  friends  in  a  Competition  or
    Knockout battle.

    POWER GAUGE - IMPORTANT!!

    Power  is  a  control  aspect  of this game that must be practiced and
    used, by trial and error you  can  finely  adjust  the  distance  each
    balloon  travels  (by choosing the height at which the Balloon reaches
    before descending).

    To select your desired height, hold down your fire  button  and  watch
    the  power  indicator,  it  shows  the  strength  of your power and by
    releasing the fire button it freezes and is now ready for use.

    Note - The strength will reset itself each time you  press  your  fire
    button.

    LOADING - AMIGA 1200

    Switch  on  your  computer and insert the game disk into the drive and
    the program will then automatically load and run.

    COLOUR INDICATOR

    The colour indicator is at the top right of the screen. It tells  you
    what colours you need.

    MAGIC DISKS

    When  standing  inside  a  magic  disk  you will be able to change the
    colour of any balloon you touch.

    COLOUR WORMS

    Bite the colour worm that you need by pulling down on the joystick and
    you will able to change the colour of any balloon you touch.

    BOXES

    To  change  the  colour  of a balloon, let a balloon touch the correct
    coloured box.


    BIG CLEAR BALLOON

    When  you  have  changed all the balloons into their correct colours a
    clear balloon will float down the screen, trap the balloon inside  and
    then bust it to complete the round.

    SCORING

    Scoring comes in the form of coin collection. At the end of each round
    you have the chance to collect as many coins as you  can.  The  faster
    you complete a round the more coins are there for you to collect.

    KEYBOARD CONTROLS
    ESC - MAIN MENU
    P - PAUSE/FIRE BUTTON RESTARTS
    SPACE BAR - MUSIC ON/OFF

    JOYSTICK CONTROLS
    Press fire button to operate the power gauge.
    UP AND LEFT - POKE LEFT
    LEFT - RUN LEFT
    DOWN - BUST BALLOON
    UP AND RIGHT  - POKE RIGHT
    RIGHT - RUN RIGHT

    COLLECTABLES

    clock symbol - resets the clock
    running hedgehog symbol - gives you increased speed
    coin (c) gives you extra points
    face symbol gives you an extra life
    3 balloons symbol - resets all balloons colours back to transparent
    smiley face - RANDOM (GOOD) COLLECTABLE
    weight symbol - reduces power maximum
    balloon - changes all the balloons into their correct colours
    Balloon with circle round it - trap all the balloons into the big
    clear balloon.

    COMPETITION

    UP to 6 players, taking turns, must try and collect the most coins. In
    this  league style competition players have 3 turns to come out top of
    the Rankings.

    KNOCKOUT

    After every player has had a turn, the player with  the  least  points
    will  be eliminated from the competition. The player who survives when
    all others are out will be the winner.

    HINTS AND TIPS

    . If in some situations you find  that  some  of  the  balloons  stcik
    together,  while  standing still let them bounce on your back and they
    will separate.

    . Use your back to bounce a balloon so that you  can  plan  your  next
    move.

    .  You`ll have more success if you use your power throughout the game,
    for accurate control over the balloons height, as the lower  they  go,
    the faster they come down, and vice a versa.

    .  Be  aware  of the danger that Balloons floating down cause, as they
    can put you in two minds over which balloon to get first.

    . If your unfamiliar to this game, keep your power at the maximum,  it
    slows  down  your  progress, but gives you more time to keep aloft the
    balloons.

    . Sometimes its better to remember colours that you don`t need.

    PICK-A-ROUND

    This option gives you the chance to play one of your favorite  rounds,
    offers  you a taste of tasks ahead or allows you to practice any round
    you desire.

    Note - After the round has been completed/failed you are  returned  to
    the option screen.

    CREDITS
    Programming by Nick Goring.
    Art & Design by Matt Fisher
    Music by Nick Goring and Matt Fisher.

    COPYRIGHT

    Harry`s balloons program code, music, graphic representation  and  art
    work  are  the  copyright of Collide Design and may not be reproduced,
    stored, hired or  broadcasted  in any  form  whatsoever  without  the
    written   permission  of  Collide  Design.  All  rights  are  reserved
    worldwide.


    TYPED BY iGGY/HF 6/4/96