                              --- Hawkeye ---


      Xamox, a planet on the edge of the Wiky Way, is home to an almost
      perfect civilisation.But a race of Nomads concerned with Galactic
      pirate security -the Skryksis- found the Xamoxians too perfect.

      In the time of Noran, the Skryksis forces invaded Xamox,viciously
      massacring it's perfect race and making a base on Xamox,construc-
      ting radiation plants.

      A few Xamoxians survived the massacre and went into hiding in un-
      derground chambers,vowing to seek revenge against the Skryksis.

      Working for generations, the survivors developed a synthetic life
      form (SLF) , half robot ,half human - specially designed to break
      through the heavily guarded sectors leading to radiation plants.

      Now the SLF is completed , but the controlling processors are not
      considered fast enough to let it enter into combat with the enemy
      environment on it's own. However ,it's mind is in synchronisation
      with the movements of the -Xamoxian battling droid- which remote-
      controls the SLF.

      The SLF is Hawkeye -and now is the testing time as Hawkeye is re-
      leased into the savage wilderness of New Xamox.

           THE POWER IS THERE .......


 Controls :

      from the title screen you can toggle :

      F1 -- In game music on/off
      F2 -- In game sound on/off

      HAWKEYE 's directional movement is controlled via the joystick in
      Port 2.

      To jump,move the joystick up and HAWKEYE moves diagonally up left
      or right as long as the joystick is pushed in the appropirate di-
      rction. Jumps of different lengths are possible.


 Instruction :

      The aim is to collect all the  puzzle pieces scattered about each
      of the 12 levels.The eye of either hawk head-on the left or right
      of the screen-winks in the direction of the next piece to be col-
      lect a jingle sounds and HAWKEYE should be manoeuvred to the  far
      right of the level to complete it.

      There are four deadly weapons to choose from,all displayed in the
      window to the left of the display planel.

 Loading Instructions :

      F1 - Pistol        F2 - Machine Gun

      F3 - Laser         F4 - Rocket launcher

      The pistol is the first weapon option  and has unlimed ammunition
      but inflicts little damage on the larger monsters .All other wea-
      pons are  increasingly more powerful  but have limited ammunition
      (the level of ammo is displayed as a bar underneath the selected-
      weapon item).

      Diagonally ammuntion  is collected during the game and fully res-
      tored at the beginning if each level.

      to pause : SPACE

      To quit and restart : ESC

               ok that's all !
                                          signed : Shut Berlin