Hellbent
Typed by Belgarath


Game Load Instructions

Atari ST    Connect joystick through Port 1.
            Switch on monitor (and disk drive if external).
            Place game disk in Drive A.
            Switch on computer and HELLBENT will autoload.

Amiga       Connect joystick through Port 2.
            Switch on monitor. Place game disk in drive 0.
            Switch on computer and HELLBENT will autoload
            (or following Kickstart call, insert game disk at 'Workbench').

Press the joystick fire button or any key to start game.


Controls

Fire Shots  -Press joystick fire button.
Movement    -Change travel by the joystick, as shown.

Up     Accelerate Upwards
Down   Accelerate Downwards
Left   Move Left
Right  Move Right

Joystick movement up/down, moved in the direction opposite to that being travelled, will first
decelerate travel, and with continuing pressure will turn ship to change direction.

Pause Game   -Press <SPACE BAR>. Fire or any key to re-start.
Quit Game    -Press <ESC>

Highscore Entry is by the keyboard. Fire button to over-ride.


Gameplay

Collision with obstacles and forbidden areas will cost you a life. Destroy Ground Targets and
Enemies by shooting. Collision with enemies will deplete your Shield Energy. To replenish
Shield Energy and Fuel, collect supplies by passing over 'S' and 'F' silos.

The panel shows at 'GT' a red portion indicating the number of ground targets that you must
destroy before you can leave to the next level through the top gate. Destroying targets in
excess of this requirement, will diminish the green bar and will build you a Bonus Score
Award. 'F' on the Panel shows the number of fuel units you must collect to achieve a Bonus
Multiplyer. 'S' shows the number of Shield Units you must collect to be awarded an Extra Life.
When achieved, ** is shown. Blanks at 'F' or 'S' show that you have destroyed fuel or shield
units to the extent that an award is no longer possible.

Ship Icons at the bottom of the panel show the number of lives remaining in excess of the
current life.


Typed by Belgarath