                   H E R O   Q U E S T   E X P A N S I O N

             R E T U R N   O F   T H E   W I T C H   L O R D


Typed by PARASITE of LSD.
Original supplied by MFD/SEPULTURA (Thanx dude, keep 'em coming!)


INTRODUCTION
The adventures are played in the same ways as in hero quest, there is a
differance however, these quests are much more difficult.  It is
recommended they are played with a character created and built up over
the first quests.

RETURN OF THE WITCH LORD
Mentors head hung low as he entered the room. There was a sadness in his
voice when he spoke.

Worthy companions, the Witch lord is not dead.  We must act as fast, for
his power grows with the passing of each day.  It will not be long before
he has recovered from his imprisonment.  Once his power has fully awoken
he will raise again the legions of the dead.  These warriors are a
fearsome foe.  Only men of great courage, or those with powerful magic
can stand against them.  They know no fear and will fight relentlessly
until they are destroyed.

Loretome has shown me that the Witch Lord has moved from Barak Tor to the
fallen city of Kalos.  Long ago the city was destroyed by Morcar and
given to the Witch Lord to rule.  Beneath the ruins the Witch Lord built
for himself a great stronghold, for the light of day was too pure for his
foul creatures to endure.  When he was defeated, the stronghold's gates
were shut and no-one ventured in or out.  Now he has returned.

As he sits upon the high throne of Kalos, the Witch Lord may look upon
the planes of death and see any who approach.  None can escape his gaze.
The high throne is one of three thrones that wait for those that would
also preside over the court of the dead.  if the Witch Lord is not
stopped soon, the other thrones will be taken: one by Skulmar the Captain
of the dead host: the other by Kessandria the Witch Queen.  When these
two sit along side the Witch lord, it is said that the bones of all the
fallen warriors will be summoned together under the black banner.

Many days of travel have bought you across the plains of death, the
journey has been hard, for the land is barren, scorched by the relentless
sun.  Throughout your journey you have felt an uneasy presence.  Ever
since you entered the plains, the Witch lord has watched your progress,
awaiting your arrival.  Finally, you have reached the great ruins.  The
skeletal remains of a once resplendent city that rose from rich and
fertile land now lies parched and dust clogged.


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
1) Load Hero Quest as instructed
2) Insert the expansion disk and click on "load other"
3) Follow the on-screen loading instructions

OR
1) Boot the LSD one disk version done by SHAGRATT of LSD.
2) Play game.

End.
