                               __                       
        _____  _______  __    /  \ _____  ______/\ _______    
       / ___ \/    __ \/  \  / /\// ___ \/ __  __//    __ \   /\
       \ \  \/\// /_/ /\/\ \/ /  / /__ \/\/ / /   \// /_/ /  / / 
        \ \     \  __/    \  /   \___ \    / /     / __  /  / /   
         \ \     \ \      / /       / /   / /     / / / /  / /         
          \ \___/\\ \/\  / //\/\___/ /   / //\ /\/ / / //\/ /___/\  
           \_____/ \__/  \___/\_____/    \___/ \__/  \___/\______/
                                                             -Andy-
                           --*-- PRESENTS --*--
                --*-- HEROQUEST FROM GREMLIN GRAPHICS --*--

                         Typed by FLUX of CRYSTAL.

    CRYSTAL were FIRST to release this game and FIRST to release the docs.
                 ^^^^^                          ^^^^^

                          CHRONICLES OF LORETOME 
                          ----------------------

 Heed well the words of Mentor, Guardian of Loretome, and I will tell you of
times past, of darker days when the empire was saved against all hope. For I
fear the darkness is about to return.

 The fell legions of Morcar, Lord of Chaos, had swept all before them. At the
sight of the Black Banner and the massed hordes of Chaos, even the bravest
warriors of the Emperor had turned tail and fled, the land was laid waste 
and all men despaired.

 But then there came a mighty warrior Prince from the Borderlands named 
Rodgar the Barbarian. He bore a glittering diamond in his brow, the Star of
the West, as worn by the ancient kings of legend. Hope returned and men 
flocked to his standard, leaving thier hiding places in the hills and 
forests. Other great heroes joined him. Durgin the fearless Dwarven warrior
from the Worlds Edge Mountains. Ladril the Elven fighter mage from distant
Athelorn and Telor the Wizard whose sorcery was to save Rodgar on many
occasions.

 For many years Rodgar trained his army, being careful to avoid open battle
with Morcar's General until all was ready, but ever harrying thier supply 
lines, wiping out many orcs and goblins.

 Then came the day for which Rodgar had waited. His army had grown strong and
was well practised. Camping on the high passes, Ladril saw the Black hosts 
from afar and bade Durgin blow the call to arms on his mighty horn. The 
armies of Rodgar poured down upon the enemy from two sides, and battle was
joined. Many foul creatures and good men perished that day. Yet, as the light
of day faded it was Darkness that fled the field. But the victory was not 
absolute. Morcar and his general escaped beyond the sea of Claws, and even 
now they plot thier revenge.

 Soon thier plots wil be ready and the Empire will have need of a new Rodgar.
But where are the heroes to equal him? You have much to learn if you are to
become as great as Rodgar and his companions. I will help all I can. This 
book I carry, Loretome, was written when time began. All that ever was and 
all that ever will be is recoeded in its countless pages. Through Loretome I
may guide you, but I may not intervene, least a greater evil befall the 
World, and Chaos triumphs forever.


                             PLAYING HEROQUEST
                             -----------------


BRIEFLY
-------

 Hero Quest is a fantasy role playing game, in which you can represent either
a Wizard, an Elf, a Barbarian or a Dwarf. Each has their own charrcteristics,
thier strengths and weaknesses. The Barbarian and Dwarf, for example, can't
cast spells, and the Magician can't utilise certain weapons. The board game
can be played by up to five players, with one having to play the part of the
Evil Wizard Morcar. In this version, however, the Evil Wizard is 'played' by
the computer. The computer controls all the movements and actions of the Evil
Wizard, and thus saves you the trouble.

THE DICE
--------

 Throughout the game instructions, 'rolling the dice' is referred to. On the
screen, the dice is represented by a spinning coin. The coin is automaticaly
'moderated'. So when you have bought a piece of equipment that will increase
the number of dice that you roll, the computer will automatically incorparate
this into the dice. How to 'roll the dice' will be indicated later.

ON LOADING
----------

 Following the loading sequence of Hero Quest you will be presented with an
icons menu which will offer you the following choices, the icons are, from 
left to right: Enter the Quest, Buy Equipment, Create a Character, and Load
Other. For the moment concentrate on the 'Create a Character' option. When
you are to play a new game of Hero Quest it's important that you go to this
menu first. to choose any particular option, move the mouse pointer over the
option illustrated, and then click on the mouse button.


                              CREATE A CHARACTER
                              ------------------

 Having chosen this menu, a new menu will present itself, allowing you to
tailor your game. Each of four characters you can play are represented, and 
for each one a number of actions can be carried out from this menu. Each 
action is carried out by moving the mouse pointer over the particular option
and then  clicking the left mouse button. The options availible are, from 
left to right.

ACTIVE/INACTIVE (above character illustration)
---------------

 Clicking on this option will toggle between the two choices, and will decide
whether that particular character will take part in the next quest. 
Obviously, if four players are taking part, then all four characters will be
active. If there are only two players, then they could either choose one
character each, or may choose to represent two each. If there is only one
player, then that player can choose whether to go it alone as one character,
or to involve up to four characters in the quest.

RENAME
------

 This will obviously allow you to rename your character. So, if you feel that
the name allocated to your character isn't quite right, choose this option. 
You will  then be presented with an alphabet. As you move the pointer over
each letter, each will become highlighted in turn. Clicking the left mouse
button the pointer will add that letter to your name. Click on 'END' once you
are happy with the new name you have given your character.

FRESH
-----

 This will restore any body and mind points lost during a quest.

LOAD/SAVE
---------

 LOAD - This option will load a character previously saved to a disk. If you
choose this option, the previously saved characters will be presented on the
screen. Highlighting one and clicking the left mouse button will load that
character.

 SAVE - Obviously, this will save a character as he or she currently is, and
will allow that character to be recalled later for further quests. When you
choose this option, you will be presented with a menu which will allow you to
save the character at eight points on the disk. The eight points will be 
shown, and clicking on any of them will save your character to that point. 
All four characters can be saved onto one data disk up to eight times each.

FORMAT DATA DISK
----------------

 This will allow you to create a data disk onto which you can save your
characters. If you choose this option, simply follow the on-screen 
instructions, taking care not to format your game disk.

EXIT
----

 This will take you back to the main menu.


                               ENTER THE QUEST
                               ---------------

 This option will allow you to begin the new quest, and should therefore be
the last option that you choose. If you choose this option, you will be
presented with a list of the quests, which are best played in order. Clicking
on any of them will present the scenario on-screen. Underneath is a pannel
reading 'I understand Mentor'. Click on this once you have read the scenerio
and feel ready to begin your quest.

 
                                BUY EQUIPMENT
                                -------------

 As you play the game, you will find gold and jewels which will increase your
wealth. This can be spent on better armour or new weapons that will affect 
what you can achieve in the game. This option will take you to the 'shop',
where the new equipment can be bought. Once you are in the shop, buying
anything is pretty straightforward.

 Each of the four player characters is illustrated at the top. Clicking the
mouse pointer on any of them will make that character the current 'shopper'.
The name will appear to the left on the screen, whilst their current money
ststus will be shown on the right. Underneath is a list of all the weapons 
and armour, along with thier price which is shown to the right. To buy any
particular item just click on it. Providing you have enough money, that item
and the benefits it carries, will now be yours. Descriptions of all the items
available, and their effect upon the attributes of your character are 
included in the spell book at the end of the instructions. Once you have
finished buying your equipment, the next player clicks on his character, buys
what he wishes, and so on. Once all players have finished, clicking on 'Exit'
will take you back to the main menu.


                                 LOAD OTHER
                                 ----------

 This menu will be used to load the Scenario and Data Disks which Gremlin 
will be issuing over the next few months. When you choose this option, make
sure you have inserted the expansion disk first, and then just follow the on
screen instructions.


                        HEROQUEST - THE RULES OF PLAY
                        -----------------------------

 The following rules are primarily the rules of the board game. Veterans of
the board game should read this section, however, as some of the rules have
been slightly altered to enhance gameplay in the computer version.

PLAYING HERO QUEST
------------------

 To play the first quest, choose 'The Trial' from the Quest Menu. The 
scenario will be presented on the screen. The scenarios are also recorded at
the end of this manual should you need to refer to them whilst you are 
playing (are they bollocks i've done enough typing for one day). Before you
start to play, read through the following rules.

ORDER OF PLAY
-------------

 In each game, the Evil Wizard is represented by the computer. Each player
moves in turn, starting with the player nominated by the Evil Wizard. The
character nominated will be shown in the top left hand corner of the screen.
Each character begins the game in a square next to the stairway, which is 
also the exit at the end of any game.

 When it is your turn, you are allowed to carry out two actions. You are
allowed to move, and either fight, search or cast a spell. You may move 
first, then carry out the other action, or act first and then move. You may
not move, then carry out an action, then continue to move. You aren't obliged
to carry out any action on your turn, and you may choose to just move.

 When it is the Evil Wizards turn to play, which will happen after every 
player has taken his turn, the Wizard may move some or all of his characters.
He moves each monster in turn. The movements and actions of the Evil Wizard
will be displayed on screen.

MOVEMENT
--------

 The squares in the playing area are divided into two types: rooms and 
passages. Which is which is pretty self evident. Each character will use the
mouse, as instructed later, to determine the number of squares they may move
on their turn. A player does not have to move the full distance indicated by
the dice total, and may move any number of squares not exceeding the dice 
total.

 Monsters have a predetermined maximum number of squares without needing to
roll the dice, and again the Evil Wizard can move them any number within the
maximum.

 When moving characters and monsters may not:
               1. Move diagonally
               2. Move onto an occupied square.
 
 Character players and monsters may, however, pass through an occupied 
square, provided that the player controlling the obstructing character allows
you to pass. Otherwise your move must take another route or stop. Once a 
player has completed their move, it will move onto the next player. How to
effect movement on the computer is instructed later.

OPENING DOORS
-------------

 Character players and monsters can only enter and leave rooms through open
doors. Monsters cannot open doors. Character players may open doors by moving
onto the square in front of it, and clicking on the 'Keys' icon, as indicated
later. Character players do not have to open a door if they do not wish to.
Opening a door does not count as a move.

 Having opened a door, a character player may keep moving if he has any
movement left on his turn. Once opened, a door remains open for the remainder
of the game. Door opening can be done manually, by using the 'Keys' option,
or automatically: If you use the pointer to indicate that you wish to reach a
square beyond a doorway, then the computer will automatically 'open' the door
for you.

COMBAT
------

 Combat is split into two stages: attack and defence, but both are moderated 
by the computer. The attacker rolls his dice once to score as many skulls as 
he can. The defender then rolls his dice once to cancel the skulls out by
rolling shields.

ATTACKING
---------

 To attack a monster or a character player, you must be either in front of,
behind or directly to the side of that monster or character player. You 
cannot attack diagonally, except in special instances indicated in the Spell
Book at the end of the instructions. Once you are in position to attack 
another character, click on the combat icon, and the screen will now flip to
the map screen. You must indicate the character that you wish to engage in
combat by clicking the pointer over the representation of that character. 
Once this is done, the screen will flip to the combat screen.

 Although from this point on the battle is moderated by the computer, what
will happen is this: You will roll a number of special combat dice (with
shields and skulls). The number of dice you roll is dependant upon which
character you are representing, and are as follows:
                      Wizard       1
                      Dwarf        2
                      Barbarian    3
                      Elf          2
 For each skull you roll your opponant will lose one body point, unless he
can successfully defend himself. If you fail to roll any skulls, the attack
is wasted and your opponent need not defend. The number of attack skulls
rolled are indicated in the bottom left hand corner of the combat screen, and
the number of defence shields rolled by the other character are shown in the
top right hand corner of the combat screen.

DEFENDING
---------

 To defend, a player rolls the number of special combat dice allowed for his
character in the defend category. The character players and the monsters must
try to roll shields to defend. Each shield rolled cancels one skull rolled by
the attacker.

 Once the result of the defence has been determined, the computer will update
the various scores for the player and the monster he was fighting. When a
characters body points reaches zero, the character is eliminated by any roll 
of a skull for which they fail to roll a shield.

 Eliminated characters and monsters are immediately removed from play. When a
player is eliminated, all the gold and weaponary that the eliminated 
character was carrying will be returned to the place of origin. In the 
instance of some special weaponary, this will mean that the players left 
alive may have to retrace thier steps to an earlier quest and capture that
weapon again. If an attacker has successfully defeated the combatant at the
start of his turn, he can now continue to move.

MAGIC
-----

 There are two characters in the game who may use magic, the Elf and the
Wizard. No other character can use magic. There are four sets of spells, each
consisting of three different types. The sets are Earth Magic, Water Magic,
Air Magic, and Fire Magic.

 At the start of each game the Wizard will choose three sets of spells, and
the Elf one. The Wizard chooses on set, then the Elf chooses his set, and the
Wizard gets the two remaining sets. If either the Elf or Wizard is not 
playing, then the other character able to use magic will be able to choose
which of the spells he wants to use. Again, the Elf is limited to one set of
spells, and the Wizard to three.

CASTING A SPELL
---------------

 When it is their turn, the Wizard and the Elf characters will have the 
option of casting a spell instead of attacking. A spell may be cast either
before or after moving. You cannot use part of your move, cast a spell and 
then move again.

 Spells can be cast at monsters or characters players providing they are
visible to the spell caster, unless the spell indicates otherwise. Characters
in the same room are always visible, whilst figures in passages or in
different rooms are only visible if an unobstructed straight line can be 
traced between the caster and his target. If the line passes through a closed
door, wall or another character, then the line is obstructed and the spell
cannot be cast.

 The spell caster can always cast a spell on himself. Each spell may be cast
just once during the course of each quest. Once cast, the spell card is
discarded

 By now, you will be familiar with enough rules to be able to take part in 
the first quest. Once you are in the quest, all of the players that are
taking part in the game will seen in a room on the screen, on a playing area
surrounded by a number of icons, each of which has a particular function, 
their functions are as follows: (starting at the top, and working 
anticlockwise around the playing area).
                        1. Current Character Attributes
                        2. Current Character
                        3. Next Character
                        4. Combat
                        5. Unlock
                        6. Search for Traps or Hidden Doors
                        7. Search for Treasure
                        8. Inventory
                        9. Map
                       10. Move
                       11. Spinning Coin

CURRENT CHARACTER
-----------------

 The current character. To his right the four numbers indicate, from top to
bottom, Cash, Body points, Movement allowed this turn and Mind points.

NEXT CHARACTER
--------------

 This will end the turn of the current character, and move onto the next
character.

SEARCH FOR TRAPS/HIDDEN DOORS
-----------------------------

 This will search the location of the current character for any traps or 
hidden doors.

COMBAT
------

 This will allow you to fight another character.

UNLOCK
------

 This will unlock a door provided the current player is in the square 
directly in front of it.

SEARCH FOR TREASURE
-------------------

 This will search the current player location for any treasure. The result of
the search will be presented on the screen.

INVENTORY
---------

 Will provide an inventory of everything the current player has, or is 
carrying. You can carry out certain actions from the inventory. To the right
on the inventory screen are four icons, representing from top to bottom:
Potions carrried, Weapons carried, Armour carried, Tool Kit, and underneath
these four the 'EXIT' icon. In order to drink any potion, or use the tool
kit, for example, click the pointer onto the icon, and follow the on-screen
information prompts.

MAP
---

 A map will be shown indicating the current location of all players, and all
areas of the map that have been explored.

MOVE
----
 
 The four direction keys indicate the four directions that the player can 
move in. Each direction that the current player can move is highlighted. An 
alternative way of moving is, once you know how many squares you can move,
click on the square you wish to reach, and provided that you have enough
movement points, your player will automatically move to that square.

SPINNING COIN
-------------

 At the start of each turn, the dice, represented by the spinning coin will
be seen at the bottom of the screen. Clicking on the left mouse button will
freeze the coin, indicating the number of squares you will be allowed to move
this turn.

SEARCHING
---------

 Characters may also search instead of making an attack or casting a spell. 
The search can be made either before or after moving. Characters may not 
search if they are adjacent to a monster or if there is a monster in the 
same room or passage. Monsters never search.
 
 When a player searches he searches the whole room or passage in which he is
standing. Players must identify what they are searching for, and will be
prompted by the Evil Wizard to identify it on the screen. They may search for
either secret doors and traps, or treasure.

SECRET DOORS AND TRAPS
----------------------

 Secret door tiles are only shown in the dungeon if a character player finds
them by searching. Trap tiles are only placed if found by a search or if
triggered by a character moving onto the trapped square.

 Pit traps and falling block traps are shown when found. Spear traps are
rendered harmless when found, so they are not represented graphically, but a
message will tell you when one is triggered. Trap tiles may be removed from
the board if any character who has the tool kit equipment is adjacent to the
trap. The Dwarf may automatically remove any trap tile he is adjacent to. He
may only remove one trap per turn. Secret doors may be found by searching on
either side of the wall in which they are placed.

 Once found, secret doors remain visible and open for the rest of the game.

TRAPS
-----

 Traps are not shown in the dungeon until a character player either searches
for traps or moves into a square containing a trap. Once a player has set off
a trap, he can do nothing more until his next turn. Monsters do not set off
traps. They may move freely through squares that contain hidden traps. Once a
trap has been discovered, the monsters must obey the same rules as the 
players.

PITS
----

 Once a pit trap has been triggered, it remains on the board as an obstacle.
Any character who stumbles into a pit trap will automatically lose on body
point. He will then climb out of the pit but his turn will be over.

JUMPING A PIT
-------------

 Characters and monsters may attempt to jump across a pit trap. They must
have enough movement to get across the pit, counting the pit square as one
space. There must be an unoccupied space adjacent to the pit for the 
character to jump onto. In order to attempt a jump, a player simply clicks
on the square beyond the trap as the square he wishes to reach. There is a
chance, however, that in attempting to jump a pit, a player may stumble and
fall. Again, in this instance, the player will lose one body point and his 
turn will be over.

FALLING BLOCK
-------------

 When a character player moves through a square containing a falling block 
trap, a block will fall. It will land into the adjacent square, blocking the
way. Any character or monster in the square into which the block falls must
roll three combat dice. The victim will lose one body point for each skull
rolled.

SPEAR TRAP
----------

 Any player who triggers a spear trap will lose one body point if he rolls a
skull on a combat dice. The spear trap will only effect the first character 
to enter the square. Subsequent characters who move through this square will 
be unaffected, as the trap can only be triggered once.

TREASURE CHEST TRAPS
--------------------

 Some of the treasure chests contain traps. The effects od these traps will 
be displayed on your screen. If a player searches for traps in a room that
contains a treasure chest the trap is found and rendered harmless.

TREASURE
--------

 Some of the Quests provide details about specific treasures which can be 
found by searching. If a character searches for treasure in the appropiate 
room the treasure will be revealed. Monsters may not move treasure chests.
Whenever a character collects some treasure, generally in the form of gold 
or jewels, it's value will be automatically recorded on their inventory.
Some of the treasure is not treasure at all. Instead, it could be a 
ferocious wondering monster. If there is no square adjacent to the character
who found the treasure, the monster will appear on any other square in the 
room or corridor. In this case the monster may not, however, attack other
characters.

 You are now ready to take part in the first quest. You are acquainted with 
all the rules. Keep these rules by you whilst you find your way around the
first quest. Once you have completed one quest, you should be able to find 
your way aroud the game without the rules to hand.

THE QUESTS
----------

 Once you have played through 'The Trial', you are ready to undertake the 
other quests. These should be played in the order they are presented.

COMPLETING A QUEST
------------------

 The character players complete a quest successfully if they achieve the
objectives described in the quest introduction. If they fail to do so, a 
quest may be attempted again. The Wizard always begins each game with a full
complement of monsters. Characters escape the dungeons by stepping onto a
stairway tile, which is also the starting point of every quest except the
first one.

BETWEEN QUESTS
--------------

 If your character survives, you may keep him and use him again in subsequant
quests. In this case, you may keep any Quest treasure you may have found,
and you may spend any treasure recorded on your character inventory to 
purchase better equipment. You may not keep ordinary Treasure cards.

 The character players may restore their characters body and mind points to
their starting value before beginning a new Quest by using the 'Fresh' 
option.

BUYING EQUIPMENT
----------------

 The Book Of Magic indicates the spells, and a description of the equipment
available for purchase, plus some of the unique weapons and equipment you 
might find throughout your quests. Buying equipment is fully explained above,
and once bought, any advantage that the equipment might have is automatically
attributed to the character who bought it. The spear and staff, for example,
allow characters to attack diagonally. A character may not buy equipment if
he does not have enough money to do so, but money can be accumulated and kept
from quest to quest.

MISSILE FIRE
------------

 Some weapons may be thrown, whilst the crossbow may be fired. When firing 
the crossbow or throwing a weapon the procedure for rolling combat dice in an
attack and defence remains the same.
 
 Your opponent must be visible, as with casting a spell. There is no maximum
range for firing the crossbow or throwing a weapon. However, you may not use
the crossbow or throw a weapon if you are adjacent to your opponent.



                           HEROQUEST - BOOK OF MAGIC
                           =========================

                                 AIR SPELLS
                                 ----------
SWIFT WIND
----------

 This spell can be cast on any one player. That player will then have the
equivalent of twice as many dice the next time he throws. The spell is then
disgarded.

TEMPEST
-------

 A small tempest is created which envelops one monster or player of your 
choice. That monster or player will then miss their next turn. The spell is
then disgarded.

                                 FIRE SPELLS
                                 -----------
BALL OF FLAME
-------------

 This spell may be cast at any one monster or player. It will inflict two
points of Body damage. The victim may roll two defence dice, and for each
shield he may reduce the damage by one. The spell is then disgarded.

COURAGE
-------
 
 This spell may be cast on any one player. That player may then throw two 
extra dice each time he attacks, until the spell is broken. The spell is 
broken when there are no more monsters visible to that player. The spell is
then disgarded.

FIRE OF WRATH
-------------

 This spell may be cast on any one player or monster, anywhere on the board. 
It will seek out your enemy and inflict one Body point of damage, unless your
opponent can roll a shield on one combat dice. The spell is then disgarded.

                                 EARTH SPELLS
                                 ------------
HEAL BODY
---------

 This spell may be cast on any one player. It will restore up to four Body
points that have been lost. The spell is then disgarded.

PASS THROUGH ROCK
-----------------

 This spell may be cast on any one player. That player may then move through
walls when he next moves. The player may move through as many walls as his
movement will allow. The spell is then disgarded.

ROCK SKIN
---------

 This spell may be cast on any one player. That player may then roll two 
extra combat dice in defence, until the spell is broken. The spell is broken
when that player is wounded. The spell is then disgarded.

                                 WATER SPELLS
                                 ------------
WATER OF HEALING
----------------

 This spell may be cast on any one player. It will restore up to four Body
points that have been lost. The spell is then disgarded.

SLEEP
-----

 This spell will put one monster or player to sleep. He may try to defend
himself by rolling one dice per Mind point. If he rolls a shield he is
unaffected. Once asleep he may not defend if attacked. He will awake if he
rolls a six at the start of the turn, or if attacked.

VEIL OF MIST
------------

 This spell may be cast on any one player. That player may then move unseen
through spaces that are occupied by other players or monsters the next time
he moves. The spell is then disgarded.

                                 WEAPONS
                                 -------
BROADSWORD
----------

 The Broadsword allows you to roll three combat dice in attack. May not be 
used by the Wizard.

BATTLE AXE
----------

 The Battle Axe allows you to roll four combat dice in attack. You may not 
use a shield when using the Battle Axe. May not be used by the Wizard.

CROSSBOW
--------

 The Crossbow allows you to roll three combat dice in attack. You may not use
the crossbow against an opponent who is adjacent to you. May not be used by
the Wizard.

STAFF
-----

 The Staff allows you to roll two combat dice in attack. The staff may be 
used to attack diagonally.

SHORT SWORD
-----------

 The Short Sword allows you to roll two combat dice in attack. The Short 
Sword may be used to attack diagonally. This weapon may not be used by the
Wizard.

SPEAR
-----

 The Spear allows you to roll two combat dice in attack. The Spear can be 
used to attack diagonally. You may throw the Spear, but if you do so you lose
it. This weapon may not be used by the Wizard.

HAND AXE
--------

 The Hand Axe allows you to roll two combat dice in attack. You may also 
throw the Hand Axe, but if you do so you lose it. The Wizard may not use this
weapon.

                                 ARMOUR
                                 ------
PLATE ARMOUR
------------

 Plate Armour allows you to roll four combat dice in defense, but you may 
only roll one dice for movement whilst wearing the Plate Armour. May not be
used by the Wizard.

CHAIN MAIL
----------

 Chain Mail armour allows you to roll three combat dice in defence. May not 
be used by the Wizard.

CLOAK OF PROTECTION
-------------------

 The Cloak allows you to roll one extra dice in defence. May only be used by
the Wizard.

BRACERS
-------

 The Bracers allow you to roll one extra combat dice in defence. May only be
used by the Wizard.

THE SHIELD
----------

 The Shield gives you one extra combat dice in defence. May not be used by 
the Wizard.

THE HELMET
----------

  The Helmet gives you one extra combat dice in defence. May not be used by 
the Wizard.

TOOL KIT
--------

 The Tool Kit enables you to remove any trap that you find. Roll one combat
dice. On the roll of a skull, the trap goes off and you lose one Body point.
Once you have rolled the dice the trap is removed.

                               SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
                               -----------------
ORCS BANE
---------

 The sword, Orcs Bane, allows you to roll two combat dice in attack. You may
attack twice if you are fighting Orcs.

SPIRIT BLADE
------------

 Spirit Blade allows you to roll three combat dice in attack or four dice in
attack against undead creatures, Skeletons, Zombies and Mummies.

BORIN'S ARMOUR
--------------

 Borin's Armour allows you to roll four combat dice in defence.

WAND OF RECALL
--------------

 The Wand of Recall allows you to cast two spells instead of one during your
turn.

TALISMAN OF LORE
----------------

 The Talisman of Lore allows you to increase your Mind points by two as long 
as you have the Talisman in your possesion.


              Typed by Flux/Crystal     01/05/91