                        H E L L F I R E   P R E S E N T S 

                       Full Documentation To Hillsea Lido!

THE OBJECTIVE

The Seaside Management Simulator.

Your business proposals have been approved by the local authorities and we
hereby wish you every success with your seaside development project.

You have been granted 20 meters of Beach and corresponding Promenade, plus
full ownership of the Pier Theatre.

You will have the opportunity to expand your resort up to a maximum size of
200 meters in the future.

How you choose to manage your resort is entirely your concern, however the
authorities maintain the right to reward or penalise you in areas that
remain under their jurisdiction.

THE ROAD TO SUCCESS

Hillsea Lido is a seaside management simulator. In effect this means you
are given access to all the elements needed to turn an empty stretch of
Beach into a thriving resort. It sounds easy enough but the reality is far
more complicated. You will need to show real flair as an entrepreneur in
order to use the different elements of the game to your advantage.

Calculating decision making is of paramount importance as you will
discover. Every decision you make will have an impact on how many people
visit your Beach, how happy they are and how much money they spend on your
Promenade shops and on your Beach facilities. All the elements you will
need to consider are described in detail on the following pages.

TECHNICAL INITIATIONS

PLAYING FROM FLOPPY

Switch on your computer and your monitor, at the disk prompt insert "disk
one". Please ensure "disk two" is not write protected.

INSTALLING ON HARD DRIVE

Boot your system in the normal manner, insert "disk one" into your floppy
drive. Double click on the disk icon to reveal the contents. Drag the
Hillsea Lido icon and the Vulcan icon into any drawer on your hard drive.
Repeat this procedure with "disk two". Remove all floppy disks and simply
double click on the HILLSEA LIDO icon to play the game.

CONTROL TIPS

Hillsea Lido is a mouse driven game, most of the icons in the game have two
or three functions, for example when increasing the selling price of lets
say the candy floss you can use the left mouse button (LMB) to increase the
total by (1) or the right mouse button (RMB) to add (10) or both mouse
buttons to add (100) also scrolling the action area can be speeded up by
using combinations of both mouse buttons. If in doubt of any controls just
experiment and you will soon find various short cuts that allow you to
control the game the way you want. Almost anything in Hillsea Lido can be
clicked on but you might find it easier to control certain icons by holding
down the LMB until the choice is recognised rather than tapping quickly and
wondering why nothing happened.

THE ACTION AREA

The first thing you see when starting Hillsea Lido is 20 meters of empty
Promenade, behind the Promenade is your Beach, this can be accessed by
clicking the LMB on the Beach icon at the bottom of the screen. These two
areas are known as the Action Areas and are where the results of all your
decisions take place. When your resort eventually expands you will then be
able to scroll left and right along its entirety by using the arrow icons
at the bottom of the screen.

As well as providing valuable information on your achievements, the Action
Areas also a constant source of entertainment as you can sit back and watch
the tourists enjoying themselves in your resort.

THE MAIN ICONS

The Main Icons are situated beneath the Action Area. These allow you to
access the different elements of Hillsea Lido.

From left to right they represent, the SeaDreams Ltd Icon where you can
purchase your shops and Beach facilities, the Stock Happy Ltd Icon where
you can order and consult the price of your stock needed for all your
shops, the Bank Icon which gives you access to your bank statements, the
Theatre Icon which allows you to book your weekly shows, the Casual Labour
Icon which allows you to choose workers at your discretion, the Beach Icon
which changes your view to the Beach and finally the People Icon which
allows you to find out more about the people on your resort.

SEADREAMS LIMITED AND SALESMAN

SeaDreams wares are displayed in a catalogue which is relevant to whether
you are viewing the Beach or the Promenade when you chose this icon. You
can scroll through this catalogue of shops and facilities by clicking on
hte salesman`s hand, or the bottom of the catalogue. Each page shows you a
picture and a description of the shop or facility. If you wish to but one
simply click on the pile of cash and your mouse pointer will be exchanged
for a rectangle to represent the size of the shop or facility. You must
then paste this rectangle on the scaled down representation at the bottom
of the screen. If you change your mind you can click on the RMB to escape
before pasting. To purchase more land simply click on the sand mound and
for more information about SeaDreams Ltd click on their logo.

SHOPS AND FACILITIES

Once built you can click on the Shop or Beach hire facility in the Action
Area with your LMB to access their individual information screens. In here
you can set the price of your stock or your rides by clicking on the arrows
and you can change the commission payed to the employee in the same way. If
he feels like you are paying him enough the yellow bar will climb, the
higher the bar, the more polite he will be to your customers.

The bleach bar is an indication of how clean your shop is, or the spanner,
in the case of your Beach hire facilities indicates how safe they are. You
can clean your shops by clicking on the brush icon and you can fix your
rides by clicking on the spanner icon, these are situated on the right of
the screen. The Demolish Icon speaks for itself.

STOCK HAPPY LIMITED THE WHOLESALER

All the different types of stock you will ever require for your Promenade
Shops are displayed here. By clicking om the icons you can see a more
detailed description of the stock item on the invoice at the bottom of the
screen. The invoice also informs you of the wholesale price.
The arrows above and below the icons allow you to choose the quantity you
wish to order, clicking with the LMB increases or decreases the order by
one, the RMB changes the quantity to the total amount you can fit in your
warehouse. When you are satisfied with your order click on the telephone
and the sales lady will inform you if the stock is available. If it is, the
delivery truck will commence its journey to your warehouse on the bottom
right of the screen. For more information about Stock Happy Ltd click on
the invoice for contract terms and conditions.

THE THEATRE

You can book an act for your Theatre any day of the week in readiness for
SUNDAY SHOW NIGHT. You can scroll through the acts by clicking on the
arrows on the left of the screen, when you have chosen one simply click on
the cash and the act will be booked, the ticket price on the right of the
screen changes depending on which act you choose.
On sunday nigth you will automatically be transported to this screen so you
can see the people piling into your theatre, if you advertised that is (see
"Casual Labour"). The amount of money you are making as people pay the
ticket price is displayed at the top left of the screen. When everyone has
sat down you are transported inside the theatre so you can enjoy the show
too.

CASUAL LABOUR

You can hire various individuals to work on a casual basis. The left hand
side of this information screen applies to the Promenade and the right
applies to the Beach. By clicking on the icons with the LMB you can find
out more information about each character and clicking on hte hire icon
does exactly that. The Refuse Specialist cleans you Beach or Promenade,
this helps keep the tourists happy. The Cash Man walks the entire length of
your beach or Promenade and collects all your money from the shops and
facilities, the money is transferred directly into your bank account.
Wideboy Securities come in very handy in protecting your Cash Man whilst he
is collecting your money. The Advertisers are essential in encouraging
people to go to your theatre which is a vital source of income, and the
Life Guard ensures your Beach is safe for swimmers.

THE TOURISTS

This creen allows you to access information about specific tourists who are
currently walking on your Promenade or Beach. By clicking on an individual
person in the Action Area, their details will appear. Their fussiness
levels, either high, middle or low have an important bearing on how they
respond to different factors like the politeness of your staff, the price
of your goods or the cleanliness of your shops. Their sugar levels, hunger,
thirst and desire for non food items are displayed as bars, the higher the
bar, the more they require an item that corresponds to their needs. The
tourists will also inform you what they would like you to build next on
your Promenade and Beach. This screen also provides you with information
about the amount of tourists that are currently in and have visited your
resort that week.

MONEY COMES AND GOES

Health and Safety at work are very important and to ensure you are behaving
responsibly the Health and Safety Officer will pay a visit to your resort
from time to time. If he finds a shop with a very low hygiene level he will
give you a warning and charge you an extortionate amount of money. You can
never get rid of the warning unless you demolish the premises so don`t get
caught out with the same premises again as the fine increases according to
how many warnings you`ve had in the past. If your health and safety level
is bad you may also be responsible for poisoning or injuring someone. If
this happens you will be fined an even greater amount. On the other hand if
your facilities are really good you can win awards at the end of every week
to top up your bank account.

SAVING AND LOADING

Upon selecting the disk icons at the top of the screen you have the choice
to either (S)ave your current posistion to `Disk two` or (L)oad in a
previously saved position. When you select the (S) icon a row of key
choices appea from F1 to F5, press one of these keys on your keyboard and
your position will be saved. To load in that position select the (L) icon
and press the appropriate key.

To restart Hillsea Lido click on the Vulcan icon at the top right of the
screen with your LMB. To quit the game click on the Vulcan icon with the
RMB.

That basically sums up all the operating techniques involved in HILLSEA
LIDO and the rest is completely up to your personal skills in management,
decision making nad business. We wish you every success and don`t stay up
too late trying to create a masterpiece.

Docs typed up By iGGY/HF on the 30th November at 10.44pm! 
