                                SKID ROW
                                
                                presents

                            Hill Street Blues

                              Introduction

   "Welcome to the Precinct, Capt. Furillo.  I'd better warn you, Hill
Street is a tough neighborhood - the toughest.  There's tension on the
streets and bad types lurking in dark corners, waiting for a chance to
prey on the unsuspecting public, to make a quick buck with an
opportunistic bag-snatch, or worse... much worse.  Not everyone's on
the make - most of the residents in the area are good people, but 
they are easy pickings for someone with little experience and a real
bad attitude.  "The public need protecting - not by vigilantes, or
self-appointed "keepers of the peace" but by the proper authorities -
the men and women trained to do the job - the professionals.  And
you've got a good team of professionals at the Hill Street Precinct,
Captain, they're the best... they need to be."

In the role of Capt. Furillo, you have complete control of all the
forces and resources of the Hill Street Precinct.  The officers,
their vehicles, the full power of the Justice system and, if need
be, the strong arm of the law are all at your disposal.  Use them
wisely and efficiently.  Keeping the streets safe is important,
but people do not want their neighborhood turned into a battle-
ground.  Start a war on the streets and the Mayor gets edgy,
very edgy.  Edgy enough to start looking for a new Captain, maybe?

Loading the Game

Amiga: Insert disk and switch on machine.

Controls

Hill Street Blues is played by using a mouse, which will enable you
to control the mouse pointer.  As a general rule, "clicking" the
left mouse button will activate an icon or active area of the screen,
and "clicking" the right button will exit from current sub-screens.
The universal Cancel icon will exit from alternative modes during
the game.

Introduction Sequence

Hill Street Blues will give you a chance to familiarize yourself
with the various characters invloved in the game during the 
introductory sequence.  Press a key or mouse button to bypass this
section.

Playing the Game

Hill Street is a simulated city with a high level of realism and
complexity.  With careful planning and wise use of the police
resources, you must control its criminal elements.

Crimes will occur and you must act swiftly and efficiently to
deal with them.  Act too slowly, and you will find that the streets
are out of control.  Act too hastily and you will make mistakes.
The people of Hill Street do not take kindly to this - they are not
keen on gun battles and corpses littering their sidewalks.  They 
want a safe and peaceful neighborhood, and will push for a change
in the police captain if your popularity falls too low.

All the inhabitants of the area are unique, having their own
individual appearance and behaving in their own specific ways.
Trains are timetabled, commuters will wait on platforms and
vehicles will obey traffic regulations.  The game has its own
"realtime" - night and day cycles are fully implemented and the
behavior of the Hill Street inhabitants alters in accordance 
with their own daily schedules.  People react to events in the
Precinct in a realistic way - pedestrians finding corpses on
the sidewalk will tend to lose confidence in the police force.
Traffic follows the rules of the road, but congestion and
traffic jams from excessive use of roadblocks will lose the
police force popularity.  Frequent gunbattles on the streets
will also tend to reduce public confidence.

Roll Call

The game will begin with Roll Call and then you will be presented 
with an opportunity to organize the patrols.  The screen will
present a schematic view of the Hill Street Precinct, with the
crime rates displayed in the various patrol areas.  Click on the
officer's name, then the patrol in which you wish to place them.
Crime rates will tend to be reduced just by the presence of an
officer on patrol, but position them wisely so that they can
easily get to one another if any officer should require backup.
This Patrol screen can be accessed at any time by going to the
office - move the cursor pointer to the door and click on the left
mouse button to enter.  Click on the right mouse button to exit.

The Main Game Screen

The top section displays a birds-eye view of the streets and 
blocks of the Precinct.  The game itself is played from this
perspective.  It will display the area around your currently
selected officer, and will scroll to follow his progress.

In the bottom left hand corner is either AJ Hill (the radio
operator), your police belt, or the dashboard of your car, depending 
on your current mode of transport.  AJ will inform you of crimes 
as they occur.  The game time and date are also displayed.
In the bottom right of the screen are the control icons.  From
here you can access all the various options for Hill Street Blues.

These icons are:

 1 - Arrest suspect                          5 - Use radio (in car)
 2 - Enter car                               6 - Use radio (on foot)
 3 - Exit car                                7 - Select officer
 4 - Approach suspect                        8 - Enter office

 9 - Study map                              14 - Save game
10 - Park car                               15 - Load game
11 - Drive to selected destination          16 - Move left
12 - Assume direct vehicle control          17 - Move right
13 - Assume direct officer control          18 - Move up

19 - Move down                              24 - Call out SWAT team
20 - Approach suspect                       25 - Siren mode
21 - Send officer to selected destination   26 - Radio for back-up
22 - Cancel                                 27 - Call out the coroner
23 - Set up roadblocks                      28 - Use firearms

29 - Stop                                   34 - Officer Bates 
30 - Officer Coffey                         35 - Officer Belko
31 - Officer Hill                           36 - Officer Hunter
32 - Officer Washington                     37 - Officer Goldblume
33 - Officer Renko                          38 - Officer Bluntz

39 - Warn suspect                           44 - Savegame4
40 - Load/Save                              45 - Savegame5
41 - Savegame1                              46 - Savegame6
42 - Savegame2                              47 - Radio for paramedics
43 - Savegame3                              48 - Radio description back
                                                 to computer operator

Furillo's Office

Enter your office by clicking on the office icon at any time.  From
here you can access the Computer, the Precinct Map, the Patrols and
the Officer/Game Statistics.

The Police Computer

Use this by clicking anywhere on the desktop computer.
Stored on the computer are details of all unsolved crimes.  From
here you can browse through the case details and select a crime to
investigate.  Use the Previous and Next icons to search through
the records.  Select the magnifying glass icon to accept a crime
for further investigation, then select the officer you wish to
handle the case.  The computer processes the crimes intelligently -
along the base of the screen are displayed other victims of similar
crimes who have given a description which matches the current 
photofit - this should give you help on deciding which cases 
are worth investigating first, since by solving them you are likely
to solve several other unsolved crimes perpetrated by the same person.
Additionally, it is possible to radio back to the computer a
description of a suspect, so that it may be compared with 
photofits already stored.

The Wall Map

This is also accessed from Furillo's offic- click on the wall map.
This displays a miniature layout of the Hill Street Precinct.  The
officers on patrol will be indicated by small highlights.  Click
on the right mouse button to exit.

Officer Statistics 

By clicking on the filing cabinets you can access a display of all
the details of your officers, and an overview of the game as a 
whole.  Click on the portraits of the officers to reveal their
details.  Click on the upper section of the screen to view an
overview of the game - crime rates, your popularity, body - counts
etc.

                          Main Game Control

Officer Selection

Click on the Officer icon, then the portrait you wish to control.
A second portrait will then be displayed to the left.  Officers
who are injured and unavailablee will be deselected.  Be careful
not to select an officer for an investigation who is required for
court duty that day.  You have 9 officers at the precinct.  Their
individual statistics may be examined by use of the filing cabinet
in your office.  Officer Hunter has access to the SWAT team if you
feel that use of this is necessary.  The officers can all be used
simultaneously by sending them individually to different crimes 
(or perhaps the same one).

The Game Map

In addition to the wall-map in the office, there is a game map.  This
is accessed by clicking on the Map icon.  Moving the mouse pointer 
and clicking on a location will reveal its name.  If you have selected
a crime for investigation by an officer, and you are using the
officer currently, then a highlight will show you the scene of the
crime.  Click om a location and then exit (right button) to select it.

Travelling to the Scene of the Crime

Once you have selected a crime to investigate, have chosen your
officer and have found and selected the scene of the crime,
you must send your officer there.  You may send them by car or on
foot.  This will depend on the location - some areas may be 
easier to get to on foot.

Travelling on Foot

Click on the icon with the officer standing in front of a building.
This will send the currently selected officer to the selected
location on foot.  The screen will follow the officer as they make
their way.  You may take direct control over them by clicking on
the Control Officer icon.  You will then have four direction arrows
to move them, plus Stop and Cancel.

Travelling by Car

Click on the Enter Car icon, then the Drive to Destination icon.
The police cars operate in a similar manner to the walking option,
with the exception that they must follow the traffic system.
On the way to the scene of a crime, you have various controls over
the police vehicle.  You may select to switch on sirens (Overtake
icon) in order to arrive more quickly at your destination - other
vehicles will allow you to pass.  Excessive use of sirens may cost
you popularity, though.  You may select the Park icon to stop
before reaching your destination - useful if you see another crime
in progress and wish to stop and deal with it.  If you find a 
suspect in this way, you can radio their description back to
the computer (click on the Radio + Photofit icon).  You can call
for assistance by radio (Radio + Officer icon).

At the Scene of a Crime

If you have driven, then your car will automatically park once the
destination has been reached.  Click on the Exit Car icon to get
on foot.
You must now explore the scene of the crime - click on the Control
Officer icon and then use the arrows to move them.
If someone is lying injured, call the Paramedics to the individual.
If someone has been murdered, call the Coroner.
Explore the area and walk up to bystanders to see if they match
the description you have for the suspect (red arrows will highlight
a recognized individual).  Watch out for anyone behaving suspiciously
- either avoiding you or running away.

If you have a suspect then you can choose to either:

1 Approach and warn them
2 Approach and arrest them
3 Shoot them

If you decide on options 1 or 2 then click on the Approach icon,
then your suspect.  Click on the Ticket icon to warn them.  This
will have the effect of reducing their likelihood of recommitting.
Click on the Handcuffs to arrest them.  You will then automatically
escort them back to the station (either on foot or in the car
depending on which is nearest).
If you have a potentially violent criminal, you may decide to shoot
them or to call back-up, or both.  Click on the Call Back-up icon.
Any officers not currently on a case will attempt to rendezvous
with your vehicle.  
To shoot a suspect, click on the Rifle icon, then take aim and fire.
Be careful not to shoot any bystanders.  If you successfully
wound your suspect, then Approach and Arrest them.  Do not call
Paramedics to them or they may escape.  Be careful - particularly
dangerous criminals may shoot back.  If your officer is wounded,
get another officer to the scene as quickly as possible, and then
get them to radio for the Paramedics (your wounded officer will be
unable to do this for himself).  He will be out of action for a
period as he recuperates.
You can restrict the movement of a suspect by the use of roadblocks -
use the Roadblock icon.  Place the cursor over a road section and
click to place a vehicle block - pedestrians can also be blocked
by clicking on the sidewalks.  Roadblocks are removed by clicking
on them again.  You can have a maximum of 16 roadblocks in place
at any one time.  Be careful though, since they may cause traffic
congestion which may slow down the approach of back-ups, ambulances,
the coroner and demoralize the general public.

Criminal Types

The person who commits a specific type of crime will have other
characteristics associated with them, their aggression levels and
susceptibility to persuasion for example.  Additionally, the more
crimes an individual commits without being caught, the more likely
they are to commit another, and to become more resistant to arrest.
For example, a bag-snatcher who has committed just a single crime
is likely to be easy to arrest with minimum force.  However, a
serial-killer who has committed several successful murders will
be hard to find (they will not be highlighted as no descriptions
will be available since the main witnesses are dead), and may not
be very cooperative when questioned - they may even draw firearms
if approached.  Warning suspects before arresting them may pacify 
them, and the amount of back-up you have is likely to reduce the
likelihood of them resisiting arrest.  Shooting them (to wound
only) should be used as a last resort, and calling out the SWAT 
team should only be used in seige situations.  However, the
successful arrest of a dangerous criminal and their subsequent
conviction is likely to increase your popularity a great deal.

                Criminal types in Hill Street Blues

            Bag-snatchers  ->  Muggers  ->  Pickpockets  
          (least dangerous)   

Drug pedlars  ->  Armed robbers  ->  Random killers  ->  Serial killers
                                                        (most danderous)

SWAT Team

If you have selected Officer Hunter, you may call out the SWAT
team.  These are highly trained marksmen, and are specialists
at dealing with siege situations (bank robberies).  If you select
this icon and are quick enough to catch the crime in progress,
the SWAT team will rendezvous with Hunter's vehicle.  Select the
Shoot icon and the suspect will eventually be brought out (possibly
wounded) for subsequent arrest.

The Courtroom

Crimes are quickly processed at the Hill Street Precinct.  Minor
crimes (below drug peddling) are automatically processed and the
outcome of these cases will be reported to you.
Serious crimes will require a trial, usually on the day of arrest.
The relevant officer will attend the court (unless you are
currently using him for another crime, in which case the accused
will get off since the officer was not able to present evidence).
After the initial court proceedings you will be asked to give
evidence.  You will be required to identify the accused in court -
click on the correct portrait.  Wrong identification will cause
the case to be thrown out.
If you have given reliable evidence, the case will proceed and the
jury will come to a verdict, hopefully convicting your suspect. 
If the accused is found guilty, then all the other crimes they
have committed will be presented and asked to be taken into 
consideration (these will all then be removed from the outstanding
case file).  
If he is found not guilty, then you will be unable to arrest him again
immediately for the same crime.  (this is a constitutional right).
You must hope to catch him again later is he commits another crime
(which is quite likely).

Popularity

Your popularity is judged on your clean-up rate, and the way you
go about getting results.

Your popularity will fall if:

   A  The crime rate rises rapidly
   B  Crimes remain unsolved for too long
   C  Victims of violent crimes are not helped quickly enough
   D  You use firearms excessively
   E  Corpses are left on the street
   F  Traffic congestion clogs the road system
   G  Innocent people are arrested by mistake
   H  Innocent bystanders are injured by gunfire
   I  The guilty are not satisfactorily sentenced in court

If your popularity falls below 20% you will be fired.
Keep your popularity above 90% for an extened period and you will
be rewarded with promotion to Police Chief.  The win or lose outcome
will only take place after approximately 24 hours of game play.

LOAD/SAVE

Click on the Officer icon to access the disk operations.  Click on
the Save icon to save the current game status (DO NOT USE THE MASTER
DISK - have a formatted disk ready, or select the Format icon).
Choose a savegame number for the file.  Loading the same number will
restore your game at a later time.

Dealing with a Crime - Example Case

1   AJ Hill the radio operator will inform you of a crime that has
    just taken place.  You must decide to either ignore it or deal
    with it immediately.

2   If you decide to deal with it, note the scene of the crime.
    Go to the office and use the police computer to get more
    details - a description of the suspect (if available),
    the name of the victim, the type of crime.  Select the
    Investigate icon to accept the case, and choose your officer.
    Exit the computer and then exit the office.

3   Select the relevant officer and examine the Game Map and note
    the location in question (highlighted).  Click on this location
    to select it.

4   Decide how best to send them - by car or on foot.  This will
    depend on the location - some areas (eg, one-way systems) may
    be easier to get to on foot.  Enter the car if you wish
    to travel by this means.

5   Send the officer to the scene of the crime (previously selected
    from the map).

6   Exit the car (if driving).  Ensure that any victims with injuries
    are swiftly taken to hospital.

7   Ensure that any murder victims are dealt with quickly by the
    coroner.

8   Examine the area and approach passers-by.  If you have a 
    description of the suspect, then close inspection will reveal
    if you recognize them (red arrows).  If you do not have a 
    description, then watch out for members of the public who
    are uncooperative or who are behaving suspiciously (eg,
    loitering or walking more quickly than normal).

9   If you have a suspect, then approach and arrest them.

10  Take the suspect back to the station (automatic).

11  They will automatically be charged with the relevant crime.
    Minor crimes will be dealt with automatically, but serious
    crimes will require a full trial.  Keep a note of the details
    of the case for later presentation in court since your officer
    will have to be present as a witness.

12  Attend the court on the day of the trial (automatic).  You
    will be expected to be able to identify the defendant in the
    courtroom.

13  If you have arrested the correct person, and have given 
    satisfactory evidence in court, then the individual will 
    hopefully be found guilty and sentenced.  If found guilty,
    all other crimes that person has committed will be asked to be 
    taken into consideration and will all be transferred from the
    unsolved to the solved crimefile.

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW