                           H O I - Complete Docs


MACHINE REQUIREMENTS

	To play HOI you will need: 512K RAM (minimum), a joystick, keyboard
	and/or mouse.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

	Insert Disk 1 into df0:

	Choose between the video modes (PAL or NTSC) by moving your joystick 
	and pressing the fire button.

	You may elect to view the introduction animation or go directly to the
	game.  Highlight your choice and press the fire button.

	Insert Disk 2 into df0: at the exchange disk screen.  Press the fire
	button at anytime after the credit screen appears to begin the game.
	At the game selection screen position the pointer over the picture in
	the upper left corner and press the fire button.

KEYBOARD COMMANDS

	F1     - Toggles between slow and normal game play*
	F10    - Quit the game
	P      - Pauses the game
	ESC    - Sacrifice 1 life
	RETURN - Enters your name into High Score list

	* Once the slower game has been toggled the player will not be able to
	  enter his/her name into the High Score list.

MOVEMENT

	WALK  - Move the joystick to the right or left
	JUMP  - Move the joystick up, up-right, or up-left
	CLIMB - Move the joystick up or down while standing in front of a
		ladder.

OBJECTS

	In HOI, objects fall into two categories:

	Bonus Point Objects - Which add points to your score

	Extra Life Objects  - Indicated at the right side of the score area.
			      Collect all seven of these objects in a level to
			      earn extra lives and add points to your score.

SWITCHES AND EQUIPMENT

	Switches occur in some levels of HOI and are used to activate equip-
        ment or to open or close barriers.  Switches are activated by standing
	in front of them and pressing the fire button.

	If the effect of the switch happens away from HOI, the scene will 
	center on that area to show the results, and then return to HOI.

	During his journey, HOI will run across different types of equipment
	that will aid him in reaching his goal.  These items are:

	CAMERA PODS - HOI collects this small device by walking over them.
		      When thrown or dropped (by pressing the fire button),
		      the camera will fall and bounce downward revealing
		      portions of the level that are not visible from HOI's
		      current position.

	TIME BOMBS  - To pick the bomb up stand next to it and press the fire
		      button.  The bomb will attach itself to HOI, but don't
		      worry, this is so HOI can carry it to where it is
		      needed.  To set the bomb down press the fire button and
		      move away.  To detonate the bomb, press and hold the
		      fire button.  When you release the fire button the green
		      light on the bomb will turn red and begin flashing.  
		      There's only a few moments before the bomb explodes but
		      there is enough time for HOI to reach safety.

	AIR TANKS   - HOI picks up air tanks the same way he picks up the time
		      bomb.  The air tanks allow HOI to stay underwater longer
		      than by holding his breath.  Additionally, HOI can get a
		      burst of underwater spped by pressing the fire button,
		      but at the cost of this limited air supply.

	ELEVATORS   - As we know them, are useful ways to travel between
	              floors in a tall building.  While most elevators HOI
		      will encounter will behave in anormal manner, others
		      seem to have a mind of their own.

	TELEPORTERS - Allow movement between different sections of the level.
		      To use the pad move HOI on to it.  With some pads you
		      will have to solve a puzzle in order to activate the
		      teleport pad, once you've solved the puzzle the pad 
		      begins to pulsate.

       VIEW SQUARES - The view squares allow HOI to see large portions of
		      the current level.  To activate or deactivate the 
		      square, move HOI into or out of the square.  The trick
		      is determining where these squares are.  Some squares
		      you cannot avoid and others..., well that's for you
		      to discover.

MONSTERS

	All creatures (even friendly looking ones) and some plants are dan-
	gerous to HOI.  Their touch is deadly.  Hoi cannot destroy these
	creatures by jumping on them, so DON'T TRY IT!!!

LIVES

	When the game begins, HOI starts with nine lives.  A life can be lost
	by:

		Touching a dangerous creature or plant
		Falling too far
		Landing on or hitting a spike
		Being hit by a projectile
		Getting caught in a machine
		Running out of air (when underwater)
		Being blown up by a bomb

	If you become stuck one of HOI's lives can be sacrificed, by pressing
	the 'ESC' key, returning HOI to the last regeneration pod crossed.  
	Fortunately, HOI can gain extra lives by:

		Collecting all of the hidden objects in a level for 3 extra 
		lives

		Completing the secret bonus games (see levels 2 and 3).

	When HOI loses a life, he begins his next life at the last regen-
	eration pod he crossed.  Generally, the regeneration pod is a large
	precious stone encased inside a metal frame.  But, they may look like
	a yellow and black striped pad or a portion of a stained glass window.
	The regeneration pods will cause HOI to turn red briefly when he first
	walks across them.  Be sure to step on these as you go by.

	The game is over when all lives are lost. If your score was high
	enough you will be allowed to enter your name in the High Score list.
	Then the level selection screen appears allowing you to begin play in
	any level that you have already played.  For example, if the last game
	was over on the third level you may start the name game in the first,
	second or third level.  Move the pointer with the mouse or joystick
	into the picture of the level you want to start in and press the fire
	button.  There is a cost in lives for this ability as follows:

		Level 1 ----- 9 lives
		Level 2 ----- 7 lives
		Level 3 ----- 5 lives
		Level 4 ----- 3 lives

LEVEL DESCRIPTIONS

	Level 1:

	HOI starts his journey in front of his home, a ginat shoe.  Use
	this level to learn about HOI and his environment, but don't be 
	fooled, even the first level is not very easy.

	Bonus Life Object: Diamonds

	Level 2:

	HOI must pass through a dangerous industrial area filled with deadly
	machines and hostile construction workers.  Timing and the use of 
	switches are essential here.

	Bonus Life Object: Sirens

	Note: The sirens change from gold to silver when you collect them.

	Hidden Bonus Game: Shoot the dynamite and not the balloons for 
			   three minutes to earn an extra life.

	Hint: If you get stuck at the end of this level, remember that there
	      is a fire button on your joystick.	

	Level 3:

	HOI wears a jet pack for extra maneuverability and to rest his tired
	feet.  Plus, he can finally turn the tables on his enemies by firing
	deadly projectiles at them!

	Bonus Life Object: Coins

	Hidden Bonus Game: Zap as many aliens as you can.  You will receive
			   an extra life every 75 points.

	Hint: Fire projectiles in dark places to see what is up ahead.  If
	      you get locked in a puzzle, press the escape key to sacrifice
	      a life and try the puzzle again.

	Level 4:

	This level has several different areas to try your reflexes and test
	your logic.

	Water Areas - When in the water area the air meter is located in the
		      score area where the Bonus Life was located.  When-
		      ever HOI goes underwater, his air meter decreases 
		      steadily.  He turns purple if his air supply get too 
		      low, and then he must get to the surface soon or die!

	Hint: Get the air tanks to help HOI stay underwater longer.  Also
	      there is another way for HOI to get oxygen while underwater.

	Energy Areas - When in these areas the air meter is replaced with an
		       energy meter consisting of three short bars.  Now when
		       HOI dies, he loses an energy bar (instead of a life).
		       HOI doesn't lose a life until all three bars are gone.

	Perambulator: Use the joystick to move the buggy forwards or backwards
		      and press the fire button to make the buggy jump.

	Bonus Games: 

	Giant Clog: Try to catch as many fish as you can.  Avoid catching the 
		    mines, as they will cause you to sink.  Missing a fish
		    will weigh the clog down causing it to sink as well.

	Color Squares: Reconstruct the color patterns to make the connection
		       to reach the next higher region of this level.  Stand
		       on the platform below the squares and press the fire
		       button, you'll be shown a range of colors for a short
		       period of time.  Move HOI to the platforms above the
		       squares and press the fire button to cycle the colors
		       to the proper pattern.  Go back to the platform beneath
		       the squares and press the fire button again.  The 
		       program will verify the pattern and if you've succeeded
		       you'll be presented with another color pattern to 
		       memorize.  Each time you're successful another platform
		       will be added to the right of the screen, when you have
		       built six platforms HOI can climb up and reach the next
		       region.  Or, you can choose to go on and try to remem-
		       ber up to nine colors for an extra life.

	Level 5:

	In the last level HOI makes a mad dash down the last stretch as the 
	level crumbles behind him.  If HOI pauses too long, he'll have 
	nothing left to stand on and will fall to his death.  So move quickly!

end. 
