                             Hole-In-One
                            Miniature Golf


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

1)  When the Insert Workbench prompt appears, put Disk #1 in DF0:
(NOTE: The disk MUST be in DF0:).

OR

2)  Boot Workbench and put Disk #1 in DF0: (NOTE: The disk MUST be in DF0:).
Double-click on the Hole-In-One disk icon to open the disk window, then 
doubole-click on the Hole-In-One program icon to start the program.

DO NOT INSERT DISK #2 AT THIS TIME.

PLEASE NOTE:  If you want to print scores and do not have an Epson compatible
printer, you should start the program from WorkBench and select your printer from
Preferences.

THE COURSE SELECTION SCREEN

After the program boots, you will see the Course Selection screen.  Now you
may insert Disk #2 or an extra course disk in any drive and another course
selection screen will appear.  To select a course, position the mouse over the
course you wish to play and click the left mouse button.

PLEASE NOTE:  Hole-In-One will automatically default to any extra course disk and the course selection screen from that disk will be shown.  If you wish to return from an extra course disk to the original Disk #1, you must first remove the extra course disk.  Then eject Disk #1 and immediately reinsert it.  You will see Disk #1's Course Selection screen.

THE TUTORIAL

Besides the four courses included in your Hole-In-One package, we have provided an instructional Tutorial.  the Tutorial is a simple course designed to familiarize you with the game.  It will explain all the menu options in Hole-In-One and give you a chance to practice.  Please play the Tutorial first (we worked very hard on it).

THE PLAYER SELECTION SCREEN

Once you have selected a course, an introduction screen will appear and you may choose from 1 to 4 players.  To select the number of players, position the mouse over the desired number and click the left mouse button.

THE MENU BAR

Once you have slected a course and number of players, the first hole of the selected course will appear and the game is ready to begin.  Important information appears in the Menu Bar at the top of the screen.  the Menu Bar displays the current hole you are on, the par for each hole (par is the number of shots it should take an average player to make the hole), and the player whose turn it is.  Also watch the Menu Bar for important instructions during game play, such as"Place Ball", which means that you should place your ball upon the starting pad.

GAME MENUS

Hole-In-One Miniature Golf is a multi-tasking program that uses pull down menus and requesters in the normal way.  This manual assumes that you are familiar with the use of pull down menus.  If not, please refer to the manual that came with your computer. We will examine each of the menus and their options.

The Project Menu

The following are options at the Project Menu:

Score - If you select the option SCORE, you will be shown your scoreboard.  At this screen, you may print the scores on your printer.  You may also enter or change the name, Hole-In-One will refer to the players as PLAYER 1, PLAYER 2, etc.
However, if you enter your name(s), the computer will signal each player by name when it is his or her turn.  This is a nice feature when there are several players.  If you have entered your names, the printout will also list each player's real name with their score.  Remember, if you do not have an Epson compatible printer, you must load the game from WorkBench as explained in the Loading Instructions.  This has proven rather important in our interoffice tournaments.  Once you have finished at the Score option, select EXIT SCORES to begin or resume your game.

Replay - Selecting the option Replay will let you see your last shot over again, without affecting the game (just like instant replay at a football game).  This is useful in analyzing "what went wrong".

Retry - This option allows you to try the last shot over.  This is useful for mastering the more difficult shots.  In addition, you can "back track" your shots on a particular hole all the way back to the starting pad.  This allows you to figure the best approach to each hole.  Retry is the key to mastering this game and to mopping the floor with the next opponent.

PLEASE NOTE:  Retry is a practice feature, and does not work if there are two or more players.

About - This is a small plug for the authors, Charles Carter and Scott Cribbs.  We at DigiTek feel they deserve it.

Quit - This takes you back to the Course Selection Screen, so that youy may play a different course or insert a new course disk.


THE OPTIONS MENU

There are four choices at the Options Menu:

Sound - Toggles the game sounds on/off.

Continue - If the option Continue is selected (checked), Hole-In-One will prompt you before going to the next player.  Otherwise, Hole-In-One automatically goes to the next player.

Expert - This toggles the line that appears when you are about to take a shot.  Without the line, it is more difficult to aim your shots.  We recommend even if you are an experienced player that you play your first games with the Expert Toggle off.  The line gives you a better "feel" for the interface.

Next - This option allows you to advance without finishing a hole.  Since it is intended as a practice feature, if selected you will receive a nine (9) stroke penalty.


THE CONTOUR MENU

Some holes have different elevations to make them more challenging.  On the screen, a lighter color represents a higher elevation, and a darker color a lower one.  This is more easily understood by playing the Tutorial Course on Disk #1.  The importance of the Tutorial Course cannot be emphasized enough.  At the Contour Menu, you can see the course from different perspectives.

Direction - Use this option to select the desired perspective(s).  A check mark shows that a view is selected.

Contour - Once you have all the views you desire selected, this option will open windows on the screen displaying the different perspectives.  To close the windows, click with the left mouse button in the playing field.  the Contour menu is only available on some holes (when it is needed).


GAME PLAY

You are now ready to begfin your first game.  The game play is controlled entirely with the mouse.  Place the ball on the starting pad of the first hole and click the left mouse button.  Once you have placed the ball, "strech" a line from the ball to the pointer.  The direction the line is pointing is the direction the ball will go.  The length of the line or distance between the pointer and the ball is relative to the amount of power on the shot.  In other words, the longer the line, the stronger the shot.  Once you have decided upon the direction and the power, click the left mouse button to "putt" the ball.  This is the easiest interface ever conceived (we'd like to think).  This is well demonstrated in the Tutorial Course.  Be careful, because shooting too hard is the biggest mistake new players make.  You are allowed to go three shots over par, but any more than that and you will get the "Over Stroke Limit" message.  Also an additional one (1) stroke penalty will be given and you must advance to the next hole (or player).  You will also be given a one (1) stroke penalty if you land in a water hazard.  Once you have completed the first nine holes, your score will be displayed so that you can see how it's going.  Bear in mind that you can check your score at any time by selecting "Score" at the Options Menu. Once you have completed the course, the Score Card will appear again.  You can print your scores or exit to continue to another course or quit the game.




Docs supplied by Garfield.