                       HOLLYWOOD POKER
                       ===============
                                                 TYPED BY SHARD - N&B


Hollywood  Poker  is  a  stimulating strip poker simulator that uses actual
digitised photos of four beautiful female contestants who'll bet it all for
a chance to strip you down!

Match  your  wits  against Stephanie, does she really have a pair or is she
bluffing?  You'll have to bet your shirt to find out what she's hiding.

Take  it  from  us,  these  girls  are  no  push over, each one has her own
distinctive style of play, and each is a feast for the eyes.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------

ATARI ST:
Ensure  that your computer has been switched off for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the  game  disc  in  drive zero (all other drives, printers, cartridges etc
should  have  been  removed).   The game should load automatically.  If the
game  fails  to  load on the first attempt, leave the disc in the drive and
press the reset button.

AMIGA:
Ensure  that your computer has been switched off for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the  game  disc  in drive zero (all other disc drives, printers, additional
memory,  cartridges  etc  should  have been removed).  The game should load
automatically.   If  the game fails to load on the first attempt, leave the
disc in the drive and reset the machine.

THE GAME
--------

You have the option to play against 4 gorgeous girls.  To choose press keys
1-4 at the start of each game.

The  game  is  played with a normal pack of 52 cards.  Each player is given
$100  at  the  start  of  the  game, and is dealt 5 cards.  You must try to
achieve the highest hand.  The strength of each hand is listed below.

1 ) A PAIR: 2 cards of the same face value, eg. 2 JACKS
2 ) TWO PAIRS: eg 2 FOURS and 2 QUEENS
3 ) THREE OF A KIND: 3 cards with the same face value, eg 3 FIVES
4 ) A STRAIGHT:  5 cards of any suite which follow each other eg.  EIGHT,
    NINE, TEN, JACK, QUEEN.
5 ) A FLUSH: 5 cards of the same suite, e.g ACE, FOUR, FIVE, TEN, KING of
    CLUBS
6 ) A FULL HOUSE: A PAIR and THREE OF A KIND
7 ) FOUR OF A KIND: 4 cards of the same face value, eg. 4 TENS
8 ) A STRAIGHT FLUSH: the same as a FLUSH but the cards must follow eg.
    THREE, FOUR, FIVE, SIX, SEVEN of HEARTS.

The  computer  will  displav  your  cards,  and  money at the bottom of the
screen.  You must decide on the strength of your hand, and remove the cards
you  dont  need by using the joystick (Left, Right and Fire).  For your new
cards  push the joystick forward and press fire.  Your opposite number will
then  reveal  how  many cards she has taken.  The betting can now continue.
If  however  you  dont want to risk any money then you can stay in the game
without furthur risks.

After  the second Call the cards will be displayed to determine the winner.
If  your  opponent  loses  her  first $1OO she must take off one article of
clothing, she has four pieces of clothing to lose.