Mr.Who from The League presents:

Info to: Hollywood Hijinx - a wonderful Infocom Adventure
         ----------------
There is is just one thing in the manual, which you'll need.

The package includes a photo from your uncle Buddy Bunbank and a letter 
from aunt Hildegarde.

The back of the photo reads as follows:


Hey, Kiddo!

This might open a few doors for ya!

Be brave as sheriff Roy in "Fastest Blender in the WEST",
 The day the rustlin' outlawas put their chainsaws to the test.
Old sheriff Roy used whip, then chop, then liquify/puree,
 But this blender was no match for the chainsaw's mean foray.
As pieces of Roy scattered, we knew that we had trouble.
 We hadn't switched the sheriff with his plastic life-size double.

Be bold as Captain Bob in "Cannibal Buffet of the EAST,"
 Who agreed to come to dinner, not knowing he was the feast.
Fingertip hous d'oeuvree were greasy, sauteed eyeballs weren't so hot.
 But this mouth began to water when they put Bob in the pot.
Don't feel bad for Captain Bob, whose agent was a real smarty.
 He signed Bob for a sequel called "Canninbal Meatloaf Party."

Be clever like the tailor in "Vampire Penguins of the NORTH."
 A cummerbund for each penguin was the plan he had set forth.
The first penguins that he met were of Transylvanian attraction.
 And their fondness for his neck was a natural reaction.
Now the tailor's up in Heaven, sewing angel gowns of white,
 While the penguins search the frozen turf for other necks to bite.

We sure enjoyed having you with us all those summers.
You always were my favorite!

Love ya, Kiddo!

Uncle Buddy


HILDEGARDE MONTAGUE BURBANK

Well pumpkin,Ive finally gone to join Buddy in Paradise.I sure had a lot of
fun in life,but nothing lasts forever eh?I will miss hildebub,our home for
so many years.We all had planty of wonderfull times there didnt we?

Well now its all going to be yours.I know you love the old place as much as
I do.Youll take good care of it.

Your Uncle Buddy and I often talked about this and we agreed that 
everything should go to you. Of all our nieces and nephews,you were our 
favouite. Buddy gave me the enclosed photo which he wanted me to give you 
along with this letter.

       
Now dear,
 
We are fond of you, but Buddy and I worked hard to build our business and 
keep up our estate. We don't intend to just throw it all away. So although
we think you are clever enough to manage everything wisely, we need to make
sure.That's why we planned a little test for you.

Hidden around the house and grounds at Hildebud are ten treasures from your
Uncle Buddys films. All you need to do is find the treasures in one night,
and everything will be yours. Now that doesnt sound too hard does it?

If you cant find the treasures, too bad sweetie!W e will give the treasures
to some other nieces and nephews. The one who cracks it gets it.
 
My lawyer will pick you up at 8:00 on the evening of the funeral and drive
you to the Hildebrand. Good luck pumpkin,

Make your Aunt Hildegarde proud.

BEING OF SOUND MIND AND BODY I DO HEARBY SIGN THIS TESTAMENT IN THE 
PRESENCE OF TWO WITNESSES.

Made by Mr.Who ??? of The League...
                      ----------