            ---------------------------------
            | HORROR ZOMBIES FROM THE CRYPT |
            ---------------------------------

                   By Astral Software
  			
			A game of horror for the
		  Atari ST and Commodore Amiga
			 published by Millennium

No sir I ain`t goin` nowhere near that `orrible place.
There`s demons in there sir. " Count Valdemar began to lose
his patience. "Look cabby, it`s a foul night.. if you take me
to Gory Manor there`ll be an extra sovereign in it for you."
At once, with an urgent whipcrack, the coach lurched away and 
off into the night. Valdemar watched as the lamp was swallowed
by black-ness, turned his collar to the wind and rain and 
resigned himself to a long walk.

The storm whipped the trees into a frenzy. Then, through the 
driving rain, red, sore eyes could just make out the foreboding
stone mansion. Suddenly, a fork of lightning cracked through 
the sky, illuminating the building. "Huh, demons indeed...
poppycock!" the count muttered as he wrestled out the key to the
massive iron gates. Forcing the key into the lock, he pushed, the
rust encrusted hinges groaned as they moved for the first time in 
decades.

Valdemar was not a supersitious man - if he had been, he would
have seen the stone gargoyles grinning mockingly, he would have
felt the shroud of impending death envelope him, he would have 
heared the moans of a thousand tortured souls beckoning him to 
join them in eternal pain and sorrow. But insted he booted up 
Horror Zombies from the Crypt from Millennium and prepared himself
for a thoroughly entertaining evening.

Spooky it is!

Horror Zombies from the Crypt pays homage to the much-loved
horror genre from the 1950's movies, and stars many of the beasts,
manifestations adn creations made famous by the likes of Bela
Lugosi, Boris Karloff and Lon Chaney jr. It's a massive game
spanning six levels, with up to one hundred all-action screens
per level. The game cobines pure arcade gameplay with adventure
and perplexing puzzles.

You are Count Frederick Valdemar, the typically-handsome, stock
character hero, pitted against the most evil and hideous beasts
ever to grace a horror story. Crazed wolfmen drool and slaver at
the very thought of ripping your heroic flesh from the bone,
zombies lurch at you from the shadows, inviting you to join them
in the eternal state of the undead. Suddenly, a host of shrouded
spectres will emerge from the vaults, while vampire bats home in,
sensing your fear and yearning to puncture your jugular vein.
But it's all clean fun!

This horror story begins at the movies. The lights in the auditorium
dim, the audience hushes expectantly as the garish red drapes part
to reveal the silver screen. What horrors will unfold? What foul
beasts will manifest on the screen? What terror awaits our brave 
hero? What's the capital of Czechoslovakia?


The foolhardy Count enters the despicable Gory manor and comes to
grips with his many foe. Here your objective is straightforward,
search the rooms and corridors for five skulls. These skulls
belonged to the poor souls who once resided in the manor. You must
locate the heads to be buried with dignity rather than something
for the spooks to have a good old laugh at. In this level you must
avoid all contact with the spooks and collect all the objects in
order to progress to higher levels.


Scene 1

As you take your first tentative steps, beyond the decaying gates
of the Valdemar estate yuor senses are alerted to an unknown
presence. You make haste to the relative safety of the mansion.
What horrors lie within?


Scene 2

Still trembling from yuor first encounter with the undead and uneasy
due to the enormity of your task, you decide to alert the local
villages by raising a flag over the west tower.


Scene 3

The alarm raised it's only a matter of time before help arrives-or
is it. As the moments pass, you begin to feel a faint vibration and
a mysterious force draws you to a hidden cave entrance. You enter
warily!


Scene 4

With no hope of assistance it becomees clear that you alone must
end terror which haunts the ancestral home. Leave no stone unturned
in your quest for knowledge. Be brave be strong but most of all
be lucky.


Scene 5

As your knowledge of the fearful Horror Zombies increases you realise
that the means to their exorcism lies in gaining access to their
stronghold-the crypt. To find its entrance you must first challenge
the sanctity of the family chapel.


Scene 6

The point of no return. Ahead lies the final conflict. Remember,
here, death is no release. You must be victorious or suffer an
eternal fate.


Level Passwords

On successful completion of each level you will be informed of a 
password to the next level. Use passwords to restart the game at
the level of your choice.


Controls

The game is joystick controlled and pressing the fire button takes
you through to the very gates of hell. Count Frederick Valdemar
enters the manor, and you assume immediate control over him - his
destiny is in your hands!

The objectives are many. In each level you've got all of hell's
creations to avoid. Then there are keys to find which are essential
for unlocking casks and doors. There is more than one type of key to
look out for: A single big green key will open one chest, while a
bunch of keys will open a certain amount of doors. You should collect
both types of keys at every possible opportunity.


Icon controls

Once you have collected the icons you can select which icon you want
to use with the cursor keys. Then tapping the spacebar actions the
attribute.

Skulls - all skulls must be collected in each level in order to
progress to the next mission. The skull icon shows you how many
you need to collect.

Keys - bunches of keys can be collected throughout the mission for
the purpose of opening locked doors. Just move towards the door and
push the joystick forward.

Weaponry - to be throughout the adventure. You're limited to two
types of throwing sword. The first is a heavy, cumbersome weapon
which the Count can only throw in slow succession. The other is a
much lighter dart which can be hurled quickly. Press Left Shift
key to select current weapon.

Large green keys - must be collected in order to open locked chests.
These chests contain some of the answers to the puzzles as well as
objects to aid your quest. Unlock chest by pushing forward then back
on joystick.

Lives - the Count has five chances to complete the mission, but the
odds are certainly stacked against him.

Boots - these sneakers must be collected so that the Count can tiptoe
past his aggressors. If a monster cannot be slain with knives, these
boots enable him to sneak by undetected.

Crawl - depicted by a little man crawling, once collected, tapping the
spacebar makes the Count crawl beneath flying monsters or through
passages with low ceilings.

Potion - drinking a flask of potion, the Count becomes one of the
undead, and thus accepted by the ghostly fraternity which haunt
Gory Manor.

Timer gauge - Boots, Crawl and Potion works for a limited period of
time. Time is up when the gauge reaches zero.

Crucifix - perhaps the most importand object to find, this golden
cross is essential to oyur success in the mission. Tou must decide
when and where you should use it.


Game control

With joystick control, nudging the joystick to the left and right
sends Valdemar walking in the relative directions. Often the count
must jump up high to reach an object or avoid a beast. This is
achieved by nudging the joystick upwards. To jump from ledge to ledge,
again you must nudge upward and then quickly to the right or left.


Controls

Use a joystick to control Count Frederick Valdemar

Left/Right                      - Run left/right

Upwards and left or right       - leap

Fire                            - Throw daggers


Keyboard Controls

Cursor keys    - Toggles through the icons on the status panel

Spacebar       - Actions the selected icon

Left Shift     - Toggles weapon type

Pause key      - CTRL


Horror Zombies from the Crypt

Horror has been the most popular genre since the movie era began. 
Freddy is everybody's nightmare today. But monsters and beasts have 
been scaring the pants off cinema audiences for decades. Horror
Zombies from the Crypt pays homage to the horror movie, featuring
many of the beasts, ghouls and manifestations which have haunted the
minds of cinema goers.


Strange but True

There are many myths and strange facts connected with the horror
movie industry and we have compiled just few of them.


Subtle it ain't

The first horror film of all time was filmed in the late 19th century.
Entitled 'A Fight with Sledgehammers' it featured two men with a
grudge against other in real life who decided to settle their 
differences with the aforementioned heavy tool. The blows were real
the blood were real and needless to say, it was a very short film.


Horror In Court

The first feature length horror film was 'Nosferatu' which was made
in the 1920's. The film featured that most famous of monsters, Count
Dracula who was the invention of author Bram Stoker. But the film was
nearly scrapped as Stoker's widow contested the copyright. In the end
the title was changed and all references to the famed neck sucker had
to be erased.


Nice Reltives

Talking of Dracula, one of the most famous movie blood suckers was
Bela Lugosi, who donned the cloak and fangs on many occasions during
the 30's. Strangely enough, Hungarian born Lugosi was found to be 
related to the evil Vlad the Impaler whom Stoker based Dracula on.
Lugosi never admitted nor denied the connection, but he insisted on
being buried with his Dracula outfit. Incidentally, Lugosi bequeathed
his signet ring to Christopher Lee which is reputed to bare Vlad the
Impalers family coat of arms. Lee went on to wear the ring in every
Dracula film he starred in.


Frankenstein

One of the great horror stars was Boris Karloff, famed for his role
as Frankenstein's monster and many other horrible creations. But
British born Karloff may not have gained such fame in horror had he
not changed his name - he was born William Pratt.


Creeper

Rondo Hutton starred in a couple of horror movies in the 50's. Hutton
got the role of 'The Creeper' because of his own hideous ugliness.
But the sad fact was that Hutton's physical deformities were a result
of a disease. It effected his muscles and tissues which expanded until
his own mother couldn't recognise him. In his youth, Hutton was very
handsome and slim. But by the time of his death, nobody could bear to
look at him, he couldn't move for the pain and he pleaded with the
doctors to put him to sleep. Eventually he died of a heart attack.


Ooh Mummy

Christopher Lee was swathed in bandages on more than one occasion as
he ancient Egyptian. But there's one Mummy movie thet Lee can never
forget. In one scene, he was required to carry a woman whith outstreched arms. The scene required a number of takes which put
Lee's back under tremendous strain. The next day he was crippled with
severe back injury and he is still suffering today.


The B Movie

In the 50's the horror genre was spoofed by the likes of Abbot and
Costello, and as a comedy and polished dramas became popular, Horror
was relegated to the B Movie. During this period there were some
horrendously rotten turkeys which became cult movies.


Tingler

In a bid to keep horror alive, new techniques were employed to woo
the audiences back to the movies. 3D is perhaps the most famous
technique, but movie makers began thinking up some bizarre effects.
One particular was The Tingler which starred Vincent Price. In this
tasteful production, the auditorium was wired up to a harmless but
never-the-less shocking electric circuit. Each time Price pulled a 
switch, an electrical current ran through the audience causing a 
truly electric atmosphere.


Scratch and sniff

Another effect was the introduction of scratch and sniff cards so
that the audience could really get involved. In one dreadfully bad
Zombie movie, number six on the card was entiteled 'Decaying Corpse'.


Make My Day !

The Creature from the Black Lagoon was Clint Eastwood's debut movie.
He played a sientist's assistant and made a few brief appearances in
the film. The actor who played the creature, however, drifted into
obscurity.


Cutting Remarks

The gruesome 70's movie The Texas Chaisaw Massacre was noted for the
amount of injuries which the cast suffered. In the final scene,
Leatherface chases the girl with his trusty chainsaw and at one point
got a bit close, administering a deep cut in the girl. There was real
terror on her face and, unaware of the injury, the director kept the
cameras rolling.


Exorcist

The biggest horror movie of the 70's was The Exorcist. On its release,
bishops and other member of the elergy throughout the world protested
ouside the cinemas with placards. When the audience came out at the
end of the film, the holy gathering pleaded with them to pray for
forgiveness.


Friday the 13th

At its premier showing, a cinema manager in a particular Chicago
cinema dreamt up the ultimate publicity stunt. As the audience came
out, he had an actor dressed as Jason with sack clothes over his
head to run into the foyer with pitchfork in one hand and decapitated
head in the other. Unfortunately, a woman had a heart attack from the
shock and the establishment was sued.


Tomato Terror

'Attack of the Killer Tomatoes' has become a cult movie because it is
so bad. When making the film, the director ordered lorry loads of
rotten tomatoes for the movie. The green grocer agreed to supply
providing he got a mention in the credits.


Other Millennium Products

ThunderStrike           Atari ST            £24.99
                        Amiga               £24.99
                        PC (EGA & VGA)      £29.99

Resolution 101          Atari ST            £24.99
                        Amiga               £24.99
                        PC (EGA & VGA)      £29.99

Yolanda                 Atari ST            £19.99
                        Amiga               £19.99

Manix                   Amiga               £24.99
                        Atari ST            £24.99

James Pond              Amiga               £24.99
                        Atari ST            £24.99



                     HINTS & TIPS


    Vital aids for Count Frederick Valdemar

    Don't despair - all puzzles, traps and monsters are
    survivable, even if some are a bit tough at first!


Level 1

Check fireplaces

In the long room with headless lady ghosts, push joystick up to enter
a secret chamber behind a certain painting


Level 2

Outside the main doors of the manor move right to find a green key in
the graveyard, guarded by invulnerable Horror Zombies! To get past
these monsters you must find and use the potion which is located on
the right-hand edge of the roof. The green key is needed to trigger a
magic cloud, enabling you to get past the broken drainpipe.

Jump ON the flag


Level 3

Password: Hammer

Use crawl to move undetected beneath some Vampires (useful for 
avoiding skeleton's arrows too!)

Sorry! The only way out of dead end chambers is to commit suicide.


Level 4

Password: Lugosi

You need to push a table from a room at the top of the first ladder
encountered and jump down immediately after it. Push the table left
and use it to get the green key past the headless lady.


Level 5

When you first get out onto the Chapel roof (through the door at the
base of the large Creeper), move left (avoiding Vampires)and shoot the
monks, retrieve green key, and continue left. Push the joystick
forward five spikes in from the next room and you'll move into a 
secret area to retrieve an extra life.

There are three chests in the Chapel tower. Only one of these activates the magic cloud - it is the one in the lower right corner.


Level 6

Sorry folks! You're on your own on this level.




Doc typed by [MYRTANI] & [KARON] 91-01-30