                                HOSTAGES

                            BRIEFING BOOKLET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

WHAT YOU NEED......................................................3

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS...............................................3

TACTICAL UNIT BRIEFING BOOKLET.....................................7
          Your Rank................................................8
          Choosing Your Mission....................................9

STAGE 1...........................................................11
          The Map.................................................12
          Placing Your Marksmen...................................12

STAGE 2...........................................................15
          The Roof................................................16
          Using Your Marksmen.....................................17
          Rappelling..............................................18
          Breaking a Window.......................................20

STAGE 3...........................................................21
          Inside the Embassy......................................22
          The Mini-map............................................22
          Movement................................................23
          Terrorists..............................................23
          Rescuing the Hostages...................................24

STAGE 4...........................................................27
          The Outcome.............................................28
          Promotions..............................................28

WHAT YOU NEED

AMIGA
  o Amiga 500, 1000, pr 2000 computer; 512K minimum
  o Disk drive
  o Color monitor or TV
  o Joystick

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
  1. Plug a joystick into Port 1.
  2. Turn on your monitor and computer. If necessary, insert Kickstart
     version 1.2 into the disk drive.
  3. When asked for a Workbench disk, insert your Hostage game disk into
     the disk drive. The game will load into your computer's memory and the
     introductory sequence will appear. When you have finished reading
     the message at the top of the screen, press the fire button to
     continue.

                                   (PAGE 3)

                           TACTICAL BRIEFING BOOKLET

                                   (PAGE 7)

   It is your responsibility, LIEUTENANT, to direct the 6-member Assault
Force team in a daring rescue attempt. Your objective is to bring all the
hostages to safety and neutralize any terrorists who open fire. Time is
crucial, so you will also be judged on how quickly your men complete the
operation. You are given the choice of five missions; each one allows you
less time than the last. To succeed, you must rescue all the hostages
without losing any men...and complete your mission before time runs out.

   After reading the message on your monitor, press the fire button (or the
fire key) to begin.

                                 CONTROLS

                                    UP   
                                    |
                           LEFT --  O  -- RIGHT
                                    |
                                  DOWN

                            FIRE: FIRE BUTTON


YOUR RANK
   You will be given the opportunity to attempt missions at these levels-
Lieutenant, Captain, and Commander. Once you have successfully completed
the most difficult mission (code name ASSAULT) as Lieutenant, you will be
prompted to the rank of CAPTAIN. When you have successfully completed the
ASSAULT Mission as Captain, you will be promoted to the rank of COMMANDER.
As Captain and Commander, you will attempt the same series of missions-
but against progressively fiercer opponents.

                                   (PAGE 8)

   With each promotion you will be given a secret access code that must be
entered before you are allowed to select either the CAPTAIN or COMMANDER
level. Unless you have been promoted, select LIEUTENANT by highlighting
that option and pressing the fire button (or fire key).

CHOOSING YOUR MISSION
   Next, you must choose a mission from among the five shown. Missions are
listed from easiest (TRAINING) to most difficult (ASSAULT)-the harder the
mission, the less time you have to complete it.

   o TRAINING (without hostages)
   o TARGET
   o ULTIMATUM
   o RESCUE
   o ASSAULT

   Move your control forward or back to highlight the mission you wish to
choose, then press the fire button to select that mission.

   You will direct all operations, from Command Headquarters. Surveillance
cameras will allow you to see what is happening at all times, and you will
be in constant contact with your men; their code names are DELTA, ECHO,
MIKE, HOTEL, TANGO, and BRAVO. They are all skilled professionals, but will
not act without your guidance. While you are directing one man, the others
will remain in their current positions.

                                   (PAGE 9)

                                    STAGE 1

                                   (PAGE 11)

THE MAP
   After selecting a mission, your Command Console will display a map of the
Embassy and the surrounding area. A message detailing your first operation
will scroll across the screen; when you have read the message, press the
fire button to continue. Note the three locations that are marked on the
map with an "X." Your first assignment is to place the team's three
marksmen (DELTA, ECHO, and MIKE) in these strategic locations across the
street from the Embassy. Once inside the selected building, they will make
their way to the roof and set up sniper positions to provide cover for
the Direct Intervention Team.

   "Mad Dog" Mulligan, Assault Force Commander 1987-1988
"Don't be tempted to put two men at the same location- you want snipers on
all three sides of the building. For maximum coverage, only one man
should be placed at each target area. So what if the last guy takes a few
hits- that'll teach him to stay out of the line of fire next time..."

PLACING YOUR MARKSMEN
   To control each man in turn, press the corresponding function key:

           Delta: F1            Echo: F2          Mike: F3

   An image of the man you are directing will appear on the map in his
current location. To begin the maneuver, press the ESC key. A surveillance
camera shows your marksmen in his current hiding place across the street
from the Embassy. Time remaining is shown on the upper left side of the
Console (the game clock runs slower than real time); the name of the active
man is shown on the upper right.

                                   (PAGE 12)

   Terrorists sweep the area with spotlights, looking for Assault Force
team members. Once the man you are directing leaves his hiding place, he
runs the risk of being caught in the spotlights. If they spot him, the
terrorists will immediately open fire and he will have to move quickly to
avoid being gunned down. (Your marksmen are vulnerable when out in the open,
since they have no protection and are not able to fire back.) The marksmen
can drop, roll, duck into doorways, or dive through windows to avoid the
gunfire.

Amiga Users: You may check your marksmen's progress on the map by pressing
the fire button (or the ESC key) while he's hidden; he will then appear on
the map in his current location. To return to the street view, press fire
or ESC again.

                               CONTROLS

                              STANDING UP

                               Joystick


                                 HIDE
                           HIDE   |   HIDE
                                \ | /
                      RUN LEFT -- O -- RUN RIGHT
                                / | \
                      ROLL LEFT   |    ROLL RIGHT
                                 DROP

                           FIRE: FIRE BUTTON

                                   (PAGE 13)


                             LYING DOWN

                              Joystick

                              STAND UP
                                 |
                   CRAWL LEFT -- O -- CRAWL RIGHT

   To PAUSE the game, press the "P" key; press amy other key to resume play.

   Move the joystick left, right, or back to leave your hiding place. (To
perform these maneuvers with a keyboard, simply press the corresponding
keys.) If your man is lying down and does not crawl in either direction,
he will automatically stand back up. If you do not move your man, he will
automatically hide in the nearest location after a few seconds.

   If one of your marksmen is gunned down on the street, you must return
to the map and select another man (by pressing his function key). When your
last man is in position, you are given the option of starting over or
proceeding to the next stage. NOTE: If all three marksmen have been killed,
you must start over.

   "Killer" Katz, Assault Force Commander 1973-1981
"If you're going for the big promotion, you're gonna have to get through
this thing with all your men in one piece. Fortunately, there's no shortage
of trained recruits just dying to get into the action, so don't be too soft
on them - unless you want to be an underdog all your life..."

                                   (PAGE 14)

                                   STAGE 2

                                   (PAGE 15)

THE ROOF
   Once your marksmen are in place, a helicopter will carry the three-member
Direct Intervention Team (HOTEL, TANGO, and BRAVO) to the roof of the
Embassy.

   Once your men are on the roof, the Console screen will display a map of
the Embassy and the surounding buildings. An "X" shows the position of each
man on the roof, as well as the locations of the men stationed across the
street. The "X" of the active man is shown in red; the others are shown in
white. The name of the man currently under control is shown on the upper
left side of the Console. You may switch to a different team member at
any time simply by pressing the corresponding key:

                    Delta: F1         Hotel: F4
                    Echo:  F2         Tango: F5
                    Mike:  F3         Bravo: F6

   A control panel on the right side of the Console shows the time remaining
and the names of surviving team members. If one of the team members is in
immediate danger, his name will begin to flash. In this case, you should
switch to that man and take whatever action is necessary to prevent him
from being killed.

                                   (PAGE 16)

USING YOUR MARKSMEN

   By selecting one of the marksmen across the street from the Embassy, you
can survey the side of the Embassy in his field of vision. To view the
Embassy from the vantage point of a marksman, select that man and press ESC.
The Console screen will show your marksman on the left, and a view of the
Embassy as seen through his gunsight on the right.

                              CONTROLS

                              Joystick

                                  UP
                                  |
                          LEFT -- O -- RIGHT
                                  |
                                 DOWN

                           FIRE: FIRE BUTTON

                                   (PAGE 17)

   Move the joystick to move the gunsight around the screen. When the
gunsight is within range of a window, a dot will appear in the middle of the
cross hairs. To shoot, press the fire button while the dot is visible.
Press the ESC key to return to the map screen, or activate another man by
pressing his function key.

   R.J. Richter, Assault Force Captain 1980-1984
"Think twice before you order a marksman to shoot- the person in his
gunsight may be a hostage, or even one of his own team. Be sure to scope
out the situation using a man on the inside before you make your move."

RAPPELING
   The Direct Intervention Team (HOTEL, TANGO, and BRAVO) must gain access
to the Embassy by positioning themselves on the edge of the roof, rappelling
down the side, and breaking in through a window. To select one of these men,
press the corresponding function key. Next, you must position your man on
the edge of the roof. Press the fire button to cycle through the available
positions. When you have selected a position, press the ESC key to view the
man as he prepares for his descent. Follow the instructions below to direct
your man as he descends from the roof.

                                   (PAGE 18)

                          CONTROLS

                          Joystick

                          CLIMB UP
                             |
                     STOP -- O -- DESCEND

                    PUSH AWAY: FIRE BUTTON

   First, press fire to have your man push away from the wall. (The longer
you hold down the fire button, the further he will push himself away from
the wall when the button is released.) Let go of the fire button and quickly
move the joystick right to have the man begin his descent; move the
joystick left to stop his descent. If your man descends too far and ends up
below the first floor windows, you can have him climb up the rope by
pushing the joystick forward.

                                   (PAGE 19)

BREAKING A WINDOW

   As he approaches a window, your man must stop his descent quickly and
attempt to break the glass with his feet. (NOTE: Even if a window has
already been broken by one of your men, the next man must still "break"
through it.) Once the window is broken, your man will automatically enter
the building. Watch out for terrorists inside the Embassy, who can shoot
your men through the windows!

   "Gunner" McGraw, Assault Force Lieutenant 1977-1980
"To hit a window with enough force to break it, you have to push as far
away from the building as possible. Also, it's a lot safer to descend in a
series of short jumps. If you get moving too quickly, you may not be able
to stop in time and you'll hit the sidewalk like a ton of bricks- I lost a
couple of rookies that way..."

                                   (PAGE 20)

                                    STAGE 3

                                   (PAGE 21)

INSIDE THE EMBASSY
   Once inside the Embassy, a view of the room your man is in is displayed
on the right side of the Console. Above this screen is the name of the man
currently being controlled. A control panel on the left shows the time
remaining, and surviving team members. If one of the team members is in
immediate danger, his name will begin to flash. In this case, you should
switch to that man and take whatever action is necessary to prevent him
from being killed. A mini-map is shown in the center of the control panel.

THE MINI-MAP
   The mini-map shows the rooms and hallways of the floor that your man is
on. By noting where he came in, you will be able to pinpoint his location
on the map and then follow his progress as he moves from room to room. The
floor number is shown in the lower right corner of the map. Use the
stairways on the east side of the building to move to a different floor;
the stairs to a higher floor are marked with an up-arrow, the stairs to a
lower floor with a down-arrow.

   Additional Mini-Map Clues: As LIEUTENANT, you are given additional clues
on the mini-map that show you the location of your men as well as that of
the terrorists and hostages. The man you are directing is indicated by a
small red arrow; other men are indicated by red dots; terrorists are
indicated by yellow dots, hostages by white dots. As CAPTAIN, you will see
terrorists and hostages only while you are in same room with them.

   Richard M. Lawrence, Assault Force Commander 1969-1977
"Pay attention to your surroundings and try to learn the layout of the
Embassy like the back of your hand. Take advantage of the extra clues on
the mini-map- once you're promoted, you won't have the luxury any more..."

                                   (PAGE 22)

                                CONTROLS

                                Joystick

                                FORWARD
                                   |
                      TURN LEFT -- O -- TURN RIGHT
                                   |
                              TURN AROUND

                           FIRE: FIRE BUTTON

MOVEMENT
   Move your man forward and turn left or right by moving the joystick in
the corresponding direction. To turn completely around, pull the joystick
back. Inside a room, your movements will always place you with your back to
a wall (or doorway), facing the center of the room. Move the joystick left
to face left; move the joystick right to face right. Push the joystick
forward to move forward through a doorway. If you move forward toward a
wall,you will automatically turn around so that your back is to the wall.
If you are in a doorway, pull the joystick back to turn completely around;
if your back is to a wall, you will not be able to turn around.

TERRORISTS
   When you encounter a terrorist, be prepared to kill...or be killed! Press
the fire button to shoot. (You have unlimited ammunition.) While the fire
button is pressed, move the joystick left or right to move your weapon in
the corresponding direction. Pull the joystick back to shoot higher, and
push it forward to shoot lower.

                                   (PAGE 23)

   Terrorists move quickly from room to room, and may hide behind other
terrorists or a hostage. Hostages will only move if they are accompanied
by a team member or a terrorist; if you see a hostage moving, you can be
sure that there is a terrorist behind him! If a terrorist is guarding a
hostage, you must try to kill the terrorist without harming the hostage.

   Vincent "Hit Man" Perelli, Assault Force Captain 1983-1986
"If you're in a room with a terrorist, you won't be able to move to the same
side of the room as the terrorist. If a terrorist is behind a door, you
won't be able to go through that door until he moves away."

RESCUING THE HOSTAGES
   The hostages are scattered throughout the Embassy, and can be alone or
guarded by terrorists. When you meet face-to-face with a hostage, he will
automatically follow you (as long as another hostage is not already
following you). In order to secure the hostages you must move them all,
one by one, to the small room in the upper right corner of the third floor
(the room without any windows). Once you lead a hostage into this room,
he will remain there and will not follow you out.

                                   (PAGE 24)

   As a Lieutenant, you will be able to locate the hostages and terrorists
easily by using the clues on the mini-map. As a Captain or Commander, you
will have to search each floor room by room to find all the hostages. Once
you have placed hostages in the corner room on the third floor, keep an
eye on the stairways- terrorists may go after them while you are searching
other floors.

DON'T FORGET THAT YOU CAN CONTROL ANY (SURVIVING) TEAM MEMBER SIMPLY BY
PRESSING THE KEY FOR THAT MAN - SUCCESS DEPENDS ON YOUR ABILITY TO
COORDINATE THE EFFORTS OF THE ENTIRE TEAM.

                                   (PAGE 25)

                                    STAGE 4

                                   (PAGE 27)

THE OUTCOME
   When your men have secured all the hostages, or killed all the
terrorists (or if all three members of your Direct Intervention Team have
been wiped out), the final screen will appear. Press the fire button to
get an assessment of your performance.

   Your mission is a success if you manage to kill all of the terrorists
or regroup all of the hostages in the third-floor room, without losing any
of your men. In this case, your triumph will be front page news. If you have
killed some of the hostages or lost any team members, the headlines will
not be so kind!

   When you have finished reading the assessment, press the fire button.
If your mission was less than perfect, you will be given the option to
start over from the beginning or to begin at Stage II (leaving your
previous marksmen in place); follow the instructions on the screen to make
your selection.

PROMOTIONS
   Once you have successfully completed the ASSAULT Mission, you will be
promoted to the next level and given the secret access code necessary to
attempt a mission at that level. Good luck...we're counting on you!

                                   (PAGE 28)

   "You have your orders, Lieutenant.

    High-ranking diplomats are being held at gunpoint, and it's up to you
and your men to get them out alive. As you prepare for the assault on the
Embassy, take a moment to read through the enclosed Briefing Booklet. It
will familiarize you with the exact maneuvers required of your team, and
provides useful tips from a number of Assault Force veterans. First, make
sure that all of your equipment is ready and in working order. Next, proceed
to Command Headquarters, where you will direct this life-or-death
operation."

                                -- General Walter P. O'Donnell,
                                   Special Forces



This concludes the complete manual for Hostage Rescue Mission.

~~~~~~~  Hostage Rescue Mission Docs and Crack provided by:  ~~~~~~~

        The Next Generation / The Corsair / World of Wonders