                                  HOVER FORCE

Typed by ???  Edited by PARASITE.


SCENARIO / OBJECT OF THE GAME
  You are an officer of the law assigned to clean up the streets of drugs
  and drug runners.  The game takes place sometime in the future and the
  preferred method of transportation seems to be forms of HoverCrafts.

  The object of the game is to chase down drug runners and accomplices,
  terminating them, and collecting the drugs and money they leave behind
  as evidence.  In each round there is one main drug runner you are
  assigned to pursue, but you must also deal with his many accomplices
  who will stop at nothing to prevent you from hindering their drug run.

  After collecting enough evidence from the accomplices you terminate,
  your job is to seek out and terminate the leader before he completes
  his run.  Once he is destroyed, you progress to the next round and the
  difficulty level increases.

CONTROLS
     Mouse: All directions active, left and right buttons each work as
            action buttons for firing weapons and confirming selections.

  Joystick: Same as the mouse.

  Keyboard: Left/Right Arrow Keys for Direction
                           or
            <Z> - Turn Left / <X> - Turn Right
            <Up Arrow> or <Space Bar> for acceleration.
            <Enter> key to fire weapons.

MISCELLANEOUS TOGGLE KEYS
   F1 - Change Hovercraft Weapon to Machine Gun (You start with this)
   F2 - Change Hovercraft Weapon to Cannons (After you purchase)
   F3 - Change Hovercraft Weapon to Heat Seaking Missles (After you purchase)
   F4 - Toggle Detailed Map of city (Use Kybd or mouse to scroll up or down)
        Map Key:    Red Blips    = Drug Runner Accomplices
                    Yellow Blips = Robots
                    White Blips  = You and the Drug Runner

   F5 - Toggle Directional Finder Target
   F6 - Toggle Gun Sights On/Off
   F7 - Toggle Sound Effects or Music (Can't have both!)

  F10 - Toggle Pause on/off

  ESC - Quit to Sheriff's Office from game.
  CTRL-ESC - Quit to DOS from Sheriff's Office.

MAIN MENU
  Your game starts out in the Sheriffs Office.  This is basically your
  "Main Menu".  You can start the game from this point, begin a new game,
  save and load games, and view records and stats.  The menu options are
  as follows:

    PLAY: Select to begin game.

    LOAD: Select to load a saved game.  A menu of your saved game positions
          will appear.  Highlight and click on a position to save your game.

    SAVE: Select to save game in progress.  A menu will appear as with the Load
          command.  Highlight and click on a position you desire to save your
          game.

  RECORD: Select to view your status and record.  This infomation is also
          displayed at the beginning of each new level.

     NEW: Select this to begin a brand new game from the beginning.

PLAYING THE GAME
  Select play to start the game.  The drug runners name, level number and
  sector of the city you are assigned to will be displayed.

  Next you will find yourself sitting in your hovercraft with a first-person
  perspective view of your dashboard and the the city thru your windshield.

  You will see a few robots walking around outside, maybe some of them are
  even shooting at you.  Kill them as soon as possible and run over the drug
  and money canisters that they leave behind with your hovercraft to pick
  them up.

  It should be daylight out, but soon the sky will turn dark as the drug
  runner begins to make his drug run, delivering drugs to various buildings
  in the city.  Now its time to go into action and try to stop him before
  he completes his run.  Your primary target, the head drug runner always
  drives in a distinctive orange hovercraft.  It has three turbo fans mounted
  on the rear of the ship, and looks very unique compared to the other ships
  which are various other colors and mostly look like flying saucers.

  You may easily catch up to the drug runner and be in a prime position to
  fire upon and terminate him after only several seconds of playing the game.
  Unfortunately, however, it's not that easy.  You must first collect a pre-
  determined amount of evidence against him before you will be allowed to
  terminate him.  This is accomplished by running over the red drug
  canisters (they look like little spheres) with your hovercraft to collect
  them.  Keep in mind that the canisters will only stay on the screen for a
  short time after being dropped, & must be collected as quickly as possible.
  A money canister or drug canister is usually left behind for each of the
  drug runners accomplices you terminate.  The drug and money canisters are
  primary, however other types of canisters exist and may also be dropped by
  a terminated accomplice.  These additional types of canisters are discussed
  later.  Keep an eye on the drug counter on your dashboard (discussed later)
  to see how many drug canisters you have/need to collect to be able to
  terminate the runner.  Once you have collected enough drug canisters
  (evidence) - go get him.

CANISTERS
  When you terminate a criminal, a canister will drop to the ground.  The
  types of canisters are listed and explained below.  Some are good to
  collect, some are quite bad.  Canisters do not last long after being
  dropped so make sure to collect them quickly, before they explode and
  disappear.

  Money canisters have a dollar sign making them the most unique type of
  canister.  These are important to collect as you will be able to use the
  money you collect to buy weapons, shields and other items.

  All other canisters look like little 3-D spheres and each has a distinct
  color which indicates what type of canister it is, as follows:


SAFE CANISTERS (Pick these up quickly)
     RED: This is a DRUG canister.  Collect as many of these as you can as
          quickly as possible to enable you to terminate the drug runner
          before he completes his run.

  YELLOW: This is a LIFE canister.  These seem to give you extra life.

UNSAFE CANISTERS (Stay away from these!)
    GREY: This canister is booby trapped.  It will explode and damage your
          shield.  Stay the hell away from these.

   BLACK: This is a DEATH canister.  It will explode and destroy your hover
          craft.  Watch out!

YOUR DASHBOARD
     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
     ³           ³           ³          5           ³                ³
     ³     1     ³     3     ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´       9        ³
     ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÅÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´          6           ³                ³ ÚÄÄÄÄÄ¿
     ³           ³           ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´                ³ ³ 10  ³
     ³     2     ³     4     ³          7           ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ ³     ³
     ³           ³           ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ 1 2              ÀÄÄÄÄÄÙ
     ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´      8       ³         3 4
                             ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

   1- Short Range Radar - Shows surrounding enemies in your local vicinity.

   2- Directional Indicator/Target Select - Pressing F5 will let you toggle
      between the directional finder and Target Select.  You may select the
      drug runner himself or any one of the several stores available (pictured
      as buildings).  Once a target selection is made the directional indicator
      will point towards it to help you find your way.

   3- Shield Strength Status - Shows how much shield you have left.  When this
      meter drops too low your shield will no longer shield you and further
      sustained hits will destroy your vehicle

   4- Short Range City Map - Map of your local vicinity.
                             Red Blips    = Drug Runner Accomplices
                             Yellow Blips = Robots
                             White Blips  = You and the Drug Runner

   5- Weapon Indicator -  Indicates which weapon you are currently using.

   6- Compass - Shows direction you're facing in relation to the city map.

   7- Resources - Total cash collected (Money Canisters)

   8- Drug Counter - This will start out with the number of drug canisters
      you need to collect in order to terminate the drug runner.  Each time
      you collect a drug canister, the number will decrease by one.  When
      this counter reaches zero, it's time to hunt down and kill the drug
      runner.

   9- TV Monitor - Let's you see a picture of the drug runner and watch his
      reaction when you terminate his accomplices.

  10- Run Complete Warning Light - Will start flashing in red when the drug
      runner is near completion of his run.  You will only have a few seconds
      left to terminate him before the run is completed so act quickly.

   *- The 1 2 3 4 beneath the TV Monitor indicates which level you are on.

STORES
  There are three shopping centers within the city.  Use your directional
  finder/target selecter to select a store you wish to go to.   When you reach
  the store, stop your vehicle on the dark grey or black area that lies around
  the perimeter of the building.  Wait for a second and you will automatically
  enter into the shopping center.

  Once inside the shopping center you will have 3 different types of stores
  you can go to & buy things from.  You start out in the Hardware store.
  Here you can buy weapons and shields and other hardware.

  You may press F1 on your keyboard to move to one of the other three stores.

  Additional stores include an ammunition shop and a thruster shop where you
  can buy thrusters to make your hovercraft faster.

  To make a purchase, highlight the item with your pointer, and click on BUY.
  To leave the shopping center and get back to your hovercraft, click on EXIT.

HINTS & TIPS
  1) Always keep moving when travelling over bodies of water.  Never come
     to a dead stop over a body of water as your hovercraft will sink and
     you will be returned to the Sherrif's Office and must re-start the
     level from the beginning.

  2) You will see markers that look like trashcans established in patterns
     through out the city.  These "trashcans" actually form a barrier
     between themselves, preventing you from going straight through.  I do
     not know the reason for these barriers.  You may also encounter
     "red zone" barriers which you can't get past either.  It will be like
     a red strip of land that blocks you from going any further.

  3) Collect as much money as you can to enable you to keep buying bigger
     and better weapons and hardware.

  4) When new enemies are entering the playfield, a bolt of lightening will
     flash in the sky and the enemies will begin to appear.  Look for these
     lightening flashes and then wait near them for the enemies to start
     coming.  They sometimes come in fleets of 5 or more ships at a time, so
     by rapid firing on them as they come through the lightening gateway you
     can destroy many at one time.

  5) Sometimes the enemies will hide from you behind buildings.  This makes it
     easy for you to sneak up on them and waste them easily.

  6) Sometimes an enemy will hover out over the middle of a huge body of water.
     What he is doing is trying to entice you over the water with the hope and
     expectation that you'll come to a stop and sink into the water.  Don't
     fall for this little trick.  Fire upon the enemy from the shores and then
     scoot out over the water quickly to collect the canister he leaves.  If
     you must go out over the water to get him, just make sure you keep moving
     and don't come to a complete stop over the water, or you'll sink for sure.

  7) Always keep an eye on your drug canister counter and collect as many of
     the red drug canisters as you can in the least amount of time.  When your
     counter reaches zero, time is of the essence in tracking down the runner
     and terminating him before his drug run is completed.  Get to him quickly.

  8) Your basic strategy is kill or be killed.  Destroy everything that moves,
     there are no good guys to worry about hitting, just bad guys.

  9) Keep an eye on your short range radar.  It's very helpful in locating
     enemies (red and yellow blips) around your immediate location who may
     be hiding or laying in wait to ambush you.  Get them before they get you.

End.
