                     HOYLE OFFICIAL BOOK OF GAMES

                     Great Board Games   Volume 3

HOYLE BOOK OF GAMES, VOLUME THREE

Welcome to Hoyle Book of Games Volume Three, a fun-filled board game
program for the whole family.  Information about installing and loading
Hoyle 3 and other general information can be found in the Sierra Game
Manual that came with your game.  This manual contains information that
is specific to Hoyle 3 and the Hoyle 3 games.

Tables of Contents

About the Games       1
Hoyle 3 Icon Bar      3
Select Game Screen    4
Player Type Screen    4
Choose Opponents      5
Checkers              6
Backgammon            7
Dominoes              8
Yacht                 9
Snakes and Ladders   10
Pachisi              11

Page 1 \/

About the Games

The games in Hoyle Book of Games Volume Three have been chosen for their
ongoing popularity among players of all ages.  Each game has its own
unique history and background, which is reflected in the musical theme
you will hear when you choose the game.

Checkers, in its present form, dates back to 14th century France, where it
was a popular game both at the Royal Court and among the common people.
Once considered a sort of `poor man's Chess,' it has been discovered to
have a great deal of subtle strategy that is in many ways as profound
as Chess.  Although popular in many countries, only in the United States
is it called Checkers.  In Great Britain, for example, it is known as
Draughts.

Backgammon descends from chase games considerably more ancient than Chess.
It is still played by the same rules and with the same equipment as it was
centuries ago.  Although the rules of Modern Backgammon were set down in
1750, it was not popular in North America until the mid-1920's, when the
addition of the doubling-cube rule brought a faster pace and more skill
into the gameplay.

Dominoes are played with rectangular pieces called bones which are marked
with spots; they are believed to have been derived from an ancient form
of dice.  The name comes from a type of half-mask, the domino, popular
in the seventeenth century.  It is one of the most popular two-player
table games in the world, and has enough scope to allow for skill and
strategy.

Page 2 \/

Yacht is a variation on the well-known card game, Poker, which was
developed in the nineteenth century.  Poker is considered by some to be
the national card game of the United States.  The play of Yacht is derived
from Five Card Draw Poker.

Snakes and Ladders is a well-known game for small children that requires
no reading skills.  It is based on ancient chase games much like Pachisi
or Backgammon, but simplified to appeal to the very young.

Pachisi is the national game of India, and one of the world's most
ancient board games.  Giant Pachisi boards have been found at the court
of the Mogul emperor Akbar at Allahabad, where the game was played by
courtiers using slaves as pawns.

Page 3 \/

The Hoyle 3 Icon Bar

Complete information on icons is given in your Sierra Game Manual.

The icons in Hoyle 3 are:

CONTROL:

The CONTROL icon includes several options.  In Hoyle 3 these are: GAMES,
QUIT, REPLAY, ABOUT, HELP, and OK.

   GAMES restarts Hoyle 3 to allow you to choose a game to play.
   QUIT allows you to quit Hoyle 3.
   REPLAY allows you to replay the current game from the beginning.
   ABOUT shows you the version of Hoyle 3 you're playing and tells you
   about the many people who made the game.

OPTIONS:

When you choose OPTIONS, after you select a game, you will the possible
options for the game you are playing.  For available options, see the
individual game headings in this manual.

SCORE:

When you choose SCORE, Hoyle 3 will display the score of the current game.
To exit the score window, press ENTER or click anywhere on the screen.

RULES:

When you choose RULES, Hoyle 3 will display rules of the current game
one screen at a time.  To see the next screen, choose NEXT.  To see the
previous screen, choose PREV.  To exit the rules, choose CANCEL.

HELP:

When you choose HELP, the cursor will change to the shape of a question
mark.  Click the question mark on the other icons to find out what they
do.

NOTE:  There is also a HELP choice in the individual game options screens.
The game options HELP gives information about the other choices in the
game options screen.

Page 4 \/

The Select Game Screen

The Select Game Screen appears after you select "GAMES" and offers you
your choice of six games: Checkers, Backgammon, Dominoes, Yacht, Snakes
and Ladders, and Pachisi.  To choose a game, click on that button.

Player Type Screen

in the Player Type Screen (except for Snakes and Ladders) you will choose
whether players will be human or computer players.

Player 1 is already set to HUMAN, but may be changed if desired.  To choose
human or computer opponents, click on HUMAN or COMPUTER next to Player 2,
etc.

You can use the Player Type Screen to decide whether to play against
1, 2 or 3 opponents, depending on how many players are needed in the
game.  You can also choose the order of the players on this screen.

Page 5 \/

Choose Opponents Screen

Each Choose Opponents Screen displays nine of the eighteen Sierra
characters from which you can choose opponents.  A button on the lower
left of the screen enables you to toggle between `Good Guys' and `Bad
Guys.'

To see the character's skill level in the game you have chosen - either
Beginner, Average or Expert, click on the character's name.

To select an opponent, click on the character's portrait.  To de-select
an opponent you have already chosen, click on the portrait again.

If you have not chosen characters to play the game, or if you attempt
to choose too many characters, you will receive a message to that effect.

Playing the Games

Game rules are included with each game.  To see the rules, choose the 
RULES icon.  If there is more than one screen of rules, you can move
forward and back one screen at a time with the NEXT and PREV buttons.

Page 6 \/

Checkers

Play checkers by clicking on the playing piece and dragging it to the 
desired square.

Checkers Options

Traditional Checkers/Frog Checkers  The Traditional Checkers set features
red and black playing pieces.  The Frog Checkers set consists of red and
green frogs.  Both sets use the same rules.

Must Jump - ON/OFF  If Must Jump is set to ON, the player must jump an
opponent's man if a jump is available.  If Must Jump is set to off,
the player can choose whether or not to make a jump.  The default setting
for this option is ON.  (If playing against computer, Must Jump will
always be on.)

Draw  Choosing the Draw option is equivalent to agreeing to call the
game a draw, in which case neither player wins.

Resign  Choosing the Resign option is equivalent to agreeing to resign
the game, in which case the opponent wins.

Page 7 \/

Backgammon

Play Backgammon by clicking on the playing pieces and dragging them to
the desired position onscreen.  To roll dice, click on the dice cup
on the left `hand side of the screen.  To double, click on the doubling
cube (when the doubling  option is turned to ON).

Backgammon Options

Doubling cube - ON/OFF  If the Doubling Cube option is set to ON,
players will have the option to double the game stakes at the beginning
of their turn.  If the option is set to OFF, no doubling option is
present.

Acey Ducey - ON/OFF  When the Acey Ducey option is set to ON, the game
will be played by the Acey Ducey game rules.  When the option is set
to OFF, the game will be played by regular Backgammon rules.  The
default setting for this option is OFF.  If you are playing against
a computer opponent.  Acey Ducey will always be off.

Alternate Board  The Alternate Board option toggles between two different
board designs.

Page 8 \/

Dominoes

To choose the dominoes for your hand, click on them.  They will be placed
in your hand automatically.

To play dominoes on the board, click on the domino you want to play and
drag it to the desired position on the screen.  To take dominoes from
the boneyard, click on the BONEYARD button.  When the boneyard is empty
the button becomes a PASS button.  When the game is over the button
becomes a SHUFFLE button to begin the next hand.

Dominoes Options

Must Play - ON/OFF  If Must Play is ON, a player must make a play if one
is possible before drawing a domino from the boneyard.  The default
setting for this option is OFF.

Highest Doublet - ON/OFF  If Highest Doublet is ON, the player with the
highest value doublet (domino having the same value at both ends) starts
the game play by playing that doublet.  The default for this option is ON.

Show Boneyard - OFF/ON  If Show Boneyard is ON, the dominoes remaining
in the boneyard at the end of the game will be displayed.  The default
setting for this option is ON.

Boneyard Minimum - 0/2  If Boneyard Minimum is set to 0, players will
not be able to pass a turn unless no dominoes remain in the boneyard.
If set to 2, players will be able to pass when 2 dominoes remain.  
The default setting for this option is 0.

Dominoes per Hand - 7/5  If Dominoes per Hand is set to 7, each player
will draw 7 dominoes before play begins.  If set to 5, each player will
draw 5.  The default setting for this option is 7.

Game Score - 100/200/300/400/500 Game Score can be set in increments of
100 from 100 to 500.  When either player reaches this score, that player
wins the game.  The default setting for this option is 100.

Default - Default sets all the game options to their default value.

Page 9 \/

Yacht

To roll dice, click on the ROLL button at the bottom left side of the
screen.

To keep some or all of the dice for scoring, click on them.  They will
travel to the bottom of the screen.  All dice not at the bottom of the
screen will remain in play.  Dice can also be moved from the bottom
of the screen back into play at any time before you have completed the
third roll in a game turn.

When you have completed the third roll in your turn, click on desired 
score category name once to highlight it and once more to lock in the
score.

Yacht Options

Lock in Selection - ON/OFF  When the Lock in Selection option is set to
ON, the player must choose a scoring category after the first roll.
Regardless of subsequent rolls, in their turns, players must score
that category.  Default is OFF.

Color Cycling - ON/OFF.  When color cycling is on, the background colors
will slowly cycle.  Default is ON.

Page 10 \/

Snakes and Ladders

Click on the spin button.  Move your game child by clicking on the square
the child should move to.  When your spin takes your game child to the
bottom of a ladder, the child will climb up a ladder.  When your spin takes 
your game child to the top of a snake, the child will slide down the snake.

Snakes and Ladders Options

There are three special screens in Snakes and Ladders you will see before 
the game begins:

How Many Real Kids?

At this screen you will choose whether you want one, two, three or four
living players for Snakes and Ladders.

Choose Who You Want To Be.

At this screen you will choose the game child or children for the living
players.

How Many Computer Kids?  

At this screen you will choose how many computer kids will play with you.

You can choose up to four players to play Snakes and Ladders.

All Finish/First Finish

When this option is set to All Finish, the game does not end until all
players have reached the final square.  When the option is set to First
Finish, the game will end when the first player reaches the final square.

Star On/Star Off

When this option is set to Star On, a gold star will appear on the square
where the game child's move should end by count of the spinner.  When
set to Star Off, the player must find the correct square by counting off
the number shown on the spinner.

Page 11 \/

Pachisi

To roll for position, click on the dice.  To roll for play, click on dice
again.  To move a pawn, click on the pawn and drag it to the desired
position on the screen.

Pachisi Options

Use Shells toggles between dice and cowrie shells for movement.

Alternate Board toggles between two different pachisi boards.

End.........
