SDI (Cinemaware)
----------------

Cheat:

When you're in the Russian space station, pick one man and keep firing at him 
10 to 15 times. No other men will appear and you can keep doing it until you
get the girl.

Guide:

Here are your objectives:
1. Destroy enemy fighters.
2. Repair damaged satellites. 
3. Eliminate Russian missile strikes. 
4. When the Russian station is overthrown (Natalya will call for help) you 
   must at least ATTEMPT a rescue. 
5. After leaving the Russian station, finish off the remaining enemy 
   fighters.


SPACE STATION

     Scanner - Click on the flashing green screen display.
     Satellite Status - The flashing display in the upper right hand
      corner brings up the S.D.I. satellite network.
     SDI Control - The two flashing screens in the middle take you to
      the missile defense sequence.
     Airlock - To enter the fighter click on your character in the
      center of the screen. An elevator will take you to the airlock.

Missile Defense: Target the inbounds by moving your cursor to the end of the
missile's arc and pressing the joystick button. The following information 
will be displayed:

     PRIMARY SATELLITE STATUS (functional or damaged)
     MISSILE DESTINATION (an American city)
     SATELLITE NUMBER
     MISSILE COORDINATES

Quickly press the button to continue. Now the screen prompts you for PRIMARY
or SECONDARY satellite sequencing. Move the joystick right to select PRIMARY
or left to choose SECONDARY. Then decide between FULL BEAM or PULSE. When 
the missile appears in your view screen, target it with the cursor and fire.

     *Primary - Selects the primary satellite for sequencing.
     *Secondary - If the primary satellite is damaged you MUST choose
      secondary at the prompt. (However, destroying the missile will
      be much more difficult.)
     *Full Beam - Discharges a single, powerful beam. Easier to
      target, but you have only one chance to hit the missile.
     *Pulse - Recommended with secondary sequencing. When missiles
      no longer appear click on the word "exit".


SHIP CONTROLS

The indicator on the left displays your speed.  Your fuel gauge is in the 
center and your shield status is displayed on the right.  The U.S. and 
Soviet stations will show up as dark black dots on your radar. Damaged 
satellites are displayed as smaller blinking dots. (Satellites that need to 
be repaired will blink on your main view screen as well.) When an enemy 
missile strike is called, the computer automatically begins counting down.
You have exactly two minutes to dock with the U.S. station, make repairs and
refuel, and enter the missile defense sequence.  Get back too early and 
you'll waste time.  Get back too late and you'll lose cities!  When the 
Russian station is overthrown, the timer will count down from four minutes.
The sooner you dock with the Russian station, the more time you'll have to 
rescue Natalya from the evil KGB.
The following keyboard commands are available:
     M - When the white message light is blinking press "m" to view
         the incoming message.
     + - Use the plus (+) and minus (-) to increase/decrease speed.
     D - Press "d" to engage docking mode.  Maneuver your ship with
         the joystick to center one of the two stations inside the
         red "docking target".  Press the joystick button to call up the
         computer aided docking sequence.  Press the "d" key again to
         return to "firing" mode.
     S - The scanner constantly updates relative positions on a world
         map.  Your ship is displayed as a small white triangle.
         Rotate your fighter by tapping the joystick to the left or
         right.  Your ship will move in the direction it's pointing.
         Accessing the scanner will return your ship to the correct
         altitude for docking and satellite repair.  Exit the scanner
         by pushing your button.
     R - Repairing satellites is similar to docking.  When the damaged
         satellite is centered in your green "repair target", push the
         button.  Press "r" again to exit repair mode.

Computer Aided Docking Sequence:

Center the docking port in your view screen using the joystick.  Your ship 
will accelerate automatically.  Slow down by pushing the joystick button to 
fire your retro rockets.  If you're not centered or moving too quickly, the 
docking will be aborted.  After a successful dock with the U.S. station, you
have an opportunity to refuel, recharge your shields, and make repairs.  
Move the cursor to the words highlighted in red and push your button.  To 
enter the station, select ENTER AIRLOCK.  Choose DISENGAGE to return to 
combat.  Fire your lasers by pushing the joystick button.  When your ship is
hit, the screen displays a close-up or your character.  Return to base if 
you need to make repairs.  Press the space bar to toggle the music on and 
off.