                      SEASTALKER             Part One

As you sit quietly at the workbench in your research laboratory, you're 
startled into action by the sound of the videophone alarm bell. You'd better 
act quickly, because your buddy Tip Randall is raising the roof. The first 
thing to do is turn on the videophone. As soon as you do that, though, you 
realize that the picture is fuzzy. That's easy to correct; simply adjust the 
videophone. There is Commander Zoe Bly, looking worried, and telling you 
about an urgent problem at the undersea Aquadome. You'd better pick up the 
microphone, then turn it on. 

After asking Bly about the problem, question her about the monster she's 
seen. Bly is sounding ever more desperate, so tell her goodbye. Suddenly, 
however, something's wrong with the videophone, and your score drops by 3 
points! 

Now is the time to go to the Computestor for a clue. First, turn off the 
microphone and drop the microphone onto the workbench. Then, head for the 
Computestor and turn it on. Since the machine is now ready for questions, 
ask it about the videophone. Hmmmm...the problem could be one of many, but 
you suspect that something may be wrong with the electrical panel. The panel 
is just down the hallway, so go to the panel, and examine it. Well, well, 
apparently the circuit breaker is open. By fixing the circuit breaker, you 
regain your 3 points. However, you are starting to wonder whether treachery 
is afoot here in the lab. It's time to have a chat with your assistant, 
Sharon Kemp. 

Go to the office and confront Sharon with your suspicions. Her answers are 
evasive, and she seems very nervous. Since time is growing short, you decide 
to leave Sharon and head for your sub, the "Scimitar." Realizing that the 
sub won't start unless you have the atomic catalyst capsule, you first 
examine the work counter. There is the capsule, so you grab it and head for 
the Scimitar. 

Once settled in the pilot's seat, with Tip nearby, you decide to check the 
sub for any problems. Pushing the test button gives you a positive readout, 
but you're still apprehensive. You will need to open the access panel in 
order to enter the sub's crawl space, but you don't have a tool. Maybe Tip 
has such an item? Tip comes through, handing you a Universal Tool. Open the 
access panel, and carefully crawl into the space. A check of the voltage 
regulator reveals that it is damaged. Use the tool to fix the regulator. Now 
all is A-OK, and you won't have any problems going full throttle to the 
Aquadome. 

You're ready to get underway, so crawl out of the space, close the access 
panel, close the sub's hatch, and put the catalyst capsule into the reactor. 
After closing the reactor, you'll need to turn on the reactor and fill the 
docking tank with seawater. Once the tank is filled, turn on the engine, 
open the tank gate, then open the throttle. Push the joystick to the east, 
and you're off! 

The surface of Frobton Bay isn't the safest spot around, so the first thing 
you need to do is set your depth to 5 meters and set the throttle to slow. 
You'll want to check the sonar occasionally to make sure you're not heading 
toward any obstacles. Your sequence of moves must be accurate to avoid 
destruction. 

One quick way to reach the seawall opening is to follow these moves: 
Northeast, then three Norths, then Northeast again, then wait. The alarm 
bells may be ringing, but you'll safely avoid a submerged obstacle. Then, 
suddenly, an approaching ship is detected by the sonar. You'll have to stop 
waiting and set your depth to 15 meters to dive below the ship. Wait again, 
and you'll chug right on through the seawall opening into the ocean. 

Be sure to save the game here, since you won't want to cross Frobton Bay 
again! You can turn on the autopilot now, since the sub will head straight 
for the Aquadome. Because you fixed the voltage regulator, you can set the 
throttle to fast without overheating. Wait now, as you continue diving 
deeper and deeper. To check out an enormous whale, aim your searchlight to 
starboard. The trip will take a little while longer, so you might want to 
ask Tip about that magazine he's reading. A close study of a particular 
article in the magazine reveals that Dr. Jerome Thorpe (an Aquadome staff 
member) has succeeded in creating mutant sea creatures. Further, Thorpe 
announces in the article that he plans to marry your lab assistant, Sharon 
Kemp! You're beginning to understand who's behind the attack on the 
Aquadome, and you're even more anxious to arrive. 

Wait a while longer, and then, as you near the structure, your sonarphone 
rings. It's Commander Bly, asking to speak privately with you when you 
arrive. You wait a few more turns, and the sub slows to a stop in the 
docking tank. Open the throttle to slide into the cradle. You wait while the 
water in the tank empties, and you save the game again. 


                      SEASTALKER             Part Two

Before opening the hatch and exiting the sub, you pick up the emergency 
oxgyen gear...just in case. Leave the Scimitar and head straight for the 
Aquadome's Reception Area where Bly and her crew await you. Greet them, and 
then take a quick look around. Your explorations are interrupted by a sudden 
realization that something is wrong with the air supply. Quickly using the 
oxygen gear you so intelligently brought with you, head for the Dome Center. 
Commander Bly and several crew members are gasping for breath, so time is 
short. Use the universal tool to open the access door to the air supply 
assembly. Instantly noticing that something has been unscrewed from an 
important cylinder, you pick up the object. It is an electrolyte relay. Put 
the relay into the cylinder, and close the access door. Your efforts are 
successful, and the air supply is now functioning properly. 

As you return to the Reception Area, you observe Doc Horvak with Bly's 
oxygen gear. You're suspicious, so when Bly ask you to accompany her to the 
office, you go with her. She volunteers some interesting information: She 
suspects sabotage in the Aquadome and shows you certain evidence. The 
evidence consists of a black box which you open and examine. This device 
could be used to interfere with the Aquadome's sonar, and Tip has an idea 
about how to trap the saboteur. 

Go to the Storage Room with Tip and discuss his idea. Before you reach the 
storage area, you notice the special Fram Bolt Wrench lying under Bly's 
desk. Realizing that the wrench must have been used to tamper with the air 
supply, you show it to Doc Horvak. His reaction proves most interesting. 

Now you need to do some serious thinking. Conversations with various crew 
members will assist you in your search for the traitor. Ask everyone about 
everyone else, check the locker in the men's dorm, set the black box onto 
the sonar, and observe everyone's behavior. 

Commander Bly will offer to supply you with a bazooka so that you can hunt 
the monster (the "Snark"). Get that from her and have Tip install it on the 
sub's extensor claw. Find Doc Horvak and show him the magazine article about 
Thorpe. Doc will come up with some interesting conclusions, and will offer 
to prepare a special tranquilizer gun for you. Get the dart gun and have Tip 
install that as well. 

During your explorations and conversations, Mick Antrim will check out the 
Scimitar then return and ask you whether you'd like to have an Emergency 
Survival Unit installed in the sub. You agree, then poke around a while 
longer until the unit is in place. It's time to think about improving your 
navigation and sonar -- the Snark will be difficult to capture or kill. You 
ask Tip about installing a fine grid and a fine throttle control in the sub, 
and he agrees to do so. 

You're about ready to head out into the ocean again, but you still haven't 
come to a firm conclusion about who the Aquadome traitor is. Once in your 
pilot's seat, however, you notice that the survival unit installed by Amy 
and Bill is equipped with a nasty looking syringe. Grabbing the syringe, you 
head for Doc Horvak and ask him to analyze it. His analysis reveals that the 
hypo is filled with arsenic! You'd better confront Amy and Bill with this 
evidence before you do anything else. 

The instant you show the syringe to Bill, he turns and runs away. He's 
heading for the sub, and you race to the office to view his actions on the 
station monitor. As you watch Bill climb down the inside ladder of the 
docking tank, you realize you have only seconds to trap him. You quickly 
turn off the docking tank electricity so Bill can't open the gate. He knows 
he can't get out now, so he surrenders. You turn the electricity back on, 
and leave the office. 

Cheers follow you as you head back to the Scimitar. After filling the 
docking tank with water, you turn on the engine and open the gate. Turning 
the joystick to the South, you open the throttle. Save the game, and head 
out into the ocean. 


                      SEASTALKER            Part Three

You're finally ready to confront the Snark and, perhaps, the evil Dr. 
Thorpe. Exit the Aquadome's docking tank by going South, then set the 
throttle to medium. Turn Southeast and wait until you reach the Snark and 
the Sea Cat (piloted by Dr. Thorpe). Thorpe will taunt you with his power, 
and admit his plan to wreck the Aquadome. 

Suddenly, Thorpe's transmission breaks off, and Sharon Kemp begins to speak 
to you. She explains how she only went along with Thorpe to try to trap him, 
and she's ready to help you capture the Snark. Sharon has a lot of 
interesting things to tell you, but you don't have time to talk to her right 
now. The Snark is moving quickly toward the Aquadome, 9-ady to batter it to 
bits. 

Here is one method you can use to put the Sea Cat out of commission before 
Thorpe has a chance to attack you: East twice, then check your sonar to make 
sure you're in position. Set throttle to slow, then turn South. Head 
Northwest four times. Oh oh! Dr. Thorpe has recovered consciousness and his 
voice is crackling over the sonarphone. Ignore him, and head Northwest twice 
more. The sub will be just to the East of the Sea Cat, so, all on one line, 
enter the following command: West then aim bazooka at power pod then shoot 
power pod with bazooka. 

There! You've done it! The Sea Cat is out of commission and Thorpe's out 
cold again. Sharon guides the Snark to its hidden cavern so that you can 
safely study it later. You've completed your mission and saved the Aquadome!