			      SORCERER
 
 Oh my goodness!  What's happening?  A hellhound is racing toward you and it 
looks hungry!  Is death anyway to start your new position with the Guild of 
Enchanters? Keep telling yourself this is only a dream...wait awhile and you'll 
wake up snug and safe in your bed inside Guildhall!  Whew!  But why is it so 
dark?  Oh!  Your FROTZ spell must've worn off during the night.  Oh well, just 
FROTZ yourself and get up and go west into the hallway. 
 
 Hmmm, what's this?  A note's been tacked to your door.  Read it if you want, 
but you have other things to do...like locating Belboz! Head south twice to the 
Lobby and go west into the Store Room.  Take the Ochre Vial and the Matchbook 
then go east back to the Lobby.  Reading the matchbook tells you about a nifty 
new potion you can order!  Open the receptacle, put the matchbook in it then 
close it.  Now go east into the Library. Later, after you finish the game, come 
back in here and read the Encyclopedia Frobizzica.  It's loaded with all sorts 
of information about your favorite Infocom games!  But for now, just get the 
scroll, GNUSTO MEEF into your spell book and go back west to the Lobby. 
 
 Now go north once and west into Helistar's Quarters. She's left behind a shiny 
new scroll!  Get the scroll then GNUSTO GASPAR into your spell book.  Learn 
GASPAR then GASPAR yourself (just in case!).  If you should happen to 
inadvertantly die during the game, the GASPAR spell will restore your character 
and put you back to where you last cast the GASPAR spell on yourself.  I hope 
you won't have to use it!  But if you do, at least you'll have it. Don't forget 
to re-cast it on yourself if you *do* die!  Go east back into the Hallway and 
north and west into Belboz's Quarters.  If you start getting hungry or thirsty 
messages, open the Ochre Vial and drink the potion. That will take care of any 
hunger or thirst for the rest of the game.  When you've used the option, just 
drop the vial. 
 
 In Belboz's Quarters, look behind the tapestry and get the key that falls to 
the floor.  Now open the desk drawer, get the journal, unlock it and read it. 
You'll learn what's happened to Belboz and what he has designated the current 
code to be.  Remember this code. Then look at the Infotater that came with your 
game.  Look up the name of the monster that Belboz named as the code and note 
the colors that correspond to the monster.  Write this color code down. You'll 
need it to open the trunk in the basement. 
 
 Drop the journal and the key and go east and south twice back to the Lobby. By 
now, the mailman has arrived and put your package in the receptacle.  Open the 
receptacle and get the Orange Vial. The issue of Popular Enchanting is useless. 
 Time to take your leave of the Guildhall and start your journey to look for 
Belboz! 
 
 Go down the stairs into the Cellar and push the buttons that correspond to the 
monster's color code.  You must do this correctly or else you'll have to start 
from scratch!  So it's a good idea to save your game before you start doing any 
button pushing! 
 
 As you push each button, you'll hear a click.  After pushing the last button, 
the trunk should pop open revealing  a moldy old scroll!  If it doesn't open, 
restore your game and push the buttons again. 
 
 When you read the scroll, you see it's called AIMFIZ and by casting it you'll 
be transported to someone else's location! Okay, let's AIMFIZ BELBOZ and see if 
that works! 
 
 Oh well, it didn't find Belboz for you, but at least you're out of the 
Guildhall!  But look at where you're at!  There's that blasted hellhound again 
and this time it's not a dream!  Quickly!  Go northeast to the Forest Edge. 
Whew!  The hellhound stops in its tracks and bellows at you.  Finally, it turns 
tail and slinks back into the trees. Looking around, you see a signpost next to 
a northern path, the road you just came in on back to the west, a wide rolling 
meadow to the east.  At the base of the signpost you see a slimy (ugh!) hole 
leading down.  Might as well take our chances with the hole right now. So grit 
your teeth and go down into the hole. 
 
 Upon going down the slimy hole you find yourself in a Snake Pit. Uh, let's not 
spend anytime here, okay?  Go down once more into the Slimy Room. It's not much 
better here, but at least there aren't any snakes or beetles! Go south to the 
Crater and west to the Edge of the Chasm. Now is a good time to read your Spell 
Book and see what new spells you've acquired since defeating the evil Krill in 
ENCHANTER.  Hmmm, a few new ones have been added! And it seems as if one of the 
new ones, IZYUK, is needed right here! 
 
 Learn IZYUK twice, then IZYUK yourself and you gently leave the ground!  Go 
west twice across the Chasm to Elbow Room.  Now go north to the Tree Room. What 
a splendid sight!  Who said Zorkmids didn't grow on trees? As you take a coin, 
though, the entire sight shimmers then disappears! Well, it seems that there's 
only one to a customer.  Go south and east back to the Bare Passage, IZYUK 
yourself again, then fly east twice back to the Crater. 
 
 Time to leave this strange place (for now!) so go north, up twice back to the 
Forest Edge then east and northeast to the River Bank.  Don't spend much time 
here since the River Bank may deteriorate beneath you! Learn PULVER then PULVER 
the river and go down into the dry River Bed.  As you look around at the 
flopping fish, you see a cave entrance to the northest. Go northeast into the 
Hidden Cave.  Looking around, you see a pile of Bat Guano, a Soiled Scroll and 
an Amber Vial.  The Amber Vial is useless in the game, so you can leave it. But 
be sure to get the Soiled Scroll and the Bat Guano!  GNUSTO FWEEP into your 
Spell Book and go down the hole to the Pile of Bones. 
 
 Now go southwest and up to the Ruins.  Nothing to see or do here, so learn 
IZYUK and go west twice back to the Meadow.  IZYUK yourself and fly northeast 
and southeast to the Fort Entrance.  If you hadn't been flying, you most 
certainly would've fallen into the river! (That river bank has started looking 
awfully unstable!)  If you're feeling sleepy, you can go to sleep here. 
 
 Go east onto the Parade Ground. You see a flagpole and high above, the flag of 
Quendor fluttering in the breeze!  Lower the flag and examine it.  While doing 
so, you notice a secret pocket and in the pocket you find an Aqua Vial!  Take 
the vial and go east to the Gun Emplacement.  Looking down into the barrel of 
the huge cannon, you see what appears to be a pile of ordinary scrolls!  But 
when you try to take one, your fingers get nipped by sharp little teeth! If you 
read about YIPPLES in your Infotater, you'll soon learn that that's what you've 
found inside the barrel!  Put the Bat Guano into the cannon barrel. As you do, 
dozens of little scrolls pour out and run away in every direction!  When you 
look back inside the barrel, though, you see one ordinary scroll is left! Take 
the Ordinary Scroll.  You can't GNUSTO it because of its complexity. Just carry 
it with you. 
 
 Time to leave, so go west twice to the Fort Entrance.  You'll have to learn 
IZYUK twice again because you'll have to go back via the River Bank.  IZYUK 
yourself and fly northwest and southwest to the Meadow.  Now IZYUK yourself 
again and fly east twice into the Ruins. The reason for this second IZYUK is 
because the Drawbridge has the same bad habit of disintegrating! 
 
 Go down twice to the Highway and east to the Toll Gate.  A fat gnome is 
sleeping soundly behind the toll gate.  Waken him and give him the Zorkmid. As 
you hand him the coin, he lifts the gate allowing you to pass through, then he 
promptly falls back asleep...poor old thing! Go east twice then north twice to 
Outside the Glass Arch. 
 
 Learn FWEEP three times, drop all your possessions and prepare to enter the 
strangest maze you've ever seen! 
 
 Go east to the Inside of the Glass Maze.  All around you, you see Glass!  The 
walls, the floors, the ceilings are all clear!  It's impossible to tell what's 
there and what isn't! This is where FWEEP will help you out, so FWEEP yourself 
once.  Amazing!  You've turned yourself into a Bat! But, better yet, you've now 
got a built-in sonar and can "see" where the openings are! Follow closely, now, 
and don't get lost! 
 
 Go north, east, south twice, west, down, east twice, north twice, up twice, 
south and east.  Whew!  Solid ground again!  You're outside the Maze and see a 
parchment scroll here!  But as you pick it up, you hear fiendish laughter and 
out of the corner of your eye, you see the glass in the Maze shift ever so 
slightly!  Now what?  Someone's shifted the paths inside and it's the only way 
out of here! Drop the scroll down the hole (you can't possibly carry the scroll 
when you become a bat again!).  FWEEP yourself again and.... 
 
 Uh-oh.  Now you've done it!  From the base of the cliff, a huge Dorn Beast 
comes galloping and roaring toward you!  Quickly re-enter the Maze!  Remember, 
though, that the panels have shifted and with that Dorn Beast on your, uh, 
"heels," you can't afford to make any mistakes! 
 
 Go west twice, south and east.  The Dorn Beast, not realizing it can't fly 
comes charging after you! It lets out a high-pitched squeal and goes plummeting 
to its death!  Thank goodness!  Now you can continue at a more leisurely (but 
not TOO leisurely!) pace.  Go down twice (past the splattered remains of the 
Dorn Beast), west twice, up twice, north twice, down and east. Here, the FWEEP 
spell will wear off, so FWEEP yourself again and continue by going south, east, 
north, down, west, south, west, up, and west to the Outside of the Glass Arch. 
 
 You'll continue to fly for a few more turns, so wait until the FWEEP spell 
wears off, then pick up all your possessions, go south twice and enter the Hut. 
Inside the fireplace of the Hut you see the Parchment Scroll!  Get the scroll 
and GNUSTO SWANZO.  You should be getting pretty tired by now, too, so go to 
sleep and take a breather. 
 
 Once you're bright-eyed and bushy-tailed again, go out, and west twice back to 
the gnome.  With a little petty larceny in your heart, search the (still) 
sleeping gnome.  In one of his pockets you find and take your Zorkmid back. No 
time for guilty feelings, though, so go west twice back to the Bend, southwest 
to the Edge of the Crater and down into the Crater. 
 
 From here go down into the Winding Tunnel and southwest to the Park Entrance. 
When you try to enter the Park, though, a force field bars your way and soon, a 
gawdily dressed gnome appears and tells you admittance to the Park is one 
Zorkmid!  Well, crime doesn't pay afterall!  Give the pilfered Zorkmid to the 
gnome and go west twice and south to the Arcade. 
 
 A hawker is standing here inside a "Bash the Bunny" booth and is asking you to 
try your hand at this innocent passtime!  Time to put the Aqua Vial to use. 
Open the vial and drink the potion. Suddenly, your muscles vibrate and you feel 
stronger!  Drop the vial and take the ball from the hawker.  As you throw the 
ball at the bunny, it goes spinning around!  The hawker gives you a Glittering 
Scroll as your prize and tells you to "scram"!  No time to argue with him right 
now.  Go north, east twice, northeast an south to the Hall of Carvings. 
 
 On the southern wall, you see an extremely lifelike carving of a dragon! Read 
both the Ordinary Scroll and the Glittering Scroll.  You'll see that YONK 
augments the power of one scroll and that MALYON gives life to inanimate 
objects.  Do you think we should bring this dragon to life?  It's certain you 
can't go any farther and that dragon might be hiding a secret entrance! 
 
 YONK the MALYON scroll then MALYON the dragon. The words of the MALYON scroll 
glow brightly for a moment and the dragon comes impossibly to life!  As the 
stones from the wall fall around it, it roars with pain and anger! When it sees 
you, it thinks all this pain is caused by you!  It rears back its huge head and 
with smoke billowing from its nostrils, prepares to turn you into a crispy 
critter!  Just as the dragon takes a step toward you, it suddenly reverts to 
stone!  Whew...saved!  But look!  Where the dragon used to be, there is now an 
entrance into a southern passage! 
 
 Before you go south into the passage, wait until your muscles feel limp. Then 
open the Orange Vial.  You should only be carrying the Orange Vial and your 
Spell Book now.  Go south into the Sooty Room. The noxious odor of sulfur comes 
from the room to the east.  But there is no other way to go, so go east. As you 
enter the Coal Bin Room, you hear a thunderous roar behind you as the entrance 
is sealed shut by the collapsing tunnel!  Not only that, the air in here isn't 
going to be breathable for long!  Quickly drink the potion from the Orange Vial 
then drop the vial.  As you do so, someone slides down the coal chute!  As you 
look closely, you seem to be looking at your twin! 
 
 Make careful note of the number your "twin" gives you, then give him your  
Spell Book.  When you hand him your book, he takes it and makes a mad dive  
down the coal chute leaving you quite alone!  No time to waste, however, since 
your potion won't last long!  Go east into the Dial Room and set the dial on  
the door to the number your older self gave you.  Open the door and go east  
into the Shaft Bottom.  You should be empty handed.  If you're not, drop  
everything you're carrying!  Get the rope you see here and go up and southwest 
to the Coal Mine. Tie the rope to the beam you see here and get the beam. Now  
go northwest and west to the Top of the Chute. Put the beam across the chute,  
drop the rope down the chute and climb down the rope. 
 
 As you climb down the rope, you clamber inside a small opening you see off to 
the side of the chute and find yourself in the Slanted Room.  If you'd been 
carrying anything, you wouldn't have been able to get in here.  Looking around 
the room you see a Shimmering Scroll and an odd lantern with an open drawer in 
it.  Read the scroll and you see it's for a spell that will take you back in 
time!  GOLMAC yourself and open the lantern.  Inside the lantern you find a 
Smelly Scroll! Take the Smelly Scroll (leave the Shimmering Scroll) and quickly 
go east down the coal chute!  Your VILSTU potion has about run out and it's 
doubtful you will survive unless you can get out of here quickly! 
 
 When you arrive back in the Coal Bin Room, standing before you is your younger 
self!  He/You is dropping an Orange Vial!  Quickly tell your younger self what 
the combination to the Dial is!  When he gives you the Spell Book, go down the 
chute and outside to.... 
 
 Fresh air and a Lagoon!  As your VILSTU potion wears off, you get incredibly 
sleepy -- an unfortunate side effect -- so go to sleep. When you wake up, learn 
MEEF twice and SWANZO once.  Drop everything you're carrying and go east into 
the Lagoon and dive.  On the bottom of the Lagoon you see a tangle of 
spenseweeds.  MEEF the weeds and get the crate they were hiding.  Go west back 
to the Lagoon Shore, drop and open the crate.  Get only the Grue Repellent. Get 
the Smelly Scroll and go northeast and north to the Mouth of the River.  Those 
are stinging vines around the cave entrance and they'll kill you!  MEEF the 
vines and read the Smelly Scroll.  The scroll is a protection scroll!  VARDIK 
yourself, spray the Grue Repellent on yourself and go west twice past the Grue 
Lair into the Mammoth Cavern. 
 
 Before you stand three doors.  Belboz is behind the White Door. The other two 
doors open to miserable, everlasting, certain pain and agony!  Open the White 
Door and you see Belboz lying here in a trance of some sort!  SWANZO Belboz. As 
you do, you see the translucent shape of Jeearr rise from Belboz's body.  It 
wafts towards you and "feel" a disembodied voice threatening to take possession 
of your body from wherein it will reign in terror for a thousand thousand  
years. 
 
 As it begins to contract around you, it suddenly senses your protection from 
the VARDIK spell!  Screaming in terror and agony, Jeearr knows he has been 
beaten!  With a final scream, he disappears and all is quiet. 
 
 Slowly, Belboz rises, questions you briefly, then speaks a spell that returns 
you both to the Chamber of the Circle of Enchanters. There, he tells the others 
what you have done and that he has finally found one to replace him when he 
steps down as the Head of the Circle...you!

End..........