                          S P A C E   R O G U E 
                                 (Origin)

                 Information compiled by John R. Barnsley
GENERAL ADVICE
Your  ship  is  really the "character" you'll develop, by equipping it with
armament  and  other gear. Concentrate upon learning to fly the ship first,
for which a joystick is essential.

Use the QUERY option to pick up messages and detect other spacecraft.

MAKING MONEY
Forget  playing  Hive,  which  takes too long to make credits. For trading,
outfit  the ship with four cargo pods then load some cargo aboard. The best
trade route is to/from Denebprime, Deneb and Free Trader's, Bassruti.

The cargo lists and prices change every 24 hours at each Station, generally
fluctuating four to eight credits either way.

At  Free  Traders,  buy forged CRs, Explosives and X-Rated Holos to sell at
Denebprime.   At  Denebprime,  buy  Brandy,  Exotic  Pets,  Videogames  and
Souvenirs to sell at Free Traders.

You  can  often get better prices on all items elsewhere, but these are the
most  efficient  trade  routes  for  making  money  in  a  hurry.  To  sell
contraband, you need Forged Cargo Papers from Robocrook.

If  planning  a  life of piracy, pick a Scow for your first target. Pack at
least ten plasma torpedoes and three SM-1 and two Nova missiles. A particle
beam  laser  is also handy. When firing missiles, be sure your opponent has
an inactive counter measure and isn't in an elude manoeuvre.

As  you  make  more credits invest in Turbo-thrusters, more shielding and a
75% ECM unit (By completing certain missions, you'll get more gear).

ROBOCROOK & OTHER CHARACTERS
Robocrook  appears  randomly  in  bars  across the quadrants. Keep offering
cash, and he may sell you some useful items: Forged Cargo Papers, Keycards,
the  Ruby Cube. Other randomly appearing characters to seek out are Ilricki
(for  useful information on Black Hand and the Manchi), Wandering Spaceman,
Veda  the  Ursellus  (sells  Amoebic  Lenses),  One-eyed  Pirate,  and  the
Merchant.  Bartenders  always  have  current  information and tips, and you
should talk to everyone you meet for more.

It's  possible to steal from safes, but expect to pay a fine and get kicked
off the base or planet if caught!


                               THE MISSIONS

Most  of  these  may  be completed in any order, though a few require items
from  other  missions.  Each  mission's  starting  point is noted after its
name.

STEALTH BOX: MICON I
Talk  to Sir Eld on Micon I, Karonus. He'll give you a Statuette to deliver
to Orellian at Hiathra Starbase. Do so, saying it is not a bribe. Return to
Eld,  who'll  give  you  some valuable information and a Stealth Box, which
reduces the chances of detection by enemy ships.



PILOT'S LICENSE: HIATHRA
This  is  obtained  by  answering  multiple-choice  questions when you meet
Orellian  on  Hiathra,  Karonus. Ask him for the CRC-07 Form, used to visit
Koth Carrier.

CEBOK'S SISTER: KARONUS
Cebok  tells  you  to  find his sister on Lagrange for information on Hive.
Then deliver the letter to Cebok for more tips.

BEAM LOCK: DENEBPRIME
See Felsane on Denebprime for a quest to find the Beam Lock, which makes it
easier to target ships with your laser.

MICROCHIP DELIVERY
After meeting the Pirate in a bar and accepting the job, take the microchip
to Chisa at Free Guild.

NULL DAMPER: ARCTURUS
After  finding  Veda the Ursellus (who appears randomly in bars) and buying
the  Amoebic  Lenses  for  250  CR,  head for the ISS Koth, Arcturus. Use a
keycard  to  open  the  door  to  the  restricted area, then go through and
immediately  go  to the left (to avoid the hidden floor alarm). Examine the
Power  Generator  in  the  back of the room and get the Transmutation Coil.
Take  it  to  Professor  Prosk on Micon IV, ZED N27. Accept the Null Damper
when offered.

REPAIR DROID: RANDOM
Eventually  you'll  encounter  a Droid named LUX 23A, who wants you to look
for  his  Droid friend MAID. MAID is hiding at Free Trader's under the name
of  CHISHA.  Mention LUX and she'll come with you as a Repair Droid. Return
her to LUX, and you'll get no reward beyond a good conscience. Keep her and
you've got a very valuable Repair Droid for your ship!

DUCHESS AVENSTAR: DENEBPRIME
After  fifteen  to  twenty cargo runs between Denebprime and Free Trader's,
you  should  have enough credits to fully outfit your ship, assuming you've
been  adding  equipment  all  along.  You'll need at least 500 Armour, some
missiles,  good  Shields  and  a Particle Beam. Before you can successfully
communicate with Duchess Avenstar on Denebprime, you must prove yourself by
killing  a few Manchi in space. (Destroying Vultures will help. After doing
so,  she'll  tell  you  about General Targon, AKA Rayson, and his mission's
code name....MAKE A CAREFUL NOTE OF THIS!!)

TARGON: MICON II, ARCTURUS
Though  you  can  find him here, Targon is insane and needs an injection of
NSB  before  he  can reveal anything to you. The NSB is at Bassruti Mining,
guarded  by  a mutant monster. To get it, land at Bassruti, walk around the
front of your ship to the left and down. Wait a few seconds by the southern
door;  the  monster  will be trying to get to you but will get trapped in a
storage compartment. After a few more seconds, enter the door to your left.
Go  through the door to the lower left in the Generator Room. Keep going to
the  left,  and you'll be in the Inner Office. Head straight for the filing
cabinet  in the corner and search it for the NSB. Retrace your path back to
the ship. If this method fails, try again, but wait a little longer for the
monster to get trapped. You have to be careful not to accidentally lure him
out of the compartment. (Another way: lure the monster to the right side of
the  room,  keeping the trash pile between him and yourself. Go through the
southwest  door,  use the keycard on the south door, open the safe, get the
NSB and return to your ship).

Now  you  can  head for Micon II, Arcturus, and find Targon rambling around
the  halls.  Talk  to  him  and  give him one credit. When you get an OTHER
option,  take  it  and  enter NSB. Then you'll get another OTHER option, so
type  in  the name of his mission that you should have noted earlier. He'll
spill  all  he  can  before  going nuts again. Take this information to the
Duchess,  who'll  send  you  to  find  Droughton Gut, leader of the Scarlet
Brotherhood at Free Trader's Outpost.

PSIONIC SHIELD: GRYPHON
You'll  need  this  item, which protects you from the powers of Vilinie, to
complete  the  final  mission.  First  talk  to  Omas  in  the back room on
ConvecEast  Mining  Station, Gryphon. He'll ask you to rescue his wife from
the Black Hand Cult. She's at the Meditation Room in Trochal, Sigure. After
you  talk  to her, she'll tell you she's abandonded Omas. Return to him for
the Shield.

DROUGHTON GUT: FREE TRADER'S
Gut  won't  talk  to  you  until  you  prove your allegiance to the Scarlet
Brotherhood.  To  do so, attack a few Tankers or Scows, take their cargo to
Free  Trader's  and  talk  to  Omar.  He'll  grant permission to speak with
Droughton. After doing so, he'll help you steal the Chi-Gonger (Manchi Egg)
from Vilinie on Trochal.

MANCHI EGG: TROCHAL, SIGURE
Due  to  a  diversion  by  the Scarlet Brotherhood, the guards will be in a
state  of  confusion when you land. Go straight to Vilinie's room. When she
stops  and  tells you to remove the Psionic Shield, DON'T. The guards won't
respond  to  her summons. Go to the far right of the room and pick the lock
on the door. Enter, take the Egg and get out of there!

ICHIKI & THE BAAKILI
After  obtaining  the  Egg, return to Gut. He'll tell you to find a Baakili
trader  and  ask  him  about the Manchi. The Baakili also require payment -
some  Dilithium Crystals from a trash pile outside the back door of the bar
in the upper corner of Ross Mining Station, Deneb (keep searching until you
find  them).  Keep  searching  bars  until  you meet Ichiki, then ask about
Manchi  and pay him with Gems. Write down the co-ordinates he gives you for
the  Manchi's  home  system,  Ja-Karn.  Return  to  Gut  and  tell him your
findings. He'll direct you to Prosk, the mad scientist from Micon IV.

THE WARP DRIVE & END GAME
Prosk  is  working  on the Warp Drive. When you tell him the situation this
time,  Prosk will warp you to the co-ordinates you give him; enter the ones
from  Ichiki.  You've  got to be heavily outfitted just to reach the Manchi
homeworld. Plot a course for the planet, and SAVE the game frequently. This
saves  you the trouble of having to start all over from the far corner when
you get blasted by a pack of Vultures. Once you reach the planet, land.

                              PLACES & PEOPLE
     STAR SYSTEM             PLACES            PEOPLE
      Karonus              Hiathra Starbase     Orellian, Cebok,
                           Micon I Outpost      Robots, Sir Eld,
                                                Miners, Barnett.

      Gryphon              ConvecEast Mining    Omas, Old Miner.

      Arcturus             Koth Carrier         Old Man
                           Micin II Mining      Drak, Targon.

      Deneb                Denebprime Starbase  Princess, Duchess,
                                                Felsane.
                           Ross Mining          Robot LUX, Dr.Farah.

      Nar'see              Lagrange Mining      Tyra(Cebok's sister).

      Stiguere             Trochal Outpost      Omas' wife.

      Bassruti             Bassruti Mining      Monster guarding NSB.
                           Free Guild Outpost   Gut, Cherisa, Omar.

      Zed                  Micon IV Mining      Prof. Prosk.

(Random characters:- Robocrook, Ilricki, Wandering Spaceman, Veda the
Ursellus, One-eyed Pirate, Merchant).