 SPACE QUEST II
     Part 1

 (NOTE: In this walkthru, "east" refers to the right of the screen,
"west" refers to the back of the screen, "north" refers to the top of
the screen, and "south" refers to the bottom of the screen.)
 As our story opens, you, Roger Wilco, sanitary engineer extraordinaire,
are doing what you do best -- swabbing an outer deck of Xenon Orbital
Station 4. A beep from your wrist watch interrupts your reverie. A look
at the watch reveals buttons labeled H, T, and C. Press C. A message
from your boss tells you to get back in the station on the double and
clean up a mess made by a space-sick passenger in the shuttle. (You get
all the most desirable jobs!) Walk up the wall and across the ceiling
(Isn't zero-gravity fun?) to the airlock entrance. Stand on the
entrance, and in a few seconds you will be transported inside the
station.

 Once inside the station, walk over to the spacesuits on the back wall
and take a uniform. Take a moment to check your inventory. You have a
filled-out order form for a Labion Terror Beast Mating Whistle, which is
ready to be mailed, and a dialect translator. Now walk over to the
lockers and open a locker. Take the jockstrap and the Cubix Rube puzzle
that you find inside. Exit the airlock through the door on the west side
of the room.
 As you enter the control room, your boss tells you to get over to the
shuttle on the double. The other crew persons in the control room aren't
inclined to waste time with you either, so you have no choice but to go
and stand on the transport lift on the west side of the room. Once
you've been lifted to the transport level, walk over to the transport
tube entrance and get in. In a few seconds you find yourself in the
shuttle bay. Walk down the stairs and enter the shuttle from the rear.
HEY! What's going on here?! You don't have much time to think about it
before one of the thugs gives you a love tap on the noggin and turns out
your lights.
 When you come to, you find yourself helplessly pinned down inside an
asteroid fortress orbiting a forest planet. You are in the presence of a
hideous alien who is obviously keeping himself alive by artificial
means. The alien patiently explains to you that he is Sludge Vohaul, the
evil intellect behind the plot to steal the star generator that you
foiled in SPACE QUEST I. Now Vohaul has decided to take his revenge on
you and your home world of Xenon. He shows you his fiendish plot to
loose thousands of genetically engineered insurance salesmen who won't
take no for an answer on Xenon.

 You quickly realize that humanity hasn't been in so much danger since
"Super Car" was canceled, but just right now there's nothing you can do
about it. Vohaul's goons hustle you back aboard the shuttle and
transport you down to the forest planet to begin serving a life sentence
as a slave in Vohaul's mines. But before you reach the mines, the little
hovercraft carrying you and two guards runs out of fuel and crashes to
the forest floor!
 When you come to, you find yourself in the middle of a strange forest
with one of the guards (who evidently broke your fall) lying quite dead
beside you. Search his body and take the keycard from his uniform. The
other guard is lying dead in the remains of the hovercraft. A steady
beep is coming from the wreck and you realize that it could attract
searching guards. Walk over to the wreck, look inside, and push the
button. The homing device is now turned off. Exit the screen to the
north.

 Now these woods are strange indeed! (Don't try climbing the trees
unless you save your game first!) At some point in your journey through
this forest you will hear the sound of another hovercraft searching for
you. You can always avoid this hovercraft by quickly exiting the screen
that you are on; however, you won't get any points for it, and the
hovercraft will return. The better way is to find a place in the dense
foliage where your body is completely hidden. Wait motionless for the
hovercraft to appear and then leave. This will earn you 5 points and the
thugs will not return.
 Also at some point on this screen, you will hear the sound of a rope
snapping and a high-pitched shriek. When this happens, exit the screen
near the southeast corner. You will come upon a strange little creature
hanging upside down in a hunter's snare. Walk over to the little pink
fellow and free him from the rope. Exit the screen to the west and then
go up the hill and west. You are now on a plateau with a mailbox at the
end of it. Put your Labion Terror Beast Mating Whistle order form in the
mailbox's slot. Instantly a genuine Labion Terror Beast Mating Whistle
appears on the tray! (Just like the U.S. Mail, right?) Take the whistle
and exit the plateau back around to the east and back south down the
hill.
 Now exit the screen to the west. Did the spores knock you out? Well, no
matter. Take one of the spores anyway. (They're those pretty little
flowers on the ground.) You'll need it. Exit the screen to the
northwest. What on Earth (or wherever you are) is this thing? Well, it's
alive and it's very hungry as you will learn to your sorrow if you touch
any part of it. But this vine creature is also a maze. If you look
carefully, you can see that there is clear pathway through the creature
leading to the bushes at the north of the screen. You may have also seen
the little pink fellow that you freed from the rope gathering some of
the berries from those bushes. Maybe those berries are important.

 Carefully work your way along the path through the vine creature.
(HINT: Save your game as you complete each little section of the
creature/maze). Now take some of the berries from the bushes. Don't
bother trying to eat them, the smell will deter you anyway. Work your
way back through the vine creature/maze the way you came, again saving
as you go. Exit the screen to the south. Go east and then go north up
the hill and east.
 You now find yourself at the edge of a dismal swamp. And that little
pink creature is here again. As you watch, he smears the berries over
his body and disappears into the swamp. Take your cue from the little
fellow and smear the berries over your uniform, too. Once that is done,
enter the swamp and exit the screen to the east. Wow! It's a good thing
those smelly berries made you unappetizing or you would have been lunch
for that swamp creature. Now that you're safely in the swamp, take some
time to explore before leaving. If you walk around the north end of the
screen, a little bit east of center, you'll come to deep water where you
have to swim instead of walk.
 When you reach that point, take a deep breath (Important!) and dive
under the surface. Under the surface, you'll see an underwater cave
leaving the screen to the west. Follow the cave, and you'll find
yourself surfacing in a strangely glowing cavern. A quick inspection
reveals that the glow is coming from a rock sitting on an altar-like
boulder in the cavern. Take the glowing rock. Re-enter the water, take a
deep breath again, and dive below the surface. Swim back to the surface
of the swamp the way you came in. Then exit the swamp to the east.

 SPACE QUEST II
     Part 2

 You're back in the clear again, but there's a deep chasm blocking your
progress to the east, and there's no where else to go. Better climb that
dead tree at the edge of the chasm to get a better view. WHOA! CRAAACK!
That tree wasn't too steady, was it? But now its trunk is wedged tightly
across the top of the chasm, forming a natural bridge. Crawl across the
log and exit the screen to the east. Proceed through the forest to the
east and...oops! Trapped again! This time you're hanging upside down,
the blood is rushing to your head, and soon you black out.
 When you come to, you find yourself securely locked in a wooden cage. A
big, ugly brute of a hunter is getting a fire ready for his dinner, and
you can just guess what he plans on having for his main course! Better
think of a way out of here. Wait a minute! Remember that knock-out spore
you picked up? Here's the perfect place to use it, but you're going to
have to get the hunter closer to the cage, so that you can reach the key
when he falls. The best way to get that oaf's attention is to yell at
him. If he doesn't respond the first time you call, yell again. OK, that
got his attention and here he comes. Wait until he's right next to the
cage and throw the spore. Got him! Now get the key and unlock the cage.
Open the door, leave the cage, and pick up the rope that's lying on the
rock. Then exit the screen to the north.

 You find yourself at the edge of a plateau. You can see the shuttle
platform, where you first came to this planet, off in the distance. But
don't try walking that way yet! Moving any distance at all toward the
north of the screen will take you right into the guns of Vohaul's thugs.
Instead, immediately exit the screen to the west. Walk west through the
forest until you again arrive at the chasm. Now the only way to go is
down. Fortunately, you have the rope. You can tie the rope to either the
stump or the log. Save the game, and try tying the rope to the stump.
You'll get 2 points for it.
 Now climb down the rope and...well, I guess tying it the stump didn't
work too well. Tie the rope to the log. Again, you'll get 2 points, but
this time things are much more secure. Climb down the rope.
 Nice situation huh? You find yourself hanging over a bottomless chasm.
On the ledge to the east is very large, very hungry looking monster. On
the ledge to the west is a cave leading into the cliff. On the whole,
the ledge to the west looks more desirable. But how to get there? Climb
down to the end of the rope (but not too far), and swing on the rope.
Gradually the arc of your swing will get larger and larger. To time when
the swing is large enough, wait until the monster starts trying to grab
you. Then, when the rope is at the far western edge of its arc, let go.
Nicely done!

 You're safely on the western ledge. Enter the cave. The cave leads off
into darkness, but there's no where else to go. So as you enter the
darkness, hold the glowing rock. Ah, just enough light to see the
passage leading to the west. Follow the passage and...oops! Here we go
again -- tumbling down into the darkness!
 When you reach the bottom, you find yourself back out in the daylight
and on the floor of a rock-strewn canyon. And here are a couple of those
little pink guys again, telling you to follow them! Before you do,
however, take a moment to pick up the glowing rock, which you dropped
during your fall. Then exit the screen to the south. You've entered a
cul-de-sac on the canyon floor, and as you're wondering where the exit
is, the chief of the little pink creatures appears. He thanks you for
the rescue of their friend. In return, he tells you to "just say the
word" and his people will show you the way out. So type SAY THE WORD.
When you do, two of the little creatures push aside a boulder, revealing
an entrance to an underground passage. Climb down.

 Now you're completely in the dark! How are you going to see where
you're going if you have to use your hands to grip the ladder? What's
more, you can also hear the bone-chilling cries of a terrible cave
monster! Well, what are mouths for? To hold rocks, of course. So hold
the glowing rock in your mouth. Well, that's a little better, at least
you can see where you're going.
 A little exploration would reveal that this underground complex is
really a maze of vertical ladders intersected by horizontal tunnels. But
who wants to explore when there's a hungry monster after you? So here's
the quickest way out:
 Climb down to the first intersection. Crawl east to the next
intersection. Climb down to the next intersection. Crawl east to the
next intersection. Climb down to the bottom of this ladder. Crawl east
to the next intersection. Climb down to the next intersection. Crawl
west to the next intersection. Climb down to the bottom of this ladder.
Crawl west two intersections. Climb down two intersections. Finally,
crawl east all the way out of the tunnel.
 You're now in a cavern through which a beautiful, sparkling stream
flows. Enter the water and follow the stream off the screen to the east.
Keep following the stream as it winds around, until you have to choose
between branches that flow to the left and the right. Choose the branch
to the right (the left one leads to certain death). You will find
yourself being sucked into a whirlpool, and you emerge from the
whirlpool considerably rung out but none the worse for wear.

 At last you're back in the great outdoors. Go east and leave the pond.
You can now see the bottom of the shuttle platform very close by, but
impenetrable stone walls prevent you from getting to it. This is a
situation that calls for some outside help. Remember your Labion Terror
Beast Mating Whistle? Now's the time to blow it. Sure enough, here comes
a Labion Terror Beast blasting a hole right through the wall! At this
point, if you don't have the Cubix Rube puzzle, get back in the water
and move off the screen before the Beast reaches you and tears you
apart. If you do have the puzzle, throw it to the Beast. This will earn
you 10 big points.
 While the Beast is "puzzling" over the puzzle (or after you return from
the water) head for the opening that has been blasted in the rock wall.
Before exiting the screen, pause to take one of the small rocks in the
pile of rubble at the opening made by the Beast. Finally exit the screen
to the north.
 Now the shuttle platform, with its promise of escape, looms before you.
But spoiling the scene is one of Vohaul's guards patrolling the lower
level of the platform. Using the bushes as a screen, wait until the
guard is out of view, and move to a hiding place behind the forward set
of bushes. At this point, if you do not have the jockstrap, time the
guard's movements so that you can move under the platform to the door on
the right platform leg without the guard seeing you. You won't get any
points for this, but it works.

 If you do have the jockstrap you can use it to throw the stone so as to
distract the guard and then move to the door. This will net you 10
points. Better yet, you can remove the menace of the guard permanently
by using the jockstrap to throw the stone AT the guard, hitting him in
the head and killing him. In order to make sure of your shot, wait until
the guard pauses at the center of his catwalk, then throw the stone at
him with the jockstrap. This will net you 20 points.
 Once you have reached the platform door, insert your keycard and enter
the elevator. When you arrive at the top of the platform, much to your
surprise (and relief), you find an empty shuttle waiting for you. Walk
around to the rear of the craft and enter the shuttle. Once seated in
the cockpit, look around. You see an instrument panel before you and a
throttle control between your legs. Look at the instrument panel. You
see a power button, an attitude control dial, and an ascent thruster
button.
 Press the power button and you see all the monitor screens light up.
Turn the attitude dial. The game will inform you that the controls are
now set at VAC (Vertical Attitude Control). Press the thruster button,
then look at the monitor. It will inform you that thrusters are ready.
If you have a joystick, pull back on it (or press the "down arrow"
cursor key), and the ship will lift off. Hold the joystick back, until
the game informs you that you are off the planet.

 When a computerized voice tells you that minimum altitude has been
achieved, turn the attitude dial again. It will now be set at HAC
(Horizontal Attitude Control). Push the joystick forward (or press the
"up" cursor key), and the shuttle will begin moving forward. This won't
last long, however, because suddenly all the monitor screens are filled
with the image you least wanted to see -- the ugly face of Sludge
Vohaul! He gleefully informs you that he has taken control of the
shuttle and that you are now on an automatic journey to his asteroid
fortress. Nothing for it now, but to hang on and enjoy (?) the ride!
Enter choice !3


 SPACE QUEST II
     Part 3

 When you step out of the shuttle inside Vohaul's asteroid complex,
you're surprised to find that there are no guards there to greet you. In
fact, the complex seems completely deserted. But you know that Vohaul
must be watching. Anyway, you still need to work your way out of this
mess. Taking a look around, you see that the shuttle platform seems to
be suspended in space, with catwalks leading away from it to the east
and to the west. A stairway leads down to the south. Above you, another
catwalk, which seems inaccessible, crosses the shuttle bay from west to
east. Take the east catwalk, and exit the screen in that direction.
 You find yourself at an elevator. Enter the elevator. Look at the
elevator. You see a read-out, currently reading Level One, and a panel.
Look at the panel. The panel contains a row of buttons. Look at the
buttons. The buttons read "one," "three," "four," and "five." Press
"three." In a minute, you find yourself at the end of long corridor
stretching away to the west.
 A note of caution about these corridors. Periodically, you'll see an
odd contraption moving along the corridor toward you. These are
automatic floor waxers, and if they catch up with you, they'll ground
you into a thin sheet and turn you into part of the floor. If you see
one approaching, move immediately into a doorway or elevator opening and
wait for it to turn around and go back in the opposite direction.

 Walk down the corridor. After crossing a couple of screens, you arrive
at a door in the corridor wall, with a button beside it. Hey! You, of
all people, would recognize a janitorial closet anywhere! Press the
button and enter the closet. Looking around in the closet, you find a
plunger. Take the plunger, exit the closet, then walk all the way to the
far eastern end of the corridor. Enter the elevator you find there and
press "four."
 When you arrive at level four, you find another corridor stretching
away to the west. Walk down the corridor. Sure enough, you come to
another janitorial closet. Enter the closet and take the glass cutter
that you find in there. Continue west down the corridor. You soon arrive
at restroom entrances, labeled with male and female signs. Take either
entrance -- they both lead into the same restroom! In the restroom, amid
the rather alien plumbing, you see an empty stall at the back of the
room. Enter the stall and close the door.

 What you do in the stall is your own business, but be sure to take the
toilet paper with you when you're done. Exit the restroom and walk to
the far western end of the corridor. Enter the elevator and press
"five."
 Exit the elevator on level five and walk east. Once again you come to a
janitorial closet. Enter the closet and take the wastebasket that you
find there. Pick up the pair of overalls that is hanging in the closet
and an object falls from the pocket. A quick inspection reveals that the
object is a lighter. Take the lighter and exit the closet.
 At this point, the safe play is to walk immediately west from the
janitorial closet back to elevator you came from. If you wish to see
what lies to the east, you won't get any points for it, but it is
amusing. Be sure to save your game first. Those huge arms sticking out
of that cage will bash you if you get too close, so be sure to stick to
the south side of the corridor. Proceed east and...what's this? One of
the cages is opening! And emerging from it is a nightmare creature that
looks like it escaped from the movie, "Alien"! At this point, you have
no choice but to hurry back to the west as fast as you can. Don't let
the alien monster catch you and kiss you! If you do, later in the game
you'll wind up just like John Hurt in "Alien" (talk about a stomach
ache!). Head straight for the elevator and press "one."
 Back on level one, return to the shuttle platform, and proceed down the
stairs to the south. As you pass through the doorway at the bottom of
the stairs, the door seals shut behind you! Move to the west and a
barrier pops up barring your way! Try moving east and another barrier
pops up trapping you! As if that weren't bad enough, now the floor is
moving out from under you, threatening to dump you in a pool of
corrosive acid! Don't panic! Wait until the floor is almost out from
under you, then stick the plunger to the barrier. That's the way to hang
in there! Wait until the floor slides back into place, then let go of
the plunger. The barriers slide back into the floor leaving you free to
move.

 But before you can very far in either direction, you run up against a
very formidable obstacle: Walbots! These electronic monsters are instant
death if you let them touch you, but there is a way to defeat them.
First, when one of the walbots starts to come after you, retreat to the
center of the corridor and exit the screen up the stairs. When you go
back down the stairs, the Walbot will have returned to its resting
place. Now examine the ceiling of the corridor. The only thing of note
up there are fire sprinklers. But water and electronics don't mix! And
you have the means in hand to get those sprinklers sprinkling.
 Put the toilet paper in the wastebasket, and then drop the wastebasket.
Light the toilet paper with the lighter, and in a few seconds the
sprinklers will start flowing. Snap! Crackle! Pop! You've shorted out
the Walbots! Now proceed down the corridor and exit the screen all the
way to the east.
 Suddenly, here you are in Vohaul's command post! The evil one himself
is sitting on his raised platform in the center of the room sneering at
you. Surrounding the room are the tubes containing the dreaded insurance
salesmen, but right now all your attention is on Vohaul and getting your
hands around his fat neck. You start up the stairs to his platform, but
just before you can reach him, you're zapped by a strange energy beam.
(Don't panic, this is not the end of the game!) When you rematerialize,
you find that you've been reduced to the size of a mouse and that you're
trapped in a glass jar on Vohaul's control console! Vohaul gloats over
your predicament, then proceeds to ignore you as he launches the
insurance salesmen!

 Now's your chance. While Vohaul is ignoring you, cut the glass with the
glass cutter. Walk over to the vents in the console immediately to the
west of the jar and climb in the vent. Bingo! You've found Vohaul's life
support equipment! If you look carefully behind that large pump, you'll
see a large, red button. Press that button. You did it! You've shut off
Vohaul's life support! He's a goner! Now climb out the vent.
 In his death throes, Vohaul utters a final curse at you and flips a
switch. That action started the asteroid's self-destruct sequence, so
now time is of the essence. Exit the screen along the narrow path in the
southwest corner. You find yourself at a control console with a switch
on the back and keyboard. Walk over to the switch and pull it to the on
position. The read-out is now asking you "Enlarge or Reduce?" Of course,
you want to get larger, so type "enlarge." Now return to the glass jar
immediately. In a few seconds, you're back to normal size, standing
beside the dead carcass of Vohaul, which is sprawled across the floor.
 A flashing monitor draws your attention. A look at the monitor reveals
that the clone launch can be aborted if you enter the abort code. But
what is the code? Search Vohaul's body. Aha! There it is: "SHSR." Return
to the monitor and enter the code. That takes care of the insurance
salesmen, but you still have to get out of here alive.

 Exit the screen up the stairs to the east. Now you're in a long tube on
the exterior of the asteroid. Near the entrance to the tube is a panel.
A look at the panel shows that it contains an oxygen mask. Take the mask
(you will automatically be wearing it). Follow the tube where it leads
you, around to the east and then to the south. Good thing you were
wearing that oxygen mask when the tube cracked! Exit the tube to the
south.
 Drat! Here you are in another of those featureless corridors, and
you've got to get off this asteroid before it burns up. The way out is
to the west. Walk west about three screens and there it is: The escape
pod bay! Unfortunately, blocking the way is the nattiest looking robot
you've ever seen, and it has the name "Marrow-matic" written on it. You
can just guess what that means! And now the "MM" has sensed the presence
of your marrow and is coming to get it! Not to worry, you can work your
away around this refugee from "RoboCop."
 When the MM starts to come after you, exit the screen to the east. Make
sure the MM follows you onto the next screen, then hoof it all the way
to the eastern end of the corridor. Make sure that the MM follows you
all the way (just don't let it catch you). Keep going through the
glowing portal at the end of the corridor. The MM won't follow you
through that. Keep going all the way across the catwalk that stretches
across the shuttle bay and continue through the glowing portal at the
other end. Continue down the corridor in an easterly direction and
you'll finally reach the escape pod bay from the other side. And thanks
to your artful dodging the MM is nowhere in sight.

 Proceed to the first pod on the left, and press the button next to the
hatch. When the hatch opens, enter the pod. Take a quick look around.
You see a control panel. A quick look at the control panel, reveals a
launch button. Press the launch button.
 Congratulations! You've saved your planet and escaped the asteroid!
Just as you're contemplating how sweet it is to be a hero again, a rude
beeping from the control panel informs you that the pod is running out
of oxygen! You try the oxygen mask, but it's empty. Hastily looking
around the pod, you see a sleep chamber against the right-hand wall. Oh
well, the deep freeze is better than asphyxiation! Walk over to the
sleep chamber and open it. Enter the sleep chamber and settle down to a
nice, long nap until....

 What? We'll just have to wait for SPACE QUEST III to find out!