SPACE 1889 WALKTHROUGH

NECESSARY SKILLS THAT ARE USED IN SPACE 1889

Fisticuffs        - For attacking with fists.
Throwing          - For using throwing objects.
Close Combat      - Using melee weapons and guns at close range.
Trimsman          - Ether Flyer movement up and down.
Stealth           - Necessary to successfully rob.
Crime             - Needed to successfully rob and to use lockpicks.
Marksmanship      - for using guns at a far range.
Wilderness Travel - Reduces fatigue levels when traveling.
Tracking          - Used for hunting.
Observation       - Necessary for getting thorough descriptions
                    when studying items.
Engineering       - Successful use of dynamite and detonite. Also
                    effects the length of time before an explosion
                    occurs.
Science           - Necessary for navigating an ether flyer.
Bargaining        - Getting the best prices when buying and selling
                    objects.
Linguistics       - Understanding the language of NPC'S.
Piloting          - Ship speed for boats, zeppelins and ether flyers
                    in combat.
Medicine          - Needed to cure members of your party.

LOCATIONS TO EXPLORE IN SPACE 1889

Earth:   London
         New York
         San Francisco
         Egypt/Valley of the Kings
         Mexico/Teotihuacan
         Far East/Angkor

Mars:    Ausonia
         Syrtis major
         Gaaryan
         Moab
         Moerus Lacus
         Boreosyrtis League
         Aubochon

Luna:    Caverns

Venus:   Venusstadt
         Thetis Mountains
         Ganis Mountains

Mercury: Princess
         Christiana
         Station

THE MAIN SCENARIO FOR SPACE 1889

Final Objective - To discover the hidden race of the Saurians, a master race of 
immortal beings, who will share their secrets and give you the ultimate reward.

1. Opening sequence discussing the tomb of King Tutankhamen.

2. Acquire the report outlining the Tutankhamen expedition from Claus von 
Schmelling, who is walking around the city of London.

3. The report instructs you to see Hans Ogleby who is in the inn in New York 
City.

4. Before leaving London, acquire the fever serum from Doctor Raven in the inn 
in London.

5. Hans Ogleby instructs you to see Nathaniel Johannsan who is in the tavern in 
San Francisco.

6. Johannsan informs you that he has funded a German expedition that is already 
at work in the Valley of the Kings in Egypt. Johannsan tells you that you are 
welcome to join the excursion and gives you a map with critical information 
scribbled on it.

7. Travel to Egypt and search for the false tomb where the corrupt German 
excavators are at work. A stairwell is visible near the bottom left portion of 
the map alongside the lower wall.

8. Inside the false tomb, battle the Germans. Two important items that need to 
be retrieved are a key that can be used in Egypt and a paper with the newly 
discovered coordinates to King Tut's real tomb.

9. Follow the coordinates on the paper to discover the real tomb (14 paces 
south of the spot in the desert). Dig On the exact spot to find the entrance.

10. Go to the lowest level of the tomb and follow the coordinates that were 
scribbled on the maps that Johannsan gave you (10 paces north, 1 pace west). 
Dig on that spot and you will find an entrance to a new level.

11. Dynamite the wall directly behind the stairs to find the burial chamber.

12. View the burial tomb and take Tut's treasures and the stone tablet 
discovered with him.

13. Go to the building with the statues surrounding it in Egypt. Go to the 
upper level of the building and use the key to enter the room where Mary 
Kingsley is.

14. Give Mary Kingsley the fever serum. She will share important information 
and give you a message to carry to Alfred C. Hobbs in New York.

15. Search out Alfred Hobbs in the large white building in the bottom right 
portion of the New York map. Hobbs is located on the second level of the 
building. Give him Mary's message and he will give you a special set of 
lockpicks designed to be used in the pyramids in Teotihuacan, Mexico.

16. Travel to Mexico and find the pyramid where the doors are locked. Use the 
lockpicks to gain entrance.

17. Find the tiny room where an Inca is standing. Talk to the Inca. He will 
tell you that you need to return the tablets to their altars before you can 
gain access to a special room.

18. Go to the pyramid directly to the east. Take the tablets that are in the 
upper cornet rooms. Find the two altars that are in the middle of the 
buildings. Drop the tablets on the blocks in front of the two altars. You will 
hear a rumbling sound to your west.

19. Return to the pyramid to the west, The room with the Inca guard can now be 
entered. There is a water breather as well as a map that pinpoints the location 
to the lost city of Atlantis.

20. Equip your party with water breathers (that can be bought in an Alchemist 
shop). Follow the clues on the map to get to a cavelike structure in the South 
East corner of Teotihuacan. Use dynamite to blast a hole through the barrier 
between the two pillars.

21. Have your entire party use the water breathers to swim to the entrance to 
the caverns of Atlantis.

22. Go to the lowest level of Atlantis (dynamite will be needed here as well) 
and discover the decaying corpse of the lost Red Captain of Mars (view burial 
coffin).

23. Take the scrolls of the ancients, the Red Captain's diary and his 
identification tag.

24. USE the scrolls of the Ancients to decipher the stone tablet discovered 
with King Tut.

25. Study the Red Captain diary which leads you to Angkor in the Far East.

26. Find the sacred Altar in Angkor and use the Scrolls of
 the Ancients to view the altar and to
 translate the message carved on it.

27. The adventure continues on Mars. You will need to build an ether flyer and 
journey there.

28. At the ether port on Mars, journey a short distance north and enter the 
city of Ausonia.

29. Enter the cave in Ausonia and rescue Mary Kingsley's partner Zoho. Zoho 
gives you a travel pass to journey freely on Mars. As well, Zoho alerts you to 
a vast German conspiracy in an attempt to acquire universal power. Zoho asks 
you to thwart the conspiracy. He sends you to the German warehouse in 
Venusstadt on the planet Venus to find German uniforms that can be used to gain 
access to the German Headquarters on Mars.

30. Travel to Venus and get the German uniforms in the warehouse in Venusstadt. 
Talk to Simon 0' Rourke in the warehouse.

31. 0'Rourke sends you to Fort Bismarck in the Thetis Mountains of Venus. Use 
the German uniforms to gain access.

32. Battle Oberst Hans Kurt and take his German Headquarters pass.

33. Return to Mars and journey to the city of Syrtis Major. Use the travel pass 
inside the city to rent a sandboat to travel to the German Headquarters.

34. Use the German uniforms to gain access to the first floor of the German 
Headquarters.

35. Get to the third floor of the Headquarters and use the Kurt's German HQ 
pass to gain access to the inner sanctum where you will find the German 
mastermind Baron von Gruber. Talk to Von Gruber and kill him. Take his key to 
King Hattabranx's castle.

36. Journey to King Hattabranx's castle in Boreosyrtis League. Go to the second 
floor and use the castle key to gain entrance to the upper rooms.

37. Discover King Hattabranx, talk to him and then defeat him. Take his key to 
the worm cult.

38. Venture to the city of the Moab and discover Teegok Quugliani who is 
wandering throqgh the city. Teegok will give you a map that pinpoints the 
hidden location of the worm cult.

39. After studying the map, return to Boreosyrtis League and dig in the 
location on the map to find the entrance (hint: between the claws of sand 
beetle made up of yellow desert).

40. Go to the lowest level of the worm cult and give the scrolls of the 
ancients to Kleuht Na Vriss. Talk to Kleuht and he will share some very 
important information.

41. Take Kleuht's emerald and heed his advice to journey to Luna to discover 
Professor Tereshkova.

42. Leave Mars, and link and board with the Whisperdeath Ship (don't fight the 
ship, just link with it).

43. Battle the Ether Rogue pirates and rescue Thomas Edison, who has been 
kidnapped.

44. Talk to Edison who will advise you how to make long ether journeys past the 
asteroid belt.

45. Travel to the caverns of Luna and search out professor Tereshkova. Give him 
Kleuht's emerald and he will give a special ether propellor.

46. Journey to Mercury and discover the giant glow crystal on the banks of the 
World River. As well, dig for the tammonia springs in the lowest level of the 
mines in Princess Christiana Station.

47. Go to the ether port and update your propeller to use the special 
propeller. The glow crystal and ammonia will be added automatically.

48. Journey in space through the asteroid belt. Travel to Europa, Jupiter's 
moon on the upper right hand corner of the space map.

49. Read the message that instructs you journey back to the Earth's farthest 
point north. enter the hollow Earth and negotiate the complex mazes to discover 
the Sauriann Eoger Luirv who is waiting to reward your party for a long and 
difficult journey.

SPACE 1889 SUB-PLOTS

1. General Andre Foucard is searching for proof that Ravachol the Anarchist is 
dead,

2. Joseph Chamberlain, on Earth, asks you to venture to Mars to rescue Emilie 
Van Warren, an American Botanist who has been kidnapped by a band of Martian 
pirates.

3. Red captain Frederick Burnaby is searching for Captain Freemerchant's 
whereabouts. if you can answer his question he will give you his medal of 
honor.

4. James Grimes, in London, will sell you his ether flyer blueprints. These 
blueprints can be sold to a Martian named Samon.

5. The Martian Witch Doctor Kur wants the steppe tiger cane that belongs to the 
wicked Prince Aubochon. The She Devil of the Desert will give you the Talisman 
of MangliDesh, which is actually a key that can be used to enter the price's 
castle. A Martian named Murlark also wants the cane, but he is as corrupt as 
the Prince himself.

6. There is a multi-stage sub-plot where you are the liaison between the 
Martian tribes in their unification against the humans. You will carry tribal 
bajuys to the Camps of Kai, Lopkan, Karkem, Ucuz, Photho and back to Kai. if 
the Martian unification is completed, you will receive an increase in your 
observation skill. ** Tycuss Nhe, Photho's ruthless son, may try to thwart the 
unification.

7. The U.S. Army has a new formula for transparent aluminum. The Army is 
accepting bids from the Martians -and the Lizard men on Venus. You can be the 
liaison that acquires the bids from the two parties. you could also be brave 
and try to steal the formula for your own gain.

8. In the Canal Keepers sub-plot, you will be asked to assassinate the fanatic 
leader of the cult, Volaace Zeenkeer. if you are successful, you will be 
permitted to enter the Temple of the Keepers where you will acquire the 
precious Amulet of Seldon which is in great demand by two NPC's in the game.

9. Toruk the Loyal, a brave Martian, asks you to help his dying son by 
retrieving a magic necklace from Zaturo the Champion. Zaturo sends you to 
Fazuck the healer who must cast a spell on the necklace. Fazuck sends you to 
Mynosii Aalum for a special incense, and to Zardan for a magic talisman. 
Unfortunately, Zardan doesn't have a talisman, so you are forced to hunt down 
and kill the Legendary sandwing for the magic properties of its venom. When the 
ingredients are gathered, Fazuck completes the spell and sends you back to 
Toruk. After Toruk's son is healed, he gives you the necklace to use in the 
future.

10. Thomas Elias Grimes, a big game hunter on Earth, asks you to get him a 
Steppe Tiger hide from mars.

11. Claude Brumford asks you to crush the tin market conspiracy an Mercury by 
killing Professor Wisniewski and retrieving the blueprints to a powerful tin 
mining machine, The Tin Juggernaut.

12. Herr Carl Hoffman, On Venus, collects Red Captain Memorabilia and will 
reward you for Captain Burnaby's Medal of Honor.

13. Naporrow Bing, a Moon Man on Luna, asks you to retrieve his lost Moon Man 
War Mask.

14. Prince Jharmook, the leader of Ausonia, asks you to battle the deadly 
skrill and retrieve his crown which is in the center of the Skrill Arena.

15. The Martian Jekuyaz asks you to stop the German Liftwood Poachers on mars 
for a reward.

16. Hirakaya Nakimatura, on Mercury, is searching for a statue of a mythical 
Hindu Bird named Garuda. The statue is hidden in one of the temples in Angkor. 
if it is retrieved, He gives you a Japanese Cipher book that Pai Mi Soun is 
searching for in the Far East on Earth.

17. Heinrich Schliemann, in London, is searching for evidence of Homer's 
existence. he rewards you for a Mycenean Gold Mask that can be found in the 
museum in Egypt.

18. Sir Norman Lockyer, an astronomer on Venus, asks you to retrieve a special 
object from Stonehenge in London. On every 30th day, the sun shines on the spot 
where the hidden object is buried. if you take the object back to Lockyer, he 
gives you a historic telescope that Galileo supposedly used. He tells you to 
take the telescope to Sir Alec Lifeson on Mercury for a significant reward. If 
you take the object to Lifeson, he tells you that it is not authentic and that 
Lockyer took advantage of you.

19. The constables and the bartenders in each city share some hints and tidbits 
on the city that you are visiting.

20. Althar of Thalia, on Mars, asks you to get him a bison hide from Earth so 
that he can make a battle headdress. The bison are guarded by the North 
American Indians.

21. Dr. Gregory Fairbanks, a researcher on Mars, asks you to discover proof 
that life exists beneath the desert sands of mars. If you can discover evidence 
from the underground city of the Moab, Fairbanks will reward you.

22. You can join the San Francisco gold rush by digging in the caves.

23. The museum curator in Egypt asks you to unearth a ruby chalice that 
belonged to a great prophet. The chalice is supposedly buried in Silbury Hill 
in England. Herr Carl Hoffman, on Venus, is an avid collector of Red Captain 
memorabilia. if you give him Captain Burnaby's Medal of Honor, he will tell you 
exactly where to dig for the chalice inside Silbury Hill.

24. In the Crystal Palace in New York, there are several merchants looking for 
a variety of items.

25. Doctor Vincent Buembats, in New York, will increase your medical skill by 
one for a new doctor's bag.

26. Cyrus Grant, a scientist on Earth, is searching for evidence of a glowing 
substance on the moon. If you can retrieve the glowing yellow fungus, Grant 
will reward you.

27. Beware of the misanthropic Ground Cleansers on Mars, they twill attack 
without provocation.

28. There are a number of merchants on Mars who will buy a variety of items.

29. Frank Chadwick, the President of Chadwick, Inc., asks you to acquire 
Bogweed from Venus for a special formula.

30. Giorgio Polo, a perfume manufacturer, asks you to retrieve Shell Glands 
from the Large Crabs in the World River on Mercury.

31. Johnny Wilson, a museum curator on Mercury, recruits you to go on a number 
of archaeological missions for him. You will be asked to retrieve a magic arrow 
and a statue from the Far East as well as the sword of a great Martian King. 
Wilson will pay a handsome sum of money for your efforts.

32. Jules Verne, who is visiting Mars to research his new novel, asks you to 
journey to the Governor's mansion in Venusstadt to retrieve a handwritten set 
of manuscripts by William Shakespeare. If you return the manuscripts to Verne, 
he will instruct you to take them to the museum curator in London for a 
significant payment.

33. Grigori Rasputin, the Czarist revolutionary, will increase your stealth 
skill for a French Rebel Rifle.

34. Robert Edwin Perry, on Venus, will increase your leadership skill for a 
Remington Rolling Block Rifle.

35. Guglielmo Marconi, conducting research on Venus, will increase your 
engineering skill for a mineral detector.

36. Buffalo Bill Cody, vacationing on Venus, will increase your marksmanship 
skill for a Winchester rifle.

37. Phineas T. Barnum, establishing the first-ever circus on Venus, will 
increase your theatrics skill for a set of lockpicks.

38. A botanist on Venus will pay you to discover a rare breed of orchid called 
the Oma Jolima.

** THE END **