Spellbound Dizzy

PART ONE
In part one you will be descending into the ground, talking to Theo, and performing giant leaps in a mining cart.

To start with, head left, jump over mushroom and walk into the deep pit, so you land on the trampette. Wait till you've finished bouncing then get off. Pick up the trampette, and take it to the left hand side of the pit. Drop it roughly where the fruit is, then get on it, and by keeping the "Jump" key held down, bounce out of the left hand side of the pit, and walk to the sandstone quarry. Jump over the mushroom, and collect a rock. Now go back right, walk into the pit, and if you placed the trampette correctly, you won't get hurt. Move the trampette back to the right hand side of the pit, and bounce on it to return to the starting screen.

You need another rock though, and since rocks break if you drop them on the floor, you need to jump onto the mushroom here. Jump to the right and you'll land on a cloud, where you can safely drop the rock. Now go back to the quarry again, and fetch a second rock, then return to the cloud above the starting screen and collect the rock you left there. Return to ground level, and from the starting screen head right to the windy shaft. the rocks serve to weigh you down enough to descend quite a way: You want the second exit on the left, which leads to Theo's Grotto. If you haven't talked to Theo yet you should do so. Otherwise, you'll want to take the upper passage left from the crystal tree, then jump up at the end, and the left again to Dylan's hole. You can't talk to Dylan yet, because he's stuck underground, but if you drop one of the rocks, you'll be able to pick up the hammer that's in this room. Now return to the Windy Shaft. Because you've only got the one rock, you get carried upwards, and you want to exit on your right: the mine shaft. Go in and follow the railway track right, to where the track is broken. Fix the track with the hammer, dump the other rock, and walk back to the windy shaft, and thus to the surface. Dump the hammer in the starting room.

Right, now go left to the quarry again, and pick up one rock. Then instead of returning straight away, use the mushroom in the quarry to jump right into some clouds and from there go left, via some more clouds to the edge of vast lake. Now whatever you DON'T FALL IN! You need to ride Wally the Whale across the lake and get the brake shoe from the other side. Then return and go across the clouds and land neatly on the trampette in the dip. Drop the brake while you move the trampette to the other end of pit, then pick it up again and take the brake and the rock to the windy shaft. One rock is enough to get you back to the mining shaft, and once there you MUST drop the rock, before attaching the brake shoe to the cart and getting in.....

One quick Indiana-Jones impersination later, you should be at the very end of the line. Now go right and up, and pick up the bag (at last, you can carry more than two objects!). Then go up to the ore crushers, and pick up the megaphone. Then continue left over the rickety bridge, and collect the shamrock, then down, back to the mine shaft. Now walk left, back to the Windy Shaft, return to the surface, and dump the shamrock and megaphone in the starting screen.

NEXT: You need three rocks. Fortunately, you can collect them all in one journey. Pick up the shamrock and take your heavy load to the Windy Shaft, and go down the four-way junction with green walls. Go right, run over the man-eating plant and talk to the leprochaun. Give him the shamrock and pick up the talisman he'll give you in return. Now go left, and across the Windy Shaft to the scales. Drop a rock on the right pan of the scales, and then go down the hole under the left pan. When you hit bottom, go left, avoid the dangerous drips, and talk to Grand Dizzy. Pick up the ear trumpet and leave the dark room using the mushroom provided. Drop another rock (living one) and return to the Windy Shaft. Keep to the left wall, and leave the shaft at Theo's exit (the second on the left) and drop the ear trumpet. Now cross the Windy Shaft to the mine shaft KEEPING your one rock this time, get in the cart again. This time instead of flying effortlessly over the chasm the cart will crash into the reservoir wall, and you'll fall into some potentially deadly water. However, you've just got time to run right: Since you're carryng the talisman, the beast will remain passive, and you can jump over it and get up the air... Now go right to the beast's lair, and avoiding the shark, collect the aqualung. Keep hold of the talisman, and go out past the beast. Dump the talisman in the reservoir, and continue left to the mine shaft, avoiding the assorted marine life. Drop the rock that you've been carrying, and return to the surface with the aqualung. Right so now you can safely explore all the watery bits of the map! If you're still stuck, the solution is continued in part two...

 

PART TWO
In part two of the solution, you'll be talking to Dylan and Denzil and encountering whales, bees, and bears....

Pick up just the aqualung from your small collection of objects, and go left trough the pit, over the quarry, to the lake. Jump boldly into the lake, which, thanks to the aqualung, you can survive indefinitely, and, avoiding all the fish go left into the watery passage: it's quite long and there's a soggy log at the far end, which you should pick up. Now go all the way back to the starting screen, and drop the aqualung and the soggy log there. Now for another foray downwards: You need to collect three rocks. When you've brought them, pick up the aqualung and go down the Windy shaft to the 4 way junction then right to the man-eating plant and plunge into the water. Avoid the fish, drop two of your three rocks and pick up the umbrella and take it and the aqualung back up to ground level. Note that the umbrella nullifies the effect of the one rock you're still carrying. Drop the brolly on the RIGHT of Windy shaft, drop your one rock, then cross the shaft to the left side and drop the aqualung on the starting screen. Now go and fetch another two rocks in the quarry, and return to the starting screen. Then pick up megaphone and the soggy log from the collection of objects which is starting to pile up here. Go down the Windy shaft and take the exit to Theo's grotto. Drop on the rocks and pick up the ear trumpet then go left and up and use the megaphone to talk to Dylan: Since you've got the ear trumpet as well you can hold a proper conversation. Now dump the megaphone and take the ear trumpet and the vibes to Theo. If you've got enough magic star you can give Theo the ear trumpet and Dylans vibe now, to rescue Dylan and Grand Dizzy; otherwise you'll have to leave them here in anticipation. In the meantime use the soggy log next to the fire to get it smoking and go back to the Windy shaft carrying just the now smoking log and one rock. The exit you want is the one above Theo's with the bear in it. Don't touch the bear but pick up the empty jar, drop the rock and return to the surface. Walk right from the windy shaft, picking up the umbrella and use it to carry the smoking log to the right, safely through the rain to the killer bees. The bees are pacified by the smoke, and will not attack you. Drop the smoking log here, and use the jar under the bees nest to collect the honey. Return to the Windy shaft once again leaving the umbrella on the right hand side. Go and fetch two rocks. You only need one really but returning to the staring screen, leave one in the cloud for later. Use the remaining rock to take the honey down one level to the bear's cave. Next comes a task which requires some swift and accurate movement: Drop the honey in the middle of the room to lure the bear forward. Then jump over the bear using the mushrooms, go left to the winding passage, then up on the mushroom to the cosy cavern. Pick up the pepper and the bones and then return using the mushrooms to get over the bear again, pick up the now empty JAR, drop your single rock, return to the surface and drop the jar and the bones, but keep the paper. Next pick up the aqualung. It's not strictly necessary for this part of the solution, but any mistakes here can potentially lead to drowning. Take the pepper all the way left, through the pit and over the quarry to the lake. If you use the pepper whilst standing on the whale, the whale will sneeze, but it is very important to use it at the right place. Use the pepper once at the right of the whale's path, which will allow you to ride it's spout up into the some clouds, and from there, jump right and collect the flippers. Then return to the ground (or dive into the lake). If you carrying the flippers, you can swim using the "jump key". Next use the pepper at the left of the whale's path to allow you to get to the lakeside cliff top. Now you can dump the pepper. Go left through the woody grove and talk to Denzil. He'll part with his ZX81. Pick it up, return all the way to the starting screen, and drop everything.

 

PART THREE
In this part we visit the spooky cave and the flooded chamber, and talking to Dora and Daisy.

Go and collect three rocks. On returning to the starting screen pick up the aqualung and go down to the man-eating plant. Drop the aqualung and the rocks near the plant, and go straight back to the surface. Next get another 3 rocks and use them to take the bones all the way down to the plant. Dump the rocks and pick up the aqualung. Now use the bones to persuade the plant that you're worth eating. Once through the plant, go right into the flooded chamber avoiding the fish, and continuing right, pick up the small clump of seaweed. Once you've got it, retrace your path and return through the plant. Drop the aqualung and the bones nearby, then take the seaweed back to ground level and drop it on the starting screen. Now go and collect yet another three rocks and this time take the flippers all the way down to the plant. Drop the rocks and pick up the aqualung and the bones. Use the bones on the plant again, and once you're through, go right into the flooded chamber, then swim right and up into the sunken shed. Talk to Daisy and pick up her diamond ring. Leave the shed and return through the plant into the Windy shaft. Drop the bones and the ring here. This next bit takes practice with no rocks: duck into the Windy shaft and immediately exit it again to the right, which is the control room exit, if you miss it you will have to do some more rock ferrying. Leave the flippers and the aqualung in the control room and return to the surface. For the next journey, we need four rocks.: If you followed the solution in the last part, you should still have one rock left in the clouds in the starting screen. If not then ferry one now, then get three more and pick up one in the cloud. Now go down the Windy shaft to the bottom (or at least as far as you can get!). Drop one rock, and pick up the jar lid. Then walk into the Windy shaft, and go up one level to where you left the ring. Drop two rocks (leaving you with one), pick up the ring an go up the Windy shaft to Theo's exit. Rescue Daisy using the ring and some stars if you've got them, otherwise dump the ring here for now. Dump the last rock and return, with the lid, to the starting screen.

From your collection of objects on the starting screen, pick up the empty jar, and take it, and the lid, across the shaft where you left the brolly. Pick up the brolly and walk with it to the Windy shaft, allowing yourself to be blown into the sky... On a good gust, step out of the wind onto the cloud to your left, and go left-and-up through the clouds to the fireflies. Now for the tricky bit: When the firefly's close to you, catch it in the jar, and slam the lid on. This it no easy, because you have to jump occasionally to stop falling through the clouds. Once you've managed that, go back down (via clouds, mushrooms and trampettes if you don't want to be hurt) to the surface, drop the brolly, but DON'T DROP THE GLOWING JAR! Go and fetch TWO rocks, and take the seaweed and the now gloving jar down to the mine shaft. (Although the mine shaft's only one rock down, you need to go further down in a minute, and stepping out early is possible). Walk to the right along to the mine shaft, to the mushroom and use it to get up to the passage junction: Go left into what was a very spooky cave till you got the glowing jar. Then use the (Garlic flavoured) seaweed to scare the bats. Jump across the water, avoid the drips and talk to Dora. Pick up the slipper, and get back out of the spooky cave, down from the junction, and back left along the mine shaft. With the two rocks you can jump left, across the shaft to Theo, and stars permitting, give him the slipper to rescue Dora. (Otherwise leave the slipper here for later!) You can dump the gloving jar now, to let the firefly free, and then dump the empty jar as well! Now dump the rocks, and return to the surface.

 

PART FOUR
In this part you will be exploring the control room and the pumping station, and also escaping from the Mystic Kingdom ourselves!

Firstly if the aqualung and the flippers aren't in the control room, then take two rocks and ferry them here, then return to the surface. Go and fetch two rocks from the quarry. Then pick up the ZX81 and the hammer from your collection of objects on the starting screen, and go down the Windy shaft, taking the control room exit, which is second exit on right. Dump the rocks, pick up the aqualung and the flippers, and plug the ZX81 in next to the big screen: This turns on a transporter tube in the room to the right, which you should now enter... At the far end is the pumping station: Make your way down from the high platform carefully, then go right and stand below the large plug on top of machine. Now ensure that you're wearing your swimming gear, and use the hammer on the plug: The plug is removed, and the entire pumping station becomes flooded. Dump the hammer and swim through the drainpipe to the reserve tank. Jump over the pipe entrance, and pick up the fishing net (plus your swimming kit) and leave the pumping station via the same transporter tube which you entered it from. Once back in the control room, drop the pillow with the ZX81 for now, and take the fishing net and the swimming gear back to the surface. Dump the swimming gear on the starting screen, then go left, into the pit, and use the fishing net to catch Pogie. Pick up his collar, and go to fetch two rocks. Return down the Windy shaft to the control room. Drop one of the rocks, and pick up the ZX81 and pillow: With the rock you've go left, you can cross to Theo's exit and (stars permitting) give him the ZX81, pillow and collar to rescue Denzil, Dozy and Pogie respectively. By now, you've found enough objects to rescue everyone. You should also have found enough stars to allow Theo to rescue everyone including yourself! But there's a problem. Those last five stars have to get you AND Theo home, and since he's reluctant to use magic to get you home, Theo leaves, and you're stuck with getting yourself out without using magic at all! As well as Theo's bit of string, you'll need 3 other objects: Some thin sticks, some pretty cloth and some sticky tape. These objects are in concealed rooms, the locations of which will be revealed in the last part of the solution. Put these 4 objects together, and you've got... One fab kite!! Which in the windy shaft, takes you to previously undreamt of heights. Once you're two rooms above ground level, wait for a really big gust of wind, and step onto the right hand cloud. Now go up - and - right into the small cavern in the roof, where you'll find a drill bit to the drilling machine, and home you go! Well done you've finished! In next part you will have a full list of where all the magic stars are, and also the locations of those tree secret rooms, but try to find them yourself.

 

PART FIVE
This part gives you full list of where the magic stars are, as well as the locations of the secret rooms. First: The magic stars there are forty of them altogether, five for each of the yolkfolk, five for Pogie, five for Theo, and none for poor little you:-

There's one at the top of the windy shaft, one on the cloud to the left of the fireflies and another on the screen below this. There's one in the quarry, behind a tuft of grass, one in the clouds above the quarry, and one in the lake that you can pick up whilst standing on the whale. There's one at the top of the lake-side cliff top, and two in the woody grove, behind a tuff of grass, and behind some leaves. Then there are two in the clouds above the woody grove: The first takes quite a stretch, and the other's above Denzil. There are three in the watery passage, one right at the very start of it, one in chamber in its roof that you'll need flippers to get at, and the third behind some seaweed almost at the far end. There's one in the bear's cosy room, by the windy shaft. There's one down the mining shaft, near the mushroom, one in the rockfall at the far end, and one on the rock near the ore crushers. Then you find you'll find one behind the chain of the right hand ore crusher. There are two hidden behind railings on the rickety bridge: In addition to the stars, behind the railings is a mushroom which gives access to a further three stars once you've got past some nasty drips. Next there's one in the water in the spooky cave, one on the resevoir floor and one in the beast's lair behind the shark. There's one on crystal tree, behind a crystal and one in Theo's grotto behind the left most railing. There's one in the substation, at the extreme right and three in the pumping station. One of the left of the reserve tank that you can't reach till you've flooded the chamber, one behind a railing on the platform above the oil drums, and one on the floor at the left hand end. There's one inside the spare ore crusher.... to get it you'll need to jump into it from quite a distance! Finally there are five at the bottom of the shaft:- One next to the Leprechaun, one by the plant's roots, behind some seaweed, two on the floor of the flooded chamber (one of which is behind the right - most clump of seaweed), and the last one in the sunken shed.

The three vital objects which you need to escape from the Mystic Kingdom yourself are hidden in three rooms: As well as Theo's piece of string.... There's some sticky tape in a room at the far end of the watery passage (which you'll need the flippers and the aqualung to get at). There are some thin sticks in a room past Dylan's hole. Finally there is some pretty cloth in a room to the right of the pumping station. Again you'll need flippers and the aqualung to get into this room, and that's not the end of it... This room is a nasty illusory room, and the cloth's behind one of the wall panels. The route you'll need is down, right, jump up and right. Pick up the wall panel and cloth. Walk left, jump left, jump right and finally a couple of carefully placed jumps left to the exit.

So now you know where all the stars are you finish the game! We hope you enjoyed playing Spellbound Dizzy!