
                               SPERIS LEGACY
                               =============

START TO FINISH
---------------



The game proved to be a right bitch ;) When it was mentioned to us, that
the game was not 100% cracked, the only way of  finding out, was to play
the game from start to finish. After each session of playing the game, it
was saved and reloaded in the next time, to continue it. It took quite a
time to play the game, but it was fun, and probably the only game that I
have ever played from start to end. This is not a complete walk through for
the game, nope! if you want to do one then do so ;) It was bad enough
playing it and solving the many puzzles within the game. Some were simple
to say the least, others, not so much difficult, but confusing first time
round, but it all added to the fun of the game. So this text just tells you
a little bit about the puzzles, but mainly, what objects are used for etc..
Hope this is of help to you all :)

It is a good idea to chat to everyone in the game, as they can offer you
hints or even give you objects for a price :) Usually Gems that you
collect. You can get gems by opening chests, and rewarded for killing the
enemies etc.. like robots and stuff. I used the LSD trainer on the game so
I did not have to keep restarting levels. I just wanted to play it and make
sure it was 100%, or at least could be completed, please bear this in mind
:), So this is how I completed the game a SECOND TIME :)



NOTE.
=====

It is better if you search each house, as there maybe chests in them with
Gems or Bombs etc.. 



                                SHARMA CITY
                                ^^^^^^^^^^^

This is where you start you know :) In bed asleep. Ok once you wake up,
leave the house and go left.


First you meet Tytan who tells you to remember him on your journey etc..
Keepgoing left. When yer get to the edge of the screen, go up. You will
then meet Sammy, who tells you that there maybe a sword nearby but as he is
a kid, he would not know. Go into the house where yer met Sammy. In there,
is a chest, in the chest, there is a KEY. To the right of Sammy is a maze
and some geezer tells you to look in the chests, as you may find something.
From him, go straight up. You enter a courtyard. In there you will see a
Block of ice. If you look at it, he tells you it has an object in it, but
cant see what it is. Go up you will find a chest, in that is a GEM. Out of
this place and left then up, you find another chest. Ok down and right. Up,
you meet MOK, who cracks rock and likes to crack anythiing really. There is
a room there to his right. but nothing in it. Down and right and you will
be at the entrance to the palace. Here you meet and chat to HURRAK, who
tells you that the king would like to speak with you, and TIP, who wishes
you luck. Eneter the palace, and the gurad tells you the King wants to see
you, he steps aside and you enter. You then meet Maria, who asks you to
cheer up the king. Then you can talk to the two dogs haha pretty funny :)
Fluff and Flur. Then talk to the king, who goes on and on and on :) 
Leave the palace and go right. There is a small maze. In the maze is
Kimberley, who asks you to get rid of the ghosts. Up and you meet SAMIR. He
tells you of a locked room at the side of the palace. Left from SAMIR is
the locked room, You can enter if you a key. Two alien bastards try to kill
you, go in and push the Gold object left. This will reveal a portal. Stand
on it, and you are teleported to a room. In the room is a chest, in the
chest is the SWORD. Stand on the portal again, and you are teleported back.
Go back to the building where you started, and down from there is like
bricks, in the hedge. Slash the bricks using the sword. You then enter the
MAZE. You have to go round the maze twice. The first time round, you
activate a switch, which drops the spikes, so you can get into the bit
where the chest is. In the chest is the SHIELD. Teleports are not always
visible, and you will have to slash the plants with the sword, to find
uncpver them. Once you have got the shield, Exit the maze, and go up and
right, to where SAMIR is, and exit SHARMA CITY and go to GILLIARDS RHINE.


                             GILLIARDS RHINE.
                             ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

First building when you enter you will see a chest. Open it and get a gem.
Exit and go right. You will now meet Rupert. Chat to him. Go right and you
come to PHILLIS Shop. Chat to her. If you dont use the LSD TRAINER, you
wont have enuff gems and so will have to find em :) but if you have, then
you have max gems, buy the Hyperboots and the Mallet. Exit Shop and go
right as far as yer can go :) You will then be able to jump down. Here you
will see a Square Stone. Remember this for the future stage in game :)
Go left, opening the chests for bombs and gems. Down bridge and left. Again
oopen the chests. You will come to a bridge where there is a green troll
guarding it. Chat to him. Go back to Rupert and chat to him. He will sell
you a dagger for 10 gems. Go back to the troll and kill him. This takes a
few attempts. Get the key, cross bridge, go lleft and enter the HOUSE OF
MYSTERY. Press the left switch, then the right switch, then the left again
and then the right again and a bridge appears. Cross the bridge, open chest
and get DRILL. Exit and go right. You will find ELSRIKA. Chat to her. Move
away so she makes the door way clear, and enter her house. Open chest for
TINDER BOX and Gem. There is an Ice mallet in there, but you will have to
come back for that later. Exit and go right. You now come to the BABOONS
BUTT INN. Enter and chat to the baboon oo the left hand side of the bar.
He will sell you a ring for 50 gems. Exit go right. You now come to the
INFORMATION BUILDING. Chat to the guards SAMUEL and JOSHUA. Go right and
then down. Near a tree is a guy laid down. Chat to him. He will tell you he
needs some healing medicine. Down. You will see a wall with a door in it.
This is the Exit to next part, but you have still got a few things to do
before then. Down. When you get to GOERDAKS FORT, go left, past THE POOL OF
DREAMS until you come to a wooden fence. Go up through the trees, you will
see two chests. You need to use a bombe to blow away the 2 stone rings to
get in. Open chests and get Bombs and RED POTION. Exit and go left. When
you come to the wall, past the sign until you come to another fence. Go
left and down side of fence all the way down to the bottom of screen. Then
go up, left through first gap, down, up through second gap, left, up, down,
right, down, right, up side of tree, left, up. You will see two chests you
cant get too, go right, you will meet two guys, GARDIC who when you have
chatted to him, will give yer information if you get him a pipe, and ZAMMA,
who basically tells you to sod off hahahahahaha. Go back to Rupert and
chat. Then walk right away from Rupert til he is off screen, then turn
round and use Hyper boots to run into him. He will drop his secret pass so
you can pick it up. Go all the way to the right to that stone square I
mentioned earlier. Make sure you have the Red Potion selected and push the
stone from left to right. Step on the portal and you are teleported to the
two chests, where you open them for a bomb and the healing medicine (Yellow
Potion). Teleport back. Take the potion to the guy laid down :) and he will
reward you with a JEWEL. Take the Jewel to PHILLIS in the shop, who will
give you the pipe. Take the pipe to GARDIC, give it him and chat. He will
tell you someone in the woods can help you. Go left and down the side of
the trees. Go to the cat and chat. Minx da cat wants cream and sends you to
PHILLIS. Phillis aint got none :) Go into the Church and chat to pastor
Jobe. Exit, go back to the cat and chat, then Down and tgo through the maze
again. This time go all the way to the right. You will see a plant. Go back
to the shop and buy the green rubber gloves. Go back to the plant, use the
gloves and pick up the pod. Go back to the church and chat to JOBE. Give
him the pod. He buggers off. Meanwhile, JOSHUA comes back and chats to you,
he then goes and JOBE returns. Chat, he gives you 200 gems. Exit and go to
the information Building. Chat to Joshua. Show him the secret pass. Enter
open Chest and get book of riddles with three pages missing. Read books and
Exit. Goto ELSRIKAS house and chat. Give her the ring. She will invit you
to dinner. Off you go for a stroll til Cho tells you it should be time to
go back and do so. Go back, chat. she tells you to take an object in the
house, take the ice mallet. Then go chat to her in bed. She tells you JACK
will be waiting for you by the pool of dreams. Go there, chat to JACK. Got
to the door in the wall :) And kill the knight. Use the Stoe mallet to hit
the wooden stumps and go through the door. EXIT ....>>

                              OUTLAWS CAVES.
                              ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Use the drill to drill through one of the 2 rocks blocking your entry.
Down to the right. Use Bomb to blow the stone rings up, open Chest, get
bowl of cream. Left and down. Use a bomb again. Down and right,use bomb
again, press switch on. Go back to where you came in but do not exit, go
left as far as you can. You will see another switch. Throw the dagger at
the switch and a brige will appear. Cross bridge, Use bomb and open chest.
Right a bit and up. There is a secret door there, go in and open chest and
get SHATTER SWORD. Exit, down, right, down right, use bomb open chest for 5
X bombs. Notice what looks like a shadow on the wall ? thats a secret door
too which you will have to come back to later. Down bridge, open chest, use
bomb to blow up stone rings, down, left, slash flowers with sword, blow
away stone rings, enter and open chests. back out and left, talk to statue.
the statue GORLOC tells you he will give you his secret f you can give him
a riddle he does not know. Go left and open all chests. Now go right, right
past GORLOC. Open chest. there is a passageway in this blue rock on the
left side at top, where the skeleton is walking up and down, Enter it and
get to other side. Just follow your nose and go round opening the chests
etc.. You will get to the part where you see fire. Blow up the rings, then
go right, down, left, hack the flowers, up the steps, down the steps into
the pool, now quickly go back and walk through the fire into the buliding.
Follow your nose again and you get to a portal. Teleport to a place where
you see a baby TAENITH WARRIOR. Kill the baddy :) Blow away the rings and
pick him up. Now you have to go all the way back to GILLIARDS RHINE.


                        RETURN TO GILLIHARDS RHINE
                        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Go Find the cat and give him the cream. Now he will meet you in various
places during the game and for a price, will give you a hint, only one
purr location. Pun intended ;) Go to Rupert, give him the baby TAENITH.
He will re-age him back tohis former glory, chat to him and he will reward
you with a pair of cutters. Now search and find the barrels scattered
around. Use thee Shatter sword to smash the barrels, and find 3 missing
pages to the book of riddles. Once you have found all three nissing pages,
return to the OUTLAWS CAVES and go to the statue, and give him the book of
Riddles. A Portal will appear and you are teleported to the exit, where you
journey onto COW TREE ISLAND.

                              COW TREE ISLAND
                              ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You have to find and activate four switches in four rooms on this level,
but as I go on, I do these :) Right, on entering COW TREE ISLAND, you
arrive on the beech. You see a Starfish and in his think bubble, you see a
spade and HEAD Stone. You have to locate the spade, and then the head
stone.

Ok from the beech, go right, up steps, up and left. Enter building,
teleport and activate switch. Teleport back and Exit building, Right and
up. enter shop, Chat to TOMSKI, buy spade. Wait til he starts to read
newspaper, then quickly nip into the back room. Go to Chest and get Love
letter. Chat to Old man in bed, ZEEASH. Exit Shop, right and up. Enter
building. A guy stands in a door way, he wont let you pass. Exit, let pig
shoot you with smeely stuff :) Go back in building and chat to the guy, he
faints, go to chest and get suit. Exit and go down. Before you drop onto
beech, go right. Enter house, make sure you have the red potion selected,
push the square stone left to right, you are teleported, activate switch,
teleport back and exit. Go right, meet and chat to Outlaws. Enter building
and chat to barman MAX. Exit, right, up over bridge, left and up over
bridge. Enter building and chat to ENYA. Exit, right, bomb da stones :) go
all the way round and into the pool to clean yerself up. At the back of the
building, is a secret room, enter the room and get the KEY from the chest.
Back to front of building, down and left. Use spade to dig sand and find
MAGICAL TOOL. Left and enter building and activate switch. Exit, right up,
over bridge, left, down steps, stand on blue square and use the MAGICAL
TOOL. A bridhe appears. Cross bridge. Chat to DICKSON on the bridge. Up,
right. Enter building, activate switch, nice jingle means all four switches
are on. Exit, right, chat to O'gret. Left, chat to old woman on far side of
tree. Back to the Head stones place. Left, past building to VENUS LAKE.
Bomb the entrance, use suit and walk to centre of lake and you are
teleported. Right, hit wood stumps with MALLET, hack plants til you find
the TITAN GLOVE. Back into lake. Teleport back to VENUS LAKE. Exit lake,
down, use MALLET on wood stumps and get JOKE BOOK. Right as far as you can
in front of Outlaws, down, jump onto beach and chat to a fish called WONDER
hahahaha Ok now back to Dickson and chat to him, then give joke book to
ENYA. Back to DICKSON and chat. Now back to the Outlaws, left, ENTER
building, smash glass case with ICE MALLET and remove Compass. down onto
beach, and keep going down and exit back to Outlaws caves. Remember the
shadow on the wall, a door ? To the right of where you have teleported back
to. Go there and use Glove to punch wall and enter, open chest and get
cloak of invisibility, then back to GILLIARDS RHINE.

                       GILLIARDS RHINE REVISITED ;)
                       ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Go to shop and buy gems. Back to COW TREE ISLAND. Go to the TREE up and
left of DICKSON, Enter Tree and procede to Exit. Once there left, over
bridge. There is a room in the tunnel as you go into it on the right. Enter
room and get Key from Chest. Exit, down and left open chest for another
key. Right and down, enter building and open chest and get another key,
exit, down, open chest for another key. You can see a lazer barrier and a
white robot, I used a bomb to blow him up as he stood next to the barrier,
this kills the varrier, go in and use the green triangle key to open gate
and then activate the switch. Out, back up and right, blow stones away and
enter, exit and go right. There is a hidden entrance on the wall, hit this
with glove, enter. Chat to Dythan. Use cutters to free him, he rewards you
with a bag of miracle grow. Right, up and left, onto th prtal, you are
teleported to another switch. Activate switch and teleport back. Back to
entrance and right. Use round key, enter and go through and activate
switch. Exit and left. Find the Scientist and chat to TUSKUS. He will tell
you that you have 10 minutes to find and defuse the bomb. Down, right,
across bridge, enter room, get bomb, exit, right, use blue key, enter,
activate switch, exit,  give bomb to GOLD robot and he defuses it. Left,
down, left, onto blue portal and you are teleported. Up, use jagged key,
activate switch, open chest and get pills. Down, theought the tunnel maze,
go chat to the guard, ARYTON. Enter building and give the guard in bed, the
pills. Exit go back through the maze a bit, then return and the guard,
should be gone, if not, go back into maze for a bit then return. Do this
until he has gone. Go through door and Exit to MAKIAH GARDEN OF O'TALIA.

There is a building to the left in the garden go there if you want a hint
from the cat ;) Else go straight up, you will see a stalk in the hedge, use
bag of miracle grow on this :) Up, take BLUE cloth off line, Chat to TANYO.
Go round the back of house, use spade and dig up plants to find RED cloth.
Up and right, get Green cloth off bench. Back to front of house and left,
chat to BEEVIS the BEAVER. Down and left. Keep going til you meet MONKIAN
KING OF MAGIC. Chat to him, walk away, wear cloke and return, when he asks,
give him the cloak and he in return gives you the FLOATING SPELL. Up, Enter
church, chat to BROTHER YAN, use floating spell to make him float over to
you, chat and exit, enter again and go to chest and get CARAMEL. EXIT,
Right, you will see a well and THREE stones, look at stones put RED Cloth
on Stone with R, BLUE on stone with B and GREEN on stone with G. Get puppy
from well, Go to BEAVER and give him Caramel. Walk away for a shor time,
return and chat to TANYO. she goves you a SHARPENING STONE, go to back of
house, find FOLLICK. If he is asleep on bench, walk to front of house then
back. Do this until he has gone and is cutting grass behind the glass
house. Give him the Stone, walk away to house and return to pick up
GREEN KEY. Enter glass house, activate switch, Exit glass house, front of
house, down and left as far as you can, up and around church, left, stand
on portal and teleport to otherside, up and EXIT to THE SANDOON DESERT.

                            THE SANDOON DESERT
                            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Youhave to navigate yer way across the desert ;) Eventually you will come
across a bunker, enter that :) Read sign, O'GERT will be summoned and she
reads the sign, Go into room next to it and open chests, same on the pther
side of buildeing, then Enter the middle room and kill the big baddy :)
When you have done this, Exit and enter the Door on the left.

                               SPERIS CASTLE
                               ^^^^^^^^^^^^^

UP all the way, then left and open Chest and get 1 note. You will have to
locate 10 of them! Make sure you have the red potion selected again, and
push the cupboard left to right, use a bomb, ENTER, open chest, get
Sleeping Potion, Give to the Guard, he falls asleep :) Now go find the
other 9 notes! If you get locked in a room cos you owe taxes, then use the
puppy, he will let you out, make sure that you pick up the puppy before you
exit. There is one JACOON that is real, he is the one in the room with a
door at the back, use the floating spell on him, and he will make himself
known and open the door :) Enter and open 6 Chests. 
You will also come across a RAT that os blocking an entrance, use puppy to
scare rat, pick up puppy, enter, open chest to get Poison.Once you have 10 
notes, find the spot where the guy is asleep and blocking an entrance to 
Kitchen, and play the notes, chat to him, enter kitchen, chat to Cook, Top 
left of room, use a bomb to reveal a passage into the Kitchen, use poison
on the food, go back to where the GUARD is asleep. Then carry on Right,
down, first exit right, Up through arches, when you go through the 6th
arch, keep to right and go through hidden door, into the bedrooms. Work
your way down and enter dors to get objects out of chests. Eventually you
will find a door with a plate of food outside. Enter, CHAT to GALLUS, you
then have to enter room behind him and DEFEAT the BIG BAD GUY! Once killed,
the game is ended and you get the END SCROLLY TEXT.

PHEW!! thats how I did it, you may find quicker ways :) but at least you
know now how to go about it. :)