SWIV


 CHEAT MODE:

 Pause the action and type 'NCC-1701' then press the [Return] key.
 The screen should flash blue indicating the cheat mode is active.
 This gives you infinite lives and you can select the various
 weapons by pressing [F1] to [F6].

                      THE ULTIMATE PLAYERS GUIDE TO: SWIV

GOOD GOODIES
------------
The only source of upgrades is the giant Goose Copter. Unfortunately it
doesn't give them up without a fight. It can only be destroyed by pumping
its body full of plasma - but because the head and side-wings are in the
way this can ce rather tricky. Having wide-beam fire helps, but probably
the best way to deal with the Goose is to collect a shield (assuming
there's one nearby) and just plonk yourself inside its body, all guns
blazing.
  Of the two beam adjuster upgrades, the wide-beam one is the best -
especially for shooting ships that fire down screen because it means you
don't have to get in line with them to kill them.


MESSING WITH THE BIG BOYS 
-------------------------
They are four major guardians at various points in the game. Here's how to
deal with them.

GIANT PULSE LASER
-----------------
This monster appears towards the end of the desert stage. Assuming you've
got wide-beam fire, possision yourself to the left of the laser barrel so
your missiles are hitting both the gun and the small doorway beside it.
Pump away, destroying the missile-firing tank that trundles out of the
doorway. The laser fires three times then pause. Use this time to move to
the right-hand side of the laser and continue blasting away. Repeat until
the cannon erupts in flames! 

SLIDE LASER
-----------
This, the hardest guardian, crops up near the end of the ice zone. It
trundles left and right - fast - and rains the plasma down the screen. In
addition, green blobs leach out from the walls and head in the players
direction. The trick is to keep moving horizontally so that you've always
either just ahead or just behind the laser turret. Keep firing - with
wide-beam you should hit it, and the firing also destroys any approaching
blobs. Eventually the laser should give up the ghost.

SHIELDED LASER EMPLACEMENT
--------------------------
This Mother of all lasers is made up of three individual turrets, and turns
up towards the end of the dead forest. The lasers are only vulnerable when
the glass domes over them peel back - trouble is, this only accures when
they're about to fire! On top of that there are two small turrets that
periodically spew tiny bullets in the players direction. Concentrate on
destroying these first. The big lasers themselves are not actually the
problematic. Again, wide-beam firing is vital here.

THE FINAL GUARDIAN
------------------
This big fella appears early in final stage of the game, but doesn't
actually cause the player any trouble until it has docked with its main
body. There are no hard and fast rules for dealing with this one - just
keep blasting away, dodging the myriad bullets until the inevitable
happens. But the game's not over yet - you'll see why when you get there!


Documentation typed by _/aybee!! 
End.