Interphase


 OBJECT VIEWER:

 Type in 'Fenny' (case sensitive) during play to enter the secret
 object viewer mode. The left mouse button will now cycle through
 the objects and the right mouse button will enlarge the objects.
 Pressing both mouse buttons will return you to the game.

Player's Guide
--------------
TYPED BY FINNY



LEVEL ONE

This one is a easy one  to  complete  and I don't intend giving you 
any text on this one!



LEVEL TWO

Looks quite tricky, but  the  solution  is  actually very simple. A  
security droid is your first problem  here- at first there seems to 
be no way past him.  Turn  the  first  and second turntables up and 
send KAF-E right over the  pressure  pad.  This triggers the robot, 
which then destroys itself and  the  electric  floor that bars your 
way.



LEVEL THREE

Getting a bit more complicated now.... When HAF-E reaches the first 
turn table, send her down and as soon as she reaches the turn table 
below, send her back up again.  Now  send  her right, but leave the 
turntable facing left - this  has  the  effect of sending the robot 
off in the wrong direction when  he  reaches it and trapping him in 
the lift. Repeat this procedure  for  the second set of turntables. 
Send KAF-E left at the  next  turntable  she reaches, but leave the 
turn table facing right to  keep  the  second  robot in the room he 
starts in and so out  of  harms  way.  The  security camera must be 
switched off before KAF-E reaches the last turntable, send her down 
to take her into the exit lift.



LEVEL FOUR

As soon as you enter this level, destroy the first security camera, 
failing to do this and  a  robot  is  activated  , making the level 
impossoble to complete. Then go  about  opening all the doors KAF-E 
hits as soon as  she  reaches  them.  Destroy  any door controllers 
(green cubes) that you  spot  along  the  way,  this saves you time 
searching for them leter. KAF-E will then make her own way into the 
lift.



LEVEL FIVE

When KAF-E hits the first turntable, send  her left. Then go to the 
turntable in the bottom left hand corner  of  the map and set it to 
face up. The turntable immediately above  it  should also be set to 
up. Then go back  to  KAF-E  and  send  her  left  at  the next two 
turntables. Go to the turntable at the top of the map and set it to 
up, then the turntable to its  right  to  face right. Send KAF-E up 
twice, then right.  The  down  pointing  turntable  below the robot 
should be set to the  right  before  sending KAF-E right, then down 
and then right again. Set the  left-pointing turntable to face down 
, then send KAF-E down and then up again. Finally send her left and 
then down and then up into the lift.



LEVEL SIX

Immediately destroy the open door  below  KAF-E, otherwise she runs 
straight into a robot (daft **!!##).  Pay  a visit to the workshop, 
generate a clone door and replace  the circuit. The next door KAF-E 
hits should be opened when the  patrolling  robot on the other side 
is as far away as possible. After  she goes through, close the door 
on the left hand side. On  the  small  "figure of eight" grid above 
the door there's a turntable facing left. Set it to face right. Now 
go to the up life. The turntable  on  the right should be turned to 
face right into the lift. Now  send  KEF-E left. Once the robot has 
gone past, repair and open the door. Now send her right twice, then 
left and then right again.  Immediately  reverse the last turntable 
to face left - this  stops  the  robot  from following her. Finally 
send KAF-E right into the lift.



LEVEL SEVEN

The first thing to do is  set  the turntables between all the rooms 
to face up. Send KAF-E up then reverse the turntable as soon as she 
has left it, or else the  robot  will  take her from behind. Repeat 
this procedure, reversing the  turntables  as  you  go, until KAF-E 
reaches the turntables as you go, until KAF-E reaches the turntable 
at the top. Set the turntable outside  the  up life to face down to 
trap the robots in  it.  When  they  are  both grouped in together, 
release them by turning the turntable back up again, then send KAF-
E down the left hand arm of the  loop to bypass then and allow them 
into the lift.