                    ISHAR COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                    =========================

Welcome To Kendoria
-------------------

This solution does not take the hazards of fights into account. It is 
up to you to manage your team and budget as best you can depending on 
your situation. Whether it`s dismissing or hiring team members, killing,
returning to towns and villages to eat, sleep, hiring or buying - 
always take training courses to gather information.

Meeting With Borminh
--------------------

Heading East, you`ll meet Borminh who`s a smooth talker and, if you give
him a little money, will tell you the names of a few good inns. You can
also enrol Borminh, but beware as he`s traitorous character. You`d 
better not fall asleep in his presence, either, as he`ll nick whatever 
he can lay his hands on. Conversely, though, he can be very useful in
fights and will takes blows intended for others. Carry on eastwards but
when you get near a pool, turn south and in the birchwood you can enrol
Kirela. Once recruited, place her in the second line of your party and
prepare a fireball rune. Now turn south-west again as far as the village.

Anagram Village
---------------

Fight a few Orcs before visiting the inn to do a bit of shopping. Also,
visit the house of Akeer who will then tell you about the quest to be
pursued - a rather useful training course is also on offer in the village.

Continue to the south-west, and skirt around the bushes to the west. 
You`ll encounter a few fierce Orcs to be killed, but once they are 
disposed of, go into the house and recover the treasure. On the way back,
pick up the teleporter which is found to the east of the house on the
other side of the bushes.

Teleportation
-------------

Turn south-east, and cross the bridge whilst keeping an eye out for the
rather tough Barbarian (fireballs are the best ticket if you do get 
nabbed, though).

Lake City features a merchant, another course, and two inns. When you 
meet them, don`t enrol Golnol and Nasheer in your team - they are 
traitors. Finally, on leaving the city, go south along the river and 
cross the first bridge you come to.

Looking For White Iron
----------------------

There`s a Psycho Analyst`s hut to the south, and a reptile`s hut nearby
which is also close to where the night prowlers lurk. It is in the 
reptile hut, though, that the message will be found encoded - and can be
translated if one of the members of the team is highly skilled in
languages. In the bushes is a purse full of gold coins.

Travel east as far as Rhudgest, and then due north as far as the ocean.
Next, return westward to Osghirod and, in the bushes, you`ll find a 
knight in armour - this is the White Iron you have been seeking, and he 
is waiting for you. Kill him and take his helmet (fnnar). Then head east,
followed by a right to Rhudgast.

The Dungeon of Rhudgast
-----------------------

Head south as far as the river, and then travel up-river to the east,
killing the little dwarfs who attack you on the way. After a while, you
will find a purse. Pick it up and turn north, then take a few steps to 
the west and you will be in front of the entrance to a fortress which you
must enter. The fortress is divided roughly into two areas: east and 
west, and the division is at the first crossing.

The Eastern Part
----------------

Release the handle to enter the north. You will now enter a succession of
labyrinths containing treasures and quite a few skeletons, which will
eventually lead to the north-east corner of the fortress and a room with 
a key and some useful treasure. Beware, though, as in this eastern 
section you may find a handle. Don`t use it, though, as it jams and you
will be locked in the fortress.

The Western Part
----------------

Eventually, you will reach a large room with two entrances to the north.
The western access will lead you to a runic tablet, whilst the eastern
access enables you to reach the magic phial which is essential for the 
rest of the game. Beware when leaving, though, as one route leads to a
giant who can prove very problematic.

Once this is completed, leave the fortress and head back to Osghirod.
Travel alongside the river to the west and take the bridge which 
separates Osghirod from Lotharia.

Safari To Lotharia
------------------

Enter the village to the west - taking a few freshly kill Panthers as
trophies on the way - and you will find an inn, a merchant (Mace), and
another useful spell-making course. Next travel due south as far as 
the ocean, and head west along the coast. Among the four birch tree you
find there, the spirit of Azalhgorm appears and gives you information.

Set off again due east along the beach - eat the wild Sempiternals for
extra nourishment - to find and pick up a runic tablet on a pedestal.

On Predator`s Land
------------------

Put the mental vision helmet on one of your characters, and travel 
east to Fimnuirh. In the middle of the forest, to the east, you should 
come to a clearing. Somewhere in the middle of this stands a solitary 
tree surrounded by little flowers. The mysterious predator should be
waiting for you, but if it isn`t, walk west again to find it and,
hopefully, kill it. Collect the four magic rings which will protect you
from Dragon`s fire.

Travel north as far as the river. Walking along it to the east, you 
will come to a bridge. Cross this.

The Bridge Guardian
-------------------

At Rhudgast, there`s a two-way journey with a village and, in particular,
a lake city. Turn east to enter Aragarth, and continue to the east as far
as the river. This river can be crossed using a bridge ruled over by a
minotaur, and to the north of this you`ll find a merchant. Give him 5000
coins and he will give you a potion which is essential for inventing an
`eye-opening` prescription. In addition, to the south of the bridge, the
dwarf Fragon can be enrolled if need be.

Turn right on to the bridge and kill the Minotaur. It`s better to make 
him waste all his magic weapons and projectiles from a distance before
moving in for the hand-to-hand fight. Cross the bridge and enter 
Silmatil.

An Impossible Love
------------------

Gate crash at Irvan`s house in the village of Halindor and he will tell
you that his daughter has been kidnapped. She used to live in the city 
of Elwing and if you rescue her and bring her back to the old gent he 
will reward you with a vital key (you`ll also find Thorn in Elwing. He 
will give you five monk robes for later use). You will find Irvan`s
daughter in the town square, but before you can persuade her to 
accompany you back you`ll have to lose a member of your party.

Leave the town by the road opposite to that by which you entered and 
return North to the village of Halinor and to Irvan`s house. One of your
party has fallen in love with the girl and the only way he`ll let her go 
is if you give him the anti-love potion (the essential ingredient is
Tortoise spittle). Get the key and you will be advised to build a `wall`
(four people in a line will suffice). Now go West - watch out for the
wizard - and take the teleport.

The Dungeon of Valathar
-----------------------

Gather together food, water-pistols, and treasure and search everywhere.
Numerous passages open up thanks to the levers and the keys collected 
along the way. You might have to go to and fro between the town to
strengthen your team wall. Open the door with the key collected at 
Irvan`s house. At the first crossroads turn left and you`ll find the 
house of the living dead brothers. More exploration reveals another key.

A Visit To The Dark Knight
--------------------------

Cotinue along the route to the East crossroads. Turn South, and fight 
the Dark Knight before continuing South. Another key can be found in the
labyrinths. Return to the Dark Knight`s Room and open the door facing the
East labyrinth. Find the exit to the East at the crossing and turn North.
Continue and retrieve the key from cul-de-sac and use the levers to open 
up a passage. Return to the pervious crossing, continue South and then 
turn East (the passage opens according to the posistion of the levers
previously seen). Follow the wide corridor until you reach the cul-de-sac,
collect the key and return to the Dark Knight`s room. Keep going North
until you reach a wall and open the door to the East.

The Wild Levers
---------------

If you keep goin East, you`ll find a labyrinth consisting of two parallel
corridors interspersed with doors which are operated by levers. Each one
operates two doors simultaneously. Take the passage South then move East,
ignore the lever then access on the left. Operate the lever and return
Eastwards to the aforementioned room. Turn right and then to the left 
pull the other level on a half turn. Now return towards the previous room
(West) then turn right and left again. Pull this lever and you can exit 
the maze by continuing along this corridor towards the East. At the end
turn right and then left. You`ll now find yourself in a smaller labyrinth
populated by blue ghouls. Moving along the corridor in a Southernly
direction you will find a key and teleportation point.

Foul Air
--------

Walking South, you must turn East immediately. At the end, turn left and
you`ll arrive at another room with a lever. Make each person drink the
Worgaz potions (Aponea), and pull the lever. Gas filters into the 
chamber, but you will be protected. Follow the corridors and look in all
the nooks and crannies for treasure. When you enter a new chamber pull 
the lever and the gas will disappear. This room has two access routes. 
The one to the South is the shortest and mildly interesting, but the path
to the East is indispensable. After passing the skeletons you find 
another key in a cul-de-sac. Return to the chamber, pass through the area
of foul air and exit the room.

Conjuring Tricks
----------------

From the wide corridor you have to find an access point heading West 
which will lead you into a huge diamond shaped chamber. In the centre of
the room a demon is casting spells at you. Try the doors to the North and
West and then take the access route to the South at the end. Continue in a
westerly direction and you come out into a broad corridor. Just to the
right there`s a lever and a passage leading East. Follow this and open the
door that`s controlled by the previous lever. This is the entrance to a
spider-infested room. Collect the runic tablet. This room has illusionary
walls so try them all and collect the different articles you find. Now
return to the lever in the corridor. There`s a very large labyrinth to 
pass through heading West (watch out for ghouls). Try and find the door
facing South in the broad corridor. This door opens onto a small room
guarded by a fearful magician that you must kill and whose talisman must 
be taken. This talisman gives the wizard his strength. Exit the room when
you have the item.

On one of the walls in the labyrinth you`ll find three levers. The right
combination of up and down must be found in order to open the door to the
extreme South East route.

Fix Bayonets!
-------------

Follow the corridor and you`ll come face to face with Medusa. The use of 
a psychic shield is recommended here. When she`s dead, a flame-spitting
dragon will try to burn you. He seems to be quite a way off but he`s well
within range if you hit out. At the end of the passage will be a door.
Dress everyone in the monk robes and open it. Kill the monk on the other
side and cast a protective shield. Now teleport.

Ishar
-----

Finally you are in the temple of Ishar. Once again a very long corridor 
awaits your exploration. Before seeing Krogh you will have to fight three
monk guards with fairly well-developed psychic powers. Use the psychic
sheild again and kill them. When it`s over another protective shield 
could be useful.

Krogh
-----

The grand magician casts flashes of lightning at you and even if you 
manage to escape he will give chase so there`s no other solution than to 
go in studs up! If everyone has a runic tablet, and your magician has the
talisman, Morgula can cast `anti-Krogh` spells and if Krogh is having a
particularly bad day you might just do it! Now prepare for the end of 
game sequence

=========================================================================
ALTERNATIVE WALK-THROUGH:

 Listen to the wind when you arrive and look around carefully.
 When you see a man, walk towards him. If you talk to him he will tell
 you about the good pub guide. He can be enrolled in your team, but he
 is a traitor, so take his gold and place him in the front row.
 Now travel NE and near a pool you will find a young maiden called
 Kiriela, who will prove an asset to the team, so enlist help and place
 her in the second row having prepared a fireball rune.
 You can now take a trip to Angarann where there are some wandering Orcs
 for you to gain some experience on and get paid for doing it.
 You should also visit Akeer who will give you a clue.
 Travel to the pub and get drunk.
 While in this state enrol a fellow warrior called Kirian.
 When sober, assess your weapons and buy accordingly.
 Remembering that it takes 1000 coins to save your adventure!
 Now head S and you will come to a house with a large amount of gold.
 You can take the gold because it's free. Take the bridge to Lotharia,
 where in one of the pubs you will find the Unknown who can be taught the
 lightning spell; you will need it later on.
 Travel S and you will come to what looks like a bridge guarded by a
 barbarian. It is, in fact, Lake City, so kill him, gain your reward, eat
 and rest in the pubs. Targhan and Fhironn can be enrolled if need be.
 Remember to take their gold.
 Head S once more to cross the bridge and then turn S to find the lizard's
 house and the gold in the bushes. From here, head E to Rhudgast and when
 you reach the border turn N.
 Travel around a bush-type maze and you'll encounter the White Knight.
 Be warned - he will take some killing. The fireballs and lightning are
 useful here. When you have fried him, take his helmet as it will allow
 you to detect the predator later.
 If you look around there is another bag of gold hidden in the bushes.
 Go S from here and you will come across the spirit of Azalghorm, who will
 tell you about three quests. If you follow the river S you will find a
 pedestal with a Runic Tablet on it - take this and it will offer some sort
 of protection later on.
 From here head E, put on the White Knight's helmet and enter Fimnuirh
 Forest. Find the predator, kill and take the fire rings from him.
 At this point in the game it may be a good idea to go back to Lotharia
 to rest and see what you can learn.
 Head back to where you killed the White Knight, travel E until you reach
 the river then head N. Eventually you'll find some dwarves who are
 looking for a fight. Take their gold when you have killed them.
 If you side step into the woods, in the distance you will see the
 entrance to the Dungeon of Rhudgast Forest.
 In here are four keys, two lots of food, three throwing knives, a flask
 for mixing potions, a flask of oil, two treasure chests full of gold and
 a runic tablet.
 In here is also a very powerful giant, who is blocking the way to the
 flask room. It's best to blast him with everything you've got and then go
 back to Lotharia to recharge your psychic energy. The skeletons in the
 dungeon regenerate, so kill them and collect as fast as you can.
 Go N to the river and travel E to the bridge, kill the dwarves and then
 cross the bridge. Head E to the next river and then N to the next bridge.
 This is guarded by a large minotaur, so have plenty of psychic energy
 ready. There is a bag of gold lying around and also a dwarf who will
 offer to join you.
 Going N from this bridge is a merchant who will sell you a potion for
 5000 gold coins. After trading it is a good idea to recharge your
 energies before crossing the bridge because there are a lot of barbarians
 hanging around and also a giant called Gato who guards a tortoise, which
 will be traded with another merchant for a useful potion later on.
 Cross the bridge and head S to the large city of Urshurak, which is full
 of orcs, shops, spell learning and, best of all, plenty of good pubs.
 Search and listen well.
 West of Urshurak is Kandomir where Jon the Alchemist lives. If you're
 intelligent enough you'll be able to read a scroll that will tell you
 about the potions you can make from the supplies that can be found and
 bought in the shops.
 It is now time to travel to Halindor which is north east of Urshurak,
 where you learn that Erwin's daughter has been kidnapped and is held in
 Elwingil.
 You will rescue her, but be warned - one of your party will fall in love
 with her and you will need a 'disrupt charm' before you take her back to
 Erwin's house. If you are successful, Erwin will give you a key to
 Valathar Dungeon.
 In Zendoria there is a merchant who requires Turtle. It will be used for
 the pig transformation potion. In Baldaron there is a rock containing a
 magic sword. If you cannot pull it out, kill a few more baddies and try
 again.
 On the way to and from Elwingil are two fireball throwing wizards for
 which you will need to distribute the fire rings from the predator.
 In Gilaras there is another runic tablet which you can collect, but
 before you do, you had better have a cure blindness potion because as
 soon as you step over the border you will be struck blind.
 North of Halindor is the forbidden house which contains another runic
 tablet, although 'brain wash' potion for all the party will be needed.
 In Elwingil, the orcs regenerate every time you enter, so take your time,
 go in and out, collect a lot of money and rest in the pubs.
 When you have gained enough skills, leave Elwingil and head for Halindor
 then head E. In some birch trees you will find a transporter. Take the
 transporter and it will take you over the river into another Elwingil.
 Do not be confused - keep heading E and you will come to Fhulbrod Forest.
 It is here you will find a trader who will give you something for free.
 If you enter the forest and try to find a clearing you will be attacked by
 dwarves, then you'll find a pig.
 This is really Morgula, a witch who was transformed, so now you know why
 you want a 'pig transformation' potion. The witch has the much needed
 Anti-Krogh spell. She has a very low constitution so give her plenty of
 food. It is now a good idea to travel to a city to strengthen her as much
 as possible for the task ahead.
 Remember that in Elwingil lives Thorm, who has some monk's robes that you
 will need later on, so go up to Thorm and collect them. By now all your
 party should be on level ten and have collected 31,000 experience points -
 if not, it is a very good idea to go and collect them because they will be
 needed soon.
 You should also have four out of five members of your team carrying runic
 tablets. Head back towards the Fhulbrod Forest and then head N.
 Make sure that all of the team have a 'brain wash' potion and you can use
 a protection spell or something similar because you will meet a very
 powerful wizard who could blind, inverse and bind your party.
 Some effects wear off, but not inversion.
 When you have despatched the wizard you will gain the entrance to the
 Valathar Dungeon. Make sure that your team have been refreshed.
 If they haven't then now is a good time to refresh them.
 Having opened the door with Erwin's key you can enter the dungeon.
 The first few rooms contain zombies that you can burn quite easily.
 Be on the look-out for treasure and food, and most important of all,
 try to find a key.
 Leave through the opening and you will find at the junction that there is
 a locked door. Turn right into a diamond-shaped room, this is where the
 Black Knight lives. Instead of swapping tales about good and evil and
 generally being polite, fireball him.
 Continue into the next room and then turn right and enter a maze that
 contains treasure, oil and yet another key. Open the locked door in the
 Black Knight's room and follow the maze. Collect the oil and eventually
 you'll come to a T-junction.
 Turn left into a room with two levers and a key in it. Operate the lever
 that was on the far wall as you first came into the room. This lever
 opens the barred gate at the other end of the T-junction. Going that way
 you will encounter a spider guarding some food, and you'll also come
 across yet another key.
 Now go back to the locked door and open it. Collect the oil and travel up
 the top of the corridor. To the right is a giant to be sorted out.
 Once the giant is defeated you will gain another key.
 Go through the opening in the distance. You will be confronted by a
 baddie through the archway, so fireball him. If you are running low on
 energy at this point, go back and refuel - remember that the zombies you
 killed previously will regenerate. Find the correct combination of levers
 to gain an exit from these two corridors, at the end of which there is a
 long corridor with a T-junction. Some Blue Ghouls will appear from
 nowhere and attack you you; defeat them with your team.
 The left hand exit has some oil to be collected.
 The right hand exit leads to some more ghouls and a spiral corridor which
 terminates with a key and a transporter which will take you to the next
 dungeon level. Now is the time to recharge again because there is plenty
 of work to be done before you complete the game.
 Use the teleport to go to the second level, immediately go left and left
 again into a corridor with a lever and a door in it. This is a gas
 chamber, so give each of the party a drink of the 'worgaz' potion to
 protect them. Once you've done that pull the lever, this will allow gas
 to enter the room, but the door will now open.
 Search everywhere because there is a lot of treasure to be found.
 At the other end of the room is another lever; pull this and you are now
 through the gas chamber. There are two exits to this room, both of which
 are guarded by some very deadly skeletons.
 Search both exits and you will gain more treasure and a key. Now head
 back to the gas chamber - remember to use the correct potion again.
 Return to the teleport room that you first arrived at, strengthen your
 team and then head S. After not too long you will come across a treasure
 box and a corridor to the right. Contained within is a Demon.
 Protect your team of adventurers before attempting to kill it.
 This diamond-shaped room contains two doors for you to search behind.
 Travel E from the diamond-shaped room and you will come across a lever.
 Pull the lever and travel down the corridor to the west and you will find
 some oil. Carry on W and then turn S and you will have a choice of three
 corridors. Each one leads to the same room.
 This room contains the last runic tablet - however, it is guarded by lots
 of spiders. There are also two hidden rooms; one to the south and one to
 the north. Now go back to where you pulled the lever. It might be a good
 idea at this point in the game to go and recharge all the members of your
 team.
 In the big room facing the lever is a maze complex containing more
 treasure, oil and another room containing a talisman (it looks like a
 jewelled broach). While you were wandering around you should have found a
 wall with three levers.
 These levers operate the last barred gate - it is the outside two that
 need pulling. You can then travel up the last corridor and be met by
 Medusa. It would be a very good idea to use the 'brain wash' potion again
 and then go and kill her.
 Be extremely careful though because around the next corner is her pet
 dragon who will take some killing. Finish him off and then strengthen
 your team. You will now need to be wearing the monk's robes - after this
 transport there is no going back! Kill the monk and then use the
 transporter.
 You will arrive in a very long corridor which is guarded by three powerful
 monks, if you've got the potions to recharge your team's psychic energy
 then now would be a good time to do it.
 After this you will confront Krogh himself, so protect your team of
 adventurers and use the Anti-Krogh spell, hit as often as you can with any
 weapon you can, because he has many hit points (the magic sword takes off
 720 points) and with any luck you should survive having killed him.
 The defeat of Krogh means that your adventure is at an end and Ishar is
 long gone and completed.