                           THE FINAL BATTLE SOLUTION

Typed in by SIDEWINDER for LSD.


THE CHARACTERS

STEROFF:  The hero of the party is this fine fellow.  Portraying yourself
he is pretty good at just about everything.

JERUB:  He might be getting on a bit, but what Jerub lacks in strength he
more than makes up for with his magical spells.

CRYSELLA:  With her long fair hair,  Crysella is not really the fighting
type.  But she's a dab hand with a bow, and is a pretty good thief.

PAGAN:  A strapping young chap, Pagan is the perfect warrior.  He's brave,
skillful, and not too bright.  If you have any trouble just send him in.

THE ESCAPE
Inside the cell operate the bench and then go up to get on it.  Open the
grill in the wall, and then go up to enter it; you are now inside the air
vent.  Go N (north), and open the grill that you come to and go in; you
will now be in the next cell.  This cell isn't locked so you can leave
without any problems.  Go S (south) twice.  Open the drawer and take the
Rusty key.  Operate the Rusty key to clean it.  N twice, and enter.  Use
the key on the chains to free Jerub, and then go S twice, E, and operate
the door.
Attack the humanoid with your hands, and then take his knife.  Jerub should
operate Crysella's rope to free her.  Steroff should operate on Pagan's
manacles to free him.  Operate the railing with the rope to send Jerub down
the well.  Take the tinderbox, the backpack and the necklace, then go back
up, not forgetting to take the rope.  Out and then up.
Attack the humanoids with the knife, and then go out, down and W.  Turn the
wagon over, and then head east twice.  Inside the Guard House operate the
rocks to reveal a trap door.  Open it and go down.  Light the torch in the
dark tunnel and go S.
At the bottom of the stairs throw an object at the spider's web, and get
the gold key.  Get Crysella to examine the walls to find a niche full of
arrows; head N, up, out, and S.
Drop the bucket down the well.  Ensure that Crysella has the gold key.
Operate the niche with the gold key to open it and take the Yellow crystal.
Go up twice, W, in, and up.  Take the silver ring that's on the table;
attack the chest to remove the rust, then open it.  Get the bottle of oil
and the axe, then go out and down.

HEADING INTO THE WILDERNESS
Open the door and go out, head E, and go out the gates that were forced
open by the wagon. Now go SW, up and N across the gap (but only if it's
daytime).  Enter the cave and operate the rocks to reveal a skeleton; take
the vest.  Out, S, down and E.  At the foot of the tower go E (you will
fall into an animal pit).  Take the sword, and attack the snake with it.
Take the cloak, go up and then SE.
Operate the ground in front of the tree and take the White crystal you
find.  W.  Take the Gold ring from the hole by the dead hunter; wear Gold
ring.  E five times to the broken bridge.  Wait until the bird arrives and
then throw an object at it (if it's daytime).  Take the diamond and attach
the diamond to the ring.
From the bridge head W and N.  Wait for a wild pig to appear.  When he
does, attack him with the sword.  Run N and NE.

COMPLETING YOUR TEAM
Attack the bandits on the forest path with the sword (to rescue Jack the
lad).  NE twice.  Move the water trough outside the wooden shack to reveal
a trap door and go down into it.  In the cellar, take the Small key from
the dead man and use it to unlock the drawer.  Open the drawer and take the
antidote inside, then go up, open the door and go in.
Get the Wooden key from off the top of the cupboard and use it to unlock
the cupboard.  Open it and take the food and the hammer (then use the goto
feature on the map to get back to the broken bridge).
Attack the trees with axe, SE twice.  Give jack a knife and send him up a
tree.  Throw the knife at the window to kill the wizard (NB: if you didn't
run to rescue Jack in the forest he might well miss or collapse from
injuries at this point.  For extra insurance, make sure he is wearing the
robe from the animal pit where the snake was).  Go in.

THE WIZARD'S TOWER
Go down and open the door (get the rest of the party in the tree).  Go up.
Jerub should cast the Detect Spiritual matter spell.  Open the chest
(someone should be wearing the necklace) and take the claw that's inside.
Remove the Grey crystal from the claw.  Take the Silver key from the dead
wizard, unlock the drawer with it, and get the scroll from inside.  (NB:
there are two scrolls.  Jerub should take one of them and read it.  One is
a spell the other will kill him).
Out twice, NW twice, W and NW (note the location of the cave as you must
return here once you have found the other spell scroll).  Go NE and E.
Throw a heavy object at the cliff face, and take the fossil from the
ground.  From the foot of the cliffs go SW, S, NE, NE, and N to the three
way junction.  Go NE to find a boat; operate it with the hammer to mend it.
Get in the boat (one character).
NE, S, out, S and operate the mechanism with the bottle of oil.  Operate
the mechanism again.  N, in, S and out.  Wait for the Hermit to appear and
wake up.  Talk to the Hermit, then give him the fossil.  Look in the tree
hole, and take the pouch that's inside; get the Green crystal from the
pouch.  Go in, take the staff from the bed and break it to find the spell
scroll.  Out, S and N (use the game map system to return to the cave
entrance).

BOULDER BUSINESS
Attach a rope to the large boulder and pull on the rope to reveal a hole.
Go down into the hole and light a torch with the tinderbox. N to arrive at
the edge of a pit, Jerub must cross the pit, and he must also have all
eight spells available to him.  If he's not brave enough to cross then get
him to cast the bravery spell until he is. N, N.  Cast the Destroy Serpent
spell on the serpent, which will reveal the stepping stones.  N.  Cast
Detect Underworld spell (second spell).  Look in the column of flame and
take the Blue crystal.
Use the map system to return to the cave, go out, and then use it again to
get back to the wagon in the forest.  NE, N, E twice and up the mechanism
chain.  Go up again (only when it's night, and don't carry a lit torch
either!).  Go E, unravel the vest and give it to crysella to shout an arrow
at the rope bridge, then head E (across the mended rope bridge).
Go inside the castle and get Jack to go up through the gap at the top of
the door.  S and pull the lever.  In and pull another lever, then out
twice.  Get the Metal key from the dead humanoid.  Use the map system to
return to the courtyard.  N.
Unlock the gates with the Metal key and open them.  Get Crysella to shoot
three times at the target, and then take the bottle of Fruba.  SE.  Open
the trap door and go down.

INTO THE SEWERS
Go S in the mucky sewers (if water is not too high due to excess raining).
Up, through the toilet.  Open the drawer and take the Iron key.  N.  Make
Jack bend the Iron key, then unlock the door wuth it.  Talk to the man and
then attack him (i.e. kill him).  Get the Black key from his body, then go
out.  S twice, E, up, N and W.  Open the door and go S and W.  Open the
door and attack the humanoids inside with a weapon.  Take the Shiny key
from the dead humanoids.  Go in.
Get Crysella to examine the walls.  Up.  Open the doors, and go N.  Attack
the humanoids with the sword, and take and wear the glove from the dead
bodies.  E. Use the glove to dispell the barrier, then continue E.  Attack
the door twice to break it down, then enter.  Look at the bucket and take
the magic staff.  Move the painting.  Unlock the chest with the Black key
and take the magical shield and the magical sword (don't take the Black
crystal).  Go down (one character at a time).

THE FINAL JOURNEY
At the three way junction take the Platinum key from the dead body.  Go W,
S, W, N, up, N, E and N.  Unlock the door with the Platinum key, then open
it and go in.  Operate the mechanism.  Down.  Get the food, and go out.  W
and operate the statue to open the doors.  In.  Attach all five crystals to
the magic staff, and open the curtains.  Go down into the secret tunnel.
Drop the magical shield to trigger the trap, then pick it back up again; E.
Open the sarcophagus lid and throw a lit torch on the mummy.  Get a glass
ball from the coffin, and break it by dropping it.  Get the Red crystal and
attach it to the magic staff.  Attack the giant sphere with the magical
staff, then go in, to the depths of Hell.  Attack the Suzar with the
magical sword three times, then run to the cave at the foot of the basket
or bridge (using the map system to get there) before the castle collapses.

End.