Solution of Final Command


Warning: to take an object, you must click twice on it.

- The Star Ship Centaure :

You begin the game in the central control panel where there are two corpses.

Click on the Centaure computer board to the left to obtain in the principal screen the coordinates of the Junar G2 Station : 0 5 0 2 1 9 6 6.

Click on  the corpse in the middle of the central control panel.

Click on the keyboard and after that click on the monitor : you learn there is a spy who works for the Horgants (youll discover later the name of the traitor).

Click on the helmet on the ground and obtain an identification card of William Thomas Sanders, commandant of the Star Ship Centaure.

Click on the right handful of the dead to take the standard federation device and click on the right leg to pick up an identification card of Sergent Werner Landerbert .

In your inventory (use the letter I at the bottom of the screen), use the identification card of William Thomas Sanders on the teletransporter operating console to the left.

Return to the central control panel (use the diamond-shaped icon in the middle of the screen) and use the standard federation device on the right door to open it.

Go to the room containing the energy unit and click to the two handfuls of the dead man to take the teletransporter access card and an another standard federation device.

Click on his right leg to take the identification card of the technician Jack Hooper.

Push the hand lever to activate the teletransporter.

Use the teletransporter access card on the teletransporter and enter the coordinates : 0 5 0 2 1 9 6 6.

- The Junar G2 Station :

You are behind the Junar G2 Station : go to the entrances of the science station.

You see three doors protected by an electrical field.

Use the identification card of Sergent Werner Landerbert on the control panel card to stop the electrical field.


Go to the middle door and in the teletransporter room, click on the door to the right to open it.

Use this door to go in the room of the experimental teletransporter.

Click on the window and click on the control lever to free the left door at the entrances of the science station.

Go to this left door at the entrances of the science station : you are in the central computer room.

Click on the control panel of energy at the left : you see a panel with four buttons.

Take the identification card of the Commandant of the Junar G2 Base at the left and push the button 4.

Important : push one button in the same time also there is a overvoltage and the game is over.

Go back to the central computer room and use the identification card of the Commandant of the Junar G2 Base on the base commander identification.

After, click on the keyboard and click on the monitor : you have obtained the name of the traitor and the coordinates of Centaure (2 2 0 2 1 9 6 4).

Return to the control panel of energy and push the button 4 and next the button 3.

Go back to the entrances of the station and go the middle door : push the lover and click on the ladder to open a trap.

Go back to the control panel of energy in the central computer room and push the button 3 and next 1.

Go back to the trap and go down.

- The Tunnel of Junar G2 :

Take the anti-gravity belt at the left and click on the control panel energy to open a secret way.

Destroy the mutant in using your federation laser.

Go straight ahead of you.

- The Shuttle Horgant :

Take the road leading to zone 7 and enter the Shuttle Horgant.

Use the identification card of Sergent Werner Landerbert on the checkpoint to the right.

Click on the keyboard to the left and click on the box in front of you.

Go down and use the identification card of Sergent Werner Landerbert on the keyboard.

Click on the keyboard and take the portable biological arm in the middle door.

Go back  and click on the window to go out.

Use the portable biological arm on the left road of the entrances of Junar G1 Station to kill the mutants.

Enter this road and click on the dome to destroy it.

Use the gravity belt and the federation laser on the door to enter.

Use the telepathic headset on the mutant who gives you the code number : 2 1 4 2 3 3 1 4 .

Use the federation laser to kill the mutant and go back to the tunnel of Junar G2.

Go to the secret way and click on the system in front of you to be decontaminated.

Go to the control panel of energy in the central computer room and push the button 1 next the button 3.

Go to the teletransporter room : use the teletransporter access card on the teletransporter and the coordinates 2 2 0 2 1 9 6 4 on it.

- The Final Part :

Go to the central control panel of the Space Ship Centaure and click on the chest at the left.

Use the code number 2 1 4 2 3 3 1 4 on the pipes to open the chest : you have obtained the databanks containing all information concerning the long distance teletransporter.

Return to the Junar G2 Station in using the access card and the coordinates 0 5 0 2 1 9 6 6 on the teletransporter of Centaure.

Go to the central panel of energy of the central computer room and push the button 3 next the button 4.

Use the identification card of the Commandant of the Junar G2 Base on the base commander identification.

Click on the keyboard and several times on the monitor until you have the message with the coordinates of Centaure : when you see this message (and only this message), use the databanks on the monitor and you have obtained the coordinates of planet Earth ( 4 6 2 7 1 9 2 3).

Go back to the control panel of energy and push the button 4 next the button 2.

Go the entrances of the station and go to the right door.

Use the teletransporter access card and the coordinates 4 6 2 7 1 9 2 3 on the experimental teletransporter : you have finished the game Final Command.

This solution has been created originally in French for the site Alone in the Past << http://www.aitpast.com >>.

This solution must be credited to Ranx and Rodi.