                       THE QUEST FOR THE TIME-BIRD

SOLUTION FOR THE MARCH OF A THOUSAND GREENS
This is the domain of the Wizard-Prince BODIAS. As you will soon,discover,
it's the "paradise" of the world of AKBAR. It is famed for,the beauty of this
countryside. The good people of this March live in,harmony with nature,
especially the magnificent forest. Their ways are peaceful and they will never
attack our heroes under any circumstances.
A GUIDE FOR THE PLAYER:
Don't attack the gentle folk of Green March, otherwise they'll hide from you 
for as lonng as you remain in their domain. You will, in that case, only be
able to meet the OLD ONES OF THE WOODS. Don't attack them either; talk with
them to find out about the various inhabitants of AKBAR. 
Should the UNKNOWN KNIGHT or ROXANNA charm anyone of the opposite sex,they
will quit the Quest! The lure of blissful love in this green paradise is
irresistible. These two heroes can all too easily fall under the amourous
spell and become unavailable for the rest of the Quest.
BRAGON will also leave the group for a certain period, if he charms any 
Ondines. In that event, the others will have to stay where they are and await
 his return. If you leave without him, then BRAGON will be abandoned in the
THOUSAND GREENS and will be lost to the group for the remainder of the Quest.
If you speak with the inhabitants, they will offer you rest or refreshment.
If you choose to rest, then your heroes will absent themselves for a short
while. Don't forget, though, that time moves on even when your heroes take a
break!
When you meet BODIAS, avoid attacking him. If you attack him, he will die.
 And the forest,in perfect symbiosis with the Wizard-Prince,will also perish.
The March of a THOUSAND GREENS will burn and you'll meet nobody at all!
ROXANNA mustn't charm BODIAS more than once, or he will believe she is his
daughter and escape with her, leaving the group without her precious presence.
HOW TO FIND BODIAS:
You arrive in this March by the shore,Click on the forest to enter them realm
of the THOUSAND GREENS. You will then find yourself on the map of the March.
Click on the left side of the screen. Two inhabitants will be displayed.
Choose the only available path.
Following picture: You will find two inhabitants and an Old One of the
Woods. Go right.
Next picture: One way only. There is an Old One of the Woods.
Next picture: You will find two Ondines. Go as far right as you can.
Next picture: One way only. There are two Ondines.
Next picture: There is a Old One here. Go left.
Next picture: There is one way only, over the hut.
Next picture: You meet two inhabitants. Go right.
Next picture: There is a hut here. One way only.
Next picture: Click on the left of the vignette and the Old One.
 You will then find yourself in a picture where you can see a child.Click on
the foot of the tree to pick up a mushroom.
The UNKNOWN KNIGHT or ROXANNA should speak to the child. Otherwise the child
will be frightened and refuse to say anything of importance.Should ROXANNA or
 the UNKNOWN KNIGHT speak to him, he will reply with a multiple-choice
question. You must choose the second option: "Very well, what would you like?"
He will then say:"Thank you for the mushroom. Follow me".
There is only one exit.
After that, you must follow the child's instructions very carefully and you
will find BODIAS. When the child tells you to pass between the two trees, take
the little exit zone well to the left. 
Once BODIAS is present, someone must speak to him. BODIAS should ask three 
multiple-choice questions in a row. Choose, in order, the first answer, then
the second and, finally, the second again. This will convince BODIAS of your
good faith. He will also believe ROXANNA to be his daughter.
Next, click anywhere. You'll return to the shore where you'll see a BALANT in
the water. Click on the BALANT to quit the module with BODIAS willing to read
the runes in the Temple of Oblivion. Success at the Temple will provide you
with some very important information: the location of the Time-Bird. 
HINTS ON THE SAND LIPS
In order to follow the advice we're about to give, you must first go to the
THOUSAND GREENS to recruit BODIAS. Then go directly to the March of the SAND
LIPS.  You are advised to have both BODIAS and ROXANNA. You will arrive by
BALANT in the Chasm of Lights. You must click in the bottom left-hand corner.
Don't click anywhere else!  You will find yourself in a room in the palace of
FAUL, Wizard-Prince of the SAND LIPS. FAUL will be present along with two of
his advisors.Many actions are now available, but you should speak to him once.
In answer to his question,choose the first option,which is to spin a gripping
yarn. He will indicate his satisfaction. Click on the right-hand door and you
will be outside the city, on your way to the Temple of Obivion. Click on the
Temple, bottom-left, and your group will move to the Temple entrance. Go 
straight ahead.
You'll find yourself in a corridor with a staircase ahead and a stele (a block
of stone) to the right. Click left. Now you're in a narrow corridor. Click at
its far end.You're in a corridor.Click right(above the stele, not far right).
Once again, a narrow corridor. Click at the far end.Another corridor. Click on
the far end, to the right, in the yellow zone (WARNING, there are two passages
near together).In the next corridor, click at the buttom.Click on the left in
the new picture. In the corridor, ROXANNA will call for her Furry and quit
group. BRAGON must now talk to himself. Choose the second answer to the
mutiple-choice question: "If only ROXANNA were here...".
You are once again outside with ROXANNA.Take the same path from the beginning,
to meet up with BRAGON.When ROXANNA and BRAGON are together, click in the
background of the picture. You will see a funeral chamber, with a pyramid in
the distance. Click on the pyramid. Now you're standing before it. RUNES are
engraved on its surface. You also meet a character you probably already know.
Now BODIAS must be made to speak by one of your heroes. BODIAS will decipher
the RUNES. You will automatically quit this module, running as fast as your
legs will carry you!