                  - Yolanda - The Ultimate Challenge -
                   ----------------------------------
                          Game from Millennium
                   Written by Rastan / Vision Factory

Story
-----
Beautiful princess Yolanda has offened the Goddess
Hera. Jealous of Yolandas beauty, Hera has placed a
curse upon the princess. She has told Yolanda that any
man she falls in love with will die horribly within a week
of their meeting. The curse will be lifted only if Yolanda
can re-enact the twelve labours of legendary Hercules.
Distraught, and faced with a life of loneliness, Yolanda
gathers her courage and sets out on the tasks, armed
only with the advice given by the messenger god,
Hermes. The solution to her task may not be obvious and
there will be times when you will have to place your life
in the hands of the Gods if success is to be yours!

Playing the game
----------------
There are twelve tasks to complete and a trainer level.
The player may have to play up to five screens to
complete a task. The twelth task can only be played if
you have completed the first eleven tasks.

From the title attract sequence you may either:

Press 'T' to start on the trainer level. This option is
recommended for beginners; or
Press keys '1' or '2' to start either a one or two player
game. You will then be asked which mode you wish to
play in: wimp, hero, legend mode; or 
Press fire to play the game with the same setup as your
last plyed game. If you have just loaded the game, the
setup will default to a one player game in hero mode.
Wimp mode - this mode gives Yolanda seven lives and
gives her the same task to complete after losing a life.
Hero mode - this mode gives Yolanda four lives and she
must complete a random task after losing each life.
Legend mode - this mode only gives Yolanda one life.

A description appears before each task - press fire to
skip this. The object of the game is to reach the picture in
each screen. The picture will turn into a door after a few
seconds if the screen that you are on leads onto another
for disappearing platforms, falling ropes, fires, invisible
platforms and many more diffrent traps. Good Luck!

Controls
--------
Use a joystick to control Yolanda.

Left/Right	Run left/right

Up/Down		Climb up/down rope/ladder

Fire		Jump

F8		Pause game

F9		Continue game

F1		Abort game

-----

Give these VISION FACTORY boards a buzz:

Mother Board I ----- 516-783-1450

GHOST TOWN --------- +46-750/25058

Special greetings to:

ALL VISION FACTORY MEMBERS, Skid Row, FairLight, Paradox, Horizon,
TriStar & Red Sector, Quartex, Fusion, Defjam & Ccs and ALL ZlemFUCK
haters!!
                                  Written by Rastan/Vision Factory!!
