                   Blades of Destiny Cheat Mode Revealed

                           by baser evil/prodigy


I was pretty tired of fighting battles in Blades of Destiny, only to get
57 experience points for each battle, and was going to turn it off and
forget about it, wait for Ambermoon to come out, when i noticed something
that will make life a little easier in this game.

The thing to do is take your party to Prem. Look for the old haunted mine
at the end of the road by the river (you can't actually see it, but if
you walk past the end of the road you will find it). Take your party into
the mine, and from the first square, move your party forward, then
backward, and keep moving between these two squares. When the ceiling
comes crashing down on top of you, it's time to leave the mine. If all
your players are still alive, go rest at an inn then head for the Temple
of Travia and save the game. If anyone dies, just restart from your last
save position and keep trying. Just keep repeating this process until
you are satisfied with your party.

How this works: It works because when you are in the Haunted Mine, there
are certain areas of the mines that have a chance to collapse on you.
Everytime you manage to elude the cave-in, you get experience points for
it. It's not noticable at first, because you don't get points until
you leave the mines. Once you leave the mines, you get the points, and
it won't take that many tries until you start building your party up
in levels. It took me about an hour to take all my characters from
level 3 to level 9. They all started with about 20,000 exp and ended
up with 200,000 points. You would have to fight over 2,000 battles to
get that much experience in the game, so you can see which is the
better way. It's hard at first to keep your characters alive until
they build up enough life points, so the best way at first is move
them around a couple turns, then get out before a collapse, because if
your party is weak, someone will probably die.

To everybody who has asked me for help on this game: I don't know 
much about what to really do to solve it or get you past a part you're
stuck at, because i have the same problems, but i hope this will make
your journey a little easier.


Some Tips For the Game:

- Remain pious, donate money at temples. You can bring a dead player back
  to life in a temple by donating enough and continuously praying.
- Stealing may sound like a good way to raise cash, but in the long run
  it does not pay. I found by stealing a lot of money i had incurred a
  curse that caused my players to die if they took even one hit. The
  Academy of Magic in Thorwal may be able to lift the curse for a steep
  price.
- If you recruit NPC's be advised the will leave you after a set number of
  days, taking whatever is in their possession with them.
- Engage your enemies with your strongest characters, allowing your weaker
  members to attack from the background with missle weapons and
  spellcasters to magically assault them.
- Explore every square and visit every building in town. There's usually
  someone or something interesting around. It doesn't pay to anger anyone,
  so stay friendly.
- Finding locations in the wilderness is not 100%. You may have to move
  back and forth from town to town several times to find what you're
  looking for.
- When travelling by boat, it may pay to wait in port a few extra days to
  find a much faster ship going to your destination.
- If after 2 attempts to haggle over the price, your told it's still too
  much or not enough, go for the offering price. It's better than being
  kicked out of the shop and never being allowed back in.
- In dungeons have your thief take first position, otherwise there are
  secret passages which you will never find.