ROCKET RANGER - THE COMPLETE GUIDE
----------------------------------
 
 STARTING THE GAME

   For the first time, when you have loaded the game and you are greeted
with the option menu, go straight to the War Room.
   Now move two of your agents to SOUTH AMERICA, and place the other three
agents in AFRICA, forget about flashy joe on Germany, move them straight to
these areas, then exit.
   Now takeoff, forget fuel depot. Enter '23' into your tank to get you to
the Atlantic.


 THE ZEPPELIN

   On the first screen, the zeppelin will move from left to right across the
screen. You can not hit it with your gun, but you can destroy the torpedoes
that are fired at you. Very easy this, once TEN torps have been fired,
regardless of whether you have hit 'em all or not, you go automatically onto
the next screen.

   On the second screen, the zeppelin is much closer, here you have to aim
at the gondola just below the main airsack. Torpedoes are also fired at you,
try to dodge them, do not bother about destroying them, unless they get in
the way. The main objective here is to shoot the gondola below the airsack,
if you successfully hit it, a green flash will appear, do not fire anymore,
and you will go onto the next screen. If you accidently shoot the airsack on
the zepp, then it blows up and you have failed this bit, do not worry, as
you have not lost the game, see the BARNSTOFF's CAPTURED section for more
details.

   On the third screen, you will now be in the zeppelin gondola, where Jane
and the Prof are, after she says something to you, on the FIRST time you
successfully rescue them, you reply like this :-

 LOOSEN UP DOLLFACE, I LIKE YOUR STYLE, I OUGHTTA TEACH YOU,
 I TOOK THE SCENIC ROUTE, CAN YOU USE SOME HELP.

   Once this has been entered, you automatically fly back to Fort Dix, with
Jane and the Prof.
   Later in the game, the Nazi's capture Jane and the Prof again, (Typical
Americans !!) from the USA, in which you have to attack the Zeppelin again,
it happens three times in all.
   The second time you successfully get into the Gondola your relies are :-

 I'M GLAD TO SEE YOU TOO, I JUST WANT TO HELP YOU, CAN YOU USE SOME HELP.

   The third time, your replies are :-

 I'D BE HAPPY TO LEAVE, I JUST WANT TO HELP YOU, CAN YOU USE SOME HELP.

   These replies ALWAYS work successfully if you enter them in the correct
order, unlike some suggestions that I have seen in magazines concerning this
game !!

 THE WAR ROOM

   You should return here after you have returned from the first zeppelin
raid. Your agents should be flashing so read the reports. Your first
objective is to find the Nazi Bases, the next objective is to find the
5 Rocket parts, organise resistance in the west, and knock Nazi effeciency
down a bit.
   The Temple base is nearly always in SOUTH AMERICA, whereas the DESERT
BASE is nearly always in AFRICA, try these places for both bases, that seem
to be regular haunts of the two bases :

   SOUTH AMERICA : VENEZUELA, COLUMBIA, etc

   AFRICA : MID-EAST, KENYA, EAST AFRICA, EGYPT etc.

   Once a base is found, organise resistance and fly to it straight away.
When you go for a fly, try to visit more than one country if possible, ie
attack a Rocket Factory, then go to a base. Once resistance is organized,
Lunarium comes flooding in.
   It is also usefull having a bash at a Zeppelin Factory, or a fighter
base, or a brain washing plant just to slow the Zeppelins down.
   Once the two bases are found etc, you must locate the 5 parts of the
Rocket. It is also usefull to try and get Canada, and all of South America
turned brown, which means resistance organized, as it gives you extra time
for locating rocket parts, as the zeppelins take longer to occupy a country
with resistance organized in it.
   Try to keep two agents in the left side of the world, leaving three
agents to investigate the right part, if you have less than three agents
left, and you are still locating the two bases, FORGET IT, start again !!
   Once you have all 5 parts, and enough Lunarium, you can construct your
rocket and fly to the moon.


 BARNSTOFF'S CAPTURED

   If you blow up the zeppelin (silly bod !) then they are first taken to
Germany in a sub, when you get back to Fort Dix, you get a message saying
shock, horror, they are going to get exterminated, and it suggests you fly
to Germany, well I strongly advise you not too. I have completed the game by
ignoring this message, it is up to you, but I advise you don't. If you
forget about it, you later get another message saying they have been taken
to the desert base (one of the Lunarium ones you are trying to find !) if
you ignore it again, they just get sent to the moon unharmed.
   If you want to fly to Germany, when you get the message about Jane and the
Prof, then you get the Shoot Planes screen.
   If you kill them (easy as there are only eight !) you land in Germany,
where you get immiediately captured, you then get interrogated, and you
answer as the zeppelin screen, I never got this right, I once told him that
'HITLER EATS BABIES' in which I escaped to another country, but I did not
free Jane and the Prof.
   If you are unsuccessful, then when you get the next message about them
being taken to the Desert Base, fly to it (that is if you have found it !)
and you get captured again, with the same screen as Germany ! Which is why I
ignored it as I could never get the answers right !!, as I mentioned before,
it is not necessary to go through this bit.
   If you fly to Germany when Jane & the Prof are not there, and
successfully shoot the planes down, then when you land you get a message
saying well done, and Nazi efficiency has gone down by 5% (big wow !)


 NAZI EFFICIENCY

   This is where you can knock down the percentage in the top right hand
screen, to slow the Zeppelin down. You do this by your agents reporting
about a brainwashing plant, or looting of art treasure, zeppelin factory. If
you fly to the country, then all it is, is the plane shoot, once this is
done you get a suitable message saying efficiency down by 10%. It is only
worth doing this in the early stages of the game, as the plane shoot gets
much harder later on (it is hard enough at the beginning !!)


 ME 109'S

   On this screen you are soaring above the clouds, Me 109's attack in
formations, the best way I have found is to stay at the bottom and pick them
off. This screen, in my opinion, is the hardest screen of the game, save
except for the moon shoot out. Once you have been hit three times, then
kaput, you'd better have enough Lunarium to get home !!!


 TAKEOFF

   Make sure you have loaded up with enough Lunarium, a heavy load is harder
to take off of course, but if you press the button, in time to his legs
being directly underneath his body, you should manage it, watch out for the
lame seagull, and also watch out for the UFO which appears from time to time
on the screen where you soar up through the sky.


 THE ACK-ACK SCREEN

   This is the attack on the Desert Base, it is at night, and ack-ack
batteries come at you from the top of the screen, if you fire your gun a bit
before the batteries, you will destroy them. Once you have hit ten you have
done it !! You can only take three hits from Flak !! Very easy.


 THE TEMPLE SHOOTOUT

   This is also very, very easy, this places you in front of a temple, where
you have to knock out machine guns positioned at the windows. Pull down on
the joystick and the bullets miss you, you have three seconds before the
machine gun opens up, so rush to the window and fire slightly above it, and
KABOOM !! If you get hit three times then you have failed. Once you destroy
all guns, the door opens and you have done it !!


 THE PUNCH UP

   When you fly to a rocket factory, upon landing you have to bash the pulp
out of a guard, there are four moves and two ducks, the ducks are useless,
the first three guards are dead easy, the last two can be sorted out if you
keep the joystick pressed up, and press the firebutton when his face is
uncovered, knock his bar down, and BLAM, you did it !!!


 THE MOONBASE (& VICTORY !)

   Once you have the final rocket part, and 500 units of Lunarium, assemble
your rocket, load the Lunarium and blast off !!
   You will then find yourself in the Mine. You have to shoot the women
zombie slaves from the platforms in similiar fashion to the Temple shoot
out. To hit them stay down until the girls cease firing, then move over and
shoot them. Be quick as they will escape on ropes and return. Repeat the
process carefully, for those on the right. Don't forget that your vision
becomes impaired due to the effects of the Lunarium, so hurry. If you have
succeeded, the world is saved HURRAY !, if you are to slow, then Nazi's are
in the Whitehouse, well, it would have made a change from Rubber Reagan !!