Terminator 2 - The Arcade Game


 CHEAT MODE:

 Enter 'PMT' as your initals in the high score table.
 Now during play pausing the game and pressing [F10] will skip levels.

When the game has loaded select your control method at the options screen as
usual.  Instead of going to Start Game press Esc.  Wait for the high score
chart with the picture of the T-1000 to appear.  As soon as the last digit
is printed on the high score chart (the last 0 on the 10000, in 10th place),
click the left mouse button (or the joystick fire button if that`s plugged
into port one).

You must click the button 0.19 seconds after the last digit on the score
chart has been printed on the screen.  If you take longer, or click before
the last digit is printed, the cheat will not work, so precise timing is
required.  If you find this difficult, there is an alternative.  Hold down
Fire at the high score table until it is finished.  This won`t always work
though.  Go back to the options screen.  If you can see the picture of
Arnie, but no options are displayed, then the cheat has worked.

Left click on the mouse (or joystick) to move on.  Click again to skip the
high score display.  If you allow the high score chart to be printed again
the game may mess up.  Start the game.

If the cheat doesn`t work (the option screen is printed as normal) press Esc
and try again on the high score chart - your timing was probably not
accurate.  It is very difficult I can usually only do it one time out of
five, so keep on trying.

Once you`ve got the cheat to work and started the game, you will notice
(after the writing has finished) that a gunpowder and energy reading is
displayed for player two even though he isn`t active.  Now pause the game
(press P not F1) and type in all the function keys in order (F1, F2, F3,
F4, F5, F6, F7, F8, F9 and F10) and you should skip the level you are
presently playing.

The only disadvantage about this is that you will not be able to play in
two-player mode when the cheat is active.