                         TFX [ TECHNIQUES AND TIPS ]
                        -----------------------------

    LANDING.
    --------

    The initial training missions dont require you to actually  land  your
    kite after you have hit your targets,but once you get further down the
    line,and and also in the Tour of Duty, you will need to return to your
    airbase or your aircraft carrier to complete the mission.

    Landing  is a tricky business,you can not just go hurtling towards the
    strip and hope that slamming your anchors on in  the  last  minute  is
    going to be enough,so lets take a look at landing on an airstrip.

    The first thing to do is get lined up with the strip.

    One  of the best ways to do this is to take a flight over the airfield
    in order to get a good look at the airway.

    Once you know the lie of the land get some distance  betwwen  yourself
    and  the  runway  (using  the timewarp function if your impatient) and
    then turn back and level up with the runway.

    Take your altitude down to around 500 feet and hold it steady.

    As you get closer,put the airbrakes on and reduce the thrust to  about
    60%  If  you  dont  use the airbrakes you run the risk of stalling the
    plane.

    Next put the nose down slightly and start the final descent.

    Remember to put the landing gear at this stage.

    Aim to make contact  with  the  runway  at  as  shallow  an  angle  as
    possible,and  once  you  have touched down,put the wheel brakes on and
    cut the thrust totally.

    The plane should come to a halt safe and sound on terra firma.


    CARRIER LANDINGS.
    -----------------

    Now this is a bit more difficult,just  about  all  of  the  land-based
    procedures  applies here but now you have a much shorter landing area,
    and you also have to contend with it being stuck in the middle of  the
    sea.

    Judging the correct descent altitude is the hardest thing here.

    As  before,buzzing  the  aircraft  carrier  is helpful,if for no other
    reason than to make sure youre not attempting to land on  one  of  the
    fleets battleships.

    Since  the  danger of overshooting is obviously very high when you are
    landing on such a small area,you need to employ your "HOOK"  to  bring
    the plane to a stop before falls off the end of the ship.

    Remember to put your hook down when you lower the landing gear.

    Also  beware  of  coming  in  too low and crashing into the end of the
    boat.


    Typed by Jr.