Captain Fizz

Number Of Players: 1 or 2

                                                                                             
RULES OF CONDUCT:
                                                                                             
The QUEEN'S CLONED HIGHLANDERS must at all times conduct themselves in a manner befitting their Regiment. Her Galactic Majesty particularly requires her subjects to: 


- Greet all aliens with respect and at least five blasts of blistering white death. For a particularly respectful occasion (a funeral, for example) press F7 to detonate Player 1's blitter bomb (F8 for Player 2's). 

- Kick ass (where ass can be seen, otherwise kick nearest protuberance), 

- Press F1 to start the top player, F2 for the bottom player, and the fire button to communicate with aliens (see above). Preserve appearances and exercise a shoot-to-kill policy at all times. 
                                                                                             
- Keep a stiff upper oral appendage and press F10 for a hard game, F9 for baby stuff.
                                                                                             
- Never to retreat under any circumtances (OK, F4 - restart, F3 - pause).

Masochists can return to the highest level previously completed during the current session (in units of 5) by hitting the HELP key when on the game difficulty select screen. 

- Save on regimental expenses wherever possible (F5 - player 1 suicide; F6 - player 2 ditto). 

- Yes, you can play this game on your own. No, you can't win on your own. Prove us wrong... 

YOUR MISSION is to destroy the master computer by destroying the alien generators on each level, collecting keys and other objects, and by working out how to disarm the planetary defences, the operatives are able to ascend through the floors by means of special lifts.


During the struggle, audio signals often indicate the accomplishment of some objective, enabling the operatives to enter lifts, cross barriers and solve puzzles. 

CONTROLS:
                                                                                             
Player 1: Joystick Port 1
F7 = Player 1 Blitter Bomb 
F5 = Suicide

Player 2: Joystick Port 2 
F8 = Player 2 Blitter Bomb 
F6 = Suicide

F3 = Pause
F4 = Resume

Flag Screen:
F1 = English
F2 = German
F3 = French 

** THE END **