                             Captain Planet
                           And The Planeteers
                           ------------------

   WELCOME.
   --------

 Oil spills. Air pollution. Endangered animals. The Award Winning TV Show
CAPTAIN PLANET & THE PLANETEERS (tm) has turned saving the Earth's 
environment into the ultimate adventure.
 And now it's your turn to go up against the most dangerous enemies our
environment has ever faced - LOOTEN PLUNDER (tm) DUKE NUKEM (tm) HOGGISH
GREEDLY (tm) DOCTOR BLIGHT (tm) and more.
 The forces of Earth, fire, wind, water and heart are yours. Put them 
together and become CAPTAIN PLANET (tm). Your Eco-copter (tm) is waiting.
 CAPTAIN PLANET & THE PLANETEERS (tm) - the Amiga computer game - lets you 
play the role of each of the five Planeteers in an action-packed adventure to
defeat the Eco-villains who threaten our environment.
 To succeed in bringing the dastardly Eco-villains to their knees, you must 
win throuh five levels of action - playing the part of each Planeteer in turn
learning and harnessing the power of five rings.
 Only once all five levels have been successfully completed and the five
Planeteers (tm) are once more reunited can you progress to the final 
challenge - to play the part of CAPTAIN PLANET (tm) himself in the decisive
showdown against the massed forces of the environmental enemies.

   CONTROLS
   --------

 You can play the game using the keyboard or a joystick. If you use a 
joystick, make sure it is connected to the correct port on the back of your 
Amiga.

                       KEYBOARD
                   CONTROLS

 LEFT                     Z
 RIGHT                    X
 UP/JUMP                  #
 DOWN                     /
 FIRE/USE RING          RETURN

   THE GAME
   --------

 The game is divided into six levels. The first five levels put you in 
control of each of the Planeteers in turn - set in a different location
against a variety of enemies.
 Before each level, GAIA (tm) explains the fate that has befallen this
particular part of the world and explains your quest to you. She will also 
warn you of the potential dangers that lie ahead - listen to what she says
and you will find the quest easier.
 Once you have completed the level, GAIA (tm) will show you an `EXIT' sign
which appears on screen showing which way you must go to escape the level.

   FIRE LEVEL
   ----------

 The prince of pollution SLY SLUDGE (tm) is sending up balloons filled with 
the harmful CFC gas to destroy the Earth's Ozone layer, turning the planet 
into a huge sun resort for him to build hotels and beaches and ruin the 
Earth as we know it! It's up to YOU to foil this manic's evil scheme.
 Above the Ozone layer are the only survivors of an endangered species of 
seal. The only way they can return to their natural habitat is to walk across
the Ozone layer which is in need of repair. you must repair the layer by
collecting Ozone in the GEO-CRUISER (tm) and drop it into the disappearing
layer to rejuvinate it.

     Wheeler's Controls
 Use the joystick or keyboard controls to run and jump around part of this
level. Use FIRE to send out a fireburst in the direction you are facing to
remove the cannisters. Whilst falling use FIRE to create a balloon to break
your fall. Shoot Sludge's balloons with the GEO-CRUISER (tm) to prevent 
further damage to the Ozone layer. Try to rescue the falling parachutes to 
get a special bonus. Collect droplets from the Ozone pipe on the roof of the
GEO-CRUISER (tm) and deposit the Ozone fluid on the layer to patch up the
holes.

   WATER LEVEL
   -----------

 LOOTEN PLUNDER (tm) has stolen the dolphins! The deranged villain Plunder 
has imprisoned the dolphins in a cruel water-prison and will never let them
back to sea unless you use GI (tm) and the power of water to stop him.
 The dolphins must be given a safe route from their tanks high in the sky. 
Make sure the water pools are full before releasing them - and that the sea
is clean enough for them to swim in. Use the ECO-SUB (tm) to clear out the 
polluting cans of Nuclear waste from the sea to make it blue again.

     GI's Controls
 Use the normal keys or joystick positions for run and jump. FIRE activates
her RING OF POWER which sends out an Ice Platform. Jump onto the platforms to
make your way around the screen. Combine FIRE and DOWN to make the Ice 
platform appear below you. If GI falls, use FIRE to create an Ice slide below
her so that she can glide to safety. To activate the ECO-SUB, fall into the
top of it.

   WIND LEVEL
   ----------

 You are LINKA the eco-conscious 16-year-old from the Soviet Union able to
harness the power of wind. Use her RING OF POWER to rescue ancient Egyptian
relics from the clutches of evil. The mutilated face of DOCTOR BLIGHT now
haunts the musty passages and chambers of one of the most spectacular wonders
of the world. Blight has planted bombs around the chambers of the sacred
Pyramid in a bid to destroy the myth and magic of the former Egyptian King's
glorious resting place.
 Using Linka's power of wind you must create cyclones to whisk away the bombs
and discard rubbish to save the pyramid and its treasures from destruction. 
DR BLIGHT will be guarding the exit to prevent you leaving so that should you
fail you too will be destroyed in the blast. Only when all bombs have been
deactivated will DR BLIGHT make good her escape and save her own hideously
deformed face.
     
     Linka's Controls
 Run and jump around the level using the usual controls. The RING OF POWER 
will cast tornados in the direction you are facing to remove bombs. Whilst
underwater use ECO-SUB's carry beam to drop rocks on bombs to destroy them.
Whilst falling in the ECO-SUB use UP to activate the retro-thrusters to give
lift. Go UP to get into the ECO-SUB.

   HEART LEVEL
   -----------

 In this level you play the part of MA-TI, the nature-loving teenager from
South America. Set in an endangered Rain Forest, you must use the RING OF 
POWER to re-build the forest and destroy the sources of pollution. Set
against you are the evil HOGGISH GREEDILY and his mysterious sidekick,
RIGGER. 
 Your objective is to make your way through the rain forest, ridding it of 
the deadly incinerators that are causing it to die. Rejuvinate the trees by
wielding your RING OF POWER at the withered stumps and grow them tall and
strong again. Climb the new trees to make your way up to the top of the cliff
where Hoggish and his horrible henchman have imprisoned the Elephants. Use 
the ECO-COPTER to fly in and rescue the captured creatures in the Elephant 
sanctuary - but beware of Hoggish Greedily - he doesn't give up easily.

     Ma-Ti's controls
 Run and jump around the forest using the controls as above. FIRE will 
activate the RING OF POWER which will send out a shower of hearts into the
forest. If you're falling use the power to create hearts below you to cushion
your fall. Use the ring to grow trees and stop marauding enemies. Use UP to
enter the ECO-COPTER and take off.

   EARTH LEVEL
   -----------

 Verminous Scum's henchmen are dumping toxic waste into underground caverns
turning the surrounding fields into a disaster-area. Scum's twisted henchmen
have also trapped pit-ponies with the waste who will die if you do not use
KWAME and his RING OF POWER to rescue them.
 Crush the pollution-filled cannisters with KWAME's Earth Power to restore
richness to the earth around the caverns. Use the ECO-COPTER's safety nets to
return the Pit-ponies to their fields so that they may taste freedom once
again.

     Kwame's Controls
 Run Jump and Climb around caverns using normal controls. FIRE will send out
a boulder from his ring to the left or right of you. Single boulders may be 
moved by pushing into them. Remove boulders by firing at them. Go UP to board
the ECO-COPTER and rescue the ponies.

   THE SHOWDOWN
   ------------

 The entire nation's safety is in jeopardy! DUKE NUKEM's obsession for power
has drawn him into the radicore industries nuclear power station, regarded as
the largest of its kind. He intends to absorb the planet's radiation by 
causing a full-scale nuclear melt-down thus giving him ultimate power. Only
the unique power of the five rings combined can save the day, as Captain
Planet is summoned to put paid to NUKEM's intentions.....GO PLANET!

     Captain Planet's Controls
 Fly around this level using the normal keyboard or joystick commands. To aid
Captain Planet, the planeteers' special powers are scattered around the 
caverns and may be used once collected. You may hold any two of the 
Planeteers' special powers throughout the gameplay and these will be 
displayed as icons at the top of the screen. To collect a power, fly into 
it's icon. If you already hold two powers, the currently selected power will
be exchanged for it. To change the selected power, jold the FIRE button down.
Quickly pressing FIRE will activate the selected power in the direction you
are facing.


   EXTRA KEYBOARD CONTROLS
   -----------------------

 
  P - Pause The Action
ESC - Quit The Action
 F7 - Music On/Off
 F8 - PAL/NTSC Modeswitch (Good opportunity for a COMPANY NTSC FIX here! Ha!)
 F1 - Shrink The Screen Area Horizontally
 F3 - Shrink The Screen Area Vertically
 F2 - Expand The Screen Area Horizontally
 F4 - Expand The Screen Area Vertically


  Please return your registration card to qualify for Technical Support. 
Should you be unable to find a registration card it serves you right for not
buying this product then, doesn't it dickoid!


Signed: -> Zelnik & /-\ction /Y\an of the none MFM cracking Crystal. 1991.