                          Carl Lewis Complete Docs.
                          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^   

THE Carl Lewis CHALLENGE

CONTENTS

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS..............................4
THE GAME..........................................6
Selection Screen..................................7
Country Selection.................................9
Training Selection................................10
Training Methods..................................16
Saving Teams......................................18
Arcade Section....................................18
Structure of the Challenge........................18
Loading Saved Squads..............................20
CONTROLS..........................................20
Control Modes.....................................23
Screen Display....................................24
The Events........................................25
Credits...........................................31


THE Carl Lewis CHALLENGE

LOADING INTRUCTIONS

PC Version

Note: Should you wish to play The Carl Lewis Challenge with a mouse, 
remember to load your mouse driver before loading the main program 
(refer to your mouse documentation for details). However, the 
keyboard may be used exclusively if no mouse driver is present.

Boot your computer as usual. At the DOS prompt insert Disk One of 
The Carl Lewis Challenge into drive A. Type A: and hit return, then 
type CARL, hit return and follow on-screen instructions.

PC Hard Disk Installation

Boot your computer as usual. At the DOS prompt insert Disk One of 
The Carl Lewis Challenge into drive A.

Type A: and hit return, then type INSTALL, hit return and follow 
on-screen instructions.

PC Loading Instructions from Hard Disk (after installation):

Boot your computer as usual. At the DOS prompt type CD CARL and hit 
return, then type CARL and follow on-screen instructions.

Please Note: To run The Carl Lewis Challenge from your hard drive 
requires the Key Disk (Disk 1) to be present in a floppy drive.

Amiga Version

Switch your computer on. Insert Kickstart disk if necessary. When 
Workbench is requested insert disk 1 of The Carl Lewis Challenge.

Insert disk 2 when prompted.

Atari ST Version

Insert disk 1 of The Carl Lewis Challenge. Switch on the monitor/TV 
then your computer.

Insert disk 2 when prompted.

THE GAME

The Carl Lewis Challenge allows you to manage a full squad of world 
class athletes and follow them through international competition. 
You may elect to control their training methods, their competition 
perforrnance or both. Up to four people can play, each managing 
their own squad of athletes. The events in which the squads compete 
are:

100M sprint
110M hurdles
Javelin
High Jump
Long Jump

In the weeks leading up to competition, you must skillfully train 
your athletes to bring them to peak performance, ready to compete 
against the best in the world.

THE SELECTION SCREEN

Following the introduction sequence, you will be asked which section 
of the game you wish to play: The Training Section, the Arcade 
Section or Full Simulation.

Please Note: PC Version - The cursor keys move the pointer, return 
selects icons.

TRAINING ONLY

In the Training Section, you have five weeks in which to train your 
squad and bring them to peak performance before selecting entrants 
for each of the five events. In this mode the arcade section runs 
automatically, the performance of each member of your squad solely 
dependent on your earlier training decisions.

ARCADE ONLY

In this mode you are presented with a ready trained squad of 
athletes, all of average skill. This functions as a pseudo practice 
mode. Your athletes won't be world class standard, but they will be 
good enough for you to progress some way into the game and gain 
practice.

FULL SIMULATION

By controlling both sections of the game you have the opportunity to 
create a squad of ultimate athletes and bring home gold medals.

Once this selection has been made the game automatically loads the 
training section so that you may enhance your squad of athletes.

Click on the appropriate icon for the game type you wish to play.

COUNTRY SELECTION

Once you have chosen which type of game you wish to play, each 
player selects a country to represent.

Click on the direction arrows below the flame bearer to cycle 
through the flags. To select a country, rotate the flags until the 
desired banner is highlighted at the bottom of the circle.

Click on NEXT TRAINER, if you wish another player to compete, or 
DONE, if all players have identified their countries.


The selected countries' flags are displayed along the bottom of the 
screen. Clicking on the CLEAR icon will restart the selection 
procedure.

If you have chosen to play Arcade only you will now proceed to the 
competition, otherwise you will enter the Training section.

TRAINING SELECTION

You have five weeks in which to bring your squad to their peak 
performance before the competition.

You are presented with a clipboard showing your country's top ten 
athletes. At this point you may use the keyboard to edit the 
trainer's name, should you wish to do so.

Each athlete has four attributes ranging from O (poor) to 99 
(excellent). These attributes are:

Agility
Speed
Power
Stamina

These are listed alongside the athlete's names in the above order.

Different events require different combinations of these attributes 
to achieve peak performance. It is up to you to decide the relative 
importance of each.

Click on each attribute icon to view a bar chart of your squad's 
skills. Click again to return.

Click on the ATHLETE box to view the currently selected athlete's 
attributes in bar graph form. You may edit the athlete's name using 
the keyboard at this point. Also, Carl Lewis appears on-screen to 
give useful hints. Click again to return.

Click on the SQUAD box to view the entire team's statistic profile 
for all attributes. Click again to return.

On the right hand side of the clipboard ten training methods are 
shown. Each is designed to improve certain attributes. Use your 
skill and judgement to decide which training methods will enhance 
your athletes' four attributes (see Training Methods). Each training 
method may be adjusted in three different ways:

Frequency       (F)
Intensity       (I)
Time            (T)

Frequency is how often an athlete repeats an exercise during the 
week.

Intensity is how hard the athlete works on an exercise.

Time is how long the athlete spends on an exercise in each session.

Select the athlete you wish to train, by clicking on their name. 
Then, by dragging the mouse pointer in the bar, increase or decrease 
the value of the variables for the current week. When you are 
satisfied with the training agenda, click on another athlete to set 
their training schedule.

When you have completed your training schedule for the week, click 
on DONE to allow other players to set up their programme. When all 
players have completed their schedules, the game proceeds to the 
next week.

When the next week is displayed, you may notice that some of the 
athletes' attributes have changed colour:

Red indicates a decline in an attribute. This usually denotes that 
the week's training was either too extreme or too mild to benefit 
the athlete.

Green indicates an improvement over the previous week.

Repeat the training schedule for all athletes for all players for 
the full five weeks.

The clipboard changes to display the Selection Screen. Replacing the 
training types are the five event names. Click on the corresponding 
box to enter a particular athlete for an event.

You may enter the same athlete for more than one event. If an 
athlete has very low attributes, it is likely that they will not be 
able to compete as they may fail the team fitness test.

Use the bar graph displays to aid you in your choices.

When you have entered for all five events, click on the DONE box to 
allow subsequent players to choose their entrants.

Note: if you click on DONE before entering all events, the computer 
will make a random selection for you. This is not advisable!

Method                     Result
---------------------------------------------------------------
Isotonics                  Very tough weight training, the more you 
                           work, the harder the exercise gets. Most 
                           beneficial to: Power, Speed & Agility

Isometrics                 Resistance weight training: Push against 
                           weights without actually lifting them. 
                           Most beneficial to: Power

Acceleration               From a standing start accelerate to top 
                           speed as quickly as possible. Most 
                           beneficial to: Power, Speed & Agility

Hollow Running             A fast sprint followed by a recovery 
                           period and a second fast sprint. Most 
                           beneficial to: Stamina

Circuit Training           Continuous muscle exercises for whole 
                           body. Most beneficial to: Stamina Power & 
                           Agility

Fartlek Running            Informal (not overseen or timed) fast & 
                           slow outdoor running. Most beneficial 
                           to:Stamina & Speed

Static Stretching          Tough stretching exercises. Most 
                           beneficial to: Agility

Interval Training          Formal fast & slow running. Most 
                           beneficial to: Stamina

Repetition Running         A fast run followed by a long recovery 
                           then another fast run. Most beneficial 
                           to: Stamina & Speed

Ballistic Stretches        Rhythm & momentum stretches, use body 
                           momentum to stretch muscles. Most 
                           beneficial to: Agility


SAVING YOUR TEAMS

At the end of the training stage you are asked to insert a 
previously formatted, write-enabled disk on which to save your team.

ARCADE SECTION

If you chose to play TRAINING only, you are taken through each 
event, however, you may only watch your athletes compete. Press a 
mouse button at the end of each stage to proceed. Your athletes will 
all perform according to their statistics calculated in the 
management section. You cannot influence them during the competition 
- you must now sit in the grandstand and cross your fingers. The 
Control Section therefore does not apply.

STRUCTURE OF THE CHALLENGE

There are five EVENTS. Each is divided into a series of HEATS, 
ending up in the finals where medals can be won. Each player must 
achieve a QUALIF~CATION tirne or distance

in order to progress to the next stage of the game.

Each event is played one heat at a time before progressing to the 
next event. If you fail to qualify, then that athlete is out of that 
event for the rest of the game. You may, however, continue in the 
other events. Qualification requirements are always tougher in later 
heats. To ultimately win a medal, you must qualify for the finals, 
then finish 3rd (bronze), 2nd (silver) or 1st (gold).

LOADING SAVED SQUADS

At the beginning of the competition you are asked if you wish to 
load a squad previously saved in the Training Section.

Should you select to load a saved squad, insert a save-game disk and 
your saved statistics are loaded.

CONTROLS

If you have chosen to play ARCADE only, you are provided with a 
series of standard (average) athletes with which to compete.

If you have chosen to play the FULL SIMULATION, your athletes will 
compete based on a combination of your training skills and your 
arcade ability during each event.

However, you must first select a control method. There are three 
types:

1) Speed Control
2) Rhythm Control
3) Gearing Control

These can be utilised via two input devices:

i) Joystick (Amiga/ST ) or i) Keyboard (PC)
ii) Mouse

MOUSE: Speed Control

Moving the mouse left and right provides athletes speed. The quicker 
you move your mouse, the quicker your athlete moves.

The Left Mouse Button is the Action command, controlling your 
athlete's throws and jumps.

MOUSE: Rhvthm and Gearing

The Right Mouse Button is the Movement button.

The Left Mouse Button is the Action command, controlling your 
athlete's throws and jumps.

Amiga & ST

JOYSTICK: Speed Control

Moving the joystick left and right gives athletes speed. The faster 
you waggle it, the faster your athlete moves.

The fire button on the joystick is the Action command, controlling 
your athlete's throws and jumps.

JOYSTICK: Rhythm and Gearing

The Fire Button is the Movement command.

The up direction on the joystick is the Action command, controlling 
your athlete's throws and jumps.

PC Only

KEYBOARD CONTROLS: Speed Control

Stabbing left and right cursor keys gives athletes speed.

The up cursor key is the Action command, controlling your athlete's 
throws and jumps. The down cursor key is the Movement Command

KEYBOARD CONTROLS: Rhythm and Gearing

The left cursor key is the Movement command.

The up cursor key is the Action command, controlling your athlete's 
throws and jumps. The down cursor key is the Movement Command

CONTROL MODES

1) Speed Control. Your athlete's performance depends on how quickly 
you are able to altemate between the left/right controls on your 
selected input device. An indicator shows your speed .

2) Rhythm Control. Using your chosen input device, your athlete's 
performance depends on your timing of button presses in relation to 
an on-screen gauge. The gauge features an oscillating pendulum. 
Press the Movement button when the pendulum reaches mid-point of the 
gauge to achieve maximum boost. The boost is proportional to your 
accuracy. Miss-timing may result in your athlete actually losing 
speed.

3) Gearing Control. Using the marks below the scanner, you time the 
Action button press to each of the marks. Failure to hit the marks 
results in athletes losing speed, or not jumping or throwing at the 
correct time.

Note: Once each player has selected a control method they remain 
with it for the duration of the challenge.

The first event is announced. Click a button to proceed (you may 
have to wait for the disk drive to finish). A list of entrants for 
this heat is displayed. Human entrants compete one at a time, 
beginning with Player One. The qualification time (or distance) for 
this heat is displayed in the bottom right hand corner of the 
screen. Click a button to begin this heat.

In track events, ensuing players compete against recordings of 
previous human player's efforts.

SCREEN DISPLAY

The screen displays a view of the track, surrounded by an electronic 
scoreboard which gives you all the information you require. The 
trainer's name and nationality is shown at the bottom of the screen. 
The bottom right hand corner displays qualification times or 
distance. You must equal or beat this in order to qualify. There is 
also a scanner showing positions of athletes and objects (hurdles, 
finishing line, etc) in the event. Along the side of the track grow 
the speed bars, showing you the result of your control expertise. 
The top scoreboard displays results.

THE EVENTS

Performance in each event is a complex combination of athlete 
attributes and player skill. Poor attributes will hinder even the 
most adept arcade player while excellent attributes will aid a poor 
arcade player.

1) 100M SPRINT

You are required to equal or beat the qualification time. There are 
always four entrants, one of which is your athlete (highlighted). 
When the starter begins the race, follow the procedure for the 
control mode selected (see Control). It is not necessary to beat the 
other athletes until the final - you must merely beat the clock. At 
the end of the race, an Action Replay of the race is shown (press 
and hold the Action command to skip this). Results and scores 
follow. Scores are awarded for beating qualification requirements. 
There is also a bonus if you achieve a world record!

If you fail to achieve the required qualification time, your 
participation in this event is over, you will not be permitted to 
continue in the other heats. Other players may still compete in this 
heat.

If you achieve the required performance, you proceed to the next 
event.

2) 110M HURDLES

This functions in a similar way to the sprint, with the exception 
that clicking the Action button commands athletes to jump.

Watch the scanner to anticipate hurdles.

3) JAVELIN

This event allows you three attempts to qualify per heat. If you do 
not achieve the required distance in any of the three attempts, you 
will be disqualified.

This event features a Run-Up, a Throw Commencement point, and an 
Angle for the throw. You must control each of these.

RUN-UP:        Use your selected method of control to
               increase the run-up speed.

START THROW:   Click the Action button to begin
               your throw. The scanner provides a
               rough guide to this point. Continue to
               increase speed using the run-up method.

ANGLE:         Once your athlete has completed the
               throw sequence, an angle indicator
               automatically start to rise. Click your
               Action button when the desired angle
               is reached.

The resulting throw is displayed.

Note that if your athlete releases the javelin after crossing the 
throw line, the throw will be judged FOUL and not counted. To negate 
this problem either start the sequence sooner, or slow your run-up 
to give you time to correct yourself.

There is no Action Replay for the Javelin.

4) HIGH JUMP

This event features Run-Up, Take-Off Angle and Leg Flip.

RUN-UP:        Use your selected control method to
               achieve optimum Run-Up speed.

TAKE-OFF:      Press and hold your Action button to
               begin take-off. The angle display
               increases until your Action button is
               released. Keep increasing your speed!
               If you do not activate the angle gauge
               your jump will be FOUL.

LEG FLIP:      Click your Action button to flip your
               athlete's legs up at the top of the jump
               arc - this aids clearance.

You have three attempts to qualify.
There is no Action Replay for the High Jump.

5) LONG JUMP

This features a Run-Up and a Take-Off Angle.

RUN-UP:        Use you selected control method to
               achieve optimum run-up speed.

TAKE-OFF:      Press and hold your Action button to
               begin take-off. Release your Action
               button when the desired angle is
               reached.

You have three attempts to qualify.
There is no Action Replay for the Long Jump.

CARL'S TRAINING ADVICE

The initial athlete attributes in a squad are set semi-randomly (ie 
between certain limits). Do not bother training all the athletes - 
select those with the most promising start stats, for example:

Agility 50%+
Speed 50%+
Power 50%+
Stamina 40%+

By improving Speed and Power and leaving Agility and Stamina at 
average levels, an athlete should perform well in all events.

Either create one all-purpose athlete or specialise for each event.

The best training methods to enhance Speed are Acceleration, Hollow 
running and Repetition Running.

Set these to F-70%, I-35%, T-35%, leave all the other
stats at their default levels.

The best training methods to enhance Power are Isotonics and 
Isometrics; F-60%, I-30%, T-30%. Leave all other stats at their 
default levels.

To train one athlete for all events, do 3 weeks exclusive Speed 
training followed by 2 weeks exclusive Power training.

A general purpose potential Gold Medalist should
have final week stats of:

Agility 60%+ 
Speed 85%+
Power 75%+
Stamina 55%+

Example training for 100m Athlete

Speed & Power are vital for this event

Week 1
Set Isotonics and Isometrics to:
F: 60%
I: 30%    
T: 30%      

Week 2
Repeat the exercises

Week 3
Set Isotonics and Isometrics to:
F: 40%     
I: 20%      
T: 20%

Set Acceleration, Hollow Running and Repetition Running to: 
F: 60% 
I: 30%          
T: 30%

Repeat for weeks 3 to 5

Your athlete will not be the best but he will be above average.

Example training for Javelin Thrower and a good all-rounder

Week 1
Set Isotonics and Isometrics to:
F: 60%        
I: 30%
T: 30%

Week 2
Set Acceleration, Hollow Rurming and Repetition Running to: 
F: 40%       
I: 20%       
T: 20%

Set Static Stretches/Ballistic stretches
to:
F: 30%
I: 20%
T: 20%

Repeat for weeks 3 to 5 to provide an average all-rounder.

End....................
