			CAR - VUP (Docs)

	Cartoon World, a place normally overflowing with niceness is being
done in by the bad guys. These nasty toons are led by the most horrible toon
ever, Borgus Grim. He's run roit through the eight lands of Cartoon World
and removed the goodness. Not only that but he has kidnapped your best
buddies, filled the place with looney toons and then installed himself as an
end of game adversary.
	Thank goodness for Carl, a jolly friendly car. The only way Cartoon
World can be saved is for Carl to visit all eight lands in Cartoon World, 
and drive all over the bad areas turing them into good. You know when an
area has been turned good because the hollow platform is filled in.

NO WHAT?

	Just one minor point: Carl doesn't have any brakes. Which means of
course that you can't stop. Carl can, however, alter his direction with a
quick flick of the joystick. And he can jump by a quick depression of the
joystick button. What's more, holding the joystick button results in a huge
great leap.

VERTIGO

	One other slight problem we might mention. Ever since he saw
Hitchcock's famous flick, Carl's had a fear of height. So try as he might,
whenever he approaches the end of a platform he just has to turn around.
This means he has to jump before he reaches the end of the platform to get
off.

GIVES ME A BONUS

	Fortunately Borgus hasn't managed to spread his evil influence to
the skies of Cartoon World. As we all know, when it rains in Cartoon World
it doesn't rain yucky, dirty water or cats and dogs for that matter, but
Bonuses. You can find these lying around after a heavy rainfall, so just
drive over them for a big score. If you manage to collect all the letters
of the word BONUS you get one - and a pretty suprise, too.

INSTANT MASH

	There are a number of useful devices that the Evil Borgus has missed
in his `clean up goodness' campaign. You can use these to assist your
progress in restoring niceness. Just drive over them for instant monster
mash.
       SMART BOMB - Destroys all the enemies on the screen.

       SNOW FLAKE - Freexes everything, but don't touch any frozen enemies.

       SPEED TURN - Allows you to turn faster.

       CARROT METAMORPHOSIS - Turns all aliens into big bonuses.

JUST DRIVING IN THE RAIN

	Occasionally Carl comes across a balloon carrying the word BONUS. If
this is caught Carl's transported to the Bonus Screen. There are no platforms
on this screen, but lots of rain. And it rains Bonuses. Just drive back and 
forth and collect as many as you can before the time runs out.

GET A MOVE ON

	If you take too long to finish a level you get a visit from Turbo.
Fortunately you are forewarned with the message `OH OH TURBO'. All the
aliens get faster and you had better finish the level quickly or the flying
Turbo nutter appears and chases you until it catches up.

						Postcard Man