            ...CAVEMANIA FROM ATLANTIS - COMPLETE DOCUMENTATION...

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

"IN-GAME TUTOR":

Many times throughout this game you will find a situation where the solution
is not immediatley apparent. By using the "in-game Tutor" you will be given
clues as to how the problem may be overcome. The "tutor" does not give
solutions to all of the problems but will give you an idea of the lateral
thinking needed to progress through the game.

STORY:

You play the part of Ug the caveman who, in his quest for fresh pterodactly
eggs has decided to explore all of the other islands that he can see from his
cave. Eventually he hopes to reach Lavaville Island where the freshest and
tastiest eggs are guarded by the largest and fiercest pterodactyls.

GAME PLAY:

On every island there are four pterodactyl nests each containing three eggs.
You must collect all twelve eggs before you can progress to the next, even
more dangerous, island.

Eggs will be broken if you fall into the fast flowing rivers that criss-cross
your route home. Along your journey you may find extra rocks to throw and
fruit or nuts to replenish your energy. Points are awarded for each egg
collected and returned safely to your cave. Extra points can be won for each
pterodactyl or other pre-historic monster killed. High scores can be recorded
on the high score table by using the keyboard to enter your initials.

If you can collect all of the eggs from an island, without losing any of your
lives, you will be given a code which can be entered at any time to allow you
to start the game at the beginning of the next island. The code does not
remain on screen for very long, so make sure that you have a pen and paper
ready.

Many times in this game you will come across a gap that is too wide to cross,
a wall that is too high to jump or a rock standing between you and the object
you want to reach. When the problem seems impossible to solve - think again.
There is always a solution.

Good Luck!

LOADING:

Commodore Amiga: On workbench prompt, insert CAVEMANIA disk. The game will
load automatically. When loaded, the disk can be removed.

Atari ST: Insert CAVEMANIA disk and switch on computer. The game will load
automatically. When loaded, the disk can be removed.

CONTROLS:

Joystick Up/Down/Right/Left as normal. Fire to throw rocks. Joystick down
and fire to use club. Use P to pause game and X to quit.

CREDITS:

Original Game By 'The Shaw Bros.'
Conversion By Martin Bysh.
Graphics By Mark Frazer.
Amiga Music By Ozzie Henderson.

End.........
