                           "Centerfold Squares" 
                          presented by S.W.O.R.D. 
                       ============================ 
 
 
Selecting an Opponent: 
     The opponent select screen has been organized into three playing ability 
categories: BELOW AVERAGE, AVERAGE and ABOVE AVERAGE.  Below each category is 
a list of the opponenets who play within that category.  However, each 
opponent has their own ability within each class, so every player will 
apppear to play differently. 
 
     To select an opponent, point to the "button" that contains the name of 
the opponent you wish to play and click the left mouse button.  If you are 
new to Centerfold Squares, you may consider playing Penny, probably the  
easiest of all the players. 
 
     After you have selected a player, you will be shown a player profile 
screen for that particular opponent.  This will provide more information  
about that particular player,  If you decide to play this opponent, click  
anywhere on the opponent's picture.  If you decide not to play against this  
opponent, click anywhere outside the picture; this will take you back to the 
opponenet selection screen. 
 
Centerfold Sqaures Screen: 
     The object of the game is to uncover the Centerfold opponent.  When a 
new opponent is selected, the screen will appear filled with rectangles (the 
'centerfold squares'), and one by one, a pre-selected number of these 
rectangles will be removed to reveal sections of the Centerfold opponent. 
After the initial rectangles have been removed, one last rectange will flash. 
This flashing centerfold square will be the one that you and your opponenet 
will battle over.  Each centerfold square has a GOAL value printed on it. 
This is the number of markers that will be used in the DOUBLE-UP game. 
 
Playing Double-Up: 
     The object of the Double-Up game is to beat the opponent in SCORE points 
at the end of a game.  The game is terminated when either you or the opponent 
reaches or exceeds the GOAL value of the centerfold square in CHIPS.  It is 
possible for you to win the game in SCORE points even though the opponent 
reaches the GOAL value first. 
 
The Double-Up Screen: 
     This screen consists of a playing field on the left side of the display, 
and a control and status field on the right.  The play field is arranged in a  
grid of 100 squares, with gray squares denoting uncaptured squares, black  
markers are the Centerfold's markers, and white squares are your markers. 
The control and staus field is arranged, from top to bottom, with:  The  
Centerfold's accumulated CHIPS and SCORE values, your accumulated CHIPS and  
SCORE; the number of GOAL points (CHIPS) to reach; a message area; and at the 
bottom a "???" Chance button and a "QUIT" button. 
 
THe Double-Up Board: 
     When the Double-Up game is started, it will arrange four markers, two of 
yours and two of the Centerfold's, in a crossed pattern at the center of the 
board.  Remember, your markers are white, the Centerfold's are black.  Next, 
a series of small red and green markers are sprinkled about the board.  The 
quantity of these markers, from one to five, and their locations, are random. 
These markers are used in the final SCORE value when the game is completed. 
The red markers are worth -10 points, and the green markers are worth +10 
points (see section on scoring). 
 
Who Starts First: 
     Since there is an advantage to starting first, the game will alternate 
the first move between you and your opponent.  A move is completed when both 
of you have taken a turn. 
 
Playing Double-Up: 
     Each player alternates with moves designed to capture as many board  
markers, or chips, as possible.  You capture markers by placing a new marker 
on a neutral, or gray, square in a way that will put the opponent's markers 
between this new sqaure and your other markers.  For example, if "O" 
represents white markers, "*" black markers and "g" represents neutral 
markers, then consider the following possibility: 
 
                              1    2    3    4    5 
                         A    g    g    g    O    g 
                         B    g    *    *    *    g 
                         C    g    O    O    *    g 
                         D    g    O    *    *    g 
                         E    g    g    g    x    g 
 
If you place a marker on the neutral square at E4 (marked with an "x", you 
would capture the squares along the vertical at D4,C4 and B4; as well as the 
diagonal marker at D3. 
 
Rules of Play: 
     You must make a move, if a move exists, and you must make a move that 
will capture squares, except as noted below when playing CHANCE.  If you make 
an incorrect move, one point will be subtracted from your score points, and 
the program will flash all legal moves on the board. 
 
Double-Up Marker: 
     This marker is a yellow square that is put on the board, and taken off 
the board at random times throughout the game.  Its frequency of occurence 
and its placement are random.  The person who places a marker on top of this 
square, provided it is a legal move, will get another turn at play.  If no 
one can capture the Double-Up marker, it will eventually be removed, and may 
appear again later. 
 
Playing Chance: 
     At any time during regular play, you may wish to play Chance.  This  
option is considered to be a move, so you may forfeit a board play for this  
option.  This primary purpose of this option is to allow either of the 
players to "gamble", and is usually invoked if you or your opponent 
determines that the game will be lost in the next couple of moves. 
 
     To play this option, you select the "???" button instead of a board 
play.  This will invoke the Chance flash display and tell you, or the  
Centerfold, what the outcome is.  Note that the Chance messages apply to the 
player that invokes the option.  For example, if the Centerfold plays Chance 
and gets the message "You Win", then the Centerfold wins, NOT YOU.  Since 
both you and the Centerfold may play this option, don't panic if it starts up 
unexpectedly, it is just the Centerfold playing Chance. 
 
The following is a list of the Chances, and the odds of getting that  
particular result: 
 
               Win/Lose game (50% win, 50% lose)       5%     
               Exchange Markers                        5% 
               Extra Turn (50% 1 turn, 50% 2 turns)   20% 
               Adjust SCORE (50% +10 points, 50% -10) 30% 
               Nothing                                40% 
 
If "Nothing" occurs, then you lose your turn. 
 
End Game: 
     The game ends when either of the players reaches the GOAL points, a  
Chance option of "Win" or "Lose" is rolled, or either player has no more  
markers left on the board.  Each board marker is worth 1 GOAL point, and the 
game ends when either player reaches the value displayed in the "Goal is" 
area of the control field AFTER one complete move.  Remember, a move consists 
of one turn each for both you and your opponent, so although you may have 
reached or exceeded the GOAL points, if the Centerfold has a turn remaining, 
the Centerfold can still play.  In fact, usually someone will go over the 
GOAL value, but the next player will capture back some of the chips that 
exceeded the GOAL points. 
 
     When the game is close to being over, you will hear three beeping 
sounds, and there will be a slight pause in the game.  This is to help you  
realize when the game is about to be terminated.  Note, this feauture may not 
be valid for GOAL points less then 12, so you should always watch the GOAL 
and CHIP points. 
 
The Final Double-Up Game Results: 
     The game is ended when the GOAL points are reached or exceeded. 
However, the game is won or lost based on SCORE points.  During regular play, 
the SCORE value is constantly updated, so at the termination of the Double-Up 
game, the SCORE value is final. 
 
     Scoring is determined in the following way:  Each marker chip is worth 1 
SCORE point; each red marker will subtract 10 points from the score, each 
green marker will add 10 points; chance points are added and retained in your 
overall SCORE.  The player with the highest SCORE value wins.  The final 
results will be displayed in the message area as "I win" or "You win." 
 
Double-Up Game Ending: 
     When Double-Up is over, the game will wait for you to click the left  
mouse button.  This will allow you time to summarize and verify the game  
results. 
 
Quit: 
     At any time during the play, you may elect to select the "Quit" button. 
This will terminate the game as well as the Centerfold screen and return you 
to the opponent select screen.  At that point you may choose another 
opponent, or exit the program. 
 
What Happens After Double-Up: 
     After the game is over (and you press RETURN/ENTER of click the mouse  
button), you return to the Centerfold screen.  If you lost, the last square  
that you were playing for will be covered up and the game will flash the next 
uncovered square.  This will be the next goal square.  If you won, then the 
square that was flashing before you played Double-Up will be uncovered, and 
the next covered square will flash. 
 
     You play the Centerfold until either all of the squares are covered (you 
lose), or all of the Centerfold is unconvered (you win!).  When that occurs, 
the screen will remain until you click the left mouse button.  You will then 
return to the select screen. 
 
Returning to the Desktop: 
     Select the "Quit" option on the opponent select screen to return to the 
desktop. 
 
Important Notice! 
     The files on your "Centerfold Squares" disk are encrypted.  Tampering  
with them may destroy the program or damage your computer. 
 
End.........
