Champion Driver
Typed by Belgarath


Loading Instructions

Turn on the computer and insert the disk. The game is controlled by
the joystick which is connected to port 2.


How To Play

Kart, Rally, F3. Sport-Prototypes, F1... five challenges on 50 circuits
to put your courage and driving to the test.

When the loading screen appears, a choice of categories will be
displayed and you will have the opportunity to enter your name.

Menu Commands

- left/right     highlight the available icons
- up/down        change the selected icon (activated only in the shop)
- fire           activate the selected icon


Category Selection

Type your name, then choose one of the five racing categories.

- By Choosing Formula KART the championship will start. This
consists of 10 racing circuits for each category. In the first two
categories it is necessary to complete 3 laps for each circuit, whereas
in the following ones 4 are required. Qualifying in the top three at
the end of all races of one category, you will be able to compete in
the next one. Also, you will be given a code which can be entered
instead of your name in order to acquire direct access to the latest
category passed, without having to start from the Formula KART
again.

- By choosing another category, you will be allowed to take part in
just one race on a random circuit among the 10 available.


Shop/Race Selection

A circuit with environmental conditions, the general ranking and the
money available are displayed.

- By choosing ENTER SHOP, you will enter the shop to buy spare parts.

- By Choosing GO, you will start the race.

Shop
Body    change car colour
Nitro   buy turbo power
Engine  change engine
Tyre    change tyres:
        -DRY
        -WET
        -FROZEN
Exit    quit the shop


Racing Controls

right   clockwise steering
left    anti-clockwise steering
fire    acceleration
down    brakes
fire+up turbo power (Nitro)

ESC     quit the race
SPACE   pause


Race

Your position (white) and the opponent's one (red) appear on display,
on the reduced map at the bottom left-hand of the screen.

The control panel shows (from left to right):

Km/h   Your speed
Car    Car damage
FUEL   Petrol available
TURBO  Nitro available
LAP    Lap number
POS    Your position (which is updated each time you pass the finishing line)
TIME   Race time
DIFF   Time distance from the opponent that is in first place

During the race you can stop in the BOXES to have your car repaired
and to refuel.


Typed by Belgarath