                       Typed by Flux/Crystal 40/06/91

                             CHAMPION OF THE RAJ

 The Mogul emperors ruled India for  two  centuries.  They brought law to the
people and graced its cities with  marvellous  buildings like the Red Fort of
Agra and the Taj Mahal.  But  by  1800  their  empire is collapsing, riven by
feuds and rebellions, and India has reverted to a host of warring states.
 The Thugs have taken bloody advantage of  this chaos. They are evil fanatics
who murder thousands of people as sacrifices to the goddess Kali. By ruthless
terroism, they are rapidly winning power  over  the whole of India. No single
state can fight the Thugs, who  are  quickly increasing in numbers and power.
So it is vital that  a  strong  leader  emerges  to unite India against them,
before they can plunge the land into a bloodbath.
 You are one of six rival leaders, each fighting to unite India:
        * Viceroy of the British East India Company,
        * Company of the French East India Company,
        * Emperor of the remnant of the Mogul Empire,
        * Maharajah of the Maruthras,
        * Maharajah Singh of the warlike Sikhs,
        * Chief of the Gurkhas
(If more then one person is playing, you each pick a leader).
 The rivals each have  their  own  advantages  and  disadvantages. You should
probably try winning as the Viceroy first,  and leave the Gurkhas until last;
they have great problems expanding  their  fledgling  state in the mountains.
Whoever wins must both defeat his rivals and  smash the Thugs. It will not be
easy!


                               PLAYING THE GAME

CONTROL METHODS

 This manual describes how to  play  "Champion  of  the  Raj" entirely with a
joystick, but there are three alternatives:
 * Joystick: push it in the appropriate direction and press "fire" to act.
 * Mouse: on menus and maps,  use  it  as you normally would; elsewhere, move
the mouse slightly in the same  direction  as  described for the joystick and
press the left button for "fire".
 * Numeric Keypad: this is used  like  a  joystick; press keys to move (8=up,
9=up right, 6=right, 3=down right,  2=down,  1=down left, 4=left, 7=up left).
To "fire" press 5, enter or the space bar.
 You normally use the joystick/mouse/keypad to move a hand around the screen.
Most of the game is controlled  by  icons  (little  pictures for eg. Yes, No,
Talk, Fight, etc..) and you move the  hand  so  that its finger-tip is on the
icon you want, and press fire  to  select  it. (This is also called "clicking
on" the icon).
 Only icons which make sense are shown;  eg.  you  will not get the chance to
attack if you have no troops  available.  Champions  of the Raj also includes
six arcade games, with  different  types  of  Indian action. Instructions for
these are displayed on the screen the first time you encounter them.
 The following special functions, controlled  from  the keyboard work on most
screens:
        * The + and - keys adjust game speed.
        * The M key switches the music on/off.
        * The P key pauses the game; press R to resume or C to continue.
        * The S key toggles sound effects on/off.
        * ^C cancels the game and quits to the operating system.

CHOICE SCREEN

 The game starts at a banquet, where the  six rivals to govern India have met
before going their separate ways.  Select  +  and  -  to adjust the number of
players (1-6 people can play). Next, point  at a sitting ruler and press fire
to make him stand, or do the same  to  a  standing ruler to make him sit. The
standing rulers are the ones you have chosen to play. There can never be more
rulers standing  then  the  number  of  players  chosen,  so  any  excess sit
automatically. When you are happily with the ruler(s) standing, select "play"
to start the game. A window opens for  each  ruler, so you can enter the name
of the person playing him (click  above  or  below  each letter to adjust it,
then click on OK to continue). And then the game starts...

HEADQUARTERS SCREEN

 You have a headquarters appropriate  for  your  rank and nationally, and run
your empire from here. It includes a map  of India, a book (or scroll) on the
table in front of it, icons on the wall and a bell to end your turn.

MAP

 The map shows about 20 Indian states and 4 port cities (which are controlled
separately from the surrounding states). Independent  states have no flags or
plane blue flags  while  others  have  the  national  flags  of there current
emperor. Capital states have crowns on top of their flag poles.
 When you click on  any  Indian  state  on  the  map,  its flag flutters, its
details appear on the book and appropriate icons appear on the wall. Clicking
on the champion, sitting on  one  side  of  the  headquarters, is the same as
clicking on your own capital state. Click on the bar above the map to roll it
up or down (revealing move icons on the wall behind).

BOOK OR SCROLL

 The book shows details (icons and numbers) of the current Indian state...
        * State     - Name
        * Army      - Size
        * Defensive - Weaponry
        * Gold
        * Attacking - Weaponry
        * Industry
        * Minimum   - Defenders
        * Treasury
        * Law and Order
Click on any of these nine pieces of information to find out more.

For Example, click on...

 * State Name for details of religion and current status.
 * Attacking - Weaponry icon for what percentage number the icon means.
 * Gold icon for precisely how much tax the emperor will get next turn.

 If the state is part of  an  empire,  the  Army  - size, Income and Treasury
information are for the empire as a whole.  If the state is your own capital,
clicking on the book lets you invest for the future.

For example, click on...

 * Army Size for the chance to hire more troops, or
 * Industry for  the  chance  to  invest  in  industry  (your  tax  income is
proportional  to  the  population,  industry  and  law  of  your  empire,  so
investment is worth considering).


                             RUNNING YOUR EMPIRE

ECONOMY

 Your tax income depends on the  population  you  rule, and the level of your
empires industry and law.
 You pay one gold for each of your  troops  each turn, but troops who you use
to capture another  state  last  turn  are  "living  off  the  land" and cost
nothing.
 If you have a big army, its cheaper to use it!
 New troops cost twice this much to hire.
 You may decide to use the Book to invest money in your economy (industry and
law) to increase your future taxes,  or  in weaponless, (so your troops fight
better). Costs depend on the population of  your empire, so it sometimes pays
to keep small.
 When adding a state to your empire, it is better to capture states with good
economies,  as  they  will  benefit  the  average  figures  of  your  empire.
Unfortunately, the best places tend to be other peoples capitals.

STATUS

 Alternatively, you can invest in  a  high  status  and select the Durbah (or
parade) icon to invite your fellow  rulers  to a festival. The more elephants
you hire (click on the up icons)  the  better. The idea is to impress people,
so they are more likely to join your empire peacefully in the future.
 Select talk to negotiate with another prince. If your status is good enough,
and if there are no religious obstacles,  the prince will probably invite you
to a sporting occasion. And if  you  prove  your prowess at his chosen sports
(Elephant Racing or Tiger Hunting), he will ally his state into your empire.

ATTACKING

Click on a state next  to  one  of  yours,  and  the Attack icon will usually
appear. You can attack providing that you have not already been defeated this
turn, and still have some  troops  available (victorious troops from previous
battles stay where they are, living  off  the  land,  and can't be used again
until next turn).
 Select the attack icon, then  click  on  up  and  down  icons to adjust your
troops, and finally on OK. As a  general rule, attacking troops need at least
2:1 odds to do well.
 If the defender is also a player,  let them adjust their defending troops in
the same way. (You also get to do  this,  if you are the defender and eg. the
computer is attacking you).
 If the battle is likely to  be  a walk-over, the computer handles everything
without bothering you.
 When you capture the  capital  of  an  empire,  you  must capture the rulers
palace in order to gain full control.  (see later for the game). Succeed, and
all the vassal states of the empire  are captured with its capital. Fail, and
you only get the capital.

                                ARCADE GAMES

 Your decisoins in the "random" events in  the game often lead to arcade game
sequences. The guru appears whenever  the  game  loads, initially to give you
instructions and subsequently with wise advice.

TIGER HUNT

 Even today, tigers kill dozons of  Indian  people  each year. At the time of
the Raj, much of India was plagued  by rogue tigers. These man-eaters must be
shot, to save hundreds of  lives  and  what  greater  proof of your skill and
courage can there be then to kill an animal which is willing and able to kill
you and others?
 Steer the cross-hairs to aim and press  fire  to shoot. The recoil kicks the
gun sideways, but you have a second barrel  still to fire. Miss twice and you
are in trouble, because reloading takes several seconds.

ELEPHANT RACING

 Climb atop your elephant and you are ready for off.
 This is a vertically scrolling game, where  two elephants race south along a
wide earth track between grandstands of spectators. And the first elephant to
get a nose past the winning post wins.
 Push the joystick left and right to steer, up to slow amd down to speed your
elephant. Or press fire and move  the  joystick  to whip in the corresponding
direction. Watch out for dirty  tatics  from  your  opponent, and don't go to
fast for the ground underfoot.

CAPTURING THE PALACE

 You have captured the capital state of  an empire, but your troops are still
dealing with the  remenatnts  of  the  defeated  armies  (those  who have not
already run away).
 Then news reached you that the  former  rulers  are preparing to leave thier
palace and lead the vassal states of  the  empire against you. Unless you can
reach the palace soon, you will find  that  you have captured the capital but
lost your empire.
 You must make your way up the  screen  and  enter the palace gates. Push the
joystick in any of the  eight  directions  to  move,  and push fire to shoot.
Avoid the enemy bullets, and don't shoot women.

BATTLE IN THE THUG TEMPLE

 You rule all India and  your  armies,  freed  from  the  need to battle your
rivals, are driving back the Thugs on  all  fronts. But the fight is far from
won. The Thug priests are plotting a coup against your govermant tonight, and
they could yet seize power unless you  stop  them. There is no time to gather
your troops.
 The only chance is for a lone attacker  to creep into the Thug temple, seize
Kali's jewel which symbolizes their  power,  and  escape  safely with it. The
Thugs obey whoever controls  this  artifact,  so  you  will have broken their
power forever.
 Find the statue of Kali, grab the jewel  she guards (just walk up to it) and
escape from  the  palace  alive.  Push  the  joystick  in  any  of  the eight
directions to move, and push fire to shoot. Avoid the Thugs and their knives.

SWORD FIGHTS

 I suspect that more Indian royalty  have  lost their lives to assassins then
all the other causes of death  put  together.  There are plenty of people who
would like you to die suddenly and mysteriously.
 In the sword fight game, you need  not  control indivdual blows. Even if you
were to do nothing  but  watch,  your  champion  and  his Thug opponent would
attack and parry  each  others  blows  roughly  alternatively.  Control is by
moveing a highlight across a 3*3 grid...
 Left to right movement controls wether  your  hero  tried to attack stand or
retreat. In turn these effect the  probality of parrys working (retreating is
safest, but a hero can only retreat so far).
 Up down movement selects high, middle  or  low  blows. Each opponent is move
vunerable to one attack  type  then  others,  and  your  aim  is to learn his
weaknesses and exploit them. Press fire  to  replace the next blow (or parry)
which the computer has picked for  you  by  the  blow that you prefer. Keep a
watch on the wounds you have suffered.  It  is better to retreat a little and
live, then to attack valiently and die or your injuries.


Typed by Flux/Crystal 04/06/91