                         CHAMPIONSHIP MANAGER 1993
                              PROTECTION CODES
                        

        PAGE #             1.       2.      3.     4.    5.

          1                3-0      0-2     4-1    2-1   1-3
          2                1-0      3-1     1-5    0-0   2-2
          3                0-0      2-1     3-3    1-2   6-3
          4                1-1      2-1     2-3    2-4   1-0
          5                2-0      0-3     1-0    1-1   2-3
          6                2-1      3-0     7-1    3-2   4-1
          7                1-0      1-2     3-0    2-0   3-1
          8                2-3      4-1     2-1    2-0   1-0
          9                2-1      1-3     3-2    4-2   2-0
         10                3-0      0-2     2-1    4-1   3-1
         11                2-1      3-0     4-1    0-2   1-3
         12                0-2      2-1     1-3    4-1   3-0
         13                3-0      2-0     4-1    2-1   1-3
         14                1-4      0-2     2-1    3-0   3-1
         15                3-0      4-1     2-0    1-3   2-1
         16                2-0      0-3     2-1    3-1   4-1 
         17                3-0      2-1     1-3    3-2   1-0
         18                1-3      0-3     3-2    3-3   1-0
         19                3-0      1-3     4-0    3-2   1-0
         20                3-1      5-1     6-2    3-3   1-0     
         21                1-0      2-1     3-2    4-1   3-0
         22                0-1      3-2     4-2    2-1   3-0    
         23                2-3      1-2     1-0    2-4   0-3
         24                4-0      3-1     2-3    4-2   4-3  
         25                3-0      2-1     3-2    4-1   2-5
         26                2-0      0-3     2-3    4-1   6-4
         27                1-0      2-1     1-3    2-3   4-0
         28                9-1      1-0     2-1    6-3   2-0
         29                3-1      2-4     1-5    1-0   2-1
         30                3-0      2-1     3-4    0-2   0-1
         31                1-0      1-2     2-3    2-0   2-4
         32                2-1      3-2     1-0    1-2   4-2
         33                3-0      2-3     1-4    2-0   2-1
         34                6-2      3-0     1-2    2-3   1-4
         35                2-0      2-3     2-4    2-1   1-3
         36                0-1      1-2     3-1    4-1   2-0


                           PLAY AND ENJOY
========================================================================
                         CHAMPIONSHIP MANAGER 1993
                             PLAYERS HANDBOOK
                              100% DOCUMENTS
                        ORIGINAL SUPPLIED BY SUCRAM
                              TYPED BY CYGNUS
                               DATE 01/07/93


LOADING AND SAVING

Insert disk 1 into the internal drive, the game will then autoboot. If 
you have an external drive you can insert disk 2 into it.

When you have finished playing ALWAYS save your game and exit using the
`Quit` option.


PRINTER OPTION

If you have a printer connected click on "Printer On", if not click on 
"Printer Off" It is possible to print out most screens by pressing `P` on
the screen you wish to print out.


NEW GAME, CONTINUE SEASON OR QUICK START

NEW GAME

If you want to start a new game click on this icon. If you`d like to play 
using real player names and data, click onto `1993 Players`. If you want
to manage using computer-generated players names and data, click onto
`Generate Players`.

It is possible to play using a maximum of 4 players. Select the number of
players that wish to participate and then select the teams that you want to
manage and input your names and select your personalities (be honest).

The computer takes approximately 30 minutes to generate your game data.

QUICK START

If you have read the `New Game` information and are eager to play without a
30 minute wait, this is the option for you. It will allow you to play
previously generated game (with real players names and data), with a club
that has already been chosen. If you do not want to manage this club, it
is possible once in the game to resign and add yourself in as a new player
with the club of your choice. (See Manager/Jobs and Board/Resign.)

CONTINUE SEASON

If you wish to load a previously saved game select this option, and your
game will load.



THE MAIN MENU

The following options are available from the main menu screen.

(i) Continue Season
Proceeds to the next set of fixtures.

(ii) View Tables
A variety of club/player tables to look at.

Notes:-
In the case of the league division tables click on [-DIV] or [+DIV] to
change division.

When viewing the manager rankings table, click on [-SCR] or [+SCR] to
display a different portion of the table.

When viewing the group tables, click on [-GRP] or [+GRP] to show other
tables.

Click on PRT from the league table to print out the league table currently
displayed.

Click on a players name to reveal his factfile (See "The Player
Factfile").

Click on a team name to call up the squad details screen (see"Squad 
Details").

(iii) Fixture Info.
Gives information about past results and forthcoming fixtures and allows you
to view past winners of all competitions.
You can also see which teams have been seeded in Europe.

(iv) Club Details 
Allows access to any of the 80 club`s squad detail screens (see"Squad 
Details").

(v) Arrange Friendly
Click on "Arrange Friendly" icon from Main Menu. Highlight which week you`d
like to arrange a match for by clicking on the week number. Click on
"Select Opponents" and then select the team you wish to play (Teams of the
same division are less likely to accept your offer.) They will then inform
you whether or not they accept. You must the choose a venue. If you wish
to change the venue, click on "Select Venue" and rearrange it. You can
cancel a fixture by clicking on "Cancel Fixture". Your opponents details
can also be viewed here by clicking on "Opponents Details".

(vi) Match Reports
Check out the match statistics for recent matches in each competition (see
"The Match".)

(vii) Find Player
Gives facility to help find a player to buy, (see "Transfers".)

(viii) Board/Resign 
Find out the board`s level of confidence in you, and resign if you cannot
take the pressure.

(ix) Manager Jobs
Allows you to add another player to the game, and to see which managers are
facing the axe. You can also see which management jobs are currently
available and view your management history.

(x) National Squads
Displays the latest English, Scottish, Welsh, Irish and Northern Ireland
senior and under-21 squads.

(xi) Change Picture
Choose a new background picture or change the colour and brightness of the
present one.

(xii) Save Game
Saves the current state of play to disk.


SQUAD DETAILS SCREEN

The squad details screen and the options available from it give detailed
information about each club - ranging from ten year history to its current
playing staff.

(i) The Squad List
The following abbreviations can appear to the far left and right of each
player name:-

[IJ]   Currently injured
[SU]   Currently suspended
[U]    Unhappy
[L]    Transfer listed by club or available for loan
[R]    Transfer listed by request
[C]    Out of contract
[1-GK] Picked for matchday squad

To the immediate right of each name are letters indicating the player`s
position(s):

[G] Goalkeeper
[D] Can play in defence
[M] Can play in midfield
[A] Can play in attack
[R] Can play on right
[L] Can play on left
[C] Can play in centre

Clicking on a players name will call up his factfile screen (see "The
Factfile".)

Players names indicated in cyan indicate players who were promoted to the
squad at the start of the season from the youth team.

(ii) Options

The following options are available:-

[TRNS]    Displays a list of recently bought/sold or loaned players for the
          current season.
[STAFF]   Details of your backroom staff and also gives the facility to
          dismiss someone (see "Backroom Staff".)
[LEAG]    A chart showing the club`s league position after each league game
          played.
[FIXL]    Displays the clubs fixture list. The next fixture to be played is
          highlighted in green.
          Clicking on a past opponent`s name will call up the match stats 
          screen for the game (see "Match Statistics".)
[ACCS]    A run-down of the club`s income and expenditure over the last week.
          Computer-controlled clubs are unlikely to allow you access to this
          confidential information.
[RSRV]    Displays Reserve Team and allows selection (See "Teams and
          Tactics".)
[INFO]    Leads to a general information screen. From here you can click
          on the next three sub headings :-
     [PRINT]   To print out your squad and the current seasons transfers and
               results.
     [HIST]    To display the club`s achievements over the last ten years.
     [RECS]    To display club records (e.g. clubs biggest win.)
[AVR]     A table showing the seasons average match ratings for each player.
[DSP]     A table showing the seasons disciplinary points accumulated by
          each player.
[GLS]     Goals scored by each player this season.
[MOM]     A table showing your players `Man of the Match` awards.
[PEN]     Allows you to select your penalty takers, click on players name
          and then move up until he is in position.

(iii) Additional Options

If the club is computer controlled, one more option is available:-

[TEAM]    Displays computer team, its tactics and style of football.
          For human controlled clubs there are a number of other options:-
[PRV]     Calls up last match stats. screen (See "Match Statistics".)
[TCT]     Calls up the tactics editor (see "Teams & Tactics".)
[OPP]     If you are about to play a match, this option will call up your
          opponent`s squad screen from which you can view their team etc.
[DEFS]    Displays a table showing the players in the squad who can play in
          defence, together with their strengths and weaknesses, and current
          season`s average match ratings.
[MIDS]    As above but for the midfielders.
[ATTS]    As above but for the attackers.
[O2]
[CLR] etc  These icons are associated with team selection and are described
[SWP]      under "Teams and Tactics".

For clubs without a manager

[APPL]    Allows you to apply for the manager`s job and/or see who else is
          being considered for the job.



TEAMS AND TACTICS

Immediately before the match, the squad details screen is displayed
allowing you to select/adjust your team, its tactics and style of play.
The screen can also be called up from the main menu (see "The Main Menu.)

1. Team Selection

To select a player:-
(i)   Click on the shirt number
(ii)  Click on the name of the player who is to wear that shirt

To swap two player`s shirts
(i)   Click on the first shirt number
(ii)  Click on [SWP]
(iii) Click on the second shirt number

To select a reserve player
(i)   Click on [RSRV]
(ii)  Click on the shirt number
(iii) Click on the name of the player who is to wear the shirt

2. Tactics/Style Of Play

Click on [TCT] from the squad details screen to display the tactics editor
screen.
The diagrams assumes play goes from bottom to top right (e.g. leftback is
positioned at the bottom left.)

To allocate a shirt to a position
(i)   Click on the shirt number
(ii)  Click on the position icons (e.g. for right-back click on [DEF] and on
[RIGHT]
Note: You cannot have more than a certain number of shirts allocated to a
given position. If you try to allocate a shirt to a position you will not
be able to exit this screen.
To avoid this, use the [SWAP WITH] facility to swap positions around to
achieve the desired formation.

To swap the position of two shirts 
(i)   Click on the first shirt number
(ii)  Click on the [SWAP WITH]
(iii) Click on the second shirt number.

To select the captain
(i)   Click on the shirt number of the player who is to be captain.
(ii)  Click on [CAPT]

To use predefined tactics:

There are a number of predefined tactics available.
(i)   Click on [NEW FORMATION]
(ii)  Choose the new tactics from the sub-menu which appears.

To change style of play
(i)   Click on [STYLE]


STYLES OF PLAY

The manager`s choice of style of play is a key part of the team he is trying
to build. Different styles of play test different attributes, e.g. a
striker playing under a long ball style needs good heading ability: playing
a small striker in such a team will not fulfil his potential.

There are some skills that are needed regardless of the style of play:

Defenders and Midfielders need to tackle well, and a certain level of
passing ability is needed by all members of the team. Heading is always
important for central defender sweepers, and some degree of flair and
creativity is required by any wide men.

The Anchor Man 

The anchor man effectively carries out a sweeper`s role, but in front of the
defence. He helps take pressure off the defence and also provides a vital
link between defence and midfield. The anchor man needs all of the
qualities of a sweeper but passing is more important as he will often
instigate attacks from the back.

The Support Man
As his name suggests, the support man assists the attack by providing them
with through balls. He should be creative, as part of his job is to create
chances for the front men. Since he also helps out in midfield, some
midfield-type qualities are useful (tackling, passing, etc.)

Long Ball Style
Passing abilities are important for teams playing the long ball style.
Defenders aim for areas of the pitch rather than individual players, e.g.
the penalty area or flanks. The front men then need the ability to win
these high balls, or the pace to run onto them.  This style of football
has received a great deal of criticism because it is not appealing to watch
, but no-one can deny its effectiveness within the English game. Examples
in today`s game are Sheffield United & Wimbledon.

Direct Ball Style
This differs from the long ball style in that the ball is played long but
more accurately to players. Often there is a target man who is constantly
aimed for. passing is more important throughout the team, this is
essentially a more refined version of the long ball style. Example in
today`s game : Leeds United.

Ground Passing Style
This style involves the ball being played to feet with clever 1,2`s and
flicks used to create openings. Players therefore need technical ability
(e.g. flair, creativity and passing) especially midfielders and attackers.
Example in today`s game : Norwich.

Counter Attack Style
Playing `on the break` relies on the speed and quick thinking of players to
convert a defensive situation into an attacking one. Pace is therefore
vital throughout the team as all players will try to get forward to support
the cause. Since the counter-attack relies on quick, accurate passes,
passing and creativity are important, if the attack is to be incisive.
Example in today`s game : Nottingham Forest.

Continental Method
This method involves patiently building an attack and waiting for the right
moment to strike the killer blow. All players are likely to get forward at
some point (with the exception of the sweeper) so flair and creativity are a
must for the whole team. This is the most skilful and enjoyable-to-watch
type of football. Examples in today`s game are Manchester United & AC Milan

It is the managers job to bring out the best in his players. Playing Peter
Beardsley as a target for high balls will not bring out the best in him.

(ii)  Choose the new style from the sub-menu which appears.

To Push A Player Forward

(i)   Click on the shirt number of the player to be pushed forward.
(ii)  Click on the [FORW] box.

An up-facing arrow appears on the diagram.
Note: You can`t push your sweeper, goalkeeper, support man or anchor man
forward.

To Pull A Player Back

(i)   Click on the shirt number of the player to be pulled back.
(ii)  Click on the [BACK] box.

A down facing arrow appears on the diagram
Note: Again the sweeper, goalkeeper, support man or anchor man can`t be
pulled back.

To Stop A Player Pushing Forward/Pulling Back

(i)   Click on the shirt number of the player.
(ii)  Click on the [NORM] box.

General Note: Pushing a player forward means he will spend more time in a
more forward position and less in a defensive position.
A similar system applies to players pulling back.


THE MATCH

The match screen gives the following information ; the competition, venue,
time elapsed, the score, the performance of the defence, midfield and
attack (as small bar charts) goal attempts by each team and an indicator as
to which team is currently on the attack.

Any important incidents during the game are displayed (goals, penalties,
bad fouls, bookings, sending offs etc.)

To Make A Substitution/Tactical Move

In the case of two human controlled clubs playing, click the left mouse
button or hold down "H" for a home substitution/tactical move or click the
right mouse button or hold down "A" for an away substitution/tactical move.

In the case of one human-controlled club playing against a computer team
click any mouse button for a substitution/tactical move.

A menu then appears letting you make a tactical move/substitution, see your
opponents team or view the match stats. screen (see "The Match Statistics
Screen".)

1. To Make A Substitution

Select "Tactical Move", the tactics editor is then displayed.

(i)   Click on the shirt number of the player to be removed.
(ii)  Click on [SWAP WITH].
(iii) Click on the shirt number of the player to come on : 12,14 or GK
(GK Premier League or Euro Competitions only)

The diagram confirms the substitution.

2. To Make A Tactical Move

Select "Tactical Move".
The Tactics Editor screen is then displayed.
Adjust your tactics as described in the section "Team and Tactics"

To Speed Up The Match

Use this option when you are 6-0 down with 20 minutes still to go !. Hold
down the spacebar and the minutes will go by quicker.

    

THE MATCH STATISTICS SCREEN

The match statistics screen gives you information about the team`s
performance and also tells you how well individual players played.

Each player is given a match rating from 1-10 (10 being the highest). These
are shown to the right of each player`s name.

Additionally, the following abbreviations may appear to the immediate right
of each player`s name:-

IJ      Player went off injured
C       The captain
SO      The player was sent off
BK      The player was booked

There may also be a small number displayed to the right of a player`s rating 
e.g. T COTTEE   IJ 10 3
This indicates the number of goals the player has scored, in this case 
T COTTEE played out of skin (rating of 10) and scored a hat-trick, but was
taken off injured.

Below the player ratings are percentages indicating the domination of the
defence, midfield and attack, and the number of goal attempts each team
made.

Use these to judge the overall team performance.

The attendance is displayed at the bottom.

Finally the player who is highlighted has been voted Man Of The Match.


BUYING PLAYERS

There are six main areas here : the normal search )                      
                                the scout search  ) The Player Search               
                                foreign players   )               
                                transfer news
                                the transfer list
                                the shortlist
                                buying a player
                                the scout report

(i)   The Player Search

The player search facility is designed to help you find players to buy.

It is called up by selecting "Find Player" from the main menu (see "The Main
Menu",) and then clicking on "Normal Search".

You will be presented with a series of menus asking you to specify : the
required position(s), attribute(s), value range(s), search division(s)
and age range(s).

For a scout to perform a player search you must click on "Scout Search".
You will be asked to select a scout to perform the search. You will be
presented with a series of menus asking you to specify : the required
position(s), attribute(s), value range(s), search division(s)
and age range(s).

A list will be displayed. Click on a player name to display his factfile
(see "The Player Factfile") click on [-SCR] or [+SCR) to show more of the
list, and click on [RECS] repeatedly to see if any of your scouts recommend
any of the players displayed (see "Backroom Staff".)

Click on "Foreign Players", this allows you to view a pool of players from
various countries who are interested in playing in England. To buy the
players fact file click on [BUY]. His fee is negotiated by your overseas
agent, all thats left for you to do is to agree a contract.

Scouts

There are two ways to allocate scouts. the first is to allocate a scout to
a player who is already shortlisted. View your shortlist, click on [WCH]
and select a player, then choose a scout to watch him.
The second method is to view a players factfile, click on [ADD] and select
"Shortlist & Watch". This will shortlist the player and allow you to
allocate a scout.

To read a report, click on "Scouts", highlight the scout whose report you
wish to read, and click on [LAST REPORT]. His report will display all
relevant information.

(ii)  The Shortlist

The shortlist is a list of possible buys drawn up by the manager.
To view your shortlist, click on "Find Player" from the main menu (see "The
Main Menu") and then on "Shortlist".
Click on a player name to display his factfile (see "The Player factfile")
and then click on [RECS] repeatedly to see if any of your scouts recommend
any of the players on your shortlist.
[WCH] : See "Buying A Player" and "Scouts"
To shortlist a player, call up his factfile (see "The Player Factfile") and
click on [ADD].
To remove a player from your shortlist, call up your shortlist, click on
[DEL], and then click on the name of the player you want to remove.

(iii) The Transfer List

The transfer list is a list of players who are available for sale or loan.
Call it up by selecting "Find Player" from the main menu (see "The Main
Menu") and then clicking on "Transfer List".
The list will be displayed. Click on a player name to display his factfile
(see "The Player Factfile"). Click on [-SCR] or [+SCR] to show more of the
list, and click on [RECS] repeatedly to see if any of your scouts recommend
any of the players displayed (see "Backroom Staff".)

(iv)  Buying A Player

To buy a player you must have his factfile screen displayed.

1. APPROACHING

Click on [BUY] to approach the player. You will then be informed how much
money you have available and asked to confirm whether you want to approach
to buy or loan.
The player`s club then decides if it is willing to release him, and if it
is, the player decides if he wants to join you.
If the player is at a human-controlled club, a menu will appear allowing
you to accept or refuse the approach.
You cannot refuse an approach to a player who is out of contract.

2. OTHER BIDDERS

Any other clubs who have the player on their shortlist are give the chance
to join in the bidding. In the case of human-controlled clubs, a menu will
appear giving him the chance to approach the player.
If he is interested, he will be able to bid for the player.

3. NEGOTIATING THE FEE

Assuming the player is not on a free transfer, the clubs then agree a fee
for the player.
Firstly, each of the bidding clubs makes an offer (see "The Negotiations
Screen") 
Secondly, the selling club sets the asking price (see "The Negotiations
Screen").
The process is repeated until :-
	(i)  A fee is agreed    or,
	(ii) No agreement is reached after several rounds of negotiations.
If no fee has been agreed and the player is out of contract, the
independent tribunal set the fee.

4  NEGOTIATING THE CONTRACT

Once the fee has been agreed, the player and the new club must negotiate a
contract.
The contract length and weekly wage are negotiated (see "The Negotiations
Screen").
If both are agreed, the player joins the club.

THE NEGOTIATIONS SCREEN

The negotiations screen is used for setting player asking prices, making
offers and negotiating a player`s contract.

You can click on:
[-]        To decrease the activated digit by one.
[+]        To increase the activated digit by one.
[A DIGIT]  To activate that digit.
[FACTFILE] To display the player`s factfile (see "The Players Factfile".)
[DONE]     When you have finished.

The box above contains all the responses to your actions (Player/Club
refusals etc.)


THE PLAYER STATUS MENU

The player status menu is called up by clicking on [STA] from any of your
own player`s factfile screens (see "The Player Factfile".)

The following options are available :-

(i)   List Him/Loan Him

This puts the player on the transfer list. You must decide on an asking
price for him. As a guide, look at the coach`s estimation of his value -
shown on his factfile screen (see "The Factfile".)

Display switches to asking price screen from which you can set his valuation
(see "The Asking Price".)

(ii)  Remove From List

Removes the player from the transfer list

Note: If the player is out of contract he has the right to refuse to come
off the list.

(iii) Revalue Him

Allows you to change the valuation of a transfer listed player

Display switches to asking price screen from which you can adjust his
valuation (see "The Asking Price".) 

(iv)   Not For Sale

This option prevents approaches to the player by other clubs (i.e. they are
told that he is not for sale at any price.)

(v)    Allow Approaches

Click on this to reverse the effect of "Not For Sale", thus allowing clubs
to approach him again.

(vi)   Fine Him

If you feel the player deserves a fine, then this option will dock a week`s
wages.
Note: You can only dock one weeks wages at a time.

(vii)  Insure Him

Insures the player against injury. You will be told of the cost per week of
insuring him, and then asked for confirmation.

Note: You cannot insure a player who is currently injured.

(viii) Uninsure Him 

Removes the insurance.

(ix)   Increase Wage

Gives you the chance to increase the player`s weekly wage.

Display switches to the wage negotiation screen (see "Negotiations Screen")
from which you can adjust his wage.

(x)    Renew Contract

Allows you to negotiate a new contract for the player. If he is out of
contract or if his current deal expires within that season.

Display switches first to the contract length negotiation screen (see
"Negotiations Screen") and then to the wage negotiations screen (see
"Negotiations Screen".)

(xi)   Rehabilitate

You can arrange treatment for injured players, at a cost !


PLAYER REQUESTS

Your players may make requests to leave (if not transfer listed) or to stay
(if transfer listed) at any time during a season.

A menu will appear giving you the chance to accept or decline his request.
You cannot refuse a player`s request to leave if he is out of contract.



THE PLAYER FACTFILE

The player factfile displays details about a players abilities, status and
recent history, It is also used for buying, transfer listing and general
manager player interaction.

Options Available :-

[ADD]    To shortlist the player and allocate scout (see "Buying Players".)
[BUY]    To buy the player (see "Buying Players'.)
[STA]    For transfer listing, fining etc (see "Player Status Screen".)
[HST]    By clicking on this icon, a screen is displayed showing the career
history of the player. The appearances made, goals scored and average match
ratings are listed season by season. Also shown are the career totals of
these details. In the case of one screen not containing all the information
available, clicking on [MORE] shows the remainder.
[HST] is split into 7 boxes :-
 
(1)      AGE
         CLUB
         COUNTRY     England, Scotland, Wales, Eire, N.Ireland, etc (The
                     country the player is eligible to play for.) If the
                     country is followed by a `U`, the player is currently 
                     selected for the Under-21 squad, and if by an `I`, the
                     player is selected for the full international squad.
	
         CONTRACT     Given as week/season eg "9/1". This is the point at
                     which his contract expires. In the case that it has
                     already expired, "FREE AGENT" is displayed.

         WAGES        Per week

         STATUS/      Transfer valuation. If he is not currently transfer-
         VALUE        listed the valuation is based on the coach`s assess -
                     meant of the player and is followed by a "C" for example
                     "120000 C".

         INSURANCE    How much it costs the club to insure the player per
                     week. If the player is not insured, "NONE" is shown.

         POSITION/    "Def","Mid","Attk","Gk" or a combination of. "L","R",
         SIDE         "C" (Left,Right,Centre) or a combination of.

(2)      CHARACTER    The player`s personality

         PASSING      Rated 1-20 eg Glenn Hoddle would get 20, while Terry
                     Fenwick would get 1 !?!

         TACKLING     Rated 1-20    Lee Dixon - Paul Elliot

         PACE         Rated 1-20    Nigel Clough - Gary Lineker

         HEADING      Rated 1-20    Paul Ince - Niall Quinn

         FLAIR        Rated 1-20    Perry Groves - Darren Anderton

         CREATIVITY   Rated 1-20    John Fashanu - Ray Houghton

         STAMINA      Rated 1-20    Dean Saunders - Bryan Robson

         INFLUENCE    Rated 1-20    (Over other player`s performance)
                                   Nayim - Gordan Strachan

(3)     Player morale report       VERY LOW,
                                   LOW,
                                   OK,
                                   GOOD or
                                   SUPERB.

(4)     Availability.  Fitness and shirt number if selected. If the player
                       is injured a description of the condition and an
                       estimate given by the physio, of the time to recover
                       is shown.

(5)     Last Season.   Appearances, Goals, Disciplinary points and Average
                       ratings for last season.

(6)     This Season    Appearances, Goals, Disciplinary points and Average
                       ratings, International call-ups and Man of the Match
                       awards for this season.

(7)     Future/Clubs Targeted by.   If the player has been targeted by
                                      other clubs this will be indicated. 


THE BACKROOM STAFF

Each club has the following staff in addition to the players and manager. To
view a club`s staff, click on [STAFF] from the squad details screen.

(i)     The Coach
        Responsible for training the squad

(ii)    The Physio
        Responsible for improving match fitness and helping players recover
        from injury.

(iii)   Three League Scouts
        The league scouts watch and recommend players to the manager.

(iv)    The Youth Scout
        The youth scout`s job is to recommend and report on talented
        youngsters.

If you are not happy with a particular member of the backroom staff, you can
sack him and find a replacement.

To Sack One Of Your Backroom Staff

(i)   Call up the staff screen.

(ii)  Click on [SACK]

(iii) Click on the name of the person you wish to sack.

You will be asked for confirmation. If you confirm, then you will be given
the choice of finding your own replacement or allowing the board to appoint
one.

To Find Your Own Replacement Staff

You will be presented with a series of menus asking you to specify the
required reputation(s) and age(s) of the potential replacement.

A list of possible replacements will then be displayed.

Click on a particular name if you want to try and appoint them.

Notes:  (i)   Your staff may have ability in different areas.

        (ii)  When viewing the list of possible replacements;
            
              A   The ability shown is his ability in the position you are
                 trying to fill.

              B   Click on [-SCR] or [+SCR] to show more of the list (it
                 takes up more than one screen.)

Player Insurance

Insuring a player has the following benefits :-

        (i)   If he is sent to Lilleshall (see "Player Injuries") his fees
              will be paid for by the insurance company.

        (ii)  If he needs an operation the medical fees will be paid for
              by the insurance company.

        (iii) If he is forced to retire through injury, the insurance
              company will pay the club his value (as assessed by an
              independent tribunal.)

        (iv)  If you want to treat a player with a minor injury, the cost of 
              basic treatment is covered.

To insure a player see "The Player Status Menu" section.


Sackings/Job Offers/Applying

If a manager has been sacked you may apply for the job.

To do this, call up the club`s "Squad Details Screen" and click on the
[APPL] box.

A menu will appear allowing you to apply for the job or to see which other
managers are being considered.

To see which jobs are available at any given time, select `Managers Jobs`
from the "Main Menu" and click on "Job News". Any jobs available will be
marked `Available`.

During the period of time that a club is without a manager, the coach takes
temporary charge of the team.


Weekly News

At any time you may be presented with relevant news. This may be related to
your squad (eg injuries etc) or of interest to the football world in general
(sackings,takeovers etc.)

There is also a weekly transfer news round-up. This is a list of all the
weeks transfers and loan deals.


Player Injuries

If a player sustains a serious injury you may be given one or both of the
following options :

        (i)  Send him to Lilleshall
 
             The National Rehabilitation Centre at Lilleshall in Shropshire
             has facilities and equipment to help players back to fitness 
             after injury.

	     Sending a player to Lilleshall can speed up recovery. You will
             be informed of the cost.

        (ii) Send him to a top surgeon abroad
        
             For very serious injuries you may have the chance to send the
             player abroad for an operation by a leading surgeon.

	     If successful, his recovery time will be shortened.

	     You will be informed of the cost of the scheme (it tends to be
             restricted to the rich clubs.)



STRATEGY TIPS

1   MATCH
There are two ways in which a manager can approach a match in terms of team
selection. The first is to (generally) select a team that works well as a
unit, and can hold its own against most teams it meets during the season.
The advantage of this is that the manager can build a side that he knows he
can rely on, only needing to change in the event of injury or suspension.
In 1981 Ron Saunders Aston Villa side won the First Division title using
only 14 players - his team knew exactly what was required of them and
complemented each other well.

However in 1987, Howard Kendall`s Everton landed the Championship in a
rather different way. In the course of that season over 20 players were
used - but the side worked because it played to its strengths, and because
the tactics were adapted to the players available. This second approach
works by treating each game separately, having a strong squad capable of
adapting to the opposition and changes in team selection (including
injuries.) Another way in which a manager proves his worth is by his ability
to influence the game while it is underway : by use of either a change in
tactics or substitutions. A good manager will be able to spot not only a
problem that exists, but also be able to see why the problem exists, and
if he has the facilities at his disposal to make the necessary changes.

It is also worth looking at the examples of the likes of Wimbledon,
Sheffield United and Crystal Palace in recent years. These teams have never
been able to attract the top players but have kept amongst the elite by
relying on attributes such as stamina, reliability and team spirit. Of
course any team which is seriously capable of winning trophies will need
players of the highest quality to rise above the average.

The ways in which a manager may approach life in the lower divisions may
also be different. Getting out of a certain division requires a lot of
resilience on the part of the players, and there is no substitute for
experience. Note how Leeds manager Howard Wilkinson brought in certain
types players to escape the old Division 2 and different types once promoted
(Vinny Jones being a case in point - Bought to escape Div. 2 and then sold)


2.  TRANSFERS 

Money doesn't`t necessarily buy success. It can help though, and managers
need to be able to be flexible enough to realise when a large transfer is
really worth the money and when a bit of bargain hunting is necessary.
The best bargains are generally not obvious at first sight. Maybe a player
has had 2 or 3 bad seasons that have kept him out of the limelight. Maybe
injury is partly responsible. Maybe the team he is part of has had a bad
run and affected his morale. The more astute manager will delve into a
player`s past or look for ways in which he might fit into his team better
than the one he is currently part of.

The scouts are very useful to the manager because they can get around to
watch players every week while a manager cannot. All the best clubs have a
reliable network of scouts who can direct their manager to the players worth
looking at.


3.  CAPTAIN

The captain holds the team together out on the pitch and must be someone who
is respected and liked by the players around him. It is also worth noting
that great sides will have several `captains` on the field which keeps them
going when things get tough.


4.  DISCIPLINE AND MAN-MANAGEMENT

It is important that a manager deals with players as people in a way that
will help him get the best out of them. The personality factor is always
important. Managers must remember that every player is different and will
react differently in given situations. Issues such as player-fines, wage
increases and dropping players need to be treated carefully as the wrong
decision can create a problem that could affect the whole squad and
certainty the individual player.


5.  INJURIES

A good physio will naturally help here - but it is important to realise that
some players are more susceptible than others. Additionally it is wise to
insure players whenever possible as not only are their wages paid while they
are under treatment, the treatments also paid for. In the event of a
player being forced to retire through injury, compensation may also be paid.


6.  CUP TIES AND DERBY MATCHES

These games carry an atmosphere of their own and are more susceptible to
upsets. Very often the braver managerial decisions are rewarded although
luck always seems to play a large part too.


7.  YOUTH AND EXPERIENCE

Young players need to be nurtured through to maturity. Beware of spoiling a
youngster by exposing him to the game too soon or too often. Also beware of
tiring players by playing them too often in a short space of time -
especially at a young age and also if they are getting to the end of their
career and their legs aren't`t quite what they used to be.

A good mixture of youth and experience is helpful - especially to younger
players who may need a guiding hand. Malcom Allison`s side of kids for Man
City in the early 80`s had ability but no driving force - and the question
has to be asked - "Where are they now?".


8.  CREATIVE AND GOAL-SCORING PLAYERS

Every team needs to create chances, and they need players to make the most
of the chances. A lack of either of those will mean fewer goals. It is up
to the manager to get the balance right in these areas. It is also worth
remembering that certain players can turn a game with one moment of flair -
though to many of todays managers those players are a luxury that cannot
always be afforded in the English Game. (Pat Nevin,Duncan McKensie,Alan
Hudson?.)



USER GUIDE

OTHER PLAYER ATTRIBUTES

In addition to the player information described in the section "The Player
Factfile" each player also has the following attributes :-

SHOOTING      Accuracy of shooting. Has the player got an eye for goal?

CONSISTENCY   Inconsistent players have regular `Off-Days`.

DIRTINESS     How dirty is he? Dirty players foul and get sent off etc.

INJURY PRONE  Likelihood of player getting injured.

TEMPERAMENT   How does he react to provocation?

These attributes are not displayed on any screen. The manager must
ascertain these attributes from the player`s match statistics - ratings,
goals, etc - both in the past and in the present. It may be worth putting
down these attributes on paper and marking your squad`s or transfer target`s
hidden qualities to these attributes.



PLAYER DISCIPLINE

Everytime a player gets booked he is given 5 disciplinary points.

A sending off is worth 10 disciplinary points.

If a player is booked and sent-off in a match, he is given 10 disciplinary
points.

A sending off results in an instant one match ban.

Every 20 disciplinary points results in a two match ban.

If a player is needed by his club (due to a small squad,and injuries to
other players) the player is put under delayed suspension. He will then
serve his ban as soon as possible (eg when his squad has less injuries etc)

Clubs with a high total number of disciplinary points in the squad run the
risk of a fine.



PLAUDITS

Original Concept :    Oliver & Paul Collyer

`93 Edition      :    Intelek

Data Research    :    Andy Haynes

Music            :    Allister Brimble

Graphic Support  :    The Kremlin

Project Manager  :    Kris Hall

Docs Copier      :    Cygnus"-Ed"

Thanks to `Match Weekly' for their assistance with the data research.