                         *** CHAMPIONSHIP GOLF DOCS ***
                                   by Nemesis
 
                              The Rush-in Method
                              ------------------
  For single player

  With the Pebble Beach scorecard displayed on your screen, follow
  these steps to start a one-player game. you might also want to refer
  to the list of function keys f1 through f8 on the inside back cover of
  this book (yeah right)

  The inside back cover of this book:

  f1 full-screen perspective
  f2 split screen-overhead view on left, perspective on right
  f3 overhead view of entire hole
  f4 close-up overhead view
  f5 birds-eye view perspective
  f6 ground-level perspective
  f7 rotate line of sight to right (clockwise)
  f8 rotate line of sight to left (counterclockwise)

  1.Type you three initials and press RETURN. the first hole will be
    highlighted on the scorecard.

  2.Press RETURN again. You'll go directly to the tee on
    Number 1, with two views of the hole on a  split screen. In
    the overhead view on the left-hand side, your position is
    represented as a small square and your ball as a dot.  On the
    right-hand side is your ground-level perspective view of the
    hole, looking directly over your ball in the foreground.

  3.Because the first hole is a dogleg-right, your perspective and
    your aime (always initially directed at the flagstick) will be into
    the trees.  Press f8 seven times to rotate your view and aim to
    the left, up the fairway. press f2 to draw your new perspective.

  4.Press RETURN. You'll go to the SELECT STROKE screen where
    FULL will be highlighted

  5.Press RETURN to select the full stroke. You'll go the the club
    selection screen, where the 1-wood (driver) will be highlighted.

  6.Press RETURN to select the 1-wood. You'll go to the stance
    and club alignment screen.

  7. Press RETURN to select a square stance and standard club alignment.
     You'll go to the swing animation screen.

  8.Press f10 to swing. Follow your ball on either side of the
    split-screen

  When your ball comes to rest, you'll go to your
  perspective and aim again directed at the flagstick.

  If you want to adjust your aim, repeat step 3, using f8 to rotate
  your view to the left or f7 it to rotate to the right. Then repeat steps
  4 through 8, pressing RETURN to accept the stroke, club, and
  stance and club alignment recommended by championship golf.



The ScoreCard
-------------

  After displaying the title and credit screens, championship golf
  takes you to the pebble beach scorcard.  Notice the numbers for each of
  the 18 holes and the yardages for each from the back (BAC),
  middle (MID), and forward (FOR) tees. Also shown are the par (PAR)
  for each hole and the handicap rating (HCP), which ranks the hole
  according to difficulty.  ex. the 14th hole is rated the most difficult

  During play the chmpgolf scorecard keeps running totals
  for the front none (on the OUT line), the back nine (on the IN line),
  and all 18 holes (TOT), updating and displaying the totals each time
  all registered players finish playing a hole.

  REGISTERING TO PLAY

  you can play a round alone or in a goup-up to foursome. to reg. type three
  initials for each player onto the scorecard when it appears.  when all
  players have signed in, press RETURN.

  SELECTING A HOLE

  to start play on a different hole, use the uparrow and downarrow keys to
  highlight the one you want to play. rem: if you start at any hole other
  than the first, your score will not be eligible for recording as a
  course record ow score.

  you can go directly to the tee, but you may first want to go to the
  main menu to select tee and pin placements, a bag of clubs for each
  player, and other options.  You must also go to the main menu in
  order to get to the driving range.  to do so, press ESC. otherwise RETURN
  to go to the course.


The Main Menu
-------------

  the main menu allows you to select tee and pin placements, your
  bag of clubs, and other play options, and to go to the pebble beach
  driving range.

  To go to the main menu from the scorecard, the course, or the driving
  range, press ESC. press ESC again if you want to return to the
  place you came from.

  SELECTING OPTIONS

  to select an option from the main menu, use the uparrow and downarrow keys
  to scroll through the list the desired option, then press RETURN

  chmpgolf does not allow you to change your pin, tee, or
  club selections while you're on the driving range or playing a hole
  on the course.  If you want tochange these selections after coming from
  the course or the driving range, you must first scroll to START NEW ROUND
  and press RETURN and then, from the scorecard, press ESC to re-enter
  main menu

  PLANNING YOUR GAME

  adjusting difficulty course:  use the right and left arrow keys to
  highlight the player's initials on th escorecard, then press ESC to go to
  the main menu.  Each player may select the forward, middle, or back tees
  and preliminary-round or final-round pin placements.


  SELECTING TEE AND PIN PLACEMENTS.

  unless you choose otherwise, you'll shoot from the middle tees to
  the preliminary-round pin placements.  to make another selection,
  use the up down keys to screoll throught the menu until TEE is
  highlighted, then press RETURN to cycle to your tee preference.
  Next, scroll down to PIN and repeat the procedure.

  CHOOSING YOUR BAG OF CLUBS

  chmpgolf automatically equips each player with 14 clubs
  if you prefer a different selection, scroll to PICK BAG OF CLUBS and press
  RETURN.  you'll be presented with a menu of clubs.  you can substitute
  the 2-, 4-, or 6-wood or the 1-iron for another club in your bag.  you'll
  required to carry a putter and sand wedge.

  to select a club, you can use the up/down keys to scroll thrught the
  list on the left side of the screen until the desired club is highlighted,
  then press the spacebar to put the club in your bag.
  you need 14 clubs!

  to select tees, pin placements and clubs for the next player, press
  RETURN to return to the scorecard; use the left/right keys to highlight
  the nest players initials; press ESC again to return to the main
  menu; and repeat the procedure described above.

  OTHER MAIN MENU OPTIONS

  to select any of these highlight the one youy want using the up/down keys
  and press RETURN

  LEAVE GAME  removes the player whose initials were highlighted on the
              scorecard or who was about to hit when you came to the main
              menu.  the other registered players may continue to play.
              after selection this option, you'll return to the scorecard
              or the cours, whechever you came from to the main menu

  DISPLAY LOW SCORES lets you see the four lowest course record scores
              recorded on your chmpgolf disk

  DRIVING RANGE allows you to practice your full swing, chipping, and
              putting strokes, sand shots, and shots from the rough.
              if you leave a game to go to the driving range, you must
              start a new round or a new game to resume play on the course.

  STARTING A NEW GAME returns you to the scorecard, where you may register
              to play (enter initials for a group of players)  You may then
              select tee and pin placements and a gab of clubs for each
              players, highlight a hole where you want to begin play, and go
              to the course.

  START NEW ROUND also returns you to the scorecard to strat fresh from
              the first hole, but with the same player, tee and pin
              placements, and clubs as on the previous round.

  SAVE GAME ON DISK records the current state of the game in progress
              on the chmpgolf program disk.  this option is useful is you
              want to halt play in the middle of a round and pick up where
              you left off at a later time.

  GET GAME FROM DISK retrieves a saved game from the disk, so you can
              resume theround where you left off.

  SOUND is a switch for toggling sound


On The Course
-------------
             
  To begin exploring the course from the main menu, press ESC to
  return to the scorecard, if necessary.  Then use the up/down keys to
  highlight a hole you'd like to explore-number 12 is a good place to learn
  how to control your views and perspectives.

  press RETURN to go to the hole you've selected.


  SHOTMAKING

  shotmaking in chmpgolf has all the elements of real golf,
  including aiming, club selection, clubface alignment and stance, and
  timing the components of your swing.  For each element chmpgolf recommends
  a standard choice for every player; these
  choices are highlighted on the shotmaking screens,  However, you can
  control your aim, club selection, stance, and swing in any way you like.

  AIMING YOUR SHOT

  whether you're on the driving range or the golf course, you'll want
  to be sure of your aim before hitting your shot.  In taking aim, you'll
  rely on the ground-level or bird's-eye perspective (f6 or f5).

  In any perspective view, you'll notice the small line, or tick, at the
  top center of the view and your ball at the botoom center.

  the initial line of flight of your shot will be in the direction of the
  tick.  On the golf course, champgolf sets up the initial line of flight
  directly at the flagstick.

  Only on rare occasions, however, will the ball fly or roll in a
  perfectly straight line throughout its flight.  As in real golf, factors
  such as the wind direction and speed, the path of the clubhead, and
  the angle of the clubface at impact will affect the flight of the ball;
  on the greens, the slope of the terrain will cause your putts to break.

  So you'll often need to adjust your aim before hitting the ball,
  especially in a heavy crosswind, on severely slopping greens, and
  when you're trying to "bend" a shot around trees.

  You also need to adjust your aim from the tee on dolgleg holes,
  because the initial aim may be into the trees (number 1 is a good
  example).

  To adjust your aim, use f7 to rotate the tick to the right, f8 to rotate
  it to the left.  On a split screen, the square in the overhead view moves
  in tandem with the tick.

  After moving the tick, you can press f1, f2, f5, or f6 to redraw
  the perspective along your new line of sight.  If you move the tick
  entirely off the perspective view, the view will go blank, prompting
  you to redraw.  You may rotate more before doing so.

  After taking aim, press RETURN to go to the first shotmaking
  screen.  If you've pressed any of the arrow keys to move from your
  ball, pressing RETURN at this point will take you back to your ball
  rather than to the first shotmaking screen, and you'll have to re-adjust
  your aim using f7 and f8.

  STROKE AND CLUB SELECTION

  on the first shotmaking screen, you select the type of stroke you
  want to use and choose a club.

  but if you first change your mind about your aim and want to go
  back to the perspective screen with the ball and tick, press ESC.

  In selecting a stroke, you have three choices:
  FULL involves body turn, arm speed, and wrist action (max. power)
  CHIP a half swing, with a shorter backswing and follow-through, but it
       also involves body turn, arm speed, and wrist action (less distance)
  PUTT involves arms and wrists only

  chmpgolf always highlights a recommended strok, based on the
  lie of your ball and its distance from the cup.  to select the
  stroke highlighted on the screen, simply press RETURN.  Or press
  F, C, or P.  On amiga, use the left/right keys to highlight the type of
  stroke you want, then press RETURN.

  after pressing RETURN to confirm your stroke selection, you must
  select a club

  in selecting a club, you have your choice of any club in your bag,
  except if you've chosen the putting stroke, when you may use a putter
  only.

  again, chmpgolf recommends a club, which you may accept by pressing
  RETURN.  to select a different club, you can scroll through the list.
  press RETURN to confirm your selection.

  to tee up the ball or remove it from the tee on the driving range or at
  the start of a hole, press T.

  after highlighting your club selection and deciding whether you want
  the ball teed up or not, press RETURN.  You'll go to the second
  shotmaking screen.  should you change your mind about your stroke
  or club selection, press ESC to return to the SELECT STROKE screen.

  ADDRESSING THE BALL: STANCE AND CLUBFACE ALIGNMENT

  if you've chosen a full or chip stroke, champgolf gives you
  a chance to adjust the alignmnet of your stance and clubface.  no
  such re-alignment is possible for the putting stroke.

  for each shot, champgolf initially sets up a squeare stance and clubface,
  aimed straight in the direction you've chosen.

  the clubface alignment is shown in the TOP VIEW of portion of the
  screen, and the alighment of yur feet is illustrated in the lower left
  portoin of the screen.  note the alignment of the feet relative to the
  line of flight runing through the ball in the very bottom left portion
  of the screen.

  you may wish to open or close you stance in order to slice (fade)
  your shot to the right or to hook (draw) it to the left.  use the up/down
  keys to adjust the position of your front foot.  notice how the large
  arrow adjusts to represent the change in the swing path of your club.

  you can also open or close your clubface to put spin on the ball so
  that your shot will curve to the right (slice) or left (hook).

  press RETURN when you're satisfied with your stance and clubface
  alignment.  you'll proceed to the swing animation screen.

  if you change your mind before starting the seing and want to go
  back and modify your shot alignment, press ESC.  you'll return to the
  stance and clubface alignment screen if you're using a full or chip stroke
  or, if you're putting, to the split-screen overhead and perspective
  views, so you can re-orient yourself.

  SWING AWAY

  the third and last screen in the shotmaking series is where you actually
  swing the club.

  for easy, consisten, average shotmaking, you can simply press f10
  to swing the club and hit the ball.  by practicing the techniques
  described below, however, you can learn to control your swing and
  play a better game.

  when you're ready to swing, you can press any key to start the action.
  but if you don't press any more keys, you'll swing very slowly, and the
  ball won't go very far.

  there are three ways to hit the ball farther: you can swing your arms
  faster, add wrist action to your swing, and drive your swing
  with your body.  you can work with each of these elements alone or
  use any combination of the three.

  pressing the C key will add a surge of wrist action to your swing.
  pressing the B key will add a surge of body drive, and pressing the
  V key will add both elements at once.  pressing any other standard
  key in the lower two rows of the keyboard will add arm speed to
  your swing; the keys in the third row (Q-]) will add extra arm speed.

  adding arm speed is the easiest way to add distance to your shots.
  for each time you press andy key except C, B, or V, you'll add arm
  speed to the swing.  the keys in the row betw Q and ] will add
  extra arm speed.  the more often you press the keys, the faster your
  arms will swing.

  while increasing your arm speed will enable you to hit the ball farther
  you won't be able to achieve much distance by swinging only with your
  arms.  you must add wrist and body action to your swing for maximum power.
  timing the required keystrokes is tricky, but with practice you'll
  improve.

  to add wrist action, you must both cock your wrists on the backswing
  and also release them on the downswing, just before impact,
  press C both to cock your wrists during the backswing and to uncock them
  during the downswing.

  after you press any key to start your backswing, press C up to three
  times on the backswing and the same number of times on the
  downswing.

  just as in real golf, you can add distance by breaking your wrists at
  just the right moment during your swing.  try to break themin the
  power zone during your downswing.  by breaking them too early,
  you'll lose distance; if you break them too late you may top your
  shot.  remember, woods take a little longer than irons to repond to
  wrist action.

  for more yardage, you can add arm spedd just after you break your
  wrists on the downswing, you'll need to add body action to
  your swing.

  to add body action, start your swing with any key, then press the B key up
  to three times on the packswing and the same number of times on the
  downswing.  driving with your body can give your shots more distance than
  arm speed and wrist action combined.




  as with wrist action, the proper timing of your boady action is
  critical.  try to uncoil your body as the club passes through the
  power zone during the downswing.  keep in mind that the body
  responds more slowly than the wrists.

  once again, to add ven more distance, you should finish off your
  downswing with more arm speed by rapidly tapping any key other
  than C, B, and V.  remember, the third row of letters on the
  keyboard (Q-]) add the most arm speed.

  to combine wrist and body action, use the V key. it fives you
  simultaneous wrist and body action on both your backswing and
  downswing.  used with added arm speed late in the downswing,
  combined wrist and body action will deliver the greatest power
  and distance.  press the V key up to three times during the backswing
  and again during the downswing, but try to focus your keypresses in the
  power zone during your downseing.  if you uncoil your body and
  break your wrists too early in the downswing, you'll lose power
  before impact; if too late, you'll probably top or miss the ball.

  timing your swing is very important for distance and accuracy.  the
  faster your swing, the more critical the timing of breaking your
  wrists and uncoiling your body if you want a straiaght shot.

  whether you use th C, B, or V key, try to consolidate your
  keystrokes in the power zone during your downswing, then add
  as much additional arm speed as you can as you swing throught the
  ball.  a fast backsing does not improve distanc.

  and once again, balance your C, B, or V keystrokes between the
  backswing and the downswing.  there's little advantage in pressing
  these keys more than three times each way.

  to asses your swing, watch the right side of the swing screen;
  there you'll see the results of your timing as the clubhead meets the
  ball.  the TOP VIEW and SIDE VIEW images freeze briefly at impact,
  so you can assess your timing n terms of the ideal swing path, clubface
  direction, and angle of attack.

  the large arrow in the TOP VIEW shows your projected swing path
  at impact, and the block shows the projected left-right angle of the
  clubhead.

  the large arrow in the SIDE VIEW shows the projected path of your
  clubhead at impact, and the line shows the projected loft angle of the
  clubface as it meets the ball.

  as you'll see, if you don't bring your swing into line in time your
  club will probably push the ball from inside the target line to the
  outside, making the ball fly off to the right of your target.

  if you rotate back too late, you may contact the ball to late in your
  swing.  in this case you'll probably top the ball, if you hit it at all.

  hitting the ball with your wrists still cocked will decrease the
  clubface's loft angle at impact, and its likely that you'll top the ball
  or miss it altogether.

  the chipping stroke has all the elements of the full swing, but it
  hits the ball a shorter distance, because the backswing and follow-
  through are only half as long.

  chiping is an important stroke-saver around the green.  it's a good
  idea to spend time developing your chipping skills on the driving
  range, where you can learn how far you can chip the ball with the
  various clubs using your arms, wrists, and body and combinations of the 3.

  the putting stroke can be made with the arms or wrists alone or in
  combination.  press and key to start the stroke.

  THE DRIVING RANGE

  in champgolf shotmaking is every bit as complex and challenging
  as in real golf, so its a good idea to invest some time
  developing your swing technique.  and as in real golf, the ideal place
  to learn how to swing the club and hit the ball is the driving range.

  to go to the driving range, press ESC, if necessaty, to go to the main
  menu, use the down arrow key to highlight DRIVING RANGE, and press RETURN.

  when two or more players are on the driving range, they take
  turns shooting.  after each shot, the YDS bos in the overhead view shows
  how far the ball traveled, and the game pauses.  press any key
  to continue.

  viewing and movement are the same as on the golf course, except
  that you cannot walk forward or backward on the driving range.
  quick lateral movement (using left/right keys with the SHIFT key)
  will enable you to choose any type of terrain for pracice.
  also, when you move around the driving range, your ball moves with you.
  so pressing RETURN will not return you to your starting point as it does
  on the course; instead, it takes you to the
  SELECT STROKE screen.

  practice options include all the shots you'll use on the golf course:

     the practice putting green, with flagstick, allows you only a
     single putt, so you cannot putt out, but you can learn how to
     make putts of various lengths, from various angles.

     on the teeing ground, your ball is automatically teed up for
     you.  you may remove it from the tee by pressing T.

     on the practice fairway, your ball lies deep in the long grass.

     you can practice hitting out of two types of bunkers.  the
     larger (left-hand) bunker represents a fairway bunker, where
     the ball sits up on the sand.  the smaller (right-hand) bunker is
     a greenside bunker,  where the ball is half-buried in the sand.

  after your first shot on the driving range, when your turn comes
  again champgolf will return you to the shotmaking screen
  with the same aim, stroke, and club that you selected for your last shot.

  to change your aim, stroke, or club, or to move elsewhere on the
  driving range, press any key to return to the shotmaking screen, then
  press ESC as many times as necessary to go back to the desired screen.

  if you hit a ball out of bounds on the driving range, champgolf
  places the ball in bounds at the point where it went out and tells
  you how far it traveled before going out of bounds.

  to leave the driving range, press ESC after your ball stops rolling;
  you'll return to the main menu.


         ------------------------- END ----------------------------