                   -=*LORD THOR of the BALLZ BOYZ*=-
                          
                               present:

       (FULL DOCS TO:)    CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN


                 A DRAGONLANCE Fantasy RPG EPIC, VOL.I                         


INTRODUCTION:

CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN begins after the war of the lance.  The evil armies have
been shattered and most of the forces of good have returned to their
homelands, leaving only outposts to safeguard the recovered lands. Your goal
is to assemble a party of adventures to save in these border outposts.
The newly created party appears at an outpost south of the former hobgoblin
capital of Throtl with orders to scour the area for any sign of lingering
evil. After outfitting your characters with weapons and armor, the party is
ready to begin adventuring.

*NOTE: I have also included the Journal ENTRIES and the Definition of some
spells!

BEGINNING to PLAY:
To begin playing the game you must load a saved game or generate characters
and band them together into a party.  This first menu gives you the intial
options:
CREATE NEW CHARACTER
ADD CHARACTER TO PARTY
LOAD SAVED GAME
EXIT TO DOS

CREATE NEW CHARACTER is used to build a character. This command displays the
following menus to define the character. Detailed information about
characters,races,classes and son is available in the Journal.
*PICK RACE lists seven races a player-character can be on the world of Krynn.
*PICK GENDER lists the sex the character can be.  Gender affects the
character's maximum strength.
*PICK CLASS lists the class or classes the character is qualified for based
on his race.
*CHOOSE GOD (Clerics only) lists all the gods available. Each deity will
confer special powers to clerics.  The god chosen will be available to a
cleric.
*PICK ALIGNMENT lists all the possible alignments for the character bases
on character class.

ADVENTURING:
After setting up your party and reading the background info in the adventure's
journal, it is time to head for adventure, fame and glory. During your
adventuring the party will engage in fierce battles, find treasure and
sometimes have to stop to recuperate and memorize spells for future use.
Champions of Krynn uses four different points of view:3-D, area, overland,
and combat.
3-D appears in towns, underground and so on. This view appears at the top,
left of your screen and shows the surrounding area from the party's
perspective.  Rotate the party's facing and move ising the directional
controls.  Their direction controls for your computer are described on the
data card.
Area provides an overhead view of the party's surroundings, replacing the
3-d view. Choose the area command from the adventure menu to see the position
of major obstructions such as walls, trees, and water.  A cursor shows the
party's position.  The area view can only be accessed while in 3-D view, on
others the view is only there to help you get your bearings.
Overland displays a map of the area of the world Krynn where this game takes
place.  This view appears while the party is moving outside of the outpost
or towns.  A cursor shows the party's current locations.  To move on the
overland map, move the cursor with the directional controls along the path
the party is to follow.  A map in the journal shows the same map with the
major locations named.

ADVENTURE MENU:
AREA toggles between the area and the 3-D view.  If the party is lost or
unfamiliar territory is found this command will not work.
CAST displays the cast menu so the active character can throw a magic spell.
See the section of magic in the hournal for a descriptions on how some spells
work.
VIEW displays the character screen and the view menu.
SEARCH toggles searching on/off. A party moving with search off is moving at
a normal rate and takes 1 minute per move. With it on the party takes 10 mins
this would be helpfull when searching for doors, and traps, treasure and
other things one might encounter in a dungeon.
LOOK is used to search an individual square.  Executing a look command acts
if the party moved into the current square with search on.

ENCAMP:
This is where you can SAVE, VIEW, MAGIC MEMORIZE, And REST up your character.
Remember before casting spells you have to rest and memorize them first!

MAGIC:
To get magic menu options, the active character must be able to cast spells.
Spell casters can get a list of their memorized spells from the CAST option
of the magic menu.  They can get a list of their spells on scrolls from the
scribe option of the magic menu.
MAGIC MENU:
CAST displays the cast menu and the characters list of memorized spells.
Select the spell to cast and then indicate the target of the spell.  Once a
spell is cast it is gone from memory and must be memorized again in order to
use it.  Some spells only have effect when in combat and others may only be
cast while encamped.
MEMORIZE displays the Memorize menu, character's grimoire of spells or
clerical spell list, and how many spells can be memorized from the level of
the spell castor.  When you want to memorize them, hit REST and you will
actually take time to memorize them.
SCRIBE lists all the spells on the scroll, the spells must be identified in
a shop or in a mages hut.  Scribing a spell takes about the same to memorize
one.  REST again if hit will continue this process taking time out of the
game to do your command.

Civilization:
Civilazation provides many valuable services for the adventurer.  Generally
only outposts will have inns, armouries, halls, temples and Bars, but some
may be found in towns and elsewhere.  When you are in an outpost a menu like
the following may appear, allowing you to select where you want to go:
PLACE OPTIONS (Hall, Temple, etc.) will take you to the selected
establishment and give you all appropriate options.  There is a description
of these places following this menu.
NEXT, PREV display other place options.
LEAVE will take the party out of the outpost, into the overland map.
INNS provide a safe place to rest using the Encamp menu. While the characters
rest they can memorize spells and regain hit points.
ARMOURIES provide a play to buy and sell equipment using the Armoury menu:
*SELL causes the character screen with the SELL and ID commands available
in the items menu.
*ID is used to identify an item.  The armoury charges 100 steel pieces for
service.
TAKE is used to pick up coins from the party's money pool. Indicate the type
and amount of coins, gems, or jewelry to take.
POOL places all the party money in one characters account
SHARE picks up everything from the pool and distributes it evenly between
the party's members
APPRAISE is use by the amoury to examine gems and other fine jewelry, and
even has a SELL feature to it.  SO this inables to you peddle off your booty.
HALLS are where character can advance levels and modify the party using the
PArty/creation/hall menu. Halls are also where knight characters may petition
for admission into a higher order.
Temples can cast healing spells an perform other clerical services.

ENCOUNTERS:
COMBAT allows the party to attack the monsters. Fighting is explained in the
combat section.
WAIT allows the monsters to decide what to do.  They amy attack, wait, flee
or advance.
FLEE causes the party to run away, if the monsters try to attack and are
faster then the part, combat will occur.
ADVANCE reduces the range to the monsters.  When the monsters are adjacent
to the party the ADVANCE command is replaces by the PARLAY command.
PARLAY allows the party to speak with monsters. Select the active character
and then choose a conversation tactic from the parlay menu.
MENU:
*HAUGHTY means that the speaker is trying to demonstrate his superiority
over the monsters.
*SLY menas that the speaker is trying to get info out of the monsters
without them realizing it
*MEEK menas that the speaker is trying to convince the monsters that the
party is not worth attacking.
*NICE means that the speaker is trying to be nice to the monsters.
*ABUSIVE means that the speaker is trying to browbeat or threaten information
of of the monsters.
*SPEED changes the game speed and is described under the Alter menu in ENCAMP.

                                           Done on 05/08/90

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                          CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN SOLVE
                          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

 1 Introduction
 2 Basic Training
 3 Active Duty
 4 Intelligence Reports


 CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN
       Part 1

 INTRODUCTION

 This walkthru for CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN is divided into several parts:

 "Basic Training" is intended for people who are not familiar with the AD&D
system or SSI's implementation of it. It has basic game mechanics
information for the inexperienced, but also offers some specific information
about KRYNN that is unique to the game for veterans of POOL OF RADIANCE and
CURSE OF THE AZURE BONDS.

 "Active Duty" is the actual walkthru, but it's presented as hints rather
than a detailed solution.

 "Intelligence Reports" contains all the details that are normally in a
walkthru. For example, the Throtl section in "Active Duty" hints at where
Caramon can be found, while the Throtl section in "Intelligence Reports"
gives the precise location.




 CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN
       Part 2

 BASIC TRAINING

 The proper party composition is important to winning KRYNN. The following
is a good combination for a beginner:

 2 knights
 2 fighter/mages
 1 cleric of Majere
 1 cleric/thief of Mishakal

 One of the mages should be a White (Good) mage, and the other should be a
Red (Neutral) mage. There are two reasons for having Red and White mages.
Certain spells are only available to Red mages, while others are only
available to White mages. The phases of the Red and White moons are
different and affect the mages' abilities. You have a better chance of at
least one mage having a rising moon helping him out if you have a mage of
each color. Pure mages will have a hard time in this game. They cannot wear
armor and there are few non-armor protection such as Rings of Protection for
them to wear. Fighter/mages can wear any armor and use any weapon a fighter
can use. Elves make good fighter/mages and should be equipped with bows and
stationed in the rear ranks where they can use the bows and cast spells with
minimal hindrance.

 You need at least one knight, as there is a mission that can only be done
if you have a knight in your party. You can substitute a regular fighter or
ranger for the second knight, but there is an advantage to having two
knights (as will be shown later). The knights start out in the Order of the
Crown and should petition for transfer to the Order of the Sword when they
have enough experience points to become 6th level Knights of the Sword. The
reason is the cleric spells they can then cast. You can never have too many
Cure Light Wounds spellcasters in your party.

 A cleric of Majere is very useful in this game, as you will encounter many
Undead. A cleric of Mishakal is very useful for the bonus spells, but the
second cleric can be of any other god.

 You only need one thief. Since the situations where thieving skills are
needed are few, you only need a part-time thief. Full-time thieves also have
a difficulty in this game as there is no magical leather armor. Thieves are
almost as hard as mages to protect because of the restricted range of armor
they can wear.

 A kender is useful because his Yell gives you the effect of always having a
Prayer spell ready. However, kenders don't make good fighters because of
their small size and low strength. This also makes them very vulnerable to
spellcasters who will cast their spells at the kender if they are affected
by his yell. It is best, if you decide to have a kender in your party, to
make him one of the clerics. The cleric/thief would be very appropriate.
Kenders are also the only race which has no penalty for being female. The
SSI implementation of AD&D is very biased in favor of male-only parties.
Human clerics and mages are the only other female characters that do not
suffer a strength penalty compared to males.

 Dwarves, elves, and kenders are useful as characters because of their magic
resistance. You will face a large number of enemy spellcasters, and you will
not always be able to stop them from casting their spells.

 When Creating your characters, the only variable that counts is the number
of steel coins they initially have. All the other attributes can be Modified
before starting the game. It is very worthwhile to modify your characters'
attributes for the game. All characters should have their Strength,
Dexterity, Constitution, and Hitpoints changed to the maximum possible.
Clerics should have their Wisdom changed to the maximum possible. Mages
should have their Intelligence changed to the maximum possible. At least one
character should have his Charisma changed to the maximum possible. There is
one situation in which that is needed. The knights should have their
Intelligence changed to at least 10 and Wisdom to at least 13. Otherwise you
can leave the attributes at whatever value they had at creation.

 Except for the mages, the alignment of your character is not relevant in
this game.

 Your knights come with plate mail, shield, and a long sword, but everyone
else needs to be equipped at the Armory. Initially, you will not have enough
money to properly equip everyone in your party. Buy a second long sword for
the knights. Buy shields for everyone without one. Buy ring mail, a mace,
and a staff sling for your clerics. The cleric thief can use a long sword
instead of a mace, but a mace is cheaper. Equip any kender you have with a
hoopak. Your fighter/mages should be equipped with bows and arrows and maybe
a long sword (if you have the money). Buy as many arrows as possible. You
will find very few arrows as loot. Each archer should have somewhere between
100 and 200 arrows. Otherwise, there is a good chance you will run out of
arrows at a most inopportune time.

 As soon as you can, upgrade everyone's armor. Looting the enemy dead is the
best way to do this, and is the only way to get magical armor and weapons.
The thief is the only character whose armor has to be carefully chosen.
Thieves cannot wear heavy armor and retain their thieving functions.
Fighter/thieves have no such restriction. One way around this restriction is
to have a pure thief wear Bracers and Rings of Protection. However, if you
have a pure mage, reserve the bracers for him. Eventually, everyone should
have at least two melee weapons and some sort of missile weapon. The
front-line fighters should have three melee weapons. The reason is obvious
when you fight the Baaz.

 The Adventurers' Journal has a good summary chart of the weapons and armor,
but it does not explain everything you need to know. There are no long bows,
but there are composite long bows. The difference between the short and long
bow is range (logically, the long bow has a longer range). Non-armor
protection that is not listed in the Journal exits. Bracers are magical
items that act like heavy armor, but weigh only as much as leather armor.
Bracers have an AC associated with them. For example, Bracers AC 6 provide
the same protection as scale armor, which is also AC 6. Rings of Protection
decrease the AC of any bracer or _non-magical_ armor your character is
wearing. (In AD&D, the lower the AC the better the protection.) For example,
a Ring of Protection +1 will change Plate armor from AC 3 to AC 2 when it is
Ready. (Confusing, isn't it?) A Cloak of Displacement reduces the AC by 2.

 Various magical weapons are available. They act just like regular weapons,
but you are more likely to score a hit with them than with regular weapons.
Magical weapons have a plus number such as Long Sword +1. The higher the
plus number, the better the weapon. Some magical weapons are plus only
against specific targets. One such weapon is the Long Sword +4 VS Reptiles.
This means the sword is a Long Sword +1 except against reptiles (draconians
and dragons), where they act like a Long Sword +4.

 Bows need Ready arrows, but slings, staff slings, and hoopaks have
unlimited ammunition. They throw rocks, and the presumption is your
characters can always find rocks anywhere. Rocks thrown by a magical sling,
staff sling, or hoopak are magical. This is of little importance, but some
monsters can only be hit with magical weapons. Magical arrows are also
available. Magical arrows are differentiated from each other by their
source. So, if you have two bundles of Arrows +1 and they will not Join
together into one bundle, they are from two sources.

 The important thing to remember about missile weapons is your character
cannot use them if there is an enemy next to the character. That's the main
reason your archers and slingers should always be in the rear ranks -- to
minimize the chance that an enemy will end up next to them. No
computer-controlled character will ever walk past a live enemy. This is
because the enemy gets a free hit at the character. However, you can move a
character past a live enemy. One reason is to get into the back ranks to
attack enemy spellcasters. Sometimes this is worth the hit.

 The order of your characters in the party is important. In combat, the
first three characters are always placed in the first rank and the rest in
last rank. If there are seven or eight members in the party (which is
possible if you have Non-Player Characters in the party), the first four go
in the first rank. Keep your best fighters in the front rank, as they will
take the brunt of the attack. Make sure they have the best armor. However,
given the party composition above, you normally only have two full-time
fighters. You want your fighter/mages in the rear so they can cast spells.
This means putting the cleric or cleric/thief in the front.

 Here are some general tactical tips:

 Quickly learn what the enemy spellcasters look like. Concentrate on killing
them first. Above all, prevent them from casting a spell. Combat is done in
rounds. Spells can be cast once per round. If you wound a spellcaster before
he can cast a spell, he cannot cast one until the next round. If you wound
him again in the next round and the next and so on until he is killed, you
can prevent him from casting anything. Magic spells are the key to winning
the battles, and you want to cast all you can while preventing the enemy
from casting any. Casting certain spells takes time, and you can interrupt
the casting by wounding the caster during that time period. In this game,
you are told someone is casting; you can see who by targeting the
spellcasters.

 Certain spells can make your enemy "invisible." You can actually see them,
but you cannot Target them. The key is to Move into their square. The
presumption is you have targeted them by feel. This does require that you
attack them with a contact (or melee) weapon such as a sword.

 There are many spells, but some are more useful than others.

 Sleep works quite well, but anyone who is level 5 or higher is immune from
this spell. It is a very useful spell early in the game, but is useless
later. The spell affects everyone in and next to the target square.

 Another very useful spell is Stinking Cloud. It affects everyone except the
Undead, although high-level characters have some immunity to it. The spell
creates a 2 square by 2 square stinking cloud. You target the upper left
corner of this square.

 Charm Person can turn an enemy into an ally. It works only on humans and
elves. The other side can cast Charm Person on your characters as well.

 Hold Person is the best cleric combat spell, but it is only effective on
humans and elves.

 Charm Person and Hold Person are favorite spells of evil spellcasters.
Dispel Magic will uncharm your characters and release them from a Hold
Person spell. It is a good idea to have at least two Dispel Magic spells
ready at all times. You can also Charm back someone who has been charmed,
but your character will fight as an NPC for the duration of the battle.
There is another way to uncharm your characters: Kill them and then Bandage
them _before_ the battle ends. Continue the battle if you have to. They
become automatically uncharmed at the end of the battle. You can then heal
them back to full strength.

 Silence 15' Radius is a good cleric defensive spell. It prevents
spellcasters from casting a spell as they cannot chant the necessary words.
It also affects any other spellcaster next to the target. This spell can
take out all the spellcasters on the other side (under the right
circumstances). This is also a bonus spell for a cleric of Majere, and is
another reason for having one in your party.

 Bless, Prayer, and Protection from Evil 10' Radius are also good defensive
spells. Bless is best cast _before_ going into battle, as everyone is
Blessed then. If cast in combat, only the target character is Blessed and
only if he is not in contact with an enemy. All these protection spells
should be cast before combat as casting a spell uses a turn in combat that
could be used for something more useful like killing monsters. Protection
from Evil only protects the target, while Protection from Evil 10' Radius
protects the target and anyone next to him. So, it is better to use the 10'
version.

 Magic Missile is a good combat spell whose power increases with the level
of the caster.

 Fireball is _the_ offensive spell, and is the whole reason for having
mages. They burn _everyone_ within a three-square radius of the target
square. The best way to target it is find the closest square to your party,
count off three squares, and target that one. You can turn your enemies into
crispy critters without singeing a hair on your characters.

 Ice storm is the cold version of Fireball, and is only a two-square radius
spell. It is useful indoors when you cannot target a square far enough to
avoid burning your own characters with a Fireball spell.

 Lighting Bolt is of limited usefulness, although when the conditions are
right, it can be very devastating.

 Detect Magic is a useful spell to have ready at all times. It is how you
find magical items. When you are in the Loot menu, the command Detect
appears if the highlighted character has a Detect Magic ready. Hitting D for
Detect casts the spell, and any magical item is marked with an asterisk. If
you do not have a Detect Magic spell ready, but suspect there are magical
items, pick up everything you can. Memorize and cast Detect Magic later to
find the magical items. Detect Magic affects all magical items carried by
all members of the party. Detect Magic will _not_ tell you if a magical item
is cursed. There is one cursed item in the game. It also cannot tell exactly
what the magical item is. For that you have to go to an Armory or Magic Shop
and have the item ID'ed for 100 steel coins. There are very few magical
items in this game, so it is very important to find the few that exist. In
general, combat with ordinary soldiers will not yield magical items, but
high commanders often have magical items. Treasure troves often have magical
items.

Wands have a limited number of charges and disappear when they are used up.
There is no way to determine the charges in a wand.

 Beware of Auraks. They are powerful spellcasters with an invisibility spell
on at all times. They also take several turns to die when killed and will
attack during their death frenzy. They can also rise from the dead once. The
best way to handle them is to kill everyone else and have your characters
run away until the Aurak finally dies.

 In the previous games, the only way to gain experience points was to kill
monsters and find treasures. In KRYNN, you can also gain experience points
by doing the right thing at the right time. Listening to the enemy before
attacking to learn their plans, rescuing good dragon eggs, etc. will all
earn experience points. The amount is never indicated. You can only find out
how many experience points your characters got by checking their experience
points before and afterwards. In many cases, the points are very
substantial.

 In the beginning, check your characters' experience points frequently.
Promotions come fast in the beginning, and you will need all the Hitpoints
and increased THAC0's that come with higher levels. Most of the time, you
can leave an area to go to a training hall and resume where you left off.
The game is event-driven, so you can take all the time you need to complete
most missions.

 Finding places to Rest is very important, as that is how you heal your
characters and memorize more spells. The program will explicitly tell you if
a place is safe to rest. However, some places are only relatively safe. Read
the messages carefully. There are also hints as to whether the place is
truly or only relatively safe. Fortunately, most of the time you can rest
for brief periods just about anywhere. If you get interrupted, try again.
You will usually succeed the second time. There are several places where you
cannot rest at all. The only thing you can do in such a place is move on.

 You're often given a choice of action. In many cases, some of the choices
are obviously bad choices. You can take them and then discover the choices
are as bad as they seem. The game gives you many opportunities to fall on
your own sword as a result of a bad judgment.



 CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN
       Part 3

 ACTIVE DUTY

 After equipping your characters at the Armory, check into the Inn to
memorize spells. Before going to the Commandant's office to get your orders,
have some drinks at the bar. You will get several Tavern Tales that indicate
what everyone believes to be the current state of affairs. This sets the
stage for what you will find when you go out on patrol. Your first
assignment will be to patrol Throtl and take care of any hobgoblin bands
that are still around. What you will find are draconians! After you kill
them, escort the women and children to the outpost and report to the
commandant. This triggers an interesting sequence that sends you back to
Throtl to find Caramon, who is also in Throtl. At this point, the game
starts in earnest.

 THROTL

 Throtl is a 16 by 16 maze. The Area command is available.

 After defeating the Hobgoblins guarding the entrance (your first big
battle), explore the southeast quarter first to determine Caramon's fate.
Then proceed up the north/south corridor that runs through the middle of
Throtl to the north end of town, and explore the northwest quarter. This
will set up an encounter with someone who claims to be one of Caramon's
soldiers but is not. This will also set up encounters with two friendly NPCs
(Kildirf and Strangbourn), who you can add to your party. Once you have
them, you can search for Caramon in earnest.

 The priest is in the southwest corner, but will be there only after you
rescue Caramon.

 After getting the key from the priest, search the north/south corridor for
the secret entrance to the temple. The temple is in the middle of the
northeast quarter. However, there are several side encounters in that
quarter you might want to look for just for the experience. After you bust
up the evil clerics, some will escape with dragon eggs. They will flee to
the northwest of the temple to the entrance to an underground maze. There is
no Area command in this maze, but the first part is fairly straightforward.
It runs east/west. There are two treasure rooms in this portion of the maze.

 This long tunnel eventually ends at a cave complex where you can get lost,
so save before entering it. The Area command is also not available in the
cave, but the game will tell you in what direction to go to follow the
fleeing hobgoblins. At the far end of the cave, you will finally catch up
with the fleeing hobgoblins and three white dragons, as well. Good luck with
that fight. A save before starting the battle is recommended. After taking
on the remnants of the hobgoblins, you can take the exit and return to the
outpost.

 GARGATH

 Gargath has two parts: the town and the keep. The town is a 16 by 16 maze,
and the Area command is available. The Area command is not available in the
keep, but you should have found a map to it at Throtl in the underground
maze. The two-handed sword you will find in the keep is cursed.

 The best way to get into Gargath is Bluff your way in, but have someone
with a high charisma do the talking. There are two sets of guards at the
gate: one on the ground and one on the wall above the gate. You only have to
fight your way past the ones on the ground, but if you want to eliminate the
ones above, there are stairs to the wall to the east and west.

 Once inside, you will be met by Sir Karl's agent, who will give you
disguises and explain the situation. Before trying to penetrate the keep,
search the town. There is a group of commanders who have a map showing the
secret doors in the wooden structure and who also have some magical weapons
and armor. Once you fight your way into the wooden structure, you will have
to explicitly LOOK to find the hidden doors, even though you know where they
are.

 It is worthwhile searching the first floor to find the back exit before
going upstairs. On the second floor, look for the imprisoned castellan. He
will tell you where to look for the Dragonlance.

 On the fourth floor, there is an amusing side encounter. Look for the
gambling guards and join them first before attacking them.

 On the 6th floor is Myrtani. You will chase him up the tower and there will
be a climatic battle at the top. A save is strongly recommended before going
to the top.

 You will not be able to retrieve the stolen Dragonlance at this point, so
after the battle go back downstairs and exit by the secret exit you should
have found earlier. Return to the outpost. This is also a good time to check
if your characters can train to a new level.

 INTERLUDE

 About this time, you will be asked by Sir Karl to go to Jelek and get him a
silver rose. For several reasons, this is worth doing immediately. You will
find a magic shop where you can buy some nice items such as arrows +1,
Potions of Extra Healing, and Wands of Magic Missiles. There is also an
armory where you can buy better weapons. You will also find Skyla, who will
play an important role near the end. Finding the rose will set the stage for
an interesting side story concerning Sir Karl and Maya. This story is
irrelevant to the main story, but it adds a nice touch to the game if you
participate in it.

 At outpost 2, you will get orders about Sir Dargaard's tomb, outpost 3, and
the ogre camp. As long as you do these missions before going to Sanction, it
is not important when you do them (but they should be done).

 Sometime before Sanction, Sir Karl will be kidnapped. Once this happens, do
_not_ visit the Commandant. This triggers the side story involving Sir Karl
and Maya. You get only one chance to participate. If you are not ready, you
can avoid starting the sequence by not going into the Commandant's office.

 JELEK

 Jelek is a 16 by 16 maze and the Area command is available.

 You will meet Skyla at Jelek. Explore the town with him. Have fun. After
Skyla leaves you, you will meet Mysellia. She is a good NPC to add to the
party. Help her explore the graveyard, but first talk to the grave digger
whose hut is just outside the gate to the cemetery. The silver rose you want
is at the northwest corner of the graveyard. Beware of the dragons guarding
the rose bush. The building there has treasures and a back exit from Jelek.
Mysellia will leave the party when you leave Jelek. Other than meeting
Skyla, Mysellia, and getting the silver rose, there is nothing else to do in
Jelek. Jelek is worth going back to periodically to buy stuff from the magic
shop.

 SIR DARGAARD'S TOMB

 The tomb is a 16 by 16 maze. The Area command is available.

 This is the one mission where you must have a knight to complete. This
mission is also why you should have gone to Jelek first. You cannot rest in
the tomb until you have accomplished the mission. The Potions of Extra
Healing from the Jelek magic shop will come in real handy here. You will not
have enough Cure Wounds spells to complete this mission. To use the potions,
just Ready it and Use it. Each potion can be used 3 times and acts just like
a Cure Light Wounds spell.

 Sir Dargaard's tomb is in the southeast quarter, but you cannot enter it
until your knight has completed the three trials of honor, battle, and fear.

 You can do the tests in any order, but the best order is battle, fear, and
honor. To start the trial of battle, go west from the entrance and go
through the south door. To start the trial of fear, go east from the
entrance. To start the trial of honor, go north from the entrance. The
trials are fairly easy as long as you remember that your knight is a
fearless and honorable man who never shirks from a fight against evil and
will give anything he has to fight evil. There are treasure rooms in the
northwest quarter, but you cannot touch them. Once you have completed the
trials, you can enter Sir Dargaard's tomb and receive his treasures. This
will consist of six sets of Solamnic armor, a magical long sword, and a
girdle of giant strength. The Solamnic armor is the best armor you will find
in the game, but can only be worn by a knight. This is the reason for having
all your fighters be knights. The girdle increases the wearer's strength to
21.

 After getting the items, you can rest. This is highly recommended as you
will encounter draconians on the way out.

 THE OGRE CAMP

 The ogre camp is a 16 by 16 maze. The Area command is available.

 Immediately to the north of the entrance is a room containing an old ogre.
Talk to him. He will tell you the situation in the camp and a secret
password to get the ogre patrols to leave you alone. Except for the old
ogre, none of the rooms outside the ogre mansion has anything.

 The first step is to find Morog's quarters. The old ogre will tell you
approximately where it is. The next step is to find and kill the assassins.
They are located in the northwest corner of the mansion. Save before
entering the assassins' room. This is a tough battle. You will meet your
first Aurak in this battle. Read the paragraph in BASIC TRAINING to find out
how to handle an Aurak.

 Afterwards, find the ogre meeting in the center room of the mansion. You
now have all the evidence to expose Morog's treachery. After killing Morog,
the ogre chief will proposed an alliance. Accept it. Otherwise the final
battle will be much, much harder and you will also lose the opportunity to
get some easy experience points.

 OUTPOST 3

 The key to solving the mystery at outpost 3 is to rest in the Inn at the
outpost. Once you know what is really going on, find the back entrance to
the jail. There you will find the information you need to end the menace.
Once you rescue the children, go back to the jail and the uprising will
start. You will have to find the renegade commander in the commandant's
office. You will also have to fight the dragon in the room north of the
commandant's office. Again Save the game before going in.

 NERAKA

 Neraka is a 16 by 16 maze. The Area command is available.

 There are two ways to enter Neraka, by yourself and with Maya. When you
visit the commandant's office after Sir Karl is kidnaped, Maya will meet you
outside when you leave. She will ask you to help her rescue Sir Karl. If you
say no, you will miss an interesting love story.

 If you say yes, she will take your party to Neraka. This is automatically
done. You cannot back out once you have said yes. The first door to the
south leads to the secret base. There are many side encounters in the base,
but the only required one is to the south and west. That's where you will
find Sir Karl. Maya will leave with Sir Karl's body. You now have to rescue
the prisoners.

 Once you enter the prison area, the door to the west leads to some
prisoners being tortured. The doors to the east lead to some empty cells
(but check them out anyway for more on Maya and Sir Karl's love affair) and
more prisoners to be rescued. After freeing all the prisoners, kill the
Prison Lord to the southwest. You can then leave by the back entrance in
that area. Save before leaving the Prison Lord's room. You will encounter
more dragons.

If you enter Neraka by yourself, you will enter at the extreme northwest
corner. There are draconians to be cleared and prisoners to be rescued there
as well, but this mission is optional and you can only stumble upon it
yourself. No one will tell you about it.

 SANCTION

 Sanction has three parts. Each is a 16 by 16 maze and the Area command is
available in all of them. The three parts are Sanction itself, the Huerzyd
Temple, and the Duerghast Temple. The temples will be a little confusing.
That's because part of what you see in the temples with the Area command is
_not_ part of either temple, but an underground maze that is separate from
but connected to the temples. They are how you will get into the temples.
Because the underground is separate, many rooms in the underground that look
like they are connect to rooms in the temples are not really connected.
Instead, the exits and entrances from the underground will lead to totally
different rooms in the temples. That is why you will go up a stair and find
yourself somewhere other than where you might expect from the Area command.

 Sanction is also a two-part mission, and the second part sets the end game
in motion. Once that happens, you have no choice but to play the
endgame...so be prepared.

 The first part is to clear Sanction itself. Take out the Minotaur guards at
the piers in the west side of town. There is one other fixed encounter with
Minotaurs at the Tavern and a fixed encounter with mercenaries in the middle
of town. There will be an endless number of random encounters with both
minotaurs and mercenaries. There is only one safe place to Rest in Sanction,
and that is the Inn in the southeast corner of town. However, the trigger
for the second part of the Sanction mission is also in that Inn. Avoid the
north room until you are ready.

 Explore the east side of Sanction. You will find a Training Hall in the
northeast corner. There is also an armory and a magic shop on the east side.
The magic missiles wands there are not worth buying, but the arrows +1 are
real cheap. Beware that the shop sells Potions of Healing. These only work
once, unlike Potions of Extra Healing. You will find bridges to the temples.
Do _not_ use them. You cannot get across on them.

 There is a treasure trove in the south side of Sanction.

 When you are ready, kill the recruiters in the north room of the Inn. When
you leave the Inn, you will hear a woman scream towards the west. Go back to
the waterfront and walk by the piers to locate the woman. Rescue her. She
will tell you of a secret way into the temples. This is the beginning of the
second part of the Sanction mission.

 HUERZYD


          Imported by Midnight Maniac & Mayday of PARADOX

==============================================================================
               AD&D CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN

           JOURNAL ENTRIES & TAVERN TALES


Entry 1:
Sir ERA sir ERA! We are ultimately responsible for these people! 
I dont think that we have the space to accommodate all of these
refuges, considering that Vertrothe will son be back from his
quest.  May I suggest that we send them on their way?  The
simplest solution would be to shut the castle against them and
just retend they dont exsist...
The odious minister to the KNIGHT continues to fawn in the most
obsequious manner.  His charm and personality have convinced you
that ridding the world of this...'person'...would be beneficial
to krynn.  Fortunately, cooler heads prevail and the minister is
quickly taken from the room.

Entry 2:
"Listen, I know that you think that Sir Karl is a most honorable
knight, however, I have found out that he is under the influence
¿
J
P¿of an Evil Dragon named Maya.  Maya is able to transform herself into
the shape of a beautiful woman.  We must forget anpit finding Caramon
at this time.  If we can get to the outpost in time we may be able to
save it."

Entry 3:
"We were captured by draconians disguised as the merchant band that
comes through here every month.  When we were sleeping, they killed the
guards at the gate and captured us before we had a chance to fight.
"they took our leaders into the barracks and interrogates them. 
They've all got to be dead now.
"Be careful! I saw one of the Draco's kill the commandant.  As the
Commandant died the Draco's shape changed and then he looked and
sounded exactly like the Commandant.
"The Commandant and the other leaders spend a lot of time in the
Commandants office."

Entry 4:
The townspeople come out and thank you after the last Dragon Armies are
driven from the outpost.  They have a large celebration with you as
their guests of honor.  The new Commandant speaks,
"Thanks you for saving us.  Your heroic actions will live forever"
The people cheer as you except the key to the outpost.

Entry 5:
The gully dwarves scatter at your approach.  Disgusting traces of their
recent meal permeate everything in sight.  Your camp equipment has been
opened and all foodstuffs eaten.  You quickly look to the place where
you had left the piece of the dragon orb, It is gone!

Entry 6:
As you walk up to the dying body of the Commandant, Grilliard says,"Why
did you do this to us? We are now too weak to hold the outpost against‹j     ‹
Takhisis' forces."
You see a flight of Red Dragons closing in on the town...

Entry 7:
As you work to free the slaves, their shackles seemto come off too
easily .  Before you can react, they whip ut weapons and prepare to
attack.  One laughs,"The one you saw die before you was not Sir karl,
it was only a sivak.  There are no slaves here, it was only a story to
lure you to your doom." They begin to close in.

Entry 8:
"...Attempt a conversation without the intervention of Tak...
...book of spells that contains the necessary incantations and rituals
for the conversation.  It is said that this book will allow even
relatively week ma...
..nze, silver, and gold were considered the most difficult trans..."

Entry 11:
You follow Angar into one of the buildings.  He yells,"I have a gift
for you!" and you are greeted by a Dragon Highlord and a group of his
minions. As you start to draw your weapons, you realize that ou have
lost a great deal of strength.  He must have drugged the food as well.
You never should have trusted him...

Entry 12:
"welcome to the Southern Outpost. I am Grilliard, the commandant here.
I hear you have important news for me."
You tell him about all of the information that you have gathered. After
all you finish you ask him about the missing messenger.
He looks at you a little nervous for a moment, and then says,"He has
been  ill, Im afraid no one can see him right now.  Thank you for
delivering the information and good luck on your journey back to work."
With that, he waves you out of his office.

Entry 13:
MAP (not drawn)

Entry 14:
"Okey, dokey. Listen up people. Here's how you play. Now I've got three
cards here. Two of them are Gargoyles and the third is the Princess.
I'm gonna place the cards face down on the table, with the Princess in
the middle. Now aaall you have to do is guess where the princess is
after I move the cards around. Easiest thing in the world, right? It's
only three cards and I'm sure you won't have any problem keeping track
of the Princess. Simplest thing in the world. Now, who'll place a small
wager of saaay, 3 steel pieces?"

Entry 15:
"Listen,"the woman says, "we..that is, sir Karl and I..have dtermined
that it is imperative that the entire area be evacuated. The number of
undead sightings has increased to an alarming degree. We want you to
head into Gargath and force the population to evacuate immediately.
Thank goodness there are no more Draconians. I don't know how we would
be able to get out if we had them to contend with as well."‹j     ‹å
Entry 16:
The plan has to be carried out in stages. Stage One, which is already
complete, was to threaten various small areas to the north and get the
good armies to begin a consolidation of their forces. We were fortunate
to find a rather hapless party that we were able to use to pass the
false information to their leaders. It was pure chance that they were
sent after Caramon when he was captured in Throtl. We couldn't have
planned better for our purposes. We left clues behind to lead the group
to Gargath, Jelek, and Neraka. This gave us time to complete our plans
for the ambush at Sanction.

Entry 17:
...the book of conversion that I found is useless. It doesn't give us
the actual ceremony to perform. It is merely a description of the
ceremony. I will have to come...

Entry 18:
Tale of Sir Dargaard:
     In the past a faithful Knight of the Rose named Sir Dargaard
gained an item which gave him great fighting prowess. He was a scourge
of the evil armies until his entire company was poisoned at a feast.
The company was buried along with Dir Dargaard's great device in lands
later over©run by evil. The evil ones sought to wrest the artifact from
the tobm, but were slain by the spirits of Sir Dargaard and his
company. Our scouts now say that draconians have attempted to penetrate
the tomb again, perhaps with sufficient strength to succeed. It is time
for a truly noble knight to go and ask that the artifact be passed on
to guard the forces for good today.
       On a side note, you will be happy to know that Caramon has
contacted our elite units in Solamnia. The Council of Knights
themselves will lead them into the coming battles. I will be certain to
mention your impressive record to them when they arrive.

Entry 19:
The DragonLance was a stroke of genius. With one small theft we
distracted them from the main threat and forced their attention on the
recovery of the weapon. This became Stage Two, since i fit so neatly
with our plans. It allowed us to delay the original kidnapping of Sir
Karl just long enough to gather many more bodies for Sir Lebaum to work
with.

Entry 20:
The 'Plan' is to be carried out in three stages. Stage one is nearly
done. We have managed to kill Caramon and Tanis and have captured or
put to flight most of the other 'Hereos' from the Dragonlance Wars. The
good armies are reduced to sending out hapless adventurers who have
little or no experience. We have managed to feed information to one of
those bands with notable success. The information is true, but it
always comes too late to be of any interest.

Entry 21:
"Hey, come here. Look at this. This is a piece of dragon orb that‹j      ‹
Tasselhoff broke! Just this little piece of orb will allow you to
control the largest dragon! I'll sell it to you for only 2,000 steel
pieces..and its a bargain at twice the price! NO, don't touch it with
your bare fingers. The last person who did that woke up with a withered
hand! Gruesome. So, what offer have I?"

Entry 22:
"Welcome, I am Jadefang. I have been assigned to capture thisss hole
and convinssse you 'Humansss' that you ssstill own it. We did this ssso
we could gather information and keep the sssouthern road open. Sssince
you have given usss a lot of ussseful information, I thank you."
   He bows gracefully and continues to speak.
   "However, you also have dissscovered our sssecret adn therefore you
mussst die."
   You now notice that he is not alone in the barracks. He rises into
the air...

Entry 23:
MAP (not drawn)

Entry 24:
Old ogre's story:
  "I was once the councillor to the ogre princes, but I have become too
weak and crippled to keep my place. Now I hear of plots against our
lord Gravnak, by one of his lieutenants. Draconians have slipped into
the manor house and will strike when the current meeting ends. I
watched them enter and saw the  secret sign they gave the guards.
   I have no love of these assassins or their traitorous ally. Use the
sign to enter the manor, seek out the aassassins and find evidence
implicating Morog. He is the traitor. His rooms lie in the southeast of
the manor."

Entry 25:
 "When you get to Gargath, beware of anyone who appears to be bending
over backward to help you. Be especially aware of anyone who mentions
Sir Karl. We don't think that they know that we are now aware of their
deception.
  "Be especially careful about any clothing they want you to wear.
There is an evil mage in the town who delights in putting curses on
harmless©looking objects. Good luck."

Entry 26:
 "Gargath was overrun about a week ago. There were only a few of us
here at that time trying to rebuild after the War of the Lance.
Draconians and evil forces snuck in at night and captured the Keep.
Since then they have been bringing in prisoners and putting them to
work. They make us wear these hoods to keep track of us."

Entry 27:
 "We have ahd to exhume all of the bodies in the graveyard and burn
them. We found out that someone was entering the burial glen, digging
up bodies, and then re©animating tehm into zombies and ghouls. It's
been hard, especially for those that recently buried their loved ones,
but it was necessary."‹j     ‹å
Entry 28:
 "I've been kept out of the burial grounds now for a week, I can't even
get in there to get my tools. There are strange things going on in
there...open graves, broken tombstones, strange noises...even the
animals are gone! That Sir Lebaum is running the town. He even made his
office in the burial glen! It's in the building just to the south and
west of here but the door is through the graveyard.
 "That's another strange thing...nobody's ever seen our new leader, at
least nobody that I know of. He gives his orders and the 'guards' carry
them out.
   "Things just ain't right."

Entry 29:
  Stage Four runs almost in step with Stage Three. As soon as Sir
Lebaum has launched his attack, the mass conversion of dragon eggs into
draconians will be perfomed. The good armies will be caught in our
mailed fist! They have no idea that they are about to be attacked by
two huge armies! The first of the good armies will be filled withe
their leaders adn elite of those accursed Knights. When our armies rise
so quickly, we shall cut the very heart of their ability to resist us.
With the leaders dead the rest of the rabble will wander like sheep.

Entry 30:
 Stage Two is currently coming to fruition. Sir Lebaum, our Sivak who
has taken over the leadership of the Knights of the Rose, has sown
enough discord in the ranks of the Knights to render them ineffective
against us. In a few days he will issue the order that will send most
of the Knights over the mountains and out of this area altogether.

Entry 31:
  "Watch out for the minister. They say that he has taken over the
castle of Sir Era and now runs the old knight, as well as the kingdom.
The people are being.. hush! he's here."

Entry 32:
  Gravnak's alliance plans:
   "We are both hunting for Myrtani while he seeks our deaths. I have
no love for sanctimonious knights and their ilk, but I do love my life.
To keep that, I would suggest a temporary alliance. Myrtani has a base
in Kernen which he visits quite often. If you can slip into town, I
have allies who will help you penetrate the base and kill Myrtani."
    He then shows you the secret sign to give his allies.

Entry 33:
  "The Dragonlance has been moved to Jelak. After the Keep was overrun
I managed to smuggle it out of town and hide it in the burial glen. It
is hidden in an usused tomb in the north©west corner of the graveyard.
You will recognize the entrance because there is a silver rose bush
growing just before it."

Entry 34:
  Gravnak and the draconians trun on you. "Fools!" he hisses, "Did you
really think a member of my proud race would ever ally with the likes‹j     ‹
of you?"
  You are attacked from all sides.

Entry 35:
  "I was with a party of knights and others under Caramon that came in
here to explore. We haven't really found anything. Caramons already
left to report. I guess you must have missed him.
  "Oh, one thing we did find out was that there is a treasure left over
from the previous occupants of Throtl. We got word of it from a
hobgoblin who was sneaking in to claim it. Before he died, he told us
that is was located in the south central area of the city. Tell you
what, if you help me find this treasure, I'll split it with you. All
right?"

Entry 36:
  "Thank Paladine you're here. They've take everything! My poor family,
my friends and retainers. Gone." He breaks down. After a while he looks
up in anguish and says,
   "There's and Aurak who seems to be in charge. He's had his minions
scouring the Keep. He's looking for my dragonlance! He'll never find
it. It's hidden. Hidden very well. Nobody can find it. But I'll tell
you. Yes. Yes, I'll tell you. You're from Caramon? Of Course, of
course. Look on the sixth story. As you come up the stairs you will see
a door directly ahead of you. The wall to the left of that door has a
secret door in it. The Dragonlance is in there."
  He looks around in fear. "Where are they? Where? They were here. I
saw them. My little ones. Where are they? I must go, I must. I will
slip out down the stairs. Goodbye, goodbye. Get the Lance!"

Entry 37:
  Stage Three is about to begin. The good armies are marching on
Sanction, and our friendly 'adventurers' are still trying to figure out
how to get the dragonlance. Sir Lebaum has been working in the arena of
Duerghast. He will begin to raise his army of undead as soon as the
good armies are in position. We anticipate that this will take another
day or two. I have Blue Dragons stationed at Duerghast to guard the
eggs adn Red Dragons are waiting to give me word when he has finished
his preperations. When I hear from him the final stage will begin.

Entry 38:
  "They're back..back there..who, look out! No, no, no. I stabbed one,
but it took my sword. I couldn't get it out of its body! Caramon!"
  His eyes clear for a moment and he becomes more lucid. "Listen to
me," he says, "they've captured Caramon. Most of our party has been
wiped out."
  He suddenly jerks about. "Whats that! Get them! They've got Caramon.
Find him. I'll find him. North, north and west and south. Traps! Back
up..go back now. Quiet, quiet, quiet..look out! above you! oh no, oh
no, oh no.."
  He gets a sly, slightly mad conspiratorial look on his face. "I saw a
money chest in a room to the east. I'm gonna get it and I'm set."He
looks around and leans towards you, "You wanna help? Huh, what do you
say?"
  The terrorized look comes back. He screams and gasps in terror.‹j      ‹å
Entry 39:
  The great ship lists to port and seems to pause in silent
anticipation. The sailors jump off like rats. In the distance, a hump
of moving water marks the place where the gigantic whale swims away.
Your boat starts rocking as the waves from his blow to the ship finally
reach you.
   The ship finally slips quietly under the waves. The orb fragment ™and the Vampire © slide down to their final resting place.

Entry 40:
  The road back to Solace is filled with the refugees of Krynn.
Wretched individuals and families carry what possessions they can on
their backs or on small pushcarts and wheelbarrows. They all scan the
sky with fear; waiting for the horrific sight of dragons flying out of
the sun to breath death onto the miserable line of humanity.
  The Second Flight of the Dragons has devastated Krynn. Sanction is a
smoldering lake of lava. Gargath a pile of melted stone, and Neraka has
been blasted into oblivion. Only Jelek and Kernan survive in this part
of  the continent; and they have become enclaves of evil. Jelek has
become Sir Lebaums's base of operations, where he continues his
experiments with the undead. Kernan has been taken over by Myrtani and
his horde of newly created draconians.

Entry 41:
  The prisoner looks at you with agony as another shudder wracks his
body.
  Suddenly, his flesh seems to split and a foul odor permeates the
room! you start to gag adn cough in the middle of the stinking cloud.
The door behind you closes adn you hera the bolt being driven home. You
are trapped!

Entry 42:
  The prisoner is extremely weak. He barely croaks out some broken
phrases:
  "...the Castellan is alive. He's being held here on this floor..."
"...an Aurak...silver eggs...black dragons...book..."
   He grabs you arms and dies.

Entry 43:
  "They have built up a large, wooden structure in front of the main
gates of the Keep. I don't know what it looks like inside. I can tell
you that the main gates are in the upper©northwest corner of the city.
In the middle of the city you will find a secret door into the wooden
structure. It is currently being guarded by draconians because it's
location has been discovered recently." He licks his lips in
consternation adn suddenly speaks in hushed intensity, "Listen, there's
a dragonlance in the Keep. I know, all of them were supposed to be sent
South but the Castelllan was injured during the War and his lance was
brought with him when he returned. You must find it!".

Entry 44:
  "Ah, come on Grag! You know that we're supposed to guard the grave of
this guy. The captains gonna be mad if he sees us in here. Uh, by the‹j     ‹
way, can you buy me a drink? I'm a bit short this week."

Entry 45:
MAP (not drawn)

Entry 46:
  The tree suddenly explodes! The locket is thrown away from the
enchanted circle. From the swirling ashes of the explosion an ominous
shape slowely rises. Vaguely manlike, it's features are
indistinguishable in the thick smoke. Giant Rats and Mobats charge out
of the impenetrable dust!

Entry 47:
  "We've had a lot of unsavory characters passing through town lately.
The good armies have left us in the lurch and we are forced to take the
law into our own hands in order to protect the citizens of this town.
Here's the official proclomation."
  'All persons entering Jelek that are unknown to the guards shall be
assigned an escort for the duration of their stay in the city. They
will be restricted to the public parts of town. The burial grounds are
strictly forbidden to all strangers.'
   "It's signed by our leader, Sir Lebaum.
   "So, here's a nice young man who'll show you around the town.
   "Skyla! come over here!"
  He introduces you to a man who looks you over and breaks into a goofy
grin. His entire aspect seems dignified enough, until he smiles or
begins to talk, then his ancestry is extremely questionable and you
wonder if maybe he hadn't suffered a fall on his head as a child.

Entry 48:
  "Finally, you're here. I got word that Sir Karl was going to send
someone to check this place out. I've been waiting for you for days.
Come with me."

Entry 49:
  Sir Karls dying monologue:
   "They tortured me to get information, but I gave them nothing.
Killed my guards when they came for me again. Afraid I didn't quite
make it all the way out. Things getting dark... Hard to concentrate.
There are slaves down there. They must be freed from this evil place...
Remember me to Maya..." His breathing stops.

Entry 50:
  Draconians!
   I have good news. I have managed to attain the volume that we hvae
been searching for all these years. The power to create more of our
kind is now in my hands. Send me all of your eggs along with any mages
and clerics that you may have with you. I'll be at the Citadel of
Gargath very soon. Have the eggs packed and taken to me within the
week.
   By order of Myrtani.

Entry 51:
  "The worst monsters our scouts have reported anywhere in the area are‹j      ‹
hobgoblins. Draconians and evil dragons have long since abandoned this
area to our forces. Still, be a little wary on your way to throtl.
   "Also, be sure to report back here immediately, if anything unusual
or dangerous occurs. This outpost depends on information brought back
by patrols such as yours. Good luck and may Paladine watch over you."

Entry 52:
  The weapons and armor of Solmnic Knights and their allies is strewn
about the corridor. All of them are bent or broken and quite useless.
There is a hole in the ceiling above. It is evident taht the party was
ambushed. There are no bodies.

Entry 53:
  Men discussing a rebellion:
   "I can't believe that we are letting an Aurak dictate what we have
to do. Its not right. We created them to serve us, not the other way
around. At the meeting I'm going to speak in favor of restructuring
this alliance. Only their slimy blood will flow."

Entry 54:
  A large number of human warriors are gathered here. One leaps upon a
table and calls out, 'Who among you wishes to overthrow Myrtani?' As
hands raise throughout the room, archers slip out form behind the
curtains and fire. The man on the table laughs, 'Myrtani will be
grateful for your identifying yourselves.'

Entry 55:
  "They say that there is a Vampire that has been enchanted in that old
tree. A very powerful mage trapped him in there before the world was
changed. The only thing that will release him is a piece of the soul of
the mage who trapped him. The mage is long dead, however. The only know
artifact that had any relationship with him is the locket of light. But
that disappeared into the west long ago.

Entry 56:
  Sir Karl's last message to Maya:
 "I realize now that I shouldn't allow our differences to interfere
with our feelings. I suppose at my age it takes a while to adjust to
new things. Remembering your beauty and bravery has helped me withstand
the tortures they have subjected me to. I now go out to gain my
freedom. If i fail, then know I held you in my thoughts to the end."

Entry 57:
  Red Dragon's story:
   "Once when I was young and my scales were sleek and smooth, I was
appointed protector of the Crown Jewels. Beautiful they were,
glistening in the torchlight. Many a tasty thief came by to admire
them, but I always kept them safe. Then the city fell and the jewels
were lost. Since then I have sought them everywhere. I am sure they
will turn up, so that I can watch their glittering beauty again. The
crown was the prettiest piece, golden and encrusted with gems. Ah, such
a wondrous time."

Entry 58:‹j      ‹å  "Hello, and welcome to Jelek! We hvae recovered so well from the
recent war that we are able to provide you with a guide taht will bow
at your every need. He will direct you to our Inn, where you can rest
in luxurious peace, and point out the exciting new businesses that have
helped to make Jelek the most dynamic twon in all of Krynn."
  He waves over a tall, handsome young man. "this is Skyla."he says,
"He will be your escort for the duration of your stay in Jelek."

Entry 59:
  "Listen, I've been following you for some time now. That Skyla
character is the leader of a faction of guards that has taken over the
city. He looks stupid, but don't let that fool you. He knows exactly
what he looks like, and he knows how to use it to his advantage. He
takes his orders from Sir Lebaum. Lebaum took over about a week ago. It
was slow and insidious how he did it. No word got out at all and,
initially, there was lots of business for our shops. Everyone was
happy. Except that now he's cut off all contact with the outside.
Anyone that comes in here either joins the guards or is killed, as you
almost were.
   "There's another disturbing thing. I've done some digging around and
nobody has ever seen this Lebaum character. Most people have never even
heard of him. There was a Knight of Solamnia of that name that was
corrupted by Takhisis many, many years ago but legend has it that he
died © horribly, they say.
    "I'd like to get into the graveyard and examine his office. Are you
willing to go with me?"

Entry 60:
  Message on body of Prison Lord:
   It has come to my attention that the bodies we receive here in
Sanction from your prisons are in highly deteriorated condition. We
realize that information must be gained by torture and that it is a
useful way to relax, but I would prefer it if a majority of the bones
remained uncrushed. I will not repeat this request.
   Sir Lebaum

Entry 61:
  I want you to find the adventurers and put them out of our misery.
They have served their purpose, now I'm afraid they may find some way
to get word to the good armies. Eliminate that threat.

Entry 62:
  Message from assassins. The paper reads:
   We have contacted a traitor at the renegade ogres' base. We can slip
in unobserved and slay the renegade leaders. If we are not successful,
beware. Our spy tells us that the renegades  might try to ally with the
forces of good. Their knowledge of Kernen makes them dangerous. 
  A rough map is drawn on the back 
 Sir Karl then speaks, "The Solamnic Cavalry is already on the march.
It will not be too long until these first units have arrived in the
area. We must have information on the enemy strengths and weaknesses
soon. The Solamnic force will be small and an ambush could cause them
problems."
Entry 63:

Entry 64:
  WANTED: Soldiers to wage the battle against the Solamnic usurpers of
KRYNN. 5 steel pieces when you sign up and a guaranteed 2 steel pieces
a week until the end of the engagement. See the recruiting officer at
the Southern Sanction Inn for details.

Entry 65:
  DRACONIANS!!!
  I'm afraid that the book that we spent so much effort in obtaining
has turned out to be more important than we thought!! Not only are we
going to be able to create more Draconians without using eggs, but it
has taught us how to use the dragon orb to make our edxisting Dracians
even more powerful!! The Plan proceeds!
  Death to Solamnia!

Entry 66:
  The ogres lead you along a twisting corridor. They assure you that
the passage is completely unknown. Gravnak whispers for you to be
ready. He pulls a lever, but instead of the wall opening, the floor
drops out from beneth you. Myrtaniappears next to Gravnak and both
begin to laugh.

Entry 67:
  "I was with the patrol that followed Caramon in here. We ran into
trouble almost immediately. We were not really expecting much
opposition but...We were ambuushed by a large force of hobgoblins and
draconians. I was knocked out by a blow to the head early in the
battle. I awoke in a dark corner, alone. It took me a while to get my
bearings but I finally went out in search of my companions. I overheard
from passing patrols that everybody except Caramon was killed.
  You must help me find Caramon. He must not be allowed to fall into
the hands of the leaders of this band."

Entry 68:
  As the vampire grasps the piece of orb a deep trembling shakes his
being! Blood begins to run from his eyes and ears as a high keening
sound forces your party to hold thierheads in anguis. The Vampire is
desperately trying to rid himself of the glass object. It will not
leave his hand! Old Rimshanks' spell of permanent binding is working!

Entry 69:
  WEARY TRAVELERS! Come to the best accommodations on KRYNN! The
SOUTHERN SANCTION INN is open for your business. We are located in the
southeast of the city.
  THE DRAGON'S CURSE is open for business in the middle of Sanction. We
have the best selection of drinks since Istar sank beneath the sea.
Non©humans welcome!!
  IF YOU GOT THE MONEY, WE'VE GOT WHAT YOU WANT!!
While our inventory had been decimated by the recent war, we are again
open and offering the finest in magical items available. As always, if
we don't have it, we will find it, or make it. All we need is time and‹j     ‹
money. GUSMARKEN'S MAGIC SHOP. Located in the eastern©central area of
the city. We are the first door to the right, heading north from the
inn.
  THE SHARPEST, MOST DURABLE WEAPONS MONEY CAN BUY!
Come to our smithy, located jest north of the Southern Sanction Inn,
and peruse our fine selection of blades, armaor, arrows, darts and
anything else you could possibly need to equip your party. REASONABLE
RATES!!
  SO, YOU THINK YOU'VE EARNED THE RIGHT TO ADVANCE TO THE NEXT LEVEL?
Horgathindorn's training Hall has worked with the best! Come see us in
the Northeast Corner and see if you've got what it takes!

Entry 70:
  "Listen,I've been following you for some time. You need to get to
Jelek as quickly as possible. There are rumors that Sir Karl is about
to attack the town in order to get the last Dragonlance that remains in
our hands. Once you arrive, a resistance worker will join your group as
an escort. Jelek has become prosperous lately and they are requiring
all visitors to be escorted through the town. aThe stated reason is to 
show new visitors around the town, the real reason is to keep an eye on
all newcomers and prevent anyone getting into the graveyard. Our man's
name is Skyla, as soon as you arrive he will be able to join your group
and help you find the dragonlance that the castellan hid."

Entry 71:
  Myrtani is gathering his forces in secret areas around Sanction. We
won'tbe ready for a few weeks yet. My minions have started gathering
materials for my use. Several graveyards have been looted alredy. Many
of them have left the open grave sites unfilled. I suppose it can't be
helped. Stupidity has always been our most dangerous enemy.
  Myrtani has found the dratgonlance! I urged him to give it to his
strongest warior but I'm afraid that the draconian doesn't trust anyone
who could hold that muck power. Foolish. He's going to hide it away
somewhere in Sanction.

Entry 72:
 MAP (not drawn)

Entry 73:
  "After the battle I was taken to see a powerful cleric. He laughed at
my defeat. They lead my to some doors that glowed in the darkness,
opened them with a key that he pulled from his robes, and took me to a
dark temple. I saw a bronze dragon egg on the alter! He told me that
they were going to start the corruptions again! Then he had his minions
beat me.
  "I woke up here. If it hadn't of been for the treachery of a dark
elf, and a sneak attack from behind, they never would have captured
me." He pauses. "I'm sorry for my men."he says,"They had no idea what
we were getting into. Krynn's blood I didn't know either. We were
unprepared for the extent of the evil forces.
  "The ambush was a complete sutprise."

Entry 74:
Tanis's tale:‹j      ‹å  "I had heard of the slaves being taken in the area, so disguised
myself and arranged to be captured. I have just managed to free the
slaves here, but more are held to the south. I will organize the slaves
here while you free the others. Then we will arrange a diversion to
allow the slaves a chance to escape."

Entry 75:
  "I am the only one left from the ambush. I was knocked out early in
the combat. By the time I came to, the enemy was gone. Caramon is dead.
I figure that they must have ganged up on him first. His was the only
body left behind. You don't want to know what condition they they left
him in. Evidently they wanted to leave a warning to anyone who comes
after him. It was awful. I laid him out as best I could and have been
working my way out of Throtl. We must get back and warn the Outpost!
  "I don't understand how they could have known that we were coming.
The ambush was obviously well planned. They knew exactly who was with
us and exactly how to counter any attack we could muster."

Entry 76:
...friend has many objects of value for sale...
...great frog collection!!!...
...sword that seems magical, at least undead creatures are afraid of it
...many potions for sale...
...information about the incidents of undead and dracians in the area..
...a beautiful daughter...

Entry 77:
  Base Cammander's papers. You find:
  A list of orders authorizing an attack on the knight's outpost.
  A supply list, consisting mostly of implements of torture signed by
someone known as the Prison Lord.
  The final page is a order to turn all slain prisoners over to a Sir
Lebaum.

Entry 78:
  "Now, what do you know about that? They say that a real dragonlance
has been found in the hills to the east. It also carries an enchantment
that will force any dragon to your will if you but wound the beast."

Entry 79:
  Gravnak's stary about the Gaurdian:
  "The ooldest rulers of Kernen ordered the city's mages to create a
deadly guardian for thier castle. How they did it no one knows, but the
magicians gave this to the king. Over the years it became unruly and
was locked in the vaults below this building. We know of no way to harm
it or chase it back to the vaults where it was kept. All we know is
that an ancient tome in the library contains a recipe for a salve that
will protect the wearer from the gaurdian's deadly bolts. You must
construct this salve in the alchemist's study before tou can succeed in
passing the guardian."

Entry 80:
  A few days after that, Stage three will begin. We have taken the
piaces of the dragon orb that the kender shattered and have placed them‹j     ‹
in stratigic spots all around Sanction. Raistlin's researches has
determined that, under the right conditions, even a piece of the dragon
orb can act as a powerful lure for dragons. Furthermore, each piece can
be turned to a particular type of dragon. He has been lost to us since
the War, but his dark elf assistant has managed to create the spellout
of Raistlin's notes. With our captured Dragonlances, we will destroy
all the good dragons that remain in Krynn, and our final victory will
then be all but assured.

Entry 81:
  
MAP (not drawn)

Entry 82:
  "So! At last, you've come to rescue me. You know these things are
quite clever. Not clever enough for my of course. I've just been
improving them somewhat. Oh dear. I do hope you didn't come through
from the North..oh,sorry.
  "I suppose you'll be wanting to get me out of here now. Oh, there are
more people back there. Strangbourn is around here somewhere. He's
looking for Caramon. Oh, you want to find him, well that's an
interesting story, you see when we first got together about two weeks
ago...
  "Uh, I can help, you know. Caramon was taken somewhere south of here.
I've been trying to reses traps in case more draconians and hobgoblins
get here.
  "Why don't we team up, OK?"

Entry 83:
  "...the minotaurs have refused to come to our aid. They are touchy
beasts and I'm afraid that our emissary was less than diplomatic. We
will attempt to contact them again but don't count on having thier..."
  The fragment ends.

Entry 84:
  "...we have contacted the minotaurs. They will help us. I must go to
Gargath. It is rumored that there is a dragonlance stored there. We
must secure the keep and find the treasure room that is hidden there.
The map of the keep shows these places where we believe the secret door
may be located. Give this map to your officers and..."
  The fragment ends.

Entry 85:
  "The cavernous maw of the great beast is used as the entrance to the
temple. The dragon's head is being artificially preserved through
magic. We need the dragon's fangs in order to complete our spell. If
they can be brought to us we can prevent draconians from ever...

Entry 86:
MAP (not drawn)

Entry 87:
  "I am Angar, one of the real guards of the outpost. We were overrun
about a week ago by a draconian army. I was coming in from a patrol
when I saw them taking over. They were everywhere..."‹j     ‹å He slumps down on the bed. You notice that he desperetely needs food
and rest, but he waves off your help and continues his story,
  "I hid and they missed me, but they captured most of the other
guards. They are being held in the outpost jail. Also, they're guarding
the north side of town heavily. I think they might have hostages there
too."

Entry 88:
  "Just before the Temple of Duerghast was closed, dead bodies were
seen being carried into the arena in the Temple's northwest corner.
There were hundreds of them. It has been discovered that the Death
Knight, Sir Lebaum, has taken over the Temple and has gathered together
the exhumed dead for miles around.
  "There is no way that you can get into the temple through the front
gates. You must get the shadowpeoples support. They have tunnels that
cross from the temple of Huerzyd to the Temple of Duerghast." She pulls
out an amulet. "This amulet will let you through a secret door. The
Shadowpeople will find you once you enter Huerzyd."

***********************************************************************
                            TAVERN TALES


Tale 1:
  "Hey, Jorclack! You wanta' play tonight? I think we can get at least
two other guys. I'm gonna win those steel pieces back from you."

Tale 2:
  "Even giants are being seen nearer the outpost. Glad we have some
rangers and dwarves in the company."

Tale 3:
  "Kernen can no longer be approached at all. Too many dragons in the
air."

Tale 4:
  "Hey, Jorclack! What in blazes were you doing up in the slum area?
You rubbin' shoulders with the local scum?"

Tale 5:
  "There are secret doors that lead into the old entrance to the keep.
The Draconians have built up around the entrance in order to prevent
people from getting into it."

Tale 6:
  "The Castellan of Gargath was rumored to be holding a dragonlance in
one of his treasure rooms. With it we can prevail against the evil
dragons."

Tale 7:
  "Here's a drink to all the knights buried in Jelek's Graveyard, may
they rest in peace forever."
‹j      ‹åTale 8:
  "I hear that they're gonna be hiring mercenaries down in Sanction. I
say we get out of this hick town and go down to where some real action
is."

Tale 9:
  "Strange how those folks in Jelek fooled us so well. Evil has always
been skilled at duplicity."

Tale 10:
  "I hear that Sanction is slowely being infested with Ogres, Minotaurs
and Draconians. The Temple of Duerghast is even showing signs of life.
It would be a dark day indeed if that place comes back."

Tale 11:
  "It's good to see that Jelek is holding against the tide of evil."

Tale 12:
  "We've been finding lots of emptied graves. Someone is collecting
bodies."

Tale 13:
  "With Sir Dargaard's treasure rescued, we are sure to push the
draconians back."

Tale 14:
  "Those blasted Minotaurs have taken over the entire western section
of town! The docks are almost completely under their control. Those
that aren't are the pleasure boat docks that don't have any warehouses.
How am I supposed to get my lumber into the city if I can't use the
port? Things are going from bad to worse down here. I should have
stayed in Jelek."

Tale 15:
  "Enemy scouts have been patrolling closer to the outposts. They'll be
on the run when the good armies get there."

Tale 16:
  "Now lissen here, yer Red Dragon is by far the best at nose©to©nose,
claw©to©claw fightin'. But for breathin', gimme a green any day."

Tale 17:
  "A young woman has her eye on Sir Karl. Its making him
uncomfortable."

Tale 18:
  "Maya's on the warpath, she's always been sweet on ol Sir Karl."

Tale 19:
  "Draconians have been seen near Throtl. Things are heating up."

Tale 20:
  "...There's something weird going on here. My son was saying that he
saw a zombie. I told him he was crazy...but I don't know, he's not‹j     ‹
usually given to making up stories..."

Tale 21:
  "...so I was sayin', why we gotta do all this stuff? Why don't we
just go down there and take the thing? And you know what, thats exactly
what we did. That Lance is ours! Of course, my officer took all the
credit for himself. Cretin. He couldn't hold the dull end of a sword if
he didn't have us to teach him..."

Tale 22:
  "Throtl is starting to crawl with monsters. Some of our scouts have
been harassed."

Tale 23:
  "Its been too quiet for too long. Something's got to happen soon."

Tale 24:
  "Scouts are starting to report evil forces on the march everywhere."

Tale 25:
  "Enemy patrols hold most of the cities in the area. Hope the army
gets here soon. It's galling to let them operate so openly."

Tale 26:
  "It's a shame that people on our side could just abandon the slaves
that way."

Tale 27:
  "The sluaghtered wagon train was carrying a magic tome. Perhaps it
held the secret of the corruption process."

Tale 28:
  "The evil forces have dragon eggs. We can look forward to more
draconians if they can rediscover the corruption process."

Tale 29:
  "Once the armies are here, we will sweep the area clean of evil for
the final time."

Tale 30:
  "I thought that the good armies had destroyed the Draconians! Well it
just goes to show you can't trust anyone anymore. Where are the
Solamnic Knights now? Why weren't they here when those foul reptiles
took over our town."

Tale 31:
  "...I tell you that grave was breathin'! The dirt was risin' up and
down, just like it was takin in air. I lit outa there as fast as these
stumpy legs could carry me..."

Tale 32:
  "...a silver dragon! They say they loved each other but how do you
figure? What can a man and a dragon do? I don't know. I got sick and
tired of all the moping about."‹j     ‹å  "It's a shame about Sir Karl though. They say he was killed up north
somewhere. He was an OK guy. Treated you right."

Tale 33:
  We got the fires out, but the enemy escaped with Sir Karl. Those
Auraks can control the minds of our toughest people."

Tale 34:
  "Nothing's been seen in Throtl for months. The place is boring."

Tale 35:
  "Annoying guides they give you in Jelek, but i suppose they can't be
too careful."

Tale 36:
  "A moment of silence for Sir Karl, a brave knight of the Rose. He
truly followed the Oath and the Measure."

Tale 37:
  "The draconians were led by an Aurak. They're very deadly."

Tale 38:
  "I wonder if they could have saved Sir Karl's life if they tried
harder."

Tale 39:
  "I tell you I saw dragons! They were flying around the top of the
keep! Black ones they were. Except for one real big one. I think it was
red."

Tale 40:
  "Don't drink the beer. The bartender washes his feet in it."

Tale 41:
  "No, he never came back. He was on a boat that went out onto the
Blood Sea of Istar and never came back. Somebody said they actually
went down the Maelstrom...but that's crazy, nobody would sail close to
that thing...anyway I haven't been able..."

Tale 42:
  "What ever happened to that Dragonlance that the Castellan had during
the last war? I know for a fact that it was never returned to the good
armies. Blast it man, I was with the Castellan's armorer, all of the
weapons went through us and that dragonlance was never returned!"

Tale 43:
  "The enemy's rear guard was seen heading south. Too bad most of us
are stuck guarding this outpost, we could chase them down in a few
days."

Tale 44:
  "Gargath is crawling with evil forces. Hopefully Caramon can raise
the armies quickly."
‹j      ‹åTale 45:
  "I've heard they ignored Sir Karl's last wish and let the slaves fend
for themselves."

Tale 46:
  "It was the strangest thing. I was walking past the old building by
the graveyard, you know, the one with no door on this side, and I was
hit by an incredible cold wind. You know how warm it was yesterday. It
only hit me for a second, but it was scary."

Tale 47:
  "The armies will be here soon. This time it will be a quick war. The
evil forces can't compete."

Tale 48:
  "...yeah, I went to see the guy. He said he didn't need tired old
scum! The bleepard said nobody who lives in Sanction is good enough for
his army. He's spread the word that professional soldiers are needed.
Humph. Didn't I fight with Tanis and Caramon in teh last war? ...Scum,
he said!"

Tale 49:
  "I've heard that Caramon has gotten the first elements fo the army on
the march. They'll soon be here."

Tale 50:
  "...every graveyard within a hundred miles of this place has been
looted. Graves left open, tombs cracked and broken. It's eerie. Funny
thing though, a lot of valuable stuff has been left behind. Weapons and
armor was gone, but any jewelry or other items of value that was buried
along with them is still there.
 Another thing, some of these tombs look as if they were opened from
the inside..."

Tale 51:
  "Yeah, Sanction is gonna start up trade again. Me and Lancrent are
gonna go down there and start up our lumber import business again. The
docks are rebuilt and open for business."

Tale 52:
  "Too bad about all those slaves in Neraka, slaughtered and hauled off
and enslaved again as undead."

Tale 53:
  "...the Shadowpeople are still around. They say they've got tunnels
that run all around underneath the city. That captain that's trying to
hire mercenaries is pumping people for information about the
Shadowpeople and their tunnels. He's stupid though. Nobody finds those
tunnels if the Shadowpeople don't want 'em found © at least, if they're
found, nobody returns to tell about it."

Tale 54:
  "It was a good thing they found the good dragon eggs in the prison.
I've heard that the good dragons are heading down because of that."‹j     ‹å
Tale 55:
  "That was the draconian leader that led the attack. He's an Aurak
named Myrtani."

Tale 56:
  "Who are these guys that have taken over? I see soldiers with the
number 101 tatooed on their arms. What gives?"

Tale 57:
  "Those rescued slaves had horrible stories to tell. We're sure glad
they were helped to escape."

       
       ****                                                    ****
         ***   Journal Entries #1©12 typed by LORD THOR       ***
          **                                Of BALLZ BOYS     **
          **   Journal Entries #13©88, all maps               **
         ***      Tavern Tales #1©57  Typed by FRED KRUEGER   *** 
        ***                                                    *** 


       Imported by Midnight Maniac & Mayday of PARADOX