                      Chronicles of OMEGA DOX

In a far off land, in a time long since forgotten, there lived
a brother and sister. Alwin and Irma. The land in which they lived,
Omega, was beautifull and at peace,and they played happily in the
warm sunshine. However, this was all to change.... The evil forces
dwelling in the surrounding lands grew jealous of the happy and
fruitfull lives rhe people of Omega enjoyed, and they secretly plot-
tet to turn Omega into a land of hate and unhappienes.Their plan was
to steal the children of omega, and soon enough the happy chidren of
Omega began to disepear one by one.
It seemed that there was nothing that could be done to stop this evil
, except one thing. Alwin and Irma, being the seventh twins of a seventh
child,possessed magival powers.When the evil forces captured one of them,
they made a grave mistake....
the other would begin a fight to rescue the chidren of Omega.


STARTING SCREEN :

After the title page you will be given the option of which character you
wish to control ,either alwin or Irma.Select your character by moving the
joystick left or right.
At this stage you can choose whether to have the music playing through the
game or not . Move the joystick up or down to toggle the 2 options.


GAME CONTROLS :

You control your chosen character using a joystick plugged into part no. 1.
Moving the joystick left or right makes your character run in that direction.
Moving the joystick up makes your character jump up.Diagonal movements make
your character jump left or right.To fire magic bolts press the joystick
fire button.To aim the bolts, hold the button and more the joystick in the
desired direction.


Gameplay :

You must rescue your brother/sister.


THE GAME SCREEN :

The game screen is split into two areas, the report panel and the game area.


ENEMIS OF THE DEMON :

some of the enemis you will encounter are as follows :

WASP :Fast and deadly.Watch out for its erratic movement.

LIZARD MAN : Quick but not very intelligent.

ROMAN and GREEK : heavly armoured against magical attacks

SPIDER : everyone`s worst creepy-crawly.this one is four feet high.

BAT : a giant blood-sucking veriety

GREEN CREEPIES : very fast.Appear from the ground with no warning
                 some of the baddies will take more than one shot
                 to kill.alternativity, use the extra fire power
                 availble from the withces shop.


SPECIAL KEYS : P- for pause

ESC- restarts the game

End........
