CHUCK ROCK
INSTRUCTION MANUAL
The Story

Chuck, a typical caveman slob, is slouched in his comfy stone chair, glued to the T.V., drinking a can of his favourite beverage - root beer!

This seems like any other day in Chuck's life, even the Aerial bird is getting bored with the same old thing and can't help nodding off.

Ophelia, Chuck's wife is going about her mundane daily chores, hanging out yet another load of washing. However, unknown to her, the day is about to change!

As Ophelia bends down to take some washing from her basket, the evil Gary Gritter, a long-time admirer of hers, sneaks up behind her with his club raised. Just as she hears something moving about behind her, down comes the club with a THUD on the back of Ophelia's head.

Chuck, startled by the commotion outside, lifts his overweight frame from the comfort of his chair to do some investigating. Then remembering that all his clothes are in the wash he covers his pride with his hands before venturing outside, only to find no Ophelia, just a rumpled pile of washing and fresh tracks where something or someone seems to have been dragged through the dirt.

A little bit embarrassed by his current state of dress, Chuck dashes behind the nearest bush and emerges wearing the latest in designer leaf and twig pants! Now Chuck begins his search for Ophelia...
Game Play

Chuck in spite of his size, can walk, jump, swim and lift heavy rocks.

These rocks are very useful to Chuck, not only can they be thrown at oncoming dinosaurs, but he can also use them as steps to get to otherwise inaccessible areas. Only one rock can be carried at any one time. This hinders Chuck's jumping ability, dependent upon the size of the rocks.

When Chuck isn't carrying anything he can still use his huge stomach to 'Belly-Butt` enemies or kick them out of his way with his enormous size 14 feet.

When it comes to swimming, keep a close eye on Chuck's face on the panel under the game screen. This shows how long Chuck can hold his breath for underwater. When the face is blue his energy will start to go down. Chuck can take a breath of air by popping his head out of the water.
Loading Instructions

Switch off your computer. Disconnect any unnecessary peripherals.

Insert CHUCK ROCK Disk 1 and switch your computer on. Follow the on-screen instructions and CHUCK ROCK will load and run automatically.
The Controls

All of Chuck's movements are controlled by a joystick (in Port 2).

ESC - Quit Game and return to Title Screen.
P - Pause On/Off
SPACE BAR - Select Music or Sound FX (press when on Title Screen).
Joystick Left - Walk Left
Joystick Right - Walk Right
Joystick Up - Jump
Joystick Up w/Button Pressed - Kick
Joystick Down - Duck
Joystick Down w/Button Pressed - Pick Up/Drop
Joystick Button - Belly Butt
Joystick Left, Right, Up, Down - Swim (Underwater!)
Joystick Button - Kick (Underwater!)
Joystick Left, Right, Up, Down - To Carry a Rock
Joystick Button - To Throw a Rock
