                        CIRCUS GAMES INSTRUCTIONS


Events Screen :
Move joystick backwards or forwards to select events. You can
compete or practice the four major events individually or enter
the International Competition, where the judges will assess your
performances to go into the prestigious "Hall of Fame".

TIGHTROPE
     The walker must perform a series of tricks on the high wire,
including hand stands, cartwheels and flips before mounting the
silver unicycle to conclude the performance.
     To commence a walk, press the fire button then push the
joystick forwards whilst at the same time keeping the walker's
balance with his pole by moving the joystick right or left.
     There are two views of the action - one overhead, the other
from the side. The overhead view is omitted whilst in the replay
or computer play mode. The event is split into two sub-events.

     1. The walker must cross the wire performing as many tricks
as possible. Each trick must only be performed once to count.
Having reached the other side, the walker may return aided by the
computer or take a special Bonus Score and walk backwards to the
start.
     2. The walker mounts the gleaming silver unicycle and with
the aid of his balancing pole traverses the wire, again with the
option of returning unaided for a Bonus Score.

Controls :
To perform  -  A Somersault  = Joystick Forward and Fire Button
               A Handstand   = Joystick Left and Fire Button
               A Cartwheel   = Joystick Down and Fire Button
               A 180 spin    = Joystick Right and Fire Button

When landing on the wire after performing a trick, press the Fire
Button instantly, otherwise a loss of balance will occur and
result in a fall to the sawdust below.

Scoring :
You start with 50 points
You gain 10 points for each trick
You gain 25 points for crossing on the unicycle
15 Bonus Points for returning unaided to Start Platforms
Minus 2 points for losing balance
No points for a fall

TRICK HORSE RIDING
     The rider must perform a series of tricks whilst mounted on
the horse cantering around the ring.
     The display at the top of the screen shows the rider's
balance. To stay on the horse, keep the arrows in the centre of
the display. The display at the bottom of the screen depicts the
position of the horse as it circles the ring.
     Press fire button to start the action. Whilst the rider walks
on, hold the fire button down to commence the jump onto the back
of the horse.
     The event is split into two sub-events of competition :-

     1. From the saddle position, jump from side to side on the
horse, stand on saddle, perform a somersault.
     2. Perform a Handstand and a 180 degree spin.

Controls :
     To keep your balance, move the joystick left and right in
line with the Balance Display Meter.
   Joystick Up                                  = To stand
   Joystick Down                                = To sit
   Joystick Down + Fire Button whilst seated    = Handstand
   Joystick Left + Fire Button whilst seated    = Jump to Left
   Joystick Right + Fire Button whilst seated   = Jump to Right
   Joystick Up + Fire Button whilst standing    = Somersault
   Joystick Left + Fire Button whilst standing  = Left Spin
   Joystick Right + Fire Button whilst standing = Right Spin

Scoring :
You start the event with 50 points.
Events 1 & 2 - 15 points for each correct trick performed in
               correct event.
             - 10 points if correct trick is performed in wrong
               sub-event.
             - Minus 1 point for balancing problems.
             - No score for falling off the horse.

TRAPEZE
     The action takes place high up above the ring without a
safety net. The crowd is captivated by their every action.
     The flyer has to perform crosses and recrosses across the
arena before being joined by another flyer as the catcher.
     A sequence of tricks, double or triple somersaults and
corkscrews have to be carried out under the watchful eye of the
judges, for a good score.
     After the flyer has climbed the ladder to the platform,
pressing the fire button releases the trapeze to be caught by the
flyer as it passes the platform. Moving the joystick left or right
speeds up the flyer, giving him more height. Press the fire button
to release the flyer from the trapeze, whilst judging the other
trapeze's swing from the display at the bottom of the screen.
     The event is split into 3 sub-events :-
     1. Swing back and forth between the platforms
     2. Whilst flying from the trapeze perform a corkscrew and a
single somersault.
     3. Flying from trapeze perform a double or triple somersault
whilst being caught on the other trapeze by a fellow flyer.

Controls :
     Joystick Left                 - Moves flyer's legs back
     Joystick Right                - Moves flyer's legs forward
     Fire Button                   - Release from Trapeze
     Joystick Right + Fire Button  - Perform Somersault
     Joystick Left + Fire Button   - Perform Corkscrew

Scoring :
You start with 50 points
Gain 10 points for - Completing Sub Event 1
Gain 15 points for - Completing Sub Event 2
Gain 15 points for - Completing a Double Somersault
Gain 25 points for - Completing a Triple Somersault
Lose  6 points for - First fall from trapeze
Lose 11 points for - Each additional fall
Lose  3 points for - A bad platform landing

A flyer can only be credited with either a double or a triple
somersault, but not both.

TIGER TRAINING
     A large cage is placed in the centre of the ring - the door
opens and in bound three great Bengal tigers. You, as the trainer,
have to get all three big cats to perform a series of tricks, jump
through a flaming hoop, jump onto a podium and walk through a tube
on the obstacle course without being devoured by the magnificent
animals.
     Only human players can compete in Tiger Training, not
computer players.
     Select Mouse 'M' or Joystick 'J'.
     Pressing fire button opens the door to the tigers and starts
the performance. The trainer holds a chair in his left hand to
defend himself and calm the tiger if he is put under threat. The
chair is operated by left hand mouse button or space bar. In the
trainer's right hand is a whip, this is used to move the animals
to your selected position. The whip is controlled by right mouse
button or joystick fire button.
     The Tiger Head Cursor is controlled with joystick or mouse
movement. This is used to show the direction that the whip is
directed. If the Tiger's Head Cursor enlarges, it indicates a
direct hit on the animal. This is dangerous and unnecessary, as it
will only annoy the big cat and cause a threat or major threat and
eventually an attack.

Display Meters :
     At the bottom of the screen are three rectangular Threat
Meters, one for each tiger.

     Half filled meter = Threat
     Filled meter      = Major Threat

     The 'Threat' can be reduced by correctly using the chair,
otherwise an attack will take place.
     A two minute timer is displayed at the bottom right of the
screen.

To Gain Maximum Score :
     To achieve the maximum score, get all three tigers to
complete the full obstacle course within two minutes, without
incurring any penalty points.

Scoring :
You start with a 50 points base score
Then 10 points for each tiger that completes the obstacle course
Minus 1 point for an ineffective whip command
Minus 4 points for hitting the tiger with the whip
Minus 5 points if a tiger threatens you
Minus 10 points if a Major Threat occurs
A bonus is awarded if all the tricks are completed within full
time

     Once you have completed the International Competition and
your high scores are higher than the present scores in the Hall of
Fame, you will be honoured by a rendition of "He's a Very Good
Fellow". To save this High Score press fire button on joystick and
wait a few moment for saving to be completed to the disk.

End.........
