                Full Documention for - THE CITADEL - ENGLISH


UNIT 1 - BACKGROUND

The year is 2303. The earth lies within a web of conquest and economic gain.

On the outer most points of this web lie the bridgeheads, they are the points
of extreme strategic importance with regard to the Earth's defence and inter-
planetary communication systems.

One of these bridgeheads was situatedon a small distant planet, the planet
was marked on the stella maps as B104-GS12. Following the galactic expansion
the military base situated there lost its military significance and existed
for some time as a trans-shipping  station and as a fuelling point for inter
stella cargo travelling across the galaxy.

This did not last as the colony was situated much too far from the main
communication routes. Further structures were added tothe base and the site
was transformed into a harsh penal reform colony.

Two years later the penal colony was officially closed because B104-GS12 was
supposedly placed in the path of a huge meteor storm, this was not so, the
storm was a fabrication sourced from the Military Galaxy Council, they had
their own plans for B104-GS12.

Shrouded in mystery the base was known among certain transporters arrived
at the Citadel bringing laboratory equipment and the raw materials required
to modify and expand the base.

(sevbtrlalehtanfoernzmalkfyagebdkslatruvn)

Inmates on death-row from other penal colonies were transferred to the
Citadel and were used as slave labour to complete the modifications to the
base. A few months later in secrecy a huge military laboratory began to
function. Forbidden research took place on new kind of bio-research involving
many dangerours experiments.

At the start 2305 all communication between the Citadel and Earth stopped
without reason. All efforts to restore the link failed, causing the military
council to convene and decide to send a special landing force to B104-GS12 to
establish what had happened.

A modern operational space ship of destroyer class christened X16 with a crew
of over 950 was dispatched to B104-GS12. The crew were only briefed on its
mission wehn its destination appeared on the ships monitors. The orders read.
"The situation on the Citadel must be controlled at all costs. If this is not
possible then you must destroy the Citadel"

AS X16 approached the planet it could not make voice or data contact with the
Citadel. Final preparations for landing were made: wehn the supposedly in-
fallible communication systems ceased to function. Despite these difficulties
it managed to send a scoutto B104-GS12 to make close observation.

Scout 01 was launched of which you are a membeer.

Being wary of the Citadel's defence mechanism you and your co-pilot orbit the
planet several times to take pictures and make readings of it. As your scout
ship makes a sweep ot the planet something goes drastically wrong, a rocket
launches from the Citadel and heads directly for your mothership. It comple-
tely blasts the X16into oblivian causing an almighty explosion sending a
horrorfying shudder down your spine as you are forced to make a crash landing
on the planet's surface.

Unfortunately, your co-pilot has not survived the crash landing as he has
been fatally wounded due to your ship landing on tis side.

YOU are the only survivor and you head towards an emergancy entrance to the
Citadel situated underground. Knowing that your only chance for survival and
of getting home is to ged rid the Citadel of the cancer that has developed
inside. Driven by revenge you are ready to do anything that will ensure your
survival.

(vyhgoreauyewpqwqojvadncuytqwvfnvsliusalf)

UNIT 2 LOADING THE PROGRAM

     SKIPPED!!! IF YOU DO NOT KNOW THIS GO AND BUY A PC!

(zmcjhavfwaytdlwhwqfdqofvsgafggdjkwpretla)

UNIT 3 - INTRODUCTION

A full screen introduction leads you straight to Citadel's World. You can
stop it at anytime by clicking the left mouse button or joystick button or
the ESCAPE key. The spacebar and F10 key changes the smoothness of the
picture.

UNIT 4 - PROTECTION

While playing the game you may be asked to prove that you own an original
version of Citadel. This protection is inconvenient but it is necessary due
to computer piracy. After a frame with a word "protection" appears on the
screen, you will be asked to enter five letters taken from this manual. The
program will show you a page number of the manual and a letter which is the
first to be entered. And please remember: The requester refers to THE SPECIAL
TEXT LINE AT THE BOTTOM OF EACH PAGE OF THE MANUAL:

An Example:
The request is: Enter five letters beginning from the third one on page 1.

The answer is: Find a special text line on page 1. The five letters are:
VBTRL. You have to enter them and press RETURN key. If the answer is correct,
"OK" will appear on the screen and the program will continue.

If the answer is incorrect you will be given two more chances. If the answer
is still incorrect it will suspend all activity.

If you own the original version of the game it is probable that you have
made a mistake while entering the letters. Otherwise go to a shop and buy
an original version: Then you will be sure that it works in a correct way:

UNIT 5 - MAIN MENU

After the game has been loaded the main menu will appear. You can select
particular options using a joystick or the mouse and then pressing RETURN
key or LEFT MOUSE BUTTON key or FIRE button.

The options of the main menu are as follows:

(zmdbvcvsacytadelaxcngfsvfklsauyegfvwufvs)

-START - Starting a game
-LOAD  - Loading the game file saved

After selecting this option the next menu will appear which will let you
select one of the saved files. If you want to return to main menu select the
option "MENU". Selecting a file will let you resume the game where you left
off. The option "FREE" means that you cannot select this area to laod.

OPTIONS:

shows the menu and its options. You can select a level of the game's diffi-
culty and define its configuration in accordance with your equipment. In
submenu there is an option: DIFFICULTY: big and small. The difficulty is
constantly settled "big" but you can change it into "small", if you wish.
Then the game becomes easier (there are less enemies which are less aggres-
sive, the hero can rest in breaks between the stages, you are not losing
energy while bumping against the walls, more resistant weapons and so on).

WINDOW SIZE:

Size from 1 to 5. This defines the on-screen size of the game. While playing
the game it is possible to select additional sizes 6,7 and 8 (see: game run).

DETAILS: Maximum, medium, minimum. This defines thenumber of details appea-
         ring during the game.

FLOORS:  yes or no. This switches floors and ceilings of rooms on and off
         while playing.

MENU:    return to the main menu

The window size, details and floors have a tremendous influence on the game's
speed. Changing them can adjust the speed of the game to your preference and
power of your equipment. It is also possible to change these parameters while
playing (see: game run). But please remember - selecting worse parameters
makes the game less attractive.

TRAINING:

Enables you to select one of the five available training levels which will
let you train with your weapons and confront the difficulty of survival in
the Citadel.

INFO:

Information about the game.

(cncbfshgdspapakdhaytaaalfsajuywbvyqmzlai)

UNIT 6 - THE AIM OF THE GAME'S

The aim of the game goal is to destroy the Citadel and escape from it. You
can do this after you have found six components of an annihilation bomb.
There is one of the bomb components in each of Citadel's Complexes, which
you can find in and after the third stage. There is no component of the bomb
in the first complex (in the basement, just leading into the interior of the
Citadel). Before leaving each complex remember to make sure you take the bomb
component along with you. There is no possibility of going back to the once
entered complex. You will be able to penetrate the centre to detonate the
bomb and escape fram the Citadel but not before putting the bomb together.

GAME RUN

A. AN OUTLINE

The Citadel has been divided into eight huge complexes: a basement, a power
station, stores, a hanger, laboratories, drains, a prison and the centre. In
all these complexes, except for the basement and the centre, there are bomb
components which you have to take along with you (see: the aim of the game).

B. THE SCREEN

The screen has been devided into several parts:

A window showing a three-dimensional area ofthe game takes up the biggest
partof the screen. The bottom part of the screen is taken up by a control
panel. This shows from the left:

- The stage you are at in constructing the bomb
- a meter of your life's energy
- a graph of your heart rate (influences stress, tiredness and lack of
  concentration
- a compass showing your direction
- a window showing the weapon you have chosen
- a counter showing the amount of ammunition you possess for the weapon
  shown
- three counters showing the numbers of the magnetic keys you possess
  red, green and blue

(ieagdjvnshgefkflelovcvspwauambvncuqgdqii)

There is a dialogue window at the very bottom of the screen where messages
appear

C. AVAILABLE WEAPONS


                                          FIRE POWER   RANGE        MAGAZINE

Gun- convent.weapon, fires single shots       5         8000   10 cartridges

Rifle - enorm.disperis. 3 cartridges         5*6        1000    5 cartridges

Machine gun - rapid-fire, open space         2*3        1000   10 cartridges

Flame-thrw. - shoots fire bullets             20       12000    5 bullets

Blaster - shoots charges of compr. energy     20       12000    5 charges

Rocket launcher - launches small rockets  40+explosion 12000    single rockets



All weapons are available only after they are found. After time, every weapon
becomes damaged and you will be forced to look for another one. If you try
to shoot with a damaged weapon you will be informed about its damage. The
damaged weapon will be automatically thrown away after you change to a new
weapon. You should also collect ammunition. The magazines add as much ammu-
nition as mentioned above.

However, you can find many things like:

- First aid kit: adds 30 units of energy
- Red, green and blue keys - necessary at special slots
- Nutrient, quickens the metabolic rate and our hero's abilities
- Beer bottle: Brand beer, causes troubles with hero's balance and his
  accuracy of aim
- A piece of the bomb (see: the games goal)

D. COLLECTING THINGS

To pick up an item on a floor or on a barrel or anywhere else you just have
to walk voer it or come close to it.

(ncysjqlkcbwytevdwlgjhstqpqirhzmzbthstrqw)

E. CONTROLLING THE GAME

Moving:

turn left/right        - use cursur keys, joystick or mouse
move foreward/backward -   "   "      "       "         "
move left/right        - use 4 or 6 on numeric keyboard!

to shoot, examine the surroundings, press a button, or use a card, press the
right mouse button, the FIRE button, ENTER, RETURN or SHIFT keys.

The other functions of the keyboard:

The spacebar: using a hand examine surroundings and press buttons

F1 - F7 choosing a weapon (if available)

F1 - nothing (empty hands)
F2 - a gun
F3 - a rifle
F4 - a machine gun
F5 - a flame thrower
F6 - a blaster
F7 - a rocket launcher

F8 - F10: choosing keys

F8 - a red key
F9 - a green key
F0 - a blue key

ESC: immediate exit to the main menu
TAB or M: hand map
1-8: change of the game window
P - Pause

(ppwidnkanenvibygosianiybflfwjhwnbvsnuues)

F - switching floors and ceilings on/off
D - details level - max, med, min
Z - vision disturbance on/off switch
N - NTSC system on/off switch

F. THE MAP

Pressing TAB or M key will show you a map showing you where you have been.
Only the areas you have walked through and the areas which are close to you
are marked. Walls and doors in the way are marked on the map.

G. SAVING THE GAME

After finishing each level you are presented with statistics. You can now
save the game.

The games are saved on Citadel disk 4. It would be a good idea to make a
backup copy of the disk before the first game laoding.

While saving the game, your energy status, the weapons status, the position
status and so on, will be saved. It allows you to load and continue the saved
game at any time.

H. SOLVING RIDDLES

You will be forced to solve many riddles in Citadel. There are doors which
may be closed or opened only wiht handles or magnetic keys, walls which may
be moved in the same way,door blockades, teleports and many others.

Opening door wiht handle:

turn yourself so that you are more or less facing the handle - press the
spacebar or select a hand (F1) and then press the LEFT MOUSE BUTTON, FIRE
BUTTON, ENTER of SHIFT KEYS

You can press a button or move a lever in any of the two positions. In the
basement, for instance, the handles placed on the walls are little rededged
skulls.

Using a key:

- turn yourself so that you are more or less facing a key slot on the wall
- choose the right key (see above)

You can place only one key in one slot and after this the slot is blocked.
So it can fulfil one function only. Then the key becomes useless.

If the key you would like to place in a slot is wrong you will be informed
about it.

Using the Teleport:

- to use a teleport you just have to enter it. You will be teleported to the
  destination place.

I. ENEMIES AND FIGHTING

You will be meeting different enemies all the time. To kill off an enemy,
select a weapon (see above), aim at your enemy and press the shoot key as
many times as necessary.

The enemies are of different levels of aggression, power and intelligence. It
will be easy to defeat some of them but the others will be deadly enemies.
Some of them leave pieces of ammunition, so it is worth casting a glance at
the defeated.

With time your training will enable you to work out many different fighting
tactics for each kind of enemy. You can for instance, demolish the barrels
which will burn the enemies close to them. But remember to be far away from
them. You can also set the enemies on to each other. It is up to you. Pay
attention to the heart rate showing your tiredness. Please remember that
tired or beaten, you move slower and can miss your aim. And when you are
under the influence of drink you are not able to do anything sensible.

Some enemies do not die after certain types of weapon have been used. For
example, fier does not harm metal robots.

J. FINISHING A LEVEL

There is a final teleport on each level which takes yu to the next level.
After finishing each complex, which usually consists of three levels, you
will be given a possibility to choose the next complex. You do not have
access to all of them at once - you have to penetrate other ones to gain
access.

END.

P.S. Remember a game worth playing is a game worth buying!

This documention was written by   Guzzman   of   THE PRODiGY