                             Clever & Smart
                            ----------------
KEY

V - list of disguises
W - list of tools
S - other objects

TOWN

       Joystick Movements:

                            North
                              |
                              |
                     West-----+-----East
                              |
                              |
                            South

Speak to people, be curious.  Enter buildings by pressing 'fire'.

HOW TO BUY OBJECTS AND USE DISGUISES

Use  the  joystick to look through options available.  Once you have decided
on an object or disguise, press 'fire' to select.

SNAIL RACE

a) Use joystick to select your disguise and place your bet.
b) Put Smart next to your chosen snail. Press 'fire' to start race.
c) If Clever chooses a snail's costume, he'll take part in the race.

CONTROL OF SNAIL

"Push Up"     "Stick yer neck out!"
"Stretch"     "drag snail-shell"
(and repeat it all over again until you crawl over the finishing line).

KINDERGARTEN

To determine throwing angle:

     Lift
      |
      |   ARMS
      |
    Lower

         <---------->
    Increase throwing power

    Press 'fire' to throw coin.
    "RETURN" takes you back to town.

CHEQUE FORGERY (How to forge Mr L's signature)

Use joystick to move pen.
Place pixel-dot by pressing 'fire'.
"RETURN" takes you back to town.

DEFUSING BOMBS

The left row of lamps shows whether a line is active or inactive.  By moving
the  joystick  forward and backward, select the line which you want to test.
If a selected line is active, you can give an impulse which switches off one
lamp  in  the  right row.  When all lamps in the right row are switched off,
the  bomb is defused.  Immediately before the bomb explodes, it makes itself
noticeable by ticking loudly.

SEWERS

Use  joystick  to  control  movements as for town.  Press 'fire' to jump.  A
menu  for  selecting  the  different operations can be called up by pressing
"CONTROL".   The  selected  operation  can  be  carried  out  at any time by
pressing  "SPACE", eg:  The operation "LAYING CABLES" has been selected.  If
you  carry  enough cables with you and are standing before a wall within the
sewers,  you  may  lay the cables in the adjoining wall by pressing "SPACE".
If  you  deal  with  distribution  boxes,  the 'fire' button serves the same
purpose  as the "CONTROL" key.  By pressing it you get immediate access to a
menu  where  you  can  connect  cables  and listen in on the local telephone
lines...!  If you press fire near any exit in the sewer, you return to town.

Docs provided by MERKWooD of MAAD!