		     FULL DOCUMENTATION TO CLOCKWISER
		     --------------------------------


Welcome to Clockwiser, a puzzle game designed to prevent your brain from
melting in the witches` cauldron of the daily routine! As we`re sure that
you want to dive straight into the game, we won`t bore you with a
background story along the lines of: `You are trapped inside a dream world
full of puzzle blocks and.....'


Please Note...
 
Any updates or alterations to this manual can be found in the readme file
on your program disks. You should read this file before using the program.


Loading and Installing Clockwiser

Insert disk 1 into Drive 0, turn on your Amiga and the program will load
automatically. Clockwiser can be installed to your Amiga hard drive. To do
this place disk 1 in drive 0 and, from within Workbench, open up the
install icon.



				 THE GAME
				 --------

After seeing the loading sequence (which you can by-pass at any time by
pressing the Spacebar) you will be presented with Clockwiser`s main menu
screen. This contains a number of options. For the time being we`ll
concentrate on those you`ll need to use to get going and play the game.

In Clockwiser, you must move elements (these include bricks, bombs,
transporter unit, self-generating diamonds and so on) around the left
hand side of the screen and match them to what you see on the right hand
side of the screen. This has to be done inside a limited time period.

If this is the first time that you`ve used Clockwiser, we strongly suggest
that you play the demo before you go any further.

Before you play the game, you may want to set the sound options. To do this
simply click on options and then select the way in which you prefer sounds
and music to be played.

Within the mian menu, selecting play presents you with the names of the
four level sets. Each of these contains 25 levels and are placed in order
of increasing difficulty. If you select password you can enter the names of
any of the levels which you have already completed.




			    PLAYING CLOCKWISER
			    ------------------

Your task appears to be quite simple: move elements around the left hand
side of the screen to match what you see on the right. This may appear to
be easy, but appearances can be deceptive!



			       THE ELEMENTS
			       ------------

Clockwiser contains eight different types of elements. Most can be moved.
Some react to gravity, some do not. The majority will disappear if bombed!


Gravity Blocks  -       These come in a variety of colours. They can be
			moved and disappear when bombs are dropped either
			on them or next to them. As their name implies,
			they are sensitive to gravity - in other words,
			they drop down if not supported from below.

Metallic        -       These are fixed in position. They cannot be moved
Elements                or destroyed by bombs and are not sensitive to
			gravity.

Brick Walls     -       The elements which make up Brick Walls can be moved
			and can be destroyed by bombs. Unlike gravity
			blocks, these elements are not sensitive to gravity
			
Bombs           -       Bombs can be moved. If dropped these may destroy
			other elements (including other bombs). They are,
			of course, sensitive to gravity. Handle with
			extreme care!

Diamonds        -       The diamonds in Clockwiser can be moved, are
			sensitive to gravity and can be destroyed by bombs.
			They self-generate if dropped. For this reason,
			again, handle with care!

Sandstone       -       Some walls in Clockwiser are composed of this.
Elements                These can not be moved and are not sensitive to
			gravity. They can, unlike metallic elements, be
			destroyed by bombs.

De-gravitisers  -       Despite their name they are sensitive to gravity.
			They can be moved and destroyed by bombs. If any
			element is placed above a de-gravitiser, that
			element will no longer be sensitive to gravity.

Transporter Pods-       They usually act in pairs. Using two transporter
			pods, an element that is dropped onto one will
			emerge from the bottom of the other. If the base of
			the second (receiving) pod is resting on a flat
			surface, nothing can emerge from it so, anything
			dropped onto the first pod will be lost forever.
			Similarly, if the screen contains only a single pod,
			anything dropped onto it will be lost. Transporter
			pods are not sensitive to gravity, but they can be
			moved and destroyed by bombs (we`ll leave you to
			work out how to do this!!)




		    CONTROLLING AND MOVING THE ELEMENTS
		    -----------------------------------

You can play Clockwiser with a mouse, a joystick or (in the case of the PC
DOS version) the keyboard. The easiest way to control the game is to use a
mouse.

Elements can be moved in a clockwise or counter-clockwise direction. To
move elements around you must first create a rectangular path. To do this,
take the mouse pointer to a spot in the playing area where you would like
the path to start. Click on the left mouse button and, continuing to hold
down the mouse button, move the pointer to the position where you want the
path to end. Release the mouse button and the path is set. Any block(s)
within the path can now be moved. Next, take the mouse pointer to either of
the two alarm-clock icons. Each alarm clock represents a direction:
clockwise or counter-clockwise. Clicking on a clock will make all of the
elements within the line of the path move a single space clockwise or
counter-clockwise. You`ll soon discover that if the path contains any
unmoveable elements (such as metal blocks) nothing within that range will
move.

Using the joystick, fire simulates the left mouse button.

Apart from the Alarm clock icons, the menu strip at the bottom of the screen
contains a timer, and an icon which can be used to reset the puzzle and
timer (dead-end road sign) along with one which allows you to quit the
current level and return to the main menu (gallows).

Each puzzle must be completed against the clock. The timer does not start
counting down until you have made your first move.

If you should make an unrepairable error, simply click on the reset icon
(dead-end road sign) or press the spacebar.

To pause the game at any time, press P on your keyboard.



		      ADVICE FOR BUDDING CLOCKWISERS
		      ------------------------------

Before playing the game - make sure you have seen the on-disk demo and that
you understand what each element does.

If you can`t tell your `clockwise' from your `counter-clockwise' look at
the direction in which the lines in any set field are moving as you move
the mouse over the alarm clock icons. Clicking on an icon will cause the
elements in a field to move in the same direction as the lines on the
field.

Examine a puzzle carefully before attempting to solve it. Don`t forget -
the timer does not start until you start your first move.

The first dozen or so puzzles in Easy Peasy are designed to get you going.
Make sure you try these before moving onto the later levels.

Always make a note of any passwords that you see.

The time available is a good indication to the complexity of a puzzle. A
very short time (a few seconds) will mean that you will have to make only
one or two moves.

All of the puzzles can be completed inside the time available - there are
no absolutely impossible puzzles (just apparently impossible ones).

Be particularly careful when using bombs and diamonds - these can lead to
some rather unexpected results!



			DESIGNING YOUR OWN PUZZLES
			--------------------------

Clockwiser comes complete with a puzzle editor which means that you can
produce your own puzzles.

Clicking on edit allows you to alter any (or all) of the puzzles which are
currently held in memory. When you first load Clockwiser, the Easy Peasy
set of levels is loaded by default. If you want to alter a different set of
puzzles you must first load that set (use play and then select the name of
the set and leave the game by clicking on the gallows). If you wish to edit
a puzzle which you saved earlier, you can do this after loading your data
disk using the disk function.

Clockwiser`s editor is simple to use and involves only a few stages.

Decide on your background colour - to do this click on change colour to
toggle between the colours and patterns available to you.

Select the elements and make up the starting puzzle. To do this click on
any of the elements (or a blank space) on the right of the screen. Take the
mouse pointer to the left of the screen. If you should click anywhere in
this area a copy of the currently selected element (or space) will appear
at the selected point. To build up a puzzle choose an element, place as many
copies of it as you wish on the left hand side of the screen. Choose a
different element and then add to the puzzle and so on.

If you should wish to clear the screen entirely before starting on your
puzzle select a blank space from the top of the right hand side of the
screen and then click on fill screen.

If you want to return to the original puzzle at any time click on fetch
level.

To set the finishing puzzle (i.e. the solution which will appear on the
right of the screen) click on hussle level. Now move the elements around
(on the left of the screen) as if you were playing the game. Only you can
decide when to stop moving the elements as you are now setting the
solution. Once you have completed the puzzle click on the message at the
top of the screen to return to the main editor.

Before storing the puzzle, click on level settings and set the time and
password for your new puzzle.

You can move between puzzles by clicking on next level and previous level.

To store the puzzle (and replace the existing one in memory) click on store
level. If you do store a level they will not automatically be saved to disk
(see below). However, you can re-enter the game and try out your new
puzzle! Puzzles can be saved and loaded in groups of up to 25 (PC) or 100
(Amiga). Using a PC, new puzzles can be saved to any drive. If you are
using an Amiga, before selecting the disk function from the main menu,
insert a disk formatted with the volume name clockwiser into Drive 0.