                  CLOUD KINGDOMS DOX
                ----------------------
                by Mr.Thompson / Defjam
------------------------------------------------------

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS (ATARI ST and AMIGA)
-----------------------------------------
1. Turn off the computer and disconnect all unnecessary
   peripherals. We recommend that you leave your computer
   switched off for thirty seconds in case a virus has
   installed itself into your computer's memory. This will
   kill a virus if one is present.
2. Insert the Cloud Kingdoms disk into the drive and switch
   the computer on. The game will now begin to load. Do not
   remove the disk from the drive whilst the game is
   playing.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS (IBM PC and COMPATIBLES)
---------------------------------------------
1. Insert the Cloud Kingdoms boot disk into the drive and
   from the MS-DOS prompt, select the correct drive
   specifier.
2. Type clouds and press RETURN. The game will now begin to
   load.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS (CBM 64 on tape)
-------------------------------------
1. Switch your computer on and insert the Cloud Kingdoms
   tape into your CBM cassette player. Rewind the tape to
   the beginning.
2. Hold down the SHIFT key and press RUN/STOP.
3. Press play on your cassette player. The game will now
   begin to load.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS (CBM 64 on disk)
-------------------------------------
1. Switch your computer on and insert the Cloud Kingdoms
   disk into your CBM disk drive.
2. Type LOAD"*",8,1 and press RETURN. The game will now
   beginn to load.


Terry was a small, green, eight-way rolling, rubber bottomed
ball. In this hands was a note. It read "Ha Terry! I have
all of your magic crystals and I have taken them to the land
of the Cloud Kingdoms so that I can use their magic powers
to enslave the Cloud Fairies. Goodbye Terry. You shall never
see your crystals again! Signed the really very nasty Baron
von Bonsai."
There was only one thing for Terry to do. He would have to
go and get them back himself. He climed into his super-giant
green skycopter and flew up into the Clouds to the once
happy land of the Cloud Kingdoms. But the evil Baron von
Bonsai had used the magic of Terry's crystals to turn all of
the Happy Clouds Fairies into Bad Insect Monsters and Giant
Rolling Blackballs. The Baron had known that Terry would try
to get his magic crystals back and had laid many traps to
stop him. Can you defeat the evil Baron's traps? Will you
ever be the winner?

HERO WANTED - APPLY HERE!
-------------------------
You must help Terry to collect all the crystals hidden in
each Kingdom. As you start the game you will be given a
choice of which Kingdom to go for first. There are fifteen
Kingdoms in the CBM 64 version and thirty-two Kingdoms in ST
,Amiga and PC versions. To select a Kingdom, press FIRE
whilst pointing at a Kingdom. Four Kingdoms surround you at
the start on the Cloud Kingdom to get into the swing of the
game.
Note that when you have completed a Kingdom, you will return
to this part of the game to select a new Kingdom. Kingdoms
that have already been completed by you will be marked with
a flag or a cross depending on which version you are
playing. It is possible to select one of these Kingdoms and
you will be repositioned at that Kingdom as if you had just
completed it. Using this method it is possible to backtrack
through the Kingdoms and change your route through them.
When you start each Kingdom, Terry will materialise on
screen in front of you. By pressing fire you can make him
bounce. Each computer version has a different status panel:

ON THE CBM-64, the two digit number between the CLOUD
KINGDOMS text is the clock which counts down. Below this is
your score (the eight digit number). To the left of your
score are the number of keys carried (this is always reset
to zero at the beginning of each Kingdom). To the right of
your score are the number of crystals that are left to
collect in this Kingdom. Finally, at the bottom of the panel
is your energy level bar. If this ever runs low, Terry will
start to flash and if it ever runs out, you're dead!

ON THE ST,AMIGA and PC, the two digit number above the Cloud
Kingdoms text is the clock which counts down. Below this is
your score (the eight digit number). To the right of your
score are the number of crystals that are left to collect in
the Kingdom. At the bottom of the panel is your energy level
bar. If this ever runs out, you're dead! As you collect
keys, these will be shown in the bottom-right hand corner of
the status panel (this is allways reset to zero at the
beginning of each Kingdom).
The clock will start on ninety-nine Manukas (a time unit of
about four Earth seconds) and will count down. If the clock
reaches zero, the game will end. Every time you complete a
Kingdom you will gain twenty Manukas. You can also top-up
your time limit by collecting clocks - each one of these
will add five Manukas to the clock. Every time you die, from
either falling down a hole or having your energy drained,
you will lose ten Manukas on the clock and you will
rematerialise at the beginning of the Kingdom.
Scattered around the Kingdoms you will find keys. These may
be used to open a door by simply looking at a locked door
and -providing you have a key - pressing fire.
Insects and Blackballs (these vary between computer formats)
will drain your energy if you come into contact with them
and they should be avoided at all costs. This can be done by
jumping over them. Some levels have acid pools on the floor
which also drain your energy if you touch them. It is best
to jump over these as well - if you can!
There are various other objects lying around each Kingdom
which can be collected to help you. These are:

FIZZY POP BOTTLES
-----------------
That reach your energy bar to maximum.

PAINT POTS
----------
That enable you to draw magic bridges across huge gaps and
holes in the ground. You can only make bridges in the
direction that you are looking and this ability only lasts
whilst Terry is white on the CBM 64 version or covered with
magic dust on the ST,AMIGA and PC versions.

WINGS
-----
Enable you to fly above the ground for a split Manuka. This
is very useful as it enables you to fly over walls and large
holes in the ground. Be careful that you don't get cought in
a room without an exit or you will have to reset the level.
Don't run out of wings as you pass over a wall either, or
you will lose a life. Wings are the only collectables  which
don't disappear when you use them.

SHIELDS
-------
Will make your eyes close and you will be impervious to
attack from monsters that inhabit the Kingdoms. However, you
will not be able to open doors in this state. The shield's
effect wears off after about four Manukas, so be quick!

FRUIT
-----
(Not available on all computer versions) can be collected
for bonus points.

XX BEER BOTTLE
--------------
(Not available on all computer versions) will make you
'Super Drunk' , so don't pick it up or you will wander out
of control.

THE SECRET DOORS
----------------
(Not available on all computer versions) must be found if
you wish to enter the magic crystal chambers for more bonus
points.

There are various other landscape features that will affect
you in each Kingdom, including floors that fall out from
beneath you  (you will just have to find out where these
are), slippery icy floors, repelling pinball bumpers,
directional thruster tiles, magnetic suction tiles and more
to discover.

THE CONTROLS
------------
Use a joystick for movement and press FIRE to jump. CBM 64
players should use a joystick in Port One. PC players can
also define the keyboard controls if they do not own a
joystick.

PAUSE GAME : CBM 64    : press RUN/STOP
             ST/AMIGA  : press P
             PC        : press P

When in pause mode, use the R key to reset a Kingdom back to
how it was when you first started it. It will cost you five
Manukas to use this function and is best used only when you
are totally stuck.
You can also quit from the game in Pause mode by pressing Q.
On the CBM 64 there is a further option to change Terry
Ball's colour by pressing the Commodore sign key whilst in
Pause mode.