                       STARBYTE SOFTWARE PRESENTS
                       ------CLOWN-O-MANIA-------
                             -------------

              Typed in by Wolverine/Likely Lads on 27-12-91

                        Written and Directed by
                             ROMAN BOSSART

                            Graphic Artists
                           ORLANDO PETERMANN
                             ROMAN BOSSART

                      Original Music Composed by
                             ROMAN WERNER

                    Software, manual, package design
            (c) 1989 Starbyte Software, all rights reserved

CLOWN O'MANIA 
INSTRUCTIONS

INTRODUCTION

Clown 'o'Mania is the adventure of Beppo who has made millions of spectators
happy throughout his whole life as a clown. One evening, wandering among the
empty stands of the Circus, he comes across a mysterious map which shows the
way to a strange land full of valuable crystals. From that moment on, Beppo
gives up clowning and goes in search of the crystals.

CONFIGURATION

Commodore Amiga / Atari ST

LOADING THE GAME

Put the program disk in the internal drive and it will load automatically.

YOUR TASK

You must direct Beppo through 70 different labyrinths, help him to collect 
all the crystals and protect him from the many hidden dangers which become 
ever more resourceful as you progress through the game. You must achieve this
within a set time and plan your strategy with great care.

THE CRYSTALS

The small round crystals are worth 1 point each. The large and angular ones
10 points each.

CONTROL

1) If you turn the joystick from "12 o'clock" to "1 o'clock", you will find
it better fits the perspective of the game.

2) Only practice will make perfect......

BEAMERS
These are shown as blue rectangles with a grey and allow instant 
transportation. Fortunately for Beppo, the creatures which attack him are
unaware of the beamers and their effect - this could be your only means of
escape!
The direction of the beam depends on the direction from which Beppo steps 
onto the rectangle.

RAZORS - 30 Points
Don't panic when you see the razor blades on your screen - collect as many as
possible and use them as weapons. When Beppo is still and facing in the right
direction all you have to do is press the fire button and he will throw a 
razor blade to destroy one of your enemies.

JUMPS - 20 Points
If you can catch one of the jumps it will allow you to leap over great
precipices - if there is a platform on the other side, of course! All you
need to do is start running and press the fire button when you want to jump -
if you can land on a monster it will be destroyed and you gain a bonus of
2000 Points.

ENERGY 
You can increase your energy level by 10 units for every special Energy Box
you can find - you will need plenty of energy to move the pyramids about.

PYRAMIDS
If your energy level is high enough, you can collect pyramids by pressing the
fire button. The pyramid can then be dropped wherever you think it will be of
the greatest strategic value. The blue ones can only block the way for a 
monster but a white one will destroy it totally on contact.

FUNNEL
The funnels allow you to fall down to the next platform.

TRAMPULINES & VOLCANOES
Two short-cuts to the next level upwards!

HOLES
Keep well clear! All the holes are full of acid and mean instant death.

CLOWN MASKS
Collect the masks for extra lives.

POWER PILLS
Swallow at once to make all the monsters leave the screen for around 12 
seconds.

COLOURED PLATES
If you can change all the coloured plates in an area to the same colour 
within a certain time (and you'll have to find out how long for yourself..)
you gain an extra 10,000 points.

NUMBERED PLATES
Contact will set the numbers to zero - if you set all the plates you will get
1000 bonus points.

ARROW PLATES
These are one-way only!

BLUE PLATES
These plates increase your speed - but also the speed of your enemies - so 
beware!

ISLANDS
On the more complex levels, you may land on an island with no jumps left to 
allow you to escape. To avoid being marooned you may press the ESCape key -
but this will cost you a life.

PATTERNED PLATES
These plates will turn the whole screen upside down - do not adjust your set!
Just carry on playing as best you can until the screen turns over again.

                    HAVE FUN WITH CLOWN 'O' MANIA!