                       H E L L F I R E   P R E S E N T S 

Full Documentation to Club & Country!

Typed by iGGY/HF LEADER 17/12/95

A WORD FROM THE GAME PUBLISHERS

Dear player,

After the success of Club Football - The Manager, we were so inundated with
requests for a sequel that we decided that we would provide the
gamesplaying public with a stunning follow up. Reading through the hundreds
of thoughts and ideas we received from avid Club Football players, we
selected the best ideas, with the intention of making the best football
management game even better.

After months of blood, sweat and tears we, BOMS Computer Games Ltd, with
the programming and artistic talents of the Teque London Studios, proudly
present Club And Country.

Yours Sincerely,


Boms Computer Games Ltd


INTRODUCTION

To manage their favourite football club is a dream to every passionate
football fan the world over. To manage the national side is something that
exists beyond the wildest dreams of those same fans. Club and Country
allows the player to simulate both these events, with the most detailed
management simulation yet to appear on your computer.

Complex tactical decisions, complete financial freedom to purchase players,
improve the ground and invest in the youth team (tempered by the
financially greedy executive board!), allow you to see if you are a hot
shot supermanager or just a pea brained moron in a tracksuit. Only your
grasp of tactics, and judicious spending and selling can decide your fate.
Tactical supremo`s could well finf themselves eligible for the most
important managerial position - international manager, whilst poor managers
will find themselves dumped on the managerial scrapheap, a destitute figure
wandering the streets, insisting that bad luck and injuries to key players
destroyed your chance of success.

International management will take the player through the rigours of the
worlds biggest sporting competition, the World Cup.

Can you manage to pull your team to the top of the league, willing the
League and both Cup competitions? Have you got the tactical know-how and
intelligence to take your national team to the European and World Cup?

Will you be a success, for Club And Country?

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

PC

4MB RAM
2 MB Hard Drive space free.
Sound blaster or Gravis Ultrasound card.
386 or higher

AMIGA

Kickstart 1.2 and above.
1MB RAM or more

TO LOAD

NOTE: If you are using an Amiga you will need to have ready a formatted
blank disk for use as a save game disk in the game.

PC   Insert disk in drive and then type the drive letter followed by
"install", e.g:-

A:       (return)
install  (return)

The game will be installed to your hard drive which will need about 1.7
Mbytes of free space. You can select which drive to install from, which
drive to install to and the directory you would like to install the game
to.

To run the game once it has been installed, type CLUB2E for the English
version and CLUB2D for the German version.

AMIGA   Insert Disk 1 in drive A, reset the machine and follow the
on-screen instructions.

PREPARING FOR PLAY

The first time you play, click on the NEW GAME icon. If you wish to restart
a previously played game then click on the appropriate LOAD GAME icon
(1-8).

The game will now initialise all the team and player data. Two progress
bars will show this happening.

The game can be played singly or with multiple players. When requested
enter the first players name (followed by return). Next you will be
pronpted to select a team for that player to manage - click the mouse
button to see the list of teams. Select the team you wish to manage by
clicking on it with the mouse pointer. The information shown for each team
includes the position in the league you must finish in your first year as
manager to avoid being sacked.

You will then be asked for the subsequent players name. If there are no
further players then press RETURN to end this section.

The latest match results will now appear on screen. Click the mouse to
continue through all the results until you reach MAIN SCREEN. This shows
the current position of the team and details of the next match to play. The
graphic in the bottom right hand corner shows how well you are doing.

MOVING AROUND THE GAME

The game is controlled entirely by using the mouse pointer to select
various icons. Usually displayed in the top right corner of the screen -
simply move the pointer over the appropriate icon and click left button.
The icons may be scrolled by clicking on the up/down arrows next to them.
For reference purposes when the mouse pointer is positioned over an icon
it`s description will appear in a help window along the bottom of the
screen.

To change numerical figures, hold the mouse pointer over the appropriate
digit of the number you wish to change. The right mouse button increases
the number and the left mouse button decreases it. For example if you wish
to increase a figure of 120 to 130 you would position the mouse pointer
over the `2` and press the right mouse button once.

Please note that you can only change certain values in the game and not
every number that appears on the screen.

The icons and their functions are described within this manual..

PLAY NEXT MATCH

This will kick off the next game on the calender. Only use this when you
are ready to play the match.

MAIN SCREEN

This shows the current position of the team and details of the next match
to play. The graphic in the bottom right hand corner shows how well you are
doing.

LIST PLAYERS

This displays a list of all the players in the game whose stats fall within
the range set using the SEARCH REQUIREMENTS icon below.

You can use the sub-icons to make more sense of the list by narrowing down
what sort of player you are looking for (SEARCH REQUIRMENTS) and then
sorting the list into the order of importance you want (SORT REQUIREMENTS).
You can take a closer look at a player (VIEW PLAYER DETAILS), mark him for
special attention by your scout (ADD PLAYER TO WATCH LIST) and finally try
to buy him (APPROACH PLAYER).

Use this approach if you are looking for new blood in your team.

The information displayed for each player is in the following format:-

NAME  AGE  TYPE OF PLAYER  SHIRT NUMBER  MISC

The Type of Player shows what position they prefer to play in, as follows:-

GK  Goalkeeper
DEF Defender
MID Mid-fielder
ATT Forward

The Shirt Number shows their current position (see EDIT TEAM TACTICS)
including:-

SG  Substitute goalkeeper
S1  Substitute 1
S2  Substitute 2
RES Reserves

The MISC letter shows if the player is on your Watch List (W), if the
player is available for Transfer (T), or if the player is the captain (C).

As you move the mouse pointer over the player, you are also shown the
following information at the bottom right of the screen:-

NAME      Name
GOALS     Number of goals scored this season.
VALUE     How much your scout values the player
PACE      Speed on the pitch from 0-99
STAMINA   Stamina from 0-99
PASSING, SHOOTING, CONTROL, TACKLING, SAVING AND HEADING - How well your
scout rates each of these skills from 0-99

The last digit of the players stats will not be visible unless you have
added this player to your watch list. Thus a player shown with a stat of 6?
may be a 60 or a 69.

Search Requirements

Sets the maximum and minimum stats you wish to search for. When you have
set the values you are happy with click on DO SEARCH. Note that if a player
is on the transfer market (i.e. TRANSFER LISTED) then he will be cheaper to
buy.

Sort Requirements

Allows the player list to be sorted in a number of ways e.g.
alphabetically, by skill or goals scored etc.

Approach Player

This takes you to the biddng screen where you can try to buy the selected
player. The selling price, salary and contract length are displayed in the
bottom section of the screen. These values fluctuate as the bidding
proceeds.

When you are happy with the terms on offer, use the left mouse button to
confirm your acceptance. If you wait too long another club may buy the
player, the player may reject the terms offered or the selling manager may
pull out - so you`ve got to be quick.

Add Player To Watch List

This action will inform your scout (to hire a scout see HIRE AND FIRE
STAFF) to have a closer look at this player. When you are national team
manager you will only be able to select your squad from the players that
are highlighted on this watch list.

View Player Details

Gives more information on the player, including any special skills and how
much your Scout values him (if you have a scout).

Remove Player From List

Removes a player from the watch list. Note that you must have at least 15
players on your list.

LIST TEAMS

Lists all the teams in the game, allowing you to study the strength of the
opposition before a game. Move up and down the list by clicking on the
scroll bars to the right.

You can click on any team name to see more details of their squad. The
stats are presented in the same form as LIST PLAYERS (above).

SELECT SQUAD

This lists the players currently in your squad and allows you to move them
around within it. Use this icon along with EDIT TEAM TACTICS to select
which player plays where.

The information displayed for each player is in the same format as for LIST
PLAYERS.

To move a player within the squad, select him with the mouse and then click
on the position that you wish to exchange him with. To change which
position each shirt number plays in use the EDIT TEAM TACTICS screen
(below).

Also on this screen are a further 3 sub-icons:

View Player

Gives a detailed stats listing as described earlier.

Make Captain

Allows you to appoint a player as a captain. Usually you would make the
best player the Captain, in order to help weaker members of the squad play
better.

Add To Transfer List

Puts a player on the transfer list.

EDIT TEAM TACTICS

This is where you determine how your team will play, by editing their
tactics and positions.

To move a players position on he pitch click the left mouse button over his
shirt number. Move to a new pitch position and click again.

To edit the teams tactics use the following sub-icons:-

Control Player Behaviour

Here you select the players individual style e.g. pass to wingers, take
penalties etc. Use the left mouse button to view the options available to
each player. When happy with your choices click on END EDIT.

Select Where Player Can Move

You can adjust where the player moves on the pitch by clicking on this
icon.

Select the player as prompted and click on the top left and then bottom
right corner of the players move `box`. This `box` determines the main area
in which the player will operate. The larger the area you ask the player to
cover the more stamina he will require.

View Player In More Detail

Gives a detailed description of your player.


Select Formation

You may select up to four formations, all of which can be editedusing the
SELECT WHERE PLAYER CAN MOVE icon to your own tastes. These new formations
can be implemented during the actual match (see DURING THE MATCH below).

Click on the appropriate icon (1-4) for the formation you wish to edit.

VIEW INJURY LIST

Displayes current injuries and the length of the time until the player is
fit to play.

If a player is injured he may still be picked to play - but he plays at a
reduced ability and can aggravate his injury.

STADIUM

Through this screen you can build extra seating and adjust ticket prices.

When you click on this icon the left hand side of the screen changes to
show a picture of your stadium. This graphic shows the number of seats and
also the ticket prices for all four of the seating areas.

In the bottom right of the screen you will see a BUILDER icon and a TICKET
GIRL icon.

Builder

To build extra seats, click on the BUILDER icon. You will then be requested
to select which stand you plan to develop - click on one of the four areas
shown on the stadium picture. The BUILDER icon will now change to show the
following information:-

How much money you have to spend.
Number of seats.
Total cost of building more seats.
To increse the number of seats place the mouse pointer over the digit you
want to change and hold down the right mouse button. The total cost figure
will change to show you how much you will ave to spend to do the building
work. Note that you can spend more than you have in the bank to the value
of the overdraft limit (FINANCE below). When you are happy with the number
of seats and the cost, click on the TICK icon (or the CROSS icon to
cancel). The stadium picture will show how long the stand will be cloed for
the building work (the more seats you build the longer it will be shut).

Ticket Girl

To adjust the ticket prices, select the TICKET GIRL icon and then select
one of the four stands. The current ticket price will be shown which you
can adjust by using the left and right mouse buttons (whilst holding the
pointer over the digits).

Remember that whilst stands are closed for building you will not earn any
income from them and if you put ticket prices up too much your fans will
stay away.

HIRE AND FIRE STAFF

Use this screen to hire and fire your coach, physio and scout.

Click on the graphic in the bottom right corner to select which job you
wish to hire or fire, then choose an applicant from the list in the top
left corner of the screen.

At the start of the game all three of the jobs are vacant.

VIEW MANAGER HISTORY

Through this screen you can review your current performances and look at
previous years. You can also study the managers league table. You must head
this table at the time of international appointments to become national
boss. Points are awarded after each match - the better your team is doing,
the more points you as the manager get.

The two icons at the bottom of the screen select what information you are
looking at:-

Next Manager

This selects which manager to look at if there is more than one person
playing. The up and down arrows select which year to view.

View Manager Charts

Click on this icon to se the manager charts. This is a list of all the
manages in the game and their current points total with the players name
highlighted. As you move the mouse pointer over this list, the individual
managers team names are displayed below the VIEW MANAGER CHARTS icon.

LEAGUE TABLES

Displays the current league tables. Use the up and down arrows to move
through the leagues. Click on the right arrow to exit.

VIEW FIXTURES

Displays the fixture lists. Controls as for LEAGUE TABLES.

FINANCE

Displays current financial report. The information shown at the botton of
othe screen is:-
LAST BALANCE   Last weeks bank balance
THIS BALANCE   This weeks bank balance
PROFIT         profit or loss from previous week.
Additionally you can show more information at the top of the screen by
using the following icons:-

View Income

Displays income from last week of activity, as follows:-
GATE RECEIPTS     Ticket sales
LOANS RECEIVED    Size of bank loan.
CREDIT INTEREST   Interest from bank on current positive balance.
PLAYER SALES      Income from sales of players.

View Outgoings

Displays outgoings for last week of activity

MANAGER SALARY       Your salary
STAFF WAGES          Total staff wages
YOUTH INVESTMENT     How much money you are spending on your youth policy
                     (see YOUTH TRAINING below) 
PLAYERS BOUGHT       How much you have spent buying players last week.
DEBIT INTEREST       Interest to bank on loans.
GROUND IMPROVEMENTS  cost of building stands last week.
LOAN REPAYMENTS      Size of automatci loan repayment.
LOAN PAYOFFS         Any extra amount you have paid this week (see BANK
                     MANAGER).

Whilst on this screen you can adjust the amount of money you are spending
on YOUTH TRAINING.
Use the left/right mouse button on the YOUTH INVESTMENT figure to
increase/decrease expenditure in this area. The greater the amount spent
the more chance there is of a star youth player joining you.

Bank Manager

Visit the bank manager to obtain or repay loans. Use the left/right mouse
buttons over the CURRENT LOAN to decrease (i.e. repay) or increase your
borrowings. Remember you cannot exceed the loan limit that has been set by
your board.

CURRENT LOAN     How much you are currently borrowing.
LOAN LIMIT       Maximum th eboard will allow you to borrow.
WEEKLY REPAYMENT Size of the automatic weekly loan repayments.

If you take out a loan it will be repaid automatically wek by week and you
will be charged interest on the outstanding amount.

OPTIONS

This controls various in-game options. Click on the appropriate option:-

MUSIC ON/OFF             PC version only
MATCH PICTURES ON/OFF    Controls the in-match pictures (see below).
RESULTS PAUSE ON/OFF     Waits for mouse click whilst showing results.

VIEW WATCHED PLAYERS

This works in the same way as LIST PLAYERS (above) except that you can only
see the players you have marked (see LIST PLAYERS - ADD WATCH).

QUIT WITHOUT SAVE

Quits game but does not save it.

SAVE AND THEN QUIT GAME

Saves game and then quits. Remember if you are saving to a floppy drive
(Amiga users) to have a formatted blank disk ready. Select one of the eigth
save option slots on the left of the screen.

You can re-load a saved game just afer starting by clicking on the
appropriate LOAD GAME icon (1-8).

DURING THE MATCH

When you kick off a match (by using the PLAY NEXT MATCH icon) you will see
a picture of the pitch showing you and your opponents formations. The box
above shows the two scores and the bar above that shows the overall
possession ratio of the two teams.

During a match a commentary is displayed in the bottom box.

The two boxes to the left and right of the screen show various statistics
about the two squads. Information is shown on each played by the blue and
yellow bars beneath their names. Different information is shown according
to what function you have selected for these bars:-

STAMINA    Starting stamina (YELLOW) and current strength (BLUE)
POSSESSION Total possession (YELLOW) and successful actions (BLUE)
SHOTS      Number of shots (YELLOW) and number of goals (BLUE)

To change which of the above is displayed click on the right or left mouse
button (according to whether you are playing home or away). This takes you
to the in-game options screen.

IN-GAME OPTIONS

Click on the icon in the bottom left hand corner of the screen to change
the information displayed.

The speed with which the match is played is shown at the top of the screen
(SLOW, MEDIUM, FAST, VERY FAST). Click on the value to change it.

To change the tactics in use (1-4) click on the two arrows at the bottom of
the screen.

To make a substitution (or swap players positions), click on the name of
the player you wish to move, and then click on the player you wish to swap
him with.

To return to the match, click on the icon in the bottom right.

Have fun and the best of luck!