                       CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE

                   For IBM PC, Atari ST, & Amiga

				1

				2

                            CONTENTS

4	INTRODUCTION

5	LOADING

6	CONTROL METHODS

7	STARTING THE GAME
8	The Setup Screen
9	The Cards are Dealt
9	Your Move
10	Suggesting
11	Snooping
12	Secret Passages
12	More about Moving
13	More about Suggesting
13	Accusing
14	Ending your Turn

14	THE PULL DOWN MENUS
14	Clue
14	File
15	Save Game
15	Restore Game
15	Options
16	Play

18	STRATEGY HINTS FOR THE SUPER SLEUTH

				3

                           INTRODUCTION

In 1945, a solicitors' clerk from Birmingham, England, paid a visit to
Waddingtons Games Ltd. in Leeds.  Anthony E. Pratt, his wife and a couple
of game inventing friends came to present their prototype of a mystery
detection game to the game manufacturers.

The people at Waddingtons liked what they saw and agreed to produce the
game.  Three years later, Parker Brothers brought the game to American
mystery lovers - and it's been a family favorite ever since.

The very latest version of that original game is "CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE". 
And now you can play it on your computer.  Play the role of your favorite
hero or heroine from Detective literature.  Pretend you're Sherlock Holmes,
Nancy Drew, Charlie Chan and Miss Marple, all rolled into one.

There are so many possibilities of Who, Where and With What Weapon that the
mystery to solve is different for every game you play.  Choose to play
against your friends, the computer opponents, or a mixture of the two.  use
your logic and deductive skills to discover 'whodunit' by a process of
elimination.

                         "The game is afoot!"

				4

                             LOADING

IBM PC:
Boot the Computer (using DOS 2.1 or later).  Insert the appropriate Disk
into Drive A on your computer.  Type CLUE and press RETURN.

You will be prompted to select the input device (Microsoft compatible
Mouse, Joystick or Keyboard) that you wish to use. If you select Mouse,
CLUE assumes that you already have your mouse driver loaded.  CLUE installs
its own special drivers if you select Joystick or Keyboard.

IBM HARD DISK INSTALLATION
At the C> prompt create a Directory and copy all files from the program
disks to that directory.

	Example: With the Program disk in drive A type:

		MD CLUE <RETURN>
		Copy A:*.* C:CLUE <RETURN>
		(repeat for each disk)

Loading from the hard disk:
1. At the C> prompt, change directories, then type CLUE and press RETURN.

	Example: CD CLUE <RETURN>
		 CLUE <RETURN>

ATARI ST:
Switch on the computer and insert the disk. The program will autoboot.

COMMODORE AMIGA:
Switch on the computer and boot as usual (inserting the Kickstart disk if
you have an A1000).  Insert the CLUE disk when the workbench prompt
appears.

				5

As CLUE loads it first displays a title screen and then the credits.  Press
a key or button to continue.  When CLUE has loaded, you will be prompted to
select an option from the menus.

                         CONTROL METHODS

IBM PC:
CLUE is a "menu driven program".  This means that you control it by
"pulling down" menus and selecting actions from them.  The menus contain
all the actions that you require to play CLUE.

To pull down a menu, move the pointer using a Microsoft Compatible Mouse,
Joystick or the Cursor Keys (depending on which input device you selected
earlier) to point at the appropriate menu and press the left hand mouse
button (or joystick fire button, or 5 key on the keypad).  Try this now:
move the pointer up to the menu at the top left hand side of the screen.
(If you are using the keyboard, you can vary the speed of the pointer by
pressing keys F1 (slow) through F10 (fast).

Once you have pulled down the menu, you will see a list of options (on the
CLUE menu there is only one - About CLUE).  By moving the pointer down the
list you can highlight the option you require.  Try this now by selecting
About CLUE.  if you did everything correctly, you will be shown a screenfull
of information about the program.  At the bottom is the word EXIT in a box.
 Press the "button" with the pointer when you have seen enough.

To cancel a menu if you pull it down by accident, simply move the pointer
off it and press the button.

				6

At some stages of the game items in the menus cannot be selected; for
example you can't select Accuse in the PLAY menu unless you have started a
game.  The option will be displayed "dimmed" to indicate this.

ATARI ST:
CLUE uses the standard GEM conventions.

COMMODORE AMIGA:
CLUE uses the standard "Intuition" conventions.

                         STARTING THE GAME

Mr. Boddy has been brutally murdered!

Which of the guests at Boddy Manor has committed this dastardly crime? 
Where was the murder committed and what was the weapon?  It's up to you to
solve the mystery.

There are ten possible perpetrators, twelve possible murder locations, and
eight possible weapons.  All you need to do is accuse the correct suspect
of committing the murder, the location where the crime took place and the
weapon that was used.

After loading, the game sets the scene by showing one possible murder
scenario.  Then the setup screen is displayed.

				7

                       THE SETUP SCREEN

You play the part of one of the ten suspects in the game.  The setup screen
lets you choose the suspect you wish to play and the suspects to be played
by your opponents.

Each suspect card has a panel underneath.  Point to this panel with the
mouse pointer and click the left hand button on the mouse.  The panel will
roll around from Neutral to Human, to Computer 1, Computer 2 and Computer
3 and back to Neutral.  Select Human for the suspect you want to play.
        
	NEUTRAL
	HUMAN
	COMP 1
	COMP 2
	COMP 3

Neutral players take no active part in the game.  Human players are
prompted by the computer to take their turn.  Computer players take their
turn automatically.  The numbers after Computer denote the different skill
levels available.  Computer 3 players are the most skillful computer
players.

If you are playing against other people, allow them to select the suspects
they wish to play.  Select any Computer players you want to play against. 
There must be at least 3 players taking an active part in the game but
these can all be human, all computer or a mixture of the two.

You can type in a name to be associated with any of the suspects.  This
will be displayed whenever that suspect is mentioned in the game.  To type
in a name click on the empty panel beneath the suspect card.  A cursor will
be placed at the start of the text and a name can be typed in.

If you care to click on the actual suspect cards, you will be given brief
background information on each of the suspects.

When you are satisfied with the game that you have set up, click on the
start box to start the game.

				8

                       THE CARDS ARE DEALT

You won't see it happen, but the computer shuffles the pack of 30 cards,
selects a suspect, location and weapon and holds these as the murder cards.
 The murder cards represent the who, how and where of the crime.  The
remaining cards are dealt out to the players.

The main board is displayed, with a menu bar at the top.  The players all
start in the Cloakroom.  The murder never occurs in the Cloakroom.  The
starting player is chosen at random and then players take turns in order.

Your objective is to move around Mr. Boddy's manor, going in and out of the
12 possible murder locations.  Each time you enter a room or an outside
location, you may 'make a suggestion' and gather valuable information about
the cards that the other players hold in their hands.  By discovering what
cards the other players hold, you can deduce the murder cards by a process
of elimination.

If a computer player starts, they will attempt to move to a location and
make a suggestion.  Make a not of their suggestion and who passed cards. 
You will find the information useful to your enquiry.

                            YOUR MOVE

A message will be printed to tell you when it is your turn.  Click on the
OK box to make the message disappear.  The dice are thrown for you, into a
box at the top right of the screen display.  This is the dice icon.

The number on the dice is the number of spaces that you can move in your
turn.

You may move either vertically or horizontally over the board, but not
diagonally.  You may change directions as many times as your dice throw
will allow; however, you may not enter the same square more than once on
the same turn.

				9

You may not land on a square occupied by another token.  If your dice roll
would land you there by exact count, you must stop one space behind the
other player's token.  If you rolled a higher number, jump over the other
token, counting the occupied space, and move the total number of spaces
rolled.

To make your move, move the pointer to select the route you wish to take. 
Click on each square in turn, starting from your current position. You must
enter and leave rooms using the doors, so the program will only allow you
to highlight legal spaces.  To select a room or other location as part of
our route, click in the center of that location.  A marker will be
displayed to show that the location is selected.

When your route is highlighted by footprints, click on the dice to make the
move.  The path you have taken will be shown by a heavier footprint.  At
the start of your turn your token is flashed so that you can locate it.  If
you click in an incorrect position - a place where you cannot legally move
- a warning bleep is made and the computer will again flash your token.

		          SUGGESTING

When you enter a location, a suggestion icon is displayed at the bottom
right of the screen.

Click on this icon to make a suggestion.  You will be prompted to select
the character to suggest.  Click on the card of the character you want.  Do
this again for the weapon.  The location will be the one you are in when
making the suggestion.  Any cards passed to you will appear face down on
the screen.  To turn them over, point at them and hold down the mouse
button.  If you are playing against other people, be sure to cup your hand
round the cards as you display them, in order to conceal them from your
opponents eyes.  After you have noted the cards click on the exit box to
return to the main screen.

If you do not want to make a suggestion (perhaps you are only passing
through the location) click on the dice icon.  This will make the
suggestion icon go away and your movement will continue.

				10

The suspect named in a suggestion is moved to the suggested location.

If you make a suggestion in a location, you may make no further movement in
that turn.

	                    SNOOPING

Snoop Spaces ... Nine spaces on the board are marked by a spyglass that
looks like this:
                 __
		(__)==

As part of your move, you may land on one of these squares and "snoop" an
opponent.

When you "snoop", you will be shown the suspects being played by your
opponents.  Select the player to snoop by using the mouse, joystick or
keypad to move the pointer on the card.  You will then be presented with
all the cards held by that player, face down, so that you can't see them. 
Select a card at random and click on it.  The card will be displayed while
you hold down the button or key so be sure to keep it covered from other
human players.

Note: The cards are shuffled before being set out for the snoop.

				11

                        SECRET PASSAGES

Some locations are joined by secret passages.  These locations are
connected - Drawing Room to Conservatory, Library to Kitchen, and the
Basement Stairs to the Garden Walk.  Movement through a secret passage
counts as one space.

To use a secret passage between rooms, click on the room that the passage
connects to.  To use the secret passage between the Basement Stairs and the
Garden Walk, click on the Garden Walk square when it is the destination. 
Click on the Basement Stairs when that is the destination.

                      MORE ABOUT MOVING

When entering or leaving a location, you do not have to land in the
location by the exact count.  You may pass through a location on a turn,
counting it as a space.

You may not re-enter a room on the same turn.

You do not have to use all your dice count at once.

You may move to a snoop square and then use up the remaining count.  If you
have a count remaining on the dice, and there is a place to move to, the
program will not continue until this is used up.

The computer checks to see if you have boxed yourself in.  If there is no
place for you to move to, you forfeit any count left on the dice.  If the
suggest icon is present, and you click on the dice icon to remove it, you
will be required to move the remainder of the count on the dice.  So be sure
you want to move before you do this.

You may move over another player during your turn, but you may not stop on
a player.  If you try to stop on a player, the computer will beep and give
you the option of stopping behind that player when you move.

				12

                       MORE ABOUT SUGGESTING

You may make a suggestion and accusation on the same turn.

After entering one of the locations, you may only make one suggestion.  To
make another, you must wait until another turn when you are in a different
location or, sometime after your next turn, re-enter the location you most
recently left.

If another player moved your token to a new location in the course of
making a suggestion, on your next turn you may make a suggestion from that
location without moving.  Or, you may click on the dice icon (to remove the
suggest icon) and continue to move in one of the usual ways.

                            ACCUSING

When you are sure that you have deduced the correct solution to the murder,
you must make an accusation to win the game.

To make an accusation you must pull down the PLAY menu from the menu bar at
the top of the screen.  Select ACCUSE from the menu and you will be asked
to confirm that you want to accuse.  This is just in case you have
activated the menu by accident.

Select the Suspect, Location and Weapon that you think make up the murder
cards.  If you are correct, the computer will show a re-enactment of the
murder.

If you incorrectly accuse, you will drop out of the game and the other
players will carry on until someone gets it right.  If you don't wish to
wait for that select NEW GAME from the FILE menu.

				13

                         ENDING YOUR TURN

When you have finished your move, you will see that the dice icon has been
replaced with an icon that says NEXT PLAYER.  You may not make another
suggestion or move any further at this point, but you are still able to do
some other things.  These will be explained in the next section.  To finish
your turn, click on the NEXT PLAYER icon.

                       THE PULL DOWN MENUS

Various options are available during the game.  These can be accessed by
pulling down the appropriate menu from the menu bar at the top of the
screen.  These operate in a similar manner to other applications on your
computer.

CLUE

This menu has only one option - ABOUT CLUE.
This tells you a little about the game.

FILE

Should you wish to stop playing CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE, or decide to alter
the set-up, this menu holds the option that will allow you to do this.

NEW - Will start a new game of CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE.  This option abandons
your current game and returns you to the set up screen.  Before this
happens you will be asked to confirm you want to do this.

SAVE GAME

KEYBOARD - Move arrow cursor to FILE and press ENTER.  Select SAVE GAME
with arrow cursor and press ENTER.  Game will be automatically saved to
disk.

MOUSE - Move mouse to FILE and click.  Select SAVE GAME with mouse and
click.  Game will be automatically saved to disk.

JOYSTICK - Move joystick to FILE and press fire button.  Move joystick to
SAVE GAME and press the button.  Game will be automatically saved to disk.

RESTORE GAME

KEYBOARD - Move arrow cursor to FILE and press ENTER.  Select SAVE GAME
with arrow cursor and press ENTER.  Game will be automatically saved to
disk.

MOUSE - Move mouse to FILE and click.  Select SAVE GAME with mouse and
click.  Game will be automatically saved to disk.

JOYSTICK - Move joystick to FILE and press fire button.  Move joystick to
SAVE GAME and press the button.  Game will be automatically saved to disk.

QUIT - Will abandon CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE.  Before this happens you will be
asked to confirm that you want to do this.

OPTIONS

The options menu allows you to do a variety of things.

PRINT NOTE - If you have a standard printer connected to your computer, you
can print out note sheets on which to not the information you collect
during the game.

				15

PRINT GAME - If you have a printer connected, you can print out a review of
all the suggestions and accusations made by the players during the game. 
This includes who passed cards, but not who passed what.

Note: The players who passed cards are listed strictly in the order in
which they appear on the note sheet.

COMMENTS - As the game progresses, your computer opponents will gather
information in much the same way as you do.  As an indication of how they
are getting on, we have given them the ability to make comments.  If you
find this distracting you can turn this feature off.  While there is a
'check mark' next to Comments in the Options menu, comments are enabled. 
When there is no 'check mark' the comments are disabled.

SOUNDS - This option turns the sound in the game on and off. A 'check mark'
next to Sounds means that sounds are enabled.

POINTER - This option changes the mouse pointer from a magnifying glass to
an arrow and back again.

FAST GAME - When this option is enabled, the program cuts out the view of
the player walking into the room in order to speed up the game.

PLAY

The play menu contains the options available to each individual player.

ACCUSE - When you are sure of the murdered, weapon and scene of crime,
select this option to make your accusation.

SHOW NOTES - The computer holds a complete set of notes for each player. 
When it is your turn, you can select SHOW NOTES and see your own notesheet.
The cards that you hold in your hand are marked with a "C".  As you see the
other players cards, the computer will mark off the cards you see with an
"X".

				16

 ROOMS			WEAPONS			SUSPECTS
 Courtyard		Knife			Col. Mustard
 Gazebo			Candlestick		Prof. Plum
 Drawing Room		Revolver		Mr. Green
 Dining Room		Rope			Mrs. Peacock
 Kitchen		Lead Pipe		Miss Scarlet
 Carriage House		Wrench			Mrs. White
 Trophy Room		Poison			Mme. Rose
 Conservatory		Horseshoe		Sgt. Gray
 Studio						M. Brunette
 Billiard Room					Miss Peach
 Library
 Fountain

By clicking on the note boxes, you can alter the mark associated with each
item.

There is a "Y" and a "?" for you to use in the way you prefer eg. "Y" can
be used to mark off those cards you are certain a player has, and the "?"
can be used if you are not sure.

SHOW CARDS - This will display the cards in your hand.  Click on the backs
of the cards to see what they are.

AUTO REPLY - Sometimes you may hold more than one of the cards mentioned in
a suggestion.  If you wish to choose for yourself which card to show,
switch auto reply off.  Normally, auto reply will be on, and the computer
will select and pass a card for you.  In selecting which card to pass, the
computer uses the same procedure as it does for the computer player, so
auto reply should be no disadvantage.  If you only have one card the
computer will automatically show that as you have no option.

If you are playing with other people as opposed to just computer players,
it is probably best to keep Auto Reply switched on so that the other
players do not benefit unfairly from knowing if you have more than one of
the cards.

				17

               STRATEGY HINTS FOR THE SUPER SLEUTH

Don't forget to snoop ... especially when your dice roll is large enough to
snoop and enter a location on the same move.

Making suggestions ... You may want to name one or more of you own cards in
order to gain information ... or mislead your opponents.

Proving a suggestion ... It is possible on one turn to be shown all three
cards.  However this is not necessarily an advantage, because all the
players heard you make your suggestion, and everyone will know that those
three cards are not the murder cards.  This is another reason you may want
to include one of your own cards in the suggestion cards.

Sneaky Move ... If an opponent's token appears to be heading to an
important Location, on your turn you may want to include that Suspect in a
Suggestion in order to move him or her away from that Location.

				18

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================