                        CLUEDO MASTER DETECTIVE

Typed by MEDUSA.  Edited by PARASITE.


STARTING THE GAME
Mr. Boddy has been brutally murdered!

Which of the guests at Boddy Manor has commited this dastardly crime?
Where was the murder commited and what was the weapon? Its up to you
to solve the mystery.

There are ten possible perpetrators, twelve possible murder locations,
and eight possible weapons. All you need to do is accuse the correct
suspect of commiting the murder, the location where the crime took
place and the weapon that was used.

After loading, the game sets the scene by showing one possible murder
scenario. Then the setup screen is displayed.

THE SETUP SCREEN
You play the part of one of the ten suspects in the game. The setup
screen lets you choose the suspect you wish to play and the suspects
to be played by your opponents.
   Each suspect card has a panel underneath. Point to this panel with
the mouse pointer and click the left hand button on the mouse. The
panel will roll round from Neutral to Human, to Computer 1, Computer 2
and Computer 3 and back to Neutral. Select Human for the suspect you
want to play.
   Neutral players take no active part in the game. Human players are
prompted by the computer to take their turn. Computer players take
their turn automatically. The numbers after Computer denote the
different skill levels available. Computer 3 players are the most
skillful computer players.

If you are playing against other people, allow them to select the
suspects they wish to play. Select any Computer players you want to
play against. There must be at least 3 players taking an active part
in the game, but these can all be human, all computer or a mixture of
the two.

You can type in a name to be associated with any of the suspects. This
will be dislplayed whenever that suspect is mentioned in the game. To
type in a name, click on the empty panel beneath the suspect card. A
cursor will be placed at the start of the text and a name can be typed
in.

If you care to click on the actual suspect cards, you will be given
brief background information on each of the suspects.
When you are satisfied with the game that you have set up, click on
the start box to start the game.

THE CARDS ARE DEALT
You will not see it happen, but the computer shuffles the pack of 30
cards, selects a suspect, location and weapon and holds these as the
murder cards. The murder cards represent the who, how and where of the
crime. The remaining cards are dealt out to the players.

The main board is displayed, with a menu bar at the top. The players
all start in the Cloakroom. The murder never occurs in the Cloakroom.
The starting player is chosen at random and then players take turns in
order.

Your objective is to move around Mr. Boddys manor, going in and out of
the 12 possible murder locations. Each time you enter a room or an
outside location, you may make suggestions and gather valuable
information about the cards that the other players hold, you can
deduce the murder cards by a process of elimination.

If a computer player starts, they will attempt to move to a location
and make a suggestion and who passed cards. You will find the
information useful to your inquiry.

YOUR MOVE
A message will be printed to tell you when its your turn. Click on the
OK box to make the message disappear. The dice are thrown for you,
into a box at the top right of the screen display. This is the dice
icon.

The number on the dice is the number of spaces that you can move in
your turn.
You may move either vertically or horizontally over the board, but not
diagonally. You may change directions as many times as your dice throw
will allow; however, you may not enter the same square more than once
on the same turn.

You may not land on a square occupied by another token. If your dice
roll would land you there by exact count, you must stop one space
behind the other players token. If you rolled a higher number, jump
over the other token, counting the occupied space, and move the total
number of spaces rolled.

To make your move, move the pointer to select the route you wish to
take. Click on each square in turn, starting from your current
position. You must enter and leave rooms using the doors, so the
program will only allow you to highlight legal spaces. To select a
room or other location as part of your route, click in the center of
that location. A marker will be displayed to show that the location is
selected.

When your route is highlighted by footprints, click on the dice to
make the move. The path you have taken will be shown by a heavier
footprint.
At the start of your turn your token is flashed so that you can locate
it. If you click in an incorrect position-a place where you cannot
legally move - a warning beep is made and the computer will again
flash your token.

SUGGESTING
When you enter a location, a suggestion icon is displayed at the
bottom  right of the screen.

Click on this icon to make a suggestion. You will be prompted to
select the character to suggest. Click on the card of the character
you want. Do this again for the weapon. The location will be the one
you are in when making the suggestion. Any cards passed to you will
appear face down on the screen. To turn them over, point at them and
hold down the mouse button. If you are playing against other people,
be sure to cup your hand round the cards as you display them, in order
to conceal them from your opponents eyes. After you have noted the
cards, click on the exit box to return to the main screen.
If you do not want to make a suggestion (perhaps you are only passing
through the location) click on the dice icon. This will make the
suggestion icon go away and your movement will continue.

The suspect named in a suggestion is moved to the suggested location.

If you make a suggestion in a location, you may make no further
movement in that turn.

SNOOPING
Snoop Spaces...Nine spaces on the board are marked by a magnifying
glass.

As part of your move you may land on one of these squares and SNOOP an
opponent.
When you SNOOP, you will be shown the suspects being played by your
opponents. Select the player to snoop by using the mouse, joystick or
keypad to move the pointer on the card. You will then be presented
with all the cards held by that player, face down, so that you cannot
see them. Select a card at random and click on it. The card will be
displayed while you hold down the button or key so be sure to keep it
covered from other human players.

Note: the cards are shuffled before being set out for the snoop.

SECRET PASSAGES
Some locations are joined by secret passages. These locations are
connected-Drawing Room to Conservatory, Library to Kitchen, and the
Basement Stairs to the Garden Walk. Movement through a secret passage
counts as one space.

To use a secret passage between rooms, click on the room that the
passage connects to. To use the secret passage between the Basement
Stairs and the Garden Walk, click on the Garden Walk square when it is
the destination. Click on the Basement Stairs when that is the
destination.

MORE ABOUT MOVING
When entering or leaving a location, you do not have to land in the
location by the exact count. You may pass through a location on a
turn, counting it as a space.
You may not re-enter a room on the same turn.
You do not have to use all your dice count at once.

You may move to a snoop square, snoop and then use up the remaining
count. If you have a count remaining on the dice, and there is a place
to move to, the program will not continue until this is used up.

The computer checks to see if you have boxed yourself in. If there is
no place for you to move to, you forfeit any count left on the dice.
If the suggest icon is present, and you click on the dice icon to
remove it, you will be required to move the remainder on the dice icon
to remove it, you will be required to move the remainder of the count
on the dice. So be sure you want to mvoe before you do this.

You may move over another player during your turn, but you may not
stop on a player. If you try to stop on a player, the computer will
beep, and give you the option of stopping BEHIND that player when you
move.

MORE ABOUT SUGGESTING
You may make a suggestion and accusation on the same turn.

After entering one of the locations, you may make only one suggestion.
To make another, you must wait until another turn when you are in a
different location or, sometime after your next turn, re-enter the
location you most recently left.

If another player moved your token to a new location in the course of
making a suggestion, on your next turn you may make a suggestion from
that location without moving. Or, you make click on the dice icon (to
remove the suggest icon) and continue to move in one of the usual
ways.

ACCUSING
When you are sure that you have deduced the correct solution to the
murder, you must make an accusation to win the game.

To make an accusation you must pull down the PLAY menu from the menu
bar at the top of the screen. Select ACCUSE from the menu and you will
be asked to confirm that you want to accuse. This is just in case you
have activated the menu by accident.

Select the Suspect, Location, and Weapon that you think make up the
murder cards. If you are correct, the computer will show a
re-enactment of the murder.

If you incorrectly accuse, you will drop out of the game and the other
players will carry on until someone gets it right. If you do not wish
to wait for that, select NEW GAME from the FILE menu.

ENDING YOUR TURN
When you have finished your move, you will see that the dice icon has
been replaced with an icon that says NEXT PLAYER. You may not make
another suggestion or move any further at this point, but you are
still able to do some other things. These will be explained in the
next section. To finish your turn, click on the NEXT PLAYER icon.

THE PULL DOWN MENUS
Various options are available during the game. These can be accessed
by pulling down the appropriate menu from the menu bar at the top of
the screen. These operate in a similar manner to other applications on
your computer.

CLUEDO
This menu has only one option-ABOUT CLUEDO
This tells you a little about the game.

FILE
Should you wish to stop playing CLUEDO MASTER DETECTIVE, or decide to
alter the set-up, this menu holds the option that will allow you to do
this.

NEW- Will start a new game of CLUEDO MASTER DETECTIVE. This option
abandons your current game, and returns you to the set-up screen.
Before this happens you will be asked to confirm you want to do this.

SAVE- Will save your game to disk, to be continued later.

LOAD- Will abandon your current game and load a previously saved
game.

Quit-Will abandon CLUEDO MASTER DETECTIVE. Before this happens you
will be asked to confirm that you want to do this.

OPTIONS
This options menu allows you to do a variety of things.

PRINT NOTE- If you have a standard printer connected to your computer,
you can print out note sheets on which to note the information you
collect during the game.

PRINT GAME - If you have a printer connected, you can print out a
review of all the suggestions and accusations made by the players
during the game. This includes who passed cards, but not who passed
what.

COMMENTS - As the game progresses, your computer opponents will gather
information in much the same way as you do. As an indication of how
they are getting on, we have given them the ability to make comments.
If you find this distracting you can turn this feature off by removing
the check next to Comments in the Options menu. When there is no check
mark, the comments are disabled.

SOUNDS - This option turns the sounds in the game on or off. A check
mark next to Sounds means that the sounds are enabled.

POINTER - This option changes the mouse pointer from a magnifying
glass to an arrow and back again.

FAST GAME - When this option is enabled, the program cuts out the view
of the player walking into the room in order to speed up the game.

PLAY
The play menu contains the options available to each individual
player.

ACCUQE - When you are sure of the murderer, weapon and scene of crime,
select this option to make your accusation.

SHOW NOTES - The computer holds a complete set of notes for each
player. When it is your turn, you can select SHOW NOTES and see your
own notesheet. The cards that you hold in your hand are marked with a
-C- . As you can see the other players cards, the computer will mark
off the cards you see with and -X-.

By clicking on the note boxes, you can alter the mark associated with
each item.
There is a -Y- and a -?-  for you to use in the way you prefer eg. -Y-
can be used to mark off those cards you are certain a player has, and
the -?- can be used if you are not sure.

SHOW CARDS - This will display the cards in your hand. Click on the
backs of the cards to see what they are.

AUTO REPLY - Sometimes you may hold more than one of the cards
mentioned in a suggestion. If you wish to choose for yourself which
card to show, switch auto reply off. Normally, auto reply will be on,
and the computer will select and pass a card for you. In selecting
which card to pass, the computer uses the same procedure as it does
for the computer player, so auto reply should be no disavantage. If
you only have one card the computer will automatically show that you
have no option.

If you are playing with other people as opposed to just computer
players, it is probably best to keep Auto Reply switched on so that
the other players do not benefit unfairly from knowing if you have
more than one of the cards.

STRATEGY HINTS FOR THE SUPER SLEUTH
Do not forget to snoop.....especially when your dice roll is large
enough to snoop and enter a location on the same move.

Making suggestions...You may want to name one or more of your own
cards in order to gain information...or mislead your opponents.

Proving a suggestion...It is possible on one turn to be shown all
three cards. However this is not necessarily an advantage, because all
the players heard you make your suggestion, and everyone will know
that those three cards are not the murder cards. This is another
reason you may want to include one of your own cards in the suggestion
cards.

Sneaky Move...If an opponents token appears to be heading to an
important Location, on your turn you may want to include that Suspect
in a Suggestion in order to move him or her away from that location.

End.