                     U.S.S. BLACKHAWK TECHNICAL MANUAL

                      C O D E N A M E   I C E M A N
                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                           Typed By  THE TWINS

 --------------
  INTRODUCTION
 --------------

TO ALL NAVY PERSONNEL - You are a part of the largest and strongest
seagoing force in the world. When you were sworn in and put on your
uniform for the first time, you became part of a great tradition. All
the brave men and women who have gone before you, and those who will
follow you, make up an unbroken chain of courage and devotion to duty
that should make you proud to wear your uniform.

 Service in the Navy can be whatever you make it. It takes some time to
understand and become adapted to the ways of the Navy, for going to sea
in ships is a tough, serious business, particularly in troubled times.
If you must work hard at times, miss a leave period or a few liberties
in your home port, remember that you chose a demanding job when you
joined the Navy.

 -------------------
  BOARDING PROTOCOL
 -------------------

Salute Flag - When standing on the gangway, prior to stepping aboard,
face all and 'salute the flag'.

Salute Officer of the Deck - After the above, turn and face the Officer
of the Deck, salute and 'request permission to come aboard.'

Presenting orders - After requesting 'permission to come aboard,' the
Officer of the Deck will inspect your orders and grant you permission
to board.

 -----------------------
  THE EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 -----------------------

Duties and responsibilities -
The executive Officer is the number two man under the Captain. His
responsibilities are to provide leadership to all men under him while
maintaining a feeling of good spirit. The Executive Officer will take
command of the ship during any absence of the Captain. It shall be the
responsibility of the Executive Officer to insure the operational
status of his vessel by inspecting and cycling equipment in the
following areas:

1) Control Room
2) Machinery Compartment
3) Torpedo Room
4) Engine Room

 --------------
  CONTROL ROOM
 --------------

PERISCOPES
(Attack & Observation)
Use your periscopes to determine the exact location of an object on the
surface. The left and right [Arrow] keys will adjust the heading of the
scope. When you have located an object, take note as to its location.
 Scopes should only be used at periscope depth (approx. 70'). Severe
damage may occur if the'attack scope' is used at speeds in excess of
5 knots. Severe damage may also occur if the 'observation scope' is
used at speeds in excess of 12 knots.

SONARMAN
The sonarman is situated in the control room next to the radioman and
to the left of the control panel. Contact with the sonarman and
radioman can be made by walking over to them and talking to them.

COMMUNICATIONS
Coded Messages
All messages received aboard the U.S.S. Blackhawk will be in coded
format and shall be received through the radioman.

Decoding Messages
Aboard the U.S.S. Blackhawk can be found a book entitled US Naval
Intelligance Decoding. This book must be used in conjunction with your
technical manual. The word keys used for decoding can be found within
the 'boxed shaded' areas. The coded numbers represent page, line and
word. All coded numbers are in the range 0-9.

CHARTS
(Located in control room).
Course Plotting
Enclosed within the packaging of this game is a foldout map. Use this
map for determining and plotting your course heading.

Coordinates
Using a straight edge, plot your course on the foldout map. When its
necessary for the submarine to change from a direct course, make note
of the longitude aqnd latitude of the 'waypoint' (the point at which
you'll change direction). These are your coordinates.
 The initial overall course to be followed will be given to you using
landmarks. Using the foldout map and the landmarks as a guide, chart
your 'way points' on the map and then enter them into the computerized
charts table located in the control room. You may also receive
information via radio, of other specific way points for rendezvous
purposes. Type: Look Map - to get a close-up view. The flashing point
on the map represents your vessel at its current location.

To begin entering way points Type: Plot Course.

When entering the way points, use the directional keys until the
longitude and latitude that you have calculated on the foldout map are
displayed. Depress the [Enter] key on your keyboard to enter the way
point. To change a way point already entered Type: Change Point. Repeat
the above sequence until you have entered all your way points. When
entering the last way point, depress the [Enter] key twice.

Map Display:
 Use to determine present location at all times.

Fire Control Panel:
 The Fire Control Panel consists of four controls. From left to right
their functions are as follows:

A: Select Weapon (click on with the mouse)
   Target selections is fully automatic.
B: Lock on Target (click on with mouse)
C: 3-D Imaging Display (click on with mouse)
D: FIRE (click on with mouse).

Sonar:
 There are two types of sonar used in the U.S.S. Blackhawk:
Passive Sonar - Listening for sound produced by other vessels,
responsibility of sonarman.
Active Sonar - Sending out sound waves to detect underwater objects.
Size and distance can be measured when an object has been detected.
Active sonar consists of Vertical and Ranging Soanr, explained below.

Vertical Sonar:
 Vertical sonare determines the distance above and below your submarine
to a solid object such as an iceberg or the ocean floor. The center
point on the screen represents your vessel. Each line on the screen
represents 10 ft above or below your vessel. When an object is present
within 100 ft above or below the sub, the lines on your screen become
highlighted to indicate the distance of the object from your location.

Ranging Sonar:
 Ranging Sonar indicates obstacles within 1000 yd. radius around the
submarine.

Depth Gauge:
 Displays current depth.

Water Temperature Gauge:
 Displays current water temperature in degrees Celsius.

Time Clock:
 Displays current time of day.

Speed Indicator:
 Displays speed in knots.

RPM Indicator:
 Displays engine Revolutions Per Minute.

Stern Plane Indicator:
 Indicates the angle of inclination of the Stern Plane.

Coordinate Display Screen (Position Indicator):
 This screen shows you the course coordinates of your last way point.

Dive Lever:
 Use this lever to increase or decrease ballast, which will allow you
to set the bow and stern planes so that your sub may surface or dive.
Using the up and down [Arrow] keys, move the lever up and down. Using
the mouse, place the mouse cursor on the lever and hold down the left
mouse button. Now move the cursor in the direction you wish to adjust
the lever.

Engine Lever:
 Use this lever to adjust the running speed of the submarine. Use the
[+] key to accelearate, the [-] to decelerate. Using the mouse, place
the mouse cursor on the lever and hold down the left mouse button. Now
move the cursor in the direction you wish to adjust the lever.

Ballast Indicator:
 Indicates ballast level in four separate tanks aboard the submarine.

Silent Running On/Off:
 Activates or deactivates Silent Run. When Silent Running is active,
noise eliminating transducers mask noise produced by the submarine,
reducing the likelihood of discovery by a hostile force. (click on with
mouse)

Silent Run Indicator:
 Indicates whether Silent Running is active.

Sonar On/Off:
 Activates or deactivates the active sonar. (click on with mouse)

Altitude Indicator:
 Gauges the vertical angle of the submarine.

Wheel:
 You can change direction using the left and right [Arrow] keys to turn
the wheel. If you're using a mouse, place the mouse cursor on the wheel
and hold down the left mouse button. Continue holding the left button
as you move the cursor to the left or right.

Closed Circuit Monitor On/Off:
 This monitor enables the navigation to see any obstacles in the path
of the sub. The closed cicuit system is vital to successful navigation.
(click on with mouse)

Torpedo Tube Flood Control Indicator:
 Indicates whether Torpedo tubes have been flooded.

Torpedo Tube Flood On/Off:
 Floods torpedo tubes. Switches automatically when weapons locks on.

Fire Control Panel Activate Button:
 Lowers Fire Control Panel from ceiling for easy access. (click on with
mouse)

Rudder Indicator:
 Indicates the current position of the Rudder.

Emergency Ballast Control:
 In the event of an emergancy, it may be necessary for the Blackhawk to
surface quickly. The emergency ballast allows the sub to surface
automatically under most conditions.

Hatch Indicators:
 There are 3 exterior hatches aboard the U.S.S. Blackhawk. The purpose
of the hatch indicators is to keep you informed as to whether the
exterior hatches are open or closed. If an indicator is lighted, a
hatch is open.

Analog Compass
 Shows compass heading by the position of a needle in relation to
compass point indicating true North.

Coordinate Display Screen (Latitude Indicator):
 This screen presents you with your current latitude coordinates at all
times.

Bow Plane Indicator
 Indicates the angle of inclination of the Bow Plane.

Heading Indicator
 Displays compass heading in numbers.

Multipurpose View Screen
 Use to view weapons selection when using Fire Control Panel, also
serves as monitor for Closed Circuit Television.

Throttle Speed Indicator
A. Lights out- Throttle Stopped.
B. 1 light- Throttle slow
C. 2 lights - Throttle 1/3
D. 3 lights - Throttle 2/3
E. 4 lights - Throttle full
F. All lights red - Throttle reverse

Dive Plane Indicators
 Indicates dive plane position.

 -----------------------
  TORPEDO ROOM MISSILES
 -----------------------

Harpoon
 The 'Harpoon' missile is an active radar homing weapon. It delivers a
1000 lb. penetration/blast warhead over ranges of up to 150 nautical
miles against surface ship targets. It is propelled by a solid rocket
booster and turbojet sustainer, and after reaching a maximum altitude
of 5,ooo ft. it eruises at high subsonic speed.

TORPEDOES
Sting Ray
 The 'Sting Ray' is active/passive homing to 35 nautical miles at 90
knots. It deliveres a 1000 lb. warhead to a depth of 5,000 ft.

Emerson Electric MK 2 Torpedo Decoy
 The decoy torpedo is used as a counter measure against attack. The
decoy emits a sound signature identical to the mother ship from which
it is launched. Decoys need not be targeted.

 ---------------------
  EQUIPMENT & SYSTEMS
 ---------------------

Explosives
 Plastic explosives for underwater demolition can be found aboard the
U.S.S. Blackhawk.

Tubes
 The U.S.S. Blackhawk has four forward torpedo tubes which may be used
to launch all weapons.

Machinery Compartment
 The machinery compartment consists of tools used to reproduce parts in
the event of breakdown. Other life support systems can also be found,
such as fresh water, oxyger and scrubber systems.

Fresh Water System
 Sea water is desalinated and then distilled to remove minerals. Fresh
water is stored for crew use and to generate oxygen.

Oxygen
 Fresh water is pumped into oxygen generator, high amperage(1,050 amps)
electricity separates the hydrogen from the oxygen. Hydrogen is pumped
overboard and oxygen is stored in a bank of high pressure oxygen
bottles. Oxygen is bled into atmosphere as required.

Scrubbers
 Various gasses in the atmosphere are maintained at acceptable levels
by filtering out excess.

Nuclear Compartment
 General Electric pressurized water cooled S6G reactor. Two geared
turbines, one shaft. Due to the extreme hazard of radiation exposure in
the nuclear reactor compartment, admittance is not allowed.

 ----------------------------------------------
  DEFENSIVE STRATEGY (WHEN ATTACK IS IMMINENT)
 ----------------------------------------------

Preparing for Attack
 If you believe attack is imminent, it's very important to react
quickly! The following suggestions will aid you in the survival of your
submarine and crew.

Run Silent
 The key to submarinesurvival is evasion through 'stealth' or silent
running. The U.S.S. Blackhawk is equipped with the latest in electronic
noise eliminating transducers which are located at various point along
the propeller shaft. The transducers are attached to the steel casing
surrounding the shaft. They pick up generated sound waves which are fed
into a computer. The computer creates the exact opposite phase sound
wave which cancels out the noise. This makes for much improved silent
running; however, the tranducer is only effective if the submarine is
operated at speeds of 5 knots or less.

Sonar
 Passive sonar is a must, because active sonar will give away your
position. As soon as possible, confirm a fix on enemy target.

Weapons
 You must first select, a weapon. When using harpoon missles and Sting
Ray Torpedoes you MUST first lock on to your target. Remember that a
weapon launch may temporarily give away your position during silent
running. 
Decoy torpedo may be used to draw enemy fire if under attack.

Dive Deep
 Diving deep and changing course will aid your evasion tactics. In some
instances the bottom terrain will help hide your position.

Inversion Layers
 A layer of water that is warmer than the surrounding water is called
an inversion layer. An inversion layer will detect sonar signals from
above.

 ---------------------
  US NAVY TERMINOLOGY
 ---------------------

Aye aye		Yes Sir
Fish		Torpedo
Stern		Rear of ship
Aft		Near, toward or in the stern of a ship
Bow		Front of ship
Port		Left side of ship
Starboard	Right side of ship
Stern Planes	Submarines rear navigational diving planes
Bow Planes	Submarines front navigational diving planes
Rudder		Sumbmarines left/right navigational control
Ballast Tanks	Diving and surfacing controls
Flooding tubes	Flooding torpedo tubes in preparation for launch
Green board	All control room systems ready for diving
Hatch		Passage way in, out, or through submarine
Screws		Ships propellers
Signature	Identifying ships through their unique sound
Active Sonar	Sending active sound waves
Passive		Listening for sound created by other ships
Ping		Active sonar sound

 ----------------------
  FIRST AID PROCEDURES
 ----------------------

Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
 CPR is an emergancy life saving technique. To understand how CPR can
sustain life, consider these two definitions of death:

A. Clinical Death - The heartbeat and breathing have stopped. This is
also known as near or apparent death, and it may be averted, or
reversed. 'Sudden Death' is sudden, unexpected clinical death. Some
common causes of sudden death are:
Cardiac Arrest
Electric Shock
Drowning
Drug overdose
Suffocation
Severe allergie reactions

B. Biological Death - Permanent brain death due to lack of oxygen.
During the first few minutes of clinical death, promptly initiated CPR
may turn the victim back to productive life. Without CPR, biological
death will occur. Speed in starting CPR and in getting specialized
medical care for the victim are the keys to saving lives.
 When CPR is started within 4 minutes, the victim's chances of leaving
the hospital alive are four times greater than those of a victim who
does not receive CPR until after 4 minutes.
As a rescuer acting in good faith, you should remember that once CPR
has begun, youy may stop only when:
1. The victim recovers
2. Another trained individual takes over
3. You are too exhausted to continue

Cardiopulmonary resuscitation includes three basis rescue skills, the
ABC's of CPR: Airway, Breathing, and Circulation.

Airway - The first action for successful resuscitation is immediate
opening of the airway. It is important to remember that the back of the
tongue and the epiglottis are the most common cause of airway
obstruction in the unconscious victim. Since the tongue directly, and
the epiglottis indirectly, are attached to the lower jaw, tilting the
head back and moving the lower jaw (chin) forward lifts the tongue and
the epiglot up from the back of the throat and usually opens thew
airway.
Breathing - When breathing stops, the body has only the oxygen
remaining in the lungs and bloodstream. It has no other oxygen reserve.
Therefore, when breathing stops, cardiac arrest and death quickly
follows. Mouth to mouth rescue breathing is the quickest way to get
oxygen into the victim's lungs. There is more than enough oxygen in the
air you breath into the victim to at least partly supply his or her
needs. Rescue breathing must be performed until the victim can breath
on his or her own or until trained professionals take over.
 Remember: If the victim's heart is beating, you must (1)maintain an
open airway and (2)breath (for the adult victim) once every 5 seconds
(12 times per minute). If the victim's heart is not beating, you will
have to perform mouth-to-mouth rescue breathing plus chest
compressions.
Circulation - The third skill of CPR is chest compressions, which the
replace the heartbeats of the victim. They maintain some blood flow to
the lungs, brain, coronary arteries, and other major organs. Any time
chest compressions are performed, mouth-to-mouth rescue breathing must
also be performed.

NOTE: THE FOLLOWING (ONE MAN) CPR PERFORMANCE GUIDELINE WAS TAKEN FROM
THE 1987 'HEARTSAVER MANUAL' BY THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION.

1. Lay Victim On Back (Head Must Not Be Above Level Of Heart)
2. Shake And Shout To Establish Responsiveness
3. Call For Help
4. Establish Th Airway (Open The Mouth And Sweep With Fingers)
5. Look. Listen, And Feel (Look For Chest Rising, Listen For Breath,
   Feel For Breath With Cheek.)
6. Give 2 Good Breaths (After Tilting Head Back And Opening Mouth)
7. Repeat Step #5.
8. Check Pulse For 5-10 Seconds.
9. After The Above Steps And Still No Vital Signs, Begin Compressions,
   Position Heel Of Hands Approx. 3" Above The End Of The Sternum.
   Compress The Chest 1 1/2-2' At A Rate Of 100 Times Per Minute. The
   Ratio Of Compressions To Breaths (for 1 Person) Are, 15 Compressions
   To 2 Breaths. Check For Pulse Every Minute. Continue Step #8 Until
   Breathing And Pulse Are Established Or, Until Competent Help Has
   Arrived To Relieve You.

 -------------------------
  HOW TO READ THIS MANUAL
 -------------------------

 Throughout this manual we will use the following ways of representing
information:
MENU COMMANDS will be CAPITALIZED.
Example: SAVE, RESTORE, QUIT, PAUSE GAME

PLEASE NOTE: If there is a README file on your game diskette. It may
contain important information and instructions that were not available
at the time the documentation and other materials for this game were
printed. Failure to review the README file before installing the
program may cause unexpected results during installation, loading or
playing the game.

 ---------------------
  INSTALLING THE GAME
 ---------------------

Note: RENAME your copies of all game disks to remove the words
'COPY OF' from the disk name. If the words 'COPY OF' are not removed
from the disk names of ALL the copies, the system will continue to ask
for the original disk, and will not run the game.
1. Boot your system with Workbench, and insert Disk 1 of your Sierra
   game.
2. Double click on the disk icon, then double click on the INSTALL
   icon.
3. Follow the onscreen prompts, choosing your selection with the mouse
   by clicking once on the item.
4. You will be asked if you wish to install the game on your hard disk.
   If you do not wish the game to be installed on your hard disk,
   select YES.
5. Using your mouse, select the drive on which you wish to install the
   game.
6. Follow the onscreen prompts to complete the installation.

 ----------------------
  LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
 ----------------------

From Diskettes:
1. If you have less than 1 megabyte of memory for your Amiga, turn your
   system off and disconnect any external drives.
2. Insert Disk 1 into drive DF0:.
3. Turn on your system.

From Hard Disk:
1. Load Workbench and double-click on your hard disk icon.
2. Double click on the SIERRA GAMES drawer.
3. Click on the drawer for the desired Sierra game.
4. Click on the game icon.

 -----------------------
  MOVING YOUR CHARACTER
 -----------------------

 You may move your character on the screen with the [Arrow] keys, the
numeric keypad, the joystick, or the mouse. To halt your character's
step with the keypad press the number 5, or press the last used
direction key again. Do not attempt to move the character by holding
down the direction key. This will cause the character to start and stop
continuously, resulting in very slow progress.
Using the mouse, position the arrow where you want the character to
move, then click the left mouse button.

Menus
 When you press [Esc], a menu bar will appear at the top of your screen
with several menus that can be opened to slow the commands choices
available to you.

Keys To Use In The Menus
 Use the left and right [Arrow] keys to open a menu, and the up and
down [Arrow] keys to highlight items within a menu.
Press [Enter] to select a highlighted command.
Press [Esc] to return to the game without choosing a command.

Game Speed Control
 At times it may be useful to slow down the speed of the game animation
in order to negotiate a tricky section, or observe something more
carefully. At other times, you may wish to speed up the game actions.
To increase or decrease animation speed, choose FASTER or SLOWER from
the Speed Menu, or use the [+] key to increase speed, the [-] key to
decrease speed, or the [=] key to return to normal animation speed.

 --------------------------------
  SHORT CUTS FOR COMMON COMMANDS
 --------------------------------

 You can use function and control keys to short cut many common
commands.

[F1]		Help
[F2]		Toggle sound on/off
[F3],[Spacebar] Repeat previous command
[F5]		Save Game
[F7]		Restore (saved) Game
[F9]		Restart Game (from beginning)
[Tab]		Inventory
[Ctrl-I]	Inventory
[Ctrl-P]	Pause Game
[Ctrl-Q]	Quit Game
[+]		Increase Animation Speed
[-]		Decrease Animation Speed
[=]		Normal Animation Speed
[Ctrl-V]	Change Volume

 --------------------
  USING YOUR TAB KEY
 --------------------

 While playing Sierra games, your [Tab] key will perform two major
functions. You will use it to review the items in your inventory, and
also (if you're not using a mouse) to select options from certain
menus. The following menus will require the use of the [Tab] key for
highlighting menu options:

Menu.....................Choose from
Restart Game.............Restart, Continue
Quit Game................Quit, Don't Quit
Save Game................Save, Cancel, Change Directory
[Death Message Box]......Restore, Restart, Quit

Using the Mouse (optional)
 To move your character using the mouse, position the arrow to where
you want the character to move, then click the left mouse button.

Retyping Commands
 If you wish to repeat a command select RETYPE from the ACTION menu or
press the [SPACEBAR] or [F3].

Inventory
 If you wish to see the items you are carrying, select INVENTORY from
the Action menu, press [Ctrl-I], or press the [Tab] key. A list of the
items you are carrying will be displayed. To look more closely at an
item, use your [Arrow] keys to highlight the item and press [ENTER]. A
picture of the item, along with a brief description, will appear on
your screen. Press [ENTER] or [ESC] to resume play.

Pausing Your Game
 If you wish to pause the game, select PAUSE from the Action menu, or
press [Ctrl-P]. Press [ESC] or [ENTER] to resume play.

Saving Your Game
 If you wish to save your game, select SAVE from the File menu, or
press [F5]. To allow for errors in judgement and creative exploration,
we recommend that you frequently save your game in progress, and that
you save several different games from different points as you play. You
will always want to save your game before encountering potentially
dangerous situations. You should also save your game after you have
made significant progress.
Please note: If you're playing from diskettes, you must have a separate
formatted diskette ready before you can save a game. Since each disk
can only hold a limited number of games, we recommend that you have
more than one disk formatted, in order to assure adequate space for
save game storage.
 If you choose to save games to your hard disk, we suggest that you
create one or more save game directories or folders on your hard disk.
See your computer's instructions for creating directories or folders.
You may name your saved games using standard English phrases. For
example, if you are standing on a sandy beach, you might call your game
'standing on sandy beach', or simply 'beach'.

Restoring Your Game
 Select RESTORE from the File menu, or press [F7]. You will be prompted
to select the game you wish to restore. (On a single drive system, you
will be prompted to insert your save game disk). Highlight the desired
game and select RESTORE. If the game you wish to restore is in a
different directory, select CHANGE DIRECTORY.
Please note: If you do not have a mouse, use the [Tab] key to toggle
between RESTORE and CHANGE DIRECTORY.

Quitting Your Game
 To stop playing, select QUIT from the File menu, or press [Ctrl-Q].

Restarting Your Game
 If you wish to restart your game at any time during play, select
RESTART from the file menu, or press the [F9] key. The game will begin
again (INSERT GAME SPECIFIC INFORMATION).

Communicating With Codename: ICEMAN
 You can generally interact with the game by typing simple commands
consisting of as little as a noun and a verb. For instance, the command
sit in the chair can be shortened to sit in chair, or
even sit. Unless otherwise directed, follow all typed commands
with [ENTER].
 Many characters in the game will have information of one kind or
another for you. To talk with a character, type: talk to [character] (for example: talk to man.
 You may encounter objects you need along the way. To take an object,
type: take or get [object]. For example, take the note.
You will need to use the objects you acquire as you explore. You can
try different things such as typing: use the [object], or give the
[object] to [character]. Different approaches to a puzzle may
bring about a different outcome.
 Pay close attention to details. To examine objects, type look at the
[object], (for example:look at the table), or press [Ctrl-L], then
type the name of the object.
 To get a general description of the current room or scene, type look
around, or use your mouse to choose LOOK from the menu.
 A message window will appear after you enter each command, and at
other times during the game. When you have read the message, press
[ENTER] to remove the window and resume play.

CODENAME ICEMAN understands many common verbs. Here are some you might
try:

	ASK		DROP		SEARCH		TELL
	BUY		EAT		PLAY		SIT
	THROW		CLIMB		GET		PUSH
	TAKE		USE		CLOSE		GIVE
	READ		STAND		WALK		DRINK
	OPEN		RUN

LOOK everywhere. Thoroughly explore your surroundings. Open doors and
drawers, look under things and behind things for valuable objects and
clues. Look closely at all objects you encounter or you may miss
important details.

EXPLORE each area of the game very carefully. Search every area of the
game. Be careful!! There are many hazards awaiting you!

DRAW A MAP as you progress through the game. Make a note of each area
you visit, and include information about objects found there and
dangerous areas nearby. If you miss an area, you may miss an important
clue!

GET objects you think you will need. You will come across a number of
objects that may be of use to you later. You can see an inventory of
items on hand by pressing the [Tab] key at any time.

USE the items you have picked up to solve problems in the game, or to
help you to make progress and discover more clues.

BE CAREFUL, and remain alert at all times   disaster may strike in the
most unlikely of places.

SAVE YOUR GAME OFTEN, especially when you are about to try something
new or potentially dangerous. This way, if the worst should happen, you
won't have to start all over again from the beginning. Save games at
different points of the game, so you will be able to return to a
desired point in the game. In effect, this will enable you to travel
backward through time and do things differently if you wish.

DON'T GET DISCOURAGED. If you com to an obstacle that seems
insurmountable, don't despair. Spend some time exploring another area,
and come back later. Every problem in the game has at least one
solution, and some have more the one. Sometimes solving a problem one
way will make it harder to solve the next, and sometimes it will make
it easier. If you get stuck, you might try backtracking to an earlier
point in the game, then choosing a different path. If all else fails,
you can look at the solution for this game made by LEGION, get it??

BRING ALONG SOME HELP. You may find it helpful (and fun) to play the
game with a friend. Two (or more) heads are better than one at
interpreting clues and solving problems.

 --------------
  NEW FEATURES
 --------------

Note: Codename Iceman features a new and improved playing system for
easy interface. Here are some of the improvements we think you'll
appreciate:

1. LOOK - If you timply type look in any room, you'll
automatically get a description of the object(s) directly in front of
your character. If you type look at [person] or [object], and
your character is not facing that person or object, your character will
turn to face the person or object before the game gives you a
description.

2. GET, TALK, TAKE, (Commands other than 'Look') - In some cases, you
may want to talk to a person or get an object that is not directly in
front of you. Previously, the game might have responded by saying
'You're not close enough'. With ICEMAN's improved playing system, if
you character isn't close enough, he'll automatically move closer to
the person or object before getting it or talking to him/her.

3. DOORS - Most doors in the game will open automatically when your
character approaches them. This eliminates repeatedly typing open
door.

4. MOVING YOUR CHARACTER - To easily walk to a visible point on your
screen, type walk to object. Your character will automatically
make his way to the desired point. Moving your character is generally
easier with the improved playing system.

END OF MESSAGE 

BYE!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              Code-name: ICEMAN
                                  Code Book

	  Typed by: The Ringwraith         Supplied by: Twilight Zone


=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Page 5:

	U.S. WHEN TO READ LOST PHOTO CONTACTING IN
	SEPARATE SEND PLACING MOTION VITAL FOR
	DECEMBER DESTROY ADMISSION PEOPLE TO
	FIND PASS TIME SO LINE OVER WANT WITH
	MARINE AND SHADE COONTZ SERVICE EXHIBIT
	CLOCK INTRODUCTION WEAPONRY OF NEAREST
	DECISION IS JUSTIFIED UNDER TOMORROW IS
	EVERY SILVER DEGREE


Page 7:

	NEXT STRANGE GO COMMUNIQUE SOMEHOW
	LAST OFF BUT IT ACTIVITIES DO CONFIDENTIAL
	FIRST ANNOUNCE MONEY IF RIGHT WEAPONS YOUR
	CAN OVERTHROW UPDATE ROLL CROSSINGS
	SERIES WILL 170 THING GOING RIBBON AFTER
	LARGE STAMP FALL OUT COURSE OF SHOE MAY
	CAUTION SAND TOP MOUSE RIVER MOON SHIP


Page 9:

	SONAR ANOTHER CAN SEE FACE 50 OFFICIAL NEWS
	AGENT WIT SOMEONE LOCATE WICK SIX 1000
	LATITUDE QUEEN TELEVISION AS LONG IS PLAY
	THE OPEN STUFF LOOK ON SHALL DEGREES
	HEARD BEARING TEN 28NM WONDERFUL STILL IS
	ERRATIC FUNCTION THERE RUSSIAN SWORD
	DIRECTION CONTACT BUTTON BOWL SURFACE
	TWO TENT


Page 11:

	INSTRUCTIONs TO MINT WITH PARK REDWOOD
	DEAD MISSION UNDER THERE 4100 EXTREME 32 BIG
	CAPITAL FISHERMAN TYPE LOCK NECESSARY
	CALIFORNIA CAN BOTTLE PHONE OCEAN OFF
	YEAR RENDEZVOUS DONE CALL HOOD OLD BOY
	LONGITUDE WATER NOTHING FOR USE NIGHT
	CLIP HALF FOOT IN PING 7575/386


Page 14:

	WITHIN NAME TO THE PUBLISHED DIRECTORY
	MESSAGE TACTIC GENERIC UNDERSTAND CODE
	NUMBER SIGNAL PAGE BEEP WRONG ON AS YOUR
	LIQUID COLUMN U2 IN SAND BANNER CARD WAR
	BADGE MEMBERSHIP SO WAR BOX CLUB MANTLE
	THROUGH JANUARY 1/24/2000 SCREEN SHOW TAPE
	OF MEDAL USS DEVELOP SEA


Page 15:

	TOUCH ACHIEVED SCROLL CALCULATIONS CAN
	WORD SPELL FROM STEER FISHERMANS CAKE
	DONATION SHIPS SET TELEPHONE CRY DRILLING
	DEATH HOUSE UNTIL NET FEEL THAT 35 SHOULD
	ALWAYS SHORE DIFFICULT AREA 10 ELEPHANT
	TOO A CERTAIN FILE OF WORTH VERY SMALL AT
	FURTHER IDEA TO BE WAY DIRECTLY UNEARTH


Page 17:

	CAN INDIAN STRAITS ARIZONA 2700/56/000
	BELIEVE BLUE ND ALPHA ONE EXPOSED LIGHT
	TANK PATROL. TOLL FIRE WETTING MERLIN ONE
	TEN HANG SUCH 20 BIGGEST GROUP CLEAR OCEAN
	DAVID REMOVE PAPER BY HELP THE NEED HOURS
	DEDICATED REMAINDER TOOL CHOICE 5NM
	PARTY LAMP