                       FIXED BY RYGAR ! ! !


                    CONAN THE CIMMERIAN DOCS

     
     TABLE OF CONTENTS                       PAGE

      I. CREDITS                                  1

     II. INTRODUCTION                             2

     III. GETTING STARTED                         4

     IV. THE CONTROL SYSTEM                       4

     V. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS                      6

     VI. GAME LEVELS                              11

     VII. INTERACTION                             12

     VIII. SCREEN ICONS                           14

     IX. STATUS SCREEN                            15

     X. THE WORLD OF HYBOREA                      16

     XI. HINTS FOR HYBOREANS                      18

     XII. THE WORLD OF RON E. HOWARD              21


                         CREDITS AND INTRODUCTION

     UH HUH.  IF YOU REALLY CARE, BUY THE GAME.  AND WHY NOT, THIS
     IS THE KIND OF GAME WORTH SUPPORTING.  NOT WING COMMANDER II,
     BUT BY COMPARISON WITH THE REST OF THE VIRGIN GAMES, A
     SUPERIOR EFFORT.  

     Game supplied by Zodact, Docs produced by Brumus Bear.
     If you have problems with your copy of Conan, quit using the
     THG version (we believe it to be either a beta or a version
     supplied to magazine reviewers - Fab Furlough says its the
     real thing, but hey, we'll let you all figure it out and we'll
     give you smart people a head start clue - do you play the
     Razor 1911 version, full crack of the release version and
     first rate docs to go with it or play the questionable thg
     version?  The choice is yours).

     I (Brumus Bear) also have the docs to The Perfect General and
     the Lost Admiral, two other Razor 1911 Releases.  I will try
     to scan these as soon as possible.

     In addition, Brumus is getting the hint books for Corporation,
     Vengeance of Excalibur and Conan and may pass them along when
     he receives them.

     As our adventure begins, Akado the Wizard is seated by a
     campfire, relating the story of Conan the Barbarian.  Bear in
     mind that the Wizard is very old and he may occasionally gets
     events confused.  But don't worry, he'll eventually back up
     and retell any part of the story he gets wrong.

     Go, then, and take Conan on his quest for vengeance.  A bit of
     advice: talk to anyone you can in Shadizar!  You can never
     tell who might aid you in your quest.  The fortune tellers and
     wise sages of the city are particularly helpful in their words
     of advice.

     III. Getting Started:  All Systems - use pkunzip -d and
     runme.com.

     IV. The Control System

     Once you have loaded the game, three options will be offered:

     NEW GAME Allows players to begin a new adventure

     RESTORE GAME Allows players to reload a previously saved game

     QUIT Ends game and returns user to DOS

     Once a new game has been selected or a previous scenario
     restored, a series of introductory text windows will establish
     the game's storyline and characters.  To read the entire
     introduction, continue to select the MORE command.  To end the
     introduction, select the CONTINUE command.  Next, use the
     ACTION icon (the clenched first) to give Conan a movement
     command.  After clicking on the ACTION icon, click on the city
     of Shadizar (just south of Conan's current position) and Conan
     will travel to that city.

     CONAN THE CIMMERIAN begins in the streets of Shadizar.  The
     game has two visual perspectives:

     TOPDOWN When outside a building or structure, Conan is seen
     from an angled topdown perspective.

     SIDE VIEW When inside a building or engaged in combat, Conan
     is seen from side perspective. (see "Game Levels")
                    

                              4


     At any time during the game, the player can access the Control
     Panel by moving the cursor to either the Blue jewel at the top
     to the screen or by pressing the F1 key.  Invoking the Control
     Panel presents the following options:
     NEW GAME - Allows the player to begin a new adventure

     RESTORE GAME - Allows player to reload a previously-saved
     adventure.


                              5


     SAVE GAME - Conan uses an auto-save feature that allows a game
     to be saved and restored at any time.

     TOGGLE SOUND - Turns music on/off

     QUIT - Returns user to DOS

     PAUSE - move the cursor to the Red jewel at the top of the
     screen and click.

     V. General Instructions

     The instructions in this section deal with overall game play.

     CURSOR MOVEMENT

     The on-screen sword cursor can be manipulated by the user via
     mouse, joystick or keyboard.  To move the cursor through the
     keyboard, press and hold down the control key while
     simultaneously pressing the appropriate direction key.

          To click on an icon, command menu or option box the user
          can:

          Press the left mouse button;

          Press the primary joystick button, or;

          Hit the ENTER/RETURN/INS key.

     Selections can be made from option menus by hitting the key
     representing the first character of any word in that menu.  If
     there is only one option that starts with that letter, it will
     be selected.

     If more than one available option begins with the same letter,
     the cursor will cycle through each possible command as long as
     the user continues to hit the same key.  When the cursor
     reaches the desired option, press ENTER/RETURN/INS.

     This technique may take a little getting used to, but it is an
     invaluable help once mastered.


                              6


     PICTURE ON PAGE 7 DID NOT SCAN WORTH BEANS


                              7

     CHARACTER MOVEMENT

     Conan can be moved in three ways:

     MOUSE - Move the cursor to the location you want Conan to walk
     to, then press and hold the right mouse button and Conan will
     walk to the new position.  If you want to enter a building,
     move as close to the door as possible using the right mouse
     button and then click on the door with the left mouse button
     (This move is not as simple as they say, some doors were very
     picky and required several attempts from different positions -
      BB).

     JOYSTICK - Move the joystick in the direction you want Conan
     to travel to.  If you want to enter a building, move as close
     to the door as possible and then click on the door with the
     FIRE button.

     KEYBOARD - Press the arrow key that corresponds to the
     direction you want Conan to walk in.

          7- Up left     8- Up     9- Up Right

          4- Left                  6- Right

          1- Down left   2- Down   3- Down Right

     COMBAT
     
     There are three styles of combat which Conan must master:

     1) Overhand              A chopping downward swing

     2) Side Swipe            A swinging, across the body blow

     3) Thrust                A forward lunge

     Before each combat, the player must choose Conan to fight in
     one of 

                         
                         8


     these three styles.  To do this, select the "Swing" option,
     which will bring up the Select Attack menu.  Life meters
     appear at the bottom of the screen representing the vitality
     of each combatant.  When a life meter drains down to zero,
     that character dies.  The player may change fighting styles
     anytime during combat.

     Each of the three fighting techniques can be improved by
     having Conan visit Master Quan Yo in the Thieves' Quarter (see
     "Hints for Hyboreans").  Different styles of fighting are
     required to vanquish a wide range of enemies, but it remains
     for the player to learn which moves work best against various
     opponents.

          FIGHTING

          Fighting can be conducted via keyboard, joystick or
          mouse:

          Keyboard

          Down Arrow  Unsheaths and sheaths Conan's sword,
          signalling the beginning or end of combat

          Up Arrow  Swing sword in manner determined by the player

          Left Arrow  Moves Conan left

          Right Arrow  Moves Conan right

          Keyboard users can press 1(overhand), 2(swing) or 3
          (thrust) for quick changes of fighting style.

          Joystick

          Down  Unsheaths and sheaths Conan's sword, signalling the
          beginning or end of combat

          Up  Swings sword in manner determined by the player

          Left  Moves Conan left

          Right Moves Conan right


                              9


          Hmmm...more trash.....nice picture, like out of the comic
          books


                              10


          Mouse

          Left   Hold down the right mouse button while moving the
          mouse left

          Right  Hold down the right mouse button while moving the
          mouse right

          Strike  To strike an opponent, position the cursor on the
          opponent and press the left mouse button

          Sheath/Unsheath Sword  Press down arrow key.

          Exit  Click on a door or the edge of a scene (only in the
          direction Conan came from if the fight is going on). 
          Conan cannot exit when fighting, so be sure to sheath his
          sword first.

          Use the menus (click on Conan or the command icons) to
          change swords, use a potion, or alter Conan's fighting
          style.

          Objects cannot be clicked on while a fight is in
          progress; the opponent must be defeated before the room
          can be searched.


          ABORTING COMMANDS

          Any command sequence can be aborted by pressing the ESC
          key.  This key is also used to eliminate information or
          dialog windows once they have been read.

     VI.  Game Levels

               There are three types of screen displays;

          a)World Level

          The World Level allows movement among the various cities
          of Hyborea.  It is a detailed, topdown display of the
          cities and areas of special interest known to Conan. 
          Conan can only travel to locations shown on the World
          Level screen.  As Conan learns of new locations, they
          will appear on the Hyborean Map.


                         11


          Leaving one of the game area (Shadizar, Larsha, etc.)
          automatically takes Conan to this screen.

          b) City Level

          The City Level offers an angled topdown display of a city
          or other location (such as an underground tunnel system
          or jungle).  Conan explores these locations by walking
          the streets or paths.  He can enter doors (if they are
          unlocked) by simply walking into them.  Conan can also
          interact with other characters by walking up to them. 
          (See "Interaction")

          c)   Scene Level

          The Scene Level is the action-animation screen, with all
          combat, trading and information-gathering occurring here. 
          The Scene Level offers a detailed side view of a single
          location -- store, building, home, etc.

          VII.  Interaction

          Conan interacts with characters and objects differently
          depending on whether the game is in the topdown or side
          view.

          CITY LEVEL
          In the topdown sequences, Conan can simply walk up to a
          character and automatically invoke an appropriate menu. 
          Conan cannot drop objects in this mode, though he can
          "Examine" objects such as maps or "Use" his sword.  Here
          are his options when engaging another character:

          *Converse   Allows Conan to speak to the character
          through a series of menu-driven interactions.  Invoking
          this command brings up a menu of possible topics for
          discussion as well as the Done command to terminate the
          interaction.

          *Attack   Initiates Combat (see "Combat")

          Done   Ends interaction

          SCENE LEVEL
          In scene view sequences, the player can have Conan
          interact with people or objects by simply placing the
          sword cursor on that person or object and clicking on
          them or it.  This will invoke the appropriate menus. 
          CONAN THE CIMMERIAN uses a "smart menu" system in which
          the parameters of each

                    
                              12


          Nice picture of Conan making it with three babes while a
          lion and two  tigers keep watch.  The heck with those
          beer ads, this is what it doesn't get better than. 
          Unfortunately, it scans like garbage with this software. 
          I'll be acquiring a new scanning system that might
          improve on this but for now I just delete all these
          graphics.  Brumus Bear


                              13


          menu are determined by the person or object it is
          relating to.  If Conan is in a building with a merchant,
          for example, his options are defined by what Conan can do
          with a merchant: Buy (purchase an object), Sell (sell an
          object) or Done (end interaction).  If Conan meets a
          fortune teller, she may offer to read his future, in
          which case his only options are to accept or leave.

          Not all objects are significant, and Conan will simply
          not be able to interact with these.  Sometimes, objects
          are hidden inside other objects.  To search any object in
          a scene, simply select it with a cursor.  Conan will walk
          to it and search it.  Whatever he finds will be revealed. 
          He may then click on that previously hidden object and
          interact with it.  To interact with  an object, simply
          click on it and a dialog box will appear with choices to
          TAKE the object, take ALL objects that are visible in the
          room, or DONE.

          BRIBERY

          It is occasionally possible to bribe a character, usually
          an armed guard.  The opportunity is signalled by the
          appearance of Bribery as a command option.  Invoking this
          command brings up a special menu consisting of:

          * The amount of the bribe Conan is offering

          * A pair of arrows which increase or decrease the amount
          of the bribe.  In mouse and joystick versions, players
          can click on the appropriate icon.  To raise the ante via
          keyboard, hit the "+" key; to lower it, hit the "-" key.

          * A Cancel command

          * An "OK" command which initiates the bribe

          VII.  Screen Icons

          On the right side of the game screen, etched into the
          stone border, are the Command icons, representing the
          actions available to Conan at that time.

          The Clenched Fist
          The top icon shows a clenched fist.  This first icon
          serves different purposes on different levels.  Clicking
          on this icon while on the WORLD LEVEL creates a "TRAVEL
          TO" cursor which can be moved to any available location
          on the map.  Clicking on that area commands Conan to
          travel to that location.


                              14


          When playing at the CITY LEVEL or SCENE LEVEL, however,
          the Clenched fist invokes a menu of possible actions
          (Use, Examine, Drop, etc.) which are available to Conan. 
          As with TAKE an object, when dropping, you will have the
          option to drop all objects that Conan is carrying.

          Status Screen
          The next icon shows Conan's snarling countenance and
          invokes the Status Screen, which reflect Conan's current
          status.  (See "Status Screen")

          Inventory
          The final icon displays Conan's pouch and gives the
          player access to Conan's inventory.  A window appears
          containing a list of the objects Conan is carrying plus
          his wealth in Bezants (Hyborean currency).

          Listed below are the KEYBOARD EQUIVALENTS to the icons
          mentioned above:

          A - Action (see Clenched Fist above)
          I - Inventory (see Inventory above)
          S - Status (see Status above)
          P - Pause
          F1 - Control Panel

          
          IX. Status Screen

          The Status Screen displays ratings in the following
          areas:

          * Stamina  This represents Conan's number of Hit Points,
          or points of damage he can sustain before succumbing. 
          The game begins with Conan at 30 out of 30.  The first
          value represents Conan's current status while the second
          represents the maximum amount of damage he can withstand
          at that point.  The current value goes down each time
          Conan takes damage and it goes up (to the maximum
          possible) so long as he travels without fighting or if he
          is revived with a drink of White Lotus.  With the
          completion of each episode, Conan's maximum Stamina
          increases until it ultimately reaches 100.

          * Swing  Conan starts the game with a 50 rating in Swing
          and in all combat before he has learned alternate styles,
          this is the default selection.


                              15


          * Thrust  Conan starts the game with 0 Thrust points.  He
          must pay Master Quan to learn it.

          * Chop  Conan starts the game with 0 points in the Chop
          style of fighting.  He must pay Master Quan to learn it.

          * Defense  The higher Conan's Defense rating, the smaller
          the chances of his being hit.  This rating rises with
          each episode.

          * Stealth  This rating affects the probability of Conan
          being caught while attempting to steal.  This rating
          increases with the successful completion of each theft. 
          Conan starts off with a 60% Stealth rating, which means
          he will successfully pull off a theft 60% of the time. 
          Eventually his successes will establish him as a
          sufficiently skilled thief that he will almost never be
          caught.
          If Conan is unsuccessful at attempting a theft, he is
          carted off to jail where all his money is confiscated.

          * Damage This deals with the additional damage of +(0-
          100%) that will be done by the specific sword Conan is
          carrying at the time.  The initial sword does zero extra
          damage while an Enchanted Sword does the maximum amount
          of extra damage.  More powerful swords are the Steel
          Sword, King's Sword and the Enchanted Sword.

          X. The World of Hyborea

          Locations available to Conan in this game are:

          Shadizar
               A large metropolis in central Zamora, it is a haven
          for all manner of thieves, mercenaries, pickpockets and
          cut-throats.  Conan must solicit help and gain
          information from these ruffians in order to fulfill his
          ultimate quest of destroying Thoth Amon.

          Shadizar Underground
               There are numerous underground tunnels connecting
          various districts with the walled city.  These catacombs
          are feared and avoided by local citizens, and with good
          reason, but Conan must nonetheless scour these tunnels
          for valuable artifacts which he will need to vanquish
          future adversaries.


                              16

               Another nice picture, black and white comic book
               stuff.


                              17

          The Jungle Ruins
               On the River Styx, in the kingdom of Shem, sit the
          ruins of a once-glorious and now long-forgotten city. 
          The jungle has long since folded over and reclaimed it,
          and the local population shun it because of rumors of the
          atrocities performed there by its last occupants. 
          Somewhere within this ruined city squats a huge monolith,
          which contains the final secret of this lost metropolis.

          Zamboula
               Zamboula probably doesn't boast about it in its
          tourist brochures, but it is generally known as the "City
          of Skulls".  An ancient ghetto in the kingdom of Shem, it
          is ruled by powerful sorcerers partial to human
          sacrifice.  The city is redolent with evil legends, many
          of them at odds, but all outsiders agree on one thing:
          Zamboula is evil; always has been and probably always
          will be.  It is also part of Thoth Amon's dominion, as he
          controls the city through the priests of the Temple of
          Set, whose worship thrives in this urban hellhole.

          Larsha
               Larsha is said to be populated by demons and other
          non-human creatures since its defeat at the hands of
          Thoth Amon more than a century earlier.  Located in the
          kingdom of Koth, it is said that Larsha was given by
          Thoth Amon to his minions, the Lizard People. 
          Nonetheless, it is full of valuable relics and treasures
          --especially a magical scroll -- which Conan will need to
          advance to the Palace of Thoth Amon.

          Tarantia
               The capital of Aquilonia, greatest of Hyborean
          kingdoms.  Alas, the once-proud city has fallen before
          the dark might of Thoth Amon and now serves as his
          headquarters.  It is here Conan will finally encounter
          the monster who destroyed his life, in Amon's own palace,
          surrounded by evil armies and protected by black magic.

          XI.  Hints for Hyboreans

          * Conan automatically receives information as he enters
          each game area.  Read these messages carefully!

          * Visit Master Quen, the Fighting Instructor, as soon as
          possible.  Paying the wizened martial arts instructor can
          elevate Conan's skill in any of the three fighting
          styles.  When starting out with no ability in a
          particular style,


                              18

          paying Quan improves that rating by 50 points.  On each
          following visit, however, fewer and fewer points are
          awarded at an ever-increasing cost.  (In the THG version,
          where money was no problem because you could sell an item
          indefinitely and still retain it, Master Quan was not
          cheap, about 1400 bezants for the first three lessons so
          don't visit him if you ain't loaded with dough - Brumus
          Bear).

          * In order to find Master Quan, talk to the people of the
          city.  Eventually, you will find someone who can direct
          you to him.

          * Read the messages from Akado after Conan dies; they
          always contain a hint as to what the player did wrong
          (ex.; "Conan would have known better that to attack a
          thief with other than a swing fighting style.").

          * Some enemies can only be defeated by a specific type of
          weapon.  If traditional weapons yield no results against
          a specific type of opponent, seek out an appropriate
          weapon.

          * In Shadizar, comparison shop.  See which merchants pay
          the best prices and patronize them.

          * Taverns are great places to gather information.

          * Between his backpack and that skimpy loincloth, Conan
          can hold up to 20 items plus his gold.  There are many
          more than 20 useful items in the game, so you must choose
          carefully what you wish to keep.  Anything you dump may
          well disappear unless it is dropped in a remote, deserted
          location or in a city temple.  Goods left there will
          remain untouched and unmolested by others.  Elsewhere in
          Shadizar, the thieves have no compunction about
          "borrowing" unattended possessions.

          * Conan can rebuild his health by a brief rest at the
          nearest inn.  It cost a bit, but may save time in
          recovering from damage.

          * Conan will periodically receive maps.  Maps should be
          examined only when you are in the area which they refer
          to.  For instance, a map of Larsha should only be
          examined in Larsha itself.  They cannot be used in other
          locations.  The location that Conan is interested in will
          always be centered on the map and marked with a white
          square.  Conan's location is marked by a yellow square. 
          Small arrows in the upper left corner of the map indicate
          which direction to travel to reach the destination.



                              19


               Another pic...looks like Conan under attack by
               either monkeys or programmers.


                              20


          XII.  The World of Robert E. Howard

          Robert E. Howard is one of those authors whose famous
          creations have almost completely obscured any public
          perception of the man himself.  The prime mover in the
          birth of a literary genre known as "Sword and Sorcery,"
          Howard's life story is so nondescript, with the exception
          of it's final chapter, that most people fasten, instead,
          o n the world of brawny barbarians and sinister wizards
          he brought to sweating, lusty life.

          The Hyborean age is a literary gumbo comprising medieval
          romanticism, Norse mythology, Edgar Rice Burroughs jungle
          lore and en endless army of sorcerous bad guys, who
          practice of magic seems irrevocably tied to the forces of
          evil.  Howard covered all the bases by creating a series
          of varied lands for his Cimmerian protagonist to have
          adventures in.  The jungles of Bamula provided Conan with 
          native tribes to battle, the Brarachan Isles were the
          location of the Cimmerian's sea-going exploits, sailing
          on the pirate ships of the Red Brotherhood; the border
          Kingdom harbored strange monsters and sinister swamps; 
          Corinthia was a deep, thick forest while Aquilonia was
          the land where Conan became King and married Zenobia near
          the end of his recorded life.  Howard never killed Conan
          off; instead, after the death of his Queen Zenobia he
          eventually abdicated the throne of Aquilonia and headed
          to the Western Ocean on some ultimate, unknown adventure.

          Conan is far from Howard's only creation, though he is
          easily his most fullbodied.  Kull, who ultimately became
          King Kull, was a more idealistic and somewhat less rough-
          hewn version of Conan.  Kull walked the Earth in the Pre-
          Hyborean days before Atlantis down.  Another of Howard's
          heroes was the Solomon Kane, an early American vampire
          hunter.

          But Conan is the character we remember, thanks largely to
          the paperback boom of the 50s, and, later, the successful
          Marvel Comics translations and several exciting films
          starring Arnold Schwarzenegger.  In fact, the next best
          known of Howard's creations is probably Red Sonja, a
          minor figure who appears in but a single Conan short
          story, but whose role was expanded by comics writer Roy
          Thomas and whose visual presentation was cemented by
          Artist Franke Thorne.

          Conan has now outlived his creator by more than half a
          century, and he's still thieving, reaving and slaying
          like a youngster.  Robert E. Howard, the shy and awkward
          doctor's son from rural Cross Plains, Texas, was much
          more fragile.


                              21


          Born in Peaster, Texas, in 1906, he was dead by 1936,
          barely thirty years old.  His first published story,
          "Spear and Fang", appeared in Weird Tales magazine in
          1925, the same publication where the first Conan the
          Barbarian tale was published seven years later.  His
          eleven year output included twenty-one Conan stories,
          several of which were completed, after Howard's death, by
          authors L. Sprague de Camp, and Lin Carter.  Devoted to
          his mother, Howard was devastated by her death in 1936
          and, unable to face the prospect of a future without her,
          he committed suicide.  The Conan stories were first
          collected in book form in the fifties, which led to a
          rediscovery of Howard by the general public.  What would
          Robert E. Howard think if he returned today and saw comic
          books movies and even a computer game based on the
          adventures of his Cimmerian rowdy?  He might think it was
          sorcery, but, Conan to the contrary, we think he'd
          approve.



                              22

          The End.  There is also a map of Shadizar in the actual
          game but it only shows about a dozen locations.  To get
          you started, the Red Dog Inn is in the Northwestern part
          of town, just in front of the long wall and has a green
          curtain in one window.  Other than that you might as well
          map it yourself.  Brumus Bear 9/9/91.



          FIXED BY RYGAR
          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
