Conflict: Middle East - Arab-Israeli Wars - 1973-?
Brought to you by Belgarath

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Introduction ......................................1
1.0 Startup........................................1
1.1 Starting the Game..............................1
1.11 Commodore Amiga ..............................1
1.12 IBM PC XT/AT..................................1
1.13 Documentation Check ..........................2
1.2 Talking to the Computer .......................2
1.21 Commodore Amiga ..............................2
1.22 IBM PC XT/AT..................................3
1.3 The Map .......................................4
1.4 Saving a Game..................................5
1.5 The README File ...............................5
2.0 Playing the Game...............................5
2.1 Pre Game Selections............................6
2.11 Effects of Menu Selections....................6
2.2 Turn Sequence..................................7
3.0 Orders Phase...................................7
3.1 Info Menu......................................7
3.11 Strategic Report..............................7
3.12 Weather Report................................7
3.13 Supply Net Map................................7
3.14 Game Info ....................................7
3.2 Orders Menu....................................8
3.21 Air Operations................................8
3.22 End Player Turn ..............................9
3.3 General Menu...................................9
3.4 Map Selections ................................9
3.41 Unit Movement................................10
3.42 Full Hex Report..............................13
3.43 Exit.........................................15
4.0 Air Phase.....................................15
4.1 Air Superiority...............................15
4.2 Air Strikes, Interdiction 
and Close Air Support ............................15
4.3 Aircraft Attrition............................16
5.0 Ground Combat Phase...........................16
5.1 Ground Combat Unit 
Strength Modifiers ...............................16
5.11 Arab Competence Strength 
Modifiers and Command Control ....................17 
5.12 Israeli Competence 
Strength Modifiers................................17
5.13 Prepared Defensive Positions ................17
5.14 Terrain Effects on Equipment
Combat Strengths..................................17
5.15 Chemical Weapons ............................18
5.2 Artillery Combat .............................18
5.3 Maneuver Combat...............................18
5.4 Equipment Losses .............................19
5.5 Retreats and Advances ........................19
6.0 General Resolutions Phase ....................19
6.1 Reinforcements................................19
6.2 Resupply Operations ..........................20
6.21 Supply and Supply 
Source Hexes .....................................20
6.22 Resupply Rates for Units ....................23
6.23 Re-Ready Rates for Air Forces ...............23
6.3 Intelligence Gathering .......................23
6.4 Weather Determination 
and Effects.......................................24
6.5 Bridge Building ..............................24
6.6 Jordanian Belligerency 
Check (1973 only) ................................25
6.7 End of Game Check.............................26
7.0 Solitaire and Two Player Play ................26
8.0 Scenarios and Victory Conditions..............26
8.1 1973 Scenario.................................27
8.2 1990’s Scenario...............................28
9.0 Player Notes..................................29
10.0 Designer’s Notes.............................31
Appendices........................................32
A Unit Icons .....................................32
B Equipment Descriptions..........................32
C 1973 Orders of Battle/
Appearance........................................33
D 1990’s Orders of Battle/
Appearance........................................36
Abbreviations Used In CONFLICT: MIDDLE EAST.......39
F Formulae .......................................40 


INTRODUCTION 

CONFLICT: MIDDLE EAST is a game for
one or two players. Players assume the
roles of overall military commanders of
Israel or the coalition of Arab states
allied against Israel during the 1973
war or a hypothetical war occurring in
the early 1990’s. Each game turn repre-
sents 12 hours of action. The military
units in the game represent forces
ranging in size from divisions to com-
panies. Units and air forces may be
examined and manipulated at the level
of individual infantry squads, gun
tubes or vehicles. 

1.0 STARTUP 

1.1 Starting the Game 
Before playing the game, you should
make a copy of your game disk. Use
the copy for playing the game and
store your original disk in a safe place.
Also see section 1.5 for information
about README files. 

1.11 COMMODORE AMIGA 

CONFLICT: MIDDLE EAST requires at least
1 MB of RAM and one floppy disk
drive. The game can also be installed
on a hard drive.

Hard Drive
1. Insert your original game disk in any
   floppy disk drive.
2. Click on the Conflict disk icon to
   open a window for the disk.
3. Drag the ConflictDrawer icon from
   the window into any drawer on your
   hard drive. 

The game is now installed in that draw-
er. To play, open the ConflictDrawer
and click on the SSI icon labeled
ConflictGame. 

To run the game from the CLI:
1. CD to the ConflictDrawer directory. 
2. Type stack 10000 and press [Enter]. 
3. Type ConflictGame and press
   [Enter] to begin the game.

If you don’t have a hard drive, there
are two ways to start Conflict. 

Amiga 500, or 2000 or higher
1. Insert your copy of the game disk
   into drive df0.
2. Turn your Amiga on to start the game.
   
Amiga 1000
1. Boot normally using your Kickstart
   and/or Workbench disks. 
2. When the Workbench screen comes
   on, insert your game disk into any
   disk drive.
3. Click on the Conflict disk icon to
   open a window for the disk. 
4. Click on the ConflictDrawer in the
   window to open another window.
5. Click on the SSI icon labeled
   ConflictGame to start the game. 

1.12 IBM PC XT/AT 
Conflict is not intended to be used in
cooperation with TSR (Terminate and
Stay Resident or memory resident) pro-
grams. This does not mean that it defi-
nitely won’t work with such programs,
but there may be problems with them.

Before you play the game, you must
install it on your computer. The follow-
ing sets of instructions describe the
installation procedure for several types
of systems.

Hard Drive
1. Insert your original game disk in drive
   A, type A: and press [Enter]. (You may
   substitute any floppy drive for A:).
2. Type INSTALL, press [Enter] and follow
   the prompts. 

To run the program:
1. Boot your system normally.
2. Type CD CONFLICT and press [Enter].
3. Type CONFLICT and press [Enter].

720K or 1.44M Floppy Drive
1. Prepare a blank, formatted disk and
   label it Game/Scenario Disk.
2. Insert your original game disk in drive
   A, type A: and press [Enter]. (You may
   substitute any floppy drive for A:).
3. Type INSTALL, press [Enter] and follow
   the prompts.

To run the program:
1. Boot your system normally.
2. Insert your Game/Scenario Disk in
   drive A, type A:  and press [Enter].
  (You may substitute any floppy
  drive for A:).
3. Type CD CONFLICT and press [Enter].
4. Type CONFLICT and press [Enter].

Dual 360K Floppy Drives
1. Prepare two blank, formatted floppy
   disks: Label the first Game Disk and
   the second Scenario Disk.
2. Insert your original game disk in drive
   A, type A: and press [Enter]. (You may
   substitute any floppy drive for A:).
3. Insert your blank game disk in drive B.
4. Type INSTALL, press [Enter] and follow
   the prompts.

To run the program:
1. Boot your system normally.
2. Insert your Game Disk in drive A,
   type A: and press [Enter]. (You may
   substitute any floppy drive for A:).
3. Type CONFLICT and press [Enter].

Single 5.25" Floppy Drive

1. Prepare two blank, formatted floppy
   disks: Label the first Game Disk and
   the second Scenario Disk. 
2. Insert your original game disk in
   drive A, type A: and press [Enter].
3. Type INSTALL1, press [Enter] and follow
   the prompts. 

Insert your original disk when
prompted for A: and your copy when
prompted for B:.

To run the program:
1. Boot your system normally.
2. Insert your Game Disk in drive A,
   type A: and press [Enter].
3. Type CONFLICT and press [Enter].

If you wish to use a mouse, you must
initialize the mouse driver on your sys-
tem before running the program. 

1.13 DOCUMENTATION CHECK 

After you select a scenario or saved
game, the program will ask you to do a
documentation check before it will
allow you to continue the game. This
check will take the form of a question
about some section of the rules.

Example: 
Please type the first word of sec-
tion 1.13.

The proper response would be 
AFTER [Enter] 

1.2 Talking to the Computer 

1.21 COMMODORE AMIGA 

Select such options as the Strategic
Report or Air Operations by using the
mouse to move the cursor to the menu
bar at the top of the screen, clicking
the right mouse button over the
desired section and pulling it down.
Release the button when the desired
option is highlighted.

Generally, pressing the right mouse
button will exit back to the Main Map
screen. 

Select command buttons or individual
hexes by using the mouse to place the
cursor over the desired item and click-
ing the left mouse button. Once an
action has been selected, it will imme-
diately be performed by the program (if
a simple action), or you will be prompt-
ed to provide additional information or
selections.

All active control buttons have the
same appearance — they are light gray
with blue text or red arrows. Select
control buttons by moving the cursor
over the button with the mouse and
pressing the left mouse button.

The keyboard is used only during the
documentation check, assigning names
to military units, or specifying saved
game file names.

CONFLICT: MIDDLE EAST is fully compati-
ble with multi-tasking systems. The
depth arrangement, menu and screen
bar gadgets operate in the standard
Amiga fashion. The Workbench behind
the game screen is fully usable. 

1.22 IBM PC XT/AT 

You may control the program with
either a mouse or the keyboard. 

1.221 USING THE MOUSE 

If you have a mouse installed on your
computer and you have run the mouse
installation program included with
your mouse before running CONFLICT:
MIDDLE EAST, then you can control
most game functions using the mouse. 

If you are not sure whether the mouse
installation program has been run, just
try running Conflict and seeing if the
mouse works. The mouse installation
is usually done for you when you turn
your computer on. If the mouse does
not work, refer to the manual that
came with your mouse for installation
instructions. 

Select such options as the Strategic
Report or Air Operations by using the
mouse to move the cursor to the menu
bar at the top of the screen, clicking
the left mouse button over the desired
section and pulling it down. Release
the button when the desired option is
highlighted.

Select command buttons or individual
hexes by using the mouse to place the
cursor over the desired item and click-
ing the left mouse button. Once an
action has been selected, it will imme-
diately be performed by the program (if
a simple action), or you will be prompt-
ed to provide additional information or
selections.

All active control buttons have the
same appearance — In EGA or VGA,
they are light gray with yellow and blue
text or red arrows. In CGA, they are
black boxes with white text and sur-
rounded with a white frame. A control
button is selected by moving the cursor
over the button with the mouse and
pressing the left mouse button.

You may of course still use the key-
board to issue orders, even if the
mouse is in use. 

1.222 USING THE KEYBOARD 

Most game functions may be con-
trolled by use of the numeric keypad
and [Enter] or [Escape] keys. 

The Main Map screen features two
control modes: Menu Mode and
Scroll Mode. In Menu Mode, you
may access reports, allocate aircraft,
and alter various game functions. In
Scroll Mode, you may move a cursor
around the map and select unit and
terrain information or manipulate the
contents of individual hexes on the
map. The 5 or [Escape] keys may be 
used to toggle between Menu and
Scroll modes. When in Menu Mode,
menu items are selected by moving the
highlight over the desired menu item
using the Menu keys (2,4,6,8) and
pressing [Enter]. In Scroll Mode, map
hex selections are made by using the
Scroll keys (1,2,3,7,8,9) to move the
map cursor and then pressing the
[Enter] key. Either the numeric keypad
or top row of numbers may be used to
input numbers to the program. Don’t
press [Num Lock] — this is set within
the program.

All active control buttons will have the
appearance noted in section 1.221.
Control buttons may be selected by
pressing the key corresponding to the
highlighted letter or number near the
left side of the control button. 

1.223 ESCAPE 

The right mouse button or [Escape]
key may used to exit from any screen
or function within the game. There is
also an Exit Button or prompt for such
functions. 

1.3 The Map 

The map shows the Middle East from
Cairo in the west to Damascus in the
east, and from the Golan Heights in
the north to the tip of the Gulf of Suez
in the south. Military units (when
detected) will be displayed on the map
as standard NATO military symbols
(see appendix A). The map is overlaid
with a hexagonal grid. Cells within the
grid are called hexes, and hex scale is
10 kilometers. The Main Map screen
shows an area fourteen hexes wide and
eight high (about 6% of total map
area). Scrolling is accomplished by
selecting any of the six Scroll buttons
at the right of the screen. Holding
down the mouse button or highlighted 
number key for a Scroll button will
repeat the scroll in the selected direc-
tion. The other three control buttons
perform the following functions: 

Units button toggles the display of
unit icons. This allows you to remove
the unit icons from the map to allow
unobstructed viewing of terrain.
Pressing the key again returns the units
to the map.

Possn button toggles the display of
hex possession and fixed SAM site
information. When the hex possession
display feature is enabled, the 
program will show which side controls
each hex by placing a small colored
rectangle in the lower left corner of the
hex. Israeli hexes will have a light blue
(CGA: white) indicator, and Arab
hexes will have a red (CGA: black)
indicator. Fixed SAM sites (Arab only)
will be indicated by the overlay of the
word ‘SAM’ on each hex containing
such a site.

Ovrvw button displays the Strategic
Overview Map. The unit and posses-
sion selections described above also
affect this display. The map for the
entire game will be displayed at a
greatly reduced scale. To exit, select a
location on the overview display.
Either click on a map point with the
mouse, or (IBM only) press [Enter] to
select an area. On the IBM, you may
scroll the selector box within the
overview using the standard game
scroll controls. Once an area has been
selected from the Overview screen, the
Main Map screen will be redrawn, cen-
tered on the area selected.

You may also select any hex on the
Main Map screen for additional infor-
mation on units and terrain. This is 
accomplished by clicking on the hex
with the mouse, or (IBM only) pressing
[Enter] to select the hex under the map
cursor. You will be given as much infor-
mation on the hex as is available to
you. Full information is always avail-
able on friendly hexes. Information on
enemy hexes varies from very complete
to non-existent, depending on the
intelligence level you choose when you
start the game (sections  2.1 and
2.112) and the intelligence gathering
rules (section 6.3).

Once a friendly hex has been selected:
If you click or press [Enter] a second
time on it, additional options will
become available. You may opt to
begin moving one of the units in the
hex, or you may examine the hex in
greater detail. See section 3.4. 

1.4 Saving a Game 

At the beginning of each turn, you can
save the game in progress. A format-
ted disk, hard disk, or RAMdisk is
required. On the Amiga, you can ini-
tialize a disk at any time by using the
depth arrangement gadgets to go to the
Workbench and selecting the
Disk/Initialize menu option. Use the
Workbench depth arrangement gadget
to return to the program.

If you are playing the game from a
hard drive on the Amiga, games will
automatically be saved into the
SavedGame drawer on your hard drive.
You need only follow the prompts in
order to save the game. Saved games
may be restarted from the saved point
whenever the game is booted. 

1.5 The README File 
Your game disk may include a
README file. If so, then there have
been important changes or additions to
these rules. Please examine any
README file on your game disk before
beginning play. 

2.0 PLAYING THE GAME 

Each game of CONFLICT: MIDDLE EAST 
continues until the victory or termina-
tion conditions for the selected sce-
nario are met (see section 8.0). The
actual 1973 war, for example, lasted
about 36 turns.

Each game turn consists of the follow-
ing major phases:

. Orders Phase
. Air Phase
. Ground Combat Phase
. General Resolutions Phase

In the Orders Phase, each player can
examine the situation, move units,
make attacks, and issue operational
orders for air forces. Next, during the
Air Phase, air superiority is deter-
mined and both players are given the
opportunity to manage airstrikes that
can get through enemy defenses. After
air operations are done, the Ground
Combat Phase occurs. Finally, in the
General Resolutions Phase, the pro-
gram performs mobilization/replace-
ment and supply functions, and checks
for end of game conditions.

Before beginning a game of CONFLICT:
MIDDLE EAST, carefully read sections
3.41 (movement) and 5.0 (combat).
These two sections explain the basics
of how to play. 

2.1 Pre Game Selections 

Before starting a game of CONFLICT:
MIDDLE EAST, you will be asked if you
wish to load a previously saved game
or start a new one. If you wish to load
a saved game, the program will display
a selector box and prompts. Simply
select a saved game file as indicated to
begin play.

If you have not loaded a saved game,
you will be presented with the follow-
ing menu:  

SCENARIO SELECTIONS 

Scenario: 1973, 1990’s

Season: Summer, Autumn, Winter,
Spring

Arab Competence: Pushover,
Moderate, Challenging, Hairy,
Hideous, Random 

GAME CONTROL OPTIONS 

Play Mode: Arab Solitaire, Israeli
Solitaire, Two Player

Air Campaign: Player Control,
Program Control

Intelligence: Limited, Complete

Begin the Game: Select this option to
begin playing the game using the selec-
tions shown above. 

2.11 EFFECTS OF MENU SELECTIONS 

2.111 SCENARIO SELECTIONS 

Scenario: This controls whether you
play the 1973 or 1990’s scenario.
Scenarios are described in sections 8.1
and 8.2.

Season: This controls the time of year
in which the scenario will be set, and
affects weather. The historical setting
for the 1973 scenario is Autumn. See
section 6.4 for the effects of seasons on
weather. 

Arab Competence: This controls
many aspects of the quality of Arab
forces. Readiness recovery rates,
strength modifiers, and (when under
computer control) the general quality
of play are all modified by this selec-
tion. The historical level of Arab com-
petence would be Challenging.  

2.112 GAME CONTROL OPTIONS 

Play Mode: This specifies which (if
any) of the ground forces in the game
are computer controlled. Either player,
but not both can be computer con-
trolled. In Arab Solitaire, a human
player controls Arab coalition forces
against an Israeli computer player. In
Israeli Solitaire, a human player con-
trols Israeli forces against an Arab
computer player. In Two Player,
human players control both sides.

Air Campaign: This specifies whether
the air forces in the game will be con-
trolled by the computer (for both play-
ers) or by the players themselves.
Computer controlled forces will tend to
act somewhat historically (and conser-
vatively).

Intelligence: This specifies how much
information the two players have about
each other’s forces. Generally speaking,
in the historical 1973 war neither side
really had the slightest idea of where
uncommitted enemy forces were or
what they were doing. This problem
was particularly acute for the Arab
commanders. The historical setting for
this selection would be Limited
Intelligence. See section 6.3 for details
on intelligence gathering. 

The computer player always operates in
a limited intelligence mode, so setting
this selection to Complete intelligence
will give a human player a considerable
advantage against the computer. 

2.2 Turn Sequence 

Each game turn proceeds in the follow-
ing order: 

. Game Save Opportunity (section 1.4)
. Arab Orders Phase (section 3.0)
. Israeli Orders Phase (section 3.0)
. Air Phase (section 4.0)
. Ground Combat Phase (section 5.0)
. General Resolutions Phase 
  (section 6.0) 

3.0 ORDERS PHASE 

All units may be moved and/or given
assault orders. Air forces are given
their operational orders. Players may
examine the map and strategic 
situation in detail. 

3.1 Info Menu 

The Info menu accesses the following
game functions: 

. Strategic Report (section 3.11)
. Weather Report (section 3.12)
. Supply Net Map (section 3.13)
. Game Info (section 3.14) 

3.11 STRATEGIC REPORT 

The Strategic Report presents a display
of the overall strategic situation.
Territory, supply stockpiles and equip-
ment inventories held by both players
are listed, and recent news reports are
displayed.

Estimated critical equipment inventory
figures will be exact if the Complete 
Intelligence option is in effect.
Otherwise, the displayed figures for
enemy equipment can be off by as
much as 40%. Critical equipment cate-
gories are: Tanks, Artillery, Fighters,
Bombers, and SAM’s. 

Assigned and Current figures are given
for each type of equipment. The
Assigned figure represents all equip-
ment placed under the player’s com-
mand since the start of the game. The
Current figures include all equipment
currently available to the player. The
difference between the two figures rep-
resents total combat losses. Current fig-
ures are updated as losses are taken.
Both figures are updated as reinforce-
ments are received.

In the 1973 scenario, Jordanian equip-
ment is included in the Arab totals. 

3.12 WEATHER REPORT 

Current conditions and a condensed
summary of their effects on air opera-
tions, unit readiness in combat opera-
tions, and effectiveness of chemical
weapons (if in use) will be displayed.

Weather forecasts are also available. A
12 hour (next turn) forecast is 90%
accurate. The 24 hour (turn after next)
forecast is 80% accurate, and the 36
hour forecast is 70% accurate. 

3.13 SUPPLY NET MAP 

This calculates and displays current
Israeli and Arab supply nets. A theater
level map (the same scale as the
Strategic Overview Map) showing the
current supplied and unsupplied areas
will be displayed. 

3.14 GAME INFO 

This calls up a brief display of the
game credits, copyright and version
number. 

3.2 Orders Menu 

The Orders menu gives you access to
the following game functions: 

. Air Operations (section 3.21)
. End Player Turn (section 3.22) 

3.21 AIR OPERATIONS 

Selecting Air Operations gives you
access to the Air Orders screen. 
At screen left is the Air Orders Box. 
At screen right is the Aircraft
Description box. 

In the top part of the Air Orders box
are buttons for each available type of
aircraft. The active aircraft type is indi-
cated with a light on its button. In the
bottom part of the box are buttons to
allocate aircraft to individual types of
missions. Select the appropriate but-
tons to assign the active aircraft to mis-
sions or select the All Rest button to
assign all aircraft of the selected type to
rest for the turn. Resting aircraft recov-
er readiness much more rapidly than
aircraft assigned combat missions. You
can get estimations of the number of
air strike packets, and approximate air
to air, close air support and interdiction
strength your allocations will generate
by selecting the Mission Estimates but-
ton at the bottom left of the screen.
Return to the Main Map screen with
the Exit to Map button.

The Aircraft Description on the right
shows a drawing of the most numerous
or distinctive aircraft in the selected type.
Below the drawing is a list of characteris-
tics for that type (these are an average if
multiple or distinctive aircraft models are
lumped together). Characteristics are: Air
Superiority, Strike/Interdiction, Close Air
Support, Avionics Capability, and Aircraft
Survivability. Additionally, Force
Readiness and Total Aircraft are shown
for the active type. 

Air superiority, Strike/Interdiction, and
Close Air Support figures indicate the
aircraft type’s capability to perform
these types of missions. Avionics
Capability shows the aircraft type’s abil-
ity to perform missions under less than
ideal conditions. Survivability measures
the ability of the aircraft type to resist
losses while on a mission. Force
Readiness indicates what percentage of
the force is combat-ready. Total Aircraft
is total number of aircraft in the select-
ed category (ready and unready).

At the top of the Air Operations screen
is a flight conditions indicator. Aircraft
effectiveness for each condition is as
follows: 

Very Good      100%
Good           20% * Avionics
Poor           15% * Avionics
Very Poor      10% * Avionics

This is essentially a force multiplier. 

Example: 
100 F-4 aircraft (avionics=3) oper-
ating under poor flight conditions
will function with the effectiveness
of 45 F-4 aircraft operating under
very good flight conditions. 

Survivability is not affected by flight 
conditions. Note that many aircraft
(especially in 1973) are almost useless
except under very good flight conditions.

Flight conditions are based on weather
and time of day as follows: 

Fair Weather/AM      Very Good
Fair Weather/PM
Cloudy Weather/AM    Good
Cloudy Weather/PM
Storms/AM            Poor
Storms/PM            Very Poor 

Whenever any part of a force is flown
(assigned a mission other than rest)
that force will have its readiness
decreased by 10% * (fraction of force
flown). Near losses in air combat and
strikes on airbases may also decrease
force readiness. Aircraft recover readi-
ness at the end of a turn as described
in section 6.23. 

3.22 END PLAYER TURN 

Use this option to end your turn and
go to the other player or to following
game phases. 

3.3 General Menu 

The General menu allows access to a
number of functions: 

Quit Game ends the game and returns
to DOS (IBM compatibles) or the
Workbench (Amiga) in a controlled
manner.

Erase Screen (IBM Compatibles)
clears the main screen in case you
need to talk to your opponent near the
computer when playing a two (human)
player game. On the Amiga you can do
something similar with the depth con-
trol gadgets on the Menu bar.

Beeps (IBM and compatibles only)
toggles the system buzzer. Many game
functions use the buzzer to gain your
attention. If you find the noise bother-
some, turn it off.

Movement Centering forces the pro-
gram to center the map on a unit when
it is selected for movement. Ordinarily,
the map only centers on moving units
if they are near the edge of the dis-
played area. 

End Game ends the game with a count
of current victory levels. The General
Resolutions Phase and certain menu
selections are disabled, and the game is
placed in a limited two player mode for
ease of inspection of the computer
player’s situation in a solitaire game.

File Manager (Amiga only) gives you
control over saved games from within
the program.

Set Speed alters the time delays in the
Combat and General Resolutions
phases. Adjust the display speed to a
comfortable level.

New Game allows you to re-start a
saved game or begin a new one with-
out having to exit the program. 

3.4 Map Selections 

While many game functions are
accessed through menus, the heart of
the game is unit movement and (espe-
cially for the Israeli player) unit man-
agement. You get at these functions by
directly selecting a hex on the map. 

If you select an empty hex, you will be
informed of the terrain type in the hex.

If you select a hex containing known
enemy units, you will get some infor-
mation on those units. In many cases
this information will only be unit type,
in others, you will be given unit names.
The extent of information is dependent
on the intelligence level selected at the
start of the game and the rules
described in section 6.3.

If you select a hex containing at least
one friendly unit, you will get the
names of friendly units in the hex and
each unit’s current combined artillery
and maneuver lethality, survivability,
and remaining movement allowance. If 
you select the hex a second time, you
will get the following options:

. Move Unit (section 3.41)
. Full Hex Report (section 3.42)
. Exit (section 3.43)

If you want to move the first unit listed,
select the hex a third time. For exam-
ple, if you are using a mouse, click on
the hex three times to begin moving
the first unit. 

3.41 UNIT MOVEMENT 

If you select the Move Unit button for
one of the units in the hex, you will be
able to move that unit. Simply select
any hex adjacent to the unit, and it will
move into the new hex (subject to the
following rules). 

3.411 GENERAL UNIT 
MOVEMENT RULES 

Each unit begins each turn with a fixed
movement allowance (generally 12
Movement Points). This represents the
ability of the unit to move across the
map. Different types of terrain have
different entry costs, and, in some
cases, there are additional costs to
enter a hex. All entry costs are cumula-
tive. In order to enter a hex, a unit
must have sufficient remaining
Movement Points to pay the entry cost
for the hex the unit wishes to enter. As
units are moved, their remaining
Movement Points are displayed (along
with the unit’s current lethality and
survivability) in the Unit Information
Box at the bottom of the screen. 

Units may continue to be moved as
long as they still have remaining
Movement Points. You need not com-
plete all of a unit’s movement in a sin-
gle operation (for exceptions, see sec-
tions 3.4126 and 3.4129). As long as a
unit has some remaining Movement 
Points, you may return to it and con-
tinue its movement, even after exiting
from movement and returning back to
the map.

For each Movement Point expended
during unit movement, the readiness of
the moving unit declines by 1%.

If a unit moves next to an enemy con-
trolled hex during movement, that hex
will be spotted to level 1 (See section
6.3 for intelligence gathering rules).

During movement, you can center the
displayed map area on the moving unit
by selecting the Center Unit button at
the bottom right of the screen. 

If you make a mistake and move a unit
to the wrong hex, you can usually take
back the move by selecting the Move
Back button at the bottom right of the
screen. Move Back will not work if: 1)
the unit has not yet moved, or 2) the
hex entered was adjacent to enemy
owned territory.

If you move an Israeli fort unit, it will
be converted into a light infantry unit.
The icon and name will change to
show its new status. The forts along the
Suez Canal (1973 only) are manned by
the 16th Reserve (Jerusalem) Brigade,
and those along the border with Syria
are manned by the Golani Brigade. 

3.412 SPECIAL CASES
OF UNIT MOVEMENT 

There are several special cases of
movement: 
. Road Movement (section 3.4121)
. Disengagement (section 3.4122)
. Assault Deployment (section 3.4123) 


. Cross Canal Movement 
  (section 3.4124)
. Cross River Movement 
  (section 3.4125)
. Amphibious Movement 
  (section 3.4126)
. Congestion (section 3.4127)
. Enemy Controlled Hexes 
  (section 3.4128)
. Airmobile Movement 
  (section 3.4129) 

3.4121 ROAD MOVEMENT 

Regardless of other terrain in a hex, if a
unit enters a hex along a road, move-
ment costs will be lower than if the
same kind of terrain were entered nor-
mally. In order to be considered to
have entered along a road, a unit must
exit its old hex and enter the new one
through hex sides with roads running
through them.  

3.4122 DISENGAGEMENT 
(MOVING AWAY FROM THE ENEMY) 

In order to leave a hex adjacent to an
enemy unit, an additional cost of 4
Movement Points must be paid by the
moving unit. 

3.4123 ASSAULT DEPLOYMENT 
(ATTACKING THE ENEMY) 

When you try to move one of your
units into a hex containing enemy
units, one of three things will happen:

1. If your unit has 5 or fewer
Movement Points left in its move-
ment allowance, the move will not
be allowed. 

2. If the enemy units are very weak
and your unit has enough movement
allowance to enter the hex if there 
were no enemy unit present, there is
a 33% chance that your unit will
overrun the enemy hex. The enemy
units will be destroyed and your unit
will advance into the hex.

3. Otherwise, the movement for your
unit will end in your unit’s current
hex, one Movement Point will be
subtracted from its movement
allowance, and an assault order will
be plotted. Your unit will assault and
attempt to take the hex from enemy
forces during the Ground Combat
Phase (section 5.0). The assault
order may be cancelled at any time
by selecting the unit again for move-
ment. Any unused Movement Points
will still be available for use by the
unit. As long as the unit has an
assault order, any selection of the
hex the unit occupies will show an
arrow from your unit into the hex to
be assaulted, as well as a directional
indicator in the unit information box 

Example: 
If the movement allowance of your
unit is given as 10SW, the program
is telling you that your unit has 10
Movement Points remaining for
the turn, and it will assault the hex
to its southwest. 

3.4124 CROSS CANAL MOVEMENT 

The Suez Canal is a formidable obsta-
cle. Both sides will have considerable
difficulty moving units into and across
the canal. Either player may freely
enter bridged canal hexes; however,
each player contends with different
constraints on movement into
unbridged canal hexes:

. The Arab player may only move com-
  mando units or the Egyptian
  Amphibious Mechanized Brigade into 
  unbridged canal hexes. Units may also
  enter by airmobile movement (see sec-
  tion 3.4129). Other units may not
  enter or plot attacks into unbridged
  canal hexes under any circumstances.
. The Israeli player may move any one
  unit or plot one attack into an
  unbridged canal hex. He may do this
  once in any given turn. Additionally,
  the Israeli may move units into canal
  hexes by airmobile movement. If a
  unit remains in an unbridged canal
  hex from the last turn, no additional
  Israeli units may enter or plot attacks
  into unbridged canal hexes in the cur-
  rent turn. 

If either player has units in unbridged
canal hexes at the end of the turn, there
is a chance that a bridge will be con-
structed in that hex. See section 6.5. 

3.4125 CROSS RIVER MOVEMENT 

The only unit allowed to enter
unbridged river hexes is the Egyptian
Amphibian Mechanized Brigade. Except
for airmobile movement, no other units
may enter unbridged river hexes under
any circumstances. All other units may
only enter bridged river hexes. A
bridged river hex is any river hex in
which the river is crossed by a road. 

3.4126 AMPHIBIOUS MOVEMENT 

The Egyptian Amphibious Mechanized
Brigade may enter a lake/sea hex, but
must immediately exit to a hex of any
other terrain type. The program will not
allow you to leave the unit in a
lake/sea hex. This special movement
costs 6 Movement Points to enter the
lake and 6 more Movement Points to
enter the next hex. The final hex of the
move must be a hex that the Brigade
can normally enter. Except by airmo-
bile movement no other unit may ever
enter a lake/sea hex. 

3.4127 CONGESTION (TRAFFIC JAMS) 

Traffic jams result when different units
try to use the same transport routes
through an area. In game terms, this
means that entering a hex which
already contains a friendly unit costs an
extra 1 Movement Point above the nor-
mal cost of the terrain.

Additionally, except for purposes of
moving through a hex during airmobile
movement, a maximum of two units
may occupy a hex at any given time.
This is called unit stacking.  

3.4128 ENEMY CONTROLLED HEXES 
(MOVING INTO ENEMY TERRITORY) 

Even under the best of conditions,
units will proceed with caution when
entering enemy territory. In game terms
this is reflected by an extra movement
cost above the normal cost of the ter-
rain in the controlled hex.

Most units pay 1 point extra to move
into enemy controlled hexes. Units with
airmobile capability pay a minimum of
5 points to enter enemy controlled
hexes by normal movement. This extra
cost is because airmobile units on the
ground are assumed to be without
motor transport. 

3.4129 AIRMOBILE MOVEMENT 

Although little use was made of airmo-
bile movement in 1973, a very limited
capability to insert units deep behind
enemy lines by helicopter did exist. In
the 1990’s scenario, this capability is
better developed, but there are still lim-
its to the range and load capacity of
transport helicopters. To reflect this
each side in the game has the ability to
move one airborne unit per turn using
airmobile movement. Only units with 
the airborne symbol and possessing a
full 12 Movement Points may be
moved by air. If you have not moved
any unit by air on any given turn, you
will be asked if you wish to move by
air whenever you select an eligible
unit. Airmobile movement is similar to
normal movement with the following
exceptions: 

. Each hex costs only 1 point to enter,
  regardless of terrain type.
. Each hex adjacent to an enemy unit
  with non-artillery lethality of 30 or
  greater costs an additional 1 point to
  enter. There is a 2% chance that the
  unit will be intercepted and move-
  ment will halt in this hex with the fol-
  lowing effects: The unit will lose 25%
  to 75% of its equipment, and the
  player’s airmobile movement capabil-
  ity is permanently lost (too many
  choppers have been lost to allow fur-
  ther airmobile operations). If the unit
  is not intercepted, it will suffer 1% to
  5% losses from anti-aircraft fire.
. Enemy occupied hexes may not be
  entered.
. Normal terrain and stacking limita-
  tions do not apply. You may enter
  hexes using airmobile movement
  which could not otherwise be entered;
  however, if movement ends in such a
  hex, the airborne unit is destroyed. 

3.413 MOVEMENT COSTS 

TERRAIN              COST (MOVEMENT POINTS) 
Open                 3
Urban                2
Sand                 4
Marsh                4
Delta                4
Rough                4 
Sea/Lake             6 (section 3.4126) 
River(unbridged)     4 (section 3.4125)
River(bridged)       4
Suez Canal(unbridged)6 (section 3.4124)
Suez Canal(bridged)  4 (section 3.4121)
Delta/Road           1 (section 3.4121)
Marsh/Road           1 (section 3.4121)
Rough/Road           2 (section 3.4121)
River/Road           2 (section 3.4121) 

SPECIAL                COST(MOVEMENT POINTS) 
PM turn(per hex)       +1
Disengagement          +4 (section 3.4122)
Assault Deployment     +6 ( section 3.4123)
Congestion             +1 (section 3.4127)
Enemy Controlled Hexes +1 (section 3.4128) 

3.42 FULL HEX REPORT 

The full hex report is only available for
hexes with friendly units and gives
information on the physical character-
istics of the hex, and detailed organiza-
tion of any military units in the hex.
The combat effects of the hex terrain
are listed at the top of the screen. Units
are described in terms of assigned
equipment. Equipment with lethalities
greater than 10 is considered artillery
for game purposes. Artillery contributes
to the artillery lethality of a unit. Other
equipment contributes to the maneu-
ver lethality of a unit. Both types of
equipment contribute to the unit’s sur-
vivability. A unit’s total strengths are a
function of the sum of the strengths of
all equipment assigned to the unit. See
appendix F for details and examples. 

Several options are available on this
screen: 

Always Available:  (section 3.421)
+Hex
-Hex
Exit to Map

Sometimes Available: 
Transfer Equipment (section 3.422)
Disband Unit       (section 3.423)
Create Unit        (section 3.424)
Rename Unit        (section 3.425) 

3.421 OPTIONS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
IN THE FULL HEX REPORT 

+Hex button examines the next friend-
ly occupied hex. If you exit from the
Full Hex Report after selecting a new
hex, the map will re-center on the new
hex. The next hex is selected by look-
ing for the hex with the next highest x,y
coordinates (compared with the coordi-
nates of the current hex).

-Hex button is similar to the + Hex
button, but operates in the other x,y
direction.

Exit to Map button returns you to the
Main Map screen. You can also do this
by pressing [Escape] (IBM only) or
clicking the right mouse button. 

3.422 UNIT TO UNIT 
EQUIPMENT TRANSFERS 

Only the Israeli player may transfer
equipment from one unit to another.
Transfers may only occur if there are
two units in the hex, or you create a
new unit (see section 3.424).

By selecting the Transfer button next to
any category of equipment in one of the
units, you can transfer individual
squads or pieces of equipment to anoth-
er unit. The Transfer buttons will only
appear if transfers are possible. Each
unit may have a maximum of 8 different
types of equipment and a maximum of
255 items per type. If you transfer fort
squads out of a fort unit, they will
become regular infantry squads.

Important: When equipment is trans-
ferred, there is a small chance that the
readiness of the receiving unit will
decrease. This reflects the tendency of
units to have at least some difficulty
assimilating new equipment and per-
sonnel, as well as the likelihood that
transferred troops will not be the best 
available to the losing commander.
Each transferred item of equipment
has a 1/3 chance of lowering the readi-
ness of the receiving unit by 1%.

Airborne and artillery units are limited
in the types of equipment they may
receive. Airborne units can only receive
infantry squads and 81mm mortars.
Artillery units can only receive artillery
(equipment with lethality of 11 or
greater).

When equipment is transferred, the
receiving unit will have its movement
allowance limited to that of the losing
unit. 

3.423 DISBANDING UNITS 

There may be times when units are too
small to be useful, and merely clutter
the landscape. (Remember, you can
have only two units in any hex.) Also,
due to memory limitations, there is a
maximum number of units available in
the game. If you want to create a unit
elsewhere, you may need to free up a
unit for creation. If this happens, you
can get rid of any unit by disbanding it.
Important: If you disband a unit, it is
gone forever. 

3.424 CREATING UNITS 

Only the Israeli player may create new
units. A maximum of 112 units (includ-
ing any still due to appear as reinforce-
ments) are available to the Israeli play-
er. If you already have all units in use,
you will have to disband another unit
to create a new one.

Creating a unit only reserves memory
and provides the skeleton of: name,
location, and icon type. In order to
flesh out the new unit, you will have to 
transfer equipment (see section 3.422)
from some other unit into your new
unit. If you leave the hex or exit the
Full Hex Report without putting equip-
ment into the new unit, the new unit
will automatically disband. 

3.425 RENAMING UNITS 

The Israeli player only may rename his
units by selecting the Rename button
that points to each displayed unit. 

3.43 EXIT 

This allows you to go on with the
game. You may also exit by pressing
[Escape] (IBM only) or clicking the
right mouse button. 

4.0 AIR PHASE 

Air superiority and other missions will
be resolved each turn after both play-
ers have an opportunity to move units
and issue orders. 

Air combat resolution starts with air
superiority determination and then pro-
ceeds to strike and close air support
resolution. 

4.1 Air Superiority 

Aircraft assigned to air superiority mis-
sions attempt to locate and destroy
enemy aircraft. Each side adds up the
air superiority strength of all friendly
aircraft assigned air superiority mis-
sions and friendly SAM strength to get
an effective anti-air strength. See
Appendix F for details.

Aircraft assigned to non-rest missions
are attrited as follows: 

1. Air superiority aircraft are fired upon
   by the enemy anti-air and missile
   strength. 

2. Strike aircraft are fired upon by the
   enemy anti-air strength.
3. Close air support and interdiction
   aircraft are fired upon by the enemy
   anti-air and twice the enemy missile
   strength.
   
   All of the above occurs before strike
   and close air support missions are
   resolved.

After attrition, the anti-air strength for
each player is calculated again in the
same fashion as before. This new effec-
tive anti-air strength will be applied to
strike missions as they are resolved.

Before strike missions are resolved, a
report of air mission strengths and pre-
strike attrition is given. Losses listed in
this report are approximate. 

4.2 Air Strikes,
Interdiction and Close Air
Support Determination 

As for air superiority, other mission
strengths are based on number of air-
craft assigned, capabilities for mission
type, weather, and force readiness. See
Appendix F for details.

Close Air Support: These missions
directly support friendly ground forces
during the Ground Combat Phase.
Final close air support strength is
added directly to all combats.

Interdiction: These missions attempt
to interfere with enemy resupply
efforts. These types of missions include
strafing supply convoys and bombing
bridges.

Strike: These missions are formed into
packets that can be directed against
enemy SAMs, aircraft, or specific units.
Individual strike packets are composed
entirely of aircraft of one type and will 
consist of enough aircraft to give the
strike an artillery equivalent lethality of
about 45 (1973) or 60 (1990’s). Any
aircraft left over after all full strength
strikes have been formed will be
formed into a smaller runt strike.

After strike packets are formed, strikes
will be resolved by the players. Three
types of strike targets are allowed: 

. Airbases missions are directed
  against a randomly chosen type of
  enemy aircraft. Aircraft listed as hit
  by a strike are not necessarily
  destroyed, although the force readi-
  ness will reflect damage inflicted by
  the strike.
. SAM missions destroy enemy SAM
  sites. From one to six SAMs may be
  destroyed by a strike.
. Troops missions are targets at 
  specific hexes. Players may select
  apparently empty hexes in the hope
  of finding previously undetected
  enemy forces in the target hex.
  Whether or not a target is found, the
  strike will be expended on the hex. 

4.3 Aircraft Attrition 

Each time an aircraft is subject to attri-
tion (fired upon) the following occurs: 

1. There is a (total firing force)/12500
   chance that the aircraft will have to
   check against its survivability. If an
   aircraft has to check against its sur-
   vivability, it has a (survivability)/6
   chance of surviving. If the aircraft
   survives a survivability check, it
   must survive another in order to
   avoid being damaged. If an aircraft
   is damaged, the readiness of the air-
   craft type is decreased by 100%/
  (total number of aircraft in force). 

2. After each strike, estimated strike
   results are given. These reports will
   often be exaggerated. In the case of
   strikes against enemy troops, an
   explosion graphic in the target hex
   will give another indication of target
   damage, with from one (light dam-
   age) to three (heavy damage) explo-
   sions in the target hex. 

5.0 GROUND 
COMBAT PHASE 

All assault orders issued during the
players’ orders phases are executed in
random order with one side moving all
of its forces before the other side’s
forces are moved.

If an assault is plotted against a hex
which has become vacant since the
order was issued, the assaulting units
will occupy the hex in a normal (non-
combat) move. If an assault is plotted
against a hex which still contains an
enemy unit, then combat will occur.
Defending units will receive terrain and
(possibly) prepared position strength
modifiers. Within each hex, first
artillery and then maneuver combat
will take place, and players will be
notified of the results before combat
moves on to the next hex. 

5.1 Ground Combat Unit
Strength Modifiers 

The lethalities and survivabilities of
units are based upon the sum of
equipment lethalities and survivabili-
ties for all assigned equipment.
Additionally, unit strengths are multi-
plied by readiness% to find the final
strengths for the units.

Unit maximum survivability is 450.
Base unit maximum lethality is 150
(Israeli) or 450 (Arab). These base 
lethalities are multiplied by a compe-
tence factor (sections 5.11 and 5.12) to
arrive at the displayed lethality. The
lethality and survivability values dis-
played for units are the effective val-
ues, with competence modifiers
already factored in.

Defensive positions, terrain, and chem-
ical weapons may also affect unit
strengths. 

5.11 ARAB COMPETENCE STRENGTH 
MODIFIERS AND COMMAND CONTROL 

Arab units of different nationalities will
not cooperate fully on attacks. Each
nationality involved in the attack will
launch a separate assault. Artillery 
will only support units of the same
nationality.

Arab units will have their lethalities
and survivabilities modified as follows:  

LEVEL            MODIFIER 

Pushover         0.8
Moderate         0.9
Challenging      1.0
Hairy            1.1
Hideous          1.2 

5.12 ISRAELI COMPETENCE 
STRENGTH MODIFIERS 

Israeli units have their lethalities multi-
plied by three, giving an effective maxi-
mum lethality of 450 (same as the
Arabs). 

5.13 PREPARED DEFENSIVE POSITIONS 

If the defending units began the turn
with a readiness of at least 75 and did
not expend any of their Movement
Points during the turn, the combat is
treated as an assault upon a prepared
position and the defending unit will
receive a defensive advantage. 

Lethalities of units defending prepared
positions will be multiplied by 1.65.
Survivabilities of units defending 
prepared positions will be multiplied
by 2.5. 

5.14 TERRAIN EFFECTS ON 
EQUIPMENT COMBAT STRENGTHS 

The defending units will receive modi-
fiers to survivability from some types of
terrain. Different types of equipment are
subject to different terrain modifiers.
Equipment with survivabilities of two or
less is considered soft, and will general-
ly benefit more from terrain modifiers.
Since total unit survivability is a func-
tion of the sum of all equipment surviv-
abilities, this means that units com-
posed primarily of soft equipment will
usually benefit more from good defen-
sive terrain than units composed pri-
marily of hard equipment (anything
with a survivability of three or more). 

Units attacking from river/bridge ter-
rain have their strengths lowered. 

5.141 TERRAIN EFFECTS ON 
EQUIPMENT SURVIVABILITY 

Terrain modifies equipment survivabili-
ty as follows: 

                     SOFT         HARD 
TERRAIN              EQUIPMENT    EQUIPMENT 
Open                 1.0          1.0
Delta                2.0          1.5
Rough                2.0          1.5
Fortified Rough      6.0          2.0
Marsh                2.0          1.0
Sand                 1.0          1.0
Urban                6.0          2.0
River                1.0          1.0

Both the Israelis and Syrians have
made significant preparations for com-
bat in the rough terrain of the Golan
Heights. Fortified rough hexes benefit
only the player originally owning them. 

Fortified rough hexes which benefit the
Israeli player are: 

42, 01
42, 02
43, 03
43, 04
43, 05
43, 06
43, 07

Fortified rough hexes which benefit
the Arab player are all rough hexes in
Syria east of hex row 45 (including hex
45, 02).  

5.142 TERRAIN EFFECTS ON 
EQUIPMENT LETHALITY 

The only terrain which affects unit
lethality is river/bridge terrain. Units
attacking from river/bridge terrain have
their maneuver lethality divided by four. 

5.15 CHEMICAL WEAPONS 

At higher Arab Competence levels, Arab
forces are assumed to be using chemical
weapons. The Israeli player will be noti-
fied of this. Chemical weapons modify
the lethality of Arab artillery as well as
the loss of readiness incurred by all units
involved in combat if chemicals are in
use.

Weather alters the effects of chemical
weapons as follows: 

WEATHER        ARTILLERY      ADDITIONAL 
               MOD            READINESS LOSS 

Fair/Hot       1.1            4
Fair/Mild      1.2            2
Fair/Cool      1.2            2
Cloudy/Hot     1.2            4
Cloudy/Mild    1.3            2
Cloudy/Cool    1.3            2
Storms         1.0            No effect 

5.2 Artillery Combat 

All artillery lethalities (for equipment
with lethality greater than 10) will be
summed for all units involved in com-
bat for the hex. Any friendly artillery
units (identified by the artillery icon)
within 3 hexes which have not specifi-
cally plotted assaults of their own will
also contribute one half of their
artillery lethalities to the combat.
Finally, any close air support assigned
by both players is added to the friendly
artillery lethality sums.

The artillery lethality sums are com-
pared to the sums of survivabilities 
for all units involved in the combat to
generate a loss ratio for each side. 
This is the percentage of equipment
which must check against survivability
in order to survive the combat. The
loss ratio is also subtracted from the
readiness of each unit involved in the
combat.

Friendly artillery firing from hexes not
directly involved in the combat will
suffer only half of the loss ratios inflict-
ed on units directly involved in the
combat. 

5.3 Maneuver Combat 

After artillery combat, maneuver 
combat takes place. All non-artillery
equipment lethalities will be summed
for all units involved in the combat.
The maneuver lethality sums are 
compared to the sums of survivabili-
ties for all units involved in the 
combat to generate a loss ratio for
each side. This is the percentage of
equipment which must check against
survivability in order to survive the
combat. The loss ratios are also 
subtracted from the readiness of each
unit involved in the combat. 

5.4 Equipment Losses 

If a piece of equipment has to check
against its survivability, it has a (sur-
vivability/18) chance to survive the
combat. This survival chance is not
modified in any way, so soft equipment
tends to be fragile in combat.

Israeli units: If a unit loses all of its
equipment and squads in combat it is
destroyed and removed from the map.
If any equipment remains assigned to
the unit, the unit will remain on the
map. In 1973 there were several
instances of miniscule Israeli forces
holding up major Syrian advances.

Arab units: If a unit’s survivability is
reduced to less than 1 during combat,
the unit will be destroyed. 

5.5 Retreats and Advances 

After maneuver combat, defending
units are checked to see if they will
retreat. The chance for retreat is equal
to the defender loss ratio incurred dur-
ing maneuver combat. Exception:
Units defending cities are only half as
likely to retreat. Retreats (if necessary)
will be into random available hexes to
the north, south, or toward the capitol
of the country in which they began the
game. Units can only retreat into
friendly controlled hexes containing
fewer than two units.

If a unit can’t retreat for any reason,
the unit will remain in the hex, but will
be subjected to a second round of
equipment survival checks using the
maneuver combat defender loss ratio
(usually nasty).

If the hex is vacated by defending units,
one attacking unit (randomly deter-
mined) may advance into the hex. The
chance for this to occur is equal to the
readiness% of the attacking unit after
all combat in the hex is completed. 

6.0 GENERAL 
RESOLUTIONS PHASE 

After the combat phase, the program
will perform the following bookkeeping 
operations: 

. Reinforcements (section 6.1)
. Resupply Operations (section 6.2)
. Intelligence Gathering (section 6.3)
. Weather Determination and Effects
  (section 6.4)
. Bridge Building (section 6.5)
. Jordanian Belligerency Check 
  (1973 only, section 6.6) 
. End Of Game Check (section 6.7)  

6.1 Reinforcements 

Each turn, units may be scheduled to
appear at some location on the map.
Aircraft will appear directly in the
appropriate forces. Ground units will
appear in the hexes listed for them in
the order of appearance (see appen-
dices C and D) if those hexes are
friendly (not controlled by the other
player), and there is room for them in
the hex (only two units may stack in a
given hex). 

If units cannot appear due to stacking
restrictions (you don’t leave room for
them on the turn they are scheduled to
appear) then they will appear on the
next available turn in the scheduled
appearance hex.

If units cannot appear due to enemy
control of the appearance hex there are
two possibilities:  If the hex is on a map
edge, the units’ appearance is delayed
until the hex is restored to friendly con-
trol. If the hex is not on a map edge, all
units scheduled to appear on that hex
for the remainder of the game are
destroyed and will never appear.  

6.2 Resupply Operations 

During resupply operations, air forces
are re-readied and the supply status of
each hex on the map is calculated.

Units in supplied hexes will be checked
and readiness may be increased if less
than 100%. The chance for successful
resupply is: (friendly stockpile level) *
(100-enemy interdiction strength)%.
Each time a unit is resupplied there is
1% chance that the friendly stockpile
will decrease by one.

Exception: Bridges are particularly
susceptible to air interdiction. Due
to the fact that all Egyptian supplies for
units operating in the Sinai had to
come over the Suez Canal bridges, the
resupply chance for Egyptian units east
of the Suez Canal(inclusive) is: (Arab
stockpile level) * (100-2*Israeli inter-
diction strength+the number of bridge
hexes on the canal)%. 

Example: 
If Israeli interdiction strength is 23,
there are 9 bridges over the canal,
and the current Arab supply stock-
pile is 95 then the chance for
resupply of Arab units operating in
the Sinai is 95 * (100-2*23+9)%=
59.85%. For Arab units operating
in Africa or on the Syrian/
Jordanian supply net, the resupply
chance would be 73.15%. 

Units are individually checked for re-
supply. Units not successfully resup-
plied (for any reason) suffer a 5%
decrease in readiness. The friendly
stockpile level can be directly affected
by enemy interdiction aircraft (see sec-
tion 4.2) and may be viewed in the
Strategic Report (see section 3.11). 

After unit resupply: 

. Supplied units with a readiness of
  75% or greater will be given a 
  movement allowance of 12 for the
  following turn.
. Supplied units with a readiness of
  51% to 74%, and unsupplied units
  with a readiness of 51-95% will be
  given a movement allowance of 10
  for the following turn.
. Units with a readiness of 50% or less
  will be given a movement allowance
  of 0 for the following turn.
  
In 1973, both sides received significant
shipments from outside sources. There
is a 1/4 chance each turn for each 
player that the player’s stockpile level
will increase by 1%.

In the 1990’s there is evidence that the
world has less tolerance for gratuitous
Middle Eastern bloodletting, so it is
assumed that no major outside re-sup-
ply efforts are made and stockpile lev-
els will never increase during the
course of a game. 

6.21 SUPPLY AND SUPPLY 
SOURCE HEXES 

A supplied hex is any hex which can
trace a line of hexes of any length to
any friendly supply source. The follow-
ing hexes will act as supply sources if
friendly to the indicated player: 

Tel Aviv           Israeli
Cairo              Arab
Damascus           Arab
Amman              Arab (if Jordan has 
                   entered the war)
45, 16             Arab (if Jordan has 
                   entered the war)
49, 05             Arab
00, 34             Arab 

6.22 RESUPPLY RATES FOR UNITS 

Supplied Arab units recover readiness
at the following rates: 

Urban hex     Arab Base Recover 
              Rate * 3
On a road hex Arab Base Recover 
              Rate * 2 
Off road      Arab Base Recover 
              Rate 

ARAB COMPETENCE          BASE RECOVER RATE 

Pushover                 3%
Moderate                 4%
Challenging              5%
Hairy                    6%
Hideous                  7%

Supplied Israeli units recover readiness
at the following rate: 

Urban hex                27%
On a road hex            18%
Off road                 9% 

6.23 RE-READY RATES
FOR AIR FORCES 

The re-ready rate for an air force is the
percentage increase in readiness which
will be applied to a category of aircraft
at the end of a turn. Since readiness
may be decreased by flight operations
and airstrikes on friendly airbases, the
actual amount of rest a force gets
depends upon the number of aircraft
flown during a turn and the number of
enemy airstrikes on friendly airbases. 

6.231 ISRAELI AIR FORCE RE-READY 

Israel is a small country, so losing terri-
tory means losing secure air bases. For
this reason, Israeli re-ready rates for air
forces are based on the amount of
Israeli controlled territory: 

FRIENDLY HEXES            RE-READY RATE 
700+                      15%
600-699                   12%
500-599                   9%
400-499.                  6%
300-399                   3%
299-                      0

Friendly urban hexes count as 100
hexes for purposes of determining re-
ready rates. 

6.232 ARAB AIR FORCE RE-READY 

The Arab re-ready rate is fixed as fol-
lows:  

ARAB COMPETENCE        RATE 
Pushover               6%
Moderate               7%
Challenging            8%
Hairy                  9%
Hideous                10% 

6.3 Intelligence Gathering 

Each hex on the map is checked for
change of possession. Each unit on the
map will possess a patrol radius of one
hex distance in every direction if the
unit is in a supplied hex or has a readi-
ness of 75 or greater and the unit has a
maneuver lethality of 30 or greater.

Any hex within the patrol radius of one
player’s unit and not within the patrol
radius of the other player’s units will
automatically become friendly to the
patrolling unit.

Exception: Urban hexes or hexes con-
taining Arab fixed SAM sites will not
change ownership unless entered by
enemy units.

Players always have complete informa-
tion on friendly hexes. 

If playing with the Complete
Intelligence option (see section 2.112)
all hexes are always spotted to level 2.
When playing with Limited
Intelligence, each enemy hex on the
map is spotted to the following levels: 

Level 0: No information is available for
         the hex. If enemy units are in
         the hex, you won’t know about
         them.

Level 1: Unit type information is avail-
         able for the hex.

Level 2: Unit type and name informa-
         tion is available for the hex.

Enemy hexes adjacent to friendly units
will be spotted to level 2.

Enemy hexes within six hexes of Mt.
Hermon will be spotted to level 1 on
AM turns if Mt. Hermon is under
friendly control.

Enemy artillery which fired during the
combat phase is spotted to level 1.

Aerial Recce will spot some hexes not
covered by the cases above. If a hex is
spotted by aerial recce, it will be spot-
ted to level 1.

The chance for a hex to be spotted by
aerial recce is: (which player)/( 6 + 6{if
PM turn} - 3{if road hex} ) where which
player is: 

. 0 for Arabs: 1973
. 1 for Israelis: 1973
. 2 for Israelis: 1990’s
. 3 for Arabs: 1990’s.

If by chance a hex is twice spotted to
level 1 (by different methods) the spot-
ting level of the hex is raised to level 2. 

6.4 Weather Determination
and Effects 

Weather conditions are updated each
turn. Forecasts are also updated to pro-
ject weather three turns in advance.
Weather is dependent upon the season:  

SEASON        AM             PM            AM/PM 
              COOL/MILD/HOT  COOL/MILD/HOT FAIR/CLOUDY/STORMS 

Winter        25%/75%/00%    75%/25%/00%   65%/25%/10%
Spring        00%/90%/10%    10%/80%/10%   85%/10%/05%
Summer        00%/10%/90%    00%/70%/30%   95%/05%/00%
Autumn        00%/70%/30%    10%/80%/10%   80%/15%/05% 

Weather has significant effects on
chemical weapons (see section 5.15)
and air operations (see section 3.21). A
summary of weather effects is available
to players through the Weather Report
selection (see section 3.12). 

6.5 Bridge Building 

Each unbridged Suez Canal hex which
contains any unit other than an Israeli
fort unit may become a bridged canal
hex. The chance of this happening is
dependent on the amount of enemy
artillery within range (three hexes) of
the hex to be bridged. This chance for
successful bridge construction is (1-
(enemy artillery lethality)/300)*100%.

Example:
The Israelis have a unit in hex
11,31 (the canal hex between Lake
Timsah and The Bitter Lakes) and
Arab artillery units with combined
artillery lethalities of 1650 are with-
in three hexes. The chance for a
bridge to be built in this hex on any
given turn is 45%.

Israeli units will not build bridges
before turn 6.

Additional bridge construction occurs
on the first turn of the 1990’s scenario
(see section 8.2).  

6.6 Jordanian Belligerency
Check (1973 Only) 

If Jordan is neutral, then the following
units may cross the Jordanian border
into Syria: 

. Jrdn 1/1 Arm Bde 33% per turn until
  entered, beginning with turn 12
. Jrdn 2/1 Mech Bde 33% per turn until
  entered, beginning with turn 30.

Jordanian units will only enter if the
hex immediately north of their pre-
entry deployment is Arab controlled.

On any turn in which all three of the 
following conditions are met, there is a
33% chance that Jordan will fully enter
the war: 

1. It is turn eight or later.

2. Total Israeli lethality in ground units
   in central Israel is less than
   (400+Jordanian enthusiasm factor).
   Central Israel is defined to be the
   rectangular area of map south and
   east of hex 30, 07 and north and
   west of hex 41, 37 (see map of
   Central Israel Region).

3. All hexes east of hex row 44 
   (inclusive) are Arab controlled.

Jordan enthusiasm is modified by Arab
Competence Level as follows: 

ARAB COMPETENCE            JORDANIAN 
LEVEL                      ENTHUSIASM FACTOR 

Pushover                   100
Moderate                   200
Challenging                300
Hairy                      400
Hideous                    500

Note that the inclusion of an enthusi-
asm factor means that Jordanian par-
ticipation in the war is more likely at
higher Arab competence levels. 

If Jordan enters the war, all Jordanian
units may be freely moved by the Arab
player and Jordan becomes Arab terri- 
tory for all purposes (including victory
levels). Also, the Jordanian air force is
added to Arab air strength (20 F-104,
32 Hunter).  

6.7 End of Game Check 

The following rules govern ending 
scenarios:

. Beginning with turn 34 (1973) or 14
  (1990’s), there is a 25% chance that
  the war will conclude at the end of
  each turn.
. On any turn, the game ends if the
  Arab player controls Tel Aviv, or if 
  the Israeli controls both Damascus
  and Cairo.
. On any turn, there is a 25% chance
  that the game will end if the Israeli
  player occupies Damascus or Cairo.
. If the war has not ended previously,
  it will end on turn 48.

When the program has determined that
the game is over, you have the option
to continue playing. Play will continue
normally, except the victory conditions
will no longer be strictly valid. In other
words, if you continue after the normal
end of game, you will have to deter-
mine whether you won or lost. 

7.0 SOLITAIRE AND
TWO-PLAYER PLAY 

In two player mode, the game will
pause, clear the map, and display a
dialog box before beginning the next
player’s phase. This gives a break for
players to exchange places at the com-
puter without either player seeing extra
information about enemy forces.

When a saved game is resumed, it will
continue with all play selections as
they were made when the game was 
begun. Solitaire games will be restarted
in solitaire mode and two player games
will be restarted in two player mode. 

8.0 SCENARIOS AND
VICTORY CONDITIONS 

Victory is determined by terrain held as
follows:

. Urban hexes and Mt. Hermon are
  worth 100 points.
. Golan Heights hexes are worth 5
  points each.
. All other hexes held are worth one
  point each.

The Golan Heights includes all hexes
originally occupied by the Israelis east
of hex row 42 (inclusive) and Mount
Hermon (see map of Golan Heights ).
Raw points are converted into victory
levels which are displayed in the text
box below the Main Map screen.

Victory levels are calculated as follows:
For each 100 points difference between
starting victory points and current vic-
tory points, one level of victory is
awarded. If the display in the main
map text box shows I-x, the Israeli is
winning with a victory level of x. If the
display shows A-x, the Arab player is
winning with a victory level of x. In the
1990’s scenario, the Israeli victory level
is pinned at zero until 350 victory
points have been lost by the Arabs. If
the victory level is zero (fewer than 50
hexes have changed hands) the game
will end in a draw.

In addition to victory points awarded
for controlling territory, there may be a
special victory points award if the
Israelis enter an Arab capitol. The
worldwide political costs of military 
operations in large urban areas are
unpredictable. In 1973 the Soviets
made ominous noises when the Israelis
approached Damascus. In the 1990’s,
the presence of an aggressive world
press would almost certainly reveal the
unpleasant side of urban combat and
occupation. The Israelis are especially
vulnerable to such political pressure. To
reflect this when the Israelis first enter
Damascus and/or Cairo:

. There is a 50% chance that all goes 
  smoothly and normal victory points
  are awarded for the newly taken
  urban hex. 
. There is a 25% chance that world
  opinion will turn against the Israelis,
  and the Arabs will be awarded 100
  points, negating the points awarded
  for taking the urban hex.
. There is a 25% chance that U.S. 
  public opinion will turn against the
  Israelis, and the Arabs will be 
  awarded 200 points.
  
The latter two victory awards are per-
manent, and remain in effect even if 
the Israelis later withdraw from the
hex. They can only be awarded once
per game per city.

Victory in the game is awarded accord-
ing to the player with the greatest 
victory level at the end of the game. You
must at least hold on to the territory you
started with in order to avoid defeat. 

8.1 1973 Scenario  

At 1400 hrs, October 6th, 1973, the
unsettled condition that passes for
peace in the Middle East was shattered
by the sound of Arab artillery fire in the
Golan Heights and along the length of
the Suez Canal. The war lasted until
October 24th. Claims of victory were
made by both sides after the war.
While the victory claims were all
debatable, one thing was clear: The
Israelis were no longer considered
supermen. If things had gone a bit dif-
ferently in the Golan, Israel might have
been destroyed.

U.S. and Soviet Shipments: The
United States and Soviet Union both
shipped large amounts of military sup-
plies to their allies during the war.
Except for items such as ammunition,
most of these shipments were not suc-
cessfully integrated into the forces of
either side until after the fighting had
actually ended. In the game, the
Israelis will field four tank battalions 
(901, 902, 903, and 904 Arm Bn) and
the Syrians will field one tank brigade
(100 Tank Bde) built up from ship-
ments received late in the war. In addi-
tion, both players will receive a few air-
craft. See Appendix C for details.

ATGM’s: The Israelis were quite sur-
prised by the effectiveness of Arab anti-
tank guided missiles, and it took some
time for them to develop tactics to man-
age them. To reflect this, Arab ATGM
lethality strengths are multiplied by 3 at
the beginning of the game. In each com-
bat in which they are used defensively,
there is a 10% chance that the strength
modifier will drop (until it reaches 1). 

SAM’s: It took the Israeli Air Force a
few days to develop proper tactics for
avoiding losses to Arabs SAM’s at the
beginning of the 1973 war. Also, Arab
fixed SAM sites were more generous
with their missiles early in the war than
they were later. To reflect this, the
effective strength of Arab fixed SAM
sites is increased for the first few turns
of the game. The base strength of Arab
fixed SAM sites is dependant on the
Arab Competence Level and game turn
as follows: 

                   FIXED SAM 
ARAB COMPETENCE    STRENGTH 
LEVEL              MULTIPLIER 

Pushover           1.3
Moderate           1.6
Challenging        1.9
Hairy              2.2
Hideous            2.5

The multiplier drops by .01 for each
turn after the first until it reaches 1.0.
The multiplier will not drop below 1.0.
For example, if Arab Competence is set
to Challenging, and it is game turn 4,
the fixed SAM strength multiplier would
be 1.6. 

The Suez Canal: At the start of the
scenario, no bridges cross the Suez
canal. Players must build these
bridges, or experience a very boring
campaign in the south. See section 6.5.

Game Length: See section 6.7.
Probable game length is about 36 turns.

Victory: Victory will be awarded to the
player who manages to take at least 50
victory points worth of hexes away
from the other player over the course
of the war. In addition to the standard
point awards, the Israeli player will be
awarded 40 points each for meeting
any of the following conditions:

1. At least one hex west of the Suez
  Canal is Israeli controlled.
2. At least one hex adjacent to Cairo is
   Israeli controlled.
3. At least one hex adjacent to
   Damascus is Israeli controlled. 

8.2 1990’s Scenario 

As of this writing, prospects for a new
round in the Arab-Israeli conflict seem
(thankfully) to be limited. Syria alone is
not a significant military threat to
Israel. But one of the things that Israeli
military and political leaders lose sleep
over is the possibility of a radical
change in the government of Egypt. If
Egypt were to become radically hostile
to Israel, war would almost certainly
revisit the Middle East. This scenario
assumes such a change in the Egyptian
government, with hostilities following
before too much of the Egyptians’ new
western equipment can be affected by
any embargo on technical support. The
Israelis begin the game partly mobilized
and preparing to launch a preemptive
campaign to retake the Sinai. The Arab
forces are fully mobilized, with major
reinforcements on the way to the area 
from Libya, and smaller contingents
arriving from other Arab countries. 

Political Background: The following
assumptions are made: 

. Syria launches the initial attack, pre-
  empting the Israelis by about 24
  hours.
. Despite heated rhetoric to the con-
  trary, the Egyptian revolutionary lead-
  ership does not want, and is not pre-
  pared for war. The Syrian attack sur-
  prises Egypt more than it does Israel
  but internal political pressure and
  apparently aggressive Israeli inten-
  tions force Egyptian participation.
. Iraq is too involved in other affairs to
  send troops. 
. Jordan remains firmly neutral.
  (Jordan is the only major Middle
  Eastern nation which has not cheer-
  fully participated in the massive
  regional arms race since 1973.)
. The Persian Gulf states are politically
  restrained from providing more than
  financial support.
. Attitude changes in the world com-
  munity as a whole since 1973 will
  result in increased early pressure to
  end hostilities and a lack of willing-
  ness to re-supply either side with mil-
  itary equipment during hostilities.
  
Arab Volunteer Brigades: These
units in the Arab forces are formed of
poorly trained, hastily organized revo-
lutionary militia. Given their low
strengths, they are of limited use.

Attack Brigades: Both sides have
helicopter gunships concentrated for
use in supporting ground forces. For
game purposes these are designated as
attack brigades and function exactly as 
high survivability artillery units in com-
bat. These units are identified by
artillery icons on the map.

The Suez Canal: At the start of the sce-
nario, no bridges cross the Suez Canal.
Since the canal is firmly in Egyptian con-
trol at the start of this scenario, the
Egyptian army will automatically build
10 bridges across the canal at the end of
turn 1 (on all canal hexes south of hex
row 25 inclusive). The players don’t
have to do anything for this to happen.
Canal hexes which remain unbridged
after the first turn may be bridged as
described in section 6.5.

Game length: See section 6.7.
Probable game length is about 16
turns.

Victory: Since the Israeli victory level
is pinned at 0 until 350 victory points
worth of (initially Arab) hexes have fall-
en into Israeli hands, the Israeli player
is forced to at least retake the Sinai and
advance a few hexes into Syria. The
Arab player will win if he can increase
Arab holdings by at least 50 victory
points over the course of the game.  

9.0 PLAYER NOTES 

General: Keep your forces on roads
whenever possible. The supply rules in
this game reward the player who
avoids straying from roads unless nec-
essary. This is particularly critical for
artillery, which will weaken rapidly if
not receiving the road supply rate.
Concentrate your forces before attacks.
Make sure that you have plenty of
artillery within three hexes of your crit-
ical attacks and defenses. Finally:
Take and hold Mt. Hermon. 

The Israelis: Use your ability to trans-
fer equipment to build up monster divi-
sional formations. This is the best way 
to concentrate your forces for the
attack. At the beginning of the game,
your air force should make plenty of
airstrikes on Arab SAM sites in order to
limit losses on subsequent missions. If
you ignore the Arab SAM’s, your
bomber force will slowly but surely be
attritted to uselessness. Commit your
bombers to close air support if you
anticipate a large number of combats
during the ground combat phase, oth-
erwise put your aircraft into troop
strike or interdiction missions.

The Arabs: Get the Egyptian army
across the Suez Canal quickly! If the
Egyptian army is still in Africa when
the main body of the Israelis arrives in
the western Sinai, the Arab player is
doomed. Don’t expect an Arab brigade
to be equal to an Israeli brigade. Attack
vigorously in the opening turns of the
game, but watch the results of your
attacks. If the Israeli ever gains the ini-
tiative (and he probably will at some
point), you will never regain it. Don’t
try. If you sense that you have reached
your high water mark, stay put and
make the Israeli attack for the rest of
the game. Remember that different
nationalities will not fully cooperate in
attacks. If you decide to use the
Jordanians (1973), Iraqis (1973) or
Libyans (1990’s) in attacks, it is better
to concentrate them in one area than
to spread them out.

1973: The Arabs must be as aggressive
as possible in the early stages of the
game. If you manage to cross the Suez
in good order, your advance through
the Sinai will be irresistible for the first
few turns. Just remember that when the
Israelis stiffen, you should not push
too hard. Your supply lines over the
Suez bridges are too fragile to support
a heavy demand if the Israeli air force
makes serious attempts at interdiction. 

In the Golan, you should crush the ini-
tial Israeli garrison. If the Israeli is slow
to bring up reinforcements, continue
your offensive and head for Haifa. 

The Israeli should be on the lookout for
all of the above. Use your initial Sinai
forces to screen the Egyptian advance.
Don’t attack until you are ready. 

1990’s: This is a tough game for the
Arab player. Be prepared for a re-play
of the crushing Israeli victory of 1967.
The Israeli player should be as aggres-
sive as possible, especially in the Sinai.
Conversely, except for the first few
turns in the Golan, the Arab should be
very cautious, launching attacks only
when reasonably sure of inflicting seri-
ous losses on the Israelis.

The situation in the Golan heights is
similar to that of 1973, with an
increased concentration of hardware.
Since the Israelis are partially mobi-
lized at the start of hostilities, the
Golan will not be quite as evenly
matched as in 1973. Losses will be
quite high, but rapidly building Israeli
military superiority should easily
reverse initial Syrian advances. With a
bit of luck, the Israeli may be able to
enter Damascus by game’s end. The
Syrian should use his initial superiority
to crush two or three Israeli brigades
and take additional rough terrain
which may be defensively useful when
the Israeli offensive develops. 

In the Sinai, the Egyptian presence at
the beginning of the game is limited to
a small screening force. The bulk of the
Egyptian army is waiting in Africa.
With assured local superiority, the
Israeli should be able to rapidly
advance deep into the Sinai. The
Israeli player should initially run west
with little regard for flank security. 

Follow on forces can mop up behind
your lead elements. The Egyptian play-
er should use his screening units to
slow the Israeli advance while the
army advances to defensive positions
in central Sinai. The screening units
will be destroyed, but they can buy a
couple of turns. 

10.0 DESIGNER’S NOTES 

It is not possible to design a game 
covering an historical event which accu-
rately reflects all aspects of the event.
Readers of history will know more than
the original participants. Israeli players
of this game will most likely not repeat
the bloody, fruitless attacks on Egyptian
forces crossing the Suez canal the first
day of the war. (If they do, they’ll proba-
bly only do it once.) Arab commanders
will have knowledge which will allow
them to exploit their initial successes in
ways the original commanders would
have considered foolhardy. At lower lev-
els of play the Arab computer player will
limit itself to historical strategic deci-
sions, but human players will not be so
limited. Some wargame designers try to
get around this kind of thing by placing
onerous command and control restric-
tions on players. I have always disliked
this approach. When I play a wargame I
want to be placed in the position of the
original commander without being
forced to actually be the original com-
mander.

It is possible to design a game which
more or less accurately reflects the
physical and political realities of an
historical event. The orders of battle
and performance characteristics of per-
sonnel and equipment are generally
well known. In this case, considerable
documentation on the situation is
available. There is some disagreement 
on specific details, but the general out-
line is solid. Wherever possible, I have
tried to adhere to the original unit des-
ignations for the 1973 scenario. The
Israeli forces are actually unassigned
battalion or two battalion task forces
hastily mobilized and sent to the front.
In many cases they are the round out
formations for understrength active for-
mations which begin the game else-
where on the map. The unit designa-
tions for the 1990’s scenario are com-
pletely imaginary; however, thanks to
references such as the IISS Military
Balance annuals, the orders of battle
are reasonably complete and correct.
The only cases of truly questionable
organization are in the Egyptian army,
which is in the process of reorganiza-
tion. I have assumed that currently
scheduled orders for equipment will be
shipped on time, and that some of the
Soviet equipment supplied to the
Egyptians will be retired by the time of
the 1990’s scenario.

The word which best describes my opin-
ion on the Arab-Israeli situation is
ambivalence. Nobody in that part of the
world wears a white hat. Game design
considerations were influenced only by
past military performance and estimates
of current equipment capabilities.

In past conflicts the Israelis have man-
aged to perform very well compared to
the Arab forces they have faced. There
is no reason to assume that this situa-
tion has changed, so there are signifi-
cant strength modifiers for Israeli forces
in both scenarios. I have yet to see an
explanation for this that doesn’t strike
me as uncomfortably trite and smug. If
the Arabs ever work through their prob-
lem (whatever it is), the Israelis may
find themselves in real trouble. 

All Appendices omitted apart from Appendix E

Appendix E: 
Abbreviations used in
CONFLICT: MIDDLE EAST 

Abn      Airborne
AM       Airmobile
Amph     Amphibious
Arm      Armored
Arty     Artillery
AT       Anti tank
ATGM     Anti tank guided missile
Atk      Attack
Bde      Brigade
Bn       Battalion
Cmp      Composite
Cdo      Commando
Co       Company
Div      Division
Egypt    Egyptian
Hy       Heavy
Inf      Infantry
Isrli    Israeli
Jrdn     Jordanian
mm       Millimeter
Mech     Mechanized
MRL      Multiple rocket launcher
Mrtr     Mortar
Para     Paratroop
PLA      Palestine Liberation Army
RG       Republican Guard
Rgt      Regiment
RR       Recoilless rifle
SAM      Surface to air missile
SP       Self propelled
SPA      Self propelled artillery
Syrn     Syrian
Vol      Volunteer 


CREDITS 

Design and Programming
Norm Koger

Game Development
Chuck Kroegel, Dave Landrey, 
Joel Billings

Manual
Norm Koger, Richard Wilson

Text Manual
Belgarath

Playtesting
Philip Allard, John Arnold, 
Roger Batchelder, Dave Bennet, 
Michael Brasher, Larry Burbage, 
Vince Chiappetta, Arlon Harris, 
Lou Ingenhousz, Jeff Jackelen, 
Richard Kent, Jeff Lackey, Mike Laird,
Kevin Nunn, Steve Raeford, 
Martin Rogge, Michael Silen, 
Tony Webb, Eric Winter

Art, Graphic Design and Desktop Publishing
LOUIS SAEKOW DESIGN: Peter Gascoyne

Printing 
A&a Printers and Lithographers
