                             Medway Boys & Ikari

                                 - Presents -

                             CONTINENTAL CIRCUS      

                       75 Lines (3204 Bytes Decrunched)

                      Docs by Phantom Lord (MEDWAY BOYS)


                             TAKE THE CHALLENGE
                             ------------------
The Continental Circus consists of a series of eight races, each run on a
different track in a different country. To complete the series and earn the
right to compete at Formula One level, a driver has to enter the Circus and
finish races inside a qualifying position set for each successive track.

In theory, failure to qualify on a single track spells disqualification -
the whole sequence of eight circuits has to be started again from scratch.
However, drivers entering the Circus are given 4 'lives' or 'credits'.
Should you fail to qualify on a track, you can exchange a credit for the
opportunity to compete in another race on that track instead of being
forced to return to the first race in the sequence.

                              BEHIND THE WHEEL
                              ----------------
Your aim is simple. To prove to the racing world in general (and to your
team manager in particular) that you have the skills and experience to
drive Formula One machines.

Such honours are not easily earned. Only a handful of people in the world
are allowed to compete at Formula One level, and entry to that elite club
is restricted to the most talented drivers. After years of racing you are
now ready to take up the challenge, a challenge that will entitle you to
compete with the finest drivers, the elite of motor racing. A challenge
known as the Continental Circus...

                               DRIVING SKILLS
			       --------------
Your car has very simple controls - a high/low gearshift and an accelerator
combine to control speed, while left/right controls govern your position on
the track.

Watch the clock that ticks off the seconds of Racetime. You start the race
with a limited amount of Racetime. When it runs out completely, the race
finishes and you are assigned your current position in the field. Extra
Racetime is earned by passing checkpoints located around the track within a
time limit.

Avoid collisions whenever possible - they cost valuable time and can lead
to pit calls - if the car is damaged, get into the pits as soon as possible
rather than soldiering bravely on. Racetime is stopped while you are in the
pits, so getting things fixed doesn't harm your chances of qualifying, but
if you continue racing with a damaged car it will perform badly and
eventually blow up!

Of cource, the going gets tougher the further you go: each successive track
in the Circus sets greater challenges. And watch out for the rain... it
affects the car's handling characteristics quite dramatically.

                            LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
			    --------------------
AMIGA & ATARI ST
----------------
Insert disc in Drive A. Program will load and run.

                                  CONTROLS
				  --------
	UP		- Speed Up
	DOWN		- Slow Down
	LEFT/RIGHT	- Steer Left/Right
	FIRE		- Change Gear