                         C O S M I C  P I R A T E


CHAPTER
                   
1.  WHAT THE HELL ARE WE DOING HERE?

 The player takes on the role of the infamous Guy Manly, whose very
name strikes fear into the heart of every space-trucker from here to
somewhere very far away indeed.

 Guy's tragic story began many years ago on his home planet, SKRATCHIT-
IV-U, where, after a tediously uneventful youth, he was sentenced to
death for a crime which, although he'd skin you alive if you said so, he
almost wasn't a good idea to stick around, and besides, he'd always had
a yearning to travel and see the universe. So after a daring, and some say
physically impossible escape, involving a tube of toothpaste and a home-
made tinopener, Guy hitched a ride on the first ship to anywhere. Unfortu-
nately, Guy's attempts to find gainful (and legal) employment were not en-
tirely fruitful.

 There was only one thing for it, he would steal a small, heavily armed
spaceship with limited hyperspace facilities and low fuel consumption and
take his chance on the open spaceways. The rest of course is History...

  WHAT IS NEST51?
 NEST51 is a very large spacestation, located somewhere in the galaxy. It
is run by an extremely dodgy (and dangerous) criminal organisation known
as THE COUNCIL, who, to all intents and purposes, will be your employers
in the game.
 NEST51 acts as a sort of agency for would-be space pirates. A huge in-
telligence network keeps track of virtually all Spacetruck activity and
therefore, for a price, can provide a pirate with the exact location of
a spacetruck together with details of it's cargo, armaments etc. The 
price they ask is a fixed fee plus "A SMALL PERCENTAGE OF YOUR PROFITS,
GRADED ACCORDING TO A RISK FACTOR BASED ON YOUR SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE"
(taken from the NEST51 standard piracy agreement). In practice this
means that 90-98% of your income goes to the Council. This doesn't 
mean that piracy is not worth while, in fact most pirates make a
handsome living (those who survive).

 Obviously, with so much at stake, the Council don't give their 
information to just anyone. You must first prove your worth on a 
simulator and even then the best missions are only available to ex-
perienced pirates.

                   
2. LET'S PLAY GAMES
 
 Simulators are NEST51's answer to a video arcade, although the games have
a purpose other than mere entertainment. Each simulator will recreate a
particular aspect of a mission, and are graded (and priced) in order of
authenticity. Most simulators use a form of vektor graphics to represent
your ship and the enemy, and in this respect they can never fully recreate
a real mission. As well as providing an essential and safe practice envi-
roment for an inexperienced pirate, they will also affect some of your
statistics (especially shooting accuracy). Obviously, the more realistic
a simulation, the greater effect it will have on your statistics.

 CURRENT SIMULATORS
 Here is a short description of each of the seven simulators currently
available and how they affect  your piracy statistics. It must be stated
however, that the only way to understand them is to play them, so as a
special courtesy gesture the Council will credit each new pirate with
freeplay tokens to be used on any of the immensely popular "COMBAT"
series of games or SPACE SIM. Other simulators will be charged at full
price.

 COMBAT ONE
 The simplest and most difficult simulation in the popular "COMBAT"
series. These games make no attempt to simulate real world conditions,
it's just you against them and nowhere to hide. As in all simulations,
your ship will look and feel fairly similar to an ordinary middle-of-the-
range single seater. Unfortunately, the realism level of the COMBAT se-
ries means they can only contribute to your shooting accuracy rating.
"COMBAT ONE" simulates the most vicious aliens of all, "GYROS" making
this the most difficult simulator to play well. A useful tip is to keep
an eye on your shield and when it gets too low use the most successful
battle tactics of all time:  RUN AWAY!

 COMBAT TWO
 Similar to Combat one only it simulates full "SPACE SNAKES" in both size
and other subtle variations. As Space Snakes are by far the most common of
the various enemies you are likely to meet, you will find this a most
useful game. If you are to survive eve the simplest mission it is essen-
tial that you develop a technique for despatching these deceptively dan-
gerous creatures.

 COMBAT THREE
 The latest and most sophisticated of the "COMBAT" series. This game e-
mulates practically every alien type you will ever meet and this variety
makes it perhaps the most interesting game in the series. The only thing
missing seems to be bonuses, but as always, you pay for what you get and
the "COMBAT" series are free!

 "DISASTEROIDS"
 A faithful recreation of that all time classic of video entertainment
"SPACE PONG" (or something like that). This is the latest addition to
NEST51's simulator room and the most puzzling as it appears to bear no
relation to any part of a typical mission, yet it has been give a high
realism rating. (Maybe the COUNCIL know something we don't). Gameplay is
simple and needs no explanation, so we won't bother (try it!).

 SPACE SIM
 The first "true simulation", SPACE SIM includes much more attention to
detail than previous games. Features include bonuses, background scenery,
improved ship control and hyperspace beacons. Fly into the beacons for a
mystery bonus!

 PLANET SIM (Listen to this guys and girls: Only on AMIGA VERSION-Ed.)
 Planet Sim provides the player with a chance to experience the exhila-
ration of flying low over the surface of a planet. Gameplay involves
shooting a required number of small, innocent aircraft. An interesting
feature is the novel way in which aircraft defend themselves. This invol-
ves leaving a trail of small explosive devices set to explode one second
after launching. This simple technique is surprisingly effective, making
lost planets very dangerous places to visit and is, in fact, the main
reason why this simulator was developed.

 It is therefore recommended that all pirates gain at least a few hours
experience with this simulator before visiting ANY planets.

 SPACETRUCK SIM
 This one is absolutely vital and is best played before going out on each
mission. The player is given the chance to attack and dock with an ex-
tremely realistic simulation of a spacetruck. The simulator will increase
in difficulty as you progress to bigger missions.

 Here the traditional "GRIDSCROLL" backdrop of most simulators is dispen-
sed with in favour of the inky blackness of space. There are several ways
to disable a spacetruck. For instance, in the case of a class A ship it's
simply a case of shooting at the moving parts until the shields are drai-
ned and docking can take place.

                   
3. NOW WHAT?

 Your objective is very simple but far from easy: to become a successful
(that means rich), and preferable not dead, COSMIC PIRATE. This will in-
volve developing a number of skills - already practised on the simulators
 - which will test both your strategic and joystick wielding powers.

 Money is earned by taking on "missions", which means attacking innocent
space trucks and selling their cargoes.

 MISSIONS
 Inthe game, a mission is a piece of information concerning the where-
abouts of a particular spacetruck, together with details of it's size,
cargo etc. As NEST51 is a business, this information must be paid for li-
ke anything else and the price is 1000 units x size of ship - thus, an A
class mission will cost 1000 units and a Z class will cost 26.000 units.

 Your eligibity for a particular mission is decided by the Council and
their decision is final. The calculations made in order to reach this de-
cision are complex but they are based entirely on your Piracy Statistics.
Remember, never let your shooting accuracy fall below 30%; if it does, no
missions will be given (it's back to the simulators). The Council like a
better than even chance and will not tolerate amateurs.

 If your bank account goes into the red you are i BIG TROUBLE. You will be
permitted to carry on trading but not to makepurchases. Also a big reward
will be offered for your capture, so expect a few bounty hunters to show
interest (and they mean business).

 A "TYPICAL" MISSION
   (Or how to be a COSMIC PIRATE in ten easy steps)

1. LAUNCH FROM NEST51 (after paying your bill of course!).
2. ENTER HYPERSPACE (this is automatic).
3. EMERGE FROM HYPERSPACE IN CORRECT GALAXY AND SECTOR.
4. FIND A HYPERSPACE BEACON AND PAY TOLL (KILL ENOUGH ALIENS).
5. USE COSMIC SECTOR MAP TO CHOOSE NEW SUB-SECTOR DESTINATION.
6. EMERGE FROM HYPERSPACE AT YOUR CHOSEN DESTINATION
7. IF SPACE TRUCK IS NOT PRESENT HERE THEN  GO BACK TO 4.
8. FIND SPACETRUCK AD DISABLE IT (easier said than done!).
9. DOCK WITH TRUCK AND RE-ENTER HYPERSPACE, DESTINATION NEST51.
10.MISSION COMPLETE. THE COUNCIL TAKE 90-99% OF YOUR PROFITS.

 A LITTLE KEYMAP
 FIREBUTTON:
     tap for bullet
     hold for smart bomb
 SPACEBAR on computer = pause
 ESC key on computer = quit game

 HYPERSPACE BEACONS
 Each sub-sector of the galaxy contains a hyperspace beacon which is
the only way to reach another sub-sector. The beacon can be found by
flying toward the cursor which is on the screen at all times (in this
case shaped like a cross with a "T" in the centre). The cursor gives
you an idea of the distance and direction of the beacon and it will
move toward the centre of the screen as you approach. The gravitional
pull of a beacon attracts all manner of space debris including aste-
roids and old wrecked spaceships which are harmless and serve as an
indicator that you are approaching the beacon.

 The beacon is activated by flying into its centre. If there is no toll
or you have killed the required number of aliensthen you will enter
hyperspace. If not, the amount of the toll will flash on screen and your
score must reach this number before you will be allowed to leave. As
you enter hyperspace the toll will be deducted from your score and 25%
of your ship's damage will be repaired (only on toll beacons). If your
score is greater than the toll thenyou get to keep the rest which will
go towards your next toll. If you have any score at the end of the mis-
sion then this is converted into cash - tax free!

 THE SECTOR MAP
 Each time you enter hyperspace beacon you will be presented with a
sector map. A sector is divided into a matrix of 12 x 9 sub-sectors
and this makes up the map. Each sub-sector on the map is colour coded
from black through blue to bright orange. These colours represent alien
activity in that sub-sector and translate to a toll demanded by the hy-
perspace beacon (bright orange represents a toll of 7000, black means
no toll).

 Your position on the map is represented by a flashing skull and cross-
bones icon. At this point you may choose your destination by pushin
up, down, left or right on the joystick. Other icons on the map repre-
sents planets, spacetrucks, and other pirates (same icon, not flashing).
Your ultimate destination is always the sector containing the fish-
shaped spacetruck icon but you are free to take any route you wish (the
easiest route is rarely the shortest). You may for example wish to vi-
sit a planet to pick up some extra cash  or you may decide to rid the
whole sector of aliens. Once a sub-sector has been cleared of aliens
it may be visited again and no toll will be charged at the hyperspace
beacon.
 If you move into a sub-sector containing another Pirate or visa versa
then according to the rules of piracy, you must  fight it out. This
means a duel to the death  in a mysterious area of nothingness between
hyperspace and real space. If your bank account ever falls below zero
then a reward will be offered for the recovery of your ship which will
attract other pirates who always attack in groups. So long as you stay
in the black, however, you are unlikely to be attacked.

 ALIENS
 Throughout the game you will be relentlessly attacked by a large va-
riety of aliens in all shapes and sizes. Points are awarded for each
one killed depending on size, difficulty, number of shots needed etc.
Rather than attempting to describe all the aliens we suggest you try
the simulators and see for yourself. Use your scanner to watch for ap-
proaching aliens and be ready for them, it's possible to shoot them
before they appear on screen.
 Aliens killed in order to pay a toll are called "NECESSARY KILLS",
once you have the toll, any further kills are "UNNECESSARY KILLS".
These are worth twice as much when counted toward your PIRACY STATUS.

 BONUS OBJECTS
 Sometimes, when an alien is killed it will leave behind small "bonus"
objects and theese should be collected by flying into them. If a bonus
is not collected or destroyed it will, after a few seconds, turn into
a homing missile which is very fast, can't be out run and is extremely
dificult to shoot. The bonuses are colour coded and each colour will
have a different effect on your ship.

   COLOUR             EFFECT
 YELLOW..............Adds 50 points to score.
 WHITE...............Adds one "SMART BOMB".
 GREEN...............Increases shield.
 RED.................Kills all aliens and bonuses on scanner.
 BLUE................Decreases ship damage (slightly).
 BLACK/TRANSPARENT...Splits into many random bonuses.

 PLANETS
 Pirates often find visiting planets a dangerous, but extremely profi-
table exercise. There's almost always an oppressed population in need
of liberation from an evil, tyrannical empire and willing to pay a huge
fee to anyone who wouldn't mind "shooting that large spaceship over
there". Of course, if no one needs any help, it's always a good place to
get some shooting practice.

 SO WHAT ARE THESE "SPACETRUCKS"?
 Spacetrucks are simple extremely large cargo carrying spaceships which
represent the cheapest way of moving goods from one planet/galaxy to
another. Spacetrucks vary enormously in size, from the smallest Class A
(40.000 tonnes) to the legendary Class Z "WHALESHIP" which is about the
size of a small planet and twice as difficult to capture.

 HOW DO I CAPTURE ONE?
 First you must find one: assuming you are in the correct sub-sector
this simply means flying towards the cursor as descriped before. The
cursor indicating the position of a spacetruck will be fish-shaped (as
are spacetrucks). Of course, spacetrucks - unlike hyperspace beacons -
are moving, sometimes very quickly, so don't sit around shooting aliens
or you're in for a long journey.
 In order to dock with a spacetruck you must first destroy its defences.
This is done by attacking any moving parts on the outside of the ship,
thus forcing it to use it's energy to power shields. Larger ships have
surface guns which fire intelligent homing missiles in the shape of huge
fire balls; these can be avoided or shot. Smart-bombs will destroy sur-
face guns. Some ships will begin evasive manoeuvres when they are at-
tacked. A common tactic is to use "turbo-boost" which means accelerating
away from attackers at very high speed, this uses a lot of fuel, how-
ever, so it is only used in short bursts.
 As the ship is drained of power its colour will change, gradually get-
ting darker ad darker. When completely drained the ship will stop mo-
ving and you may dock. Docking is semi-automatic and involves flying
close to the docking port at the front of the ship until your computers
take over for the tricky bit.
 Once docked your mission is almost complete. All that remains is to
pilot the ship manually through the hyperspace lanes. Here you can pick
up extra points by shooting smaller spaceships whilst accelerating to
light speed. Remember, any cash earned here is tax-free.

                   
THE FRONT END - HOW IT WORKS

 When the game begins you will be presented with an option screen which
contains a text window at the top and a series of ten option bars, each
associated with a function key. The option bars are colour coded. RED
means a command and will often lead to a completely new meu. GREEN op-
tions are parameters and will affect the next command, eg. on the
SIMULATORS menu you may press the green option "DISASTEROIDS" and no-
thing much will happen except that option will light up. If you then
press the red option "PLAY SIM" the DISASTEROIDS simulation will then
begin. This sounds a lot more complex than it really is, try it!

 The main menu headings are:

 *LAUNCH* - Begin mission (only if a mission has been selected). After
some disk access, there will be a short, automatic launch sequece, after
which you will be hyperspaced to your chose destination, usually sur-
rounded by a horde of unfriendly aliens. Note: Launch will not be per-
mitted if your shooting accuracy is less than 30%; in this case the so-
lution is to bump up your rating on one of the available simulators.

 SELECT MISSION - Choose which of the available missions to take. You
will find that some missions are refused because your PIRACY RATING is
too low. The rule is that you may only take on a mission of a class one
greater than the biggest you have successfully completed ie. once you
have captured a Class A ship you may move on to a Class B.

 SIMULATORS - Allows access to the simulators described earlier. Also
provides player with pricing information and current HI-Scores.

 PIRACY STATUS - This option lists a series of personal statistics which
reflect your performance so far. These statistics are combined to cal-
culate your PIRACY STATUS which is simply a number which allows you to
judge your own performance (along with your bank account). As a rough
guideline, a piracy status of 1000 is regarded as excellent and no pi-
rate has yet scored 2000. It is of course perfectly possible to make a
great deal of money without gaining a very high rating.

 REFIT SHIP - Once some money has been accumulated this allows the pla-
yer to customise his/her ship with several extremely expensive items
such as new shields, weapons, engines etc.

 QUIT GAME - Current game is terminated and you are returned to the
"enter name" prompt. If you enter the same name as before your game
will be restored intact.

 MISSION DATA - Displays all known info about your selected mission.

 SHIP CONFIG - Describes current ship status of your spaceship.
