                       Cosmic Bouncer
	            --------------------
The Story

Dear Users!!

We are in the year XR-76AX intergalactic star-time. Caused by a regretable
computer-mistake of a calculating machine by the company Atori, a gigantic
substance-life-beam of the Gekkotron type was shot into space from the planet
Grumpf. This beam hit an accumulation thread-shaped macromolecular carbon
compound(more accurately, a tennis ball by the company Adidotz, which was
lost during the last space championships in the star-system Colgar).
After a series of genetechnological miracles, the impossible happens:
The tennis ball comes to life!
A programmer from the company Eurolone succeeded in years of work,
influenced by many gurus, to develop a programm which makes it possible to
transfer a live-telecast from every place in space to your Amiga computer.
The most up-to-date version of this programm you are holding in your hands.
Your task is to preserve the life of the ball and bring it back to earth
ALIVE, so that more research can be done. It will be made more difficult
through the hostile minded spacefleet Haino, which will try to prevent the
safe return of the ball.
To survive you have to bounce the ball onto the appearing platforms and make
sure that it does not "lose the ground unter it's feet"


The Platforms

About these platforms we know the following:

- platforms with a question mark can be either friendly or hostile
- with a certain platform the ball can make especially big bounces.
- platforms with a skull should be avoided because they have negative
  characteristics
- there are supposed to be virus-like platforms which infect the ball when
touched. If this happens you should bounce as fast as possible to a field
which says "AID"

Most platforms become deactivated after touching them the first time, e. x, the big-bounce platforms become normal platforms after jumping onto them. There is the rumour that invisible platforms exists which teleport the ball to the next section on it's way to earth

Hints

The sections are marked with "START" and "GOAL". In one section there can be several GOALS.
Every second level is a bonus level. You cannot lose any balls there but your score can be improved.
Pressing the ESC key allows you to return to the main screen.
Pressing SPACE bar while playing will freeze the game untill the fire button
is pressed.
Three times per game you have the ability to create a platform under the ball
by pressing the fire button so that the ball doesn't fall into oblivion.
If you do not succeed in completing this job, you will be pounished with
forced computer work on the Atori 66551100020 for a least
1000000000000000 cycle time

If you have any questions, please contact your local space agency