Cosmic Relief 
Typed by Russell Reed <rreed@cei.net>.


Cosmic Relief
Prof. Renegade to the Rescue

By
TEQUE SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, LTD.

Licensed By
GRAND SLAM ENTERTAINMENTS, LTD.


                                 The Crew

Program by............................Pete Harrap & Shaun Hollingworth
Music by..................................................Benn Daglish
Parts of the Manual Written by.......................Stephen Sustarsic
Other Parts Written by...............................Thomas J. Clement
All of it Edited by..................Kathi B. Somers & Brenda Franklin
Parts Illustrated by...............................Bonita Long-Hemsath
Map by...............................Kathi B. Somers & Matt Kazanowski
Manual Designed by.....................................Kathi B. Somers

                              The Players

Professor K.K. Renegate...................................Heady Noggin
Big John Caine.............................................Guy Maximum
Fortisque Smythe.........................Sir Reginald Hambone Bromwich
Herr Krusche............................................Hans Underfoot
Henri Beaucoup...........................................Duke L'Orange
Wu Pong................................................Burney McNamara
First Bearer...........................................Veronica VaVoom
Second Bearer from the Left............................Bill F. Buckley
Bearer of Bad News...............................The Double-Mint Twins
The League Of Women Voters...............................as themselves

IntelliCreations, Inc. would like to thank the Department of Fish &
Game, without whom this game would now have been possible.

Presented in DataSound and CosmicScope


** back-of-milk-carton technical diagram omitted **

Have you seen this man?  If so, contact the nearest law enforcement
agency immediately.  The fate of the world depends on it (not to
mention the fate of your winning this game).

Forty years ago, Professor K. K. Renegade, the inventor of the Swiss
Army Farm Animal (capable of functioning as a cow, a goat, and a
chicken), predicted that an asteroid was rocketing toward Earth.
Incredibly, no one believed the man behind the milk-producing chicken
was also correct about the destruction of the planet.

But time, and a rapidly-approaching piece of space rock the size of
Louisiana, would change all that.  Realizing that the only man who
could prevent the asteroid calamity was the same man who predicted it,
the really important people of the Earth decided to contact Professor
Renegade for help.  The question now: where is Professor Renegade...
and can he be found in time?

You're in charge of the Renegade hunt.  Select one of the five most
intrepid adventurers from England, France, Germany, Japan, and the U.S.
to spearhead the expedition.  Professor Renegade was last seen in an
unexplored region of the highest Tibetan ranges; an area populated by
creatures and conditions of the Professor's own bizarre design:
venemous stone snakes, reptilian birds, and acid storms.  Not only must
your Adventurer survive these tests of courage, but he must find and
properly use such curious objects as spurs, a vacuum cleaner, and a
unicycle.

Upon arrival at the Professor's door, the quest is far from over.  If
you convince Renegade to help, you'll need to help him construct an
anti-asteroid deflector.  The search now turns to finding such
high-tech tools as an atomic pile, a 9-volt battery, and a bent coat
hanger!

If you Adventurer fails in his mission, then the Earth, and all its
neat things, will be obliterated.


C-64/128 ADVENTURER'S REQUIREMENTS

*  Commodore 64/128                 *  1541/1571 Disk Drive
*  TV or Video Monitor              *  Game Disk
*  Joystick (optional)              *  Ticket aboard anything leaving
                                       earth (just in case)

GETTING STARTED ON THE C-64/128

1  Turn off the computer and connect a Joystick to Port 2.
2  Turn on the power to your TV or monitor, disk drive, and computer
   (with C-128, hold down Commodore Key while turning on the computer).
3  Insert the game disk into the drive and close the door.
4  When READY appears on the screen, type LOAD"*",8,1 and press RETURN.
   The game loads.  Leave the disk in the drive during play.


AMIGA ADVENTURER'S REQUIREMENTS

*  Amiga computer (512k)            *  Compatible Disk Drive
*  TV or Video Monitor              *  Game Disk
*  Joystick (optional)              *  A lot of life insurance


GETTING STARTED ON THE AMIGA

1  Turn off the computer.  Connect a Joystick.
2  Turn on the power to your TV or monitor, disk drive, and computer.
3  Insert the disk at the Workbench prompt.  The game loads and runs.
4  Leave the disk in the drive during play.


ATARI ST ADVENTURER'S REQUIREMENTS

*  Atari ST Computer                *  Compatible Disk Drive
*  TV or Video Monitor              *  Game Disk
*  Joystick (optional)              *  A New Corvette (you don't really
                                       need one, but what can it hurt?)


GETTING STARTED ON THE ATARI ST

1  Turn off the computer.  Connect a Joystick.
2  Turn on the power to your TV or monitor and disk drive.
3  Insert the Game Disk into the drive and close the door.
4  Turn on the computer.  The game loads and runs.  Leave the disk in
   the drive during play.


OBJECTIVE

The objective of the game is simple.  Find Professor Renegade and
convince him to build the anti-asteroid deflector that will save the
world!  Accomplishing this objective isn't so simple.

Accompanying you on this treacherous journey is the Adventurer of your
choice and a team of native bearers (bearers are paid union scale, so
the sooner you find Renegade, the sooner you'll save Earth and your
bank account).  The Adventurer obeys all your commands (even the stupid
ones), though not always willingly.

As he passes through uncharted territories infested with disgusting
creatures (even more disgusting that TV weathermen), the Adventurer
encounters items left behind by less successful expeditions.  These
trinkets will prove invaluable when Renegade is found, because the
Professor is renowned for being able to turn the most useless items
into the most awesome creations (have we mentioned the Sub-Atomic,
Ultra-Dimension Camera built entirely out of pipe cleaners, a
steel-wool pad, and a paperback of Catcher In The Rye?).

The Adventurer collects things by walking over them; then his faithful
native bearers carry the items without complaint (considering what a
bearer makes, why should they fuss?).  When, and if, you locate
Renegade, present him with the fruits of your expedition so he can
build the Asteroid Deflector.  Of course, if you haven't found the
correct items, you'll have to hit the trail again and hope Renegade
doesn't waste the collection by building a LaCrosse stadium while
you're gone.

To determine exactly what the Adventurer needs, guess.  Or read the
manual and look for hidden clues.  Or find someone who's played the
game and cheat.  Oh, and by the way, your Adventurer must have a "key"
item with him before his mission is considered finito.  This item is
different for each of the five Adventurers.

One more thing, you have only thirty days to complete the mission.
Otherwise, the asteroid will crash into earth like a giant watermelon
hurled from atop a skyscraper.  The result of such a galactic
catastrophe is too gross to imagine.  But it you insist on imagining
it, picture a colossal mass of red bubbling goop riddled with little
black seeds.  Is that disgusting or what?


COMMODORE PLAYERS

Once the game has loaded, the Adventurer/Command Menu appears.  This is
where you select your Adventurer and refer to gameplay commands (which
we've graciously listed below).

COMMODORE COMMANDS

   F1    Turns the music on.
   F3    Turns the music off.
   F5    Pauses and unpauses the game.
   Shift/RUNSTOP   To quit the game and return to the
   Adventurer/Command Menu.

For Commodore players only

  If you're using the balloon, you must be facing Right while you
  ascend or you won't be able to walk right when you reach the top of
  the mountain.  Hold down L or hold the joystick to the right during
  your skyward journey.


ATARI ST & AMIGA PLAYERS

Once the game has loaded, the Adventurer Menu appears.  This is where
you select your Adventurer.  Notice that there's also a ?.  If you
select the ?, a Command Menu appears which shows gameplay controls for
the ST and Amiga.

ATARI ST & AMIGA COMMANDS

  F1    Pauses the game.
  F2    Unpauses the game.
  F8    Lets you play in 50 Hz mode (for Europe).
  F9    Lets you play in 60 Hz mode (for the USA).
  Control/ESC    Quit the game and return to the Adventurer Menu.
  Spacebar    To continue playing.


COMMODORE, ATARI ST, & AMIGA PLAYERS

No matter what computer you're using, you need to know these command:

Fire    Starts the game (Spacebar, Mouse Button, or Joystick Button).
J    Moves your Adventurer left.
L    Moves him right.
I    Moves your Adventurer up.
K    Moves him down.
Fire    Makes the Adventurer jump (Spacebar, Mouse Button, or Joystick
Firebutton).
T    Gives your man time to think (this might give him clues at this
point).
S    Lets your man swap items with the Bearer nearest him.
1    Scrolls the Bearers right (so you can move a Bearer near you to
swap items).
2    Scrolls the Bearers left (so you can move a Bearer near you to
swap items).


THE ADVENTURERS

Theses aren't the most handsome Adventurers, but don't let their looks
fool you.  Each man is highly-skilled, resourceful, and fearless...
well, nearly fearless, anyway.  Each has his own personality, too.  To
choose an Adventurer, direct the arrow over the man of your choice and
press fire.

Note: Soome of the information provided below may prove valuable.  The
rest of it's there to fill up space.

FORTISQUE SMYTHE (English)

Adventurers are people of many talents, and no on exemplifies this like
Fortisque Smythe: deep-sea diver, knife catcher, cricket batsman, and
Lego weapons expert.  But perhaps Smythe's most harrowing exploit was
as a rock n' roll guitarist.

"I was the sixth Beatle and contributed several ideas to the band when
they were just getting started.  I provided the inspiration for some of
their greatest hits (why they changed the titles, I'll never know).  My
masterpieces included "Let It Was," "Hey Jack," "I Am The Seal," "While
My Guitar Screams Bloody Murder," and my personal favourite "I want to
Hold Your Ham."  If you'd like to hear any of these hot tunes, send
$19.95.  Please indicate album, cassette, or CD.  Not available in any
store.  So you don't forget, call before midnight tomorrow
(121-555-0101)."

BIG JOHN CAINE (American)

Big John Caine is BIG!  Standing 6'14" and weighing a lot -- not a
pound of it fat -- Caine's python strength, eagle eye, and wild-horse
speed have earned him a place as one of the most respected Adventurers
in North America.  Caine carved out a name for himself when he broke
100 mustangs in one hour.  What spurs a man to such heights of
adventure?

"Howdy!  I've explored uncharted regions everywhere -- from the African
Veldt to Disneyland.  And I faced every danger without batting an eye.
Except Disneyland where I encountered giant rodents, talking ducks, and
assorted dwarves and fairies.  I'm not one to scare easy, but I did get
a case of the willies when I had to face down the legendary giant dog
known only as Goofy!"

HERR KRUSCHE (German)

The bravest Adventurer in all Deutschland is Herr Krusche.  During the
Great War, the Kaiser awarded him the coveted title of Pink Baron ("Red
had already been taken).  When the war ended ("We didn't lose!  It was
a draw," Krusche claims), he hung up his wings and turned to his first
love, forestry.  But when the bottom fell out of the timber market in
the great tree crash of 1935, he turned to his second love, Adventure
work.

"People ask me all the time, 'Why, Krusche, do you do such dangerous
work for a living?'.  Well, I'll tell you.  Because at the age of
three, mein younger brother Fritz drowned in a barrel of beer.  People
called it an accident.  But I smelled something Danish in Denmark.  So,
I investigated the matter and followed clues across the globe,
travelling to Africa, Australia, and Akron.  It took many years, but I
eventually discovered the truth.  Mein brother died of an accident.
So, I was wrong, but from this I learned something good -- that I was
born to be an Adventurer!  Okay, it's no great story, but it happened."

WU PONG (Japanese)

Wu Pong is known as one of the world's greatest Adventurers.  He is
proud of his Chinese, Japanese, Irish, Swedish, Tex-Mex ancestry (thus
the name "Pong") and he believes that the long line of famous
Adventurers from these cultures smiles down on his dare-devil exploits.
Not only is Pong a crackerjack Adventurer, he's also a skilled lensman
who's taken pictures for famous mags like Guy's Quarterly, Reader's
Digress, Pentup, and Natural Perspirer.

"I received my notoriety as an Adventurer when I begin photographing
the most dangerous places and events in the world.  I strapped myself
onto a bull at Pamplona; followed guerilla troops into battle; went
face to face with a Barrier Reef shark; I even photographed the
Ayatollah sun bathing."  Things don't get much more dangerous than
that.

HENRI BEAUCOUP (French)

Henri Beaucoup is a man who laughs when his life is threatened and
smiles after every brush with death.  He's also known to be the most
trustworthy of all Adventurers:  his lips are sealed against revealing
the smallest secret, even if he's subjected to the most excruciating
torture.  But Beaucoup isn't just your run-of-the-mill Adventurer.

"Sure, I scale mountains and wrestle yaks, but I have my creative side,
too.  I am an artist, a circus performer, and a world-class chef.  When
I return from one of my expeditions, I like to bring back with me a
strange animal I've captured and prepare it into something absolutely
scrumptious.  People come from all over the world to try my Platypus
Tartare.  Mmmmmmm!  And it's true, I am trustworthy to a fault.  The
other Adventurers might reveal what my key item is, but I would never
reveal theirs.  For instance, I know Herr Krusche's key item.  I could
tell you, but it would be unethical.  So, I won't tell.  Ever!  Okay,
okay!  You dragged it out of me.  It's an Umbrella."

Once you choose an Adventurer you have four versions of him to use.
Adventurers can sustain three fatal accidents (don't you wish you were
that lucky?).  After the fourth, it's "Adios Adventurer and Auf
Wiedersehen World."

Important Note:  Please ignore the recent false reports that the
Adventurers are forming a union and plan to strike for less danger!


THE GAME

Use the joystick and the appropriate keys to maneuver the Adventurer
across the landscape.  Danger, doom, and death await at every step, so
keep your eyes peeled (ever notice how painful that sounds?).


SCORES

Every time the Adventurer collects an item, points are awarded and
recorded on screen.  The highest score is permanently displayed and
gives you something to strive for.  If you surpass this score, yours
becomes highest.  Unfortunately, if the world's turned to cosmic dust,
high scores become rather academic.


DAYS

You have 30 days to complete the mission.  If 0 hour arrives before you
construct the Asteroid Deflector, you can kiss five billion people
good-bye.


THE THINK COMMAND

If your Adventurer gets himself into a bind, type T to find out what
item he "thinks" he needs to solve the problem (a thought balloon shows
the item in question).  Be warned, though; what he wants may not be
what's apropos in that situation.  Also, the Adventurer may be clueless
about what is required and just shrug.


ITEMS

During the expedition, the Adventurer collects various items (a flute,
a tea cup, etc.).  Some items serve little purpose; others are vital;
and others only work in certain places.  Yup, it's trial-and-error
time.

Here's and example  The Adventurer comes across a vacuum cleaner.  He
can use the vacuum for spring cleaning or he can use it to fly above
the clouds (it's a custom-designed vacuum cleaner with deluxe
attachments).

Another example: and umbrella may have other functions besides
shielding the Adventurer from hostile moisture.  It can server as a
parachute!  These specially-designed umbrellas come with one year
warranties.


ITEM HELD

This is the item the Adventurer carries.  In order to use an item, he
must be holding it.


NATIVE BEARERS & EXCHANGING ITEMS

Native bearers carry items the Adventurer has collected.  These can be
used at any time, just by exchanging the Adventurer's item with that of
one of the bearers.  To look at what each bearer has, type 1 or 2 to
scroll through the bearers.  Then press S to make the exchange with the
bearer nearest the Adventurer.


A GLIMPSE INTO THE FUTURE

Fail to carry out your mission and this is what you have to look
forward to (for those of you with weak stomachs, you may close your
eyes at this time).

  IMAGINE STOMACH-CHURNING DESTRUCTION HERE

Okay, it's over.  You can open them now.  Then again, if you closed
them, you couldn't read this and wouldn't know you could open them.


IMPORTANT MESSAGE FROM BEAUCOUP

"I can't take it anymore.  I lied.  Herr Krusche's secret item is not
an umbrella.  I made that up so you'd be impressed by my knowledge and
pick me.

"Why did I lie?  When I was a child and played games with all the other
children, I was always picked last.  I've got this deep-seated complex
and sometimes I do things I'm ashamed of just to get attention.  I hope
you can forgive me.

"By the way, if you pick me, I promise to change.  Anyway, I hear Wu
Pong wears lifts.  There I go again!  Sorry.  Some habits are hard to
break."


CHEAT NOTES

Included with these instructions are a map of the uncharted territory
and some information concerning the items.  If you look at this, it
means you've given up.  You're a failure.  You'll succeed at nothing in
life and will most likely end up selling pencils, collecting aluminum
cans, or becoming a journalist.

A real Adventurer would never dream of CHEATING!!!  But if you must, go
ahead.  Don't let us influence you.  If you can live with the burning
humiliation of not playing fairly, it's no skin off our teeth.