                  -*- LEGEND! THE PRIDE OF GOD PRESENTS : -*-

                   
                             ----------------------
                             Cracker by Gary Mayhew
                             ----------------------
                             © Garsoft, March 1991.
                             ----------------------
     
     
     After reading the title page press the Left mouse button to start.
     
     
                            Instructions for playing
                            ------------------------

     This is a variation on the 'Guess  the  secret code' type of game.  In
     the normal game there are  two  players.   One player is the CODEMAKER
     and the other the  CODEBREAKER.   In  this  version the codebreaker is
     replaced by the good old Amiga.

     The codemaker will randomly create  a  code consisting of FOUR colours
     from a choice of FIVE.   Each  colour  may  appear any amount of times
     (i.e. the code could effectively be all one colour!)

     Once the code has been  created  it  will  be  displayed on the screen
     under a cover with CODE written on it (cor!).

                   On the screen you will see the following ;

             A Board will holes in and the CODE cover on the right.
        A row of FIVE coloured icons RED, GREEN, BLUE, YELLOW, MAGENTA.
              At the bottom a reminder of the Marking peg colours.

     Now the fun begins!  To enter your guess  at the code use the mouse to
     point at the coloured icons and  click  the left mouse button once.  A
     coloured marble will appear  on  the  main  board.  Now select another
     coloured icon and click.  Another  marble  will  appear lower than the
     first.  Repeat the procedure until four  colours are stacked on top of
     each other (this is now your first guess at the code).

     Those of you who are awake will notice that above and below your guess
     appear some coloured pegs or plain crosses (depending on how good your
     guess was!).

     For each of the RED pegs one  of  the  colours in your guess is in the
     code AND correctly positioned in relation to the hidden code (which is
     displayed under the CODE shield  in  the  same  way as your guess i.e.
     vertically).

     For each of the WHITE pegs one of  the colours in your guess is in the
     code BUT you have not placed it in the correct position (yet).

     Finally, for each CROSS one colour is not in the code at all.

     To make things more interesting the marker pegs  DO  NOT correspond to
     the two colours in the code next to  them.  So if you have two colours
     right and in the right place  (Two RED Pegs)  and one colour right and
     in the wrong place (One WHITE Peg) and  one colour totally wrong
     (One Cross), this  does  not mean that the first  two  colours are
     the ones which are correct or that third one is right but in the wrong
     place and the fourth is wrong.

     Phew!  If you are still sane after that, I will continue...

     After you have had TEN guesses  (the  board  will be full) if you have
     still not found the code  it  will  be  uncovered  so you may see your
     mistakes!

     If you are clever enough to get  the  code it will be revealed for you
     so you can boast about the way in which you worked it out!

     A requester will then pop up asking  if  you wish to play again with a
     suitable message depending on whether you guessed the code or not.

     If you reply YES, the board will be cleared and the game starts again.
     If you reply NO, you will be returned to the WorkBench screen or CLI
     from whence you came.
     
     Enjoy!
