                               CRAZY SEASONS
                               -------------

                    Manual typed out by Adrian Simpson!


THE STORY
---------
Two scientists are putting the finishing touches to the prototype of a time
machine.  But while carrying out a delicate phase of the experiment...

The boxes containing the time fluid move out of alignment causing an
explosion that scatters them all over the world.

Now the scientists must get all the boxes back before the universe is
sucked into a time-space black hole!


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
Switch Amiga off and insert disk 1.  Then switch Amiga on.

If you have a second drive, insert disk 2 in DF1 drive, otherwise change
disk when requested on screen.


GAME CHECK
----------
During the game, 4 numbered boxes will appear.  You must put the boxes in
the order you will find in the special table, corresponding to the number
on the screen.

Controls:
- Move the joystick left/right to change position.
- Press the fire button to change box, when you are placed on it.
- Press the fire button on OK to confirm the combination.


MAIN MENU
---------
You can interrupt the introductory sequence by pressing the fire button on
the joystick.  Move the joystick up/down the menu to choose the option and
then the fire button.  You can choose the number of players, whether to
turn the music on or off and start the game.


SEASON MENU
-----------
If you choose the START option in the main menu you will see the 4 seasons
which you will have to complete to finish the game.  At the beginning two
seasons are available.  Each time you end a season, another will be made
available.  To choose a season, move the joystick up/down to select and
then press the fire button to confirm your choice.


PLAYING THE GAME
----------------
Use the joystick to move left/right and "up" to jump.  Player two can be
added at the beginning of each screen, by pressing the fire button on his
joystick.

In the game you have to align the boxes, which are scattered all over the
screen, to make the same combination as indicated in the score panel.  To
move the boxes you must place yourself behind the box and press the fire
button.  If a box ends in the wrong position, you must push it until it
stops against a wall or another box and then push it again:  at this point
the box returns to its original position.

You must avoid the enemies moving round the screen, otherwise you will lose
a life.  You can eliminate these characters by pushing the boxes against
them.  This may need to be done several times.  When a character is
eliminated, he leaves an object you can pick up to increase your score or
to gain special powers.

For each 100,000 points you will gain an extra life.

When you lose all the lives you can continue the game three more times (3
credits) by pressing the fire button.

The score panel at the bottom of the screen gives the following information
(from left to right):

- The number of lives and the score - player 1 (green).
- Time at your disposal.
- The combination to create and the highest score.
- The number of credits left.
- The number of lives and score - player 2 (blue).

During the game you can use the following keys:

P - Pause (Press again to continue).
ESC - to finish the game.


HINTS AND TRICKS
----------------
- Distinguish the objects which give you special powers from those which
  just give points.
- If you are fast enough you can earn giant bonuses which will increase
  your score rapidly.  There are bonus levels which you can enter only 
  after you have proved yourself to be very fast 7 times.
- Learn the best tactics to make combinations as quickly as possible.
- Be careful: at the end of every season you will have a "nice" surprise!


CREDITS
-------
Program:	Sirio Zuelli
Graphics:	Desiderius Salvesen
		Matteo Lusoli
		Alberto Magnani
Music:		Daniele Bonvicini

Crazy Seasons - (C) 1992 IDEA - IDEA is a registered trademark of S.C.  srl
- Varese (Italy)