CRIME DOES NOT PAY
Brought to you by Belgarath

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1 - Tips from an old timer
2 - Getting Started
3 - Game Play
4 - Commands
5 -Credits
6 - Notice


I- TIPS FROM AN OLD TIMER
by Don C.

PREFACE

To my trusted nephew, Titus Jr, the future king of crime.

As expected for some time now, I’ve decided to call it a day. That’s
right, this time it’s official - I’m gettin’ out of the business. It’s been a
chaotic 25 years and mark my words crime does not always pay.

To be quite honest I don’t believe I will ever reach the top so I’ve ~
decided to get out while the going’s good. Before going, however, I
want to make sure that all the years I’ve invested in trying to
understand and master the underworld are not wasted.
So I’ve decided to pass the torch on to you kid, and let you benefit
from my experience. So pay attention to my instructions. This is my
farewell gift to you so that you can keep the family name alive.

My reasons are very simple. I believe that you can make it where I
failed. You are hungry and a go-getter. You fear neither man nor
beast and above all you have faith. It is this faith which will assure
your success. My problem is that I no longer believe in what I do.

I suppose I could have called the instructions that follow “How to
become the Big Boss” but I prefer to consider them as just some tips
from an old timer.

If you really want to be someone in this town there is only one way
to do it; you’ve got to become the “King of Crime”. To maintain this
position you must get yourself elected mayor.
Yeah, I know what you’re thinking and you’re right; it’s not that easy if
you are surrounded by people as ambitious as you are. They will do
everything to hold you back but its up to you to control them or as
they say “take care of them”

So let’s take things slowly and start from the beginning.
Take a walk around town, make yourself at home, get a feeling for
the place. You’ve got to try and tune in on the right frequency. When
you’ve got the right rhythm you’ll notice that there are many
opportunities just beggin’ to be snapped up. For example, what
appears to be just a key can open many new doors.
The same for safe codes and above all the city map which places
everything at your fingertips. If you are lucky you may get your hands
on wads of money, even jewellery. Keep an eye out for the 20 or so
confidential files which are floating around. The information they
contain may prove useful when dealing with city officials.


Don’t neglect the little things that you may find on the streets. The
police transmitter for example will help you keep track of the 7 cops.
there's no use trying to bump’ em off since they all wear bullet proof
vests. The cops are generally not good for business, particularly
when they nab you. If they throw you in the slammer it’s no joke.

Getting back to what can be found on the streets, be on the lookout
for ammunition reloads. With the new laws it’s not that easy to get
your hands on ammo. So if you ever come across any don’t hesitate
taking it. If you ever find yourself short there is always the corner
store where almost anything can be found.

Now listen carefully. If you’ve got plenty of ammo and nerves of
steel you should consider doing a bank job. But don’t make the same
mistake as Robin Banks. He went for Fort Knox without a mask and
got nabbed two days later in the bus. However an important point to
note is not to drive around in a car, its better nowadays to mix in with
the crowd- so get yourself some bus tickets.

If you happen to come by a survival kit, you might as well use it.
Take full advantage of everything that comes your way while the
going’s good

Now that we’re on the subject of robbing banks, you should look
out for dynamite and a detonator. No safe will resist this explosive
recipe. For the Bank, you will need 4 sticks of dynamite.

Well, that’s about all the advice I can give you regarding these
minor details. Let’s move on now to some meatier subjects, notably
the cronies who live in this town.

I’ve already mentioned the cops - well here’s something
you should know about the Chief of Police. He’s fast, in fact
very fast, but if you can manage to hit him where it hurts, the
boys in blue won’t come near you.

The Judge is not all that different. If you can manage to line
his pockets, you’ll see that your kind of justice does in
fact exist. Don’t forget that the Judge has a very dark
past. His wife made headlines a few years back for a
rather dubious affair. She still has some weak spots, so if
you approach her the right way, she can be a direct line to
her husband

There is also the Butcher who is the spokesman for the
town’s electorate. His profession is very representative of his
political philosophy. Approach with extreme caution. He may,
however be pursuaded to act a little more friendly.

The banker on the other hand has a much more refined air.
However, behind this facade of “the upstanding citizen” lie
certain criminal tendencies. If you play your cards right you
may earn a guided tour of his vault.

Finally there is the mayor. His iron grip on power can be loosened
by neutralizing his influential allies (the butcher, chief of police etc.)
But remember that he is currently the “King of Crime”.


Despite this list of adversaries there are some amicable characters
in town.

The Barman is a talker particularly when you slip him a buck
or two. He is to be found in the bar or the night-club and is a very rich
source of information, which I even found enlightening.


The doctor is also very helpful. If he’s on your side, he won’t
bother you with medical fees.

One last point. There are some slimy punks
crawling around town. These guys are hungry as
wolves and attack at any opportunity. If you can find
something for their chief they’ll leave you alone for a while.
With your 45 automatic you will prove they’re not just
whistling dixie when they say there’s “NO FUTURE”.

Finally there is the Gypsy. He is very mean and struts
around heavily armed with a machine gun. Watch out,
cause if he opens fire you’re history.

Well kid, that’s about it. It’s rather strange for me to finish this letter
this way. I’m turning over a new leaf and I’m turning my back on
crime. I know that I’ll miss it, but now I am certain you will succeed.
So now it’s up to you kid, you have a lot of things to discover. Above
all, don’t forget that “the end justifies the means”...


2 - GETTING STARTED

For PC/XT/AT/PS
Switch on monitor and then the computer and insert MS/DOS (or
PC/DOS) disk in the first internal disk drive.
Your computer will read the system and will display the on-screen
prompt A:>

Remove the MS-DOS disk from the drive and insert the CRIME
DOES NOT PAY disk in the same drive and type MAFIA then press
ENTER

If MS/DOS is on the hard-disk, it loads automatically. Once it is
loaded, type A:. The computer displays A>. Type MAFIA then press
ENTER.

If you want to install the game on your hard-disk, type INSTALL.
After loading the files, choose the CDNP directory and type MAFIA.

WARNING : do not remove the disk from the internal drive because
the computer needs it to initialize protection.


AMIGA 1000 512 Ko
Switch on monitor and then the computer. Insert KICKSTART 1.2 or
1.3 in the internal drive (DFO). After loading Kickstart, the Amiga will
ask you for WORKBENCH. At this point the loading sequence is the
same as for other types of Amiga shown below.

AMIGA 500/3000/2000/1000 (follow above steps  first). 
At the WORKBENCH prompt, insert the CRIME DOES NOT PAY 
disk in drive 1 and the game will load. 

ATARI ST  520/1040/MEGA ST2 and  MEGA ST4  (with TOS in ROM) 
Ensure that your computer is switched off and no cartridge is 
inserted. 

Insert the CRIME DOES NOT PAY disk in the first drive and switch 
on the computer. The game will automatically load. 

3 - GAME PLAY 

A) CHOICE OF CLAN 

At the beginning of the game choose either your Italian or Chinese 
Mafia partners in crime. 
The Chinese Mafia is a more difficult game for which you should 
master all game commands. 

Select your team with the keys  <-->  (or with the joystick), then press 
Key 5 to validate your choice. 

B) CHOICE OF MEMBERS 

The game opens in your Mafia headquarters with your chosen group
of Mafia partners.

Each group is composed of three members: 
the Godfather, the Hitman and the pretty... but dangerous Girl. 
Each character has specific characteristics. It’s up to you to discover 
them and then, adapt your actions correspondingly. 

You may at all times go back to your headquarters and change the 
active character. 


4  - COMMANDS 

For all formats: 

A) During the game: 
F2                 Music On/Off 
F10                Pause 
ESC                Quit/Load/Save the game 
5 or Fire Button   Draw Gun/Holster gun 

B) In the  streets  of the City: 

Joystick or keypad to move
(+Space  bar for  PC-version) 

To draw your gun, you have to press key 5 or the fire button, To 
shoot, you have to simultaneously press key 5 and push your joystick 
in the direction you wish to shoot.

C) In  the rooms of the City: 
- Enter a room: 
To enter a room, the character must be in front of the door.  Open the 
door by pressing key 8 and key 5 simultaneously (You can push your 
joystick up and press the fire button to validate your choice as well). 

Interaction with object inside a room: 

Place the cursor in main window on an object. Move the cursor with the 
keyboard (arrow keys) or with the joystick. 

After placing the cursor on an object, press key 5 (or fire button) to 
validate your choice... 
Then select the required action (TAKE, USE, FRIENDLY TALK, 
SHOOT, CANCEL) with the “up” and “down” cursor keys. 

- For objects you already possess: 
Place the cursor in main window in an area which has no objects. The 
cursor can be moved either with the keyboard or with the joystick.
Then press key 5 (or fire button) to validate your choice. You may 
therefore choose one of the 5 objects you possess in your pockets 
(6) by using the direction keys or the joystick. Choose the required 
action (4) by using the “up” and “down” cursor keys. 

- To converse with someone in a room. 
Once you are in a room with another character, you can converse
with them. To do this, move the cursor to the head of your 
interlocutor. Use the action functions as with
objects. 

- To leave a room 
Once you are inside a room, move the cursor to the bottom of the
screen; the message “EXIT” appears on the screen. To validate
your choice, press the fire button or press key 5 while keeping the
“Down” cursor button pressed.

D) To save your game 
Once your character reaches the streets, press ESC. The following
message appears on your screen. 

Q . . . . . . . . . Quit
S . . . . . . . . . Save 
L . . . . . . . . . Load 

If during the game you found or bought a disk,  you may save this 
stage. Each time you save, you require a new disk. There are various
disks in the rooms of the town, or you may buy as many as you want
at  1,000 a piece. 

5 - CREDITS

Game’s original design by Corinne & Alexander YARMITSKY
Text manual brought to you by Belgarath

6 - NOTICE

Software copyright 1991 Titus Software Corporation. All rights reserved
including the look and feel of the product.
Manual copyright 1991 Titus Software Corporation. All rights reserved.

This manual, this software or any part of either may not be copied, reproduced,
disposed, transferred, distributed or reduced in any form or
by any means, including electronic medium, or machine readable
form, nor may it be transmitted or publicly performed by any means,
electronic or otherwise unless Titus Software Corporation consents in
writing.