			CRYSTAL KINGDOM DIZZY 
			  FROM CODEMASTERS	
		             FULL DOCS


LOADING ON COMMODORE AMIGA-
For A500,A500+,A600 switch on computer and insert disk immediately.
A1000 users should load kickstart 1.2/3 as normal, then insert disk at
WorkBench prompt.
A1200 users disable CPU caches before loading.


THE STORY
The sun does not always shine in the Yolkfolk village.  In fact, this 
particular day is loOking remarkably grim. Stormy clouds thunder across the 
sky, the rain hammers down, the electricity flickers and, to top it all,
Grand Dizzy is in an awful mood.

The source of Grand Dizzys bad mood is his egg-ache.  The old duffer had
been practising his somersaults in the kitchen and slipped on the wet
floor.  "What do you think you were doing bouncing around like that at
your age?!" groaned Dizzy under the strain of picking up the old egg.
"You`ll give yourself a nasty crack on the head."
"Its the temple of the Crystal Kingdom," spluttered Grand Dizzy, "its 
been robbed.  Every egg knows that if the Crystal Sword, Chalice and Crown
are removed from the temple, terrible strange things will happen to the
Yolkfolk!"
Dizzy looked outside.  Things did look decidedly bad.  "It still doesn`t
explain why you were jumping off the Kitchen chair, Grand Dizzy" said 
Dizzy.
"Well, young fella-me-egg," said Grand Dizzy puffing himself up slightly,
"I`m sick and tired of you always sorting things out.  I`m going to get
into shape, pack my knapsack and save the Yolkfolk myself.  I was really
heroic in my day, y`know."
A salty tear formed in Dizzys eye.  "I don`t know, Grand Dizzy, what are
we going to do with you?" gushed Dizzy in his best sympathetic, yet
caring, voice.  Grand Dizzy was packed off to bed.  But the moment 
everyones back was turned, he jumped up and continued to whinge loudly
at anything he could find that would listen.
Dizzy decided that he must begin his trek to retrieve the Yolkfolks 
treasure.  He packed his knapsack and popped on his new safari hat.
Dizzy grimaced and, through gritted teeth, dramatically declared "Don`t
fear, Grand Dizzy!  The lost treasures of the Yolkfolk will soon be 
found!".  And so Dizzy began a whole new adventure - can our hero succeed
again??


GAME GENIE
Game Genie is a character who loves to help people play games.  If you 
give him some special code words, he will try his best to help you out.
Note down the special codes given to you at the end of each act.  At the
start of the game you may instantly travel back to this act by walking 
through the doors marked act 2, 3, or 4.  At this point, Game Genie will
ask you your code word, type it in using the keyboard.  If you don`t know
any codes then just walk off the left hand side of the screen.


HINTS AND TIPS
* Collect the objects
* Game Genie may be able to help you
* The pirates may have pinched the treasure


CONTROLS

ACTION				JOYSTICK		KEYS
move left			left			Z
move right			right			X
move up				up			K
move down/enter room	        down			M
jump				up			SPACE
pick up/use			fire			RETURN/ENTER


NOTE FROM TORCH:
The original instructions say fire is jump, but I`ve played it, and thats
just bollocks.  Pressing fire brings up that daft menu thing!  Doh!


