                               CYBERBLAST

                         AMIGA KEYBOARD CONTROLS

F1: Character A (Player 1) / Joystick 2 :F1
F2: Character B (Player 2) / Joystick 2 :F2
F3: Two Player: Character A - Joy 2 / Character B - Joy 1 :F3

F6: Character A (Player 1) / Joystick 1 :F6
F7: Character B (Player 2) / Joystick 1 :F7
F8: Two Player: Character A - Joy 1 / Character B - Joy 2 :F8

F10: Full screen for one Player :F10

The following lists the keystrokes you'll need to employ objects you
find and control the game options.

P  Pause the game
Q  Forfeit the game

Joystick port 1            Joystick port 2

F1   Zappers               F6
F2   Maps                  F7
F3   Bombs                 F8
F4   Grenades              F9

                               CYBERBLAST 

                        "Mission at Fastrax Lab"

Contents

Introduction.................................................. 1
Loading Instructions.......................................... 5
      Amiga................................................... 5
Playing the Game.............................................. 6
      Goal.................................................... 6
      Selecting Characters.................................... 6
      Moving Around........................................... 6
      Picking up Objects...................................... 6
      Shooting & Firing....................................... 7
      Other Weapons........................................... 7
      Controls................................................ 7
Weapons....................................................... 7
Alien Enemies................................................. 10
Special Objects............................................... 12

|Page 1|

CYBERBLAST
"Mission at Fastrax Lab"

Personal A10000 pocket-log recordings of Darik Starr
Stellar Time: 5635907541.12.5
Earth Time: Monday, 5 P.M.

...On route to planetoid Fastrax
    "Our region had been calm until two days ago, when an unmanned,
deep-space probe transmitted hundreds of alarming vid-stills of Fastrax.
The Coalition's Galactic Council referred to them as showing an 
"incomprehensible phenomenon" that required immediate action.  That's
when my vacation ended.  The long-anticipated trip to Saturn's rings
would have to wait.  It had better, or it's the last time I'll save
the universe."

    The digital photos indicate big trouble at Fastrax Laboratories,
and as usual, they called me in to solve the problem.  I'm to observe
the area, deliver a report and, if needed, terminate the threat.  
It must be a Class 10 emergency, because they've decked me out in the
latest B120 cybernetic gyro gear.  I've never seen anything like it."

    "Being the Coalition's top troubleshooter has some perks, but
I'm never prepared for the feeling that comes when the implant beeper
sounds an alarm.  I know it means danger, but I guess you have to
accept the responsibility when you work so hard to become the best."

    "They said it would be a simple survey of the region, but that's
what they always say.  I know better."

Stellar Time: 5635907541.12.6
Earth Time: Tuesday, 8 A.M.

...On route to planetoid Fastrax

    "At my present velocity of 2 times the speed of light, in just 1.25
sublight hours I'll reach the point where slowdown begins.  I'd better
catch up on some background reports from the computer."

The Federal Alliance for Space Travel Research and Experiments (Fastrax
Labs) was created on Ceres, the largest of 19 planetoid-sized asteroids
in the uninhabited belt between Mars and Jupiter.  More than 1000
kilometers in diameter, Fastrax provides a safe base for research and
development.  The experiments conducted there are far too dangerous
to the human or alien populations inhabiting coalition planets.

The area is uninhabited because of the constant danger from asteroid
collisions.  Normally, any man-made construction in the belt would be
obliterated, but Fastrax employs $15 billion worth of plasmo-shields

|Page 2|

that protect the artificial atmosphere while disintegrating threatening
objects before they reach the planet.  Fastrax Labs is considered one
of the man-made wonders of the universe.

Glowing tyronite-crystal towers sprout from the surface, and to many
the sunlight is hypnotic as it pierces the translucent spires.  
Amazingly, these crystals became the source of the lab's creation and
the very soul of its existence.

Once the shield system was installed, an enormous Tyronite bulb, 
containing a superconductor computer core, was implanted 3 kilometers
into the surface of the planetoid.  The bulb's roots grew until they
reached a size that triggered the computer program.

A chain reaction reordered the atomic structure throughout the planetoid.
A large, controlled area became pure Tyronite, and ominous, sparkling
spires reached up from the surface.  Powerful positive and negative
charges, controlled by the computer, surged through the strata.
Fastrax Labs actually grew into existence as new crystals formed.

After five weeks of growth...

    "Computer, stop!"

workers had to subscopically cease the...

    "Shut-up and let me sleep!"

Stellar Time: 5635907541.12.7:015
Earth Time: 9:15 A.M.

Darik.  Wake up.  We've left lightspace and I've maneuvered the asteroid
belt.  We're approaching Fastrax Shield Port 1.

    "(Yawn)... Thanks computer.  I don't know what I'd do without you."

You would have burned, been crushed and then blown up sir.  We are
now clearing the port and entering low orbit of the planetoid.

    "Good.  This view is as spectacular as I remember it - if not more.
Oh man!  I can't believe what I see.  Computer, what is that?"

It's a gaping hole in the fabric of reality.  Those torn edges are a
doorway to our neighboring universe.

    "This is just too weird.  I'm looking through it, but have no idea
what it is.  It's like nothing I've seen before and I have the strangest
feeling that something is staring back."

Stellar Time: 5635907541.12.7:016

|Page 3|

Earth Time: 9:30 A.M.

    "I'm approaching the lab's docking bay and it doesn't take an expert
to see that Fastrax Labs has really messed up this time.  They had opened
this door and it has just hit me that it's up to me to close it.  I'm
going to orbit the building once to check...  WOW!  The laboratory looks
like someone has sawed it in half."

    "I'm almost to the far side of the structure and nearing another
docking bay.  A SHUTTLE!? ... I see a shuttle docked next to one of the
main towers.  Damn, it's one of the new K15-D models.  I've been beaten
to the punch by someone from the opposition.  Harris! ... Somehow I
know in my gut that's who it is.  Harris is their top operative and our
paths have crossed many times.  Now that's one deadly shooter, and I
owe him one from our last encounter on Rigel Kentaurus 5.

    "So it's going to be a race.  Computer, start the docking sequence.
This time I'm going to come out on top."

Stellar Time: 5635907541.12.7:0185
Earth Time: 9:50 A.M.

    "I have docked and interfaced my onboard computer with the central
mainframe buried beneath the planetoid's surface.  There was a lot of
interference, but after a few minutes I got the information I was
looking for.  Sensors show only one humanoid life form and it's
probably Harris.  Luckily, he's only on level 1.  There is no sign of
the laboratory's staff, but the readings indicate considerable movement
through the complex by unclassified life forms.  That means ALIENS!"

    "That sent a cold shiver down my spine.  Ever since the Tornothoid
encounter in '43, most people have been spooked by the idea of another     
extra terrestrial meeting.  I'm no exception.  According to the computer,
their numbers are increasing every minute.  They seem to be coming out
of nowhere.  I'm moving across the bay to the equipment locker to get 
some weapons and supplies."

Stellar Time: 5635907541.12.7:5
Earth Time: 1:07 P.M.

    "Several hours have passed.  A quick scan of the project records have
led me to the discovery that a control chip containing crucial computer
programs is missing.  That program is the key to shutting down the
C.T.P. (Controlled Transuniversal Portal) generator.  I have fought my
way through level after level looking for the chip but I still haven't
found it.  What I've seen us unspeakable.  The creatures look like
something from the latest Steven Stielberg, Jr. laser-vid, but this 
time they're real!

|Page 4|

Stellar Time: 5635907541.12.7:517
Earth Time: 1:58 A.M.

    "I just caught myself tightening my grip on the laser pistol.
It's red warning light was blinking, and I know that if I don't find
another energy pack soon the gun will be useless.  I've rechecked my
supplies... no energy pack left.  I'm down to my last med pack and
I've used up everything I found on the lower levels.  I have to find
that chip soon or I'm a goner..."

    "The lights just went out and I'm not sure how long life support 
systems will remain functional.  I'm hiding behind a work station
and I think I saw some energy packs in the far corner before everything
went black.  It's really difficult to see, but I think there are some
creatures slithering toward me.  It's time to make my move.  I'm
setting the laser pistol on high and catching my breath before I make
a dash across the room.  Here goes nothing..."

Now the CYBERBLAST is up to you.  Can you survive Fastrax Labs, find the
control chip and seal the portal before it's too late.  You'd better.

|Page 5|

Loading Instructions

Amiga

1. Insert your Cyberblast disk in the drive and turn on your computer.
   Note: If your computer is already running, insert the disk and
   press Ctrl-Amiga-Amiga.
2. Once the program loads, let the opening sequence run until the first
   information screen appears.  Press the "P" key to pause the game and
   take note of the layout and data that is displayed on the main
   screen.
3. Press Space/Fire to continue.  Press "P" key for each information
   screen and study the objects, enemies and point options before 
   proceeding.  Note: Once you have played the game a few times, you
   can click on the left mouse button when the title screen appears and
   skip the introductory screens.

|Page 6|

Playing the Game

The Goal of the Game

    Your goal is to make you way through the 64 levels of Fastrax Labs
until you find the missing control chip.  Locating the control chip
closes the portal that allows the deadly aliens to enter our universe.

    To complete a level, you must find and grab the five crystals and then
locate and enter the exit within a specific time limit.  The time limit
changes depending upon the complexity of the level.  Of course, your
journey is hampered by walls, enemies and many other threats to your
life.  Your quest ends when your energy units have been depleted.

Selecting Characters

    After loading, the character selection screen is displayed.  You 
select the character you want to control by moving your mouse to the
left or right and highlighting the desired character window.

    The two characters in the game have unique powers.  Character B's
cybernetic armaments include a laser pistol that shoots reflecting
energy and the power settings for each character are different.

    At the successful completion of a level, you can select the character
you wish to control in the next sequence.  You will find that the powers
of each character are especially suited to the challenges found in
specific levels.  It's up to you to discover which character is best
to select at any particular time.  You can continue your journey through
the labs until both characters' energy is gone.

Moving around the lab

    Movement is controlled by the mouse.  You can move your character
through the corridors in the lab in eight different directions.  You
cannot leap over or walk through walls, although some can be destroyed
by your laser.

    Your speed is dependent upon your energy level and some of the
objects and enemies you encounter along the way.  Some enemies you
can destroy with your laser, while others must be dodged before you
can get by them.  In addition, if you run across some objects, your
speed is automatically slowed until your energy increases.

Picking up objects

    You can pick up extra energy, points, weapons and shields as you
race through Fastrax Laboratories.  To grab an object, just move your
character over the icon that represents one of the options.  The objects
found in the labs aren't helpful to your cause, and caution must be
exercised to make sure you pick up only those that will help you reach
your goal.

|Page 7|

Playing the Game (cont.)

Shooting/Firing

    Your cybernetic armaments include a built in laser pistol.  The
relative firepower and shotspeed are affected by your energy and objects
you find in the corridors.  Press the left mouse button to fire your 
weapon.

    You can use your weapon to destroy some of the walls and many of the
enemies you encounter.  Not all weapons and enemies are affected by your
pistol.  If you search the corridors carefully, you'll find a pistol that
gives you 10 powershots which destroy most enemies with a single shot.

    Exercise care when using your laser.  Some of the helpful objects
you can find are destroyed if an errant shot hits them.  Don't fire
haphazardly.

Other Objects and Weapons

    You can pick up bombs, grenades, zappers, magnets, ID cards and
maps.  Some are collected until you press a specific key to use them,
while others are employed automatically.  See the sections in the manual
on weapons, objects and special options for detailed information.

Controls

    The following lists the keystrokes you'll need to employ objects
you find and control the game options.

Game Option Keys

"S" key - toggles the sound on and off.
"I" key - toggles the scroll mode.
"Q" key - forfeits the current game and returns to beginning.
"P" key - pauses the game.
Apple + Q keys - exits the game.

Special keys

"Z" key - fires a zapper.
"M" key - displays a map of the level (if you have one)
"B" key - sets a time bomb - it explodes in a few seconds.
"G" key - throws a grenade.

|Page 8|

Weapons 

Zapper 

You collect zappers by grabbing this icon, or when you're lucky,
by grabbing the mystery icon.  The number of zappers collected, is
displayed under the character window on the left or right side
of the screen.  Zappers are your most potent weapon, and at full
power, destroy all enemies displayed on the screen when you fire at
them.  Zappower is affected by your energy.  Press the "Z" key to use
one of your zappers.

Bombs

You collect bombs by grabbing this icon.  Bombs destroy enemies, and 
also allow you to destroy some of the walls and blocks that keep you
from entering a specific area.  The number of bombs collected is
displayed under the character window on the left or right side of the
screen.  When you use a bomb, there is a few second delay before it
explodes.  Move away before it goes off to avoid losing energy points
when the blast hits your character.  Press the "B" key to use one of
your bombs.

Grenades

You collect grenades by grabbing the icon.  Grenades destroy multiple
enemies, and also allow you to destroy some of the blocks that keep
you from entering a specific area.  The number of grenades collected
is displayed under the character window on the left or right side of 
the screen.  Press the "G" key to use one of your grenades.

Magnets

Just walk over one of these icons and enemies will be repelled for a
few seconds.  Don't employ one of these at random, but remember where
they are, and use them when enemy resistance is at its toughest.
Magnets are always employed automatically.

Dynamite

You don't collect dynamite, but when you see this icon a well-placed 
shot from your laser will set it off.  The power of this explosive
destroys multiple enemies and sometimes removes blocks from your path.
Be careful though, dynamite also destroys some of the helpful objects
on the screen.

|Page 9|

Weapons (cont.)

Powershots

Many of the enemies you discover can only be destroyed when you shoot
them more than once.  If you find one of these icons however, you
receive 10 powershots which obliterate most enemies with a single shot.
After grabbing this icon, your next 10 shots are powershots.

Stunners

Find this icon and your enemies will be stunned into submission for a
limited period of time.  They won't move or fire any weapons in your
direction.

|Page 10|

Alien Enemies

Drone

You receive 100 points when you destroy one of these whirling creatures.
A single shot usually destroys them and they are one of the least
harmful of your enemies.

Seeker

You can't destroy a seeker or walk by one.  They drain energy the longer
they touch you, so make sure you leave yourself an avenue of escape
when these deadly threats are in sight.

Bubbler

They follow you around and shoot bullets in eight directions.  They can
be destroyed with a few shots from your laser for a bonus of 175 points.

Guardian

These whirling dervishes are worth 75 points when you destroy them, but
they take more than one shot to finish off.  They have to touch you
to do any damage.

Launcher

These devastating enemies fire grenades which are much more deadly 
than the bullets of the bubbler.  Destroy one with some well-aimed 
shots and you receive an extra 150 points.

Plasmatic

These bouncing spires of crystal can't be shot, but they follow your
progress and try to chase you into corners where they can reach you
and take away energy.

Gyro

Quick and nimble, these small beasts are more a pest than a real threat.
They have to touch you to hurt you, and you get 100 points for shooting
one.

Super Launcher

This may be the toughest enemy you'll face.  They fire lots of bullets
in many directions and can't be destroyed with a simple shot from your
laser.  Try a zapper or bomb when you encounter one and you'll get 
200 points for a successful effort.

|Page 11|

Alien Enemies

Incubator

Incubators can't harm you, but enemies will keep pouring from these
openings unless you destroy them with your lasers, bombs, grenades
or zappers.  You can't walk over or through an incubator, you have
to destroy it first.  Incubators are worth 125 points.

Poison

The skull and crossbones should be avoided at all costs, although an
antidote is available if you can find it.

|Page 12|

Special Items and Objects

Just pick up the following items to either use them or place them in
your inventory for later use when needed.

Stuns You
Weakens You
Extra Points
Extra Energy
Makes Walls Disappear
Slows Your Speed
Antidote - Cures Poison
Mystery - Can Help or Hurt You
10 Extra Seconds
Extra Grenade
Extra Zapper
Extra Map
Extra Bomb
Teleports You to Another Corridor or Room
One Way Movement
ID Card - Open Force Fields
Lose All Inventory Items
Double Score