                     - CYBERNOID 2 FULL DOCS ! -
                       ***********************

              - TYPED BY CYBORG / END OF CENTURY 1999 -
               ---------------------------------------

                     ! ANOTHER GOLDEN OLDIE DOC !


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
COMMODORE AMIGA : A500,A1000 & A2000. You are advised to disconnect
all hardware from your computer. Insert kickstart if required. Insert
the game disk. The game takes a few seconds to load.

SCENARIO
--------
The pirates have returned in a new battlestar, even more fearsome than
the last and have again plundered the federation storage depots.
As you did such a good job last time you've been commisioned once
again to retrieve the stolen cargo. You've been given an all new ship
and a bigger arsenal of weapons but the task will be just as perilous.

CONTROLS
--------
Control is by joystick only.

To pause the game press SPACE.

To quit the game go into pause mode and press ESC.

To move position of screen press both mouse buttons and move to the
desired position (Amiga only).

GAMEPLAY
--------
When a pirate craft has been destroyed it will drop its cargo of
stolen objects. Manoeuvre your ship over the cargo to retrieve it.
Certain objects will alter the appearance of your ship; these objects
offer external weaponry that can be utilised on difficult screens.
Occasionally, when a pirate craft is destroyed it will drop a yellow
canister. This canister, when retrieved, will increase the amount of
the currently selected weapon by one.

DISPLAY PANEL
-------------
From left to right the display panel selections are as follows:

1. Displays number of ships left.

2. The top number shows your current score. The bottom number shows
the
   value of cargo you have retrieved on the current level.

3. Displays the current weapon mode in text. Number on the left shows
   the amount of the current weapon that you have. Number on the right
   is the maximum storage capacity for the current weapon.

4. The coloured graph gives an indication of how much time you have to
   reach the end of level depot. When the graph has totally expired
your
   time limit has expired.

WEAPON MODES
------------
Keys F1,F2,F3,F4,F5,F6 or F7 select your ship's weapon modes:

1. BOMBS - Destroy large defence emplacements.

2. TIME BOMBS - These, when left at strategic points, explode a few
                seconds after release.

3. DEFENCE SHIELD - Temporarily renders your ship invincible.

4. BOUNCE BOMBS - Bounce around the screen destroying any emplacements
                  they touch.

5. SEEKER - Tracks down its quarry.

6. SMART - Destroys all emplacements on the screen.

7. TRACER - Follows the edge of the screen destroying all emplacements
            in its path.

Hold fire down to activate the selected weapon.