                       IAN BOTHAM`S CRICKET 
                          COMPLETE DOCS
     

1. GAME CONTROLS

You may self configure your game controls by following on-screen 
instructions. However, for your convenience, we have included the 
following default controls and you may wish to use our configuration.

1.1 DEFAULT KEYBOARD

    KEYBOARD PLAYER 1         KEYBOARD PLAYER 2
 
    [O]   Left                Cursor Keys + Alt
    [P]   Right  
    [Q]   Up
    [A]   Down
    [SPACE]   Ball release and ball length

1.2 OTHER KEYS

    [ESC] Return to the menu
    [F1]  Pause
    [F2]  Fx On/Off
    [F3]  Music On/Off
    [F4]  Exchange keyboard between players
    [F6]  Slow motion replay
    [F7]  Summary of play
    [F8]  Field placing`s
    [F9]  Scoreboard

1.3 IN MENUS

    [ESC] QUIT GAME
    
    Mouse control and keyboard emulation of mouse on menu screens 
    using arrow keys.

1.4 JOYSTICK

    Same as keyboard subsituting [FIRE] for [ALT&SPACE]

1.5 SPLIT SCREEN

    PLAYER 1  Bowler
    P Left    Direction of ball
    O Right   Direction of ball
    Q Up      Spin the ball
    A Down    Spin the ball
    Space     To start the run-up and, once started, control 
              delivery speed and angle
 
    PLAYER 2           Batsman
    Cursor Left Left   Small steps to the left
    Cursor Right Right Small steps to the right
    Cursor Up Up       Nothing
    Cursor Down Down   Defend
    Enter              Nothing
    Cursor Left Alt    Hit Left
    Cursor Right Alt   Hit Right
    
1.6 FULL SCREEN

    1. BATSMAN

    Left        Start run left batsman
    Right       Start run right batsman
    Up          Power run right batsman
    Down        Power run left batsman
    Up Alt      Throw batsman going up headlong
    Down Alt    Throw batsman going down headlong
    Left Alt    Left batsman abandons run
    Right Alt   Right batsman abandons run

    2. FIELDER (PLAYER WITHOUT BALL)

    Left        Move fielder to the left
    Right       Move fielder to the right
    Up          Move fielder up
    Down        Move fielder down
    Space       Catch the ball if possible
    
    3. FIELDER (PLAYER WITH BALL)
    
    Left        Move fielder to the left
    Right       Move fielder to the right
    Up          Move fielder up
    Down        Move fielder down
    Space       Prepare to throw ball

    4. FIELDER (PLAYER THROWING BALL)

    Up Space    Aim at top wicket
    Down Space  Aim at bottom wicket
    Space       Power of throw

    BOWLER/WICKET KEEPER (WITHOUT BALL)

    Space       Catch ball
    
    BOWLER/WICKET KEEPER (WITH BALL)

    Space       Knock down stumps


2. GAME SETUP

    2.1 Opponent options: There are three types of play.

        1. Computer v Computer
           In this mode the play is entirely computer driven and 
           will allow you to observe a game demo
        2. Player v Computer
           By choosing this option you can pit your wits against the
           computer. The toss of the coin will decide who bats  
           and fields first.
        3. Player v Player
           This is the two player mode. You may use just the keyboard
           or combination keyboard/joystick. Remember you may 
           exchange keyboard functions between the players by 
           pressing F4.

    2.2 Choose your team flag and press return/left mouse button. You
        will then be given an opportunity to change your team if 
        desired. When selection is made, klick on NEXT and enter 
        your name. Continue to next screen where you will be invited 
        to choose your bowlers. The game includes the following types
        of bowler:

    FAST
        This bowler is the quickest and relies on sheer pace to 
        dismiss a batsman. Unfortunately, a very fast bowler can 
        sometimes be a little inaccurate. So although you will have
        tremendous speed, you cannot expect too much accuracy.

    MEDIUM FAST
        This bowler is not as quick as the fast bowler but you can 
        expect a greater degree of accuracy.

    MEDIUM SEAMER
        Slower then medium fast, this bowler relies more on the pre-
        valent conditions of the day to achieve results. The ball is 
        more likely to move off the seam in this mode resulting in 
        some tricky moment for the batsman.
 
    ON-SPINNER
        On-spinners rely entirely on spinning the ball to achieve 
        movement. An on-spinner spins the ball in a cloclwise 
        direction resulting the ball moving from the left to right.

    OFF-SPINNER
        An off-spinner, like the on-spinner relies on spinning the 
        ball to achieve movement. Unlike the on-spinner, the off-
        spinner spins the ball anti-clockwise resulting in ball
        movement from right to left.


As in the real on-day international game, a bowler is only 
permitted to bowl a maximum of one-fifth of the toal overs. 
Therefore, in a 55 overs match bowlers can bowl a maximum of 11 
overs each. So, if you decide to play just 15 overs then each of 
your bowlers can bowl a maximum of 3 overs ech etc. There is 
nothing to stop you choosing any combination of bowlers. You may 
have a bowling line-up of 5 fast bowlers ! More likely though, you 
will probably want to keep as mayn options open as possible and 
choose a full bowling line-up. Remember, you cannot change your 
bowlers after the game commences.
For two player modes your playing partner will need to go through 
the same procedure. With regard to the computer, it cheats a 
little and chooses bowlers as and when it feels like it just to add 
a little bit more to the fun!

     MUSIC      Turn on/off the music
     FX         Turn on/off the sound effects
     PLAY       This options starts the game. You will not be able 
                to begin until you have choosen your team set-up.
                In the main event that you wish to return to the main
                menu simply exit. The word "play" will have been 
                replaced by "continue". You are then free, by re-
                choosing this option, to contimue play.
     UP         View the highest scores
     LEVELS     Choose your playing difficulty level. The gama has 
                three levels to test your skill, Professional, 
                Amateur and Novice. Professional is obviously the
                most difficult level. By choosing these levels you
                are affecting the amount the wind will effect the
                bowling, the speed and spin of the ball and the
                response of the batsmen. Additionally, when playing
                against the computer, the choice of level affects 
                the team the computer will assemble against you.
      OVERS     Select the amount of overs you want to play. The 
                default is 55 and you may decrease this amount in 5 
                over steps to a minimum of 5


3. PLAYING THE GAME

   3.1 Fielding Side
The game is divided into two sections which we call the "split 
screen" and "full screen". The split screen has been designed to 
allow the players as much detail as possible and, therefore, 
increase playability.

   SPLIT SCREEN
   
   3.2 Bowling Side

In the top left of the screen you will see a graphic of the ball in 
the bowler`s hand. By pressing the appopriate keys, you can move 
this ball in the bowler`s hand. This will determine spin for the 
slow bowlers or whether the ball will land in the seam for faster 
bowlers. On the right hand side of teh screen you can see a weather 
vane giving an indication of wind direction and speed.

At the beginning of the game and, thereafter, at the end of every 
over, you will be given the chance to choose your bowler. Simply 
place the box around the desired bowler and the press space bar 
(default). You can keep track of your bowlers by observing the 
on-screen statistics under each bowler. To start the bowler press 
the space bar (defautl) and allow the bowler to run to the bowling 
crease. Press the space bar again when you want the bowler to start 
this bowling action. This action will also produce the bowling 
"Power Bar" which will determine the angle at which the ball will 
travel. When depressing the space-bar you will see the Power Bar 
simulate the bowler`s arm in the bowling action. The sooner you 
release the space-bar the further down the wicket the ball will 
travel. The longer you hold down the space-bar. the shorter the 
ball will travel down the wicket. In this manner it is possible to 
bowl "yorkers" (where the ball bounces at the base of the bat) or 
bouncers (where the ball bounces mid-way down the wicket and ends 
up going well over the batsman`s head). You need to ensure that you 
start this process at just the right time. If the bowler exceeds 
the crease then a "no-ball" will be called and the opposition will 
get one run. The same applies to starting the bowling action too 
soon. A similar fate awaits. At the same time, you will need to 
line up the direction of the ball. At the bottom of the right hand 
screen you will see a directional arrow. Simply line this up to 
achieve as acccurate a direction as possible. The ball will react 
differently in different conditions. Therefore note should be made 
of the pitch and weather conditions. For example, if the weather is 
dry and the pitch is hard then the ball will respond differently to 
soft and humid conditions. Part of the fun of playing CRICKET is 
the discovery of how these conditions affect play. Other onscreen 
indicators include a running runs/wickets total.

   3.3  Batting Side

The batting team has eleven players and each one has his turn to 
bat. To reflect the real game, the computer grades the abilty of 
your team. It is assumed that as you progress through the playing 
order the ability of the batsman diminishes. The opening batsman 
are assumed to have equal ability followed by the specialist batsmen.
However, the allrounders, wicketkeeper and bowlers will all reduce 
in batting ability as you go through the order. There is a marked 
difference in ability between batsman no.1 and batsman no.11. It is 
important, therefore, to make full use of your specialist batsmen. 
The batsman has a variety of shots to play against the bowlers. See 
the list of shots and control keys available. When the batsman 
makes contact with the resulting in it leaving the split-screen, 
the action will transfer to the full-screen.

FULL SCREEN

This is called the "full-screen" although more accurately it should 
be called the "quarter-screen" because it shows the field quarter 
to where the ball has been hit.

    3.4 Fielfing Side

FIELDERS: The players may move freely around the pitch. Depending 
on where you have placed your fielders, the computer will activate 
the player nearest to the point where the ball lands. The player 
must press Space(FIRE) if he reaches the ball. Depending on the 
shot, the fielder will either catch or stop the ball and if this 
action is possible, the computer will activate the run return 
sequence. If the player catches the ball then the batsman will be 
out. However, if he merely stops it he will want to return the ball 
to either wicketleeper or bowler as soon as possible, in an attempt 
to stop the batsmen running, or limit their runs. In doing so the 
player will be able to place himself in the best positions for 
throwing. On pressing Space(FIRE), the process of throwing the ball 
will be initiated. Once the Space(FIRE) has been pressed, a bar 
will appear indicating the force of the throw. While the force of 
the throw is being adjusted, the player will be able to select the 
wicket to be aimed at. When the Space(FIRE) is released, or the 
force indicator reaches the maximum, the ball will be thrown. If 
the ball is over-thrown and ends up in another pitch quarter then 
the action transfers to that quarter. You may, at any time during 
the game, move your fielders as a tactical ploy. Unlike a real 
match, we have not restricted the number of players allowed to the 
outer field. Simply press F8 to move the fielders with the mouse or 
keyboard. For your convenienve we have included 5 default fielding 
positions depending on the type of bowling selected. On screen 
indicators in this screen include a flashing hand symbol indicating 
that the fielder has the ball in his hand.

    3.5 Bowler/Wickerkeeper

The computer will activate both these players if the fielder has 
accurately thrown the ball to them. They will catch the ball just 
as long as they are near enough. Otherwise it will be necessary for 
another fielder to retrieve the ball thereby losing runs. Although, 
if very accurate, the fielder can runout the batsman, it is also 
possible for the wicketkeeper and bowler to do so. Simply press 
Space(FIRE) when the ball is caught.

    3.6 Batsman

Having hit the ball out of the split-screen, the batsmen will run 
if commanded. To make another run, on reaching the crease, the 
batsman will again wait until they are commanded to start. The 
batsman may turn back during the run if he sees the he is not going 
to reach the other side in time. The batsman`s running speed is 
incresed by consecutively pressing the batsman`s power keys. If a 
rhythm is not kept up, the batsman will slow down. They may throw 
themselves headlong to get to the crease in a tight situation, but 
if they miss they may lose even more time by having to pick 
themselves up. Should only be used as a last resort!
                   
End..............
