 These docs where originally written in German and translated by 2fAST/TRSI


tHE sTORY

Once in time, in Fornsbach, as dragons, wizards and unicons still excists,
 lived two wizards, Wotan and Beligor. And they nothing else to do as doing
 nosense.

On a beautifull day on a way to a new joke, Wotan had an idea. He wanted
 to put Beligors wizard-stick in a huge labyrinth. Beligor thought as first,
 that this AUFGABE is easy to solve, but he failed. At the 8th AUFGABE Beli-
 gor stopped the search and he had to found someone, who will help him with
 all the hard AUFGABEN... He found some adverturers, who should help him
 to solve the problems and he would have them 500 goldSTUECKE, if they 
 succeed... But also these person failed... Beligor was down and there was
 only one, who is able to solve the AUFGABEN!


oVERALL

IMAGEMS should work on all Amiga's (500(+),600,1000,1200,2000,2500,3000 and
 4000) with a minimum of 1mb workspace. If you owe a machine with only 512KB
 Chip-mem, then you should turn off all external disk-drives.


hOW tO lOAD

Simply put that IMAGEMS-DISK into DF0: and reset your machine. The programm
 will load by himself.



eRRORS

If you find some errors, send the disc back and note the disc-error on a
 sheet and send it directly to the factory you ordered the game.


iNTRODUTION

tHE iNTRO
After the Brainwave-Intro, the titlepicture will appeer on the screen, after
 that a little demonstration of the game(how you play it)

tHE mENU
After you stopped the demonstartion by pressing button on JOY#2 the following
 screen will appeer...

                           -> NAME:BRAINWAVE <-
                              LEVEL 01: OPAL
                                START GAME
                              SEE HIGHSCORES
                                END & SAVE


 Now you can move the arrows with the JOY#2 by pressing up or down and fire
 to select

lEVEL
After every solved level you will get a password for the next one, so just
 write it down...

sTART gAME
The game will start with the entered(password) level...

sEE hIGHSCORES
Just see your gambling... Every level owes an own highscore-table, left and
 right at JOY#2 means one table left/right, up and down at JOY#2 means five
 tables left/right.

eND & sAVE
The prgramm saves your highscore and the level you finished and quitted!


tHE gAME

You have to put all MUSTER within the time in the right way. Solved MUSTER
 will explode and you will get some points for them. If you solved all
 MUSTER, then you solved the level...


oTHERS

Balls will always roll to a thing, who stop them, like a wall.
SCHRANKEN will stop a ball/box with red, if the SCHRANKE is blue, but left
 pass them if the objects are blue.
The Colourchanger chances the colour of any objects.
The Generator, which that machine it's possible to mix colours but only at
balls.


aT tHE kEYBOARD

P   =  PAUSE  pauses the game and shows you all AUFGABEN from one level
ESC =  ESACPE press it twice and you will return to the main, press it once
              and after that the button, then you return with a new life to
              the game.


tHE cREDITS

                      Programming   - Andreas Bombik
                      Graphics      - Michael Haebich
                      Music         - Michael Haebich
                      Levels        - Sascha Janke
                                      Michael Haebich
                                      Andreas Bombik
                      Documentation - Andreas Bombik
                                      Michael Haebich