                     Full documentation to Impact `95!


                          typed by Iggy/Hellfire



IMPACT 1995 LOADING INSTRUCTIONS - AMIGA/ATARI ST

Place the game disk in the internal drive and reset the computer. If you
have an Amiga 1200 or Amiga 4000 hold down both mouse buttons and select 
"disable cache" and "original chipset" before booting the game.

HOW TO PLAY
The object is to demolish the wall on each screen - there are 128 level in 
all. Enter a password (these are given after screens 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60
and 70), or press the left mouse button to start the game. The left button is
also used to launch the ball from the bat (but after 2 seconds the ball will
launch itself automatically). While the ball is on the bat you can adjust its
position by holding down the right mouse button and moving the mouse left and
right.

Use the mouse to move the bat left and right to hit the ball against the wall 
of bricks. If you miss the ball you lose it (you start the game wih five).
Though most bricks are destroyed with a single hit, some must be hit more 
than once, whilst others are indestructible. On certain screen you`ll even 
encounter invisible bricks!

ALIENS
The aliens that move about the screen are mostly harmless, but they can
interfere by deflecting the ball. However, on some screens the aliens drop
small yellow stun bombs - if one of these hits the bat it is paralysed for
about a second. Aliens are destroyed on contact with either the bat or the
ball and score 100 points.

TOKENS AND WEAPONS
Some bricks contain yellow tokens which can be used to purchase weapons - 
catch them if you can. Any tokens unspent at the end of the level score 1000
points. The nine weapons are represented by icons - a white square shows the
weapon currently available for purchase (this depends on how many tokens you
have). Press the right button to buy it.

Slowdown (1 token): Reduces the speed of the ball. Can be used more than 
once.
Magnet (2 tokens): Allows you to catch the ball and hold it for about 2 secs.
Multiball (3 tokens): Splits the ball into 3.
Wide bat (4 tokens): Enlarges the bat (the extension is not affected by stun
bombs).
Torch (5 tokens): Lights up invisible bricks.
Laser (6 tokens): Allows you to fire laser bolts with the left button - but
beware, some bricks reflect laser bolts!
Smart bomb (7 tokens): All aliens are removed from the screen, and do not
reappear. Once purchased, activate by pressing the right mouse button.
Missile (8 tokens): Allows you to fire up to three missiles, one at a time,
by pressing the left mouse button. Missiles can destroy multi-hit bricks with
a single hit.
Force Field (9 tokens): The most powerful weapon: the force field encircles
the ball, allowing it to smash through bricks and aliens without being 
deflected.

All weapons other than torch are lost when you lose a ball. All are lost at 
the end of the level. Some cannot be used together, eg laser and missle,
magnet and multiball. Choosing one will cancel the other.

BONUSES
An extra ball is awarded if you destroy, in the correct order, bricks 
containing the letters B-O-N-U-S. Scoring 50,000 points also awards an extra
ball.

PAUSING THE GAME
To abort the game press ESC. Any other key will pause the action (press a key
to restart).

DESIGNING YOUR OWN SCREENS
The 48 screens from 81 to 128 can be edited using the screen designer, which
is selected by pressing Return as the game begins to load. Use the cursor 
keys to move around the screen and press space to draw a brick in the colour
currently selected. With F9 and F10 you can cycle through the available
colours (use black to erase a brick).

Press M to make a brick multi-hit, I to make it indestructible, or R to make
it laser-reflective. Invisible bricks are created by pressing M, I or R
without first drawing a brick. Press B, O, N, U or S to draw a bonus brick.

Use F6 and F7 to move between screens. Return enters a mode in which you can
edit parameters: initspd, the initial speed of the ball; accel, the 
acceleration; maxspd, the maximum speed the ball can reach; tokens, the 
number of tokens hidden in bricks; speedup, the nymber of bricks left when
super speedup begins; aliens, the number of aliens of each type (no more than
6 in total); bombs, the rate at which aliens drop smart bombs; to kill, how 
many times a multi-hit block must be hit.

Press F1 to save the screens you have designed to the program disk, then
reset the machine and reload the game to play them. The password "user" takes
you straight to screen 81.

* A LITTLE NOTE FROM THE BACK OF THE BOX *
Impact unashamedly takes you back to the days when games were fun, and didn`t
need 17 disks, or manuals two feet thick. When your kid brother or 
Grandmother could join in without anyone getting embarrased.

HMM quite!


typed up by IGGY/HF 28/4/95