                         IMPOSSIBLE MISSION II


                              COBRA BLUE
                         CLASSIFICATION ULTRA


DISTRIBUTION
Field Operations Assets, (Need to Know basis only)
Field Operations Control, Langley
Electronic Intelligence Operations, Ft. Meade
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Pentagon
Commmander, Strategic Air Command, Omaha (EYES ONLY)
Commander, Submarines Pacific, Honolulu (EYES ONLY)
Commander, Submarines Atlantic, Norfolk (EYES ONLY)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

1. OVERVIEW:  Cobra Blue is a top secret surveillance and counter-
terrorist operation directed against Professor Elvin Atombender by
Field Operations Agent Bravo 29.  Elvin, a known psychotic genius, is
one of the world's leading experts on robotics, computers, and codes.
Elvin is believed to have collected a personal fortune by raiding the
computer systems of several of the World's leading financial
institutions and transferring funds to his personal bank accounts.
Elvin lives at the top of an immense eight-tower complex construscted
with his personal funds in northwest Los Angeles near the UCLA campus.
Elvin's complex is believed to be staffed entirely by robots built to
his design. He receives no visitors and, so far, his complex has proven
to be nearly impossible to enter by agents of this and other police and
intelligence agencies.

2.  COBRA BLUE PHASE I:  Elvin's tower complex is under constant watch.
All activity between his complex and other computers around the world
are constantly monitored.  Random attempts to break into the tower
complex were made by our field agents to gather information about the
complex's structure and contents.  Intelligence reports indicate that
Elvin has spent the past four years trying to electronically break into
military computer installations around the world, and he may be close
to succeeding.  In addition, it is believed that Elvin is becoming
increasingly mentally unstable.  He has been monitored muttering
threats about destroying himself and the world.  If he is detected to
begin carrying out these threats, field agents will be alerted to
implement Phase II through a Flash Alpha One message from Field
Operations Control, Langley.

3.  COBRA BLUE PHASE II:  Field agents assigned to Cobra Blue Phase II
will immediately penetrate Elvin's complex, arrest Elvin if possible or
kill him if he resists, and neutralize his computer system.  THIS MUST
BE DONE WITHIN 8 HOURS.

Elvin is believed to live and work in the control center of his
complex located in the penthouse of the central tower.  He is guarded
by highly sophisticated security systems which include mobile robots of
several types, locking passageways between towers and musical
sequences.

The field agent assigned to penetrate this complex will be assisted by
a personal pocket computer which he will be able to use only in the
complex's hallways.  This computer will track the operative's
location, help him determine if he has completed the proper
combiniation for access to another tower, and help him to link
together the musical sequences needed to enter Elvin's central tower.


08/04/88  0122 ZULU COPY 01 OF 01
CLASSIFICATION ULTRA
CODE GROUP THETA
PRIORITY FLASH ALPHA ONE
TO:  FIELD AGENT BRAVO 29
FROM:  FIELD OPERATIONS CONTROL, LANGLEY
RE:  COBRA BLUE
COBRA BLUE ALERT BREAK IMPERATIVE REPEAT IMPERATIVE ELVIN BE
NEUTRALIZED WITHIN 8 HOURS ELSE LAUNCH CODES WILL BE BROKEN AND
MISSILES LAUNCHED BREAK CONSULT COBRA BLUE PHASE II OPERATIONS ORDER
FOR FURTHER DETAILS RE ELVIN AND TOWER COMPLEX BREAK EXECUTE COBRA BLUE
PHASE II IMMEDIATELY BREAK GOOD LUCK AND GO GET HIM BREAK END
LANGLEY
PAGE ONE OF ONE

DESTROY AFTER READING

08/04/88  0123 ZULU


OBJECTIVE

To succeed at IMPOSSIBLE MLISION II and to prevent the world from being
destroyed, you as the Agency's Field Agent must reach several
objectives.

First, you must assemble the three-digit security comnbination for
each tower. At the same time avoid and fend off Elvin's robots, using
his own security system to help you.

Second, you must locate and open Elvin's safes, and recover the musical
sequences locked inside.  There are six unique pieces of music and two
duplicate pieces.

Third, you must tie together these musical sequences into a full
melody that will open the express elevator doors to Elvin's central
tower control room.

Finally, you must find the correct computer terminal in Elvin's control
room that will disarm the missile lauch codes before they destroy you
and the world.

You score points by entering towers, exploring rooms, finding passcode
numbers, and reaching the central control room.  The sooner you reach
the control room, the more points you earn.

STARTING PLAY

While the game is loading, you will see an outside view of Elvin's tower
stronghold on the screen.  When loading is completed, you will see your
agent inside an elevator in a random tower of the stronghold.  The
display on the bottom of the screen is your pocket computer.

CONTROLS
In the elevators:  Push the joystick FORWARD or BACK to go up or down.
Push the joystick RIGHT or LEFT to enter a corridor.
In the corridors:  Push the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to move along a
corridor. Running off the edge of the screen will take you into a room
or another section of corridor.
In the rooms:  Push the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to move in either
direction.  If you press the FIRE BUTTON, your agent will do a forward
flip useful for leaping over robots, jumping up to higher levels, and
somersaulting over gaps in the floor and over low walls.  Pulling the
joystick BACK will put your agent in a crouching position.  He needs to
be in this position to lay a time-bomb or mine.
On lifting and sliding platforms:  If you are standing on a striped
lifting platform (you can see the vertical track in the wall), push the
joystick FORWARD or BACK to go up or down.  If you are standing on a
striped sliding platform (you can see the horizoneal track in the wall)
push the joystick FORWARD or BACK followed by LEFT or RIGHT to move the
platform.

GAME PLAY
As you explore Elvin's tower complex, you can check your location and
the rooms you have explored with your pocket computer.  The pocket
computer's display appears at the bottom of your screen anytime your
agent is in a corridor or elevator.  A map of the current tower and
connections to two neighboring towers shows in the center of the
display. A dot of light shows your location in the tower.  Any room you
have entered appears in black.  An overhead view of the tower complex
appears to the left of the map display on the pocket computer.  It
too, has a light showing your location as well as a lighted display of
your current tower number.

SEARCHING FOR CODES
Search as many objects in each room as possible.  These objects range
from automobiles in Elvin's garage tower to athletic equipment and
lockers in his gymnasium tower.  Don't overlook house plants and
pictures on the wall either.  Search each object by standing directly
in front of it and pushing the joystick FORWARD.


The word "Searching" will appear in a box near your agent's shoulder.
You will also see a horizontal time line indicating how long the search
will take. You must continue to hold the joystick FORWARD until the
time line disappears.  If your search is interrupted for any reason
(usually a robot bearing down on you), you can go back to the object
and resume searching where you left off.  Each object disappears after
it is searched.

One of four things will appear above your agent's shoulder when he's
finished searching an object:
* The word "Nothing", indicating you've drawn a blank.
* A passcode number.
* A security terminal command icon.
* An extension of time.

USING SECURITY TERMINALS
You can use the security terminal commands you have collected at any
security terminal in Elivin's complex.  These terminals are usually
located near the entrance inside each room.  They look like television
sets with darkened screens facing toward you.

To use a security terminal, move directly in front of it and push the
joystick FORWARD.  The security terminal screen will fill your display.
Security terminal command icons and the number you have available
appear on the screen.  These include:

Lift Platform symbol--resets vertical and horizontal lift platforms.
Platform symbol--moves the floor segments left or right.
Electric plug--temporarily deactivates robots.
Light bulb--turns on lights in darkened room (can be used in any room
within a tower to light other rooms in the tower).
Time bomb--arms time bomb that can be placed by agent to blow up a
safe (pull BACK on the joystick and press the FIRE BUTTON to place the
bomb).  The bomb explodes a few seconds after it is placed allowing the
agent to go back to the safe and search for pieces of music.
Mine--arms mine that can be placed by agent.  Mine explodes whenever
anyone including field agent makes contact with it.  It blows a large
hole in the floor that the agent can only cross with a leaping
somersault.

Push the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to move among the command icons and
press the FIRE BUTTON to select whichever one you want to use.

POCKET COMPUTER
Your pocket computer is an amazing device that not only locates you in
Elvin's complex, it also helps you assemble the passcode that lets you
move from tower to tower.  With its built-in tape recorder, you put
together the musical sequence you need to get into Elvin's central
tower. Your computer also shows you how much time you have left before
Elvin destroys the world.

To activate these last two functions, you must stand in a corridor or
elevator and press the FIRE BUTTON.
NOTE:  You can't use the pocket computer in any of the rooms.  Pressing
the FIRE BUTTON in a room will make you do a somersault.

When you activate the functions, a hand appears near three buttons at
the bottom right of the screen.  The right button has three numbers on
its surface.  The center button has the drawing of a tape cassette
deck. The left button has the word "OFF" written on it.  Above these
buttons you will see three sets of up and down arrow buttons.

You can move the hand with the joystick.  To select a button, move the
hand on top of it and press the FIRE BUTTON.  When you select the
number button, the tower complex map disappears and three windows
appear in its place.  This is where the three-digit passcode to enter
the neighboring towers is assembled.  The numbers are in three
different colors and each color appears in its own window.  Move the
hand to the up and down arrow keys and select one with the FIRE
BUTTON. Numbers you have found in the tower appear in the windows to
the left. There may be duplicates.  When you find a correct number, the
"Found" indicator below the windows will light up.  When all three
numbers for the passcode are found, the "Complete" indicator below the
windows will light up.  You can now move through the security access
doors into a tower next door.

When you have collected one or more musical sequences from Elvin's
safes, you can play them on your pocket computer.  Move the hand over
the cassette button and press the FIRE BUTTON.  A tape cassette deck
complete with standard play, fast forward and rewind controls appears
in the center of your pocket computer.  Rewind, then press play, and
any musical sequences you have collected will play.  Listen to them
carefully because there may be duplicates.  A digital tape counter
helps you keep track of where you begin a musical sequence.  Use this
readout to help you record a new sequence over a duplicate piece
of music. When you collect and play six non-duplicate musical sequences
linked together on your tape recoreder as a song, you can enter the
express elevator to Elvin's control room.

You must record a musical sequence before you leave a tower because you
can't return to a tower once you've left it.  If you forget to record
the music in each tower's safe, you can't win the game.  However, you
might get really lucky and still win the game if the music you forgot
in a tower's safe is a duplicate.

ELVIN'S EXPRESS ELEVATOR
You can find doors to Elvin's express elevator between the inter-tower
security doors in either the underground passageways or the aerial
hallways. Stop in front of the express elevator and push your joystick
FORWARD.  You will enter the elevator and reappear in Elvin's control
room.

ELVIN'S CONTROL ROOM
This is an extremely complex room filed with robots.  It has security
terminals so you can use your collected security commands to help you.


Notice the three terminals in the center of the room.  One of these can
be used to deactivate the missile launch control codes and save the
world. The other two will kill you.  Select a terminal, stand in front
of it, and push your joystick FORWARD.  If you are lucky, you will
deactivate the control codes and confront Elvin.

SCORING
A scoreboard will appear if you successfully end the game, if you die
too many times while you are in Elvin's control room, or if time runs
out.  You earn points for entering each room, collecting objects and
numbers, entering each tower, and for completing the mission.


                              APPENDIX A
                         ELVIN'S TOWER COMPLEX

Elvin's tower complex is located in the Sawtelle District of Los
Angeles on the grounds of the former Veteran's Administration Hospital
five miles west of UCLA. Elvin purchased the grounds five years ago
from the U.S. Government during an attempt by the government to balance
the federal budget.

He has constructed a nine-tower complex consisting of eight towers
surrounding a core tower.  Each tower includes from four to six rooms,
and each has a special function.  These functions include parking for
Elvin's vast fleet of motor vehicles, living quarters (Elvin reportedly
never sleeps in the same room two nights in a row and likes a lot of
space), food service including automated kitchens (Elvin considers
himself a gourmet although his tastes run toward M&Ms and Fruit
Loops), sports and exercise areas, warehousing, executive office
suites, and of course massive computer systems.  There are believed to
be up to 64 different rooms in the eight surrounding towers.

The core tower includes the heart of Elvin's computer system and his
control center located in the tower's penthouse.  There is a flat roof
area outside the penthouse where an operative could arrange for an
emergency helicopter pickup.

High speed elevators run up the sides of each tower except the core
tower. They open on to hallways leading to the towers' rooms.  Each
tower is linked to its two neighboring towers with both underground
passageways and aerial hallways connecting at the upper levels.
Security doors prevent access between towers unless you have the proper
passcode.

The central tower's control room is reached with a high speed express
elevator. Doors to this elevator are located in both the underground
tunnels and the aerial hallways between towers midway between the
inter-tower security doors.  (See Page 7 for details on how to gain
access to the central tower express elevators.)  The penthouse control
room is the only room in the central tower accessible to outsiders.
The balance of the structure is packed with Elvin's mainframe computer
system.

Three computer terminals are located in the center of the penthouse
control room. One of these controls Elvin's main code-cracking computer
where he will attempt to access the world's missile launch control
codes and annihilate the planet.  This terminal must be reached and
deactivated by you to prevent missile launches.  The other two  are
dummies hotwired to 2,200 volts.  Any agent touching these dummies will
be killed instantly. Intelligence reports have NOT, repeat NOT been
able to determine which terminal is real and which are the deadly
dummies. Good luck!

                              APPENDIX B
                                ROBOTS

Elvin's robots are a major component of his security system.  There are
six different types you will find roaming the rooms in his stronghold.
They include:

1.  The basic security sentrybot.  These are the most common and the
most deadly if you get close.  Sentrybots may be found in any room.
They are each approximately 1.5 meters high and are armed with a high
voltage plasma gun.  The sentrybots use infrared photocell sensors to
detect human body heat even in darkened rooms anywhere to the robot's
front. Sound and motion sensors also enable the robot to home in on a
human whether the robot can "see" the target with his infrared sensors
or not.

A sentrybot will fire its plasma gun anytime it detects a human within
six feet. Sentrybots never miss at that short range and humans always
die from the weapon's massive electrical discharge.

Fortunately, a human has one major advantage over any robot--mobility.
Sentrybots are propelled by linear induction magnetic transport
systems embedded in the floors and platforms of each room.  Sentrybots,
therefore, usually cannot leave their assigned floors or platforms.
They also generally move more slowly than a man and can be dodged with
a well-timed somersault.

2.  Minebots.  These are small robots encountered in rooms in any
Tower. They crawl around rooms and lay mines at random.  The mines are
visible and easily avoided.  Unlike the mines a player can lay, they
have no effect on the floor.

3.  Pestbots.  These are relatively harmless but annoying small robots
that may be encountered in any tower.  They constantly ride the lift
platforms and mess up a player's lift platform strategy.  They are not
dangerous.

4.  Squatbot.  May be encountered in any tower.  Squatbots are small
robots that squat on the floor like a turtle.  With good timing, an
agent can step on a squatbot and use it as a stepping stone to leap
higher in the air.  However, every few seconds, the squatbot is
activated and will rise up.  (If the agent isn't careful, he may be
smashed against a ceiling.

5.  Bashbot.  This is the second most common robot type and is found in
all towers.  Shaped like a miniature bulldozer, the bashbot detects a
human intruder and instead of zapping him with an electrical charge, it
attempts to shove the intruder off the edge of the nearest platform or
into a nearby wall.  Sometimes when a bashbot is encountered near a
door into a room, the bashbot will shove the human intruder back into
the adjacent hallway.

6.  Suicidebot. These may be found in any tower.  A suicidebot senses
when a man is near and leaps to its death trying to take the man with
him.

                              APPENDIX C
                      ELVIN'S PSYCHIATRIC PROFILE

Subject:  Elvin Atombender
Sex:  Male      Age:  62
Height:  5'4"
Weight:  120 lbs.
Hair:  No
Eyes:  Watery blue, wears wire rim glasses
Distinguishing Traits:  Elvin has developed into a high tech hermit who
                        hates people and animals and can only relate to
                        M&Ms and Fruit Loops, anchovy pizzas, Diet
                        Pepsi, and computers.

Childhood background:  Elvin was a Momma's boy.  His mother loved him
and believed he could do no wrong.  He was a skinny, sickly little kid
who loathed sports but loved mathematics.  He seldom caused any
problems and spent most of his time at home gaping into his computer
screen. He occasionally caused trouble with his modem, such as the time
he broke into the school district's mainframe and raised his P.E. grade
to an "A", and the time he broke into the phone company's billing
computer and chartged his parents with a five-hour call to Afghanistan
(because his mother mistakenly served him Diet Coke instead of Diet
Pepsi during a midnight pizza feed).  His parents, however, were
tolerant. They were sure he would eventually grow out of messing with
other people's computers.  They were wrong.  Elvin had only just begun.

Turning Point:  Elvin survived high school despite encounters with
numberous bullies. He entered the computer science school of a
prestigious West Coast university and immediately immersed himself in
the computer lab where he began building Elvin, Jr., a self-teaching,
self-replicating artificial intelligence program.  Junior was his
child and his passion.  He spent so much time in the computer lab that
he barely earned his undergraduate degree.  Only when he realized that
he had to go on to graduate school if he were to keep working on
Junior, did he reluctantly spend time on elective courses such as The
Economics of Broccoli Farming and Intermediate Urdu.


One night, after nearly eight years in the university's computer lab,
Elvin had almost finished building Junior.  He only had ten more lines
of code to write, and only two more bugs to shake out of the program,
and his child would come to life to dominate the university's entire
computer system.  Then the lights literally went out as the power
failed. Elvin's computer crashed, and his program vaporized into
nothing. Elvin had made one fatal mistake--he never backed up his
programs, saying that floppy disks were for winps.  All he had left
was some hard copy.  Elvin's mind snapped.  He vowed he would complete
his doctorate, someday rebuild his program on a grander scale than
ever, and take over the computers of the world.  Then he would have
his revenge, especially against the electric utility companies.  The
world would repay him for his lost child.

Like many people with a grand obsession, Elvin was able to bide his
time. He received his doctorate, became a distinguished professor and a
renowned expert in computers and robotics, and then disappeared.

He has now resurfaced after five years of living in his fortress-like
tower complex built with funds plundered from the international
financial computer network.  He is believed to be extremely paranoid
and dangerous and may be on the verge of becoming the world's first
large scale comoputer terrorist. He should be approached with extreme
caution.


                         KEYBOARD COMMAND CARD

Read the Impossible Mission II instruction manual for general game play
instructions.  Read this command card for keyboard controls and
variations from the manual for the Atari ST version of the game.

Joystick:  up, down, left, right, fire button.

Keyboard:  up--arrow up or I
           down--arrow down or K
           right--arrow right or L
           left--arrow left or J
           spacebar or clr home  (fire button)

Keypad:    up--8
           down--5 or 2
           right--6
           left--4
           enter  (fire button)

Additional Keys:

*Press 1 on the keypad to move a sliding platform left.  Press 3 on the
 keypad to move it right.
*Press ESC to pause.  Press any other key to resume play.
*Press ALTERNATE S to save game.
*Press F10 to start a new game.
*Press ALTERNATE F10 for suicide (from inside a room only.)
*Press ALTERNATE Q to return to desktop.