       MR.Z PRESENTS IMPOSSAMOLE INSTRUCTION MANUAL


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Insert IMPOSSAMOLE disk in drive - the game will automatically load
and run.


STORY

Monty lay back on his sun lounger and contemplated his situation.  His
previous adventures had financed these last few years of utter bliss.
He had everything that a mole could want.  His own island in the sun,
more money than a mole could ever spend - paradise!  Listening to the
clear blue sea lapping at his furry feet, he surveyed his surrondings
and saw nothing but unspoiled beauty.  In the last few days, thoughts
had appeared in his mind - he somehow missed the days of his
adventuring.

Monty closed his eyes and decided to take forty winks.  Then the sun
seemed to dim on his eyelids.  "Just a passing cloud", he thought.
But within seconds, the whole island was shrouded in darkness.
Opening his eyes he saw that the island was covered by one large
cloud.  From the cloud, rays of light beamed out which swirled and
darted over the terrain as though they were looking for something.  He
saw a ray of light advancing towards him and felt "butterflies"
errupting into a frenzy in his stomach.

The light settled on his shivering body, smarting his eyes with its
searing brightness.  Then the voice came....

 "Monty Mole."

Monty had been teleported into an alien spacecraft and found himself
in the presence of two shadowy figures.

 "Who are you?" asked Monty.

The reply came:

 "You need not know - you are the chosen one."

 "What for?" replied Monty.

 "You have been selected to vanquish the Five Gaurdians."

 "What Five Gaurdians?" Monty replied.

 "The ones that stole our sacred scrolls of internal life, without
which our planet will not survive."

 "Sounds exciting!" thought Monty.

 "But how can I defeat these Guardians?"

 "We will give you the use of our sacred super powers.  Use them
wisely little mole!"

THE ADVENTURE BEGINS....







HOW TO PLAY THE GAME

The game is played over five levels.  You are able to select levels 1
to 4 at random, but to play level 5, you must have completed the
previous four levels.

Each level contains food and supplies to help you on your travles.
You may find a friendly shop keeper.  Spend your money wisely.

Weapons can be collected and their strength upgraded when certain
items are collected.  Each weapon has a time limit for usage.  Hidden
rooms have been positioned on each level.  Every area must be
explored.

Super Weapons : Only one per level.  Use only as a last resort.

Good luck in this, the first of IMPOSSAMOLEs adventures.  The playing
tips have been kept to minimum.  The suprises are numerous and need to
be exprienced.  Look out for our friendly Super Hero in his further
adventures.


CONTROLS

All movement is controlled by the joystick.

CTRL       -  Pause
SPACE BAR  -  Super Weapon
ESC        -  Quit

Select between music and sound fx on the title screen using the
joystick.


----------------------------------------------------------------------

IMPOSSAMOLE instructions typed in by MR.Z

Greetings to Annihilator, The Teknichian, Scooter, Spreader,
 Cosy, Mike, Blade, RC, Pod, Ads, Banger and the rest...........

LATER.......

----------------------------------------------------------------------
