                IN 80 DAYS AROUND THE WORLD

Typed by MONTY for SEWER SOFTWARE.  Edited by PARASITE.


WHAT HAPPENED?
On an evening in the Reform club in London that, at it's start,
promised to be no different than any other, an event takes place
that was to have all of England holding their breaths for
months.
Phileas Fogg, a gentleman thought to be more than a little
eccentric by most people, has declared that he will travel
around the world within an unimaginably short time span, 80
days.
Nobody believes that this is possible, but Fogg throws caution
to the wind and backs his claim up by betting all he owns,
œ20,000, that he can accomplish the feat.
On 2nd of October, Fogg and his butler, Passepartout, start
their journey towards Paris.
It is now entirely in your hands whether or not Mr.Fogg and
Passepartout are successful in their attempt to win the bet, and
only with your lightning fast reactions and skill (Don't make me
laugh!), will you be able to guide them both through the many
adventures that await them and save Fogg's honour and his money.

INTRODUCTION
Firstly, a list of all development personnel is displayed on the
Screen.
By pressing the space bar once the title picture with the
accompanying music appears. This can be broken off by
pressing the space bar again.
The first newspaper article is now displayed followed by a short
film showing our heroes leaving to start their journey by night.
All newspaper articles can, after loading is complete, be
aborted by activating either space bar or the fire button.

THE WORLD MAP
Your position on the world map is indicated by a flashing point.
The date and the last large town past through are listed on
the note pad.
The amount of money you still have at your disposal is displayed
on the money bag under the note pad.
One of the following four functions can be chosen by moving the
joystick from left to right and by confirming your choice using
the fire button.

1. BRIBE
The form of travel currently in use is indicated by figure in the
bottom left hand corner of the world map.  Bribing the captain of the
ship or the locomotive driver persuades them to travel faster. The faster
the sails of the ship flap, or the faster the steam rises from the
locomotive, the more successful the bribe.
When bribe has been chosen three new areas appear on the screen. Using
EXIT you can leave the bribe function without a bribe being carried out.
The amount of bribe money can be varied by activating the fire
button on the middle area and moving the joystick:

left - raises the bribe sum slowly
right - lowers the bribe sum slowly
By moving the joystick up or down the amount of bribe money
can be varied quickly.
By activating the fire button the amount of bribe money is set.
By choosing the area bribe the action is carried out.
The best amount of money to be used for a bribe can only be
determined by playing the game several times.

2. CARDS
If cards is chosen, the same functions as by bribe apply. Exit is
for leaving the card game, the middle area is for setting the
amount of money to bet, and to play the card area must be
activated.
Five cards are laid out on the table with only the first being face
up. Now you have to guess if the next card is higher (high) or
lower (low) than the last.
If you lose, the card game is ended and you lose your bet. If you
win your bet is doubled. This process repeats itself four times,
and only when all of the cards are face up have you won and can
pack your winnings into the money bag.

3. PLAY
If "play" is chosen the rate of play of the game increases and the
next action level is entered immediately. The bribe function
cannot be used if play is chosen.

4. PAUSE
The game is stopped until you wish to continue, by pressing the
fire button.
When the date on the note pad has reached 23rd of December,
all of the œ20,000 has been used, or an action level has not been
successfully completed, the game is at an end. A newspaper
article appears on the action level, describing the current
position of the game.
If this article describes the failure of your mission then the
game is terminated.
A new game is started by pressing the space bar or fire button.
If an action level is successfully completed you can follow your
progress on the world map.

INDIA
Passepartout stumbles into his first adventure in mythical
India. You flee into a mysterious temple seeking santuary. All
hope of finding safety is expelled as the solid iron doors of the
temple close behind you. You cannot go back through the doors!
 Will you be able to reach an alternative exit alive?
At the bottom of the screen a status indicator now appears.
There is a time limit on every action level, this is displayed on
the screen in the time place slot. When your time runs out
you've lost. If the action level is completed before the time runs
out he remaining time is carried over into the next action level.
The faster you complete one action level the more time you'll
have for the next.
Indicated on the money bag is your remaining capital, if you
cannot make the money last you do not stand a chance of
winning the œ20,000 bet.
The health space indicates your present state of health. If you
are weakened by the attacks on you and your state of health
drops to zero, the game will be unsuccessfully terminated. The
remaining health points at the end of an action level are carried
over into the next level. If you are good in one level you will have
more health points at your disposal for the next.

                                jump/climb
                                    |
                   jump backwards       jump forwards
                                 \     /
                          left -         - right
                                 /     \
                            squat       squat
                                    |
                              squat/descend

JAPAN
They arrive in Yokohama to discover that all ships travelling to
America are booked out. To discuss their problem of getting to
America they retire to a dingy waterfront bar where they meet
a group of japanese acrobats celebrating their coming tour of
America. Our heroes accept a challenge to act as the bottom
row of a human pyramid, to win their way on board the ship
that the acrobats are using to travel to America. They agree
that for every failed attempt at hold on the pyramid they will
pay a certain amount of money to the acrobats. If they succeed
in their attempts nothing stands in their way of getting to
America.

CONTROLS
You are the bottom man in the human pyramid and have to
balance the five acrobats on your shoulders by moving
forwards and backwards, and by skillfully keeping your
balance. When you are in position the first acrobat runs from
the right hand side and, with the help of a springboard, bounces
into the air. You have to catch him on your shoulders by moving
forwards and backwards. Once you have caught him he has a
problem balancing, and tends towards either left or right, by
moving simultaneously with him you must counteract the
weight difference and keep him on your shoulders.
The next acrobat runs from the left and wants to jump on your
left shoulder. The next comes from the right and has to land in
the middle, on top of the first and second acrobat. The next two
acrobats have to land on the left and then the right hand side of
him. If an acrobat is not caught and installed in the correct
position the pyramid collapses, you loose an amount of money,
and then you have to start again. You may attempt the pyramid
as often as you like so long as your money and time limit allows.
Your movements are controlled by moving the joystick in the
relative direction.

AMERICA
The land of opportunity, but also the land of many dangers!!
The train that you are travelling on is stopped and robbed by
indians.   Mr.Fogg is taken prisoner and only you,
Passepartout, can save his scalp. To get to the indians camp you
have to fight your way through savage wolves. Once you arrive
in the indians camp they are full of respect for you, after all, you
survived the wolves, and they give you a chance to save Mr.Fogg's
life. You have to copy the medicine man's raindance
exactly, without making a mistake. For every mistake made an
amount of money is taken from you. It seems that there is no
way of travelling any further, the bet seems to be lost. Suddenly
out of the wilderness appears a trapper who owns a strange
contraption, a wind sledge.  On this sledge you can travel
quickly over the snow and ice.

Joystick Control

1.WOLVES
You have to dodge the wolves by moving the joystick. Avoid
being touched by them, every time you are touched you lose
health points. You have to try to reach the indian camp to the
right of the screen.

                              jump
                                |
               jump backwards       jump forward
                             \     /
                     left   -        - right
                             /     \
                        squat       squat
                                |
                              squat

Fire button: jump, the same function as moving the joystick
upwards.

2. INDIANS
To save Mr.Fogg from almost certain death you have to try to
dance the raindance, copying the medicine man's movements.
Every mistake costs money, so be careful.

                              jump
                                |
                lift left arm       lift right arm
                             \     /
                            -       -
                             /     \
                lift left leg       lift right leg
                                |
                              squat

3. WIND SLEDGE
To advance over the snow and ice you must reach a certain
speed, this enables you to jump over the larger snow drifts.
Before every rise in the landscape the sledge must be raised at
the front and after this rise has been crossed it must be dropped
immediately, to avoid turning the sledge over. Small holes
must be avoided using this method of raising the front of
the sledge. When the sledge travels downhill the weight has to
be moved to the front of the sledge to avoid having an accident.
Health points and money are confiscated every time the sledge
capsizes.
                           raise sledge
                                |

                             \     /
                     slower -       - faster
                             /     \

                                |
                           move weight

It is important that the balance of the sledge is kept whilst you
are travelling on a flat surface, and that no weight movement is
carried out whilst in motion.
To accomplish this the joystick must be kept in the central
position.

ENGLAND
Just before the successful completion of your journey an
overzealous detective, who has mistaken you for a bankrobber,
catches you in London.
Is this the end of the journey?  So near and yet so far from
victory! In the dungeons of London awaits the most evil enemy
you have yet to face.
But your name is Phileas Fogg and you can always pull some
trick out of the bag.

Joystick Control
                             jump/climb
                                  |
                  jump backward       jump forward
                               \     /
                         left -       - right
                               /     \
                          squat       squat
                                  |
                            squat/descend

Fire Button: throw paving stones
If you are able too beat both times, the creatures that confront
you, and escape from the dungeons of London, you have won.
You have saved your honour, your pride and your money. You
have travelled AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS.

End.
