     In the Beginning
     
     The lessons in this series will provide students with information
     about stories in the Lion Bible Series.  The mastery learning
     instructional program contains eight steps:
     
     1.  A picture screen is presented.
     
     2.  Two check questions about the picture screen are then presented to
     the learner.
     
     3.  Each time a check question is NOT answered correctly, the screen
     flashes red and the appropriate picture screen is again displayed. 
     The check question is then repeated.
     
     4.  Whenever a check question is answered correctly, the learner goes
     to a Number Box where numbers are randomly whirling from 1 to 9.  The
     learner gets a number from this box by press the SPACE BAR.  This
     number is temporarily kept by the learner as a Number Box Score and is
     increased the next time he goes to the Number Box.
     
     5.  Whenever the learner's Number Box Score totals 10 or more, he gets
     to play the Target Game.  He pays for this by having his Number Box
     Score reduced to zero.
     
     6.  The Target Game works as follows:  At the top of the screen, a
     blimp moves across the sky at a certain rate of speed.  This rate of
     speed will change from one game to the next, but will not change
     during a game.  The learner has a target blaster positioned at the
     bottom of the screen.  Whenever the SPACE BAR is pressed, the target
     blaster fires at the blimp.  The blaster's rate of speed remains the
     same from one game to the next.  The learner wins a game by hitting a
     small target on the blimp.  The instructional program then continues. 
     If the target ray hits the target on the first shot, this is worth 100
     points.  Hitting the target on the second shot is worth 90 points. 
     The third shot is worth 80 points, and so on down to 10 points where
     the value stays the same until the game is over.  The value of each
     Target Game score is added to the learner's overall game scroe, which
     is increased from game to game.
     
     7.  After all the check questions have been answered, the learner
     answers a series of Mastery Test Question.  These consist of all the
     check questions randomly presented by the computer.  Each time a
     Mastery Test question is answered correctly, it is retired from the
     list of questions and does not appear again during the Mastery Test. 
     Whenever a Mastery Test question is missed, the appropriate picture
     screen is shown to the learner.  The Mastery Test question is then
     repeated.  When the Mastery Test has finally been completed by the
     learner, he returns for the final time to the Target Game.  For this
     final game the value of the shots begins at 1000 if no mistakes were
     made during the Mastery Test - but minus 100 points for each Mastery
     Question missed and repeated.  That is to say, the value of the final
     game would begin at 900 points if one mistake had been made during the
     Mastery Test, 800 points if two mistakes had been made, and so on down
     to a value of 100 points, which is the minimum value for hitting the
     blimp.
     
     8.  The program then ends, and a summary screen is displayed showing
     how the learner performed.  The learner's goal is to earn as many
     points as possible while completing the instructional program at a
     mastery level.
     
     Important item:  ->  In answering questions with more than one part,
     DON'T press RETURN until all parts of the question have been answered. 
     Leave a single space between the answer to one part and the answer to
     the next.    For example, if the problem is to complete the names of
     the first man ______ and the first woman ______, you would type ADAM
     EVE, and ONLY THEN press the RETURN key.
     
     Good Luck!