			The Incredible Crash Dummies
			----------------------------

The Story So Far
----------------
To help fulfil his dream of global domination, Junkman had abducted Dr Zub,
creator of the incredible crash dummies and, more importantly, the even more 
amazing TORSO-9000.If junkman can force Dr Zub to reveal his secret behind the
TORSO-9000, he can build an army of super junkbots and make the world an unsafe
place to live in. Spin has stayed behind to keep an eye on the laboratory, so it's
down to you,brave player, to help Slick save Dr Zub (and of course the world).
It's a tall order, but we know we can depend on you.

OK I Accept ... So What Do I Have To Do?
----------------------------------------
Put it this way there are four very different (and not altogether short) zones to get
through before slick gets to combat Junkman and (if you can manage it) defeat him to free
Dr Zub. Take control of Slick and make the most of his running and jumping abilities, but
don't let him get hit by any hazards - and avoid bumping into Junkman's Junkbots.

The only way Slick can stop Junkbots is to break them by jumping on them - or throwing
Wrenches at them. Watch Out! at the end of every zone, Slick meets one of Junkman's chief
henchmen: sideswipe, Jack Hammer and Piston head. Keep your head and don't go to pieces
we are depending on YOU!

What You Can Expect To See During Play
--------------------------------------
All the action takes place in the playfield which takes up the best part of the screen.
Here are some of the things you will see ...

     TIME LIMIT        WRENCHES      SLICKS       PICK-UP 
		       AVAILABLE     AVAILABLE    ACTIVE

			--- SCORE ---

PICK-UP ACTIVE -  There are only two types of Pick-up available - both of them are
handy, but both are only active for a short time. When the pick-up is running out, it will
flash and eventually disappear. For details of how the pick-ups work, 
see "EVERY LITTLE BIT HELPS...."

TIME REMAINING -  Yes, there's a time limit in which to complete each level, so don't
dilly-dally! extra time can be aquired see "EVERY LITTLE BIT HELPS...."

YOUR SCORE -  Points are given for breaking up the bad guys and collecting special items.
You can also score bonus points for the number of Wrenches and the time remaining when a 
level is completed.

WRENCHES AVAILABLE-  Slick always has 5 at the beginning of each level but can pick-up
more along the way. For the further details,see "EVERY LITTLE BIT HELPS...."

SLICK CHARACTERS - You start with 3 and can collect more if you keep your eyes open
(see "EVERY LITTLE BIT HELPS...."). Everytime slick is hit by a bad guy or he bumps into
a hazard, he loses a limb. But don't worry - he's a CRASH DUMMY, so only his pride is hurt.
First a leg is lost (so he has to hop), then the other leg (so he has to pull himself along with his
arms)...then an arm is lost,followed by the other arm...One more hit and
thats it: a slick char-acter is Lost! When a slick character is lost,so are
any Wrenches and Pick-Ups he collected.
When all Slick characters are lost ... It's game over! Fortunately for
you,Slick's parts are replaced everytime he begins a level.

SLICK - The star of this particular show. See CONTROLLING SLICK.

BAD GUY - All bad but not always guys - take the bouncing wheels, for
example.Slick can jump on the Bad guys to break them up, or he can throw
wrenches at them (but remember wrenches are in limited supply).

HAZARD (BOO! AGAIN) - Watch out for them! For more details of each Zone's
hazards,see LEARN THE LEVELS.

CONTROLLING SLICK
-----------------
Take time to practice Slick's movements on the first Level.Try to get a
feel for how quickly he can stop running and how high he can jump.

   Push the joystick left and right to make Slick run in those directions
   
   Push the joystick up to make Slick jump straight up.Note that the longer
   the joystick is held up,the higher Slick will jump.
   Push the joystick left or right when Slick is in the air to guide him.

   Push the joystick up and left or right to make Slick jump in those 
   directions.
  
   Press the fire button to throw a Wrench in the direction Slicks facing.

   Push the joystick down when Slick is standing still to make him go to
   pieces.

   Push the joystick down When Slick is running to make him slide.

VEHICLE CRASH TESTS
-------------------
There's one of these special stages at the end of every Zone except the
very last.In each Crash Test,Slick is at the wheel of a vehicle relating to
the Zone he just completed.The idea is to crash the vehicle into a solid
wall at the end of the course.You can't directly control Slicks speed,but
you can help him avoid the obstacles that slow the vehicle down and
ultimately weaken the crash at the end of the test.The more obstacles Slick
misses,the bigger the bonus given - so go for it!

Push the joystick up to make the vehicle jump.

HOLD IT
-------
If you need to take a break...

Press the P key to pause the action(and just so you know,the word PAUSED
replaces your score).

Press the P key to resume play.

EVERY LITTLE BIT HELPS...
-------------------------
Dont be a dummy: help Slick by collecting the following when you see
them...

Spanner        WRENCHES Slick's main ammunition for throwing at the Bad
	       Guys.For every Wrench Slick picks up on screen,he's given
	       more than one to play with.Use them wisely!

Circ A         AIR BAGS To allow Slick to be inflated like a balloon!But
	       only for a short time.Note that Slick can throw Wrenches while 
	       he's floating.

	       Push the joystick in any direction except down to move the
	       floating Slick in the air.Note that when the joystick is
	       centred,Slick will slowly sink.

Lightning      OVERDRIVES To make Slick go lightning fast - but only for a
	       short time. 

Screwdriver    SCREWDRIVERS To repair Slick's limbs.One limb is replaced
	       for every screwdriver collected.

Dummy head     DUMMY HEADS For an extra Slick Character.

Yellow targ    YELLOW CRASH TARGETS For 300 points.

Blue targ      BLUE CRASH TARGETS For an extra 10 seconds of time.

Small spring   SMALL SPRING LAUNCHERS Slick can't pick them up - but he can
	       jump on them to be propelled to new heights! But in which
	       direction? Be prepared: Slick could end up ploughing
	       head-first into a wall (no problem),a secret room (yes
	       please) or into the arms of a waiting junkbot (oh dear).

Large spring   LARGE SPRING LAUNCHERS These are only found at the end of
	       Level's and are used to propel slick forward into the next
	       Level.

MEET THE BAD GUYS
-----------------
JUNKMAN

Designed by Dr Zub to be the ultimate crash dummy: smart,versatile and
indestructible.The problem was,a flaw in its core computer chip led to the
best becoming the worst: a deadly dummy demon.Fortunately,the head was
removed from the special TORSO-9000 before any damage could be
done.Unfortunately,the head managed to find its body and escape.In no time
at all,the malicious machinery had taken over a junk yard and used the
scrap metal to manufacture the junkbots.It named itself junkman and swore
there and then to make the world an unsafe place...But if he's to fulfil
his dream of conquering this planet,he must create an army of imperishable
dummies.And to do that,he needs Dr Zub's plans for the TORSO-9000...

JACK HAMMER

The first junkman's creations - and the smartest,but that's not saying
much: he's still as dumb as they come.And because he came first,jack hammer
believes he should be first served...which is why he takes all the glory
and blames everythin else on Piston Head and Sidewipe.

PISTON HEAD

The second junkbot to be built by junkman.Piston Head's not as bright as
jack Hammer,but he's cleverer than Sidewipe so he can trick him into doing
the dirty work.But like all bullies,Piston Head is a coward at heart.At
the first sign of trouble,he's makes like a banana and splits!

SIDESWIPE

He has a head of solid steel - which leaves no room for anything else.
Yes,Sideswipe's not the most intelligent of Junkman's minions.Infact he's
the stupidest.

TEST DUMMIES

Look, they aren't bad at heart - they just happen to have seen a few to
many windscreens up close, that's all. Now they can't help but crash
into-well, everything!

LEARN THE LEVELS
----------------
There are four Zones,each with a different number of levels to complete. At
the end of each Zone you will meet one of Junkman's sidekicks - and
eventually Junkman himself!

ZONE 1: THE CRASH TEST CENTRE
-----------------------------  
Can Slick make it to the Crash Test Centre and slip past Sideswipe at the
end of this Zone?
    
LEVEL 1: THE PARKING LOT 1

Slick has tp beat tyre spikes. Pogo-parking-meters, tyre-spitting Junkbots,
and crash-cycling Test Dummies.

LEVEL 2: THE PARKING LOT 2

Beware of falling cars and motor-mono-cycling Junior Junkbots - among other
problems!

LEVEL 3: CRASH CENTRAL

Inside the maze-like building, avoid exploding light bulbs,the light
bulb-dropping toy planes and high voltage live wires.

LEVEL 4: MIXER MADNESS

Heeeeeeree's Sideswipe - in his Whiskmobile, no less!

VEHICLE CRASH TEST: CRASH CAR CRISIS

At last - a chance to rack up some bonus points by driving a speedy car
into a wall.

ZONE 2: CONSTRUCTION SITE
-------------------------
Have you got what it takes to help Slick junk Jack Hammer?

LEVEL 1: GROUND FLOOR

Mind your step on the slippery floors and wobbly platforms, and don't get
cut up by the buzzing circular saws. Some Junkbots are hiding in the
cement, while others come bearing acetylene torches, wrecking balls on
chain. And if that wasn't enough,Junkbot Dozers and RoboHounds are on the
loose.

LEVEL 2: HIGH-RISE HIGH JINKS!

Look out for Pneumatic Junkbots, yet more buzzing circular saws, Helicopter
Junkbots, Buzz-saw Junkbots -and a lot of airbags!

LEVEL 3: JACK HAMMERS WRECK "N" ROLL PARTY!!

Have you ever seen a cement firing wrecking ball crane? Well here's your
chance... Jack Hammers using one to destroy the building. Dodge the debris
and nail Jack Hammer before it's to late!!

ZONE 3 MILITARY TESTING ZONE
----------------------------

LEVEL 1: THE ARTILLERY RANGE PART ONE

Beware of land mines (Some of them with a suprise twist),paratrooping Test
Dummies, bombs, MX-Missiles and rockets.

LEVEL 2: THE ARTILLERY RANGE PART TWO

Avoid unicycling Junkbots and more rocket mines.

LEVEL 3: THE BOMB BUNKER

Inside the military complex watch out for missiles, floating mines,
Tankbots, Test dummies riding missiles !, Bomb Dropping Spiderbots, And
Gunbots. It might help to map out this maze like level.

LEVEL 4: PISTON HEAD'S FLYING CIRCUS

Woooah! The Junkbots Dummy-Dummy Hellcat drops bombs!

VEHICLE CRASH TEST: TANK TRIALS

Yep - a tank. It's tough but that doesn't mean you should bump into
obstacles. Don't you want those bonus points?

ZONE 4: JUNKMAN'S JUNK-KASTLE
-----------------------------
This is it the final challenge.

LEVEL 1: THE JUNK-YARD

Ugh - there's toxic goop on the floors and ceilings, spikes everywhere, oil
slicks and incomplete Test dummies to avoid. Take it easy!

LEVEL 2: THE JUNK KASTLE

Get ready... for the comfrontation with Junkman. But first, Slick has to
tackle the newest and biggest junkbot: the Jumbo Junkbot! it Jumps, it
bites, it shoots boxing gloves, and it can survive pretty much any
pounding. Perseverance will pay off in time!!

PLAYING ADVICE
--------------
As you know,when Slick jumps on a Bd Guy,he breaks if he gets points - but
he also gets propelled a little higher in the air,which can be to your
advantage!

Beware of traps! Look for anything out of the ordinary,say,cars facing in a
different direction from other cars...

Beware of flying debris!

At the very beginning of the first Level,you can jump on the lamposts.

Note that you can throw Wrenches through some walls...

And remember...Slick and Spin are not flesh and blood;they are Crash
Dummies and so feel no pain when they are thrown through the windscreen of
a car - even at speeds as low as 20 miles per hour.Don't be a dummy: always
buckle your safety belt.
