                             Medway Boys & Ikari

                                 - Present -

                                 INTERPHASE    

                      471 Lines (16236 Bytes Decrunched)

                    Docs by **  P H A N T O M   L O R D **


                              THE STORY SO FAR
               		      ----------------
 
In tomorrow's almost wholly automated world, the employment-starved
population is fed by the leisure industry. Gone are today's more
traditional pursuits though. Music, cinema, the theatre - even video games
- are joys of the past. The entertainment medium of the future is
DreamTracks: recorded patterns of pure imagination produced by Dreamers.
Visit foreign lands, planets or solar systems from the comfort of your own
armchair. Smell, touch, taste, hear... LIVE the dreams of others
imaginative enough to produce them. Others like Chad, a successful Dreamer
whose career was about to rocket... until he discovered that his latest
Track had been laced with deadly subliminal images capable of destroying
the minds of anyone who experiences it. Horrified by the possibility of
even greater global vvegetation, Chad sets out with his opposite sex
partner, Kaf-E (complete with symbolic appendage), to recover and destroy
the Master Track from the DreamTrack Corporation's High Security building.

                             LOADING INTERPHASE
                             ------------------

ATARI ST
--------

Insert the INTERPHASE disk into the drive and turn on your ST. INTERPHASE
will now load. A cube spins around in the centre of the screen to let you
know the program is loading. When loading is complete, the title screen
appears, music plays, and the credits roll.

AMIGA
-----

Insert the INTERPHASE disk into the drive and turn on your Amiga.
INTERPHASE will now load. A cube spins around in the centre of the screen 
to let you know the program is loading. When loading is complete, the 
title screen appears, music plays, and the credits roll.

                                 HOW TO PLAY
			         -----------

To minimize the risk of being caught, Kaf-E's gone in on her own. Taking
the role of Chad, it's up to you to guide Kaf-E safely through the complex
security system to the top of the building. Once at the top she must
collect the correct DreamTrack from the vaults before making her way back
down through the building to the exit.

                                 THE SCREEN
                                 ----------

Thanks to an interface between man and machine known as the INTERPHASE,
Chad can influence the building's electronics with his mid, and
subsequently tap the security systems for information essential to ensuring
Kaf-E's safety. The INTERPHASE also allows Chad to intercept any messages
from Kaf-E.

Chad's viewpoint of the computer is represented by an abstract
three-dimensional environment, and this is where the action occure, Kaf-E's
plight on the other hand, is shown on a two-dimensional blueprint of the
building's floors (for further details, see the Blueprint section.)

The blueprint for each of the 12 floors is shown only when a floor is
reached, so you can't find out what's in store on later levels until you
get there!

Access and assess each blueprint, making careful note of the security
systems present, and determine a safe route to the lift for Kaf-E to follow
before attempting to disable and security 'obstacles' in the 3D
environment.

3D DISPLAY
----------

Inside the computer, abstract three-dimensional objects relate to those
shown on the two-dimensional blueprint. The two different states and
relevant information is accessed through the blueprint screen.

The infomation for the screen display is as follows:

TOP LEFT :		Game Time.
TOP RIGHT :		Energy.
BOTTOM FAR RIGHT :	Missiles.
BOTTOM RIGHT :		Function Icons.
BOTTOM CENTRE :		Message Recieved.
BOTTOM LEFT :		Radar
BOTTOM FAR LEFT :	Floor Level.

ENERGY LEVEL
------------
Reduces when you collide with the floor, objects, the enemy or its
firepower. Energy is replenished by either entering a Power System or
better still, by flying under red arches. To cintinually gain energy, try
this: once you successfully fly under an arch DO NOT change your course at
all. The layers wrap around, ir: the level ir repeated infinitely in all
directions, so you will soon fly under the arch again.

GAME TIME
---------
Just so you know how long play has been in progress.

FLOOR LEVEL
-----------
In the 3D environment, each of the building's 12 floors is split into eight
layers - this number lets you know which layer you are on. To move from one
level to another, fly though the Communications Holes (coloured squares or
gaps) marked on the floor or ceiling.

NB: some levels do not feature Communications Holes on the ceiling. Should
you pass through the floow of such a level and wish to return, keep flying
dwon through the Holes in the floow, until you reach the required layer
again.

MESSAGE RECIEVED
----------------
Flashes and a tone sounds whenever Kaf-E needs to talk. She transmits
information whenever she encounters an obstacle.

RADAR
-----
Doesn't show your position but the whereabouts of the enemy (small dots)
and the Generators (large dots) out of which they appear.

FUNCTION ICONS
--------------
Only accessible when in Pointer Mode.

                                  GAME OVER
                                  ---------

The game is over when either Chad's energy runs out (thus severing the
Interphase link and condeming Kaf-E to certain death) or he's
de-Kaf-E-nated (!), i.e. she is caught by a Security Droid or electrocuted
on a high voltage floor.

                                   TUNNELS
			           -------

The building's floors are connected by tunnels, through which Chad travels
at a constant speed. Follow the Guide and avoid the walls and Data Lines
which horizontally and vertically across the tunnel. The entrance to the
next level is the iris at the end of the tunnel - fly into it.

                              GENERAL CONTROLS
               		      ----------------

Use the mouse in its usual hole, ie: Port Zero (ST) or Port One (Amiga).
Press a mouse button or any key other SHIFT to begin play. A short
animation sequence of a digitised figure will be shown. Press the left-hand
mouse button to advance.

                        MOVING IN THE 3D ENVIRONMENT
                        ----------------------------

Move the mouse left or right to bank in the respective directions. Mouse up
to dive and down to raise. Pressing the left-hand mouse button activates
functions, eg: cannon-fire.

                                DIVE
			         |
		    FIRE OR      |
		    ACTIVATE +---------+
		    FUNCTION \_+-+ +-+ |
			     | |#| | | |
			    /| +-+ +-+ |\
			   / |         | \
		  BANK       |         |  BANK
			     |         |
			     +---------+
			          |
			          | 
			        RAISE

WITH RIGHT-HAND MOUSE BUTTON DEPRESSED
--------------------------------------

Moving forward increases your speed. Moving backwards decreases your speed.

              		     ACCELERATE
     				  |
		    FIRE OR	  |
		    ACTIVATE +---------+
		    FUNCTION | +-+ +-+ |
			     | | | |#| |
			     | +-+ +-+ |
			     |         | 
			     |         |  
			     |         |
			     +---------+
			          |
		                  |
			      DECELERATE

LOCATING AND DESTROYING OBSTACLES
---------------------------------

Enter the blueprint screen and select the object you intend to destroy.
Rather than fly around attempting to locate this object, use the
NAVigational COMputer. Click on NAV to lock-on to the object. When the
NAVCOM LOCKED message is given, exit to the 3D world and, following the
arrows displayed in the centre of the screen, locate the object. Use a
missle to destroy it and leave a wireframe shell.

POINTER MODE
------------

Hold down the right-hand mouse button and press the left-hand button to
activate the arrow pointer.

Manipulate the arrow by moving the mouse in the required direction.
Unfortunately, this makes accelerating and firing simultaneously
impossible. NB: control of Chad's movements is lost once the pointer
appears, so beware of leaving him vunerable.

                             USING THE KEYBOARD
              		     ------------------

If using the mouse to select functions proves a little to awkward, use the
following keys on the keyboard.

T		Activate Tractor Beam

D		Activate Docking Mode

RETURN / ENTER	Activate Missile

B		Enter Blueprint Map Mode

M		Message Screen

A 		Acknowledge Message (Switch Off Alarm Tone)

P		Pause (Any Key Other Than Shift To Continue)

8		View Forwards

6		View Right

2		View Rear

4		View Left

SHIFT + ESCAPE	Abort Game

                              GAME SAVE / LOAD
                              ----------------

You don't have to start every game from scratch. Save your progress by
pressing the SPACE BAR to get to the Game Load/Save Screen, then select the
SAVE icon followed by OK to save. You can only load or save a game in the
tunnel section, ie: before or after a level is completed. DO NOT use the
INTERPHASE program disk for saving games. Format a disk beforehand and
ensure the write protect tab is OFF. Only one saved game can be stored on a
disk, so use different disks for different saved games. The saved game file
is not shown on the disk's directory, so always clearly mark saved game
disks.

TIP
---
Save your progress as soon as you enter a tunnel. If your journey to the
end is successful, save your progress again, just in front of the iris. Now
you don't have to fly through the tunnel when you reload.

MISSILES
--------

Whereas the cannons only destroy certain small objects, the missiles
destroy EVERYTHING.

Having selected this icon, press the left-hand mouse button when the cursor
is over the target. When the LOCKED message appears, press the left-hand
mouse button again to launch a missile, then watch it home in on its
target.

TIP
---
Use missiles to destroy objects wherever possible. The cannons fire two
energy bolts - one destroys the intended items, but the other bolt flies
off into the distance and may destroy other objects.

                               MESSAGE SYSTEM
                               --------------

Select to view any messages transmitted by Kaf-E. Press the right-hand
mouse button to see the whole message. Do read her messages - Kaf-E often
provides useful information regardin the 3D environment.

The icons along the bottom of the message area are as follows:

MAP =		Go To Blueprint
BACK =		Look Back Through Messages
EJECT =		Exit
FORWARD =	Look Forward Through Messages

TRACTOR DEVICE
--------------

Allows you to pick up objects and moce them elsewhere. Select this icon,
then press the left-hand mouse button when the cursor is over the target to
capture it.

TIP
---
Alternatively, use the tractor beam to hold an elusive defence drone in
place so you can shoot it with a missile.

DOCKING DEVICE
--------------

Allows you to enter certain objects and influence them from within, for
example, you can affect the orientation of turntables.

                                  BLUEPRINT
                                  ---------

This is where the strategic side of the game takes place. The blueprint
shows the layout of all the corridors, rooms, doors and other security
devices present on the current level. Look over the whole blueprint with a
fine-tooth comb - important clues are often hidden. Hold down the left-hand
mouse button and move the mouse to scroll the map. Pressing the left-hand
mouse button centralises the map on the crosshair. Pressing the right-hand
mouse button centres on Kaf-E.

Just so you know what to lock for in the 3D environment. Place the
crosshair on an object then click on this icon to receive information.
Press the right-hand mouse button to print the complete details. Press the
left-hand mouse button at any time to return to the blueprint.

The icons along the bottom of the blueprint are as follows:

INFO :		Information About Object
NAV :		Lock Navigational (NAVCOM) Onto A System
DOWN ARROW :	Decrease Magnification
UP ARROW :	Increase Magnification
EXIT :		Exit To 3D Environment

                               BLUEPRINT ICONS
              		       ---------------

KAF-E (Green Triangle)
-----
Protect her at all times

SECURITY DROID
--------------
Set in motion by Pressure Pads and Cameras

DOOR
----
Closed doors stop Kaf-E but not the Security Droids

TURNTABLE (Circle)
---------
Redirects the Droid in the direction it faces but causes Kaf-E to stop.
Dock with a Turntable and use the left-hand mouse button to rotate it. The
right-hand mouse button exists. NB: to make Kaf-E continue in the same
direction, enter the Turntable and exit again without affecting its
orientation.

CAMERA (Camera!)
------
Some cameras activate Security Droids. Destroy the cameras to turn them
off.

PRESSURE PAD (Square)
------------
Some Pressure Pads activate Security Droids.

ELECTRIFIED FLOOR (Square)
-----------------
Fatal to the touch, whereupon they are deactivated. It's advisable to
direct a Droid into such a floor.

WORKSHOP SYSTEM (Square)
---------------
Enter a Workshop to clone any components accidentally destroyed. Use the
right-hand mouse button to select the required component and eject it into
the 3D world. Now exit and use the Tractor Beam to move the object to the
required position. NB: when replacing a component into its wireframe
origional, position it as accurately as possible before deactivating the
Tractor Beam.

POWER SYSTEM (Square)
------------
Dock with them to replenish your energy. Power Systems are destroyed after
use.

                             THE DEFENCE SYSTEMS
	         	     -------------------

In recognition of your arrival into its "Domain", the computer's Defence
System is activated. Airborne and ground-based Generators produce Security
Droids, most of which attack Chad. Use your cannons on the Droids, or
better still, take out the Generators with your missiles before their
offspring get you.

TIP
---
If you can't shake a Security Droid from your tail, either fly in reverse
or change your view before you let rip.

                                 QUICK START
                                 -----------

HOW TO COMPLETE LEVEL ONE
-------------------------

PRESS the left-hand mouse button to start.

ONCE the animation sequence has played you enter the tunnel. Follow the
Guide, avoiding the walls and Data Lines, and exit through the iris at the
end of the tunnel to enter the 3D environment.

PRESS and hold the right-hand mouse button, then press the left hand mouse
button to activatr the pointer. Click on MAP to see the blueprint for Level
One.

PRESS the right-hand mouse button to centre on Kaf-E's icon.

INCREASE the level of magnification to see more detail.

WATCH Kaf-E walk to the colsed door in the reception area. She will send a
message, causing the light to flash and a tone to sound.

CLICK on EXIT then on MESS to view Kaf-E's message.

CLICK on MAP to return to the blueprint.

ZOOM in to the top right-hand corner of the blueprint. Note the
surveillance camera is switched ON. Click on INFO to view the information
on it. Exit to the blueprint.

CLICK on NAV to recieve the NAVCOM LOCKED message.

EXIT to the 3D world. Arrows on the play screen will direct you to the
component representing the camera.

USE a missile to destroy the shape when you find it. Select a missile,
press the left-hand mouse button when the cursor is over the target, then
when LOCKED confirmation is given, press the left-hand mouse button aagain
to launch the missile. Now sit back and watch the missile home in and
destroy the component.

RETURN to the blueprint. The camera should now be OFF. Now for the door...

MOVE the cross-hair to the locked door in front of Kaf-E. Click on NAV, and
when the NAVCOM LOCKED message is given, click on EXIT and seek out and
destroy the door to open it.

KAF-E will now walk down the corridor, past the deactivated camera and past
an acivated camera. This sets a Security Droid in motion, but don't despair
- Kaf-E narrowly misses it at the junction before the Securtiy Clearance
Area.

DESTROY the door to allow Kaf-E to enter the Security Clearance Area, then
destroy the door to the Left Room. When Kaf-E reaches the lift, select NAV
and seek out the iris to the next level. Enter it and negotiate the tunnel
to Level Two, where even greater dangers await...

                               T H E   E N D .