                     International Championship Wrestling

International Championship Wrestling (ICW) is an exciting new game designed
for the Amiga family of computers. Compete against friends or the computer 
to become the new World's Champion! International Championship Wrestling 
features four different characters each capable of executing 18
different wrestling moves. In addition, each wrestler has his own special
"finishing move," guaranteed to bring death and destruction to the enemy.
International Championship Wrestling is designed for one or two players. 
It requires 512 Kilobytes of RAM and one or two joysticks to operate. 
The program uses very little chip RAM or CPU time, making it the perfect 
game to play while downloading files or compiling a homework assignment.
International Championship Wrestling features:

1.     Over 300 frames of animation per character
2.     Attractive 32 color display.
3.     Realistic digitized sound
4.     Eighteen moves in 4 directions.
5.     A special "death move" for each character.
6.     Three skill levels for both one and two player mode.
7.     Championship Match if you are good enough (Good Luck).


Operating instructions.

1.     Turn on the Amiga and Kickstart it if necessary (AmigaDos 1.2 or later).
     
2.     Insert Disk #1 (WrestlingA) into drive 1 and, if you have a second 
       drive, insert disk #2 (WCharsB) into drive 2.
3.     The game will auto boot to the title screen. This may take a while 
       if you have a lot of memory, since as much of the game as possible is
       loaded into RAM on startup.
4.     When you see the title screen press any key or the left mouse button
       to continue.
5.     For one player mode, plug the mouse cord into the mouseport. Plug the
       joystick into the other external port. This is player one's joystick.
       If you do not have a mouse, make sure that player one's joystick is 
       not plugged into the mouseport. For two player mode diconnect the
       mouse and plug the second joystick into the mouseport. 
       This is player two's joystick.


6.     Once the program has loaded, a small window will appear on the screen,
       requesting a keyword to be entered from this manual. The message in
       window will direct you to a certain bold faced heading on a certain
       page of this document. Once you have located the heading count the
       requested # of words into the paragraph directly following the bold
       faced heading. There you will find the keyword that the program is
       looking for. Type this word into the window EXACTLY as it appears in
       the manual, followed by a return key. The program will then begin. 
       For example if the program directs you to page 2, heading
       OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS, word #2, you would enter "ON".


                                       Page -2-
After the game begins you will see an option screen with a choice of game 
options. Use player one's joystick to set the desired game options. Moving
the joystick up or down will toggle between options; set the option values 
by pressing the joystick button.

GAME OPTIONS.

Player Mode: Choose one player, two player, or Demo mode.

Player 1 Name: Choose between any of the three wrestlers as your alter ego.

Player 2 Name: Choose between any of three wrestlers as your alter ego. 
               In one player mode, this is the computer's wrestler.

Level: Choose the skill level of player one's opponent: "EASY" will make 
       player two (or the computer) weaker than player one. "NORMAL" will
       make the players have equal strength "HARD" will make player two 
       (or the computer) stonger than player one. All three levels
       are valid for both one and two player mode.



Start Game: Choose to start the game by pressing the joystick button.
 
Quit Game: Choose to end the game by pressing the joystick button.

Control Keys: The following control keys are available during gameplay.

Control-S : Toggle Sound Effects On/Off
Control-Q : Quit and Exit
Control-R : Return to Option Screen
<ESC>     : Pause Game (any key continues)


THE WRESTLERS

Internaitonal Championship Wrestling has searched the globe to bring you 
the world's greatest wrestlers:

EAGLE: the high-flying American. He's fast and he's tough. You'll have
       to catch him before you can hurt him.

IVAN: the hugh Russian bear. He's big and mean. If you hit him head on,
      he'll take your head off.

KHAN: the Mongolian Killer. Master of the oriental arts of fighting. 
      Watch out for the dreaded Green Foam.



                                Page -3-

BRUISER: The ICW World Champion. the greatest wrestler of all time. 
         His only rule is to win.


MATCH RULES

The "match" begins after you start the game. In demo mode, the computer 
will continuosly play itself, changing wrestler #2 after each match. you 
can exit from the demo mode by pressing any alphanumeric key while the 2 
wrestlers are fighting. In two player mode, the game continues until one
opponent is either pinned or submits. In one player mode, the matches 
continue until player one loses or is crowned champion. If player one 
defeats two other opponents, then he becomes the number one contender and 
faces Bruiser, the ICW world champion in a title match! Good Luck.
Once the match begins, you and your opponent attempt to beat each other 
into either a pinfall or submission. To beat your opponent beat him (using
an open fist only!) until he is sufficiently weakened for more conventional
(legal) wrestling moves. Energy meters for each player are in the upper
corners ofthe screen. The more red in the meter, the stronger the
wrestler.


All wrestlers start with 100% energy. Each wrestler begins in a boxing
stance, and punches his opponent until the opponent is susceptible to more
legal moves. As you pound your opponent his energy will diminish and his 
reflexes will slow. When your opponent has less than 90% of his energy, 
you can move in for the kill. Player one converts to a wrestling stance by
pressing the F10 function key. Player two uses the F1 function key. The 
function keys will toggle the wrestlers between boxing and wrestling
stances. The computer will switch stances automatically for its wrestler.



IMPORTANT: Boxing is only necessary when your opponent is too strong to 
mess with. If you attempt to wrestle an opponent with too much energy 
you'll be sorry!


BOXING MOVES:
 
From the boxing stance you will not be able to iniate any wrestling moves. 
the boxer's only options are to dance around the ring and punch. the 
joystick is used to control your wrestler. To dance around the ring, move 
the joystick in the desired direction. To punch, move the joystick in the 
desired direction while simultaneously pressing the joystick button. 
Your player will punch in the indicated direction. If you connect, you will
hear the impact and see a corresponding decrease in your opponent's
energy. The joystick positions and results are illustrated below. The open
circle means the joystick button is not pressed; the solid circle means 
that the joystick button is pressed when the joystick is moved.


                                  Page -4-



              Walk Up                               Punch Up
                 ^                                     ^
    Walk Left         Walk Right        Punch Left           Punch Right
              < Not >                              <Pressed>
              Pressed              
                 v                                     v
             Walk Down                             Punch Down

        From Wrestling/Boxing                   In Boxing Stance
              Stance

Fig. 1 Joystick Positions for boxing moves. The solid circle indicates that
       the joystick button is depressed.


WRESTLING MOVES.

Special note for 512K users:
International Campion ship Wrestling will run on machines with 512K of 
RAM, however no sound effects are available on these machines and the 
selection of moves is limited. the following are the ONLY moves available 
on a 512K machine:

1) Punch Left/Right
2) Walk all 4 directions
3) Body Breaker
4) Grab Left/Right
5) Headlock
6) Pickup Opponent
7) Cover Opponent

After you have punched your opponent's lights out, it's time to put some 
real hurtin' on him. Switch to wrestling mode and move in for the kill. 
All wrestling moves start with the headlock. In order to hurt your opponent 
you must first get him into a headlock. Move next to your opponent, press
the joystick button and move the joystick in the direction of your 
opponent. If you are within range, you will lock that sucker up. 
If you miss, you must release the joystick button and try again.


To maintain your hold, you must keep the joystick button depressed. 
If you release the button, your opponent will escape. If you wait too long,
your opponent will escape. So move quickly into your next move. 
Note that if you attempt place a headlock on an opponent who is getting up 
from the mat, that you risk being punched in the stomach by wrestler 
(OUCH!).


                                Page -5-

Other Moves. Once you have your opponent in a headlock you may do one of
five things:


1.    Pushing the joystick up will lift your opponent onto your shoulder.
2.    Moving the joystick down will Power Slam your opponent.
3.    Moving the joystick left will Suplex your opponent.
4.    Moving the joystick right will Atomic Drop your opponent.
5.    If your opponents energy is very low, moving the joystick to the 
      right will execute your special Death Move on your opponent (you can 
      tell if you or your opponents energy is low enough by the screen 
      flash that occurs whenever someones energy drops below this critical
      level). Eagle's move is the dreaded Texas Bulldog. Ivan's move is 
      the painful Russian Bear Hug. Kahn's move is the fearsome Green Foam.
      And Bruiser?... Bruiser's move is so lethal that we can't even 
      talk about it.

If you have picked your opponent up onto your shoulders you may do one of
four things to him:


1.    Moving the joystick up will Piledriver your opponent.
2.    Moving the joystick down will Body Slam your opponent.
3.    Moving the joystick left will put the Back Breaker on your opponent.


4.    Pressing the joystick button and moving the joystick right will 
      Airplane Spin your opponent. To end the spinning release the joystick
      button. If you spin too many times you will become dizzy and fall 
      with your opponent covering you. Escape if you can; if you don't 
      you'll be pinned!



Escaping. As farfetched as it may seem, at some point your opponent will 
manage to get you into some trouble. You can escape from any hold by 
wriggling the joystick or depressing the joystick button as fast as you 
can. The lower your energy, the more movement it will take to escape. 
Watch out for your opponent's "death move." It is almost impossible to 
avoid being pinned (or submitting) if he gets it on you. For some moves 
such as the Figure Four Leglock, you must escape quickly. If your energy
gets too low in the leglock your wrestler will automatically submit. 
The shame will be unbearable.



If your opponent's treachery has managed to get you down on the mat you 
have three options:


1.    Moving the joystick right will cause you to roll right
2.    Moving the joystick left will cause you to roll left.
3.    Moving the joystick up will make you stand up.



                                 Page -6- 



Remember: When you are healthy any move takes only one move of the 
joystick to perform an action. But if your energy is low it may take
several moves of the joystick to get the same result.


A particularly effective (but risky) escape it to roll away when your 
opponent trys to jump off the ring ropes onto you. Be warned, if he's 
succeeds it's probably curtains.

     
Finishing off an opponent. Once your opponent is on the ground you can
start to finish him off.

1.    Move the joystick to the left to Elbow Drop your opponent. 
      Remember: he may roll out of the way. Then the hurtin' will be on 
      you.

2.    Move the joystick up to Kick your opponent when he's down. 
      He'd do it to you!

3.    Move the joystick to go for the Pin.
4.    Move the joystick right and press the button to place the feared 
      Figure Four LegLock on your opponent. Keep the button pressed to 
      hold him down. If his energy gets low enough he'll submit.

5.    If you are close enough to one of the upper ring posts, you can climb
      the ropes and jump on your opponent. To climb, press the joystick 
      button and move the joystick up. You will begin to climb. When you 
      are at the top you can jump by holding the button and moving
      the joystick down. If you chicken out, you can climb down by moving 
      the joystick down without pressing the button. Chickening out will 
      cost you energy. Be careful! While you are climbing the ropes your 
      opponent may grab you in a headlock. If he is close enough,
      he will automatically grab you. If you jump on your opponent and 
      miss, you will be in a whole world of trouble!


Diagrams of the joystick positions and their results start on page 9.

FINAL HINTS

Once you get an opponent in trouble don't let up on him. When not being 
hurt a wrestler begins to recover his energy. If your opponet's energy 
gets too high you'll have to switch back to boxing mode to cut him back 
down to size. If you qualify for the title match with the Bruiser, 
watch out for his killer "death move" It's too painful to even think 
about.


For you rank amatuers out there: Familiarize yourself with the game by 
playing in two player mode with no one playing player two. 
TRY NOT TO LOSE!


                                Page -7-


TECHNICAL NOTES



Machines with memory between 512K and 1M:
 On some machines the memory available after booting is considerably less 
than 1M, at other times there will be between 512K and 1M of RAM available
when you run ICW concurrently with other programs In this case ICW may 
detect that there is enough memory to load all of the moves but not 
enough to load the sound effects. If this is the case the game will run 
normally but sound effects will be disabled.

Running ICW from the CLI:
ICW can be run from either the CLI or the WorkBench and accepts the 
following arguments:

1) NOSOUND - Load all sounds but start in silent mode.
2) NOSOUNDEVER -

Do not allow sounds while playing at all.
3) 512K - Force 512K version of the game to load.

Installing ICW onto a Hard Disk:
ICW can be run from any AmigaDOS device and uses ONLY standard Amiga 
System Calls when accessing its files. To install the program onto a hard 
disk run the InstallWrestlingHD program provided on the WrestlingA: 
Diskette. This program copies all necessary files onto your hard disk in 
the subdirectory you specify. Run this program when your hard disk is 
properly mounted and the standard AmigaDOS commands are in your hard
disk C: Directory. Once the files are loaded onto your hard disk you must 
add the following lines to your startup sequence so that ICW can find the
files:

Assign Wrestling: <FULL PATH NAME>
Assign EAGLE: Wrestling:Eagledir
Assign IVAN: Wrestling:Ivandir
Assign KAHN: Wrestling:Kahndir
Assign BRUISER: Wrestling:Bruiserdir

<FULL PATH NAME> is the full pathname of the directory where you told 
InstallWrestlingHD to store your files. For example if you told it to put 
the files in drive DH0: directory Wrestling then the 1st line above would 
be Assign Wrestling: DH0:Wrestling


                                 Page -8-



                   Grab Up                           Get Up
                      ^                                 ^
         Grab Left    |    Grab Right      Roll Left    |    Roll Right
                  <Pressed>                          < Not >
                      |                              Pressed
                      v                          ---------------
                  Grab Down                      You are down on
              -----------------                      the mat.
              Wrestling Stance,
                Both men up.





              Pick up Opponent                      PileDriver
                     ^                                   ^
         Suplex            Atomic Drop/    Back Breaker      Airplane Spin
                 <Pressed> Special Move              <Pressed>
                    
                     v                                   v
                Power Slam                           Body Slam

           --------------------                   ---------------
-
           Opponent in Headlock                   Opponent on your
                                                     shoulders.


Fig. 2  Joystick position for Wrestling Moves.




                                   Page -9-


END..........
