                         INTO THE  EAGLES NEST
                         =====================
                         TYPED BY SHARD - N&B

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------

ATARI ST:
Ensure  that  your computer has been switched of for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the  gama  disc  in  drive zero (all other drives, printers, cartridges etc
should  have  been  removed).   The game should load automatically.  If the
game  fails  to load on the first attempt.  leave the disc in the drive and
press the reset button.

AMIGA:
Ensure  that your computer has been switched off for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the game disc in drive zero (all other drives, printers, additional memory,
cartridges   etc   should   have   heen   removed)  The  game  should  load
automatically.   If  the game fails to load on the first attempt, leave the
disc in the drive and reset the machine.


The Eagles Nest stands before you, barely visible against the night sky:  a
highly  fortified  Nazi  garrison stronghold which must be destroyed before
the major allied offensive can begin.

A  previous  sabotage  attempt failed and the three man team captured.  You
must  enter  the  fortress,  kill as many Nazi soldiers as possible, rescue
your comrades then destroy the fortress.

Our main offensive will begin at "E" Hour plus Four, by which time the base
must be destroyed.

Good Luck. We're depending on you

OBJECTIVE TO DESTROY "EAGLES NEST"

BRIEF:
------

"Eagles  Nest"  is a strategically positioned garrison fortress believed to
be Central Command for an imminent enemy counter offensive.  STRENGTH:  SIX
FULL DIVISIONS.  It poses a major threat to the continuation of our advance
and must be eliminated before the final offensive can begin.

The  most efficient method to ensure the destruction of "Eagles Nest" is by
sabotage.   The  fortress  having  a vast and comprehensive defence against
armoured and troop assault.  A previous attempt at sabotage has failed, but
intelligence  reports  suggest that before the three man team were captured
they  managed  to  set  up  a  network  of  explosive charges at key points
throughout the fortress.  It is not known if the locations of these charges
have been discovered.  Our intelligence sources have also managed to secure
the plans for the ground floor.

OBJECTIVES
----------
 
Your  objectives  are  to  infiltrate  the  fortress  and  rescue the three
captives  before  they  break  under  torture.   Causing  maximum havoc and
confusion,  find  and detonate the explosives on all floors.  It is in your
interest  to investigate anything you find as you will need keys and passes
for  the  fortress  doors and lift.  It is also in your interest to collect
any  art  treasures  and  jewels  you  find  from  the  Commanders  private
collection.  You will find ammunition dumps inside - carry no more than you
need.   Be  careful  in  confrontations loose shots could detonate the vast
hoards  of  explosives  stored  in  the  many rooms.  This will not destroy
"Eagles Nest" it will merely terminate your mission.

Our  main  offensive  will  start at "E" PLUS FOUR HOURS, by which time you
should have completed your mission.

GOOD LUCK we are depending on you

CONTROL MENU
------------

Press the CONTROL key whilst on the Title page to get the Control Menu.  In
the Control menu use your Joystick to select the option you want to use and
use the Fire button to select the option you require.

OPTIONS:
--------

DIFFICULTY  (EASY/HARD)  -  Determines the number of hits needed to kill an
enemy soldier (One or Two).

CASTLE  (ONE/TWO)  - Selects which castle you wish to attempt Castle two is
harder to complete.

SOUND (ON/OFF) - Turns the sound ON/OFF

MESSAGES (ON/OFF) - This allows you to turn off the in-game messages

START  GAME  -  Press Fire button then select the mission you require using
the joystick (left & right):

1 - Blow up the fortress.

2 - Rescue ONE prisoner and blow up the fortress.

3 - Rescue TWO prisoners and blow up the fortress.

4 - Rescue THREE prisoners and blow up the fortress.

Press Fire button to commence game.

During the game, use the joystick (in Port 2.) to control your character or
use the cursor keys and the spacebar to fire.

Press CONTROL to Pause

Press the ESC key to abort the game.