              Iron Lord Manual By Snuskbuske H2O / 1989-12-29
              -----------------------------------------------

The sun had long since disappeared beyond the horizon. A constant glacial
wind blew about the layers of fog gathered around the castle. Behind the
lowered portcullins, a guard wrapped up in a cape warmed himself in front of
a braizer, fighting off cold and his fatigue. Since nightfall he had stood
there, chilled to the bone..., peering vainly into the gloom, aided  from time
to time by a dim moonbeam. His night-watch was almost at an end and he
was comforted by the thought of his warm room awaiting him.
Suddenly, the night seemed to grow even darker, as if an immense shadow
had just masked the moon, emphasizing the menacing aspect of the fog. The
guard shivered in spite of himself. He told himself that it was due to the
cold, and gripped his lance more tightly... At that wery moment he noticed a
figure standing immobile on the other side of the portcullis. The guard
started, suppressing a cry of surprise. In fact, although the fog usually
muffled any sound, it was impossible for anyone to arrive at the gateway
without his footsteps on the pebbly ground betraying his arrival.
"Who goes there"? asked the sentry in a loud but not very confident voice.
"I am a traveller, and I would like to see your lord..." replied the stranger.
The latter spoke with great ease, and a slight note of authority could be
heard in his deep voice.
"Who do you think you are, disturbing the lord at this late hour"? asked the
guard, approaching with a lantern in his hand. The stranger, lit up by a misty
halo, still hadn't moved. He was dressed very elegantly, in the style popular
in faraway lands. His clothes were dark and a large cloak covered his
shoulders, in sharp contrast to other foreigners who were usually dressed in
bright colours.
"I am Zolphar", he replied coldly, "your master's brother".
The guard didn't let his scepticism and mistrust show, for there was
something rather unusual about his nocturnal visitor's determination. He
took a horn hanging on the wall and sounded out three short notes. Soon
fterwards, the sound of footsteps on the cobbles could be heard from afar.
A heaily built man wearing the insignia of Captain of the Guard appeared.
He was no longer a young man, and the many scars on his face hardened by
time revealed that he had once been a great warrior. The captain, named
Maltholm, was indeed one of the oldest warriors in the kingdom. His talent
and loyalty had promoted him to the rank of friend and confident of the lord
and his family.
"My word"! he exclaimed before the guard had the chance to say a word,
"Lord Zolphar, what brings you here"?
"I am glad that someone actually recognizws me" replied Zolphar. "I also
remember you Malthom, you havn't changed".
"And yet it's been years since we last met". said Malthom with a pensive
air ; then addressing the guard, "don't make our guest wait any longer, open
the door".
As Malthom and Zolphar walked through a maze of courtyards, corridors
and galleries leading to the mamorial quarters, Zolphar suddenly recollected
the past. He was slightly younger than Tibor, the present lord. He had
always suffered from being the youngest son and kept himself to himself,
preferring to be alone, whereas Tibor had been a talkactive and gracious boy.
Zolphar's behaviour had earned him the nickname "Dark One". One day,
Zolphar was involved in a plan to overthrow his brother. The attempt failed
and he was forced to leave the kingdom immediately. No one had herad of
him since.
After being announced, the two men entered the manorial appartments. Lord
Tibor, who had been informed of their arrival by the guard, was waiting
impatiently.
"My brother, your visit gladdens my heart. I have not heard from you for so
long. Come, make yourself comfortable and tell me everything. I shall send
for something to eat".
Tibor had never believed the accusations against his brother, and even if
they had been true, he would have forgiven his youthful sins after so many
years. He ordered a heavily laden table to be set in honour of his brother.
"At last you've come back home. But where on earth have you been all
these years"? asked Tibor, observing his brother who was calmly tasting the
various dishes. Tibor was intrigued by the distant attitude of his brother,
who acted as if he was not part of his surroundings, no longer of this world.
"When I first left, I spent a lot of time travelling. I visited lands where no
man had ever set foot before. Above all, I met men of infinite learning".
"So some of your friends were scholars".
"My friends ? No, not really. Let's say rather that they were professors,
masters. My own knowledge now far surpasses most of theirs. I could also
boast about my belonging to the Circle of the Powerful... but let's talk about
something else, for you certainly don't understand much of what I've been
saying".
Almost immediately, Zolphar's face had darkened, and a cruel light
glimmered in his eyes.
"Yes, indeed", replied Tibor, who was troubled by his brother's strange
attitude.
"And you" added Zolphar, in a lighter tone, "what has become of you"?
"As you can see, I am still ruling my kingdom. And for the past three years,
I have had the pleasure of watching my son, who will naturally succeed me,
become a man. His mother passed away while giving birth. You will meet
him later".
"Yes, I think that perhaps I should retire, the voyage has completely
exhausted me".
"Of course, I'll show you to your room. We'll continue this conversation
tomorrow".
"Nothing is ever certain about tomorrow", replied Zolphar with a strange
smile... Tibor had just arisen from his bed, and began pacing up and down
his room nervously. Ever since his brother's arrival, a strange atmosphere
seemed to prevail in the kingdom. It made him feel quite uncomfortable.
Tibor went out, resolved to let the night air calm down. He took the
path to the battlements. He hardly recognized his brother now. Even if
Zolphar still looked the same, something inside had obviously changed. An
aura of contained power now seemed to emanate from Zolphar. It was all so
odd.
As he walked along the ramparts, his face whipped by the wind and the cold
night air, he suddenly made out a figure not far away. Zolphar stood a few
paces away from him, leaning against the battlements and staring into the
darkness.
"Zolphar ! What are you doing here ?" Zolphar barely turned his head,
giving his brother an oblique look.
"I knew you would come Tibor. Nightfall is not a time for rest, bot of
action". Zolphar now turned towards his brother, revealing a cruel smile.
"Didn't you ever wonder, my dear brother ,why I would come back after all
these years ?" He seemed about to burst out laughing. Tibor remained silent,
completely overwhelmed by the situation.
"Well, know I shall tell you. I've come to take what should have always
been mine... I'm going to put an end to your insignificant little rule".
"What are you talking about ? Have you gone mad ? You could nev..."
Before Tibor could finish what he was saying, Zolphar placed his hand on
his brother's chest and uttered an incantation. Tibor immediately turned
crimson, the viens in his neck swelled up, he started bleeding and soon died
from suffocation, Zolphar couldn't help crying with joy at the sight of his
brother's purplish bloddy face, and he burst out laughing in a sinister
manner. He turned towards the horizon which he contemplated for a long
time. He then started muttering a new incantation. The sky grew even darker
and a mass of black clouds appeared above the castle. Zolphar's cape blew
in the wind. A bolt of lightning tore across the sky and a tree crashed to the
ground. Suddenly, the beating of wings could be heard in the distance. A
group of hideous creatures flew towards Zolphar. Their wings were webbed,
like those of bats, joined to their emaciated bodies. There red eyes, which
resembled fiery coals, lit up their monstruous half-animal, half-demonic
faces. Their long hairless bodies ended in a sharply-pointed scaly tail. Yet
that was nothing compared to the double row od razor-sharp teeth jutting
from their drooling, half-open mounths. The creatures perched on the
battlements watching the one who had summoned them. Zolphar addressed
them in a hissing voice.
Beyond the ramparts, one could now hear scraping, rattling and moaning
sounds, as well as the click-clacking of the claws.
The sentries were becoming suspicious of these curious noises. The moon,
now completely hidden by a dark cloud, made it impissible to distinguish
anything but a disgusting adour of rot linguering in the air. Suddenly, the
clouds disappeard, bathing the castle and the plain in an almost unreal
light. It was then the watchmen were treated to a horrible sight : the
plain was filled with an entire army, but not just any army... Under the
helmets one could make aou bony skulls. The chain-mail of these zombie-
like creature protected their rotting flesh. One could also make out two-
headed "Cerberi" with slavering, foaming mouths, as well as ghouls and
other nauseating zombies.
Although this nightmarish army stood still, apparently waiting for some
kind of order, the horrified guards almost simultaneously sounded the alert
with their bugles. Zolphar let out a war cry in a mystical tongue. The
winged, screeching creatures flew off, while outside an inhuman clamour
rose from the chaotic troop, announcing its attack. The guards inside the
castle, who had been roused from their sleep, slowly started to get ready.
They wondered what could be happening. Meanwhile, the flying creatures
rushed towards the guard-post protecting the portcullis.
The first two creatures were met with a flood of arrows, killing them on the
spot, but this did not stop the rest of them, who descended upon the terrified
guards. One of themwas borne up into the air and dropped 75 feet higher.
He was killed on contact with the ground. Another guard had his eyes
gouged out by a terrible blow from the creature's pointy tail to the face.
Others simply had their throats slit by the monsters' powerful jaws. And
even if a few creatures had been killed at the beginning of the attack, every
last guard was eventually massacred. The monsters then proceeded
immediately to open the gateway with a turn of a wheel.
A few soldiers appeared in the courtyard and let fly a stream of arrows, but
it was too late, for the ghoulish army had already entered the castle. Valiant
though they were, the soldiers quickly realzed that they were defeated. As
arrows were only effective against the "Cerberi", close combat was
inevitable. Yet unfortunately the zombies were at their most fearsome in this
type of combat. They displayed unimaginable savagery, sacrificing
themselves when necessary, to be immediately replaced by a second wave of
zombies. The soldiers retreated, but their pursuers had invaded the whole of
the castle, chasing the fleeing soldiers into every nook and cranny, There
was hardly one barricaded gate or door that resisted more than ten minutes
of the devastating attack. The "Cerberi" threw themselves upon their
moamning victims' throats. The flying creatures had quickly thrown from the
ramparts all those archers covering their colleagues below.
Yet the savage hoard was too busy massacring the wounded survivors to
notice a figure stealing towards the stables, hugging a package to his chest.
Malthom closed the door of the stable. The sword he was holding dripped
with blood and some fragments of rotting flesh still clung to it.
Suddenly. there was a growling sound and a dark mass rushed at him. He
was so fast with his sword that you could only glimpse a flash of the blade.
The two-headed "Cerberus" was stopped in full stride. Malthom's sword
had decapitated him at one fell swoop. Malthom then saddled his horse and
looked at his charge. Tibor's son was sleeping peacefully despite the battle.
Malthom attached the child to his chest with his cloak and quitly left,
holding his horse by the bridle. He knew that nothing could be done here.
Zolphar was on the ramparts savouring his victory and did not notice the
shadowy figures moving further and further away from the castle. At
sunrise, not a single guard was alive. The ghoulish army had left behind
them only death and desolation. Zolphar had sent them back to the world of
darkness. All the corpses had been burned, leaving no trace of the terrible
event. Zolphar was now the new ruler of the Green Country.
Meanwhile, Malthom rode continuosly for most of the night. He wanted to
reach the forest as quickly as possible, for he knew that it was relatively
safe place ; few people ever went there.
The woods were dark an unwelcoming. Numerous animals fled into the
bushes as they approached. Malthom was worried, as he had to find them a
shelter for the night, but he was not familiar with the forest. To make
matters worse, the boy had woken up and was hungry, yet Malthom had
nothing to feed him.
Malthom was soon relieved when he came to a clearing and saw a small hut.
He quietly approached, sword in hand, and peered into the window. Inside
the hut an old man seemed to be cooking. Malthom went in, pushing the
door open, and stood there with his sword ready and the boy clinging
fearfully to his ankles. The man appeared to be quite old : his hair was white
and his face was covered with wrinkles. His eyes, though, seemed to deny
his age.
"Hello starngers, I've been waiting for you... Don't brandish your sword
around in that fashion, you have nothing to fear from me".
"How could you have been waiting for us, since I didn't even know myself
that I'd be coming ?" asked Malthom inceduslously.
"I know things, noble Malthom. Come in and sit down. I have
prepared a meal for you as I imagined that you'd be hungry".
While they ate, the old man explained many things to them. He was a
hermit, but also a wizard. He had seen the attack which destroyed the castle
in the flames of a divinatory fire. He had also seen Malthom and the boy
fleeing, and had therefor guided them to him by magic.
"Zolphar is an extremly powerful evil being", added the old wizard. "You
were very lucky to have escaped. You must do all you can to kill him, for I
know of his plans to reap havoc once again. Alas, even I, one of the most
powerful wizards, can do nothing to fight this demon. However, all is not
lost, for there is a prophecy that says that only someone of the same blood
can overcome him. That is why he killed his brother. Luckily Tibor's son is
still alive, as it will be up to him to triumph over Zolphar. Malthom, you
must make of this boy an incomparable warrior capable of raising an army.
Only those soldiers who are under his command will be able to overthrow
Zolphar. Unfortunately, I cannot be of much help to you, for my days are
coming to an end and I will soon have to choose another life-form for my
soul. I would like you to know, in any event, that I wish you the best of
luck".
And thus they followed the old wizard's instructions. As the years went by,
Malthom taught Tibor's son the art of fighting, in the heart of the forest.
Many years have passed and Malthom is now an old man, but Tibor's son is
there to follow after him. He is now a fierce with a burning desire to
avenge his father.
At last the day arrived when the pupil had nothing left to learn from his
master. The young man was ready to face Zolphar. Before leaving, he
promised Malthom that there would be be a place waiting for him once he had
overthrown Zolphar and won back the castle. And with tears in their eyes
they said goodbye, like a father and son would have done.
Upon his arrival at the foot of the castle, the young knight felt a shiver
run up his spine, In the place of his proud family's residence nothing
remained but an old abandoned castle. He entered it and climbed the steps of
the highest tower, watching out for the crumbling stones which frequently
disintegrated under his feet.
From the tower he could look out upon the green countryside that was
rightfully his. Although there was no real lord, the region seemed to have
prospered. However, he knew that the threat from his uncle was very much
alive. This time though, it would be different. He now knew a lot about his
enemy, which was certainly in his favour.
Zolphar was about to meet an opponent who'd be a match for him. The
young man's honour was at stake. He would finally be able to put into
practice everything that Malthom had taught him all these years.
"The law of the Iron Lords".
And now, it's your turn to play...

I) OBJECT OF THE GAME

You must first persuade your people to arm themselves against your uncle's
army. When battle breaks out, you must lead your army to victory.
Then and only then will the force of darkness return to the caves of Hell,
where they should have stayed for good.

II) RULES OF THE GAME

A- THE ADVENTURE

- MOVING AROUND ON THE MAP (Mouse)

You begin the game in your castle. An overview of the kingdom shows you
the specific areas you can enter. Consult the section "SAVING OR LOADING
A GAME" to get more information about the castle.
To do this,  move the hand-shaped cursor to your selected destination by
using the mouse, and press the left button. Should nothing happen, it
means that your chosen destination is not accessible from you current
position. You must therefore cross one or more intermediate zones before
reaching your selected destination.
Each time a display of the countryside appears, the sword-shaped cursor has
automatically moved to your current position.

- MOVING AROUND IN A SPECIFIC AREA (Joystick or Mouse)

- The left-hand display window shows your present position.
- The upper right-hand window gives a bird's eye view of the area.
You will move around in this area. Fourdirections are possible, 
corresponding with the principal areas of the game.
When you reach your destination, the character you embody will automatically
be placed by the exit, next to his steed. When you want to leave, you
simply go back to your horse and press the joystick button or left nutton
of the mouse.
To move your character around using the joystick, shift the joystick in the
desired direction :

        * UP    = NORTH
        * DOWN  = SOUTH
        * LEFT  = WEST
        * RIGHT = EAST

The lower right-hand window will then give you information about the area you 
are in. Therefore, if you're lost or don't know what to do next, you simply
press the firing button of you joystick or the left button of the mouse.
To this, the cursor must be placed inside the area in which your character
is moving around. A message will appear describing the area and advising you
on what move to make. To enter a building you just have to get as close as
possible to it and then press the firing button of the joystick. Should 
nothing happen, the house is not worth entering, and you should keep on 
moving.
You can also move your character around with the mouse by clicking on the 
edges (NORTH,SOUTH,WEST,EAST) surrounding the aerial view if the village.

- MEETING OTHER VIDEO CHARACTERS (Mouse)

Whenever you meet one of the other characters, several options are
available to you. When you've chosenan option and wish to return to the
main display, simply position the cursor on the icon marked "DONE"
and press tyhe left of the mouse.

- LIST OF OPTIONS:

INVENTORY : A reminder of the objects in your possession. To get information
about a particular object, place the cursor on the item in question and keep
your finger pressed on the left button of the mouse.

EXAMINE : This option gives you information about the character you meet.
Beware of some of these characters since their mood may change in response 
to your every action.

DISCUSS : To talk to another character you need to consult the present 
option's menu. The arrows at the top of the screen enable you to select
the sentence you want.
When the sentence displayed corresponds with what you want to say, place
the cursor on the sentence and press the left button of the mouse.
The other character's reply will be displayed immediately afterwards. When 
you'we finished reading it and want to return to the menu, place your cursor
on the icon "DONE" and press the left button of the mouse.

BUY : This option comes in handy when you want to make a purchase.
You simply choose an item from thr displayed list and its cost will be
automatically deducted from the money in your possession.

GIVE : Useful for bartering with other characters.

MONEY : A reminder of thr amount of gold coins in your possession.

QUIT : to stop your conversation with a character.

B - PHASES OF ACTION

1) THE ARCHERY CONTEST
To begin this contest, press the left button of your mouse.
This is a test of your archery skill. It's divided into three parts :
two qualifying rounds followed by the final decisive round.
Each round is composed of seven firing sequences, which in turn comprise
four attempts per target.

If you choose to abandom a game in progress, you won't have to start again
from scratch (for example : you don't have to recommence the first round
if you have previously passed it).

A round is completed once you have optained the required number of points.
Your success alone will enable you to progress in this contest and maybe win
the trophy.

DESCRIPTION OF THE ICONS :

All the commands are made through the icons at the bottom of the screen. 
The left window depicts your video character. The right window shows your
viewpoint of the target.
- The icon carrying a flag informs you about the force and direction of the
wind.

- The second arm-shaped icon adjusts your firing power. You can also
change the power by clicking on the archer in the upper left-hand part of 
the screen.

- The third icon from the left selects the trajectory height. Place the 
cursor on either of the arrow's tips and press the left button on the mouse
to change the angel of your shooting. When you think you've reached the
ideal height, release the button.

- The fourth icon from the left enables you to choose the shooting angle in
relation to the target. Place the cursor on one of the arrow's tips and press
the left button of the mouse to change your shooting angle. When you reckon
that you've established the best possible angle, release the joystick button.
- Finally, the "STOP" icon enables you to abandon the contest at any moment 
in time.

Hitting the bull's-eye will win you 100 gold coins.

FIRING AN ARROW :

When you've chosen the vertical and horizontal angles of your arrow, place
the cursor on the icon indicating the strenght of your shooting and keep the
left button of the joystick pressed down. Your firing power should then
increase. 
When you judge the power level sufficient, release the left button of the
mouse.
The arrow is then propelled towards the target. If you manage to hit the 
target, a close-up display enables you to evaluate your shot and improve it
the next time.
Should your arrow miss the target, a topside view will reveal your mistake so
that you can correct it.

Press the left button of the mouse to shoot another arrow.

2) THE GAMBLING HALL

The gambling hall is a favourite haunt of the local people. Some go there
to try and get rich by gambling. Others prefer to watch armwrestling
champions in action. And alcohol is readily available here ! To select your
choice of game, place the cursor on the display and then press the left
button of the mouse to confirm your choice.

To take part in an arm-wrestling match, place the cursor onthe two 
characters fighting to the left of the screen. To play dice, choose the 
dice-thrower to the right of the screen. If you want a drink, select the
waitress in the middle of the screen.

If at any time you want to leave the gambling hall, place the cursor on the
lower text window and press the left button of the mouse.

THE ARM-WRESTLING CONTEST (Joystick)

In order to win this test you must beat nine opponents. This contest is
designed to reveal your strengh and endurance.
The overall display of the game is divided into several sections:

The main upper left-hand display is a rear-view of you sitting opposite your
opponent.
The left-hand column reveals your power level ; it's crowned with your
coat of arms. The right-hand column is that of your opponent. These
columns come in handy when comparing your power and endurance with that of
your opponent during the test.
The lower left-hand icon enables you start playing. When you are ready to
begin, select this icon. To select one of the three lower icons, move the
joystick to the left or right. You will then see that a flashing rectangle
appears on the screen surrounding the option you wish to choose. Then press
the firing button on your joystick to confirm your choice.

The next icon provides information about your opponent. You should ideally
find out the weak spots of each champion before fighting one of them.

Finally, the futhest icon on the right allows you to abandon the game in
progress.
The object of this game is simplicity itself. You have to increase your 
power level by moving the joystick from left to right and vice-versa, as
quickly and smoothly as possible.

Your arm alone is the key to winning (it's a good way to build up your 
muscles !).

PLAYING DICE (Mouse)

This contest could help you to get rich quick. it's played with two dice
and two players. In order to win, the sum of the two dice thrown must equal
seven. If the combined number is lower than seven, the money wagered goes
into the kitty. If the sum of the dice is higher than seven, you don't win
but you keep the money youwagered. And if you manage to throw seven you win
the money in the kitty. In the event that both players throw seven, the dice
must be thrown again.

THEORY OF THE GAME

The game display comprises several different windows :

On the left-hand side of the screen, the gaming area, where the dice are
thrown. In the upper right-hand corner, your hand ready to throw dice.
At the bottom of the screen, two icons ; the first of these shows both how
much the kitty contains and the money you have left. The second icon enables 
you to abandon the game at any moment in time.

To start playing, move the cursor into your character's hand and press the
left button of the mouse. A window will appear in which you'll enter how
much you want to bet, by increasing or decreasing the displayed sum. In
order to do this, place the cursor on either end of the double arrow and
hold down the left button of the mouse until you reach the amount you want
to bet. Confirm your choice by placing the cursor hand to the left of the
window and press the left button of the mouse.
Your opponents will invariably make the same choices as you.

At this point your character's hand will start to shake the dice. You throw
the dice by pressing the left button of the mouse. The dice will roll onto
the gaming area and their combined score will be shown immediately. To find
out your opponent's score, press the left button of the mouse.
With luck, you shouldn't meet any problems, but be careful not to go bankrupt.

3) FENCING (Joystick)

This test only takes place if an assassin attacks you while you're leaving a
town.
The assissins work for your uncle and will stop at nothing to kill you.
The only possible outcome of this test is victory or death.
Be careful as this is one of the most difficult stages of the game. Read
carefully through the following instructions before entering into combat.
The view simulates what you would see through a helmet.

Fighting is based on instinct, which warrior of your quality is necessarily
endowed with.

THE GAME

You can deliver seven different types of attack, corresponding with the
seven directions of the joystick (see Fig 1). In order to win, surprice
your opponent before he has time to react.

                               Fig. 1
                               ------

a strike to the left      a strike in the centre       a strike to the right
in the shoulders from     at the top of the skull      in the shoulders from
top to bottom       ___               ^              ___       top to bottom
                   |\                 |                /|
                   | \                |               / |
                      \               |              /     

a strike to the left                                   a strike to the right
in the chest     <------------                ------------>     in the chest
from left to right                                        from right to left

                      /                             \
                   | /                               \ |
                   |/___                           ___\|
a strike into                                                  a strike into
the enemy's left hip                              the enemy's right hip from
from the left and from top to bottom        the right and from top to bottom


You dispose of three types of defense corresponding with the three directions
of the joystick (see Fig. 2)

                                  Fig. 2:
                                  -------

                         Parrying a blow from opposite
                                     ^
                                     |
                                     |
Parrying a blow from the left  <----------->  Parrying a blow from the right
                                     |
                                     |
                                     \/
                       Parrying a blow from opposite

You'll have to react very quickly when you spot the enemy preparing his
attack.
Two energy markers are situated in the centre of the screen :
- the right-hand marker belongs to your opponent.
- the left-hand marker is yours.
You may noticed that the energy reserves are reduced once participant is 
wounded.
The duel finishes when one of the warriors meets his death. Try to be the
survivor !

C - SAVING OR RELOADING A GAME

This operation can only be carried out from the Castle.
The Castle is your headquarters, where you'll make all your strategic
decisions. To enter the castle tower, position yourself to the west of the
building and press the left button of the mouse. When you arrive at the top
of the main tower, you can access a menu to save or load a game, or take the
initiative to amass your army when you judge it to be powerful enough to
combat your Uncle's evil forces.
Select your option by means of the cursor. Be careful !
Remember to keep a blank formatted diskette on hand to save the game. Try to
use the same each time whether to save a game or to load a previous one.

D - THE FINAL BATTLE

This is the most important stage of your mission. You can begin it as soon
as you have at least one regiment of soldiers. But don't forget ! The more
troops you have, the greater your chances of winning.

To amass your army, go to the central tower of the castle.

Choose your option from the menu which is also used for saving your games.
This time, select the option "DECLARE WAR".

If your troops are available, you'll soon see them, face to face with the
enemy hordes ready to do battle...

1) HOW THE BATTLE DEVELOPS

Your army is situated in the bottom half of the screen, south of the plain.
The enemy is to the north. In addition, you can recognize them by the colour
chestnut that they all wear.
The only possible outcome of the bttle is victory or death.

2) INFORMATION ABOUT THE TROOPS

You'll notice that if you place the cursor on the badge and press the firing
button on your joystick, a diagram and a text appear at the top left-hand
corner of the screen, giving you information about the troop that you've
clicked on :

- PLAYER : Indicates a friendly troops

- UNCLE : Indicates an enemy troop

- MEN : Indicates the number of men

- ENG : Current energy

- MAX : Maximum energy

3) PROGRAMMING YOUR TROOPS

You program your troops by using joystick (see Fig. 3). Position the cursor
on the troop that you wish to move and press the firing button of your
joystick. A rectangle outlining this troop will apear, indicating that you
can program it.

                                  FIG. 3:
                                  -------

              Makes the troop advance in a chosen direction
                                     ^
                                     |
Rotating movement to the left   <---------->  Rotating movement to the right
                                     |
                                    \/
                   Cancels the last programmed instruction

When you make your army advance in one of these directions, a dot symbolizing
this order will appear on the screen.
Movements to the left or the right will be symbolized by arrows.
You can program your army for seven manoeurver (a rotating movement,a forward
manoeurvre... each representing one movement).
When you have finished the manoeuvre phase, position the cursor on the icon
"NEXT TURN" and press the firing button of your joystick. You will then see
all the troops moving.
Two enemy regiments are ready to do battle as soon as they meet each other.
Once all the manoeuvres and fighting hav taken place, the cursor will appear
again on the screen. You can then see if you wish to reprogram your troops.
Food appears from time to time on the battlefield : take it to increase your
energy. The key to overcoming these ebvildoers lies in careful planning and
strategy.

E - THE LABYRINTH

Another challange awaits you : to combat the evil forces of your uncle in
the heart of the labyrinth.

1) HOW THE GAME DEVELOPS :

Thw screen shows you an overhead view of the labyrinth. Use the joystick to
move yor character around.

To escape from the labyrinth you must find the exits of all six levels
of the maze. To do this, use the keys that you'll find on the floor :
they will open cerain doors. Place yourself in front of the door to
open it and press the firing button of your joystick.
The magic sword is used during the arcade phase to reinforce the
power of your shooting (see below, ARCADE PHASE).
Your energy level appears in the form of a bar.
You must pick up the stars that appear on the floor in order to recover
your energy. If you don't have any more energy, you must start at the
first maze again.

2) ARCADE PHASE :

In between each level of the labyrinth, you must prove your skill in an
arcade setting.
Watch out! You must try to avoid being touched by acid, otherwise
you'll lose some of your energy reserves.
You must kill these monsters to get to the highest level of the labyrinth.

NOW IT'S UP TO YOU TO PROVE YOUR COURAGE AND
YOUR SKILL !!!
THE FATE OF YOUR PEOPLE LIES IN YOUR HANDS.

******************************************************************************
*             This textfile was written by   Snuskbuske H2O                  *
*                                 and                                        *
*            Spread by Midnight Maniac and Mayday of Trilogy                 *
******************************************************************************