                      IRON TRACKERS
                      =============
                                            TYPED BY SHARD



In  a  Post Nuclear Disaster world only the toughest can survive!  The only
form  of  transport  left  is Quad bikes, and racing from city to city is a
dangerous occupation!  You must choose your route and traverse swamp roads,
Inner  city  streets, and forest tracks, to complete your mission.  In your
quest  you  will  encounter  Mutant  Appendages that will drag you into the
merky depths of the swamp fences, walls, barriers, and traps which you must
negotiate;  primative  natives,  and  wild animals; and police vehicles and
Urban Warriors who will stop at nothing to catch and kill you


ATARI ST/ AMIGA

Switch off your computer

Insert the disk in drive A

Switch on your computer

When  you see the presentation screen, click on the mouse (or press FIRE on
the  joystick  or  press  SHIFT  on the keyboard) in the following order to
create Quad(s).

1. Choose the number of players.

  1 player: Place the arrow on the icon representing one Quad and confirm

  2 player: Place the arrow on the icon representing two Quads and confirm

2 Inputting the players' names

  Player 1 has to click on PLAYER 1.

  Player 2 has to click on PLAYER 2.

Each player in turn has to fill out an Identity card

When  the  identity  card  appears  the player has to click in tha zone "NO
NAME" to enable them to enter their name via the keyboard

Press ENTER to confirm

3 Create the face of your Quad.

To create the face of your Quad you must click on the head appearing on the
identity card (zone 1).

You will access another screen.

To  change  the  shape of the face click on the arrows < and >, then on the
different elements corresponding to the look you want to get

Click on EXIT to leave this screen

4 Choosing your weapons

To know how your Quad is equipped click on zone 2.

A  new  window will appear.  Choose your armament by clicking on one of the
weapons under the Quad.

12.7  mm:   Fires  straight  ahead and destroys any type of obstacle on the
ground.

Bazooka:   Fires  Missiles  with homing devices.  Destroys any objects, but
most useful against aerial items.

Booster: Allows the Quad to lift off.

Oil Gun: Spreads oil. Makes pursuers slide or even kills them

Close this window by clicking in the top left hand corner.

5 Buying Ammunition

You  buy ammunition for the weapon that you have chosen, by clicking on one
of the four icons in zone 3.

You  will  see your weapon appear and the quantity of ammunition left.  (At
the start you have 12 cartridges at your disposal)

To buy ammunition click on the stack of coins in zone 4.

NB If you run out of money, you cannot buy any more ammunition.

Close the ammunition window by clicking in zone 3.

Close the identity window by clicking on its top left corner.

The  second  player  can  now  create  his  character by following the same
procedure

6 Start of the game.

The  helmet symbolizes your position on the Island.  To progress just click
on one of the following stages respecting the direction of the arrows.

7 Commands

Command        Quad on top left          Quad on bottom right
              
               Keyboard Joystick         Keyboard

Accelerate      E         Up             Up Arrow

Decelerate      D         Down           Down Arrow

Left            S         Left           Left Arrow

Right           F         Right          Right Arrow

Fire      SHIFT Left      FIRE           SHIFT right

To pause the game: Press ESC.


-----------------------------------END--------------------------------------- 