Incredible Shrinking Sphere
Typed by Belgarath


Objective

The planet Sangfalmadore is the Sphere Corp's battle training area, also called
the DEATH RUN.

Colonel-in-Chief Matt Ridley, a frustrated desk bound officer of the Corps Elite,
decide to test his skills behind the controls of a FIGHTER SPHERE and
attempt to complete the DEATH RUN.

Ridley couldn't handle it! His Fighter Sphere has been disabled by ASSASSIN
SPHERES and he's now stranded somewhere within the RUN.

Your task aboard a FIGHTER SPHERE is to find a route through the traps and
assassins of DEATH RUN and locate Ridley. This will enable an automatic Shuttle
Sphere rescue. Sounds easy, but can YOU handle it?


Loading ISS

1. Set-up your Computer System as detailed in the instruction booklets that
accompany your Computer, and connect to your TV or monitor. Ensure that any
cartridges or peripherals (such as disk drives, printers, etc.) are disconnected 
from your computer. Failure to do so may cause loading difficulties.

2. If you are using an ATARI ST computer with the DISKETTE ISS...
a) Connect your disk drive to your Computer (if your computer features a
   built-in disk drive you will not need to do this).
b) Insert the ISS diskette "A" into disk drive A, label side up.
c) Switch your TV/monitor, Computer and disk drive ON.
d) When prompted by the Computer insert DISKETTE "B" into disk drive A,]
   label side up.

3. If you are using a COMMODORE AMIGA computer with the DISKETTE ISS...
a) Insert the ISS diskette into disk drive DF0, label side up.
b) Switch your TV/monitor and computer on.


Joystick And Keyboard Control Notes...

1) Atari ST users may use any compatible joystick plugged into port 1.
2) Commodore Amiga users may use any compatible joystick plugged into port 1.


Controls

Atari ST And Amiga

Joystick and TV or Colour Monitor Required.

The game uses JOYSTICK ONLY for fighter sphere control, the joystick plugs
into port 1. The direction of the joystick movement can be selected as normal
North or Isometric north according to preference. This option is only given on
first loading of the game.

Keyboard

Pause     F10 (Toggle pause on Atari ST)
Unpause   F9  (Amiga only)
Quit      Escape key
Space BAR Exit Ammo Dump Placement Screen


How to Play - No Frills!

For those who don't like reading long instructions before playing!

Placing Ammunition Dumps

At the beginning of the game, or on reaching a new level, the player has the
option of placing ammo dumps almost anywhere within the current level.

There are four PLATE maps to each level, you can install up to 4 ammunition
dumps on EMPTY tiles throughout the level.

1. Move joystick UP/DOWN to CHOOSE PLATE and press FIRE or use the
   keyboard as mentioned.
2. A cursor appears over the mini map for that PLATE. Move cursor to required
   position over an unoccupied tile and press FIRE to place AMMO DUMPS. The
   letter "A" will appear on the map if you have chosen an allowable tile.
   You also have the option of deleting a dump by pressing fire over a
   placed dump).
3. Place cursor on any SIDE EDGE of the PLATE MAP and press FIRE to return to
   the CHOOSE PLATE option.
4. PRESS SPACE to EXIT into DEATH RUN at any time.

You can now attempt to play ISS. GOOD LUCK, without reading the rest of
the instructions you'll need it!


How To Play Better

The Training Area

The PLATES within the training arena are in tiers, four deep. The plates consist
of numerous TECTONIC TILES, these effect your FIGHTER SPHERE control.
Fighter sphere also effect tiles, most tiles have their own timer, once a fighter
sphere passes over one, a countdown begins before the tile changes into deadly
FIGHTER SPHERE VAPOURISER! So don't hang around and remember the
deeper the level the faster the TIMERS!

There are few exceptions, one is Wall-Supporting Tiles these don't change, so
on some PLATES 'hugging' the walls could be your only chance of survival.


Fighter Sphere

The INCREDIBLE SHRINKING SPHERE or fighter sphere, armed with a 70mm
Cannon is able, with the help of tiles, to alter its Molecular Structure.

Fighter Sphere MASS, VOLUME and VELOCITY is affected by contact with the
various TECTONIC TILES, Sphere velocity is also affected by the sphere's Mass,
the heavier you are the slower your acceleration.

The ability to negotiate the hazards of DEATH RUN depend upon skilled control
of this weapon. Watch out for the sphere's momentum, learn how to 'contain'
the inertia!


Tectonic Tile Effects

On the title screen move Joystick (not fire), or touch direction key to start a
demo summary of the tectonic tiles.

Tile Name                 Tectonic Effect
Ismo Assassin Generators  Avoid them, they manufacture Assassin
                          Spheres - Deadly!
Speed Traps               Alter Sphere speed, not always wanted!
Decrease Mass             Decrease Sphere's Mass or weight. A LIGHTER
                          sphere is able to traverse damaged tiles and
                          prevent ramp collapse - increases sphere's
                          manoeuvrability!
Increase Mass             Increase Sphere's Mass or weight. If HEAVY
                          avoid damaged tiles - high mass and speed
                          needed for opening MOVING WALLS - sphere
                          less responsive!
Increase Volume           Increase sphere's size or volume. Sphere navi-
                          gation more difficult through narrow
                          channels.
Decrease Volume           Decrease sphere's size or volume. Easier to
                          navigate narrow channels, sometimes
                          essential!
Mass, Volume or Inertia   This is a CHANCE, anything may change! Risky
                          but can be worth it to short-cut the RUN.
Chaotic Bounce            Sphere repelled at speed!
Shields                   Provides short-term photon protection, from
                          the Assassin Spheres, essential if you want to
                          survive! Sphere glows and hums when shield
                          is active. The shield's humming sound
                          changes just before it dissipates! Remember
                          where shield icons are placed and keep top-
                          ping up!
Revolver                  If caught your sphere will start to spin at
                          increasing speed. Once top speed is reached your
                          score will reduce! PRESS FIRE to be released.
Ammunition Supply Dump    Once the route through a plate is learnt use
                          less or NO DUMPS for increased bonus!
                          Dumps have infinite supplies of ammo! A
                          higher bonus is awarded for placement on
                          deeper plates - Plate four deepest.
Reward                    Easy score increase toward extra lives! Don't
                          be too greedy, remember the TIMER!
Penalty                   An easy way to lose score!
Black Holes               These provide access to deeper plates within a
                          level. They have no TIMERS.
White Holes               These provide access UP through the plates in
                          a level. No TIMERS.
Exit                      This is the exit to the next LEVEL. If a life is lost
                          you will return to the start of the current level.
Binary Rebound Booster    Rebound at full speed in opposite entry direc-
                          tion. On deeper levels this tile is needed to
                          gain enough speed to open MOVING WALLS!
                          Generally this tile is trouble!
Prison                    If you pass too close you will be caught and
                          the sphere will be immobilised for a time. This
                          could mean death!
Damaged Tile              If you are too heavy, damaged tiles will col-
                          lapse changing into Fighter Sphere
                          Vapourisers. Deadly!
Ramp                      On deeper levels the only route to a level EXIT
                          is via the RAMPS. These allows the sphere to
                          JUMP the walls. The ramps need to be
                          approached at speed and the sphere must not
                          be too HEAVY if the RAMP isn't to collapse!
Short-Cut                 These are the MOVING WALLS. These sections
                          of the walls can be pushed open if at high
                          speed and mass. Using these walls could be
                          your only way to complete a level!


Control Panel

The control panel on the bottom of the screen shows the sphere's SPEED,
AMMUNITION and MASS or weight in addition to your SCORE.

Speed is shown on the left hand side of the screen, weight on the right. The
bigger the sphere is in the control panel the heavier you are!

The sphere's VOLUME is shown by your FIGHTER SPHERE changing size on the
screen.


Score

Bonus points are awarded for ammo dumps placed on deeper plates, the less
ammo dumps you use also increases the bonus.

Points are awarded for the destruction of assassin or the DEATH SNAKE on the
deeper levels.

Completion of a level gives big bonuses, on GAME COMPLETION there is the
option of playing on with a new scenario and your present score is retained,
however, you may find things a little more fraught on this new mission!

New spheres are given every 50,000 points. Upto a maximum of 7 spheres can be
held in reserve.


Typed by Belgarath