                    It Came From the Desert II


Welcome back to Lizard Breath.  It's been real quiet these past five years,
but rumors have been circulating recently that "you-know-who" is back.

First, a bit of explanation about the copy routine necessary to create a set
of DESERT II disks.  Originally we had planned to make DESERT II a data
disk for DESERT I.  As DESERT II developed, however, we decided to make some
improvements in the Desert's gameplay environment.  We had already published
the purchase price for DESERT II, so the Disk Copy route was the only way we
could get the game to you.  If you haven't copied disks before on the Amiga,
make sure you read all the instructions.  If you make a mistake, don't worry
just reboot and start again.

                           OVERVIEW


Following in the tradition of great sequels, IT CAME FROM THE DESERT II
takes place in the same little town of Lizard Breath, California,
four-and-a-half years after the defeat of the giant mutant ants.  Many of
the residents are the same, but there are some new faces you'll encounter at
some point along the way...

The hero of DESERT II is Brick Nash, a tough, cynical ex-fighter pilot,
returned from distinguished service in the Korean War to an America with no
time for heroes.  Now a truck driver, Brick gets a call from his kid brother
Andy, a new recruit in the Army.  Andy is desperate; the next morning, he
and his fellow dogaces will be deployed 1000 yards from an above-ground
atomic bomb test.  Andy tells of a hastily scrawled note smuggled out of
solitary confinement:  "I am a scientist ... stop the test!  Lethal range
... 14-16 miles ... thousands will die ... Lizard Breath will be
annihilated!   Go there ... warn Dr. Wells ... he alone can stop this
disaster!"  Brick springs into action, hijacking a truck carrying the
plutonium bomb trigger.  He is roaring towards Lizard Breath, unmindful that
the once-dormant ant nest has come alive once more, hungry for the precious,
life-giving plutonium.  Brick realizes too late what he has become:  A
glorified pizza delivery boy for some very tough customers.  As they cruch
the truck with their metal-munching mandibles, Brick is knocked unconscious.
His nightmare is just beginning ...

The story begins on January 1, 1956.  As Brick Nash, you must save the
hapless townfolk from being changed into mutant slaves -- a fate worse than
death.  You must find and destroy the queen ant, breaking her hold over the
unsuspecting humans of Lizard Breath.  You have only ten days to save the
townspeople and destroy the queen ant.  If you fail, both you and the town
are lost.  You need to find the evidence to convince the Mayor that the town
is doomed -- unless the ants and their queen are destroyed.

                            GAME PLAY


There has been some constructin in Lizard Breath, particularly at the
Hospital, although Godfrey's is still unfinished.  The skills you developed
in DESERT I will be necessary for winning DESERT II; just let your reflexes
take over when you encounter a surprising situation.  During the course of
the game, you will need to open a safe with a combination lock.  It operates
exactly like a real one.  Turn the dial clockwise twice to clear the
tumblers(you can use the fire button to speed up dial movement), stop at the
first number and press the fire button; turn the dial counter-clockwise once
past the second number, stop on the number and press the fire button; turn
clockwise to the third number, stop and press the fire button; and finally,
pull back on the joystick to open the safe.

                 INSTALLING IT CAME FROM THE DESERT II
      INSTRUCTION FOR THE IT CAME FROM THE DESERT II-MASTER DISK


The installation procedure requires at least one megabyte of RAM and about
30 minutes; two drives will speed things up a little.  The MASTER DISK
contains all the changes required and does the actual installation.  All you
need are your original DESERT I disks(write protect them BEFORE starting),
and three blank disks(new ones are recommended).  Label your blank disks
DESERT II REEL 1, DESERT II REEL 2, DESERT II REEL 3; then, boot the MASTER
DISK.  The installation program will do the disk copying, transfer the new
files, and prompt you for all disk swaps.  Watch your drive indicator light
and do not remove a disk while the light is on.  Please follow the
instructions on your screen carefully, because any errors can result in
invalid game disks and may require executing the install program again.
Above all else, DO NOT write protect your DESERT II disks until prompted to
do so by the installation routine.

If you're installing DESERT II on a hard drive, reboot your computer, then
put DESERT II REEL I in DF0: and double-click on the HDInstall2 icon, then
follow the directions on your screen...

