            YO JOE! - WEIRD CHEAT + HINTS `N` TIPS + SOLUTION
            -------------------------------------------------

Cheat
-----

Whilst playing, type in 'WELTRAUMKAKALAKEN'. If you've done this
correctly the screen will flash red. What this does is tools up both
players with full weapons and you will also be able to press any of
these keys during play:

     []] - Increase lives.
     [/] - Decrease lives.
     [Y] - Level skip.
 [Space] - Transports you to the end of the flying bonus level.


Weird Effect!
-------------

Here`s something very strange that I also discovered. Connect two joysticks
and select a two player game. When the game begins kill off Joe so that
only Nat remains. Now unplug the joystick from the mouse port and replace
the mouse. If you move the mouse around a bit, everything will slow down
(until you move the mouse again) including the music. It`s not very useful
but it`s quite funny, and it`s like watching an episode of "The Six Million
Dollar Man" as Nat does slow-motion jumps just like the bionic man himself,
serioiusly weird!

Weapons
-------

o   Punch: A bit feeble really.

o   Kick: Good for killing thugs on columns.

o   Shurikans (throwing stars): Good for reaching a baddie on another ledge
    that is level with you but separated by a gap.
o   Iron bar: Excellent weapon because you can also use this as you`re
    jumping. Unfortunately, you can`t crawl through tunnels while you`re
    holding it and you can`t climb ledges, but it does allow you to jump a
    little bit higher (useful for getting out of holes on level 3).

o   Nunchuckas: Not as powerful as the iron bar, but it is faster and you
    can climb ledges while you`re holding it. The bad news is that you
    can`t use it while you`re climbing.

o   Petrol bombs: Great for killing enemies below or above you, or enemies
    that crawl around your feet, such as rats. Best used on big baddies.

Baddies - Level One
-------------------

o   Thugs: Don`t try to kill them with punches or kicks (unless they are
    on small ledges) as they will jump over you. If you are level with them
    use the iron bar, shurikan or nunchuckas. If you are below or above
    them use a fire bomb, you can also use the iron bar if you are below
    them.

o   Bats: Use anything except fire bombs and punching (unless they`re
    flying low). The iron bar is best.
o   Rats: If they are above you, use a fire bomb or the iron bar. If you
    are level with them you can only use a fire bomb as this is the only
    weapon that can touch the floor. Otherwise jump over them. If they
    jump at you, punch them.

o   Vampires: Use nunchuckas or iron bar. Don`t punch them as this takes
    too long.

o   Skeletons: When they are rolling around as skulls punch them and they
    will die with only one hit. Don`t use the nunchuckas as they will roll
    straight under them (draining a lot of energy).

o   Barrels: Punch them, jump over them, firebomb them or walk along
    between them. Don`t use the nunchuckas as they`re no use against them
    (unless they are bouncing or even falling).

Baddies - Level Two
-------------------

o   Mummies: if you`re unarmed, kick them. If armed then the best weapons
    to use are the nunchuckas and iron bar.

o   Guns: if you`re sliding, kick them. If you`re stood on a ledge (or
    jumping up a slope) use the nunchuckas or the iron bar.
o   Blobs: See Guns.

o   Snakes: Use anything except petrol bombs (too precious to waste).

o   One-Eyed Jumping Stones: Use the nunchuckas because they kill them the
    quickest.

o   Exploding Suns: When you get close to them they flash for a few seconds
    and then explode (horizonally and vertically) in four directions
    (Dynablaster style). Simply run away them when they flash.

Baddies - Level Three
---------------------

o   Firing Faces: Try to kill these before you deal with anything else,
    because their bombs/bullets drain a lot of energy. Use the iron bar.

o   Indians: Jump over their weapons and kill them with the nunchuckas or
    iron bar.

o   Mobile Bomber: This throws bombs at you very rapidly.

o   Blade: Avoid.

Baddies - Level Four
--------------------

o   Ninjas: if you`re unarmed use kicks. Otherwise use nunchuckas, don`t
    use shurikans because they jump over them.

o   Red Blades: Avoid (quickly!)

o   Sumos: Use anything, nunchuckas are certainly the best.

o   Wall Ninjas: Try to avoid these or use the nunchuckas on them.

o   Green Chests: These are actually baddies in disguise, use the iron bar
    or nunchuckas.

Baddies - Level Five
--------------------

o   Punks With Chain: Get in close and quickly use the iron bar.

o   Gunman: Jump over his bullets and use the iron bar (one hit!).

o   Knifeman: Duck under his knives and use the iron bar.

o   Mines: As with the suns on level two they explode when you walk near
    them so just jump over them.

Baddies - Level Six
-------------------

o   Missile Men: These fire homing missiles from above you, so you can
    only kill them with the iron bar.

o   Knifeman: See Level Five.

o   Punk With Ghettoblaster/Iron Bar: Use Iron Bar.

o   Flying Cyborgs: This is a flying robot from Professor X`s face, use
    iron bar.

o   Rolling Cyborg: This is simular to the flying version but rolls around
    on one wheel, use the iron bar.

o   Mobile Bombers: See Level Three.

o:  One-Eyed Stones: See Level Two.

General Tips
------------

o   Collect as many weapons as possible (especially the petrol bombs),
    you`ll need them.

o   The petrol bombs are hard to see on the level two so keep an eye out
    for them. Try not to waste them.

o   Slides - To travel up hold the joystick diagonally up. When you`re
    sliding down, push the joystick diagonally up in the opposite direction
    to slow your descent (i.e. if you`re sliding down right, push the
    joystick up left), which will help you avoid shooting baddies.

Solution
========

Level One
---------

*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
* Level One has three big baddies, by using this route you will only meet *
* two of them and can avoid the vicious blade-wielding zombie.            *
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*

Right through the doors, kick painting, drop down and kick the two ledges
on the right to reveal some goodies. Then go down the stairs (avoiding
barrels), collect some nunchuckas at bottom and hit the blocks on the right
to reveal some more goodies. Go back up the stairs, hit thugs with
nunchuckas, walk right kill the bat and collect the petrol bomb.

Continue walking right (jumping over the spikes), kill the skeletons,
collect the petrol bomb and walk through the door. Hit the stairs, jump
onto them and kill the painting. Continue up the stairs, walk right
(killing the skeleton) and jump into the shower to recharge energy.

Walk left, jump onto the ledge, up the stairs, kick the painting and
continue until you reach another skeleton. Kill it and continue up the
stairs killing both the thug and painting with the nunchuckas. Drop down
making sure to avoid the rat and hit the treasure chest to reveal lots of
energy. Jump back up onto the ledge, walk up a few steps, turn around and
jump onto the first right ledge.

Cotinue right (killing skeletons and vampires), drop into the water, keep
going right, go down the ledges (keep to the LEFT) and at the bottom you
will find a tunnel containing lots and lots of lovely goodies.

Jump/climb back up the ledges (avoid spikes on right), drop back into the
water and jump onto the first ledge on the right. When face to face with
the first thug, throw a petrol bomb at him. Then jump onto the next ledge
and repeat the same with the other thug.

Switch to the nunchuckas, now jump up onto the ledge on the left, walk left
up the stairs, kill the bat, go over the bridge, kill the thug and bat and
continue left until you see a small column. Walk towards it (hitting the
barrels as they fall with the nunchuckas), when the rat walks to the left
of the screen, jump over the column and quickly throw a shurikan at it,
kick the first ledge and continue up.

Jump over the thugs`s knife, kill him and the bat, and continue left
(avoiding the spikes). Kill the skeletons and the thug, drop down and walk
right to discover another chest. Go left, kill the painting, collect
goodies from ledge, continue left, climb up ledges killing thugs (don`t
worry about energy loss), and continue right where you`ll find another
chest (energy). Continue going up, collect energy (if required), jump up
onto right ledge and continue right (killing the skeleton, the painting and
the thug as you do). Jump up onto the next ledge and use a shurikan on the
thug, collect the energy and drop down onto the next ledge where you will
find a chest.

Down, right, up, collect shrikan, up, kill thug, jump right onto the top
platform and crawl along until you reach the end. Climb up the ledges
(killing thugs with nunchuckas) until you arrive at the top (collect energy
if required), walk left, kill vampire, jump over the first column and hit
chest. Jump across gap, kill bat, go over the bridge, jump left onto the
next platform, kill thugs, use petrol bomb on third thug and climb onto
ledge. Jump onto the right ledge and jump into the shower to recharge your
energy.

Continue down left (avoiding the rat and spikes) and kill the thug with the
nunchuckas, up, walk left and a big baddie will appear. As you enter the
room pieces of the platform will collapse (be careful not to fall), when
they have collapsed jump onto the second highest piece (so that you are
almost level with him) and throw a petrol bomb at him as he jumps up (if
you time your throw correctly you`ll only need one, otherwise you`ll need
to use two). He will die without even hitting you once.

Jump up onto right ledge, walk right, up left, collect gas cans and
chainsaw. Now jump up the platforms onto the roof (collecting gas cans and
destroying the barrel dispenser as you do), switch to the nunchuckas, walk
right (DO NOT walk left) and slide down the roof. Continue right (avoiding
spikes) and jump up onto the right ledge and collect the iron bar. Carry on
walking right (avoiding more spikes and killing baddies with iron bar),
jump right over the column and you will see the count.

The best weapons to use are the iron bar, the chainsaw and the petrol bomb.
The best tactic is to quickly run to the far right of the screen. He will
then warp to that posistion, now jump onto the nearest ledge (to the left)
and (very quickly, before he moves again) throw a petrol bomb at him. If
you stand perfectly still, so will he, but he will also get fried by the
bomb. If you don`t have any petrol bombs your best chance is to just charge
at him with the chainsaw. When you`ve defeated him, walk right and you have
completed level one.

Level Two
---------

Walk right (over the spikes), kill snake, up stairs, up right
(kicking/punching the blobs), walk right and slide down the slope (avoid
the spikes and killing the guns by kicking them). When you get to the
bottom, collect the energy and walk left. Kill mummy, slide down the next
slope (killing the blobs), kill mummies, up left (avoiding the guns), up
left, collect nunchuckas, kill sun before it explodes (or avoid it).

Slide down right, kill snake, up, up left (avoiding guns), up right, wait
for sun to explode. Here you will face the first big baddie, use a
combination of kicks and nunchuckas to kill him. When he dies a hole will
open above, climb up, walk through the hole and slide down left. Collect
energy, slide down right, avoid sun, collect petrol bomb, down, kill snake,
walk up the stairs (killing the one-eyed stones, and collect the energy
they leave behind). Down the ledges, collect the petrol bomb and kill the
snake.

Continue down stairs (jumping over one-eyed stones and collecting goodies),
avoid sun, down, collect petrol bomb, kill stone and snakes. Collect
energy, left (over spikes), kill stone, left, hit chest, you will now meet
the second big baddie.

Quickly (and carefully) make your way across to the left of the screen and
climb onto the ledges, from there you can throw the petrol bombs to drain a
lot of the baddie`s energy. Finish him off with kicks and the shurikans (on
the top ledge above you). Walk right (crouching down), killing mummies,
collecting energy and goodies. Up ledges (avoid sun and collect shurikan),
kill snakes with kicks and nunchuckas, continue up until you arrive at the
iron bar, collect both that and the shurikan. Now proceed right up the
stairs (collecting goodies), down, down next stairs, kill snakes, down,
kill snake, walk right and you will meet level two`s Meanotaurus. Some
sections of the floor collapse (every second stone), so jump across these
sections (left and right) hitting the baddie with the iron bar (jumping
over him when he charges you, and remember the spikes). When he stands
still (snorting) hit him like crazy (but get read to jump). When you`ve
killed him walk right to the exit.

Level Three
-----------

*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
* This level is ENORMOUS, if you use this route you will avoid meeting    *
* TWO of the big baddies, which of course only leaves one.                *
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*

Walk left up the stairs, when you reach the top avoid the firing face by
crawling underneath it and collect the nunchuckas. Avoid the second face
and jump over the first face block, collect the energy, avoid the next
face, continue left, jump onto the second block and fall with it. Kill the
indian, jump onto the third block (avoiding the spikes above), you will
notice that the next block is above you, walk slowly left, the block will
shake and then fall, climb over it, step onto the next block and fall with
it.

Kill the next indian and jump onto the next block, avoid the block above
(as before) and climb over it, stand on the next block and continue left.
Collect the iron bar and the energy. Now hit the statue marked "hit" until
it explodes, walk back right and you will discover that a new hole has
appeared, drop down this (collecting the goodies), kill the mobile bomber,
walk left (jumping over columns) (watch out for the falling block).
Continue left, jump over the first block, kill indian, left, jump over
second block, stand on the third and fall with it.

When the firing face closes jump out of the hole and hit it with the iron
bar. Carry on going left, drop down (watch out for the blade), walk right
and avoid the four falling blocks (climbing over each one after they`ve
fallen). Collect petrol bomb, continue right, kill both the firing face and
the indian with the iron bar and collect the chainsaw, switch to the iron
bar, jump onto the first step (watch out for the spikes) and kill the
firing face on the wall, now jump from column to column to over to the
right.

Kill the next firing face and collect the energy, kill the next face and
the indian. Continue right (jumping over the spikes), avoid the falling
blocks, continue right, kill indian, walk down the stairs (killing the face
and the mobile bomber), right, collect shurikans, left and stand on the
hinge of the firing face. He will then open allowing you to hit him,
continue left and hit the face above.

Walk down stairs, hit the chest and jump up onto the left ledge. Kill the
indian, continue left jumping over all the blocks (killing the baddies with
the iron bar) until you reach a gap, jump over this and jump across the
columns until you are standing on the fifth one, drop down to the left and
you will land on a yellow rock. Walk off this to the right and continue
travelling in a down-right direction (killing the baddies on the way of
course), don`t worry about falling as you can`t fall off the screen.

Continue in this direction until you get to what looks like a mine shaft.
Drop down this and collect the petrol bomb, kill the indian and walk off
the end of the ledge. Now onto the one below, jump off this platform to the
left and you should land on three small columns, jump off this ledge onto
the ledges on the right, then jump up onto the ones on the left and jump
across to where the skeleton is. Jump over the first column and kill the
indian, now jump over the second column and drop down left, kill indian,
walk left and drop off the end. Kill next indian, jump left onto the next
ledge below, kill indian and jump left onto ledge above, kill face, switch
to the nunchuckas and jump left onto the facing ledge.

Kill indian and continue climbing up the ledges travelling towards the
left. Eventually you should reach another firing face in a tunnel, kill it
and the mobile gun. Walk left along the tunnel (killing baddies) and drop
down (avoiding blade). Walk right (killing bombers and faces) and drop
down, walk left (killing more bombers and faces).

Drop down and continue down (avoiding blades) until you reach the bottom.
Walk right, up (killing faces) and slide down. Walk left, kill the face,
collect the first petrol bomb (collect the second only if you`re very
fast). Right, kill indian and bomber, up, left, up (avoid blade) kill
indian, right, down, right, kill bomber, jump up and hit the bottom face on
the statue (use iron bar). To remove the block on the right, jump over the
column, down, walk right along the tunnel and you`ll now meet Marcos Cane.

This guy is easy to beat, every time you try to hit him he jumps over you,
so switch to the iron bar. Now if you stand on one spot, but keep turning
around (i.e. face left, then right, then left, etc.) and rapidly tap the
fire button he`ll keep jumping into the path of your iron bar and die
easily. Walk right and you`re at the exit.

Level Four
----------

Walk right (jumping over blocks, kicking bat, and collecting petrol bombs)
until you reach the entrance to the temple. Kill ninja, jump over the gap
and collect the energy. Walk left and drop down, right, down, left, jump
over the gap and kill the bats. Down the stairs, kill ninja and continue
left through the water. Up the stairs and over the gap, collect shurikan,
drop down, swim through the water (avoiding the fish).

Jump up onto the ledge on the left, walk left and drop into the water.
Continue left until you get to the third ledge, drop down from this to the
left, swim under the column, jump up onto the next ledge and collect the
nunchuckas. Return to the third ledge, jump up onto the ledge on the left,
up the two steps and jump onto the ledge on the right.

Collect the shurikan, walk up the steps (avoiding the red blade that fires
from the wall), once the blade has passed jump up vertically and this will
activate the next blade (which you can then easily avoid). Jump up onto the
next ledge and collect the energy and the shurikan.

Jump up onto the next ledge, walk up stairs, as you collect the goodies
quickly walk down a few steps and a blade will narrowly miss you. Continue
up in this fashion until you reach the top, walk right and kill the ninja
with the nunchuckas. As you walk right blades will drop down from above and
shoot up from below, continue right avoiding these and the spikes (killing
the ninjas)

When you reach the other side jump up the ledges (collecting goodies) and
proceed to the left. Kill ninjas, walk over the steps to the left, collect
shurikan and goodies, kill ninjas, jump up the ledges (avoiding the blades
as before) and avoid or kill the ninjas in the walls. Jump through the top
opening on the right, continue right (collecting the goodies on the shelves
above and killing bats), walk right up the stairs, climb ledges until you
reach the top.

Climb up and continue left killing sumos that come out of the doors. When
you have passed all the doors climb up the ledges and walk right killing
the next lot of sumos. Climb up the ledges and proceed left killing more
sumos (avoiding/killing the wall ninjas and the bats), climb up the ledges
and walk right, walk to the giant bell and hit it until it explodes. An
opening will now appear on the right, walk through this and you will meet
one of the big baddies.

The shurikans do a lot of damage but he can jump over them so kill him with
the nunchuckas. Walk right (killing ninjas) and walk up the stairs
(collecting shurikan) killing ninjas until you reach some small ledges.
Climb up these onto the roof and walk left (killing the ninjas and
collecting the goodies, watch out for the green chests). When you reach the
edge of the roof turn around and walk back to the small ledges.

Drop down, kill ninja, left, collect shurikan, kill ninja, down (collecting
energy and killing wall ninja). Right, up, right, kill ninja, down, kill
ninja, left (collecting goodies), kill ninjas, down, right, kill ninjas,
down, left, hit chest, energy, down (collecting energy and kill ninja),
right, kill ninjas, down, jump from column to column avoiding spikes
(collecting goodies and energy), avoiding spikes (collect goodies and
energy), avoid/kill bats and ninjas. Down, walk right and you`ll meet
Sheebop. Run to the far right and face left, everytime she swoops down at
you hit her (rapidly) with the nunchuckas, when she`s dead, walk right and
hit the exit twice to open it.

Level Five
----------

This is short and sweet. Simply walk from one end of the train to the
other, killing the baddies (see hints & tips), jumping over the mines and
collecting the goodies. There are no big baddies at all on this level, easy
eh?

Level Six
---------

Walk right (collecting shurikans, iron bar and petrol bomb), kill missile
man with iron bar (avoiding missiles). Contune right, kill punks and
collect ghettoblaster. Kill knifeman, kill missile man, collect bombs, kill
punk, jump mines and enter building. Walk right, up the stairs and then up
the second stairs, kill flying cyborg, avoid mine, kill rolling cyborg and
gunman, walk left. Collect shurikan, jump over containers and continue left
past the targets. Kill gunman, continue left, kill cyborgs, avoid mine,
kill one-eyed stone, jump up onto ledge on right, right, crawl along tunnel
above, avoid mine, collect bomb and goodies. Continue right, kill bomber
and cyborg, avoid mine, continue right (collecting gas and shurikan), jump
up onto ledge on left, walk left, avoid mines, jump onto containers and
then onto the ledge on the left. Collect bomb, carry on going right, drop
back down onto the containers.

Jump onto ledge on right, right, hit chest, over containers (collect
shurikan), jump onto ledge on left, continue left, kill bomber and stone.
Jump up onto left ledge, continue left and drop down, avoid mine and kill
bomber. Down, right, down, left down stairs, kill cyborg and avoid mine.
Collect gas and avoid next mine, collect shurikan, jump onto ledge on
right, kill bomber and jump onto the ledge on left. Avoid mine, left, jump
onto ledge on right and then onto the containers. Jump onto the ledge on
the left, kill gunman, left down the containers (avoiding the mines),
continue left (killing cyborg and bomber), jump onto the containers and
onto the ledge on the left. Left, kill stones, down walk left and you will
meet the first big baddie.

The best tactic is to stand on the barrel and hit it with the iron bar
(constantly of course), when the arms at either side shoot out towards you
(the baddie pause before they do), jump straight up, landing back on the
barrel. When you`ve killed it, jump up the containers that appear and kill
the gunman. Jump onto the ledge on the right, walk right (killing baddies
and collecting goodies), right up stairs, kill stone and collect energy.
Jump onto the ledge on the left, walk up steps, kill punk, collect
ghettoblaster, jump over containers and continue left (killing baddies and
collecting goodies), jump up onto the ledge on the left and kill the punk
and knifeman.

Collect shurikans, jump up the scaffolding onto the third ledge on the
left. Kill punk, walk right, drop down, right,  jump up right onto ledge,
kill gunman, drop down, collect energy, right, kill punk, jump back up onto
previous ledge. Jump up onto the right ledge, jump across onto the next
ledge on the right, collect bomb, kill missile man, drop down right, over
the container. Collect bomb, jump up onto the right ledge, kill gunman,
jump onto ledge below on right, collect chainsaw, kill punk, jump up right
onto ledge, kill knifeman, jump up on to the right ledge.

Jump up onto ledge on left, kill punk, jump left onto ledge, jump slightly
left onto ledge, jump up left, jump left onto ledge. Avoid mine, jump up
left onto ledge, collect goodies, jump down left onto ledge, then up left
onto ledge. Hit chest, jump left up two ledges, kill punk, jump up right,
kill bomber, jump up left two ledges, then up right. Kill punk, jump down
right twice, avoid mine, jump right across ledges until you reach a strange
metal object, jump onto this, then jump up right and you will finally meet
Professor X himself.

Avoid his metal legs, the mine he drops, and the homing missiles he fires.
Only hit Professor X, not the legs, use the chainsaw, the iron bar and the
shurikans (the bombs are no use) and with alot of luck you should beat him.
When you`ve defeated him walk right, where your`s (and Nat`s) girlfriends
are waiting, and that`s it you`ve now completed the game!!