        »»»»»»--------->>> S K I D   R O W <<<---------««««««

                                 Presents:


                  Keys of Maramon - Quick Reference Docs


                         Outdoor Keyboard Commands


    COMMAND            KEY             MEANING

    Check               C              Check the hero's inventory
    Hold                H              Hold a different weapon
    Joystick            J              Turn joystick/single-step
                                       movement off/on
    Pass                P              "Fast Forward" to nightfall or sunrise
    Quit                Q              Save, restart or end the game
    Status              0              Look at the hero's vital statistics
    Use                 U              Use a mushroom or other item
    Volume              V              Turn sounds off or on
    Wait               Esc             Pause until "Esc" is hit again


                            Mushrooms and Herbs

           Gonshi                                Increase speed
           Luffin                                Increase dexterity
           Mirget                                Increase strength
           Nift                                  Increase armor protection


NOTE ***  More than one luffin and mirget can be used at once.  More than one
          gonshi or nift has no additional effect.
          As time passes, gonshi, luffin, mirget and nift wear off.  Hit "0"
          to see your hero's current effectiveness.


           Potion                                Restore Life Points to max.
           Sermin                                Restore up to 10 Life Points.
=================================================================================
                            The Keys to Maramon


              Machine-Specific Instructions for AMIGA Systems


	System Requirements

To play the Amiga version of The Keys to Maramon, you will need an Amiga
Computer with at least 1 Mb of RAM.  To install the game on a hard disk,
700 KB of free space is required.


	To copy The Keys of Maramon onto your hard disk,

	Make sure you have at least 700 KB of space available on your hard 
	disk.

	Insert The Keys to Maramon diskette into a disk drive, and type

		MAKEDIR DH0:KEYS

		COPY DF0:#? DH0:KEYS

	** NOTE ** The Keys to Maramon may not be compatible with all Amiga
		   Hard-Disk systems

	To play from the self-booting diskette instead of hard disk,

	Use DISKCOPY or any other disk-copying utility to copy The Keys to 
	Maramon diskette.

Begin The Keys to Maramon by inserting the self-booting diskette and then
booting up the computer, the game will load automatically.

Begin by changing to The Keys to Maramon's directory, and then typing:

	KEYS

	For example,

	CD DH0:KEYS

	KEYS

	
	The title and copyright screens will appear, showing a ring of keys
 	and a view of The Elven Maid anchored outside Maramon harbor.  The
	flashing keyhole after the Version Number means "Press Any Key."
	(You will see the flashing keyhole many times throughout the game.)
	Press any key or joystick button, and the opening menu will appear.



THE OPENING MENU


	The opening menu has two selections.

		NEW

	The screen will show you pictures of the four candidates for hero.
	Select one by using the joystick or arrow keys to highlight the
	appropriate one.  Type in the name for your hero, up to 10 characters
	long.  Or press the "ENTER" key or joystick button to start with that
	hero's standard name.

	The game will start with your hero standing just inside the gates of
	Maramon on Monday morning.  Time is already passing.

		RESTART

	Choose "Restart" to continue a game that you have previously saved.
	Saving and Restoring Games is explained later.


HOW TO MOVE AND FIGHT


	You may use either the keyboard or a joystick to move around Maramon
	and fight monsters.  The AMIGA version of The Keys to Maramon does
	not provide mouse support.

		KEYBOARD MOVEMENT

	Use the numeric keypad to move in any one of the eight directions:


		1 = diagonal down & left
		2 = straight down
		3 = diagonal down & right
		4 = straight left
		5 = stops movement
		6 = straight right
		7 = diagonal up & left
		8 = straight up
		9 = diagonal up & right

	To attack a monster in the direction the hero is facing, press the 
	spacebar.

	Other "HOT" keys are included in the KeysQRef.txt file

		JOYSTICK MOVEMENT

	In joystick mode, move the stick to travel through Maramon.  Press
	the button to attack a monster in the direction the hero is facing.

	You must use the keyboard to activate certain commands when outside.
	The commands and appropriate keys are listed in the KeysQRef.txt file.


HOW TO MAKE SELECTIONS


	Inside buildings, and in other special locations, your possible 
	actions are listed on the screen.  You may use either the keyboard 
	or a joystick to select an action.  The AMIGA version of The Keys
	to Maramon does not provide mouse support.

		Keyboard Selections

	Select an action from the keyboard by highlighting it with the arrow 
	keys, then pressing the "ENTER" key or the space bar.

	In some cases there will be more choices than will fit on the screen
	at once.  An example is the list of weapons you can buy at the weapon
	store.  The arrow keys will show the complete list.

		Joystick Selections

	With a joystick, select an action by highlighting it with the stick,
	then pressing the button.

	In some cases there will be more choices than will all fit on the 
	screen at once.  An example is the list of weapons you can buy at the
	weapon store.  Moving the stick past the bottom of the list will 
	display more items; then moving it back past the top will display the
	previous ones.


SAVING AND RESTARTING


	Games can be saved at almost any time by selecting the "Quit" command
	or pressing Q.  When you do so, you will see four options: "Save 
	Game," "Restart Saved Game," "Quit," and "Xit."

		Save Game

	You may have up to four positions---with the same or different
	heroes---saved at the same time.  When you select "Save Game," the
 	four positions are shown, identified with the letters "A through D"
	and the names of the positions already saved (if any).

	Select one of the four letters (by pressing "A"-"D"), and type a name
	for the game position up to 14 letters long as a reminder to yourself.

		Restart Saved Game

	When you select "Restart Saved Game," you will see list of saved games
	"A" through "D."  Press the appropriate letter to restart a game.

		Quit

	Select "Quit" to quit the game in progress and return to the title
	screen.

		Xit

	Select "Xit" to return to the game in progress without saving or 
	restarting.


	PLEASE NOTE ****

	If you enjoy this game, please support the software company by
	purchasing the original.
=====================================================================================
          »»»»»»--------->>>  S K I D   R O W  <<<---------««««««


                                 Presents:


                           Keys of Maramon Docs


                          A MESSAGE FROM MARAMON


	Captain Barbos waved reluctantly at the crowd gathered on the
 Knessos pier as his sailors brought The Elven Maid into port.  Barbos
 knew that the Knessos townsfolk were eager for the news from across the
 Sea of Oshmar.  He was not entirely eager to give it to them.

	"What news?" shouted the crowd as the captain descended the
 gangplank.

	"Good news first," replied Barbos.  "The Elven Maid delivered
 her cargo of supplies to the soldiers and workers at Castle Oshcrun.  The
 work there is proceeding well, and King Rebnard should be able to move 
 his court to the reclaimed castle as planned."

	A cheer arose from the crowd.  Barbos waited patiently for silence.

	"But there is bad news, too," Barbos continued when the cheering
 died down.  "As many of you know, our return voyage took us past the 
 island town of Maramon, where we planned to trade a hold full of leather
 and flour for a supply of the famous Maramon pearls.  I'll keep the story
 short.  Our holds are empty.  We are lucky to escape Maramon with our
 lives, and with Goodman Whelk, here."  A small man hesitantly came down 
 the gangplank.

	"Goodman Whelk is an emissary of the Mayor of Maramon.  He will
 explain, while I confer with your town council."  Captain Barbos pushed
 through the crowd, toward the center of town.

	The man introduced as Whelk clambered onto a barrel, cleared his
 throat, and called for the attention in a suprisingly strong voice.  
 "Friends of Knessos!"  Heads turned, and many of the dispersing crowd 
 stayed to listen.  "I know I can name you friends, if good Captain Barbos
 is like the rest of this town!  So I call on you as friends, and relate
 to you the tale of Maramon's woe!"

	Whelk's voice faded as Barbos strode into town.  He knew what Whelk
 would say.  Gods knew he had heard the story often enough at Maramon and
 on the voyage back.  It started with the news that King Rebnard of Deruvia
 was going to reclaim Castle Oshcrun, the ancient outpost of the Children
 of Light off the western coast of Gurtex, the land of Darkness.  It went
 on with the tale of the youth of Maramon rushing to Rebnard's aid.  "Hard
 to blame them," thought Barbos to himself, "considering how boring Maramon
 used to be.  Up before dawn, eat some fish, catch some fish, eat some fish,
 catch some fish, go to sleep, and on and on.  They even missed all the
 excitement in Deruvia when the magic candle in Fort Berbezza was melting."
 Even pearl diving could be boring after a few years, Barbos imagined.

	"Then disaster struck Maramon!" Whelk's voice came from the direction
 of the docks.  Barbos boggled again at the power of the little man's voice.
 Thirty years of clearing out a tavern at closing time, he supposed.  But 
 yes, disaster it was.  The town of Maramon, and all the townsfolk, were in 
 dire peril.  Barbos knew they were.  Why else would he have unloaded all
 his cargo as a donation?  Why else would he have agreed to sail back to
 Maramon with supplies from Knessos---and, if Whelk's oration was successful,
 with a hero to save Maramon?

	For, Barbos knew, Goodman Whelk was now telling the crowd that the 
 minions of Darkness had begun to destroy Maramon.  That, just after the 
 volunteers had left Maramon for Castle Oshcrun, goblins and orcs began to
 appear from nowhere in the dead of night to set Maramon to the torch.
 That the townsfolk could do nothing but attempt to repair during the daylight
 hours the damage done after nightfall.  There was almost no time for fishing.
 Pearl diving was out of the question.  No help could come from Castle 
 Oshcrun: all the volunteers, and more, were needed there.  Maramon was 
 desperate.

	Whelk pled for supplies.  Not just Whelk, the whole poor little
 pitiful town of Maramon needed supplies.  And a hero.  Definitely a hero.
 "Why am I going back?  What is Maramon to me?" Barbos asked himself. "It
 must be the pearls.  I'm a greedy old sea captain, and Maramon has the finest
 pearls in the world.  That must be why I'm worried about the place."

	Barbos paused and looked around.  The Knessos town hall was blocks
 away.  On the other hand, the "Sailor's Haven" was right in front of him.
 His favorite tavern.  Well, the town council would know where to find him.
 He'd thrown away enough gold on this trip; he might even buy the council a
 round.


                               THE HUNTSMAN


	As the emissary from Maramon began his plea for assistance, a rangy
 huntsman sat on his precious pile of rare furs, unable to believe his own
 ears.  No pearls!  Barbos had returned without the Maramon pearls!

	And it didn't sound like Barbos was in the market for his furs, 
 either.  What could he do?  In order to get permission from the elves to hunt
 in the forests of Trilliad and Selderad, he had promised Queen Fay three of
 the finest Maramon blue pearls.  If he left Knessos without the pearls, his
 life would be in peril.

	But wait.  What was this Maramon fellow saying?  Goblins in the 
 streets...Hero needed...Lifelong gratitude...Bag of pearls...

	A bag of Maramon pearls!  It might be his way out.  Of course, he'd
 have to kill some orcs and goblins, but it couldn't be that much worse than
 killing wolves and wild boars---especially with all the elves in Deruvia
 hunting him.

	First, he'd check out the local market.  He'd have to find a place to
 store his furs, unless he could sell them.  Then he'd talk to this Whelk 
 fellow tomorrow morning.


THE BLACKSMITH


	One of the Knessans standing on the pier was a strapping young man
 who worked in the local smithy.  Goodman Whelk's plea for help sounded very
 intriguing.  Very.

	Being a hero would be nice.  Being a rich hero would be very nice.
 Saving a town from a bunch of puny little goblins should be no problem for
 the strongest man in Knessos---and he was the strongest, no matter what that
 braggart Vilad claimed.

	Suddenly, the blacksmith saw his whole future laid out before him.
 Save the town of Maramon.  Sail back in glory with the keys to the town and
 a bag full of pearls.  Buy the smithy from old Rhumbu, and maybe the Sailor's
 Haven, too.  Marry the fair Olelia.  Raise a family.  Live happily ever 
 after.

	Yes, that sounded like a fine plan.  He'd sleep on it, then talk to 
 Goodman Whelk in the morning.


THE COURIER


	The sun was setting beyond the western mountains as a slim young
 woman loped up to the gates of Knessos.  "Is Captain Barbos in port?" she
 asked one of the guards.

	"Made port today," the guard replied, looking her over.  "And he's 
 probably at the Sailor's Haven by now---where he's likely to find someone
 with more meat on her bones than you have!"

	The other guard doubled over in laughter.  The first guard doubled
 over, too, due in large part to a feminine fist striking his solar plexus in
 a very businesslike manner.  By the time the guards had straightened up, 
 the woman was halfway down the street into town.  She turned and shouted 
 back, "Next time, you might consider giving a little more respect to the 
 King's Courier!"

	"It always happens," she thought as she strode up the street.  "They
 always see a bedpartner, maybe a wife, never a person."

	She entered the Sailor's Haven.  Yes, Barbos was there, at a corner 
 table with two of the town's councilmen.

	"Pardon me, gentle sirs," she said.  "Captain, I have a pouch for you
 from King Rebnard."

	Barbos looked up at her.  She handed him the pouch.  He motioned 
 toward the empty chair at the table, and she sat down.  The barmaid was 
 nowhere in sight.  Barbos broke the pouch's seal and opened the drawstring.
 A gleam of gemstones shone from within.  Out of thin air, the barmaid 
 appeared.  "Another round!" Barbos shouted.  "And for the lady..."

	"A stoup of ale!" she ordered.  Heads turned.  She ignored them.  
 She was not about to order a tiny glass of watered-down wine after a day's
 journey from Lake Shan to Knessos.

	Barbos pulled a scroll from the pouch, opened it, and perused it
 silently.  "Well.  Good news for the Elven Maid."  He turned to the courier.
 "Thank you my dear."  She clasped her tongue between her teeth.  Barbos was
 a good man, and a fine shipmaster.  This was not the time to argue that she
 was neither a lady nor his "dear."  She wanted to know what was written on
 that scroll she had carried all the way from Pheron, and why Barbos and the
 two councilmen had looked so serious when she walked in.  To her good
 fortune, they seemed willing to include her in their conversation.

	Barbos continued, "King Rebnard has sent me a pouch of gems to buy
 more supplies for the troops and workers at Castle Oshcrun.  At least I am 
 assured, gods willing, that I can afford another voyage across the Sea of
 Oshmar.  And, of course, I will be able to dock at Maramon on the way, to
 return Goodman Whelk, unload the emergency supplies, and disembark the hero,
 if Whelk can recruit such."

	She could hold her tongue no longer.  "Pardon me again, but I just
 arrived in Knessos this evening.  Your talk of Maramon, emergencies, and
 Goodman Whelk---whoever he might be---is all new to me.  Would you explain?"

	And so she learned the story.  The smallest of Rebnard's gems kept the
 table well-supplied past closing time.  At the end, she spoke her mind. "If
 Maramon needs help, I'm willing to go!"  Barbos mumbled something about
 Maramon expecting a hero, not a heroine.  "Fine!  Then call me a 'Hero'!  
 I'll talk to your Goodman Whelk in the morning!"


THE SCHOLAR


	Dawn was breaking as the scholar opened the last of his books of 
 ancient arcana.  "Maramon, Maramon..." he mumbled as he thumbed through the
 the pages.  "Ah, here it is.  Hmmm...Not much...but enough!  Definitely 
 enough!"

	The scholar had been passing by the pier the afternoon before, and
 had heard Goodman Whelk's plea---or enough of it to remember that there 
 was something about Maramon.  A nights' research had convinced him that 
 there was more to this Maramon situation than Whelk was saying.

	In fact, there was probably more than Whelk even suspected.  The
 legends told of hidden caverns beneath the island of Maramon, even beneath
 the very Sea of Oshmar.  And magic.  Powerful magic.  His palms began to
 itch.  "This is the chance of a lifetime!" the scholar announced to his
 piles of books.  "Whelk wants a hero.  Well, I can be a hero!  I practice
 my fencing thrice a week..." He grabbed his saber from above the mantel, 
 and swished it back and forth.  "And I have other methods, as well" he
 said to himself, as he thought of the magic herbs and mushrooms in the
 cupboard---and of the flamewand and fearwand that were wrapped in 
 lambswool and hidden under the floorboards.

	"So it's settled," he said to the embers in the fireplace.  "I will
 offer my services to Goodman Whelk of Maramon in the morning."

	He glanced at the window, Morning already!  The scholar donned his
 robes and rushed out the door.


                           THE VOYAGE TO MARAMON


	Whelk awoke.  A strange bed, a strange room---but a basin of steaming
 water, and a bowl of fresh vegatables.  Knessos.  With volunteers waiting.
 Whelk lifted himself out of bed, washed himself and some turnips ("Turnips
 for breakfast?" he said to himself) and went down the stairs to meet the
 volunteers.

	Four volunteers.  Only four.  A big-shouldered youth in a blacksmith's
 apron.  A robed man older than Whelk himself.  A raggedy fellow with a bow
 and a hatchet, and a strange haunted look in his eyes.  The fourth volunteer
 was a woman.

	Well, he hadn't really expected Lord Rexor or the Great Eflun.  Better
 to make the best of what he had than to wish for miracles...

	As he interviewed the volunteers, Whelk began to feel his hopes 
 reviving.  He still wouldn't trust any of the four to save the world, gods
 knew.  But the town of Maramon, perhaps.  The young smith, for example, was
 one of the strongest men Goodman Whelk had ever met---certainly stronger than
 anyone remaining in Maramon, even Tamur.  Not very quick of foot---or of 
 thought---but strong as a bull.

	But the other 3 seemed clever enough, thought Whelk.  That huntsman
 in particular, looked half again too clever for his own good.  Was he trying
 to get to Maramon---or to get away from Deruvia?  No denying his
 extraordinary skill with the bow, though.  Could have trained at the side of
 Sir Nehor himself.  And the tricks he did with that little axe!  If he could
 split a gnoll's armor as easily as he did the oak limb..."Just a matter of
 seeing the weak spot and hitting it just so," the huntsman had said.

	Then there was the man in robes.  A "scholar," he called himself.
 Spoke in riddles.  Carried an ancient filigreed sword---said it was his 
 "university saber."  Goodman Whelk tried to remember when the last university
 in Deruvia had closed its doors.  Well before Rebnard took the throne, 
 surely.  During Ongar's reign?  Earlier?  At any rate, this "scholar" was 
 either much older than he looked, or he was pretending to be.  And his normal
 source of income was not clear.  Not clear at all.  But never mind.  He 
 wielded his saber well enough: Whelk had called in a town guardsman for a
 fencing match with the old man.  And, if hints and whispers and winks meant
 anything, the old man had some magical surprises in store for the orcs and
 goblins.  At the very least, this "scholar" would impress Mayor Andello and
 Timothy Quint.

	And the woman.  The "King's Courier," Goodman Whelk corrected himself.
 She actually considered herself as a serious contender for the job.  The 
 funny thing was that, after this morning, so did Whelk.  He could find no
 fault with her swordplay or archery, even using borrowed weapons.  Or she
 could just stare the monsters back underground, Whelk thought, if she used
 the same glare she gave Whelk when he called her "My dear"!  And she was
 quick as a snake...But what would Mayor Andello say if he brought back a 
 woman hero?  Never mind the mayor, what would Whelk's wife say?  Well, Whelk
 reflected, he didn't really know.  Mistress Whelk might just laugh and invite
 her in for a pot of tea.


                                  *  *  *


 	Eventually, Goodman Whelk made his selection, the crew loaded the new
 cargo, and The Elven Maid set sail.  The seas were smooth---as smooth, at
 least, as the Sea of Oshmar ever ran---and the nights were clear and 
 peaceful.

	These would be the last peaceful nights that Maramon's hired hero 
 would have for a long time, Whelk knew.  He used them to prepare the hero as
 best he could for the job ahead.

	The first order of business was the key to the strongrooms.  Whelk 
 handed the hero a key ring with a single key.  "There are three flat-roofed
 stone buildings in Maramon," Whelk explained.  "They date from the town's
 founding, when the brave pioneers were driving off the bazards and the last
 dragon.  Now, we use those buildings as strongrooms.  Well, not now---we've
 moved all our supplies out of them during the emergency.  So the strongrooms
 are empty now.  And you're welcome to use them to store things and to rest in
 during the nights---the monsters can't follow you inside.  They're well
 locked, you see.  This si the key.  It fits all three of the strongrooms."

	And the map.  Whelk unrolled a parchment onto the galley table.  "I'm
 sure that you'll have no trouble finding your way around town," said Whelk.
 "But you might find this map useful at first.  My daughter Jenny drew it.  
 She has quite an artistic talent, don't you agree?"  The hero showed polite
 appreciation.  "And you can see how everything is marked,"  Whelk continued.
 "Here are the four Dark Towers, where the monsters come from; here's City
 Hall, where Mayor Andello will give you your weekly pay..."

	The hero asked Whelk for more information about the monsters.  Whelk
 liked that: it meant the hero was taking the job seriously.  "Well, their
 strategy is fairly simple," Whelk said.  "At nightfall, they swarm out of
 one of the Dark Towers.  Then they run around town, waving their torches and
 axes, making as much noise as possible, and they break and burn and steal 
 things.  At least that's what the orcs and goblins do.  And sometimes the 
 domugs, but they're not as noisy."

	"Domugs? asked the hero.

	"Yes," said Whelk, "Little blue monsters.  They come from somewhere
 far away to the east, beyond Gurtex, I understand.  They really aren't 
 effective looters, but on the nights that the domugs are on guard duty, they
 can be almost as dangerous as the wolvinga."

	"Wolvinga? As in Dark Elves? I don't remember you mentioning any Dark
 Elves when we were back in Knessos," the hero said.

	"Oh, I'm sure I must have.  After all," Whelk explained, "the wolvinga
 are the main reason we lock ourselves in the upper stories of our houses 
 after dark.  We could avoid---perhaps even fight---the orcs and goblins, but
 when the wolvinga are standing guard with their deadly longbows...well, it's
 much more sensible to stay completely out of sight.  Of course, the wolvinga
 don't come out every night."

	"Of course not," said the hero, drawing another flagon of ale.

	"No, indeed," continued Goodman Whelk.  "Sometimes, as I said, domugs
 stand guard.  And sometimes gnolls."

	"Gnolls?"

	"In heavy armor," Whelk went on.  "The gnolls seem to be the leaders.
 Or maybe the zorlims are the leaders and the gnolls are their lieutenants."

	"I know you didn't mention zorlims in Knessos!" the hero exclaimed.
 "Those goblin monks use real magic!"

	"Icewands, actually," agreed Whelk.  "Very dangerous.  But there
 aren't very many zorlims...."


                                  *  *  *


	The island of Maramon appeared on the eastern horizon on Sunday 
 afternoon.  "It looks like a mountain peak rising out of the sea," said the
 hero, as The Elven Maid drew nearer.

	Goodman Whelk nodded.  "That's how Maramon got its name," he said. 
 "It means 'sea mountain' in one of the ancient tongues."

	Captain Barbos joined his two passengers at the rail.  The hero asked
 him, "Will we be docking tonight?"

	"Nay," the captain replied.  "The harbor's tricky, and the tide's 
 wrong.  The Elven Maid will anchor until dawn."

	"One more night of rest for you, then," Whelk told the hero. "Monday's
 the best day to start a new job anyway."


                                  *  *  *


	But the hero did not rest.  On this job, daytime, not nighttiime, was
 for resting.  The hero had worked into the pattern, and wouldn't rest tonight
 even if it were possible.

	From the ship's rail, the town of Maramon was easily visible, both by
 the light of the full moon and by the flickers of light from within the town
 itself.  Torchlight, thought the hero.  But there---and there---the light was
 far too bright for torches.  Buildings must be burning.  Whelk did say that
 Sunday nights were the worst....

	As the moon neared the western horizon, the hero went below to pack 
 and plan.  This job looked like it was going to amount to more than disposing
 of a few orcs and goblins.  From what Goodman Whelk had said, "hired hero"
 was a lifetime job.  And a lifetime might not be very long...Keeping the 
 streets clear of monsters would not be enough to solve Maramon's problems.
 The hero would have to find a way into those Dark Towers, to root out the
 source of the evil and destroy it!

	Back on deck, the captain and crew had been busy.  The Elven Maid was
 even now sailing through the narrow channel into the rockbound harbor.  The
 hero joined Goodman Whelk on the quarterdeck.  They watched the sun rise as
 the ship docked, then climbed to the gates of Maramon.



                                PRICE LISTS

	The shops of Maramon offer their wares at reasonable prices.  But,
 if a shop is damaged by the monsters, prices there will go up to reflect the
 cost of repairs.

	 Steele's Armor				 Maramon Weapons

 Leathers....................50                 Hammers and Maces
 Ring Mail..................150		
 Chainmail..................500		Hammer........................5
 Steel Plate...............1500		Mace.........................20
 Methreal..................4000		Warhammer....................30

						      Axes

					Light Axe....................15
	Elmer's Magick			Battleaxe....................80
	    Shoppe			Great Axe...................180

						     Swords
 Fire Globe..................10		
 Icewand....................150		Shortsword...................20
 Flamewand..................200		Scimitar.....................25
 Fearwand...................300		Longsword....................50
					Greatsword..................100

						      Bows

	Rosel's Herbal			Shortbow.....................25
       	   Wonders			Longbow......................60
 					Quiver (20 arrows)...........30
 Gonshi (bag of 12)..........50
 Luffin (bag of 6)...........30
 Mirget (bag of 6)...........40
 Nift (pouch of 12).........100
 Potion (jar of 8)...........50
 Sermin (bag of 12)..........30


                              GETTING STARTED

	The Keys to Maramon is a game of careful planning and quick action.
 Your first careful plan should be to make working copies of your game disk,
 or to install The Keys to Maramon on your hard disk, and then to store your
 original game disk in a safe place.

	The enclosed machine-specific instructions explain how to install or
 copy The Keys to Maramon on your computer system, and how to start the game.

	Follow those instructions, and start a new game.  You will be given 
 the opportunityto choose and name your hero from the four characters 
 described earlier.  (If you don't want to think up a name, just hit the
 "RETURN" or "ENTER" key, and your hero will be given the name that Mindcraft
 uses: Kelligan, Stavros, Lumelia or Hornbern.)

	When the game has begun, your hero will find himself or herself inside
 the gates of Maramon.  It is early in the morning of Day 1, Monday.  Monday
 is always depressing, but your hero has much to do before nightfall.  Some
 suggestions foloow.  If you'd rather make up your own mind, skip to the next
 chapter.

	Kelligan the Huntsman:

	The huntsman came to Maramon because he couldn't afford to stay in
 Deruvia.  He's low on funds, but well equipped with a longbow, a light axe,
 and some healing potions.  His skill (and yours) might let him save his money
 to buy better armor and a better hand weapon.  Or he might but a few fire
 globes from Elmer Kozak to help him survive the first few nights.

	Stavros the Blacksmith:

	The blacksmith is the strongest of the four.  But he has little
 equipment, and no armor.  He should probably buy leather armor and a pouch
 of sermin mushrooms.  He doesn't need to worry very much about his weapon:
 he can destroy orcs and goblins with his bare hands.

	Lumelia the Courier:

	The courier came to Maramon on a whim.  She has no weapons or armor
 at the start, but she has the most gold.  Buy her some ring mail and a 
 longsword.  She'll do well until the monsters start fighting back in earnest.

	Hornbern the Scholar:

	The scholar has the best equipment of the four.  He should  buy better
 armor: he can just afford ring mail.  And he should be wary of using up his
 wands; they are expensive to recharge, and his saber is a formidable enough
 weapon.

	Whichever character you choose, be sure to visit The Flying Fish 
 tavern on Day 1 and talk to Captain Barbos before he sails to Castle Oshcrun.


                            MOVEMENT AND COMBAT


	Your hero will spend much of his or her time moving around the town of
 Maramon and the cellars and caverns beneath.  See your machine-specific 
 instructions to learn how to use your keyboard, joystick or mouse to move the
 hero around and engage in combat.

MOVEMENT

	Don't worry about drowning in the ponds or breaking bones on stone 
 walls.  Your hero simply will not move anyplace impossible.

	To enter a building or strongroom, move into the door. (Some buildings
 do not have any visible doors: they are private homes, and cannot be entered.
 Your hero is not a door-to-door salesman.)  Remember that the shops and 
 public buildings of Maramon are all locked tight when night falls.

HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT

	When holding a hand-to-hand weapon---an axe, hammer, mace or sword---
 your hero must be right next to a monster and facing in its direction.  (Try
 moving toward the monster until it blocks you, then swinging away like mad.)
 Watch the Life Points out of the corner of your eye: they change color when
 they're down to ten, and it's time to retreat for a rest or a potion or some
 sermin mushrooms.

RANGED COMBAT

	Ranged weapons---bows and wands---shoot in the direction your hero is
 facing (north, south, east, west or diagonally).  Their projectiles travel in
 straight lines.  Remember this when shooting at monsters and when the 
 monsters are shooting at you.

FIRE GLOBES

	Elmer Kozak sells magical glass spheres called "Fire Globes."  Your
 hero can place these fire globes in strategic locations---perhaps near the
 doors of the Dark Towers.  Then, when the monsters step on them, they 
 explode, usually destroying the monster and everything it is carrying.  
 (The "USE" command allows your hero to lay a fire globe directly in front
 or himself or herself.)

	WARNING: Fire globes are very hard to see. (Otherwise, the monsters
 wouldn't step on them, would they?)  Don't move your hero onto them.  Your
 hero will probably realize what's happening quickly enough to avoid death,
 but serious injury is likely.

THE CONSEQUENCES

	Some monsters carry treasure.  if your hero slays a treasure-bearing
 monster, you will see the monster's bag of loot lying at the spot of the
 monster's demise.  Move your hero onto the bag to gain your well-deserved
 reward.

	At daybreak (0800 hours), if any monsters survive on the streets of
 Maramon, you will find that buildings have been looted, pilaged, burnt, and
 otherwise damaged.  The more surviving monsters, the more damage---not 
 necessarily to the buildings your hero saw the monsters attacking.


                             THE STATUS SCREEN


	Press the "0" (zero) key at any time for a report on your hero's 
	status.


			---------------------------
			|                         |
			| Kelligan                |
			| Huntsman                |
			|                         |
			| Day 7 - Sunday          |
			|                         |
			| Life Points      28/35  |
			|                         |
			| Strength         30/30  |
			| Speed            45/40  |
			| Dexterity        50/50  |
			| Magic Skill      10/10  |
			|                         |
			| Armor Rating      6/3   |
			|                         |
			---------------------------	
			


	As you see in the example, the staus screen starts with the hero's
 name and occupation, followed by the current game date and day of the week.
 (These three lines are not shown when the hero is inside a building or 
 dungeon strongroom.)

	The following six lines show the hero's vital statistics: their 
 current and "normal" values both.  First is "Life Points," the measure of how
 close your hero is to death.  In the example, Kelligan has suffered some 
 combat damage, so his Life Points are not quite up to normal.  They can be 
 restored by eating a sermin mushroom (restoring 10 points), taking a potion
 (returning immediately to normal), or by resting either in a Guest House 
 (10 points/hour) or in a strongroom (3 points/hour).

	Next is "Strength," the measure of your hero's ability to do damage.
 Strength can be temporarily increased above normal by using mirget leaves.

	"Speed" allows you hero to catch up with (or run away from) monsters
 more quickly.  Eating a gonshi mushroom, as Kelligan has done in the example,
 temporarily increases speed.

	The chance of smitimg a monster in a critical spot, killing it 
 instantly, is based on "Dexterity." Luffin flowers give a temporary 
 dexterity boost.

	"Magic Skill" has a heavy influence on the effectiveness of magic
 wands.  Unlike strength, speed and dexterity, magic skill cannot be improved
 by herbs and mushrooms.  But, like them, it can improve with experience and
 education.

	Finally, "Armor Rating" shows how well your hero's armor protects him
 or her from damage.  As in the case of Kelligan in the example, protection
 can be improved by the use of the leaves of the nift plant.


                           THE PEOPLE OF MARAMON


	Your hero will meet many of the citizens of Maramon in the shops and
 other public buildings of the town.

	Mayor Andello

	Fioro Andello has been the mayor of Maramon for many years.  He is 
	very distressed at the sudden appearance of the monsters, especially
	since it happened only days after his 3 sons sailed eastward to Castle
	Oshcrun.

	The Whelk Family

	Goodman Whelk and his wife own and operate the two taverns of Maramon:
	the Flying Fish near City Hall and the Crab's Claw in the northeast
	corner of town.  They are helped by their two young children, 12 year
 	old Jenny and 10 year old Billy.

	Tamur the Brave

	The town of Maramon keeps all its weapons in a building southwest of
 	City Hall, where they are maintained by a man named Tamur, who used to
 	be known as "Tamur the Brave."  His is a sad story.

	When the monsters first began to appear, Tamur was foremost among the
	town's defenders.  As his companions gradually were lost to crippling
	injuries or death, Tamur continued his nightly battles.

	One morning, Tamur announced that he had found an iron key on the body
 	of one of the monsters he had killed the previous night.  The key 
	looked like it would fit the lock on the old tower near the weapon
	storehouse; Tamur might be able to descend into the cellars of ancient
	Maramon and defeat the monsters at their source.

	As the townsfolk cheered him on, Tamur unlocked the tower door and
	entered.  Hours later, he staggered out, an expression of unalloyed
	fear on his face.  Without a word, he turned and threw the iron key
	over the city wall into the Sea of Oshmar.

	Tamur no longer fights monsters.  To this day, no one knows what he
	saw and did in the ancient cellars of Maramon.

	Timothy Quint

	The librarian, Timothy Quint, is fairly new to Maramon.  He grew up
	Deruvia, a sickly child and an unhealthy young man.  He devoted his
	life to reading and study, while his health continued to worsen.

	On the advice of a professor, Timothy sailed to Maramon to become the
	town's librarian and scribe.  He is not convinced that Maramon's sea
	air is the tonic the professor thought it would be, but he is 
	absolutely sure he will never attempt another voyage across the Sea
	of Oshmar.

	Denn and Arbo Steele

	The Steele brothers, Denn and Arbo, are casualties of Maramon's 
	struggle against the monster infestation.  Denn was crippled by orcs;
	Arbo was blinded by gnolls.  Denn is now supporting both brothers by
	leather working and, occasionally, selling pieces of the Steele family
 	collection of armor.

	Madame Rosel

	Near the town gates lives Madame Rosel, who appeared in Maramon some
	years ago, no one knows from where.  She was an old woman then, and 
	she remains an old woman now.  She tends her small garden and wanders
	the island.  Her knowledge of herbs and mushrooms is by far the 
	greatest in Maramon.

	Elmer and Dalina Kozak

	The Kozak mansion, just south of Sunrise Park, used to house over a 
	dozen Kozak family members.  Now the only two left are old Elmer and
	his unmarried granddaughter Dalina.

	Elmer is thought by many to be the wisest man in town, and by many
	others to be the most foolish.  He has set up Elmer's Magick Shoppe
	in the parlor of the mansion, but has not yet been known to sell
 	anything.

	Dalina has inherited a certain amount of strangeness from her 
	grandfather.  But while Elmer spends most of his time alone in his
	library with his stacks of books, Dalina spends most of her time alone
	in her boat at sea---or, at least, she did, before the monster
	emergency forced her to join the other townsfolk in continual repair
	work.

	The Guest House Families

	The Belaris family has always provided bed and board for vistors in 
	the Sea Breeze Inn at the east edge of town.  Now that the population
	of Maramon is so depleted, the Pickrell and Stoner families have also
	made their spare rooms available for boarders.  Your hero is welcome
	to rest at any one of the 3 guest houses.

	Fishermen

	Most of the other residents of Maramon are fishermen (and fisherwomen
	and fisherchildren).  As Goodman Whelk explained, they are now usually
	busy repairing the damage done nightly by the monsters, and the 
	fishing industry is suffering greatly.

	The fishermen are not sociable folk, and your hero is not likely to 
	strike up many friendships.  Two exceptions are Old Jonas and Young
	Jonas, who visit The Crab's Claw regularly.


                            THE MARAMON LIBRARY


	The Maramon Library holds much more information than one might expect
 in an isolated town.  The open shelves in the library's main room are full of
 books, sure to be fascinating to your hero.

	The closed stacks behind Timothy Quint's desk contain many interesting
 books (and many boring books), generally textbooks and reference works.  They
 will provide your hero with the opportunity to gain increased strength, 
 speed, dexterity and magic skill.  Of course, your hero will need to have
 enough experience to gain the benefits these books will provide.  The "Score"
 on the computer screen will change color when your hero is ready to visit the
 closed stacks.

	The pride of the Maramon Library is its Rare Book Room.  Your hero 
 will need to visit the Rare Book Room often, and to study all the subjects
 it offers, in order to complete the Maramon commission.  It is suggested that
 your hero read about keys, mushrooms and towers first.  Reading about wizards
 should be put off as long as possible---but no lnger.
