                       Kick Off 2 Full Instruction Manual


1.0 INTRODUCTION

Kick Off 2 retains the pace  and accuracy of the universally acclaimed
Kick Off.  A soccer  simulation  with  a  full  size multi directional
scrolling pitch  and  the  players,  markings,  goals  etc  in correct
proportions.  Both teams play the  game strictly according to tactics.
Players move into position to receive passes and gain possession.  The
ball, as in the real game, travels  ahead  of the player thus making a
tackle is a matter of skill rather than of chance.

Kick Off 2 like  real  soccer,  requires  skills  in  ball control for
passing, dribbling, shooting etc.   Accuracy  in shooting, the ability
to swerve or bend the ball to score when taking free kicks needs a lot
of practice.  The practice  option  allows  you  to  practice the ball
skills and set pieces without being  harassed by the opposition.  Take
your time and practice the skills  to  perfection.  If two players are
to team up, it is an ideal  opportunity  to  practice ONE - TWO up and
down the pitch.

Each player on the pitch  has  a  unique combination of attributes and
skills suitable for the skill level at which the game is being played.
An  international  is  superior  to  a  4th  division  player  in  all
departments.

A host of  playing  options  are  provided.   One  of  the most useful
options is the  provision  to  set  the  skill  levels  of  both teams
independently.  A  novice  with  an  INTERNATIONAL  squad  can  give a
professional with a 4TH DIVISION squad a run for his money.

There is a league and cup  tournament  with sudden death penalty shoot
outs in case of a draw.  The teams in a league are on the whole evenly
matched but with different styles  of  play  and  the player skills to
match that style.  There  is  an  option  to  load  your own team from
Player Manager along  with  you  own  tactics  to  play another Player
Manager team in a single game or enter league and cup tournaments.

The special events selection in the main  menu allows data disks to be
loaded.

Kick Off 2 also  provides  the  facility  to  change strip colours and
designs.  On expanded machines, there are additional sound effects.

The action replay facility allows you to  see the goals at normal pace
or in slow motion and compile your own golden goals disks.

There  are  24  referees   and   they   have   their  own  distinctive
temperaments.  You will soon know which  referee turns a blind eye and
which one has a pack of red  cards  to distribute.  On the other hand,
like human beings, they will have  good  days and bad days.  You never
know, you may  catch  Sean  Willis  on  a  good  day  but  Gary Penn -
unlikely!



2.0 MAIN MENU

There are 9 main menu options

2.1 SINGLE GAME
A single game can be between a  player and the computer or between two
players.  Two players can team up  against the computer or against two
other players.  A host of  options  are  available  to alter the match
conditions and various permutations  of  the  options provide enormous
variety of gameplay.

2.2 THE LEAGUE
There  is  a  league  of  8   teams  lasting  14  weeks.   The  league
championship requires consistent excellence.   8  players  can play in
the league which can be saved to be continued later.

2.3 THE CUP
The cup tournament is played on  a  knock  out  basis.  If there is no
result, extra time is played.  If there  is still no result, a penalty
shoot-out decides the winner.

2.4 INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLY
This option allows you  to  play  a  single  match using international
sides with their distinct styles of play.

2.5 PRACTICE
Practice mode allows one or  two  players  to practice ball skills and
learn ball controls without being harassed by the opposition.

2.6 OPTIONS
The option menu sets the conditions for a Single Game or International
Friendly.  The options must be selected before playing the game.

2.7 SPECIAL EVENTS
This option is used for loading  data  disks  to be published at later
dates.

2.8 ACTION REPLAY
This option is used to edit a file  of action replay goals to create a
golden goals disk.

2.9 KIT DESIGN
This option enables the design of custom kits for a single game only.



3.0 THE OPTIONS

The options in this menu once set remain unchanged until changed.


3.1 DURATION

2x3, 2x5, 2x10 and 2x2
The league and cup matches are 2x5 minutes.





3.2 PITCH

A choice of 4 playing surfaces are given:-

Normal - Normal bounce and travel

Soggy - Ball bounce and travel reduced, players stamina reduced.

Wet - Increased ball travel and speed

Artificial - High  ball  bounce.   Increased  ball  speed  and travel.
Reduced players stamina.


3.3 WIND

A choice of 4 - Off, light, medium and strong.


3.4 REPLACE TACTICS

Each team can use a total of  4  tactics in a game.  These tactics can
be replaced by 4 other  tactics  on  the  game  disk  or the data disk
containing tactics designed by Player Manager.  See tactics (14.0) for
more information.


3.5 EXTRA TIME AND PENALTIES
Yes or No, if the answer is  yes,  extra time proportional to the full
time match duration is played if the result is a draw after full time.
The extra time is in two halves and  the teams change ends at the half
time.  If the result is still a draw then a sudden death penalty shoot
out decides the result.
This option is set to NO  in  the  league  matches and YES for the cup
tournaments.


3.6 SKILL LEVEL
Choice of 5  skill  levels  :  International,  1st,  2nd,  3rd and 4th
Divisions.  The attributes and skills of the players correspond to the
division.  In a single match, identical  squads are presented for both
teams, thus ensuring that  the  result  depends  on  the  skill of the
players only.  The skill level of both teams can be set independently.

There is another special  level  namely  Player  Manager.  This option
allows a Player Manager  team  to  be  loaded  along  with the current
tactics to play against another player or the computer at any of the 5
skill levels or play against another Player Manager team.  See 5.0 for
instructions.


3.7 LEAGUE OPTIONS
The skill level at which the league is played can be selected.  Choice
of 3rd division, 1st division or international level.


3.8 GAME SPEED
The speed of  the  game  can  be  changed.   At  reduced  speed, it is
possible to play  a  very  tactical  game  and  see  how  your tactics
actually work and the response of your opponents.  There are 3 options
: Normal, Medium and Slow.


3.9 AFTER TOUCH
Yes or No, if the answer is yes, the ball direction can be altered for
a short duration after shooting.  Ideal for bending the ball.


3.10 SELECT REFEREE
Yes or No, you may select any of the 24 referees.  The referees play a
very important part in the game.



4.0 THE PLAYERS

Each player on  the  pitch  has  a  unique  mixture  of attributes and
skills.

There attributes are
PACE - STAMINA - AGGRESSION - RESILIENCE

The skills are
PASSING - SHOOTING - TACKLING

The unique mixture  determines  the  performance  of  the player.  For
instance, a player  of  great  pace  but  with  poor  stamina will not
perform well as the match nears  the  end and should be substituted if
there is extra time in  a  cup  match.   Similarly  a player with high
aggression will go for a ball and  if he has good tackling skills will
succeed in getting  the  possession  but  with  low  tackling skills is
likely to foul the opposition and may  even collect a red card if seen
by the referee.



5.0 SELECTING SKILL LEVEL

There are 5 skill levels plus a special level.

International
1st Division
2nd Division
3rd Division
4th Division
Player Manager

To set the skill level,  select  OPTIONS  form  the main menu and then
select SKILL LEVEL in the option menu.

One Player or Two Players against the computer - TEAM A
Two Players against each other : Player 1 - Team A : Player 2 - Team B

The Skill level of each team can  be set independently thus enabling a
novice to play on equal terms with  an expert.  A novice using a squad
of international players with their  great  pace and shooting accuracy
can give a tough game to an expert with a 4th division squad.

The Player Manager level allows you  to  load a team trained in Player
Manager to play against  another  Player  Manager  team or a computer
team of chosen skill level.

When Player Manager level is  selected,  you  will  be asked to insert
your P.M data disk  in  the  drive.   The  whole  squad along with the
current tactics will be loaded.   The  current  tactics can however be
replaced with new tactics.



6.0 SELECTING THE NUMBER OF PLAYERS

1 to 4 players can play on the AMIGA using a joystick adaptor.

TEAM SELECTION screen (see  8.0)  provides  the  opportunity to select
number of players and how they  are  to play i.e against the computer,
against each other etc.



7.0 GAME OPTIONS

All the four options are selected via the main menu.

CAUTION : Before selecting the Game Options, select the required match
conditions from the Options menu (see 3.0)


7.1 SINGLE GAME

Two players can play against the  computer or against each other.  One
player game is against the computer.   On the AMIGA, 2players can play
against 2 other players.

On selecting this menu option, you will be asked

Number of players : 1,2,3 or 4
Select Team screens give  you  the  opportunity  to select both teams.
The winner of the toss decides whether  to  play Up or Down the pitch.
The name of the referee is displayed.


7.11 TACTICS

Select the tactics for the start of the match using the keyboard.  The
tactics can be changed any time during  the match when the ball is out
of play.

Keys 1,2,3 & 4 are assigned to  Team  A  and  1,2,3 & 4 on the numeric
keypad are assigned to Team  B.   Press  the  key and the players will
move to the new tactical positions once  the ball comes back into play
again.


7.12 SUBSTITUTIONS

Two substitutions are allowed in  a  match.   Please see 19.0 for more
information.



7.2 INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLY

This option allows you to play  a  single  game between any two chosen
international teams.  On selecting  this  option,  a  list  of all the
countries is presented.   Highlight  TEAM  A  and  the  first country.
Press the F.B to confirm the choice.  Repeat the process for TEAM B.





7.3 THE LEAGUE

The league consists of 8 teams and  lasts 14 weeks.  There are 3 skill
levels, Third, First and  International  at  which  the  league can be
played.  Use the OPTIONS menu  to  set  the  skill level.  The default
skill level is 1st Division.   When  the  league option is selected in
the main  menu,  the  league  with  appropriate  numbers  of  teams is
displayed.  The following options are available.


7.31 CHANGE TEAM NAMES

Move joystick up to highlight a  team  name.  Press F.B and the cursor
will flash at the end of the team  name.  Use the keyboard to edit the
name.  Move the J/S to highlight another team if required.


7.32 SELECTING TEAM TO PLAY

When the table first appears,  the  letter  C  appears against all the
teams to say that all  the  teams  are computer controlled.  To change
the team to J/S  i.e  play  that  team  in  the  league.   Move J/S to
highlight the team and press F1.


7.33 LOADING PLAYER MANAGER TEAMS

Player Manager teams together with their current tactics can be loaded
in the league.  To load  a  team,  move  the joystick to highlight the
team you wish to replace with the  P.M team and press F3.  Insert your
Player Manager Data Disk  in  the  drive  and  press  F.B.  Repeat the
process to load other teams.


7.34 LOADING PLAYER MANAGER DESIGNED TACTICS

The tactics designed in Player Manager can  be loaded for each team in
the league.  Move the J/S to highlight  the team for which you wish to
load new tactics and press F5.   Insert  P.M  data disk and press fire
button.  The teams  current  tactics  directory  of  all the available
tactics will be displayed.  Highlight the  tactics you wish to replace
in the current directory and press the F.B.  Move the J/S to highlight
the required tactics in the data disk directory and press F.B.  Repeat
the process if you wish  to  replace  other tactics.  Select DONE when
finished.
Repeat this process for other teams.


7.35 LOAD

This option allows you to load  a previously saved league and continue
the game.  When this option  is  exercised,  none of the options above
can be used.  Insert you data  disk  with your previously saved league
in the drive and press the F.B select  the league you wish to play and
press the F.B


7.37 CONTINUE

Select this option to play the league game.  The two teams to play the
next match will be highlighted.  If both  teams had J for control, the
computer will allocate J1 and J2 to the teams.



The options at the bottom of  the  screen  will now display SAVE, PLAY
MATCH and QUIT.


7.38 SAVE

Select this option to save  your  current  league.  Insert the disk in
the drive and press the F.B.   Type  the  name under which you wish to
save the league or use the displayed filename by highlighting it.


7.39 QUIT

The league is abandoned without saving  and the program returns to the
main menu. (note - all league data will be lost!)


7.40 PLAY MATCH

The squad selection screens  for  each  team  are displayed next.  The
game follows the procedure as detailed for single game.

The league table is updated after each match.

CAUTION - It is up to players  to  ensure that there is no duplication
of team names.  Name duplication may  cause the program to crash.  You
are advised to save the league at regular intervals.


7.4 THE CUP

The cup tournament is for 8  teams  and  is  on a knock out basis.  In
case of a draw, there is extra  time.   If there is still no result, a
sudden death penalty shoot out  feature  is  used to decide the result
(See 15.0 for rules).



8.0 TEAM SELECTION

8.1 PLAY OPTIONS

Playing As A Team -  The  player  controls  the  player nearest to the
ball.
Playing In Position - The player  assumes  the identity i.e the skills
and attributes of one player  on  the  pitch  and controls this player
right through the  match.   If  the  selected  player  is injured, the
player assumes the identity of the substitute.

YOU CAN NOT PLAY AS A KEEPER!

1 to 4 players using J/S adaptor.

TEAM MODE - Two players can  team  up  to play against the computer or
other two players.  Both players can play in position.

3 Players - Third player (J/S 3) plays in team mode with player 1.

4 Players - Fourth Player (J/S 4) plays in team mode with player 2.

1 Player only - Player 1 controls Team A using J/S 1.  He has a choice
of either playing as a team or playing in position.

2 Players - Two players  can  play  in  team  mode against against the
computer or against each other.  In  the  latter case they may play in
position or as a team.

A squad of 16 players  with  skills  and  attributes pertaining to the
selected skill level are displayed for Team A first.  The names of the
players and their field positions are shown.

The computer has already selected the shirt numbers of the players and
the  substitutes  12  and  14.   There  are  not  necessary  the  best
selections.  If you wish to change  the  selection, move the J/S up or
down to highlight a player  name  and  left  or right to highlight the
shirt number.


8.2 ONE PLAYER

TEAM A

8.21 PLAY AS TEAM

Select JS.1 icon and press F.B.  Select DONE and press F.B.


8.22 PLAY IN POSITION

Select JS.1 icon and  press  F.B.   Move  J/S  to highlight the player
whose identity you wish to assume and press F.B.  Select DONE.


8.22 CANCEL PLAY IN POSITION OR CHANGE THE PLAYER

Highlight the selected player and press F.B.


8.3 TWO PLAYERS

AGAINST EACH OTHER

TEAM A : Player 1 select JS.1 and press F.B.
Play In Position - As in 8.22
Play As Team - Select Done and press F.B

TEAM B : Player 2 select JS.2 and press F.B Then as TEAM A

TEAM MODE

TEAM A - Players 1  &  2  select  JS.1  and  JS.2 respectively and the
players identities.  Select DONE.


8.4 THREE PLAYERS

TEAM A : Player 1 select  JS.1  and  player 3 select JS.3.  Follow the
procedure for Team Mode.

TEAM B : Player 2  select  JS.2.   Select  DONE  to  play as team or a
player and DONE to play in position.


8.5 FOUR PLAYERS

TEAM A : As for 3 Players

TEAM B : Player 2 select  JS.2  and  Player 4 select JS.4.  Follow the
procedure for Team Mode.


8.6 SELECTING START TACTICS

The names of the 4  tactics  in  current  use  are displayed.  Use the
keyboard as detailed in 7.11 to select the tactics at kick off.



9.0 PLAYER CONTROL

9.1 MOVEMENT

The player moves in all 8 joystick directions.


9.2 HEADERS

If the ball is in the air,  pressing  the F.B will make the controlled
player jump.  Move the J/S in the  direction in which you wish to head
the ball when the player is in the air.


9.3 BLOCKING TACKLE

The purpose of this tackle is to  gain possession of the ball from the
opponent.  The  tackle  must  be  from  the  front  or  overtaking the
opponent and getting possession of the ball  as it travels in front of
the player.  Tackling the player from behind is a FOUL.


9.4 SLIDING TACKLE

This tackle can be done from  any  direction.   A sliding tackle on an
opponent without a ball is  a  FOUL.   If  the  ball is on the ground,
press the F.B to do a sliding  tackle.  You must touch the ball before
touching the opponent to avoid being penalised.  A sliding tackle from
behind is a foul.


9.5 SCISSOR KICK

Reverse the direction of the joystick when  the ball is in the air for
a scissor kick.



10.0 BALL CONTROL

Kick Off 2 controls have been specially  designed for ease of use.  In
a fast moving game and under  pressure,  there  is no time to remember
complicated joystick movements, the action has to be instinctive.  The
controls are simple and can be  learnt  and practiced to perfection in
PRACTICE in the main menu.  The  ball control becomes even more deadly
if AFTER TOUCH is used.


10.1 DRIBBLE BALL

The ball travels in  front  of  the  player.   The distance it travels
depends on the speed of the player at the time of contact.


10.2 SHOOT BALL

Press the F.B AFTER  touching  the  ball  will  shoot  the ball in the
direction the player is facing.


10.3 STOP BALL

Press F.B BEFORE touching the  ball  will  stop  the ball and give the
player total control.


10.4 PASS BALL

You must stop the ball before you  can  pass it.  Keep the F.B pressed
down and move the  joystick  in  the  direction  you  wish to pass and
release the F.B.  Releasing the F.B when J/S is centered will take you
back into DRIBBLE  action.   The  player  will  turn  in  the joystick
direction and start dribbling  in  that  direction.   He will shoot in
that direction if F.B is pressed.


10.5 CHIP BALL

If the ball is on  the  ground,  reversing the joystick direction will
chip the ball.


10.6 AFTER TOUCH

This option can be activated in the option menu.  It allows the player
to alter the direction of the  ball  by  a small amount after shooting
the ball.  The direction  must  be  changed immediately after shooting
the ball as the  control  is  only  effective  for  a very short time.
After touch can be used to devastating effect with practice.  Move the
joystick in the direction  you  wish  to  go(forwards positions of the
joystick only) immediately after shooting the ball.



11.0 KEEPER CONTROL

The keeper is computer controlled except in the following cases.


11.1 DEFENDING A PENALTY

The control is transferred to the  main  player.  The keeper stands in
the centre and starts to  move  as  soon  as  the F.B is pressed.  The
longer the F.B is kept pressed, the bigger the movement.

              A                   A - Jump Up
         B         C              B - Dive Top Left Corner
                                  C - Dive Top Right Corner
    D         E         F         D - Dive Left Mid Bar Height
                                  E - Catch Ball
         G         H              F - Dive Right Mid Bar Height
              J                   G - Dive Left Ground
                                  H - Dive Right Ground
                                  J - Stoop





11.2 TAKING GOAL KICKS

The keeper automatically takes the goal  kick unless the player wishes
to do so.  If the  player  does  not  exercise the option quickly, the
computer will take control.   Move  the  J/S  in the required position
before the keeper kicks or throws the  ball.  Press the F.B to quickly
boot the ball upfield to  catch  the  opposition  out of position or to
stop the keeper wasting time.

A - Hard Ahead             B - Hard Left            C - Hard Right
D - Medium Left            E - Medium Ahead         F - Medium Right
G - Soft Left              H - Soft Right           J - Soft Ahead


11.3 CONTROLS

AMIGA - Joystick Only.

Players 3 and 4 require  special  joystick  adaptor available from all
good computer stores.


11.4 QUIT THE MATCH OR PRACTICE

You can quit a single  game,  international friendly or practice mode.
A league game or cup match can not be terminated.

AMIGA - Press ESC Key



12.0 SET PIECES

12.1 CORNER KICKS

12.11 SELECTING TYPE OF CORNER KICK

There is a  choice  of  9  corner  kicks.   A  selection panel appears
showing the goal post and  the  corner  flag.   The selection panel is
actually the face of the ball that the player will kick.

Kicking the ball at the bottom lifts the ball to top bar height.
Kicking the ball in the middle takes the ball at mid goal post height.
Kicking the ball at the bottom keeps the ball low at ankle height.

Kicking the ball away from the goal curls the ball in towards goal.
Kicking the ball straight keeps the ball straight.
Kicking the ball towards the goals curls the ball away from the goal.

Once the ball has been kicked normal ball controls apply.
Look at the scanner to see  the  positions  of your players and select
the suitable corner kick and press the F.B


12.12 STRENGTH OF CORNER KICKS

The duration for which the F.B is  kept  pressed to select the type of
corner kick determines the strength of the  kick.  A short tap will do
a short kick i.e pass to  a  player  near  to the corner flag.  A hard
kick will take the ball to player player across or out of play.



12.2 PENALTIES

The angle and the  height  of  the  shot  are  controlled enabling the
penalty taker to put the ball anywhere in the net.

The pointer on a bar moves  rapidly  from left to right indicating the
horizontal direction of the ball if hit  at that point.  Press the F.B
to start the run.  The longer the  F.B is kept pressed, the higher the
ball will rise.  It is therefore  possible  to  hit the top corners of
the net or keep the ball on the  ground or overshoot the ball over the
top of the goal.  A short tap will keep the ball on the ground.

During the penalties, the keeper control is passed to the main player.
See KEEPER CONTROL instructions.


12.3 FREE KICKS

Set piece free kick is played if there is a foul by a defending player
within a narrow sector in front of the goalmouth.


12.31 TAKING FREE KICKS

The Ball is placed where the foul  occurred.  A few yards away on each
side of the ball stands a player  from  the team taking the free kick.
If two players are playing  in  team  mode,  the main player takes the
free kick and the other controlled  player  stands on the side nearest
to the goal.

Press the F.B to start the  run.   The  duration  for which the F.B is
kept pressed determines the height of the ball.  The longer the button
is kept pressed, the higher the  ball  will rise.  The strength of the
kick is randomly computer controlled.

There are two distinct J/S controls: BEFORE touching the ball and AFTER
touching the ball.

           A

       B       C

    D      E      F

       G       H

           J


   BEFORE                       AFTER

A  Jump Over The Ball           Dip The Ball
B  Slight Left Bias             Dip And Swerve The Ball
C  Slight Right Bias            Dip And Swerve The Ball
D  More Left Bias               Swerve Ball
E  Straight Kick                No Action
F  More Right Bias              Swerve Ball
G  Pass Ball To Left Player
H  Pass Ball To Right Player


Only the player taking the free  kick  has swerve control of the ball.

With practice, he can dip  the  ball  into  opposition net or bend the
ball round the opposition wall.  The controls give infinite control on
the kick and with practice, a match  winner.  If the ball is passed to
another player, normal ball controls are resumed.

If the main player jumps over the ball, in the absence of a controlled
player, one of the players next to the ball will take the kick.


12.32 DEFENDING FREE KICK

A wall of players is formed 10 yards (approx.) from the ball in direct
path of the ball.


12.4 THROW IN

The computer automatically throws the  ball  to  the nearest player in
position to receive the ball.  The  control  can be however assumed by
the player.  There is an option  to  do  a direct SHORT or LONG throw.
Move the joystick in the five forward  positions and press the F.B for
a short throw.  If the  F.B  is  not  pressed  soon, the computer will
automatically take a throw.  The three backward positions are used for
LONG throws.


13.0 SUBSTITUTIONS

You are allowed to make 2 substitutions during the match.  You can not
substitute a player who has  been  given  a  RED  card by the referee.
Only ONE substitution at a time  can  be  made.  The KEEPER CAN NOT BE
SUBSTITUTED.


13.1 SELECTING SUBSTITUTE

Player 12 Team A     F4
Player 14 Team A     F5
Player 12 Team B     F9
Player 14 Team B     F10


13.2 MAKING SUBSTITUTION

When the  ball  goes  out  of  play,  you  will  be  asked  to  make a
substitution.

The name of one of your players will appear on the screen.  Use up and
down cursor keys to scan through  the  players on the field.  When the
name of the player you  wish  to  substitute  appears, press the SPACE
BAR.



14.0 TACTICS

Tactics employed by each side greatly  influences the gameplay and the
results.  The players move into  their tactical positions and provided
the tactics have been properly  designed,  the players are in position
to receive passes, attack and defend.   Kick  Off 2 comes with 8 ready
made tactics to  be  used  for  16  bit  computers  and  4  for  8 bit
computers.  Amiga & ST have the option to load tactics designed in the
Player Manager game can be loaded into  Kick Off 2 single game as well
as in the league games.  The  team  is  however  allowed to use only 4
tactics during the match.   Selecting  the  right tactics is therefore
quite important.


14.1 CHANGING TACTICS

14.11 SINGLE GAME - There are  8  tactics  included  on the KICK OFF 2
disk of which 4 are pre-selected.  A team is allowed to take 4 tactics
to a match.  Use SELECT TACTICS in  the  option menu to replace any or
all four tactics from KICK  OFF  2  disk  or Player Manager data disk.
Select Team A or Team B and the current list of tactics will be shown.
Insert the Player Manager data disk in  the drive or leave the program
disk in the drive.  Press F.B  to  display  the tactics library on the
disk.  Select the tactics you wish  to  replace by pressing F.B.  Move
the J/S to highlight the new  tactics  and  press  F.B to load the new
tactics.  Select DONE.


14.12 LEAGUE GAME

Each team in the league is  allocated  4 tactics.  The tactics of each
team can be replaced by the library  of tactics on the program disk of
Player Manager data disk.  Follow the procedure as detailed in 7.34.


14.2 CHANGING TACTICS DURING THE MATCH

You can select the starting tactics to  be employed by your team.  The
tactics can be changed at any  time  during  the  match as soon as the
ball goes out of play.  See 7.11 for instructions.



15.0 SUDDEN DEATH PENALTY SHOOT OUT

If after an extra time, there  is  still no result, a penalty shootout
takes place.  Each side takes five  penalties  in turn.  The winner is
the team which scored the most  goals.   If the number of goals remain
equal, each side takes a  penalty  alternately.  After both sides have
taken their turn, if there  is  a  goal  difference, the team with the
most goals is declared  the  winner.   The  shoot  out continues until
there is a goal difference.



16.0 GENERAL

The referees in the game have  their own characteristics and competence
level.  Some are more prone than  others in disciplinary action.  They
can give yellow and red cards.

The players with lower stamina are prone to get tired and lose pace as
well as accuracy.  The players  are  also  inclined to time wasting if
the winning margin is small.

Keyboard Commands

Pause                   P
Change Scanner Size     X

Scanner effects the game speed.  You  are  advised to keep it switched
on as much as possible.



17.0 KIT DESIGN

17.1 EDITING THE KITS

The team kit can be  changed  for  a  single or international friendly
match.  Each team has two  colours  allocated.  The combination allows
plain or striped shirts.  A choice of 16 colours is available.

Select the colour box and press the  F.B to cycle through the colours.
When all colours have been selected, move  the J/S to select the style
and press the F.B.

SHIRT  - Main colour + second colour or Main colour only
SHORTS - Second Colour Only



18.0 PRACTICE

There is an option to  practice  skills,  penalties etc.  Press ESC to
return to main menu.


18.1 PRACTICE SKILLS

The option gives the player the chance to learn joystick movements and
improve his passing and shooting skills.   The skills can be practiced
at all skill levels with ONE  or  TWO  players option.  The skills are
learnt without  being  harassed  by  the  opposition.   In  ONE player
option, you control the player nearest to the ball.

In TWO player option, JS.1 controls  player 9 and JS.2 controls player
10.  This option allows you to practice One-Two up and down the pitch.
The joystick controls of KICK OFF  2 are unique and specially designed
for instinctive play.  See controls and learn to dribble, pass, shoot,
chip and head the  ball.   Utilise  GAME  SPEED  option to perfect the
techniques.  Press ESC to quit practice.


18.2 PRACTICE PENALTIES

You can  practice  taking  and  saving  penalties  either  against the
computer  or  another  player.   Each   player  takes  and  defends  5
penalties.  This practice is essential if there is a penalty shoot out
at the end of a  cup  match.   See  the  PENALTIES  section for a full
description of how to take penalties and KEEPER CONTROLS for defending
against penalties.  Press ESC to Quit Practice Penalties.



19.0 ACTION REPLAY

Action replay shows the goal  scored  so  that  a player can enjoy the
glorious moments again.  These glorious moments can be saved on a data
disk and savoured at  a  later  stage.   It  is  possible to compile a
GOLDEN SHOTS disk recording exceptional goals.

THIS OPTION IS ONLY AVAILABLE FOR SINGLE GAMES


19.1

Select ACTION REPLAY in the main  menu.  Select the STORE option.  You
will be asked the following questions.

FILENAME: 8 Chars Max. (Default: Replay)
MATCH DATE: dd/mm/yy (Default: 03/05/90)
TEAM A: 8 Chars Max. (Default: Anco 1)
TEAM B: 8 Chars Max. (Default: Computer)
PLAYER 1 NAME: 8 Chars Max. (Default: Anco)
PLAYER 2 NAME: 8 Chars Max. (Default: Computer)

The action replays will be stored under this filename and will contain
the above information and the identity of the team scoring the goal.


19.2

The action replay is not automatic.   To  see  the replay, press the R
key for normal of S for slow motion  before the next kick off.  If you
wish to save the replays on disk,  insert a formatted data disk in the
drive.  This disk must only be used for saving action replays.


19.3 SAVING REPLAY ON DATA DISK

Press F1 while watching replay to save it to disk.


19.4 EDITING THE REPLAY

This option allows the editing of  the  goals to create a GOLDEN GOALS
disk.  A new formatted disk is required.

This option is  a  stand  alone  program  requiring  extensive  use of
memory.  Once this option is used,  the  computer must be switched off
and the game reloaded to play a game.


19.41

Select the EDIT option in the action replay menu.
Insert the data  disk  in  the  drive  and  select  LOAD  option.  The
directory of the disk will be displayed.   Select the goal you wish to
see and press F.B.  Press space bar to store the goal in memory.  Only
a few goals can be stored in memory at one time.

Insert GOLDEN GOALS disk in the drive and select the SAVE option.
Select CLEAR to clear the memory  to load more action replays.  Repeat
the process for the rest of the  goals  on the match disk.  The GOLDEN
GOALS disk can be further edited to produce another GOLDEN GOALS disk.



20.0 LOADING

Insert your KICK OFF 2 disk  at  the  workbench prompt.  The Game will
load and run automatically.

((Note: I hope that you have got the WEETIBIX/ORACLE version cos thats
the only 100% version.  The PARANOIMIA version kept crashing.) Zarch!)











Well thats the Kick Off 2 Docs finished,  now for the WORLD CUP 90
built in data disk bit.







WORLD CUP 90 (Kick Off 2 Built In Data Disk) DOCS BY ZARCH!!


LOADING

Select SPECIAL EVENTS option on  the  main  menu  and select WORLD CUP
option on the sub menu.


CONTROLS

As in KICK OFF 2.


INTRODUCTION

There are 24 teams competing in  the  world cup finals.  The teams are
organised in 6 groups of 4 teams  each.   The first part of the finals
is played on a league basis.  Each team in the group plays against the
other three teams and a win is  awarded  2  points and a draw 1 point.
Goals FOR and goals AGAINST are  also  recorded.  When all groups have
completed the league, the winner  and  the  runner  up from each group
goes to the next round of  the  tournament together with the best four
losers.  The 16 teams left in the finals now play on a knock out basis
to the quarter finals, semi finals and the final.


INSTRUCTIONS

The 24 teams of the  world  cup  with their current grouping A,B,C,D,E
and F are displayed.  Each group  has  four countries.  You can change
the grouping of any  team  or  all  the  teams  if  you  wish to do so
provided there are FOUR teams in  each group when you finish organising
the groups.

At the bottom of the table there are 4 captions.

CONTINUE - Takes you to the next table or game.

LOAD     - Allows you to load a previously saved world cup game

SAVE     - Saves the current world cup game to disk

QUIT     - Returns you to the main menu without saving.

Move the J/S to highlight  the  group  code  and press F.B.  The group
letter will cycle through the letters  A  to  F  for each press of the
F.B.  Move J/S to change as many groupings as you wish to.  Each group
must have  four  countries.   When  satisfied,  move  the  J/S  to the
captions and select CONTINUE to proceed.

The first round of  the  world  cup  is  played  on  the league basis.
League table for each group will  be  displayed.  The league will show
the letter C in the control column.   This signifies that in the match
the team  is  computer  controlled.   To  change  the  team  to PLAYER
control, highlight C.   Press  F.B  and  C  will  change  to J/S.  The
control toggles between C and  J/S  if  two  players are playing, more
than one team can be set for  J/S control.  When the league is played,
the computer will show JS.1 or JS.2 for the control.

When all the groups have been  played, the original table will display
the teams that have reached the last 16.   The number from 1 to 8 will
appear against the qualifiying teams.  The  teams with the same number
will play against each other.   The  teams  which did not qualify will
have a blank.  You  can  modify  the  numbers  including  the blank by
highlighting the panel and pressing F.B.

This table will appear  for  the  quarter,  semi  and finals.  At each
stage you can alter the qualifying teams.

CREDITS

Amiga Coding   - Dino Dini

Graphics, Play
Testing Etc.   - Steve Screech

Docs Typing    - Zarch of Random

Manual
Supplied By    - Steve The Blade

END.........
