Kick Off Docs typed by ZARCH!

INTRODUCTION

KICK OFF is an accurate soccer simulation with a full size multi-directional
scroll pitch and the markings, goals, etc. in correct proportions.  Both teams
play the game strictly according to tactics decided at the start of the game.
Players mave in position to receive passes and move directly towards the ball
to intercept and gain possession.  The ball, as in a real game, travels ahead
of the player thus making tackling a matter of skill rather than chance.

KICK OFF, like real soccer, requires skills in ball control. Since there is a
wide variety of ball skills to learn and tactical plays to practice, there is
an option to learn these skills without being harrassed by the opposition.
The set pieces like corner kicks (Choice Of 9), passing, sliding tackles,
dribbling can be praticed to perfection.

Each player on the pitch has a unique combination of 4 attributes, namely,
PACE, STAMINA, ACCURACY AND AGGRESSION.  An international striker has greater
accuracy and acceleration than a youth level striker.  The latter may have
more aggression.  As you progress through the skill levels, you will need to
adapt to different types of players.

The facility to set the skill levels of both teams independently greatly adds
to the lasting enjoyment of the game.  For a really tough game, you can select
a SUNDAY side for yourself and play against an INTERNATIONAL side.  Playing
against a friend, the levels can be set to suit the skills for a hard game
and tough game.

You can play in a league consisting of 8 teams.  The teams in the league are
on the whole evenly matched but have different styles of play with players
attributes to match that style.  The league lasts 14 weeks and there is a
Load/Save facility.

You can play against the computer or against a friend.  You must be careful
when tackling the opposition player.  Fouling is penalised by a yellow card if
the referee happens to see it.  Persistent fouling will mean a sending off.

The scanner on the pitch shows the position of all the players and is of great
assistance in playing the game.

There are 16 different referees in the game with varying skills and aptitude.


MAIN MENU

Move the joystick up or down to highlight a option.  Press the fire button to
select the option.

PRACTICE SKILLS
This option gives the player the chance to learn joystick movements and
improve his passing skills, corner kicks, etc. and learn to play according 
to various tactical plans.  The corners can be practiced with or without
a keeper.  Practice as long as you like.  Press ESC to return to the main menu.

PRACTICE PENALTIES
Allows you to take and defend a series of 5 penalty kicks in one or two players
mode.  Press ESC to return to the main menu.

PLAY SINGLE GAME
You can play against the computer or a friend.  There are 5 skill levels.  The
skill levels of both teams can be set independently.  Press ESC to abandon
match and return to main menu.

PLAY LEAGUE
The league consists of 8 teams and lasts 14 weeks.  Each team in the league has
its own style of play.

DURATION
Sets the match duration for a game.  The option ranges from 10 minutes to
90 minutes.  The default value is 10 minutes.  The match duration must be set
before selcting single or league game options.


SUB MENUS

If single or league options are selcted, a series of sub menus are presented
for various options and lead to the actual play without returning to main menu.

PLAY SINGLE GAME

NUMBER OF PLAYERS
Highlight the option by moving JS 1 up and down and press the fire button.

One Player    JS 1     Controls the BLUE team
Two Players   JS 1     Controls the BLUE team
              JS 2     Controls the RED team


SKILL LEVEL
There are 5 skill levels :- SUNDAY, YOUTH, RESERVE, NATIONAL & INTERNATIONAL.
The skill level of both sides is set independently.  Highlight the selection
and press fire button.  There is a gentle breeze which changes direction 
randomly affecting ball behaviour if both teams play at reserve level or above.

TOSS
The winner of the toss decides whether to play up or down the pitch.

MATCH TACTICS
There are 4 distinct tactics determined by the choice or formations.  The 
players play in their designated positions ready to intercept the opposition
and receive passes.  The players nearest to the ball run towards the ball.
The formations are :-
			4 - 3 - 3   Defensive Play
			4 - 2 - 4   Attacking Play
			4 - 4 - 2   Good Midfield Control
			5 - 3 - 2   Sweeper Defensive Play

Move JS 1 up or down to highlight the option and press fire button in two
player mode.  JS 2 selects the option after JS 1.

The game starts as soon as the selections have been made.



LEAGUE GAME


The league consists of 8 teams and lasts 14 weeks.  The league game is played
at the NATIONAL level and the sides contain some INTERNATIONAL standard
players.  Each team has its own style of play and strengths in different
departments.  Up to 8 players can play in the league and there is a facility
to save and load seperate leagues.  This facility is useful if you are playing
with friends at different times.

When the league option is selected, the league table with the names of all the
8 teams is shown.  It also shows whether the team is computer or joystick
controlled.  The table also shows the results of the games and the points
gained.  The following options are offered.

MODIFY
The names of the teams and joystick or computer comtrol can be modified.
Move the joystick up or down to highlight the name to be modified.  Press the
fire button and a * will appear beside the name.  Use backspace to delete the
characters and the keyboard to enter new names.  Maximum 15 chars allowed.
Use F! to toggle between joystick and computer control.  Select done when
all modifications are finished.

LOAD
Loads a previously saved game.  New line disk.  The names of the previously
saved leagues are displayed.  Move joystick up or down to highlight the file
name to be loaded then press fire button.

CONTINUE
Highlights the two teams to play the next match.  A new set of options appear.
If two joysticks are in use, the teams are allocated joystick 1 & joystick 2.

SAVE
Insert a formatted disk or a disk with previously saved leagues in the drive.
Any previously saved league file names will be displayed.  Highlight an
existing file name or type a new name.  Press the fire button.

QUIT
Takes you to the main menu.


PLAYER CONTROL

MOVEMENT
The player moves in all 8 joystick directions

HEADERS
If the ball is in the air, pressing the fire button will make the controlled
player jump.  Move the joystick in the direction in which you wish to head
the ball when the player is in the air.

TACKLE
There are two types of tackle

BLOCKING TACKLE
The purpose of this tackle is to gain possession of the ball from the opponent.
You cannot tackle a player from behind without fouling him.  You must intercept
the ball running beside the opponent and get the ball travelling ahead before
he does or tackle from the front.

SLIDING TACKLE
This tackle can be done from any direction.  A sliding tackle on a opponent
without a ball is a foul.  Press the fire button to do a sliding tackle.  You
must touch the ball before the player to avoid being penalised.  A sliding 
tackle from behind is a foul if seen by the referee.

KEEPER CONTROL
The keeper is controlled by the computer during the game.  The control is
transfered to the player for PENALTIES only.

                              JUMP

                     DIVE              DIVE
             
              DIVE            CATCH           DIVE

                     DIVE              DIVE

                              STOOP

Press fire button to start the move.  The longer the fire button is pressed
the bigger the movement.


BALL CONTROL
KICK OFF ball controls have being specially designed for ease of use.  In a
fast moving game and under pressure, there is time to remember the complicted
joystick movements.  The action has to be instinctive.  You are advised to
learn the controls by using the practice skills option in the main menu.

DRIBBLE BALL
The ball travels in front of the player.  The distance it travels depends
on the speed of the player when he made contact with the ball.

SHOOT BALL
Press the fire button AFTER touching the ball shoots the ball in the direction
the player is facing.

STOP BALL
Press the fire button BEFORE touching the ball will stop the ball and give
you total control.

PASS BALL
You must STOP the ball before you can pass it.  Keep the fire button pressed
and move the joystick in the direction you wish to pass and release fire
button.
Realeasing the fire button when joystick is centered and the ball is 
stationary takes you back into dribble action.  The player will turn in the 
joystick direction and start dribbling the ball in that direction and if
the fire button is pressed again, shoot in that direction.  Yhe ball will
remain stationary as long as the joystick remains centered.

CHIP BALL
Reverse the direction of the joystick on making contact with the ball.


SET PIECES

CORNER KICKS
There is a choice of 9 corner kicks.  A selection panel appears.  Look at the
scanner to see the position of your players ans select the option by
highlighting it and press the fire button.  The computer takes the corner.
The arrows on the ball show the direction of the ball movement relative to
the goal.  The options allow you to curl the ball in or out.  A ball kicked
at the top will travel on the ground, in the middle at half height and at the
bottom to the bar height.

PENALTIES
The angle and the height of the shot are controlled enabled the penalty taker
to put the ball anywhere in the net.
There is a bar with a pointer moving rapidly form left to right.  This 
indicates to horizontal position of the ball.  The height of the ball is
determined by how long the button is pressed before contact with the ball is
made.  The longer the fire button is held down the higher the ball will travel.
It is therefore possible to overshoot or hit the goal posts or the bar. As
soon as the fire button is pressed, the pointer in the bar freezes giving the
keeper a split second chance to gauge the direction of the shot and a
fighting chance to save.  The penalty must be taked as soon as possible after
the referee blows the whistle.


KEYBOARD OPTIONS

	X - Change Scanner Size
	D - Scanner On/Off
	P - Pause Game On/Off
	Q - Sound On/Off
	C - Crowd Sound Only On/Off
      ESC - Quit Current Half (Single Game Only)



CREDITS


PROGRAM         Dino Dini

GRAPHICS        S.Redpath & S.Screech

PLAY TESTING    S.Screech

DOCS TYPED BY   Zarch!