                               Darius +

Loading The Game:

For both the ST and AMIGA versions, simply have the main game disc in the
drive when you power up your computer. The game will automatically load and
run. (The Amiga version has only one disc, but the ST has two disks: use
disc 1 to load the game).

Controls:

This game is designed to be played with a joystick only. Upon loading you
will see the Rodney Matthews designed EDGE logo. Any time from when the
sampled music starts playing you can now press the SPACE BAR to commence
loading the final part of the game and start playing. Once loaded you can
chose whether to have music and FX during the game, just music, or just FX
Press F1, F2, or F3. You will see which of the 3 options you have chosen
confirmed for you.

During the game you can press 'P' to pause the game and press it again to
restart it. If you pick up the droid (see below) then pressing the left
cursor key will position it behind you, pressing the right cursor key will
place it back in front of you again. The only other keys you need to bear
in mind are keys 1 to 4 for chosing your weaponry - see below for details!

Playing The Game:

You have twenty eight possible sectors to defeat in your fight to beat the
enemy. You start with Sector A by simply pressing your fire button in the
selector screen. When you have completed Sector A you will have the choice
of either Sectors B or C, and so on.

Once the game has started you will have to keep your wits about you!

Various star-shaped tokens will come on the screen from time to time. There
are two types of token, one of which has an orange centre, the other is
pulsing red. The first type of token allows your weapon centres to gain
more and more elaborate and powerful weapons. The pulsing red token allows
you to gain weapon centres you do not already have. By pressing the keys 1
to 4  you can see that you can open one of the four hatches in the upper
right of the control panel. Key one selects your main craft. Key 2 selects
the droid. Keys 3 and 4 select cannon 1 and cannon 2 respectively. If you
want to gain the droid then select key 2 and pick up the plusing red token
with your ship. To get either cannon 1 or 2 you select either key 3 or 4
whilst picking up the pulsing red token. Once you have a weapon centre you
can build up its weaponry by picking up more and more of the second (and
more plentiful) type of token. Again, the weapon centre selected using keys
1 to 4 will be the one that will be improved by collecting this type of
token. If you pick up the pulsing red token when you have the ship selected
then you can gain a limited-life shield. If you pick this pulsing red token
up then you have gained just one cannon and it is selected, then you can
cause this cannon to circle around you up and down. Finally, pressing the
Space bar at any time will toggle between your droid and cannon(s) being
sent out or pulled in to vary your attack formation on the enemy. Having
fought your way to the end of a Sector, be prepared for the meanest
motherships you've ever seen! Choose your weapons well if you are able to
survive to fight on to another sector!

Good luch on the best blast you've had in a long time!

                                  Credits:
                          Game Coding: Glynn Kendle
                            Visuals: Tahir Rashid
                             Music/FX: Uncle Art
                         Game Enhancemane: Tahir/Tim

                      Docs typed by: Alistaire Crowley