                                DAWN PATROL
                                ===========

       TECHNICAL SUPPLEMENT and USER GUIDE ADDENDUM - COMMODORE AMIGA
       --------------------------------------------------------------


                                                              TYPED BY SHARD - N&B


Empire Interactive wish to thank you for purchasing Dawn Patrol. Please be sure
to register it with us within fourteen days - For more information please see the
enclosed Registration/Support Card.

Before you begin, please take time to read the important information and
appendices within this guide.

CONTENTS
--------

Section 1 - Important Notes.

   Memory, Making a User Disk, On Disk Protection and Addendum.

Section 2 - Getting Started.

Appendix A - Controls.

   Controlling the Interactive Book and In Flight Controls.

Appendix B - Saving & Loading

   Preferences and Pilot Biographies.

Appendix C - Trouble Shooting.

Keyboard Reference Guides.


SECTION 1 - IMPORTANT NOTES
---------------------------

MEMORY
Dawn Patrol requires at least 1 MB of memory to run successfully.If your machine
has only 1 MB of memory, you will not be able to make use of any additional disk
drives. (Simply disable/disconnect). If your machine has more than 1 MB, you may
be able to take advantage of the MUSIC option on the Preferences screen.

Before playing Dawn Patrol,ensure that the power for your Amiga has been off for
at least a minute.  This will minimise the chance of your Dawn Patrol disks
becoming infected with a virus and should effectively clear/defragment the 
memory.


MAKING A USER DISK
Before playing Dawn Patrol from floppy disk, you are advised to make a USER disk
to save Preferences and Pilot Biographies - See Appendix B of this guide.

ON-DISK PROTECTION
The enclosed disk 1 of 3 is copy-protected. If you intend to play the game from 
a floppy-drive, please ensure that you use your original disk 1 when booting the
game.  You may however, make a single user copy of disk 2 and 3 since these are
accessed frequently for individual parts of the game.

USER GUIDE ADDENDUM
The enclosed User Guide is based on the IBM PC version of the game however much 
of the information is essential to the Amiga version also. Please ignore 
references to IBM PC/CD-ROM - These will include the following:-

Video Replay & Video Editlng Suite - Page 15, 18, Section 6 (39-43)
Joystick Controls & Input Devices - Refer to Appendix A in this guide
Amiga Preferences Screen - Refer to Appendix B in this guide
Chase View (Page 24-25) Not on Amiga Version
No Mouse/Joystick Sensitivity on Amiga Version (Page 30)
Seperate Rudder (Page 31) Not on Amiga Version


SECTION 2 - GETTING STARTED
---------------------------

HARD DISK USERS
To install Dawn patrol to Hard Disk, simply load Workbench and insert disk 1.
Double click the 'Dawn Patrol Disk1' icon and then the 'HD-Install' icon. Soon
after this you will be presented with the Installation Window.Using the keyboard
and the mouse, change the Hard Disk partition and path to read your desired
destination.

eg. WORK:GAMES/PATROL

Once the program has successfully installed, follow the on-screen prompts to 
begin the game.

FLOPPY DRIVE USERS
Insert your original Dawn Patrol disk 1 and follow the on-screen instructions.
The program will prompt you to insert other disks when required.


APPENDIX A - CONTROLS
---------------------

CONTROLLING THE INTERACTIVE BOOK
The interactive book in Dawn Patrol can be controlled using your mouse and/or
keyboard - The TAB key (and SHIFT TAB) will move between the selectable items 
and the RETURN/ENTER key (left mouse button) can be used to make your 
selections. The joystick is not available as an option for this part of the 
game.

IN-FLIGHT CONTROLS
Options for in flight control are listed below and are obtainable by selecting 
the Preferences screen or by pressing F10 in-flight. Additional keys will be 
required for in flight views and options. These keys are listed as a chart on 
pages 6-8 of this guide.

Keyboard
Mouse
Joystick
Gravis (Mouse stick) - Remember to have the Mouse stick in Port one of your 
Amiga.

Analogue - This will allow you to configure your Analogue joystick. Once this
option is selected you will not need to select it again, unless you have 
restarted Dawn Patrol.

Recalibrate - This option allows you to change your previous Analogue joystick
settings. It can be selected as many times as you wish.

Some keys have been duplicated for the A600 machine.

Rudder left                    = ALT + <
Rudder right                   = ALT + >
Rudder clear                   = ALT + /
Full Rudder deflection, Left   = CTRL <
Full Rudder deflection, Right  = CTRL + >

The fire key has also been duplicated on the left and right Amiga keys.


APPENDIX B -SAVING/LOADING
--------------------------

If you intend to play the game from the floppy drive, you are strongly advised 
to make a USER disk before booting the game. This will enable you to save and
restore Pilot Biographies and Preferences, however, it is not essentlal to play
the game.

To create a USER disk simply format a disk using Workbench and rename the disk 
as USER.This name is essential for Dawn Patrol to recognise it for this purpose.

The SAVE and LOAD selections can be made on the following pages of the 
interactive book-

Page 1   - Contents Page
Page 94  - Pilot Biographies Page
Page 159 - Preferences Page

Clicking on SAVE or LOAD on any one of these three screens will account for both
Pilot Biographies and Preferences. You do not have to save or load these
individually.

If you are running the game from a Hard-Disk, you will not be prompted for a 
USER disk.

PREFERENCES
The following options are available on the Preferences Screen.

Distant 3D   On/Off
Roads        On/Off
Trenches     On/Off
Rivers       On/Off

The options below may not be available if your Amiga does not contain enough 
free memory or a 68020 or higher.

Land Detail    High/Medium/Low
3D Type        16 Colour/32 Colour
Music          Off/On

The Amiga Preferences screen does not contain the following:

Auto Detail
Auto Window Option
Screen fades

PILOT BIOGRAPHIES
Further details for Pilot Biographies can be obtained on Page 17 of the user 
guide.


APPENDIX C - TROUBLESHOOTING
----------------------------

Problem:  'Failed to install CIA timer interrupt.  Please refer to technical
          information'

Solution: If you have an Amiga CD-ROM drive on your machine, it is likely you 
          have installed driver software on your hard disk to run it. You will 
          have to remove this software before you can run Dawn patrol. If you 
          are unsure how to do this please contact the Empire Interactive 
          technical support line.

Problem: 'Memory has become too fragmented to continue...'

Solution: This problem should only ever occur if you have been playing for 
          several hours. It would then be neccessary to reset your machine as 
          detailed in the 'Important Notes' section of this guide.

Problem:  After inserting disk One, the game fails to load.

Solution: Please ensure that your Amiga has 1Mb or FREE memory and that you are
          using your original copy of disk 1. If the disk still fails to load,
          this is likely to be caused by a defective disk. In this case, please
          return the offending disks only to our customer services department.
          The address can be found on your warranty card.


Empire Interactive Technical Support & Customer Services - 0181-343-9143


KEYBOARD REFERENCE GUIDE
------------------------

In Flight Keys By Subject

VIEWPOINTS

ESC          Change viewee to your aircraft
SHIFT ESC    View of players aircraft maintaining last viewpoint
F1           Zoom in
ALT F1       Zoom out
CTRL F1      Reset zoom
F2           Rotate vertically around viewee
ALT F2       Rotate vertically around viewee in opposite direction to F2
CTRL F2      Reset to default vertical view angle
F3           Rotate horizontally around viewee
ALT F3       Rotate horizontally around viewee in opposite direction to F3
CTRL F3      Reset to default horizontal view angle
SHIFT F2     View of launched missile
SHIFT F3     View of nearest friendly aircraft
SHIFT F4     View of nearest enemy aircraft
SHIFT F5     View of object you have been assigned to attack according to on-
             screen messages
SHIFT F7     View of object that last message refers to
SHIFT F8     View of currently assigned ground target
SHIFT F9     View of nearest possible ground target
SHIFT 9      View of your wingman
F5           Outside view - camera maintains absolute heading and pitch
ALT F5       Outside view - looking out from viewee messages
F6           Track view - camera pitches and turns with the aircraft
ALT F6       Track view - looking out from viewee
F7           External satellite view
ALT F7       View below viewee
F8           View across your aircraft to the viewee (outside lock)
ALT F8       View looking from in front of your aircraft to the viewee
CTRL F8      Lock view from behind the viewee to your aircraft
F9           View from your aircrafts cockpit of the viewee (inside lock)
ALT F9       View from in front of the viewee to your aircraft
5            View the rear of your aircraft from the inside
6            View the left of your aircraft from the inside
7            View the front of your aircrafts cockpit from the inside
8            View the right of your aircraft from the inside
9            View the rear of your aircraft from the inside
0            Return to cockpit from an outside viewpoint.
BACKSPACE    Inside combat lock - lock onto nearest enemy (see manual)
Q            Toggle between fixed and free viewpoints of viewee
R            Decrease rate of rotation for F2 & F3 keys
ALT R        Increase rate of rotation for F2 & F3 keys
CTRL R       Reset rate of rotation for F2 & F3 keys and reset view angle
[            Look up (see gun sights if looking forward)
]            Look down (see instrument panei if looking forward)
ENTER        Outside combat lock (lock onto nearest enemy from outside view)
ALT F        Select the next nearest viewee [fixed mode only]
CTRL F       Reset fixed viewpoint to current nearest viewee
SHIFT F      Toggle between fixed and free viewpoints of viewee
Z            Impact viewpoint - switch view to target when hit
X            Missile viewpoint - switch view to launched bullet

[NUM KEYPAD]

SHIFT 8,4, 6, 2   View directions

ACCELERATION CONTROLS

TAB          Speed up time (turns off when any key pressed or mission event
             occurs)
SHIFT TAB    Uninterrupted time speed up
ALT F10      Decrease time speed-up
CTRL F10     Increase time speed up

GEAR

W            Wheel brake

WEAPON CONTROLS

SPACE        Fire (Also Left and Right Amiga Keys)
T            Auto gunfire (only if autopilot ON)
U            Unjam machine gun
J            Increase rate of gunfire
K            Decrease rate of gunfire

FLIGHT CONTROLS

A                   Autopilot (toggle indication on instrument panel)
1                   Increase the keyboard flight control sensitivity
2                   Decrease the keyboard flight control sensitivity
[NUM KEYPAD] END    Full rudder deflection, left
[NUM KEYPAD) PG DN  Full rudder deflection, right
[NUM KEYPAD] INS    Gradual rudder deflection, left
[NUM KEYPAD] DEL    Gradual rudder deflection, right

[NUM KEYPAD](8, 4, 6, 2) Flight directions

CURSOR Right, Left, Up, down.  Fiight directions

B                   Air brake toggle

ENGINE CONTROLS

,                     Minimum power setting
.                     Maximum power setting
[NUM KEYPAD] -        Decrease RPM by single, large steps
[NUM KEYPAD] +        Increase RPM by single, large steps
SHIFT-                Decrease RPM in large steps
SHIFT +               Increase RPM in large steps
[NUM KEYPAD] SHIFT -  Decrease RPM by standard amount
[NUM KEYPAD] SHIFT +  Increase RPM by standard amount
-                     Decrease RPM continuously, in small steps
+                     Increase RPM continuously, in small steps

GENERAL CONTROLS

F10                   Configuration menus
ALT X                 Exit flight
P                     Pause
S                     Sound toggle (off, no engine sounds or with engine
                      sounds)

MAPS and WAYPOINTS

M                     Map screen (ESC to return to flight)
;                     Step back through waypoints
'                     Step forward through waypoints
SHIFT ;               Cycle through position information
================================================================================
                          DAWN PATROL - USER GUIDE
                          ========================

                                                           TYPED BY SHARD - N&B
INTRODUCTION
------------

The system used to create Dawn Patrol has taken quite a few man years to develop
and involved many members of our team. We believe that we have brought you some
of the best flight technology available.

But Dawn Patrol is more than simply a technological tour de force. It deals with
one of the most exciting theatres in the whole of aviation history-the first use
of aircraft in warfare. Our remit was to produce a simulator dealing with the
First World War; to highlight the pilots and their aircraft as well as the rush 
to achieve air superiority. It soon became very clear to us that this was a very
large story indeed. As the war progressed, so the fortunes of both sides in the
air fluctuated. This was an intensely personal battle between individual flyers,
sometimes employing quite unorthodox tactics in a wide range of aircraft. Many
accounts of their experienees have been described in print.

Thats why we decided to base Dawn Patrol around an interactive 'book' of the air
war. It means that we've been able to provide chapters on the history of the air
war, the most famous aces and the aircraft they flew.That has allowed us to deal
with many of the most interesting aspects of the conflict.Thanks to contemporary
accounts,we can let you take part in recreated aerial battles and missions which
are very close to those actually flown by the men on both sides of the conflict.

Our preoccupation with pre jet flight simulators is based on the observation 
that early aerial battles were a lot more exciting than those employing modern
technology.In the first air war there were no heat-guided missiles to aim in the
general direction of the enemy.The aircraft approached each other at speeds that
were slower than the fluttering of an eyelid. In the midst of battle it was
possible to imagine that you could see the whites of your opponents eyes. That's
why we are sure you will enjoy Dawn Patrol.

Rowan Software.

SECTION 1
---------

ABOUT DAWN PATROL

Dawn Patrol is really an interactive book devoted to flying in the First World 
War - the first ever air war. This book has over a hundred pages devoted to 
subjects like the first flying aces and the aircraft of the era. Like any good 
book, it's possible to read it sequentially or to dip into it at any point you 
like. Each page is devoted to a particular aspect of the aerial war,and includes 
an individually tailored aerial battle or mission Normally, you will be allowed 
to alter the number of aircraft involved in the mission, and often you will be 
able to choose whether you wish to fly on the side of the "Allies" or on the 
side of the "Central Powers". Hence the game provides a great deal of variety 
and will, hopefully, give you hundreds of hours of enjoyable playing time.

An extra chapter lets you create your own personalised pilot record by 
undertaking all sorts of suggested missions under a persona of your own 
choosing. This is your chance to become a flying ace.

Finally, there is a "Video Editing Suite" where you can edit videos of your 
aerial adventures. During any mission you can start filming the action, and 
after the battle has finished you can sit back and replay the recorded action 
in the comfort of your armchair. The editing suite lets you manipulate the 
action with more flexibility than any real life post production unit. So, not 
only will you be able to show your friends how to win an aerial mission, but 
you'll be able to showoff your talent as a film director.

About this User Guide

The Dawn Patrol User Guide deals with all of the major aspects of the game. To 
install the software on your machine, refer to the TECHNICAL REFERENCE 
SUPPLEMENT supplied separately from this guide. The supplement is tailored for 
your particular computer. Although this guide is intended for all Dawn Patrol 
users, it has been written from the perspective of an IBM PC compatible owner. 
If you use a different type of computer, and you are in doubt about any machine 
specific instructions such as key presses, then you should consult your 
technical supplement.

Your approach to this game will probably be to play it before reading any of the
documentation. Inevitably, though, there will come a time when you'll need to 
uncover more information about Dawn Patrol. Hopefully it is all here in the User
Guide. You can either read through the guide from the beginning, or look up the 
relevant topic in the Table of Contents at the start.

The next section, called First Mission, assumes that you are straining at the
leash to get on your goggles and leather hat. It guides you from the first page
of Dawn Patrol book into the skies and on to the completetion of your first 
aerial mission.

After First Mission, section 3 of the guide details all of the major chapters of
the Dawn Patrol interactive book, from beginning to end. Section 4 goes through
the basic controls of the in flight section of the game.Section 5 describes some
of the basic principles of flying, shooting, and tips for surviving the air war.
Finally, section 6 describes all of the features of the video editing suite. Two
appendices deal with keyboard commands and joystick controls.

Note:

Input Devices

The interactive book in Dawn Patrol can be controlled using your mouse and/or
keyboard - the joystick is not available as an option. The flight simulation
section of the game can be controlled by keyboard and/or joystick - the mouse is
not available as an option.The specific keys to use on your keyboard are printed
on the keyboard reference card provided with the package, and in appendix A of
this guide.The specific control of the joystick is detailed in appendix B of the
guide.

Selection

The generic term "select" is used when you are required to click on the left 
mouse or press ENTER on the keyboard. Items are selected in the interactive book
by moving the on screen pointer over a selectable item (which is normally 
displayed in red) and "selecting" it using either the mouse or keyboard. The 
onscreen pointer can be positioned by moving the mouse or pressing the TAB key 
on the keyboard (this will cycle the printer around all of the "selectable" 
items (on the screen).

SECTION 2
---------

FIRST MISSION

If you've hurriedly opened this package and now wish to get straight into a 
First World War dogfight, then these instructions will lead you through your 
first mission. A more detailed explanation of the game's features begins in 
section 3. If you have not already done so, read the instructions in the 
Technical Reference Supplement and follow the game installation and loading 
procedure.

Dawn Patrol starts on the first page of an interactive book. A list of contents
details all of the chapters, whose opening pages are highlighted in red. We now
wish to go to the first chapter, 'The First Air War', which starts on page two.
Position the screen pointer over the First Air War page number(2),and select it.
(If you have trouble selecting the page number then read the two paragraphs on
'input devices' in section 1 of this guide). Page two lists the contents of the
'First Air War' chapter, from which you should select page three, entitled The
Fokker Scourge.

Page three is the first interactive page of Dawn Patrol, and it contains
information about the early days of the air war, as well as providing a playable
mission. The top half of the page displays text through which you can scroll
downwards by selecting the red down arrow positioned half way down the screen on
the right hand side. After selecting the down arrow twice the photograph of a
Fokker Monoplane in the bottom left corner of the page will be replaced by an
animation. This animation shows a British BE2c reconnaissance biplane in flight.

The page three mission is described in the bottom right corner.You take the role
of Oswald Boelcke,an early German ace, flying a Fokker monoplane in an attack on
two 'unsuspecting' BE2c's.If you are feeling very brave you can make the mission
more difficult by altering the number of opponents highlighted in the mission
profile. When you have read all of this page, select the Iron Cross to the left
of the mission headline and your mission will have begun.

Your first flight in Dawn Patrol may take you by surprise.When you start you are
already in the air, at the controls of a Fokker monoplane. There is no need to
fire up your engines, take off and engage the enemy. Your opponents are probably
not very far away! Since this is your first flight you might wish to press the
pause button P at this point, and take a closer look at the screen. It shows an
upper view of the cockpit with the double gunsights of your Fokker monoplane.
Press the right square bracket key ] for a lower cockpit view that includes your
instrument panel. The dials display your rev count, compass bearing and speed.
The number at the top left of the screen shows that you are at a height of a few
thousand feet.

Now that you are in pause mode, you can take a little time to familiarise 
yourself with the game controls. You will find that many of the keys detailed 
by the 'in flight keyboard' reference still work in pause mode, especially those 
which alter the views on the screen. Since Dawn Patrol provides immense 
flexibility of view types, it is worth getting a flavour of what is available. 
Fir instance, press the 5, 6, and 8 keys to see, respectively, views of the 
rear, left and right of your aircraft.

Press the F6 key and you will change to a 'track' view of your Fokker taken from
a camera just behind the rear of the aircraft. You will notice that the bottom 
part of your screen changes to a panel once the view is from outside the 
cockpit. This panel contains information about your mission. For now, just note 
the top line that displays the name of your aircraft, as well as your bearing, 
speed and altitude. If you press the SHIFT and F4 keys simultaneously then you 
will see a track view of your nearest enemy craft. Now you know what you're up 
against.

The message line at the top of the screen should shortly reveal the location of
your enemy with a comment like "My opponent is moving at 4 o'cloek".We cant tell
you where YOUR opponent is,because each combat plays differently every time it 
is loaded. Think of a watch face aligned so that 12 o'clock is pointing straight
ahead in the direction of your aircraft. If the enemy is at 4 o'clock,that means
an enemy aircraft is in the direction of four o'clock on the clock face,in other
words 120 degrees to the right. Unless the aircraft is in sight, though, you
don't know whether it is above you or below you. You can get a good idea of your
relative positions by pressing the ENTER key,which takes you into'Outside Combat
Lock' mode.This is just fancy jargon for a camera angle that maintains a lock on
the nearest enemy from a position that also has your aircraft in the foreground.
It may be that the enemy is obscured by the view of your aircraft,but it reveals
your relative positions. For instance,if the enemy is above and in front of you,
you'll get a view from beneath your aircraft,pointing forward and upwards 
towards the enemy aircraft. This is the direction you should be heading, so why
not switch back to a cockpit view by pressing the right square bracket ] key,and
get flying.

Press the P key again to get out of pause mode, and start manoeuvring with the
cursor keys or your joystick. If you find the controls too sensitive then press
the 2 key a couple of times to decrease the flight sensitivity to the minimum
level. Your aim should be to get behind the pair of BE2c's, because they will
then be very easy to pick off. You can use the - key to reduce the engine revs
and so match your speed more closely to your intended victims. When they get
within range, press the space bar to fire your machine guns, and see what damage
you can inflict. If you succeed in making hits you will see puffs of smoke.
Fatal damage after a number of hits will be obvious, and you will then have 
taken your first step to becoming an ace in your own right. If you fail to get a
good run on both aircraft, then you should try to make successive attacks.

Other smoke exploding around the enemy will be flak from ground attacks - make
sure you get in there before your artillery does the work for you! With a bit of
skill on your part, the enemy should suffer a disastrous mission. You will then
have four main options.

[1] If you have managed to complete your main mission objective, you can leave 
the scene of battle by pressing the F10 key.This leads to a configuration screen
where you can select END MISSION, giving you a post mission summing up with
details of your performance. Select the RESET PAGE option,and you will return to
the third page of the book. Press the cursor right key to proceed to page four.

[2] If you have found the mission too hard for you at this stage then you should
leave the flight simulator by pressing F10, and then alter some of the settings 
on the configuration screen.If you select 'vulnerability' 'arms' , 'targets' and
'skill level' in turn, and set them to off, off, soft and low respectively, then
you will now be invulnerable to damage, have an infinite amount of machine gun
bullets, easier targets volumes to hit and below average skill enemies. You can
then repeat your flight by selecting END MISSION,followed by RESET PAGE and then
re entering from page three. Hopefully this time you will find it easier. When
you have begun to master Dawn Patrol,remember to increase the difficulty of some
of these settings if you want a greater challenge.

[3] If the mission was too easy for you then press F10 to exit the flight and on
the configuration screen set 'vulnerability', 'arms', 'targets' and'skill level'
to on, on, hard and high respectively. This should make things rather more
challenging. Alternatively, you could progress to some further missions before
making these changes.

[4] If you have disposed of your enemy and are still waiting for more to do,then
you could try and fly back to your 'home base', land there and fully complete 
your mission. On the third line of the control panel (the bottom portion of the 
screen on an external view), you will see the position information for your Home
Base (if it is not being displayed,hit the keys SHIFT and ; simultaneously until
it IS displayed).Set a heading back to base,and see if you can make a successful
landing there. If the journey is more than a few miles then you can always speed
up time when you have set an exact course by hitting the TAB key. Hit any key to
get back to normal time progress. Once your home airfield is in sight, set a
landing course, decrease your engine revs, and when you touch the ground put on
the wheel brakes (press W) and turn off your engine (press the , key). Exit by
pressing F10 (or ALT and X together), bask in the approval of your post mission
summing up,and head off for a good shower,a mug of warm soup and an early night.
There will be a lot of difficult missions out there tomorrow.


SECTION 3
=========

DAWN PATROL - THE BOOK

List of Contents

Page one of the interactive Dawn Patrol book contains a list of six chapters,any
one of which can be accessed directly.

The first three chapters, named The First Air War,The First Aces and Aircraft of
the Era, deal with various aspects of the air war between 1915 and 1918. They
contain ninety pages of information, and each one is linked to a specially
tailored mission for you to fly. Chapter four, Pilot Biographies, allows you to
assume the identity of a fictional flying character from one of the four major
nations involved in the air war. You will be able to undertake special missions,
from which a personal biography will be created. The fifth chapter,Video Replay,
enables you to view and post produce film of your experiences as an air ace. The
last chapter provides a single page of your 'preferences' for the settings of 
the variable options relating to the game and its control.

Each item highlighted in red on the List of Contents page acts as a hotspot. If
the screen pointer is selected while it is over a hotspot then an action will be
taken. Selecting CLOSE BOOK on the top right corner of the screen is the method
of quitting from Dawn Patrol back to the DOS prompt. Any chapter can be accessed
by selecting the opening page number that is highlighted opposite the chapter
name. In the bottom right corner of the page, the current page number is
highlighted. If it is selected, then a small box is opened with an editing
position represented by a vertical bar. This will accept any page number, to
which the book turns when the box is selected again.If you wish to exit from the
box without making a new page choice then press the ESC key.

If you are playing the CD ROM version of Dawn Patrol you will note that some 
pages have a small loudspeaker symbol in the bottom left hand corner. If it is 
selected (or the V key is pressed) then you will hear a recorded commentary 
that deals with some relevant subject matter. There is a total of 36 pages with 
recorded information.

To turn forward through the book, select the right edge of the page. Select the
left edge to turn backwards. Alternatively,press the cursor right or cursor left
keys, respectively. These are two examples of hotkeys, which provide a shortcut
for any commonly used action. Table 1 lists all of the standard hotkeys in the
book section of Dawn Patrol.

TAB              Cycle round all screen hotspots
HOME             Move to List of Contents page
Cursor Up        Move up through chapters on List of Contents page
Cursor Dn        Move down through chapters on List of Contents page
END              Move to Preferences page
Cursor Left      Move to previous page
Cursor Right     Move to next page
PgUp      )
Cursor Up )      Scroll text upwards
PgDn      )
Cursor Dn )      Scroll text downwards
P or S           Open page number edit box
A                Fly on Allied side
C                Fly on Central Powers side
V                CD commentary (CD ROM version only)
Alt X            Exit video screen
Ctrl Break       Fast quit game

Table 1, Dawn Patrol Book Hotkeys


The First Air War

Page two lists the contents of the first chapter - The First Air War.This
chapter deals with the most important aspects of the war in the air over 
Europe, from the winter of 1915 to April 1918.

Select a particular page and you will be at the heart of the interactive 
history
of First World War aviation.The layout of these pages splits the screen into two
distinct areas.The text at the top half of the page provides background
information about the topic being covered.There is generally more text than can
fit on this area,and it can be scrolled by using the highlighted arrows in the
centre right side of the page.The text scrolls upwards by paragraphs each time
the up arrow is selected.At the very top of the page the Words The First Air War
and Dawn Patrol are highlighted,and if selected will turn the book to pages two
and one,respectively.

The lower half of the page displays information about an aerial mission related
to the topic under discussion.The picture to the left encompasses some aspect of
the mission to come.If an animation is displayed it may sometimes give clues to
a potential strategy or manoeuvre that can be usefully employed in the mission.

The mission description briefly sets out the important details of the engagement
and will often allow you to specify some of the mission details.If any of the
the text is highlighted then it can be altered by you before you take part.For
instance,in the screenshot opposite,the number of escorting Fokker monoplanes
has been selected.A small text box gives the player a choice of 2,3 or 4
escorting Fokkers.The desired option should be selected as appropriate.

When details have been altered to your satisfaction the mission can commence.If
an RFC roundel is displayed to the right of the mission heading,then you can 
take part on the side of the Allies.If an Iron Cross is displayed on the left of
the mission heading,then you can take part on the side of the Central Powers.
Often, both the RFC and Iron Cross symbols will be displayed,and this means that
you have a choice of sides.Whichever symbol is outlined in pink is the side for
which the mission has been designed.If you choose this side,then you should try
and achieve the mission objectives as outlined.If you choose the opposing side,
then your mission will be essentially a spoiling one.Your aim should be to
ensure that the mission objectives of the other side are not achieved.In general
it is instructive and fun to play the game from both perspectives.However, the
fundamental aim for the player should be to try and achieve all of the mission
objectives detailed in each page of the book.

Selection of the mission will immediately put you at the controls of an aircraft
in flight.The In Flight Manual (section 4) of this guide provides all of the
basic information about controlling your aircraft in Dawn Patrol.The next parts
of this section provide information about the rest of the interactive book.

The First Aces

The second chapter of the book deals with fifteen of the most famous flying aces
of the First World War.Many of their stories are astounding,some virtually
unbelievable.There was Albert Ball,the British pilot who would issue challenges
to the enemy by dropping messages over their bases.Or Oswald Boelcke, whose
'play chicken' strategy was to head straight for the enemy's aircraft.And Eddie
Rickenbacker, the former Indianapolis driver, who would damage an opponent's
aircraft and then let a novice colleague make the final kill.

This is your chance to take part in some of these pilot's most exciting missions.
For instance,the screenshot shows a page detailing Albert Ball's trial flight as
a pilot, where he is pitted against two escorted Albatros two seaters.Quite a
few parameters of this mission are highlighted, and can be tailored as you wish.
You can choose to pilot one of six different aircraft.Or you could make the
mission very hard indeed by putting Ball up against four albatros reconnaissance
aircraft escorted by four Fokker monoplanes.a victory at the hardest level would
be a very impressive feat!

Aircraft of the Era

The third chapter concentrates on the machines used by the pilots during the 
war. It may only have been a decade or so after the Wright brothers, but there 
were scores of different types of aircraft in use throughout the war.Many tries 
out revolutionary ideas of design or armament.We highlight the role of fourteen
aircraft types, and let you to take part in some of the missions they flew.We
have worked hard to re-create accurate aerodynamic models of each aircraft.This
means that you should end up with a very good idea about their relative strengths
and weaknesses, as well as their individual characteristics.This chapter also
introduces lesser known pilots involved in intriguing missions which did not fit
into our First Aces chapter.

Pilot Biographies

The Pilot Biographies chapter enables you to create your own war record as an 
air ace.There are eight fictional pilots whose role you can assume.Each pilot 
has a different perspective and personality-one might be a consumate tactician,
another a bold cavalier.Place the screen pointer over the highlighted page 
number opposite each flyer, and a character summary of the flyer will be 
displayed at the bottom of the page.Your overall aim with each flyer should be 
to succeed while adopting his characteristics and attitude to aerial warfare.
This part of the Dawn Patrol book leaves eight pages spare for each flyer, and 
at the start they are empty.As you play, you will have the opportunity to paste 
mission summaries into these blank pages.

Select the highlighted page number of a pilot for the first time, and a small 
text window will offer an option to start a career as the named pilot.You will 
then be presented with a list of mission choices varying from flight testing, to
trials, to missions impossible.In this illustrated example, Freddie Oakham is
acting as the wingman to his CO.They are escorting a flight of FE2c aircraft,
when he discovers a couple of Fokker triplanes on his tail.If you select this
mission option,then a Roundel is displayed,and it should be selected to commence
your flight.

Whatever the outcome of your flight, you should exit in the usual manner (by
pressing F10 or ALT and X simultaneously).The post mission briefing will sum up
your flight and you will be asked whether or not you wish the mission to be
accepted into your biographical history.If accepted, then the summary will be
pasted into one of the pages left free for your pilot,and will remain as part of
his biographical history.You will then be free to return to the main Pilot
Biographies chapter page, and complete further missions under the guise of this
pilot.The next time you choose the same pilot you will be asked whether you wish
to re start (clear the biography), view (look at the biography) or continue
(complete further missions:a new set of missions will appear when you continue).
If you accept a mission in which your pilot is killed,then his biography will be
deemed complete.You have the opportunity, at any time, to restart the pilot's
career, and begin all over again.If only real life was so simple.You may take
part in other pilot's biographies whenever you wish.

The pilot biography files are stored in the 'savegame' subdirectory.It is
possible to delete all biographies by running the 'delete.bat' batch file in 
that directory.

Video Replay

Video replay is a separate feature of Dawn Patrol and can be accessed from the
List of Contents page,where it is listed as a chapter heading at page 159 of the
book.Alternalively you can access video replay from the post mission briefing
screen after a flight.Video replay provides access to a comprehensive video
editing suite and allows post production of in flight videos.

Of course, the facility is only of use if you have taken an in flight video.To
do this you must set the video camera rolling during a flight by pressing the V
key.Since a mission needs to have been flown before video is available, we have
left full discussion of the video editing suite until section 6 of the guide.

Preferences

The last page of the Dawn Patrol book (page 160) is a list of selectable
'preferences' that the player can alter during the game.These preferences relate
to general aspects of the game such as skill levels, sound effects and joystick
controls.A full discussion of preferences is given at the end of section 4.


SECTION 4
---------

IN FLIGHT MANUAL

This section of the User Guide deals with all of the features of the in flight
section of Dawn Patrol.A glance at the keyboard reference card will make it
clear that you have a wide range of controls at your command.

After you have selected a mission you will find yourself in the cockpit of an
aircraft.It will probably be flying at an altitude of a few thousand feet and
charging forward at a hundred miles per hour.All of the Dawn Patrol missions
have been designed so that they commence in the air at a stage close to the
beginning of the engagement described in the mission profile.This enables us to
set up the action in as realistic a manner as possible, and it saves you from
undertaking a long journev before you get a crack at the enemy.

The four basic flight directions are controlled by your cursor keys or your
joystick.Both emulate the characteristics of an aircraft's joystick.

Cockpit Layout

Your first view will be of the upper cockpit of your aircraft, looking forwards.
If there are forward mounted guns you will see one or two gunsights in the
foreground.This view lets you concentrate on centering an enemy aircraft in your
sights, and affords a panorama of the aerial battlefield.

Press the right square bracket ] key for a downward perspective of the cockpit.
This view includes the instrument panel,which gives the most basic details about
your aircraft's flight parameters.The on board instrumentation comprises three
dials.

On the left is a simplified rev counter, which displays the engine revs in
revolutions per minute (RPM).The rev count corresponds closely to the thrust
being delivered by the engine,which can be reduced or increased by pressing the-
and + keys, respectively.The in flight keyboard reference details other keys
that can be used to vary the engine thrust.(Note that you cannot alter your
basic engine or flight controls in pause mode).

In the middle lies a compass, which gives the exact bearing of your aircraft.The
standard convention for a compass is observed: a bearing of 0 degrees points to
magnetic north.

The rightmost instrument is the airspeed indicator.This displays your aircrafts
airspeed in miles per hour.An observant pilot will keep a close eye on the
airspeed, since an aircraft will often stall when this speed falls below a 
certain value.

Below the compass are two switches that indicate the status of the auto pilot
(left switch) and the auto trigger (right switch).These two functions are
controlled by the A and T keys, and when they are switched ON the switches point
downwards.If you are having difficulty with strategy, then the autopilot should
give you some ideas.

At the top of the screen,above the outline of the view outside the cockpit,there
are two lines of information.These are present on all of the in flight screens.
At the very top is a messsage line, which lets you know of any significant
information.In particular, you will be regularly informed of the position of the
enemy, if they are within range.These messages will be similar to: "Enemy kite
at 8 o'clock" Consider a clockface aligned so that 12 o'clock points in the
direction you are travelling.3 o'clock will be 90 degrees to the right and 6
o'clock will be directly behind you.An enemy at 8 o'clock will be 120 degrees to
the left.

Below the messsage line, directly abutting the cockpit view, four parameters are
permanently displayed.

* To the left, ALT is your altitude above the ground, measured in feet.

* VIDEO displays your current use of the in flight video facility.The first
number shows the quantity of video taken and the second shows the total amount 
of space available for video storage.You can start to operate the video camera 
by pressing the V key, and when you do so the first number should start 
increasing. The video is turned off by pressing the V key again.The amount of 
available video storage depends on the free expanded memory on your computer.

* GUN ROUNDS shows the number of bullets remaining in your firing drums.This
number will not decrease if you have set the ARMS option on the preferences 
screen to OFF.In that case you have an infinite supply of bullets.

* SENSITIVITY shows the current responsiveness of your aircraft to the keyboard
flight controls.Initially the sensitivity is set to a value of 2, out of a
possible range of 0 through 3.Press the 1 key to increase the sensitivity, or
the 2 key to decrease it.

Gun Sights

Press the left square bracket [ key to return to the upper cockpit view.This
will show the aircraft's gunsights,if the machine gun is mounted in front of the
cockpit.Most aircraft in Dawn Patrol have this arrangement.The NieuPort is an
exception with a machine gun mounted above the pilot on the top wing.

You fire your machine gun by pressing the space bar (or joystick button).You
will see your direction of fire from the tracer that is displayed.The gun
operates in an authentic manner since it will jam if you keep firing for too 
long a burst.To unjam the firing drums you must first level off the flight of 
your aircraft (to indicate that you are flying hands off,with your hands 
available to unjam the drums), and then press U.You will have to go through 
the same procedure when a drum has emptied and needs replacing.This happens 
whenever a multiple of hundreds of rounds is left, because each firing drum 
contains one hundred bullets.

You are not restricted to firing from the gunsight view.The space bar operates
your aircraft's machine gun irrespective of the on screen view.

Map Screen

The map screen shows the area relevant to your mission, and covers a region of
some hundred miles square.It can be called up in, flight by pressing the M key.
The action in Dawn Patrol is centered on the battlefields of north eastern 
France, an area which stretches from the Oise, south of Amiens, to Dunkerque and
Oostende in the north.All of the major rivers, roads and forest are marked on 
the map.

The position of your aircraft is displayed by a flashing dot on the map.Light
blue dots are Allied aircraft (from England,France or America),whereas pink dots
refer to Central Powers aircraft (Germany and Austro Hungary).The position of
ground vehicles is also displayed, with dark blue and red dots representing 
Allied and Central Powers vehicles respectively.Since the action of some aerial
dogfights is at close range you may find that a number of coloured dots are
displayed very close together.

External View

You needn't watch your mission just from the point of view of your aircrafts
cockpit An important feature of Dawn Patrol is the wide variety of external
viewpoints from which the on screen action can be displayed.If you press ESC
followed by F5, then you will see a view of your aircraft from a camera locked
just outside your aircraft.Like all external views, the bottom part of this
screen displays an information panel.This panel contains a lot of information
about your mission.

The top line of the panel has the words Piloted AC (piloted aircraft)to the left
hand side, and it provides details about your aircraft.As well as the now
familiar details of heading, speed and altitude, the leftmost of the top four
boxes gives the name of your aircraft.In the example shown a NieuPort is being
flown, and it is called Nieuport 1 because there is at least one other Nieuport 
in this mission.

The second line is headlined Next WP, which stands for next waypoint.A waypoint
is the location of a particular mission objective.In the example shown, the
pilot is expected to NAVIGATE to the next waypoint, which is at the location
specified by the three further boxes.These display the relative bearing, range
and height of the waypoint, and to reach it the bearing should be set to 0
degrees, and the aircraft set to reach the desired altitude.

There may be more than one waypoint specified for the mission, and it's possible
to step forward through them by pressing the ' key.(You can step back by
pressing the ; key).In Dawn Patrol it is not essential for you to achieve any of
the waypoint objectives.At the start of the mission it is better to concentrate
on the details of the pre assigned mission objective,although the first waypoint
sometimes gives information about the expected intercept of enemy aircraft.In
missions where you are assigned to escort a group of bombers, further waypoints
might relate to the planned bombing route.Such information could prove very
useful if you become detached from your charges, and need to re establish 
contact.

Once the mission objectives are achieved, a player of stamina can concentrate on
further waypoint objectives.The waypoints are predetermined at the start of the
mission, and are displayed purely for your information.It is not possible to
change the mission profile by displaying a particnlar waypoint.Further waypoint
types include 'attack', which locates a target to attack, and 'land' which
displays the location of your homebase, where you can choose to land at the end 
of the mission.

The third line displays the position of a variety of predetermined aircraft or
locations They can be cycled by pressing the SHIFT and keys together.In this
example the information relates to the location of the pilot's Home Base.Further
information can be obtained on 'opposition' (the currently assigned enemy
aircraft), 'escortee' (the bomber being escorted) and 'buddy' (the pilot's
wingman), depending on the actual mission.

The bottom line gives details of the particular view being displayed on the main
part of the screen.The first two boxes display the current view type and the
current 'viewee' The 'viewee' is the particular aircraft or object being viewed.
In the example shown, the view is an 'outside locked' shot, and the 'viewee' is
the nearest enemy.Dawn Patrol has a broad and flexible range of possible views
of the action, and it is crucial to your success as a flyer that you can swiftly
turn to the most suitable view at any given moment.The next sub section, 'The
View Matrix', is devoted to helping you master the on screen view.

The third box on the bottom line informs you that the object being viewed is at 
a range of 0 miles - within observation range, as can be seen! The final box
details whether the view is fixed or free.In this case the view is 'fixed',
which means that if another enemy craft came even closer than the one on 
display, the view would remain tracking the original aircraft.If the view had 
been altered to a free view(by pressing the Q toggle key),then if the viewee was
'nearest enemy' it would change if another enemy aircraft came closer.It could
be very disconcerting to have a view suddenly alter especially in the middle of 
a dogfight.On the other hand in 'fixed' mode an unseen aircraft could get very
close to you without your knowledge.To some extent you can reduce the chance of
this happening in fixed mode by occasionally pressing CTRL and F simulaneously.
This resets the view to the current nearest enemy, even when you are in 'fixed'
mode.

Mastering The View - The View Matrix

In Dawn Patrol it is possible to create virtually any view of the most important
objects associated with your mission by pressing just two sets of keys:

[1] Press either a function key or a numeric key to alter the type of view.

[2] Press the shift key and a function key simultaneously to determine the
aircraft or target being viewed the 'viewee'.

Conceptually it is very simple,but there are so many combinations of key presses
available that it takes a little practice to get the best out of it.The viewing
system is called a viewing matrix because each pair of key presses leads to a
separate view.All the possible combinations can be written out in the form of a
grid, rather like a matrix.The various key combinations can be inferred from the
keyboard reference, and they are shown as a grid in table 2.

                      VIEW TYPE

VIEWEE                      CHASE   OUTSIDE  TRACK SATELLITE  OUTSIDE  INSIDE
                                                                LOCK     LOCK
                              F4       F5       F6     F7        F8       F9
MISSILE          SHIFT F2
NEAREST FRIEND   SHIFT F3
NEAREST ENEMY    SHIFT F4                                      ENTER   BACKSPACE
CURRENT ENEMY    SHIFT F5
MESSAGE ABOUT    SHIFT F7
GROUND TARGET    SHIFT F8
NEAREST TARGET   SHIFT F9
PILOTED AIRCRAFT SHIFT ESC                                   ILLEGAL  ILLEGAL

TABLE 2


Along the top of table 2 are the six different 'view types':

* CHASE             Camera behind viewee, as if in a chasing aircraft
* OUTSIDE           Camera behind viewee, with absolute heading and pitch
                    maintained
* TRACK             Camera behind viewee, following its pitch and heading
* SATELLITE         Camera above viewee, looking downwards
* OUTSIDE LOCK      Camera view across players aircraft, maintaining viewee
                    in centre of picture
* INSIDE LOCK       Camera inside player's cockpit, maintaining viewee in
                    centre of picture

The eight 'viewees' down the first Column of table 2 are:

* MISSILE           Current bullet, if one has been fired
* NEAREST FRIEND    Nearest friendly aircraft normally a wingman or bomber
* NEAREST ENEMY     Nearest enemy aircraft, if within range (20 miles)
* CURRENT ENEMY     Enemy currently engaged against your aircraft
* MESSAGE ABOUT     Aircraft or vehicle referred to in last message
* GROUND TARGET     Ground target specified by mission
* NEAREST TARGET    Ground target nearest to player's aircraft
* PILOTED AIRCRAFT  Player's aircraft

To get any particular view type of any viewee press the relevant key from the 
view type row followed by the relevant key from the viewee column.The best way 
to feel comfortable with the viewing matrix is to get practical experience 
altering the viewing parameters.Select a mission such as page 29 of the 
interactive book, where there are a lot of combat aircraft in the sky.Once in 
the air, press the P pause button (so that you can inspect the view matrix at 
your leisure), and systematically feel your way about the grid of table 2.

Note that virtually any combination of view type and viewee is possible.For
instance, if you want to see a satellite view of your nearest friend, then press
F7 followed by the SHIFT and F3 keys together.Since the keypresses for view type
and viewee are independent, the order in which you press the keys is not
important.

Press SHIFT and F4 together, followed by F8, to see a view of the nearest enemy
aircraft from an 'outside lock' view. If you are taking part in the mission on
page 29, this view should give you pause for thought-the screen is full of enemy
aircraft,and they all appear to be chasing you! If you refer to the view matrix,
you will see that the ENTER key has been marked at the intersection between
nearest enemy and outside lock. This is a special hotkey we have created for the
SHIFT F4, F8 combination. In combat this view can be very helpful to you, and we
call it the 'outside combat lock' view.Similarly, the matrix shows that the
BACKSPACE key is a shortcut for SHIFT F4, F9-the inside lock view of the nearest
enemy.This is the 'inside combat lock' view.Both combat lock views are
discussed later in this section.

As you explore the view matrix you should keep an eye on the bottom line of the
information panel.The left most box displays the view type, and the next one
displays the current viewee.Hence these two boxes register your location within
the viewing matrix.As you play the game you will sometimes find that some key
combinations do not register.This will be because the requested viewee does not
actually exist.A common instance is when you have no nearest enemy either
because all enemy aircraft have been shot down, or because the nearest enemy is
more than 20 miles away.As noted in table 2, inside and outside lock views of
your own aircraft are not valid.

Fine Tuning Your View

Once you have surveyed the view matrix a few times you will become more 
accustomed to the manipulation of the on screen views.Although it is not 
essential to use extra features, the viewing system in Dawn Patrol has even more 
flexibility than so far discussed.

For instance,you can rotate the view of the viewee about horizontal and vertical
axes by pressing the F2 and F3 keys.Note that this means the camera itself moves
vertically and horizontally, respectively! (Rotation is not possible within a
chase view).The view can be zoomed in and out using the F1 and ALT F1 keys.If
you rotate and zoom a view, then the camera will maintain its new relative
position for all subsequent views of the same view type.The default zoom and
viewing angles can be reset individually with the CTRL F1, CTRL F2 and CTRL F3
keys, or all together by pressing CTRL R.

The view matrix as described will only display the nearest enemy or friendly
aircraft, nut if there are other aircraft nearby it is possible to transfer the
view to them as well.This is performed by using the ALT F key combination, which
will transfer you to the next viewee nearest to the one you are currently 
looking at.This can only be done in 'fixed' mode, because 'free' mode will 
always choose the nearest viewee to your aircraft.If you are not in fixed mode 
then hit the Q toggle key.As an example, display an outside lock of the nearest 
friendly aircraft (F8 and SHIFT F3), then keep pressing ALT F to cycle through 
the views of all friendly craft.Note that the description of the viewee on the 
information panel remains Near Friend throughout this cycle.The last viewee 
chosen in the cycle will remain the 'Near Friend' unless the viewee is reset to 
the nearest using the CTRL F keys.

After assembling all of this information, it is worth remembering what to do if
you find yourself looking at an unfamiliar scene in the middle of a combat.Press
ESC and the view will always return to your aircraft, press ENtER and you will
always get an outside combat lock, and press the [ and ] keys to give gunsight 
and cockpit views of your own aircraft.

Combat Lock

The combat lock views which were discussed earlier can be very useful in aerial
combat, and can make the task of becoming an air ace a more feasible option.We
have provided these views because any cockpit view from a flight simulator
subtends a relatively small portion of the entire sky.The proper use of combat
lock frees your vision so that you can concentrate on the nearest enemy 
aircraft, wherever it may be.

Outside Combat Lock

This view always has your own aircraft in the foreground of the camera, which
points towards the nearest enemy aircraft.Since the camera tries to maintain the
enemy in the centre of view (whether or not it is obscured by your craft), the
position and orientation of your aircraft on the screen will alter in response 
to movement of the enemy, even if you are not adjusting your controls.Initially
this can be disconcerting, especially when the enemy aircraft is very close, as
the movements of camera angles can be quite large.You must also remember that if
the combat lock places the camera in front of your aircraft looking behind you,
then a rudder deflection to the left will turn the aircraft towards the right of
the screen.

After a little practice you will find this view invaluable for determining the
relative position of the enemy,and it is quite possible to make kills and fly an
entire mission using the outside combat lock view.

Inside Combat Lock

Essentially similar to the outside view, inside combat lock places the nearest
enemy in the centre of the screen from a camera position inside your cockpit.It
is therefore a pilots eye view of the action, with an eye always turned towards
the enemy.Your aim must be to manoeuvre your craft so that the front of the
cockpit is positioned straight towards the enemy aircraft.There is no doubt that
this view is a challenge to master but with perseverance it can be a deadly 
battle aid.It is helpful to practice on an aircraft with very good flying
characteristics-you could, for instance, try the Spad 7 on page 79 of the Dawn
Patrol book.The first thing to notice is the view inside combat lock provieds of
your aircraft.The cockpit is an essentially empty basket (all instrumentation
has been removed), but the wings, front and rear of the aircraft should be
familiar to you.If the camera points towards the inside of the cockpit, this
means that the nearest enemy aircraft is below you.If the view is of the rear of
your aircraft you will need to turn in order to get the enemy in your sights at
the front.

Because the inside combat view can be disorienting we have provided a number of
orientation lines so that you can tell whether you are facing up or down,left or
right, front or rear.These lines are placed in the rear half of the sky above
the cockpit and are rigidly connected to your aircraft when the aircraft moves,
the lines move with it.Each line terminates in a half arrow that points forward
and upward relative to the aircraft.The lighter coloured lines are overhead, and
the most overhead line terminates in a full forward facing arrow.

The only way to master combat lock is to practice hard.Get used to what the
front of your cockpit looks like, because you will be aiming to see the enemy 
from there as you go in for a kill.If you ever get completely disoriented then 
you should move to another view, such as Outside Combat Lock, until you regain 
your bearings.

One tip for manoeuvring as you turn is to try and keep the orientation lines
parallel with the horizon.You will then be taking a near optimum route to
getting the enemy in front of your sights.Always keep an eye on your altitude
and your airspeed, since below a certain speed your aircraft will stall.If
combat lock appears to have stopped working and you cannot restore it, then the
answer is simple.There are no more enemy aircraft to lock on to!

The Post Mission Screen

Your mission, once flown, is completed when you decide to terminate it.In
flight, either press ALT X, or press F10 and select the end mission option.A
post mission debriefing screen will then be displayed.This summarises the
outcome of the mission,written from the perspective of the pilot detailed in the
mission briefing.If you flew for the opposition, then the aim will have been to
spoil the mission objectives.However the greatest challenge is to master the
mission objectives in the manner outlined in the mission briefing.In a sense,
this is the overall mission objective for all players of Dawn Patrol.

The two options available from here are to choose video replay, which allows you
to view video footage of your flight (or any other video stored on your hard
disk), or to choose reset page, which takes you back to the page describing your
mission.

Preferences

The last page of the Dawn Patrol book, page 160,contains the 'preferences'screen
from where you can alter some of the basic in flight and input device options.
The screen can also be accessed during a mission by pressing the F10 key.Each
available option (highlighted in red)is next to the current setting(displayed in
blue).

Engines

There are two options; normal and super.The normal engine setting develops the
same thrust as the original aircraft.The super setting develops a 50% greater
thrust, thus conveying a significant combat advantage.

Vulnerability

The two options are on and off.The on setting means that your aircraft will be
invulnerable to weapons fired from enemy craft.The off setting leads to your
aircraft suffering realistic damage while under attack.

Arms

There are two options; on and off.The on setting leads to your gun rounds
counter being depleted by one every time a bullet is fired.The off setting gives
you unlimited gun rounds.

Targets

The three options are soft, medium, and hard.Under the soft setting, the enemy
aircraft will be damaged if bullets are fired nearby.The medium setting leads to
damage if your bullets hit anywhere on the enemy aircraft.Under the hard
setting, damage is created only when bullets are fired near the centre of the
target.

Skill Level

There are three options; low, medium, and high.The operational skill of an
average enemy pilot is proportional to the skill level setting.An enemy novice
will be less skilful than the average setting, while an enemy ace will be more
skillful.

Running Demo

The two options are on and off.When turned on, the game will enter demonstration
mode, which only applies if the book is being displayed.Pages will be turned
every 10 seconds on still image pages, and at the end of the animation sequence 
on animated pages.

Mouse Sensitivity

There are two options; low and high.Under low sensitivity the mouse needs to be
moved twice as far to effect the same on screen pointer movement as under high
sensitivity.

Joystick Sensitivity

The four options are low, medium, high and custom.The default setting is medium.
If your joystick seems to suffer from poor calibration (see re-calibration opion
under control type) and you have no trim controls, or those that you do have do
not machine gun bullet
has a range of about 200 yards, and its effect on the target will be determined 
by the distance to the target, where it hits, and the setting of the TARGETS 
option on the preferences screen.

If you are recording hits on the target, then you will hear the ricochet of the
bullets, and you will see puffs of smoke from the enemy aircraft.

Ground Targets

Targets on the grournd include buildings, airfields,trucks aud barrage balloons.
You will be able to see most nearby ground targets by p         - This is the standard joystick option.Such a joystick has two
                    movement axes and two fire buttons (A and B).If a second
                    joystick is connected, the fire buttons on that stick can be
                    used as buttons C and D.
Joy-Throttle      - A joy throttle has an additional independent throttle lever
                    which can be used to control the aircraft's fuel intake and
                    rev count.It may have up to four fire buttons.This option is
                    compatible with the standard Flightstick and the Maxx Yoke.
FlightStick Pro   - The FlightStick Pro has a throttle on the base of the 
                    joystick to control the rev count and a 'coolie hat' on the
                    top with four extra switches.
Thrustmaster      - The Thrustmaster PFCS has a top "coolie hat" with four extra
                    switches.
Re-calibrate      - This option should be used if there is a tendeney for your 
                    aircraft to yaw or pitch when the joystick is centred.Please
                    see Appendix B for details of how to proceed.

Separate Rudder

The two options are on and off.If you have separate rudder pedals this option
should be turned on.

Sound

There are three options; all off, no engine sounds or with engine sounds.These
settings relate to the in flight section, and will output no sound; all sounds
except the noise of the engine; or all available sounds.CD users will be able to
select the speaker icon regardless of the setting of this option.

Music

The two options are off and on.When turned on, music will be played in the book
section of the game.

Detail Level

There are four options; 386, 486, 486DX33, and faster.This setting alters the
amount of terrain and vehicle detail which the program attempts to display in
flight (the faster the setting the more the detail).Set the option to the
specification closest to that of your particular PC.It is best to experiment,
since the graphic speed of your machine will depend on factors other than the 
main processor, such as the type of video card.If the frame rate on your PC 
appears to be unacceptably slow, then turn to a slower option.

Auto Detail

The two options are on and off.When set to on, auto detail turns off any graphic
detail that will greatly slow the displayed frame rate.It does this on a frame
by frame basis.

Auto Window

There are two options; on and off.Auto window reduces the size of the display
window if the frame rate begins to slow.It is an alternative method to 'auto
detail' for dealing with frame rate reduction, although both features can be set
on at the same time.

Screen Fades

The two options are off and on.This feature allows a smooth fade during the
transition between two game screens.You should consider switching off screen
fades on slower PC's.


SECTION 5
---------

FLYING AND SHOOTING

Basic Flying Skills

This section deals briefly with some of the fundamentals you will need to master
in order to become a Dawn Patrol ace.All of the aircraft featured in the game
have different flight characteristics.You will find that some will climb faster
than others, some will turn more easily than others,and that the stalling speeds
of each aircraft differ.World War One aces had to cope with this, too!

Climbing

An aircraft climbs when the lift provided by its wings is greater than its 
weight.Lift is proportional to the square of the velocity of the aircraft.Hence,
if you want your aircraft to climb quickly and steeply,pull back on the joystick
and increase the thrust of your engine,so that you gain airspeed.If you want to
make a sustained altitude gain, then your angle of climb should be no more than 
10 to 15 degrees.A steeper angle of climb will result in consistent loss of
airspeed, leading to a loss of lift.Eventually your aircraft will start to fall
and then there is a risk of it stalling.

Reducing Altitude

Apart fronm pushing the joystick forward, there are two other factors which will
reduce your aircraft's altitude.The aircraft will fall if you reduce the engine
thrust, since the lift generared by the wings depends on the velocity.More
surprisingly, altitude can be lost when the aircraft is running.Since the lift
points upwards in the direction of the tailplane, a turning aircraft loses some 
of the vertical component of its lift.If no rudder or elevator is applied the
aircraft will lose altitude.

Turning your Aircraft

Your aircraft can be turned by moving your joystick left or right in the 
direction you wish to turn.If you turn acutely, then the aircraft will lose 
altitude.To prevent this from happening, you should pull up slightly on the 
joystick as you turn.

Stalling

An aircraft will stall when it loses all lift from its wings.This will tend to
happen when you have climbed too steeply, or have let the airspeed fall below
about 50 mph.At this point the nose of the aircraft will be pointing downwards,
and it will not respond to flight controls.You can come out of a stall by
letting go of the stick and increasing the thrust of your engines.As the
airspeed builds up, gently pull back on the stick.

Immelmann Turn

This manoeuvre was first introduced by the German air ace Max Immelmann, who 
used it to devastating effect during World War One.Expert use of the turn allows 
you to reverse your direction in the minimum amount of time and space.An
inexperienced attacker appearing on your tail can become cannon fodder before 
he's had time to line you up in his sights.An enemy who passes you after a head 
on encounter can suddenly find you on his tail.

To perform your first Immelmann Turn, get a good external view of your aircraft.
If you are performing head on approaches towards an enemy aircraft then you 
might wish to choose an outside combat lock view.If your airspeed is below about
120mph you should increase it by putting yourself into a dive.Pull back on the
stick so that you start climbing,and wait until you are nearly vertical and your
airspeed is at about 60 miles per hour.At this point apply full rudder, either
to your left or right, by pressing the END or PG DN keys on your numeric keypad.
Keep your hands on the rudder, and the aircraft will rotate about its tail, with
its nose turning towards the ground.Come out of the turn at the appropriate
point by letting go of the rudder, pulling back on the stick, and applying a
little compensating rudder as needed.After a few practices the turn should
become a normal part of your combat repertoire.Some aircraft will feel quite
different when you perform this manoeuvre, so you will have to be ready to make
small flight adjustments to maintain stability.

Page 62 of the Dawn Patrol book has a detailed animation of the Immelmann Turn 
as it should be performed in combat.Study it closely, and see if you can emulate
it.The mission associated with page 62 gives you the opportunity for a number of
Immelmann Turns as the enemy perform repeated head on passing manoeuvres.

These days the 'Immelmann Turn' is better known as the 'Hammerhead Turn'.Even
so, it should not be confused with the more modern 'Immelmann' manoeuvre.

Gunnery Tactics

Improving your Shooting

All of the aircraft in Dawn Patrol are equipped with one or two machine guns.
Pressing the [ key will give an upper cockpit view of the gun sights, so long as
the guns are forward mounted.At all times, pressing the space bar will activate
the machine gun.There is no need to fire just from the gun sight view, since it
is possible to see the tracer from any view of your aircraft.The direction of
the tracer tells you where the bullets are being delivered.A machine gun bullet
has a range of about 200 yards, and its effect on the target will be determined 
by the distance to the target, where it hits, and the setting of the TARGETS 
option on the preferences screen.

If you are recording hits on the target, then you will hear the ricochet of the
bullets, and you will see puffs of smoke from the enemy aircraft.

Ground Targets

Targets on the grournd include buildings, airfields,trucks aud barrage balloons.
You will be able to see most nearby ground targets by pressing F6, then SHIFT F9
followed by repeatedly striking ALT F.These commands will cycle through the
nearby ground targets depending on which side you choose for the mission.
Opposition convoys are always displayed on the map screen,and you are at liberty
to chase after them if you wish.The mission on page 74, 'Ground Attack',
involves attacking enemy trucks.There are a potential fifteen further ground
targets in this mission, and it is not recommmended that you try and attack them
all.

It is best to attack truck convoys by strafing the ground and 'walking' the
bullets to the target.Start firing your guns, see where the bullets are hitting
and adjust your line of flight so that the line of bullets coincide with the
convoy.Don't keep firing too long or your guns will jam.

Flak

Many of the ground targets are artillery sites, and they can be a danger.In
general you should try and avoid areas where there is heavy flak because you run 
a high risk of being shot down.

Sites equipped with anti aircraft artillery deliver white streams of tracer
bullets.Larger bore sites deliver large plumes of exploding flak at higher
altitudes.The flak from Allied artillery is white, while the flak from Central
Powers artillery is black.At least you will know who is firing at you! If you
are in the middle of a flak attack you might consider making a positive movement
of heading and altitude every 15 seconds,and clearing out as quickly as you can.

Aircraft

The firing arcs of a number of the aircraft featured in Dawn Patrol are shown in
diagram 1.This diagram shows the relative strengths and weaknesses of each
aircraft.For instance the Gotha bomber is very well protected at the rear, but
it is extremely vulnerable to frontal attacks from below.In Dawn Patrol the Fe2b
is treated as a fighter and so it is only capable of firing a forward fixed gun.
A knowledge of the firing arcs of any aircraft can be very useful,whether or not
you are attacking one, escorting one, or flying one yourself.


SECTION 6
---------

VIDEO EDITING SUITE

The video editing suite is controlled from a single screen located at page 159 
of the interactive book.It can be accessed through the List of Contents page or
at the end of a mission from the post-mission briefing screen.In either case the
facility can only be used if there is video to be edited.Video can be shot
during a mission by pressing the V key.It will then be resident in memory, and
can be edited on line.Video footage is destroyed if you exit Dawn Patrol without
having saved it onto your hard disk using the editing facility.Once written to
your disk it can be edited and viewed whenever you wish.Therefore, if you have
sufficient disk space it is advisable to save the original video straight to 
disk after a mission.

Unlike any real life editing facility you are able to do much more than patch
together different pieces of video.If you are unhappy with the camera angles and
positions used to shoot the original, you can alter all the viewing
characteristics with the same flexibility as the viewing matrix available in the
game.The editing suite can be controlled by manoeuvring the on sereen pointer
with the mouse and keyboard,but almost every facility is mapped to an individual
hotkey for easy operation.

The major features of the editing facility are as follows:

Title Bar

This strip runs along the top of the screen.The filename is an eight character
identifier of the current video footage.'Last page' refers to the total memory
size of the video footage.Expanded memory is divided into 'pages', each of which
is 16 Kbytes long.Page count starts at zero, so a last page number of two takes
up three pages, or 48 Kbytes.The number next to 'Position' is the location in
memory of the current video frame.The first digit of the 'position' is the page
number of the current frame.

Movement Block

Basic video machine style controls are located in the middle on the left hand 
side of the screen.Moving across from left to right and then downwards the 
buttons are:

PLAY/PAUSE                   Toggle between play and pause
MOVE FORWARD ONE FRAME       Move the video forward a single frame
STOP                         Stop the video
REWIND TO BEGINNING          Rewind the video to the start
FAST REWIND                  Rewind the video at an accelerated pace
REWIND ONE SECTION           Rewind the video one page backwards
FORWARD ONE SECTION          Move one page forwards
FAST FORWARD                 Wind the video forward at an accelerated pace
FAST FORWARD TO END          Wind the video to the end

This video movement grid is mapped directly to the numeric keypad of your 
machine.

Zoom and Rotate Keys

These are similar to the zoom and rotate facilities of the flight simulator.

H  =  Horizontal.   The left and right arrows allow you to rotate left and right
                     about a vertical axis.

V =   Vertical       The up and down arrows allow you to rotate up and down 
		     about a horizontal axis

Z =    Zoom          The up and down arrows allow you to zoom in and out.

Select the central H, V or Z letter to reset to the original display angle or 
zoom.

Note that a key or screen hotspot must be selected once to start the effect and
once again to stop the effect.

Use the same keys as those available in flight.F2 and ALT F2 for vertical
rotation; F3 and ALT F3 for horizontal rotation; F1 and ALT F1 for zoom.

View Type Selector

The currently selected view type is displayed at the top of the box.These view
types are the same as those available in flight.

TRACK            Track view of the viewee
INSIDE           The view of the viewee from your cockpit.Enhanced by toggling
                 cockpit on option.
OUTSIDE          An outside view of the viewee
CHASE            Chase view of viewee
SATELLITE        Satellite view of viewee
IN LOCK          Inside lock view of viewee
OUT LOCK         Outside lock view of viewee

All of these viewing characteristics can be controlled by the familiar function
keys.

Viewee Selector

The currently selected viewee is displayed at the top of this box.

PILOT AC:   Viewee is your aircraft
NR GROUND:  Viewee is the nearest ground target, if there is one.
HOME BASE:  Viewee is your home base
NR UNFRND:  Viewee is the nearest enemy aircraft
NR FRIEND:  Viewee is the nearest friendly aircraft

The viewee can also be selected using the familiar shift function keys.

Extra Flags

The following flags work in conjunction with the other options on Video Editing
Suite.They can all be accessed by pressing the first letter of the function.

VIEWEE FIX /FREE:    Toggle between fixed and free viewpoints (hotkey V or Q)
COCKPIT OFF/ON:      Toggles a view of cockpit on and off for relevant view 
		     types (hotkey C)
TIME NORM/ACCEL:     Toggles between normal and accelerated time (hotkey T)
NEXT ITEM:           If you have selected the VIEWEE FIX option then this moves 
		     to the next nearest viewee.Especially suitable for 
		     unfriendly aircraft (hotkey N or ALT F) 
MSL VW OFF/ON:       If toggled 'ON' it is possible to view the flight of 
		     bullets as they are fired (hotkey M)
IMPT VW OFF/ON:      If toggled 'On' then the view is transferred to targets 
                     just before they blow up (hotkey I)

Lower Editing Box

This facility is used for all the high level video production including editing
and splicing, cutting as well as the manipulation of video files on your hard
disk.

All grey symbols [e.g : 1, 2, 3,] at the bottom of the box are the relevant
hotkeys.

Start Marker

START: Places the start marker at the beginning of the video: 'position' 0.
MARK:  Places t7              View the front of your aircrafts cockpit from inside
8              View the right of your aircraft from the inside
9              View the rear of your aircraft from the inside
0              Return to cockpit from an outside viewpoint.
BACKSPACE      Inside combat lock-lock onto nearest enemy (see manual)
Q              Toggle between fixed and free viewpoints of viewee
R              Decrease rate of rotation for F2 and F3 keys
ALT R          Increase rate of rotation for F2 and F3 keys
CT       video currently in memory.
SAVE:   Saves the current video block to memory.You should provide an eight
        character name, without a file extension.
DEL:    Deletes a video file from your hard disk.
Note:   Videos are held in the videos sub-directory on your hard disk and can
        be directly manipulated from there.

End Marker

END:    Place an end marker at the last frame of the current video.
MARK:   Place an end marker at the current video position
GO:     Move the current video position to the end marker.


APPENDIX A
----------

In Flight Keyboard Controls

General advice for altering the in flight view:

[a] Press the shift key and a function key simultaneously to determine the
aircraft or target being viewed (the 'viewee')

[b] Press either a function key or a numeric key to alter the type of view.

KEYBOARD REFERENCE - NORMAL KEYS

ESC       Change viewee to your aircraft
F1        Zoom in (ALT F1 is zoom out)
F2        Rotate vertically around viewee
F3        Rotate horizontally around viewee
F4        External chase view
F5        Outside view camera maintains absolute heading and pitch
F6        Track view camera pitches and turns with the aircraft
F7        External satellite view
F8        View across your aircraft to the viewee (outside lock)
F9        View from your aircraft's cockpit of the viewee (inside lock)
F10       Configuration menus
1         Increase the keyboard flight control sensitivity
2         Decrease the keyboard flight control sensitivity
5         View the rear of your aircraft from the inside
6         View the left of your aircraft from the inside
7         View the front of your aircraft's cockpit from the inside
8         View the right of your aircraft from the inside
9         View the rear of your aircraft from the inside
0         Return to cockpit from an outside viewpoint
-         Decrease RPM continuously, in small steps
+         Increase RPM continuously, in small steps
BACKSPACE Inside combat lock-lock onto nearest enemy (see manual)
TAB       Speed up time (turns off when any key pressed or mission event occurs
Q         Toggle between fixed and free viewpoints of viewee
W         Wheel brake
R         Decrease rate of rotation for F2 and F3 keys
T         Auto gunfire (only if autopilot ON)
U         Unjam machine guns
P         Pause
[         Look up (see gun sights if looking forward)
]         Look down (see instrument panel if looking forward)
ENTER     Outside combat lock (lock onto enemy from outside view)
A         Autopilot (toggle-indication on instrument panel)
S         Sound toggle (off, no engine sounds or with engine sounds)
J         Increase rate of gunfire
K         Decrease rate of gunfire
;         Step back through waypoints
'         Step forward through waypoints
Z         Impact viewpoint- switch view to target when hit
X         Missile viewpoint-switch view to launched bullet
V         Video toggle
B         Air brake toggle
M         Map screen (ESC to return to flight)
,         Minimum power setting
.        Maximum power setting
SPACE     Fire


NUMERIC KEYPAD AND CURSOR CLUSTER

END (1)            Full rudder deflection, left
PAGE DOWN (3)      Full rudder deflection, right
INSERT (0)         Gradual rudder deflection, left
DELETE (.)         Gradual rudder deflection, right
8 or cursor up     Dive-pull forward on stick
4 or cursor left   Roll to the left
6 or cursor rlght  Roll to the right
2 or cursor down   Climb-pull back on stick
-                  Decrease RPM by single, large steps
+                  Increase RPM by single, large steps

KEYBOARD REFERENCE - 'ALT &' KEYS

ALT F1       Zoom out
ALT F2       Rotate vertically around viewee in opposite direction to F2
ALT F3       Rotate horizontally around viewee in opposite direction to F3
ALT F5       Outside view looking out from viewee
ALT F6       Track view looking out from viewee
ALT F7       View below viewee
ALT F8       View looking from in front of your aircraft to the viewee
ALT F9       View from in front of the viewee to your aircraft
ALT F10      Decrease time speed up
ALT R        Increase rate of rotation for F2 and F3 keys
ALT D        Automatically select level of detail suitable for machine
ALT F        Select the next nearest viewee [fixed mode only]
ALT X        Exit flight

KEYBOARD REFERENCE 'CTRL &' KEYS

CTRL F1      Reset zoom
CTRL F2      Reset to default vertical view angle
CTRL F3      Reset to default horizontal view angle
CTRL F8      Lock view from behind the viewee to your aircraft
CTRL F10     Increase time speed up
CTRL R       Reset rate of rotation for F2 and F3 keys and reset view and
             zoom parameters
CTRL D       Toggle 3D detail (auto detail must be turned off first)
CTRL F       Reset fixed viewpoint to current nearest viewee
CTRL V       Reset video to start and begin recording

KEYBOARD REFERENCE 'SHIFT &' KEYS

SHIFT ESC    View of player's aircraft, maintaining last viewpoint
SHIFT F2     View of launched missile
SHIFT F3     View of nearest friendly aircraft
SHIFT F4     View of nearest enemy aircraft
SHIFT F5     View of object you have been assigned to attack, according
             to on screen messages
SHIFT F7     View of object that last message refers to
SHIFT F8     View of currently assigned ground target
SHIFT F9     View of nearest possible ground target
SHIFT 9      View of your wingman
SHIFT -      Decrease RPM in large steps
SHIFT +      Increase RPM in large steps
SHIFT TAB    Uninterrupted time speed up
SHIFT F      Toggle between fixed and free viewpoints of viewee
SHIFT ;      Cycle through position information

'SHIFT &' NUMERIC KEYPAD

SHIFT -       Decrease RPM by standard amount
SHIFT +       Increase RPM by standard amount
SHIFT 8,4,6&2 View directions


Keyboard Reference Chart Keys by Subject

VIEWPOINTS

ESC            Change viewee to your aircraft
SHIFT ESC      View of player's aircraft, maintaining last viewpoint
F1             Zoom in
ALT F1         Zoom out
CTRL F1        Reset zoom
F2             Rotate vertically around viewee
ALT F2         Rotate vertically around viewee in opposite direction to F2
CTRL F2        Reset to default vertical view angle
F3             Rotate horizontally around viewee
ALT F3         Rotate horizontally around viewee in opposite direction to F3
CTRL F3        Reset to default horizontal view angle
SHIFT F2       View of launched missile
SHIFT F3       View of nearest friendly aircraft
SHIFT F4       View of nearest enemy aircraft
SHIFT F5       View of object you have been assigned to attack, according to
               on screen messages
SHIFT F7       View of object that last message refers to
SHIFT F8       View of currently assigned ground target
SHIFT F9       View of nearest possible ground target
SHIFT 9        View of your wingman
F4             External chase view
F5             Outside view: camera maintains absolute heading and pitch
ALT F5         Outside view looking out from viewee messages
F6             Track view: camera pitches and turns with the aircraft
ALT F6         Track view looking out from viewee
F7             External satellite view
ALT F7         View below viewee
F8             View across your aircraft to the viewee (outside lock)
ALT F8         View looking from in front of your aircraft to the viewee
CTRL F8        Lock view from behind the viewee to your aircraft
F9             View from your aircrafts cockpit of the viewee (inside lock)
ALT F9         View from in front of the viewee to your aircraft
5              View from the rear of your aircraft from the inside
6              View the left of your aircraft from the inside
7              View the front of your aircrafts cockpit from inside
8              View the right of your aircraft from the inside
9              View the rear of your aircraft from the inside
0              Return to cockpit from an outside viewpoint.
BACKSPACE      Inside combat lock-lock onto nearest enemy (see manual)
Q              Toggle between fixed and free viewpoints of viewee
R              Decrease rate of rotation for F2 and F3 keys
ALT R          Increase rate of rotation for F2 and F3 keys
CTRL R         Reset rate of rotation for F2 and F3 keys and reset view angle
[              Look up (see gunsights if looking forwards)
]              Look down (see instrument panel if looking forward)
ENTER          Outside combat lock (lock onto nearest enemy from outside view)
ALT F          Select the nearest viewee [fixed mode only]
CTRL F         Reset fixed viewpoint to current nearest viewee
SHIFT F        Toggle between fixed and free viewpoints of viewee
Z              Impact viewpoint-switch view to target when hit
X              Missile viewpoint-switch view to launched bullet

[NUM KEYPAD] SHIFT 8,4,6&2 View directions

ACCELERATION CONTROLS

TAB            Speed up time (turns off when any key pressed or mission event
               occurs)
SHIFT TAB      Uninterrupted time speed up
ALT F10        Decrease time speed up
CTRL F10       Increase time speed up

GEAR
W              Wheel brake

FLIGHT CONTROLS

A                             Autopilot (toggle-indication on instrument panel)
1                             Increase the keyboard flight control sensitivity
2                             Decrease the keyboard flight control sensitivity
[NUM KEYPAD]END               Full rudder deflection, left
[NUM KEYPAD]PG DN             Full rudder deflection, right
[NUM KEYPAD]INS               Gradual rudder deflection, left
[NUM KEYPAD]DEL               Gradual rudder deflection, right
[NUM KEYPAD](8,4,6,2)         Flight directions
CURSOR Right, Left, Up, Down  Flight directions
B              Air brake toggle

ENGINE CONTROLS

,                     Minimum power setting
.                    Maximum power setting
[NUM KEYPAD] -        Decrease RPM by single, large steps
[NUM KEYPAD] +        Increase RPM by single, large steps
SHIFT -               Decrease RPM in large steps
SHIFT +               Increase RPM in large steps
[NUM KEYPAD] SHIFT -  Decrease RPM by standard amount
[NUM KEYPAD] SHIFT +  Increase RPM by standard amount
-                     Decrease RPM continuously, in small steps
+                     Increase RPM continuously, in small steps

GENERAL CONTROLS

F10              Configuration menus
ALT X            Exit flight
P                Pause
S                Sound toggle (off, no engine sounds or with engine sounds)
V                Video toggle
CTRL V           Reset video to start and begin recording
ALT D            Automatically select level of detail suitable for machine
CTRL D           Toggle 3D detail (auto detail must be turned off first)

WEAPONS CONTROLS

SPACE            Fire
T                Auto gunfire (only if antopilot ON)
U                Unjam machine gun
J                Increase rate of gunfire
K                Decrease rate of gunfire

MAPS AND WAYPOINTS

M                Map screen (ESC to return to flight)
;                Step back through waypoints
'                Step forward through waypoints
SHIFT ;          Cycle through position information


APPENDIX B
----------

JOYSTICK CALIBRATION

After changing the joystick option and choosing 'accept' you will be asked to 
move your joystick controls in order to calibrate the game to your joystick.
There are a number of factors which can effect the operation of the analogue 
jovstick and it is necessary to go through this process in order to get the best 
from it.

First, ensure that any auto fire devices are turned off.These will not be useful
in this simulation and will confuse the calibration process.

ALL JOYSTICKS

For all joysticks you will be asked to:

"Centre Stick & Press Fire Button"

Then you will be asked to:

"Move Stick thro' full movement & Press Fire Button"

Make sure that you push the stick to its maximum deflection on each of the four
sides.On some joysticks the maximum deflection is in the corners on others it is
in the middle of each edge, so to be certain of covering all the positions you
should run along each edge and into each corner before pressing the joystick 
fire button.

If the joystick is not connected then after a few seconds the following message
is displayed and the keyboard will be selected as the flight control device:

"CALIBRATION ERROR" "Press Enter"

You may also see a message like:

"Warning: Poor Calibration" "Move trim to left and back"

This message indicates in which direction the trim controls should be moved to
improve the calibration.It will only help if your joystick is fitted with trim
controls.

You will then be asked to

"ACCEPT" or "RETRY"

You should "chop" the available trim range until the calibration screen accepts
the value.For example, when you first calibrate with the trim centered you might
get the message:

"Move trim to RIGHT"

Move the trim to the furthest right, and try again.Now, you may get the message:

"Move trim to LEFT"

The 'correct' place is clearly somewhere between the two trim settings.Move the
trim half the distance back towards the left and retry the calibration.You will
be told which direction to move the trim this time.Move it by only half the
distance you moved it last time.Continue this process of halving the range until
your joystick is accepted.

With certain joysticks there can be problems when initially moving the trim the
furthest distance:

On some joysticks it may be necessary to move the trim in the opposite direction
to that in the messages.If you find that pushing the trim all the way in the
requested direction has no effect on the warning message, then try pushing it in
the opposite direction.If this does change the warning message then you have one
of these non standard joystick designs.

It can be possible to move the trim so far in one direction that the calibration
code cannot produce any kind of calibration.In these cases a calibration error
message will be displayed.Please try again, but do not push the trim control
quite so far.

This is the end of the joystick configuration for normal joysticks.

FLIGHTSTICK PRO AND THROTTLE CALIBRATION

For the FlightStick Pro and Throttle jovsticks there are two extra request
screens.These vary depending on whether or not you have also selected analogue
rudder pedals.

If you have not selected rudder the first screen reads:

"Min Throttle" "& Press Fire Button"

You may arbitrarily decide to make your throttle work in either direction so you
can choose either end as the minimum.

If you have also selected Rudder pedals then this request will read:

"Min Throttle" "Centre Pedals" "& Press Fire Button"

If the screen times out, or the throttle or pedals cannot be detected then the
following message is displayed and the keyboard will be selected as the flight
control device:

"CALIBRATION ERROR" "Press Enter"

If you have not selected rudder the second screen will show the following text:

"Max Throttle" "& Press Fire Button"

You should move the throttle control to the opposite extreme, then press the
joystick fire key.If you have selected rudder the second screen will show the
following text:

"Max Throttle" "Move Pedals thro' full movement" "& Press Fire Button"

As well as moving the throttle to the opposite extreme you should also press 
down each of the rudder pedals in turn before pressing the joystick fire key.

If the centering of the rudder pedals is poor then you may be warned:

"Warning: Poor Calibration" "Move trim to left & right"

See the section above entitled 'ALL JOYSTICKS' for advice on dealing with this
warning message.

THRUSTMASTER CALIBRATION

For the Thrustmaster PFCS coolie hat there are two additional request screens.
These vary depending on whether you have also selected analogue rudder pedals.

If you have not selected rudder the first screen reads:

"Centre Coolie" "& Pre is using provided as a backstop for people who can't get a good
calibration using the Dawn Patrol program.Here are some notes on JTEST:

1. The +/- keys can be used to change the range of the columns printed so that
maximum does not go off the bottom of the screen.

2. The flicker or wobble of the columns represents noise.If the joystick
wobbles a lot even when not touched then a lower sensitivity should be selected
in the game.If the whole column is 'flickery' then you may have multiple 
joystick ports entandard joystick and use the keyboard mapping program 
to activate the coolie hat or you should set the switch to TEST and ANALOGUE on 
the WCS.

If you have not selected rudder the second screen will then show the following
text:

"Move Coolie thro' full movement" "& Press Fire Button"

It is important that you push the coolie hat into all four possible positions.

If you have selected rudder the second screen will then show the following text:

"Move Coolie tho full movement.Move Pedals thro full movement & Press Fire 
Button"

It is important that you push the coolie hat into all four possible positions, 
and press down each of the rudder pedals in turn before pressing the joystick 
fire key.

If the centring of the rudder pedals is poor then you may be warned:

"Warning: Poor Calibration" "Move trim to left/right"

See the section above entitled "ALL JOYSTICKS" for advice on dealing with this
warning message.

If you have Thrustmaster's WCS Mk.II, which attaches to the keyboard port and
can emulate the keyboard keys that controls the throttle, as well as any other
functions, here are the keys that can be used for that unit:

.>            Max throttle
shift = +     Continuous large increases
pad +         Single large increases
= +           Continuous small increases
shift pad +   Single small increase
shift pad -   Single small decrease
_             Continuous small decreases
pad -         Single large decrease
shift _       Continuous large decreases
,<            Min throttle

RUDDER PEDALS

If you have selected Thrustmaster or FlightStick then you have already 
configured the rudder.If you selected joystick and rudder pedals then the 
following two additional screens will calibrate the rudder.Screen 1 requests:

"Centre Pedals" "& Press Fire Button"

If the screen times out, or the pedals cannot be detected then the following
message is displayed and the keyboard will be selected as the flight control
device:

"CALIBRATION ERROR"  " Press Enter"

The second screen will then show the following text:

"Move Pedals thro'full movement" "& Press Fire Button"

Press down each of the rudder pedals in turn before pressing the joystick fire
key.If the centering of the rudder pedals is poor then you may be warned:

"Warning: Poor Calibration" "Move trim to left/right"

See the section above entitled "ALL JOYSTICKS" for advice on dealing with this
warning message.

JOYSTICK CONTROLS

The basic joystick provides elevator (pitch) and aileron (roll) controls,and two
fire buttons.Button "A" fires the guns.Button "B" switches between guns and
other weapon types.

There are two additional buttons fitted to many extended joysticks:

Button "C" switches to track view.

Button "D" steps through the available targets in "Nearest Friendly", "Nearest
Unfriendly", and "Nearest ground target" views.

When available, the throttle controls the RPM of the aircraft.

When available, the four positions of the coolie hat are used to select 
additional views and aircraft controls:

front:    Selects max RPM
back:    Engages and disengages air brakes
left:    Switches to an inside lock view of object currently being viewed
right:    Switches to an outside lock view of object currently being viewed.

TECHNICAL INFORMATION FOR ADVANCED JOYSTICK USERS

It is possible to take advantage of the rudder,throttle and additional fire keys
using two joysticks attached to a two port joystick card or using a joystick "Y"
splitter.Note that basic "multi i/o" cards fitted as standard on many machines
often only implement the standard two axes of one joystick, so a "Y" splitter or
an extended joystick will not work with these cards.

The joystick ports fitted to SoundBlaster, and many compatible sound cards do
properly support two joysticks, but the "multi i/o" joystick port should be
disabled by a jumper on the card if you have one of each.Wiring of the joystick
port can be found in the SoundBlaster manual.

On the second joystick you can use the trim control of the "Y" pitch axis as the
throttle, and the left and right movement of the joystick can be used as the
rudder.This is similar to a model aircraft controller.In addition the two
extra buttons can be utilised.

The sensitivity and dead area parameters and the mapping of the joystick buttons
to features of the game is now held in the DRIVERS directory.

The file Custom.JOY is selected if Custom is chosen from the sensitivity menu.
Changing this file will have an effect next time the game is run with the 
joystick sensitivity set.

The format of this file is below:

The file starts with the 4 character string "STIK"

"STIK" is followed by the translate table for the elevators.This table is 64
bytes long and is indexed with absolute joystick Y position scaled to the range 
0 to 63.It should return a value in the same range.This is followed by six
overflow entries for elevator making 70 entries in total.

The elevators table is followed by the translate table for the ailerons.This
table is 64 bytes long and is indexed with absolute joystick X position scaled 
to the range 0 to 63.It should return a value in the same range.This table is
followed by six overflow entries for aileron to make 70 entries in total.

The aileron overflow entries are followed, by 0 word, which we have reserved.

The zero word is followed by the keyboard mappings for the various switches on 
the joystick.There are up to four buttons and four positions on the coolie hat.

Button A is reserved for fire.The other seven switches are each encoded as two
consecutive bytes defining the scancode and simultaneous shift keys.The values
for scancode can be found in PC references.The values for shift keys are:

1  Normal - key on its own
2  Shift key pressed simultaneously
4  Alt key pressed simultaneously
8  Ctrl key pressed simultaneously.

Only the initial press event is detected by the program for the switch
translations, so they cannot be used to emulate keys that are normally held down
in use, such as the outside view rotates.

The order of the switch codes is:

Switch              Default use             Key          Encoding
Button A            Fire                    Space Bar
Button B            Chase                   F4           01 3E
Button C            Track view              F6           01 40
Button D            Next Viewee             Alt F        04 21
Coolie Left         Inside Lock             F9           01 43
Coolie Back         Air brakes              B            01 30
Coolie Right        Outside lock            F8           01 42
Coolie Forward      Return to cockpit       0            01 0B

The encodings for the coolie hat are as follows:

Coolie hat           Thrustmaster         FlightStick
 position                axis             Pro buttons

centred                  100%
left                      75%                AB-
back                      50%                ABC-
right                     25%                AB-D
forward                    0%                ABCD

Those building their own sticks may like to note that our code allows +/- 10%
tolerance in the Thrustmaster position reading, and that the Flightstick Pro
blocks multiple button presses except for the patterns above for the coolie hat.

The Joystick type and range values are still held in the player record, but are 
no longer externally modifiable.

We have added JTEST.COM to the game directory.This prograrm provides joystick
information in a graphical form:

1st Column      X axis
2nd Column      Y axis
3rd Column      Rudder
4th Column      Throttle
5th Column      Button A
6th Column      Button B
7th Column      Button C
8th Column      Button D

The program is using provided as a backstop for people who can't get a good
calibration using the Dawn Patrol program.Here are some notes on JTEST:

1. The +/- keys can be used to change the range of the columns printed so that
maximum does not go off the bottom of the screen.

2. The flicker or wobble of the columns represents noise.If the joystick
wobbles a lot even when not touched then a lower sensitivity should be selected
in the game.If the whole column is 'flickery' then you may have multiple 
joystick ports enabled on your machine.Most cards have jumpers to disable the 
joystick.

3.A 'gap' at the top of a column indicates a very old joystick card in a new
fast machine.If you get calibration errors or other software doesn't like your
joystick this may be why.

4.The JTEST can be used to trim the joystick.The +/- keys are useful here, as
they allow the output to be limited to one column.This makes the job of finding
the trimmed centre much easier.Sinmply note the position of maximum, minimum and
center for different trim positions until you find a point where maximum and
minimum are equidistant from center.When this is found Dawn Patrol should accept
the joystick calibration.