                         DejaVu II:Lost In Las Vegas

Amiga                               Machine Specific Reference Card

This card provides information on how to run Deja Vu II on your Amiga. Read
this card along with the Deja Vu II manual explaining how to play.

What You Need
Commodore Amiga computer with at least 512K of RAM
Kickstart 1.2 or higher (Unless in ROM)
One or more 3.5-inch disk drives (Including internal drive)
Color monitor or TV
Printer (optional)
Initialized diskette or hard disk for saving games

Loading

1. Turn on your monitor/TV and computer.
2. Owners of machines without Kickstart in ROM will have to kickstart their
   computer before continuing. Insert your kickstart disk and wait for the
   workbench disk request to appear.
3. When asked for the workbench disk, insert the Deja Vu II disk into your
   computers internal drive, also known as df0:.
4. Open the disk icon by double clicking on it, then double click on the
   Deja Vu II icon inside the disk. Deja Vu II will now load and begin
   automatically.

Amiga Menus
The following operations are available from the menus within the Amiga
version of Deja Vu II.

PROJECT
New
Load
Save
Save As ...
Quit

The File menu allows you to save your current game and resume old games. It
also allows you to start over from the beginning or leave the game.

Saving A Game

You can save your game in progress at any point except while the "Click to
Continue" message is visible. To do so, you will need an initialized
diskette or hard disk on line. Follow the standard procedure for
initializing a disk as outlined in the Amiga User's Guide before you start
the game. You will not be able to initialize a disk once the game has
started.

When you want to save a game, select "Save" or "Save As..." from the
Project menu. Use "Save As..." whenever you wish to save a game with a new
name. "Save" will save your current game as whatever name you gave the last
time you used "Save As..."

Loading A Saved Game

Select "Load" from the "Project" menu, and the game will prompt you for a
saved game to load. Select the saved game you want and click on "OK" in the
dialog box.

Taking Advantage of Hard Disk Drives

To speed up game play, Deja Vu 11 files can be copied to a hard disk. A
script has been supplied on the Deja Vu 1I disk to enable you to do this.
First, find the file "hd install script" in the "hd" directory. Now using a
text editor, open the file and follow the instructions on changing the
first "assign" command. This command will tell the Amiga where to put Deja
Vu 11 on your hard disk. Then "execute" the script and follow any further
instructions. The file called "hd remove script" that is also in the "hd"
directory will remove Deja Vu II from your hard disk.

                       DejaVu II: Lost in Las Vegas

                                CONTENTS

Quick Study .................................................... 1
Introduction ................................................... 2
Getting Started ................................................ 3
Beginner's Sample Session....................................... 6
Commands........................................................ 7
Menus ......................................................... 10
Windows ....................................................... 10
Gambling ...................................................... 13
Just Desserts ................................................. 14

Quick Study

This section is for those of you who are either advanced players or don't
like to read manuals.

The Command System

This game has an object-oriented command system. Instead of typing in
commands in the form of sentences, you simply click on objects and
commands. For example, if you wanted to hit a mirror, simply click (select)
the mirror and click on hit (you could also click on hit first, then the
mirror). If the object has a window which shows its contents, then clicking
in this window is the same as clicking on the object's graphic.

The Operate command is slightly more advanced, and accepts two nouns. For
example, to shoot a gun at a window you would click on Operate, click on
your gun, then click on a window (you could also click on the gun first,
then on Operate, then on the window). There may be situations where there
are not clearly two nouns. In these situations click on the single object
twice. For example, if you wanted to turn on a flash light, click on
Operate, and click on the flashlight twice.

There is one other "command" that does not appear in the command window.
That is the drag command. To move an object, click on the object, keep the
button held down, and move the pointer to where you want the object placed.
Objects that you would expect to be draggable such as money, guns, and
flashlights can be dragged around. Things such as fireplaces and cars you
will find are not draggable.

Shortcuts

The commands which are most commonly used can also be accomplished by
double-clicking. Since Examine is the most frequently used command,
double-clicking an object is a synonym for examining it. Exits are an
exception to this rule. Double-clicking an exit will try to Open it if it
is closed, or Go if it is open. The last exceptions to this rule are
buttons. Things like elevator buttons that you would normally click on in
real life can be double-clicked to mean that you operated them. You will
find that taking advantage of double-clicks will save you a lot of time.

				1

                  Deja Vu II: Lost in Las Vegas

Well, it looks like you made a good choice pickin' up this Deja Vu 11: Lost
in Las Vegas adventure. Let's hope the choices you make while you're
playin' it are just as good. If you didn't already know it, this ain't the
first time you've been in trouble up to your eyeballs. Check out Deja Vu: A
Nightmare Comes True. It's a doozie.

If you've seen that game, you know you've got a knack for gettin' yourself
into some pretty big jams. It ain't no different here. If anything, you're
in a bigger mess. Well, you'd better do somethin' about it quick. Let's see
if any of this can help you out. There's a lot to tell, so listen up.

One thing you'll see right away is how this adventure is all pictures and
windows. Hey, it makes it real easy to get the job done. You work with
objects, and you don't have to use a lot of words. Your computer is real
bright, even if you're not. If that makes you mad, and you feel like
breakin' a window or somethin', go ahead. You can do that in Deja Vu 11.

But try to be careful, will ya? There's this guy you owe big. At least he
thinks so. His name is Tony Malone. He's countin' on you to come up with a
lot of dough, and you don't have a lot of time. He's got a bunch of cronies
too, and they're keepin' an eye on your every move. I know you're not
afraid of your shadow, but here it feels like you've got more than one.

Another thing you gotta know is this. This adventure is just like the real
world in a lot more ways than one. If you expect to get on the train for
nothin', you got another thing comin'. If you don't have any dough, you may
just have to use your imagination. Hey; the conductor's got his job to do
too, you know. Of course, maybe he doesn't know you're an ex boxer. Then
again, maybe your left hook ain't what it used to be.

So here's the big picture. It's a big world out there. There's a lot to do.
You're gonna find a lot of things. You gotta think of how they can help
you. But hey, that's your biz--you're a private detective. Who's going to
help you--the police? That's a laugh. Go ahead. Explain the fix you're in
to them. Maybe they'll listen. Maybe they won't.

Well, if you're a wise guy and already know everything else there is to
know, go ahead and play. If you're a rookie, stick around. You'll be out
there gettin' shot at soon enough, and this stuff could stop a bullet or
two. 

				2

Getting Started

This is the world of Deja Vu II as you first see it. As you can see, it's
all pictures and windows. The one that says "Click to continue" is actually
the Command window, which is now telling you that there is more text in the
Text window that can be read. Just click in that window, like it says.
Hitting any key works also.

Just keep doing that and reading the text. Now you can see the Command
window. With most adventure games, you must type lengthy instructions.
Here, we have easy-to-use commands. Ounce for ounce, there's more power in
these few words than in that right jab of yours.

            Examine | Open | Close | Speak
            Operate | Go | Hit | Consume

It's called the Command window for a good reason. Notice how each word is a
command. These commands are like your eyes, ears, mouth and hands. They are
your senses. All you have to do is learn these few commands to be alive and
well in Las Vegas. Of course, how long you stay alive is your problem. It
also happens to be the object of the game. 

				3

The main window is the world as seen through your eyes. The first thing you
notice as you awaken is that you're in a rather dingy bathroom. Hey, at
least you're alive. You should know too that there's a big world outside
that door. Everywhere you go in Deja Vu II has a real life of its own. The
rooms can be examined as one thing, or you can examine each object
individually.

You can do more than just Examine things. Is that all you do in life? No
way. You do plenty of other things like talk and eat. You don't just run
into things. There's also lots of people in the world. Well, Deja Vu II is
full of people also, and everyone of them is different.

I'll tell you about each command in a minute. For now, just try clicking on
different objects in the room. See how you can select them? When you click
on an object, it becomes the reverse of its original color. Click on the
white curtains. Notice how they change color. The color change means you've
selected that object. You can select a command, then the object, or the
object, then the command.

The Self window is a bit different than the others, but it is equally
important. In the game, it represents you.

All of the commands work together with the Self window. For example, if you
want to do Tony Malone a favor, you might try hitting yourself. See, that
uppercut of yours is not all it's cracked up to be. You can talk to
yourself too. It might do you some good.

If you select Close and Self, one of the windows will close. It is the
Inventory window. That's where you put things you pick up. If you want to
open the Inventory window again, just click on Open, and then click on
Self. 

				4

You can see that the Self window works with all the commands. If you are
testing it out, you probably see it is a little different with the Operate
command. You'll find out about that later in the section about the Operate
command.

The Inventory window shows you what you are carrying. You can drag many
objects (but not all of them) into the inventory. To pick something up,
just point to it and press the button. Now, hold the button down and drag
the item into the Inventory window.

When you let go of the button, the object may remain in your inventory. If
it dies, you will be able to take it with you.  Try dragging various
objects into your inventory to see which ones you can keep and which ones
you cannot.

The Exits window shows you the location of possible exits. The small boxes
in the Exits window represent an exit. In starting Deja Vu II for the first
time, the exit happens to be the bathroom door in front of you. If you plan
to open the door, you can do it in a number of ways. You can double click
on the door in the picture. You can click on the Open command and then on
the door, or you can double-click on the exit square in the Exits window.
In fact, you can even do it by clicking Open, and then clicking on the
square.

In some places, an exit may be behind you and, therefore, not visible.
Always be sure to compare the Exits window with the graphics of the room.

The Text window is where things you need to know are explained. You will
find that using the Text window to read descriptions may be easier than
going back to a particular room. It may be necessary to use the scroll bars
to see the previous text. 

				5

Beginner's Sample Session

For those of you who would like to get the feel of Deja Vu II, here are
some simple steps designed to help. These actions will not give anything
away, but you can apply the general idea to every room you visit. It is
important to read the Text window after each operation. Let's get started!

1. Click on Examine, then point and click on the bottle.

2. Double-click on the bottle.

3. Double-click on the sink.

4. Click on Consume, then point and click on the sink.

5. Click on the square in Exits window, then click on Examine.

6. Point and click on the door, then click on Examine.

7. Point and hold down the button on the coat, dragging it to your
   inventory.

8. Point and hold down the button on the rug, dragging it to your
   inventory.

9. Click on Hit, then point and click on the mirror.

10. Click on Open, then point and click on the coat.

If you followed each step, you saw how you sometimes achieved the same
results in different ways. Some actions seemed non-productive, but the
knowledge you've gained may be helpful later. You will learn from your
mistakes, so check everything out.

When you're satisfied that you've done all that you can, double-click on
the door to open it. Then to exit the room, double-click on the open
doorway.

You never know what is lurking beyond any door, so you had better learn to
use all of the commands at your disposal. Examine everything, but don't
stop there; you're a detective. Now is a good time to experiment and
develop good investigative techniques. Looking out for Number One is your
full-time job in Deja Vu II. Leaving stones unturned will not get your
detective license revoked, but it might find you a pair of cement shoes
that are just your size. 

				6

OK, you've got the general idea. Now let's take a close look at each
command one by one. Use this section as a reference.

           | Examine | Open | Close | Speak
           | Operate | Go | Hit | Consume

We've already discussed the Command window. Understand that your success
depends on your interaction with it and the room you're exploring.

           | Examine | Open | Close | Speak
           | Operate | Go | Hit | Consume

Click on an object, then on Examine for a description of that object. Any
time you enter a new room, Examine is selected and a description is
automatically given.

SHORTCUT: Almost everything except exits will be examined if you
double-click on them. If you double-click on the item you want to examine,
you don't have to use Examine in the Command window.

          | Examine | Open | Close | Speak 
          | Operate | Go I Hit | Consume

Open can be used to open a door. Just click on Open and then on the door.
Of course, if it is locked, you may have to find a key.

Other objects may open into new windows that show you what that object
contains. Just click on Open and then on the object. For example, clicking
on a closed box, then on Open may open a new window showing you the
contents of the box. You may choose to drag items from their containers
into other windows. Things that don't open in the real world tend to be
difficult to open in Deja Vu 11, and the messages will reflect this.

SHORTCUT: Doors will usually open if you double-click on them.

				7
  
           | Examine | Open | Close | Speak
           | Operate | Go | Hit | Consume

Close can be used to close a door. Just click on Close and then on the
doorway. For example, you can close the bathroom door by clicking on the
open door area, then on Close. You may also click on the exit square in the
Exits window that represents the doorway, and then on Close.

To close other objects, click first on an object to select it. Then click
on Close. You normally cannot close objects that will not open. Also, you
should not spend too much time trying the same thing over and over. If
something does not work, try something new.

SHORTCUT: When closing an open object, click on the square in the upper
left hand corner of the window. Doors can only be closed using Close in the
Command window.

           | Examine | Open | Close | Speak
           | Operate | Go | Hit | Consume

By selecting an object and clicking on Speak, you can speak to anything you
like. You will normally be prompted for what you want to say. Just type in
your message. If it is an appropriate time to speak, your message will be
taken seriously. If you like talking to pillows and chairs in your daily
life, you may do this in Deja Vu 11, but don't expect much.

           | Examine | Open | Close | Speak
           | Operate | Go | Hit | Consume

The Operate command is the most flexible command. One way it works is to
operate two objects. This means you can operate one item on another. To use
one object on another, you must select both items. If you want to buy
chips, click on your money, click on Operate, and then click on the
cashier. You have just operated the money on the cashier. It's the same
with other objects. If you need to operate a gun on someone or an item of
clothing on yourself, use this approach. 

				8

Operate may also be used with one object. For example, to turn on the water
in the bathroom, you need to click on Operate, then click twice on the
knob. To push a button, click on Operate, then click twice on the button.
Clicking twice is different from a double click. When you use Operate, and
click twice on the knob, you are actually operating yourself on the knob.
You could just as easily click on Self, then on Operate, and then on the
knob. It will do the same thing.

There will be many operations that will not produce significant results,
but success in the adventure requires effective use of the Operate command.

SHORTCUT: In some cases where the Operate command could be used, you can
also drag an object on top of another. For instance, to give money to the
cashier, drag the money onto the slot in the cashier's cage.

           | Examine | Open | Close | Speak
           | Operate | Go | Hit | Consume

Using this command should pose no difficulty. After opening a door, you
click on Go to go through it. Go may also be used with the Exits window.
Click on an exit, then on Go. Sometimes exits aren't pictured but exist in
the Exits window. If the exit is closed and not locked, then clicking twice
on the exit square will open it. Clicking twice again will allow you to go
through the exit.

HINT: A double-click on a closed door will open it unless it's locked. A
double click on an open exit will let you go through it.

           | Examine | Open | Close | Speak
           | Operate | Go | Hit | Consume

You used to be a boxer, and you took your lumps. It's part of the game. So
if you want to throw a few punches, go ahead--make your day. Objects may be
broken by striking them. This might make them more useful, or it might not.
The results can be unpredictable. You will never know unless you try. To
hit something, just click on Hit, and click on whatever you want to hit.

				9

HINT: Violence can lead to more violence. If you go around hitting everyone
and everything in Deja Vu 11, you may find your "vacation" in Vegas cut
short.

           | Examine | Open | Close | Speak
           | Operate | Go | Hit | Consume

Just as in real life, you can eat if you feel like it. Just click on the
item and then Consume. You may empty glasses or break your teeth this way.
It's up to you.

The Menus

No matter what computer you are using, there are some very important things
you can do such as saving games and restarting games that you saved before.
You can save a game just before you think you might get killed. Then, if
you do get killed, you can start over and try something else. This way you
don't have to play over from the beginning every time.

At the top of the screen, click on the menus or the name of the game for
the options you have. The terms may differ for each machine, but there will
always be New for starting a new game; Open or Load for picking up a game
saved earlier; Save As for saving a game under a name you choose; Save for
saving under the same name; and Quit for ending the current session of Deja
Vu II.

The Windows

The windows that you see in Deja Vu II can do many things. Depending on
your computer, you can move certain windows around on the screen, bring
them to the front or send them to the back, resize them and open and close
them. Let's examine each of these options in greater detail. 

				10

Moving around

In most versions, to move a window, point to the title bar, hold down the
button and move the mouse. When you release the button, the window will
have moved to a new position.

Bringing to front

If there's a window behind another one, just click on the one you want in
front and it will move to the front. You can do the same thing by opening
an object that is already open. For example, if the coat window is buried,
but the coat is visible, just open the coat. The coat window will then move
to the front. 

				11

Re-sizing

If a window has a re-size box in the lower right corner, position the
cursor on the box, hold down the button and drag the mouse. The window will
become whatever size you want when you release the button. On certain
computers, some windows may be expanded to full-screen size either by
clicking on the "zoom box" in the window's upper right corner, or by
double-clicking on the window's title bar. Repeating this will shrink it
back to its previous size. Again, this may not be supported by your
computer.

Closing

If a window has a small box in its upper left corner, you can close it by
clicking on the box. Even if it does not have the box, you can close a
window by clicking on the Close command in the Command window, and then
clicking on the window you want to close or the object itself if you can
see its graphic. 

				12

Multiple selection in windows

If you want to move more than one item at a time, you can drag out a
selection rectangle around multiple items. Just hold down the mouse button
next to the items you want to select and drag a box around them. Then,
point to one of the items, push the button and drag. When you let go of the
button, all the items in the box will be selected. If you decide you do not
want to drag all the items, click elsewhere, and they will no longer be
selected. In this way, you can drag all the contents of the wallet in one
move. When you let go of the button, the contents will reappear in their
new location.

To save on moves, you should use the shift select option to drag multiple
objects into your Inventory window from the room you are in. To do this,
hold down the shift key and then start clicking on objects. All of the
objects will then be selected. Drag one, and the rest will follow. If you
win five chips at a blackjack table, you can bring them all into your
inventory in one move using shift select.

Experiment with multiple selection and shift select because they can be
very useful with commands other than dragging.

Gambling

This is just another one of your bad habits, but it doesn't seem as bad if
you win. Just to even up the odds a bit, you should know what to do at the
blackjack tables.

Blackjack is a game of chance. The object is to get as close to 21 as you
can without going over. To get the dealer to give you cards, put one or
more chips on the table. The Text window will give you the total of the
cards in your hand. If you want another card, you can Hit Self, or speak to
the dealer. Tell him to "hit" you.

				13

When you feel your hand is close enough to 21, Hit the table, or tell the
dealer to "stay" or "stand." Dragging a coin on the cards will get him to
stop dealing, too. Then the dealer will finish his hand. The closest to 21
wins. If either you or the dealer gets more than 21, it's a bust--an
automatic loser, but if the dealer deals you 21, that's blackjack--an
automatic winner.

By the way, the cards are worth their face value. Kings, Queens, and Jacks
are worth 10. Aces are worth either 1 or 11. There's more than one way to
get the job done.

HINT: Don't get too greedy. You've gotten into big trouble before for that
very reason.

Just Desserts

What will you gain for successfully completing Deja Vu II Well, besides the
satisfaction of knowing that you didn't miss a trick and survived despite
tremendous odds (hey, that's what Las Vegas is all about), what more do you
want? OK, so there is more, and you'll need a printer, but that's the only
hint you'll get. Well, maybe one more hint: Be careful in the desert. It's
a long walk home.
 
============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================