		DEMON'S TOMB - THE AWAKENING

Typed in by Parasite, Shagratt, and Frodo. Edited by Parasite. 
Note that this is a slightly edited version of the docs, and not word perfect as we didn't bother stating the obvious, (except for all the 
intro's which are word perfect) but all vital information is present 
and correct for playing the game. Thanx to Vulcan for supplying the originals. 


REVELATIONS OF KLAADRA
The Barfwyd were born twin sons by his first wife. He named them Thai 
and Tzen, both where wise and learned in the craft of high priesthood 
but Tzen the youngest had the greatest skill. He taught his mind to 
float free from his body and looked beyond the world.... but Thai 
argued that universe had no end. Tzen could not believe this and sought 
so prove his elder brother wrong. In a fit of rage Tzen seized the 
mind of his brother and flew out into the void. Thai struggled to break 
free but his brothers will held him fast. Tzen travelled further than 
he ever had been before and became afraid. Still he travelled on. Tzen 
passed the last star he knew and still he travelled on. All the while 
he probed ahead looking for an end, the edge of everything. 
Darasuggotha heard them as a whisper at the edge of his void and reached 
through to take the mind of Tzen. Perceiving the foul touch of 
Darasuggotha on his brothers being, Thai fought to pull him free. 
Darasuggotha looked into the mind of Tzen and for a dreadful purpose 
of his own, released him to Thai. When Tzen mind returned to his body 
his eyes burned with cruel madness..... and in the years after his 
fathers unexpected death lord Tzen worshipped the forbidden god openly. 
He even dared to speak of summoning his master from beyond the edge. 
For high priest Thai this was too much. He banished Tzen to the unholy 
isle of Breton... On hearing the news, high priest Thai journied in 
disguise to the isle. There, in secret he grew to know to mind of his 
evil brother. So on that midsummers eve when lord Tzen began the 
rights of summoning, Thai was ready and stepped into the circle. None 
other but an identicle could have passed another web of throught. 
Thai knew that this way, the only the way he could better the stronger 
will of his brother. From within the being of Tzen, Thai spoke, "Mend 
thy way brother. I speak from within you and could end your life at a 
throught." Tzen replied "You dare not Thai for your life would end 
also." Undaunted by this, the high priest, "To save our world from the 
forbidden god I am willing to die. Call off the summoning." Tzen 
considered this and submitted to his older brother.
Tzen refused to renounce the forbidden god. High priest Thai pleaded 
with him but Tzen just argued that the stars would not be right for 
another summoning for many lifetimes so what harm was there. The high 
priest knew this to be true and took pity on his younger brother. 
Later that year, Tzen too his own life and was buried on a tomb on the 
unholy isle. His disiplies believed that he was not dead but just 
sleeping until the time was right for the summoning. 
The high priest did not trust his brothers death for he had not felt 
it in his heart as a twin should of done. He believed that his brother 
had hidden his mind where none could find it, until as such time as 
the heavens where ready once again. For this reason the high priest 
built himself a tomb on the unholy isle close to his brothers. Sealing 
the door from the inside, he sat down and looked out into the void for 
the return of his brothers mind. In time the tombs became grassy 
mounds and their tale faded from the memory of their people. Yet even 
to this day the high priest maintains his lonely vigil. 

EXMOOR NEWSLETTER - SPRING 1990

STRANGE DEATH ON THE MOORS
78 year old Edith Turner was found dead on the roadside this month, 
close to Culcombe manor church, where she was walking her dog every 
day. Her body was discovered by a National trust worker Dug Walker, 
on his way to the compound at Culcombe with some new saplings for the 
forest, in early hours of May 3rd last. 
"It were a bit of shock comin' across the old dear like that, she was 
lyin' in heather a few feet from the road her and the dog, stone dead 
the pair of 'em. Not a mark on them mind you, just a horrible look on 
her face, like something from hell had come up and got her. Horrible 
it were."
Police sources commented that there was no discernible course of death 
at the time but the inquest had reviled massive damage of the hearts of 
both Miss Turner and the dog. Pathologist where at a loss to explain 
the findings, other than a simultaneous heart attack.
The final twist to the story comes from Dr. Blaise, how carried out 
the autopsy on Miss Turner. "I have seen nothing like it, the heart 
wasn't so much damaged as torn to pieces. It looked as if something 
has worried it, like a dog worries a bone. If it was a heart attack, 
it must have pretty dam spectacular... and there where claw marks."
Unfortunately Dr. Blaise was unable to elaborate after speaking to the 
authorities and later denied he had ever made the statement."  
will be best remembered for her work raising funds for the village 
community and for her tireless campaigning for the privately owned 
Culcombe manor church to be reopened to the public, following it's 
closure by the new owner last year. 

EXCEPTIONAL TIDES THIS YEAR
The forthcoming Equinox brings with it the usual tide warnings, 
however this years first day of spring will produce exceptional highs 
and lows according to Bristol University. 
They claim that the unusual alignment of the Solar system, with the 
Moon closer to Earth than ever before since records began, will cause 
freak conditions around the time of the tide turning. 
The coastguard are particularly warning locals to stay clear of the
shallow channels around the Exmoor coast on March the 21st itself, as 
the channels will be at their lowest ebb and miles of beach normally 
underwater will be revealed. Around 11.15 is the point of lowest water, 
with the strong possibility of freak waves as the tide rushes back in, 
urged on by the odd conditions. Naturalists wishing to study the 
phenomena are warned to take care. 

02.28 SUNDAY MARCH 20TH 1990
The story begins on a one man archaeological dig in a remote English 
forest in the heart of Devonshire. The one man with whom we are 
concerned is a professor Edward Lynton, an unfortunate academic doomed 
to die a violent and mysterious death.......
A cold gust of night air blew through the open door of the tomb. The 
lamp light flickered wildly, throwing eerie shadows on the face of the 
kneeling figure. Lynton paused for a moment to glance up at the 
inscriptions on the wall before him, then resumed his frantic 
scribbling in the notebook, his face twisted with desperation and his 
eyes those of a man nearing total madness. 
Startled by a noise behind him Lynton spun around, but it was too 
late. The massive stone door had slammed shut before he could cover 
half the distance to the entrance. 
The oil lamp which had been hanging from it had been dashed to the 
floor and it ignited, sending flames shooting across the layers of dry 
leaves and debris covering the floor. Even as the blaze took hold and 
swept towards him Lynton could see there was no escape for him and he 
turned away, in the tomb to find a way to warn those who would find 
his charred body ......... 
He had to save everything of importance from the fire, so very much 
depended on it now........
You will begin the game in control of Edward Lynton and must help him 
save his knowledge from the flames. Following his death his son Richard 
will be looking for him and you will assume control of this character.
If Lynton senior. succeeds in preserving enough clues, then Richard 
should be able to go on and solve the riddle of his fathers murder, 
becoming evermore involved in a much larger and more horrifying 
mystery as he does so.
The episode with Edward in the tomb is played as a prologue to the 
game proper, which must be solved before a full solution is possible. 
Note that saving him is not possible! Whatever devious method you may 
concoct, there is nothing to be done other than to ensure he does not 
go out in vain. 
Time to play.........................................................

QUICKSTART INSTRUCTIONS.
1. The game will be set to typed text mode when you start, enabling 
you to enter text as you would for any other adventure. The parser 
supports multiple commands, separated by 'and' or fullstops. 'Again' 
repeats the whole of your last line of input as though you had        
retyped it. Graphics are called up by pressing F1. 
2. At the outset you are in control of Lynton senior. he will die soon 
after the game begins, what ever you do, don't waste time trying to 
save him. Concentrate on trying to save his possessions from the 
blaze.
3. Use the 'ramsave' function often then when you are killed, which 
you will be, often, 'ramload' puts you back at the point you reached 
when you last typed 'ramsave'.
4. The game uses a 'think about' feature, as another form of the 
'examine' command, which activates your characters experience and can 
provide clues and insight into particular objects and people. You will 
need this to solve many of the puzzles, or even to progress very far 
into the mystery. Characters can think about anything they come 
across, even if they have only read about it, or have been told about 
it by someone else.
5. 'Undo' can be used to undo what ever consequences occurred as a 
result of your last actions, even if it was fatal. One undo works on 
one input line, regardless of how many commands it contains. 

CONTROLING THE GAME
There are two modes of interaction to allow the user to customise 
things to suit himself. These are Typed text mode and Menu mode and 
can be changed by between, during the game.

TYPED TEXT MODE
This the normal way in which commands are entered into adventure 
games, simply type in your commands and press the return key. However 
the game has three features which enhance the speed of entry and the 
ease of use.

A. LINE EDITOR - This allows you to correct typing mistakes in your 
current command line and to recall, alter and re-use any of your 
previous ten command lines.
B. MACROS - These are essentially user defined abbreviations. For 
example you can define 'X' to mean 'Examine', 'GA' to mean 'Get all' 
etc.
C. ADVANCED PARSER - The parser interprets your commands and turns 
them into actions. The games parser accepts many effort-saving complex 
commands. It also deliberately encourages you to be lazy by filling in 
missing parts of your input. If ambiguities exist, it can offer you a 
numbered possibilities and your simply press a key complete your input.


THE LINE EDITOR
This allows you to do two things;
A. Make alterations to the line you are typing. You will make typing 
mistakes, and the simplest of these is hitting the wrong key. To 
correct this press the 'Backspace' key until you have deleted the 
unwanted characters. If you make a mistake earlier in the line there 
is no need to delete and re-type the whole line. Instead move the 
cursor to where you made the mistake by using the following keys;
LEFT ARROW - 1 character left
RIGHT ARROW - 1 character right
CTRL LEFT - one word left
CTRL RIGHT - one word right
HOME - start of line
END - end of line

Some other useful keys for chopping your input;
DELETE - delete the character at the cursor
CTRL BACKSPACE - delete everything before the cursor
CTRL RETURN - delete all from the cursor onwards
It is useful to know that it doesn't matter where the cursor is on the 
line when you press return.

B. retrieve any of the last ten lines your typed for re-use. By 
repeatedly pressing the up cursor key you can step back through the 
last ten lines you typed in and find the line you wish to re-use. If 
you go too far use the down cursor key to step forward again. Once you 
have found the one your require, you can either edit as if you had 
just typed it in or enter it by pressing 'RETURN'. If you want to look 
at a previous line without losing the line you are typing, use the up 
key, the old line and then the down to return to your current line. You 
may also use the mouse to move the cursor and retrieve previous lines. 
Horizontal movement move the cursor left/right and vertical movement 
retrieves previous lines.
On the Amiga you may use the 'SHIFT' key instead of the 'CTRL' key, 
you may also use 'CTRL DEL' instead of 'CTRL RETURN'.

USING KEYBOARD MACROS
There are three commands wich allow you to define macro's 
(abbreviations). These are 'define', 'list', and 'undefine.

DEFINE - This allows you to define one word to mean another word or 
words and can then be used instead of the word or words. E.G 'Define 
ga=get all'
LIST - This command lists all the macro's you have defined.
UNDEFINE - Incase you change your mined or define a macro 
incorrectly, this deletes a particular macro. E.G 'Undefine ga'

THE POWER OF THE PARSER
The game understands more complex input's than so far described. These 
are listed below.

Multiple sentences on one input line;
>go north and then kick the bucket
>go north.Kick the bucket
>n, kick bucket

Some verbs allow more than one direct object;
>Take the bag, the bucket and the pen
>Take bag,bucket and pen
>take bag, bucket, pen

It/them and to reference the direct object;
>take the note book
>read it
>put them in the bag

Smart use of and/,/&;
>get book and bucket and pen and put them in the bag
>get book, bucket, pen put them in bag


Him/her to reference the last character;
>Pick sam up. Examine him
>take the sandwich from sam. hit him with it

Some verbs allow you to use all/everything and but/except;
>take all
>take everything
>take all except notebook and bag
>take all but notebook

Adjectives can be used to specify a particular object;
>get the red bag and the black bag
>get all the red things
>put all the metal things down

Some verbs allow you to use plurals;
>drop the books
>take everything but the books
>drop all the books execept the old one and the red ones

Random selection of an object;
>drop something
>throw a book at sam
>read one of the books

Speaking with the characters in the game;
>say " hello" to sam
>sam, "hello"
>tell Vaulker about the notebook

It also tries to complete incomplete sentences. E.G 
>take
(sleeping bag)

If there is more than one visible object you will be presented with a 
list E.G
1. sleeping bag
2. notebook
3. biro
4. torch
take which of these?
just press a numeric key to select an item.

This system is also used for directions.
For verbs like 'examine' and 'look under', no selection is offered as 
this may give away some of the puzzle. Instead, a question is displayed 
for you to type in a answer. E.G
>Examine
Examine what ?
>The coffin

In many cases the game will take or drop objects as required before 
executing your command. E.G. (assuming you are not caring a key)
>unlock the door with the key
(taking the key first)

MENU MODE
This allows you to enter commands in a fast way. A menu at the bottom 
of the screen offers a range of verbs. To give a command you must 
select a verb from this menu in one of these ways;

1. If the verb you want is already highlighted, then just press 
return.
2. If the verb you want is adjacent to or almost adjacent to the 
currently highlighted verb, just use cursor keys to select and press 
return.
3. Otherwise, type in the first letter of the verb you want. This 
moves the highlighter to the next verb which starts with that letter. 
If this isn't the verb you want, then press the same letter until the 
verb you require is reached, or use the cursor keys to reach it.
Verbs starting with the same letter have been ordered so the most 
frequently used verbs come first. EG. ~examine' comes before 'eat' as 
there are more things to examine than eat. Another useful feature is 
backspace key, this highlights the previous verb starting with the 
same letter. If the verb selected requires an object you will be 
presented with a list of possibilities; EG. 

'examine'  
notebook
torch 
sleeping bag

You must select an object using the same techniques already described. 
Some verbs require a direct object and an indirect object, in which 
case a second menu is offered.

SOME IMPORTANT COMMANDS
The following commands do not make your character do anything in the 
story, they make it easier for you to play the game.
'again' This will repeat the last input
'undo' This will undo whatever happened as a consequence of your last 
input.
'exits' This will list all available exits. 
'time' This will tell you the current game time in a 24 hour format.
'restart' This takes you back to the beginning of the game.
'quit' This quits the game.
'ramsave' / 'ramload' This will save/load your current position and 
situation in the game.
'load' (or restore) / 'save' (or store) this is the same as 'ramsave' 
/ 'ramload' but uses the disk.

OPTIONS MENU
To select this menu press the escape key or right mouse button. A list 
of options will be displayed, which can be changed by using left/right 
cursor keys. There are may options available, and most are 
straightforward, and so will not be described here, except the 
following;
'echo to printer' turning this option on will cause everything to be 
printed out via your printer. If the printer isn't on, this will stop 
working and the option will be turned off. Note that 1 megabyte is required 
for this.

THE PANIC BUTTON
Now you can claim you are hard at work on your Amiga, if someone 
enters the room simply press f2 and the screen will clear and a dummy 
prompt will appear. If someone presses any key a message is displayed
'the machine is busy, do not touch'. Press f2 to return to game. 
 
DEMONS TOMB, A WAY THROUGH
What follows next in the manual is a list of hints (written backwards) 
of how to solve them adventure, I am not prepared to type these 
backwards, and having them printed forwards means you will read part 
of them without realising, which would spoil the game, which isn't very 
hard. Real men don't need hints. So yah boo you cheating gits ha ha.
