				DESTROYER

STARTING PLAY:
	The title screen will appear. Press the Fire Button to continue. Type
in the name of your ship for this game and press RETURN. When requested, type
in your name and press RETURN again.
	Select one of 7 challenging missions, from introductory to advanced
scenarious. First select the mission, then the difficulty level (easy,
intermediate, or advanced).
	Push the joystick FORWARD or pull BACK to change selections. The
selection you are changing will turn yellow.
	Move the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to change levels or missions.
	Then use the jouystick to get to START GAME and press the FIRE BUTTON.
	You will then receive your orders and a description of the scenario
you're to encounter. Press the FIRE BUTTON to begin the mission.

SUBHUNTER - Use Sonar, Depth Charges, Navigation
	You're to seek and destroy an enemy submarine that has been sighted in
your patrol area! Use your sonar to track the enemy submarine while maneuvering
toward it. When your ship is above the submarine, attack with depth charges!
Don't let this one get away!

SCREEN - Use Radar, Anit-Aircraft Guns, Navigation
	Your task force has been positioned south of you. To the north are a
large number of enemy aircraft heading toward your carriers. you must protect
them at any cost! Your radar will give you warning of the airplanes before they
are on you, so you can ready the Anti-Aircraft guns in time to defend yourself.

SCOUT - Use Sonar, Radar, Weapons Systems (dependent on enemy encounter)
	An important convoy must cross a treacherous strait. You are to scout
the intended route for enemy patrols. You will be notified as you reach each
checkpoint. Maintain radio silence until you return to base to make your
report. Avoid combat to keep the enemy guessing as to your intentions.

BOMBARDMENT - Use Surface Guns, Radar, Anti-Aircraft, Navigation
	The Marines are landing! You must shell key parts of the island and
maneuver close to the beach to search for flashes of enemy gun emplacements.
Silence them with your main guns, avoid the return fire, and destroy any enemy
aircraft threatening the invasion beaches. A combination of good radar
operation, keen lookouts and sharp shooting will be necessary to protect the
amphibious assault.

BLOCKADE RUNNER - Use Surface Guns, Torpedoes, Radar, Sonar, Navigation
	One of our small island outposts has been surrounded by enemy forces.
The garrison requires certain critical supplies in order to hold out. You are
to take your battle seasoned crew and run the blockade! All stations must
operate at full efficiency as you will be facing multiple threats fromships,
submarines, and fighters!

CONVOY ESCORT - All Systems Used
	Youhave been assigned to lead a slow merchant convoy to a beleaguered
outpost, deep in enemy territory. Your assigned position is the LEFT front
sector of the convoy's advance, your sister ships are assigned to other areas.
It is your responsibility to run interference for those ships and to see the
convoy safely to the harbor on time - regardless of enemy action!

RESCUE -  All Systems Used, Pilot Signals, Enemy Guns
	A friendly pilot has been shot down in your area and made it to a small
chain of islands. You must rescue him soon (his signal beacon is rapidly
getting weaker) and get him back to base. As his position is behind enemy 
lines, speed and stealth are very important. The pilot will signal SOS with a
mirror when he sees you approach, but beware - that flash might also be enemy
gunfire!

				CONTROLS
	A destroyer can be a complicated ship to sail and fight with. To make
control easier, all controls have been separated into stations. Each weapon
type and sensor has a station, along with the Bridge and Damage Control.
	All stations are shown on different screens. You can access these
stations by typing in the two letter codes and then pressing RETURN. The
commands (and any appropriate responses) will be shown on the message line
located toward the bottom of the screen. Once a station has been selected, the
controls are manipulated using the joystick (or cursor keys).

KEYBOARD	STATION

BR		Bridge
NA		Navigation
OB		Observation Deck
RA		Radar
SO		Sonar
GF, GA		Guns Forward/Guns Aft
AP, AS		Anti-Aircraft Guns Port/Anti-Aircraft Guns Starboard
TP, TS		Torpedoes Port/Torpedoes Starboard
DC		Depth Charges
DA		Damage Control

There are also two additonal codes to be used in particular circumstances:

TR		Used at the Surface Guns Station to activate the Targeting
		Radar
AB		When all else fails - Abandon Ship to end the current mission.

				HELM
	There is a special set of controls that appears at the bottom of the
screen on four of the stations above (Observation Deck, Bridge, Radar and
Sonar). This special section is called the Helm. It allows you to control the
heading and speed of the ship. Push the joystick FORWARD or pull BACK (or use
cursor keys) until the light flashes next to the item you wish to change.

STEER TO allows you to set the course you wish to follow. Right and left
movement of the joystick (or cursor keys) will move the dial right and left.
The new course setting is shown at the center of the dial under the marker.
Press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) to set it on automatic. The dial will turn
black to indicate this, and the joystick has no effect until the FIRE BUTTON
(SPACE BAR) is pressed again. (When on automatic, the AUT switch at the bridge
reflects the same.)

CURRENT HEADING shows exactly where the bow of the Destroyer is pointing. It
takes time to turn a 3,000 ton ship around, so don't be surprised if you see
this dial moving after a new heading (STEER TO) order is given.

SPD (The Throttle) controls the preselected settings for the engines, and
therefore their speeds are measured as Full, Half, Slow, Stop, and Slow Reverse
(shown as F,H,S,ST,S). Moving the joystick RIGHT and LEFT (or using the cursor
keys) will move the throttle marker right and left to set your speed.

CURRENT SPEED displays the current speed of the ship in knots. As with turning,
it takes some time to get a 3,000 ton ship moving.

				STATIONS
NA: NAVIGATION
	The particular path to be followed by the quartermaster (the sailor who
actually turns the wheel) is defined on the map at this station. The view is of
a map boxed off into 100 squares, each 5000 yards per side. The top is always
North. Your position (blip), and the position of islands (squares), any
friendly hips (moving dots), and your base (:-:) are shown on this map. You may
plot a course with up to 4 destination points on this map. To follow this
course, the AUT switch on the bridge must be turned on.
	To plot a course, first press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR). Then move
the joystick to place point 1 on the spot where you want your next destination
point, and press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) again. A bullet will appear to the
right of your log entry at the bottom of the screen.
	Repeat this procedure until you are ready to place your last turn, then
press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) twice. If you are at the fourth turn, you
will automatically be finished and do not need to press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE
BAR) twice.
	Replotting a course may be done when the Revise Orders Light (at the
top left of the screen) is blinking.
	A record of your course i shown on the bottom half of the screen. The
locations for your destination points are given in longtitude and latitude. As
you reach each destination point, a second bullet will appear next to the log
entry.

BR: BRIDGE
	This is the brain of the ship. Automatic function of the stations,
course settings, speed, and crew reports are all available here. No other
station contains as many controls as the Bridge. The view shows a control panel
full of toggle switches and dials. The dials are all located on the bottom of
the screen in the Helm section.
	Push the joystick FORWARD or pull it BACK to select which row of
controls to change. The light at the far right of that row will flash to
indicate which row you are on.
	Move the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to move across the screen to the
different switches. A control is activated when the blue light next to it
flashes.
	Press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) to turn the switch on or off. The
light next to the switch is yellow when it is on and green when it is off.
	The top row is for status reports for the Sonar, Radar, and Damage
Control Stations. When each switch is toggled, a report will appear on the
message line.
	The second row from the top is for maneuvering orders from the Helm.
Switches may be set for Pursuit (PUR), Evasive-Action (EVA), Auto (AUT), or
Manual (MAN) Helm control.

PUR (Pursuit): The ship automatically follows the closest enemy sub. This
releases you to concentrate your attention on sinking that sub.

EVA (Evasive Action): To run an erratic course so that enemy ships, submarines,
and aircraft have a harder time hitting you.

AUT (Automatic): To follow the course defined under the Navigation Station.
This frees your to patrol other areas and pay attention to your radar and sonar
reports.

MAN (Manual): When a special maneuver is needed. (For example, to bring your
torpedo tubes to bear on an enemy ship or drop depth charges.) When this is
selected, the present course is suspended until AUT is reselected. Mnual
controls are directed from the Helm.

	The next row controls the Crew Status. There are three levels
available, General Quarters (GQ or "Battle Stations"), Condition 2 (COND2), and
Condition 3 (COND3).

GQ (General Quarters): To turn on all weapon systems at one time. All weapons
will fire automatically unless you go to a specific weapons station (Surface,
Anti-Aircraft Guns, or Depth Charges), which then is under manual control.

COND2 (Condition 2): To turn on specific weapons so that you may selectively
attack or defend using just those weapons. (The weapons may be selected using
the last row of switches).

COND3 (Condition 3): To turn off all weapons at once. This is a quick and easy
way to secure from general quarters. When selected, ALL weapons are turned OFF!

NOTE: 	Remember that if you leave any station at Battle Stations too long, the
	crew will become tired and not perform as well. If you don't need a
	particular station, leave it off so the crew can get some rest.

	The last row of switches controls individual weapon stations
ATUOMATICALLY. Note that paired weapons (Surface Guns, Anti-Aircraft Guns, and
Torpedoes) are activated or deactivated as a pair.

M (Machine Gun): Activate/deactivate both the FORWARD and AFT guns. These are
the weapons you use to attack enemy ships or to pound enemy shore guns.

AA (Anti-Aircraft Guns): Activate/deactivate bothe the Port and Starboard
Anti-Aircraft guns. Only the Anti-Aircraft guns can shoot down aircraft.

TP (Torpedoes): Both the Port and Starboard torpedo stations are controlled by
this switch. Torpedoes are only effective against enemy ships.

DC (Depth Charges): Mounted on the stern, Depth Charges are activated with this
swtich. Submarines may only be attacked by Depth Charges.

	The bottom of the screen has the speed and heading controls and
indicators called the Helm. The Helm controls are as described previously.

			OB: OBSERVATION DECK
	To see the tactical situation visually from any direction, you can use
the Observation Deck. The Observation Deck has the same Helm controls as the
Bridge, with the addition of another control for the viewing angle. The viewing
angel is controlled by the dial located in the center of the screen. This dial
allows you to turn and look in any direction regardless of the direction your
ship is facing, or to lock in a view in the ship's current heading.
	Push the joystick FORWARD to select the window and press your FIRE
BUTTON (SPACE BAR). The perimeter around the window will toggle from a light
gray to a dark gray.
	When the perimeter is light gray, move the joystick RIGHT or LEFT to
change the viewing angle in any direction. Press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) to
lock in the forward view. The perimeter around the window will turn dark gray
until you press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) again.

			RA: RADAR
	Radar allows a ship to spot enemy ships and aircraft at much greater
distances than a telescope. Some course corrections may be needed depending on
what is seen on the radar, therefore the Helm controls are duplicated here.
	Radar operates on the principal of bounding radio beams off of a ship
or plane and timing how long it takes the beams to return. This gives the
approximate distance. The direction the antenna is pointing gives the bearing
to the target. The range of the radar is approxomately a 13,500 yard radius.
Islands are shown as squares, ships as blips, and squadrons of airplanes as
pulses. The top of the screen is always north. So if a target is seen on the
bottom RIGHT hand side of the display, it is approximately south-east of you.
This might be over your bow, or on your starboard beam.

			SO: SONAR
	The only way to see a submarine is to use the Sonar. Some course
corrections may be needed depending on what is seen on the sonar, therefore,
the Helm controls are duplicated here.
	Sonar works on the principal of sending sound waves through the water
and timing how long they take to return after bounding off of an enemy
submarine. The direction of the transponder (sonar "antenna") determines the
range. This sonar will show the position of enemy submarines (blips) within an
approximate radius of 13,500 yards around you, as well as the positions of
islands. But beware: sudden, fast-moving blips heading toward you are
torpedoes!

			GF: GUN FORWARD
			GA: GUN AFT
	When enemy ships are nearby, the 5" guns may be used to fire on them .
The guns were also used to support the marines when they hit the beach. Each
time the gun is fired, it will take several seconds to reload it. Repeated hits
are required to sink a ship or eliminate a gun emplacement.
	These Stations show the ocean, the 5" gun, the bow or stern, and a set
of controls and indicators. General fire control follows the following
procedures. Keep in mind that it may be more difficult to shoot freehand than
with the targeting radar.
	Move the fun up or down (change the Point) by pushing the joystick
FORWARD or pulling BACK.
	Move the fun left or right (change the Train) by moving the joystick
LEFT or RIGHT. As the gun moves, you will notice the indicators change.
	Press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) each time you wish to fire the gun. 
	Wait to reload, then continue firing on selected targets, making
adjustments as needed. Be sure to watch the number of rounds you have left.

You can also select and lock the radar onto a target by using your sweep
controls.
	Type TR for Targeting Radar, then press RETURN. This will activate the
Radar Sweep Display on the lower left corner of the station, and the blue light
below it will flash. (This will be red if the radar is damaged.)
	Move the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to move the sweep left or right.
	Line up the sweep with one of the blips shown on the radar screen, then
press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR).
	The yellow light will flash below the radar, indicating that it is
calculating. As soon as the green light flashes, the target has been locked in.
	Line up the top pointers under TRAIN and POINT with those pointers
underneath (controlled by radar) by moving the joystick RIGHT, LEFT, FORWARD,
or BACK.
	When the pointers connect, press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) to shoot.
	Wait to reload, and continue the same process until you've eliminated
your target, then select another.

INDICATORS

TRAIN: The number of degrees that the gun is off the centerline of the ship.
Positive (+) values are to the right, and negative (-) values are to the left.

POINT: The number of degrees that the gun is off the horizon. The maximum is
50°, the minimum is 0° and the maximum range is at 45°.

RANGE: How far the radar locked target is in yards.

TARGET: How far away the shell from the gun will land at the given point value.

ROUNDS LEFT: The two-digit number on the bottom right of the screen which
indicates the number of shells left for that gun.

RELOAD: Flashes to show that reloading is in process.

FIRE: Flashes green when ready to shoot.

			AP: ANTI-AIRCRAFT GUN PORT
			AS: ANTI-AIRCRAFT GUN STARBOARD
	When attacked by enemy warplanes, use these rapid-fire guns to shoot
back. But remember, they have no effect against ships, submarines, or islands.
The screen shows the port or starboard view of the ocean, along with any
attacking aircraft that are close enough to be seen in that direction.
	Push the joystick FORWARD or pull BACK to move the gun up or down (to
change the Pointing).
	Move the joystick RIGHT or LEFT (or use the cursor keys) to move the
gun right or left (to change the train). As the gun moves you will notice the
indicators change.
	To target and shoot at a plane, move the joystick so that the
cross-hairs are on the plane, then press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR). You may
push the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) once for single shots, or hold it down for a
faster pulse of shells. Watch your temperature light!

INDICATORS:

TRAIN: The number of degrees that the gun is off the centerline of the ship.
Positive (+) values are to the right, and negative (-) values are to the left.

POINT: The number of degrees that the gun is off the horizon. The maximum is 
50°, the minimum is 0° and the maximum range is at 45°.

TEMPERATURE LIGHTS: (Green, Yellow, Red correspond to the R: readout above. A
red light indicates that the gun is overheated and not functional. It must be
left alone for several seconds so that it may cool.

SCOREBOARDS: On the right and left bottom parts of the screen is a running
total of the number of aircraft destroyed by that gun. A plane appears here for
each one destroyed.

			TP: TORPEDOES PORT
			TS: TORPEDOES STARBOARD
	Torpedoes were used to destroy other ships at ranges greater than the
guns. They were the only effective way of attacking a cruiser or battleship, as
the destroyer's guns could not penetrate the big ships' armor plating.
Torpedoes are not resupplied - once used, there are not more available for that
mission. This station shows the view from the side of the ship (port or
starboard), along with the torpedo mount. Below this are the controls and
indicators.
	Move the joystick RIGHT or LEFT, to move the torpedo mount when the
range marker (aiming point) is over a ship.
	Press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) to launch a torpedo. If the distance
is great you will have to "lead" the target ship by aiming in front of it.

	NOTE: Keep in mind that both you and the target are moving and probably
not parallel to each other.

INDICATORS:

TUBE NUMBER: Each torpedo (of the five per side) is automatically selected for
you. Each time you fire one, the light will turn red. When the next light
flashes green, you are ready to launch another torpedo.

STATUS LIGHTS: (Red/Green) When the Status light (under the station number) is
green, the torpedo is operational. If it is red, then damage has occured and
you must wait until Damage Control has fixed it.

TRAIN: The number of degrees that the gun is off the centerline of the ship.
Positive (+) values are to the right, and negative (-) values are to the left.

				DC: DEPTH CHARGE
	Depth Charges are used to destroy enemy submarines. They are basically
very similar to airplane bombs, but are dropped through the water. Instead of
striking the ground they are designed to detonate at a certain depth. By
varying the pattern and depth settings of depth charges you can bracket the
enemy sub and hopefully destroy it.
	This station shows the view looking over the stern section of the ship.
The depth charge launchers are shown in the view. There are two K-guns that
shoot depth charges off the side, and two stern racks that roll them off the
back. Below the view are the controls and indicators to select, fuse, and fire
the depth charges.
	To select one fo the four launchers, move the joystick RIGHT or LEFT.
The blue light will flash, indicating which launcher has been selected.
	Depth settings are controlled by pushing the joystick FORWARD or
pulling BACK to increase or decrease the depth setting.
	To fire a depth charge press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR). The depth
charge will be launched into the water and will explode at the depth setting
shown for that launcher. While the launcher flashes red, it is not operational.

INDICATORS:

SELECT LAUNCHER: Flashes blue to show you which of the four launchers is
selected.

DEPTH CHARGES REMAINING: The two-digit number displays how many depth charges
are still available to fire from that launcher.

STATUS: (Red/Green) Immediately after a depth charge is launched, the status
light will show red since the launcher must reload. When the launcher is ready
to fire, the status light will glow green. When a launcher is damaged, both the
lights will flash.

			DA: DAMAGE CONTROL
	When you have received damage from enemy attacks, the damage control
parties will attempt to fix it for you. The four damage control parties can be
manually reassigned to any damaged stations from Damage Control.
	The station shows each major item on the ship listed both above and
below a side view of a Fletcher class destroyer. Below this display are the
four damage control teams in order of their repair speed: Alpha, Baker,
Charlie, and Delta.
	Select a team by pushing the joystick FORWARD or pulling it BACK. THe
blue light will flash, indicating which team has been selected.
	Select the station to be repaired by moving the joystick RICHT or LEFT
(or by using the cursor keys). The selected item will turn the chosen repair
team's color.
	Press the FIRE BUTTON (SPACE BAR) to receive a report on that station
from its repair crew.
	Then assign another team, if needed, or move the present team
elsewhere.
	To "turn off" a crew, cycle it through the list with the joystick and
exit the screen at the top left or bottom right.

INDICATORS:

TEAM COLORS: Alpha-Red, Baker-Yellow, Charlie-Blue, Delta-Green.

DAMAGE: Indicated when an area flashes.

REPAIRS: Shown as being underway when the one of the ship's stations or areas
is highlighted.

NOTE: The damage control team resupplies ammunition (except torpedoes, which
are not replaced) when repairs are complete.

			CAPTAIN'S NOTES
	Call them "tin cans," "greyhounds," or "small boys," these small, fast
ships wer called upon to do an amazing variety of tasks throughout World War
II. Ready to fight off hostile dive bombers, trading shots with enemy
destroyers, cruisers, and even battleships, or waging a cat-and-mouse war with
submarines, these were the destroyers and destroyer escorts of the U.S. Navy.
They were scots, gun platforms, weather reporters, blockaders, troop and supply
transports, front-line guards, search and rescue ships, radar pickets, mail
deliverers, and surface raiders. They could do everything from dropping a small
party of scouts on a tiny Pacific atoll to supporting a vast fleet in the
invasion of a continent.
	When the United States entered World War II in December of 1941, the
navy had about 172 destroyers on hand, with 72 of these being World War I
vintage ships. By the middle of 1942, the first of the new DD-445 class ships,
the Fletcher, was underway. A total of 175 ships of this class were eventually
built and although two more destroyer types (the Sumner and Gearing classes)
were manufactured in the last year of the war, the Fletcher remained the
front-line destroyer of World War II.

WEAPONS

GUNS: The Fletcher's main armament was her five 5-inch/38 caliber dual-purpose,
semi-automatic guns used for anti-aircraft, shore bombardment and surface
firing. They could use a variety of ammunition, including common,
armor-piercing, illumination, variable time, and proximity-fused shells. These
anti-aircraft shells held a miniature radio transceiver which would explode the
shell when it came near the target. The 5-inch/38 caliber gun could fire on a
surface target some nine miles away or at air targets up to five miles high.
Although the guns could be sighted and fired from within, they usually were
controlled from the gun director station sitting high above the bridge by using
a fire-control radar and onboard computers to calculate the target's position.
	The secondary battery was composed of the 40 mm rapid-fire, automatic,
water-cooled twin guns. These anti-aircraft guns were capable of firing about
160 rounds per minute to about 2800 yards and could also be controlled by
remote.
	For close-in defense, there wer the 20 mm air-cooled automatic
anti-aircraft guns. Manually controlled, they had an effective range of about
3500 yards. It's said that when the crew members deep inside the ship heard the
distinctive chatter of these 20 mm guns firing, it served as the warning of an
imminent crash by a Kamikaze aircraft.

TORPEDOES: The Fletchers conventionally carried ten 21" diameter torpedoes in
two quintuple mounts along the centerline. These mounts could rotate 360
degrees to fire off of either side of the ship. The torpedoes were propelled by
an air-alchohol-water-gas-turbine system capable of sending the 2215 pound
"fish" with it's 780-pound explosive charge some three miles at 45 knots or
some seven miles at 25 knots. The U.S. torpedo was plagued by difficulties
during the war and could not match the performance of the Japanese-designed
"Long Lance" torpedo. These oxygen-driven, practically wakeless 24" torpedoes
carried a 1,000 pound explosive and ran approximately eleven miles at 50 knots
or thrity miles at 36 knots.

DEPTH CHARGES: The main anti-submarine weapon of the destroyer was the 36-inch
long, 18" diameter depth charge or "ash can." Containing some 300 to 600 pounds
of TNT, these deadly devices were activated by variable-depth fuses which wer
basically bellows, operated by water pressure. Later, a teardrop shaped depth
charge was developed, which was more accurate due to its streamlined shape. The
Fletchers usually carried six depth charge projectors (K-Guns)-three on each
side-and two racks to roll charges off the stern.

SENSING
	The first American search radar set off to sea in 1937. Later
improvements produced surface and air search radars. Quite often, radar was
used to catch an unsuspecting submarine carelessly loitering on the surface.
	As early as 1934, the United States was experimenting with echo-ranging
devices, and by 1939, some 60 destroyers in the U.S. fleet were equipped with
sonar. Only highly trained and experienced men were skilled enough to make
sense of the "pings" returned from an unidentified object amid the undersea
noise.

ENGINEERING
	The most important mechanical system onboard was the engineering
section. To provide the ship with electricity, heat, ventilation, fresh water,
and power, the engineering plant consisted of a myriad of boilers, engines,
pumps, motors, and generators. Actual design allowed for two separate
systems-each capable of running the ship in the event of damage to the other.

CREW
	The crew consisted of 306 enlisted men and 19 officers, led by the
commanding officer (always called the Captain, regardless of his military
rank). He was responsible for the ship as a whole, its safety and operation,
and the performance and welfare of the crew. The Executive officer ("Exec")
assisted the Captain, and beneath him were the various departmental
officers-including gunnery, construction and repair, navigation, engineering,
and supply.
	When in a war zone, about one-third of the crew was on duty at all
times. Three rotating watch sections had four hours "on" and eight hours "off."
"General Quarters" (Batte Condition 1) was sounded when enemy contact was made,
unidentified planer or ships approached, or at dawn and dusk when bad
visibility made operations hazardour. All hands reported to their battle
stations immediately. Under Battle Conditions 2 and 3 (war cruising), all
sensors and lookout stations were manned, and half the armament was ready for
action.

			GLOSSARY OF SHIP TERMS:

	The Stern, Bow, Deck, Hull, Bridge, Centerline are all parts of a ship.

STERN: The rear section of the ship.
BOW: The front section of the ship.
DECK: A platform extending from one side of the ship to the other.
HULL: The body of the ship.
BRIDGE: The "brain" of the ship from which the Captain normally gives orders.
CENTERLINE: The center of the ship, from bow to stern.

	Port, Starboard, Aft, and Fore are usually used to describe the
relative location of an object in relation to the ship.

PORT: The left side of the ship if you are looking at the bow.
STARBOARD: The right side of the ship if you are looking at the bow.
AFT: Towards the rear section (stern) of the ship.
FORE: Towards the front section (bow) of the ship.
AMIDSHIPS: Midway between the bow and the stern.

	These terms have to do with steering the ship or controlling weapons.

HEADING: The direction on the compass that the ship is traveling.
BEARING: The direction on the compass that an object is from your ship.
POINT: The angle (number of degrees) that is up or down from the horizon.
TRAIN: The angle (number of degrees) of a weapon from its normal position,
usually centerline or at a right angle to centerline of the ship.

			GENERAL DATA

DIMENSIONS
	LENGTH: Waterline 369'3"  Overall 376'6"
	BEAM: 39'8"
	DRAFT: Full Load 17'9"
	DISPLACEMENT:  Standard 2050 tons  Full Load 3050 tons

LIQUID LOAD
	FUEL OIL: 137,740 gal.		DIESEL OIL: 6,772 gal.
	POTABLE WATER: 16,939 gal.

MACHINERY
	BOILERS: FOUR Babcock & Wilcox double furnaces, express type, water
	tube (M-type).
	STEAM PRESSURE: 615 psi
	STEAM TEMPERATURE: Saturated - 490°F. Superheated -850°F.
	ENGINES: TWO Westinghouse double-reduction geared turbines.
		 Shaft Horsepower - 60,000     Propellers TWO
		 Speed - 36 knots
		 Crusising radius at 15 knots - 6,000 miles

ARMAMENT
	FIVE 5"/38 caliber dual purpost
	Surface Range: 18,200 yards at 45° elevation
	Air Range:  37,200 feet at 85° elevation

	TEN 40 mm Anti-Aircraft
	Surface Range: 11,000 yards at 42° elevation
	Air Range:  22,800 feet at 90° elevation.

	SEVEN 20 mm Anti-Aircraft
	Surface Range:  4,800 yards at 35° elevation
	Air Range:  10,000 feet at 90° elevation

	TEN 21" torpedoes in two quintuple banks
	TWO Depth Charge Tracks
	SIX Depth Charge Projectors (K-Guns)

===============================================================================

These Destroyer docs are brought to you by The Southern Star.