DIE HARD 2
DIE HARDER

THEY SAY LIGHTNING NEVER STRIKES TWICE...

THEY WERE WRONG.

A major international airport becomes the arena for terror as an elite special 
forces unit seizes control and threatens to bring planes plunging to the ground.
Their plan is swift, brutal and brilliant...but they didn`t count on the
presence of one man...John McClane.

You play the part of John McClane in this arcade action game based on the No 1
U.S. and U.K. cinema hit, set over five explosive levels.

When the game has loaded you will be presented with three targets as follows:

Start game
Target range
Other options

Moving the sight using your mouse to the Start game target and pressing fire
will send you to Dulles airport to do battle with the terrorists.

Moving the sight over the Target range target will transport you to the Police
target range for some shooting practice.

Moving the sight over the other options target will produce another menu screen
with the following targets.

Control
Sound
Exit options

Moving the sight over the control icon allows you to choose which method of
control you wish to use during the game. You have the option of using mouse,
joystick (in port two) or light gun. To select the required option just press
fire until the correct control method is displayed on screen. The new control
option is not enabled until you exit the options menu.

Moving the sight over Sound target allows you to select what sound is playing
during gameplay. You have the choice of music and sound efects, just sound
effects, just music or no sound at all. Again, to select the required sound
just press fire until the correct option is displayed on screen.

Finally, pressing fire over the Exit options target will return you to the
main menu.

OTHER OPTIONS

Also during the game you can access the following options:

F -- Freeze game, press again to restart.
C -- Calibrate light gun (Follow on screen instructions).
T -- Terminate game and return to title screen.
F6-- Select mouse control.
F7-- Select joystick control.
F8-- Select light gun control.


GAMEPLAY

LEVEL ONE - THE LUGGAGE CONVEYORS

Terrorists have taken over the baggage handling section of the airport terminal
. The noise of the machinery and the moving baggage provides them with ideal 
cover. You must remove all terrorists from this section otherwise their plan to
rescue the evil General is certain to succeed!

LEVEL TWO - THE AIRPORT ANNEXE

The terrorists next target is the radio communications dish on the roof of the
airport annexe. If this is destroyed they will have complete control of the
airspace around Washington D.C. and landing the General`s plane will be an
easy affair. The mechanical walkway provides excellent cover, unfortunately
you happen to be on the wrong side of it!

LEVEL THREE - THE GENERAL`S ARRIVAL

The terrorist force has succeeded in the fist part of their plan. The evil
General is now sitting in his aircraft waiting to be led away to safety. Try
to make their task as hard as possible and you may even get the chance of 
taking out the General! Beware of the many fuel cannisters around the runway
area, a few shots and they may explode!

LEVEL FOUR - THE SNOW-BIKE CHASE

You have discovered that the terrorists are using an old church nearby as a
base. As you arrive, however, they scream from the building aboard snow-bikes.
You grab a bike and give chase. Try to stop as many of the terrorists escaping 
as you can otherwise they will be free to perpitrate a similar deed elsewhere.

LEVEL FIVE - SHOOTOUT ON JET`S WING

The terrorist`s hijacked plane is about to take off! You leap from a helicopter
onto the wing of the plane. Kill all of the terrorists on board before the 
plane has chance to take off to stop the General from escaping.

ICONS

When you shoot a terrorist, sometimes he will drop an icon to the floor. Some
of these icons will help you in your attempt to complete the game and others
will hinder you.
The icons dropped are as follows:

MEDICAL KITS

These appear as a white box with a red cross in the centre. When shot these
will boost your energy level, repairing any damage you may have recieved from
the terrorists.

GRENADES

When shot you will be given an extra grenade.

FLAK JACKET

This appears as a small jacket and when shot, it will make you invunerable to
the terrorist`s weapons for a few seconds. When you are in possesion of a flak 
jacket it will appear in the score panel, as the effect starts to run out it
will flash before eventually dissapearing.

WEAPONS

Various weapons will be dropped, they vary in speed of fire and also in the 
power of effect they have on the terrorists. The weapons to be found in order
of least powerful to most powerful are as follows:

Beretta (single fire pistol).
Glock (triple fire hand held gun).
M16 (slow firing machine gun).
AK47 (fast firing machine gun).
Uzi 9mm (the ultimate in firepower).

However, when you are in possesion of a powerfull weapon make sure you don`t 
shoot a less powerfull weapon as it will decrease your firepower.

FINALLY REMEMBER YOU ARE A POLICE OFFICER AND WILFUL DAMAGE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY
OR ANY HARM TO INNOCENT BYSTANDERS WILL RESULT IN A LOSS OF POINTS!

THE TARGET RANGE

Before entering into the game for real you have the option of going into the
target range to improve your shooting skills at the Police target range.
Civilian and terrorist targets will appear at windows and in doorways. You have
to decide in split seconds whether to shoot or hold fire. At the end of the 
session you will be given a readout of your performance including:

Score
Maximum Score
Shots Fired
Targets Hit
Civilians Hit
Percentage Hit

Before you enter the game you should try to acheive a score of at least 50% in
the target range otherwise you will be fried in a real situation!

END..........
