                 DISCOVERY-IN THE STEPS OF COLUMBUS

                              FULL MANUAL
                                          
  PAGE 1 INTRODUCTION
  -------------------

 DISCOVERY THE STEPS OF COLUMBUS is a huge game of expolration and conquest
 set at the end of the 15th century. travel of any sort in this era was exciting
 dangerous and unpredictable,a fact beautifully recreated in this simulation

 First and foremost,your aim is to explore-to send ships out into the unknown
 seas and discover new lands. Then you must settle this lands,and nurture yuor 
 fledgling outposts until you have a thriving and powerful network of territories
 how you finance this growth is up to you. Trading, cultivating or stealing-the                                                                                                                                   
 choice is yours.......

  OBJECTIVES
  ----------
  
 The general aims of the game are to discover and settle new land,and to outdo
 the other exploring nations in terms of money and power,However , you can tailor 
 the specifiec emphasis yourself at the start of the game you can choose
 between four objectives.........

 A FREE FOR ALL game continues until all the competitors but one have 
 been forced to withdraw from exploration,due to lack of funds ...

 ELDORADO option discovering that fabled city of gold is the aim......
 
 LAND RACE the power wich owns the most land in the new world 
 after 50 years wins ..........
 
 CASH RACE the criterionis profit.........


 PAGE 2 INTERFACE INTRODUCTION
 _____________________________
 
 The display you will see most of the time shows a picture of a small 
 section of the world and a scroll apon which iare several icons....

 The game uses a simple point and click interface there are two basic 
 modes in which the game can be:selecting and scrolling.......

 SELECTING MODE,the mouse pointer appears as an arrow generally moving it 
 over an icon and clicking the left mouse button will cause a 
 particular action to be perfofmed..............

 SCROLLING MODEis used to move your current viewpoint around the world the mouse
 pointer appears as a magnifying glass.Trying to move the glass of the edge
 of the map display will scroll the screen in that direction as far as  
 you are allowed to go .The main display starts off showing you your home 
 territory-the area from which European ships will set sail initially you
 can scroll the main screen display around a very limited area.
 At the end of every mounth you will be able to move into whichever
 parts of the globe have been explored by your ships..............
 The large arrows marked with flags which appear on the main display
 represent the starting points of the ships of the nations
 competing in the game. Clicking on the right hand bottom on the generally 
 terminates the current mode or function-for example it will switch
 you between scrolling and selecting, or return you to the main screen...

 PAGE 3 PLAYING FOR THE FIRST TIME
 ---------------------------------
 The first time you play the game choose world 1 to explore straight away
 you will need to buy some ships preferably adventures. 2 or 3 is a good
 number to start with. Select each ship for orders. And send them off
 (not all in the same direction) to discover what they can. practice 
 finding them all using the binoculars next to the ship icon....
 After a while some of your intrepid explores should give the 
 (LAND AHOY) cry. You will be able to watch them piling out of the ship
 and staring to build a new home for themselves.The port building
 is the fist thing they will create.Even if you dont direct them, they
 will start to clear the area,thus creating timber. You can see how 
 much there is by using port.Cargo command you need 3 units of wood
 to build something. As soon as this is available use it if you see
 the natives or a rival port nearby build a fort  otherwise warehouses
 are a useful investment followed quickly by farms.If lots of your men 
 keep sinking in the swamps send somebody to dig the troubled area...
 The settlers will automatically start a to farm cleared land and you will start 
 to see the produce appearing around your port.Collect in your warehouses...
 Now you need to sell these goods for that you need a ship-a trader this
 time get one under construction at the port when it is ready and there
 is cargo to carry instruct it to trade later when you have lots to 
 trade, build factories to create finished goods you are on your way
 to economic domination of the world!

 PAGE 4 HOW TO PLAY THE GAME
 ---------------------------

  THESE ARE SEVERAL THINGS YOU SHOULD KEEP
   TRACK OF DURING THE GAME::::::::::::::::
 
 1. The state of the world :what has been discoverd and by whom.
 2. How well you are doing financially.
 3. Your fleet.
 4. Yuor ports throughout the world.
 5. What the settlers in and arond these ports are up to.
 6. The goods which your settlers produce.
 7. Your competitors.

 THE STATE OF THE WORLD
 ----------------------

 ACTIVITY REVIEW(top left corner)
 Selecting the scroll icon at the top left of the main panel brings up a
 current affairs report every significant event is recorded here from ships 
 sinking to ports expanding as the scroll turns, However old data disappears
 from view it is possible to see the last 50 reports by clicking 
 on the up/down arrows..........

 MAPS (below the activity review)
 Below the scroll icon is the map. this brings up a display of the new
 world by clicking on the small maps to the right you can change between
 this ,and information on:population density ,an ancient understanding of 
 how the world looks and political control However at the start of the game
 all that three of the maps will show grey fog indicting that the world beyond the 
 European region(the new world!) is unknown. The fog clears were your ships
 or settlers have explored. Even when you hit an Island you will not know
 initialy whether you are on the tip of a great land mass or a small
 island.When other nations make discoveries you will eventully hear about
 them too. A delay of two years is inpossed to reflect the speed of
 the 15th century communication..........

 PAGE 5 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY 
 -------------------------

 The first map will once the fog has been cleared give you an idea of the
 type of terrain that you have discoverd it is a genuine topo-
 graphical map with differnt colours denoting different land heights
 it is important to build colonies where they can expand easily 
 and where there are plenty of forests  which will provide timber
 for building your first huts..........

 POPULATION
 ----------

 Whilst looking for somewhere to settle your people it may be important to see 
 where everyone else has set up camps. This coupled with the other maps 
 should tell you where the best or most important land lies...........
 
  
 PAGE 6 POPULATION(cont)
 -----------------------

 Ancient chart this is the only map which is fully available from the 
 start it shows what people though the land over the hoizon might
 be like it is only a rough guide so beware if ships get lost they
 can loose morale mutiny and become pirates

 THE POLITICAL SCENE 
 -------------------
 Inthe race for discovery it is useful to have a map that shows the 
 exact extent of the unknown world an dwhat has been found by which 
 country if one is getting too far ahead you may deem it wise to attack
 either its colonies or its ships.................

 COMPETITORS 
 -----------
 Cling on the inn icon will show you relative success as compared with
 that of your opponents each figure in the scene represents one of 5
 active competitors the coin in front of them represents 100 gold pieces
 each a full pile is made up of 10 coins by clicking on a figure you get your 
 spies report on that nation this can tell you the oppents nationality
 number of ships annual sales last year and even the number of ports.....

 PAGE 7 LOANS
 ------------

 Capital can be gained through canny trading or by taking out a loan 
 from the bank be careful with loans though even if the interst rates
 look attractive now a downswing in the ecomony may change rates and
 you could find yourself disgraced in the debtors PRISON interest is
 charged mounthly and automatically deducted from your account......

 ACCOUNTS
 --------

 The top left of the bank icons allows you to see how effective your
 trading and general business has been over the years first it 
 displays profit and loss data for the preceding year sales against
 purchases overheads and interest it also keeps a running total of
 your profit /loss since the start of the game in the year 1490.....

 OUTGOINGS 
 ---------

 This icon is the arrow pointing away from the money pile it lists
 the ships of your fleet and their costs for upkeep it also displays
 the buildings in existance in all your ports and what thier 
 maintance costs amount too..............
  
 PRICES  
 ------

 The ship & goods icon shows the current market prices of raw materials
 and finished goods around the world on this display each major trade centre
 is represented by white circle  click on one to have the prices 
 displayed also include is the price that would be fetched by each of
 the goods if they were sold locally this is accessed with the circle at the 
 extreme left of the screen for more details on how to use this see below

    
 PAGE 8 SHIPYARD
 ---------------
 
 This is chosenfrom within the bank the icon displays a ship under
 construction and a workman with an axe it brings up a selection of
 of ships of varying size and abilities which may be purchased
 details of the class of vessel which the pointer is currently on appears
 at the bottom of the screen clicking on the ship type buys the ship...

 SHIPS 
 -----
 Unsurprisingly these are crucial to the game new land is discoverd by
 sending out ships(go way never) and trade goods are transported by
 them there are 8 ships on the market divied into 3 classes each ship
 is rated in terms of purchase price annual maintance costs gunnery
 power tonnage and cargo carryable and speed.........

           TYPE          COST  UPKEEP GUNS TONNAGE SPEED
           ---------------------------------------------  
           ADDVENTURER   40      1     2      8      4
                         60      2     4      12     3
           TRADER        30      1     1      20     2
                         50      2     2      40     2
                         80      2     4      60     1
                        100      3     6      80     1
           MAN O WAR    150      3     10     15     4
                        200      4     15     20     3
        
        when you buy a ship it will be allocated a suitable name?
 
 PAGE 9 KEEPING TRACK OF YOUR FLEET(the little ship)
 ---------------------------------------------------

 It is possible to see all times what any particular ship is
 doing on the main screen scroll is picture of a ship below is
 it name of tour currently selected craft and below that this is action
 the vessel is performing .........
 Clicking on the ship gives you more details on the craft and allows
 you to give it new orders,you can select a new craft for inspection or
 command in two ways clicking on the two arrows next to the ship icon
 will step through your fleet one-by-one clicking directly on a ship
 on the sea or in the port will select it and display its details
 using the binoculars icon(next to arrows)homes in the currently 
 selected vessel this is a fast way of moving around the discovered
 world and of locating your fleet.........
    
 SHIP COMMANDS
 -------------

 The ship icon gives you a choice of seven actions that you
 can set your currently vessel to perform...

 DISCOVER
 --------
 
 When ships are sent out on a mission of discovery you must
 specify a direction for them to travel in they do this until
 an undiscovered land mass of reasonable size is sighted a message
 will appear informingyou of this event aport is then founded
 automatically and a settlement can start to grow.......

 
 PAGE 10 SHIP COMMANDS(cont)
 ---------------------------
  
 CARGO this icon shows what the craft is carrying it can raw materials
 finished goods timber or even people........

 TRADE this is used to set up a regular trading route for a vvessel
 it brings up the trading map clicking on city displays its detaials at
 the bottom of the screen when you find a suitable destination for your
 vessel right click to escape the trade screen the city you last chose
 becomes the ships destination to cancel left click over the compass
 your ship will automatically load up with cargo and sail for the chosen
 destination it will take cargo that has a high price at the target point
 the goods are sold in major markets of the old world not at other new
 settlements so the ship wiil head for Europe you will be able to follow
 it as far as the aarow/flag indicating the European starting point
 for your ships it will then continue its journey out of your view.
 after a time the ship will complete its journey the return

 ANCHORAGE
 ---------

 Once you have clicked on this option you must click again on the
 port or place that you wish to ship to stop at if anchor at one
 of your ports a ship refit is automaticaly carried out this
 repairs damage replaces cannon lostin battle and restores morale.


 PAGE 11 SHIP COMMANDS(cont)
 ---------------------------

 PATROL if there are many traders playing a particular route piates
 will surely follow this may be the time to protect your ships with a 
 man o war on set patrol route having selected this option you have to
 click on the main display up to 4 times and exit with a right click
 the current ship will sail around these points indefinitely...

 ROUTE
 -----
 By placing markers at certain points in the same way as a patrol is
 set up it is possible to direct your ships ruote very precisely this 
 may be to avoid the haunts of pirates or just to call in at differant
 ports along the coastline unlike a patroling craft a ship will stop
 when it has completed its route....

 ATTACK when funds are low you may like raiding a few ships in order to
 bring in some revenue select this option click on your intended
 target then sit back and watch as your vessel homes in sea-battles
 are described in the combat section.....

 HOSTILE VESSILS the high seas of the 15th century were on place for the faint hearted
 even when countries were not at war with there neighbours there were always pirates 
 around on the lookout for a heavy laden trading ship these traders were usually
 lightly armed vessels that could not put up much of a fight..........

 MORALE the spirits of a ship crew/settlers must be kept high or trouble will
 occur if the ship morale dros to 0% then the crew will mutiny take over
 the ship and raise the jolly roger then they will attack other vessels...
 
 PORTS when land is discoverd a port will automatically be established and 
 people off-loaded from your ship the settlers are moved to the port
 building they emerg from here slowly there is 2 purposes 
 1. the cleared land is automaticaly turned over to agriculture so 
 supplies of food should soon start to appear......
 2. produce wood which you will need to make buildings ........
 
 PAGE 12 EXAMING YOUR PORTS 
 --------------------------
 
 You can find out exacly is associated with each port by clicking on the 
 port building all the assets will be replaced by flags representing the
 ports allegiance if you click on an individual building it will be 
 shown as a flag for a short while the port icon appears below the ship
 icon on the main screen scroll orders and inspection work just as with
 that section the commands you give the port are differnt to the 
 commands you give to the ship.........

 CARGO this shows what goods have been produced in the settlement
 there will only be goods warehouses have been built and have
 not been sacked by raiders a warehouse con hold up to 32 units 
 of cargo differnt types of goods will be displayed if a fatory
 has been used to turn the raw materials into finished products
 you will often get a better price for finished goods than 
 raw materials so it may be worth investing in factories..........

 SETTLE this option lets determine the direction in which you
 would like the settlers from that port to progress by choosing
 a previously unknown area you can spread up both the 
 development and the exploration.........

 PUT-MAN this will send a man from the port building outside ready
 for work if there are no-settlers in the building nothing will
 happen it is generally used when you need some-one for a specific 
 mission and vthere is no-one out side you can spare.........

 BUILD there are several types of building which you can construct
 each brings differnt advantages to the settlement so it useful a good
 mix of each type these advantages are explained seperatly.........

 DEMOLISH this can be used to move any object from a church to a port
 the upkeep of the building is then obviously no longer paid if funds
 are low and the resources could be better used elsewhere it may be
 sometimes be necessary to up-root entire settlements and move on....
 
 SHIPYARD when th eoption is chosen a ship type is selection and a 
 vessel built at the port each ship requires 3 units of wood 
 when it is ready you can load up with goods and sail off to start
 trading...........

 SELL GOODS this will sell cargo from port locally,local prices 
 tend to be very poor but the cash comes in immediately.......

 BUILDING a building requires 3 units of wood to create . When you
 choose the port command build you are given a list of possible 
 buildings having chosen one you must click on the side of the 
 construction after a while a man will appear with a log go to the
 designated plot of land and after digging the foundations will
 will use the wood to construct a building...........

 WAREHOUSE these allow you to store and collected produce if you
 have no warehouse space the goods cannot be stored so obviosly as
 your number of warehouses increase the amount of goods that can be stored 
 there does too goodws produced when there is no storage space for them 
 are lost.........

 FACTORY once you have grown or harvested any produce and stored in the 
 warehouse it is possible to transfer it to a factory where it can
 be turned into finished goods........

 FARM these are vital to long term survivalon the colony.....

 FORT the construction of a fort should be one of the first jobs for the 
 colonist when the fort is finished it will produce soldiers they 
 prtect the colony from the natives ..........
 
End......................
