DISPOSABLE HERO
Typed by Belgarath

THE HISTORY OF THE FREE WORLDS...

By the middle of the 24th century mankind has taken to the stars, discovering
strange, new and sometimes dangerous worlds.

In 2549 the Free Worlds bond was formed to ensure peaceful cooperation
between major solar-systems.

In 2723 the discovery of a new star system also uncovered the existence of
intelligent lifeforms. The system was named Meegan 12 and signs of a highly
developed technology lead to the knowledge that man was no longer alone in
the universe....

Starting their 29th century the Free Worlds were attacked by unknown forces.

This war, commonly known as The Blaze ended in 2874. Almost half the Free
Worlds population was killed and technology sunk to a level barely above that
of the Earth's 20th century. Communication between individual star systems
was near to impossible.

In the year 2867 a small group of men and women were selected for a highly
specialised task force...D-HERO.

D-HERO was believed to be the only means of regaining lost technology and
freedom. They succeeded in building a prototype spaceship capable of
penetrating the alien strongholds. Alien BLUE-PRINTS were obtained during an
alien transport by the remainder of the taskforce. The Von Vonnegut method
(opening space-time-interrupts at desired places) made it possible to tune up
the ship on its flight through enemy territory; the ship is warped to the Factory
where enhancements are made and thought out.

Rumours out there's an improved craft under design...


Now it's up to the man flying the machine, his reflexes and tactical abilities...


DO YOU MATCH UP FOR TASKFORCE
D-HERO ?


SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

D-HERO requires an Amiga with at least ONE megabyte of memory, and a
joystick plugged in controlport 2.


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

. Reset Your Amiga using the two Amiga keys and the CTRL key, insert Disk
  One and the game will load automatically.

. Insert Disk 2 only when prompted by the system; if you have a second disk
  drive you may place Disk 2 into that.

. D-HERO is not installable on hard disk although it is not neccesary to
  disconnect the hard disk.


GETTING THERE

When you reach the title screen you can select an option by simply moving the
joystick and depressing the fire button when it is highlighted.


PLAYING D-HERO, ACTION-INFORMATION


Status-bar   : the damage-bar indicates the amount of sustainable
               damage.

1. Ship      : this is the one you start with...

2. Factory   : fly into this dome-like warpzone to rest your
               finger and enter the Factory to get past the
               latest means of oblivion.

3. Canon     : these sometimes shoot one way while others sometimes
               track in on Your ship.

4. Alien     : expect the unexpected...

5. Bonuses   : can be recognized by their floating appearance
               partially inflicted upon them by the chronosynclastic
               infundibulum of von Vonnegut.
               I.  D-pod      : damage-repair
               II. Blue-print : read further on about this.


You start your flight with three spaceships, default weaponary and a full
damage-bar. You sustain damage by colliding with aliens and their bullets.

The degree of damage depends on the alien You collide with. The alien
structures however will make You crash when collided with. And also when
the damage-bar reaches zero (early warning: smoke from ship's engine) a
ship is lost.

Your ship can be upgraded by picking up blue-prints. These are the only
technical plans for gadgets. Whenever You pick one up it is transmitted to the
Factory and the piece of machinery it depicts will be constructed.

This takes time, which will not decrease by waiting inside the Factory.


INSIDE THE FACTORY

Move the arrow around and press fire to look at the blue-prints, their
status of implementation, or at info about military tests of the 
weapon depicted.

The ship You use has certain abilities and restrictions. The accumulated
energy of the gadgets You want to use must be as same or less than the
engine produces. Sometimes there's not enough mounting surface for the
completed weapon, so You cannot mount all the weapons on the back of
your ship. The completed weapons are highlighted in the blue-print-columns.


Note: not all blue-prints ARE weapons.


If you lose a ship in the running it will not have any affect on the
weapon stock. Once constructed a weapon is easily built.
High tech, you know!?


Typed by Belgarath