                                DIZZY DICE
                                ----------

                 Instructions typed by Codetapper/Action!


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
ATARI ST:  Ensure that your computer has been switched off for at least
sixty seconds immediately prior to loading the game.  Switch on you machine
and insert the game disc in drive A (All other disc drives, printers,
cartridges etc having been removed whilst the power was off).  The game
should load automatically.  If the game fails to load on the first attempt,
leave the disc in the drive and press the reset button.

AMIGA:  Ensure that your computer has been switched off for at least sixty
seconds immediately prior to loading the game.  Switch on you machine and
insert the game disc in drive zero (All other disc drives, printers,
cartridges etc having been removed whilst the power was off).  The game
should load automatically.  If the game fails to load on the first attempt,
leave the disc in the drive and reset the machine.


CONTROLS
--------
Space Bar - Start
1,2,3,4   - Hold
5         - Cancel Holds

After a win
G         - Gamble
C         - Collect
Space Bar - Stop wheel of fortune

In dice game
H         - Higher
L         - Lower
T         - Take bonus
S         - Same


STARTING THE GAME
-----------------
Select game type (bank or normal) by pressing "2".  Start the game by
pressing "1", you will then be shown the winning combinations and their
scores.  Press return to start at any time.


DICE GAME
---------
Light up the fruit under the winline in the order Cherry, Strawberry, Star,
Apple, Dice and Pear to enter the dice game.  The fruit are lit if they
appear in the win line without a win.  A win will clear any fruit lit.

In the dice game, predict the value of the next dice to appear at the top
of the screen.  (ie.  Higher, Lower or the same as the one lit).  For each
correct guess, the bonus will increase.  If the roll is the same as the lit
dice and you have selected High or Low then you will be given another try
but no extra bonus.


BANK GAME
---------
Try to break all 5 Dizzy Dice banks by scoring 100, 200, 300, 500 and
finally 1000 points.  You start the game with 20 points instead of the
usual 10.


WHEEL OF FORTUNE
----------------
You may gamble a win on the wheel of fortune (Press "G" after a win).  Stop
the wheel with the SPACE BAR on any of the 5 gamble multipliers.  If the
wheel stops on your choice then you win.  After a gamble, the reels will
reset to the last winline.


CREDITS
-------
Original Concept: Paul V.D. Meer
ST/Amiga Programming: Andy (&e7) Severn
Graphics: Steve Thompson.
Artwork: Jon Clark


Dizzy Dice (c) 1990 Smash 16


SMASH 16
Mercury House
Calleva Park
Aldermaston
Berks RG7 4QW