                     - D.N.A WARRIOR FULL DOCS -
                     ---------------------------
                TYPED BY CYBORG / END OF CENTURY 1999
                -------------------------------------
                     * ANOTHER GOLDEN OLDIE DOC *


PREFACE
-------
From the first moment that man realised he could think he has striven
to force back the frontiers of knowledge and increase his
understanding of the world around him. Dedicated to his aim and using
the most modern techniques at his disposal. Professor R.Szymanski the
nobel prize winning genetic scientist had implanted raw D.N.A and a
growth accelerator inside his own brain with the hop of the two
merging and becoming vastly superior intelligence. Just as the
accelerator is about to be neutralised, an accidental explosion in the
laboratory he is working in sends him into a deep coma. The only way
to save him is to micronise the navy's latest underwater assault craft
and inject it into his bloodstream - the aim.... halt the implant's
growth and prevent any further existing expansion by installing a
growth inhibitor.

GAMEPLAY
--------
Both the bodies automatic defence systems AND mutant cells spawned
from the implant will regard you as hostile and try to destroy you. To
aid you in your mission your micro-submersile is armed with a standard
MIK2/9b pulse laser which will vapourise most things you care to point
it at. However, also fitted to your craft are a variety of extra
armaments. Because of their energy requirements these weapons can only
be used if you destroy an entire attack wave and collect the released
energy which appears as a plasma sphere. The more energy you collect
the more potent weapons are avaliable to you.

These armaments are :

Extra manoeuvreability..............1 plasma sphere(s)
Rapid fire cannon...................2    "       "
Ventrally Mounted cannon............3    "       "
Orbitally Accelerating Cannon.......4    "       "
Absorption Shielding................5    "       "
Starburst...........................6    "       "
Energy replenishment................7    "       "

The aged professors body is riddled with the latest prosthetic devices
for prolonging life. These, along with the natural parts of his body
must all be negotiated before you can reach the brain. You will
encounter such devices as the 'Rotascraper' and pulsating valves;
passage through which will require skillful navigation. Travelling
between different sections of the body you will also come across both
natural and artificial junctions. Most are open, however those which
are closed will require you to find the relevant 'key' in order to
gain access. The growth inhibitor is scattered in small pieces around
the body and you must collect all 8 of them in order to be successful
in your mission. Once you have navigated your way through the complex
network of passages, fought off the waves of defence cells and
collected all 8 pieces of the growth inhibitor you will be faced with
the final challenge - the IMPLANT.

CONTROLS - AMIGA / ATARI ST
---------------------------
Joystick - Directional control
Spacebar - Selects the current weapon
       P - Pause on / off
       M - Music on / off
     ESC - Quit game