                 DOJO DAN From EUROPRESS Documentation 
                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

DOJO DAN - THE TELLING OF A TALE
--------------------------------

Dan suspected something vile and deeply despicable was creeping over the
land of Banzaari.  Call him paranoid, but when the skies blackened and all
manner of indescribable wild and wicked creatures began to ravage the once
tranquil land, Dan has a strange gut feeling.

The rest of the civilised folk also knew life wasn't quite going as
smoothly as it should.  Elders and officials gathered for emergency 
meetings.  After days of intimate discussion behind closed doors, a pan
was unveiled...

And this year's proud and, it has to be said, fashion conscious winner of
the Dojo trials, you take the role of high kicking, thumping, pyjama
parading Dan.  Pick your bottom jaw up from the floor, gather your thoughts
and prepare for the perilous adventure of a lifetime.  Bodly strut forth
to slaughter, like no other Karate champ has done before.  Maybe you can
muster just a smattering of confidence - hey, Valrog can't be the brutal,
merciless tyrant he's portrayed to be with the surname K.A.T.E... can he?


THE CHALLENGE
-------------

Along the way, your skills will be tested to their limits.  Tackle hover
boarding, car driving, flying and logic problem solving.  Offering a thin
tether of assistance are magic pots which have been left behind by previous
village champions on their voyage to destroy Valrog.  These will give you
extra strength and energy, and may even revive a life.  However, some have
been discovered and sabotaged by Valrog's creatures, and now contain deathly
potions - consume these at your peril.  And so your journey begins...


GAMEPLAY
--------

You must control Dan as he passes through the lands infested by Valrog's
mutants.  Battle your way through 20 gruelling cantons to finally pit your
strength against Valrog.  There are four cantons within each of the five 
sections, and you must complete the sections in order.  You can choose
the order of the four cantons within each section.  Bear in mind that you
may find a certain order preferable, due to various 'pick ups' which may
help you in other cantons.

Your formidable adversary has assigned a number of powerful guardians to
oversee each region on Banzaari; all must be destroyed before Valrog can
be reached.  Using your fighting and acrobatic skills, together with your
wisdom to solve problems, strive to defeat the many minions along your
perilous route to the almighty Valrog.

There are several items along the way you must collect to build your 
strength.  These will considerably improve your prosprects in ridding
Banzaari of the ever more powerful minions of Valrog.  Discover power pods
(in the shape of a bent arm) to increase your resistance to the enemy.
There are also a number of extra lives scattered around the land.  Both 
pods and lives are held inside magical pots that have been left behind by 
previous villagers on their trek to valrog's domain.  See the section on
pick ups further on into the documentation by 2TUFF/CRYSTAL hoho.

As each creature is destroyed, they release their inner strength in the
shape of Yin Yangs.  Collect these to replenish your own strength and
build up your chi.  Once your chi reaches its maximum, you will be capable
of unbelievable feats of valour as you release your inner hatred in the 
form of a crunching Thunder Punch.  This fighting bonus lasts for the
length of time it takes for the meter to deplete.

Around the magical lands are hidden rooms.  In these sub-games, you must
rescue the souls of imprisoned villagers from the cages they are held in
An evil spirit torments these souls by prodding them with a big stick until
they fall off the ledges.  You must break open their cages to set their
souls free.  If you rescue enough of them in the given time period, expect
a generous reward.

It pays to explore the lands in full, as a direct approach will certainly
result in failure to complete the journey.

To complete each canton, you must defeat the gaurdian of that region.  Each
of these has a specific weakness - find it if you can.  They die in a hail
of bonuses so catch as many as possible to boost your score.

Once you have reached the final section, your choice of sections to explore
is taken away and you must play the cantons in sequence.  Confront the evil
Valrog in the very last region, where you must defeat him to free Banzaari
once and for all.


COLLECTABLE SYMBOLS
-------------------

 MAGICAL POTS: Contain one of several items.  Punch or Kick them until they
               break and spill their contents.  Move over the freed symbol
               if you wish to collect it.

     STRENGTH: Increases your resistance to Valrog's minions.  You start 
               with one pod and can build up to eight.  You must collect 
               these wherever you find.

   EXTRA LIFE: Gives Dojo Dan another life.  You start with three and 
               should collect as many as you can find.

FULL STRENGTH: Refill all your energy pods to maximum.

     FULL POD: Refill the pod you are currently using.

          MAP: Enables you to call up a map of the land by pressing the F5
               key.

       DANGER: Takes a pod's worth of energy from you.  Do not collect
               these.

YIN YANG BONU: Adds 10 units to your Thunder Punch meter.

 MAGIC SHIELD: Makes you invicible for a short period of time.

       GRAPES: Small energy increase and 1000 points.

        APPLE: Medium energy increase and 2000 points.

       BANANA: Maximum energy increase and 3000 points.

     YIN YANG: As you kill the creatures, collect this to increase your
               Thunder patch meter.

         STAR: Minimum energy increase and 200 points.

       SQUARE: 1000 points.

          FAN: 1000 points.

         COIN: 100 points.

LARGE YINYANG: If you walk over this, it will fall into the floor.  If you
               lose a life on this canton, you will start again from this
               point.  To receive a Yin Yang bonus, kick it before you
               touch it.

  SECRET ROOM: When you find this icon, you will be transported to a secret
               room as described elsewhere in this manual.  These are 
               difficult to find as they are not shown unless you stand for
               a short while in their vicintity, thus causing them to spring
               from the ground.

      I-CHING: Collect these at every opportunity.  As you collect the
               symbols you improve your chi.  This must be at its peek
               if you are to successfully challenge Valrog.  Remember you
               cannot enter Valrog's castle until you have achieved
               'Inner Truth'.


CONTROLS
--------

WALK          Joystick Left and Right

JUMP          Joystick Up

DUCK          Joystick Down

LOW DUCK      Joystick Down and Fire

MIDDLE KICK   Joystick in the direction you are facing and Fire

FLYING KICK   Joystick Up and Fire

PUNCH         Fire

F1            Pause game

F2            Music On/Off

F3            Load saved game (from menu only)

F5            Show map (When you have collected the map symbol)

F10           Abort game

The program will prompt you at the end of each section to insert a blank
disc is you wish to save your current position.


LOADING
-------

This producthas been carefully developed and manufactured to the highest
standards.  Please read the following loading instructions carefully.

Insert disc 1 into drive 0, normally the internal drive, and switch your
machine on to load the program.  If you have two disc drives, insert disc
2 into the second drive.  Dojo Dan requires 1 megabyte of memory so 
ensure your extra memory board is switched on.  If you do not wish to view
the introduction sequence, press Fire when the first screen of the sequence
appears.


          Machine for : AMIGA 500,+,A1000 etc
   Original Design by : David Broadhurst, Haydn Dalton
       Programming by : David Broadhurst
          Graphics by : Haydn Dalton
    Addit Graphics by : Michael Oakley, Andrew Oakley
       Music & SFX by : Allister Brimble & Matthew Simmons
        Protection by : Rob Nothern 
   Project Management : Marc Dawson
           Testing by : Marc Dawson, Alex Blagg, Arran Maclean
                        Darren Ithell, Lee Fahy, Jason Dutton
                        Lee Cocker, Darren Skirven
            Manual by : Marc Dawson & Alan Bunker
Artwork & Typesetting : Visual Eyes
          Printing by : Millets, Leeds
        Box design by : Wendy Mellor, Oliver Frey, Visual Eyes

End...........................
