			   Doody (c) 1991 W.G.S.S.
			
		            Written by Andy Clark
                           Graphics by  Andy Noble
                          Title music by Phil Brown
                    Additional music & SFX by Andy Noble

Important: Remove any external floppy drives before executing.


Keyboard Controls:

  P - Pause game

  Esc - Quit

  F1 - Start 1 player game

  F2 - Start 2 player game


The scenario

The two intrepid doods have gone and fallen down a sewer would you believe,
32 levels of sewer in fact and it's up to you to guide them out back up to
street level.  The only problem being the inhabitants who aren't too happy
about the doods invading their privacy and try to knock the doods back when
ever they can.


The inhabitants

Green Turtles

These are the first inhabitants you will meet, they live in the lower regions
of the sewer and are quite easy to deal with, simply jump up and hit the 
platform directly beneath them to turn them on their backs, them run around
and kick'em off the screen by running at them.  Be careful not to leave them
on their backs too long though as they may surprise you by getting up and
turning blue with rage.

Blue Turtles

Same as the green variety except they are a little quicker on their feet and
will not lie around for long.

Pink Turtles

These are the meanest of the sewer turtles and have been know to run around
at speeds reaching 15 MPH, beware they can recover from a fall with
infuriating speed.

Pink Crabs

Another inhabitant of the lower sewers, these nippy little creatures require
two hits to render them unfit for service, the first hit only making them
angry.  Not very fast on their feet though.

Blue Crabs

These are the hybrids of the crab community, again needing two hits for a
kill but they are also the fastest of the creatures you are likely to be
unfortunate enough to run into, BEWARE!

Penguins

In a sewer??  When the first reports of penguins came in we couldn't
believe it ourselves but we were soon to change our minds, to this day Mr
Greaves has the scares to prove what is the strangest creature ever found
to inhabit a sewer.  However fear not, although strange they may be, 
difficult to dispose of they are not.  Use the same technique as with
turtles but be careful as they sit around for no man.

Ice Blocks

Little is known about this strange phenomemon, we assume they are broken off
larger ice formations by some of the more intelligent residents of the sewer
but have never discovered where form, or who is responsible.  These are best
disposed of by hitting from a lower platform which results in them smashing
into harmless ice powder.

Ghosts

Their are a number of reported sightings of mysterious ghost like creatures 
on all levels of the sewer, more so on high levels, all spectural phenomenon
are best avoided at all costs.


Treasures

You may be fortunate enough to discover ancient lost treasure whilst down the
sewer, in particular ancient coins, these can be collected in a number of 
ways, if you see any, grab'em while you can.


Special Items

Coke Cans

These can be collected for a special points bonus, of little use otherwise.

Pills

These when eaten will make you invincible to all foe, but only for a few 
seconds.

Skulls

When collected they do nothing for the player but you opponent may find his
control temporarily a little more difficult.

Bubble Letters

These are collected and when put together will spell the word BONUS, on
completing the word the player will be awarded massive points prozes and
an extra life.

Extra Life Symbol

When collected will give the player an extra life.

N.B. You will have to be quick on your feet to collect the about items as
they do not hang around for long.

You may also notice a POW block in the sewers, this when hit will have a
blanket effect on all creatures that are on solid ground (it may do more
damage than good), use sparingly.

Playing notes

Be careful not to hit a paralysed enemy from beneath as this may give them
just the push they need to get back on his feet.

Extra Lives awarded every 10000 points.

Good Luck

Any comments on this product show go to W.G.S.S. at:

W.G.S.S.
2 Highfield Rise
Eastend Road
Preston
HULL
HU12 8RA

"Don't talk to me about being alone." - R.E.M.