                                 KONAMI
                             DOUBLE DRIBBLE

Page 3

CONGRATULATIONS!

   You now own the authentic Konami home computer version of Double
Dribble.  This game utilizes all of the enhancement capabilities of a
home computer.  It provides you with superior graphics and sound effects
to give you the look, feel and action expected from this arcade classic.
We suggest that you read this instruction manual thoroughly before taking
the court and rockin' the rim.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

   INTRODUCTION / HOW TO BEGIN................................  4
   LOADING AND CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS...........................  8
   GAME SCREEN / FOULS AND VIOLATIONS.........................  9
   SLAMMING................................................... 10
   IN-BOUNDING / THREE POINTERS / FREE THROWS................. 11

Page 4

EXPERIENCE THE GREATEST HOME COURT ADVANTAGE IN BASKETBALL HISTORY!

   Double Dribble is a 5 on 5 pro-style basketball game that lets you
control all the fast-paced, fast-breaking action.  Shoot jump shots,
set shots, foul shots and three pointers.  Even light up the scoreboard
with three different kinds of slam dunks - the Gorilla, the Rim Rokin'
Reverse and the In-Your-Face Jam.

   There are four teams for you to captain: Boston, Chicago, New York
and Los Angeles.  Each of these teams has a reputation for playing tough
man-to-man defense.  And, depending on your skills, they have the
potential to run a full court press from the oppening tip to the final
buzzer.

   You can also choose from three levels of competition: Junior, College
and Pro.

   And in case these levels of intensity get out of hand, the official
computer referee is ready to blow the whistle and donate free throws to
opposing players.

   So lace up your favorite pair of over-priced sneakers and fire-up
Double Dribble - the purest shooting event outside of the "big game."

HOW TO BEGIN

   Double Dribble can be played by either one or two players.  If only
one person plays, take on the computer using the Joystick.  If you
want to compete against another player, two joysticks are required.

After entering your password (see Password Instructions located under
the Control Instructions for your computer), press the Joystick Fire
Button to advance to the Set-Up screen.

   When the Set-Up screen appears, select the One Player Mode or Versus
(two player) Mode using the joystick.

   Next, you'll see four categories on the screen - TIME, TEAM, LEVEL
and END.  Each category gives you options to choose from.  For TIME, your
options are 5:00, 10:00, 20:00 and 30:00 minute quarters.  For TEAM,
you'll select from one of four top contenders: Chicago, New York,
Boston and L.A.  Each team's jersey color is represented at the bottom
left of the screen.  (NOTE: When only one person plays, the computer
opponent is automatically Boston.)  And for LEVEL, you can choose 1, 2 or
3, with Level 3 being the most challenging.  In the two player mode you
will not select a difficulty level.

   To make your selection in each category simply shoot the ball using the
Joystick Fire Button.  After you make a choice, move the joystick down
to advance to the next selection.

   After you've set up the game, take a shot at END, and you'll be off
to the tip off.  The computer will automatically toss the ball between
the two big men.  To control the tip, press the Joystick Fire Button
at the height of your jump.

   If for any reason you want to change your selections after the game
begins, hit the <ESC> key to repeat the process.

Page 8

LOADING AND CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS

What You Need

   Amiga 500, 1000 or 2000 computer; 512K RAM memory; one disk drive;
monitor or TV (color recommended); joystick required; a second joystick
is optional for two player competition.

Loading

   Plug the joystick into Port 2 for Player 1; plug the second joystick
into Port 1 for Player 2.  Turn on your computer.  Insert the disk into
the disk drive.  The program will automatically load.

PASSWORD INSTRUCTIONS

   After the game has loaded, you will be asked to enter a password to
start playing.  (Cracked by SKID ROW).

GAME CONTROLS

   During the game, press:

Key           Action
---           ------
CTRL P        Toggle Pause On and Off.
CTRL B        Toggle Background Music On and Off.
CTRL E        Toggle Sound Effects On and Off.
ESC           Restores game to Player Set-Up Screen.

JOYSTICK CONTROLS
                      Joystick moves player in eight directions and aims
       UP             direction of your shot or pass.
        |
      \ | /           Offensive Control
LEFT -- O -- RIGHT    Passing: Aim the joystick at the teammate you want
      / | \           to dish off to.  When he begins flashing, feed him
        |             the ball by giving the Joystick Fire Button a quick
      DOWN            press.  Precision skills are very important when
                      attempting a pass.  Because if an opposing team
                      member is between the pass and your teammate, the
                      ball will be stolen.

Shooting with a touch: To launch a jump shot, finesse a finger roll
lay-up, power home a slam or attempt a free throw, aim the joystick at
the hoop and hold the Joystick Fire Button down then release.  The
player will release the ball when you release the button.

Defensive Control
Switching defensemen: Aim your joystick at a teammate nearest the
opponent with the ball, then give the Joystick Fire Button a quick
press.  This will change your flashing player to one who is in a
better defensive position.

Stealing:  When you want to steal the ball, move your flashing player
in front of the opponent with the ball, then go for the theft by
holding down the Joystick Fire Button.  Just like in the pros, quick
hands are a must!

Page 9

THE "BIG GAME" SCREEN

Quarter

   One game consists of 4 quarters (Remember, you have the option of
choosing 5, 10, 20 or 30 minute quarters during the Set-Up screen.)

1 Player Score             Game Clock        2 Player or Computer Score

FOULS AND VIOLATIONS

   The two key fouls which will send your opponent to the free throw
line:

        1. Blocking
        2. Charging

Violations which will result in a turnover include:

        1. Travelling
        2. Holding the ball without dribbling for 5 seconds.
        3. Not getting the ball across half court in 10 seconds.
        4. Not taking a shot within 24 seconds of taking possession.

Page 10

HOW TO ADD THIRTY INCHES TO YOUR VERTICAL LEAP (THE SLAM SCREENS)

   When your offensive man breaks into the open and drives for an
uncontested lay-up, the slam screen will automatically appear, and one of
three vicious jams will light up the stadium.  (NOTE: The style of slam
is randomly chosen by the computer.)

The Gorilla!      The Rim Rockin' Reverse!     The In-Your-Face Jam!

Page 11

IN-BOUNDING THE BALL

   Getting the ball in bounds is a key fundamental.  Aim your player
toward a teammate, which will cause the teammate to start flasing.
Then, while holding the joystick down, press the Joystick Fire Button.

   But remember.  You can only have 5 seconds to get the ball into play
or it's a violation.

THE THREE POINTER

   Your home court has a three point line.  So if you have the touch
to launch pin-point jumpers from behind the line, you're awarded three
points instead of two.

FOUL SHOTS

   To sink a "Free-Bee," time your shot so that you release the ball at
the exact millisecond when the HOOP HALO pings against the rim.

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW

