                             D O U B L E   D R A G O N

     Typed in by THORAX. Edited by Parasite.


     The Story so far.........
        Double Dragon is the story  of  two  twin brothers, Billy and Jimmy Lee
        facing the odds together in a city where survival has to be learned
        the hard way. Their knowledge of the martial arts, combined with the
        experience of though urban existence, has made thom both formidable
        fighting machines, ready for any challenge that comes their way.

        But now the brothers are faced with their greatest challenge ever.
        Billy's girl Marian has been kidnapped by the Black Warriors, a savage
        and ruthless street gand led by the mysterious Shadow Boss. Using
        skill gained from a lifetime on the streets, and whatever weapons come
        to hand - including knives, whips, baseball bats, rocks and even oil
        drums - Billy and Jimmy must pursue the gang through the sprawling
        slums, factories and outskirts of the city, to reach the thugs'hideout
        for the final confrontation with the infamous Shadow Boss!

     The Cast
        Billy Lee: Height 5'10. Weight 165 Ibs. Billy began his Kung Fu
                   training at the age of 12 and became a Kung Fu Sosaiken
                   Master at the age at 20

        Jimmy Lee: Height 5'10. Weight 170 Ibs. Billys twin brother and also
                   a master in the martial arts.

        Lopar    : Height 5'8. Weight 175 Ibs. Packs a nasty right and left
                   punch, and gets a kick out of hurling oil drums around

        Abobo    : Height 6'3. Weight 167 Ibs. The Middle Boss, Abobo likes
                   to slap people about.

        Williams : Height 5'8. Weight 167 Ibs. Has perfected strong jump kick
                   and is very handy with a knife or beasball bat.

        Linda    : Heigth 5'4. Weight 114 Ibs. Watch out for her swift right
                   and left punches. She also cracks a mean whip.

        Chintai  : Height 5'6. Weight 152 Ibs. A Karate Master. Enough said...

        Willy    : Height 6'. Weight 205 Ibs. The Big Boss, Willy is armed
                   with a machine gun and, needless to say, won't hesitate
                   to use it...

     Your weapons
        As you hunt throug the urban decay of the city you will find boxes,
        oil drums, knives, baseball bats and whips. All can be picked up
        (by moving near a weapon and pressing fire) and used in fights (by
        pressing Fire when the weapon is held)

        The action in Double Dragon takes place in 5 different scenarios:
        the City Slum, Industrial Area, he Forest, and outside and inside the
        Boss's Hideout.

     Attacking the enemy


        You have a vast range of fighting skills at your disposal. Individual
        attacking moves are below.

        LEFT OR RIGHT PUNCH - press fire to punch your opponent in the direction
        you are facing

        KICK - move joystick to the right and press Fire to kick forward. If can
        get very close to your opponent, you can turn the kick into a
        HAIR GRAB KICK. And you can turn a hair grab kick into a SHOULDER THROW
        by reversing joystick and pressing fire

        HEAD BUTT - move joystick down and press fire to head butt yoor opponent

        JUMP KICK FORWARD - move joystick in south west direction and press fire
        to turn an kick

        WHIRLWIND KICK - move joystick in south west direction and press fire
        to turn and kick

        ELBOW BACKWARD - move joystick to the left and press fire to elbow an
        opponent behind you

        JUMP BACKWARD - move joystick up and left and press fire

        JUMP UP - move the joystick up and press fire

        JUMP FORWARD - move the joystick up and right and press fire

     Playing the Game
         At the bottom of the screen are shown two sectioned bar displays
        one for each player. Each bar represents one life which is used up
        as Billy takes the enemys shot. (The number of lives remaining is
        shown next to the bar.)

        At the top of the screen, beneath the scores, is a display of how
        much time you have to left to complete that level. Just like the
        Arcade, if you are still hanging around when the clock runs out,
        you lose a life. Life is tough on the street.

        Keep fighting you way to the right using whatever weapon you can
        find. Beware of allowing the bad guys to rob you of a weapon to close
        to the edge of the screen - you will not be able to pick up it again!

        If you lose all your lives, you can use up one of the five credits
        you start the game with - drop another quarter in - and continue on
        just like the Arcade. Once all your credits are gone so are you.

        Press fire to use a credit and continue on from your present position
        when you lose all you lives and are prompted to do son on the screen

        Clear out the trash on one level to move on the next. Your girl is at
        the end of level 5 - go get her! Watch for the thumb to tell you
        when you move on! If two players as a team fight through more enemys
        its gets even more interesting towards the end. Keep your wits about
        you and one eye on your partner.
