                         Dr. Plummet's Flight Manual
                       for Dr. Plummet's House of Flux


Congratulations, pilot! You're about to fly the most way-out ship in the
galaxy. I've loaded this baby with all my latest inventions to make navigation
a breeze and mortal combat real fun. So follow the simple instructions, then
sit back and enjoy the fireworks! (Hey, it's your karma!)


Mission: There are four missions to choose from, each with seven levels.
Complete all seven levels in a mission and meet me, Dr. Plummet!

Complete a Level: Rescue all seven astronauts to complete a level.

THRUST -- Your ship is equipped with Dr. Plummet's Patented Zoom King engines
which are enough to pull you out of the most insistent gravity well (provided
you use them in time).
                                 . = Thrust

ROTATION -- Your ship can be turned either clockwise or counterclockwise.
(Digital watch users consult an encyclopedia.)
                                 X = Clockwise
                                 Z = Counterclockwise

SHIELDS -- Assuming it was installed correctly, the Snuffer Rebuffer shielding
system on your ship will absorb the energy of enemy fire. It WILL NOT save you
from collisions with asteroids, space trolleys, or other substantial
obstacles. (It may protect you from certain fires, but don't hold me to it.)
Press the space bar on your console, and dig the cool electronic chords as you
pass unharmed.

FIRING -- You asked for it, and I delivered! This ship has the most incredible
firepower outside of the movies. Go give 'em heck, soldier!
                                 / = Firing

FUEL -- Juice is an important factor in any military adventure. Make sure
you've got enough to see you through! Both the thrusters and the shields will
suck on your supply, but this can be replenished by completing levels.

SCORING -- No, not that, fly boy! We're talking about points. Here's how you
can up yours:
                             Destroy Turret = 350
                           Rescue Astronaut = 500
                             Complete Level = Variable

BONUSES: Each level has a secret bonus condition which can grant you extra
fuel, points and ships. As an example, the second level in mission one has a
KAMIKAZE bonus which is granted when you allow one (and only one) of your
ships to crash. As for the rest, you figure them out.

SHIPS: Extra ships are given for every 10,000 points. But, hey, take it easy!

PAUSE: Suspend the suspense, cool your jets, and forget the pressures of the
moment. Even a hardened warrior like yourself needs time to smell the latrine.
                               TAB = Pause On/Off

JOYSTICK: Control direction and thrust simultaneously with the stick and fire
with the button. Continue to hit that space bar for your shields.
