			      Dragon's Lair
 			   ------------------
The object of the game is to rescue the fair Princess Daphne who has been 
taken away by Singe the evil Dragon. To do this, you, Dirk the Daring,
must survive the perilous journey by defeating all your adversaries.
Make your way through the castle and cavern below by using the Joystick
to control your movement and the fire button to wield your sword.
Beware of your foes, as they are numerous!
You must use your wit and refleces to avoid the obstacles of each room.
These rooms will require many attempts to master. In general, flashing
things will either indicate danger(one on a creature) or the direction
to move (when on an inanimate object).
Remember: the timing of your moves is critical. Don't act too aerly or to
late, or your quest may end abruptly.
Note: You can also control Dirk the Daring by using the numeric keypad as
shown below:

		8	Up
		6	Right	
		4	Left
		2	Down
		0	Fire

Keyboard commands:

The following commands are available.

	A	Toggle Audio on/off
	L	Toggle Low pass filter on/off.This improves sound quality
		on some Amiga 500 + 2000
	H	Switch high resolution mode on/off. In high resultion mode,
		the picture is condensed and centered in the middle of 
		the screen. To see your Amiga reach new heights of graphic
		excellence, switch to this mode.
		Audio is disabled while high resolution mode is active.
	I	Toggle interlace mode on/off. Interlace mode will double the
		number of lines displayed on your monitor thus eliminating
		scan lines and improving image quality. This may, however,
		cause flicker on some monitors.

Scoring

As you play each animated room, every correct move will award you points
according to the difficulty of the move. A wrong move will cost you a life

The End of the game

There are two ways for the game to end. The first, is when you have exhausted
your supply of lives. You begin with three lives and each time you die you
lose one.
The second, more pleasant way for the game to end is when you reach the 
Dragon's Lair, and defeat the Dragon himself.
There you find the Princess Daphne how is happy to
be rescued.......

