                        Dragon Fighter (C) Idea
                        -----------------------
                        Manual typed by CFou!

THE PLOT
--------

In the 5 lands of Manhur the dragon-riding knights hold a tournament once every 10 years.
The winner of this tournament is declared King Of The Five Lands and regns over this vast empire for the following ten years.
Now, you are one of the Dragon Fighters, competing in the tournament, and must ride through a labyrinth of caverns, battling against the incredible inhabitants of the underworld.
However, strength and courage alone will not be sufficient to achieve the final victoire; The competitor must also use tactics ans timings to be ready for ultimate challenge.

GOOD LUCK TO THE KNIGHT WHO WILL BE KING!



LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------

Turn the computer off for 30 seconds, insert disk 1 in the DF0 drive and turn on AMIGA.
Change disk on request. When the loading screen appears, press fire.


CONTROLS
--------
All actions are controlled by the joystick.

IN THE TOWNS
use joy to hightloght options and press fire to select.


IN CAVERN
 LJoy and RJoy : Dragon flies horizontally
 UJoy          : Dragon flies upwards flepping its wings.
 DJou          : Dragon dives.
 Short UJoy    : Dragon planes gently
 Short DJoy    : Dragon is ready to dive; it rests on a plateform if this is nearly

 Fire          : Available weapons take effect.

 Space Bar     : Activates super-ships weapons
 P             : Pause key (press again to re-start).

HOW TO PLAY
-----------
Each region features its own landscape and has 5 towns. Every town contains from 1 to 4 caverns of different difficulty levels and lots of enemies (arcade phase).
There is also a tavern ans a shop (strategy phase).
Your task is to find the best possible way to reach Manhur Castle by combining your player's fighting skills in the caverns with your strategic ability to win money in the taverns which is then used in the shops to purchase damage repairs and also special potions abd extra weapons.


IN THE TOWNS

The first town is displayed after the loading screen:

1. TAVERN: here you can gamble to win more money.
2. SHOP (this is activated only after completion of the first cavern - it will appear afterwards; therefore): you have the opportunity to repair damage and buy special potions&weapons for your dragon.
3. CAVERNS: there are all actinos, you have to defeat as many enemies as you can in the shortest time possible.
4. EXIT (this is activated only after the end of the tournament): you have access to the general map of the 5 lands. Now you can select next destination.

TAVERN
------
you can see:
1. door -you go back to the town
2. available cash
3. dice- select to start dice game
4. your challenger

How play 'top 15':
- you start the game by selecting the dice; you always throw first, your challenger will appear after your first throw.
- the aim of the game is to score points trying to get as near to 15 as possible; if you score more than 15, you lose;
- throw the dice in turn (each throw has a fixed cost which changes from town to town): If you decide to stop because you are winning, your challenger will attempt to beat you by throwing again;
- If the game ends in a draw, the hist will win.
- in order to stop playing, you have to move from the dice-icons.

Wins:
- If you win, you cannot may in that town any more (the taven will disappear automatically);
- on winning, you can choose between 2 prizes:
1) money whose values varies from town to town
2) information regarding all the caverns of the towns: length of each cavern, power rating of enemies armed conventional weapons, power rating of enemies armed with magic weapons


SHOP
----
You can enter the shop only after completing the first cavern of the town.

1. you go back to the town
2. avaiable cash (it is possible to check the statuts of your dragon by selecting this)
3. purchasable items/proce: to acquire what you need
4. shopkeeper

After checking the status of your dragon, go back to the shop* by moving the joystick in any direction -and highlight 3 in order to purchase what you need. Examine the various irems by moving the joystick vertically and buy them by pressinf FIRE.
You can buy the potions to replace lost energy and to reduce the percentage of damage caused by 'armed' and 'magic' enemies until the relevant columns have reached their original length.

you can see:
1) energy indicator
2) damage caused by 'armed' enemies
3) damage caused by 'magic' enemies
4) avaiable weapons

LIST  OF PURCHASABLE ITEMS
-------------------------
- Energy (potion with heart inside): replaced lost energy to some extent.
- 'Armed' damage (potion with hammer inside): partly reduces damage caused by armed enemies
- 'Magic' damage (potion with star inside): partly reduces damage caused by magic enemies
- Body Armour 1-5 (angel): protects from the damage caused by armed enemies, in proportion to its value.
- Immunity 1-5 (electric sphere): reduces the damage caused by magic enemies, in proportion to its value.
- Speed 1-3 (potion with arrow inside): increases the dragon's flying speed.
- Glide 1-3 (potion with wind inside): increases the lingth of the glide
- Head with fire direction (dragon head): change and increases the fire direction of the dragon (7 choices)
- Tongue of fire 1-3 (flame) increases the fire power
- Super-chip 1 (circle of 8 flames): fires chips in 8 directions (press bar space for that)
- Super-chip 2 (circle pf 16 flames): fires chips in 16 directions (press ba space for that)
- Lightning (light): strikes the nearest enemy automatically


IN THE CAVERN

you can see:
1. FIRE POWER INDICATOR - keeping the FIRE buton presseed until the indicator is at maximum will make the power more effective.
2. ENERGY INDICATOR - your dragon loses energy when it flaps its wings or when it flies too low; it can replace energy by resting on platform.
3. 'ARMED' DAMAGE INDICATOR - shows the amount of damage caused by enemies with conventional weapons
4. 'MAGIC' DAMAGE INDICATOR - shows the amount of damage caused by enemies with magic weapons.
5. TIME REMAINING - indicates the time left to complete the cavern.
6. % OF 'ARMED' ENEMIES YOU HAVE DESTROYED
7. % OF 'MAGIC' ENEMIES YOU HAVE DESTROYED

N.B. the dragon will die as soon as one of the indicators reaches 0;
you will be disqualified from the tournament if you do not succeed in completing a cavern within the time limit.
On completing a cavern, you will be awarded some mone. The value depends on the time taken and on the % of enemies destroyed. BUT REMEMBER: you have to defeat at least 25% of all the enemies in order to get this prize. If you destroyed 100%; you will earn an additionnal bonus prize.
You can venure through each cavern only once.


MAP

you are given the opportunity to choose which town to visit next. You can only visit towns directly connected to the town you are in.
You cannot visit the same town twice.

you can see on the map:
1. cursor indicating you have already been in the town
2. cursor indicating the town currently selected;
3. information regarding the town currently selected; name, subscription fee to the local tournament (this cost will be automatically deducted from the money you have available, as soon as you begin the tournament), number of caverns.


HINTS AND TIPS
--------------
- Taverns: you will find it impossible to win in some taverns because of swindlers. Its easy to recognize them as they always score 15
- Shops: check the status of your dragon and repair all damage, as the first priority
- Cavenrs: take the length of each cavern into carefull consideration with respect to the energy of your dragon
- map: be careful not to turn short of money or your quest will end immediately
- Your dragon must be as powerfull as possible before the ultimate challenge
- Pay attention to the fierce monsters you will find in one cavern of each region.


CREDITS
*******
Program: Luigi Recanatese
Graphics: Ignazio Carrao
Music: Andrea Bernasconi, Gabriele Petino
Additinal coding: Lenz
Projetc manager
Antonio Farina

Dragon fighter- (C) 1991 IDEA