                    TYPED BY    THE  TWINS   OF TRILOGY

                      D R A G O N S   O F   F L A M E
                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                             QUICKSTART CARD

                         Advanced Dungeon & Dragons

AMIGA 1000 USERS:

 Because of the difference in the arrangement of the ten key pads
between the different Amiga models, the function of the '0' key on the
ten key pad is also activated by the '-' key of the Amiga 1000 ten key
pad. The functionof the '-' key on the ten  key pad is also activated
by the ENTER  key on the Amiga 1000 ten key pad.


HOW TO WIN:

 To win the game, the companions must enter the hidden caves of Sla-
Mori, find the ancient sword Wyrmslayer, sneak into the fortress of Pax
Tharkas, rescue Princess Laurana, and free the captured women and
children of Qualinesti.


WILDERNESS VIEW:

 In the wilderness, the characters are represented by a single icon in
the centre of the screen. Any items in the wilderness are represented
by small squares. Other characters you can encounter are represented by
nomads icons. Monsters are represented by monster icons. When in the
wilderness view, if you encounter another icon or press the "0" key on
the key pad, you will switch into combat view.
To move in wilderness view, move the joystick in the direction you want
the party to move.

         Move in Wilderness View

                  |
            \     |     /
             \    |    /
              \   |   /
          -----      -----
              /   |   \
             /    |    \
            /     |     \
                  |   


COMBAT VIEW:

 In combat view, the party is represented by their current leader. You
can change the current leader using the Hero Select function from the
main menu.
 In the combat view the party can move either North/South (N/S) or
East/West (E/W). The "2" and "8" keys toggle the characters' point of
view between N/S and E/W. The compass below the combat view shows the
direction the character is facing.
 Outdoors, the combat view represents the terrain in the wilderness
view. Sla-Mori and Pax Tharkas the combat views shows the background to
the north or to the west of the party. While the party is moving in
combat view they are also moving in wilderness view. The terrain in
combat view is based on the terrain in wilderness view. In combat view,
you may be able to move through difficult terrain, jump over rivers or
jump up hills that are impassable in wilderness view.
To move in combat view, move the joystick. The character moves
according to the following chart.

          Move in Combat View

           Toggle N/S to E/W
Jump Left          |         Jump Right
          \        |       /
           \       |      /
            \      |     /
             \     |    /
Walk Left ------      ------ Walk Right
             /     |    \
            /      |     \
           /       |      \
          /        |       \
Dodge Left         |        Dodge Right
           Toggle N/S to E/W

 To attack in combat view, hold down the joystick button and move the
joystick. Do not tap the joystick or the joystick button, the lead
character attacks so long as you hold both down. The character attacks
according to the following chart.

          Attack in Combat Mode
        (with Fire Button pressed)

                 Jump Up
Attack High Left   |   Attack High Right
          \        |       /
           \       |      /
            \      |     /
             \     |    /
Attack Left------    ------Attack Right
             /     |    \
            /      |     \
           /       |      \
          /        |       \
Attack Low Left    |    Attack Low Right
                 Dodge

 If you attack while the crossed swords below the compass are dark, the
character uses his ranged weapon. If you attack while the crossed
swords are highlighted, the character uses his hand weapon.
 Pressing the "-" key on on the 10 key pad recasts Raistlin's last
spell, if he is the second, thrid or fourth character, and if the spell
is an attack. If Raistlin is in front, he casts attack spells by making
a ranged attack.
 After all monsters are off of the screen, switch back to wilderness
view by pressing the "0" key on the key pad. You cannot switch back to
wilderness view if you are too close to a river or other impassable
terrain. If you can't get back to wilderness view, use the joystick to
toggle N/S to E/W to make sure you are not adjacent to a river.
You cannot enter wilderness view while in Sla-Mori or Pax Tharkas.


CLIMBING:

 To climb the chain in Sla-Mori, jump up onto the chain by pressing the
joystick button. Move the joystick up and down to climb up and down the
chain.


MAIN MENU:

 Access the functions of the main menu by pressing the SPACE BAR or by
pressing the first letter of any command except Save Game and Restore
Game. To select any menu item, highlight that menu item by moving the
joystick and then press the joystick button. To exit a menu, choose the
Exit Menu option or press the ESC key.
The main menu includes:

Hero Select and Character Status Screen.


CLERICAL SPELLS:

 Activates Goldmoon's clerical abilities. Goldmoon has three kinds of
abilities: memorized spells (marked with an #), her ability to turn
undead (marked with an *), and spells powered by the Disks of Mishakal
(marked with an 0). Memorized spells are used up when cast and are
regenerated by resting. Turn undead is an ability and is not used up.
Spells powered by the Disks of Mishakal use the number of charges
listed in parentheses after the spell name. The disks hold 100 charges
and can not be recharged.

 # CURE LIGHT WOUNDS: heals minor damage to a character.
 # PROTECTION FROM EVIL: helps you against evil opponents.
 # FINDS TRAPS: highlights the location of a trap.
 # HOLD PERSON: stops humans or humanoids in their tracks.
 # SPIRITUAL HAMMER: casts a magical war-hammer.
 # PRAYER: even more powerful protection from evil.
 # BLESS: the most powerful protection from evil.
 # DISPEL MAGIC: eliminates magic spells.
 * TURN UNDEAD: can freeze or destroy undead creatures.
 0 CURE CRITICAL WOUNDS(2): heals major damage to a character.
 0 RAISE DEAD (10): raises dead characters. Characters may not survive
   the system shock of being raised.
 0 HEAL (5): returns a character to full fighting potential.


MAGIC USER SPELLS:

 Casts spells from Raistlin's Staff of Magius. The staff has 100
charges, and each spell uses the number of charges listed in
parenthesis after the spell name. If Raistlin is party leader, the
staff will absorb spells cast at the party. Each absorbed spell adds 1
to the number of charges in the staff. If the staff is overcharged, it
causes an explosion.

   CHARM PERSON (1): stops humanoids in their tracks.
   SLEEP (1): stops low level monsters in their tracks.
   MAGIC MISSILE (1): throws an attack.
   WEB (2): entangles an opponent. Stronger monsters break out quickly.
   DETECT MAGIC (1): highlights magical items.
   DETECT INVISIBLE (2): displays invisible objects. Invisible
    treasures may be hidden in Sla-Mori and Pax Tharkas.
   BURNING HANDS (1): throws a short range attack.
   FIREBALL (3): throws a long range, explosive attack.
   FINAL STRIKE (ALL): causes a large explosion which uses all charges
    and may kill Raistlin.

USE: readies one of the lead character's items for use. Not all
characters can use all items. Characters must use their arrows and
sling bullets to attack with their ranged weapons.

REST: restores Goldmoon's and Gilthanis' memorized spells, heals all
damaged characters one HP, and lets the monsters move while you rest.
Your rest will be interrupted if monsters encounter the party during
the rest.

TAKE: picks up items from the ground.

OPEN: open doors, chests, etc.

GIVE: trades an unused item between characters.

INSPECT: checks directly in front of the character for secret doors, if
you come to a dead and, inspect the area for secret doors.

DROP: drops unused items to the floor.

PUT: places an item into a chest, bag, or enclosure.

SHUT: closes doors, chests, etc.

QUEST MAP: shows an overall map of the area of the quest, and the
advance of the dragon armies. Press ESC to exit the Quest Map.

SAVE GAME: saves the game to the current directory on disk. Save the
game often to make it easier to restart.

RESTORE GAME: loads a saved game from the current directory on disk.

XP: lists the party's total experience point earned, and the number of
each kind of monsters killed. Use the PgUp and PgDn keys to view the
whole list. Dead characters do not contribute their experience for
killing monsters to the party's total experience points.


SPECIAL NOTES:

 In ranged combat, Gilthanis throws three magic missiles, then he
throws two webs, and then he uses a bow and arrow (if available).
Gilthanis gets his spells back when the party rests. Princess Laurana
can use a sword and a bow and arrow (if available). Nomads fight only
with swords. There are no wyverns, caches of money, potions of heroism
or invulnerability, rings of spell storing, magic rope, wands, or
magical armor or shields in the game. Monsters do not carry treasure,
but they may guard treasure.


             -----  AGAIN ANOTHER 100% POWER-TYPING  ----

                ---  DONE BY THE TWINS OF TRILOGY  ---

                          --  IN DECEMBER  --

========================================================================

Codes for Dragons of flame are:

Page Par. first last word
 1    1          *   armies          7    1         *   cataclysm                                   
 1    3          *   together        7    2    *        conseious                                 
 1    4          *   fortress        8    2         *   insult      
 2    1     *        daughter        8    3    *        apart
 2    2          *   healed          8    3         *   weapon
 2    3     *        rejected        8    4    *        tasselhoff
 2    3          *   mishakal     
 3    1          *   goldmoon        
 3    2          *   rewarded        
 3    3          *   village         Codes written by DDT & MACE
 4    3     *        raistlin        
 4    3          *   wreck
 4    4     *        unknown         Hope you enjoy this great game!!!
 4    4          *   powerful
 5    1          *   takhisis
 5    2     *        inseparable
 5    2          *   goldmoon
 5    3          *   companions
 6    1     *        orphaned
 6    1          *   clerics
=======================================================================
                            Dragons of Flame Manual

                                  Contents

I.Introduction..................................................1
  The Action Starts.............................................1
  The Situation.................................................1
  The Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Game..........................1
  The Dragonlance Saga..........................................1
II. Characters..................................................2
  Goldmoon......................................................2
  Riverwind.....................................................3
  Raistlin Majere...............................................4
  Caramon Majere................................................5
  Tanis Half-Elven..............................................6
  Sturm Brightblade.............................................7
  Tasselhoff Burrfoot...........................................8
  Flint Fireforge...............................................9
III. Non-Player Characters.....................................10
  Eben Shatterstone............................................10
  Gilthanas....................................................10
  Laurana......................................................10
  Men..........................................................10
  Nomads.......................................................10
IV. Monsters...................................................10
V. Items.......................................................12
VI. Play Notes.................................................13
  Moving Around................................................13
  Combat Advice................................................13
  Where Am I?..................................................13

                                 Page 1
I.INTRODUCTION
THE ACTION STARTS
    It is more than three hundred years since the Cataclysm, when
the old gods abandoned the people of Krynn. Without the
interference of the old gods, Takhisis, the Queen of Darkness,
spreads her power from the Abyss by awakening evil dragons and
creating armies of Draconians. Once her armies are victorious, she
will be free to move from the Abyss into Krynn. The only threat to
the Queen's awesome power is the revival of belief in the old gods
and the uniting of the resistance against the Draconian armies.

    The first steps taken against Takhisis have been taken. The
Disks of Mishakal have been recovered and Goldmoon has become the
first True Cleric since the Cataclysm. But, while returning from
the successful assault on Xak Tsaroth, Goldmoon and the other
Companions of the Lance are captured by an army of Draconians.

    When all seems lost, the Companions are freed during an elven
attack on the Draconians. Now, the Companions must ally with
friendly NPC's, battle Draconian hordes, and sneak through the
caves of Sla-Mori into the fortress of Pax Tharkas. Inside, the
Companions must recover the sword 'Wrymslayer' and free the slaves
held there to bind the forces of the resistance together.

The Situation.

    At the start of the Quest, Draconian armies sweep down from the
north toward the elven lands of Qualinost. They already hold the
ancient southern forests of Pax Tharkas. The Draconians seek to
crush the Qualinesti between their armies and the mountain
fortress.

    The lands before the invasion are in chaos. The countryside is
full of wanderers both friendly and unfriendly. Brave elven and
nomadic warriors seek to turn aside the forces of evil. Innocent
victims flee the advancing conquerors. Fould creatures of all sorts
take advantage of the chaos to pillage the remains of civilization.

    During your quest, you will meet many others in the wilderness.
Some may join your party; it will be necessary to gain allies to
complete the quest. Some may offer items to aid you on your quest.
Some will attack you with sword or claw. The only way to know if
an encounter is friend or foe is to approach and keep alert. But
you can assume that anyone who attacks is allied with the forces
of evil.

    You may find important items in many places as you travel.
Items may be freely offered by friends, cast aside by those fleeing
the enemy, lying amidst abandoned towns, or fiercely guarded by the
forces of Takhisis. Treat your allies and items wisely, they are
the keys to your quest.
                               Page 2
II.THE CHARACTERS
GOLDMOON, CHIEFTAIN'S DAUGHTER:

    Daughter of the chieftain of the Que-Shu tribe, Goldmoon's
future seemed to be set from birth; whomever she married would
become chief of the Que-Shu tribe. Unknown to everyone, the gods
had different plans for her. The first sign of these plans came
when Goldmoon fell in love with Riverwind, rather than any of the
other more suitable young men.

    When Riverwind returned from his quest to prove himself worthy,
things really changed. The staff he returned with didn't appear to
do anything and Goldmoon's father condemned him to death. As the
tribe started to stone Riverwind to death, Goldmoon threw herself
into his arms. Suddenly the staff flared with a brilliant blue
light and Goldmoon and Riverwind were standing miles away from the
village, all their injuries healed. 

    Rejected by their tribe, Goldmoon and riverwind traveled to
attempt to discover the Staff's true nature. During their travels,
they became involved in a fight at the Inn of the Last Home and
were rescued by the other Companions. From the Inn, the Companions'
adventures took them to Xak Tsaroth. In those terrible ruins, the
Blue Crystal Staff was destroyed, but the Disks of Mishakal were
recovered and Goldmoon became the first True Cleric since the
Cataclysm. Goldmoon now wields personal clerical magic and directs
the awesome powers of the Disks if Mishakal.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS:
Strength 12; Intelligence 12; Wisdom 16; Dexterity 14, 
Constitution 12; Charisma 17; Alignment- Lawfull Good;
Hit Points 24; Armor Class 6.

EQUIPMENT:
Leather Armor; Quarterstaff +2;
Medallion of Faith;
Clerical Magic, see sub-menu.

                              Page 3

RIVERWIND:

    Born into a family of virtual tribal outcasts, no-one in the
Que-Shu tribe had a lower social position. His family refused to
believe in the divinity of the tribal chieftain and were the last
believers in the old gods. Tolerated for his skills, Riverwind
would probably have been left alone to live his life had he not
asked permission of the tribal chief to marry Goldmoon.

    The chief ordered Riverwind to search for proof that the old
gods still existed and not to return without a powerful magic item
to convince the tribe. In reality, he never expected to see
Riverwind again. As time passed, it seemed this wish would be
fulfilled, but Goldmoon never gave up hope and her faith was
everntually rewarded.

    The Riverwind that returned wasn't the same man who left. He
was harder, changed by things he'd seen and unable to remember
exactly where he had been. And he returned with an artifact, the
Blue Crystal Staff. However, he was unable to demonstrate its
powers, and was condemned to be stoned to death. As Goldmoon joined
him in the hail of stones, the Staff flared with blue light and
teleported both of them out of the tribal village.

    Later when the companions made their way to Xak Tsaroth,
Riverwind realized that the ruined city was the place from where
he had retrieved the Staff. After his adventures with the
Companions, he has seen the magnitude of the destruction wrought
by the Draconians. Riverwind's aim in life is now the protection
of Goldmoon and the destruction of the Draconians.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS:
Strength 18/35 (Damage +3); Intelligence 13; Wisdom 14; 
Dexterity 16; Constitution 13; Charisma 13;
Alignment- Lawful Good; Hit Points 36; Armor Class 5.

EQUIPMENT:
Leather armor & shield; Longsword +2 (damage 1-8);
Bow & Quiver of 20 arrows (damage 1-6)

                             Page 4

RAISTLIN MAJERE:

    So weak when he was born that he wasn't expected to live,
Raistlin survived through his sister's efforts and the protection
of his twin brother Caramon. Just before their fifth birthday, the
twins were taken to a fair where a conjurer performed tricks and
illusions. Caramon watched for a while and wandered off, but
Raistlin stayed all day and then astonished his family by
reproducing every trick he'd seen.

    Shortly after Raistlin's sixth birthday, the family took him
to a Master Mage. The mage took Raistlin as a pupil after he was
found in the mages library reading a spellbook, thought to be
impossible without years of study. Never popular and often bored,
his studies continued despite his contempt for both fellow students
and intructors. This period reinforced Caramon's protectiveness
towards his brother, providing the rot for Raistlin's general
dislike of humanity at large, together with deep and lasting
sympathy for the weak.

    Raistlin supplemented the family income by public performances
of illusion and tricks, often bringing him into conflict with his
school. One of these public disagreements led to meeting Tasselhoff
and subsequently Flint. Raistlin was the youngest mage to take
(and pass) the Test which confirmed his future power and gained him
his Staff, while leaving him a physical wreck.

    Unknown to the other companions, Raistlin gained personally
from the descent int Xak Tsaroth. He recovered the spellbook of an
ancient mage, helping him become even more powerful.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS:
Strength 10; Intelligence 17; Wisdom 14; Dexterity 16;
Constitution 10; Charisma 10; Alignment- Neutral;
Hit Points 11; Armor Class 5.

EQUIPMENT:
Staff of Magius(+3 protection; +2 to hit-damage 1-8);
Close combat with Staff as a weapon;
Ranged combat- see spell list.

                              Page 5

CARAMON MAJERE:

    The twin brother of Raistlin, Caramon can be considered a
complete opposite to his brother. From early childhood Caramon made
himself the protector of his weaker brother, rescuing him time and
time again from bullying tomentors. His training as a warrior was
started by his sister, Kitiara, who later became a Dragon Highlord
in the service of Takhisis.

    Inseperable from his brother, except when Raistlin was being
schooled in the magic arts, Caramon lived all his life in Solace.
There he met Sturm and later TaselHoff and Flint Fireforge. These
friendships led to the formation of the 'Companions of the Lance'
when they all met up at the Inn of the Last Home in Solace on that
fateful night where they met Riverwind and Goldmoon.

    After their adventures in Xak Tsaroth with Riverwind and
Goldmoon, Caramon is eager to return to Solace. He fears for the
city's safety in a suddenly hostile world full of legendary
creatures come to life and the implacable hostility of the
Draconians. He will soon realize that destiny awaits in further
adventures with the Companions....

AD&D GAME STATISTICS:
Strength 18/63(Damage +3); Intelligence 12; Wisdom 10; 
Dexterity 11; Constitution 17; Charisma 15; 
Alignment- Lawful Good; Hit Points 44; Armor Class 6.

EQUIPMENT:
Ring mail armor; Longsword (damage 1-8); Spear (damage 1-6).

                               Page 6

TANIS HALF-ELVEN: 

    Orphaned by the death of his elven mother, Tanthalas, better
known as Tanis, was raised amongest the elves. As a half-human,
Tanis always felt somewhat of an outcast. He was finally driven by
his restless nature to leave Qualinesti for Solace and the only
'outsider' known to him, his friend Flint. By the time Tanis became
involved with the Companions he had become an experienced half
elven fighter wandering the world of Krynn in search of True
Healing and clerics.

    His travels and early training amongst the Qualinesti elves
have turned Tanis into a master swordsman. Few fighters are skilled
enough to match him in combat, should they even reach him. His
natural skill with the bow usually stops all but the most deadly
opposition before they come within reach of his sword arm. Despite
this formidable skill, his experiences in the ruined city have made
him an even deadlier warrior, whose capabilities will stand the
Companions in good stead, whatever the future may bring.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS:
Strength 16 (damage +1); Intelligence 12; Wisdom 13; Dexterity 16;
Constitution 12; Charisma 15; Alignment- Neutral Good; 
Hit Points 45; Armor Class 4.

EQUIPMENT:
Leather Armor +2; Longsword +2 (damage 1-8); Bow & Quiver of 20
arrows (damage 1-6).
                                Page 7
STURM BRIGHTBLADE:

    The son of a true Knight of Solamnia, Sturm was sent south with
his mother for safety when his father could no longer guarantee the
security of their home. His father was to have sent for them when
things calmed down - he never did. At this time the Knights were
looked down upon by the general population, who blamed them for
failing in their duties by not stopping the Cataclysm.

    Consious of his inherited position and duties, Sturm dedicated
his life to the Knighthood, becoming a well trained but
inexperieinced fighter. He holds the high ideals of his father and
the Knights despite the current state of the world.

    Drawn to Caramon by their joint martial interests, the two
quickly became fast friends. For Caramon's sake, Sturm even
somewhat befriended Raistlin. After meeting up with Tasellhoff,
Flint, and Tanis, the group traveled together as formidable
adventurers until with flint's retirement, they went their seperate
ways. They all agreed to meet at the Inn of the Last Home in five
years' time.

    Having gained his inheritance by this time, Sturm was equipped
as a Knight of Solamnia, and this meeting marked the start of the
Companions' involvement in the 'War of the Lance', when they
resuced Goldmoon and Riverwind. Returning from the ruins, Sturm is
full of pessimism about the spread of the Draconian forces but
determined to try and help stand against their evil, even though
he believes the Companions' numbers insufficient to make much
difference.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS:
Strength 17 (damage +1); Intelligence 14; Wisdom 11; Dexterity 12;
Constitution 16; Charisma 12; Alignment- Lawful Good;
Hit Points 40; Armor Class 5.

EQUIPMENT:
Chainmail Armor; Two Handed sword +3 (damage 1-10); No ranged
weapon.

                                 Page 8

TASELLHOFF BURRFOOT:

    Most people not only don't understand Kender but don't want to
know them. This is often due to their basic personality traits:
fearlessness, unbelieveable curiosity, irresistible mobility,
independence and the need to pick up anything not screwed down
(unless they have a screwdriver, in which case...)

    But the Kender do not see themselves as thieves. They do not
steal for profit, but from intense curiosity about everything. Even
when caught 'in the act' they offer an amazing range of excuses
from: "You dropped it." through "I was just looking after it in
case it got stolen." As far as they are concerned, it is only
"borrowing", and being called a thief is a grave insult.

    Apart from size, Kender would be easily recognized by the
number of pockets and pouches that festoon their clothing. They are
also recognized by their favoured weapon, the hoopak. Used
exclusively by Kender, it is a combination staff (shod in iron) and
slingshot, a lethally potent weapon.

    Tasellhoff met Flint through normal actions of a Kender -
absolute amazement at being accused of stealing a bracelet, as he
walked off with it from Flint's stall. Tanis arrived to calm the
situation and it wasn't long before they were fast friends.
Tasellhoff was later responsible for the meetin of Caramon,
Raistlin and Sturm. The dangers of Xak Tsaroth don't seem to have
registered with Tasellhoff and he is already looking forward to
whatever happens next.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS:
Strength 13; Intelligence 9; Wisdom 12; Dexterity 16;
Constitution 14; Charisma 11; Alignment- Neutral;
Hit Points 20; Armor Class 6.

EQUIPMENT:
Leather Armor; Hoopak +2 (damage 3-8); Sling +1 with a pouch of 20
bullets (damage 2-7).

                                  Page 9

FLINT FIREFORGE:

    Born and bred a poor hill dwarf, Flint left home as soon as he
could earn a living. As the years passed and his skills grew,
improved fortunes led him to buy a small house in Solace, which
became his base.

    From there he travelled widely, due to the great demand for his
skills. As his fame spread, his work came to the attention of the
elven leader in Quanlinesti, resulting in him becoming one of the
few dwarves not only to visit the elven kingdom but to become a
welcome visitor. Here Flint met and befriended Tanis. When Tanis
finally left Quanlinesti, his natural destination was his old
friend Flint in Solace. Tanis was soon sa useful that Flint made
him a business partner. He later met the twins, Tasellhoff and
Sturm, and the six formed a formidable adventuring company. Flint
then retired to Solace, but agreed to meet other adventurers at the
Inn of the Last Home five years hence.

    On that fateful day, five years later, the adventurers rescued
Goldmoon and Riverwind and formed the 'Companions of the Lance'.
After the Companions' experiences, Flint is confirmed as an
inplacable foe of the Draconians, as well as having prejuduces
towards the Aghar fully confirmed.

AD&D GAME STATISTICS:
Strength 16 (damage +1); Intelligence 7; Wisdom 12; Dexterity 10;
Constitution 18; Charisma 15; Alignment- Neutral Good;
Hit Points 52; Armor Class 6.

EQUIPMENT:
Studded Leather armor & Shield; Battleaxe +1 (damage 1-8);
Throwing axes (damage 1-6).

                               Page 10

III.NON-PLAYER CHARACTERS

    During your travels you will meet characters that may accompany
you on your quest. These non-player charatcers(NPC's) are necessary
to complete the quest, but they will not join the party if you
attack them. You must move up to the NPC and take the risk of being
attacked for an NPC to join your party.

EBEN SHATTERSTONE:

    As a mercenary, Eben is totally self-serving and looks out for
his own interests above all others. He is not evil, and seems
always to end up on the winning side in any fight. Although Eben
is not a coward, he is not stupid and will always find a reason not
to lead the way into danger. He wears chainmail and fights with
shield and longsword.

GILTHANAS:

    Gilthanas is an experienced elven fighter/magic user whose
knowledge amy prove of great value to the party. He is second in
line for the Qualinesti throne and knows many of the secret places
of the anicients. He fights in chainmail, using a +1 longsword, and
bow, along with some first and second level spells.

LAURANA:

    Laurana is a Princess of the Qualinesti. She has been captured
by the Draconians and is being held prisoner in Pax Tharkas. She
normally wear +1 chainmail and fights well with a sword. Should the
characters enounter her, they would be well advised to help her
escape. She is greatly loved by the elves and is essential to final
victory over the Draconians.

MEN:

    The various townsfolk you meet may be refugees from the
Draconians or the Draconian's allies. Refugees may join the party
and fight with the characters. They will usually use a sword and
little or no armor.

NOMADS:

    There are groups of nomads who inhabit the plains and wander
the southern areas of Qualinesti. Some of these nomads may be
willing to aid the party by joining or by giving the party
important items. Nomads generally fight with sword and bow.

IV.MONSTERS

    This term usually describes anything that want to kill you.
Some monsters are allies of the Draconians, others just see the
party as a handy meal.

AGHAR (GULLY DWARVES):

    The lowest class of dwarf, the Aghar, are denied kin status by
other dwarves and are regarded as comical nuisances by humans.
Their strongest instinct is survival. They see cowardice as a
virtueand have raised grovelling to the status of an art form. In
combat they either run away or mill about tryinf to avoid being hit
while kicking the characters' shins.

BAAZ DRACONIANS:

    These Draconians are the smallest and most common type. The
Baaz are used as ground troops in the army. They are quite fond of
humans as a favored addition to their diet, so they are eager to
close and fight. They wear some armor, use swords, and crumble to
dust when killed.

BOZAK DRACONIANS:

    These Draconians are larger and less plentifull than the Baaz.
They are magic users and are dedicated to the purposes of Takhisis.
They do not wear armor but are harder to injure than the armored
Baaz. they use magical attacks such as 'Magic Missile'. When
killed, their flesh dries. and their bones explode, injuring anyone
too close.

                              Page 11

DIRE WOLVES:

    These large wolves tend to hunt in packs. They will attack if
they are hungry (which is most of the time). The dire wolves are
smart and fast, attacking with a vicious bite.

DRAGONS:

    There are two old, experienced, and deadly dragons in Pax
Tharkas: Flamestrike and Ember. Flamestrike guards the enslaved
children held in the fortress. She is somewhat insane and cares for
the children as her own. This could be to the party's advantage as
Flamestrike will not use her breath weapon if the children are
within range. On the other hand, Ember will happily use his flaming
breath, his spells, and his claws on any foe he comes near. Both
of these ancient red dragons are terrible opponents who are more
likely to kill characters than to be killed by them.

GIANT WASPS:

    These unintelligent monsters are large enough to pose problems
to you and the party since, "If it moves, it must be food or a home
for eggs." Giant Wasps are tough, taking alot of damage before
dying. They attack with bite and poisonous sting, preferring to
attack from the air.

GOBLINS:

    These 4' tall humanoids are evil by nature and love to indulge
in nasty pastimes such as torture and slavery. They tend to use
whatever they can scavenge for both arms and armor.

GRIFFONS:

    With the front of an Eagle and the rear of a lion, these
monsters have an insatiable appetite for horseflesh, but are quite
willing to settle for fresh human. Although capable of flight, they
will attack from the ground and are extremely aggressive, semi-
intelligent carnivores.

HOBGOBLINS:

    These large humanoids are born evil and love to kill. Their
skill is reflected in the care they give for their polished weapons
and scale armor. Their boldness is reflected in the bright, bloody
colors of their clothes.

KAPAK DRACONIANS:

    These Draconiansare larger than Baaz and love to bully their
smaller brethen. They differ from other Draconians by their
poisonous attacks. When killed their bodies disolve.

MEN:

    Hostile humans are normally in the employ of the Draconians or
are common bandits taking advantage of the current chaos. In either
case they can be armed, armored and dangerous.

STIRGES:

    These nasty little flying bloodsuckers love nothing more than
fresh, warm blood. Guess what human beings represent to Stirges?
The continue to attack until killed or full.

TROLLS:

    These large shambling humanoids are not highly intelligent but,
like so many others, treat humans as a pleasant dietary supplement.
They make very tough opponents, they are difficult to injure and,
when finally wounded, their injuries start healing automatically.
Using their claws or clubs, they are capable of inflictin terrible
injuries.

WAR DOGS:

    These large attack trained dogs usually have light leather
armor and spike colars. They tend to attack on sight with a
horrible bite.

WILD DOGS:

These medium sized domestic dogs have gone wild in the chaos of the
invasion. They only attack if they are very hungry.

WIGHTS:

    These undead humans are often found in catacombs where they try
to destory any living thing that crosses their path. Wights inflict
damage merely by touching their target. They may be resistant to
some spells and can only be hit by magic or silver weapons.

                             Page 12

WRAITH:

    Spirits of evil beings, condemned or determined to stay in our
world, these undead are amongst the party's most deadly opponents.
Wraiths inflict damage merely by touching their target. They may
be resistant to some spells and can only be hit by magic weapons.

WYVERN:

    These large winged monsters are a rather stupid distant cousin
of the dragons. They do not have a dragon's breath weapon or
spells, but they can attack with powerful claws and a poisonous
sting.

ZOMBIES:

    These magically animated corpeses are often used as tireless
guardians that fight until destroyed. They may be resistant to some
spells.

V.ITEMS:

    There are many items within the game which can be of use to the
party. Items may increase a character's abilities in combat or may
be worth experience points. To pick up an item, move a charatcer
over the item and choose TAKE from the menu. To use an item, select
USE and then select the item.

ARMOR and SHIELDS:

    The usefulness of armor or a shield depends on the character
actually using the item. There's no point in Tanis (who starts with
leather armor +2) using leather armor +1 but Goldmoon (who starts
with ordinary leather armor) would get some benefit. To check the
utility of an item, use the item and look at the character's
statistics.

MONEY:

    In the world of Krynn, gold is a pretty metal but money comes
in steel coins. Intelligent monsters may be carrying money that
they drop when they die.

RINGS:

    These items come in various different forms for differing
character types. Although any character can get experience for
finding a ring, some rings require certain character types to
actually use them. A ring of protection can be used by anyone but
a ring of Spell Storing can only be used by a magic user.

POTIONS:

    There are many different kinds of potions. All potions of the
same kind are the same color. The only way to find out the effect
of a potion is to try it.

    Different potions may have different effects on different types
of characters. If you use a potion and see no change in the
character then the potion may be unsuitable for that character, or
you may be in the wrong location for the potion's effect.

    Healing potions are not all the same strength and their effect
varies. They restore damage taken but can't increase a characters
'Hit Points' beyond the starting value. These potions can be used
by anyone.

    Strength and Invulnerability potions both last for a variable
amount of time and only affect Tanis, Riverwind, Caramon, Sturm,
and Flint. While their effects last, they can be very useful in
dangerous situations.

    Strength potions increase the damage inflicted by the
character. The amount of extra damage varies, as some potions are
stronger than others.

    Invulnerability potions give immunity to non-magical attacks,
make it more difficult to be hit by magic, and increase resistance
to the effects of a magical hit.

                                Page 13

MAGIC ROPE:

    This can very useful if you find something to climb.

SCROLLS:

    Scrolls hold either magic or clerical spells. After a scroll
is used the next spells thrown come from the scroll, and not from
the characters memory. Scrolls may only be used by characters of
the appropriate type.

WANDS:

    These items offer a ready source of additional spells, but each
one has a limited number of charges which cannot be replaced.

WEAPONS:

    The party may find weapons of all typees, including the ancient
sword of Wyrmslayer itself, which is essential to game completion.
Make sure the a found weapon, when used as a replacement, actually
improves a character's combat ability - don't replace a +3 sword
with a +1 sword!

MISCELLANEOUS:

    The party can find other items, including: ammunition for
ranged weapons, jewelry and gems. All items are worth experience
points, but it may be necessary to dispose of some items if the
characters become overloaded.

VI. PLAY NOTES:
MOVING AROUND:

    Keep a close eye on the advancing Draconian forces as shown on
the Quest Map(press 0 on your keyboard for the quest map). If the
characters don't visit the northern areas early in the game, the
enemy will make it impossible to travel there. Once the Draconian
armies arrive, anyone or anything of use will be permanently
unavailable for the rest of the game.

    Examine any inhabited (or formerly inhabited) areas for
anything that you can find. Early in the game you needn't worry too
much about limits on the number of items you can carry.

    In your lust for battle, don't just kill everything that moves.
There are friendly NPC's that may join the party or who have items
essential to the game.

    Don't lose sight of your objectives -find Wyrmslayer, rescue
Laurana, and free the women and children imprissioned in Pax
Tharkas. Then get out alive.
COMBAT ADVICE:
    Some characters are better than others for combat purposes so
keep them at the front. Don't forget to move characters to the back
of the party if they've taken a lot of damage. It is easier to heal
characters than to raise them from the dead (which can only be done
a limited amount of times - look at Raistlin's Constitution).
    Use ranged combat as much as possible, as it pays to hurt the
enemy before they can close. Make sure you attack properly, some
monsters can only be hit with a high attack, others only with a low
attack. Firing low at a flying monster doesn't do anyone except the
monster any good. Note that magic users don't have to be in the
lead to use their ranged spell abilities as long as  they're one
of the first four characters.

WHERE AM I:

    Keep track of your position throughout the game. In the
wilderness, pay regualr attention to the Quest Map to check the
characters location and the position of the advancing Draconian
armies. Taking a wrong turn into the Draconian armies amy be your
last move.
    Once underground, you should keep your own record of where
you've been. Pay attention to distinctive areas to help you
remember where you've been. There are secret doors in some areas
and traps in others - keep your eyes open and be careful.
