			  D R I V I N'  F O R C E
			 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
 --------------------

Always ensure that your Drivin' Force disk is write protected as any Virus or
Virus Killer will destroy the disk. We can take no responsibility for any
damage caused this way.
Insert your WRITE PROTECTED disk into the disk drive and reset.


THE CHOICE SCREEN. All options on the choice screen are operated by the mouse.


CONTROL. Your first choice is the control method during the game - joystick or
mouse. To change click on one of the arrows next to the mouse illustration in
the top right corner of the screen until the desired control method is shown
in the window, then click on the window.
The joystick controls are Left, Right to turn and Fire to accelerate, and the
mouse is Left and Right (with gradients of turn) and the Left Button to
accelerate.

COUNTRY. Instead of a joystick or mouse, the window will now show a face and a
flag. Click left or right on the arrows until the desired country is shown
(you can also choose your sex) and then click on the window.

COMPETITION. There are four types of competition that you can enter. To choose
simply click on the desired competition type. The green light next to your
choice will now light up.

KNOCKOUT. In this competition you race the first level of each vehicle and
then proceed onto the second levels, then the third, fourth and finally fifth.
If in any race you finish in fourth position or below you will be knocked out.

LEAGUE. By choosing League you race on every track in a random order and are
awarded points for your position at the end of each race.

MINI KNOCKOUT. If you choose this competition you also have to choose which
vehicle you will race in. You then go on to race that vehicles tracks in
order of difficulty. As with the main knockout competition you must come
within the first three to qualify for the next round. If you come first in all
the races you will be awarded a bonus race. But I'm afraid you will not get a
chance to practice it!

MINI LEAGUE. In this option you also have to choose which vehicle to race in,
then you go on to race all of that vehicles tracks in a random order. As with
the main League you are awarded points for your position. The points system is
the same as the main League. If you come first in the League you will be
awarded a bonus race, but again you will not be able to practice it!

SOUND.You are able to choose either music or sound effects.If MUSIC is chosen,
by clicking on it again a number will appear beside it.This number corresponds
to the piece of music that will be playing during the game. By repeatedly
clicking on MUSIC the number will rise to six. When there is no number the
pieces of music will cycle each time a new course is raced.
These options can be changed at any time that the Choice Scrren is displayed.

CHANGE DRIVERS. If you select YES all of the opponents attributes change,
whereas selecting NO will enable you to race against the same opponents as the
previous competition. You can only change the drivers at the beginning of a
competition.

EXIT. If you click here the green light will start to flash, by clicking it
again you will return to choosing the CONTROL METHOD.

PRACTICE. Before each race you are able to drive one lap of the track with no
other vehicles. This is so that you can get accustomed with the track.

RACE. Clicking here sets you on the starting grid in fifth position - ready to
race!
If you click on RACE without setting any of the other options they will default
as follows:

 CONTROL	- Mouse			COMPETITION	-	Knockout
 COUNTRY	- Great Britain (Male)	SOUND		-	Music (Cycle)

And you will not get a practice lap. (If you feel you need one click on
PRACTICE instead of RACE.)

 DURING THE RACE.
 ---------------

Wouldn't it be nice to be able to put your foot to the floor and pelt off into
the distance? Well, I'm afraid you might find it a bit difficult to hold onto
the tight bends if you try that tactic, especially when you're driving on snow
and ice! Driving into other vehicles rears isn't going to help much either.
If you do come off the road you'll slow down, (not the best thing to do in a
race,) unless you're on a hill, in which case you'll find yourself tumbling to
the ground. As you've probably guessed this will waste even more precious
seconds. When you hit a roadside object, instead of blowing up into a million
sparkling pieces and then miraculously reappearing, you'll simply bounce back
from it. (Going backwards in a race isn't advisable either, so its probably
worth avoiding these sort of collisions too.)
By the way, driving on the inside of a corner will give you a speed advantage,
so that IS worth trying.


			RED SCORPION / NIGHTMARE BOYZ