                        DROL  (Broderbund Software)

     Enter the funny, challenging and suspenseful dream world of Drol - where
a little red-haired girl and her propeller-beanied brother await your rescue.
They have been lured by a witch doctor's curse into a multi-leveled ruins of
a lost civilization. Mesmerizied, they wander aimlessly through the scrolling
underground corridors, oblivious to the dangers around them.
     It's your task - as hero equipped with a rocket backpack and full-screen
radar scope - to doge hopping scorpions, monsters and snakes, flying turkeys,
swords, daggers, arrows, magnets, witch doctors, and vacuum cleaners (!) in
your attemps to reunite the children with their mother.

MISSION 1

     Rescue the little girl and her pet lizard (with rocket pack). Watch out
for scorpions, flying turkeys (on higher levels) green vacuum cleaners.

MISSION 2

     Rescue the little boy and his pet crocodile. Watch out for monsters,
magnets and the witch doctor.

MISSION 3

     Rescue the mother. Watch out for serpents and flying weapons of all
 kinds.

     Luckily, you're wearing your trance-resistant, anti-gravity rescue suit.
You're also well-armed with an unlimited supply of luminous reality pellets,
which you can shoot to disintegrate monsters and other enemy phantoms that
the witch doctor has cleverly conjured to thwart you.
     You start with five lives. For each round of three missions completed
successfully, you earn one extra life. Each time you complete a mission, a 
curtain of dreams will descend, transporting you to your next mission.
     Your wide screen radar-scope at the top of your screen will prove
indispensable in your quest.

CONTROLS

     Use up / down / left / right movements of the joystick.
     Press the joystick to fire.

SCORING

     35 points .... Scorpions, Monsters, Snakes
    100 points .... Daggers, swords, arrows, ballon, helicopter, witch doctor
    300 points .... Rescue girl / rescue boy
    500 points .... Rescue mother
    500 points .... Roast turkey
      0 poinst .... Hachets

SURVIVAL TIPS

    Flying turkeys must be shoot at repeatedly. Green vacuum cleaners are
indestructible. At advanced levels additional perils will appear!

                                                     Postcard Man
 