                         KNIGHT ORC 

 KNIGHT ORC has one of the most  user-friendly parsers of any computer 
adventure. For purposes of this  walkthru, we will be taking full 
advantage of that parser. Instructions  such as GO TO THE MOUNTAIN or FIND
THE  TROLL do not require you to search  around or enter a string of
directions.  Simply enter that command and let the  program do the work. 
 
 Unfortunately, the game is populated by  a party of adventurers who will
try to  start a fight with you for any or no  reason. When starting out on
any one  section, it does no harm to enter the  "ramsave" command. If you
take too long  trying to accomplish something, you may  look around to
discover that every  adventurer and his auntie are getting in  your way. In
these cases, entering "ram  restore" will bring you back to a,  hopefully,
manageable situation. 
 
 Finally, although the game comes in  three parts, note that Parts 2 and 3
are  intimately related so that you actually  complete them together. If
you're  anxious to understand the workings of  these two parts, read "The
Story Behind  the Story." Otherwise, you can try to  piece the background
together as you  proceed. 
 
 Good morning Grindleguts! Sleep well?  Bit of a headache? Sorry for the 
inconvenience but you're about to be  skewered. It can't be avoided I'm
afraid  so you'll just have to suffer the  indignity; that's a good orc. 
 
 Wake up again and smell the garbage  Grindleguts, it's time to get moving.
 Wear the cloak (the less people  recognizing your Orcish features, the 
better), take the knife, and leave the  trash heap. First, go to the Bar
and  examine it. There's a lot to see and  explore there, but all you need
is the  spear. Take it and go to the castle. The  innkeeper may, at any
time, decide he  wants his spear back. If he takes it,  simply follow him
back to the Bar and  take it again. From there, go to the  castle and read
the note on the  drawbridge. Throw the spear at the  drawbridge (lucky you
decided not to  knock on it yourself!), pick up the  spear, and go in.
While you're standing  on the lowered door, drop the spear and  continue
north. Go north to the stairway  and up. From the top of the tower you  can
see every place you'll need to visit  in order to complete Part 1: the
Gibbet,  the Clearing, the Crossroads, the  Fairground, the Lawn, the Cave,
the Oak,  the Tower, the Well, and the Viaduct. 
 
 Go down the steps and leave the castle,  picking up the chest and the
spear on  your way out. Start at the Gibbet (which  is apparently where
criminals such as  yourself usually end up) and take the  noose. This is
the first piece of rope  you must obtain in order to escape from  Part 1.
From here, go to the Fairground  and examine the flagpole which has the 
halyard tied to it -- another piece of  rope. Tie the halyard to the rope
you  already have and you can be on your way. 
 
 Go to the Well and tie your rope to the  roller. Climb down the rope and
take the  Hessian hawser (yet another piece of  rope), take the bucket if
you wish, and  climb back up. Take your rope and tie  the hawser to it.
Take the welcome mat  and the key which you find underneath  it. With the
key, unlock the chest from  the castle. There's a cord which  supports the
back of the chest -- yes,  help yourself to it and tie it to your  rope. By
now, you've noticed that the so  called treasures really aren't worth 
anything to you. But one, any one, will  now come in handy. Take it and go
to the  Cave. Inside is a hermit who breaks into  laughter when you offer
him your  treasure. When he turns around to put it  in his (ZORK?) trophy
case (If you've  played THE PAWN, you're going to enjoy  this!). HIT HIM!
While he's flat on his  face, take his belt and tie it to your  rope. 
 
 From here go to the Clearing. There's a  goat here with a tether. (If
you've  played GOLDEN PATH, you needn't be  worried). Take the tether, tie
it to  your rope, and ignore the goat. Go to  the Crossroads. Tie your rope
to the  signposts, and shortly you'll see a wild  orc-hunter swinging his
lasso and coming  right for you. Your rope will trip him  off his horse and
leave him momentarily  dazed. Take his lasso, tie it to your  rope and
leave. Go to the Oak and enter  it. Ignore the gold piece and take the 
washing line. Tie it to your rope and go  to the Tower. 
 
 The Tower is separated from you by a  heavy growth of thorns. Put the
welcome  mat on the thorns and go north to the  Tower. This is Rapunzel's
Tower! This is  Rapunzel's hair! This is indecent! Cut  the innocent girl's
hair, tie it to your  rope, and go to the Lawn. Here, as Sir  Gawain was
once challenged, so will you  be by the Green Knight! He offers you  his ax
and lays bare his neck for you to  sever. Kill his horse! The green guy is 
buried in equine gore for the moment, so  you can take the late horse's
reins and  add them to your rope. 
 
 At this point your score should read  100 and you must have the
innkeeper's  spear. If he's taken it back, simply  return to the Bar and
get it. Then, go  to the Viaduct. Tie your rope to the  spear and take one
step south of the  Viaduct. Throw the spear at the ring  which hangs over
the Viaduct and you  will complete Part 1. 
 
 You are not an Orc, nor are any of the  other Orcs. The Rainbird is not a
bird,  the troll is not a troll, the dragon is  not a dragon, and the mouse
is not a  mouse. You are all robots, programmed to  play roles in a live
action adventure  being staged for the amusement and  participation of a
group of role-playing  adventurers. 
 
 Visors, worn by human and robot  participants, holographically transform 
the dull interior of a warehouse into  the apparition of Middle Earth. 
Similarly, participants are transformed  into wizards, warriors, barbarians
and  so fourth. Hence, you are not an Orc;  you are a robot programmed to
behave as  an Orc. 
 
 When you crossed the Viaduct you  suffered just enough trauma to loosen 
your visor and make yourself aware of  your true surroundings. By reason of
 your intelligence, you are overcome with  the drive to escape the
warehouse. To do  this you need to reprogram (or recruit)  other robots to
help you along. To wit,  the mouse, the troll, the dragon and the 
Rainbird. 
 
 Keep your visor on. There is only one  time it will be necessary to remove
it,  or it can be removed any time you wish  to see things differently. 
 
 Accumulating treasures, as you have  seen in Part 1, is not your goal in 
Knight Orc. They may not be valuable,  but they are useful. Pick up the
silver  loaf. Try to hold on to it, and any  other treasures you come
across. But  don't get upset (DON'T FIGHT!) over the  theft of one of these
treasures. Go to  the mountain and read the inscription.  Your score just
went up and you can now  cast the GLOW spell. If you don't  believe me,
enter the mountain and CAST  GLOW (on yourself will do nicely). 
 
 Once inside the mountain, go south  which will take you into a very small 
maze. Go southeast and CAST GLOW. This  will transfer the glow from
yourself to  the walls of the room. Go east and this  room will be dark.
There are glowing  letters there, the COLD spell, which you  cannot read
when the room is lit. Cast  the glow spell back on yourself (check  out the
letters if you didn't believe  me) and go west, northwest, north, east, 
north, east, and up. WHACK! You've been  assaulted by the Orc-pounder! You
need a  helmet to go up these steps, and Oink is  the Orc who is wearing
one. FIND OINK.  Once you do, take his helmet and wear  it. GO TO LANDING
then go back up the  stairs. Now you can take the sack, the  tray, and the
knife. Put the silver loaf  (if you still have it -- if not don't  worry)
inside the sack. Anything in the  sack will be hidden from sticky-fingered 
adventurers. Go down, then west twice.  Leave the tray for Grok, but be
sure to  take his map. 
 
 The Rainbird is a very important  character in the story. You'll need him 
to help complete the game, but first you  can get a lot of valuable
information  simply by asking him about things. GO TO  THE RAINBIRD. Once
there, you'll also  notice a book. It's sort of a hint/spell  book. If you
decide to read it, you'll  learn a free spell. But if you solve  100% of
the game's puzzles, there will  be no need to open the book. The book  can
only be read once, so think  carefully before touching it. Also near  the
Rainbird is a small pond and a druid  who wanders in and out. Watch the
druid  -- you'll learn the CHARISMA spell which  will make you or anyone
else more  handsome. Best to cast it on yourself --  an Orc needs all the
help he can get.  For now, ignore the ants and their  anthill. Before
leaving this area, ask  the Rainbird about his perch to learn  the LOCATE
spell. 
 
 Find the frog now, and when the slimy,  green creature stands still for a
moment  (this shouldn't surprise anyone), kiss  him. The frog will belch up
a pebble  which you should read to learn the JUMP  spell. There is only one
spot in the  game where the JUMP spell is useful. Go  to the mountain
entrance, and go east  until you can't continue in that  direction. CAST
JUMP EAST and you'll be  in a secret room where you'll learn the  SWORD
spell. CAST JUMP WEST will return  you to your possessions which you lost 
when casting the spell previously. 
 
 Go to the Garden and take the garlic.  Go west and you'll be inside a
shed.  Wait for the custodian, who will  eventually join you and point out
a  piece of paper with the GROW spell.  Leave the shed and CAST GROW ON
MARROW.  Examine the marrow and you'll learn the  very useful CURE spell.
Anytime your  health becomes compromised, you can cast  CURE on yourself
and be fully recovered.  Go east from the Garden to find the  Haunted
House. 
 
 Enter the House and go north. In the  Brown Study is a fireplace. Cast
cold on  the fire; then examine the fireplace to  learn the mysterious EYE
spell. Go east  and then south. Save your game here  because there's a lot
to accomplish in  this room, and you're likely to be  interrupted by the
adventurers. 
 
 The mouse enjoys this room, and if you  look under the bed, you'll see his
 favorite hiding place. Cast the EYE  spell and tell the floating eye to
enter  the hole. From inside, you'll see a  strange card. Take it, put
something  else (perhaps Oink's helmet) inside the  hole, and close the
door. Try to catch  the mouse -- he'll try to hide in his  hole, but you've
prevented that; he'll  hide in a crack in the wall. When he  emerges, put
something in the crack,  such as the garlic. Try to catch him  again, and
he'll hide in a crevice in  the wall. When he emerges from the  crevice,
put something (such as the  knife) in the crevice. Drop the sack and  try
to catch the mouse again. Now you've  done it! No place to hide so the
mouse  runs right in your sack. Pick up the  sack and anything else (the
garlic,  etc.) you used to plug up mouse hiding  places. You should have
the mouse now,  though you have not yet "recruited" him. 
 
 Leave the room by going north. You  should now wait for or find the ghost.
 Follow him for a while, and eventually  he'll take you to another bedroom
in the  house and show you a secret part of this  room which contains some
old bones. Take  the bones then drop them. You've just  learned the SLOW
spell. And perhaps  you've noticed how the mouse is trying  to communicate
with you. CAST SLOW ON  MOUSE and he'll teach you the DEATH  spell (overuse
of which will cause you  to be evicted from the game). Even  though the
mouse will pay attention to  you, he is not yet recruited. 
 
 Mouse in hand, go to the dragon. A  terrible beast, he has only one 
vulnerable spot on his lizard body. Too  small for you to reach, but no
problem  for the mouse. Once again, you've  stopped a belligerent creature,
but not  yet recruited him. Go back past the  dragon, and follow the halls
until you  come to his hoard. Don't bother with the  gold, just take the
piece of  dragon-scale. 

  You must now encounter the troll, a  hideous woman interested only in
wealth.  You will need some treasures for her  such as the silver plate,
silver fish,  silver moon, silver sixpence, silver  candlestick, silver
sliver, silver  salver, silver fox or many others which  you will find in
Middle Earth. Take  advantage of this unusual parser and ask  it to find
the various treasures you've  seen lying around, then put each one in  the
flour sack where they will not be  stolen. When you have at least seven 
treasures, GO TO TROLL. Save your game  here! Thousands of things can --
and  will -- go wrong before it all works out  the way you want. Remove
your treasures  from the sack while standing next to the  troll. Wait for
her to steal something  from you. When she does start moving  away from her
bridge. Go west if the  bridge is to the east, or go south if  the bridge
is to the west. She'll follow  you (though you may have to wait a bit) 
and, taking her time, will steal another  treasure. Move another step away
and  wait for her again to show up and steal  another treasure. 
 
 Repeat this process until you are about  four or five moves west or south
of the  bridge where you found her. Then drop  the remainder of your
treasures and GO  TO BRIDGE. There is a door on the bridge  leading north
which is locked by three  bolts. The command, OPEN DOOR, will have  to be
given three times before you can  enter the troll's secret room...IF you 
have led her far enough away and left  her with enough treasure to distract
 her. Once inside the room, grab her  wallet. She'll show up and beg for
her  wallet back. Don't give it to her, not  even if she bargains for it.
Not until  she admits defeat are you ready to  recruit her. 
 
 Recruiting in Middle Earth is no easy  chore. In fact, you were never
meant to  recruit anyone in the first place. Have  you died yet? There is
no permanent  death (well, almost none) in Middle  Earth. Like Viking
warriors, you're  scooped up from the battlefield by the  ever vigilant
Valkyrie and dropped into  Valhalla, where you experience  resurrection and
re-emerge back into the  game. At the instant of death, all of a  player's
equipment, except those being  worn, are dropped on the ground where  they
can be recovered after the  adventurer has been raised from the  dead. As a
robot, however, you discover  that Valhalla is, appropriately enough,  a
repair shop where a useful item is  kept which will affect other robots. 
First, you must find a dead character.  The adventurers fight among
themselves,  so you should be able to find one of  their fallen. Or, if
need be, kill one  yourself. Whoever it is, give that  character the
glittering card you found  in the mouse hole. 
 
 Now wait for the Valkyrie. She'll be  there soon. When she picks up the 
courier-carcass, follow her or go  directly to the glittering gates. Once 
you see the Valkyrie enter the gates  with your deceased card-carrier,
remove  the visor and cast the DEATH spell on  yourself. You're dead. Look
around  Valhalla and pick up the glittering  card, which you can now see is
a  magnetic access card. Open the closet in  Valhalla (which would not be
visible if  you were wearing the visor), and take  the device inside -- the
reprogrammer --  the recruiter. 
 
 Once you emerge from the pearly gates,  you'll find the objects you
dropped when  you "died." Take everything, and once  again wear the visor.
Make sure you have  the garlic and the mouse (remember you  can use the
"find" command should  anything be missing), and go to the  Graveyard. You
should now RECRUIT MOUSE.  South of the Graveyard is a tomb which  you
cannot yet enter. South of that is a  vampire. He'll drink his fill from
the  mouse (the garlic is protecting you) and  then teach you the KNIVES
spell. Take  the half-coin which is there and go  north. You may wish to
heal the mouse  with your CURE spell or the Valkyrie  will do the job for
you. 
 
 Find the troll and, using the  recruiter, recruit her. Have her follow 
you to the tomb, then give her the  half-coin; tell her to go north then 
insert it in the recess in the  Gravestone. She'll go north, and shortly 
the tomb will open to reveal the DETECT  spell. 
 
 Find the troll again and instruct her  to follow you to the apple tree in
the  Garden. Tell her to catch an apple while  you shake the tree. Examine
the apple to  learn the EMPATHY spell. 
 
 Again, with the troll, return to the  bridge. There's a piece of slippery
rope  hanging from the bridge. Instruct the  troll to pull the string,
while you do  the same yourself. As a result of your  combined efforts a
ring will be  recovered from the water. Don't waste  time examining it at
this point. Go back  to the fireplace (in the house) and  throw the ring
into the fire. Then  examine it to learn the EXORCISE spell.  (This last
one was a trick question  unless you had read THE LORD OF THE  RINGS
previously. If you're upset, blame  the authors). Now find the driftwood 
(which also defies reading), and cast  the EXORCISE spell on it. Here is
the  all-important FLY spell. 
 
 Once more, with the troll, find the  plaque in the Marsh. Instruct the
troll  to clean the plaque while you do the  same. Only through the efforts
of both  of you will the plaque become clean  enough to read the FIREBALL
spell. 
 
 Return to the Garden and cast FLY on  the statue. Look under it to find
the  SHIELD spell. 
 
 You are now ready to enter the Castle.  Go to the Castle and cast the
KNIVES  spell on the ropes which are supporting  the door. Cast the SHIELD
spell on  yourself, and boldly go south through  the front door. Cast FLY
on yourself to  go over the pool of acid. While you are  over it, notice
the button at the bottom  of the pool. Cast the SWORD spell and  use the
resultant broadsword to push the  button. Continue south. 
 
 At the end of the hallway, go west and  then north. Here is a guard who
quickly  attaches a ball and chain to your leg.  Don't worry about it (But
make sure you  have it strapped to you before  leaving!), and go north
until you find a  suit of armor and a dagger in a  scabbard. Wear the armor
and take the  scabbard, then return south. Go east,  past where you entered
the hall, until  you come to another door. Open it.  (Without the ball and
chain, as well as  the armor, you would quickly be fried.) 
 
 Go north and you'll encounter a monk  who is most unhappy to meet you.
CAST  FIREBALL and instruct it to attack the  monk's spell scrolls. Go
north again and  read the panel to learn the LIGHTNING  spell. Return south
to the hallway, then  west to the entrance. You can now cast  GROW on the
ball and chain in order to  leave it behind. Go north until you are  out of
the Castle. 
 
 Find the troll (who will not enter the  Castle) and give her the scabbard.
With  her holding the scabbard you can remove  the dagger which contains
the TELEPORT  spell. Have her go with you to the  Rainbird. Instruct the
troll to kill all  the ants around the anthill, while you  do the same.
When the number of ants  reaches zero (only for a second!) take  the piece
of amber from the anthill.  Examine it to learn the MAGICIAN spell.  Cast
it on yourself, and if you've  learned the other 20 spells, you can 
recruit the Rainbird. 
 
 Go to the dragon and recruit him. Give  him the small piece of dragon
scale and  escort him to the main exit. Once there  go south, and watch the
fire alarm go  crazy. 
 
 Go back and get the Rainbird, the mouse  and the troll. (This trio tends
to  wander around a bit, particularly the  troll, so keep an eye on all of
them.)  Bring the three of them down to the exit  hallway (where the fire
alarm is), and  lead them all west. Instruct the troll  to open the
Maintenance Hatch. Give the  mouse to the troll, and have her put the 
mouse in the hatch. You can now continue  west to examine the Kiosk.
Instruct the  Rainbird to enter the Kiosk. You've  escaped! Wonderful!...or
is it?