                        Wanted
	             ------------
Arkansas, 1880. You are the toughest and roughest bounty-hunter that ever
toted a shootin' iron. But this time you are up against four of the deadliest varmints in the west!
What's more, they've got a whole bunch of gunslingers and sharpshooters
working for them. So this is no job for greenhorns, partner.
The first job is to bring in the outlaw with $5000 on his ugly mug. Next will
come his buddy, worth $10000. The third of these no-good twisters has $15000
printed under his picture. Arrest number four and you pocket a coll $20000!
When you've made sure those guys are behind bars, their boss will be calling
you out for the showdown. When the smoke clears, only one of you will be
standing. It is to be YOU or HIM? Folks say he's faster'n a rattle-snake, so,you'll need every ounce of skill and speed you've got to lay him out.
Win that last gunfight, partner, and you'll go down in the golden legends of the west as the best there ever was!

Commands during Game Presentation:

	Fire		to enter game mode with choice of bounty and which
			outlaw to gun down
	keyboard "H"	to access score tables. This table will remain
			displayed untill another key is pressed or untill
			the programm automatically switches back to the
			presentation.

Choosing the outlaw and the bounty:

	Use your joystick to move the sight-aim across the screen. Place the 
	sights over the poster of the no-good son of a dawg you want to 
	arrest. Press the Fire button and the game you've chosen will be load
	up. Now it's between you and him.

Game instructions:
	
	P		Pause	
	Escape		to quit the game
	Space Bar	to use Dynamite
	Joystick	to move your hero

Options and how to win them:

Option B:	Boots
Option C:	Rifle
Option D:	Dynamite	
Option E:	Sheriff's star
Option P:	Revolver

Winning the Options:
	During play, you win options by shooting or throwing dynamiye at the
	barrels. The barrel will be replaced by an option symbol. Just move
	over the symbol to pick up the option.
	Danger: Death's Head! Contact with one of these critters loses yo 5
		options.
	Bullets symbolize ammunition. you will be able to stock up!
	Heart: 	An extra life. Somebody up there appreciates you!
	Shield:	Temporarily, the bullets just seem to bounce you of.
	Yellow letter options let you choose the option you want.

BE WARNED! If you lose alife, you also lose 1 option for every $5000 which
the outlaw you're after is worth.
All four outlaws, as well as the big boss, have a defence value which is
displayed on the left of the screen during the final gunfights.


CREDITS : Programming - Fabrice Decroix
 
	: Graphics - Francois Garofalo
 
	: Music - Stephane Picq
 
	: Marketing - P.Agripnidis
 
	: Technical Co - Olivier Roge.
 
		© Infogrames 
