WarWizard -- the Readme file
(c) 1993 MicroGenesis, Inc.
- by Brad McQuaid, 9/14/93
- updated 10/31/93

PLEASE READ THIS!!!!!!!!!!! IT HAS BEEN CHANGED AND ADDED TO.
This file contains important information pertaining to the game
that is NOT in the manual.  


THE REVISIONS PART...

Version 1.03 : 1. The archive is split into two files, so those
                  who download to 720K floppys can bring 2 disks
                  home to their Amigas instead of 0 disks.
               2. You can walk over dead monsters in combat, so
                  you shouldn't ever get stuck.
               3. If your movement points reach 0 OR 1 in combat,
                  the turn ends.  You no longer have to hit
                  'done' with 1 remaining movement point.
               4. No more 'cannot load next module'.  It now
                  clearly informs you that you have reached
                  the end of the shareware version.  Please
                  register to receive the full & finishable
                  version of the game.
               5. HOTKEYS!!!!! See the HOTKEY PART after the
                  revisions part.
Version 1.02 : This was released to Amiga World for a review.
Version 1.01 : 1. Contains the essential fonts! (what a concept!!)
               2. Sets the 50K stack for you.
               3. Makes the basic assigns in case you forgot.
               4. Is much more forgiving, in that it exits
                  gracefully when it can't find the right
                  files (as opposed to the guru).
Version 1.00 : This was the initial release, sans fonts and all.

THE HOTKEYS PART...

This was by far the most popular request.  So I added them.  They
don't work perfectly, but they do indeed make the game's interface
faster once you learn them.  They are as follows:

Requestors
OK = <return>  Cancel = c  Yes = y  No = n
Characters 1,2,3,4 = 1,2,3,4
 
Main Screen
Combat = k  Cast = u  Search = x  Transact = t  Camp = c
Wait = w  Status = s   Mount = m      Look = l  Disk = d

Search Screen #1
Proceed = p  Exit = e

Search Screen #2
Bash = b  Done = <return>

Combat Screen #1
Next = n  Last = l  Done = d  Cast = c  Possessions = p

Combat Screen #2
Attack = <return>

Cast Window
Leave = l  Utter = u

Transact Screen
Up Arrow = <up arrow> Down Arrow = <down arrow>
Greet = g  Bribe = b  Join = j  Threaten = t  Leave = l

Camp Screen
Proceed = p  Cancel = c

Status Screen #1
Character #1,2,3,4 = 1,2,3,4  Ration = r  Return = <esc>

Status Screen #2
Spellbook = s  Keys = k  Backpack = b  Return = <esc>

Possessions Screen
Hand Plus = <right arrow>  Hand Minus = <left arrow> 
Consume = c  Trade = t  Drop = d
  
Key Window
Hand Plus = <right arrow>  Hand Minus = <left arrow> 
Return = <esc>  Drop = d  Trade = t

Spellbook Screen
Hand Plus = <right arrow>  Hand Minus = <left arrow> 
Return = <esc>  Scribe = s  Forget = f  Memorize = m

Healer Screen
Cure = c  Restore = r  Resurrect = x  Heal = h  Leave = l  Pool = p

Merchant Screen
Buy = b  Sell = s  Pool = p  Return = l

Pub Screen
Food = f  Drink = d  Leave = l

Door Window
Hand Plus = <right arrow>  Hand Minus = <left arrow> 
Proceed = p  Leave = l  Bash = b


THE QUESTIONS & ANSWERS PART...

The following are some answers to some common questions regarding
the game:

Q: I get killed right away in the beginning!!
A: Take the money in the chest where you begin, go to Caer Tiran
   (to the south), enter the pub, drink until you're drunk,
   and then ask those sitting at the third table to join you.
   I suggest a warrior, cleric, and wizard, but it's up to you.
   Now you have friends to help you in your quest.

Q: How can I fight everybody who attacks me?
A: You can't (and shouldn't).  Flee often.  Only fight when
   your party is in good condition and only fight against
   those monsters who have good treasure.

Q: There are so many random encounters!!!
A: Random encounters depend on two things:  Time of day and
   location.  First of all, don't travel at night.  Second,
   some areas are nasty, some peaceful, and some inbetween.
   Usually, the farther you are from civilization, the 
   nastier it gets. 

Q: Mercenaries cost so much!  How will I ever build a party?
A: Don't hire mercenaries until later in the game.  Build your
   party by joining with characters found in pubs who usually
   don't ask for money.

Q: When do my hit points go up?  There aren't any levels like
   in AD&D.
A: We don't particularly like levels per se, so we approached
   this a bit differently in WarWizard.  The more you
   practice with a weapon, the better you will become.  The
   more you cast spells, the better spells you can cast.  As
   for hit points, this depends on your STAMINA.  Find and
   drink POTIONS.  These can increase (or decrease, so be
   careful) your attributes, and THIS IS PERMANENT.  Thus,
   if you drink a stamina potion, your hit points will go up.
   Make sure you read the section on potions in the manual.

If you have any other questions, first make sure you've read
through the manual carefully.  We did some different and original
things in WarWizard, so don't necessarily assume it's just 
like other CRPG's.  READ THE MANUAL.  If you still have a 
question, you have two options:  1. Call Steve @ 619-729-2898.
2. Mail me on the internet.  My address is bmcquaid@crash.cts.com
I also welcome any comments, feedback, and bug reports you may
have -- please send these also by email on the internet.

 
THE MONEY PART...

First of all, this game is Shareware, NOT public domain.  It contains
only 1/3 of the full game, and thus is not finishable. If you decide to
play this game, please send $20.00 and your address to:

WarWizard Registration
c/o Brad McQuaid
1268 Clarence Drive
Vista, CA 92084

If you send a check, it must be made out to Brad McQuaid.  I suggest
money orders because with a non-local check, I will have to wait
for it to clear prior to mailing you your disk.  Upon receiving this
money, we will send you the complete & finishable game
(the shareware version contains only two of the six lands to explore --
all six are necessary to complete the game).  You will also 
receive a map of the six lands and as a registered user will 
receive free updates as well as discounted prices for additional
modules and the sequel (when they become available).

If you have any questions regarding installation or in general, Steve Clover
may be reached at 619-729-2898 between the hours of 10am to 6pm Pacific Time.


THE EXPLANATION PART...

WarWizard was designed to be a commercial game.  Due to financial constraints
and the condition of the Amiga market, we are forced to release it
shareware.  Oh well, at least it will get to the public...


THE INSTALLATION PART...

TAKE NOTE!!!! WarWizard uses the iff.library, a public domain library
that makes it very easy to use iff images.  If you don't have that
file already, it's in the War_Wizard/libs directory after you've 
uncompressed everything.  You will need to copy iff.library to your
libs: directory or WarWizard will NOT run.

FONTS!! WarWizard uses moose.font and venice.font.  They should
be in the fonts directory after you uncompress the archive.  Copy
all files in that directory to you fonts: directory for the
system.  If you don't, WarWizard won't run.

WarWizard will run on a 1 Meg, 512k chip ram, 68000 based Amiga.  But I
advise against it in general.  You'll probably have to create a
special startup-sequence that loads very very few programs in order to
have sufficient RAM.  Also, it will run at an adequate speed at best.
In addition, I STRONGLY suggest it be run on systems with hard drives.
Yes, again, it will run off of floppys, but since the game accesses
data from disk very often, performance off of a floppy will be
undoubtedly less than tolerable even by the most patient of folks.

To install the game, uncompress the file.  This will create a directory
called War_Wizard.  Within that directory will be all files and
sub-directories necessary to play the game.  You then need to make the
following assigns...

assign War_Wizard: <wherever you uncompressed it>/War_Wizard
assign War_Dungeons: <wherever you uncompressed it>/War_Wizard
assign War_Boot: <wherever you uncompressed it>/War_Wizard
assign War_Player: <wherever you uncompressed it>/War_Wizard/War_Player

Then simply type WarWizard from the first directory (or run it from
Workbench), cross your fingers, and it should run.  After that, well,
read the manual!!


THE ADVANCED PART...

With a little goofing around, you can haver several different people playing
the game.  WarWizard reads its saved game info from the war_player: directory.
Simply make another directory and re-assign the war_player:.  Also, it reads
information from the file warwizard.game in the war_wizard: directory.
Copy this file to another filename, change the assign, and then start a
new game.  You should be fine...


THE TROUBLE SHOOTING PART...

1. Not enough memory??  If you only have 1 meg of RAM, you may have to
not run all the things you like to run in your startup-sequence.

2. Can't find some files??? Make sure your assigns are correct.

3. Still crashes??? Make sure you have around 50k of stack!!!

4. Still still crashes?  Call Steve @ 619-729-2898, 10am - 5pm Pacific time.

5. Too slow??? Buy an Amiga 4000!!!!


THE WHAT WE'VE TESTED IT ON PART...

Amiga 2000 512k fast ram, 512k chip ram, AmigaDOS 1.3
Amiga 3000 4M fast ram, 2M chip ram, AmigaDOS 2.0
Amiga 4000, AmigaDOS 3.0
==============================================================================

WarWizard  -- The Manual
(c) 1993 MicroGenesis, Inc.
-by Brad McQuaid


This manual and the game it documents are Copyright (c) 1993 MicroGenesis,
Brad McQuaid, and Steve Clover.


Table of Contents

INTRODUCTION............................................

OVERVIEW................................................

GETTING STARTED.........................................
  Installation (Hard Drives) - Starting a New Game

MAIN SCREEN.............................................
  Map Window - Party Window - Action Window -
  Commands Window - Compass - Inhabitant/Search Icons

COMMANDS................................................
  Disk - Quit - Status (Backpack, Spellbook, Keys) -
  Mount - Camp - Wait - Search - Transact - Combat -
  Cast

ENVIRONMENT.............................................
  Travel - Outside - Villages - Cities - Castles -
  Dungeons - Tunnels - Towers - Fortresses

LOCALS...................................................
  Shops - Healers - Inns - Doors - Horse Traders -
  Ship Wrights - Schools - Pubs

ITEMS....................................................
  Classes - Types - Magic Items - Keys - Potions

CHARACTERS...............................................
  Races - Classes - Attributes - Proficiencies -
  Alignments

MAGIC....................................................
  Origin - Spells

COMBAT...................................................
  First Screen - Second Screen - Attack - Cast - Escape -
  Victory - Defeat

GAMEPLAY HINTS...........................................

APPENDICES...............................................
  Item Lists - Spell Lists - Monster Lists -
  Various Tables - Credits



INTRODUCTION...



The known world in which the game WarWizard takes place is a
large continent amidst a vast sea.  It is a land rich with variety,
consisting of various environments including grasslands, forests,
deserts, hills, and mountains.  It is equally rich in the diversity of
its inhabitants.  Many races of intelligent (and semi-intelligent)
creatures dwell throughout the land.  These inhabitants generally
dwell alone, however several of the humanoid species interact to an
extent, involving themselves in trading and sometimes even combat. The
continent itself is divided into six lands, each sometimes ruled by a
single race or nation, but just as often merely a label to describe a
vast and untamed territory.

Aladain and Kraenn take up the northern third, and they hold a
myriad of landscapes, including vast mountain ranges, hills,
grasslands, and even swamps.  Kraenn itself is the most wild, ruled
only in part by villages of Halflings which prefer to stay to
themselves and also Dwarves, who reside hidden deep within the earth.
Aladain has a long history of being populated by humans and a
reputation of being a stronghold for the forces of good.  Recently
however, as shall be detailed later, a great evil has arisen in the
north and those who dwell in the other five lands have heard little
from Aladain.

Cara and Essea are the lands in the center of the continent.  
Essea's few grasslands are inhabited by humans who long ago allied 
themselves with their brothers in Aladain and elsewhere.  The 
remaining land, however, is a vast and unexplored forest rumored to 
contain wild animals and other dangers, as well as  vast kingdoms of 
Elves.  Cara, other than its swamps, in mostly grasslands which 
contain human outposts and even some cities.  It is a relatively tame 
land but also not completely explored.

Zebesk and Terwan lie to the south.  Their northern most 
territory contains grasslands inhabited by good humans who live in 
villages, cities, and great castles.  They live at peace with 
themselves as well as trade and do other business with their brothers 
in Cara, Essea, and until recently Aladain.  The remaining lands, 
however, are filled with vast deserts and jungle.  Ancient history 
tells of an evil empire ruled by the now dead kings of Terwan who once 
controlled these bleak lands.  After the last great wars, centuries 
ago, however, these lands were laid to ruin and are now considered 
wild and unexplored.  Mysterious nomads traverse the desert lands, and 
it is rumored cannibals and other savage people dwell in the jungles 
(not to mention exotic and deadly animals).

The various races' history is long and detailed, consisting 
primarily of an eternal struggle between the forces of good and evil.  
Long ago, it is told, the Kings of Terwan, who desired to rule the 
entire continent, discovered a means by which to converse with demons 
who lived in other dimensions, adjacent to their own.  These creatures 
became their gods and bestowed great power and knowledge to their 
worshipers.  Terwan grew and disrupted the balance of power which had 
existed.  They made war on the other lands and soon completely 
engulfed Zebesk.  The forces of good retreated primarily to Aladain 
and created great fortresses in which to defend against the 
encroaching forces from the south.  In their capital, the large castle 
called Gildain, they too began to dabble in magical arts, however the 
origin of their newfound abilities lay in the power of good.

A hero soon arose from Gildain, and he was a man of great power 
and skill.  They called him a WarWizard, for he could master any of 
the forms of magic, as well as do battle with conventional weapons.  
As he was trained by the most powerful of magic-users and most 
skillful warriors, both the Dwarves and Elves were solicited for their 
unique skills.  They created nine magical items of superior power; a 
helmet, armor, sword, bow, arrows, collar, boots, belt, and shield.  
When the WarWizard had completed his training, he was given these 
artifacts and sent to do battle with the High King of Terwan, a being 
also rumored to possess the ability to cast any form of magic and to 
wield great weapons.  He travelled to the south and completed many 
adventures before coming face to face with his enemy.  In a now lost 
place they did combat of a nature until then unknown.  In the end, 
both destroyed themselves, but the resultant absence of the High King 
caused chaos amongst the forces of evil.  The King of Gildain then led 
his forces southward and the greatest battles in history took place.  
Eventually, the forces of good took the upper hand and vanquished the 
remaining Kings of Terwan.  Both Zebesk and Terwan were left in ruins, 
and the victors swore to remember this holocaust well.

As time continued upon its way, those monks who had raised the 
now martyred WarWizard hid themselves in the mountains of Cara, 
creating a cult whose mission in life was to raise new WarWizards each 
and every generation in the event that the gods of Terwan ever rose to 
power again.  Victorious Gildain and those throughout Aladain, 
however,  grew confident and soon had no fear of the now buried 
mystical forces deep in the south of Terwan and Zebesk.  When the 
monks asked them for assistance in locating the magic armor and 
weapons the WarWizard had wielded, they declined.  It was known that 
the leaders of Gildain, pleased with their new status as superpower, 
had no wish to see another being with the abilities of the WarWizard, 
good or evil, ever rise again.   They sent their own agents to locate 
the lost site of the battle, and when it was discovered they found 
only some of the artifacts.  Where the others had gone was unknown but 
the worst was assumed. Being unable themselves to wield the pieces 
they did have, they decided to scatter them throughout the lands to 
various agents under their control.  The monks and their practices 
became only legend and the forces of good enjoyed the peace which war 
had earned.

Uneventful centuries passed, which brings this history to recent 
times.  The people of Cara and Essea suddenly lost contact with 
Aladain.  It was known that the powers there had grown complacent over 
the years, but now messengers sent to Gildain and elsewhere no longer 
returned.  More time passed, and suddenly outposts to the north still 
in contact with the capitals of Terwan and Zebesk were attacked by 
evil creatures and powers not seen since ancient times.  Finally, 
rumors appeared detailing how a being of great power appeared from 
deep within the mountains of Aladain.  He viscously took control of 
the fortresses and towers of Aladain and even Gildain was under siege.  
Those of the remaining free lands were unprepared.  If anything, they 
had assumed evil would arise from the deserts and jungles of the south 
-- certainly not Aladain.  As quickly as possible they began to raise 
their own forces in order to halt an assault from the north.  Spies 
sent to Aladain and even Kraenn, however, returned with bleak news, 
assessing the probable and even inevitable victory of the superior 
forces of evil.  The leader of these forces, who had now  built a vast 
castle for himself deep within Aladain was soon rumored to control 
dragons and other creatures of great power.  He himself was also told 
to be able to control all forms of magic as well as normal weapons.  
Loremasters began to emphasize how history eventually repeats itself 
and thought the events occurring were both familiar and disquieting.

This brings us to the present.  The monks who dwelled in the 
mountains of Cara now are only two:  an old man and you.  All your 
life you have been taught by this man ancient and secret skills.  Your 
intelligence, stamina, and strength are the highest a human can 
possess.  Your training has also given you the ability to master all 
forms of magic and every weapon known.  You are a WarWizard, just as 
your old master is.  He has heard from the occasional passerby what 
has occurred in Aladain and as a result is jealous of the opportunity 
that is now yours.  It is your destiny to locate the artifacts once 
wielded by your predecessor a thousand years ago.  It is your 
responsibility  to confront and defeat the new High King of Terwan who 
has taken up residence in Aladain.  Your old master smiles and assures 
you that although you currently have no weapons, no spells, no 
experience, and no allies to join you on your quest, you have every 
potential to defeat the forces of evil and bring peace to the six 
lands once again...





OVERVIEW



WarWizard is a fantasy role-playing game similar in concept and 
style to many other computer games that have been around for over ten 
years.  Yet while it is not intended to be revolutionary in concept 
and approach, it is evolutionary and contains many details and 
features not found in other games of the same genre.  The authors have 
attempted to create the most realistic and involved role-playing game 
given their resources, but have also tried to exclude tedious and 
annoying features found elsewhere.  This objective is obviously 
subjective, however the authors, who have played and enjoyed most 
role-playing games on the market, feel they have met the majority of 
their goals in creating WarWizard.  

Along with intricate features and realism, WarWizard also 
possesses some of the finest artwork found in role-playing games.  In 
addition, the interface was carefully planned to make some of more 
tedious tasks execute more quickly.  The authors feel they offer the 
most intuitive mouse-based interface available in a role-playing game 
to date.

Because of these and other reasons, the experienced game player 
may wish to skip the detailed directions that follow and jump right 
into the game.  We suggest reading the 'installation' and 'starting a 
new game' sections to ensure you begin properly, but beyond that you 
many refer to the manual merely as a reference tool.  The beginner, on 
the other hand, is encouraged to read through the entire document so 
that he may enjoy WarWizard to the fullest extent.

Essentially, the objective of WarWizard is to search the world in 
order to find clues as to the locations of the Artifacts your 
predecessor used to defeat the first High King of Terwan.  Upon 
retrieving all nine artifacts, you are to locate the current High King 
in Aladain and defeat him in battle.  During the quest you may acquire 
treasure, magical items, and up to three other companions with whom to 
aid you.  Note that these companions may and should vary and that you 
most likely will not keep the same ones throughout the game.  The 
characters and their classes will vary as the game proceeds, and it is 
up to the player to determine how he will utilize their various and 
unique talents on different parts of his quest.









GETTING STARTED...





After WarWizard has finished loading the main screen appears.  
From the three options (Start New Game, Continue Saved Game, Leave 
WarWizard), select 'Start New Game' in order to begin your quest.

The New Game Window then appears.  From here you can enter the 
name you wish the WarWizard to have for the duration of your quest, as 
well as his/her sex.  Note that being male or female has no bearing on 
your capabilities in your game and is only selectable so that the 
player can more accurately identify with his/her character. 

After you have entered this information, you may either select 
'cancel', which will bring you back to the title screen, or 'okay', 
which will save your character, create a new game, and begin you on 
your quest.  Also note that if another game already exists, you will 
be prompted as to whether you wish to overwrite the older game.  If 
you choose 'okay', the older game will be permanently lost (see 
installation notes).





MAIN SCREEN



The Main Screen is where you will spend the majority of your time 
while playing WarWizard.  It contains six windows which both display 
information and also allow you to make decisions.



Map Window

The Map Window is located in the top left portion of the screen.  
This window gives you the ability to see the world, which is always 
displayed from a top-down point of view.  Note that walls, mountains, 
and other visible obstructions block your view.  Any area which is
blocked is represented by blackness.



Party Window

The Party Window is to the right of the Map Window on a piece of 
parchment and displays general information pertaining to the 
characters in your party.  Note that there is room for four member in 
your party at one time, although you begin initially with only
yourself.  Three lines describe your character, the first containing
his name.  The second contains his race, class, food, and sleep level.
The third has his gold, the status of his body and whether he is awake
or asleep.  These statistics are explained in more detail in both the
'Commands - Status' and also the 'Character' sections.



Action Window

The Action Window, which is immediately under the Party Window
and also on the parchment, has four lines of information.  The first
displays your last action followed by the description of the section
of the map you are currently on.  The second tells you the current
time  of  day  (see  'Commands  -  Camp'  ) and your current method of
transportation  (see  'Commands  - Mount'  ).  The third line contains
the date, which begins January 1, 1000.  Note that in WarWizard, as opposed
to  the  real world, each month simply has thirty days and each year twelve
months.   The  final  line  describes  where you are, as in the name of the
land, village, dungeon, etc.  in which you currently travel.



Commands Window

The Commands Window is directly under the Map Window and contains 
two rows of buttons.  Selecting any of these options with the mouse 
allows the player to execute any action he wishes the party to make.  
Each of these options is explained in detail in the 'Commands' section 
( ).



Compass

The Compass is directly under the Action Window.  Each letter 
represents the directions North, South, East, and West.  Pressing 
these buttons with the mouse will cause your party to move in that 
direction.  Also note that the arrows on your keyboard do the same 
thing and can be easier to use.



Inhabitant/Search Icons

Between the Commands Window and the Compass are two small windows 
which inform the player whether their current location is occupied by 
another character or a searchable object.  When you occupy a location 
with either a placed or random inhabitant (see 'Environment - Travel' 
 ) an armored head will appear in the upper box.  If this 
inhabitant is not hostile (ie., it doesn't attack), you may try to 
transact with it (see 'Commands - Transact'  ).  When you occupy 
a location with a searchable object (see 'Commands - Search'  ), 
a small chest will appear in the lower box.





COMMANDS



This section describes the various screens/windows which appear 
when an option from the Commands Window is selected.



Disk

This option allows you to both save and quit the current game, 
depending upon your location.  You may always quit, however you can 
only save a game while in an inn (see 'Locals - Inns').  Also note 
that the game is saved whenever you enter or leave a 
dungeon/city/etc., and also when you search an object.



Look

This option allows the party to search for traps.  When selected 
you will be prompted as to which player you wish to look.  A 
character's ability to locate a trap is based upon his dexterity (see 
'Characters - Attributes'), so it is suggested you always use the 
character with the highest dexterity.  Traps will not always be 
uncovered, but if they are they are represented by a small red dot.  
If you are concerned about traps being nearby, it is suggested you 
'look' several times.  Note that 'looking' will only discover traps, 
unlike the Search spell, which locates both traps and secret doors.



Status

Selecting the 'Status' command brings up the Character Selection 
Screen.  This screen displays the current hit points for each body 
section of each character in your party (see 'Characters - Attributes' 
 ).  At this point you may either press the right mouse button in 
order to return to the Main Screen or select on the box (using the 
left button) of the character you wish to view in more detail.

If you do this, the Status Screen will then appear.  This screen 
displays the various attributes of your character, including his sex, 
attack mode, armor class, languages known, etc.  Each of these 
attributes are explained in detail in the 'Character - Attributes' 
section ( ).  At the bottom of this screen, there is a Spellbook, 
a Key, and a Backpack.  Selecting one of these will bring you to the 
respective screen. Note that you can only enter the Spellbook screen 
in an inn (see 'Locals - Inns'  ).



Spellbook Screen

This screen contains the Message Window, Spellbook, Memory 
Window, Backpack Icons, and six buttons.  It is used to memorize 
spells and scribe scrolls into the spellbook.  See 'Magic' ( ) 
for a complete explanation of spells and their use in WarWizard.

The Message Window displays  the name of the character whose 
spellbook is being examined as well as his current spellcasting level, 
depending on the class of the selected spell.  Underneath is a 
description of the currently selected spell, including its level, 
domain, and radius.

The Spellbook contains 80 slots in which spells can be written 
into.  Selecting a spell will reveal its description in the Message 
Window.  Five spells are listed per page and you can move between the 
pages by selecting the right and left hands.

The Memory Window contains five slots which represent spells from 
the spellbook the player has memorized.  Selecting on these slots 
reveals the spells description exactly like selecting a spell in the 
spellbook.

The Backpack Icons show the first two out of the ten possible 
items that are in the player's backpack.  Pressing the small hands at 
each end scrolls through the remaining items in the backpack.  This is 
present in order for the player to scribe scrolls into the spellbook.  
The Message Window will display which spell is enscribed onto a scroll 
if a scroll is selected in the backpack.  Selecting the Feather and 
Ink button will scribe the scroll into the book if is of the proper 
class.

The remaining three buttons are the Memorize, Forget, and Leave 
buttons.  In order to place a spell in memory, first select the spell 
in the Spellbook, and then press the Memorize button.  In order to 
remove a spell from memory, first select a spell in memory and then 
press the Forget button.  In order to leave the Spellbook Screen and 
return to the Status Screen, press the Leave button.



Key Window

The Key Window allows you to display and manipulate any keys you 
have in your possession.  The window consists of the Message Window, 
the Keys Icons, and three buttons.  The Message Window displays the 
description and title of the currently selected key.  The small hands 
at each end of the Keys Icons allow you to scroll through the 14 keys 
each character may carry.  The three buttons allow you to drop keys, 
trade them to another character in your party, and to return to the 
Status Screen.  See both 'Items - Keys' ( ) and 'Locals - Doors' 
( ) for more details.



Backpack Screen

The Backpack Screen allows you to display and manipulate and 
items you have in your possession.  The screen contains the Body/hands 
Icons, Backpack Icons, Message Window, Item Window, and six buttons.

The Body/Hands Icons show each item either located on the body or 
the hands.  Selecting one of these icons displays its description in 
the Item Window.

The Backpack Icons show the first two items in the character's 
backpack.  Selecting one of the two small hands at each side of the 
Backpack Icons allows you to scroll through the remaining items in the 
player's backpack.  Selecting one of these icons displays its 
description in the Item Window.

The Message Window displays the total weight and capacity of the 
player given the items he has in his possession (see 'Characters - 
Attributes  ), his Attack Mode and Armor Class (see 'Characters' 
 ), and the character's proficiencies.  If a weapon is selected, 
the proficiency for that class is displayed.  If armor is selected, 
the character's evasion proficiency is displayed.  Any other item will 
display 'N/A', meaning non-applicable.  See 'Characters - 
Proficiencies' ( ) for more information.

The Item Window displays detailed information about the item 
selected either in the Backpack Icons or Body/Hands Icons.  The class, 
type, position, weight, charges, and description of the item is 
displayed.  See 'Items' ( ) for more information.

The six buttons are Body/Hands, Move, Consume, Trade, Return, and 
Drop.  The Body/Hands button toggles the Body/Hands Icons, displaying 
items worn on each body section or fingers.  The Move button allows 
the player to move items to and from the body/hands and the backpack.  
The Consume button allows the player to drink from potions (see 'Items 
- Potions  ).  The Trade buttons allows the player to trade items 
from the currently selected character to another in the party (note 
that the item will appear in the players backpack following the 
trade).  The Return button exits the Backpack Screen and goes back to 
the Status Screen.



Mount

Selecting Mount allows the user to either mount/dismount a horse 
or board/unboard a ship.  To do this, the player must place his party 
on either a horse or a ship and it must belong to him (see 'Locals -  
Horse Traders/Ship Wrights'  ).  Whether you are on foot, 
horseback, or sailing vary turns and consumptions (see 'Environment - 
Travel'  ).



Camp

Selecting Camp takes the player to the Camp Screen.  If the 
player is in a Village, City, or Castle, he can only camp in an inn 
(see 'Locals - Inns'  ).  This screen consists of the Hit Points 
Window, the Message Window, and fourteen buttons.  The Hit Points 
Window displays (exactly as it does on several other screens) the hit 
points for each body part of the selected character.  The Message 
Window displays the sleep level, and quantity of food of the currently 
selected character.  It also shows his intended action and the 
duration the party will execute their actions.

The buttons under the Hit Points Window allow the player to 
select which character he wishes to examine and specify an action.  
The four duration buttons to the top left of the Message Window allow 
the player to select how long he wishes to camp.  Note that each 
button represents the time of day (Day, Dusk, Night, Dawn), and that 
the first button is always the time period immediately following the 
current period.

Under the duration buttons are the action buttons.  You may have 
each character Sleep, Hunt, Guard, or Abandoned.  Note that you may 
not abandon the WarWizard, and that you may not Hunt in an inn or 
while sailing.  Sleeping lowers the character's sleep factor.  If a 
character's sleep factor is at nine for more than one time period, he 
will fall asleep.  If an entire party is asleep at one time, movement 
is not allowed.  Hunting will increase that character's food supply.  
Guarding essentially does nothing, but is at the same time very 
important.  If you are not camping in an inn, you are subject to 
attack from wandering monsters.  In this case, always place at least 
one of your party members on guard.  If you fail to do this and you 
are indeed attacked, your entire party will be asleep for the duration 
of combat resulting in total defeat. Abandoning will remove a 
character (other than the WarWizard) from the party so that another 
character can be joined at a later time (see 'Commands - Transact' 
 ).  Proceed executes the selected actions for the selected 
duration, while cancel immediately returns the player to the Main 
Screen.



Wait

The Wait button causes a turn to pass without any movement.  It 
is useful if the player wishes time to pass without going anywhere.



Search

The Search button takes the player to the first Search Screen if 
there is an object in his current location (signified by the chest in 
the Inhabitant/Search Icons section of the Main Screen).  The first 
Search Screen will also appear following victorious combat in order to 
let the party search any dead bodies (see 'Combat'  ).  Note that 
if an inhabitant also occupies this space, you may not search the 
location without first removing the inhabitant or waiting for him to 
leave.

The first Search Screen contains the Map Window, the Hit Point 
Window, the Message Window, and twelve buttons.  The Map Window 
displays a detailed view of the current location of the party.  Using 
the Compass (bottom left of the screen), the player can move the 
pointer over different locations of the room.  The Hit Point Window 
displays the hit points for the currently selected player (as 
elsewhere).  The Message Window displays the last action the character 
took as well as a description of a searchable item within the room.  
It also displays the current action the character is selected to take.

The Character Select buttons under the Hit Point Window allow the 
player to select which character he is currently directing.  The 
Compass at the bottom left of the screen moves the characters through 
the room (the arrow keys will also do this).  The Action buttons are 
to the right of the Compass.  If the player is searching a room, Chest 
and Guard buttons are present.  If dead bodies are being searched, the 
Body and Guard buttons are present.  Selecting either the Chest or 
Body buttons is only possible if the pointer is on a legitimate 
searchable object or body, respectively.  Selecting the Proceed 
buttons takes the player to the second Search Screen (if the 
characters were directed to search an object/body).  The Exit button 
brings the player back to the Main Screen.

The second Search Screen contains three message windows, the 
Backpack Icons, the Object/Body Icons, the Food & Gold Selectors, and 
six buttons.  This screen allows the player to transfer items, keys, 
food, and gold between an object/body and the selected character.

The Message Window on the bottom left of the screen displays 
information about the currently selected item or key, as well as the 
total weight of the selected character's items.  The window underneath 
the Backpack Icons displays the name of the currently selected 
character.  The window above the Object/Body Icons displays the name 
of the object/body, its status, and the location of the object/body 
the character is examining.

The Food & Gold Selectors allow the player to transfer gold and 
food to and from the object/body.  This is done by pressing the small 
hands at both sides of the selectors.  Note that if the quantity 
exceeds ten, 100, or 1000, then ten, 100, or 1000 units are moved, 
respectively. 

The Location and Move buttons are between the Backpack Icons and 
the Object/Body Icons.  If the player is searching an object, the 
Location button toggles between items and keys.  If he is searching a 
body, the button toggles between the backpack, body, hands, and keys.  
The Move button allows the player to move items/keys to and from the 
character's backpack and the object/body.

The Bash and Done buttons are in the bottom left corner of the 
screen.  The Bash button (applicable only when searching on object) 
will attempt to break an object and its effectiveness is based upon 
the character's strength (see 'Characters - Attributes  ).  The 
Done button returns the player to the first Search Screen.  The 
Open/Close and Lock/Unlock buttons (applicable only when searching an 
object) will do the obvious to an object.  To unlock an object, toggle 
the Location button to the keys, select the key or pick, and press the  
Lock/Unlock button.  Note that if the object is broken (as a result of 
bashing), the object is neither lockable nor closable.



Transact

Selecting the Transact button takes the player to the Transact 
Screen if there is a good or neutral inhabitant at the party's current 
location.  This screen contains two Hit Point Windows, the 
Conversation Window, and nineteen buttons.

The Hit Point Windows show the hit points of the selected 
character (on the right) and the selected member of the party you are 
talking to (on the left).  The Conversation Window displays anything 
the selected party member says to the selected character following in 
inquiry.

The eight buttons under the left Hit Point Window allow the 
player to select which inhabitant with whom he wishes to speak or to 
solicit to join.  The four under the left window select which 
character you wish to initiate the inquiries.

The remaining buttons are for inquiries.  The two arrows toggle 
between the possible two pages of text which an inhabitant can 
communicate.  Greet solicits a pleasant response, Bribe offers money 
for information, and threaten offers pain.  Join asks the inhabitant 
to become a member of your party (if you have room).  A good 
inhabitant will join you if the selected character has sufficient 
charisma (see 'Characters - Attributes'  ) and has a willingness 
to do so.  A neutral inhabitant will apply the same criteria but will 
also demand money, accepting a position in your party as a mercenary 
(see 'Characters - Mercenaries'  ).  Leave brings the player back 
to the Main Screen.



Combat

Selecting Combat initiates a battle between your party and any 
inhabitants in your party's current location.  Note that attacking 
individuals in Castles, Cities, or Villages places your party on 
Outlaw status for that area only.  This will cause any guard to attack 
you as long as you remain in that area, and will still be in effect 
upon return.

When you select Combat you are placed into the first Combat 
Screen and always have the initiative.  Because of the depth and 
detail of battle in WarWizard, combat has its own section ( ).



Cast

Selecting Cast brings up the Cast Window, which contains boxes 
showing the five spells the selected character has in memory and two 
buttons:  Utter and Leave.  To cast a spell, select the desired box 
and press the Utter button.  If you decide you do not actually which 
to cast a spell, select the Leave button.  Note that you may only cast 
Outside spells from this window (see 'Magic'  ).

 



ENVIRONMENT



Travel

Moving around in WarWizard takes place in several modes:  Light 
Foot, Heavy Foot, Horseback, and Sailing.  The first two represent 
movement on foot.  Light Foot is generally through grasslands and 
cities, while Heavy Foot is through hills, deserts, jungles, and 
forests.  If inside, Light Foot consumes the least turns, while 
outside it consumes more.  Heavy Foot requires more effort and thus 
more turns.  Horseback allows the player to travel at a faster speed 
and thus turns go by more slowly and the possibility of random 
encounter is slightly less.  Sailing takes the longest and has the 
highest consumption rate.

Horseback obviously requires the purchase of a horse.  This can 
be done in several villages and other locations throughout the 
continent.  Sailing requires the purchase of a ship, and this too can 
be done in various locations.



Outside

Traveling outside is necessary in order to move from one location 
to another.  The various terrains outside include grass, forest, 
desert, jungle, hills, mountains, and water.  Wandering monsters are 
especially prevalent in areas far from civilization or near an evil 
location.  Both the terrain type and location determine the type of 
random encounters.  Camping is possible outside, but beware of random 
encounters while sleeping (see 'Commands - Camp'  ).



Villages

Villages are the smallest collection of inhabitants.  They 
usually contain some shops and almost always an inn.  Good advice can 
be found in villages, but they are most often used by adventurers as 
places to rest in order to avoid the random encounters that take place 
outside.



Cities

The size of Cities is between the Village and the Castle.  These 
are fairly large population centers and can offer a variety of shops 
and other information.  They are usually run by Dukes and it is always 
best to find them in order to find out about the city.



Castles

These large communities almost always represent the Capitols of 
one of the six lands of the continent.  They are ruled by Kings and 
Queens and have almost every type of shop available.  Treasure rooms 
and prisons can usually be found, along with all sorts of valuable 
information.



Dungeons

The term 'dungeon' is a general one and is not to be taken 
literally.  It is merely a way to describe any location inhabited by 
the forces of evil.  They can be caves, temples, and even pyramids.  
Camping is possible, but the probability of random attacks high.  
Treasure and adventure is almost always prevalent, but so is danger.  
Many of the dungeons you encounter will hold one of the artifacts you 
seek, usually heavily guarded and in the deepest most removed 
location.



Tunnels

Tunnels are small dungeons specifically designed as a way to get 
from one location to another, usually underground.  They are sometimes 
inhabited by evil, but more often hidden, long abandoned and 
untraveled.



Towers

Great towers are rumored to exist in Aladain, created long ago by 
the forces of good.  They are usually inhabited by a prominent 
official, oftentimes a powerful wizard.  Whether these towers are 
still controlled by their builders or compromised by the new High King 
of Terwan is unknown.



Fortresses

Three great fortresses exist to the north.  They were built ages 
ago by Aladain to keep the evil from the south from coming north.  It 
is rumored that currently they are controlled by the evil High King 
and are there to keep the forces of good from reclaiming Aladain.  
Undoubtedly, the WarWizard will have to cross through one, if not all, 
of these fortresses in order to complete his quest.





LOCALS



Shops

Located in Villages, Cities, and Castles are the favorite places 
of merchants and traders.  Armouries deal with armor, shields, 
collars, helmets, etc.  Weapon Shops deal with all forms of weapons, 
both magical and mundane.  Locksmiths deal in keys and lockpicks.  
Tailors deal in cloaks and boots.  Magic Shops and Guilds deal with 
scrolls and usually adhere to specific classes.  Finally, Alchemists 
deal with potions.  Shop Screens contain the Case Icons, which are the 
various items available for sale, the Backpack Icons which show all 
items in the selected characters backpack that can be sold, and 
message windows displaying an items description, the character's 
current quantity of gold, as well as how much the merchant is willing 
to pay to sell or buy an item.  Note that the items available for sale 
come from two cases.  The first (which consists of the first 10 items 
displayed) is reserved for regular items.  If you purchase one of 
these items, it is immediately replaced by another of the same type in 
that the merchant keeps them well stocked.  The second case (which 
consists of the latter 10 items displayed) are special items and are 
not replaced.  If you sell an item to a merchant, he will always place 
it in the second case, unless the second case is full.  If this 
occurs, the merchant will no longer buy, even if there are empty 
spaces in the first case (which he reserves for regularly stocked 
items).



Healers

These holy places are run by clerics and although they are non-
profit, they do require donations.  The abilities of these clerics 
vary, but are limited to Healing (which raises the hit points of a 
specific body location), Restoration (which brings all body locations 
to their maximum hit point level), Curing (which cures a poisoned 
character), and Resurrection (which brings a dead character back to 
life).



Inns

Each room in an inn can be used to camp free from any random 
encounters.  Most rooms are also searchable and contain chests which 
the player can store extra items, food, or gold.  It is also a handy 
way to transfer gold or food between characters in a player's party.



Doors

When the party attempts to enter a door that is either closed or 
locked, the player is asked which character he wishes to use to try to 
open the door.  Upon selection the Door Window appears.

This window contains the Message Window, five buttons, and the 
Key Icons.  The Message Window displays the status of the door, as 
well as the description of the key or lock pick that is currently 
selected in the Key Icons.

The buttons available are Leave, Proceed, Lock/Unlock, 
Open/Close, and Bash.  The latter three behave similarly to those on 
the second Search Screen.  Leave takes the player back to the Main 
Screen outside the door.  Proceed takes the player through the door, 
but can only be selected when the door has been successfully unlocked 
and opened.  Note that once a door has been opened and the player 
leaves it, it stays open and he can later pass through it without 
utilizing the Door Window.

 

Secret Doors

Secret Doors operate the same as normal doors, except that they 
close automatically after passing through them and they are hidden.  
To locate a Secret Door, they player must continually try to move 
through a seemingly impassable location.  How quickly a Secret Door 
will be found is dependent upon the WarWizard's dexterity.  As soon as 
it is located, the player will be prompted as to which character he 
wishes to try the door, just as in a normal door.



Horse Traders

To purchase a horse, the player must enter a Horse Trader's shop.  
He will be asked whether he wishes to make the purchase and which 
character he desires to pay.  Upon purchase, the player may mount the 
next horse he finds.  As soon as he does, the horse becomes his for 
the duration of the game.



Ship Wrights

This shop acts identically to the Horse Trader, except it deals 
with ships (obviously).



Schools

These places of learning teach one of the several languages 
spoken in the six lands, thus enabling a character to transact with a 
wider variety of inhabitants.  The player will be asked who will learn 
the language and who will pay the tuition.

  

Pubs

Pubs, which are located in various villages, cities, and castles, 
can be very valuable in the WarWizard's quest.  Prominent and powerful 
individuals often gather in these establishments in search of 
adventure.  The screen shows the various tables in the pub, and those 
which are inhabited are shown as such.  They will not transact with 
you, however, unless at lease one character in the player's party 
joins the atmosphere by having a few drinks.  Upon achieving a level 
of intoxication, selecting a table will bring the party into transact 
mode.  There, valuable companions can be met and solicited to join.  
In addition to drinks, food can also be purchased in pubs.

 

ITEMS



Over 500 different types of items and over 100 keys exist in 
WarWizard.  They are very detailed and include weapons, armor, 
clothing, consumables, magical devices, and others.



Classes

The following item classes exist in the game:  Swords, Axes, 
Blunt Weapons, Thrown Weapons, Projectile Weapons, Wands, Rods, Rings, 
Helms, Armor, Boots, Belts, Girdles, Amulets, Necklaces, Potions, 
Scrolls, Ammunition, Shields, Crowns, and Collars.



Types

From the existing 21 classes are over 50 different types of 
items.



Magic Items

Items that contain magical properties are most often prefixed 
with a +X, where X is the added damage that is inflicted when the item 
is used or the added protection given when worn.  These items are rare 
and valuable and may be sold or bought for many times the value of 
their mundane counterparts.



Keys

Keys and Lockpicks are used to open both doors and objects.  
There are eleven classes of keys, each used for in different 
environments, including prisons, walls, residences, palaces, dungeons, 
etc.  Lockpicks also exist and are distinguished by class.  The higher 
the class, the more likely it is to be able to open a door or object.



Potions

Potions, which are consumed in the Backpack Screen, affect the 
consumer magically.  They usually heal, cure, or increase the 
attributes of the character who drinks from it.  The charges of a 
potion signify how many times a character(s) can drink from it. 



CHARACTERS



Characters in this section refer to any and all beings or 
creatures the player might come into contact with while playing the 
game.  



Races

Perhaps the most prevalent race the player will encounter are 
humans.  They occupy the most area in the six lands and can be both 
allies and enemies.  They are also of the most variety of classes, 
including warriors and magic-users.  

Elves too are both good and evil, but they dwell primarily deep 
within forests.  Not much is known of the Elves, but they are said to 
be true masters of the forest.  They have been known to hide within 
the trees, and sometimes attack people that venture too far within 
their sacred woods.  They are known to be expert archers, and are 
magic-users of a high caliber.  There are tales of both a Good Elven 
Kingdom and a Dark one, but no one knows the exact locations of either 
mystical place.

Dwarves have remained consistently on the side of good throughout 
history.  They dwell primarily underground in caves and delvings of 
their own design, but one may occasionally encounter them while 
travelling, in that they too seek adventure. 

Halflings and Gnomes also travel throughout the six lands, 
although the halflings are said to have several villages in Kraenn.  
These peoples can be either good or evil and it is best to approach 
them with caution...

Nomads tend to adopt a more neutral attitude, and while they will 
not necessarily be willing allies on your quest, neither are they 
servants of the evil WarWizard.  These people generally travel 
throughout the desert lands of southern Terwan and Zebesk, but are 
also rumored to hold two great keeps where their Lords and Chiefs rule 
and dictate tribal law.   

Those who are in direct service to the evil WarWizard take many 
shapes and forms and dwell in varying environments throughout the six 
lands.  These vile creatures include orcs, kobolds, goblins, ogres, 
gnolls, lizard men, and many others.  There are also legions of 
undead, such as zombies, wights, spectres, etc, who dwell both in 
swamps and in crypts and other burial grounds.  Lastly are the elite 
of the evil WarWizard's servants:  the dragons, pit fiends, and their 
human masters.  These creatures are both powerful and intelligent, 
often able to cast powerful spells and possessing magical weapons and 
armor.  They primarily occupy the lands surrounding the evil 
WarWizard's holdings.

Remaining is the various animal life of the continent.  Those 
which the player will encounter are mostly carnivorous and seeking 
food, while those docile and harmless will avoid you.  Few of these 
creatures are truly powerful and dangerous and most often will only 
hinder you in your quest.  Since they lack intelligence and likewise 
any form of treasure, there is no honor lost in continually fleeing 
their attacks.



Classes

Many of the more sophisticated races the player will encounter 
are subdivided into classes.  These may be further split into those 
who can use magic and those who cannot.

The magic users of the six lands are divided into the following 
classes:  Clerics, Magicians, Sorcerers, Enchanters, and Wizards.  
Each class can cast certain spells which generally result in similar 
effects.  Clerics heal, Magicians create and summon, Sorcerers protect 
and unprotect, Enchanters enhance and curse, and Wizards cast 
offensive spells at lower levels (other offensive spells are available 
to all classes as they achieve higher levels).

The remaining classes consist of the mundane.  They include 
warriors, soldiers, merchants, guards, nobles, and thieves.  They vary 
from royalty to servants and everything inbetween.

Note that certain classes are restrained from using certain 
items.  These limitations are detailed in the Appendices under Items.



Attributes

A character's attributes describe his abilities in detail.

Strength determines several aspects of the character.  The higher  
the strength, the higher his Attack Mode, which is the bonus applied 
to his offensive roll each time the character attacks with a weapon.  
His strength also determines how much weight in units he can carry 
both on his body and in his backpack, as well as how effective an 
attempt to bash either a door or an object is.

Wisdom describes the experience, maturity, and state of mind of a 
character and is important primarily to clerics. Each prayer a cleric 
may invoke (See 'Appendices - Spells'  ) has a minimum level of 
wisdom required in order for it to be successful.

Intelligence describes the intellectual capacity of a character 
and is important primarily to wizards, enchanters, magicians, and 
sorcerers.  Each spell a mage may cast (See 'Appendices - Spells' page 
x) has a minimum level of intelligence required in order for it to be 
successful.

Stamina describes the overall constitution of the character and 
is used to determine his maximum hit points.

Dexterity, like strength, determines several aspects of the 
character.  The higher the dexterity, the higher his Armor Class, 
which is the bonus applied to his defensive roll each time he is 
attacked.  His dexterity also determines how effectively the character 
can locate traps using the 'Look' button (see 'Commands - Look' page 
x), as well the quantity of movement points allotted during combat 
(see 'Combat - Movement'  ).  Also, the higher the dexterity the 
more quickly a character will locate a secret door (see 'Locals - 
Secret Doors'  ).

Charisma affects a character differently depending upon who he is 
dealing with.  To a good or neutral character it determines leadership 
qualities and affects the creature's willingness to join the party 
(see 'Commands - Transact'  ).  To an evil creature of lesser 
stature, the charisma of the character determines how formidable he 
appears, thus deterring random attacks.



Proficiencies

The axiom 'Practice makes Perfect' applies not only to real life 
but also to WarWizard.  As a character uses a weapon effectively or 
defends himself successfully, he becomes more and more experienced.  
Weapon proficiencies are by item class, while evasion proficiency 
applies to all body sections.  Experience is broken up into levels 
(see 'Appendices - Various Tables'  ), where each level adds one 
to the offensive or defensive roll, relative to weapon or evasion 
proficiency, respectively.  'Commands - Status - Backpack Screen' 
( ) explains in detail how to determine a character's various 
proficiencies.

 

Alignments

The various creatures you encounter in WarWizard, from an ethical 
standpoint, can be good, evil, or neutral.  Those who have chosen the 
path of goodness will assist you willingly on your quest as well as 
join your party if you are sufficiently charismatic.  Those who have 
chosen neutrality can still be useful, however tend to be either 
mercenaries or subject only to bribes and threats. Those who are evil, 
whether knowing servants of the High King or free agents, have only 
one goal:  your death and defeat.   



MAGIC



Origin

Scholars, mages, clerics and others all have their own theories 
as to the origin of magic.  Debate is constant and few agree in 
detail, however it is generally thought that magical power is a gift 
from the gods.  Whether or not these gods are truly divine or merely 
beings that dwell in adjacent planes is also debatable, but it is 
clear that there exist those who are good, evil, and neutral.  It is 
also evident that those able to receive the power they transfer must 
be either extremely wise or intelligent.  



Spells

There are several factors involved with spell casting.  First, 
you must be the proper class and have sufficient intelligence/wisdom.  
Secondly, you must have achieved an equal or higher spell-casting 
level relative to the level of the spell itself.  Casting a spell 
successfully increases the character's experience by class.  See 
'Appendices - Various Tables' ( ) for a listing of spell 
experience and levels.  The following is a brief description of the 
various spells available by class:



Clerical Spells



Healing:  These spells restore hit points to all the target's 
locations up to but not beyond his maximum.  The spell's efficacy is 
the number of points restored.

Turn Undead:  This spell will cause fear among any undead 
creatures with whom the party is in conflict.

Cure Poison:  This spell returns a poisoned party member to 
healthy status.  Note that is does not return any hit points that may 
have been lost due to his previous condition.

Resurrect:  This spell returns a dead party member to healthy 
status.  Note that each body location of the target will have a token 
one hit point and should be healed as soon as possible.



Magician Spells



Bring Food:  These spells bring food units to the party member 
that was targeted.  The spell's efficacy is the number of units 
brought.

Awaken:  This spell will cause a sleeping party member to awake, 
thus enabling him to resume combat or travel.

Sleep:  This spell causes the target to fall asleep, thus making 
him unable to participate in combat but still vulnerable to attack.  
Note that exceptionally intelligent creatures are resistant and that 
this spell is subject to failure.

Aid Travel:  This spell distorts the time continuum, thus 
resulting in travel which does not consume food or other resources.  
It also freezes the current time of day.  Note that this spell only 
lasts a small portion of time and casting an additional spell of the 
same type does not increase the duration.

Move Unseen:  This spell eliminates the possibility of random 
encounters.  It does not, however, exclude the party from combat with 
evil placed inhabitants. Note that this spell only lasts a small 
portion of time and casting an additional spell of the same type does 
not increase the duration.



Sorcerer Spells



Protection:  These spells increase the Armor Class of the target,  
thus making it more difficult to inflict damage upon him.  The spell's 
efficacy is the number by which the target's Armor Class is increased.

Unprotect:  These spells decrease the Armor Class of the target, 
thus making it less difficult to inflict damage upon him.  The spell's 
efficacy is the number by which the target's Armor Class is decreased.

Tongues:  This spell enables anyone in the party to transact with 
individuals regardless of language barriers.  Note that this spell 
only lasts a small portion of time and casting an additional spell of 
the same type does not increase the duration.

Search:  This spell enables the party to locate both secret doors 
and also traps without impediment.  Note that this spell only lasts a 
small portion of time and casting an additional spell of the same type 
does not increase the duration.



Enchanter Spells



Enhancement:  These spells increase the Attack Mode of the 
target, thus giving him additional ability to inflict damage in 
combat.  The spell's efficacy is the number by which the target's 
Attack Mode is increased.

Weakening:  These spells decrease the Attack Mode of the target, 
thus impeding his ability to inflict damage in combat.  The spell's 
efficacy is the number by which the target's Attack Mode is decreased.

Sobriety:  This spell changes a target whose status is drunk to 
that of healthy, thus removing combat penalties resultant from 
intoxication.

Drunkenness:  This spell changes a target whose status is healthy 
to that of drunk, thus incurring combat penalties resultant from 
intoxication.



Wizard Spells



Fear:  This spell causes the target to fear every member of the 
party with whom he is engaging in combat, thus causing him to initiate 
retreat.  Note that exceptionally intelligent creatures are resistant 
and that this spell is subject to failure.





COMBAT



In WarWizard, combat is either initiated by the player or an evil 
inhabitant.  If combat is chosen by the player (see 'Commands - 
Combat'  ), he will always have the initiative.  If you are 
attacked, the initiative is random.  Either way, the player will be 
brought into combat mode, which consists of two screens.

The duration of combat is measured by turns.  Depending on who 
was awarded the initiative, each player in the first party has his 
turn, and then each player in the second.  Within the duration of a 
turn are movement points.  Moving, attacking, and casting spells 
within combat uses up movement points.  These points, which are 
refreshed each turn, are determined by the character's dexterity.

The first screen, or movement/targeting screen, contains six 
buttons, plus the compass.  Movement either up, down, right, or left 
may be achieved either by clicking on the compass or by using the 
arrow keys on the keyboard (just as is done on the main screen).  The 
'next' and 'last' buttons under the target image are used to target 
either an opponent for attack or someone in your own party for healing 
or other beneficial spell.  Once you have targeted the character you 
desire, you may either attack him mundanely with the 'target' button 
or use a spell on him (via the 'cast' button).  One may also examine 
the character whose turn it is via the 'possessions' button.  The 
'done' button indicates that you are done with the current character, 
even though he/she may have remaining movement points.

The targeting image in the upper-right hand corner of the screen 
indicates the number of hit-points at each body location if the target 
is in your party.  If it is an opponent you are targeting, the hit-
points are displayed as percentages.  The number within the image of 
an shield indicates your armor class bonus.  If the current character 
is wearing rings of protection or has had a spell of protection cast 
upon him/her, this number will be appropriately greater.  The same 
applies for the axe, which indicates the attack mode bonus.

The message window in the bottom-left of the screen displays the 
current character's name, race, and class.  Also his condition, last 
target, the number of rounds which have transpired since the beginning 
of combat, and the remaining movement points for that round/turn.



Casting

If you choose to cast a spell, those available in your memory 
will appear.  Simply select the one you wish to use and 'utter' it.



Targeting

If you choose to attack another character, a second combat screen 
appears.  Three buttons appear, the 'attack' and the right/left hand 
toggle.  Also, those weapons and/or rings the character possesses are 
available.  The message window indicates what your right and left hand 
are set to do once the 'attack' button is pressed.  Use the targeting 
image in the upper-right corner to select where on your opponent you 
with to attack (do this for both hands).  Remember to check the range 
of your opponent and make sure you use a weapon/ring which is 
effective given your distance.



Escape

If it is necessary to flee the fight, simply move one of your 
characters beyond the confines of the combat.  There is always a 
chance your attempt will fail, but if it does simply try again.  Note, 
however, that if your WarWizard is engaged (within a range of two or 
less) with an opponent, you may not flee.  If one of your other 
characters is engaged, you will be given the option of abandoning him.



Victory

Once you have defeated the last opponent, you will be notified of 
your victory and then brought to the second search screen.  There you 
are able to search the dead bodies of those you defeated.  This 
procedure is virtually identical to searching an object.



Defeat

If the WarWizard is killed, combat mode is exited and you are 
brought back to the main screen, notified that the game is over, and 
then returned to the title screen.  Hopefully, you have saved your 
game fairly recently...





GAMEPLAY HINTS



When you start the game, it is suggested you take the money in 
the chest of the room you began in and proceed as soon as possible to 
the pub in Caer Tiran prior to engaging in any combat.  There you 
should seek allies immediately.





APPENDICES



Item Lists



Abbreviations Used:

Mage   : Any Magic User             Mag     : Magicians Only

NoMag  : No Magic Users (Excl Clr)  Enc     : Enchanters Only

NoClr  : No Clerics                 Clr     : Clerics Only

War    : Warriors Only              Wwz     : WarWizards Only

Wzd    : Wizards Only               Sor     : Sorcerers Only



Weapons (Right,Left,Both Hands):



Type           Damage Range Throw  Wt MPU SRN DXN #Hands Usage

Swords

Short Sword        -6     1   n/a  20   3   6   6      1   War

Long Sword         -4     2   n/a  30   3   8   7      1   War

Two-Handed Sword    0     3   n/a  78   3  15  12      2   War

Axes

Battle Axe         -4     2   n/a  40   3  10   7      2   War

Blunt Weapons   

Wooden Staff       -6     2   n/a  15   4   3   4      2   ALL

Mace               -6     1   n/a  26   3   5   4      1 NoMag

War Hammer         -4     3   n/a  50   3  13  10      2 NoMag

Thrown Weapons

Dagger             -8     1     9   6   3   3   4      1 NoClr

Throwing Axe       -7     1     8   9   3   4   5      1   War

Throwing Hammer    -6     1     8  17   3   5   5      1 NoMag

Spear              -6     3    12   8   3   4   5      1   War

Projectile Weapons

Hunter's Sling    n/a    14   n/a   5   4   5   6      2   ALL

Short Bow         n/a    14   n/a   6   4   6   6      2   War

Long Bow          n/a    18   n/a   7   4   7   6      2   War

Light Crossbow    n/a    16   n/a  15   5   8   7      2   War

Heavy Crossbow    n/a    18   n/a  22   5  10   8      2   War

Ammo

Pouch of Bullets   -8   n/a   n/a   8 n/a n/a n/a    n/a   n/a

Quiver of Arrows   -6   n/a   n/a   9 n/a n/a n/a    n/a   n/a

Quiver of Bolts    -4   n/a   n/a  15 n/a n/a n/a    n/a   n/a



Armor (Torso):

Type           Protection   Wt  SRN  DXN  Usage

Robes                  -8    4    3    2    ALL

Leather Armor          -6   15    4    3  NoMag

Chain Mail             -4   40    6    5  NoMag

Plate Mail              0  100   15    8  NoMag



Armor (Head):

Type           Protection   Wt  SRN  DXN  Usage

Light Helm             -8   10    5    4    ALL

King's Crown           -7   10    4    3    ALL

Great Helm             -6   20    7    5  NoMag



Armor (Feet): 

Type           Protection   Wt  SRN  DXN  Usage

Soft Leather Boots     -8    5    0    0    ALL

Hard Leather Boots     -6    8    3    4    ALL

 

Armor (Waist):

Type           Protection   Wt  SRN  DXN  Usage

Leather Belt           -8    4    0    0    ALL

Mail Girdle            -6   16    7    5  NoMag



Armor (Neck):

Type           Protection   Wt  SRN  DXN  Usage

Light Collar           -8    5    3    2    ALL

Heavy Collar           -6   11    4    3    ALL



Armor (Shoulders):

Type           Protection   Wt  SRN  DXN  Usage

Wool Cloak             -8    7    2    1    ALL

Fur Cloak              -6   10    3    2    ALL



Shields:

Type           Protection   Wt  SRN  DXN  Usage

Small Shield           -6   15    4    2  NoMag

Medium Shield          -3   40    6    3  NoMag

Large Shield            0   65    8    7  NoMag



Spell Lists



The following is a listing of all spells ordered by class, and 
level.  Efficacy refers to the spell's power in general, which relates 
directly to the type of spell it is (ie., offensive: damage rating; 
healing: # of hit points returned;  enhance / weaken: # of Attack Mode 
increased / decreased; protect / unprotect: # of Armor Class increased 
/ decreased;  bring food: # of food units returned).  Radius refers to 
range if the spell is Offense Single, radius if Offense Multi.  Domain 
indicates where the spell may be cast, (ie., during travel, in combat, 
or both).  Wisdom/Intell refers to the level at which the spell caster 
must be at in order to successfully cast the spell.  Exp.Gained refers 
to the quantity of experience points the caster receives toward his 
level and class (see Experience Levels in the appendices).



Clerical Spells



Name          Level     Efficacy  Radius Domain Wisdom Exp.Gained

Healing One       1             4    n/a   BOTH     10         15

Turn Undead       3           n/a    n/a   CMBT     12         50

Healing Two       3             8    n/a   BOTH     12         50

Healing Three     6            15    n/a   BOTH     15        190

Cure Poison       7           n/a    n/a   BOTH     16        240

Lightning         9            15      3   CMBT     18        280

Healing Four     10            22    n/a   BOTH     19        290

Locust Swarm     11            22      1   CMBT     20        340

Resurrect        11           n/a    n/a   TRVL     20        340

Spirit Sword     12            23      6   CMBT     21        390

Healing Five     13            30    n/a   BOTH     22        440

Fire F/ Heaven   13            25      3   CMBT     22        440

Consuming Fire   14            30      4   CMBT     23        470

God's Judgement  15            45     15   CMBT     24        550

God's Wrath      18            55      7   CMBT     27        700



Magician Spells



Name            Level   Efficacy  Radius Domain Intell Exp.Gained

Bring Food One      1         10     n/a   TRVL     10         15

Awaken              3        n/a     n/a   BOTH     12         50

Bring Food Two      3         25     n/a   TRVL     12         50

Sleep               4        n/a       5   CMBT     13         80

Aid Travel          4        n/a     n/a   TRVL     13         80

Move Unseen         5        n/a     n/a   TRVL     14        140

Bring Food Three    5         50     n/a   TRVL     14        140

Bring Food Four     7        100     n/a   TRVL     16        240

Ekkud's Curse       9         15       2   CMBT     18        280

Bring Food Five     9        200     n/a   TRVL     18        280

Brebba's Chimes    10         15       1   CMBT     19        290

Song of Stunning   11         23       6   CMBT     20        340

Brebba's Gong      12         23       3   CMBT     21        390

Mind Strike        13         34      15   CMBT     22        440

Rhyme of Thanatos  14         34       7   CMBT     23        470



Sorcerer Spells



Name            Level   Efficacy  Radius Domain Intell Exp.Gained

Protection One      1          2     n/a   CMBT     10         15

Tongues             2        n/a     n/a   TRVL     11         25

Unprotect One       2          2     n/a   CMBT     11         25

Protection Two      3          5     n/a   CMBT     12         50

Unprotect Two       4          5     n/a   CMBT     13         80

Search              5        n/a     n/a   TRVL     14        140

Protection Three    5          8     n/a   CMBT     14        140

Unprotect Three     6          8     n/a   CMBT     15        190

Ueol's Knife        9         15       2   CMBT     18        280

Freezing Sphere    10         15       1   CMBT     19        290

Electric Tendrils  11         23       6   CMBT     20        340

Summon Tornado     12         23       3   CMBT     21        390

Ethereal Grip      13         34      15   CMBT     22        440

Death's Scythe     14         31       7   CMBT     23        470

Ueol's Fist        15         45      15   CMBT     24        500



Enchanter Spells



Name            Level   Efficacy  Radius Domain Intell Exp.Gained

Enhancement One     1          2     n/a   CMBT     10         15

Weakening One       2          2     n/a   CMBT     11         25

Sobriety            3         n/a    n/a   BOTH     12         50

Enhancement Two     3          5     n/a   CMBT     12         50

Weakening Two       4          5     n/a   CMBT     13         80

Enhancement Three   5         10     n/a   CMBT     14        140

Weakening Three     6         10     n/a   CMBT     15        190

Drunkenness         7        n/a     n/a   CMBT     16        240

Wasp Attack         9         15       1   CMBT     18        280

Lighting Flash     10         15       1   CMBT     19        290

Ice Cloud          11         23       5   CMBT     20        340

North Wind         12         23       3   CMBT     21        390

Power Shock        13         34      15   CMBT     22        440

Air to Fire        14         31       7   CMBT     23        470



Wizard Spells

Name            Level   Efficacy  Radius Domain Intell Exp.Gained

Fear                1        n/a     n/a   CMBT     10         15

Flame Touch         1          3       1   CMBT     10         15

Column of Fire      2          2       1   CMBT     11         25

Magic Sword         3          8       2   CMBT     12         50

Suffocating Sphere  4          8       3   CMBT     13         80

Power Strike        5         15       5   CMBT     14        140

O'Kiel's Chant      6         15       4   CMBT     15        190

Magic Dart          7         23       7   CMBT     16        240

Yaeryl's Shockwave  8         23       5   CMBT     17        245

Ball of Fire        9         34      11   CMBT     18        280

Acid Rain          10         31       7   CMBT     19        290

Keloc's Talons     11         45      15   CMBT     20        340

Meteor Shower      12         40       7   CMBT     21        390

Word of Death      13         55      17   CMBT     22        440

Song of Desolation 14         50       7   CMBT     23        470





Credits



Personnel:

Programming, Design, & Direction:           Brad McQuaid

Design & Environment:                       Steve Clover

Artwork & Graphics:                       Milo D. Cooper

Financial Management & Support:               Mick Welti

Technical Support & Consultation:             Roger Uzun

Playtesting:                                 Mike Butler

                                            Jeff Kennedy





Hardware & Software Used:

Commodore Amiga 3000

AmigaDOS 2.04

SAS C Compiler 5.10a

DeluxePaint IV

PowerWindows 2.5

CygnusEd Professional 2.12

DigiView 4.0