                         WAR MACHINE
                         ===========
                                                TYPED BY SHARD - N&B


As  you know we have recently lost all contact with our mining installation
on  XR27B.   I  believe  this  is the work of our sworn enemies:  The Alien
Syndicate.

You  have  been  selected for this very dangerous mission:  The Alien queen
and  her  breeders  must die.  If you fail in your task, alien legions will
swarm across this entire system bringing a wave of death and destruction in
their wake.

Seriously  destructive  combat  action.   War  Machine  features  brilliant
graphics, an amazing digitised soundtrack and swarms of bio-mechanoid blood
suckers, evil techno military adversaries and armour stripping acid baths.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------

ATARI ST:
Ensure  that  your computer has been switched of for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the  gama  disc  in  drive zero (all other drives, printers, cartridges etc
should  have  been  removed).   The game should load automatically.  If the
game  fails  to load on the first attempt.  leave the disc in the drive and
press the reset button.

AMIGA:
Ensure  that your computer has been switched off for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the game disc in drive zero (all other drives, printers, additional memory,
cartridges   etc   should   have   heen   removed)  The  game  should  load
automatically.   If  the game fails to load on the first attempt, leave the
disc in the drive and reset the machine.

THE STORY
---------

We  have  recently  lost  all  contact  with our mining installation on the
asteroid  XR27B.   Evidence  suggests  that  oyr  sworn  enemies  the alien
syndiacte  are  responsible.   If  they  gain control of this strategically
important  base  there  will  be  nothing to stop them swarming across this
entire system, bringing a wave of death and destruction in their wake.

You  have  been  selected for this very dangerous mission:  The alien queen
and her breeders must die.

You  will  be  "beamed"  down  to  the  surface  of  the planet.  Your main
objective  is  to  prevent  the  base and its sophisticated techno-military
mining  equipment  from  falling  into  alien hands.  All equipment must be
destroyed,  and as many aliens as possible be killed.  You must also locate
four  parts of a top secret weapon, which is needed to kill the evil queen,
these pods may be found scattered around the complex.

THE GAME
--------

You  the  player  can  control your character using a standard joystick, by
manipulating the stick you


WITHOUT FIRE

UP              Jump Up or Climb Up
DOWN            Climb Down
LEFT            Walk Left
RIGHT           Walk Right
DIAGONAL LEFT   Jump Left
DIAGONAL RIGHT  Jump Right


WITH FIRE

UP                      Jump Up and Fire
LEFT                    Fire Left
RIGHT                   Fire Right
DIAGONAL DOWN LEFT      Fire Diagonal Left
DIAGONAL DOWN RIGHT     Fire Diagonal Right
DIAGONAL UP LEFT        Fire Diagonal Left
DIAGONAL UP RIGHT       Fire Diagonal Right


Certain  pieces of heavy machinery can not be destroyed using your standard
weapon.   You will have to use grenades to destroy these objects.  Grenades
are fired by pressing the space bar.

When  climbing  a  ladder  or wall, you must position your character at the
base of the ladder or wall, then push up on the joystick.  When playing the
game  for  the  first  time you may find this procedure a little tricky, we
suggest you practise this a few times, before getting stuck into the game.

Objects  such  as  extra  lives, ammunition and keys may be found scattered
around the base, these are collected by walking over them.

The display panel provides the following essential infomation.

From left to right:

Pod parts collected (all four pod parts must be found)
Ammunition remaining
Grenades remaining.
Protective suit status
Scrolling information display
Security droid shield status.
Lives left.
Score
Time remaining