                MAP COORDINATES FOR WAR IN MIDDLE EARTH

Typed by ???  Edited by PARASITE.


A:
   Aglarond E-5
   Anfalas F-4
   Angle, The   C4
   Annuminas B3
   Anorien E6
   Arnor B3
   Ash Mountains E9
B:
   Barad-Dur E7
   Barrow Downs C4
   Bay of Belfalas G4
   Belegast B2
   Belfalas F5
   Beorn B5
   Brandywine C3
   Brandywine River D3
   Bree B4
   Breeland B4
   Buckland C3
C:
   Cair Andros E6
   Calembel E5
   Carach Asgren E7
   Caradhas C5
   Carnen River C9
   Carrack, The B5
   Celebdil C5
   Celebrant D5
   Cirith Ungol F7
   Coldfells B5
D:
   Dagorland D7
   Deadman's Dike B4
   Dead Marshes E7
   Derningdale D5
   Dimril Dale C5
   Dol Amorth F5
   Dol Guldur C6
   Dor-en-Ernill F5
   Dorwinon C9
   Dunharrow E5
   Durthang E7
   Dwimorberg E5
E:
   Eagles' Eyrie B5
   East Emmet E6
   Ednellrond F5
   Emyn Arnen F7
   Emyn Muil E6
   Entwood D5
   Ephel Duath G7
   Ephel Lithui E8
   Erebor B7
   Ered Nimrais E4
   Erui River F6
   Esgaroth B7
   Ethring E5
F:
   Fangorn D5
   Far Harad H5
   Firien Woods E6
   Ford of Bruinen B5
   Ford of Isen E5
   Forest River B6
   Forlindon B1
   Forlond C2
   Forndum A4
   Forochel B3
   Forodwaith A4
G:
   Gap of Rohan E5
   Giril River E5
   Goblin Town B5
   Gondor E4
   Gorgoth Plateau F7
   Grey Havens C2
   Greywood E7
   Gulf of Lane C2
H:
   Haligirien E6
   Harad Road G7
   Haradwaithe H6
   Harlindon C2
   Harlond C2
   Harnen River H6
   Harondor G6
   Hobbiton C3
   Hollin gate C5
   Hornburg E5
I:
   Ice Bay A3
   Iron Hills B9
   Isengard E5
   Isenmouthe E7
J: Nothing starts with J!
K: Nothing Starts with K!
L:
   Last Bridge B4
   Labennin F6
   Lefnu River E4
   Limhir F5
   Lldun E7
   Lone Lands C4
   Lorien C5
   Lossarnach F6
M:
   Methedras D5
   Michel Delving C3
   Midgewater Marsh B4
   Minas Morgol F7
   Minas Tirith F6
   Minhiriath D3
   Mirkwood C6
   Moramon E7
   Moria C5
   Mordon F8
   Mountains of Shadow G8
   Mt. Doom E7
   Mt. Gram B4
   Mt. Gundabad B5
N:
   Near Harad H8
   Nindalf E6
   Nomar Lands E7
   North Downs B4
   Northern Waste A5
   North Ithilien E7
   North Marches E6
   North Rhun C9
   Nurn F7
O:
   Old Forest C3
   Orodruin E7
   Osgiliath F7
   Ost-in=Efhil D4
P:
   Pelargir F6
   Pinnath Gelin E4
Q: Nothing Starts with Q!
R:
   Rauros Falls E6
   Rhosgobel B6
   Rhovanion B6
   Rh–n C10
   Rhudar B5
   Ringlo River E5
   Rivendell B5
S:
   Sarn Ford C3
   Sea of Nurnen F8
   Sea of Rhun D10
   Serni River F6
   Shire, The C3
   South Rhun D8
   Starkhorn E5
   Stonebw's Bridge C3
   Swanfleet D4
T:
   Tarlag's Neck E5
   Thrandull's Palace B6
   Tom Bombadil's House C4
   Treebeard's Hill D5
   Trollshaws B5
   Tuckburrow C3
U:
   Umbar H5
V: Nothing starts with V!
W:
   Waymeet C3
   Weather Hills B4
   Weathertop B4
   Welling Hall D5
   West Emmet E5
   Westfold E5
   White Towers C3
   Witheres Heath A7
   Woodhall C3
   Wold, The D6

End.
=====================================================================
                     W A R  I N  M I D D L E
                            E A R T H

                       INSTRUCTION MANUAL

                     Typed in by Dr. Strange
              Thanks to Dr. Death for the original


                          Introduction

         Three Rings for the Elven-kings under the sky,
       Seven for the Dwarf-Lords in their halls of Stone,
               Nine for Mortal Men doomed to die,
            One for the Dark Lord on his dark throne
          In the Land of Mordor where the Shadows lie.
         One Ring to rule them all, One Ring find them,
    One Ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind them
          In the land of Mordor where the Shadows lie.

The Wizard Gandalf the Grey has identified the ring bequeathed to
Frodo Baggins by his Uncle Bilbo, who brought it back from an
adventure long ago, as being "The One Ring". Forged by the Sauron,
the Dark Lord, it is very powerful and very evil. It contains much
of Sauron's power - with it he would defeat all his enemies and
subjugate the whole of Middle Earth. Were it to be destroyed he
would be defeated. Though it would be possible to use it against
Sauron, it would then corrupt the wielder turning him into a new
Dark Lord.

Because of the magical nature of the Ring, it can only be destroyed
by being thrown into the Cracks of Doom, where it was forged. This
is the mouth of the volcano Mt. Doom in the center of Sauron's
kingdom of Mordor far to the South East.

Travel with the Fellowship of the Ring through Middle Earth. The
starting group consists of Frodo, his servant Sam Gangee, and his
friend Pippin. Help them find and gather more members into the part
to protect the Ring Bearer.

Do not delay. Sauron is already amassing his forces of war. He
knows the Ring still exists and is looking for it. He has learned
of the Ring's location, and has begun to take interest in Hobbits
and their "Shire". Even without the One Ring he is a powerful
opponent. He has armies of Orcs and evil men at his command. And
to do his spying he has the Black Riders. These nine wraiths, also
known as Nazgul, are each controlled by lesser rings. Even now they
are heading for the Shire searching for the Ring and asking after
Mr. Baggins.

Your first task is to guide the Fellowship safely to Rivendell. The
Nazgul will close in and you must avoid them at all costs. You must
leave the Shire along The Great East Road, head past Bree and on
to Rivendell on the edge of the Misty Mountains. Then with the aid
of the companions you will find there, you must head South to
Mordor and Mt. Doom. You are heading into the very heart of
Sauron's power, so be prepared to face mortal danger at every step.

In addition to Sauron's forces, you will also be assailed by those
of the Wizard Saruman. Though he was originally the leader of the
Council of Wizards opposing Sauron, he has been corrupted. He has
raised an army of Orcs and Dunlendings and he too is looking for
the Ring, for he believes he can use it to control Middle Earth.

You will need to mobilize the nations of the West, the men of Dale,
Gondor, and Rohan, the Elves of Lorien, and Mirkwood and the
Dwarves of Erebor and the Iron Hills, or the forces of evil will
win by force of arms before you can destroy the Ring. To do this
you must find objects of power and present them to their kings.
Listen to the words of the wise to discover the whereabouts of
these objects.

If any of the forces for good, which you control, can get the Ring
to Mt. Doom, you will win. If the forces of evil obtain the Ring
and take it back to Barad-Dur, Sauron's stronghold in the heart of
Mordor, you will lose.

                        Playing the Game

There are three levels-

Full Map Level		This shows you the whole of Middle Earth, with
				forces shown as dots, good in blue, evil in
				red, neutral in green.

Campaign Level		Detailed map of part of Middle Earth, this will
				scroll if pointer is moved to an edge.
				Characters are shown as figures, armies as
				badges. This is the level all commands are
				given on.

Animation Level	Full animation of characters. Use for
				encounters.

To move up a level, use the map icon. To move down a level, select
the magnifying glass, position it over the area you want, and press
fire.

Speed

The game will run at three speeds: normal, hast, and very hasty.
To change speed select the hour glass icon then click on the option
you want.

Movement

You can only command characters or group that are active, shown
flashing on the campaign map. Select the arrow icon, position it
over the force to be ordered, and press fire. A window will be
opened listing the units in the force - if you only want some to
respond click on their names. Then move the arrow to the
destination you want and press fire to est. They will then proceed
to move there at their own pace, finding the best route around
obstacles that they can.

Encounters

You will be often told of friendly encounters. Select "Go There"
to hear their advice. This will automatically take you to the
animation level.

When characters meet, or forces meet commanders, they may follow
or continue on their way: A window will open in the top right -
select the option you want. If they follow they will become a
single force. To see who is such a force just click on it. This
will open a window listing those present. Those following a leader
will be shown slightly indented.

Combat

Combat occurs when enemy forces meet. You can ignore this and
accept the results, or go there and have some influence on the
battle. This opens a combat window, listing all units on both
sides. Even friendly unit involved in battle has four options -

Charge		Move into combat
Engage		Fight where you are
Withdraw		Move out of combat, but stay close, you may rejoin
			combat later.
Retreat		Leave the scene of battle, you can not return.

These are indicated by a grid of squares, with the selected options
shown filled. To change options, just point at the appropriate
square and press fire.

The color in which a Character's name appears indicates his health
during the battle. Initially, names are shown in black (healthy)
lettering, turning red when the character is wounded and grey when
he dies. Forces do not get wounded, but when finally destroyed the
unit's name is shown in grey.

Objects

You will find objects to aid you in your quest. Some of these
strengthen your characters, others can be used to mobilize the
nations of the West. To manipulate objects you must be on the
animation level. Select the provisions icon (a gauntlet grasping
a flask), then the options you require.

Saved Games

To save or load a game go to the full map level and open the
archive menu, then select the option you want.

Loading the Game

If you have two drives, insert disk 1 into main drive and disk 2
into your second drive. If you only have one drive insert disk 1
into the drive. You will be prompted to change the disk regularly
throughout the game.

Amiga

Insert Kickstart Disk if required.
At the request for a Workbench disk, insert program disk(s).

Atari ST

Make sure that the disk-drive(s) is(are) switched on.
Insert program disk(s).
Switch the computer on.

IBM PC's and Compatibles

Boot DOS from another disk.
Insert program disk(s).
At the A> prompt, type START and press RETURN.

Apple IIGS

Insert Disk 1 into the drive and turn on the computer.
When the desktop appears, launch War in Middle Earth by clicking
on it with your mouse. When prompted, eject disk 1 and insert disk
2.

CONTROLS

Move cursor with a mouse. Click on Icons, Windows, etc. with left
hand button. IBM PC's and compatibles use mouse, joystick, or keys.
The arrow keys move the cursor. ENTER or INS select.

The following keys can be used instead of clicking on icons-

Key		Icon				Description
---		----				-----------
A		Scroll			Archive(Save/Restore)
G		Arrow			Movement Commands (Go to)
M		Magnifying Glass	Move down a level
O		Provisions		Object Manipulation (Get/Use/Drop)
S		Eye				Status display
T		Hourglass			Time
U		Map				Up a level
N		Window Option		No - continue on.
Y		Window Option		Yes - accept option.
P						Pause
X						Exit Game
Q						Quiet On/Off.

Overview

This game is largely concerned with Hobbits, and from it a player
may discover much of their character and little of their history.
Further information will also be found in the pages of the Red Book
of Westmarch, so wonderfully translated and presented by the late
Professor Tolkien in his works "The Hobbit" and "The Lords of the
Rings".

For those who have not had the pleasure of discovering the world
of Middle Earth a word or two of information regarding hobbits, and
the other inhabitants of that place is in order. Therefore in these
few pages we have set out a few notes of providing a short history
of Middle Earth, and brief notes on the races and important
personages that dwell there.

In order to make this booklet as easy as possible it has been
divided up into sections. There is an introduction to Middle Earth,
which should provide those who have no knowledge of the story of
The Lord of the Rings with enough background to play the game. A
full glossary has also been included, giving you further background
information on each of the races, characters, and places in the
game. The gameplay section tells how you actually play the game,
and gives you some hints on the ways in which you may try to win.
However, with a game of this complexity, it is impossible to give
a single strategy that will work, or indeed to say that any
strategy is doomed to failure. Finally, we have included a
biography of Tolkien and a reading list for those people who wish
to learn more about Middle Earth. Separate from the booklet you
will find a map (digitized form for this soft-doc) which has the
grid reference system used in the game marked on it.

Of the Creation of Middle Earth

First there was Eru the one, and from his thoughts came the Ainur.
The greatest of these were named the Valar, who were fifteen; seven
lords; Manwe, Ulmo, Aule, Orome, Mandos, Lorien and Tulkas and
seven ladies; Varda, Yavanna, Nienna, Este, Viare, Vana and Nessa,
last there was Melkor who was the most powerful of all. To them Eru
revealed a great musical theme. Together they sang in harmony, and
from their music the lands of Middle Earth were born. But Melkor
chose to sing a theme of his own creation, and so discord was
brought to the land. Though the other voices tried to return the
path of the theme to the original intent of Eru, it was impossible,
and the lands of Middle Earth forever bore the marks caused by the
discord, and life was marred by the evil wrought in the beginning.
Melkor was banished from the Ainur and evermore he was known as
Morgoth the Dark Enemy.

Alongside the Valar there were the Maiar, who ere brethren to the
Valar, though of lesser stature and many more in number. Some were
drawn to the splendor of Morgoth and served his purpose. Chief
among these was Gorthaur the cruel, who is also called Sauron, the
Dark Lord.

Of the early history of Middle Earth and the peoples who dwell
there.

The history of Middle Earth is long and contains many tales, that
the Elves tell long into the night in song and prose. Here but a
few words will have to suffice, for here we are concerned with
events late in the history of Middle Earth. Early struggles, though
fascinating, are of little import save to introduce the main
themes.

The first born were the Elves. Tall and fair they are for the light
of the stars is mirrored in their countenance. Elves are uniquely
linked to the lands of Middle Earth, their lives are long and
unless they fall in battle they are immortal, for they suffer no
ills save one, a sickening of the spirit and loss of desire to
live. Even then they only choose to lay down their life for a
little while and spend some time in the halls of Mandos, before
returning once more to the fair lands of Middle Earth.

Their history is long and full of incident and its telling must be
left for others. Those who wish to know more of this ancient race
should seek enlightenment in the "Silmarillion" where many of their
tales are set down with an eloquence that I, your humble scribe,
cannot match.

Suffice it to say that for all wisdom that the Elves accumulate of
their long lives, their pride often causes them to act rashly, and
in doing so they bring added tragedy onto themselves. Feanor
created the great jewels of the Simarils, and his pride in them
brought on the Elves many of their misfortunes. And Sauron, and his
pride in them brought on the Elves many of their misfortunes. And
Sauron was able to use his pride in them brought on the Evles many
of their misfortunes. And Sauron was able to use the pride of the
Elven smiths in their work to trick them into forging the Rings of
Power.

However, the Elves are staunch defenders of the lands of Middle
Earth, protectors of its greatest beauty, and have stood defiant
against the forces of Melkor from the beginning of time. Melkor
hated them from the first, and from those unfortunate enough to be
captured by his servants, he created the Orcs, a cruel race that
is in all ways a foul perversion of the Elves.

Soon, however, the Elves were joined by the Dwarves, or Khazad as
they called themselves. They were created by Aule the Valar smith
from the very hearts of the mountains. Indeed he made them before
eru created the Elves. But when Eru saw that Aule had created the
Dwarves out of live and not malice he added them to his plan, yet
he would not let them appear on the Earth before his chosen people
the Elves, so he caused them to sleep under the mountain until the
Elves were established.

Dwarves were a strong and valiant race, yet as they were created
without the aid of Eru they lack the grace of Elves, and men. They
are short and stunted, but do not doubt their bravery, their craft
- for they are the finest of all miners, masons, and stone carvers
- nor their pride, nor skill with arms.

When Yavanna created the trees and other plants, she also called
into being the Ents, who were shepherds for the trees. These gentle
creatures live their lives at the same pace as the trees they
guard, though when they are roused to anger they are powerful
opponents for they have the strength to break stone and metal. The
Elves taught them speech, as they taught the other races, and Ents
delight in language of all forms.

Melkor's envy turned to the Ents as well as the Elves, and he
created the Trolls, who were to stone what Ents were to Wood. Yet
as with all Mekor's creations they were a perversion of the
original. They are witless creatures, who kill for pleasure.

Last of the main races came Man. Man was ever mortal, unlike the
Elves. However in ancient times his span of years was much greater
than it is at present, though even then mankind was shortlived
compared even to the Dwarves. However what mankind loses in
lifespan he more than makes up in numbers, and it is mankind who
is the destiny of Middle Earth.

Thus were the races made. Strife was ever present in the land, as
the free people struggled against the powers of darkness. Many men
fell under the influence of Melkor and fought alongside his other
spawn against the Dwarves, Elves, and Men.

Eventually Melkor was defeated, though the Valar had to intervene
in the course of the World. Melkor was banished, but Sauron, his
right hand, fell at the feed of Manwe and pleaded for mercy.
Believing he had repented, the Valar allowed Sauron to remain in
Middle Earth. As mankind had suffered terrible losses in the
battles against the enemy the Valar created for them an island in
the ocean, half way between Middle Earth and their Underlying
lands. This was the land of Numerore. Here men prospered, for most
had some elvish blood in ancestry, so the people of Numenore lived
long and grew powerful. Mighty seafarers, their ships carried trade
to all parts of middle earth.

Of the Rings of Power

After Melkor had been cast into the void by the Valar, his servant
sauron took on a form that was fair of countenance, and called
himself by the name of Annatar, which means the giver of gifts. Now
it was in the twelve hundredth year after the casting of Melkor to
the Void, that Sauron appeared to the Elven smiths, and with fair
words he persuaded them to make various magical rings. Nineteen
rings were made, nine he gave to the Kings of Men, seven to the
Fathers of the House of the Dwarves, and three to the Lords of the
Elves. He then returned to his home in Mordor and went to Mount
Doom, where the very earth is cracked open, and the fires inside
can be seen. In these great flames he forged the One Ring. Into
this ring he put the greater part of his power, for with it he
hoped to control the lesser rings and rule all of Middle Earth.

Now, when Sauron placed the one ring on his finger, the Elves at
once knew him for who he was. Therefore they hid the three rings
from him and raised a great army and made war on Sauron. But the
forces of evil were large, and the Elves were driven back. Yet when
it seemed that sauron must be triumphant, the men of Numenore
arrived, and in such force that there was no way any could stand
before them.

So Sauron, seeing that there was nothing to be gained by force of
arms, resorted to subterfuge, and surrendered himself to the
Numenoreans. Though he was taken back to the island in chains, his
glib tongue soon loosed his bonds, and he became the King's closest
advisor.

His influence corrupted the whole land. Temples were build to
Morgoth, and eventually he persuaded the men of Numenore to sail
against the Undying Lands.

But the might of the Valar was not to be trifled with. They
reshaped the world, withdrawing the Undying lands beyond Middle
Earth, and they covered the isle of Numenore with the sea. Sauron's
body was destroyed, but as his power was contained in the One Ring
he was able to survive even this loss.

Of the Lands of the West

Few Numenoreans escaped, but those that did took the name Dunedain,
The Men of the West, and founded two great kingdoms in Middle
Earth. These were Gondor in the South and Arnor in the North. But
some of the followers of Sauron also escaped the fall. They were
called the Black Numenoreans, and they founded the pirate city of
Umbar.

Not all men had gone to Numenore. In the west, the men of Dunharrow
had built fine cities. In the eastern lands of Rhun and the
southern lands of Harad, there were many tribes that followed
Sauron: the Balchoths, the Wainriders, the Easterlings, the
Haradrim, and the Southrons.

But Sauron was not defeated. With the power of the ring he made a
new body, and led his troops from Mordor once again. Gil galad the
elf, with Elendil the Dunedain and his son Isildur, led the last
great alliance of the men of the west and the Elves. The men of
Dunharrow, though they had pledged allegiance, broke their word and
refused to fight. Gil Galad and Elendil fell in battle, yet the day
was won. Isildur cut the ring from Sauron's finger, though in doing
so he broke his great sword Narkil. On losing the ring Sauron could
no longer maintain his body, and he was no more than a shadow.

Yet all was not won, for as Isildur returned from the battle to his
home in Arnor, he was ambushed by Orcs and the ring fell into the
great river Anduin and was lost.

Of Hobbits.

Little has been said yet of Hobbits, mainly because they have yet
to enter the story, but now they make their appearance, and in this
final act, they are to take the center of the stage. Hobbits are
little people, and their ancestry is uncertain, for they do not
figure in any of the tales of earlier time. Yet they are known to
be unobtrusive and may well have been living their peaceful lives
for some time, unnoticed.

Whatever reason is given for their earlier obscurity, it is known
for certain that shortly after the defeat of Sauron at least one
large group of Hobbits were living by the banks of the Anduin. One
day, shortly after the death of Isildur, two of the Hobbits were
out fishing on the river, when one noticed something bright in the
river. He dived in and came up with a ring. The other, who was
named Smeagol, said, "Give us that, Deagol, my love". "Why?"
"Because it is my birthday, and I wants it." So it was, but Deagol
had already given a present, and it was more than he could afford.
He refused, whereon Smeagol strangled him and took the ring, though
whenever he was asked later he always claimed it was a present, at
least until pressed hard for the truth.

When he wore it, he found no-one else could see him. So he learned
secrets, and used them to create mischief, till the other Hobbits
turned him out of their hole, and he wandered through the land.
Finally, he ended up living in the tunnels of the goblins under the
Misty Mountains, eating raw fish caught with invisible fingers. And
though he withered, and grew stretched, the ring kept him alive,
and took hold of him. It was his precious, and he talked to it,
till he almost forgot his own name and was only known by the one
sound he repeated, a hollow sound, Gollum.

The other Hobbits continued their journeys across Middle Earth,
until they reached the peaceful land of Shire. Here they settled
and continued to prosper, living in their traditional holes, with
the good rooms looking out of the hillside, and the store rooms
deep inside the cool earth. Eating four meals a day, with snacks
to fill up the cracks. And enjoying a pint or three of ale, perhaps
aided by smoking a pipe full of pipeweed, a habit it is said they
introduced to wizards and kings. But aside from this one invention,
they seemed to have little to do with the main flow of events. Yet
not all is as it seems.

Of Wizards and the Despite of Sauron

The Valar did not rest with the fall of Numenore, they sent five
of the Maiar to Middle Earth to continue the fight against Sauron.
These were the Wizards, and they took the form of old men, with
white beards, each carrying a staff.

Though Sauron had no body, he took the form of a great eye, like
that of a cat, red and evil. Though his servants, the nine Nazgul,
who were the ringwraiths who once had been kings of men, he spread
his evil throughout the world. In the north, the Witch Kingdom of
Angmar was founded, ruled by the lord of the Nazgul, and its forces
destroyed the Dunedain kingdom of Arnor, and the kings of Arnor,
the heirs of Isildur, were reduced to wandering in the woods. In
the south the kingdom of Gondor was hard pressed, and its king was
killed, leaving no heir, so Gondor is now ruled by a steward,
awaiting the return of its rightful ruler to reclaim the throne.

Hard pressed by the enemies that surround it, Gondor nearly fell
to the Easterlings and the Balchoths. Only the arrival of the Horse
Lords from the north saved the kingdom. So these flaxen haired
warriors, the sons of Eorl, or the Rhoirrim were granted the
northern part of the kingdom as their own, and these plains are now
the land of Rohan.

Isengard, the Northern fortress of Gondor, had been given to the
Wizard Saruman to hold against the wrath of Sauron. The lands of
South Gondor are a desert waste, yet through it is much reduced,
Gondor is still a great power, bastion of the west against the
might of the Red Eye.

Of the other Wizards, two have passed into the East and out of this
tale, though on cannot say what aid they have given the West
through their work. Radagst makes a special study of plants, birds,
and animals, speaking their tongues. The last, gandalf Greyhameis
is of most account in our story. He travels far and is known to
many. He aided the Dwarven king, Thorin Oakenshield, to reclaim his
kingdom in the lonely mountain from the dragon Smaug, by providing
him with a Hobbit burglar. Among their many adventures on the way,
Bilbo Baggins, the Hobbit, found a ring and then met Gollum. After
a set of riddles, Gollum failed to guess what the Hobbit had in his
pocket, until it was too late. Then he discovered that his precious
was missing. Bilbo escaped, and eventually brought the Ring to the
Shire, but Gollum hates Bagginses for ever.

Gandalf studied Ring lore, and eventually learned that the Ring
that Bilbo acquired was the One Ring. Bilbo had left the shire, to
go wandering, but Gandalf made him leave the Ring behind. It and
his hole, Bag End, passed to Frodo, and with it the fate of the
world.

Of Recent Events

Gandalf has discovered that the Nazgul are abroad. Events have come
to a head. Action must be taken quickly. Frodo must leave the Shire
and take the Ring with him. Until further decisions are taken, it
would be best to head for Rivendell, where wiser heads can decide
the next move, and heroes can be found to guard the Ring bearer on
the perilous journey that lies ahead.

Gandalf has been called away from the Shire. He should have been
back in time for Frodo's birthday, September 23rd the date chosen
for the quest to begin. But he has not appeared, so Frodo, Sam and
Pippin have set out without him.

GAMEPLAY

In order to encompass all of the events of the War of the Ring,
play takes place on three levels, each giving you a different
degree of detail. You can move from one level to another at any
time.

Full Map Level

This is the full Middle Earth Map. This is used to give you an
overview of the total situation in the war, including the locations
of all major forces.

Campaign Level

The level on which most play takes place. It gives you a detailed
map of a part of Middle Earth. However, you can scroll this to any
part of the playing area. All forces in the game are displayed as
Figures or badges (shields)

Animation Level

Finally we have the animation level. This gives you a detailed view
of a single place. On this level each individual or monster is
represented by a fully animated figure moving against digitized
backgrounds. On this level you can instruct individual characters
to use items, direct their actions in combat and engage in
conversation. This is the level on which the game starts with
Frodo, Sam and Pippin walking thought the Shire.

As well as operating on these three levels, there is a variety of
different types of "playing pieces" involved in the game. Obviously
it is not possible for you to give orders to each individual in the
large armies of Rohan or Gondor, nor can the computer plot the
movement of every Orc. However, no game based on The Lords of the
Rings would be complete if you could not control Frodo's actions.
Therefore you have two distinct types of forces under your control.

First there are Characters. At the start of the game you can
control the actions of the three Hobbits Frodo, Sam, and Pippin.
As you progress in your quest, you will meet many more characters.
Some of these, for example Merry or Aragorn, will join the quest,
and you can then control their actions. Other characters, such as
Tom Bombadil or Elrond, will give aid and advice, but will not
leave their homes.

At the start of the game, all the characters have a course of
action set. If you do not give any commands they will follow this
course of action.

There are also large forces, the armies of the Dwarves, of Men and
of the Elves. These are broken into units ranging from a hundred
or so up to several thousand. Although you can bring several units
together, as at Minas Tirith at the start of the game, you cannot
split up the individual units.

Finally, there are objects. These include the Ring, initially with
Frodo. Besides this, there are many other useful items. Some of
them are carried by characters you will meet, others you will need
to search out. Listen to the words of the wise, for they will pass
on to you information concerning these items.

                      How to play the Game

Commands

Every aspect of the game can be controlled by using the pointer.
This is the picture of the blue hand with its index finger
extended. On each level there is a series of Icons in a column in
the top right hand corner of the screen. Moving the pointer over
one of these and pressing the Command button (Left Mouse Button,
Joystick Button, or INS or ENTER keys as appropriate) either:

a)	opens a window, which will offer you a choice of options. You
	then move the pointer over the option you require and press
	the button again to select it.

or
b)	In the case of icons that affect individual places or people, 
	it causes the pointer to take on the shape of that icon. This
	can them be moved around the screen until it is over the point
	required. This will be further explained in the appropriate
	sections.

There are also many points in the game where events occur that
require you to make a decision. For example two characters may
meet. You may then have to decide if they should join forces or
not. In these circumstances the computer will display a window with
options. You must select one of these with the pointer as in a)
above. When this happens the pointer will return to its normal
gauntlet shape, cancelling any command you were halfway through.

As it is sometimes inconvenient to have to click on an Icon, it is
also possible to use the keys to force certain commands. These are
listed in the commands section, and as each command is explained
the keys will be listed alongside the icon-based command.

                        LEVELS AND ICONS
Full Map Level

This is the overview level. It shows you the whole of the playing
area, with forces under your command indicated by blinking blue
dots, evil forces as red dots, and neutral forces as green dots.
While you are on this level time does not pass. In the top right
hand corner there are four icons:- an eye, a scroll, a magnifying
glass and an hour glass.

THE EYE

This allows you to gaze into Galadriel's Mirror, the magic pool in
Lorien. It brings up a window that tells you what forces are
moving, where your forces are headed or who they are following. It
tells you which of the evil forces are active, not giving you any
details of their movement. To clear this window press the control
button anywhere on the screen. Instead of clicking on this icon,
you can press S (for status)

THE SCROLL

This brings up the archive menu, allowing you to save and restore
games. You may only have one game saved at any time. Saving a new
game will destroy any previously saved game.

Select the option you require and the computer will automatically
save or restore the game. Assuming your disks are not damaged, a
window will appear telling you that the game has been saved or
restored successfully.

Instead of clicking on this icon, you can press A (for Archive)

THE MAGNIFYING GLASS

Allows you to move down to the campaign level. Clicking on this
icon changes the pointer to another magnifying glass. Move it to
the part of Middle Earth you wish to examine, then click the mouse
button again.

Instead of clicking on this icon, you can press M.

THE HOUR GLASS

This allows you to select the speed at which the game will run,
which you may change at any time. There are three speeds:

Normal
Hasty
Very Hasty

When you click on the Icon a window opens listing the speeds. Move
the pointer over the speed you want and press the control button
again. The new speed is now set, and the window closes.

At the start of the game you will probably want to set time to very
hasty. However as you progress, you will find that you need to
reduce the speed in order to control all the options at your
disposal.

The time setting controls the rate of all actions in the game. You
will find that when you meet several people at once, you will need
to have the time setting on Normal or their speech may disappear
from the screen too fast for you to read.

Instead of clicking on this icon, you may press T to open the Time
Window.

The Campaign Level

this level gives you a fairly detailed view of an area of Middle
Earth around 250 miles by 150 miles. For those people who prefer
to measure distance as subdivisions of an inaccurate French
estimate of the circumference of the Earth this is about 400 x 250
kilometers.

To see other parts of Middle Earth you may either move up to the
Full Map Level and then use the Magnifying Glass to examine another
area, or you can scroll the map until the area you are interested
appears. To do this move the pointer to the edge of the screen. The
map will start to scroll to reveal what lies beyond. In order to
stop, simply move the pointer away from the edge.

All terrain features including woods, hills, rivers, and towns are
shown. Individual characters are displayed as small figures. Where
one character is following another only the character commanding
the party is shown. Those characters, forces and parties that are
active in the game and that you may control flash.

Large forces are shown as a shield. This tells you what type of
force it is. The background shield design tells you where the force
is from, the weapon indicates the type of force. Most forces are
indicated by a round shield. Elite forces, such as the Gondor Tower
Guard, are marked by an heraldic shield.

Types of Forces-

Cavalry				A horse's head
Infantry				A sword
Light Infantry			A spear
Dwarf				An axe
Elf					A bow
Trolls				A club
Orcs					A scimitar
Corsairs				A scimitar

The countries are indicated by the following shields:

Rohan				A green shield decorated with a white
					horse
Gondor(Minas Tirith)	A blue shield decorated with a white tree
Gondor(Dol Amroth)		A blue shield decorated with a white
					flower
Gondor(Other)			A plain blue shield.
Dale					A plain aquamarine shield.
Elf or Ent			A plain green shield
Erebor				A plain aquamarine shield
Iron Hills			A plain dark green shield
Saruman				A red shield decorated with the White Hand
Mordor(Minas Morgul)	A black shield decorated with the lidless
					red eye
Harad				A red shield decorated with the lidless
					red eye
Easterlings			A purple shield decorated with the lidless
					red eye
Umbar				A red shield decorated with a ship's sail.
Dunlendings			A plain wooden shield.

If you position the pointer over any character or place on the
screen and press the control button a window will open at the top
left of the screen telling you who, what, or where it is you are
pointing to.

Some of the evil characters, most notably the Nazgul, are able to
hide. When they do this their symbol disappears from the screen.
You then have to remember or guess where they are.

                              ICONS

THE EYE

Once you have clicked on a character or force, clicking on this
Icon allows you to discover their status. If you are yet to select
anyone then you will be told to select a force. 

See the description of combat for a fuller explanation of character
status.

Instead of clicking on this icon, you can press S (for Status)

THE MAP

This takes you up to the Full Map Level.

Instead of clicking on this icon, you can press U.

THE MAGNIFYING GLASS

As on the full map level, when you click on this icon the pointer
is replaced with a magnifying glass. You can then place this over
the area you wish to examine before pressing the control button
again. This then takes you to the Animation Level. 

Instead of clicking on this icon, you can press M.

THE HOUR GLASS

This works exactly the same way as on the Full Map Level.

This allows you to select the speed at which the game will run. You
may change the speed at any time. There are three speeds:-

Normal
Hasty
Very Hasty

When you click on the Icon a window opens listing the speeds. Move
the pointer over the speed you want and press the control button
again. The new speed is now set, and the window closes.

Instead of clicking on this icon, you may press T to open the Time
Window.

THE ARROW

This is used to give movement orders to characters or forces.

Instead of clicking on this icon, you can press G.

Animation Level

If you move the pointer over any figure and press the control
button a window will open telling you who they are and what they
are doing.

ICONS
THE EYE

This allows you to gaze into the Mirror of Galadriel and see the
status of characters on screen. Normally it will give you the
status of the lead character, but if you have clicked on any
figure, it will give you their details.

Instead of clicking on this icon, you can press S (for Status).

THE MAP

This takes you up to the Campaign Level.

Instead of clicking on this icon, you can press U.

PROVISIONS	

This allows you to control objects.

Clicking on this icon opens a window with three options-

Put Down an Object
Take an Object
Use an Object

Instead of clicking on this icon you can press O.

If you wish to use or drop an object select the appropriate option.
If you are not carrying anything a window will inform you on this.
Otherwise a window will open giving a list of objects that the
character is carrying and you will be asked to select one by
pointing at it and pressing the control button. If you decide you
do not wish to use or drop any item press the control button with
the pointer anywhere outside the window.

If you wish to take an object, select this option. If there is
nothing you can take , the window will tell you this. Otherwise a
window opens asking you to select the object, and listing the
objects available. Move the pointer over the object and press the
control button. You will then see the character pick up the object
and continue on his travels.

GIVING ORDERS

In order to control the progress of the game you need to give
regular orders to the characters and forces at your disposal.

You can only pick forces' destinations. They will then move there
at their own rate. There is no way you can cause them to exceed
their natural movement rate. Hobbits are slower than Wizards or
Nazgul.

To give an order you must be on the Campaign Level. If you are on
the Animation Level you will need to move up a level by placing the
pointer over the MAP icon and pressing the control button, or
pressing the U key. If you are on the Full Map Level you need to
move down to the Campaign Level using the Magnifying glass. Turn
the pointer into a magnifying glass either by clicking on the icon
or pressing M, then place over the part of Middle Earth you are
interested in and press the Control Button.

To give movement order turn the pointer into an arrow by clicking
on the Arrow icon or pressing G then move this over the character
or force you wish to command. Press the control button again. This
should open a window in the top left corner of the screen which
tells you who you have selected and where they are currently
heading. Characters or forces following another character are
listed immediately after the character they are following and are
indented a small amount.

The pointer will also have changed. The shaft of the arrow has now
become the word TO. If you want all the characters to follow your
orders, move the pointer to the destination you wish to set and
push the control button.

If you only want part of the force to follow the order, you first
have to pick which units you are interested in. Move the pointer
over the window and click on the character you wish to command. You
will also command all his followers.

ENCOUNTERS

As you travel the roads of Middle Earth, you will meet many other
characters. Many will ask you to stop and talk. These are generally
characters over whom you have no control. When you meet them a
window will open at the top right of the screen. This gives you the
option to go to the encounter or to continue on. If you continue
on, you ignore the encounter and lose the chance to gain the
benefit of the traveller's wisdom. Going there takes you to the
Animation Level.

When two characters meet, you will be offered the choice of one
following the other or not. If they join forces, the two figures
will be replaced by the single figure of the leader. If a force
meets a commander, he will offer his services. You must choose
whether you want them to follow or continue on.

If two forces pass they will continue their separate ways unless
there is a leader present.

COMBAT

When you meet enemy forces you are forced to fight. If characters
rather than armies are involved, you will be taken to the Animation
Level where you will see the action animated for you on the screen.

When the two forces meet a window opens in the top right of the
screen. This window looks something like this:


Charge	Engage	Withdraw	Retreat	Good		Evil
  o		  o		   o		   o		Gandalf	Nazgul Lord
  o	 	  o		   o		   o		Aragorn	2nd Nazgul
  o		  o		   o		   o		Frodo	20 Orcs
  o		  o		   o		   o		Sam
  o		  o		   o		   o		Merry
  o	  	  o		   o		   o		Pippin
  o		  o		   o		   o		20 Lt. Inf.

As you can see this window lists all the forces involved in battle.
The first column listing the good forces, the one you are
commanding, and the second column the evil forces, controlled by
the computer. There is also a large grid of boxes (circles in this
case). These are used to control the actions of the forces under
your command. In each row there are four boxes (circles here),
representing the options available to each character. The first
column is charge, then engage, withdraw and finally retreat. These
are labelled along the top of the window. In each row one of the
boxes is filled with a black square (of which I can't duplicate in
this doc, so imagine it!). This is the option that that unit is
currently taking. Remember each row refers to an individual
character or force. At the start of the combat all the characters
and forces are set to engage.

Charge		Launch a major attack, once you are involved in
			combat this reverts to Engage. Gives you a first
			hit advantage. If you destroy your opponent, you 
			receive no losses. If you don't both sides sustain
			heavier losses.

Engage		Start to fight or continue fighting.

Withdraw		Leave the melee and stop fighting but remain close
			by. If the other characters are killed you will then
			be attacked.

Retreat		Leave the combat and try to escape. Characters that 
			make it to the edge of the screen cannot be killed.
			If your side is victorious they will walk back on
			screen. If not their figures will appear on the
			campaign screen at the point and they will continue
			with their orders. If they were following someone 
			then they will initially go back to their default
			orders and you will need to give them fresh orders.

In order to make a character follow any option, you move the
pointer to the appropriate box and press the command button. The
black square will them move to the box yo have pointed to. Once a
character is killed or a force completely destroyed the black
square disappears from the row.

The characters are normally listed in black type. This is to
indicate that they are hale and hearty. If they are wounded then
the type will change to red. If they are finally killed it turns
grey.

Forces do not get wounded. Instead, more and more members of the
unit are killed until it is finally wiped out.

Combat continues until all forces on one side are dead or have
retreated. Evil units will not normally retreat, though some of the
more intelligent (e.g. Nazgul) may in some circumstances.

If you are victorious, your forces will continue on their journey,
unless any member or members of the part have been killed, in which
case all present will gather around the corpse to pay their
respects to the dead. You may then use the provisions icon to
collect any useful items that they may have been carrying.

If you lose, then the characters and their possessions are lost
forever. Except if the Ring is taken. In this case the Nazgul will
run for Barad-Dur or Orthanc. You have the chance to intercept them
on their journey and win the Ring back. Of course, if you fail, you
will lose the game.

Remember that if you attack a fortress or other defended place you
will suffer greater losses than if you were fighting on equal
footing. Also if you are secure behind defenses you will be better
placed to face the enemy. Citadels provided greater protection to
defenders while walled cities, such as Minus Tirith, provide the
greatest advantage.

Certain characters have special links with Middle Earth that means
they cannot be killed. The Nazgul have their souls trapped in the
nine rings. Therefore killing them merely destroys their bodies.
They will reappear later in Mordor. Gandalf and the other Wizards
are on a mission from the Valar to destroy Sauron, so if any of
them are killed they may return in a more powerful form.

ENDING THE GAME

You will win if you manage to get the Ring to Mt. Doom, and lose
if Sauron's forces manage to get the Ring and take it to Barad-Dur.
In each of these cases the game will automatically end. You will
also lose if Sauron's forces appear to be winning the war. This is
signalled by the loss of any 3 of the good forces major
strongholds: Hornburg, Edoras, Minas Tirith, Lorien, or Thranduil's
place.

If you wish to leave a game and return to it later, go up to the
Full Map Level. Clock on the scroll icon to open the save/restore
window, click on the Save Current Game option. The machine should
tell you the game has been successfully saved. You can now eject
the disks and turn the game off.

When you wish to return to this position, load the game, then come
back to the Full Map Level by moving up twice. Click on the scroll
icon and select Restore Game option. The game will then be restored
to the position in which you left it.

If you wish to quit a game without saving it, press X. You will
then be asked if you really want to quit. If you select the option
to quit, the game is lost forever. If you wish to continue play or
if you decide to save the game, select the option to cancel.

If you want to leave the game for a short while, press P to pause
the game until you return.

WINNING STRATEGIES

In order to win the game you need to destroy the Ring. This can
only be done by taking it to Mt. Doom, deep in the heart of Mordor.
This means taking the Ring to the center of Sauron's power. You
were expecting Gandalf to be with you to provide you with advice
and help, but he has not arrived. You cannot afford to wait any
longer; already strange black riders are about in the Shire asking
after Mr. Baggins.

You can set off with the fellowship and head directly for Mordor,
but the way is long and there are many dangers. Armies of Orcs and
other four beasts will block your path. You may be lucky and evade
them, but it is a very risky undertaking.

To the East, along the Old Road is Rivendell, the Last Homely House
East of the Sea. Here Bilbo found aid on his adventure. This may
be where you can find aid on your quest. There are many heroes
here, from all the races of Middle Earth, Elves, Dwarves, and Men.
Here too you may find Gandalf.

As to the route that you take to Mordor, you will need to choose
this with care. The easiest path would take you down the West side
of the Misty Mountain and through the gap of Rohan, across the
plains of that fertile land and then down to Minas Tirith. But as
the Wizard Saruman has become corrupted the game of Rohan is no
longer safe, for he has amassed a great army of Orcs and evil men
in the castle of Orthanc, and your journey would be forced to pass
too close to this danger.

All other routes take you across the Misty Mountains. You may
choose to follow in Bilbo's footsteps, but this takes you through
Goblin Town; or you may try to cross at the Moria, but this once
proud Dwarven Kingdom is now overrun with Orcs. Unless you risk
either of these passes, you will need to cross high in the
mountains, facing whatever perils you may. But at least if you
cross the Misty Mountains you may hope for aid from the Elves or
Lorien.

Not all the people of Middle Earth are against you, but even those
who fight Sauron need some token to prove the truth of your embassy
to them, before they will commit their forces. For example you need
to present The Red Arrow to King Theoden of Rohan at his palace
Edoras in order to mobilize the riders of the Mark. To mobilize the
Dwarves, someone must present them with The Dwarven Ring. Similarly
Gondor will only mobilize if presented with The Scepter of
Annuminas, and the Elves only if you take them The Silver Orb.

Obviously, if The Forces of Evil attack these nations they will
defend themselves. But, by then it may be too late. If you can find
these items and deliver them, before the need to head towards
Mordor is pressing, you may be able to mobilize your forces earlier
and so distract Sauron from looking for the Ring. Therefore, listen
to the words of the wise, for only by heeding their advice will you
learn the location of the objects you seek.

There are many other useful items that lie scattered over the face
of Middle Earth, and again you will need to talk to the characters
that you meet in order to find their whereabouts. You may pick up
magic swords, coats of Mithril mail, healing herbs, all of which
will aid you with your quest if you use them well. Bear in mind
that if you do not collect these items early you may be too hard
pressed to be able to search for them later. Do not ignore them for
they can prove the crucial factor that allows you to defeat the
forces of evil.

In some ways the strategy of the game has certain similarities to
that of American Football. You have lots of units in play, but the
only one that matters is the one carrying the ring. The others are
used to clear a path for the ring bearer, by destroying the enemies
forces. Most of your forces are not in position at the start of the
game. The Elves are in Lorien, the Dwarves in the Iron Hills and
the Lonely Mountain in the North East. The men of Gondor and Rohan
are dispersed throughout their lands, and the Rangers are in Bree.
You want to give all your units orders, so that you get enough
troops into the field to face the huge armies of Saruman and
Sauron.

Should disaster befall you and Frodo dies, a new Ring bearer will
be chosen. If the Nazgul capture the Ring, by slaying the Ring
bearer and all his companions, they will head for Mordor. If you
can intercept them on their journey you may be able to win the Ring
back. If not, then you will loose as soon as they reach Barad-Dur.
It pays therefore to protect the Ring bearer well.

you may well want to gather the Rohirrim at Helm's Deep and the
Gondorians at Minas Tirith, until the forces from further north
arrive. Remember that is is much easier for them to defend
themselves if they are behind the sturdy walls of their fortress
than if they are caught in the field. Of course this applies to the
forces of evil as well, so do not try to assault their stronghold
unless you have overwhelming forces.

It is possible to win the game using the basic tactics followed in
the book. The Rohirrim are strong and once mobilized, they will
hold back the forces of the White Hand for a long time,
particularly if they are fighting from behind the defenses of the
Hornburg. The men of Gondor will hold Minas Tirith for many turns
against the might of Sauron's Orcs and Nazgul. Then, with luck, you
may well be able to slip through. However, it is not certain.
Remember that in the book Frodo had many near escapes.

You may well want to try other options. If you bring the forces of
Dain and Brand down from the North, you may well be able to amass
a large enough army to force your way through the gates of Mordor.
Remember that although these forces are not mentioned in the books,
this is because it is written from the Hobbits' point of view. They
report only what they see. The appendices make it clear that these
forces were involved in bitter combat against Sauron's forces.

The quest will take a long time. Over the course of the game you
will need to make several decisions. You will need to keep on
updating the orders to your units, so that they make the best
moves. Keep checking all the unit's orders, so that you can change
them as a new situation dictates. Bear in mind that new forces may
become available for you to command. Hopefully you will then
succeed in your task.

Always remember the words of Robert the Bruce "If at first you do
not succeed, try, try again!" There are an infinite number of
options that you can take throughout the game. No two games will
follow exactly the same pattern. This is not a game that you can
master in one session. A single game may last several hours, and
only offers one possible path thought the myriad options. Even if
you gave identical orders, random factors will affect the outcome
of the game. Choosing the correct options will limit the cruel
blows of fate, but you can never be certain of success. Thus, as
you come to know the game it will reveal more of its secrets, but
there may always be something you have not seen, and therefore
cannot plan for, that lies in wait to affect your plans, for weal
or woe, adding spice to the game and hopefully prolonging your
enjoyment.