                        Full Documentation To WATCHTOWER!


    CREDITS

    Developed by             CyberArts Ltd.
    Programming              Robert Nordin
    Produced & Designed by   Mika M.K Laamanen
    Graphics                 Kai Sainio
    Additional Graphics      Mika M.K Laamanen
    Player Images            Henrik Jarolf
    Music                    Dan Bjon
    Sound FX                 TNT Sount Factory
    Music Play Routine       Jarno Paananen
    Front Cover Art          Joni Stolt

    Manual Revision          Emma Edis
    Manual Formatting        Lisa Thompson
    Testing                  Mario Sarno
    German Translation       Stephen Williams
                             Mrs Taylor
    Italian Translation      Mr Sarno

    Published by

    OTM Publications & Promotions Ltd.
    11 Aldergate, Tamworth, Staffs, B79 7DL, UK
    Tel.:01827 312 302
    Fax.:01827 67010
    Email:OTM@OTMltd.demon.co.uk

    Pathway to the future...

    COPRYRIGHT AND WARRANTY

    This software product, including all graphics, program code, music and
    audio  effects,  documentation  and associated product materials are a
    copyright  of  CyberArts  Ltd.,(except  the  play  routine,  which  is
    copyright of Jarno Paananen) (Now it says the usual crap about sending
    the game back if it don`t work) Well your not gonna send back a pirate
    copy now are you!?

    MAKE A BACK-UP COPY

    It  is  always  advisable  to make back-up copies of you original game
    disks to increase the life of the masters and guard against accidents.
    Watchtower disks are not copy protected. That is because we would like
    to give you the opportunity to make a back-up copy  of  your  original
    disk set. Once you have made a back-up copy, store your original disks
    in a safe and dry place. Always use the  back-up  disks  to  play  the
    game. Since there is no copy protection, you can install the game onto
    your hard disk for  your  convenience.  Please  do  not  misuse  these
    possibilities.

    HARD DISK INSTALLATION

    The  hard disk installation utility can be found on disk 1, simply run
    it and follow the on-screen instructions.

    PLEASE  NOTE:  running  WatchTower  from  Workbench  requires   2.5Mb.
    Watchtower  will  run from hard disk in just 2 Mb if you create a boot
    disk.

    THE STORY BEHIND THE LINES

    For the mercenary, war is just a job, a job with deadly  consequences.
    Soldiers  of  fortune  are today`s adventurers. They fight in the most
    dangerous  places,  the  deepest  jungles,  the  hottest  deserts  and
    war-torn  cities  from  where only few return. Mercenaries not only do
    their job for money (blood bucks) but they also love adventure and the
    feel  of danger. They are real professionals, they earn their pride in
    themselves and the respect of others but sometimes  pay  the  ultimate
    price.

    Now  you`re  the  best  of  all  hitmen, a trianed killer.....you`re a
    professional mercenary, a soldier of fortune.

    You have learned to survive in the inhospitable jungles and deserts of
    foreign  nations.  The  only person you trust is yourself and the only
    things you put your trust in are your guns and grenades.

    Warring factions from across the globe and even the Unites Nations are
    bidding  for  your  services.  There  is  anarchy everywhere. You have
    selected the most challenging missions and must now complee them.

    Now the job and danger is waiting.....Good Luck!...and don`t lose your
    head!!

    LOADING THE GAME

    Insert  disk  1  into  your boot drive and switch on the power. Insert
    disk 2 or 3 in any drive when prompted. Wait a while, load  your  guns
    and press fire!

    If  you have installed WathcTower onto your hard disk, double click on
    the WatchTower icon and the game will start.

    TROUBLE SHOOTING

    Should the intro sequence and the title screen  not  appear  within  a
    minute, there may be a problem with your computer system.

    Turn  off  your  computer and disconnect all external devices, such as
    printers  and  memory  or  accelerator  cards.  Check  your   computer
    connections,  such  as  monitor  or  television cable and power cords.
    Check that the intructions as given in  Chapter  "Loading  The  game",
    have  been  correctly  carried  out.  If you haven`t cleaned your disk
    drive for a while, it should be done using a cleaning disk. Repeat the
    loading procedure.

    If  you are sure your computer is working correctly and other software
    loads successfully but your Amiga is still unable to  load  WatchTower
    then  you  may  have a faulty disk. In this case you can obtain a free
    replacement  from  the  publisher.  For   replacement   read   chapter
    "Copyright and Warranty".

    ERROR MESSAGES

    "AGA CHIPSET NOT FOUND" WatchTower is an AGA game and it requires  and
    AGA  machine.  If you get the above error message during loading, your
    Amiga may not be an  AGA  machine,  (i.e.A1200,  A4000  or  CD32)  and
    therefore Watchtower will not work correctly on it.

    "OUT  OF  MEMORY ERROR" This message should not appear if you boot the
    game directly from disks. If you run it from your hard  disk  and  the
    above  message  appears,  you  must  reboot your Amiga to run the game
    without any background  tasks,  (i.e.  close  all  other  windows  and
    programs before loading WatchTower).

    HOW TO BEAT THE PROTECTION

    Before   the  very  first  mission  you  will  be  asked  to  enter  a
    verification code on your map and mission data computer.  (FORTUNATELY
    HELLFIRE  CRACKED  THE GAME FOR YOU SO NO NEED FOR THIS SECTION!) Just
    select the arrow on the far right of screen on numeric keypad to enter
    game.

    SKILL LEVEL

    You  are  able  to  select the skill level before each new game, using
    your joystick. You can select  the  skill  level  from  the  following
    alternatives.  The  first  is  the  easiest  and  the last is the most
    challenging.

    "EASY DOES IT?!"     (easy)
    "DOUBLE TROUBLE"     (moderate)
    "I NEED IT BAD!"     (hard)

    HOW TO PLAY

    There are two ways to play the game, a one man war or  a  simultaneous
    two  player mode. When playing alone, use a joystick connected to port
    1 and press fire. For the simultaneous two player mode, press fire  on
    the joystick connected to port 2.

    Remember  that  in  a  simultaneous  two player mode there are no more
    extra pick-ups or extra weapons than in the one player mode. You  will
    have to split everything with the other player.

    Press  fire  to  fire  your  current  weapon. Hold fire for continuous
    firing.

    Throw a grenade by holding the fire button and  pushing  the  joystick
    quickly  twice  in  the direction you wish to throw it. Alternatively,
    use L-ALT key to throw player 1`s grenades and R-ALT to  throw  player
    2`s grenades.

    Press "SPACE" bar during the game to pause, fire to continue.

    Shoot  barrels  and boxes, pick up new weapons and other useful items.
    Neutralize enemies and go forward. The game area will  scroll  forward
    only  when  both  players  are on the upper part of the screen. Notice
    that some vehicles will stop the scroll until they are destroyed.

    Each mission has a time limit, so don`t delay too much. Remember  that
    you also need enough time to beat the end of level guardians.

    Time Indicator
    I
    -------------------------
    |                        | - Rank Indicator
    |                        | - Life Indicator
    |                        | - Grenade Indicator
    | Main Game Area         | - Weapon Indicator
    |                        | - Blood Bucks
    |                        |
    |                        |
    --------------------------
    ^                       ^
    Player 1             Player 2
    Indicators          Indicators


    RANK INDICATOR

    The rank insignia indicator is located in  the  upper  corner  of  the
    screen.  You  will  be  promoted  to higher ranks during the missions.
    Promotion depends on your efficiency. More kills means more experience
    and  a  promotion  to  the  next rank. Your rank insignia will also be
    included in the high score table along with your score.

    LIFE INDICATOR

    The heart will flash when you are wounded. A hit by  an  enemy  bullet
    will  cause  a  wound  that  can  be  healed by collecting a first aid
    package. A hit by a cannon, vehicle  or  an  explosion  means  instant
    death. The number will show how many lives you have left, of which the
    maximum in nine.

    GRENAGE INDICATOR

    There is a small delay between the firing of grenades,  just  to  make
    life  that  bit  harder.  The  grenade indicator will flash during the
    delay and will also flash if you do not carry any grenades. The number
    shows  how  many grenades you have left, the maximum is nine. You will
    always have three grenades at  the  beginning  of  a  mission.  Unused
    grenades from the previous mission will not be added.

    WEAPON INDICATOR

    The weapon indicator will show which weapon you have in use.

    BLOOD BUCKS

    Blood bucks are money you will earn during each mission. You get money
    for  every neutralized enemy and you will find even more by destroying
    boxes, which sometimes hide shining siver or gold coins!

    TIME INDICATOR

    In the upper left corner of  the  screen  is  a  time  bar  that  will
    increase  continuously. When the bar reaches the top, your time is out
    and your game is over. Nobody needs a mercenary  who  can`t  keep  his
    deadlines.  You  will  hear  a warning sound when the time bar is on a
    critical level.

    YOUR CHALLENGING MISSIONS

    There are six  missions  frrm  around  the  world,  including  Central
    Europe,  Scandinavia,  South  America,  The Far East, Asia and Africa.
    Each mission id described briefly on the map screen before the mission
    begins.

    During  the  mission  briefing your map and mission data computer will
    show the face of the commander of the opposing armed force.  So,  stay
    cool!  They  will  be  waiting for you at the end of each mission with
    their finest war vehicles.

    PICK UPS

    Search the game area carefully and you  will  find  various  types  of
    pick-ups  on  your  way. Blom them away by shooting them and sometimes
    you will find useful items, such as a new weapon!!

    Barrel

    Barrels hide first-aid packages and smart bomb detonators.

    Stack of Barrels

    These stacks often  hide  very  valuable  extra  lives  and  first-aid
    packages.

    Box

    Boxes could hide an extra grenade and gold or silver coins.

    Stack of Boxes

    All weapons are concealed in stacks of boxes. Sometimes you might find
    a couple of gold coins.

    First-Aid

    First aid heals your wounds instantly.

    Extra Life

    Extra life is a pack of super-power food that gives you  a  whole  new
    life! So be sure that you collect every one of these.

    Blood Bucks

    Blood bucks are gold or silver coins. That means money!

    Detonator

    The detonator is the visible part of a self destruction  system  which
    is installed beneath it by enemy forces. If you find one, just pick it
    up and you will see fantastic fireworks! It kills enemies too!

    ENEMY FORCES IDENTIFIED

    Radar

    Radar is an important part of your enemies defense system, so you will
    have to eliminate every one of these.

    Trucks

    These are not armed, but don`t go too near because they,  as  well  as
    all  the  other  vehicles,  are deadly. Transport trucks usually carry
    enemy soldiers.

    Watchtower

    Watchtowers are located in dangerous places and they are  occupied  by
    crazy  machine-gun  shooters.  Remember  that these guys only exist so
    that they can eliminate as many lives as they can.

    Bunker

    Bunkers are heavily armed installations occupied by gun crews.

    Gunboat

    Armoured gunboats are in use in the jungle areas.  These  mini  patrol
    boats are armed with nasty rapid-fire cannons.

    One Turret Tank

    There are a few diffeent types of tank. A grenade or two usually  does
    the  business  with  these  guys.  The One Turret tank is armed with a
    rotating big calibur gun.

    Double Barrel Tank

    The Double Barrel tank is armed with a high  powered  totating  double
    barrel gun-tower.

    Solid Barrel tank

    The Solid Barrel tank is armed with a solid cannon which always  fires
    in the same direction

    Attack Chopper

    Beware! Choppers are very dangerous in the hands of top pilots and you
    can  bet  that  they will use fast air-to-ground Maverick rockets when
    they locate you.

    Fighter

    Fighters use hot napalm bombs, so you had better keep a safe  distance
    when  the  rain is hitting the ground. Eliminate fighters with rockets
    or rapid fire weapons, such as the M60.

    Soldier

    A member of the local army or group. They have all  the  basic  combat
    skills and are armed with assault rifles.

    Commando

    A soldier of fortune with good combat skills and with a good weapon.

    River Rat

    A  highly  trained former Seal Team member who doesn`t know what death
    means. They often hide in swamps and rivers.

    Sniper

    Can be found in city areas. They are hunting for your head,  so  watch
    out, especially near windows!

    Grenade Soldier

    They  carry  a  huge  set of deadly grenades and they don`t save them.
    When a grenade soldier appears, nobody is safe!

    Bazooka Soldier

    Bazookas will try and blow your head off with their rocket launchers.

    YOUR DEADLY WEAPONS

    You will find new weapons inside stacks of boxes and picking up one of
    these  weapons  activates it. Your current weapon will be shown on the
    weapon indicator. Damage status indicates how effective  the  gun  is.
    Weapons  also  have different fire rates and fire ranges, and you will
    find your favourite weapon by testing them during your missions.

    Desert Eagle Magnum .44

    At the very beginning of each mission you have a standard  high  power
    military  pistol.  The  Desert Eagle 44mag. But remember, your enemies
    are nasty. You will have to find  a  better  weapon  if  you  want  to
    survive.

    Damage Status:LOW Fire Rate:LOW Fire Range:SHORT

    AK-47 Kalashnikov

    This  very  famous  Russian  assault  rifle waa designed originally by
    Mikhail T.Kalashnikov for Soviet Union Armed  Forces.  The  AK-47  has
    become, may be, one of worlds most duplicated and widely used military
    weapons. So, you can be sure that there are many on your way!  The  AK
    offers you a good fire range and superb hit probability.

    Damage Status:LOW Fire Rate:MED Fire Range:LONG

    Isreali UZI Sub-Machine Gun

    The  UZI  submachine  gun  is  a  handful of a weapon, lightweight and
    deadly rapid fire. The fire range is good and  the  bullets  are  9mm.
    UZI`s  are  also  very  reliable and therefore some way that it is the
    best partner for most missions. This may also be true in WatchTower!

    Damage Staus:LOW Fire Rate:HIGH Fire Range:LONG

    M16 Assault Rifle

    The M16 Assault Rifle is a world famous military weapon,  used  widely
    from  the  Vietnam War to Operation Desert Storm. Bullets are 5.56 cal
    and they will blow your enemies head off, if your aim is right.

    Damage Status:MED Fire Rate:MED Fire Range:MED

    M60 Portable Machine Gun

    The M60 General Purpose Machine Gun is a good friend of  yours,  using
    7.62mm  deadly  bullets  and with its excellent range and fire rate it
    offers you a good body count!

    Damage Status:MED Fire Rate:HIGH Fire Range:LONG

    Minigun

    The Minigun is the dream of eevry soldier. With its deadly six barrels
    and  incredibly  effective  fire  rate  of  around 4000 10mm shots per
    minute, you can make your enemies  dance  around.  Even  light-armored
    vehicles  aren`t safe. A short lead shower fom the Minigun will do the
    best job you have ever seen.

    Damage Status:HIGH Fire Rate:HIGH Fire Range:MED

    Flame Thrower

    The Flame Thrower is a handful in short range combat  situations,  you
    can  grill  your  enemies by just pulling the trigger. But beware, the
    smell is awful and screaming zombies are dangerous.

    Damage Status:HIGH Fire Rate:Continuous flame Fire Range:MED

    Rocket Launcher

    With a set of portable infra-red antiarmour  rockets  you  drop  enemy
    choppers, fighters and blow enemy vehicles and bunkers away. Remember,
    the rocket launcher is the deadliest weapon you can find,  but  handle
    it with care or you will blow the entire scenery to oblivion

    Damage Status:HIGH Fire Rate:LOW Fire Range:EXTRA LONG

    Hand Grenades

    High  explosive  particle  hand grenades are your life savers when you
    are head to head with a nasty enemy vehicle, throw one or two and  you
    will see your enemy go down in flames!

    Damage Status:HIGH Fire Rate:ONE AT A TIME Fire Range:MED

    Notice!  Becasue  of  weight,  you can only carry one gun and a set of
    nine grenades. When the player picks up  a  new  weapon,  he/she  will
    automatically get rid of the old one. You will start each mission with
    a pistol, so your current weapon from the previous mission will not be
    available  at  the beginning of the new mission. You will have to find
    and collect new weapons again during each mission.

    USEFUL TACTICS

    Your single philosophy is "one shot, one kill". Remember  that  it  is
    the only way to survive on battlefields.

    Use  buildings,  fences,  trees, boxes and barrelsetc. to protect your
    movements.

    Look around the borders of the game  for  hidden  weapons,  first  aid
    packages, extra lives, etc.

    Keep  an  eye  on enemy vehicles, they are deadly and most are heavily
    armored, so don`t waste your bullets. One or two grenades is enough in
    most cases.

    Beware  of  exploding  enemy bullets, such as bazooka rockets and tank
    bullets. The explosions will cause critical damage to you.

    Watch out for land mine installations and don`t dance over them.  Play
    with  a  good  tactic.  Enemy  soldiers will also die when stepping on
    mines or getting hit by their own exploding bullets shot by tanks  and
    air forces.

    There  are also choppers and fighters in the air. They will track you,
    so don`t freeze. You can try shooting them down using  your  gun,  but
    even better launch a rocket or two if you carry a rocket launcher, and
    thats it!

    Watchtower is in fact a bit of a tactical game.  You  will  soon  find
    your  own  tactics  to  go forward. As in real battle situations it is
    better to take one enemy at a time, else you are in big trouble.

    Look out for different routes. There are a lot of places where you can
    choose  between  two  or  more  different routes. Beware, the shortest
    route isn`t always the easiest.

    Neutralize three enemy soldiers within three seconds and you  will  be
    rewarded with a 5000 bonus! Both players will get bonuses, so teamwork
    counts.

    HONOURS AND MEDALS

    Your heroism will be rewarded by several medals of United States Armed
    Forces. Receiving a medal is always a great honour.

    Medal Of Honour

    For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of  life,  above
    and  beyond the call of duty, in action involving actual conflict with
    an opposing armed force.

    Legion Of Merit

    For exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of oustanding
    services.

    Silver Star

    For gallantry in action against an opposing armed force.

    Bronze Star

    For  heroic  or  meritorious achievement of service in connection with
    operations against an opposing armed force.

    Distinguished Service Cross

    For extraordinary  heroism  in  connection  with  military  operations
    against an opposing armed force.

    United Nations Medal

    Awarded  to  personel for not less than six months service with one of
    the following United Nations` units: U.N. Observers Group in  Lebanon;
    U.N.  Truce  Supervision  Organization  in  Palestine;  U.N.  Military
    Observers Group in India and Pakistan.

    Puple Heart

    Awarded for wounds or death as result of an act of an  opposing  armed
    force.


    Typed by iGGY / HF 20/3/96