                 Where In the U.S.A. Is Carmen Sandiego?

And you were dreaming of palm trees and sunshine ...

8 a.m., a miserable, stormy morning.  After an hour-long commute in the
pouring rain, you slosh into the Acme Detective Agency, grunt hello to your
secretary, pour yourself a cup of scalding coffee and slump at your desk.
It's been a tough year.  The only thing good about it is that you've earned
a vacation and you're scheduled to leave at 5 p.m. today.  You take a swig
of coffee and grab a travel brochure from your desk.  Visions of sandy
beaches, swaying palms, and cool blue waters fill your head.

Suddenly, you're snapped back to reality by a newspaper slammed down on
your desk.  "Read it and weep," a voice growls.  Matt Brannigan, a
beefy-faced lunk and one of the agency's top men, is looking down at you
with a twisted grin.

You scan the headlines and your heart skips a beat.  You can't believe your
eyes:  Carmen Sandiego has escaped from the toughest prison in Europe!

"The Chief has cancelled all vacations and put everyone on 24-hours-a-day
alert," your colleague says.  "We've got it on good authority that Carmen's
headed for the U.S.A. with the worst gang of thugs and criminals ever
assembled.  No one rests until she's behind bars again!"

As you slam dunk your now worthless travel brochure into the metal trask
basket beside your desk, you can't help but wonder at Carmen's timing in
re-establishing her Villain's International League of Evil (V.I.L.E.) in
the U.S.A.  Why couldn't she have waited?  Just a few hours more and it
wouldn't have been your problem.  Grimly, you gather your trench coat
around you and head for the door.

"Maybe you'll get to see a bit of the country during this caper," your
fellow detective offers as you head for the door. "Yeah," he chuckles,
"just think of the while thing as one big vacation - it'll make it easier."

				3

Getting Started

Macintosh
For two disk drives:
-------------------
Turn on your computer.  Insert both disks of WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN
SANDIEGO? into their respective disk drives.  Double-click the Carmen USA
icon when it appears on the screen.  The program will load itself into your
computer and an animated title sequence will appear.  Click the moust
button to stop the animation and begin the game.

For one disk drive:
------------------
Turn on your computer.  Insert Disk 1 of WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN
SANDIEGO? into your disk drive.  Double-click the Carmen USA icon when it
appears on the screen.  After the program loads into memory, the disk will
automatically be ejected from the disk drive.  When prompted to insert Disk
2, insert WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO? Disk 2 into the disk
drive.  At this time you will be prompted to swap disks; follow the
instructions on the screen.  The program will load itself into your
computer and an animated title sequence will appear.  Click the mouse
button to stop the animation and begin the game.

Apple IIgs
For two disk drives:
-------------------
Insert both disks of WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO? into their
respective disk drives.  Turn on your computer.  Double-click the
Carmen.USA program icon when it appears on the screen.  The program will
load itself inot your computer and an animated title sequence will appear. 
Click the mouse button to stop the animation and begin the game.

For one disk drive:
------------------
Insert Disk 1 of WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO? into your disk
drive.  Turn on your computer.  Double-click the Carmen.USA program icon
when it appears on the screen.  At this time you will be prompted to swap
disks; follow the instructions on the screen.  After the program has loaded
itself into the

				4

computer, an animated title sequence will appear.  Click the mouse button
to stop the animation and begin the game..

Note: The program requires ROM version 1.0 or higher.

Amiga
For two disk drives:
-------------------
Turn on your computer.  Amiga 1000 users will have to insert the Kickstart
disk before continuing.  When the Workbench disk is requested, insert the
WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO? Disk 1 into the internal drive and
isnert Disk 2 into your external disk drive.  Double-click the disk icon
named Carmen USA and then double-click the Carmen USA program icon when it
appears on the screen.  The program will load itself into your computer and
an animated title sequence will appear.  Click the mouse button to stop the
animation and begin the game.

For one disk drive:
------------------
Turn on your computer.  Amiga 1000 users will have to insert the Kickstart
disk before continuing.  When the Workbench disk is requested, insert Disk
1 of WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO? into your disk drive. 
Double-click the disk icon named Carmen USA and then double-click the
Carmen USA program icon when it appears on the screen.  At this time you
will be prompted to swap disks; follow the instructions on the screen.  The
program will load itself into your computer and an animated title sequence.
Click the mouse button to stop the animation and begin the game.

Installing the Program on a Hard Disk

WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO? uses key disk copy protection. 
This allows you to enjoy the convenience and speed of keeping a working
copy on your hard disk.  When you first start a new session with WHERE IN
THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO? you wil be prompted to briefly insert your
Carmen USA master disk into a floppy drive.

				5

Macinstosh

Turn on your computer and, if necessary, your hard disk.  Click the icon
for your hard disk to open the hard disk window.  Create a new folder by
choosing New Folder from the File menu.  Rename the folder Carmen USA. 
Insert the Carmen USA Disk 1 into your Machintosh.  Drag the Carmen USA
icon and the folder named Carmen USA Music from the Carmen USA Disk 1
window over the folder named Carmen USA on the hard disk.  A dialog box
will appear showing the progress of the copy process.  When it is complete,
eject the Carmen USA Disk 1 by dragging its icon over the Trach icon.

Now insert the Carmen USA Disk 2 into the Macintosh.  Drag the folder named
Carmen USA Graphics from the Carmen USA Disk 2 over to the folder named
Carmen USA on the hard disk.  A dialog box will appear showing the progress
of the copy process.  When it is complete, eject the Carmen USA Disk 2 by
dragging its icon over the Trash icon.

Apple IIgs

Turn on your computer and hard disk.  Double-click the icon for your hard
disk to open the hard disk window.  Create a new folder by choosing New
Folder from the File menu.  Rename the folder Carmen.USA by choosing Rename
from the File MENU.  Insert WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO? Disk 1
into your internal disk drive.  When the disk window appears on the
desktop, single-click the Carmen.USA program icon then hold down the shift
key and single-click the Carmen.USAData1 folder.  Drag the two icons across
the desktop until they cover the Carmen.USA folder icon on your hard disk
drive.  The program and folder will be copied onto your hard disk.

When the copy is complete, eject Disk 1 by pressing the button on the disk
drive.  Insert Disk 2 and drag the Carmen.USAData2 folder across the
desktop until it covers the Carmen.USA folder icon on your hard disk drive.
The folder will be copied onto your hard disk.  Open the folder on Disk 2
named Icons.

				6

Drag the icon across the desktop to the folder named Icons that is on your
hard drive.  Copying the icon for WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO?
to your hard drive will allow the Apple IIgs to show the Carmen.USA icon
instead of the generic application icon that you normally see.

Amiga

Turn on your computer and hard disk.  For those hard drives that are not
auto-booting, use your own Workbench boot disk when starting your machine. 
Double-click the icon for your hard drive to open the hard disk window. 
Create a new drawer by single-clicking on the Empty drawer icon on your
hard disk and then choosing Duplicate from the Workbench menu.  Rename the
new drawer, which will now be named Copy of Empty, by single-clicking it
and selecting Rename from the Workbench menu.  Rename the drawer Carmen
USA.  Insert Carmen USA Disk 1 into your floppy disk drive.  Double-click
the Carmen USA Disk 1 icon.  Drag the drawer icon named Carmen USA Data 1
and the program icon named Carmen USA from the floppy disk to the new
drawer on your hard drive.  When the copy is complete, eject Disk 1 by
pressing the button on the disk drive.  Insert Carmen USA Disk 2 from this
floppy disk to the new drawer on your hard drive.

Double-click the Font Mover 1.1 icon.  Click the gadget (DF0: or DF1:)
where the Carmen USA program disk is located.  This will display the three
fonts to be copied.  Click the gadget for the destination to which the Font
Mover should copy all of the fonts on the Carmen USA program disk.  You
should select the font directory on your hard drive or the font directory
on the Workbench floppy disk that you usually start up your Amiga with.

Hold down the left mouse button and drag the cursor across the fonts that
you want to copy to the destination directory.  You should select all three
fonts on the Carmen USA disk.  The fonts highlighted will be copied to the
destination directory.

				7


Click the Copy gadget to initiate the copy procedure.  After the Font Mover
has finished the copy, click the Close gadget in the upper left hand corner
of the Font Mover window.

Using Expanded Memory

Amiga

If you have one megabyte or more of memory you can run WHERE IN THE U.S.A.
IS CARMEN SANDIEGO? faster by telling the program to use more memory.  The
program will use about 512K additional memory.  To run the program using
additional memory you will need to change the N to a Y in the tool types of
the Carmen USA program icon.

Single-click on the Carmen USA program icon.  The icon should now be
highlighted.

Go the the menu bar and place the pointer over the word Workbench.  Press
the right mouse button and select Info from the pull-down menu.

The info window will appear with Carmen USA in the Name box.  Toward the
bottom of the Info window, a box will say:
	TOOLTYPE  BIGMEM=N
Change the N to a Y for YES.  Click the Save gadget at the bottom of the
Info window.  The change will be saved and the Info window will close.

The program will now run with additional data in memory.  Should there be
too little memory for the program to run with BIGMEN=Y, an alert will
appear when you try to run the program.  If you see the message, "Not
enough memory!" go back into the Info window and set BIGMEN=N.

                                8

One Last Note: Carmen USA is designed to run from your Workbench.  There
are two keyboard commands that you might find valuable.  The "A" shown
below refers to the Amiga key to the left of the spacebar.  By holding down
the Amiga key and pressing the "n" or "m" you will achieve the following
results:  
A + n: bring the Workbench forward
A + m: send the Workbench to the back

Using the Program

Macintosh and Apple IIgs

Except for entering your name into the Acme Crime Computer, your keyboard
need not be used at all when playing WHERE IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN
SANDIEGO?  However, if you enjoy using the keyboard, you may press the
Return key instead of clicking the mouse whenever you see the prompt,
"Please click here to contineu."  In addition, you may type in Y for Yes
and N for No instead of clicking the mouse on the appropriate button.  You
may also simply press the Return key to signify a Yes response.

Amiga

Whenever you see the prompt, "Please click here to continue," you must
click the left mouse button or hit Return.  The menu bar is hidden while
playing the game.  In order to see the menu options and make a selection,
click the right moust button to display the menu bar.  Drag the mouse while
holding down the right mouse button until the desired menu item is
highlighted, then release the right mouse button.

				9

Signing In

To get your assignment, you first need to sign in.  Type your name into the
Crime Computer and then press Return.  Once you've signed in, you'll be
given the details of your assignment.  These include the treasure that has
been stolen, whether the thief is male or female, and your deadline for
arresting the criminal.  When you're ready to begin, click the mouse button
and you'll be off on the trail of the thief!

Resuming a Saved Game

If a game has been previously saved under the name you type into the Crime
Computer, you will be asked if you want to resume that game.  If you do,
the Crime Computer will refresh your memory on the state of the game as you
left it.  If you don't resume the saved game, it will be lost when a new
game is begun under the same name.  A game in progress will be
automatically saved when you Quit from the File menu.

Briefing

The villain you're after is hiding out in a city in one of the 50 states or
in the District of Columbia (Washington, D.C.).  He or she has left clues
along the way, though.  These clues can point to either the city itself or
to the state where the city is located.

Carmen's gang has 16 members, including Carmen herself.  Any one of them
could be the villain, although Carmen is generally more elusive - and
smarter - than the rest of the V.I.L.E. gang.

Clues to the identity of the thief will be given as you pursue the culprit
from city to city.  You'll log these clues into the Crime Computer.  When
the identity of the suspect has been estab-

				10

lished, the Computer will issue an arrest warrant.  Obtaining a warrant is
very important!  If you don't have one, you won't be able to arrest the
thief once you catch up with him or her.

During the search you can use the Police Dossiers menu to view the
individual crime file for any of the suspects.  Additional information about
the suspects can be found in Carmen's secret Scrapbook - a stolen copy of
which just happens to have fallen into your hands.

You begin at the bottom of the detective ranks, but as you prove yourself,
promotions will come your way.  Persevers, catch the crooks, and you'll
climb your way up through the ranks - 10 in all - to reach Super Sleuth
status.  Even then, you'll add Special Commendations to your record if you
continue to crack cases.

To track down the villain and solve the case, you'll need your own quick
thinking and hard-nosed investigative skills, plus the Crime Computer, the
special (included) Map of the United States, Fodor's USA travel guide, and
your own purloined copy of Carmen's secret Scrapbook.

You have only a limited amount of time to solve each case before the
villain gives you the slip.  Watch the clock and note the deadline
indicated by the Crime Computer at the beginning of each game.

Hot on the Trail

Your starting point is the city where the villain (who has just swiped a
valuable state treasure) was last seen.

Refer to your official Map of the United States to check locations by city
and state so you'll know where you are and where you're going.

				11

The upper-left portion of the screen always gives you your present
location, the day of the week, and the time.

Be sure to read the descriptions of the city and state that appear on the
screen.  These contain valuable information that may be useful in solving
later cases.  Hint:  Take the time to jot some of this information down. 
You'll be glad you did!

Tools of the Trade

The icons on the lower right corner of the screen help you track down and
identify the villain.  The menus across the top of the screen provide
useful information about both gang members and crimefighters.

The Icons

Show

Clicking this icon will show a list of all the possible destinations
reached by connecting flights from your present location.  It's a good idea
to check this first to see where the thief might have gone.  Clicking the
mouse on the icon a second time will remove the list from the screen.

	Note:  If you double-click one of the listed destinations
	you will immediately travel to that location.  This provides
	a shortcut alternative to clicking the Depart icon described
	below.

				12

?

Clicking this icon lets you unearth clues so you can track the suspect to
the next destination.  A window will be displayed containing three specific
locations for you to investigate.  Simply click the one that you want.

Visit as many or as few locations as you wish, but remember that the more
investigating you do, the more valuable time you lose.  Use Fodor's USA
travel guide to help unravel the clues you turn up.

DEPART

Clicking this icon lets you depart for the city of your choice once you're
ready to take off after the suspect.  A map will be displayed on the screen
with a blinking dot at your current location.  Simply click the city to
which you want to travel.  Remember, though, that travel takes up lots of
valuable time, so don't wander from state to state unnecessarily.

CRIME
COMPUTER

When you think you have enough clues to identify the criminal, click this
icon and the Crime Computer will be displayed.  The Crime Computer lists
various identifying characteristics on its screen.  Click each
characteristic repeatedly to cycle through the available choices.

				13

When the characterisitcs you want are displayed, click Compute and the
Crime Computer will search through all known facts about each possible
suspect.  A warrant will not be issued if the characteristics fit more than
one suspect, instead, the names of all possible suspects will be displayed.
You'll have to gather more clues before a warrant will be issued.

Remember, you must have an arrest warrant to nab the thief once you catch
up with him or her.

To return to the search, click the crime computer.

The Menus

The Police Dossiers menu contains a crime file on each member of Carmen
Sandiego's gang.  The files contain identifying characteristics of each
gang member.

The Game menu contains the Hall of Fame which lists all the crimefighters
who have managed to attain Acme's top detective rank of Super Sleuth by
capturing Carmen Sandiego herself.  This menu also contains the Acme
Detective Roster which provides a list of all crimefighters, their current
rank, and number of cases solved.

The File menu allows you to begin a new game by selecting New Game.  Your
old game will be lost when you do this.  Selecting Quit from the File menu
lets you leave the program.  The current game, if a game is in progress,
will be saved automatically when you select Quit.

The Edit menu is not used in the Macintosh and Apple IIgs versions of WHERE
IN THE U.S.A. IS CARMEN SANDIEGO?  It is provided only so that you can use
it with Desk Accessories.

				14

Investigative Pointers

You know you're on the right track when you see a suspicious person or
occurrence on your screen.  That's because the real villain stays in hiding
and has a crony check you out.

The closer you get to the villain the more dangerous your situation
becomes.  Beware of deadly missiles - they mean you're closing in on your
suspect and things are getting hot!

Don't waste time using the Crime Computer too often or investigating for
too long at each location.  Use Carmen's secret Scrapbook to pin down the
villain's identity and your Fodor's USA travel guide to reveal the
villain's route - if you use your head you'll advance faster than fellow
detectives who do nothing but play their hunches.

Be sure you have an arrest warrant by the time you catch up with the
villain.  If you don't have a warrant, you can't make an arrest and the
thief will slip through your fingers.  And make sure you warrant is for the
correct suspect - otherwise you could be in hot water with the Chief for
risking a charge of false arrest!

Every case you're assigned is different.  When you begin a new assignment,
you'll start at a new city, look for a new stolen treasure, and follow a new
suspect over a new route with new clues.

As you advance through the ranks, you'll get assigned to tougher cases,with
difficult clues to unravel and a longer trail to follow.

If you reach the top of the ranks and have earned all the Special
Commendations you can before mandatory retirement, you can always get back
in action by using an assumed name when you sign in.  This is a smart move.
 After all, your real name may be on Carmen's hit list!

				15

Carmen's Scrapbook - Your Own Stolen Treasure

Lucky for you, the Acme Detective Agency has managed to purloin Carmen's
own secret Scrapbook.  In it, Carmen has collected mementos and information
about every member of her gang.  You can use this information to identify
the V.I.L.E. villain you're looking for in your current case.  For example,
if Carmen notes that one of her henchman's (or henchwoman's) favorite
snacks is tacos, you'll know that the villain's food preference is Tex/Mes
(a category in the Crime Computer).  Clues about Carmen are found in the
Scrapbook, too.  But like Carmen herself, these clues are elusive.  You'll
have to use all your detecting skills as you sift through the Scrapbook
trying to identify this arch-villain's intersts, hobbies, etc.

Travels with Fodor's - The Smart Way to Catch a Thief

Your most important investigative tool is your Fodor's USA travel guide. 
Here you'll find information about all 50 states and the District of
Columbia that will help you stay hot on the villain's trail.

Here's how to use your Fodor's USA guide:  Let's say you investigate and
get information that the suspect wanted to visit Cape Canaveral.  To figure
out where the clue is leading, you would take the following steps:

1. Use Show Connections and your special Map of the United States to figure
out in which states your current connecting cities are located.  Your
connections might include Miami, Annapolis, Helena, and Wilmington.  By
looking at the map, you'll find that Miami is in Florida, Annapolis is in
Maryland, Helena is in Montana, and Wilmington is in Delaware.

				16

2.  Now look in Fodor's for information on these states.  The first place
to look is in the Index at the back of the book.  The index is organized in
alphabetical order.  Sometimes you'll find the information you're looking
for in the Index and you won't have to look any further.

In this caes, when you read through the itens listed under Florida, you'll
find a listing for "Cape Canaveral" under the major heading "Geographical."
 (You'll also find it listed under the major heading "Practical
Information," under the sub-heading "Tours.")  Now you know that the
villain has headed for Florida, so grab your suntan lotion and hop the next
flight for Miami.

Some clues are harder to figure out and you'll need to scan the section for
the state itself.  To do this:

A.  Turn to the section of Fodor's devoted to the state you want to check
out.  You can find the correct page by looking up the state in the Index or
in the Table of Contents (the Table of Contents is at the front of the book
and is organized by graphic regions).

B.  When you've turned to the section for the state, take a look at the
state map (included in each section).  You'll find the answers to some
clues right on the map.

C.  If you don't find the answer on the map, scan the section headings
(printed in darker type).  You'll find the answers to some clues contained
in these headings.  For example, in the section on Illinois, one of the
headings is "Land of Lincoln."  If one of the clues you've been given is
that the thief is doing research on Lincoln, then it's a good bet that he
or she is heading for Illinois.

				17

D.  Sometimes you'll have to dig further.  You'll notice that the sections
for each state list such tings as Museums, Historic Sites, Entertainment,
and Sports.  Check these sections for answers.  For example, you may have
learned that the villain plans to visit an infamous Confederate prison, and
one of the possible connections is in Georgia.  If you look in the section
on Georgia, under the category Historic Sites, you'll find that prison -
Andersonville.

E.  Some clues are buried even deeper.  You may have to read through the
text for each state or check the general articles - The Arts in America,
Distinctive American Vacations, etc. - at the beginning of the book.  Also,
remember to read the state descriptions - and note the pictures - that
appear on the screen.  Some clues are contained in these.

A Final Hint

Don't hesitate to use other reference books you may have on had.  The
biographical and geographical sections of a dictionary may be helpful, as
wlel as an enclyclopedia, a map, or an Almanac.  Use whatever you can to
help you unravel the clues, save time, catch the crooks, and earn those
promotions!

					18
=============================================================================
Where In the U.S.A. Is Carmen Sandiego? docs are brought to you by The
Southern Star for M.A.A.D.
