Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?

The Chase is On...
Moday, 5 a.m.  A ringing sound jars you awake.  You grope for the 
phone and drop the receiver on the floor.  Out of the darkness 
comes the voice, of the chief:  "Wake up, kid.  Got an assignment 
for you."

You stumble out of bed, utrn on the lfight and grab your brand 
new detective's notebook.

"Just got a call from Interpol, "says the chief. "Looks like 
Carmen's gang has pulled another caper."

"Any leads?" you ask.

"Not with this bunch.  They're too slick.  Can't give you any 
more details on the phone.  Better get down to the office double 
quick.  It's going to be a rough one."

"Right, chief."

As your trembling hand replaces the phone on its cradle, you 
wonder why you ever got into this line of work.  Before this 
morning, Carmen Sandiego and her Villains' International League 
of Evil (or V.I.L.E.) were just sensational headlines in the 
newpaper.  For more than five years, Carmen and her gang of 
felons had managed to stock pile the world's most valuable 
treasure, hwil outwitting every so-called "crime expert" from New 
York to Sydney.  Now they've struck again.  And you, the newest 
employee of the Acme Detecitve Angency, have been given the 
near0impossible assignment of tracking them down.

Good luck!

GETTING STARTED
Loading the Program

Turn on your computer.  Insert the WHERE IN THE WORLD IS CARMEN 
SANDIEGO? program disk into the disk drive (Amiga 1000 users will 
have to insert the Kickstart disk first).  Double-click on the 
disk icon, then on the "Carmen World" icon when it appears on the 
workbench.  The program will load itself into your computer and 
an animated title sequence will appear.  Click the left mouse 
button to stop the animation and begin the game.

Installing the Program on a Hard Disk:

All files must be copied to the hard drive using the CLI.  See 
your Amiga computer manual or the "Read me first" file on your 
program disk for more information about this procedure.

Using the Program
Except for entering your name into the Acme Crime Computer, your 
keyobard need not be used at all when playing WHERE IN THE WORLD 
IS CARMEN SANDIEGO?.  However, if you enjoy using the keyboard, 
you may press the Return key instead of clicking the mouse 
whenever you see the prompt, "Please, click here to continue."  
In addition, you may type in Y for Yes and N for No instead of 
clicking the mouse on the appropriate button.  You may also 
simply press the RETURN key to signify a "Yes" response.

Amiga Note:  Whenever you see the prompt, "Please click here to 
contineu, "you must click the left mouse button or hit Return.  
The menu bar is hidden while palying the game.  In order to see 
the menu options and make a selection, click the right mouse 
button.

To Catch a Thief

Signing-in
The investigation begins at the Acme Detective Agency.  your home 
base.  Type your name into the Crime Computer and then press 
Return.  Once you've signed in, the Acme Crime Comptuer will 
display your current rank as a dectective and give you the 
details of your assignment.  These include what treasure has been 
stolen, where it was stolen from, whether the thief is a male or 
female, and your deadline for arresting the criminal.  When 
you're read to continue, simply click the mouse or press Return 
and you're on your way.

Resuming a Saved Game
If a game has been previously saved under the name you type into 
the Crime Computer, you will be asked if you want to resume that 
game.  If you do, the Crime Computer will refresh your memory on 
the state of the game as you left it.  If you don't resume the 
saved game, it will be lost when a new game is begun under the 
same name.  For information on how to save a game see the File 
menu, page 8 under "The Menus".  To speed the scrolling text, 
simply press the F1 key.

Your Assignment
The thief is hiding out in one of 30 cities.  Your job is to 
track him or her down, using clues you unearth along the way.  
Clues can lead to the city itself or the country in which the 
city is located.

Clues to the identity of the thief will be given to you as you 
pursue the villain from city to city.  You'll log these clues 
into the Crime Computer.  When the identity of the suspect has 
been established, the Computer will issue an arrest warrant.

Obtaining a warrant is very important.  If you don't have one, 
you won't be able to arrest the thief once you catch up with him 
or her.

There are 10 possible suspects, any one of whom could be the 
thief.  Carmen Sandiego is the most elusive of the lot.  During 
your search, the Police Dossiers menu allows you to select the 
individual crime file for any of the suspects.  The crime files 
are also available at the end of this manual in a slightly 
different form.

As a new detective, you begin at the Rookie level.  As your 
investigative skills improve, you climb your way up through the 
ranks - five levels in all - until you reach Ace Detective.  The 
higher your rank, the tougher the case you'll be assigned.

The Crime Computer, THE WORLD ALMANAC AND BOOK OF FACTS, and the 
Police Dossiers will all be useful in unraveling clues.

Work quickly.  You have only a limited amount of time to solve 
the case.  The Crime Computer will let you know what your 
deadline is.

BEGINNING THE SEARCH
Your starting point is the scene of the crime - the city where 
the thief swiped the treasure.  You should refer to your Official 
interpol Map (in this manual, pages 10 and 11) to orient yourself 
geographically after arrriving at this city or any of your 
subsequent destinations.

The main screen always gives your present location and tells you 
what time it is and hwat day of the week it is.  As you arrive in 
each new city, be sure to read the descriptions that appear on 
the screen.  The description contain information that will be 
useful in pursuing Carmen and her gang.  The pictures themselves 
- notable landmarks or typical scenes from that country - may 
also come in handy.

TOOLS OF THE TRADE
The icons in the lower right of the main screen provide the means 
to locate and arrest your suspect.

The menus across the top of the screen provide useful information 
about both gang members and crimefighters.

THE ICONS
Clicking of this icon will show a list of all the possible 
destinations readhed by conneycting flights from your present 
location.

It's a good idea to do this first to see where the thief might 
have gone.  Clicking the mouse on the icon a second time will 
hide the list from the screen.

NOTE:  If you double-click on one of the listed destinations you 
will immediately travel to that location.  This provides a 
shorcut alternative to clicking on the "Depart" icon described 
below.

Clicking on this icon lets you unearth clues within each city so 
you can track the suspect to the next destination.  A window will 
be displayed containing three specific locations for you to 
investigate.  Simply click on the one you desire.

Visit as many or as few locations as you wish, but remember that 
the more investigating you do, the move valuable time you lose.  
Use THE WORLD ALMANAC to help unravel the clues you dig up.

Clicking on this icon lets yo udepart for the city of your choice 
once you're ready to take off after the suspect.  A map will be 
displayed on the screen with a blinking dot at your current 
location.  Simply click on the city to which you want to travel.

When you think you've gathered enough clues to idenify the 
criminal, click on this icon and the interpol Crime Computer will 
be displayed.  The Crime Computer lists various identifying 
characteristics on its screen.  Click on each characteristic 
repeatedly to cycle through the available choices.

When the characteristics you want are displayed, click on 
"Compute" and the Crime Computer will search through all known 
facts about each possible suspect.  A warrant will be issued if 
the characteristics you entered into the Crime Computer fit the 
profile of only one suspect.  If the characteristics fit more 
than one  suspect, the names of all possible suspects will be 
displayed.  In this case you'll have to gather more clues before 
a warrant will be issued.  To return to the search, click on any 
icon below the Crime Computer.

The Menus
The Police Dossiers menu contains a crime file on each of the 
members of the Carmen Sandiego gang.  Each file contains the 
identifying characteristics of a particular criminal.

The Game menu contains the Hall of Fame which lists all the 
crimefighters that have managed to capture Carmen Sandiego 
herself.  The menu also contains the Acme Detective Roster which 
provides a list of all crimefighters and their current rank.

The File menu allows you to begin a new game by selecting New 
Game.  Your old game will be lost when you do this.  Selecting 
Quit from the File menu lets you leave the program.  After 
selecting Quit the current game, if a game is in progress, will 
automatically be saved.

The Edit menu is not used at all in Where in the World is Carmen 
Sandiego.  It is provided only so that you can use it with the 
Macintosh and the Apple IIGS Desk Accesories.

USING THE WORLD ALMANAC
Your most important investigative tool is THE WORLD ALAMANAC.  
Here you'll find information about nations of the world plus 
other facts you'll need to catch your suspect.  Start at the 
index, located in the front (not the back) of the book to find 
the country or other subject in question.  Remember:  Clues may 
point to either the connecting cities or other locations within 
those countries.

Examples for Using the World Almanac
What country uses keroner as its currency?
1.   Check your conneyctions to find out which cities the thief 
might have fled to.  The possible connections could be Montreal, 
London and Osla.

2.  Check your Official Interpol Map to identify the countries 
where each city is located.  You'll find Montreal in Canada, 
London in the United Kingdom and Osla in Norway.

3.  Locate these countries in the index and turn to the 
appropriate pages.

4.  By looking under "Finance: Currency" in the section 
describing each country, you'll dicover that the kroner is used 
in Norway, the dollar in Canada and the pound in the United 
Kingdom.  Looks like Norway is where you should head!

Where does the King cobra live?
1.  Again, first check your connections, then use your Official 
Interpol Map to identify the countries where these cities are 
located.

2.  Think of the general category in the World Almanac where yo 
umight find information about king cobras - in this case, snakes.

3.  Look up "Snakes" in the index, and turn to the appropriate 
page.

4.  Find "King Cobra" under "Snakes."  From the description, you 
now know that its home is South Asia.  If one of the connecting 
citeis were Bangkok, the capitol of the Southeast Asian nation of 
Thailand, this city would be a good place to go!

Sleuthful Hints
The thief cleverly stays in hiding, and orders a crony to check 
you out.  When you see a suspicious person run across the screen, 
you know you're on the right track.

No thief worth his or her salt gives up without a fight.  The 
closer you get, the more dangerous your situation becomes.

Use the Crime Computer sparingly or you'll use up valuable hours.  
And don't waste time playing tourist or aimlessly crisscrossing 
the globe.  Instead, use the World Almanac to decipher clues and 
keep your investigation time down.

Be sure you've been issued an arrest warrant by the Crime 
Computer before you catch up with the thief.  If you don't have a 
warrant, issued for the correct suspect, you can't make an arrest 
and the thief will slip through your fingers.

Every case is different.  Whenever you begin a new assignment, 
you start at a new city.  You'll be looking for a new stolen 
treasure, and a new suspect.

If you've reached the top of the detective ranks and have been 
retired, you can get back on the job by picking an assumed name.  
Your real name could be on a hit list!

CLASSIFIED:
For Official Detective and Police Use Only.

Police Dossiers

The following information has been gleaned from Interpol's files 
and our field agents.  While brief, these descriptions may 
contain valuable clues to be used in tracking down and 
identifying members of the V.I.L.E. organization.

NAME:
Carmen Sandiego

OCCUPATION:  A former spy for the Intelligence Service of Monaco.

MISCELLANEOUS:  Carmen Sandiego (known to the inner circle as 
"Buffy") is reported to be an agent, double agent, triple agent 
and quadruple agent for so many countries that even she has 
forgotten which one she is working for.  The auburn-haired 
founder of the Villains' International Legion of Evil (V.I.L.E.) 
has recruited the most cunning and resourceful band of thieves in 
history.  During her years as a Monacan secret agent, she 
generally posed as a tennis pro and always traveled to and from 
the matches in her 1939 Packard convertible.  Carmen has a 
fondness for tacos and never appears in public without her famous 
ruby necklace "The Moon of Moldavia."

NAME:
Merey LaRoc

OCCUPATION:  Ms. LaRoc is a freelance aerobic dancer.

MISCELLANEOUS:  For the past five years, this brunette beauty has 
been traveling around the world with a mobile health spa to 
conduct exercise classes for the extremely wealthy.  Rumor has it 
that this is merely a cover for her criminal activities.  When 
she isn't pilfering the treasures of the world, Merey can usually 
be found participating in the good life.  A world class mountain 
climber, she has a mania for fancy jewelry and spicy foods.  Her 
favoite mode of travel is in the back of a fancy limousine where 
she can relax and plot her next job.

NAME:
Dazzle Annie Nonker

OCCUPATION:
Proprietress of the toughest yogurt bar east of Suez.

MISCELLANEOUS:  Born sole heir to the fortune of the shoelack 
king, Baron Franz von Nonker, Annie was quickly disinherited when 
she ran off with a Croation tennis pro.  Cast adrift when she 
failed to make the cut for the Davis Cup mixed doubles, she was 
forced to live only by her wits and the paltry $3,000,000 she had 
been able to save out of her allowance.  With this modest 
windfall and her innate grit, the blond bombshell was able to 
open Chez Acidophilus.  Frequented by the dregs of humanity, Chez 
Acidoplilus has become the headquarters for V.I.L.E.  Annie is 
rumored to have a tattoo and craving for shellfish.  She is known 
to drive a Bugatti limousine.

NAME:
Lady Agatha Wayland

OCCUPATION:
A colorful character with a predilection for sensible shoes, Lady 
Agatha is a reader of mystery stories set in upper-class English 
drawing rooms.

MISCELLANEOUS:  Lady Agatha has no ability at solving murder 
cases but is very interested in amassing great wealth.  A 
compulsive lawbreaker, she loves to exceed the speed lmit in her 
Denghby super-chauvinist speedster.  Red tresses streaming in the 
open air, she drives through the countryside looking for great 
Mexican restaurants.  An avid sportswoman, Lady Agatha has been 
know to pick up a few extra dollars on weekends trouncing 
unsuspecting locals or the local tennis courts.  She is reported 
to have a diamond ring the size of a small grapefruit stolen from 
the Royal Treasury of Graustark.

NAME:
Len "Red" Bulk

OCCUPATION:  Ex-professional hockey player and compulsive 
gambler, Len was barred for life from playing when he was caught 
trying to bribe himself.

MISCELLANEOUS:  Bitter and unemployed, Bulk was forced to turn to 
crime in order to support his gambling habit.  He swears he will 
quit just as soon as he "winds the big one."  Because of an 
unfortunate habit of blocking toom many shots with his head, Len 
will occasionally think he is a Big Horn sheep and begin climbing 
the nearest peak.  Cannot fit into any car that has a top, loves 
seafood and tries to impress strangers by showing them the tattoo 
of a mermain on the thumb of his right hand.

NAME:  
Scar Graynolt

OCCUPATION:  Scar plays the role of a mild-mannered folk 
guitarist, while in reality, he is a complete plug-ugly.

MISCELLANEOUS:  Graynolt made a fortune selling reflective 
headbands to Scandinavian baskerball teams to allow them to play 
outdoor games for the first time during the winter months.  A 
super athlete, Scar plays killer croquet for money.  One of his 
prize possessions if a five-carat pinky ring he won from Ihor 
Ihorovitch in a marathon match that lasted three days.  Rarely 
seen in public, he rides around in a limousine with shaded 
windows with his trusted man-servant, a 6'8" sherpa, as his only 
companion.  He is said to have red hair.

NAME:
Nick Brunch

OCCUPATION:  Hard-boiled ex-private eye, ear, and nose and 
throat.

MISCELLANEOUS:  The only things that interest Nick are fast cars 
and faster women.  He'll never turn down a caper that permits him 
to live in the fast lane.  An avid mountain climber, Brunch was 
last seen roaring through an Alpine village on his Kamikaze-1250 
motorcycle.  He generally wears a soiled trenchcoat, snap-brimmed 
fedora and sports a Dick Tracy Crimefighter's ring on his left 
hand.  A close friend of Scar Graynolt, they share a common 
interest in Mexican Food.  Brunch has black hair, brown eyes and 
a seedy mustache.

NAME:
Fast Eddie B.

OCCUPATION:  A world class croquet player, he always carries his 
custom-made set of mallets in the trunk of his convertible.

MISCELLANEOUS:  Gentleman theif and society cat burglar, Fast 
Eddie mixes easily with the jet set and can usually be oufnd at 
one of People Magazine's top 10 play-grounds for the rich.  
Impeccably groomed at all times, he once fought a duel with a 
waiter in his favorite Mexican restaurant who spilled a drop of 
hot sauce on his white linen suit.  His most famous crime was the 
theft of a damask tablecloth.  Posing as a waiter, Fast Eddie 
removed it from the table during a state dinner for the 
Ambassador without spilling a deop or breaking a plate.  In fact, 
the theft wasn't even noticed until dessert was served.  This 
raven-haired criminal master-mind always leaves a diamond 
stickpin at the scene of the crime as his trademark.

NAME
Ihor Ihorovitch

OCCUPATION:  Pretender to the Czarist throne and a lot of other 
things, too.  Ihorovitch has an amazing ability to disappear from 
sight for varying amounts of time.

MISCELLANEOUS:  He seems to have a great fascination for very 
large marsupials.  A likeable brute, Ihorovitch provides an 
additional hand for the mob's nefarious activities.  Blond and 
sporting a strange Ukranian tattoo, he has been known to eat the 
contents of an entire lobster tank by himself.  Ihorovitch has a 
color television set installed in his limousine so he doesn't 
have to miss the Saturday morning cartoon shows.

NAME:
Katherine "Boom-Boom" Drib

OCCUPATION:  Three-time winner of the Trans-Siberian motorcyle 
race.  Drib is the offical hostess for V.I.L.E.

MISCELLANEOUS:  The brunette beauty - a one-time centerfold for 
Popular Mechanics magazine - is a fanatic about health and 
fitness.   Although she has never actually attended a meeting, 
she is a charter member of Merey LaRoc's aerobic class.  A 
gourmet cook specializing in seafood dishes, she is also 
fascinated with the concept of mountain climbing.  She has a 
tattoo of an eagle on her left bicep.

LAST MINUTE FACTS ABOUT THE ELUSIVE CARMEN SANDIEGO

How to catch Carmen Sandiego faster if you have a hard drive or 
expanded memory on your Amiga computer.

Hard Drive Installation
Turn on your computer and hard disk.  Double-click the icon for 
your hard disk to open the hard disk window.  Create a new drawer 
by choosing New Drawer from the Workbench menu.  Rename the 
drawer Carmen World.  Insert the Carmen World disk into your 
floppy disk drive.  Double-click the Carmen World icon.  Drag the 
drawer icon named Carmen World Data and the program icon named 
Carmen World from the floppy disk to the new drawer on your hard 
drive.  Double-click the Font Mover icon.  Click the button that 
represents the destination to where the Font Mover should copy 
all of the fonts on the Carmen World program disk.  You should 
select the font directory on your hard disk or the font directory 
on the workbench floppy disk that you usually start up your Amiga 
with.

Hold down the left mouse button and drag the cursor over the 
fonts that you want to copy to the destination directory.  You 
should select all of the fonts on the Carmen World program disk.  
The highlighted fonts will be copied to the destination 
directory.

Click the Copy gadget to initiate the copy procedure.  After the 
Font Mover has finished the copy, click the Close gadget in the 
upper Left hand corner of the Font Mover window.

Using Expanded Memory
If you have one megabyte or more of memory you can run Where In 
The World Is Carmen Sandiego? faster by telling the program to 
use more memory.  The program will use about 512K of additional 
memory.  To run the program using additional memory you will need 
to change the N to a Y in the tool types of the Carmen World 
program icon.



