WILD WHEELS
 
P. 1 
INTRODUCTION 
The transition to electric and solar-powered cars in the 
opening decade of the twenty-first century - brought about 
by rapidly declining oil-resources and increased demand for 
all fossil fuels from the huge international industrial 
conglomerates - was achieved by a United Nations Charter 
forbidding the operation of petroleum-burning vehicles by 
private citizens in all technologically-advanced states and 
Countries of the world.  The super-efficient 'environmentally 
clean' solar and electric cars did everything the old nasty 
petrol-engined cars could do and they did it cheaper.  But 
the new personal transport systems lacked several important 
ingredients.......thrills, excitement, speed and raw power! 
In response to world-wide lobbying from a considerable 
section of the car-driving population, the U.N. finally 
sanctioned a new international sport, utilizing the thousands, 
of petrol-engined vehicles now banned from the world's 
roads.  The sport was called Wild Wheels, and gave the 
frustrated new-technology motorist the opportunity to 
experience the blood-pumping excitement of combat car 
racing in the old gas-guzzling monsters.  Wild Wheels racing 
was open to any participant of any age.  If you could drive, 
you were eligible.  What had begun as a sport using basic 
road cars rapidly evolved into fantastic customized 
monsters.  A points system was introduced enabling the 
really gifted drivers to move up the grades to drive better 
and better cars and become national, international, and 
finally world class superstars.  Ultra high-tech computer 
operated stadiums were constructed to handle the contests 
which were transmitted live via satellite link to the millions of 
fans now dedicated to watching and participating in this 
high-energy, pulse-pounding motor sport.  Can you 
 
P. 2 
drive these cars?  Are you up to the challenge?  The tunnel 
doors are opening.  The Shrimp's engine is roaring.  Your 
teams' ready.  The opposition is waiting.  Now it's up to 
you...... 
 
SET UP SCREEN 
You have several options on the Set Up screen.  You can if 
you wish go immediately to play the game by using the 
joystick to select "Play' then pressing the fire button on your 
joystick.  Your first round will play with arcade mode 
joystick control, 1000 points, and the preset formation.  This 
will put you in command of a team of Shrimp cars, the basic 
vehicle.  You will be in control of the Strike car, the other 
four Shrimps on your team are robotically controlled Slaves 
programmed to assist in a number of different ways.  (See 
paragraph headed Formation Options.)  Your opponents in 
this first round will be either another team of Shrimp cars 
sporting different body colors, or a team of Tadpole cars. 
You can then play a Round. 
 
P. 4 
REGISTRATION 
If you choose to register type your name in no more than 
fifteen characters (including spaces) then press Return.  After 
entering your name you can then select which joystick 
mode you wish to pay in.  These are Arcade and 
Professional.  Arcade mode simply means pressing forward 
on the joystick sends the car racing up the pitch and pulling 
back on the joystick turns the car through one hundred and 
eighty degrees to come racing towards you.  Professional 
mode however is exactly like steering a radio controlled car. 
Pressing forward on the joystick accelerates the car in the 
direction it's facing, pulling back on the joystick 
decelerates it. 
 
DIFFICULTY LEVEL 
Without registering your name, you can select which 
difficult level you wish play at, Novice (easy) Expert (hard) 
or Advanced (extremely hard).  Then press your joystick 
button when you have selected which difficult level you 
require. 
 
DATA LINK 
You can then choose which, if any, data link you require.  If 
you have an Amiga, ST, IBM PC or PC compatible you can 
choose either no link or the RS232 which allows 
simultaneous two player games.  If you are playing on an IBM 
PC or PC compatible, you also have the option of installing 
the Network which allows any two machines to play each 
other simultaneously within a linked Network. 
 
P. 5 
LOAD OPTION 
The Load option allows you the facility to load in a  
previously saved game.  For more information please refer to 
Saved Gamed paragraph in the 'read.me' file. 
 
PLAY 
ESC 
Pressing the 'ESC' button will give you the option to break 
out of the game and bring you to the setup menu. 
 
 
STATUS SCREEN 
After Registering if you press Play the Status screen will be  
called up.  This confirms your registration, informs you how 
many points you have been allocated or won.  At the start of 
each new game the player is allocated 1000 points.  At the 
beginning of subsequent contests, the Status screen is 
called up to allow the player to see his current status. 
 
 
CAR SELECTION SCREEN 
After pressing fire-button to exit from the Status screen, the 
car selection screen is called up.  This shows all the vehicles 
available in Wild Wheels, plus the points required to select 
each one.  You can now use the joystick to highlight the 
vehicle you wish to select.  When highlighted, press the 
fire-button which will take you through to the Specification 
Sheet. 
P. 6 
SPECIFICATION  SHEET 
Every time you choose a vehicle, whether you can afford it 
or not, you will see its Specification and Requirement on 
the Spec. Sheet.  If you've chosen a car you cannot yet 
afford, or you lack the necessary Requirements, you will be 
told you cannot afford this vehicle.  Pressing the fire button 
on your joystick will take you back into the Car Selection 
Screen where you can make another choice.  If you have 
successfully chosen a car you will be asked if you wish to 
choose this vehicle.  If the answer is yes, you will then 
progress to the Formation screen where a number of 
options are again available. 
 
FORMATION OPTIONS 
Three Options are provided in the Change Formation mode, 
these are Advanced, Quick and No.  You can use the no 
option if you are satisfied with the formation illustrated by 
the cars on the Formation set-up screen.  Selecting No will 
take you straight to the next screen.  In the 'Quick' option, 
the game will display the many Formations available.  You can 
run through the pre-set formations by pressing alternatively 
to the left and the right on your joystick.  If you see one you 
like, press the fire-button to select it.  The Advanced option 
allows you to first of all alter the role of all four team cars. 
You cannot alter the role of the Strike car. To change the role  
of a car, a cusor intitally outlines car zero (your Strike 
car).  To move the cursor to select one of the other cars 
press the joystick to the left or the right.  When the cursor is 
positioned on the car you wish to change, press the fire 
button, you will then be given the choice of changing the 
nature of that to any of four roles.  The four roles 
available are, Killer, Blocker, Fetcher and Guard.  Each 
 
P. 7 
role is signified by the corresponding letter displayed on 
each member of the team.  Killers are cars that are 
programmed to destroy the strongest members of the 
opposition's team.  (Usually their Strike car). 
Fetchers are instructed to collect the ball, where ever 
possible, and pass it directly to your Strike car.  Blockers try 
to protect your Strike car from the opposition's Killers by 
forming a shield between them and you.  Guards should be  
positioned to patrol the goal mouth area where their task is  
to intercept goal attempts by the opposition.  You can  
choose any combination of car types 
(i.e. four Blockers - or two Guards and Two Killers - or two 
Fetchers one Guard and one Blocker)  when you are happy  
with your team classification, press the fire-button again. 
Now you can use the joystick to physically adjust the 
position of each car on the screen, which alters their 
position, taken up in the arena.  To move a car to a required 
position move the joystick.  When you're happy with its new 
position, press the fire-button again.  This selection 
procedure is continued until all four team cars are of the 
chosen designation and in the position you require.  Then 
select exit and press the fire-button. 
 
OPPOSITION'S SPEC. SHEET 
You will now be shown the opposition's Spec. Sheet.  This 
time you will see performance details of the team you will 
be playing against. 
 
PREPARE TO PLAY SCREEN 
If you press the fire-button again, you will be taken to the 
'Prepare to Play' screen, where the name of your team 
and the opposition's team is displayed on Carol's 
P. 8 
notice board.  Then a tracking camera-dive takes you into 
position just behind your Strike car.  Now play the game. 
 
PLAYING WILD WHEELS 
Each contest takes place within a magno-surfaced arena 
measuring 200 meters by 120 meters.  At any time during the 
game, at any point on the magno-surface, a range of 
electronic tiles are randomly activated.  If you drive over 
them deliberately or accidentally, you will either receive a 
positive acquisition or incur penalties.  (For a complete  
listing of these please refer to the paragraph entitled 
Electronic tiles.)  Every new competitor is provided with a 
basic team of Shrimp cars, and takes the position of Striker. 
the other cars on the team are robotically controlled Slaves 
which have predetermined team-roles which can be altered 
by the player if he wishes.  (for more information see 
Choosing Formation). 
During each contest the player takes the role of Strike car, 
the leader of a group of five identical vehicles.  Each Strike 
car has three lives.  When these lives are lost that particular 
Round is over.  The four robotically controlled Slave cars on  
each team have one life each.  If the opposing team's Strike 
car is destroyed, (this also has three lives) the Round is also 
over. 
When a Strike car of either team is fully destroyed, the side 
with the surviving Strike has won that Round.  The game then 
progresses to a Points Total Screen, and your points are 
added up.  If you have scared sufficient points, you will be 
eligible to progress to the next level where you can choose 
to drive a different, more powerful, or better equipped car. 
If you performed only reasonably in that Round, you may 
P. 9 
have to engage in another round with the same car, or, if 
you have performed badly, you may have to drop down to 
a lower League. 
 
SCORING POINTS 
There are two ways to score points in Wild 
Wheels.  The first way is by keeping the 
Power Ball in the opponent's half of the 
pitch, this allows a running bonus to build 
up.  If the opposition forces the Power Ball 
into your half of the pitch, bonus points are detracted and 
awarded to the opposition.  So try and keep the ball in their 
half for as much of the play as possible.  The other way to 
score points is by scoring goals.  You can score goals from 
almost any position on the pitch if you're a good enough 
driver or lucky enough to be in the right spot at the right 
time.  But remember that the closer you can drive to the 
opposition's goal with the ball before scoring, the more 
points you score.  But it's much harder to do that.  The 
opposition's cars will be out to recapture the ball and 
destroy your Strike car in the process. 
 
RAMMING AND DESTROYING CARS 
If one of the opposing team's cars has collected the Power 
Ball, you can dispossess him by ramming him with your front 
bumper.  When any car other than the Strike car (of both 
sides) has lost all its impact points it explodes and is not 
replaced.  A Strike car also explodes when it loses its last 
impact point but is immediately replaced by one of the 
reserves waiting in the pits.  Each team has four spare Strike 
cars in reserve to be used as necessary.  When the last  
Strike car on either side has been demolished, that 
P. 10 
games is over and you are taken to the Points Totaling 
Screen to see if you can progress further, have to remain in 
your present league, or are required to begin again from the 
start. 
 
POINT SYSTEM 
Every game commences with your team being awarded with 
1000 points with which to begin the game.  The number of 
Points awarded to either team during game-play are as 
follows; 
 
GOALS:  100 points are awarded for any goal scored from 
the closest box. 
50 points are awarded for any goal scored from the second 
box. 
30 points are awarded for any goal scored from the third 
box. 
25 points are awarded for any goal scored from any other 
area of the play field. 
 
BONUS POINTS 
1 point is awarded for each second you 
can keep the ball in the opposition's half, 
and 1 point is deducted from your score 
for every second the opposition force the 
ball into your half. 
Note:  Your Bonus points never fall below zero. 
P. 11 
MINUS POINTS 
Remember that points are also lost when any of your team 
cars are rammed by the opposition.  When any car other 
than the Strike car of either side has lost all its impact points 
it explodes and is not replaced.  Any damage suffered by 
your team will be deducted at the end of each round. 
 
THE POWER BALL 
The Power Ball constructed of eight overlapping riveted 
and welded segments.  It is made of encapsulated neutron 
particles, making it practically indestructible.  Its complex 
electronic interior is designed to integrate within the field 
parameters of the high-tech computer operated stadium. 
Mass ratio gearing and realignment technology have been 
employed in the Vertical Centering and the Suction Goal 
Procedures. 
 
MULTI-BALL 
During game-play, at random time intervals, the Power Ball is 
triggered into transforming into the Multi-ball mode, For 
periods of thirty seconds or more, the Power Ball splits into 
four  visually identical spheres. However, only one of the  
four is the real Power Ball, the other three are bogus 
imitations that disappear in violent explosions.  However, 
you can score goals with any of the four balls providing you 
do it in the allotted time span, if you have chosen one of  
the bogus Power Balls and it explodes before you can score 
with it, then there will be valuable game-time wasted. 
P. 12 
ICE-FIELD 
Instant sub-zero temperatures affect parts of the stadium, 
coating the driving surface in an expanding sheet of ice.  On 
the Ice-field all traction is lost and the cars swerve and skid 
uncontrollably.  It appears at random intervals and is a 
hazard to be avoided if possible. 
 
ELECTRONIC TILES 
At various intervals during each game, different colored 
panels will appear at random positions around the pitch. 
They appear for only a few seconds so a driver has to get to 
then quickly before they disappear.  Tile identification is 
flashed above the stadium wall informing the player of each 
Tile's status.  More than one Tile can appear at any time 
during the game.  They are visible both on the pitch and on 
the radar screen.  To collect one of the bonus Tiles it is 
necessary for the player's Strike car to drive over them.  The 
appropriate bonus or equipment icon will then be added to 
the player's points totals or acquired specifications.  Points 
bonuses given for collecting Tiles vary from 50 to 250 points. 
Equipment Attainments are as follows: 
 
FULL LICENSE 
Certain types of the larger vehicles can 
only be selected when the player has 
achieved a Full License.  The Full License 
can then be held until required or 
'cashed-in' for 100 points at the Points. 
Totaling Screen 
P. 13 
ACCELERATION SUIT 
Acceleration Suits are needed before the 
player can drive some of the faster 
vehicles, so the player may be advised to 
retain it.  It can also be 'cashed-in' for 200 
points at the Points Totaling Session. 
 
 
NEW TIRES 
At the bottom of the Surround Screen, a 
visual indicator of the current Strike Car's 
tire-status is displayed colored green, 
above an identifying Tire icon.  As the 
game progresses the player may find that 
the Strike car sometimes becomes more and more difficult 
to steer.  This is because of increased tire wear.  The New 
Tires Tile equips the strike car with new tires, so this one is 
always worth picking up - unless you're driving one of the 
larger tracked machines, then it's useless.  The New Tires tile 
appears frequently during every game so watch for it on the 
Radar Screen. 
 
VECTOR - VELOCITY 
This Tile ejects any vehicle that has run onto it off in a 
random direction.  You never know where your vehicle is 
going to end up once you've driven over it.  Vector Velocity 
injects random disorientation into the game-play.  Try and 
avoid it if you can. 
P. 14 
PRYO-WEAPONRY STATUS 
This shoot-em-up tile can appear at any 
time during any Round.  It may be cashed 
in if the player wishes.  Remember though, 
it may be required at a later Round. 
 
PYRO-WEAPON VEHICLES 
Four of the ten vehicles shown in the Selection Screen are 
capable of being armed with Pyro-Weapon.  They are; 
Triton Centaur, Leviathan, the Swatter and Colossus. 
MISSILES 
Collection of the Missile Tiles enables the player to arm his 
vehicles with high-impact missiles which wreak devastating 
destruction on the opposing team.  The Missiles are fired by 
pressing the joystick fire-button.  Please note:  Missiles cannot 
be used unless Pyro Weaponry Status has been achieved. 
Also every time the Player collects a Missile Tile five Missiles  
are awarded which can either be sold or retained until Pyro 
Weaponry Status and one of the appropriate vehicles has 
been achieved. 
FUEL 
At the bottom of the Surround Screen, a 
visual indicator of your current fuel status 
is shown colored yellow, accompanied 
by a fuel can icon.  Fuel is consumed at 
different rates by different types of 
vehicles, bigger engines, heavier bodies etc.  You can 
replenish your spent fuel by driving your car over the Fuel 
 Tile whenever it appears.  Half a tank of fuel is awarded 
P. 15 
to each of the five team cars every tie you drive over a 
Fuel Tile.  When your fuel is in imminent danger of running 
out, the Strike Car icon on the Surround Screen will begin to 
flash on and off.  This visual warning means your must pick up 
a Fuel-Tile quickly. 
Failure to do so will result in your car running completely 
out of fuel.  When this happens, your current Strike Car 
explodes and you lose a life.  A new Strike comes into 
play, (if you have one in reserve.)  The Fuel Tile appears 
frequently during every match.  Watch for it on the Radar 
Screen. 
REPAIR-CREDIT TILE 
This tile can be collected during any game at random 
intervals and will award a number of different Repair-Credits. 
These Repair Credits, illustrated by icons on the 
SCOREBOARD Screen, can be exchanged for their relevant 
Points, or alternatively may be offset against damage 
incurred to your Strike car at the end of each match.  Repair 
Credits available and their Points value are as follows: 
Engine Piston:		Value 100 Points 
Exhaust System:		Value 50 Points 
Radiator:			Value 50 Points 
Rear Axle:			Value 100 Points 
Brake Assembly:		Value 100 Points 
Spark Plugs:		Value 20 Points 
Gearbox:			Value 200 Points 
Shock Absorber:		Value 50 Points 
 
P. 16 
super-grip tires 
This tile equips the player's car with a set of surface-hugging 
treads that prevent slipping or skidding, even on ice.  A 
highly desirable asset. 
Immobilizer Tile 
This tile stops all the opposition's robotically-controlled cars 
for a brief time.  It has no effect upon the opposition's Strike 
car. 
rest tile 
This tile brings the player's Strike Car up to peak efficiency, 
replacing worn tires filling the fuel tank and repairs all 
damage to the vehicle. 
 
KILLER TILE 
This tile destroys the opposition's Strike Car, wherever it is in 
the arena, taking away one of its lives.  Warning, should the 
opposition's car reach it first the player's Strike Car loses a  
life. 
tri-zoom selector and overhead view 
At the top left-hand corner of the 
surround screen the 'camera' Tri-Zoom 
views available to the player while playing 
Wild Wheels are 'designated 1, 2, 3, and 
O.H. 1, 2, 3, are the 'camera' focal length 
distances available while driving the Strike Car. 
1.  represents Close-Up action, 2.  Medium, and 3. is Distant 
 play. 
 
P. 17 
You can choose which of these three modes you prefer by 
simply pressing the space bar and jumping the 'camera' 
viewpoint backward and forward during the game.  O.H. 
indicates the Overhead viewpoint (also available at all 
times).  This can be selected by pressing the Enter key.   
To revert back to the down on the pitch' view, simply press 
the Enter key again. 
RADAR-SCREEN 
On the right hand side of the Surround 
Screen is the Radar Screen showing the 
entire area of the arena.  Your team and 
the opposing team are shown is their 
respective colors.  The position of your 
Strike car is denoted by the smaller flashing indicator.  The 
Power Ball is denoted by the larger flashing indicator.  All 
Tiles appear on the Radar Screen in their correct positions 
to aid identification and collection or avoidance.  Also 
designated clearly on the Radar-Screen are the Multi-Ball 
Feature and the expanding Ice Field.  During game-play it 
plays dividends to keep glancing at the Radar-Screen.  It 
helps the player to keep on top of the situation. 
ARROWS- Throughout the games if the ball is not in view an 
 arrow will appear indicating the direction of the ball.  Note: 
these arrows do not appear when Multi-Ball is activated. 
 
P. 18 
points and strike car indicators 
Your total points can be found directly below the radar screen. 
The number of Strike Cars you have available is shown below 
the points indicator.  Your opponent's points and number of 
Strike Cars can be found above the radar screen. 
shooting the power ball 
To shoot the Power Ball aim you vehicle towards the goal 
and press the joystick fire button. 
grades 
There are a total of five grades that can be achieved 
by totaling points in the following ranges: 
Alpha	0	-	2499		 
Beta		2500	-	4999 
Gamma	5000	-	6999 
Delta		7000	-	8999 
Epsilon	9000	-	above 
PAUSING THE GAME 
You can pause the game in the middle of a match by 
pressing the P key. 
 
p.19 
amiga users 
Only 5 games can be saved on your game disk.  If you would  
like to save more than 5 games, you will have to make an  
additional copy to the original program disk. 
IBM users 
Only 5 games can be saved to disk.  If you would like to save  
your saved game files, you can copy the .SAV files onto  
another disk using DOS. For more information on copying 
files, see your DOS manual. 
 
Network play is only supported through NET BIOS. 
 
Read Me file 
Be sure to read the information contained in the Read Me file. 
 
P. 20 
SHRIMP 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
When the design of the basic Wild Wheels vehicle was being 
considered, a number of mass production cars were looked 
at as offering close to the required specifications.  Three 
models in particular came close to the optimum design.  The 
three production cars finally considered, were:  the single 
cockpit V12 Mark 2 Lancia Aztec - the Renault 6 cylinder 
GTA Super - Turbo - and the V12 Ford Mustang 'S' Type.  All 
three cars were considered to possess highly desirable 
individual characteristics and eventually an amalgam was 
developed utilizing the most salient design aspects in one 
vehicle, the Shrimp. 
Shoe-horned into an ulta-lightweight carbon-fiber chassis, 
the centrally-located supercharged V12 Ford aluminum 
engine delivers 380 bhp.  A high torque rating of 420 lb. ft 
coupled with the lightweight chassis gives the Shrimp 
excellent handling characteristics.  It's fast and easy to   
drive, 
and the responsive power-steering makes it an ideal vehicle 
even for younger contenders.  In common with all Wild 
P. 21 
Wheels vehicles the Shrimp has an ergonomically designed 
racing seat and safety harness which are essential features 
when the competition starts; 
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	3mm carbon-steel 
layout:			Transverse mid-engined, 
				read-wheel drive. 
engine:			Capacity 3579cc 12 
				cylinders in V formation. 
Fuel Consumption:		19 mpg. Capacity 20 gallons 
BORE:  94 Omm  Stroke:	77.2mm 
Valve Gear:			dohc 6 values per cylinder 
Ignition and Fuel:		Electronic ignition, Renault 
				PGT electronic 
				fuel-injection. 
Transmission:		Five-speed manual. 
Suspension:			Front independent 
				double wishbones, coil 
				springs, telescopic 
				dampers, anti-roll bar 
				Rear independent double 
				wishbones, telescopic 
				dampers, anti-roll ball 
Brakes:			Front: 26.1mm ventilated 
				disc 
				Rear: 240mm discs 
Wheels and Tires:		Cast alloy 4.8x16 ins rims. 
				195/70R14 Dunlap D80 M3 
				Tires. 
 
P. 22 
TADPOLE 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
As a natural progression from the Shrimp, the Tadpole 
retains many of its predecessor's admirable qualities, while 
delivering increased performance in nearly every area. 
Improved acceleration and handling (i.e. tighter 
turning-circle) were seen as pre-requisites of the initial 
design spec.  From the original 94.0mm, the V12 Ford engine 
was bored out to 102.0mm boosting the bhp available to 
420.  A stronger chassis enabled the design team to 
incorporate a heavier body shell - 5mm instead of 3mm as in 
the Shrimp - lifting the received impact ratio by a significant 
factor.  Improved Body sculpturing - requested by the drivers 
and demanded by the sport's rapidly growing band of 
spectators and sponsors - was also seen as an essential 
feature of the progression of Wild Wheels as an international 
sport.  The lizard-Spine look of the Tadpole, as well as 
providing a Visual Ferocity Factor also acts as an ultra 
efficient heat-dissipation system.  Head-Up-Display 
instrumentation and Proximity Monitoring significantly 	 
improves drive response times.  Quicker tire wear than 
P. 23 
the Shrimp, although a nuisance, was never considered to 
be a critical element by most drivers, taking into account the 
machine's undisputed improvement over the basic first 
vehicle 
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	5mm carbon-steel 
layout:			Transverse mid-engined, 
				read-wheel drive. 
engine:			Capacity 4221cc 12 
				cylinders in V formation. 
Fuel Consumption:		14 mpg. Capacity 20 gallons 
BORE:  94 Omm  Stroke:	77.4mm 
Valve Gear:			dohc 6 values per cylinder 
Ignition and Fuel:		Renault PGT (2) electronic 
				fuel-injection. 
Transmission:		Five-speed manual. 
Suspension:			Front and Rear: 
				wishbones, coilsprings, 
				telescopic dampers, 
				anti-roll bar 
Brakes:			Front and Rear 261mm 
				ventilated discs 
Wheels and Tires:		Cast alloy 4.8x16 ins rims. 
				195/10R14 Dunlap D80 M3 
				Tires. 
 
P. 24 
LYNX A TYPE 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
The Lynx type cars were the first to dispense with the 
internal combustion engine opting for the more powerful 
turbojet powerplants.  Designed by a mid-west American 
team previously involved in Monster Truck racing, they 
successfully designed a prototype Lynx powered by two 
General Electric J79 single-shaft turbojets mounted on each 
side of the center raised canopy and terminating in 
aerodynamic stabilizing tailfins.  Because each of the J79's 
weighed 800 lbs the bodyshell of the Lynx A had to be kept 
down to an absolute minimum.  The American design team 
eventually chose a fiber-reinforced composite overlaid with 
English Chobham armour.  A Lenco transmission unit was 
slotted into the crossbraced bulkhead.  Lamp suspension 
struts and coil-over hydraulic shockers utilizing 3 inch 
diameter springs allow rapid adjustment of ride height and 
suspension bounce.  The Lynx type A car delivers excellent 
acceleration and road-holding but can be prone to heavy 
tire wear.  The first of the jet-powered cars, it was an 
P. 25 
instant success with both the drivers and the fans and 
indicated the design trends that would result in the 
heavyweight monsters of the higher grades. 
 
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	5mm Chobham armour. 
layout:			Elevated twin-nacelles, 
				rear mounted. 
engine:			Two General Electric 
				single-shaft J79 turbojets 
				fitted with 
				variable-incidence 
				compressor stator blading. 
Fuel Consumption:		Aviation Fuel:  112 gallons 
				Burn Rate:  12mpg 
Wheels and Tires:		Aluminum 4.8x18 inch 
				rims.  Pirelli P7M 'Thermal' 
				slick tires. 
Suspension:			Lamp struts front and rear. 
				Helicoidal springs and 
				hydraulic dampers. 
				Anti-roll bar 
Brakes:			Front 300mm ventilated 
				discs.  Rear 280mm 
				ventilated discs, five sensor 
				ABS.	 
 
P. 26 
LYNX B TYPE 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
The next technological breakthrough came with the 
introduction of half-track propulsion-systems.  Immediate 
advantages were evident in the B Type's significantly 
improved maneuverability (reduced turning circle), and its 
anti-skid features. 
A sophisticated regenerative steering assemblage was linked 
to mimic the turning ratio of the front wheel rack and pinion 
unit, ensuring vehicle stability under all conditions. 
Automotive power for the new class of Lynx was again 
provided by the twin-nacelled General Electric single-shaft 
J79 turbojets, but now augmented by afterburners using E 
variant aviation fuel.  After a few minor hiccups experienced 
during its first outings at Wild Wheels events, the Lynx B Type 
soon established itself as a major competitor in experienced 
hands.  There are several Strike drivers who once having 
graduated to the B Type, refuse to move up the grades to 
higher rated vehicles, having decided that, "the 'B' is for 
	me!"  And who can blame them?". 
P. 27 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	Super Chobham 4mm 
layout:			Elevated twin-nacelles, 
				rear mounted. 
engine:			Two General Electric 
				single-shaft J79 turbojets 
				fitted with variable 
				incidence compressor 
				stator blading, with  
				afterburners. 
Fuel Consumption:		E Variant Aviation Fuel 
				120 gallons 
				Burn Rate:  10 mpg 
Wheels and Tires:		Aluminum 2.8x18 inch 
				rims.  Pirelli P7M 'Thermal' 
				slick tires. 
HALF-TRACKS:		2x100 pin-jointed flexible 
				links tensioned on 
				self-adjusting idling rollers 
GEARBOX:			Synchromesh six-speed					 
			and reverse 
P. 28 
CHEWEY 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
This car marks the mid-ground between 'adapted 
conventional vehicles' those featuring customized add-ons 
on production chassis and those designed from scratch 
entirely for the Wild Wheels competitions.  Chewey utilizes 
the chassis, conventional steering and springing of a 
production-line Plymouth Barracuda but also carries the first 
specifically original 'concept' in its forward-mounted steel 
jaws.  During actual league competitions using the early 
prototype Cheweys there was much amusement caused 
when the Ball-Sensing-Radar developed glitches.  Instead of 
the proximity cut-off operating to prevent the Power Ball 
from being reduced to a pile of chewed-up scrap when 
coming into contact with the vehicle's jaws, the opposite 
usually happened.  To the great delight of the crowed - but 
not the Strike car driver concerned the Power Ball was often 
ripped to pieces, resulting in disqualification and the 
imposition of a heavy fine sufficient to pay for the stadium's 
damaged equipment.  Perhaps because of this initial 
P. 29 
uncertainty, Chewey became and remains a great favorite 
with all spectators and drivers, receiving special cheer 
whenever it appears. 
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	5mm Super Chobham over 
				high tensile plastic. 
layout:			North to South front 
				mounted engine, rear 
				wheel drive. 
engine:			Capacity 4500cc 12 in-line 
				cylinders with W/forged 
				pistons, stainless steel 
				valves and velocity stack. 
Fuel Consumption:		10 mpg,. Capacity 26 gallons 
BORE:  108.0mm  STROKE:79mm 
VALVE GEAR:		dohc 6 valves per cylinder 
Suspension:			Lamp struts front and rear. 
				Helicoidal springs and 
				hydraulic dampers. 
				Anti-roll bar 
FRONT MOUNTED JAWS:	Hydraulically operated by 
				ram and crank system (two 
				rams allocated to each 
				jaw) at 30 psi. 
				Carbon-steel tipped 
				ripper-teeth. 
 
P. 30 
HOT ROD 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
Big wheel technology was employed in the design of Hot 
Rod, but instead of looking towards the advances achieved 
by the American monster truck developers they opted for 
the German design Wankel rotary engine.  However the 
technical problems involved in manufacturing a prototype 
almost twenty feet in diameter practically bankrupted the 
motor racing group that had won the development 
contract.  A new species of winter tundra tires used by the 
USA Army slotted ideally onto the hod Rod's wheel inside 
which the unbelievably smooth-running rotary engine is 
located. 
Because of the extremely small exterior-body-configuration 
(little more than a cramped cockpit) the high-flashpoint 
gasoline had to be carried in a series of fuel pods bolted  
inside the giant wheel.  Temperatures in the big wheel at 
close to maximum revs reach almost two hundred degrees 
Fahrenheit, approaching the gasoline's flashpoint, so making  
a somewhat critical environment situation for the 
machine's driver should the cooling system ever 
 
P. 31 
collapse or even develop a momentary hiccup.  So 
dangerous was this design feature of the Hot Rod perceived 
to be, that even military test pilots turned down the 
opportunity to take this machine on its first outing.  Full body 
fire-resistant armour and extra life-insurance is considered 
essential for all Hot Rod drivers. 
You have been warned. 
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	6.5mm Multi-Layer Barium 
				Steel Cocooning 
layout:			Central rotating drive shaft 
engine:			Rotary engine, single 
				chamber triple function. 
				6000cc capacity. 
Fuel Consumption:		8mpg, Total Capacity in 
				5x15 gallon tanks, 75 
				gallons. 
				 
NO FURTHER DETAILS RELEASED 
P. 32 
TRITON CENTAUR 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
Known as the first of the Death Cars, the Triton Centaur is 
designed to blast away the opposition.  It is the first vehicle 
in the Wild Wheels pantheon of extraordinary machines to 
be equipped with surface-to-surface guided missiles.  It is 
also the first vehicle to employ a hydropneumatic system 
and full caterpillar track mobility.  Missiles were considered 
to be acceptable only if restricted to located-and-aim 
systems, all forms of on-board self-correcting intelligence, 
continuous monitoring or fly-by-wire components were 
banned as too effective to permit a reasonable opportunity 
of survival for the opposition's cars.  The Death Cars do have 
noticeable weight-to-speed limitations and it takes a good 
driver with a sharp eye and excellent reflexes to hit the 
smaller faster cars that inevitably run circles around the 
larger behemoths.  All the missiles used are powered by 
solid fuel motors and employ conventional IDFs 
(impact-detonation-fuses).  You know you've made the 
grade when you graduate up to these 
missile-firing monsters....... 
 
P. 33 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	8mm High Velocity Armor 
layout:			Twin caterpillar tracks 
				2x200 pin-jointed 
				multi-flex links. 
				On-board adjusting idling 
				rollers. 
GEARBOX:			Synchromesh six forward 
				speed and two reverse. 
MOBILITY FACTOR:	5psi (0.35kg/cm2)(ground 
				pressure ratio) 
TARGET ACQUISITION	Standard Doppler-radar 
SYSTEM:			with infra-red viewing 
				optics and image 
				intensifiers 
MISSILES:			Standard. Solid fuel 
				chemical-propellant, 
				Impact-Detonation-Fuse, 
				Payload 100 kg of RDX 
				plastic explosive.  Effective 
				Range 5 miles. 
				 
P. 34 
LEVIATHON 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
Leviathan is the only vehicle so far to have opted for a 
transportation system not employing either wheels or tank 
tracks.  Using the technology employed in American Army 
exo-skeleton lifting-and-walking machines ( a technique 
adopted in the first E.V.A. Mars Lander) the Providence 
based engineering group led by Dr. Meniscus Steeps came 
up with a radical four-legged walking vehicle that, much to 
the amusement of the spectators, had to go through an 
extensive testing and debugging period during several 
months of actual wild Wheels meetings.  Both sets of 
centrally pivoting legs are operated by a complex high 
pressure gas powered system of swiveling pistons achieving 
a six meter traverse-and-span.  Each leg has full radius foot 
elevators and descenders.  Further improvements were 
achieved by adding double-faced warping winches the 
central pivots, vastly increasing the potential of what 
previously had been seen as Leviathon's previously 
ponderous turn-rate.  These design adaptations 
resulted in Leviathon becoming an extremely efficient 
 
P. 35 
ground-covering machine, at least on a par with the more 
conventionally driven tracked vehicles.  It comes equipped 
with the same Surface to Surface missile system a employed 
on the Triton Centaur.  This high-profile vehicle is now much in  
demand with those Wild Wheels drivers who enjoy a  
challenge and can respond positively to on-the-edge-systems. 
The crowds love it. 
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	9mm High Impact Armour 
layout:			Two sets of computer 
				controller centrally 
				pivoting legs with six meter 
				traverse-and-span Inertial 
				balancing. 
engine AND FUEL:		Liquid Hydrogen Gas in six 
				internal spheroid 
				containers 
TARGET ACQUISITION	(Standard, as Triton 
SYSTEM:			Centaur) 
MISSILES:			(Standard, as Triton 
				Centaur) 
 
P. 36 
THE SWATTER 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
The Swatter began life as a deep-sea exploration 
submersible, designed originally for fault-line and 
plate-techtonic analysis at extreme depths.  Built to 
withstand external pressures of three thousand atmospheres 
plus, the Swatter is an extremely strong beast and was first 
proposed as a Wild Wheels vehicle by the Royal Navy 
Oceanographic Exploration Team (all ex members of the 
Special Boat Service).  Initially the Swatter was turned down 
by the sport's governing body because it lacked the 
required front hall-catcher and bumper-bat, but heavy 
lobbying in the corridors of power finally secured its 
admittance.  (There is, apparently, no truth in the rumor 
that the vehicle was accepted just because the present 
Prime Minister happened to be an ex-special Boat Service 
officer.  That's just a coincidence.)  The Swatter is powered 
by on-board steam generators driven to super-heated 
temperatures by nuclear-fission reactors.  The single 
drive-track is immensely powerful, and turning circles 
are accomplished by lateral rear venting.  Each link of 
 
P. 37 
the drive-track is fitted with an extending and retracting 
claw, making it an extremely dangerous and ferocious 
competitor.  Surface to surface missiles are fitted as  
standard.  Don't choose this vehicle unless you're serious! 
 
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	Condensed high-grade 
				steel, integrity guaranteed 
				to three thousand 
				atmospheres 
 
layout:			Single drive track with 
				individual gripper teeth. 
 
engine:			Nuclear Fission Reactor 
				burning Cobalt fuel Rods 
				 
Fuel:				80 gallons of heavy water 
 
TARGET ACQUISITION 
SYSTEM:			Standard, as Triton Centaur 
 
MISSILES:			Standard Surface to 
				Surface as Triton Centaur 
 
P. 38 
COLOSSUS 
Development, Handling Characteristics and Specifications. 
This is the last, and some would suggest the ultimate Wild 
Wheels vehicle in the current catalogue.  It's so new, much of 
the released specification details are considered to be of 
doubtful authenticity.  But clandestine videos of the Colossus 
trials have allowed us to make an educated appraisal of its 
performance capabilities and power unit.  Two immense, 
individually-powered drive wheels rotate around a single 
hub that also carries the pilot-pod.  To eliminate swing and 
bounce oscillations affecting the pilot-pod when the vehicle 
is in motion it would appear that a computer-controlled 
damping system has been installed.  The computer will 
probably also provide the driver with a head-up-display 
system or even a full-environment three dimensional 
representation of the magno-surfaced arena. 
Opposition team tracking and 'next-turn' predications may 
well have been written into the software.  Early design 
specifications suggesting that the Colossus was to be 
powered by two huge rotary engines (as in Hot Rod) have 
 
P. 39 
now been discounted as unlikely.  It appears that a 
revolutionary and top secret system developed by a 
consortium of Japanese and Irish scientists is being used. 
The new power source employs Running Rim fly-wheels 
linked to a series of inertial spin-discs inside each of the 
Colossus's giant wheels.  The power whine created by the 
surging spin-disks is unmistakable.  Driving one of these 
Colossus should literally prove to be a hair-raising 
experience, for the Running Rim fly-wheels generated so 
much static electricity that the pilot's hair will stand on end 
and even his finger-ends will tingle when manipulating the 
controls.  Anyone graduating to one of these monsters will 
be really switched on, and that's a promise......... 
 
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
armored bodyshell:	No Details Released 
 
layout:			No Details Released 
 
engine:			No Details Released 
 
FUEL:				No Details Released 
 
Fuel Consumption:		No Details Released 
 
TARGET ACQUISITION 
SYSTEM:			Standard as Triton Centaur 
 
MISSILES:			Standard as Triton Centaur 
 
P. 40 
WILD WHEELS 
Its program code, graphic representation and artwork are 
the copyright of Ocean Software Limited and may not be 
reproduced, stored, hired or broadcast in any form 
whatsoever without the written permission of Ocean 
Software Limited.  All rights are reserved worldwide. 
THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT HAS BEEN CAREFULLY  
DEVELOPED AND MANUFACTURED TO THE HIGHEST QUALITY STANDARDS. 
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR LOADING. 
 
CREDITS 
Game Concept and Design by Red Rat Software, Ltd. 
 1991 Red Rat Software 
Programming Team:  Dave and Helen Elcock, Simon Ellwood, 
Keith Watterson. 
Graphics:  Bryan King 
 1991 Ocean Software Limited 
Produced by D.C. Ward