                               WINGS OF FURY
                               =============


                             BY MMAADD MMAAXX






A Time of Fury


It is 1944 and world is a war.  Europe is ablaze with a conflict that
engulfs her like the flames of hell, leaving a path of destruction wherever it
burns.  The Far East, too, is being consumed by a furious struggle for domi-
nance.  In the Pacific theater, the Allies face an enemy possessed of great skill
and a relentless determination.  As the tide begins to turn in favor of the
Allies, the enemy struggles ever more desperately to maintain the footholds
it had gained earlier in the war.

However, both on the sea and in the air, the U.S. Navy proves to be more
than a match for its opponents.  One reason for this is the incredible striking
power of the Navy's Air Force.  It is instrumental in defeating the enemy in
battle after battle.  Within the Navy's air command, one plane seems to be
leading the fight for an Allied victory: the mighty F6F Hellcat!

The Hellcat is incredibly powerful and durable, a real work horse capable of
bearing bombs, rockets and torpedoes.  Able to outmaneuver the enemy's
best fighter planes, the Hellcat has established one of the best kill-to-loss
ratios in the war.

Now you have the opportunity to fly your very own Hellcat.  You'll be


                                                                    PAGE 1




assigned to provide air support for the USS Wasp.  This aircraft carrier has
been heavily damaged and must make its way safely back to port.  On this
perilous journey, you must defend the carrier against torpedo bombers, rout
the enemy from their island strongholds, sink enemy vessels the lie en route
to home port and protect yourself by shooting down enemy planes.

Strapping yourself into the cockpit, you face a tremendous responsibility.
The fate of the carrier and every man onboard has been placed in your
experienced hands.  As the signal officer gives you the go, you give your Cat
full throttle and take off into the unknown skies before you.  Just minutes off
the deck, you sight the first sign of trouble: a pair of enemy fighters bearing
down on you from above...


                                                               PAGE 2




WHAT YOU'LL NEED

Amiga

* Commodore Amiga 500, 1000 or 2000 with minumum of 512K memory
  and equipped with a joystick.

Commodore 64/128

* Commodore 64 or 128 with a minimum of 64K memory and a joystick.  A
  color monitor is recommended.

LOADING WINGS OF FURY

Amiga

If you have an Amiga 1000, turn on your computer and insert your Kickstart
disk.  When the "Insert Workbench" screen appears, insert the WINGS OF
FURY disk.  If you have an Amiga 500 or 2000 turn on your computer and then
insert the Wings of Fury disk.  Once the program finishes loading, a self-
running demo of the game will appear.  When you are ready to play, press
the joystick button.

Hard Disk Installation: if your Amiga has a hard disk drive and you would
like to install the program on it, boot your computer and at the Workbench


                                                            PAGE 3



screen, insert your Wings of Fury disk.  Click on the disk icon to open the
window.  Then drag the drawer labeled "wings_of_fury" over to your hard
disk icon.  To boot the game from the Workbench, double click on the Wings
of Fury drawer.  Next, double click on the game icon to launch the game.

Note: On 512K machines, on the higher game levels, some sound effects may
be ommitted due to memory constraints.

Commodore 64/128

Insert the Wings of Fury disk into your disk drive.  Make sure your joystick
is connected, and then turn on your computer and disk drive.  Type LOAD
"*",8,1 and press RETURN.  Once the program finishes loading, a self-running
demo of the game will appear.  When you are ready to play, press the
joystick button.




                                                             PAGE 4




SELECTING A RANK

Once you have left the demo, your first pre-flight task will be to select a
Naval rank.  There are seven ranks under which you can fly, each one provid-
ing a more challenging set of missions than the last.  Use your joystick to
cycle through the various ranks.  When you desired rank is highlighted,
press the joystick button to make your selection.  After you've selected your
rank, a message will appear on screen listing your objectives for that mission.


SELECTING WEAPONS

Before taking off, you must decide what decide what type of weapons your Hellcat will
be armed with for this flight.  Cycle through the list of weapons using your
joystick, then press the joystick button to make your selection.



                                                            PAGE 5



TAKING OFF

To take off from the carrier, push the joystick all the way to the left to give
your Hellcat full throttle in that direction.  As the plane nears the end of the
flight deck, push the stick up and to the left to provide elevation.

FLYING

Maneuvering the Hellcat while in flight is achieved using the following
joystick position:


       LEFT CLIMB                            RIGHT CLIMB
                 \          STALL           /
                  \           |            /
                   \          |           /
                    \         |          /

FULL THROTTLE LEFT--    3/4 THROTTLE     --FULL THROTTLE RIGHT

                    /         |          \
                   /          |           \
                  /           |            \
                 /       STALL DIVE         \
        LEFT DIVE                            RIGHT DIVE

TURNING

Turning is accomplished by reversing the horizontal direction of the stick.
Your Hellcat will lose altitude while turning, so it's important to give it extra
lift at the same time.




                                                                  PAGE 6


To land on the carrier, you must approach it flying into the wind (from the
right).  Use the 3-D view to line up the flashing white artificial horizon
indicator with the deck of the carrier.  Just as you clear the edge of the
carrier's deck, stall the plane to allow it to drop so that its "arrestor hook" can
catch one of the arresting cable on the deck.

Landing an airplane on the deck of a carrier requires a great deal of skill and
nerves of steel.  It may take you a few practice runs before you feel comfort-
able, but this practice will pay off later when the heat is on and you have to
land under fire.

Once you have landed safely, taxi your plane to the elevator.  Then, push the
joystick button to activate the elevator and lower your plane for repairs,
refueling and a new load of weapons.  If you taxi too far and miss the
elevator, simply turn your plane around and position it over the elevator
again.

HELLCAT WEAPONS


MACHINE GUNS

Your Hellcat is equipped with three .50 caliber machine guns on each wing.
Use your machine guns for shooting down enemy planes and strafing
island.

Fire your machine guns by holding the joystick button down continuously.



                                                                PAGE 7




OTHER WEAPONS

You can choose between three types of other weapons to take with you.  To
replenish or change weapons you must return to the carrier.

Fire your other weapons by pressing the joystick button with short clicks.

     BOMBS
     Equipped with thirty 100 lb. bombs, your Hellcat can do heavy damage to
     barracks and machine gun dug-outs on enemy islands.

     ROCKETS
     Designed for use on more substantial targets such as large antiaircraft guns,
     15 of these 5-inch rockets can be carried by your Hellcat.

     TORPEDOES
     Once an enemy ship's guns have been disabled, you'll be able to make a
     torpedo run on the ship in an attempt to sink it.  After selecting Torpedo
     from the Weapons menu, your Hellcat will be armed with one torpedo.

Note: You must approach the enemy ship flying low over the water when you
release the torpedo.  It is important to have the ship will in your sight before
releasing the torpedo so as not to allow the torpedo to run out of energy before
hitting its target.

CONTROL PANEL

Your Hellcat's control panel with its various instruments and gauges is displayed
at the bottom of your screen.




                                                              PAGE 8




WEAPON COUNTER

Indicates what type of weapon you are carrying and how many you have
left.

HELLCAT COUNTER

Indicates how many Hellcats you have left.  You will earn an extra plane
each time you are promoted in rank.

OIL PRESSURE GAUGE

Indicates the condition of your engine.  When your Hellcat is damaged by
gunfire, the engine will begin to smoke.  The more damage your plane
sustains, the more smoke it will emit and the lower the oil pressure will
drop.  When the oil pressure begins to get critically low, a red light will blink
on the gauge.  If the oil pressure drops too low, the engine will seize and you
will crash.  Each time you return to your carrier and descend into the hold,
your plane will be repaired, restoring oil pressure to full.

3-D VIEW

Provides a three dimensional view of the world from your cockpit.  This
view is especially helpful when attempting to gauge the distance between
your Hellcat and an oncoming ship, plane or other target.

In the center of the view is a flashing white cursor which serves as an artifi-
cial horizon indicator.  The indicator is useful for sighting targets and
landing on your carrier.



                                                         PAGE 9





FUEL GAUGE

Indicates how much fuel your Hellcat has left.  When the fuel level begins to
get critically low, a red light will blank on the gauge.  If the plane runs out of
fuel in flight, you will crash.  Each time you return to your carrier and
descend into the hold, your plane will be refueled, restoring the fuel level to
full.

SCORE COUNTER

Records all points scored by you during the game.

ENEMY PLANE COUNTER

Tallies a "kill" icon for every enemy plane you shoot down.  In addition to
these icon, there is also a digital counter below the score counter.


                                                              PAGE 10



You start the game with three Hellcat.  You will receive one additional
Hellcat every time you earn a promotion in rank.


MISSION OBJECTIVES

You will be briefed on each mission's objectives before you begin it.  Bonuses
will be awarded as each objective is accomplished.  An additional bonus will
be awarded upon successful completion of an entire mission.

ISLAND

Targets on islands include barracks, soldiers, machine gun dug-outs and
large antiaircraft guns.  For an island to be neutralized, all barracks, soldiers
and guns must be destroyed.

SHIPS

Enemy ships must be sunk to be neutralized.

During some missions, you will also encounter the following:

FIGHTER PLANES

It is not necessary to shoot down all fighter planes in an area in order to
complete a mission.



                                                             PAGE 11



TORPEDO PLANES

To defend your carrier, it is necessary to either shoot down torpedo planes or
destroy their torpedos once dropping (with bullets, bombs or rockets).  When
a torpedo plane is sighted, an arrow will appear in the 3-D VIEW indicating
its position relative to you.

HIGH SCORES

Once you have finished the game, you will have the opportuntiy to save your
score to disk if your score is among the top ten.  You will be prompted to enter
your name.  Your rank will be recorded automatically.

SAVE GAME*

You can save a game in progress whenever your Hellcat is on the carrier.
When you are ready to save the game, press Control-G.  Enter a name for the
game you wish saved and press return.  You will then be returned automati-
cally to the game you were just playing.  To load a saved game, select "Return
from R & R" on the rank selection screen or press Control-L from within the
game.  On the Load Game menu screen use the joystick to highlight the game
you wish to play and press return.

*This Save Game feature is only included on the Amiga version.  you cannot
save games on the Commodore 64/128 version.



                                                               PAGE 12




PRESS              RESULT
-----              ------

ESC (AMIGA)        PAUSES THE GAME.  PRESS AGAIN TO CONTINUE.

CONTROL-R          RESTARTS THE GAME AND RETURNS YOU TO THE RANK SELECTION
                   MENU.

CONTROL-D          DISPLAYS THE LIST OF HIGH SCORES.

CONTROL-C          CLEARS THE LIST OF HIGH SCORES.  THIS OPTION CAN ONLY
                   BE USED AFTER PRESSING CONTROL-D.

CONTROL-F          FLIPS THE VERTICAL CONTROL ON YOUR JOYSTICK.


AMIGA ONLY
----------

CONTROL-G          SAVES GAME.

CONTROL-L          LOADS SAVED GAMES.





                                                            PAGES 13