WINNIE THE POOH IN THE HUNDRED ACRE WOODS 
Reference Card

Loading Instructions:
   1. Remove any disks from the drive.
   2. Insert the kick start disk into the drive, and turn on power to the computer.
   3.  At the work bench prompt, insert the Winnie the Pooh program disk in drive A.
   4. Double click the left mouse button on the WINNIE disk.
   5. Double click on the picture of Winnie to load the program.

To Play:
   You'll start in Christopher Robin's playroom.  After you read the message on the screen, click the left mouse button or press any key to see your options.    Select from available options by clicking on them with your mouse (unavailable options are shaded).  Or press the number of the option you wish to choose, or the first letter of a single word option (N for North, T for Take, D for Drop).  You may also use these four keys.

   P - Returns you to the playroom from any part of the forest.  (If you are at the North end of the forest and want to go to the South end quickly, this is a real step saver!)
   CTRL-S - Turn the sound off (and on again).
   C - Shows which object (if any) you are carrying, and how many objects you still need to return.
   L - Lets you look at the scene you're in.
   O - Lets you look at an object in the room.
   HELP - Describes mouse and keyboard use, and lists commonly used command keys.

   Depress the right mouse button to display the pull down menu and select from it.

A NOTE TO PARENTS

WINNIE THE POOH IN THE HUNDRED ACRE WOOD 
Playing for Fun/Learning for Life

   Walt Disney Personal Computer Software by SIERRA will capture your child's imagination while developing necessary skills and building knowledge.  Your child's attention is engaged with stunning graphics, delightful characters, and compelling and challenging activities, all of which motivate your child to grasp the concepts involved.
   Winnie is recommended for ages 7 and up.  It develops reading comprehension, problem solving, logic and mapping skills.  In addition, the Player's Guide contains special activities that extend learning beyond the game.

A TALE OF WINNIE THE POOH

   One day the residents of the 100 Acre Wood awoke to find many of their belongings missing.  A first, Winnie thought he has simply mislaid a few things.
   "Oh bother," said Pooh.
   Then he heard a knock on the door.  It was his friend Piglet, and he was upset.
   "Oh, d-d-dear," said Piglet.  "Oh dear, I seem to be missing something. And when a very small animal like myself is missing anything at all, it seems like a very great loss indeed."
   "That odd," said Winnie, "I think I'm missing a few things myself." He thought a moment, then said.  "Oh, well, I'm feeling a little rumbly in my tummy.  Things are bound to look a little better after a little something, Join me, won't you."
   After Pooh's mid morning snack, Pooh and Piglet set off on a walk through the forest.  As they walked, Pooh hummed a little hum.  Soon they came upon Eeyore, who looked gloomier than ever.
   "Hello, Eeyore," said Pooh.  "How are you today?"
   "It's very windy," said Eeyore in a sad voice.
   "So it is," said Pooh politely.
   "And when it isn't windy, it's misty."
   "Is it?"
   "Yes," said Eeyore.  "However," he said, brightening up a little, "we haven't had any earthquakes lately."
   "Eeyore, is something the matter?" asked Pooh.
   "Well, I seem to be missing a few things.  You probably don't think they're of any value, but they mean a lot to me," Eeyore sighed.  "Anyway, I don't suppose anybody cares."
   Eeyore turned sadly and began munching on a thistle.  Winnie the Pooh and Piglet murmured sympathetically, but they really didn't know what to say.  And so they slipped away.
   When they came to Rabbit's door, Pooh called, "Hello-o-o."    A voice from within asked, "Who is it?"
   Piglet answered, "It's m-m-me, Piglet, and Pooh too."
   Rabbit sounded alarmed.  "Well, I certainly didn't know there was another Pooh.  If Pooh Two is anything like Pooh One, they you certainly can't come in.  He'd eat me out of house and home, and I'm already missing quite a few things from my kitchen."
   So Pooh and Piglet went away.  They spent the day doing nothing.    Toward the end of the afternoon they heard someone whistling, and there was Christopher Robin.
   "Hello, Pooh Bear and Piglet," said Christopher Robin, "And how are you both today?"
   "We're f-f-fine," said Piglet, "but we both appear to be m-m-missing s-s-something."
   "Everyone we met today was missing something," said Pooh.  "I think there's something going on.  Maybe a heffalump came and took all our things away."
   "Silly old bear," said Christopher Robin fondly.  "The blustery wind came up last night and mixed up everything in the forest.  I'm looking for some of my things now.  But it's very hard.  My hands aren't very large, so I can only carry one thing at a time.  But that's not all.  Earlier I found something of Rabbit's, but Tigger came out of nowhere and bounced me away, making me drop it somewhere."
   "The blustery wind might come up and mix everything up again.  It will take a real hero to make everything right," Christopher sighed.
   "Well then, I'm going back to my house to wait," said Pooh.  "Besides, it's time for my late-afternoon snack, and I'm feeling a little rumbly in my tummy."
   And off he went, singing a little song.
OBJECT OF THE GAME

   All the residents of the 100 Acre Wood are waiting for someone to return their missing belongings.  If you do, you'll be a hero!  Christopher Robin and all his friends are sure to throw a big party for you!
HOW TO PLAY

   Each time you play Winnie the Pooh in the 100 Acre Wood, you play a different game.  That's because each time you have to find a different group of 10 objects.  Each object belongs to a particular character, or in a specific place.
   When you are carrying an object and you see the character (or place) you think it belongs to, drop the object.  If you have found the right owner, he or she will thank you politely.  If you have guessed incorrectly, nothing will happen.  If you wish, you can pick up the dropped object and continue on.    Each place in the 100 Acre Wood can only hold one object at a time.  You cannot drop an object in an area already containing another object.  You can only carry one object at a time.  If you are already carrying an object, you can't pick up another one.  If while you are carrying an object you see something you want, you must go away, drop what you are carrying, then go back to pick up the other object.  Be sure to remember where you dropped the first object, so you can return and pick it up later.
   If you find something and can't imagine where it might belong, take it to Owl.  If it isn't his, he will give you a helpful clue.
   Remember, the goal of the game is to return all ten objects to their owners.  If you take too long and the blustery wind begins to blow, the objects that you have not yet returned will get all mixed up again.  That's alright, just keep trying.T

HOW TO USE THE MAP

   The picture map of the 100 Acre Wood will help you find the characters and places you are looking for.  For example, if you are at Pooh's house and would like to visit Eeyore's gloomy place, you can look at the map to plan out the best route.
   You will probably want to draw your own map each time you play the game. On it, you can show places you have checked for objects, and note the things you've found along the way.
   Here is a sample of the kind of map you may want to draw.

         N
         |
     W---|---E
         |
         S                                 |
                                           |    ___________
                                           |    | Carrots |
                                           |    | Found   |
                                           |    |  Here   |
        Forest                       Enchanted
                                       Place

Glove
Found 
Here      Log by                 Eeyore's
          River                  Gloomy
                                 Place

   Remember that when the blustery wind returns, the objects that you have not yet returned will be blown to different places all over the woods. There may even be objects in places where there were none before.

THINGS TO WATCH OUT FOR

The Mist
   Every now and then, the mist will come in and cover everything with a thick blanket of fog.  You won't be able to see anything.  Just keep walking, and you'll come out of it soon.  But don't be surprised if you're in quite a different place -- it's easy to get lost and wander off in the mist!

Tigger
   He doesn't mean to cause trouble, but Tigger is very bouncy.  He can come upon you almost anywhere, without warning.  And when he does, watch out.  He'll bounce you to another part of the forest, and make you drop whatever you're carrying.

The Blustery Wind
   You should try to find and return all ten objects as quickly as possible, because soon the blustery wind will return and scatter whatever you've not yet returned.  Don't be too discouraged when that happens, though.  You see, when you have a better idea of what items you're looking for and to whom they belong, you can get through the game faster.

   Work out your own strategy for getting through the forest quickly, and returning all 10 objects to their proper places in the fewest possible number of moves.

HOW TO SAVE A GAME

   If you been playing awhile and you want to stop, you can just turn off the computer.  When you return you will begin a brand new game with ten different objects scattered around the wood.
   If you'd rather return to the game you're now playing, you can save it before you quit.  Then, when you come back, you can start playing where you left off.
   To save a game press F3 to go to the playroom.  Then look in the toybox. Select the option that says "save this game".  You'll be asked if you're sure that's what you want to do.  Remember, the toybox has room for only one saved game at a time.  If you have an old saved game in the toybox already, it will be thrown out.
   To start playing where you left off, go to the playroom and look in the toybox.  Choose the option that says "play my old game".  You'll be asked if you're sure that's what you want to do.  Remember, if you choose to play an old game, it will replace the game that you're now playing.

IN THE 100 ACRE WOOD

Christopher Robin is a little boy who plays at the treehouse in the 100 Acre Wood.  He has lots of toys, which he is always happy to share with others.  He loves to go out walking, even in rainy weather.  Winnie the Pooh is a stout bear all stuffed with fluff.  Tigger is a very bouncy tiger.  He doesn't mean to cause trouble; he just likes to bounce.  After all that's what Tiggers do best.  Eeyore is a sad and gloomy donkey. Nothing ever seems to go right for him.  Kanga is a mother kangaroo.  She keeps her house spotlessly clean.  Roo is a baby kangaroo who likes to play in a sandy pit.  Kanga always makes sure he is bundled up before letting him go out to play.  Piglet is a very small animal, and one of Pooh's very best friends.  Owl is very wise and educated.  He knows all kinds of interesting things about his friends in the 100 Acre Wood.  Rabbit is quite a gardener!  His house has both a front and back door, which is handy since Pooh has been known to get stuck in Rabbit's back door after an especially
filling meal.  The Bee Tree is where the bees make their honey.  Pooh likes honey very much, and is always thinking of ways he might help himself to some.  The Bridge is one of Pooh's favorite places.  Pooh invented the game of Pooh Sticks here.  Galleon's Lap is a place in the forest where there are lots of trees.  No one is quite sure how many trees are there, though. Pooh's Thoughtful Spot is where Pooh goes to--what else--think!  A bear all stuffed with fluff must think interesting thoughts.

The North Pole is a pole that Pooh found on an expedition one day. Christopher Robin said it was the North Pole, so they stuck a sign on it to show that Pooh had discovered it.  The Picnic Area has a table that is wonderful for picnics and parties.  Where the Wozzle Wasn't is a place where Pooh and Piglet tracks a wozzle one day.  The Heffalump Trap is a pit that Pooh and Piglet dug to catch Heffalumps (their name of elephants). However, all they caught was Pooh when he went to lick out the honey pot they has put there as bait.