Winter Olympics
Typed by Belgarath

The Olympic Winter Games in Lillehammer

Lillehammer, a small town situated 100 miles north of Oslo in Norway, has
invited the World to join them for the XVII Olympic Winter Games to be held
from the 12th to the 27th February 1994. It will be 70 years since the first
Olympic medals for winter sports were awarded in Chamonix, and 42 years
since the Games were last held in Norway.


Winter Olympics

Sixteen of the world's leading sporting nations have come together on your Amiga
to compete in the XVII Olympic Winter Games. You and three friends may
compete against each other and some of the best computer controlled athletes
in the world to be awarded the ultimate accolade - an Olympic Gold medal.

You may compete in 14 disciplines, covering 6 Olympic sports in the full or
mini Olympics, or practice a single discipline. The featured sports are:

. Alpine

. Bobsleigh

. Luge

. Biathlon

. Short track speed skating

. Ski Jumping

All the sports are based around the actual venues and incorporate scenery
found in and around Lillehammer. In the short track speed skating, two
competitors may battle it out against each other on screen at the same time.


System Requirements: CBM Amiga

You will require a minimum of 1 megabyte of memory including 1/2
megabyte of chip memory) to run this game. Should you have a higher
specification machine this will automatically be detected and enhanced
features will become active:

1 megabyte of chip memory - extra graphics and sound effects will
be loaded into some of the events.

2 megabytes of either fast or chip memory - will pre-load the biathlon
and front end presentation sequence.

A1200 AA Chip set - more detailed skiing and
faster gameplay.


Starting the Game: CBM Amiga

. While the machine is switched off, insert disk 1 into the floppy drive.

. Turn on your machine.

The program will now load and run automatically, with the introduction
sequence being displayed.


Controls: CBM Amiga

You may use either the keyboard or joystick (recommended) to control this
game. The default keyboard buttons are:

Up:    Up Arrow
Down:  Down Arrow
Left:  Left Arrow
Right: Right Arrow
FIRE:  Spacebar

Option to Quit: ESC
Pause Game:     P


Options: CBM Amiga

Certain aspects of the game may be changed via the Options Menu.

. Music
  This option allows you to turn the music on and off.

. Sound Effects
  This option allows you to turn the sound effects on and off.

. Language
  Allows you to choose which language you wish all in-game text to be
  displayed in.

. Start Game


Main Selection

Here you are presented with a number of different options. Move the highlight between
the options available by pressing the up and down arrow keys on the keyboard,
or if using the joystick, the up and down directions of the joystick.

The Available options are:

. Full Olympics
  The Full Olympics features the Biathlon and four other chosen disciplines
  from the sporting categories. The Opening and Closing ceremonies are
  also featured.

. Mini Olympics
  The Mini Olympics allows you to select from one to four disciplines from
  the 4 sporting categories. You can not select the biathlon or view the
  Opening and Closing ceremonies.

. Practice
  Practice will allow you to select one discipline and train in that discipline.


Player Selection

Up to four players can compete against each other in the Games at one time.
The Player selection screen allows you to select the number of players, their
names, country they wish to represent and control method.

When requested, each player may enter their names in turn, followed by the
Enter/Return key (pressing the Enter/Return key without entering a name
will exit the player selection and enter the event selection). After entering your
name, you will be prompted to select the country you wish to represent during
the Games. This is done by using the UP and DOWN arrow keys and
Enter/Return to select. Next you will be asked if you would prefer to use
either the keyboard or joystick, use the LEFT and RIGHT arrow keys, and
Enter/Return to select.


Event Selection

You are presented with the pictograms representing each of the sports.
To move between each sport, use the LEFT and RIGHT arrow keys. When you
have selected a sport, you may change your discipline by pressing the UP and
DOWN arrow keys. The featured disciplines are:

     Downhill,       Super G,

Giant slalom  Slalom Bobsleigh:
                     2-Man Bobsleigh,
                     4-Man Bobsleigh

Luge:         Biathlon   Ski jumping:
1-Man Luge,              120 or 90 Metre
2-Man Luge

             Short track: 3000m Elimination,
             2000m Time Trial, 1000m Pursuit

Please note that the biathlon may not be selected as a sport in your Mini
Olympic programme.


Skill Level

Three different levels of competition for the computer controlled athletes are
included. Use the up and down direction buttons to cycle through them.

Club - An easy level for beginners or young children
National - The opposition is tougher than Club
Olympic - The opposition are international level


Playing Full and Mini Olympics

Each player takes turns playing the sports, with the exception of the Short track
speed skating, when two human players can play against each other at the same time.


Opening Ceremony

If you are playing the game in the Full Olympic mode, when the last event has
been completed, you are able to view the Opening Ceremony and celebrations
which open the Games. You may exit this sequence and proceed with the
events by pressing FIRE.


Biathlon

Biathlon is a combined sport of Cross-country skiing and rifle shooting that was
first included in the 1960 Winter Olympics. The Birkebeineren Ski Stadium in
the Lillehammer Olympic Park will be home to the Biathlon.

The Biathlon is a link event between sports in the Full Olympic programme,
it is not selectable in the Mini Olympics. During the cross country sections,
use the LEFT and RIGHT directions to move the pointer along the bar, this will
improve the biathletes rhythm. When the biathletes leave the screen, you will
have 15 seconds to set the speed for the next section, which is achieved by the
alternating between the LEFT and RIGHT directions.

In the shooting sections, use the UP, DOWN, LEFT and RIGHT directions to
aim the rifle, then FIRE to shoot. You have five shots which must hit the black
centre of each of the targets, which can be hit in any order. For each target
missed, a one minute time penalty is added to your overall time.


Downhill

One of the world's toughest downhill courses lies 50 km north of Lillehammer,
at Kvitfjell and forms part of the Lillehammer Olympic Alpine Centre.
Measuring 3,150 metres in length, it has a vertical descent of 820 metres, and at
its steepest point there's a drop of 70-80 metres. However, Alpine disciplines
have not always been a part of the Olympic programme, as they were first
introduced in the 1936 Games.

The course is designed primarily for speed and the gates are positioned in
order not to interfere with the fastest line; however, they do test the
competitor's technical ability and control the speed where necessary.
The winner is decided after 1 run and is the competitor who completes the
course in the fastest time.

Controlling the skier, you must ski from the starting hut to the finishing line,
ensuring that you go through all the gates positioned down the course.
Missing a gate will disqualify you. You will still be able to complete the course,
but no result will be given. Do not hit objects off the course as this will result in
fatal injury, preventing you from completing your run. There are also jumps and
tight turns to overcome.

All the Alpine disciplines feature the same controls. After starting the event,
use the LEFT and RIGHT directions to manoeuvre the skier left and right.
Extra speed may be gained by moving the skier into the 'tuck' stance, this is
activated by the UP direction. Slowing down may be performed by adopting the
braking stance, which is activated by the DOWN direction.


Super-G

The Super-G is also to be held at Kvitfjell and is a somewhat shorter track than
that used for the downhill. The course has a natural sequence of long and
medium turns and the gates are positioned to slow the skiers down and
create more sweeping lines across the mountain side. The winner is decided
after 1 run.


Giant slalom

The Lillehammer Olympic Alpine Centre, Hafjell, just 15 km north of
Lillehammer is the home of the Giant slalom event. The course has been
designed with long, medium and tight turns in a natural sequence and gates are
positioned so that competitors can exploit natural topographical variations.
The winner is decided after 2 runs and the player's rank is calculated against
the overall time.


Slalom

The Slalom course at Hafjell is the shortest of all the alpine skiing events.
The gates are positioned to provide a number of changes of direction, while
also making it possible to gain speed and maintain a steady flowing rhythm through
the course. The winner is the competitor with the fastest aggregate time after
the two runs down the course.


Ski Jumping

Ski jumping has a long tradition as a winter sport, and was a central feature of
the Winter Games at Chamonix in 1924. The longest jump on that occasion was
49 metres. The Lysgardsbakkene Ski Jumping Arena just a few hundred metres
from the centre of Lillehammer will host the Ski jumping events.

Ski jumping requires strength, grace and courage. Competitors make two
jumps from a specially constructed hill, and points are awarded for style and
technique as well as for the distance achieved.

The ideal jump is one executed with power, boldness and precision, while
giving an impression of calm and steady control.

Pressing the FIRE button when the green light is lit in the status area, will start
your descent down the jump. Starting whilst the light is still on red, will mean
instant disqualification. Speed may be gained whilst going down the jump by
keeping the skies displayed in the status area straight. This is achieved by
using the LEFT and RIGHT directions.

Whilst in the air, manoeuvre yourself into the correct stance by using
the UP and DOWN directions. As you are approaching the ground, press FIRE
to adopt the landing position. Pressing too early will lose you valuable distance,
whilst pressing too late, you will almost definitely crash! Points are awarded for
both style and distance.


Bobsleigh

Bobsleigh competitions have been in the Olympic programme since the Winter
Games were first held in 1924. except for the 1960 games in Squaw Valley.
Stretching 1,365 metres in length, the course at the Lillehammer Olympic
Bobsleigh and Luge Track near Hunderfossen, 15km north of Lillehammer,
is northern Europe's most modern track. Made of concrete to high standards,
competitors are subject to forces of up to 4 G.

The bobsleigh is push-started by its crew. The initial thrust and force of gravity
are the only permitted means of powering the bobsleigh down the course.
The aggregate time after two runs determines the winners.

To push-start the bobsleigh, alternate between the LEFT and RIGHT directions
and using the FIRE to make each of the runners jump into the bobsleigh.
By the end of the run-in, all members of the bobsleigh's crew must be in, else
you will be disqualified. During the event, use the LEFT and RIGHT directions
to steer the bobsleigh down the course. If the front man's head is pointing
straight on, you are on the best line. If his head is pointing in another direction,
manoeuvre the bobsleigh in that direction.


Luge

The Luge, a light toboggan, is a relative newcomer to the Winter Olympics and
was included in the programme for the first time at the Innsbruck Games in
1964. Also being held on the Hunderfossen track, but from a different starting
position. The best aggregate times over the two runs wins.

The same controls as featured in the bobsleigh have been adopted, with the
exception of using the LEFT and RIGHT directions at the start of the event to
build-up the speed by rocking backwards and forth.


Short track speed skating

Speed skating on a short track was introduced to the Olympic programme at
the Albertville Games in 1992. This event differs in several ways from
conventional speed skating, particularly in the size of the track. The events will
be staged in the Hamar Olympic Amphitheatre.

After the light turns green you are off. Start too early and a false start id
awarded against you. If you or any other contestant makes two false starts you
are disqualified from the event. Use the LEFT and RIGHT directions alternately
to build up your speed. Avoid other skaters by moving in and out of the track,
using LEFT and RIGHT directions whilst fire is being pressed. Be careful not
to crash into other contestants as this may leave you flat on the ice! In the
Elimination, after the 2md and 4th laps, the slowest contestant will be
eliminated.


Medal Table

At the end of an event the results are displayed. Should any of the human
contestants come in the top three in an event, they will be awarded with either a
bronze (3rd place), silver (2nd place) or gold (1st place) medal.

The Medal Table will then be displayed, which is based on both the number of
medals won and points, which will be awarded depending on your results.


Closing Ceremony

If you are playing the game in Full Olympic mode, when the last event has been
completed, you are able to view the Closing Ceremony and celebrations which
conclude the Games. You may exit this sequence and return to the Main
Selection screen by pressing any Button.


Typed by Belgarath