                                 WORLD CUP

                              ALL TIME GREATS

                              TYPED BY CHARON



At the start of the game you will be given 2 gameplay options.

1: Play Game
This will put you straight into the World Cup 1994.  You can then select
any of the competing teams to manage.

2: All Time
This will allow you to change the World Cup as is, by swapping any existing
competing team with any from the menu of alternative teams, in any order
you wish with any number you wish.  You can then select to manage any of
the available teams.
You could even use this feature to change the playing order of the World
Cup as is.  e.g swap Germany out and put the team back in a different
group.

3: Gameplay
a) Scout
Use this option to check on the other teams in the competition, you can
only view one match per day, and of course, you may wish to see the same
teams more than once to see how their gameplay style may change.  To scout
a match sekect SCOUT then select MISSION and then select the match you wish
to scout.  Press fire/return and then FINISHED.  The information will then
be available for you to view using SCOUT and then REPORT after that match
has played.

b) Team
To select your team before a match, select Play and then select TEAM.  You
will then be give a TEAM DETAILS screen where you can select your players
from the squad available.  Exit from this screen when you habe selected
your team back to the MATCH DAY screen.  Here you can select TEAM TACTICS
before you play the match.

c) Play Match
You can then view the detailed in match commentary - you may substitute
during the match or at half time.

d) Watch
You may select this option when you team is not playing to `view` another
match being played, you of course will not be able to affect this match.

4: Cup
If you select cup you will then be able to view all the TABLES and FIXTURES
of all the groups.

5: Save
Saving to disk please ensure the floppy disk is in the correct drive and
that the write protect tab is off.  Please follow on screen instructions.

6: Game Controls
Cursor arrow keys or joystick/pad.



            "As they lower me down into the hold in the ground
              I scream out for help but they hear not a sound
                 I tear at the lid, My fingers they bleed
               Is this happening to me or is it just a dream
                      SUMMON THE DEAD...CHARON CALLS"