                                         __
                         \   /  \   /   /_
                          \X/ .  \X/  . \

                         -*- From Ocean -*-

           -*- Cracked By Skid Row. Docs Typed By HYDR0 -*-


 SCENARIO
 --------

 The thrills and spills of the World Wrestling Federation brought to you
 screen!. Test your strength in this musclebound wrestling extravaganza.
 Become the undisputed champion as Hulk Hogan, The Ultimate Warrior or the
 British Bulldog. Battle for suvival against Sgt Slaughter, the Warlord and
 a host of other WWF stars. Anything goes in this all-action event, and only
 the toughest survives!

 LOADING
 -------

 ATARI ST - The game requires a double-sided disk drive.
 Switch on the power to the computer, then insert disk 1 into the drive.
 The program will then load automatically. Follow the on-screen intructions.

 CBM AMIGA
 Insert disk 1 into the drive and turn on the computer;the program will then
 automatically load and run.

 PC
 Installing the game disk on hard disk:
 Insert disk 1 into your floppy disk drive and then type the letter of that
 drive followed by: (e.g. B: followed by RETURN). Type INSTALL X:, where X
 is the drive letter you want to install the game onto. you will then be
 prompted to insert the other disks into the drive when needed.

 Running the game from floppy:

 Insert disk 1 into your drive and type the letter of that drive followed
 by: (e.g. if you insert the WWF disk 1 into drive B,then type B: followed
 by RETURN). Type WWF and press RETURN). The game will automactically select
 the sound card and video display best suited to your computer.
  Should you wish to override the automatic selection, then you should add
 and E (EGA) or V (VGA) to the command line when loading the game. E.g. WWF
 E will select the EGA display, while WWF V will select a VGA display.

 STARTING THE GAME
 -----------------

 After loading, you will be presented with an opening sequence. Pressing
 fire during this sequence will allow you to start the game. You will now
 be able to compete for the Wrestlemania Belt, or to use the practice mode.


 PRACTICE MODE
 -------------

 The pratice mode allows two players to compete in a head to head contest.
 Player One can select from any of the three challengers, and Player Two is
 always Mr. Perfect. On completion of the pratice bout, you can play it again,
 or return to the title sequence.

 COMPETE OPTION
 --------------

 when you select the compete otion, you can choose to play one of the thress
 challengers. Pressing left or right will move on to another challenger.
 Pressing fire will select the currently displayed challenger. You can choose
 to compete as one of the following three wrestlers:
 Hulk Hogan       - Legdrop Off The Ropes
 Ultimate Warrior - Gorilla Press
 Bristish Bulldog - Running Power Slam

 In order to win the Wrestlemania Belt, you must beat five of the toughest
 and meanest wrestlers in the WWF. These opponents each have their own
 special moves and their own style of fighting. You will face these
 Wrestlers in the following order:
 Mr. Perfect        - Perfect Plex
 The Warlord        - Full Nelson
 Million Dollar Man - Million Dollar Sleeper Hold
 The Mountie        - Drop Headlock
 Sergeant Slaughter - Camel Clutch
  At the start of the game you have 4 credits. Every time you lose a match,
 or you are forced to end you challenge attempt, an options screen will
 appear allowing you to replay the last match bu using credit. Once all
 you credits are used, the game will automatically go back to the opening
 sequence.
  Before the start of each bout, you opponent wrestler will have a chance
 to say what he thinks of you. You will then be given the right to reply.
 you can select your reply by moving left or right. Once you have chosen
 you reply, pressing the fire button will select it. Your opponent will
 then be allowed to reply to yout comments. Then it's time to get it on!.

 MATCH RULES
 -----------

 Each bout will last a maximum of five minuits. During which time the
 match can be won by pi nning the oppsing wrestler to the canvas for a count
 of three seconds. If there is not an outright victor by the end of the
 five minuits, then the match is declared a draw and your challenge for the
 Wrestlemania Belt is over.

 If any competitor is foirced out of the ring. a twenty second clock is
 started. This clock is reset once both wrestlers are back in the ring.
 should any competitor remain out of the ring long enough for this clock
 to reach twenty, then the match is declared viod, and your challenge for
 the Wrestlemania Belt is over.

 GAME RULES
 ----------

 Each wrestler has a strength indicator as the bottom of the screen (either
 side of the screen on the C64 version). This strength level will determine
 how quickly the wrestler can recover from being knocked onto the floor,
 or how quickly he can throw off someone who is pinning him. Your stength
 is depleted when you are hit or kicked, or when you are thrown to the
 ground.

 As you play the game, two different icons wil appear on screen, indicating
 what action you should take.

 (A Fire button with A Finger On It)

 This icon will appear when your wrestler is on the ground,. Pressing the
 fire button rapidly will make your wrestler get to his feet, but if your
 wrestler is weak then this may take a few seconds.

 (A Joystick Left And Right)

 This icon will appear when you are grappling with yout opponent, moving
 the joystick rapidly from side to side will build up your grapple strength
 This is shown by a growing bar at the side olf the grapple icon. The first
 wrestler to make their bar reach maximum height wins the grapple. The
 winner of the grapple then executes his special move on the other
 wrestler.

 WWF JOYSTICK MOVEMENTS
 ----------------------

 When your wrestler is in the ring:

 WALKING MOVEMENT - Joystick left, right, up, down and diagonals
 PUNCH - Stand still + Press fire
 KICK - Move + press fire
 DROP KICK - Double fire + left or right
 RUN LEFT - Double left
 RUN RIGHT - Double Right
 EXIT RING - Push against side or front ropes

 When your wrestler is running:

 FLYING KNEE - Press fire
 FLYING KICK - Push direction and press fire

 When your opponent is down:

 PIN - Move over him and pull down + press fire
 STAMP - Move over him and press fire
 FLYING HEAD KICK - Press fire while on top of post

 When you are near the post:

 CLIMB POST - Push towards post

 When you are on the post:

 FLYING DROP KICK - Press fire
 CLIMB OFF POST - Pull down

 When you are outside the ring:

 ENTER/EXIT RING - Push towards side or front ropes
 PICK UP CHAIR - Walk over it and press fire

 AMIGA/ATARI ST KEYS
 -------------------

 Player 1 - Joystick 2 (1 On St)
 Player 2 - Joystick 1 (0 On St)
 Pause - P
 Quit - ESC
 Restart - Fire
 Stereo Effects - S (amiga only)
 Mono Effects - M (amiga only)

 PC KEYS
 -------
                   PLAYER 1   PLAYER 2
 UP                   Q        CURSOR UP
 DOWN                 A        CURSOR DOWN
 LEFT                 O        CURSOR LEFT
 RIGHT                P        CURSOR RIGHT
 FIRE               SPACE      KEYPAD 0
 PAUSE                      1
 QUIT(IN PAUSE)             2
 RESTART                    3


                          THE END!