                                  EMPIRE HINTS

     By CGW. Edited by Parasite.


     When using transports to unload in an invasion, move as close to
     a city as possible and attack it from the sea.  If you move
     overland, you're more susceptible to attack.  Once you capture the
     city, build armies in it.  you'll probably need them for
     reinforcements.

     Use cruisers and battleships to clear the landing area of enemy
     units.  Better yet, land where there aren't any enemy units and
     let the battleships and cruisers pick off enemy troops thatmove
     against any of your invading units.  Choose an area for your ships
     that lyou can position lyou units behind.  As the enemy moves
     towards your land units, lyou ships can pick them off.

     Land units seem to defend better than attack.  Not noticed for sea
     battles.

     If you find an enemy carrier, send a cruiser or battleship right
     for it.  Carriers go down very easily and they usually have a full
     sauadron on deck when they go.  Planes can chew up infantry pretty
     well, so keep some ships around at all times.

     Always watch your back door.  The computer sues seapower very
     effectively and will continually try to slip transports into your
     rear areas.  If you haven't left a garrison or two on any of your
     islands, or kept some ships patrolling the sea lanes you'll find
     some previously frindly islands becoming hotbeds of rebellions.

     Fighters and cruisers work efficiently in tandem.  Use th fighter
     to sweep the area and act as reconnaissance.  Then, bring the
     cruiser in for the kill.

     Repair ships in forward ports.  It takes too long to travel to
     rear areas.

     Keep updating your production cities.  As lyou conquer forward
     islands, readjust your rear-area cities to produce ships and
     fighters.  Use the newly conauered, frontline cities to produce
     armies.  Your transports won't have so far to go to reload and you
     will have lots of troops up front when the enemy counterattacks.

     doln't butt your lhead against the wall.  If lyou don't have
     enough troops or suppoort ships to take an area that's heavily
     defended, avoid it until you have gbuilt lup enough of an
     invasion force.