Eye of the Beholder

                                 STRATEGY

Many elements make up the strategies the party will use in EYE OF THE 
BEHOLDER These elements include: the characters that make up the party, 
the mechanics and tactics of combat, the equipment and spells used by the 
party the NPCs that support the party the monsters the party fights, and 
the techniques used to solve puzzles.

The Characters

There are many strategies for putting together an effective party of 
characters. Certain combinations of character classes and race are 
more effective than others.

Single-Class vs. Multi-Class

Non-human characters can be multi-classed characters, but that does not 
mean that they must be multi-class characters. Single-class characters 
have a number of advantages over multi-classed characters with the same 
amount of EXP.

Single-class fighters have several advantages. With the same amount of 
EXP, they will average many more HP and have a better chance to hit than 
multi-class fighter combinations.

Single-class clerics and mages will gain higher level spells much sooner 
than multi-class cleric or mage combinations. Spell casters become much 
more useful when they reach 5th level and can cast the 3rd level spells 
Fireball and Create Food.

Characters can more effectively specialize in EOB than in other AD&D 
computer role playing games. With careful play, rear rank characters 
will seldom get into melee combat. This makes a single-class mage a 
viable character by reducing the effect of his limited abilities in
melee. Also, the real time nature of EOB means that a character can only 
do one thing at a time; a character's ability to do many different 
things is often not as important as the ability to do one thing very 
well.

The advantages of multi-classed characters are obvious, they combine 
the abilities of several different classes of character in one. Thus,
fighter/mage can both melee effectively and cast spells, though he can 
do neither as well as a single-class fighter or mage with the same
amount of EXP. Multi-classed characters are often useful to add an 
additional capability to a party, such as thieving skills or additional
clerical healing spells.

Racial Advantages

Because of the monsters and situations in EOB, certain race/class 
combinations are very effective. The following are some specific types
of characters and their advantages.

Dwarven Fighter: A dwarven fighter with a high constitution has a high 
resistance to poison, which makes it much easier to fight giant spiders. 
A dwarf fighter can also have a Constitution of 19, which can further 
increase his HP. A dwarf also allows the party to read the writing on the 
wall in the dwarvish levels of the game.

Human Paladin: Only humans can he paladins. Paladins can fight as well 
as any fighter, plus they have the ability to heal by laying on hands 
and, they have the ability to cast some low level clerical healing 
spells when they reach ninth level.

Elven Mage: A single-class mage gains levels swiftly and will quickly 
gain the ability to cast useful spells like Fireball. An elven mage 
with a high dexterity has a high AC, which makes it easier to survive 
stray thrown weapons. As a mage, an elf's maximum constitution of 17
does not limit his HP and his maximum dexterity of 19 can increase his 
AC. As mages cannot wear armor to increase their AC, a high dexterity 
is essential to a mage. An elf also allows the party to read the writing 
on the wall in the drow levels of the game.

Human, Half Elven, or Elven Cleric: A single-class cleric swiftly gains 
levels and the ability to cast useful spells like Create Food. Humans, 
Half Elves and Elves can all have a maximum wisdom of 18 (thus gaining 
the maximum bonus spells) and have no level restrictions in this game.

Half Elven Fighter/Mage/Cleric: This is the character with the most 
diverse talents in the game. This character can use almost every item in 
the game (excluding lockpicks), and has a limited ability to fight, can 
cast offensive spells, and heal. Unfortunately, a half elven fighter/mage/
cleric will go up levels extremely slowly, and will have very few HP for 
most of the game.

Elven Fighter/Mage/Thief: The thiefly counterpart to the half elven jack 
of all trades listed before. This character can use literally every
item in the game and can pick locks as well. Unfortunately, an elven 
fighter/mage/thief will also go up levels extremely slowly, and will 
have very few HP for most of the game.

Gnome Cleric/Thief: A gnomish cleric/thief makes a good character to 
fill out a party that already has a single-class cleric. The cleric/
thief gives the party additional clerical healing spells plus the 
thieving ability of picking locks.

The Party

A party should include a good mix of classes and races to deal with the 
many honors in EOB. The player will need to decide upon his overall party 
strategy before making the characters in his party.

In general, a party should have at least two characters who can fight 
well for the front rank, a character who can cast mage spells, and at 
least one character who can cast clerical healing spells.

Fighters

The party has many choices for the two front rank characters who can 
fight well. Most races make reasonable fighters, and fighter, paladin, 
and ranger class characters can all fight well. Even single-class cleric 
and dual class fighter/cleric characters can be effective front rank 
characters in the beginning levels of the game. Also, most of the NPC 
characters the party meets later in the game can fight well and could be 
used in the front rank.

Spell Casters

The choice of the various spell casters is also important to the 
strategy of the party. One character who can cast mage spells is 
normally sufficient for most parties. Mages must find their higher 
level spells on scrolls; the supply of scrolls is limited, so it is not 
efficient to divide those spells among several mages in a party.

It is often useful to have two characters who can cast clerical healing 
spells. It is important not to get caught after a battle without a
conscious cleric. A conscious cleric with a few Cure Light Wounds spells 
can heal as many HP in hours, as a party without a conscious cleric 
could heal in many days of rest.

Party Makeup

One strategy is to create a party of specialists who go up in levels 
with the fewest number of EXP This party works well so long as the
warriors in the front rank never let the spell casters in the rear rank 
get into melee.

Specialist Party: Dwarven Fighter, Human Paladin, Elven Mage, and Half 
Elven Cleric.

Another strategy is to create a party of generalists who are multi-
classed characters. This party should always have some character
with the appropriate skill for a situation. But, such a diverse party 
will take a lot of EXP to get to higher levels.

Generalist Party: Dwarven Fighter/Thief, Half Elven Fighter/Cleric, 
Elven Fighter/Mage, Half Elven Cleric/Mage

A further strategy is to have a mixed party with specialist warriors in 
the front rank and generalist spell casters in the rear rank. This
strategy makes sure that the fighters gain levels (and HP) as quickly as 
possible, but that the spell casters will have a wide variety of spells
available.

Mixed Party: Dwarven Fighter, Human Paladin, Half Elven Cleric/Mage, 
Gnome Cleric/Thief.

Combat Mechanics

Understanding the combat mechanics used in EYE OF THE BEHOLDER allows 
the party to use the most effective weapons and tactics in different 
situations. Each character's ability in combat is defined by his AC, 
THAC0, and damage.

AC

A character or monster's difficulty to be hit is represented by his 
Armor Class or AC. The lower the target's AC, the harder it is to hit
the target. AC is based on armor and a dexterity bonus. Some magic 
items also help a character's AC.

THAC0

A character's THAC0 represents his ability to hit enemies. THAC0 stands 
for To Hit Armor Class 0. This is the number a character must `roll' 
equal to or greater than to do damage on a target with an AC of 0.
The lower the attacker's THAC0, the better his chance to hit the target. 
A character's THAC0 is based on his class and level.

Note: the generation of a random number is often referred to as a 
  `roll'. In determining if an attack hit, the number generated is from 
  1 through 20. The base roll is modified by the character's ability
  scores and any magic weapons.

An attack is successful if the roll is greater than or equal to the 
attacker's THAC0 minus the target's AC.

Example: A fighter with a THAC0 of 15 attacking a monster with an 
  AC of 3 would need to roll: (THAC0 15) - (AC 3) = 12+. But to hit a 
  monster with an AC of -2 he would need to roll: (THAC0 15) - (AC -2) = 
  17+

Damage

When a hit is scored, the attacker does damage. Damage is the range of 
HP loss the attacker inflicts when he hits an opponent in combat, and it 
depends on the attacker's strength and weapon type. The damage each
weapon can do is summarized in the Weapons List.

Some monsters take only partial or no damage from certain weapon types. 
Skeletons, for example, take only half damage from sharp or edged 
weapons.

Attacking

Characters generally engage in melee combat, which is face-to-face 
fighting with weapons such as swords and maces. Characters also
have other options, such as casting spells and ranged combat, with bows 
and slings.

In general, a character attacks the enemy in the front rank on his side 
of the screen. When there is only one enemy left in a battle, it
moves to the center of the square and characters from both sides can 
attack it.

Combat Strategies

To succeed in combat, a skilled player deploys his party well, casts 
effective spells before and during combat, maneuvers his characters 
into advantageous positions, and attacks using his most powerful 
characters and weapons.

Deploying the Party

Keep the heavily-armored fighters in the front rank and the vulnerable 
mages and thieves in the rear ranks.

Equipping the Party

Equip characters in the front rank with the most powerful melee weapons 
you can find. See the Weapons Table to see how much damage each type of 
melee weapon can do. As soon as you find enough weapons, warriors should 
carry a one handed weapon in their primary hand and a short sword in 
their secondary hand.

Equip characters in the rear ranks with the most powerful ranged 
weapons you can find. See the Weapons Table to see how much damage each 
type of ranged weapon can do. Spell casters should have their holy 
symbols and spell books in-hand, ready to cast spells.

Characters who use thrown weapons should carry weapons both in-hand and 
in their belt pouch for quick reloading. Front rank characters who use 
thrown weapons may wish to carry a shield or short sword at the top
of their belt pouch. This shield or short sword will be readied 
automatically after they attack with the last of their thrown weapons.

Be sure to recover your ranged weapons after each battle and to collect 
all of the ranged weapons you can find. Ranged weapons get used up 
quickly in battle, and they may have special uses later in the game.

Wounded Characters

Characters who are seriously wounded should be moved out of the front 
rank if possible. It is much easier to heal a wounded character than
it is to bring a dead character back to life.

Moving and Fighting

If you are exploring an area, move with the compass on the screen to 
facilitate mapping. If you are moving through an explored area,
move with a spell menu on the screen and an attack spell showing. 
Always move with the Adventure Screen up, you can't fight from the
Equipment or Character Screens.

With both the adventure screen and spell menu up you are prepared for 
battle. Prepare for battle before you open any door, climb or descend 
stairs, or push a button that could open a door or secret wall. Monsters 
often lurk behind closed doors or secret walls, and monsters are always 
ready for combat.

Remember that you can move and fight at the same time. You can move 
backwards to dodge an enemy melee attack. You can move sideways to dodge 
an enemy ranged attack. You can even run away and close a door behind
you to get away from a particularly nasty fight.

Fighting from the Keyboard

Fighting from the keyboard takes a little more planning than fighting 
with a mouse. To fight effectively, quickly choose the item you want
to attack with and press the U key to Use it.

There are two ways to move the item high-light and choose the item you
want to attack with: the A, S, W and Z item cursor keys, and the F1 - F6 
character selection keys. The party's equipment should be set up to take
maximum advantage of the way you move the item highlight.

If you use the A, S, Wand Z, item cursor keys to move the item highlight, 
place the six weapons the party uses most in the primary and secondary 
hands of the front rank characters and in the primary hands of the 
first two rear rank characters. Before a battle, start the item 
highlight on the primary hand of the character in the upper right hand 
comer. Practice quickly moving the item highlight in a circle through 
these six items, Using each item in turn. By the time the cursor gets 
back to the first item, that item should be ready to Use again.

If you use the F1- F6 character selection keys to move the item 
highlight, place the four to six weapons the party uses most in the 
primary hands of each of the characters. Before a battle, start the item 
highlight on the primary hand of the character in the upper right hand 
corner. Practice using the F1 - F6 keys to quickly moving the item 
highlight in a circle through these four to six items, Using each item in 
turn. By the time the cursor gets back to the first item, that item should 
be ready to Use again.

Once you can move the item highlight and use weapons quickly, add moving 
and casting mage spells to the combat rhythm. In general, if the combat 
situation requires that the party move, then interrupt your combat 
rhythm and move! To cast spells effectively in combat, take the first 
spare instant to Use a mage's spell book and open the spell menu. Resume
attacking with weapons until you have another spare instant, then choose 
the spell level, the spell within that level, and then cast the spell. 
You can eliminate choosing the spell within a level if you memorize only 
the attack spells Magic Missile, Melf's Acid Arrow, Fireball, Ice Storm, 
and Cone of Cold.

With a little planning and practice, you can fight as effectively with 
the keyboard as you can with the mouse. While the party's attacks may 
sacrifice some flexibility, they will gain in consistency and rhythm.

Tactics

The monsters on the first several levels are each designed to require a 
different combat strategy for maximum effectiveness. The player should 
try to learn different combat strategies to fight each type of monster 
most effectively.

Level 1

The monsters on level 1 do not have special abilities or weaknesses. It 
only requires that the party learn to melee effectively to survive.

Level 2

The monsters on level 2 are undead. The party should learn that these 
monsters can be turned by a cleric who has his holy symbol ready and
in-hand.

Level 3

The kuo-toa have ranged attacks. The party should learn to dodge the 
ranged attacks before closing with the monster to melee.

Level 4 & 5

The giant spiders have a poisonous bite. The party should learn `shoot 
and scoot' tactics to keep out of melee. These tactics consist of
learning to move backwards while attacking with ranged weapons and spells.

Level 6

The kenku have multiple ranged attacks, travels in groups, and can 
surround a slow moving party. The party should learn to keep dodging 
until the flock has expended all of its ranged attacks. The party also 
needs to learn to use area effect damage spells, like Fireball, to
clear out the flocks quickly and to move swiftly so as not to get 
trapped in a corridor with foes both in front and behind.

There is a wizard on level 6 that has many area effect spells. Here the 
party needs to learn `hit and run' tactics. These tactics are to dodge
back around a corner, strike at their foe as he presents his flank, and 
then dodge back again as he turns to face the party. The object of this
tactic is to always avoid the enemy's devastating fire power.

Level 7

The drow have weapons coated with a paralyzing poison and have a 
significant resistance to magic. The party should learn to rely on 
missile fire and maneuver instead of magic and melee, to defeat their 
foes. Once the party has learned all of these tactics, they have a 
chance against any of the monsters in the game. All the party has to
do then is decide which tactic is most effective in each situation.

Ability Scores and Other Characteristics

Strength

The Strength Chart lists the modifiers to melee hit probability and the 
damage adjustment based on the character's Strength.

Strength Chart

Ability      Melee Hit     Damage
Score        Probability   Adjustment
3             -3            -1
4-5           -2            -1
6-7           -1            none
8-15          normal        none
16            normal        +1
17            +1            +1
18            +1            +2
18/01-50*     +1            +3
18/51-75*     +2            +3
18/76-90*     +2            +4
18/91-99*     +2            +5
18/00*        +3            +6
19#           +3            +7
20#           +3            +8
21#           +4            +9
22#           +4            +10

* These bonuses are available only to fighters, paladins, and rangers.
# These scores are only possible in this game through magic.

Dexterity

The Dexterity Chart lists the modifiers to missile hit probability and 
the AC adjustment based on the character's Dexterity.

Dexterity Chart

Ability      Missile Hit  AC
Score        Probability  Adjustment
3            -3           +4
4            -2           +3
5            -1           +2
6             0           +1
7-14          0            0
15            0           -1
16           +1           -2
17           +2           -3
18           +2           -4
19           +3           -4

Constitution

The Constitution Chart lists the Hit Point Adjustment that a character 
gets every level.

Constitution Chart

Ability           Hit Point
Score             Adjustment
3                 -2
4-6               -1
7-14               0
15                +1
16                +2
17           +2 (+3)*
18           +2 (+4)*
19           +2 (+5)*

*  These bonuses are available only to fighters, paladins, and rangers; 
for all other classes the maximum hit point adjustment for constitution 
is +2

THAC0 (Also known as THWAAKO! HAHA! Mict*!)

THAC0 is not an ability score, but it is an important characteristic. The 
THAC0 Chart lists a character's base THAC0 for his class and level.

THAC0 Chart

          Character Level
Class     1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11
Cleric    20 20 20 18 18 18 16 16 16 14  14
Fighter   20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11  10
Mage      20 20 20 19 19 19 18 18 18 17  17
Paladin   20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11  10
Ranger    20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11  10

Weapons and Armor

Weapons

Weapons are divided into 3 classes: melee, thrown, and fired. Melee 
weapons are used only in close combat, while thrown and fired weapons 
are used at range. Characters in the front rank can use melee and 
ranged weapons. Characters in the rear ranks can only use ranged 
weapons. Note the Classes sections starting on page 23 in the rules 
that limit some character classes to certain weapons.

The Weapons Chart lists the weapons with their range of hit point 
damage versus small, medium, and large-sized creatures. The damage done 
by a melee weapon is adjusted by the attacking character's strength and 
any magical bonus the weapon may have.

Weapons Chart

           Damage vs.      Damage vs.
           Small & Medium  Large

Melee Weapons:
Staff*         1-6          1-6
Mace           2-7          1-6
Short Sword    1-6          1-8
Flail          2-7          2-8
Axe            1-8          1-8
Long Sword     1-8          1-12
Halberd*       1-10         2-12
Thrown Weapons:
Rock           1-2          1-2
Dart           1-3          1-2
Dagger         1-4          1-3
Spear          1-6          1-8
Ranged Weapons:
Sling&Rocks*   14           1-4
Bow&Arrows*    1-6          1-6

* These two-handed weapons must be used from the primaryhand.

Armor

Armor provides a character a base AC. The lower the character's AC, the 
harder it is for an attack to hit. AC is based on the character's
armor and his dexterity bonus. Some magic items also help a character's AC.

Note the Classes sections starting on page 23 in the rules that limit some 
character classes to certain types of armor. The Armor Chart lists the 
types of armor in E0B and the base AC they provide a character.

Armor Chart
Armor Type      Base AC
Robe            10
Shield*          9
Leather Armor    B
Scale Mail       7
Chain Mail       5
Banded Armor     4
Plate Mail       3

* A shield subtracts 1 AC from any armor it is used with. Boots, helmets, 
and non-magical bracers may look like armor, but they do not modify a 
characters AC. They can safely be left as weights on pressure plates. 
Magical bracers, however, can modify a characters AC.

Spells

Spells are an important part of a party's capabilities. The spells that 
the party's spell casters memorize will have an important effect on the 
party's tactics.

In the following section, the spells have been divided into types: 
Offensive Spells, Defensive Spells, and Other Spells. There are specific
hints on when each type of spell is most effective. Spells that are 
available only to clerics are marked with an *.

Offensive  Spells

Burning Hands, *Cause Light Wounds, Shocking Grasp, *Flame Blade, 
Vampiric Touch, *Cause Serious Wounds and *Cause Critical Wounds: These 
are hand to hand magical attacks. The spell caster must be in the front 
rank to attack with them. Because of the time it takes to cast these 
spells and the vulnerability of many spell casters, they are normally 
the offensive spells of last resort.

Magic Missile, Melf's Acid Arrow and Flame Arrow: These are ranged 
magical attacks that affect only one monster at a time. They allow the 
spell caster to attack from the safety of the rear ranks. They are the 
favorite offensive spells of lower level mages.

Hold Person, Fireball, Lightning Bolt, Fear, Ice Storm, Cone of Cold, 
*Flame Strike and Hold Monster: These are ranged magical attacks that 
can affect several monsters in an area. Because of the damage they can 
do, they are often the preferred offensive spells of higher level spell 
casters.

These area effect spells are especially effective when fighting many 
monsters. Look closely at the area of effect of the various spells. The
spells that affect several squares are more effective against monsters 
that cannot attack in groups. The spells that effect a single square
are most effective against monsters that attack in groups.

Two of these spells take special care when they are used. If the target 
of an Ice Storm spell is within melee range of the party, the party will
also take damage from the spell. The Hold Person spell only affects 
kobolds, dwarves, and drow.

Defensive Spells

Armor, *Protection from Evil, Shield, *Magical Vestment, *Protection 
from Evil 10' Radius and Stoneskin: These spells mainly provide 
protection against physical attacks. Cast these spells on your front 
rank characters just before dangerous battles. Stoneskin is often the 
preferred physical defensive spell of higher level spell casters.

*Bless and *Prayer: These spells mainly provide protection against 
magical attacks. Cast these spells on your front rank characters
just before dangerous battles.

Healing Spells

*Cure Light Wounds, *Aid, *Cure Serious Wounds, and *Cure Critical 
Wounds: These spells replace a character's lost HP. The Aid spell
can increase a character's HP over his normal maximum value, but only 
increases HP temporarily. Cleric class characters should always have a 
few Cure Light Wounds spells memorized to quickly heal the party while 
resting.

*Slow Poison, *Remove Paralysis, *Neutralize Poison: These spells slow 
or remove the effects of poison or paralysis. Keep a number of these 
spells memorized whenever the party is anywhere near a monster who can
poison or paralyze the party.

*Raise Dead: This spell will bring a character back from the dead. Keep 
one of these spells memorized once your cleric gets to a high enough 
level.

Other Spells

Detect Magic: This spell is very useful in evaluating the items the 
party picks up during the game. The spell causes all magical items
carried by the party to glow blue.

Invisibility and Invisibility 10' Radius: Invisibility is a useful 
defense for a character in the rear ranks who avoids attacking. 
Invisibility 10' Radius is useful to hide the entire party from mystic 
sensors and prying eyes.

Even when the party is invisible, most monsters will sense the party's 
general location, though the monsters get big penalties on attacks 
against invisible targets.

*Create Food & Water: This spell is very useful in the lower levels of the 
dungeon where food is scarce. Be sure to memorize this spell before
the party begins starving not after!

Haste: This spell is especially useful when fighting monsters who are 
very fast. The Haste spell allows a party to make melee attacks much 
faster. Cast this spell on your party just before dangerous battles.

Non-Player Characters

There are nine non-player characters that can join the party throughout 
the adventure. Some are found as bones that can be resurrected.

The NPC list shows the character's class, alignment, race/gender, ability 
scores, and maximum hit points. The list also shows the location where 
you find the NPC, his initial status, and any equipment the NPC has
on-hand or nearby.

Tod Uphill

Class:            Level 5 Thief
Alignment         Chaotic-Neutral
Race/Gender:      Halfling Male
Ability Scores:   Str: 17 Int: 11
                  Wis: 14 Dex: 19
                  Con: 18 Cha: 16
Hit Points:       32
Location          Level 1, location 2
Status            Dead (bones)
Equipment         Lockpicks

Anya

Class:            Level 4 Fighter
Alignment:        Chaotic-Good
Race/Gender:      Human Female
Ability Scores:   Str: 18/59 Int: 5
                  Wis: 11    Dex:14
                  Con: 16    Cha: 9
Hit Points:       45
Location:         Level 3, location 40
Status:           Dead (bones)
Equipment:        Leather Armor, Long Sword, Spear

Taghor

Class:            Level 5 Fighter
Alignment:        Chaotic-Good
Race/Gender:      Dwarf Male
Ability Scores:   Str: 17  Int: 11
                  Con: 19  Cha: 9
Hit Points        45
Location          Level 4, location 39
Status:           Injured
Equipment:        Dwarf Helmet, Chain Mail, Axe

Dorhum

Class:            Level 3 Fighter
Alignment:        Lawful-Good
Race/Gender:      Dwarf Male
Ability Scores:   Str: 18/29  Int: 13
                  Wis: 11     Dex: 16
                  Con: 17     Cha: 14
Hit Points:       28
Location:         Level 5, location 27
Status:           Okay
Equipment:        Dwarf Helmet, Chain Mail, Axe, 2 Rations, Potion of 
                  Healing

Ileria

Class:            Level 6 Cleric
Alignment         Lawful-Good
Race/Gender:      Half Elf Female
Ability Scores:   Str: 10 Int: 12 Wis: 9
                  Dex: 15 Con: 17
Hit Points:       52
Location:         Level 7, location 19A
Status:           Dead (bones)
Equipment:        Holy Symbol

Beohram

Class:            Level 7 Fighter
Alignment:        Lawful-Good
Race/Gender:      Human Male
Ability Scores:   Str: 17  Int: 9  Wis: 15
                  Dex: 13 Con: 18
                  Cha:17
Hit Points:       55
Location:         Level 9, location 57
Status:           Dead (bones)
Equipment:        Helmet, Holy Symbol, Plate Mail, +5 Long Sword called 
                  `Severious," Shield, Dagger

Keirgar

Class             Level 5 Fighter
Alignment:        Neutral-Good
Race/Gender:      Dwarf Male
Ability Scores:   Str: 18/92 Int: 15
                  Wis:15  Dex:12
                  Con: 19  Cha: 17
Hit Points:       45
Location:         Level 10, location 15
Status:           Injured (captive)
Equipment:        None

Tyrra

Class:            Level6Ranger
Alignment:        Chaotic-Good
Race/Gender       Elf Male
Ability Scores:   Str: 16 Int: 14
                  Wis: 16 Dex: 18
                  Con: 17 Cha: 7
Hit Points:       45
Location:         level 10, location 36
Status:           Dead (bones)
Equipment:        Skull Key

Kirath

Class             Level 7 Mage
Race/Gender:      Half-Elf Male
Alignment:        Neutral
Ability Scores:   Str: 11 Int: 17
                  Wis: 13 Dex: 18
                  Con: 8 Cha: 12
Hit Points:       21
Location:         Level 11, location 60
Status:           Dead (bones)
Equipment:        +2 Bracers of Defense, +5 Dagger, +2 Ring of Protection, 
                  Robe +5, Spell Book

There were pictures of each of the NPC's here but I didn't include 
them! BLOW ME!]

Monsters

Level 1

Kobold: These creatures are weak alone, but they can be dangerous when 
they attack in packs. All types of weapons are effective against these 
creatures. The clerical spell Hold Person is especially effective against 
Kobolds.

Leech, Giant: These creatures are slow and can only attack one at a time, 
but they are much tougher than kobolds and can do a lot more damage when 
they hit. All types of weapons are effective against these creatures,
but a novice party might want to keep their distance and attack leeches 
with ranged weapons and spells.

Level 2

Skeleton: These creatures attack quickly and can pack together to 
attack as a mob. The best defense against a group of skeletons is to 
turn them by readying the holy symbol of the party's highest level 
cleric. Skeletons take half damage from piercing and slashing weapons
like swords and daggers.

Zombie: These creatures attack more slowly than skeletons but they too 
can pack together to attack as a mob. All types of weapons are
effective against zombies, but the best defense against a group of 
zombies is to turn them by readying the holy symbol of the party's 
highest level cleric.

Level 3

Kuo-Toa: These creatures are slow and can only attack one at a time, but 
they can throw lightning bolts at range. When you spot a kuo-toa, 
sidestep its initial lightning bolt, then rush in and kill it in melee 
before the creature can get another lightning bolt off. All types of
weapons are effective against these creatures.

Flind: These creatures can only attack one at a time, but are fast and 
can do a lot of damage. They have a fondness for ambushes, so be ready 
for battle as you open doors, turn corners, and move through areas they 
inhabit. All types of weapons are effective against these creatures.

Levels 4 & 5

Spider, Giant: These creatures are extremely dangerous due to the lethal 
poison in their bite. These creatures can only attack one at a time, but 
are quick and takes several hits to kill.

The best strategy when fighting a spider is to retreat and engage the 
spider with ranged weapons and spells. Dwarves with high constitution 
scores are resistant to poison and should be in the front rank in case 
the spider catches the retreating party. After each battle, be sure to 
quickly pick up your ranged weapon ammo and keep an eye out for other 
spiders.

Your cleric plays an important role in the party's survival after a 
character is poisoned. If a character is poisoned, its is best to cast 
a Slow Poison spell on them and look for a Potion of Cure Poison, or a 
friendly NPC cleric with a Neutralize Poison spell.

Level 6

Kenku: These creatures can pack together to attack as a group and can 
throw two Magic Missile spells at range before they close to melee. 
When you spot a flock of kenku, sidestep until they have expended their 
Magic Missile spells. All types of weapons are effective against these 
creatures, but area effect spells like Fireball are the most effective 
way to break up their groups.

There is an entire community of kenku on level 6. Groups of them will 
continue to attack the party as long as they are on level 6. Be careful
not to get surrounded, and move swiftly through the level to complete 
your objectives before too many of the kenku are alerted.

Level 7

Drow Elf: Most drow, outside of the area covered in EYE OF THE BEHOLDER, 
kill strangers on sight. The drow elf community in EOB has a pact with 
Xanathar and are used to dealing with non-drow They may even be willing 
to bargain with wandering adventurers.

The drow can pack together to attack as a group and have a high 
resistance to spells. In melee, they attack with long swords coated
with a short-term paralyzing poison. Use the party's maneuverability to 
stay out of melee with the drow and use ranged weapon attacks against 
them as long as you can.

Skeletal Lord: These creatures are an elite force of evil warriors 
created from the bones of fallen heroes. They can attack quickly, are 
very tough, and can pack together to attack as a group. The best 
defense against a group of skeletons is to turn them by readying the 
holy symbol of the party's highest level cleric. Skeletal lords take
half damage from piercing and slashing weapons like swords and daggers.

Level 8

Drider: These creatures have powerful melee attacks, a high resistance 
to spells, and are armed with two spears that they used as ranged 
attacks. When you spot a drider, sidestep until he has expended his 
spears and then engage with ranged and melee weapons. All types of 
weapons are effective against these creatures, but most spells are 
ineffective.

Hell Hound: These creatures attack with a powerful bite and by breathing 
fire. They are resistant to some spells. They often attack in packs, but 
keep sufficiently spread out to avoid area effect spells. Maneuver to 
keep from being surrounded All types of weapons are effective against 
these creatures.

Level 9

Displacer Beast: These creatures have powerful melee attacks and have 
the power to `displace' their image up to three feet from their actual 
location. Because of this ability, displacer beasts are difficult to hit 
with melee and ranged weapons, so it is best to engage them with spells.

Rust Monster: These creatures have an insatiable appetite for all metal. 
When you encounter a rust monster, immediately move characters without 
metal armor to the front rank and keep retreating to protect the party's
metal equipment. While retreating, engage the rust monsters with ranged 
weapons and spells.

Level 10

Mantis Warrior: These creatures are extremely fast and carry two weapons, 
a thrown dagger and a halberd for melee attacks. The halberd is coated 
with the mantis warrior's paralyzing saliva. When you spot a mantis 
warrior, sidestep until he has expended his dagger retreat to keep out of 
melee, and engage with ranged spells.

Level 11

Mind Flayer: These creatures are almost completely resistant to magic 
and their invisible psionic attack can paralyze the entire party. When 
a mind flayer turns to face the party, sidestep quickly to avoid its 
psionic attack. Retreat around corners and engage the mind flayer on its 
flank with ranged and melee weapons. All types of weapons are effective 
against these creatures.

Xorn: These creatures are slow and tough, do a lot of damage when they 
hit, and are resistant to some spells. Engage the xorn by closing
to melee, attacking, and then retreating before the xorn can execute 
its own powerful attack.

Level 12

Golem, Stone: Xanathar's stone golems are less powerful than classical 
golems because they are built using short cuts and non-traditional 
materials. Still, these monsters are extremely tough, do a lot of 
damage when they hit, and are resistant to most spells in the
game. Engage a golem by closing to melee, attacking, and then 
retreating before it can execute its powerful melee attack.

Beholder: Xanathar the beholder has been watching your party since 
you accepted the Lord's commission and knows what you are capable of 
doing. Defeating him will not be an easy task!

Beholders are almost completely resistant to magic because of the anti-
magic effects of their central eye. A beholder has ranged attacks,
that can devastate the entire party. To defeat the beholder, use the 
tactics that have worked against other monsters, and remember the
clues that you have received throughout the game.

Solving Puzzles

Solving puzzles is an important part of completing EYE OF THE BEHOLDER. 
The following are some ideas to use while trying to solve puzzles. If 
you are having trouble with a specific puzzle, you can get additional 
help in the Hints section. If you are still stumped, you can check out 
the answer to the puzzle in the Solutions section.

Keep Track of Levers and Buttons

Some puzzles are activated in one part of the dungeon and executed in 
another part. Record the position of any button or lever that has no
obvious function. If you can't seem to get through an area, go back and 
change these buttons or levers one at a time to see if they make it any 
easier to get through.

Look For Writing on the Wall

If you can't seem to to get through an area, look for writing on the 
walls in the area. Often, writing on a side wall is difficult to
spot. Some writing may only be read if the party has a character of a 
specific race.

Look for Hidden Buttons on the Walls

Always check the walls for secret and hidden buttons and bricks. Moving 
sideways down a wall will often make hidden buttons easier to spot.

Keep Your Eye on the Compass

Watch the compass as the party moves. There are a number of traps that 
change the party's facing. Teleporters often reveal themselves when the 
party's facing changes.

Leave a Trail of "Bread Crumbs"

If you suspect the party is being teleported when moving through an area, 
throw an item past the suspected teleporter. Watch the item as you move 
through the area. The item will `disappear' when the party teleports.

Save the Game

Save the game anytime you think that something could happen that would 
hurt the party. Save the game at the beginning of each level. If a 
puzzle is difficult to solve, save the game and then try different 
solutions. If the monsters are attacking the party thick and fast, 
save the game and try different strategies. If things are getting really 
tough, save before opening doors.

Go on

When all else fails, go on with the game. The party does not have to open 
every door, fight every monster and obtain every item to win the game. 
Mark down any areas that the party bypasses. If the party gets stumped 
in a later area, or needs an item to go on, come back and try the puzzle 
again.

===========================================================================                               
                        HINTS 
 
The following is a book of notes entitled "The World Beneath 
Waterdeep." It contains selected notes from the selfproclaimed 
"famous archaeologist" Wently Kelso. The notes refer to the maps 
in the Maps section. They describe his expedition to the deepest 
depths of the sewers of Waterdeep. 
 
Level 1 - Upper Sewer Level (map 1) 
 
Our guide is a mangy humanoid of indeterminate species. I can't 
pronounce his real name, so I call him Bennet, in honor of my 
mangy half-brother on my mothers side of the family. As we 
followed Bennet into the tunnels and catacombs of the 
sewer system, we can hear the soft foot steps of large dog-like 
creatures known as kobolds. 
 
3. This area was used to control the water flow through the first 
level of the sewer system. If the water flowed from the north, 
certain passageways would close to prevent the water from 
flooding the level. The same would happen if the water 
flowed from the east. 
 
12. According to the city sewer layout, some of the doors require 
a constant flow of water over their pressure plate to remain 
open. Once the water stopped flowing over the pressure plate, the 
door would close, to prevent backwash. 
 
16. This is a silly place for a dead end I  wonder if we are 
missing something here? 
 
18. Our guide, Bennet, pointed out a secret door here. He tried 
(with our help) to bash the door in with his head, but was 
unsuccessful. There must be a secret button or lever around here 
somewhere. 
 
19. Here we found an emergency flood control door. It is designed 
so that if the area flooded, any trapped workers could open the 
door by pushing the button. The water would rush down into the 
second level saving the workers. 
 
21. There is a depression in the north wall with rolled up papers 
inside. I am surprised that the papers survived. I would have 
thought that unprotected paper would rot in the sewer. 
 
Level 2 - Middle Sewer Level (map 2) 
 
We looked down the long dark hole that led to the second level of 
the sewer system. The smell of rotting flesh filled our nostrils 
and we decided that the Bennet, our guide, should go down first. 
Looking down into the dark, he became frightened and stopped 
about five feet down. We encouraged him to continue on by 
dropping rocks down the hole. 
 
5. There is a secret passage here, but we are unable to find a 
lever or button that opens the wall. 
 
6. This door was stuck partially open. Bennet gripped the bottom 
of the door and pulled up as hard as he could. By his whining I 
assume that he has somehow hurt himself. 
 
9. Bennet has informed us that there is a secret passageway to 
the north. Now where did that button go to?  
 
15. If we could just hit the pressure plate beyond the pit, I 
know the pit would close. I wonder how heavy our guide is? 
 
24. Our guide was overcome by sewer gas. He spun around a couple 
of times and ended up facing the wrong direction. 
 
30 - 33. This area is an emergency exit. If the water level 
became too high for the workers to get out, they would step into 
this area and it would teleport them to the surface. 
Unfortunately, the teleporter has broken down and it will only 
teleport you to another area within the sewer system. I don't 
know how we will we ever find our passage out of here. 
 
40. When our guide read "R.A.T.S." he ran in terror. We had to 
track him down and drag him back. The city sewer map claims that 
R.A.T.S. stands for Rapid Access Teleport System. I wonder where 
it will teleport you to. 
 
41. This area appears to be a shuttle of some kind. We pushed the 
button and the door closed. Then, we pushed the button again and 
there was a strange sound. What does the inscription on the side 
wall mean? 
 
51. We were warned by our guide not to push the button on this 
wall. What does our guide know? I pushed it anyway. I wonder what 
will happen. 
 
67. This keyhole is different than the others we have run into 
thus far. Does it require a special key? 
 
Level 3 - Lower Sewer Level (map 3) 
 
  The stench of sewer gas makes our heads spin. Our guide, 
Bennet, has informed us that this is the perfect environment for 
the kuo-toa. We will have to keep our guard up. 
 
2. We are having a horrible time breathing here. The sewer gas 
steals our breathe and clouds our vision. We have been wandering 
this hallway for hours. We can't seem to get our bearings 
straight. 
 
4. The same stench overcomes us again. If we could just get our 
bearings, we could make it down the hallway. 
 
12 - 14. There are three tarnished silver locks here. Our guide 
is sniffing at the center lock, but it is an important part of 
the scientific method to try each lock, one at a time. 
 
25 - 31. There is a forest of pits and pressure plates in this 
room. Perhaps if we trigger the pressure plates one at a time, we 
can explore the whole room. However, I do wonder what is down the 
pits. Perhaps we could throw Bennet down there and have him take 
a look. 
 
40. Here we found the remains of a fighter. I wish we had the 
facilities or the time to have her resurrected. 
 
46. The sewer gas is so strong here that we passed out. When we 
came to, we found ourselves in the southeast comer and facing the 
opposite direction. 
 
48. Bennet translated the rune on the wall here. It reads, 
"Museum". Imagine, a museum down here. How nice. I just love 
museums. 
 
56. We had to use up all four of the gems we found to open the 
passageway. What a waste. 
 
57 - 58. These are broken down teleporters. If you step in these 
areas they will teleport you to another part of the sewer system. 
 
S - Z. What curious statues. They are very lifelike. 
 
Level 4 - Upper Level Dwarven Ruins (map 4) 
 
  Just as we thought our adventure was coming to an end, we found 
a stairway leading down to another level. The stone work on this 
level looks nothing like the sewers above. Could these stairs 
lead to the fabled dwarven ruins? Our hopes are high. 
 
3. The pressure plate through the open door to the south makes 
Bennet nervous. I think that he is still rattled by the effects 
of the poison he was hit by in the battle with the giant spider. 
 
12. A new type of key! I think it is of dwarven manufacture. 
 
34. There is an interesting dwarven statue on the far wall. It is 
in the shape of a gargoyle with one arm raised. Our guide pulled 
the gargoyles arm and nothing seemed to happen. Those dwarves are 
such jokers. 
 
40. There is another gargoyle statue. Bennet, our guide, pulled 
its arm and a pit closed. I wonder if a pit closed when we pulled 
the last gargoyle's arm. 
 
59. We have found a strange stone construction with a number of 
symbols on either side. One symbol seems to be missing. 
 
66. Another gargoyle statue. After a thorough examination, I 
pulled the arm, but nothing happened. Our guide began getting 
nervous again, even though there are no spiders in sight. I fear 
that the multiple spider bites are beginning to effect him. 
 
70. We had a hard time opening this door. Maybe, it requires a 
special key. 
 
82. As I pulled the chain, our guide's sensitive ears picked up 
the faint sound of a wall moving. 
 
85. There is a dwarven rune that reads, "Emergency Exit." I have 
no idea what this means. 
 
89. We continue going south. Some of the landmarks are starting 
to look familiar. I take this as a good sign. However I don't 
know how many more spider bites our guide can take. 
 
 
Level 5 - Dwarven Ruins and Camp (map 5) 
 
  It is amazing! After years of research and hard work, I, Wently 
Kelso, have discovered the fabled dwarven ruins beneath 
Waterdeep. We are now prepared to enter the second level. I 
wonder what treasure we will find. 
 
2 - 3. Our guide has informed us that the rune on the wall reads, 
"Safe passage". We decided to see how safe it was by pushing our 
guide into the wall. Amazingly he passed right through. 
 
14. I am convinced that the door in the west wall of this room 
will not open from this side. Bennet keeps sniffing around the 
walls as if he were looking for something. 
 
24. We have found another of those strange stone constructions. 
This one is missing a different symbol than the one on the level 
above. 
 
27. There are dwarves down here! One dwarf named Armun, claimed 
that this area was his lost kingdom. He asked us to help them 
find Keirgar, a prince, that had been captured by the dwarves' 
enemies. I told them that we would do what we could to help them 
with their little quest. 
 
30. We found a very nice dwarf here that tended to a cut I 
received on my finger. Our guide, Bennet, asked the dwarf to look 
at a large gash on his head. It is just so hard to find good help 
these days. 
 
48. There is a strange keyhole here. Perhaps it requires a 
special key. 
 
72-83. We were told by the dwarves to be careful of this area. It 
was used centuries ago to teleport materials to the surface. Now, 
the teleporters seem to be interconnected. 
 
Level 6 - Bottom Level of Dwarven Ruins (map 6) 
 
This level is infested with nasty creatures called the kenku. We 
have been collecting their eggs for their scientific value. Our 
guide wanted to crack one open and fry it for breakfast. Somehow, 
the thought of eating a kenku egg turned my stomach. 
 
3. This area was used for diplomatic meetings. The Dwarves would 
stand on one side and of the pressure plate and their enemy would 
stand on the other side. Both parties would lay down their 
weapons, and the talks would begin. 
 
10. We met a dark robed person. He was very unfriendly and would 
not give us so much as his name. He just stood there glaring at 
us. I would have challenged him, if we were not in such a hurry. 
 
19. I think that we found an example of the classic dwarven "dart 
trap". In such a trap, you step on a pressure plate and darts fly 
out of the holes. To test my theory I had our brave guide, 
Bennet, stand in front of the holes, while I step on the plate. 
 
22. Bennet's sensitive nose lead us to this dark pit. Before we 
could stop him, Bennet scrambled over the edge and into the 
darkness. We had no choice but to follow him. 
 
33. There is some kind of message on the east wall. Before I can 
translate the message, Bennet emits his `I'm hungry' whine. I 
toss him a packet of rations to keep him quiet. Bennet uses a 
dart like a make-shift fork and stabs his rations. I turn away in 
disgust and resume my translation. 
 
Level 7 - Upper Reaches of the Drow (map 7)
 
We have found the drow here. These evil dark elves can only be up 
to no good, but what are they doing down here? It is up to us to 
unravel this mystery. 
 
1. We were stopped by a drow and not allowed to pass. Bennet 
reluctantly gave his next breakfast to the drow and then we were 
allowed to go on. 
 
4. When we stepped on this pressure plate, we heard a whooshing 
sound. Luckily, we all ducked behind our guide, Bennet, just 
before the explosion. 
 
15. As we moved forward we heard the whooshing sound again. 
Again, everyone ducked but Bennet. He doesn't look much the worse 
for wear, however. 
 
20. When I stepped on this pressure plate, skeletal lords came 
out of their dens. I raised my hand and ordered the foul beasts 
to return to their master. This did not seem to have any effect 
on them. 
 
37. I removed a dart from our guide's chest and placed it on the 
shelf, but nothing happened. Our guide, Bennet, skulked away and 
is now sniffing at something over on the north wall. 
 
38. Another pit. I hate pits, but Bennet seems to show no fear at 
this location. 
 
44 - 57. After a scholarly examination, I believe that these ten 
`cells' are cross linked somehow. 
 
63. This looks like the same kind of stone construction we have 
been running into from time to time. They resemble portals of 
some kind. All we have to do is determine which item around the 
portal is missing. 
 
73 - 81. I have found three inscriptions and three levers. I 
believe that first I will pull the lever which represents the 
item I want the most. 
 
Level 8 - Drow Outcasts (map 8) 
 
  We have survived the drow encampment. There is no way for us to 
return to the surface, our only option is to continue going down. 
The drow seem to be afraid of us. They will not follow us down to 
the next level. 
 
4. This keyhole seems to require a special key. 
 
17. There is an inscription on the north wall. After some 
examination, I come to believe that it resembles a gem of some 
kind. 
 
19. I carefully examine a shelf on the east wall. While I ponder 
its uses, Bennet is sniffing around one of the south walls. I 
wish he would stay with the group.  
 
25. I think that Bennet has been underground for too long, he is 
urging us to go back the way we came. 
 
29. Bennet is causing trouble again, he still wants us to turn 
around and go back where we came. 
 
46 & 48. Bennet is looking around as if he is confused. This does 
not surprise me, for I believe that his brain is only slightly 
larger than that of a grub fish. We go on despite Bennet's 
confusion. 
 
51. I am continuously fascinated by the intricate pattern of the 
stones that make up these halls. We stop here so that I can 
examine them more closely. 
 
54. Our guide read the message on the wall, and became confused 
again. I believe that the value of an education is wasted on 
Bennet. 
 
57. I told our guide, Bennet, not to touch the spider button on 
the west wall, but he accidently slipped and hit it with his 
head. There was a strange sound and suddenly, we were attacked by 
many hell hounds. The party ran up the hall to see if the path 
was clear, while Bennet stayed behind to keep the hell hounds in 
check. The last utterance I heard from our guide was, "Sit boy! 
Sit!" 
 
67 - 71. These buttons, pressure plates, and pits seem to be 
interconnected in a pattern. I will have Bennet trigger each one 
in turn and record the reactions. 
 
75 & 76. We continued north for quite a ways when passing the 
first of these points, but after passing the second point, we ran 
into a dead end. 
 
Level 9 - Lower Reaches of the Drow (map 9) 
 
We have lost our faithful guide, Bennet. No doubt, he is back on 
the surface, probably, at the Yawning Portal Inn, enjoying a nice 
mutton pie and a pint of ale. We, on the other hand, are forced 
to continue onward and downward. 
 
5 - 7. After a thorough scientific study, I believe that the 
words on the wall, the shelf, and the button all seem to be 
connected. 
 
8. I translate the writing on the wall to the east. The wall 
itself seems solid, so I assume that `the other side' means the 
other side of this room. 
 
13. The wall to the west is directly opposite another of those 
strange stone portals. I am going to examine the wall to test a 
theory that says proximity to such a portal may lead to changes 
in the composition of the stones in the wall. 
 
28. I found a dagger in a niche on the wall. I am pleased, it is 
an exact copy of the dagger I was carrying. But, when I put the 
new dagger in my belt pouch, I seem to have misplaced my old 
dagger. Perhaps it was with Bennet when he disappeared. 
 
30. This gem inscription on the wall does not react to any of the 
gems that we are carrying. Perhaps it will respond to another 
small solid object. 
 
39 - 42. Although, we were running extremely low on armor and 
weapons we found that it was worth the sacrifice to place the 
required items on the pressure a plates. 
 
54. We stepped into this area and darts started flying at us. We 
no longer had a guide to absorb the attack, so we ran as fast as 
we could down the hall. 
 
75. I believe I am getting the hang of exploring these halls. We 
are cut off by pits, but I see a pressure plate. I toss a rock 
toward the pressure plate to activate it. Before it can activate 
the plate, the rock turns around in flight. We duck to the 
side at the last moment to avoid the turncoat missile. 
 
89. dead end! 
 
Level 10 - Xanthar's Outer Sanctum, Mantis Hive (map 10)
 
This level is swarming with mantis warriors. We are low on 
supplies and our guide is missing. I do not know how we are going 
to survive. We must continue to go on and, hopefully, find a way 
out.  
 
4 & 5. To the west is a forest of teleporters and levers. Another 
problem with a binary solution, we either make it through the 
teleporters, or we do not. 
 
15. We found our guide, Bennet, chained to the wall with a dwarf. 
Too bad, we only had time to rescue our guide, but I am sure some 
other adventurers will come along and rescue the dwarf. 
 
16,l9, & 20. We must be more careful the next time, our guide 
took massive damage from pushing some of these buttons. 
 
29-31. We had to abandon three of our weapons here to open the 
door. Such a waste seems grossly unfair. 
 
37 - 39. I am exploring the relationship between these levers and 
the sliding wall. By moving these levers in the proper sequence, 
I think we can get past the sliding wall. 
 
41. We have searched the whole level and this seems to be the 
only way down to the lower levels. We looked down the pit and 
could not see the bottom, so pushed our guide into it. There was 
an almost immediate thump. It cannot be that deep. 
 
Level 11 - Xanthar's Outer Sanctum, Lower Reaches (map 11)
 
  When will this ever end! When will we find our way out! I am 
afraid that we will never return to the surface and that no one 
will ever read this marvelous work. 
 
1 - 11. The buttons here seem to rotate the stars on the walls 
and the openings in the hallways. One of the statements on the 
walls says that the `alignment must be true.' Perhaps if we align 
the stars we can make some progress on this level. 
 
23 - 37. Our guide, Bennet, is continuously confused as we move 
around these halls. We seem to be circling endlessly, but we also 
seem to be finding new things as we pass. I am not sure how we 
missed these things the first times around. 
 
39. Here we found a hallway of levers. "Never leave a lever 
down!", my mother always told me. 
 
40. Our guide found a dwarven Potion of Healing. He was just 
about to drink it, when I snatched the vial away from him. Who 
knows who's lips have touched that potion! 
 
46 & 47. While I translate the writing on the south wall, Bennet 
is sniffing around the wall over to the west. I am glad to have 
Bennet back, but his distractions are annoying. 
 
55. We are all exhausted after dodging around the mind flayer. 
While we catch our breath, Bennet scratches at the wall to the 
south. I wish he would stop making so much noise, I don't want 
the mind flayer to return. 
 
Level 12 - Xanthar's Inner Sanctum (map 12)
 
  We have met the evil crime lord Xanathar and he will not let us 
leave. We are doomed to stay here forever. 
 
3. The walls in this area are beautiful. The ornamentation is 
exquisite. If we are doomed to stay here forever, at least we can 
do so in civilized surroundings. 
 
9. What a curious sensation. After pressing the button on the 
east wall, we seem to be inside the wall. I wonder if we should 
go back to the room we were in, or continue through to the next 
room? 
 
10 & 11. After pushing the buttons on the walls to the east, 
Bennet became confused again. I believe that he is uncomfortable 
in these posh surroundings. 
 
13. There is a beautiful ring and a potion here. I thought that 
the ring would make a nice gift for my sweet heart Miltinda. 
After I retrieved the ring, my burdens felt somehow lighter. 
 
15. There is a stunning necklace and potion here. Another gift 
for my puddin cakes, Miltinda. Again, after I retrieved the 
necklace, it was as if a great weight were taken from me. 
 
20. We were astonished to find an enormous eye floating above a 
pedestal in this room. What an amazing piece of art. There are 
two empty pedestals to the right and left of the eye. I wonder 
what would happen if you placed spherical items on those 
pedestals? 
 
25 & 27. After pushing the buttons on the walls to the east, 
Bennet became confused yet again. All this travel has not 
been good for poor Bennet. 
 
28A. In this location, we find the items that had disappeared 
from the pedestal. I am glad that they were not lost forever. 
 
42. While we examined everything in this room, our guide, Bennet, 
sulked in the north west corner and scratched at the north wall. 
As I looked over at his mangy form, I realized that Bennet 
actually has a rather noble profile. Perhaps I have just been 
underground too long. 
 
45. This is my last entry. We have met Xanathar and that is all 
that I can say. 
 
46. Our guide, Bennet, crossed a light beam in this area and was 
hit in the head by a giant fireball. For a brief moment, he 
looked just like a dwarven torch. 
 
49. Our guide, Bennet, tripped over my extended foot and crossed 
another light beam. Huge spikes came crashing down on him. 
Luckily, he was able to turn sideways and the spikes only took 
off an inch of skin from his chest and back. 
 
55 & 56. After pushing the buttons on the walls to the east, 
Bennet became confused yet a third time. 
 
58. When we stepped into this room, three stone golems came out 
to greet us. Our guide somehow offended them and they attacked 
us. Of course, we ran away. 
==========================================================================
                              TREASURE GUIDE

  This section includes the treasure in EYE Of THE BEHOLDER. This includes
both the list of items by level and a list of hints to the "Beholder
Special Quest Bonuses" for players who want to get the most out of the
game.

Items by Level

  The following lists include all of the main items in EYE OF THE BEHOLDER.
If the party finds a lock that needs a specific key or a trap that requires
a specific item, use these list so find the nearest place to get what the
party needs.

Level 1
Location  Item
1.        2 rocks
2.        Lock picks, halfling bones
5.        Rations
7.        Two rations, mage scroll of Detect Magic
11.       Rock
14.       +2 dart
17.       Rock
19.       Arrow
20.       Shield
21.       Mage scroll of Armor, cleric scroll of Bless

Level 2
Location  Item
 1.       Silver key
 7.       Potion of Vitality
12.       Rations, Potion of Giant Strength, silver key
17.       Rations, Silver key
20.       Rations
26.       Mage scroll of Shield
28.       Rock
29.       Sling
34.       Rations, silver key
35.       2 arrows
36.       Rations
37.       Stone dagger (portal key)
39.       Rations, Potion of Extra Healing
43.       Leather boots, rations
46.       Rations
52.       Potion of Healing
54.       Bow
56.       Mage scroll of Invisibility
61.       Potion of Healing
62.       Gold key
64        Rock

Level 3
Location  Item
3.        Silver key
5.        Silver key
6.        Arrow
10.       Cleric scroll of Cause Light Wounds
12.       Silver key
13.       Arrow
15.       Mage scroll of Detect Magic
16.       Red gem, +3 dagger
20.       Potion of Extra Healing, Potion of Healing
25.       4 arrows, Potion of Speed. red gem
29.       Rock
35.       Mage scroll of fireball
40.       Spear, leather armor, human bones, long sword
42.       Rock
45.       Rations
49.       Shield
53.       Blue gem
55.       Blue gem
60.       Blue gem
61.       Blue gem
64.       Shield, chain mail, arrow
65.       3 iron rations
71.       Wand of Magic Missiles
V.        Rations
W.        Potion of Healing
Y.        Cleric scroll of Flame Blade
Z.        Rock

Level 4
Location  Item  
5.        3 Iron rations
11.       Rock
12.       Dwarven key
15.       Arrow
16.       Rock
18.       Rock
20.       Ring (non-magical)
21.       Arrow
23.       Stone Scepter (portal key)
24.       Arrow
25.       +3 Ring of Protection
32.       Mace
35.       Mace
38.       Dwarven key
47.       Robe. medallion (non-magical)
49.       Dwarven key
60.       2 Potions of Cure Poison
61.       2 Potions of Cure Poison
72.       Dwarven key, Potion of Healing
79.       Potion of Healing
81.       2 Potions of Cure Poison
82.       +3 Axe called "Drow Cleaver"
83.       Cleric scroll of Slow poison. mage scroll of Flame Arrow, Potion
          of Healing
85.       Dwarven shield, dwarven helmet

Level 5
Location  Item
4.        Cleric scroll of Prayer
5.        Scale mail, dwarven key
11.       Iron rations
12.       Iron rations
21.       Cleric scroll of Hold Person
22.       Iron rations
25.       Mage scroll of Haste
26.       Stone Necklace (portal key)
27.       6 Rations, stone Medallion (portal key)
31.       Poison potion
41.       -3 Cursed sling
43.       Key
44.       Leather boots
45.       Ring of Feather Fall
48.       Plate mail, mage scroll of Invisibility 10'
56.       Rock
58B.      Wand of Frost
62.       Rock
64.       Spear, iron rations
67.       Cleric scroll of Aid
68.       Iron rations
70.       Mage scroll of Dispel Magic
83.       Long sword
84.       -3 Cursed axe
J.        Cleric scroll of Detect Magic

Level 6
Location  Item  
7.        Kenku egg
9.        Kenku egg
10.       Mage scroll of Hold Person, 2 Potions of Extra Healing, Wand of
          Frost
11.       4 Darts
12.       Key
16.       Kenku egg
17.       5 Kenku eggs
18.       2 Kenku eggs
19.       4 darts
22.       Dwarven key
23.       Dwarven key
29.       Rock
30A.      4 Darts
30B.      4 Darts
30C.      4 Darts
31.       4 Darts
32.       Wand of Magic Missiles
34.       Dwarven key
35.       +1 Dwarven shield
36.       Cleric scroll of Cure Serious Wounds, cleric scroll of Dispel
          Magic
37.       +3 Mace
39.       Ring (non-magical)
40.       Rock
42.       Cleric scroll of Flame Blade
47.       Stone Ring (portal key)
49.       Bracers (non-magical)


Level 7
Location  Item
5.        Cleric scroll of Slow Poison
6.        Cleric scroll of Create Food
7.        Mage scroll of Fireball
11.       Cleric scroll of Bless, necklace (non-magical),
          iron rations
12.       Arrow
13.       Ornate shield (non-magical)
19A.      Human bones, holy symbol
21.       Cleric scroll of Protection from Evil 10', Cleric
          scroll of Remove Paralysis, key
24.       3Arrows
25.       Luck stone Medallion
28.       Arrow
31.       Potion of Healing, Key
39.       +2 Ring of Protection
44.       Banded armor
45.       Jeweled key
47.       3Arrows
48.       Ruby key
50.       Mage scroll of Lightning Bolt
51B.      Jeweled key
53.       Cleric scroll of Cure Light Wounds
54.       brow key
56.       Mage scroll of Fear
57.       brow key
64.       Useless Wand (non-magical)
66.       Glowing +1 rock
74.       +3 Short Sword called "Slicer"
77.       +3 Elven Bracers of Defense
80.       Ring of Wizardry

Level 8
Location  Item
5.        Ruby key
6.        Elven bow, mage scroll of Vampiric Touch
8.        Drow key, Red gem
11.       Mages scroll of Shield, jeweled key
12.       Drow key
15.       Ruby key
23.       Drow key
28.       Scepter of Kingly Might, robe
30.       Flail
31.       -3 Cursed Plate Mail of Great Beauty
35.       Drow boots
36.       Cleric scroll of Protection from Evil
47.       Ring of Sustenance
50.       Mage scroll of Invisibility 10'
53.       Cleric scroll of Hold Person
58.       Ring (non-magical), Medallion (non-magical)
61.       Cleric scroll of Cure Critical Wounds, cleric scroll of Neutralize
          Poison, cleric scroll of Prayer
67A.      Glowing +1 rock
73.       Wand of Lightning Bolt
77.       Mage scroll of Ice Storm
78.       Lockpicks
82.       Cleric scroll of Raise bead, Potion of Extra Healing
86.       +3 Long Sword called "Nightstalker"


Level 9
Location   Item
12.       Drow boots
14.       +3 Drow shield
20.       Chain mail
21.       Mage scroll of Invisibility
25.       3 Arrows
32.       Drow key
34.       Mage scroll of Stoneskin
44.       Poison potion
49.       Cleric scroll of Detect Magic
57.       Human bones, +5 long sword called "Severious" shield, plate mail,
          helmet, holy symbol, dagger
66.       Drow key
70.       Potion of Extra Healing
72.       5 Darts (not always there)
73.       Cleric scroll of Protection from Evil 10'
74.       Cleric scroll of Cure Serious Wounds, cleric  scroll of Dispel Magic
75.       5 Darts
79.       Cleric scroll of Raise bead
81.       Wand of Fireball Is
85.       Cleric scroll of Raise bead
88.       Spear
89.       Mage scroll of Armor
90.       Cleric scroll of Flame Blade
   
Level 10
Location  Item
2.        Plate mail
6.        Cleric scroll of Remove Paralysis, cleric scroll of Flame Blade
11.       Poison potion
12.       Wand of Frost
13.       Cleric scroll of Cure Critical Wounds, Cleric scroll of Flame Blade
14.       Useless wand (non-magical)
26.       Arrow
36.       Human bones, skull key
40.       Potion of Giant Strength
42.       Ring of Feather Fall
43.       Cleric scroll of Neutralize Poison
45.       Mage scroll of Cone of Cold
46        Arrow
   
   
Level 11
Location  Item
10.       Mossy +2 rock
14.       +3 Banded armor, +4 long sword called "Slasher"
15.       Ring (non-magical)
23.       Wand of Lightning Bolt
27.       Mage scroll of Hold Monster
37.       Luckstone Medallion, cleric scroll of Raise Dead
40.       Dwarven Healing Potion
41.       Cleric scroll of Cure Serious Wounds
43.       Mossy +2 rock, Cleric scroll of Raise bead
48.       Drow key, stone Orb (portal key)
56.       Orb of Power
57.       Drow key
59.       Stone Holy Symbol (portal key)
60.       Spell Book, +2 Bracers of Defense, +2 Ring of Protection, human
          bones, +5 dagger called "Flicka", +5 Robe of Protection
   
Level 12
Location  Item
13.       Ring (non-magical), Potion of Healing
14.       Skull Key
15.       Necklace (non-magical), Potion of Healing
24.       Wand of Fireballs
28A.      3 Orbs of Power
33.       Wand of Magic Missiles
34.       Rations
35.       Rations
36.       Rations
37.       Rations
43.       2 Potions of Invisibility
49.       Portal keys: stone orb, stone holy symbol, stone ring, stone
          necklace, stone medallion, stone dagger, stone scepter
59.       Potion of Vitality, Potion of Invisibility
60.       Potion of Vitality, Potion of Invisibility


SPECIAL QUEST BONUSES

  Scattered throughout the game are Beholder Special Quest Bonuses! It is
not necessary to complete any of the special quests to win the game. But for
each special quest the party completes, they will receive items, EXP and
clues to completing the game. These items are not listed in the regular item
lists.

  There are 12 special quests, one on each level of EYE OF THE BEHOLDER.
When the party completes a special quest, a chime will sound, and there will
be a message.

HINTS

  To give the party a head start, here are eleven clues to the first eleven
Beholder Special Quest Bonuses! The clues to the twelfth special bonus are
part of the game itself. Good luck!

Level 1: The magic that appears to protect may also empower a weapon...

Level 2: Match four of what you have the most with their like.

Level 3:... Do idols really need to see!

Level 4: The courteous adventurer leaves things as they were, but also
keeps the dungeon clean.

Level 5: All adventurers can benefit from a full pantry!

Level 6: Those that are scattered belong together.

Level 7: Find the three that hold the key.

Level 8: Ancient traps may be turned to your advantage.

Level 9: Where it is written, items may pass where you may not.

Level 10: Replace the treasure with that which the drow treasure.

Level 11: Those second from the ends must differ from the rest.
====================================================================================