Valhalla & the Fortress of Eve

Level Codes:

Level 2 - "MAHAM" (Village of Evesland)
Level 3 - "TIUIT" (Fortress Courtyards)
Level 4 - "TOHOT" (The Fortress Tower)


Valhalla & The Fortress Of Eve
Walkthrough supplied by Vulcan Software

http://www.vulcan.co.uk

Level 1

Pick up the dog collar, seed, combination note and a piece of cheese. Find the levered door and gain access to the tomb of Reverend Squint, put dog collar on it (nothing will happen until the second object is placed), look around this section and take the honeycomb, pins and needles and nursery rhyme. Find the levered door to gain access to the slug etc. Take bread, bowl of sea water and shoe. Put sea water on stand over camp fire, take salt.

Put salt on slug, slug disappears revealing chest key. Open chest and take the spectacles. Put spectacles on tomb of Reverend Squint, take rose petals. Put rose petals on tub of distilled water, take potion of perfume. Drink potion of perfume to allow you to put the seed on the compost heap. Take the opium poppy. Put opium poppy on the stone of autumn, take seed head. Give seed head to the chemist, take morphine.

Give morphine to the Goblin, he gives you a door key to locked door. In here you will notice a mouse hole, put cheese outside mouse hole and take the mouse. Take wine and read book of the druids. Open the locked door and put the pins and needles on the altar of discomfort and take the numb potion. Take piece of paper with NOITNETNOC FO ENOB, Take piece of paper that says you're beautiful. Put bread and wine on Eucharist altar take silk worm. Put silk worm on mulberry bush, take silk. Put shoe and silk on tomb of Cobbler Cloth, take invisible potion. Drink invisible potion and take sapphire from the tomb that bellowed I can see you. Drink numb potion, this allows you to get close enough to the beehive to put the honeycomb on top of it, take honey.

Give honey to peasant woman with a sweet tooth. she gives you a clock key. Insert the clock key in the clock so the clock hands move, put mouse on the altar in front of the clock, the mouse is exchanged for an hourglass. Put hourglass on altar with weight suspended over it, operate lever, take grain of sand. Put grain of sand in oyster and take the pearl. Put pearl in front of peasant that can't speak then look at it, the curse is lifted and he gives you a quiet potion. Drink the quiet potion and take the sapphire from the tomb that bellowed I can hear you. Put both the sapphires in place on either side of the chest.

Take the backwards potion. Stand and face one of the arguing peasants, drink the backwards potion and look at the piece of paper with the odd phrase written on it while it's still in your rucksack, the words say, bone of contention, the peasants say `ah ha', the bone disappears and is replaced by a door key that fits the locked door. Take mistletoe and read the book about Pan. Put mistletoe on oak tree stump, take large empty water carrier.

Fill water carrier with water from the water tub. Put filled water carrier on stone of Aquarius take birth chart. Give birth chart to astrologer he gives you a fish. Put fish on pool of pieces take staff covered in seaweed. Put staff on Poseidon's statue, the statue disappears and the staff is exchanged for some earth. Put the earth on the hole that blocks the exit. Take Beetle and a piece of Iron. Open door with lever and take milk bottle.

Put empty milk bottle behind maid, tell her she's beautiful, she giggles and sloshes her milk about which fills up your milk bottle, take full milk bottle. Put full milk bottle on the butter churner, operate the button and take the butter.

Put butter on bread in front of peasant man then take the cold potion. Drink the cold potion and operate the levers as outlined in the combination note, (If the first card is a 2 then the first lever should be up to denote higher than a 2, if it's a king then that lever should be down to denote lower than a king) the safe opens, take the corn.

Put corn on Demeters statue, the statue disappears, the corn is exchanged for a daffodil. Put daffodil and horseshoe on the tomb of Blacksmith Spring, take fleece. Put fleece on spinning wheel take wool. Give wool to peasant woman she gives you a white scarf. Put beetle on altar with weight suspended over it, operate lever so weight crushes the beetle, take cochineal. Put cochineal in clothes washing tub, water turns red.

Put white scarf in washing tub, take red scarf. Give red scarf to fortune teller, she gives you a broken mirror. Give broken mirror to the superstitious peasant woman, she screams and disappears so you can access the lever. Take Pans birth certificate.

Put birth certificate on map of arcady, take reed pipes. Put pipes on Pans throne, the last lock opens and you can now travel out of the level.
Valhalla & The Fortress Of Eve

Level 2

Take the hat, jigsaw piece, coin and pick up the bucket with something inside. Put the bucket to the left of the barrel of water and then operate the tap.

Take the door key. Open the door and take the strength potion. Drink strength potion and pick up the log, give it to the woodcutter who gives you a plank in return, use the plank to cross the bridge. Take pepper, bowling ball, gas lamp and orange. Put gas lamp on monument to Florence nightingale, take oil of cloves.

Give oil of cloves to boy with toothache, take homework. Give the homework to the teacher, he won't accept it and says `That's wrong' Go back to where the boy was and you will find a door key. Open the correct door and take sieve, jigsaw piece and sheet music. Put the sieve on the prospectors pool, take Gold nugget.

Put nugget on stone engraved with the symbol AU, take gold trinket. Put trinket on magpies nest, it's exchanged for the key for the first gargoyle. Put the pepper on the key on the table where the village idiot says you cant have it, he sneezes the key onto the bush. Find the correct door and put orange on the juice squeezer, take orange juice.

Take chest key and piece of paper that says `Er Yes'. Open the correct chest and take the bilingual pill - when you eat the pill you say `bonjour mon amie' once, say this to the French tourist and he wakes up, take the love letter. Give love letter to the journalist and he gives you a newspaper. Speak to the librarian and when she says `do you want to join?', you can now say yes, and she replies, you need some ID.

Give the newspaper to the groom, take his wedding ring. Put wedding ring on Henry VIII's monument, take clever pill, when you eat the pill you say `I love quantum physics' once, say this to the mathematician and he wakes up, you can now give him the homework and he will correct the mistakes. Give the new homework to the teacher, take door key. Find the correct door and give the hat to the boy who asks for it.

Take map of avalon, jigsaw piece and door key. Put map of Avalon on Monument to King Arthur, take fishing rod. Put fishing rod on angling pool, take fish. Give fish to fishmonger and take the chest key. Open the correct chest and take bottle of cyanide. Put cyanide on altar engraved with poison sign, take fearless potion. Drink the fearless potion and the Prince will go near the altar engraved with the treble sign, guarded by the dog. Put the sheet music on the altar, take key for the second Gargoyle. Open locked door with door key.

Take jacket, piece of paper that says E=MC Squared and another door key. Put E=MC Squared piece of paper on monument to Einstein, take cube. Put cube on altar with square route sign on it, take chest key. Open chest, take stone deaf potion. Drink stone deaf potion and you will be able to travel near enough to the busker, put the coin in it, take tankard. Fill the tankard with ale from the barrel.

Give the full tankard to the jailer, he drinks it leaving an empty tankard but nothing else appears to happen. Open correct door with key and take Night-cap, sunflower seed and jigsaw piece. Put night-cap on monument to Wee Willie Winkle, take sleeping powder. Put sleeping powder in barrel of ale, fill tankard. Give drugged ale to the jailer, he falls asleep, You can now take the key from the table and unlock the chain to allow the prisoner to escape, notice a note on the floor. Go to tree stump by the angling pool and take forged passport. Give librarian your ID, she gives you a book called `professional bowling'.

Put sunflower seed in plant pot, take sunflower. Put sunflower on monument to Van Gogh, take shoes. Give Jacket and shoes to small boy, take the 'guy'. Put the guy on the bonfire, light the bonfire with the lit match, take the ashes. Put all four jigsaw pieces on alters and take the playing card. Put the playing card, orange juice, ashes and recipe book in the magic cooking pot, take the bowl better potion.

Drink the bowl better potion then drop your bowls ball on the bowling table, take the silver trophy. Put the silver trophy on the altar inscribed with the symbol Ag, take the for the third gargoyle outside Eves door. When you insert the key in to the third gargoyle, a truffle appears. Put the truffle in the trough by the pig, take the door Key.

Take stamped addressed envelope and Insert envelope into letterbox, the chest beside it opens, take Book of Nonsense. Put Book of Nonsense on monument to Edward Lear, take straight jacket. Put straight jacket on monument to Houdini, take 1984 calendar.

Put 1984 calendar on monument to George Orwell, take final key for fourth gargoyle insert and 'hey hee' onto level 3.
Valhalla & The Fortress Of Eve

Level 3

Pick up book about Eve's terrible ancestors and read the book about the Great War Of Evesland. Take bath sponge, flower with 3 blue petals, flower with 7 Yellow petals and book about Eves immediate family. Put flower with blue petals on stone of Kesland, put flower with yellow petals on stone of Weyland, take axe.

Put axe on shrine to Lizzy Borden, take note which you can read, it contains the nursery rhyme `Ring o ring o roses'. Put nursery rhyme on altar next to Aunt Maud. Take tablet with end of proverb inscribed on it `...run deep'. Take door key. Put door key on cutting machine and find correct door. Take Kiss me quick cookie, proverb end `... gathers no moss'. Stand in front of Blarney stone, eat `Kiss me quick' cookie, take shamrock.

Give shamrock to witch that knew St Patrick, she gives you a wax doll. Put wax doll on altar beside terrible ancestor Mordred. Look at Queen Eve, she says `Bring me something old'. Take proverb ending `...saves nine'. Take silver plate. Take potion of stealth. Drink potion of stealth, take butterfly. Put butterfly on bug collection take Czars crown.

Put Czars crown on Ivan the terrible shrine, take chest key, open relevant chest take new penny. Put new penny on Flame of antiquity take old penny. Give old penny to Eve, she gives you door key and now says `Bring me something new'. Open relevant door and take silver plate, proverb end `...spoil the broth', valentines card and bar of soap. Put valentine card on flame of cupid, take book `Gone with the wind'.

Give `Gone with the wind', to witch who likes romance, take map of Whitechapel. Put map of whitechapel on shrine to Jack the Ripper, take song cookie. Stand next to gramophone then eat song cookie, chest beside the gramophone player opens take rubber duck. Put rubber duck, sponge and bar of soap in Eves bath, take book you can't read `Mein Kampf'.

Put book on Hitler's shrine take picture of old person. Put picture of old person in fountain of youth take picture of baby. Give picture of baby to Eve, she gives you a pair of pyjamas, she now says, bring me something borrowed.

Put pyjamas on Grandfathers bed, take vanity cookie. Eat vanity cookie whilst stood in front of the mirror, locked chest beside it opens take the key. Find and open the correct door, using the four proverb endings, match the right witch with the right proverb ending. The witches reward you with four identical symbols, put them on the four altars engraved with the symbol beside the locked chest, the chest opens, take heavy ball with a hook on top of it.

Put ball on altar beneath crane, operate the levers so the crane first descends and attaches itself to the ball, then travels sideways and smashes the glass, take door key. Find and open the door. Take cocktail glass, third silver plate, chest key and head. Give head to witch who says she's a phrenologist, she gives you a pumpkin. Put pumpkin on flame of Halloween take asp (snake). Put asp on the Cleopatra Flame, take miniature sphinx.

Put sphinx on Egyptian tomb, take clock. Give clock to Eve, she now says `bring me something blue' and gives you some dough. Open relevant chest with key and take anti heat potion. Drink anti heat potion so the King will go near the oven. Put dough on the oven, take street sign that says, Pudding lane. Give Pudding Lane street sign to Aunty Mavis. Take last silver plate. Fill up cocktail glass with Galeano, Orange juice and Vodka, you end up with a Harvey Wallbanger. Put all four silver plates in place, a secret passage appears.

Take piece of paper with `Er No`. Take Great Uncle Adonis's autobiography. Give Harvey wallbanger to witch, take symbol. Put autobiography on bed covered in roses, take pillow. Put pillow on shrine to Burke and Hare, take Chemistry set. Put chemistry set on Grandmas bed, take gambling potion. Drink gambling potion and operate lever next to roulette wheel, wheel spins and chest opens, take second symbol.

Put two symbols in place, chest opens, take noose. Put noose on shrine to Ruth Ellis, take happy spider. Put happy spider on flame of sorrow, take sad spider. Give sad spider to Eve, it's exchanged for a note about killing babies in Bethlehem which you can read. Now Eve says `Do you want to marry Ezmerelda?' Look at `er No', piece of paper Eve says `Well who then?'. Put note on King Herods shrine, take seaweed. Put seaweed on flame of oceans, take toy boat. Put toy boat in Percivals bath, take piece of driftwood with `Titanic' engraved on it.

Put driftwood on altar beside Percival. Take bar of chocolate. Put bar of chocolate on Ezmerelda bed, take saucer of cream. Put saucer of cream on cats cushion, take helmet. Put helmet on suit of armour, chest opens, take glass slipper. Give glass slipper to Cinderella, she says `I love you' and gives you a fairy. Put fairy on Xmas tree, chest opens, take knitting. Put knitting on Great Aunty Violets bed, take chest key.

Find and open chest take mothers day card. Put mothers day card on altar next to Augustus. Take lacy night-gown. Put lacy night- gown on Eves bed, take box with something inside it. Put box on x ray machine, take note you can read, it lists a selection of lies. Put lies on lie detector take picture of Cinderella. Give picture to Eve, it's exchanged for a wedding ring, Eve now says, `Oh well if you must!' Give wedding ring to Cinderella, the wedding ring is exchanged for a marriage certificate, there is a loud cackle and Cinderella transforms into her incredibly ugly self, when you look at her now the King tells you `it's Ezmerelda, my wife'.

Give registrar marriage certificate, it's exchanged for a note which says, tells you the only to be rid of this unwanted marriage is to murder the mother of the bride, the first step is to burn this note. Put note on furnace, take dice. Put dice on board game, locked chest beside it opens, take very heavy ball. Put heavy ball on altar beneath crane, operate crane so it smashes into the glass nearby take the light of Valhalla that was hidden inside it.

Note: If you try and insert the light of Valhalla into Eve, she just cackles at you `Hello Son!`.

Put Light of Valhalla on tub of poison, take poisoned light of Valhalla. Insert this into Eve, she screams and disappears allowing you access to terrible ancestor Henry (who never said a nice thing to anybody).

The ugly hag you were led to believe was Ezmerelda deflates into a pile (It was a fake).

Ezmerelda has disappeared and in the place where she was is a note which informs the King how much she hates him and that he is no longer married to her.

Put the note on Henrys altar, he disintegrates allowing you access to level 4.
Valhalla & The Fortress Of Eve

Level 4

Read books and take the tarnished object and the big boot. Put tarnished object in acid take sparkly jewels. Put big boot on shrinking stone, take tiny boot, put this on the monopoly board, chest opens take coffee beans. Put sparkly jewels on altar beside Sir David. Take lump of metal, violin, note about the cursed princess.

Put coffee beans in grinding machine take coffee powder. Put lump of metal in alchemists bowl, take gold. Put violin on Sherlock Holmes shrine, take chest key. Put coffee powder in percolator take cup of Joe (coffee). Give coffee to guard and take a dirty frying pan. Open chest take doctors bag. Put doctors bag on the altar beside the ghost of Sir Francis. Take carrot, ice and violet. Put carrot on rabbit hutch, take white rabbit.

Put white rabbit on Alice in Wonderland shrine, take frankincense. Put ice on opposite stone engraved with `FIRE', take playing cards. Put cards on altar beside ghost of Lady Valentine. Take flower (The flowers match up with the ladies names, when the correct flower is given to the correct lady you will receive a Gem) and Myrrh.

Put frying pan in washing up bowl, take clean frying pan. Put clean frying pan on stove. Put gold, frankincense and Myrrh in manger, take chest key. Open chest take raw sausages. Put sausages on frying pan, take cooked sausages. Give cooked sausages to Guard who says he's hungry, they're exchanged for a rattle. Put rattle on cradle take teddy bear.

Put teddy bear on shrine to Christopher Robin, take blank sheet of paper. Put blank sheet of paper on typewriter, take note which are instructions for one of the guards. Put note on fax machine, it disappears. Note has reappeared on fax machine you don't have access to, the Guard has disappeared and a telescope is sat in his place. Put telescope on altar beside ghost of Lady Mavis. Take blunt razor and put on sharpening stone take sharp razor.

Put sharp razor on barbers chair, take comb. Give comb to guard whose hair is a mess, take tortoise. Put tortoise on `FAST' altar take paintbrush. Give paintbrush to ghost of Sir Bradley. Take chest Key and open the relevant chest, take bullet. Put bullet in liquid silver take silver bullet. Give silver bullet to guard who says he's a werewolf, take moon dust. Put moon dust on opposite stone with `SUN' engraved on it, take piece of paper which says `Go for lunch'. Stand next to telephone and say `Go for lunch'.

The Guard has disappeared take cross. Give cross to ghost of lady Mary. Take grey sock and the symbol (Infinity - figure of eight). Put symbol on Infinity's tomb, Oh no! I was only joking! you have released the spirit of Infinity. Actually you don't have a choice in the matter, I mean how else can we have another Valhalla game? Take lit match.

Put grey sock in bleach, take white sock. Put white sock on opposite stone marked with `BLACK', take a letter which you can't read. Give letter to guard who says he's a graphologist, take rags. Put rags on opposite stone engraved with the `RICH' symbol, take coins, put coins on shrine to Scrooge, take thimble. Put thimble on sewing box, take pin.

Insert pin into balloon which bursts revealing a medal. Give medal to guard who's brave, take sword. Put sword on Don Quixote's shrine take sand. Put all six gems in place on their altars beside the locked chest, chest opens take piece of paper which says, will you marry me.

(You can now ask all the ladies if they want to marry you!)

Once you've had enough put sand on opposite stone with `WET'engraved on it, take dynamite. Insert dynamite into the hole in the boulder, light it with the lit match, boulder explodes allowing you to take piece of paper with `KISS' written on it.

(You can now kiss all the ladies and then ask them to marry you!)

When you've had enough, face the frog and kiss it! The frog changes into the beautiful princess Lisa, ask her to marry you and she says Of course my darling....... Well done!