UFO - ENEMY UNKNOWN - AMIGA VERSION
=============================
TYPED BY UNKNOWN WARRIOR

Credits
Introduction
Background
The Game
This Manual
The Controls
Sorting the Materials

Section 1: The Gameplay Tutorials
Before We Begin...
Starting a New Game
Setting-Up a New Xcom Base
Tutorial 1: The Geoscape
The Time Controls
Detecting UFO's
Intercepting UFOs
Air to Air Combat
Saving the Game
Investigating the Crash Site
Tutorial 2: The Battlescape
Arming Your Squad
The Battlescape
Using the Split Level View
Selecting Soldiers
Moving Soldiers
The Map Screen
The Turn-Based System
Searching For the Aliens
Seeing the Aliens
Using Guns
Using Grenades
Completing the Mission
The Debriefing
Tutorial 3: The Bases
Equipping the Interceptor
Assigning Research
Purchasing/Recruiting
Waiting For Delivery
Equipping the Skyranger
Returning to the Geoscape
The End the Tutorial
Playing Tips
.
Section 2: The Reference Guide
The Game Options
New game
Load Saved Game
The Geoscape Screen
The Geoscape
The View Controls
The Time Controls
The Game Time
The XCom Project Monthly Report
Psioniic Training
The Menu Options
Using the Geoscape
The UFO Detected Window
The Launch Interception Window
Selecting an Interception Craft
The Craft Status Window
The UFO Status Window
The Tracking Lost Window
The Air-to Air Combat Window
Shooting the UFO Down
Investigating UFO Crash Sites
Other Geoscape Uses
Ground Assaults
The Equip Squad Screen
The Battlescape Screen
Using the Battlescape
Using Weapons
The Battlescape Control Bar
Promotions
Wounding
Opportunity Fire
Objective
The Debriefing Screen
Bases
The Base Display
The Menu Options
Build New Base
Base Information
Equip Craft
Build Facilities
Research
Manufacture
Transfer
Purchase/Recruit
Sell/Sack
Soldiers
Geoscape
Graphs
UFO Activity in Areas
UFO Activity in Countries
XCom Activity in Areas
XCom Activity in Countries
Income
Finance
Income
Expenditure
Maintenance
Balance
Performance
UFOpaedia
The Select Subject Screen
The Select Item Screen
UFOpaedia Data Screens
Options
Load Game
Select Game to Load
Save Game
Select Save Position
Cancel
Funding

Glossary
INTRODUCTION
BACKGROUND

It is the year 1999. Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs) have started appearing with disturbing regularity in the night skies. Reports of violent human abductions and horrific experimentation has struck terror into the hearts of millions. Mass public hysteria has only served to expose Earth's impotence against a vastly superior technology.

Many countries have attempted to deal independently with the aliens. In August 1998, Japan established an anti alien combat force, the Kiryu Kai. Equipped with Japanese made fighter aircraft the Kiryu Kai certainly looked like a powerful force. However after 5 months of expensive operations they had yet to intercept their first UFO. The lesson was clear: this was a world-wide problem which could not be dealt with by individual countries.

On December 11th 1998, representatives from the world's most economically powerful countries gathered secretly in Geneva. After much debate the decision was made to establish a covert independent body to combat, investigate and defeat the alien threat. this organisation would be equipped with the world's finest pilots, soldiers, scientists and engineers, working together as one multi national force.

This organisation was named the Extraterrestrial Combat unit: XCOM
THE GAME

UFO Enemy Unknown puts you in command of XCom, with the finest Earth technology at your disposal to defend the Earth from alien invasion. Shooting down UFOs is just the beginning. You will then control a squad of heavily armed soldiers, edging cautiously through the local terrain, battling aliens and recovering UFO technology.

When you command a ground assault, you will use the 3-D isometric 'Battlescape' display. This shows terrain, buildings, XCom craft and UFOs, but will only display what your soldiers can see so beware of danger lurking around corners or down dark corridors! Successful ground assault missions mean that XCom scientists can research alien technology. Engineers can then reproduce their superior weapons and spacecraft. Soon you will be fighting the aliens with their own technology.

As the game progresses, you will use the on line 'UFOpaedia' to learn the latest details from your research teams about alien technology, life forms and their real objectives. Above all, you must watch the world political situation. Look out for governments who may be forced to make secret pacts with the aliens and make sure you defend the countries who fund XCom heavily.

UFO Enemy Unknown. Command Earth's forces against the alien terror! THIS MANUAL

This Manual is split into two main sections;

Section 1: The Gameplay Tutorials are designed to get you playing UFO Enemy Unknown as quickly as possible. You are recommended to follow each tutorial before you start to play the game on your own.

Section 2: The Reference Guide is intended for the player who is familiar with how to play UFO Enemy Unknown and needs to learn more about particular game features. The Controls

You will require a Mouse to play UFO Enemy Unknown. This manual will refer to 'clicking' on buttons, icons or highlighted text. To do this, simply move the cursor over the option and press the Left Mouse Button (LMB).

SORTING THE MATERIALS

Your UFO Enemy Unknown package contains this Manual, a Technical Supplement and a set of disks to run the game.
SECTION 1 - THE GAMEPLAY TUTORIALS
BEFORE WE BEGIN...

Welcome to UFO Enemy Unknown. These tutorials are designed to help you start playing with the minimum of trouble. The three main sections of the game are covered here; the Geoscape, the Battlescape and the Bases Screen.

For extra information on particular game features, see the Reference Guide section of the manual.

First of all, we will start a new game.
Starting a New Game

1. Install and Load UFO Enemy Unknown by referring to your Technical supplement.

2. After the animated introduction, you will be taken to the Copy Protection Screen.

Type in the from the manual reference given. You will be taken to the game options screen.

3. Move the mouse pointer over the New Game option and click on the Left Mouse Button (LMB) to select. You will now be taken to the Select Difficulty Level screen.

4. Move the mouse pointer over the Beginner option and click on the LMB to select. You will now be taken into the main game screen, the Geoscape. The first thing you must do is to position your first XCom base on the surface of the Earth.
Setting-Up a New XCom Base

5. The message Select Site for New Base will appear in the top of the screen.

In the bottom right hand side of the screen, you will see three green spheres surrounded by arrows. These are the view controls which allow you to rotate and magnify the display of the Earth.

Click on the up arrow icon. The Earth display will be magnified, some borders around countries will appear.

6. Click again on the up arrow icon. The Earth display will be magnified again, some country names will now appear.

7. Click twice on the down arrow icon. The Earth display will return to its minimum magnification.

8. The four arrow icon allows you to rotate the Earth display up, down, left, or right.

Click a few times on the up arrow, The Earth display will tilt towards you

9. Click a few times on the left arrow, the Earth display will rotate.

10. Position the Mouse pointer over the Earth and click on the Right Mouse Button to centre the Geoscape on that location.

By using a combination of these controls, you can manipulate the Earth display to show any part of the Earth in detail.

Note. It is a good idea to position your base in the middle of a large land mass such as North or South America, Russia or Europe. This will give , you a better chance of defending that area from UFO raids.

12. A window containing the prompt Base Name? will appear Type in a name using the Keyboard and press the Return Key. You have now set up a new XCom base and you are ready to start playing UFO Enemy Unknown.
TUTORIAL 1: THE GEOSCAPE

Tutorial 1 guides you through the Geoscapes basic controls and the process of intercepting UFOs.

1. The Geoscape is the main screen for playing UFO Enemy Unknown. You will see your base on the 3-D view of the Earth, represented as a hollow blue square.

On the right-hand side of the screen, there is a list of Menu Options a display of the Game Time, the Time Controls and the View Controls.

The Time Controls are very important to the game, and it is these which we will go through next.

Note: If you wish to pause the time at any stage during the game, simply click on any of the menu options.

The Time Controls 2. Look at the Game Time. You will see that it is passing by with five second jumps. The Time Controls below the Game Time, allow you to control the rate at which this time passes.

Click on the 5 Mins button. The button will depress and time will pass at an increased rate. You will see the Game Time (above the Time Controls) change rapidly and night and day will be visible on the Earth, slowly changing.

You should use the Time Controls to advance the game through any time consuming section of the game (e.g. waiting for craft to arrive at their destinations or waiting for UFOs to be detected)
Detecting UFOs

3. We will now advance time to the point when XCom detect their first UFO (if this has not already happened.

Click on the 1 Day button in the Time Controls. The button will depress and time will pass at the maximum rate.

4. Eventually, a window will appear over the Geoscape with the message UFO-1 Detected. data regarding the UFO is shown in this window.

Click on the button marked Centre on UFO-Time=5 Secs. This will centre the Earth display on the UFO and reduce the passage of time to 5 seconds. The UFO will appear as a red cross in the centre of the Geoscape, moving slowly.
Intercepting UFOs

5. Position the Mouse pointer on your base and click on the LMB. a window will appear with the title Launch Interception and a list of the available craft at the base. 6. Move the Mouse pointer to highlight Interceptor 2 and click on the LMB.

7. The message Select Destination appears in the top of the screen.

Click on the UFO (represented as a red cross) to select this as the Interceptors target.

8. The confirmation message Target: UFO-1 will appear.

Click on the OK button.

9. The Interceptor (represented by a yellow cross) will launch from its underground base and attempt to intercept the UFO.

Note: remember, if you need to pause the game, click on any of the Geoscape Menu Options.

If the UFO lands, it will appear as a green cross. Interceptors cannot carry out ground attacks; so you will have to wait until the UFO lifts off - click on 5 Mins Time Control Button to accelerate the passage of time.

10. At this point, one of two things could happen:-

A. If your Interceptor catches the UFO, the Air-to-Air Combat window will appear. Skip the rest of this section and go to step 19 of this tutorial.

B. If your Interceptor loses contact with the UFO, the window UFO-1 Tracking Lost will appear. This may happen several times before you actually get into combat; most UFOs can outperform your Interceptors.

Click on the OK button. Continue to the next step of this tutorial. 11. The Craft Status window will now appear, allowing you to redirect the Interceptor.

12. Click on the Go To Last Known UFO Position button. 13. While the Interceptor is on its way to the last known UFO position, it uses its on-board radar to scan for the UFO.

If the UFO-1 Detected window reappears, go straight to step 14 of this tutorial.

If the Interceptor reaches the last known UFO position without re-acquiring the UFO, the following window will appear:-

If this happens, the UFO has disappeared from all XCom tracking devices. The interception mission has failed.

Click on the Redirect Craft button. The Craft Status window will re-appear. Click on Return to Base. The Interceptor will return to its base.

Go back to step 3 of this tutorial.

14. Click on the Centre on UFO-Time=5 Secs button in the UFO-1 Detected window.

15. At the moment, the Interceptor is still heading for the last reported position of the UFO. Now we'll re-assign the UFO as the Interceptor's target.

Click on the Interceptor. This will bring up the Craft Status window. 16. Click on the Select New Target button.

17. The message Select Destination appears in the top of the screen. Click on the UFO to re-select it as the target.

18. The message Target: UFO-1 will re-appear.

Click on the OK button.

Go back to step 10 of this tutorial.
Air-to-Air Combat

19. If the Interceptor gets within range of the UFO, the Geoscape will automatically increase in magnification and the Air-to-Air Combat window will appear over the centre of the Geoscape.

20. UFOs should not be shot down over water because you will not be able to examine the wreckage.

Click on the minimise window (large & small rectangles) icon in the top left of the Air-to-Air Combat window. The craft icon will appear in the top left of the screen.

Check that the UFO is over dry land. If it is over the sea, you can use the 1 Min Time Control to accelerate the passage of time.

21. Click on the craft icon when the UFO is over the land. This will bring back the Air-to Air Combat window, ready for you to attack the UFO.

22. Click on the (.<) icon to carry out a Standard Attack on the UFO. You will see the progress of the attack on the radar screen in the left hand side of the Air-to-Air Combat window. The message box in the bottom of the window relays the pilot's messages to you

If the UFO out runs the Interceptor, return to step 10 of this tutorial.

If the Interceptor destroys the UFO, you have failed in your objectives; there is no useful debris to investigate. Return to step 3 of this tutorial. If the UFO crash lands, you have succeeded in your objectives; the crash site is marked with a white cross. The UFO is now vulnerable to a ground assault, allowing you to recover the wreckage.
Saving the Game

23. Now would be a good time to save your current game.

Click on the Options button.

24. Click on the Save Game button.

25. The Select Save Position screen will appear.

Click on any of the ten numbered buttons to select the slot into which your current game will be saved.

26. Type in a name for your saved game using the Keyboard and press the Return Key. When the game has saved, you will be returned to the Geoscape.
Investigating the Crash Site.

27. You will need to assign a Skyranger transport to take a squad of soldiers from your base to the Crash Site.

Find your base (you may need to rotate the Geoscape to bring it into view). Click on your base: the Launch Interception window will appear. 28. Move the Mouse pointer to highlight Skyranger-1 and click.

29. The message Select Destination appears in the top of the screen. .

30. Click on the UFO Crash Site (the white cross) to the Skyrangers target.

31. The message Target: Crash Site-1 will appear.

Click on the OK button. 32. The Skyranger (represented by a yellow cross) will launch and make its way to the UFO Crash Site.)

Click on the 5 mins button if you want to increase the passage of time.

33. When the Skyranger arrives at the Crash Site, the UFO Crash Recovery screen will appear. Read the instructions on this screen.

Click on the OK button to enter the next section of UFO Enemy Unknown; the Battlescape.
TUTORIAL 2: THE BATTLESCAPE

Tutorial 2 guides you through the close combat Battlescape; the section of the game where you fight the aliens face to face.
Arming Your Squad

1. The eight members of your squad automatically arm themselves with guns, ammunition and grenades. The initial screen allows you to adjust the weapons your squad will carry into action.

Click on the left/right arrows in the top right of the screen to check the armament of each of the eight members of your squad.

2. You will see that six of your soldiers have rifles, one has a pistol and one has a heavy cannon. The soldiers carry extra ammunition and grenades on their belts.

Full details of this section of the game are given in the Ground Assaults chapter of this manual.

Click on the OK button to exit this screen.

3. The 'turn' screen will appear.

Note: All Battlescape action is turn based. This means it is like a 3-D game of chess - you move your pieces, the aliens moves theirs!

Click the Left Mouse Button to continue.
The Battlescape

4. You will now see your Skyranger on the ground with its rear door open. The aircraft's cabin roof is 'peeled away' to reveal your squad of eight soldiers within.

The bottom section of the screen contains a number of buttons and displays. This section of the screen is known as the Control Bar.
Using the Split Level View

5. The Battlescape is built up of several levels. These can be viewed individually or may be assembled into a complete 3-D picture. Splitting the Battlescape into levels allows you to see behind walls and inside buildings or craft.

At the moment, the Battlescape is set to normal setting - the Multi-level View. The multi-level view hides everything above the currently selected level, this is why the Skyranger appears to have no roof.

Click on the diamond 1 button in the Control Bar. The number on the button will change to 2.

The cabin roof and wings of the Skyranger will appear. Your soldiers will now be hidden from view. This is a Full View of the Battlescape.

6. Click again on the diamond 1 button. The number on the button will change back to 1. The Battlescape returns to the Multi-level View.

7. When you are in any of these views, you may need to switch to the next level up or down.

Click on the Down arrow/ladder button.

8. The display will change to show just the landing legs and tail ramp of the Skyranger.

9. Click on the up arrow/ladder button. The display will return to the original view, with your squad visible inside the Skyranger
Selecting Soldiers

10. You control your squad individually, selecting and moving each soldier in turn

Move the Mouse pointer over the Battlescape display. A red 3-D box will appear under the pointer.

11. Move this box over any soldier. The box will now flash yellow and red.

12. Click on the Left Mouse Button. A yellow arrow appears above the soldier's head to show that he/she is now selected.

13. Move the Mouse pointer over any other soldier in the Skyranger and click to select. Watch the soldier's name (halfway down the Control Bar) change.
Moving Soldiers

14. Move the Mouse pointer over either of the soldiers at the rear of the Skyranger and click to select. The yellow arrow appears above the soldier's head to show that he/she is now selected.

15. Now, move the Mouse pointer over the ground just behind and to the right of the Skyranger.

16. Click the Left Mouse Button.

The soldier will walk out of the Skyranger to the destination you have just set. The Battlescape automatically switches to the next level down, so that the Skyranger now only appears as the ramp and a set of landing legs. 17. Click on the up arrow/ladder button. 18. Move the Mouse pointer over the other soldier at the rear of the Skyranger and click to select.

19. Now move the Mouse pointer over the ground just behind and to the left of the Skyranger.

20. Click the Left Mouse Button.

The soldier will walk out of the Skyranger to the destination you have set.

21. We now have two soldiers deployed from the Skyranger. You may notice that the Battlescape displays a little more of the surrounding terrain now. This is because the Battlescape only shows what is in your squad's line of sight.

Move the 3-D box to a point near one of the landing legs and click on the Right Mouse Button.

The currently selected soldier will turn round and face the Skyranger, scanning the surrounding terrain in the process. Any nearby black squares will turn into terrain as the soldier looks at them.

22. If you want to look around the Battlescape at the visible terrain, move the Mouse pointer to the very edge of the screen. The view window will move in that direction.

Note: you must take the Mouse pointer to the very bottom of the screen, under the Control Bar, to move the view window downwards.

23. Click on the man/four arrows button to re-centre the Battlescape on the currently selected soldier.

24. Click on the two people button. The next soldier in your squad will be selected.

This is an alternative way of selecting soldiers, saving you from having to search around the Battlescape for every soldier.

25. Move this soldier out of the Skyranger, in the same way as the other two.

26. Select and move another soldier out of the skyranger.

27. You now have four soldiers deployed from the Skyranger. This is enough for the moment, the rest can remain on board as reinforcements.

The primary objective of this mission is to kill or stun the aliens. A good place to find aliens is the crashed UFO itself, so we'll start the search there.
The Map Screen

28. Click on the rectangle grid button to access the Map Screen. This displays a map of the mission area, allowing you to see XCom and alien forces, XCom craft and UFOs.

29. You will see four flashing yellow dots on the map; these are your soldiers. If a UFO has been spotted, its hull appears as a pale grey line.

30. The map only shows one level of the Battlescape at a time.

Click on the up/down arrows on the left-hand side of the screen to display the next level up or down.

31. Click on the Right Mouse Button to return to the Battlescape.
The Turn - Based System

32. If you saw a UFO in the Map screen, start moving your soldiers towards it. If not, continue moving your soldiers around the Battlescape until you find the UFO.

Eventually the message Not Enough Time Units! appears.

33. This means that the selected soldier has moved as far as he/she can possibly move in this turn. When all four of the soldiers have moved to this point, it is time to end your turn. Click on the circle/ button to end the turn.

The aliens will now be given a turn to move. They may open fire on your squad - you are helpless until your next turn.

On screen prompts tell you when to click the LMB to begin your next turn.

Searching For the Aliens

34. Continue moving your squad around the Battlescape

to go through doors, click inside the room

to go up stairs, click at the top of the stairs

You will notice that the Battlescape has an edge beyond which everything is black. This is the edge of the map - aliens will not go into this area.
Seeing the Aliens

35. If one of your soldiers sees an alien, he/she will immediately stop moving and a red flashing square will appear in the right of the Battlescape screen, just above the Control Bar.

Click on the red flashing square to centre the Battlescape on the alien

36. The alien can now be seen in the centre of the screen

Click on the grid rectangle button to access the Map Screen.

37. Aliens will appear as blue flashing dots on this map, the white cross indicates where the map is centred.

Look for your soldiers on the map - there might be soldiers in a better position to fire than the soldier currently selected.

Click on the Right Mouse Button to return to the Battlescape

38. If you want to re-centre the Battlescape on the currently selected soldier, click on the direction arrows button in the Control bar.
Using Guns

39. We will now use a weapon against the alien, before it gets the chance to fire at us. This is probably a long range shot, so a rifle will be required.

Click on the rifle (at the far right of the Control Bar).

40. A window will appear, allowing you to choose from a number of shots.

Move the Mouse pointer over the Aimed Shot option and click.

41. You will now return to the Battlescape. The cursor has changed to a targeting cross instead of the 3-D box.

Position the cross over the alien and click the Left Mouse Button.

42. Now, one of four things could happen:

A. The message No Line of Fire! appears. This means that there is an object between your soldier and the alien. You must move your soldier to a different position or select another soldier before attempting to fire again.

B. The message Not Enough Time Units! appears. This means that your soldier does not have enough Time Units to complete the shot. You must either choose another type of shot, select another soldier or end your turn.

C. The soldier fires a shot.. and misses. This is unfortunate, but is expected - initially your soldiers are all rookies. You will find that your soldiers become more accurate as they fight more battles.

D. The soldier hits the alien with the shot. The aliens wear strong armour, so it may take more than one hit to kill them.

Click on the Right Mouse Button to change the Mouse pointer from a targeting Cross to the 3-D box, ready to move your soldier again
Using Grenades

43. If an alien is using an object for cover, you may prefer to attack it with a Grenade.

Click on the single man button to access the Equip Soldier screen. This is similar to the screen which you saw before entering the Battlescape

44. Initially every soldier has one grenade (the round black object) in his/her belt.

Move the Mouse pointer over the grenade and click.

The word Grenade will appear below the Soldier's name

45. Move the Grenade over the box marked Left Hand and click again

If the soldier has enough Time Units, the Grenade will be placed in the soldier's left hand.

If the soldier does not have enough Time Units, replace the grenade in the belt and repeat the operation after the next turn.

46. Click on the OK button to return to the Battlescape.

47. You will now see the Grenade in the Item Box on the far left of the Control Bar.

Click on the Grenade.

48. A window containing the options Prime Grenade or Throw will appear.

Click on Prime Grenade.

Note: If at any stage your soldier runs out of Time Units, simply end the turn and complete the priming/throwing process on the next turn. But beware! The Soldier may be killed during the aliens turn if he/she is not in cover.

49. The Set timer window will appear, allowing you to set the number of turns until the grenade detonates.

Click on the number 3.

You will now return to the Battlescape, with a primed grenade in your soldier's left hand

50. You now have three turns to throw the grenade and get away from the blast area.

Click on the grenade again.

51. The only option is Throw.

Click on throw.

52. You now return to the Battlescape. The cursor has a throw icon superimposed over the 3-D box

Click on the location where you want to throw the grenade.

53. One of three things will happen:-

A. The soldier will throw the grenade.

B. The message Out of Range! will appear. This is because the target location is too far away. If this happens, choose a target location which is closer to your soldier.

C. The message Unable to throw here! will appear. This is because an object is obstructing the throw. If this happens choose a different target location.

Don't forget. Once you have thrown the grenade, you've got just three turns to clear the area!
Completing the Mission

54. Continue searching for aliens (go back to step 34 of this tutorial). When all aliens have been killed, the mission is over.

XCom will then automatically recover the UFO's remains, alien artefacts and alien corpses.

To abort the mission before the mission objectives are completed, click on the plane button in the Control bar.

Abort mission will only save soldiers who have returned to the Skyranger - a warning message will appear if you attempt to take off without your full squad.

Note: Do not allow the aliens to kill all of your squad - there will be no one to fly the Skyranger back to base, and it will be lost. If you are down to your last soldier, abort the mission.
The Debriefing

55. At the end of the ground assault mission, you will be given a debriefing. This will inform you if your mission objectives were achieved and lists the items recovered.

Click on the OK button in the bottom left of this screen to return to the Geoscape.

56. You might want to save the game at this point (see step 23 of Tutorial 1 for details of how to save games). If you want to replay the ground assault load in your previously saved game. TUTORIAL 3: BASES -----------------

From research and manufacture to equipping craft and soldiers, the Bases screens define how well you will be able to deal with the alien threat. Tutorial 3 guides you through this, the most complex section of UFO Enemy Unknown.

1. If you are continuing from tutorial 2, do not worry if you 1ost your Skyranger; you can buy another in the Bases Screen.

Click on the button labelled Bases in the Geoscape Menu Options.

2. The Bases Screen will appear.

Note: From now until you re-enter the Geoscape Screen, time is paused. If at any time you need to pause the game, simply click on one of the Geoscape Menu Options.
Equipping the Interceptor.

3. We will now use the Equip Craft screen to re-arm one of the Interceptors.

Click on the button labelled Equip Craft in the Bases screen.

You will enter the Interception Craft screen, allowing you to choose which craft you will equip with weapons or equipment.

4. Move the Mouse pointer over Interceptor 2 (a pale highlight will appear to show it is selected) and click.

5. The Interceptor 2 Equip Craft screen will appear.

You will see each of the Interceptors two weapon bays, represented by the numbers 1 and 2. The armaments loaded onto the aircraft are Stingray missiles and a Cannon.

Click on the button marked with the number 2.

6. The Select Armament window will appear.

You will see that you have 1 Stingray short-range missile launcher, Avalanche long range missile launcher and 2 cannons in the base's stores.

7. We will now re-arm the Interceptor with Avalanche long-range missiles in place of the cannon. Move the Mouse pointer over Avalanche (a pale highlight will appear to show it is selected) and click. 8. The display will return to the Interceptor-2 Equip Craft screen. The Interceptor now has an all missile armament - this is more effective for attacking UFOs.

Click on the button marked OK in the bottom of the screen.

9. You will now return to the Interception Craft screen. You will see that the Status column for Interceptor 2 shows that it is Rearming.

Click on the button marked OK in the bottom of this screen.

10. You will return to the Bases screen.

Next we will assign XCom scientists to undertake research.

Click on the button marked Research.
Assigning Research

11. You will be taken to the Current Research screen

We will now assign our scientists to work on two different research projects; Laser Weapons and the Motion Scanner.

Click on the button labelled New Project in the bottom left of the screen.

12. The New Research Projects window will appear.

Move the Mouse pointer over Laser Weapons (a pale highlight will appear to show it is selected) and click.

13. The Start Project window will appear.

Click on the Start Project button in the bottom-left of the window.

14. The Scientists Allocated window will appear. This allows you to change the number of scientists working on the project.

Click on the up arrow next to the word Increase until the number to the right of the Word Scientists Allocated is 10.

15. Click on the button marked OK.

16. You will return to the New Research Projects window

Move the Mouse pointer over Motion Scanner and click

17. The Start Project window will appear.

Click on the Start Project button in the bottom left of the window.

18. The Scientists Allocated window will appear.

Click on the up arrow next to the word increase until the number to the right of the word Scientists Allocated is 10.

19. Click on the button marked OK.

20. You will return to the New Research Projects window.

Click on the OK button in the bottom of this window.

21. You will now return to the Current Research screen. You will see that you have 10 scientists assigned to researching Laser Weapons and 10 scientists assigned to researching the Motion Scanner. The progress in each of these projects is unknown; the scientists have not yet started work.

Click on the OK button in the bottom-right of this screen.

22. You will return to the Bases screen.

Another important function carried out in the Bases screen is the purchasing of items or the recruiting of personnel.

Click on the button marked Purchase/Recruit.
Purchasing/Recruiting

23. You will be taken to the Purchase/Hire Personnel screen.

We will now purchase some items and hire some extra soldiers.

Move the Mouse pointer over the up arrow button in the Soldier line (at the top of the list of items) and click once.

24. You will see the number in the Quantity column change to 1.

Click on the up arrow button until the message Not Enough Living Space! appears.

Note: The message Not Enough Living Space! appears because you do not have enough Living Quarter facilities at your base to accommodate the soldiers. To build more Living Quarters, click on the Build Facilities button in the Bases screen, see the Bases section of the Reference Guide of this manual for full details.

25. If you lost your Skyranger troop transport in the ground assault, you can replace it by clicking once on the up arrow button in the Skyranger line of this screen.

26. Move the Mouse pointer down the list until you get to Tank/Rocket Launcher. The tank is a large weapon, expensive but powerful.

27. Click once on the up arrow button. You will see the Cost Of Purchases (in the top-right of this screen) increase by $900,000 (the cost of the tank).

28. Now we'll need some ammunition for it. Move the Mouse pointer over the HWP Rocket up arrow button and click four times. You may need to buy more ammunition later when you return from your next ground assault.

Note: The message Not Enough Store Space! will appear if you attempt to buy too many items. To build more storage space, click on the Build Facilities button in the Bases screen - again, see the Bases section of the Reference Guide of this manual for full details.

29. Click on the down arrow button in the bottom-right of the screen. The list will move down a little. Continue clicking on this button until it disappears. You have reached the bottom of the list. The last item on the list is the Stun Rod. This item allows your soldiers to knock aliens out instead of killing them, the alien can then be recovered alive and interrogated.

30. Move the mouse pointer over the Stun Rod up arrow button and click twice.

31. If you lost your Skyranger in the ground assault, you will need to equip its crew. Carry out the same process as above to choose some weapons from the list - don't forget ammunition if you buy guns or rocket launchers.

32. You have now completed choosing what you want to buy.

Click on the OK button in the bottom-left of the screen to confirm the purchase.

33. You will return to the Bases screen.

Click on the Geoscape button in the bottom-right of the Bases screen, you will return to the Geoscape.
Waiting For Delivery

34. It will take several days for all the items you purchased to be delivered.
Check the Game Time.

Click on the 1 Day button in the Geoscape Time Controls and allow 3 days to pass. If a UFO is detected, intercept it (see step 4 of tutorial 1 for full details).

35. Several windows may appear as time passes. For the moment, just click on the OK button to make them go away. We'll worry about these later.

When 3 days have passed, click on the 5 Secs button.

36. We will now return to the Bases screen and equip the Skyranger with all the items we have just purchased.

Click on the Bases button.

37. Click on the Equip Craft button.
Equipping the Skyranger

38. Use the Mouse to highlight and click on Skyranger-1.

39. The Equip Craft screen for the Skyranger will appear.

You will see the soldiers assigned to the Skyranger, next to the button marked Crew. If you didn't lose any in the ground assault, there will be eight soldier icons.

Click on the Crew button.

40. The Select Squad screen will appear.

This screen displays the names of the soldiers who are assigned to Skyranger-1.

Click on any names which are shown in light blue. This will assign them to Skyranger 1. The Craft column of this screen shows which craft the soldiers are assigned to.

41. When all the soldier's names are shown in white, all the soldiers at the base are assigned to Skyranger-1.

Click on the OK button in the bottom of this screen.

42. You will return to the Equip Craft screen. Now we'll load some equipment onto the Skyranger.

Click on the button marked Equipment.

43. The Select Equipment screen will appear.

Move the Mouse pointer over the right arrow button in the Tank/Rocket Launcher line (at the top of the list) and click.

The tank/rocket launcher is now loaded onto Skyranger-1. The number in the Stores column changes to 1 from 0, and the name of the item changes from light blue to white, indicating that it is on board.

44. Use the same process to load any other equipment of your choice onto the Skyranger.

45. Click on the OK button in the bottom of the screen.

46. You will return to the Equip Craft screen.

Click on the OK button in the bottom of the Equip Craft screen to return to the Interception Craft screen.

47. Click on the OK button in the bottom of the Interception Craft screen to return to the Bases screen.

48. Click on the Geoscape button in the bottom-right of the Bases screen. You will return to the Geoscape.
Returning to the Geoscape

49. Click on the 1 Day button in the Geoscape Time Controls. Soon, a message will appear on the Geoscape. This may be one of the following: UFO Detected - go to step 4 of tutorial 1 for details of intercepting UFOs when you investigate the crash site this time, your soldiers will be better equipped.

Research Completed - your scientists have completed their research work. You should allocate them to another project as soon as possible (see step 11 of this tutorial). XCom Project Monthly Report - at the end of each month, the XCom Project Monthly Report will appear to inform you of your progress in the fight against the aliens. See the Geoscape section of the Reference Guide of this manual for full details.

Other messages may appeal to inform you that a new purchase has arrived or a manufacturing process has become available.
The End Of the Tutorial

Much of the enjoyment of UFO Enemy Unknown is discovering new technology, gathering information on the aliens and battling through hundreds of different landscapes.

These tutorials have been a basic guide to the way UFO Enemy Unknown plays. There may be further game enhancements which are documented in the Technical Supplement. Use the Reference Guide section of this manual for details of specific menu options or game features.
Playing Tips

To succeed in the war against the aliens, you will need to carry out the following:-
Establish more bases around the world

Click on the Build New Base button in the Bases screen. Establish bases in the countries who are funding you heavily - refer to the Graphs screen for this information.
Build more facilities at your bases.

Click on the Build Facilities button in the Bases screen. Experiment with different sized bases - you don't always have to build hangars. Build dedicated 'listening posts', equipped with both large and small radar systems, then add hangars when you can afford them. By using this tactic, you will detect many more UFOs.
Develop a powerful squad

Don't allow your soldiers to be killed in the ground assaults, you will find that they fight better when they are more experienced. Equip your squad with the best weapons available and avoid exposing your soldiers to enemy fire by keeping them in cover.
Plan your research carefully

Concentrate research on developing alien based technologies and take care that your scientists stay busy - research work costs relatively little and the rewards are great.

Build new weapons and craft based on alien technology

If your scientists have researched alien items, your engineers will be able to reproduce them. XCom will eventually be using the most advanced weaponry on Earth, fighting the aliens with their own technology.
SECTION 2: THE REFERENCE GUIDE
1. GAME OPTIONS

The Game Options screen appears when you load UFO Enemy Unknown, allowing you to select between New Game or Load Saved Game. Position the Mouse Pointer over the required option and click the Left Mouse Button (LMB) to select.
1.1 NEW GAME

If you select New Game in the Game Option screen, you will be taken to the Select Difficulty Level screen.

This allows you to change the way the game plays to suit your skill level, from level 1 (Beginner) to level 5 (Superhuman). It is recommended that you complete the game at one of the lower difficulty levels before attempting to play the game at level 5.

The difficulty level affects :-

- the hostility and skill of aliens

- the aggression of UFOs

Pick a difficulty level by clicking on one of these five buttons.

You will now be taken to the main game screen, the geoscape The message Select Site For New Base will appear at the top of the screen

Click on any part of the world to position your first XCom base. Use the Geoscape controls if you want to rotate the display of the Earth (see the section of this manual on The Geoscape Screen for full details of the Geoscape controls)

The last New Game set-up is to name your first base. The prompt Base Name? will appear - type in your first bases name using the Keyboard and press the Return Key. You will now be able to use the Geoscape as normal.
1.2 LOAD SAVED GAME

If you select Load Saved Game in the Game Options, you will be taken to the Select Game To Load Screen.

The name of the saved game is displayed in the middle of the screen, the game's time and date is also displayed.

Pick a saved game by clicking on one of the ten buttons on the left-hand side of the screen and click the LMB. You will now be taken to the Geoscape, at the point when the game was saved.
2. THE GEOSCAPE SCREEN.

The Geoscape Screen is the main screen for playing UFO Enemy Unknown; it displays the latest data on alien activity and allows you to control and monitor XCom interception craft.

The Geoscape screen is made up of five parts: the Geoscape, the View Controls, the Time Controls, the Game Time and the Menu Options.
2.1 THE GEOSCAPE

The Geoscape is a 3-D view of the Earth which may be rotated or magnified. At minimum magnification it displays the whole planet, while at maximum magnification it shows detail such as borders and cities. Terrain types from desert to snowscape are represented on the surface of each of the continents, and night and day are fully simulated.

The Geoscape uses symbols to represent the following:-

Blue Box - an XCom base Yellow + - an XCOm craft Orange x - an XCom craft's destination (also known as a 'waypoint') Red + - a UFO in the air. Green x - a UFO on the ground White x - a UFO crash site Pink Box - an alien base Pink + - an alien terror site
2.2 THE VIEW CONTROLS

The view Controls allow you to manipulate the view of the Earth in the Geoscape.

Click on the up or down arrows to tilt the view of the Earth up or down.

Click on the left or right arrows to rotate the view of the Earth to the left or right (about the Earth's polar axis)

Click on the up arrow icon to increase the magnification of the Geoscape.

Click on the down arrow icon to decrease the magnification of the Geoscape.

Click on the Geoscape using the Right Mouse Button to centre the display on that location.
2.3 THE TIME CONTROLS

The Time Controls allow you to adjust the rate at which time passes in the game.

Time may be accelerated from 5 second stages to 1 minute, 5 minute, 30 minute, 1 hour and 1 day segments. This means that you may cut out the long periods of waiting for XCom radar to detect a UFO. To select a particular rate of time passage, click on any of the six Time Control Buttons.

The passage of time is suspended when any of the Geoscape Menu Options are accessed.
2.4 THE GAME TIME

UFO Enemy Unknown begins at 12:00 pm on the 1st January 1999. All game times are given in Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
2.4.1 THE XCOM PROJECT MONTHLY REPORT

At the end of each month, you will be given a report of your progress so far. This report is in the following form:-

Month - the month which has just ended.

Monthly Rating - XCom's overall performance rating for the previous month. This takes into account the following:-

- success of interceptions

- scores for ground assault missions

- research work completed

- alien activity

A plus ( + ) sign before the figure indicates a good performance, a minus (-) sign indicates a poor performance.

Funding Change - the difference between this months and last month's total funding. A plus ( + ) sign before the figure indicates an increase in funding, a minus (-) sign indicates a decrease in funding.

This is followed by a general report on how the Council of Funding Nations views recent XCom anti alien operations.

Click on the OK button to exit this screen.
2.4.2 PSIONIC TRAINING

If you have built a Psi-Lab at any of your bases, you will be taken to the Psionic Training screen each month, after the Monthly Report.

Psionic powers allow XCom soldiers to use mind control as a weapon. The Psi Amp is required to convert the thoughts into psionic powers, without this the soldier cannot use psionic skills as a weapon.

The Psionic Training screen lists all XCom bases with a Psi Lab facility. Psi Labs are essential to carry out psionic training.

Click on any of the Base Name buttons to Assign soldiers to Psionic Training at that base.
2.4.2.1 Assign Soldiers to Psionic Training

This screen allows you to assign individual soldiers to psionic training. The top of the screen shows the Remaining Psi-Lab Capacity. This indicates the number of soldiers who may be assigned to Psionic Training.

Below this is a list of the following:-

Name - the soldier's name.

Psionic Strength - this is a measure of the soldier's natural ability to defend against psionic attack. It never changes, regardless of how much training the soldier goes through.

Psionic Skill/Improvement - this is the soldier's ability to use the Psi Amp in mental combat. The soldier's mental combat ability is dependent on both this and Psionic Strength.

Note: it is better to concentrate your Psionic Training on soldier's with high Psionic Strength.

In Training? - whether or not the soldier is in training.

Note: carrying out missions also improves a soldier's Psionic Skill.

Click on the OK button to return to the Psionic Training screen.

Click on another Base Name button to assign more soldier's to Psionic Training or click on the OK button to return to the Geoscape.
2.5 THE MENU OPTIONS

Click on the Menu Option buttons to access other screens and functions:

Intercept - allows you to give XCom craft orders to intercept UFOs.

Bases - takes you into the Bases screen (see the Bases section of this manual for full details).

Graphs - takes you into the Graphs screen (see the Graphs section of this manual for full details).

UFOpaedia - takes you into the UFOpaedia (see the UFOpaedia section of this manual for full details).

Options - takes you into the Options screen (see the Options section of this manual for full details).

Funding - takes you into the International Relations display (see the Funding section of this manual for full details).
2.6 USING THE GEOSCAPE

XCom's main task is to shoot down and investigate UFOs. This ensures continued government funding and allows XCom to learn more about the alien threat.

When there is no UFO activity, you will probably want to keep the rate of time passage fairly high. Click on the 1 hour button in the Geoscape Time Controls. Time will pass rapidly until you get a message informing you that a UFO has been detected.
2.6.1 THE UFO DETECTED WINDOW

XCom bases automatically detect any UFOs within range of their radar. Later on in the game, you will be able to research and manufacture better detection and tracking systems, based on captured alien technology.

When a UFO is detected, time is paused and a window titled UFO- (number) Detected appears in the centre of the Geoscape display. Every UFO detected is given a consecutive number, for example, the 41st UFO detected by XCom will be named UFO-41.

The following data is also presented when a UFO is detected:-

Size - the size of the UFO.

Altitude - the approximate height at which the UFO is flying.

Heading - the general direction in which the UFO is travelling.

Speed - the speed at which the UFO is travelling (in knots).

This window also gives you the option to either:-

Centre on UFO - Time = 5 Secs - centres the Geoscape display on the UFOs current position and reduces the passage of time to 5 seconds. Click on this option if you intend to intercept the UFO. Cancel - hides the message window and leaves the Geoscape as it was before the UFO was detected. Click on this option if you wish to take no action against the UFO.

Note: While your Interceptors are capable of a high maximum speed, UFOs often travel faster. A UFO may unwittingly change course or slow down, however, so it is good practice to attempt to intercept all UFOs detected.
2.6.2 THE LAUNCH INTERCEPTION WINDOW

To assign an XCom Interceptor to attack a UFO, you may either click on the Interceptor's base, or click on the Intercept Menu Option (in the top-right of the Geoscape screen)

The advantage of clicking on the Intercept Menu Option is that you may give orders to an Interceptor which is based on the opposite side of the Geoscape, hidden from view. Simply clicking on a base only allows you to assign craft from that base.

The Launch Interception window displays the following information:-

Craft - the type and registration number of the craft (for example, Skyranger 6 is the sixth craft to be operated by XCom and is a Skyranger transport).

Status - this may be either: -

Ready - the craft is available for interception duty.

Refuelling - the craft is refuelling; this can take several hours.

Rearming - the craft is having its air-to-air weaponry changed.

Repairs - the craft is undergoing repair work.

Out - the craft is already carrying out an interception.

Base - the craft's home base.

If you wish to return to the Geoscape without selecting an interception craft, click on the Cancel button.
2.6.3 SELECTING AN INTERCEPTION CRAFT

Use the Mouse to highlight an Interceptor from the Launch Interception list and click to select this craft.

The Select Destination window will now appear at the top of the screen. If you wish to return to the Geoscape without selecting a target, click on the Cancel button.

To select a UFO as the interception target, simply click on its location on the Geoscape.

The message Target: UFO-(number) will appear.

Click on the OK button to accept this UFO as the target, or click on the Cancel button to select a different target.

The interceptor will now launch from its underground base and take the most direct path to the UFO.
2.6.4 THE CRAFT STATUS WINDOW

At any time when an XCom craft is airborne, click on it to display the Craft Status window. This contains the following information:-

Craft name - the type and registration number of the craft.

Status - the orders which the craft is carrying out.

Base - the craft's home base.

Speed - the current speed of the craft (in knots).

Maximum Speed - the craft's maximum speed (in knots).

Altitude - the craft's approximate height.

Fuel - the percentage of fuel remaining in the craft. When fuel reaches a critical level, the craft will automatically return to base.

Weapon-1 - The type of weapon loaded into weapon bay number 1 followed by number of rounds of that weapon remaining.

Weapon-2 - The type of weapon loaded into weapon bay number 2 followed by number of rounds of that weapon remaining.

The Craft Status Window also has four buttons, allowing you to:-

Return to Base - abort the interception and return to base.

Select New Target - abort the interception and select a new target.

Patrol - abort the interception and remain at the current position.

Cancel - return to the Geoscape without issuing any orders.
2.6.5 THE UFO STATUS WINDOW

At any time when a UFO is displayed on the Geoscape, click on it to bring up the UFO Status window, repeating the information shown in the UFO Detected window.
2.6.6 THE TRACKING LOST WINDOW

The message UFO- (number) Tracking Lost will appear if XCom tracking devices lose contact with a UFO while it is being intercepted.

Click on the OK button. The Craft Status window will appear, giving you the option to either Return to Base, Patrol or Go to Last known UFO Position.

It is usually best to go to the last known UFO position, since the interception craft may be able to re acquire the UFO with its on board radar.
2.6.7 THE AIR-TO-AIR COMBAT WINDOW

When the XCom craft has manoeuvred within firing range of the UFO, the Air-to-Air Combat window will appear. The interception craft is now at stand-off range, awaiting your orders.

Remember that you are setting out to cause the UFO to crash land, not to blow it into a million pieces!

The Air-to-Air Combat window consists of the following:-
2.6.7.1 The Order Buttons

Click on the buttons in this display to carry out the following:-

Stand-off - follow the UFO without firing at it.

Cautious Attack - attack the UFO from the maximum range of each weapon.

Standard Attack - move to the minimum range of each of the available weapons and fire at the standard rate.

Aggressive Attack - move to the minimum range of each of the available weapons and fire at the maximum rate.

Disengage - abort the interception and return to base.

View UFO - replace the Air-to-Air combat window with a view of the UFO. Click on the LMB to return to the Air-to-Air Combat window.
2.6.7.2 The Radar Screen

The Interceptor will use its on-board radar to carry out the attack on the UFO. The Radar Screen section of the Air-to-Air Combat Window shows the Interceptor's Radar Screen, allowing you to monitor the final stages of the interception.

The UF0 will appear as a bright "blip" on the Radar Screen, the size of which depends on the size of the UFO.
2.6.7.3 The Weapons Display

There are a pair of icons either side of the Radar Screen which represent what is fitted to the weapons bays of the Interceptor. These icons each have a number under them, indicating the number of rounds of the weapon which are remaining.

The maximum range of each of the weapons is also shown, in the form of a line extending out of the weapon icon and onto the Radar Screen. When a UFO gets within this boundary, the Interceptor will open fire.
2.6.7.4 The Range to the UFO

The range to the UFO is a simple digital readout of the distance from the UFO to the Interceptor.
2.6.7.5 The Damage Display

The damage display indicates the Interception Craft's current damage state. The picture of the craft is filled in red as it receives damage.
2.6.7.6 The Minimise Window Icon

If you shoot the UFO down over water, the wreckage will be swept away before anything of value can be recovered. The Minimise Window feature allows you to track the UFO on the Geoscape until it is over land, then shoot it down.

To carry this out, click on the double rectangle icon in the top-left of the Air-to- Air Combat window. The Craft Icon (with a pictorial representation of the craft plus its XCom registration number) will now appear in the top-left of the Geoscape and time may be advanced or slowed as normal.

When the UFO gets over the land, click on the Craft Icon. The Air to Air Combat window will now re-appear, ready for you to carry out your attack.

Note: you can also use the Minimise Window icon to give other Interception Craft orders to attack the UFO. There can be up to four Interception Craft attacking a UFO simultaneously, maximising the chances of success against the larger UFOs.
2.6.7.7 The Message Box

The Message Box is in the bottom of the Air-to-Air Combat window and displays messages from the pilot of the interceptor to you. These messages either confirm your orders or inform you of what the UFO is doing.
2.6.8 SHOOTING THE UFO DOWN

Click on the Standard Attack button. The message UFO Crash Lands! will appear if you successfully cause the UFO to crash land. The display will then automatically return to the full screen Geoscape with a white cross marking the UFO Crash Site.
2.6.9 INVESTIGATING UFO CRASH SITES

The UFO is now vulnerable to ground assault, and you should send out an XCom squad to investigate it and to recover any available alien technology.

Click on a base or use the intercept Menu Option to select a Skyranger troop transport craft (just as you did previously with the Interceptor and assign the UFO Crash Site as the target. The Skyranger will now take-off and make its way to the UFO Crash Site.

Note : Only craft which contain soldiers or HWPs are allowed to intercept Crash Sites or landed UFOs.

When the Skyranger arrives at the Crash Site, you are taken to the UFO Crash Recovery screen

Click on the OK button to enter the Equip Squad screen. See the next chapter of this manual for full details on Ground Assaults.
2.7 OTHER GEOSCAPE USES

As well as controlling the interception and investigation of UFOs, the Geoscape may be used for several other functions Some of them are outlined below; the others are for you to discover!
2.7.1 GROUND ASSAULTS ON UFOS

As well as investigating crashed UFOs, you may send a troop transport craft to an intact UFO which has landed. This is dangerous for your soldiers, however, and is not advised unless you have a very powerful squad.
2.7.2 TERROR SITES

The aliens will attempt to terrorise civilian populations as part of their invasion plans. This must be prevented at all costs: a successful alien Terror Site in a funding country could cause its government to withdraw from the XCom project.
2.7.3 ALIEN RAIDS ON XCOM BASES

As the game progresses, the aliens will carry out missions to find XCom bases. If the aliens discover the location of any of your bases, they will attempt to destroy them with a ground assault.
2.7.4 ALIEN BASES

The aliens will attempt to build bases on the Earth. These are used for a variety of purposes from operating UFOs to infiltrating governments. Alien bases may be detected by sending an Interception Craft to the suspected location of the base and selecting the Patrol option. You advised to raid alien bases at the earliest opportunity, but make sure you have a very powerful squad before you try!
3 GROUND ASSAULTS

Ground Assaults take place when XCom carry out any of the following:-

- Investigate crashed UFO sites

- Assault UFOs at their landing sites.

- Intervene at alien terror sites.

- Defend XCom bases against alien attack.

- Attack alien bases.

All missions, except defending XCom bases, require you to use a transport craft to get to your destination. When you begin the game, the only troop transport available is the Skyranger, but as the game progresses you will he able to manufacture new craft.
3.1 THE EQUIP SQUAD SCREEN

Before you begin a Ground Assault, you will be taken to the Equip Squad screen. Your soldiers will automatically pick up some weapons, but you may wish to re-equip them.

The top left of the Equip Squad screen contains the name of the currently selected soldier. At the top-right of the screen are two arrows, allowing you to select the next, or the previous soldier in your squad.

At the centre of the screen is a soldier, who will be dressed in the armour which you may have selected in the Equip Craft screen. This soldier is surrounded by the locations in which weapons may be carried. The items on the ground may be picked up and carried by the soldier.

To pick up a item from the ground, simply move the Mouse over the item and click. The item will now be "attached" to the Mouse pointer. The name of this item is shown in the top of the screen under the soldier's name. Move the item over the location in which you want it to be carried and click again. The item will now be available for use by the soldier.

To load a weapon with ammunition, pick up the ammunition and click on the appropriate weapon. To carry this out, the weapon must be in a hand, the right type and unloaded.

To unload ammunition from a weapon, pick up the loaded weapon and click on the Unload button. The weapon will go to the soldier's right hand and the ammunition to the left. To carry this out, both of the soldier's hands must be empty.

When you have finished equipping your soldiers, click on the OK button to enter the main part of the Ground Assault; the Battlescape.
3.2 THE BATTLESCAPE SCREEN

The Battlescape Screen is a 3-D display which allows you to control a small squad of heavily armed XCom soldiers.
3.2.1 USING THE BATTLESCAPE

Your squad start the mission in their transport craft. The soldier nearest to the craft's exit ramp has a yellow arrow to show that he/she is selected, ready to move out.
3.2.1.1 Selecting and Moving Soldiers

A 3-D box will appear when you move the Mouse pointer over the Battlescape. To select a different soldier, either click on the button in the Control Bar (see the next section for full details of the Control Bar) or move the cursor box over the required soldier and click. A yellow arrow indicates the selected soldier.

To move the selected soldier to a destination simply move the cursor box to the destination and click.

To make the selected soldier turn around without moving along, position the cursor box in the direction you want the soldier to face and press the Right Mouse Button.
3.2.1.2 Moving the View Window

Move the Mouse pointer to the edge of the screen to move the Battlescape view window up, down, left or right.

Note: you must take the Mouse pointer to very bottom of the screen under the Control Bar, to move the view window downwards.

You will notice that there is an edge to the Battlescape map, beyond which everything is black; this is a region into which the aliens will not venture. Aliens do not stray far from their crashed UFO because Earth's atmosphere is hostile to them.
3.2.1.3 Line of Sight

The Battlescape will only display what is within your squads line of sight. This means that you must seek out the aliens through dark, unexplored areas.
3.2.1.4 Using the Split Level View

The Battlescape is built up of several levels. These can be viewed individually, allowing you to see behind walls and inside buildings or craft. Click on the diamond 1 button on the Control Bar to break the Battlescape into levels.
3.2.1.5 The Turn-Based System

The Battlescape operates under a turn-based system. This means that your soldiers will he able to move a certain distance before the message Not Enough Time Units! appears. When all of your squad have used their allocated Time Units, click on the cancelled circle button on the Control Bar to end your turn. When the aliens have completed their moves, it is your turn again.

The Hidden Movement screen will appear when the aliens are moving out of sight of XCom soldiers.

However there is an exception to the turn based rule. If you move your soldiers directly into the alien's line of fire, they will take a shot during your turn. Similarly, your soldiers will automatically open fire if the aliens move into your soldiers' line of fire during their turn. See the section of this manual on Opportunity Fire for full details.

Note: it is best to end your turn when your soldiers are in cover; close to walls or behind large objects.
3.2.1.6 Seeing the Aliens

When one of your soldiers sees an alien, a pulsing red square will appear in the bottom right of the Battlescape screen.

Click on the pulsing red square to centre the Battlescape on the alien
3.2.2 USING WEAPONS

When you can see an alien on the Battlescape, you should use a weapon against it before it gets a chance to fire. Click on one of the Item Boxes on the left or right of the Control Bar to use a weapon.

A window appears, giving you the option to select from a number of options. These will vary, depending on the weapon Click on the required option to carry out any of the following:-

Aimed Shot - a carefully aimed shot, requiring maximum effort from the soldier and therefore maximum Time Units. Snap Shot - an un-aimed shot in the target's general direction. This type of shot is only effective at extremely short range, or when using a very powerful weapon (such as a rocket launcher).

Auto Shot - a three shot burst of automatic fire in the targets general direction. This type of shot can be very effective, especially when used at Short range. Not all weapons are capable of automatic fire, however.

Prime Grenade - set the timer on a grenade or explosive charge. When you click on this option, a window appears with numbers from 0 to 23. This is the number of turns it will take before the grenade detonates. Click on the required number and either put the grenade down or throw it.

Note: proximity grenade's do not have a timer, but will detonate when anything (including your soldiers) moves nearby. These should always be thrown to prevent the risk of detonation.

Hit - strike your opponent with the weapon/object. To do this your soldier must be standing next to the opponent.

Throw - throw the Weapon/Object. This option is mainly intended for use with grenades or explosives.
3.2.2.1 Maximising Your Fire Potential

As well as the soldier's ability and the type of shot fired, there are several other factors which determine the accuracy of a shot:-

Accuracy is increased if the soldier is kneeling.

Accuracy is decreased if the soldier is wounded or if a two- handed weapon (such as a rifle or rocket launcher) is being fired while the other hand is not free.
3.2.3 THE BATTLESCAPE CONTROL BAR
3.2.3.1 The Item Boxes

To the extreme left and right of the control bar are the Item Boxes containing a picture of the items held in the soldier's hands. Click on these boxes to use a Weapon/object.
3.2.3.2 Ascend/Descend Controls: Up/Down

Click on either of these buttons to move soldiers up or down between levels when they are either standing on a gravlift or if the soldier is capable of flight.
3.2.3.3 View Next Level Up/Down

Click on either of these buttons to view the next level up or down from the level which is currently displayed.
3.2.3.4 Map Screen

Click on this button to view a map of the mission area. To re-centre the map on another part of the mission area, simply click on the desired position. The white cross in the centre of the screen shows where both the map and the Battlescape are centred. The map will only display one level of the Battlescape at a time. Click on the up or down arrows on the left-hand side of the map to view the next level up or down.

The map uses symbols to represent the following:-

Yellow dots - XCom forces

ace=Arial>Blue dots - alien forces

Red dots - civilians

White Crosses - dead aliens or humans

Click on the Right Mouse Button to return to the Battlescape Screen.
3.2.3.5 Stand/Kneel

Click on this button to make the selected soldier stand or kneel. The advantage of kneeling is that your soldier is less visible to the aliens and fires more accurately.
3.2.3.6 Equip Soldier Screen

Click on this button to view the equipment carried on the selected soldier's body or on the ground at the soldiers feet.

This display is similar to the Equip Squad screen at the beginning of the Ground Assault. The only difference is that the top right of the screen now displays the soldier's remaining Time Units./font>

Moving weapons and equipment from one location to another uses Time Units. The amount of Time Units required to move an object is dependent on where the item is - removing items from a backpack takes more effort than putting an item on the ground.

Click on the OK button to return to the Battlescape screen
3.2.3.7 Centre Display on Soldier

Click on this button to centre the Battlescape on the currently selected soldier's level and location.
3.2.3.8 Select Next Soldier

Click on this button to select and centre the Battlescape on the next soldier in your squad.
3.2.3.9 Select Next Soldier - Deselect Current Soldier

Click on this button to select and centre the Battlescape on the next soldier in your squad. The soldier currently selected will be de-selected so next time you click on the icon the soldier will not appear. Use this button when you are happy with the position of a particular soldier.
3.2.3.10 Split Level View

Click on this button to change how the levels of the Battlescape are displayed. The number on the button will change to indicate:- 1 - Multi level View - everything from the currently selected level downwards is displayed.

2 - Full View - every level is displayed, regardless of what level is selected. Selecting this will hide any of your soldiers who are behind walls and inside buildings or craft.
3.2.3.11 Options

Click on this button to call up the Battlescape Options screen. This allows you to select different speeds for animations and scrolling, depending on player preference and the processing speed of your computer.
3.2.3.12 End Turn

Click on this button to end your turn.
3.2.3.13 Dust Off

Click on this icon to abort the mission. Only soldiers aboard the transport craft will be saved.

Note: if you abort an alien base raid, only soldiers in the rooms where you are initially deployed are saved. Aborting the mission during an alien raid of an XCom base concedes defeat to the aliens.
3.2.3.14 Reserve Time Units

When your soldiers move, they use Time Units which might be needed to use a weapon. These buttons allow you to reserve Time Units for using weapons:

- click on the top left button to carry out free movement with no limitation

- click on the top right button to reserve enough Time Units for a Snap Shot. - click on the bottom left button to reserve enough Time Units for an Aimed Shot.

- click on the bottom right button to reserve enough Time Units for an Auto Shot.
3.2.3.15 Rank

This is an icon representing the currently selected soldier's rank.

XCom soldiers may have the following ranks:

Rookie Captain

Squaddie Colonel

Sergeant Commander

As the soldier's rank improves so too does the skill with which they can fight.
3.2.3.16 Soldier Data

The name of the selected soldier is shown at the top of this section, with statistics and information regarding the soldier shown underneath.

These statistics are displayed as both figures and bar charts and are colour coded as follows: Green - Time Units . Orange - Energy . Red - Health Purple - Morale

Click on the Soldier Data box to view the Soldier Data screen.

This displays the soldier's name at the top of the screen with the following information:- Time Units - the soldier's remaining Time Units. Time Units are required to carry out everything from walking to firing weapons.

Energy - the soldier's remaining energy. This will decrease as the soldier carries out energy consuming actions such as Walking through thick grass.

Health - the soldier's current health. This will decrease as the soldier takes hits from enemy weapons.

Reactions - the soldier's reactions. This will allow the soldier to take snap shots during the aliens turn.

Firing Accuracy - the soldier's accuracy at firing weapons. This will increase as the soldier becomes more experienced.

Throwing Accuracy - the soldier's accuracy at throwing objects. This will increase as the soldier- becomes more experienced. Morale - the soldier's morale. A soldier will lose morale if the battle starts to swing in the alien's favour. If the morale falls below 5O%, there is a chance that the soldier could panic. Bravery - the soldier's bravery. This determines the likelihood of morale decreasing. Armour Status - the soldier's armour status. This will rise as the soldier is equipped with armour manufactured by your engineers. Psionic Strength/Skill - the psionic strength/skill which the soldier may call upon.

Click on the Right Mouse Button to return to the Battlescape screen.
3.2.4 PROMOTIONS

At the end of every mission, subject to their mission performance, soldiers will be promoted.

The rank to which the soldier is promoted is dependent on the following:-

Rookie - each new recruit begins at this level.

Squaddie - in order to be promoted to a Squaddie a Rookie must have had some combat experience (cowering in the back of a Skyranger doesn't count!).

Sergeant - there is one sergeant per 5 soldiers. If a position is vacant the best available Squaddie is promoted.

Captain - there is one Captain per 11 soldiers. If a position is vacant the best available Sergeant is promoted.

Colonel - there is one Colonel per 23 soldiers. If a position is vacant the best available Captain is promoted.

Commander - this is the supreme leader of Xcom forces - there is only one Commander. If there are at least 30 soldiers the best available Colonel will be promoted.

It does not automatically follow that the higher the rank the better the soldier, although this will tend to be the case.
3.2.4.1 The Effect of Rank

When officers accompany a mission then the morale of all the soldiers will be boosted and they will be less susceptible to panic. The higher the rank of the officer, the better the effect on the soldier's morale.

Note: if an officer is killed during a mission it will have a worse effect on morale than if a rookie had been killed.
3.2.4.2 Mission Experience

When soldiers return from a mission then their abilities may be increased. For a skill to benefit from experience it must be used during combat as much as possible. For example, if a soldier uses a rifle many times then accuracy is likely to improve. Reactions, accuracy, Time Units, throwing accuracy, psionic skill, health, strength, fitness and bravery all benefit from mission experience.
3.2.4.3 Morale

At the start of each mission each soldier's morale starts at 100%. This will decrease if a soldier is wounded or if fellow soldiers are killed. It will recover if a soldier successfully kills aliens. The decline in morale is reduced by a soldier's Bravery rating - the more brave a soldier is, the less likely they are to panic.
3.2.4.4 Panic

When morale falls the likelihood of panic increases. When a soldier panics one of three things can happen:-

A. The soldier freezes, and can do nothing for the current turn. (i.e. he/she will have no Time Units)

B. The soldier drops his/her weapon and runs away, searching for a hiding place.

C. The soldier goes berserk and starts firing at random. Panic can also be caused by an alien psionic attack. 3.2.5 WOUNDING.

A soldier's health is a general indication of well being, but a soldier can also receive wounds. These afflict a certain part of the body as follows:

Head, Left/Right Arm - each wound reduces the soldier's weapon accuracy.

Torso - each wound reduces the soldier's rate of Energy recovery.

Left/Right Leg - each wound reduces the soldier's available Time Units. The soldier data screen displays any wounds. Each wound also reduces a soldier's Health by one point per turn, so that it is possible for a soldier to die from a hit received much earlier in the mission. The Medi kit can heal wounds.
3.2.5.1 Stunning

Soldiers or aliens can be stunned if hit by a stun weapon or if suffering from smoke inhalation.

You can monitor the effect of smoke on your soldiers by checking the white bar on the soldier's health bar. If this advances as far as the soldier's health level the soldier will collapse and may recover a few turns later.

Aliens can also be stunned and carried back to your craft. However, if they wake up they will jump out of the soldier's arms and run away!
3.2.6 OPPORTUNITY FIRE

If you end your turn leaving your soldiers with enough Time Units to fire a shot, your soldiers will automatically fire during the aliens turn at any alien who strays into their line of sight This is called opportunity fire.

Your soldiers might even be able to take a shot before the aliens if the soldier's Reactions and Time Units are high enough. There may be several exchanges of fire in each Opportunity Fire confrontation. Note: Opportunity fire is crucial to mission success. Remember to leave your soldiers with enough Time Units at the end of their turn to carry out opportunity fire - use the Reserve Time Units buttons to do this.
3.2.7 OBJECTIVE

The mission will be successful when all aliens have either been killed or stunned. The UFOs remains, alien artefacts and alien corpses will then be recovered automatically.

To abort the mission before the objectives have been achieved, click on the button in the Control Bar.

Note: any soldiers not on the transport at this stage will be left behind.
3.3 THE DEBRIEFING SCREEN

The Debriefing Screen is displayed at the end of the Ground Assault giving you a breakdown of your mission performance. The first line of this display tells you whether the mission objectives were achieved.

Below this is the mission performance list, showing a breakdown of all the Items recovered, the Quantity of each and the Score for retrieving them. The last line of the mission performance list shows the total mission score.

At the bottom of the screen is the overall mission Rating. Poor mission performance may affect XCom funding.

Click on the OK button in the bottom left of the screen to return to the Geoscape screen.
4. BASES

Click on the Bases button in the Geoscape screen to access the Bases screen; a display of the various XCom installations in operation or under construction.

XCom bases are underground facilities, hidden from alien detection systems. Craft operate from concealed hangers and the only access to the base is via the access lift(s). XCom bases carry out several different functions:

- Detection of UFOs.

- Operation of XCom fighter and transport craft.

- Research into alien technology and life forms.

- Manufacture of vehicles, equipment and weapons for XCom use.

The Bases screen consists of two main parts: the Base Display and the Menu Options.
4.1 THE BASE DISPLAY

The Base Display allows you to see, at a glance, the size of your bases and their facilities.

XCom may have up to eight bases world-wide, these are represented above the Menu Options as a row of eight icons. Each of these icons contain a small map of the facilities which make up the base. Green squares represent existing facilities, red squares represent facilities under construction. Click on any of these icons to select a different base.

The name of the selected base is displayed in the top right of the bases screen. Below this is the geographical area in which the base is located followed by the total Funds available to XCom.

The left two thirds of the Bases Screen shows a top down view of the base. Move the Mouse pointer over a base facility to display its name in the top left of the screen.
4.2 THE MENU OPTIONS

The Menu Options allow you to see in detail how each of your bases is currently functioning. You will use the Menu Options to carry out tasks such as building facilities, aiming individual craft and organising research and manufacture work.

Note: At times during the game, lists of information may extend beyond the screen. If this happens, an arrow will appear in the bottom right of the screen. Similarly, if the list extends off the top of the screen, an arrow will appear in the top right. Click on these arrows to scroll the list up or down.
4.2.1 BUILD NEW BASE

Click on this option to establish a new XCom base.

You will be taken to the Geoscape and the message Select Site For New Base will appear at the top of the screen - click on any part of the world (except the sea) to position the base. You may cancel the order to build a new base by clicking on the Cancel button. Use the Geoscape controls if you want to rotate the display of the Earth (see the section of this manual on The Geoscape Screen for full details of the Geoscape controls)

When you have selected the location for your base, a message window will appear informing you of the cost to establish a base in this part of the world. Click on OK to accept this location or click on Cancel to select a different location.

Note: As you play the game, you will find that some areas of the world are better than others for XCom base sites. North America is a good area for an XCom base because it is both large and wealthy.

When you have decided on your new Base's location you will be prompted to give it a name - type in your bases name using the Keyboard and press the Return Key.

You will now be taken back to the Bases screen and prompted to Select Position For Access Lift. This will position the main access to the facility from the surface. It is better to position this fairly centrally so that new facilities may be built around it.

You have now established a new XCom base. Click on the Build Facilities Menu Option to put some facilities into the base.
4.2.2 BASE INFORMATION

Click on this option to display a breakdown of base-related information.

The Personnel Available/ Personnel Total data shows how your personnel are being utilised. It is broken down into the three groups of personnel: soldiers, engineers and scientists.

The figures show the number of personnel available for work followed by the total number of personnel at the base. You should keep the first figure zero to stop workers being wasted. The Bar graphs to the right of this numerical display are useful to see at a glance how your personnel are being utilised.

The Space Used/Space Available bar graphs shows how your space is being utilised. This is broken down into five categories in a similar way to the Personnel.

The figures show the space used followed by the total amount of space available. You should be aiming to keep the first figure equal or very close to the second figure to prevent wasted space. The bar graphs to the right of this numerical display are useful to see how your space is being utilised at a glance.

The Defences is a rating of how well the base can defend itself against UFO attack.

Click on the transfers button in the bottom of this screen to see a display of the personnel or equipment currently in transit between other bases and the selected base.

The Item in transit is listed next to the Quantity of that item and its Arrival Time at the base in hours.

For full details on Transferring personnel and equipment between bases, see the Transfer section of this chapter.

Click on the OK button to return to the Base Information screen.

Click on the OK button in the bottom-left of the Base Information screen to return to the Bases screen.
4.2.3 EQUIP CRAFT

Click on this option to configure your interception craft.

The Interception Craft Screen lists the following information:-

Name - the type and registration number of the craft (for example. Interceptor-3 is the third craft to be operated by XCom and is an Interceptor).

Status - this may be either:-

Ready - the Craft is available for interception duty. Refuelling - the craft is refuelling.

Rearming - the craft is having its air-to-air weaponry changed. Repairs - the craft is undergoing repair work.

Out - the craft is carrying out an interception.

Weapon Systems - the air to-air weaponry carried by the craft. This is represented as number carried / maximum number which may be carried.

Crew - the number of soldiers carried on the craft.

HWPs - the number of Heavy Weapon Platforms (e.g. tanks) carried on the craft.

To configure a craft, use the Mouse to highlight the required craft from the list and click to enter the Equip Craft screen.

The Equip Craft screen allows you to configure individual interception craft to suit your requirements.

The crafts name is at the top of the screen. Below this is a display of the Damage and Fuel status - useful to establish how much longer the craft will be in repair or refuelling. 0% damage and 100% fuel mean that the craft is fully operational.

Below the Damage and Fuel status are the air to-air weapon configuration buttons, marked with numbers. These do not appear on the Equip Craft screen for the Skyranger transport, since it does not have an air-to-air capability. Craft such as the Interceptor have two weapon bays, marked '1' and '2'. Alongside the numbered buttons are the names of the loaded weapons and a pair of figures:-

Ammo - the number of rounds of the weapon loaded onto the craft.

Max - the maximum number of rounds which may be carried by the craft.

A small icon representing the weapons is shown to each side of the craft.
4.2.3.1 The Select Armament Window

Click on one of the numbered buttons to access the Select Armament window. This allows you to change the weapons carried in the craft's weapon bays.

Armament - the names of the available weapons.

Quantity - the number of the weapon in storage.

Ammunition Available - the number of rounds of the weapon in storage.

If you wish to load a different weapon onto your craft, use the Mouse to highlight the required weapon from the list and click.

Alternatively, you may click on the Cancel button to exit this window without making any weapon changes.

You will now return to the Equip Craft screen. If you changed the weapons, the new armament will be shown loaded on the craft. The number of rounds loaded will be zero - it takes time to rearm the craft.
4.3.3.2 The Select Squad Screen

Click on the Crew button to enter the Select Squad screen. This allows you to assign individual soldiers to the selected craft. The top of the screen displays the total Space Available on board the craft and the current amount of Space Used.

Below this is a list of the Name of the soldiers available with their Rank and the Craft which they are currently assigned to.

To assign or de-assign a soldier to the selected craft, use the Mouse to highlight the required soldier from the list and click.

Click on the OK button when you have finished assigning soldiers to the craft.
4.2.3.3 The Select Equipment Screen

Click on the Equipment button to enter the Select Equipment screen. This allows you to load equipment onto the selected craft.

The top of the screen displays the total Space Available on board the craft and the current amount of Space Used on the craft.

Below this information is:-

The Item column, listing the names of the items which may be loaded on board.

The Stores column listing the number of the item which are available

The Loaded column, consisting of a pair of buttons for each item and the number of the item which are loaded on the craft.

Click on the < > buttons to increase/decrease the number of an item which are loaded on board the selected craft.

Click on the OK button when you have finished loading equipment onto the craft.
4.2.3.4 The Select Armour Screen

Click on the Armour button to enter the Select Armour screen. This allows you to configure the body armour which your soldiers will wear.

To set-up the armour worn by a particular soldier, use the Mouse to highlight the required soldier from the list and click.

The Select Armour Type window will appear, listing the types of armour available and the number in each storage. Click on the Armour button. The soldier will now be equipped with the selected armour.

Click on the OK button when you have finished assigning armour to Soldiers.

To return to the Interception Craft screen from the Equip Craft screen, click on the OK button.

To return to the Bases screen from the Interception Craft screen, click on the OK button
4.2.4 BUILD FACILITIES

Click on this option to build new base facilities.

The Menu Options will be replaced by the Select Installation window. You may choose from the following:-

Access Lift Living Quarters Laboratory Workshop Small Radar System Large Radar System Missile Defences General Stores Alien Containment Hanger

As the game progresses, you will be able to research alien-based technology to be incorporated into your bases. See the UFOpaedia for full details of all base installations.

Use the Mouse to highlight and click on the required installation. The Select Installation window will be replaced by the Build Installation window.

This displays the cost to build the installation, the time it will take to construct it and the maintenance cost per month. You may click on the OK button to abort the build facility operation at this stage.

To construct the new facility, move the Mouse pointer over the Base Display, position the installation and click.

The new installation will now be shown on the Base Display, enclosed in a dotted line and displaying the number of days construction time remaining. The Build Installation window reverts to the Select Installation window.

Click on the Cancel button to return to the Bases Screen or click on another installation from the list to continue constructing base facilities.

A message will appear in the Geoscape screen when a base facility has been completed.
4.2.5 RESEARCH

Click on this option to view your current research status.

The Current Research screen displays the following: -

Scientists Available - the number of scientists available for work.

Scientists Allocated - the number of scientists currently working on research projects.

Laboratory Space Available - the amount of floor space available in the laboratories.

Below this is a list of the research projects currently being undertaken with the number of scientists working on each project and a general indication of the progress being made.
4.2.5.1 New Project

Click on the New Project button to start new research work. The New Research Projects window will appear, listing the available projects for research.

Use the Mouse to highlight and click on the required project.

The New Research Projects window will now change to display the Start Project window.

You may cancel research at this stage by clicking on the Cancel button. To accept the project and continue, click on the Start Project button.

The window will change again to display the Scientists Allocated window.

This displays the Scientists Available and the Laboratory Space Available as before, but allows you to set the number of scientists allocated to this particular project.

Click on the up/down arrows to Increase/Decrease the number of scientists allocated to the project. Click on the OK button to exit to the New Research Projects window.

Click on the OK button in the New Research Projects window to exit the Current Research screen.
4.2.5.2 Scientists Allocated

Use the Mouse to highlight and click on a project to alter the number of scientists allocated to that project. This is identical to the scientists Allocated window described above. The more scientists involved the quicker the research will be completed.

Click on the OK button to exit to the Current Research screen.

Click on the OK button in the Current Research screen to exit to the Bases screen.
4.2.5.3 Research Completed

When work has finished on a project the Research Completed window will appear on the Geoscape. Click on OK to return to the Geoscape or click on View Reports to view the result of the research (this may also be accessed at any time in the UFOpaedia).

Your scientists will then inform you of any new research or manufacture projects which are now possible. Click on OK to exit from these screens or click on Allocate Research or Allocate Manufacture to start new research or manufacture projects.
4.2.6 MANUFACTURE

Click on this option to view your current production status.

The Current Production screen displays the following:-

Engineers Available - the number of engineers available for work.

Engineers Allocated - the number of engineers currently working on production.

Workshop Space Available - the amount of floor space available in the workshops. Current Funds - the amount of money currently available to XCom. Below this is the production list, containing the following:-

Item - the item which is being manufactured. Engineers Allocated - the Number of engineers working on the project. Units Produced - the number of units of the item produced so far. Total to Produce - the total number of units you have ordered to be produced.

Cost per Unit - the Cost to manufacture each item.

Days/Hours Left - the number of days/hours remaining before the production will be complete.
4.2.6.1 New Production

Click on the New Production button to start production of a new item. The Production Items window will appear, listing the available items for production.

Use the mouse to highlight and click on the required item.

The start Production window will now appear.

The first line of this window displays the number of engineer days it will take to produce the items. One Engineer day is the amount of work one engineer can carry out in one day.

The next two lines show the cost to one unit and the workspace required.

You may cancel production at this stage by clicking on the Cancel button. To accept the production and continue, click on the Start Production button.

The Engineers Allocated window will now appear.

This displays the Engineers Available and the Workshop Space available as on the Current Production screen, but allows you to set both the number of Engineers Allocated and the number of items to produce. Click on the up/down arrows to Increase/Decrease the number of Engineers allocated to the production or the number of units of the item to produce. You may cancel production at this stage by clicking on the Stop Production button. To accept the production and return to the Production Items window, click on the OK button.

Click on the OK button in the Production Items window to exit to the Current Production screen.
4.2.6.2 Engineers Allocated/Units to Produce

Use the Mouse to highlight and click on any manufacture project to alter the number of scientists allocated to that project. This is identical to the Engineers Allocated window described above. The more engineers involved, the quicker the manufacture will be completed. Click on the OK button to exit to the Current Production screen.

Click on the OK button in the Current Production screen to return to the Bases screen.
4.2.6.3 Production Complete

When production of an item has been completed, the Production Complete window will appear on the Geoscape. This displays both the name of the item and the location at which it has been manufactured. 4.2.7 TRANSFER

Click on this option to transfer craft, personnel or items between bases.

The Transfer screen consists of:-

The Item column, listing the names of the items at the base.

The Quantity column, listing the number of each of the items at the base.

The Amount to Transfer column, consisting of a pair of buttons for each item and the number of items to transfer.

Click on the up/down arrow buttons to increase/decrease the number of the item which will be transferred to another base.

When you are happy with the items to be transferred, click on the Transfer button in the bottom left of the screen. You will now be taken to the Select Destination Base Screen.
4.2.7.1 Select Destination Base

This screen displays your Current Funds in the top of the screen, to allow you to see how the planned transfer affects your finances.

Below this is a list of all the XCom bases in the world, with the area of the world in which they are and the amount it would cost to transfer the items to each of the bases.

Use the mouse to highlight and click on the required base. The items will now be transferred. You will be returned to the Transfer screen.

You may view details of the items which are in transit between bases by clicking on the Transfers button in the Base Information screen.

Click on the Cancel button to return to the Bases screen.
4.2.8 PURCHASE/RECRUIT

Click on this option to recruit personnel, lease craft or purchase items.

The Purchase/Hire Personnel screen displays your Current Funds in the top of the screen alongside the Cost of Purchases for the items chosen.

Below this information is:-

The Item column, listing the names of the items which may be bought.

The Cost per Unit column, listing the price of each of these items.

The Quantity column, consisting of a pair or buttons for each item and the number of that item to be bought.

Click on the up/down arrow buttons to increase/decrease the number of the item which will be bought.

If you do not wish to make any purchases, click on the Cancel button to return to the Bases screen.

When you are happy with your choice of items to be bought, Click on the OK button. The items will now be purchased and you will be returned to the Bases screen.

Items will not arrive immediately; there will be a delivery time. You may view details of the items which are in transit to the selected base by clicking on the Transfers button in the Base Information screen.
4.2.9 SELL/SACK

Click on this option to sell items or to sack personnel.

The Sell Items/Sack Personnel screen displays the Value of Sales for items which you have chosen to sell in the top left of the screen with the total Funds available to XCom in the top right.

Below this information is:-

The Item column, listing the items at the currently selected base which may be sold.

The Quantity column, listing the number of each item which may be sold.

The Sell/Sack column, consisting of a pair of buttons for each item and the number of that item which will be sold.

The Value column listing the value of each item.

Click on the up/down arrow buttons to increase/decrease the number of the item to be sold.

If you do not wish to make any sales, click on the Cancel button to return to the Bases screen.

When you are happy with your choice of items to be sold, click on the Sell/Sack button. The items will now be sold and you will be returned to the Bases screen.
4.2.10 SOLDIERS

Click on this option to display a list of soldiers at the currently selected base. The information presented in this screen is similar to that presented in the Select Armour section of the Equip Craft screen.

Highlight and click on the soldiers name to display the selected soldiers information screen. Click on the Armour button to allocate armour to the soldier.
4.2.11 GEOSCAPE

Click on this option to return to the Geoscape screen.

Click on the Graphs button in the Geoscape to access the Graphs screen; a graphical breakdown of UFO, XCom and Financial information.

These graphs are useful when planning strategy such as where to establish new XCom bases and which countries to concentrate on defending.
5.1 UFO ACTIVITY IN AREAS

Click on the spaceship icon in the top of the screen to view the UFO Activity in Areas.

This graph displays the level of UFO activity in areas of the world. Click on the buttons on the left hand side of the screen to view the graph plots for particular areas.
5.2 UFO ACTIVITY IN COUNTRIES.

Click on the flag/spaceship icon in the top of the screen to view the UFO Activity in Countries.

This graph displays the level of UFO activity in the funding countries. Click on the buttons on the left hand side of the screen to view the graph plots for individual countries.
5.3 XCOM ACTIVITY IN AREAS

Click on the cross/spacecraft icon in the top of the screen to view the XCom Activity in Areas

This graph displays the level of XCom activity in areas of the world. Click on the buttons on the left-hand side of the screen to view the graph plots for particular areas.
5.4 XCOM ACTIVITY IN COUNTRIES

Click on the flag/spacecraft icon in the top of the screen to view the XCom Activity in Countries.

This graph displays the level of XCom activity in the funding countries. Click on the buttons on the left hand side of the screen to view the graph plots for individual countries.
5.5 INCOME

Click on the flag/$ icon in the top of the screen to view XCom's Income.

This graph displays XCom's income from each of the funding Countries. Click on the buttons on the left-hand side of the screen to view the graph plots for individual countries.
5.6 FINANCE

Click on the graph/$ icon in the top of the screen to view XComs Finance situation.

This graph displays the overall financial situation. Click on the buttons on the left hand side of the screen to view graph plots for the following:-
5.6.1 INCOME

The main source of XCom's income comes from the governments funding the project. Funding will vary as the game progresses and will depend on such things as:-

- success by XCom to intercept UFOs flying over a funding country: contribution levels will fall if UFOs are not intercepted.

- internal events by XCom in recovering, researching and producing alien items: funding will rise if XCom is seen to be doing well.

- internal events such as change of government, civil war or recession.

- alien influence: funding will stop if a country signs a pact with the aliens.

Additional income may be generated by the sale of alien items recovered from UFOs.
5.6.2 EXPENDITURE

XCom expenditure may be of several types. As well as purchasing/recruiting costs, there may be:-

- transfer costs.

- building costs for new bases or base facilities.

- production costs for items manufactured by XCom engineers.
5.6.3 MAINTENANCE

Maintenance costs are incurred on a regular basis. These include:-

- wages for personnel.

- maintaining base facilities.

- maintaining, refuelling and repairing craft.
5.6.4 BALANCE

The balance is the amount of money available to XCom after Expenditure and Maintenance have been subtracted from the Income.
5.6.5 PERFORMANCE

XCom's performance rating. This score takes into account the following:-

- success of interceptions

- scores for ground assault missions

- research work completed

- alien activity

Scores above zero indicate that XCom are winning. Scores below zero indicate that XCom are losing.

Click on the globe icon in the top-right of the screen to return to the Geoscape screen.
6. UFOPAEDIA

Click on the UFOpaedia button in the Geoscape to access the UFOpaedia, an on-line encyclopaedia which contains all the information currently available to XCom. Each entry consists of a diagram with accompanying text and/or data.
6.1 THE SELECT SUBJECT SCREEN

The first screen of the UFOpaedia is a list of the subjects which may be reviewed. Click on any one of these buttons to get to the section which you require:

XCom Craft and Armament - the aircraft or spacecraft available for XCom use and the armament which they may be equipped with. Heavy Weapons Platforms - the vehicles which may he carried on Xcom transport Craft. Weapons and Equipment - the weapons and equipment which your soldiers may use. Alien Artefacts - alien weapons and equipment which have been recovered and researched.

small>Base Facilities - the available structural units which may be added to your underground bases.

Alien Life Forms - data gathered from captured aliens (either living or dead) which have been researched by your scientists.

Alien Research - information gained from the interrogation of live aliens.

UFO Components - information gained by researching objects retrieved from crashed UFOs.

UFOs - information regarding known UFOs

OK - click on this button to return to the Geoscape.
6.2 THE SELECT ITEM SCREEN

The next UFOpaedia screen allows you to select a specific entry to review. Highlight and click on the required item or click on the OK button to exit.
6.3 UFOPAEDIA DATA SCREENS

When you are viewing a UFOpaedia Data screen, click on the << >> buttons to view the next/previous UFOpaedia entries.

Click on the OK button to return to the Select Item screen.
7. OPTIONS

Click on the Options button in the Geoscape to access the Options window, allowing you to load and save games
7.1 LOAD GAME

Click on the Load Game button to load a previously saved game. You will be taken to the Select Game to Load screen.
7.1.1 SELECT GAME TO LOAD

The Select Game to Load screen displays the name date and time of up to ten games. Pick a saved game by clicking on any of the buttons numbered 1 to 10 on the left-hand side of the screen. You will now return to the Geoscape at the point when the game was saved.

Click on the Cancel button to return to the Geoscape without loading a game.
7.2 SAVE GAME

Click on the Save Game button to save your current game. You will now be taken to the Select Save Position screen.
7.2.1 SELECT SAVE POSITION

Choose the game slot you wish to write over by clicking on any of the buttons numbered 1 to 10 on the left hand side of the screen. A flashing * will appear. You may now use the keyboard to type or delete as normal. Press the Return Key to save the game and return to the Geoscape.

Click on the Cancel button to return to the Geoscape without saving a game.
7.3 CANCEL

Click on the Cancel button to return to the Geoscape without loading or saving a game.
8. FUNDING

Click on the Funding button in the Geoscape to access the International Relations Display. this shows which countries are funding XCom and how much each are contributing.

The International Relations display shows the following:-

The Country column, listing the name of the countries who are funding XCom.

The Funding column, listing the amount of money each country is paying to XCom per month.

The Change column, listing the change in a countries funding at the end of the last month. this is dependant on Xcom performance in that country.

Click on the OK button to return to the Geoscape screen.
GLOSSARY

CRAFT An XCom vehicle which is capable of flight.

HWP Heavy Weapon Platform - a vehicle which carries a weapon which is too bulky to be hand held.

Interceptor The most advanced and powerful fighter aircraft available to mankind. Leased from the US Air Force for Xcom use.

Skyranger The ideal light transport craft, combining high speed, long range and high load capacity with a vertical take off and landing capability. Leased from the Russian Air Force for XCom use.

XCom Extraterrestrial Combat Unit. The multi-national covert organisation formed by the Earth to defeat the alien nation.

UFO Unidentified Flying Object. The aliens operate many types of craft, the term UFO is used to describe all of them. Your scientists will be able to research what each UFO carries out.

UFOpaedia All XCom research data is entered into the UFOpaedia. as Commander of Xcom you will refer to the UFOpaedia when planning strategy.

UFO ENEMY UNKNOWN - TECHNICAL SUPPLEMENT - AMIGA A1200
======================================================
REQUIRED EQUIPMENT

.Computer

UFO Enemy Unknown requires a Commodore A1200/ A4000 with at least 2 Mb of RAM, AGA chipset and Workbench 3,0 or better.

.Controls

You can play UFO Enemy Unknown entirely from the Keyboard and Mouse.
DISK DRIVES

UFO Enemy Unknown can be played from copies of the 3.5" game disks.

However, the game works best if installed onto a hard disk drive.

You are advised not to play from the original UFO Enemy Unknown disks. If you attempt to play from the original disks they may become permanently altered.

To make back-up disks, follow the procedure below:-

1. Load Workbench
2. Locate an icon called Shell (in the System drawer of your Workbench disk)
3. Double click on this icon to open an AmigaShell window
4. Type "DISKCOPY ?"
5. Place your original game disk into the internal drive
6. At the prompt, type "DF0: TO DF0:" and press the Return Key
7. Follow the on-screen instructions and repeat steps 4, 5 and 6 for all the disks.
INSTALLATION

UFO Enemy Unknown has been left unprotected for your convenience in making back up copies and when playing from a hard drive.
INSTALLING ON HARD DISK

Boot up your hard disk as normal and insert UFO Enemy Unknown Disk 3. Open this disk and double click on the "INSTALL UFO" icon. You will be given several options during Installation - select "Proceed" at all times. A drawer will be created on your hard disk, containing all necessary files.
MAKING A BOOT DISK FOR HARD DISK USERS

If you have an A1200 with a Hard Disk and a maximum of 2 Mb of RAM, you will need to use a Boot Disk. You will need a blank floppy disk ready when you install the game.

Follow the on Screen prompts and the Installation Programme will create the Boot Disk for you during the Installation process.
RUNNING UFO ENEMY UNKNOWN

From the Floppy Disks

Put UFO Enemy Unknown disk 1 into your internal floppy drive and switch on your Amiga.

Follow any on screen prompts requesting disk changes.

From the Hard Disk with a Boot Disk

Insert your Boot Disk into your internal floppy drive and switch on your Amiga.

From the Hard Disk

Boot up your hard disk as normal. Open the UFO Enemy Unknown drawer and double-click on the "UFO" icon
SAVING GAMES

Floppy Disk

Games or game configuration files are saved onto a save game disk. You will need a pre-formatted floppy disk called "UFOsaves".

Hard Disk

Games or game configuration files are saved into the "UFO" drawer on your hard drive.
OPERATING PROBLEMS

Memory

IMPORTANT: If you have insufficient graphics memory, you may encounter graphics or sound problems. If this happens you must remove all external peripherals and try again. You may not be able to play from the hard drive if the problems persist after removing external drives etc (See Making a Boot Disk).

Virus

Computer viruses can also cause problems with graphics and sound. There are many virus checking utilities available that can be used to check for a virus. Also, pirated copies of games are an incredibly common source of virus problems. It always pays to own
UPDATES AND ENHANCEMENTS FOR THE AMIGA VERSION OF UFO ENEMY UNKNOWN
1. THE BATTLESCAPE SOLDIER DATA SCREEN

The Soldier Data screen (section 3,2,3.16 of the Player's Handbook) contains the following information :-

Time Units

The soldier's remaining Time Units. These are required to carry out everything from walking to firing weapons.

Energy

The soldier's current Energy level. This will decrease as the soldier carries out energy consuming actions such as walking through thick grass.

The total energy available will be lowered if the soldier receives fatal wounds to the torso.

Health

The soldier's current Health. If the soldier has received Fatal Wounds, each wound decreases Health by one point per turn. If Health reaches zero, the soldier dies from the wounds incurred.

Fatal Wounds

The number of Fatal Wounds received by the soldier. The Medi Kit can be used to heal Fatal Wounds.

Bravery

The soldier's Bravery. This determines the likelihood of the soldier's Morale decreasing.

Morale

The soldier's Morale. A soldier will lose Morale if the battle starts to swing in the alien's favour. If the Morale falls below 50, the soldier could panic.

Reactions

The soldier's Reactions. This determines how effective the soldier is at opportunity fire - taking a shot during the alien's turn (see section 3,2,6 of the Player's Handbook for full details).

Firing Accuracy

The soldier's accuracy at firing weapons. This will increase as the soldier gains battle experience.

Throwing Accuracy

The soldier's accuracy at throwing objects. This will increase as the soldier becomes more experienced.

Strength

The soldier's Strength. This affects the distance which the soldier can throw objects.

Psionic Strength

The soldier's Psionic Strength. This is a measure of the soldier's natural ability to defend against an alien psionic attack.

Psionic Skill

The soldier's Psionic Skill. This is the soldier's ability to use the Psi Amp in mental combat.

Armour

The soldier's armour status, divided into sections for Front, Left, Right, Rear and Under. This will rise as the soldier is equipped with armour manufactured by your engineers.
2. THE BASE INFORMATION SCREEN

The Base Information screen (section 4,2,2 of the Player's Handbook) contains some extra features:-

The Base Icons

In the top right of the screen, there are eight Base Icons which allow you to change the currently selected base. These function in exactly the same way as the Base Icons in the Bases screen.

The Base Name

Click on the base name in the top right of the Base Information screen to change the base name. A flashing * cursor will appear. Use the Backspace Key to erase the previous name, type in the name of your choice using the Keyboard and press the Return Key.

Short-Range Detection

This is a display of the short range detection ability of the base. Short range detection systems have a range of 300 nautical miles.

Long-Range Detection

This is a display of the long range detection ability of the base. Long range detection systems have a range of 450 nautical miles.

Note: XCom radar systems, while very long ranged, rotate very slowly - once every 10 minutes. This means that your base will detect UFOs more effectively if more than one radar system is in place.

The Stores Button

Click on the Stores button to view a list of the items currently in the stores.

The Maintenance Button

Click on the Maintenance button to view a list of your monthly expenses.

These are made up of the following:-

Craft

XCom do not own Skyrangers or Interceptors, they are leased from their owners for a monthly fee.

Personnel

Your personnel are paid monthly, according to standard world pay scales.

Base Facilities

Base facilities are re-equipped monthly. See the UFOpaedia for details of the maintenance cost of each base facility.
3. SOLDIERS

The Soldiers screen (section 4,2,10 of the Player's Handbook) contains some extra features:-

Click on the Soldiers button in the Bases screen to access the Soldier List.

This displays all the soldiers at the currently selected base, regardless of which craft they are assigned to.

Use the Mouse to highlight and select a soldier. You will be taken to the Soldier Data screen.
THE SOLDIER DATA SCREEN

The selected soldier's rank badge is in the top-left of this screen.

The soldier's name is next to the rank badge. Click on this to change the soldier's name. A flashing * cursor will appear. Use the Backspace key to erase the previous name, type in the name of your choice using the Keyboard and press the Return Key.

Click on the Armour button to change the armour worn by the soldier. The Select Armour window will appear, listing the types of armour available and the number of each in storage.

Click on an armour button. The soldier will now be equipped with the selected armour - its name appears next to the Armour button.

Below the buttons is a display of the following:-

Rank
The soldier's XCom rank.

Missions
The number of missions which the soldier has taken part in.

Kills
The number of aliens the soldier has killed.

Craft
The craft which the soldier is currently assigned to.

Wound Recovery
The number of days before the soldier recovers to full health. In the bottom two-thirds of the screen, there is a display of the soldier's physical statistics. These are identical to those in the Battlescape Soldier Data screen (see the Battlescape Soldier Data Screen section of this Technical Supplement for full details).

Click on the << >> icon buttons to view data for the next/previous soldier at the base.

Click on the OK button to return to the Soldier List Screen.

Click on the OK button in the bottom of the Soldier List screen to return to the Bases screen.