CODETaPPER OF ACTION PRESENTS
UGH! DOCUMENTATiON!

AMIGA INSTALLATION

The Amiga computer is smart enough that inserting the disk is all you need to do! 
Alternatively, load Workbench, insert the disk and double click the Ugh icon to start the game. 
A hard drive installer is also available by simply clicking on the icon.

STEERING THE HELICOPTER

By using the joystick you can move the stoneage helicopter across the screen. 
To raise the helicopter, push the joystick upwards - the longer the stick is pushed upwards, 
the faster the helicopter will rise. 
When you release the stick, the helicopter will automatically begin to fall, 
and will pick up speed as it falls. 
To increase speed at which the helicopter falls move the joystick downwards. 
You can move the helicopter to the left or right by moving the joystick in the appropriate direction. 
It is also possible to make the helicopter dive - the faster the speed of descent, 
the deeper into the water the helicopter will dive.

THE GAME

The aim of the game is to use the helicopter to pick up figures which appear at the entrances to the cave 
and to take them to the cave indicated. You land next to the cave dweller, 
the figure will then tell you in a speech bubble where it wants to go and then climb into the helicopter. 
You now fly to that destination, where the figure will get out of the helicopter automatically. 
If you fly the cave dweller to his destination particularly quickly, he will reward you with a bonus symbol(score) 
if you collide with one of the cave dwellers while landing, he will fall from his platform into the water. 
You can rescue figures who have fallen into the water by landing on the water, 
the figure will then swim towards the helicopter. 
The only exception to this is the old man who cannot be rescued as, 
owing to his poor physical condition sinks after a short time.

Only one object or figure can be loaded onto the helicopter at any one time. 
The destination of each cave dweller who is loaded onto the helicopter will be shown in the status bar.

THE TREE AND THE STONE

To carry out this task successfully you have to collect energy. 
Throw the stone which you have previously collected into the tree and pick up the fruit symbol which will appear. 
(The stone is collected when you land on it). You can throw the stone out of the helicopter by using the firebutton.

Fruits are: Apple, lemon, orange, banana, cheery, pear, strawberry.

Hostile animals should be avoided or stunned with the stone.

THE STATUS LINE

During the game the so-called status line will appear at the lower edge of the screen. 
This tells you the information you need to play the game, 
such as available energy, score, transportation orders etc. 
Reading from left to right the following info is displayed:

Number of lives: This shows the number of lives (helicopters) which the player(s) have. 
                 The player(s) start with 3 lives.

Energy bar: At the start of every level the energy bar fills the whole of the energy bar.

Money bag: The points you have scored are indicated to the right of the moneybag.

Missions list: This shows the number of missions flown.

Speech bubble: The figure inside the helicopter, or the stone, is shown next to the speech bubble(s). 
               The speech bubble itself shows the destination which you are to fly to.

Bonus counter: As soon as the figure gets into the helicopter, the bonus counter shows the score. 
               The faster the figure is flown to their destination, 
               the higher the number of points credited to the player(s).

Bonus multiplier: This shows the factor by which the bonus counter is multiplied. 
                  This depends on the size of the flight mission.

2 PLAYER OPTION

If you choose the 2 player option from the options menu [f4] you can play simultaneously 
with a 2nd player in the team mode. This means that both players, equipped with a helicopter each, 
have to carry out tasks together (collecting figures, fighting the enemy etc). 
The players can share the work, thus one player can collect energy while the other carries out transportation work. 
If a helicopter is destroyed or the energy runs out, the level comes to an end and starts again from the beginning. 
If a level is interrupted 3 times the game is lost. (This also applies to the 1 player mode).

THE OPPONENTS

A game whose only aim was to transport people from one platform to another would soon become boring. 
Thus the game has a number of opponents who try to make life difficult for you.

Tryoperus

As long as you don't disturb him on his platform he is a harmless fellow. 
But if you land on his platform he will think you are an intruder and will attack you with his horn. 
If there is no other way out you can put him out of action for a few seconds with the stone.

Dinosaur

He sleeps peacefully on his platform, and you might think that he can't do any harm, 
however, his heavy snoring constantly threatens to throw your helicopter off course.

Pterodactyl

He is the most dangerous of all opponents. If you touch him your helicopter will crash at once. 
Just before pterodactyl appears you will hear a cry as soon as you hear this unusual noise, 
get ready to take evasive action.

THE OPTIONS MENU

When you press the firebutton after the game has loaded, the options menu will appear on the screen. 
If you are happy with the default settings, press the F1 key to start the game.

F1: Start game.

F2: Enter password.
By pressing this key you can access a password for a level you wish to play. 
You can enter the password by pressing Return.

F3: Medium.
With this key you can select the difficulty for the game. 
At first, the "easy" level is advisable.

F4: One player.
By pressing this key, you toggle the player mode between 1 and 2 players.

F5: High score table.
If you have collected enough points by the end of the game a box will appear in which you can enter your name 
in the high score table.

USING THE KEYBOARD (AMIGA)

Esc key: Press this during game to return to options menu. 
After your score has been entered in the high score if applicable.

P: Pause the game for a short time. The game can be resumed by pressing "P" again.

Q: Used to quit the game and return to Workbench.