THE ULTIMATE PINBALL QUEST from INFOGRAMES



HOW TO PLAY THE ULTIMATE PINBALL QUEST


Three Game Modes


+ARCADE (MAIN LEVELS)
 Select this option to play in the world of your choice:Wasteland, Antarctica
 or Heavy Metal.You can access bonus levels in the course of the game.
 
+BONUS LEVELS
 Select this option to play in the secondary worlds only, without having to go
 through the main worlds.The table is smaller than the one in the main world
 and there is no ball flipper.The ball arrives from any spot - so be on the 
 look-out !

+ADVENTURE MODE
 This Option takes you on a heroic quest that will test your reflexes against
 the magic of the forces of evil.Your task will be to overthrow the goddesses
 of the three worlds to bring peace and prosperity back to earth.
 
To select your choice from this screen, simply press the key corresponding to
your choice:F1,F2 or F3.


COMMANDS


Useful Keys For The Game

+In each menu screen, make your choice by pressing function keys F1 to F6.

+To Select the number of players, press the numbers in the upper row of the
 main keyboard.The game is for 1 to 4 Players.
 
+To launch the ball:Press the RETURN Key.

+To operate the flippers:Press the Shift Key.

+To pause the game:Press the P key.

+To exit the table:Press the ESC key.On amiga you must first press the P key
 then the ESC key.

+To "Shake" the pinball table:
 .from bottom to top:press the space bar.
 .from left to right:press the AMIGA key to the left of the space bar.
 .from right to left:press the AMIGA key to the right of the space bar.

WARNING: If you shake the pinball table too much, it will "TILT" and you will
lose your ball as well as the points accumulated in your bonus.
After a tilt, press the RETURN key to continue more quickly.

OPTIONS

+Options:press the space bar when the table selection screens are displayed.
 .Bonus Levels On/Off:Activates or deactivates access to the bonus levels
  during a game.
 .Save High-Score On/Off:Activates or deactivates the option for saving the
  best scores.
 .Music On/Off:Activates or deactivates the music.

Use the arrow keys to select an option.It will appear in white.
Next press the <- or -> arrows to activate (ON) or deactivate (OFF) the
selected options.

THE ADVENTURE MODE

The Story So Far...

Relentlessly time trickles between our fingers and nothing, it seems, can
ever stop it.But things were not always like this...

As the sun of Calypso entered its third zenith, the three daughters of the
river, who were mistresses of all destinies, decided to steal the 6 elements
of life ensuring the temporal and ecological balance of the planet.

Immediately the galaxy underwent major upheavals...

to the south, where Wuhan of the Auburn Hair ruled, land and soil that had
been rich and fertile were invaded by a sea of burning sand.To the north the
pastures watched over by Bland Freila were covered in ice while from east to
west the molten steel channelled by Omdura the Red Head filled the ocean, the
source of all life...

And so Time was brought to a stand still on this desolate planet.The lords of
the Fire fled with their vassals, taking with them what little they could save.
Fear and its hideous face gripped the souls in search of a new land.Only the
Three princesses continued to rule united over this infinite desert.

Jealously, Wuhan guarded the sand and the sand glass, symbols of time in the
dunes of Wasteland.

Freila had hidden the diamond and water, sources of life beneath the ice of
Antarctica.Omdura would rather die than surrender alive the fire and matter
sealed within her palace at heavy metal.

Ever since the capture of time bachaad the venerable had roamed from galaxy
to galaxy in search of the one who could restore Calypso to its past
splendour.As Prince of the Styx and Commander of Time, he vowed to offer
honour, power and glory to whichever knight-errant would succeed in seizing
the six symbols of life from the daughters of the river.


THE ADVENTURE UNDWINDS...
If you have chosen the adventure mode on the selection screen, an animated
sequence explains your mission.Your task is to retrieve the six Symbols of
life held by the three princesses of the river.Each princess holds two symbols.

Your quest begins in wasteland.In this desolate and arid region,you must
progress further and further to reach the highest levels.However it is 
impossible to beat the princess of the desert without first overcoming the 
princesses of antarctica and Heavy Metal.

It's up to you discover where these power-hungry princesses have hidden
the stollen symbols of life.
