
<-> <-=-> <-==-> <-===-> <-====-> <-=====-> <-====-> <-===-> <-==-> <-=-> <->
<\>      /\                                                       /\      </>
</>     /  \                      Ultima V                       /  \     <\>
<\>    /    \                                                   /    \    </>
</>   /      \                 documentation..                 /      \   <\>
<\>  /        \                                               /        \  </>
</> /          \        brought to you by The Mouser         /          \ <\>
<\>/            \        (and his painful fingers)          /            \</>
<-> <-=-> <-==-> <-===-> <-====-> <-=====-> <-====-> <-===-> <-==-> <-=-> <->
</>\    /\/\    /                                           \    /\/\    /<\>
<\> \  /    \  /        War only proves who's dead...        \  /    \  / </>
</>  \/      \/                                               \/      \/  <\>
<-> <-=-> <-==-> <-===-> <-====-> <-=====-> <-====-> <-===-> <-==-> <-=-> <->
<\>            call:     <  the G.O.D. Network >    (IBM/Amiga)           </>
</>                                                                       <\>
<\>               Sietch Tabr        (313) 255-2767    130 megs 12/24     </>
</>               Ariel System       (313) 569-3194     80 megs 12/24     <\>
<\>                                                                       </>
</>            also:                                                      <\>
<\>               Dungeon of Doom    (313) 352-3666                       </>
</>               Genesis II         (313) 291-2520                       <\>
<\>               The Ballroom       (313) 295-7279                       </>
<-> <-=-> <-==-> <-===-> <-====-> <-=====-> <-====-> <-===-> <-==-> <-=-> <->

     I guess you could call this a coup of sorts, since this file is being
written before Ultima V has been officially released for either the Amiga or
IBM, which is where I expect this series of Ultima V files will spread the
most.  

     As an extra note, anyone who plays Ultima V should know that it is
IMPOSSIBLE to solve the game without certain information from The Book of
Lore.  I guess you could call it a form of copy protection.


     This documentation is divided into the following parts:

     1.  Record of Lord British's expedition into the Underworld.
     2.  Quick Reference Card.
     3.  Player Reference Card (more detail).
     4.  The Book of Lore.


I.  RECORD OF LORD BRITISH'S EXPEDITION INTO THE UNDERWORLD
-----------------------------------------------------------

  Herein is detailed the odyssey of his Majesty Lord British as recorded by
Remoh, scribe to the court of Lord British.  With us on this journey into the
uncharted Underworld venture the knights Arionis, Meridin, Geraci, Shaana,
Noin, and Roin.

     DAY 1:

  At dawn, we set off on our skiff down the River Maelstrom, east of
Spiritwood.  Before the falls, we pause to remember the brave men who
discovered this entrance into the Underworld.  Then we cast off and repeat
their plunge into the lightless underground waterway.  We land our boat on the
western shore of a great lake.  The cavern's low ceiling hangs close over us
and the humidity is oppressive.

  Arionis and Geraci erect a wooden sign commemorating our expedition.  The
rest of us repair the damage to our skiff inflicted by the subterranean rapids
that carried us here.

  We embark again, following a navigable stream south.  After a short
distance, a tributary branches off to the east, but we continue south.  The
cavern walls now tower above us, dimly reflecting our torchlight.

  The current grows stronger and the crashing sound of tortured water steadily
increases.  Abruptly, the river turns a sharp bend.  The roar grows painfully
loud as our skiff careens down a great fall.  A storage cask breaks loose and
knocks Meridin out of the boat during our fall.  The skiff lands flooded, but
miraculously upright.  We drag the unconscious Meridin back into the boat and
retrieve the cask.  He revives as we row west, past a southern tributary.

  The river slows as we arrive at another fork.  We continue south, hugging
the waterhewn stone wall on our right.  As the river swings back to the
southwest, we hear the sound of approaching waterfalls.  Quickly we land the
boat on the southern shore.  Geraci sets off to explore a promising passage
through the rocks to the southeast.  On returning, she reports that the
natural fissure slopes downward steeply, but rejoins the river beyond the
treacherous falls.  We portage our skiff around the falls with little
difficulty and are once again on our way.  While the day wanes thousands of
feet above us, the river empties into a calm lake, stretching out beyond our
sight into the murky gloom.  We row south by southeast, following the shore.

  A muffled scream, a heavy splash are our first omens of danger.  We all
stare at the stern where, moments before, the raven haired knight Shaana sat.
Meridin quickly intones two words of magic, and the lake around us explodes
in light, blinding us momentarily.  We see a hideous ebony creature, twice as
large as our skiff with Shaana clutched in one of its slimy tentacles.
Already dozens of yards away, it is retreating ten paces further with every
heartbeat.

  Lord British strides to the stern and stretches his arms toward the receding
monstrosity.  In a voice as clear as crystal, in a tone as urgent as the wind,
he speaks seven words.  We do not comprehend their meaning, but we witness
their impact.  The squid creature pulls up suddenly.  A wrenching noise tears
though the dank air.  A large wave passes under our boat.  The squid creature
has been vanquished.  The light from Meridin's spell fades, and new torches
are fit to replace those dropped in panic.  Shaana, dragged from the water,
now sleeps at her place upon the boat's stern.  Our king rests also, deep in
the meditation of the virtues.  We row on.

  Eventually, at the southern shore of the lake, we follow the westernmost of
two identical-looking streams.  We explore several land passages along the
way, but they all prove to be dead ends.  The river turns north, flows on a
while, and then perversely turns south.  Our first day's journey ends at this
juncture.

     DAY 2:

  We waken to a morning as dark as the blackest of nights.  Our campfire is a
damp mound of cold ashes.  The underground river has risen in the night,
soaking the meager supply of dry wood we brought with us.

  Setting out upon the waters again, we row south.  Scarcely an hour passes
before we come upon another waterfall, one with no opportunities for portaging
around.  From the beach, however, we can see the river resuming only a few
yards beyond the falls.  With few options, we brace ourselves and steer over
the falls.  As soon as we are righted, though, the coursing water turns
abruptly and we plunge down another fall.  Shaken and bruised, the group has
barely enough time to secure a firm grip on the boat before we plunge down a
third cascade.

  After a brief respite, we pass over a fourth, though small falls.  Finally
we pass into a small, tranquil lake.  We land on the south shore and examine
the area.  Though a large fissure in the cliff walls provides a land exit to
the south, no navigable waterway leaves the cavern.  There is no choice: we
shoulder our remaining provisions and continue on foot through the fissure.
The rough ride over the falls has eliminated another option: if we ever return
to Britannia, it will not be by retracing our steps.

  The path leaving the cavern is at fist swampy and tedious to walk upon, but
the way becomes easier as we leave the lake behind.  Soon the path curves
north again and we come upon a great cavern with an uneven rock ceiling many
stories high.  We are now walking on yellow grass-like growth.

  A movement by his feet causes Arionis to halt.  Before we can draw our
weapons, a great leathery tentacle as thick as a man's leg coils around
Arionis then starts dragging him into its underground lair.  Noin drives his
deadly main gauche into the tentacle.  Thick green fluid streams from the
severed tentacle as it falls away.  As Arionis stumbles to his feet, he
quickly shouts a warning.  Noin turns to sever a second tentacle just before
it ensnares him.  Movement in the grass from which we have just come indicates
more tentacled monstrosities approaching.  We flee together to the north side
of the cavern, slipping between rocks into a passage leading away to the east.
Before long the passage turns and we head south again.

  At the end of the passage, we find ourselves in a massive cavern.  The walls
and ceiling extend beyond the glow of our torches.  We wait in vain for our
echoes to return.  It is difficult to fatham a cavern so large it stifles
echoes.  We turn to the right, hugging the southern wall.  The stench of a
stagnant river fills the air.  As we walk, the mud gives way to sand.  When we
have left the river miles behind us, we encamp.

     DAY 3:

  A shriek of pain awakens us after only a few hours of sleep.  Meridin utters
an oath followed by two eerie sounds, and a grisly scene is revealed.  The
knight Geraci is standing unsteadily, slicing her dagger at six great worms
that swarm around her, rearing up to strike, while deftly evading her dagger.
Her left arm is held against her chest, in an attempt to staunch the flow of
blood from a gaping wound.

  Lord British raises his staff and utters an incantation.  A deep chill
descends momentarily, then the six worms forget their prey and assault each
other with unreasoned fury.  Meridin magically draws out the worms' poisonous
venom.  We quickly bind Geraci's arm, gather our gear, and resume our journey
eastward along the southern wall.  only two worms remain writhing in combat as
we depart.

  After the wall finally curves to the north, we take a passage out of the
cavern to the northeast.  The trail is rocky, and wide enough for three to
walk abreast.  The twins, Noin and Roin, bringing up the rear, are the first
to notice the large, winged creature with matted, brown fur and sharp,
unsheathed talons.  When we stop to look, however, it flies off.  Half an
hour, later, we notice two of these creatures, but both fly off again as we
turn.  An hour later, three of these ugly creatures approach, flying closer
than the previous forays dared, before veering off.  We quicken our pace.

  The passage empties into a large grassy area with a high, earthen ceiling.
As we stop to rest a deafening crescendo of screeches heralds the invasion of
a dozen winged monsters.  The avian terrors attack in force.  Armour and skin
is ripped from our backs.  Our swords swing, our daggers fly, but to no avail.
Only two winged monsters are wounded then finished.  The remaining ten circle
us furiously as Lord British shouts out words of mystic command.  Four more
attackers are destroyed, but many more of our party have fallen.

  As I fight, I see Meridin from the corner of my eye.  He crawls out of the
fray and raises his arms.  Before he falls, he gasps four words.  A great
flame breaks out between his outstretched arms and surges forward.  One by
one, the last of the nightmarish creatures is consumed with flame.  The
largest bat spirals to the ground.  Its burning carcass crashes next to
Meridan's corpse--a memorial fire to our great archmage.

     DAY 4:

  Today the three of us remaining buried the valiant knights Arionis, Meridin,
Geraci, Noin, and Roin, here upon the underground battlefield where they fell.
Tomorrow we shall seek our way back to our own world; our disastrous quest
here is finished.

     DAY 5:

  The wraiths came this morning.  There were three of them.  They walked
through the stone.  Their blackness was deeper than the shadows from which
they emerged.  Advancing towards Lord British, they ignored Shaana and myself.
Lord British held their gazes, murmuring words of life, healing, and
protection.  Still they advanced.  One raised its hand, pointing at our lord.
Then a silver bolt struck our immortal king and he fell to the stony earth.

  Shaana was frozen, transfixed.  I stumbled forward, but when I touched that
cloak, I shrank back.  Foreboding washed over me.  They took our lord with
them.  I was powerless to stop them.  I am afraid we all are.


II.  QUICK REFERENCE CARD
-------------------------

(Note: these commands are from the Apple reference card.  It is possible there
will be minor differences in the versions for other computers.)


                             Command Summary

  A - Attack        H - Hole Up        N - New Order      T - Talk
  B - Board         I - Ignite         O - Open           U - Use
  C - Cast          J - Jimmy          P - Push           V - View
  E - Enter         K - Klimb          Q - Quit & Save    X - X-it
  F - Fire          L - Look           R - Ready          Y - Yell
  G - Get           M - Mix            S - Search         Z - Z-stats

  SPACE  - Abort, pass turn            Ctrl-S - Sound effects on/off
  Ctrl-T - System Speed                Ctrl-V - Volume level of music
                    ESCAPE - Exit commands, leave battlefield
                    1-6,0 -  Set active player


         WEAPONS:                                ARMOUR:

            Stone    Attack   Defense|              Stone    Attack  Defense
Item        Weight   Value    Value  | Item         Weight   Value   Value
----------  ------   -------- ------ |------------  ------   ------  -------
Dagger         1      6  (30)    -   |Helms:
Sling          2      6  (40)    -   |
Club           3      8   b      -   |Leather Helm     -      -         1
Flaming Oil    2      8  (40)    -   |Chain Coif       1      -         2
Main Gauche    3      8          1   |Iron Helm        2      -         3
Spear          4     10  (50)    -   |Spiked Helm      3      4   b     3
Throwing Axe   6     10  (40)    -   |
Short Sword    5     12          -   |Shields:
Mace           7     15   b      -   |
Morning Star   8     15   b,p    -   |Small Shield     2      -         2
Bow            8     10  (70)    -   |Large Shield     3      -         3
Crossbow       6     12  (80)    -   |Spiked Shield    4      6   b     3
Long Sword     9     15          -   |
Two-Handed                       -   |Armour:
 Hammer       16     20   b      -   |
Two-Handed                       -   |Cloth Armour     -      -         1
 Axe          15     20          -   |Leather Armour   2      -         2
Two-Handed                       -   |Ring Mail        4      -         3
 Sword        13     20          -   |Scale Mail       6      -         4
Halberd       18     30   p      -   |Chain Mail      10      -         5
                                     |Plate Mail      12      -         7
-  -  -  -(additions by TM)-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
                                     |
Silver Sword  ??     ??          -   |Mystic Armor    ??      -         ?
Mystic Sword  ??     ??          -   |Jeweled Shield  ??      -         ?
Magic Bow     ??     ?? (100)    -   |
Magic Axe     ??     ?? (100)    -   |Amulets:
Jeweled Sword ??     ??          -   |Amulet of Turning
Chaos Sword   ??     NONE            |Spiked Collar
Glass Sword   ??     ??-Shadowlords  |Ankh
                          only       |
                                     |Rings:
                                     |
                                     |Ring of Protection
                                     |Ring of Invisibility
                                     |Ring of Regeneration

  b - Denotes a Bludgeon: Hit probability is based on Strength, not Dexterity.
  p - Denotes a Polearm: May be used to attack over obstacles.
  (xx) - Number in parentheses is range in feet (1 space = 10 feet).



                        CHART OF SPELLS:

        Spell            Effect            Time       Reagents
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        An Nox           cure poison       anytime    ginseng, garlic
1st     An Zu            awaken            combat     ginseng, garlic
Circle  Grav Por         magical missile   combat     ash, pearl
        In Lor           light             noncombat  ash
        Mani             heal              anytime    ginseng, silk
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        An Sanct         unlock            anytime    ash, moss
2nd     An Xen Corp      repel undead      combat     garlic, ash
Circle  In Wis           locate            noncombat  nightshade
        Kal Xen          call animal       combat     silk, mandrake
        Rel Hur          wind change       noncombat  ash, moss
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        In Flam Grav     wall of fire      dng/com    pearl, ash, silk
3rd     In Nox Grav      wall of poison    dng/com    nightshade, silk, pearl
Circle  In Por           blink             anytime    silk, moss
        In Zu Grav       wall of sleep     dng/com    ginseng, silk, pearl
        Vas Flam         ball of flames    combat     ash, pearl
        Vas Lor          great light       noncombat  ash, mandrake
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        An Grav          dispell field     anytime    pearl, ash
4th     Des Por          downward move     dungeon    moss, silk
Circle  In Sanct         protection        anytime    ash, ginseng, garlic
        In Sanct Grav    protection field  dng/com    mandrake, silk, pearl
        Uus Por          upward move       dungeon    moss, silk
        Wis Quas         reveal            combat     silk, nightshade
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        An Ex Por        magic lock        anytime    ash, moss, garlic
5th     In Bet Xen       insect swarm      combat     moss, silk, ash
Circle  In Ex Por        magic unlock      anytime    ash, moss
        In Zu            sleep             combat     ginseng,nightshade,silk
        Rel Tym          quickness         combat     ash, mandrake, moss
        Vas Mani         great heal        noncombat  ginseng,silk,mandrake
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        An Xen Ex        charm             combat     pearl,nightshade,silk
6th     In An            negate magic      anytime    garlic,mandrake,ash
Circle  In Vas Por Ylem  tremor            combat     moss, ash, mandrake
        Quas An Wis      confuse           combat     mandrake,nightshade
        Wis An Ylem      xray              noncombat  mandrake, ash
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        In Nox Hur       poison wind       combat     nightshade,ash,moss
7th     In Quas Corp     fear              combat     nightshade, mandrake,
Circle                                                 garlic
        In Quas Wis      peer              noncombat  nightshade, mandrake
        In Quas Xen      clone             combat     ash,silk,moss,ginseng,
                                                       nightshade,mandrake
        Sanct Lor        invisibility      combat     mandrake,nightshade,moss
        Xen Corp         kill              combat     pearl, nightshade
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        An Tym           time stop         anytime    mandrake, garlic, moss
8th     In Flam Hur      flame wind        combat     ash, moss, mandrake
Circle  In Mani Corp     resurrect         noncombat  garlic,ginseng,silk,ash
                                                       moss,mandrake
        In Vas Grav Corp cone of energy    combat     mandrake,nightshade,ash
        Kal Xen Corp     summon            combat     mandrake,garlic,moss,
                                                       silk
        Vas Rel Por      gate travel       noncombat  ash, pearl, mandrake
----------------------------------------------------------------------------


III.  PLAYER REFERENCE CARD
---------------------------

GETTING STARTED

  Insert the Ultima V program disk.  After booting you will see the opening
graphics.  Press the Space Bat to exit this view and bring up the main menu.
Use the arrow keys and Return to select an option.

  The first time you play Ultima V select "Transfer from Ultima IV" if you
want to use your character from that game, otherwise, select "Create a
Character" (TM's Note: I think the game is much more enjoyable if you create a
new character).  From this point you should follow the on-screen instructions.
Remember to use the ESC key to acknowledge all disk swaps.  After creating or
transferring a character, you will return to the main menu.

  Next, select the "Introduction" option in the main menu before continuing
to the main part of the game.  After completing the introduction sequence
select "Journey Onward" to proceed to the main part of the game.

MOVEMENT

  Except in dungeons or while engaged in combat, your party is represented by
a single figure.  During combat, each party member is shown and allowed to act
independently.  Pressing the following keys will move your party of party
member in the designated direction:


                           {
        /\                 [                   RETURN
        N              :       "
    < W   E >    or    ;       '     or      <        >
        S                  ?                     ?
        \/                 /                     /


  (Other computer versions may contain further combinations.)


COMMANDS

A - Attack.  Attempt to engage a person or creature in combat.  Must be
followed by a direction.  In combat, you can aim weapons in any direction, at
any target within the weapon's range by using the direction keys to move the
crosshair on top of the target.  Press the A key again or the Space Bar to
fire.

B - Board.  Board a frigate, skiff, or other conveyance, or mount a horse.  If
you board a ship from a skiff, the skiff will be stowed and kept ready for
later use.

C - Cast.  Cast a spell.  Must be followed by the first letters of the spell's
syllables.  Only works when the proper reagents have already been mixed and the
spellcaster has enough Magic Points remaining.  some spells require additional
information (direction or target).

E - Enter.  Enter townes, castles, and other structures.  Party members must
be standing directly on structure to enter.

F - Fire.  Fire cannons.  Must be followed by a direction.  Ship cannons may
only fire when the ship's broadsides are facing the target.

G - Get.  Take possession of gold, food, and other items you find.  Must be
followed by a direction.

H - Hole Up.  In dungeons and wilderness, hole up and camp once a day to rest,
heal wounds, and recover magical strength.  In cities, hole up in an
unoccupied bed to quickly pass time.  On the sea, hole up to make minor
repairs to your ship.

I - Ignite a Torch.  Light a torch.  If you have one, to see at night or in
dungeons.

J - Jimmy Lock.  Unlock most doors and safely open chests with a skeleton key.
Keys are re-usable, but often break if the person jimmying is not nimble
enough.

K - Klimb.  Climb up or down ladders in buildings and dungeons, down steel
grates, or over small rockpiles, fences, and other objects.

L - Look.  Identify any object or terrain feature or read signs one step away.
Must be followed by a direction.  may allow further interaction with some
objects, such as wells and fountains.

M - Mix.  Prepare spell reagents for later use.  Enter the first letters of
the spell's syllables, then select the appropriate reagents from the menu.
Press M again to mix.

N - New Order.  Exchanges the position of any two party members, excluding the
leader.  Select the two members to be exchanged from the roster menu with the
cursor bar.

O - Open.  Opens an unlocked door or chest.  Opening a locked chest will set
off a trap if the chest has one.

P - Push.  Allows small objects, like tables and chairs, to be moved around
the room.  May be used to block doors.

Q - Quit and Save.  Save the current game status.  If you do not use this
command to end a playing session, any progress made since the last save will
be lost

R - Ready.  Equip a party member with a personal items from the party's
stores.  Use the arrow keys and space bar to select or de-select an item in
the menu bar.  Press ESC when finished.

S - Search.  Search the location or object in the direction indicated.
Searching may detect traps on chests, concealed doors, or dungeon floor traps,
or reveal hidden items.  Use the south direction key to search the immediate
area in dungeon halls.

T - Talk.  Converse with merchants or townsfolk in the direction indicated.
Conversation is possible over counters, tables, fences, and through windows
and doors with windows.

U - Use.  Use a potion, scroll, or other special item found during the game.

V - View.  Reveals a bird's-eye view of the surrounding countryside, city, or
dungeon floor currently occupied.  View requires a special item.

X - X-it.  Exit or dismount current form of transportation, leaving it behind
while continuing on foot.  Horses not left by a hitching post may wander off.
Exiting from a ship is possible only if there is a skiff available or if the
ship is next to land.

Y - Yell.  On a ship, Yell will hoist or furl sails.  In other situations,
Yell will allow you to enter up to two lines of text to be spoken loudly.

Z - Z-stats.  Displays the status and attributes of your party members,
including several screens of information such as supplies, weapons, and
spells.  Use the East and West directional keys to changes pages.  Use the
North and South directional keys to scroll up and down long lists.  Pressing
ESC or Space Bar will exit the Z-Stat screens.

1-6,0 - Designate/Clear Active Player.  Several commands require that one
party member be designated to perform the action.  When this is required, an
illuminated cursor bar will appear over the names of your party members.  Use
the directional keys to highlight the name of the character you wish to
designate and press Return.  Or, abort the command by pressing ESC.

Instead of designating which arty member is to preform a command each time you
invoke it you may set any living player as the "active player".  Until you
select another party member or disable this feature by pressing 0, this player
will be the default player for those commands which require a single party
member for execution (i.e. jimmy, get, search, etc.).  This player will not
serve as the default during combat, although you may separately assign a party
member to be the active player during combat.  To assign a player as the
active player, press the number key from 1 to 6 representing that player's
position in the party roster.

SPACE BAR - Pass.  Pass a turn, allowing time in the game to proceed.  Also
aborts any command requiring a direction key.

ESCAPE - Aborts or exits commands which use scrolling menus.  Also speeds exit
from combat scenes after all foes have been overcome.

CTRL-S - Toggle Sound.  Turns sound effects on or off.

CTRL-T - Toggle Speed.  Toggles speed between mode to accommodate machines with
different processor speeds.

CTRL-V - Set external music volume.  This is only for specially supported
music setups.


HINTS

  Conversation is integral to Ultima V.  Only by piecing together clues from
the different inhabitants can you complete your quests.  you may ask the
inhabitants about a number of topics.  Often you will need to know what to ask
a specific person to glean interesting information.  Everyone will talk about
their job and give you their name, and asking about these will often help you
learn who else to interview and what questions to ask them.

  As an example of conversation you might Talk with Dupre.  first you type
"job".  He responds, "I am hunting Gremlins!"  Type "hunting" and he may
respond with an interesting insight.  Or Iolo might have suggested that you
ask Shamino about his sword.  If you have already spoken to Shamino you would
not have known to ask him that, and must seek him out again.  You may be asked
questions by some of those you meet.  Consider carefully before responding;
your life may depend upon it.  how you converse with others will determine how
willing they will be to share any new information they have when you next meet
them.  Do converse with people more than once.  Some people you will meet may
be willing to become your traveling companion.  If you wish them to do so,
invite them to "join" your party.

  Press Return or type "bye" after an inhabitant's response to conclude a
conversation.

  Keep a journal of your travels.  Keep a list of the clues you pick up; there
will be too many for you to simply carry in your head.

  Thoroughly explore the realm.  Exploring each towne, castle, keep and other
populated spots will prove to be time well spent.


IV.  THE BOOK OF LORE
---------------------

     The Book of Lore was commissioned by Lord British, at the dawn of the
Fifth Age, as a compendium of common knowledge to this date.  Its inspiration
is the great prosperity and progress that has come about as a result of the
defeat of the Triad of Evil and the rise of the Avatar ethic.  Its purpose is
to keep alive our understanding of the part and the present as safeguards for
a bright future.  The book also serves as a guide for youth and other
travelers throughout Britannia.


   Index:

      1. Folklore     -  History and folklegend
      2. Geography    -  Terrain and topography
      3. Government   -  Political policy and structure
      4. Economy      -  Industry, service, and the marketplace
      5. Settlements  -  Centers of civilization
      6. Populace     -  The people: adventurers and townsfolk
      7. Transport    -  The many methods of travel
      8. Astronomy    -  Influences from the sky
      9. Language     -  Runes to the present day
     10. Music        -  Art and legend in sound
     11. Combat       -  Strategies for war and wilderness
     12. Armaments    -  Armour and weaponry
     13. Creatures    -  Beasts of land and sea
     14. Virtue       -  Elements of Avatarhood
     15. Magic        -  Reagents and the eight circles of magic
     16. Afterword    -  Final comments


CHAPTER 1.  FOLKLORE

     Long before the ascendance to power of Lord British, Sosaria, as it was
then known, was made up of numerous citystates.  The eight largest and most
enduring of these are today the eight leading townes in Britannia.
     Each citystate had its own ruler and some semblance of laws.   However,
there was constant bickering for power and resources, which meant that the
smaller states often fell prey to the aggressions of the larger.

   THE CROSSING

     During this time, in another world, an idealistic youth was growing
discouraged.  All around him, he saw people pursuing personal wealth and
power.  Where were the heroes fighting for justice and prosperity for all
people?  Was there no leader willing to seek the way to a better world for
everyone?
     The youth took to spending his days roaming the hills.  One autumn day,
he came upon a rock-bordered clearing surrounded by towering oaks.  From a bed
of dry leaves, the glint of metal caught his eye.  It was a silver medallion
in the shape of a great serpent.  In his hand, the medallion felt unusually
warm.
     Suddenly a line of blue light rose from the leaves, expanding into a door
of shimmering light.  The youth stared, astonished, then stepped through.
     The door disappeared and autumn with it.  Green fields now surrounded the
youth.  Feeling the medallion still in his hand, the youth slipped it into his
pocket.  He detected a wisp of smoke rising above a grove of trees in the
distance, and headed towards it.  There he surprised a slender, blond man
chopping wood.  As the man looked up, the axe struck the wood awkwardly,
glanced off, and opened a gash in his leatherclad leg.
     The youth rushed forward to help, but the man put his hand up.
Concentration replaced the pain that had flashed across his face.  He knelt,
touching his injured leg with one hand, tracing intricate patterns in the air
with his other, and softly murmured.  the bleeding stopped.
     The man stood up, brushing woodchips from his clothes.  He smiled broadly
at the youth's amazement, then spoke with a deep voice.
     "Aye mek mye leg feelle na panne, and ayee haellede it, too.  Aye ought
ha' kwit myne axynge.  But aye dinna ken thou'rt leumen.
     The youth's eyes grew huge.  he actually understood this strange, new
language.  "But how did you heal your leg?"
     The man's eye's twinkled.  "Why, 'tis th' simplest of spelles.  Nay?"
     The man's name was Shamino.  that night, the youth stayed in Shamino's
house.  The youth told Shamino about the land from which he came.  Shamino
could not fathom such a land, but believed the lad was sincere and telling the
truth.
     "What again was the name of thy birthplace?"
     "Cambridge," the youth replied, "in the British Isles."
     Shamino thought for a minute, "I like that.  I shall call thee British."
     The youth laughed, but accepted his new name.
     Initially, British looked diligently for a way to return to his homeland,
but over time his need to return to his own people lessened.  It was only
after he gave up looking for a way back that he discovered one.  British made
the journey several times.  In fact, it's believed he brought back close
friends to dwell with him in his chosen world--Iolo the Bard and the knight
Dupre are almost certainly his landsmen.  Among the evidence of this is the
aging process.  It appears that a decade in our world is equivalent to a
single year in the homeland of British.  He and his countrymen age at one
tenth the rate at which we age.
     Through the years, British's deeds demonstrated both wisdom and bravery.
As respect for him grew, British became the leader of a region of Sosaria
including many citystates, and was awarded the title of Lord British.

   THE FIRST AGE OF DARKNESS

     At the time British arrived at Shamino's, a native lad was growing up in
Sosaria, being trained in the ways of sorcery.  He was a moody youth, given to
sudden rages and fits of despondency.  To offset the latter, he would take his
dagger into the woods and hunt, leaving his prey to rot where they fell.  He
would return to his manor restored, strong in the confirmation of his power
over life and death.
     His name was Mondain, and Mondain's strange ways were a constant worry to
his father, a busy, much respected mage.  When Mondain was fifteen, his father
took a stand.
     "Thou shalt take a year off from magic, Mondain," his father said, "to
improve thine attitudes and develop thy virtues.  I have arranged for thee to
live with the brothers in the abbey, where thou shalt practice compassion and
humility.
     "Learn thy lessons well, my son, and this ruby gem, which harnesses the
power of the sun, shall be thine."
     Mondain said nothing.  The next night he slew his father and took the
gem, for he was ready for power and his father was in the way.
     At the same time as Lord British was gaining a reputation for fair and
honest government over his provinces and attracting attention for his
startlingly innovative ideas, Mondain was using his father's gem against
itself to produce a black jewel that would render him and his evil immortal.
Success meant gaining even greater power over the minions of darkness.
     As terrors wrought by Mondain caused increasing unrest and dismay across
Sosaria, British's idea for unity of the citystates became more and more
appealing.
     But the time was not quite ripe, for the widespread evil was beginning to
take a tremendous toll.  Something new was needed, thought British.  He
absently reached for the silver serpent he wore about his next.  Touching it
in contemplation, he envisioned the kind of hero Sosaria needed to deal with
Mondain.
     Within days, a stranger arrived in Sosaria.  With utter devotion to truth
and good, the stranger grew into a hero capable of facing Mondain.
Eventually, the heroic stranger found the malevolent gem and destroyed it,
along with its creator.  With Mondain's destruction, the forces of evil began
to wane.

   THE SECOND AGE OF DARKNESS

     But good was not to rise victorious for long.  Mondain's apprentice in
sorcery was a beautiful young woman.  Underestimated because of her youth,
Minax was furious at the defeat of Mondain and at the destruction of the gem,
whose existence she had surmised, and which she had intended to study and
replicate for herself.
     Setting her fury aside, Minax decided to take control of the evils of the
world without the gem.  She succeeded.  Through her network of beasts and her
own frightening power, she rained evil upon the world.
     Again Lord British sent out the call for a hero.  Again a stranger
appeared.  Again the evil was hunted down and destroyed.  And with the
destruction of Minax, this stranger was able to alter the future of the world
from destruction to peace.

   THE THIRD AGE OF DARKNESS

     Decades passed in relative peace.  Good leaders of the citystates turned
more and more to Lord British for guidance, and Sosaria became a united land
under his rule.
     Then, one day, a sailor reported to Lord British the appearance of a
hitherto unknown island, fiery and emanating terrifying evil.  Scouts began
reporting malevolent occurrences that seemed to be the work of a great evil
mind.
     Once more Lord British sent out the call.  This time, four strangers
appeared.  They survived the horrors of great dungeons and, with the help of
the mystical timelord, the heroes found the secret island fortress of Exodus,
the only progeny of Mondain and Minax, and annihilated it.
     the Triad of Evil was destroyed, and great celebration ensued.  In honor
of the day, they called the new world Britannia.

   THE AGE OF THE AVATAR

     Tremendous growth and prosperity characterized the Age of the Avatar.
The pursuits of scholarship, arts, and physical perfection flourished.  The
great castles of learning were established to study the principles of Truth,
Love, and Courage.  the eight citystates, now townes united under Lord
British, were each dedicated to fostering the study and spread of a single
virtue.  Thus, virtue blossomed and spread, science was born and began to grow
at a healthy pace, and happiness became a reality.
     Now Lord British called for a single individual to be an example for his
people.  A champion of great devotion and dedication, the stranger who
answered discovered the Codex of Ultimate Wisdom within the Great Stygian
Abyss.

   THE CLOSING OF DOOM

     After the downfall of the Triad of Evil, and even after the Age of the
Avatar, eight terrible dungeons survived: Deceit, Despise, Dastard, Wrong,
Shame, Covetous, Hythloth, and the Great Stygian Abyss.
     When Lord British summoned the Great Council, they determined both to
raise and enshrine the Codex of Ultimate Wisdom and to seal the dungeons,
those pits so conducive to the breeding of evil.  And so they did.  Thus ended
the influence of great evil in the world.



CHAPTER 2.  GEOGRAPHY

     Britannia's terrain is rich in variety, from white sandy desert in thick,
lush forests to icy crags of towering mountains.

   LAND TERRAIN

     The largest portion of Britannia is GRASSLAND.  Vast rich green
grasslands and fertile farming land stretch the vision and fill the heart with
promise.  For travelers, grasslands are fast and easy going.  Although
grasslands afford no cover against the hostile creatures that roam them, they
enable thee to see danger approaching and prepare for it.
     In the BRUSH, seas of tall grass and scrubby shrubs, everything is as
visible and as vulnerable as on the grasslands; only the going is slower and
tougher.  There is no advantage to traveling through the brush over the
grasslands, unless thou doth need to reach a point within it or it is well out
of the way to circumvent it.
     FORESTS cover nearly all of northwest Britannia.  The cool, redolent
softness of the leaf-covered earth and the sweet air of the deep forests have
enchanted many a traveler into a false sense of well-being in one of the most
treacherous terrains.  Dense, dark, and mysterious, the forests are haven to
all sorts of creatures.  Nor is the forest kind, for it allows no warning; a
foe might be upon thee too quickly for thee to react.
     The DESERTS of northeastern Britannia are hot, dry, and easy to lose
one's way in.  Besides all sand looking much like all other sand, the heat is
apt to play tricks on the eye, misleading travelers with landmarks that are
not really there.
     The HILLS are rustically beautiful, but climbing is time-consuming, even
when the rise is gentle.
     MOUNTAINS are rugged natural barriers for anyone without proper
equipment.  Beware, however, of certain wild creatures to whom the rocky crags
are home.  The highest peaks are simply impassable.
     SWAMPS are generally poisonous, yet some life-giving herbs grow nowhere
else.  Some use the deadly mire as fortress against intrusion, for even
monsters dislike venturing into the putrid muck.  At least, some monsters
dislike it; there are rumors of rare and strange monsters that thrive on the
swamps and use them to devour their victims.
     Besides the toxicity, slogging through the slime and hip-deep ooze of the
swamps is an extremely slow business.

   WATERS

     Britannia's vast OCEANS are fed by many RIVERS and STREAMS that find
their origin in mountain lakes and jungle swamps.  There are two major LAKES:
Lost Lake, in western central Britannia, feed Lost River, which empties into
the delta on the northwestern shore, by means of a networks of tiny estuaries:
Lock Lake, in north central Britannia, is actually a cutoff inlet from the sea
and still has a mix of salt water.  Britannia's third large lake, the one-time
picturesque Lake Generosity, was a casualty of the great drought of the
northeast and is now simply a bed of dry sand.
     Whether river, lake, or sea, SHALLOWS are bubbly and impassable for large
ships; COSTAL WATERS are ripply, deep enough for tall ships, calm enough for
small boats; and DEEP OCEAN WATERS are rough, bumpy, and dangerous for any
but the largest frigates.



CHAPTER 3.  GOVERNMENT

     Under Lord British, Britannia has undergone a great transformation from
totalitarian monarchy to representative democracy in what is called a
monarchic republic.  Instead of the single rule of the king, Lord British,
Britannia is ruled by a combination of Lord British and a council comprised of
representatives from each of the eight major townes.  Although his intent for
the future was that each towne elect its representative to the council, the
first council was determined by appointment.  British traveled to each towne,
spending long hours with its leaders to determine the right choice for the
first council.
     The historic first meeting of the Great Council consisted of two parts.
First, Lord British met with the council members and outlined his vision of
participatory government.  It was as follows:
     This council and Lord British would begin to build a document, based on
nature and reality, that set forth those rights of the people that should
never be usurped.  British believed that the eight virtues of the Avatar would
play a major role in the nature of the document.  Once adopted, the document
would be binding on everyone, including Lord British himself.
     Each year, a council member would be elected by each towne.  that council
member would conduct towne meetings at regular intervals to determine problems
in the towne and to become acquainted with the needs and interests of the
people.  Several times a year, at regular intervals, the council member would
travel to Britain to sit on the Great Council.
     The council would ponder problems that occurred in Britannia and decide
if the problems were in the purview of government.  If so, they would
determine the course of action government should take, perhaps writing a new
law, perhaps altering ways and means.
     Council recommendations would then be presented to British, and he could
accept them or object to them.  If he objected, his own rules would require
him to sit with the council to try to work out solutions acceptable to all.
nevertheless, Lord British reserved to himself the power of veto in the event
that agreement could not be reached.
     At that first gathering of the council, Lord British withdrew from the
meeting after presenting his plan, directing the council to discuss the ideas
and his rule in general.
     After several days, the council was ready to present its findings.  Its
members were unanimously in favor of the new government plan Lord British had
presented, and so it was enacted.
     The first meeting continued for one month.  Half the time was spent
pounding out the new constitution and half the time was spent discussing
affairs in what was to become normal council fashion.  Since that time the
council meets for two weeks four times a year, beginning on the solstices and
the equinoxes.
     The monarchy continues in some respects.  The crown jewels, for example,
continue to define the office of ruler, both figuratively and, by their magic
content, truly.  These precious emblems consist of the jewel-encrusted gold
crown, believed to contain a perfect ray of sunlight; the pure gold sceptre,
topped by the crystal orb of power; and the silver amulet, in the shape of the
mighty earth serpent, said to have come from another world.



CHAPTER 4.  ECONOMY

     The chief industry of Britannia is farming, but it is the distribution of
farm products and other goods through a wide network of merchants that is most
visible.  Pubs and inns thrive throughout Britannia, forges of weapons and
armour for stalwart adventurers are common, and healers and the sellers of
herbs and reagents flourish.

   FARMING

     Farming is the major occupation in most rural areas.  Farms produce
wheat, corn, barley, and, in season, all the sumptuous fruits and vegetables
Britannians love.

   MERCHANTS

     Many shoppes and enterprises are available to citizens and knights
throughout the land.  ARMOURIES provide a market for both weapons and armour.
Most armouries will consider buying used equipment, as they recognize the
likelihood that one will then need new.  the prices they will pay vary, but
expect not nearly full value, as they must make a profit on resale.  The types
of goods sold also vary among armouries; shoppers may have to visit several
armouries to find the wares they seek.
     STABLES are not found in many cities, but there are a few in castles and
private residences that will consider selling to the public.  most stables
deal in strong plough horses, rugged mountain horses, swift steppes horses,
and a few even have Valorian steeds, which are most excellent war horses.  All
carry full supplies for the well equipped rider.
     Meals purchased at MARKETS or in restaurants are often delicious and
comfortable filling, but will not sustain travelers long on the road.  Most
markets offer travelers packs of rations in quantity.  Prices vary greatly
from towne to towne.
     PUBS are oft found in markets and inns.  Good ale and stout in
complemented by a well-cooked leg of mutton, a fresh pheasant, or a juicy side
of beef.  A good customer may find the chef offering a taste of the day's
special and of the local gossip as well.
     Some of the best eating houses and pubs have music provided by minstrels.
Do not hesitate to speak to the musicians and let them know how much their
work is appreciated.  Some musicians may have something interesting to tell,
or may become friends or supporters.
     Pub owners are a friendly lot.  They chat with their clientele and they
listen well.  A good tipper may learn something very interesting in a pub.
     HEALERS have shoppes in many cities and villages, and in some castles and
keeps.  Bold knights frequently incur serious wounds.  Poison and plague also
take their toll.  Fortunately, medicine is advanced in the treatment of just
these problems.  While it is hard to say any price is unfair for saving a
life, some healers are known for their reasonable prices and others are not.
Skara Brae's healer has been known to heal even those who cannot pay at all.
     Few health problems are beyond the ken of the healers, whether disease,
wounds, or poison.  Some healers are even experimenting with the concept of
resurrection.  There have rumbled persistent rumors of magical resurrection
techniques being used by extremely adept mages within closeknit, secret
groups.  There is still some controversy over whether such techniques should
be pursued, but Lord British is known to have supported the research at every
turn.
     APOTHECARIES are experts in growing and preparing herbs and reagents for
use in magic.  Shoppes generally offer mostly locally available reagents,
although some apothecaries have better facilities for importing than others.
Climate and terrain have a lot to do with plant availability and the
consequent variable prices.  Shop carefully, for the shoppe that has the best
price on one herb or reagent may have the worst on another.
     INNS are a source of pride for several Britannian townes and villages.
They are comfortable and reasonable and usually provide a good, healing
night's rest.  The inn in the island city of Skara Brae even boasts a
magnificent view.
     Most inns also provide for long stays.  If a party member has a long-term
need for lodging, the party can rent a room by the month and pick up the
friend at a later date.
     SHIPWRIGHTS are found in several port cities.  These are where frigates
and skiffs are built.  Since shipbuilders are usually busy building ships,
their shoppe hours are often short and sporadic.  When the shipwright is in,
one can buy skiffs alone, which are not very expensive, or frigates, which are
very expensive and generally come with skiffs on board.
     GUILDS carry the ancient symbol of the thieves' trade, though many a good
adventurer oft has need of their goods.  In olden times, guilds sold such
items as lockpicks, various kinds of glasses for seeing what the naked eye
cannot, equipment for working clandestinely in the dark, and the like.
     THE GOVERNMENT, symbolized by the crown and the scales of justice, has
its seat in the castle of Lord British, the king.  But the government offices,
where the day-to-day administration takes place, reside in Yew, the towne of
justice.  This center houses the high court of justice and the public prison
for all Britannia.



CHAPTER 5.  SETTLEMENTS

   THE CASTLES

     THE CASTLE OF LORD BRITISH.  Headquarters and home of Lord British,
located on Britanny Bay.  Those aspiring to the Way of the Avatar should
become very familiar with this landmark.  The marble and tile castle has been
enlarged and improved since the Age of the Avatar.  Now five stories, the
castle has among its many features two kitchens, an excellent armoury, a
rooftop observatory, and the finest stable in the land.
     THE LYCAEUM.  In the northwestern corner of Verity Isle, ever searching
the skies, the observatory tower that crowns Britannia's centre of learning
can be seen from many leagues across the ocean.  Libraries and laboratories,
writing desks and discussion rooms, and every known tool for the discerning of
truth are housed here.
     EMPATH ABBEY.  Nestled quietly against the sheltering trees of the Deep
Forest, just southwest of Yew, this cloister of love lies open to all of good
heart.  Here, by the shores of the calming sea, the sisters and brothers of
Empath Abbey retreat to meditate, growing ever nearer to understanding and
answers that will benefit us all.
     SERPENT'S HOLD.  Staunchly guarding the deep harbor of the Isle of Deeds,
itself bulwarked by mountains and streams, the Serpent's Hold stands as a
monument to the courage of all those who fight for good.  In this stronghold
are gymnasiums to hone thy body and training fields on which to hone thy
battle skills.  Here also are healers to tend thy wounds, and sunny strands to
heal thy soul.  And finally here too are comrades in arms sharing stories of
honour, valor, triumph, and the restraint which are perhaps the greatest
teachers and healers of all.

   THE TOWNES AND VILLAGES

     BRITAIN.  Principal towne of the Empire of Britannia, the busy seaport of
Britain lies in central Britannia on Britanny Bay.  Because of the large
number of visitors to Lord British's castle who pass through or headquarter in
Britain, the bards headquartered in this towne of compassion and the arts put
their emphasis on hospitality.  Britain has a large hotel and outstanding
pubs and food.  There is also an armoury wherein thou canst buy the finest
bows made.
     THE BRITANNYS.  These three important suburbs recently sprung up around
Lord British's castle provide many of the goods and services needed by the
court of Lord British.  East Britanny specializes in shipbuilding and boasts a
fine healer.  North Britanny offers a small, rustic inn and fine stables among
its several farms.  West Britanny is a farming towne, supplying its own needs
and those of the four surrounding settlements, including the Castle of Lord
British and Britain.
     BUCCANEER'S DEN.  This island village lies due east of Paws.  Said to be
a center for thieves and blackguards to this day, Buccaneer's Den is a
thriving towne that offers some exotic shopping, as well as an inn,
restaurant, armoury, and shipbuilder.
     COVE.  The magical village of Cove nestles among the mountains south of
Lock Lake.  Cove's healers and alchemists are among the best in Britannia.
Here too is the magnificent temple of virtue, built to honour those on the
quest of the Avatar.
     JHELOM.  Far off the mainland, among the mountains on the central and
largest of the Valorian Isles, the bustling towne of Jhelom provides food and
lodging to visitors as well as to its fighters and students of valor.  A fine
armoury and shipwright ensure safe access to the mainland.
     MINOC.  This towne in north central Britannia is renowned for the fine
metalwork and armour of its tinkers.  Minoc is the centre for studying the
virtue of sacrifice.  The homeless of Britannia are welcome in Minoc; here
they find refuge in the Mission of the Helpless, with ready access to a fine
and charitable healer.
     Located on the northern coast, Minoc has a large shipwright as well as
its famous armoury.
     MOONGLOW.  Honesty and the quest for truth is foremost to the mages of
Moonglow; in fact, they abide no dishonesty and have no room for those who do.
This towne, tucked on a southern tip of Verity Isle, has good food, reasonably
priced herbs, and a fine observatory.  There are rumors that thou mayst see
thy future here.
     NEW MAGINCIA.  A towne built on the ruins of old Magincia by a colony of
humble peasants who understand well the dangers of false, self-serving pride
and the beauty of humility.  New Magincia has a healer and a restaurant tucked
away among its numerous modest farms and orchards.
     PAWS.  A village nestled on a cove near the southern edge of the Fens of
the Dead, midway between Britain and Trinsic, Paws provides food and shelter
for the traveler, as well as a change of horses.
     SKARA BRAE.  A centre for rangers, Skara Brae is a city immersed in the
study of spirituality.  The city lies on the southernmost of three isles just
west of Spiritwood.  A gentle towne of kind, thoughtful, and generous people,
Skara Brae houses a fine but inexpensive inn, an excellent apothecary, and a
healer who uses physical, magical, and spiritual medicine.  Those in need are
always welcome at the Skara Brae healer, and can be healed regardless of their
wealth.
     TRINSIC.  On a grassy plain on the southeastern shore of Britannia,
Trinsic's honourable paladins impress visitors with their courage and devotion
to truth.  A sunny towne of marble buildings and shaded parks, Trinsic has a
lovely pond, an armoury, a healer, and a fine stable.
     YEW.  Long a gathering place for druids in their pursuits of justice, Yew
is the site of the Supreme Court of Britannia and nurtures the great legal
and judicial minds who practice there.  Besides the courts, jail, and penal
areas, Yew has one of the best restaurants, with a fine pub, an armoury, and
an apothecary.  Nestled beneath the trees of the deep forest, Yew is second in
population only to Britain.

   THE KEEPS

     Keeps are fortified manors, often isolated, away from townes and
villages.  While many are personal retreats, some are schools for young
people, cloisters, and organizations.

   THE LIGHTHOUSES

     Rustic lighthouses were built throughout Britannian waters during the
recent years of peace; their bright presence has dramatically lowered the
number of ships breaking up on reefs and shoals in dark and storms.



CHAPTER 6.  POPULACE

     Adventurers are generally categorized by professional affiliation: mages,
bards, and fighters.  Druids, magicians who draw their very powers from nature
and natural phenomena, are regarded as a subset of mages.  Tinkers are bards
with a special knack for building or repairing who serve as keepers of our
oral history as they move from towne to towne.  And paladins, shepherds, and
rangers, long having fought valiantly at the sides of the elite fighters from
the Valorian Isles, are generally associated with fighters.
     Of course mages, bards, and fighters are not always adventuring.  Often
they may be found among the general populace along with villagers, merchants,
minstrels, jesters, farmers, beggars, and guards.

   MAGES

     Mage is the title subsuming all Britannians endowed with full magic
powers and for whom magic is primary.  Mages tend to settle down in Moonglow,
enjoying its proximity to the scholarly and esoteric treasures of the Lycaeum;
indeed, many youngsters who show magical learnings early are sent to live with
groups of mages near the Lycaeum and are schooled in its ways from an early
age.  Others favor Yew for its emphasis on nature.
     Skill in magic requires serious study.  With such sedentary childhoods it
is no wonder that most mages are not very strong.  Do no, however, take that
to mean they are not healthy; as a group, mages tend to live longer than any
others.

   BARDS

     Bards excel in dexterity and poise.  They rightly choose professions that
make good use of their talented hands and agile bodies: minstrel, archer,
locksmith, and tinker are just a few.  Fearless in battle, bards are often as
quick of mind as of hand and their magic abilities are keen, although their
power for magic is half that of mages.
     Britain is a favorite gathering place of many bards.  Others, especially
tinkers, are based in Minoc.

   FIGHTERS

     In the isolation of the Valorian Isles, valorous fighters are trained in
the arts of battle.  Strong and fearless, the fighters of Jhelom can overcome
any known foe.  They are trained in all weapons and they show dexterity in all
armour.  Most fighters prefer the sword or bludgeoning weapon, for they have
strength to wield the heaviest two-handed sword and to do extreme damage with
it.
     Often found fighting beside the best of Jhelom are the paladins of
Trinsic, the fierce rangers of Skara Brae, and the humble shepherds of New
Magincia.
     Although fighters enjoy the advantages of magic, they do not practice it
and seldom show any tendencies of talent in that direction.  They do show an
almost magical intuition about animals; no people train horses or outthink
monsters better than fighters.



CHAPTER 7.  TRANSPORTATION

     Most traveling in Britannia is done on foot, even though it is rough
going, slow and dangerous.  There are alternatives for those who can afford
and handle them.

   HORSES

     Many travelers enjoy riding on horseback; it is faster, less tiring, and
a lot safer than walking, since horses can outrun many of the hostile types of
creatures.  Know, though, that horses cannot travel over water and are apt to
wander away (with or without encouragement) if not properly secured when left.

   SHIPS

     Visiting island communities requires travel by ship.  Despite rather
outlandish rumors of people wandering the heavens in great airships, sailing
on water is the fastest and most popular long-distance mode of transportation
there is.  The most common watercraft on the ocean are frigates.  Tall,
stately three-masters, the frigates cut through seas swiftly and smoothly.
They generally have a two-level open deck and a below-deck with a forward
cabin, rear bunkroom, and centre cargo hold.  Most ocean going frigates are
built to accommodate heavy cannons for broadside fighting and have two
gangplank gateways on each side.
     Speedy it is, but ocean travel is fraught with dangers, especially after
dark near rocky coasts.  Many unpleasant monsters populate the deep, and
pirate ships are always on the lookout for moneyed prey.


   SKIFFS

     Small double-lock rowboats, used as lifeboats on frigates, skiffs can
make their way through all but the shallowest mud or swamp.  Widely used for
exploration of riverheads and mountain streams, they are also occasionally
found being put to more recreational uses in townes.  They provide a charming
way to follow the little estuaries that crisscross Britannia.  In fact, there
are said to be little-known places unreachable by any other means.  However,
skiffs are unsafe on deep ocean waters.

   NAVIGATION

     Speed is critical on the open seas.  There are many dangerous inhabitants
of the deep who will overtake and attack slow ships.  Speed is optimized by
traveling perpendicular to the wind.  Angling directly into the wind affords
only the slowest passage possible.  When the wind dies completely, there is no
option but to resort to the oars.
     Too close to shore, speed can be fatal, and sails should be replaced with
oars for careful maneuvering.  Unfortunately many foolhardy captains have run
their ships up on reefs and shoals at full speed under sail, losing ship and
crew.  Those that survive such wrecks have had to hole up and repair their
vessels.  Since extensive repairs take quite a while to accomplish, it is
important to hole up in safe harbors for this repair work.



CHAPTER 8.  ASTRONOMY

     The definitive work in astronomy is Celestial Britannia by Sir John,
astronomer and scribe at the Lycaeum.  This passage is comprised of excerpts
from his book recording his scientific discoveries and documenting Britannian
astral theories that predate the emergence of science.
     In the heaven beyond our skies, dwell stars whose numbers are beyond our
reckoning.  Within our heaven, circling our world, sweeps our bright sun.  ten
other orbs trace tight paths around our world.  The twin moons Trammel and
Felucca are desolate, their light only a reflection of the sun's brilliance.
     The other eight orbs are thought by some to be planets like our own.
According to the roles they play in our many legends, they have been named for
the virtues of the Avatar.  The closest is Honesty, followed further out by
Compassion, Valor, Justice, Sacrifice, Honour, Spirituality, and Humility.
     Many tales are told of knights traveling from towne to towne, even across
water, merely by stepping into a wall of light.  There are few verifiable
reports of moongate travel.  However, sifting through those reports that are
verifiable, it have become clear that they operate as follows.
     Each night at the apex of the first moon, Trammel, the eight moongates
appear, rectangles of shimmering blue light rising form the ground.  They
remain until Felucca reaches her apex.  While the moongates are open, a
traveler entering one will be instantly transported to another moongate in a
different locale.
     The traveler's destination is determined by the phase of the moon closest
to midheaven.  Moongate travel is said to be fast and safe; however, there
have been confusing and conflicting reports of what transpires when the moons
are equidistant in the midheaven.  Moongate travelers should exercise caution.
     Over the ages, comets, fiery nebulae, have torn through our skies as
harbingers of impending doom.  They appeared just before the emergence of the
Dark Lord Mondain.  They heralded the reign of the Enchantress Minax, and they
foretold the impending danger of the hellborn Exodus.
     Now, while we live in the midst of peace and enlightenment, the comets
have begun again.



CHAPTER 9.  LANGUAGE

     The language of Britannia is rich and poetic.  It is derived from Old
Sosarian, which varies mostly from the widespread current language in its
alphabet, which is more runic than today's.  The old runes continue to be used
widely in rural areas, and there is a movement to increase their familiarity
to city people.  Still, among the cityborn, translation of runic messages,
letter for letter, is sometimes necessary.  The Runic Alphabet is the earliest
known system of writing sounds using runes or letters.  The most commonly used
runes follow, with their modern equivalents.



     (The following is the best rendition I can do of the runes used in the
game.  You'll find after a while that you no longer need this list to read the
script if you play enough.)


   A    |\                   B                       C    |
        |\                        B                       |
        |                                                 |\


   D    |\/|                 E    |\/|               F    |//
        |/\|                      |  |  ('M')             |/
                                                          |

   G    \/                   H    |\                 I    |
        /\  ('X')                 |/    ('P')             |  ('I')
                                  |                       |

   J    /|\                  K    |     (can be confused
        \|/                       |_     with C)
         |                        | \

   L     |\   (close to      M    |\/|  (can be confused
         |     upsidedown         |/\|   with E)
         |       'L')             |  |

   N     |                   O    |\/   (very close  P
        \|                        |\/    to F)            K
         |\                       |
         |

   Q     | /                 R    |\                 S    |    (like
         |/                       |/    (R)               |/|    lightning
         |                        |\                        |      bolt)

   T    /|\   (T with bent   U    |\    (upsidedown  V    /\   (upsidedown
         |      top)              | |     'U')           /  \     'V')
         |                        | |                   /    \

   W   | |                   X    |     (upsidedown  Y   |\    (the most
       |\|                        |      pitchfork)      |\|    complicated
       |\|                       /|\                     |||    3 downward
       | |                                               |||    prongs like X)

   Z   \|/   (upsidedown     TH   |    (very common) EE  \/    (like two
        |     X. like Psi)        |\                     /\     'X's on top
        |                         |/                     \/     of each other)
                                  |                      /\

   NG   /\   (like EE but    EA   \/|\/ (like T      ST  |\/|  (can be
        \/    half of top           |    with extra      |  |   confused with
        /\    'X' cut off)          |     fringe)        |/\|   W)



     (Well, that's about the best I can do on the Runes.  When you're
deciphering runes, 'the' and 'Lord British' are very popular words on signs.
'Here lies' can also be found on most tombstones.)



CHAPTER 10.  MUSIC

     Music is much loved throughout Britannia.  Those wealthy enough often own
a harpsichord, and the better pubs employ good lute playing minstrels to
entertain their patrons.
     Without question the best known name in folkmusic is that of Iolo
FitzOwen.  "Stones," a ballad about the mystic shrines, has long been popular
among bards and the commonfolk.  It is known to be a favorite of His Majesty,
Lord British, as well.  FitzOwen's masterwork, with lyrics by his wife
Gwenllian Gwalch'gaeaf, is a sample of fine music.


                             STONES

----------------------------------------------------------------O----------
          O                                            O     O
-------O-----O-----O--------------------------O-----O-----O----------------
    O           O     O     O              O     O
-O-----------------------O-----O--------O----------------------------------
                                  O
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     O


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
          O                                      O
-------O-----O-----O--------------------------O-----O----------------------
    O           O     O     O              O           O        O     O
-O-----------------------O-----O--------O-----------------O--------O-----O-
                                  O                          O
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     O



Long ago ran the sun on a folk who had a dream
And the heart and the will and the power:
They moved earth; they carved stone; moulded hill and channeled stream
That we might stand on the wide plains of Wiltshire.

Now men asked who they were, how they built and wonder why
That they wrought standing stones of such size.
What was done 'neath our shade?  What was pray'ed 'neath our skies
As we stood on the wyd plains of Wiltshire.

Oh what secrets we could tell if you'd listen and be still.
Rid the stink and the noise from our skirts.
But you haven't got the clue and perhaps you never will.
Mute we stand on the cold plains of Wiltshire.

Sill we loom in the mists as the ages roll away
And we say of our folk, "they are here!"
That they built us and they died and you'll not be knowing why
Save we stand on the bare plains of Wiltshire.



CHAPTER 11.  COMBAT

     Three important lessons have been derived from the great battles with
evil in our past.  The foremost is that neither magic, nor prowess at arms,
nor purity of spirit alone is enough to defeat evil.  Only the careful
coordination of arms with magic by the virtuous will bring victory.  The
second lesson is basic: prowess comes only with practice and experience.  The
third lesson is this: the use of force against the innocent will always bring
retribution.
     Armaments have improved greatly over the years.  Today's knights have a
great selection of weapons and armour at their disposal.  In addition,
fortunate knights may come across magical rings and amulets to wear or use.
Before battle, knights can ready several items of equipment carried by their
party: helms, shields, suits of armour, and weapons from daggers to halberds.
Weapons can be dropped or exchanged in the midst of battle, but no enemy has
ever waited while a knight changed armour.
     Strength and endurance may get a knight through a few battles, but none
survive long without developing tactical skills.  Successful knights learn to
watch for mistakes the enemy makes.  Successful leaders learn to design
strategies around the strengths and weaknesses of their party.
     In particular, fighters are known for their strength and ability to wield
great weapons while wearing the heaviest of armour.  In general, they are most
effective when formed into a shield wall in the frontmost ranks.  There are
exceptions--desperate situations where an offensively well-armed fighter may
do well to charge headfirst into enemy ranks, attacking the key members.
     Bards, while weaker than fighters, are proficient archers because of
their keen sight and excellent dexterity.  Their dexterity also enables them
to regroup faster and strike more blows against their opponents.
     Mages, who are not as strong, often prefer to avoid warfare entirely,
spending their time instead in scholarly pursuits.  However, those mages who
choose to defend the crown are among the most fearsome foes of evil.  An
accomplished archmage may annihilate an entire horde of monstrous enemies with
a single spell.
     Missile weapons such as bows and crossbows are essentially useless in
hand-to-hand combat; nearby foes are apt to seize the opportunity to interfere
with an archer's fire as they do with a magic user's spellcasting.  For this
reason, mages and bow-wielders are generally best placed behind a cover of
fighters, where they can effectively deliver their blows.  However, when a
spell of cataclysmic and widespread effect is needed, a mage often must
venture to the front lines and seek a niche in the shield wall from which to
cast his spell, so the spell will not act to destroy friends as well as
enemies.



CHAPTER 12.  ARMAMENTS

   ARMOURY

     The most courageous knight shows good sense to wear strong armour on any
expedition.  Full body armour, helmets, shields, magical rings and jewelry,
and other magical trinkets are all worthwhile; but they are also expensive.
     Body armour comes in a range of styles and degrees of effectiveness.
     CLOTH.  Usually little more than a heavy quilted gambeson worn below a
tunic, cloth armour is inexpensive and comfortable.  But it affords only
limited protection.
     LEATHER.  A cut above cloth, yet also fairly inexpensive, leather armour
is made from thick leather hardened by boiling, often in paraffin.
     SCALE.  Fashioned from four to six inch square overlapping plates
attached to cloth or leather gambeson, scale armour looks like its namesake:
fish scales.  Although scale is often somewhat noisy, it offers good
protection.
     CHAIN.  Chain mail is fashioned from small loops of metal wire linked in
a manner to make something resembling metal cloth.  The best chain mail has
each link actually riveted shut.  Chain mail provides very good protection but
is quite expensive.
     PLATE.  Custom-made from hand-forged sheets of metal, plate armour
affords its wearer the most complete protection possible.  However, it is very
expensive and can be borne by only the strongest.
     HELMS often match body armour in material and strength, but variations,
such as offensively spiked helmets, are available.
     SHIELDS also vary greatly.  Not all war rigs call for shields--any use of
two handed weapons precludes them and they require some strength--yet many
thank shields for their lives.

   WEAPONRY

     The weapon is the most important material choice an adventurer has to
make.  A wide range exists.
     DAGGERS offer two choices.  The common DAGGER is useful when its ability
to be concealed is a benefit; and it can be thrown in open combat.  The MAIN
GAUCHE is more formidable, especially when used as a second weapon.
     SWORDS continue to be the most popular weapon.  There are LONG and SHORT
SWORDS, and TWO-HANDED SWORDS.
     MISSILE WEAPONS are carried by most experienced knights no matter what
weapon they keep ready in their hand.  it is always an advantage to feel thine
enemy from afar when possible, before the threats of his hand weapons can
reach thee.  Inexpensive and easy to port is the SLING, and ammunition is
plentiful in open country.  BOWS come from craftsmen in the deep forest.  Made
from strong and resilient yew, bows, and their stronger counterparts,
crossbows, make formidable long-range weapons.  Be aware, however, that one
engaged in hand-to-hand combat is unlikely to be able to load such a weapon,
much less shoot it.
     Some knights prefer missiles they can hurl without mechanical aid.
Popular THROWING WEAPONS include DAGGERS, SPEARS, AXES, and FLASK OF FLAMING
OIL.
     The effectiveness of most weapons depends upon the dexterity of the
weapons' wielders, but mass weapons are often preferred by the very strong, if
not so nimble, because these bludgeons depend upon the great strength of the
wielder to crush through an opponents' defenses rather than evade them.
     Oldest of all bludgeons, and probably of all weapons, is the CLUB.  Clubs
are crude weapons, but when a blow connects it often does the trick.  The MACE
is much more streamlined than the club.  Its weight is balanced to derive the
most possible effect with the most possible accuracy.  A "mace on a chain" is
the MORNING STAR, which reaches over obstacles to smite thy foe at range.  One
blow straight on from this and the enemy is out till morning--at least.
Finally, there is the TWO-HANDED HAMMER.  It takes great strength to wield it,
but the hammer can inflict devastating damage.
     POLEARMS require much strength to wield but they're extremely effective.
Most popular among those strong enough to wield it is the HALBERD, a long
stout staff with a battleaxe blade at the end that allows its wielder to
strike a foe at twice the distance of most weapons.



CHAPTER 13.  CREATURES

     Wild creatures, intelligent and not, roam the countryside; others
frequent the waters.  Few of these creatures are evil; but many attack out of
hunger or when surprised.

   CREATURES OF THE LAND AND SKY

     INSECT SWARMS.  Pesty insects have little muscle or brain, but their tiny
size lets them move quickly, dodging and feinting.  They bite more often than
they miss, but their sting does little damage.  Once hit, all insects are
easily squashed.  Rare is the swarm that delivers a fatal bite, but a swarm of
thousands can mean death.

     BATS.  These annoying creatures live by night, usually, and travel in
flocks.  Often their high pitched screech is heard before they are seen.
Though flighty and hard to hit, bats are not difficult to kill.  As attackers
they are relentless and vicious.

     GIANT RATS.  Natural agility and sharp teeth are rats' chief advantages.
They are not strong and do not hit very hard.  The mortal danger rats pose to
knights comes from their capacity for passing on noxious germs and substances.
Seldom do knights tangle with rats without someone in the group becoming ill
with poison.  At worst, the result of such an encounter is infection with
plague.

     SLIMES.  In appearance, slimes are gooey green splats.  They are weak,
clumsy, and not very damaging, individuality.  But they almost always travel
in schools and, when a slime is hit, it is apt to split into two healthy,
hostile slimes.  If the slime does not split, it succumbs quite easily.
Slimes carry no booty.

     GIANT SPIDERS.  Although weak and slow, spiders take their toll: they
poison, both on touch and by spitting venom from a distance.  Spiders have
been known to carry a few goods.

     SNAKES.  Extremely poisonous and quite accurate when shooting their
poison even from a distance, snakes are otherwise relatively harmless.  They
are easy to destroy, once engaged directly.

     ORCS.  Orcs are often more annoying than dangerous to the seasoned
adventurer, but they can be a grave threat to the novice, especially when they
travel in large groups or accompanied by a giant or two.  Generally, they are
fairly easy to defeat, do a modicum of damage if they hit, and carry meagre
belongings.

     TROLLS.  Large misshapen humanoids that like to live underground, trolls
are strong and dextrous and can cause moderate damage to their victims.
Fortunately, they are not very enduring.  Trolls tend to lie in wait to ambush
unsuspecting travelers.  Trolls like treasures and often carry some with them.

     ETTINS.  Strange two-headed creatures, ettins hurl large boulders with
enough strength to do considerable damage.  Though not magical, they are quite
hardy and often carry a good many interesting belongings.

     GREMLINS.  The blow of a gremlin is hardly felt, and he is not very hard
to do in; but beware, for he travels in huge packs and he may leave you
starving.  The gremlin's ability to consume food at an inordinate rate is
startling and dismaying.  Once overcome, he usually leaves some goods.

     HEADLESSES.  No one knows exactly how the senses work on these mutant
abominations.  Do they sense the world only through touch and feeling?  Or do
they "see" with some inner vision?  Whatever the answer, these relatively
strong creatures are fairly enduring and do mild damage to their foes.  They
tend to carry goods with them.

     GAZERS.  Giant, magical floating eyes, gazers mesmerize their foes,
turning them against each other.  They make up for their weak, clumsy physique
with strong intelligence and a fairly good constitution.

     MIMICS.  Masters of imitation, mimics make themselves so like treasure
chests that many an adventurer has met his doom trying to open one.  Mimics
have little courage and even less patience, though, so if one is willing to
wait a few minutes just a few steps away from suspect chests, they are apt to
reveal themselves by shooting poison.  Close up, mimics bludgeon with strength
and dexterity, doing unpleasant damage.  Getting past their deadly deceptions
can reveal fine treasure.

     REAPERS.  The strange, magical creatures known as reapers are strong,
enduring, and do severe damage by bludgeoning.  Their weakness, if it can be
so called, is their immobility; although their arms strike out about them,
they cannot change locations.  They throw magical bolts at distant foes.  They
also bludgeon nearby creatures with their thick tentacles.  Reapers are quite
hardy, but often worth the trouble: they hoard good booty.

     WISPS.  It simply is not known exactly what a wisp is.  Harmless looking
little bits of flashing light, wisps are extremely agile and highly
intelligent.  Although they are not strong, they do serious damage, taking
their victims by surprise again and again, blow after blow.  They often attack
in large groups and they teleport from place to place on the battlefield.
Worst of all, they can magically possess members of the opposing party.  Wisps
seem to have impossibly strong constitutions and are quite difficult to
destroy.

     SAND TRAPS.  Sand traps burrowing in the sand are nearly impossible to
notice, but a party passing too close to one is in for trouble.  Strong and
agile, these desert monsters strike out at anything that comes near their
hiding places, and they hit very hard.  They are also very hardy, and their
endurance has meant the demise of more than one adventurer.  When a sand trap
is overcome, however, generous treasure is revealed in the sand.

     DRAGONS.  Strongest and most feared of creatures, dragons shoot extremely
damaging magic fireballs and are nearly impossible to defeat.  They can attack
while in flight and may do in an entire party before it has a chance to engage
in close combat.  Killing a dragon, however, can earn the slayer great
treasure.

   CREATURES OF THE SEA

     SHARKS.  Strong and agile in water, sharks are not particularly
intelligent and cause little damage to creatures that are not in the water,
despite their frightening appearance.  They can endure quite a beating before
dying.

     SEA HORSES.  These graceful, appealing ocean creatures have nasty
personalities.  They enjoy shooting foes at range, which they do very
effectively.  They are also rather strong, flexible, even intelligent, and
they take a fair amount of punishment to be defeated.

     SQUIDS.  Squids are unintelligent, but the dexterity of their tentacles
makes their considerable strength a real menace.  They throw their poisonous
ink from a distance, and it is always very damaging.  These unpleasant sea
creatures are hardy and difficult to overcome.

     SEA SERPENTS.  These serpents can appear from nowhere to rock a ship.
Capable of launching great fireballs from a considerable distance--even across
an entire island--they are among the most formidable of opponents.  Since they
are not intelligent and are easily outwitted, the best strategy is often to
evade them and flee.  However, if forced into battle, closing in to engage the
serpent directly in combat with improve a ship's odds of surviving.

   FROM BEYOND THE GRAVE

     GHOSTS.  Spirits of the uneasy dead, these bodiless creatures compensate
for their lack of strength with excellent dexterity and the ability to
disappear at will.  Although ghosts do no inflict much damage with a blow,
defeating them will require cunning.

     SKELETONS.  Perhaps the most common of the undead creatures, skeletons
lack strength and brains, but they are dextrous and can take a surprising
amount of punishment.  They often carry some goods.

     DAEMONS.  Very strong, agile, and smart, daemons have repertoires of
magic that include summoning other daemons and possessing their opponents.
They are extremely hardy and difficult to kill even if incapacitated.  Daemons
fly and can easily manage to cross rivers or shallow waters, although they are
seldom encountered in mid ocean.
     When daemons possess another creature, they disappear into that soul,
leaving neither trace nor treasure.



CHAPTER 14.  VIRTUE

     After years of meditation and thought, after hundreds of quests along the
mental, physical, and spiritual path to peace and fulfillment, a person might
reach near perfection in the eight virtues of Avatarhood.  Only while an
individual continues to strive against the external and internal forces of
evil, can he or she be said to be on the path of the Avatar.
     The ankh is the symbol of peace and benevolence toward all creatures,
worn as a sign by those on the lifelong Quest of the Avatar, Ankhs are
believed also to enhance courage and loyalty to goodness and to help ward off
harm for knights striving to achieve the eight virtues.
     Honesty is scrupulous respect for truth--the willingness never to deceive
oneself or another.  Compassion is nonjudgmental empathy for one's fellow
creatures.  Valor is the courage to take actions in support of one's
convictions.  Justice is the devotion to truth, tempered by love.  Sacrifice
is the courage to give of oneself in the name of love.  Honour is the courage
to stand for the truth, against any odds.  Spirituality is concern with one's
inner being, and how one deals with truth, love, and courage.  Humility is
perceiving one's place in the world, not according to one's own
accomplishments, but according to the intrinsic value of all individuals.
     Each of Britannia's eight leading townes celebrates one of the virtues of
Avatarhood, and each has raised a shrine to that virtue.  The shrines are
located in retreats to ensure tranquility in natural settings, so traveling to
some shrines requires a considerable journey from their townes.
     The only requirement for using a shrine is knowing the mantra for that
virtue.  A mantra is a sound repeated continuously during meditation, helping
to clear the mind and focus the spirit.  Each virtue has a specific mantra
that works best for it, and sincere meditation can bring great wisdom.
Someone in towne will usually divulge the mantra for the towne's shrine.



CHAPTER 15.  MAGIC

     No one knows exactly when the powers of magic were discovered.  Little by
little, stories of impossible coups and miraculous recoveries increased in
number and detail, until finally even the most skeptical people began to give
credence to some mystic factors.  And only then did the serious scholarly
search for magical means and lore begin.  Few remain who do not accept the
reality of magic.
     Yet the knowledge of magic and its use appears to be in its infancy.
There are few formal schools in which to learn magic.  To be a user of magic,
one must travel far and wide to learn from various mages who have developed
and honed special magically abilities.  Even then there is no guarantee the
mages will impart their knowledge.

   THE LANGUAGE OF MAGIC

     Some aspects of magical lore have become fairly well known.  One such is
the language of magic.  This is a set of twenty-four syllables compiled by a
great language scholar after traveling throughout Britannia for more than
seven years.  These are all the components of any magic spell yet known; but
they are little help--and extremely dangerous--without knowledge of how to
combine them into the phrases that make meaningful incantations.

     Following is a list of these powerful syllables, approximations of their
meanings, and a guide to their pronunciation.

Syllable     Idea        Sound           Syllable     Idea        Sound

An          negate      ah n             Nox         poison      n ah ks
Bet         small       b eh t           Por         movement    p oar
Corp        death       k oar p          Quas        illusion    kw ah ss
Des         down        d eh ss          Rel         change      r eh l
Ex          freedom     x                Sanct       protection  s aa ng kt
Flam        flame       fl ah m          Tym         time        t th m
Grav        energy      gr ah v          Uus         up          oo ss
Hur         wind        h oo r           Vas         great       v ah ss
In          create      ih n             Wis         knowledge   w ee ss
Kal         invoke      k ah l           Xen         creature    z eh n
Lor         light       l oar            Ylem        matter      aye l eh m
Mani        life        m ah n ee        Zu          sleep       z oo


   THE MIXTURES OF MAGIC

     REAGENTS are herbs needed for the preparation of magical mixtures.  Most
are sold in apothecaries; a few are hard to find and require special effort to
obtain.  Following is a chart of the magical reagent and the general areas of
proficiency they affect.


BLACK PEARL                                          PROJECTION

     A rare version of the standard white pearl, a black pearl is a forceful
reagent in the creation of kinesthetic magic, that is, projecting objects.

BLOOD MOSS                                           MOVEMENT

     Fungal growth usually found in deep forests and warm, damp areas;
especially favored as a reagent for its ability to enhance mobility.

GARLIC                                               WARDING

     Ubiquitous and strong-scented reagent, used effectively in warding off
evil spirits.

GINSENG                                              HEALING

     Ancient reagent used extensively in healing.

MANDRAKE ROOT                                        POWER

     Very rare and usually expensive magical herb growing only in swampy
areas, mandrake root is said to bring great power to magic that uses it.

NIGHTSHADE                                           POISON,ILLUSION

     Rare, poisonous plant that appears only when the moons are in a certain
conjunction.  Those who learn its whereabout and manage to be there in the
dead of night when the moons are full can pick nightshade without danger and
benefit from its powerful ability as a reagent to create illusions.

SPIDER SILK                                          BINDING

     The magical product of the garden spider and its relatives has no peer in
its ability to bind.  As a reagent mixed for magic, spider silk magnifies its
binding power many times over.

SULPHUROUS ASH                                       ENERGY

     Common material left by volcanic action, ash is an excellent source of
energy in magical mixtures.


   THE SPELLS

     Spells diverge greatly in terms of difficulty, and, correspondingly, in
terms of danger to the caster.  After years of observation and
experimentation, scholars in magic have classified spells into eight circles
of difficulty.  Thus, mages who can command only the simplest spells are
considered to be of the first circle, and so on.
     Full mages' magical ability is directly related to their intelligence.
Bards appear to have half the magical ability of full mages and fighters
rarely have any.  Casting spells drains magical powers, limiting how many
spells mages can cast before resting.  A spell will drain magical powers in
amounts proportional to the spell's circle of difficulty.
     On the facing page, a chart classifies the spells by circle, with a brief
indication of each spell's use, a note on when it can be used, and an
ingredient list (Note: check section II. QUICK REFERENCE CARD for Chart).  Do
not take the ingredient lists to be recipes, as wrong quantities or careless
mixing could have terrible results.
     Note that not all spells can be used in all situations.  Quite a few
spells need far too much time or concentration to be cast during combat;
others feed on the energies present in the battle arena.
     Full descriptions of each spell's nature, use, and effects follow.


   THE SPELL BOOK OF THE EIGHT CIRCLES


   THE FIRST CIRCLE


AN NOX                                       NEGATE POISON

     Few deadly problems are as easy to arrest as poison.  So common is the
use of poison that alchemists have been able to devise a formula, using the
relatively common plants garlic and ginseng, that is effective against nearly
every form of poison in nearly every user.  However, the magic works on
individuals only; thus, simple as it is, novice mages in a party must have
magic endurance among them great enough to cast An Nox as many times as they
have afflicted members, or someone may be left with life seeping away.  Even
then, safety is not secured.  Strength already sapped by toxins is not
regained without peaceful rest or healing magic.

AN ZU                                        NEGATE SLEEP

     An Zu, which requires a simple mixture of ginseng and garlic, is used to
awaken sleeping comrades.  An Zu has limitations; it works only on members of
the caster's party, it awakens only one person per casting, and it has no
lasting preventative effect.

GRAV POR                                     ENERGY MOVEMENT

     A novice magic user had best count on a good solid weapon in battle.  A
good spell for novices to practice, not rely on, in battle, is Grav Por, which
casts a missile of energy at a target on the battlefield.  If the caster's
mental powers exceed the foe's, small damage will be inflicted.
     Grav Por requires sulphurous ash for energy and black pearl to project
it.  This spell has little effect for novices, not because of weak
ingredients, but because of inexperience.

IN LOR                                       CREATE LIGHT

     This simple spell creates a pool of light.  Although of short duration,
In Lor creates a brighter light than the best of torches.  Note, however, that
In Lor cannot be used in place of real flame to enhance the mixing of reagents
for spells, for its properties are quite different.
     In Lor's sole ingredient is sulphurous ash powder.  Place that powder
upon the object intended as the light source; rub it rhythmically while
chanting "In Lor."  Almost instantly, the object will blaze with white light.

MANI                                         LIFE

     Mani is the simplest healing spell.  Mani does not cute patients, but it
does make them feel better and may take them out of immediate danger.  Mani is
useful even to higher circle magicians, because it is simple enough to cast
during combat.
     Spider silk and ginseng are the components needed for Mani.  No special
conditions are necessary during mixing or casting.


   THE SECOND CIRCLE


AN SANCT                                     NEGATE PROTECTION

     Many evil creatures carry chests full of treasure and useful items, often
the result of thievery against some other good britannian.  No good person
begrudges the vanquisher a monster's gold and goods.
     But evil creatures often arm their chest with deadly traps.  Popular
chest traps are acid sprays, poison fumes, bombs, and gaseous atmospheres.
The first two are designed with intent to destroy the individual tampering
with the lock.  The last two affect the entire area of the chest and injure
anyone in that area.
     An Sanct uses blood moss and sulphurous ash to seep into hidden traps and
render them impotent.  The spell also negates any nonmagical locks in the
chest.  The same spell may be used to unlock doors locked by mechanical keys.

AN XEN CORP                                  NEGATE CREATURE OF DEATH

     The powers of evil revel in their ability to command the uneasy dead.
Rotted corpses and corrupted spirits, given motion and a semblance of life,
are set on the mindless destruction of everything good.
     Such phantoms are not living but are merely animated.  They act
mindlessly, unaware of their own horrible state.  By negating their armour of
mindlessness, An Xen Corp causes most risen dead to flee in lurching terror.
     An Xen Corp is not a difficult spell, especially for castes of good
intellect.  Nor is its mixture difficult: ordinary amounts of common garlic
and sulphurous ash must be mixed while pronouncing words of reverence for life
and beauty.

IN WIS                                       CREATE KNOWLEDGE

     In Wis performs the job of a navigator, determining one's precise
location in terms of the recently devised concepts of latitude and longitude.
Nightshade is its only ingredient, but that nightshade must be encased in
glass and kept alive with dew drops until its use is required.

KAL XEN                                      SUMMON CREATURE

     Beginning mages often find their responsibility onerous, with an entire
group of adventurers relying on their meager magical skills for protection and
assistance in difficult situations.  These novice mages may quickly and
frequently turn to Kal Xen to add to the offensive ranks of their party in
battle.
     Kal Xen summons small nasty creatures such as rats and snakes to help in
combat.  Nasty or not, these summoned beasts are always loyal to the caster,
and often direct a foe's attention away from members of the mage's party.
     Mix mandrake root with spider silk to ensure the beast's loyalty.  The
locale where the mandrake root is gathered influences what type of creature is
summoned.

REL HUR                                      CHANGE WIND

     Those who love the open sea will find frequent use for Rel Hur.  This
powerful spell can redirect the wind for a time.
     To mix Rel Hur, line a board with damp blood moss and set the board
against a tree or mast.  Study the wind and find the exact spot in which to
stand so that sulphurous ash thrown into the air will be caught by the wind
and flung against the blood moss.  Complete the spell by blowing in the
direction the winds should follow.


   THE THIRD CIRCLE


IN FLAM GRAV                                 CREATE FLAME ENERGY

     One of three energy field spells, alike except for the nature of the
horrors they create, In Flam Grav causes the particular spot indicated by the
caster to erupt into red hot flames.  Any creature on that spot or that steps
into that spot is seared by a wall of flame.  Be careful not to direct this
spell too close to friends or they shall suffer the same as foes.
     Sulphurous ash and black pearl project the burning fire to the chosen
spot; spider silk holds it there a short while.  The mix works best when
blended over a flame.

IN NOX GRAV                                  CREATE POISON ENERGY

     Another of the three energy field spells, In Nox Grav causes a cloud of
nauseating poison to occur in the location indicated.  Any creatures entering
the cloud suffer some degree of poisoning.  Like In Flam Grav, this spell can
be just as effective in harming friends as enemies, so use care.
     That rare but deadly poison, nightshade, is required for In Nox Grav.
Add to the nightshade spider silk to shape the cloud, and a black pearl to
direct its placement.

IN POR                                       CREATE MOVEMENT

     In Por teleports an entire party a fair distance in any specified
direction.  However, incanting this spell during the haste of battle will
diminish its effects.  It will only remove the caster, and then only to
another place on the field of battle.
     In Por will not transport a party if there is no clear, grassy spot to
which the party can be moved.  Nor will In Por work in dungeons or in townes,
as its energies require a fair bit of open space to operate.
     The dust for In Por consists of spider silk and fresh young blood moss.
The caster must close his eyes and conjure a vision of the current position
after the party has left.  In a wink, the party will be elsewhere and the
vision, reality.

IN ZU GRAV                                   CREATE SLEEP ENERGY

     Least damaging of the three energy field spells, In Zu Grav is often the
most effective.  The spell cloaks a foe in a purple haze that puts it
instantly to sleep, taking it out of the fight, rendering it helpless.
     Like the other two similar spells, In Zu Grav can affect friends as
easily as enemies.  While sleep will not directly harm friends, falling asleep
on the field of battle can be deadly.
     In Zu Grav is easily mixed of common ginseng, spider silk, and black
pearl.  For best results, add the air of many yawns and sand from sleepy eyes.

VAS FLAM                                     GREAT FLAME

     Vas Flam effectively gathers a great ball of flame, which may then be
hurled at a for.  A simple spell, the great advantage of Vas Flam is that,
aimed accurately, it will surely hit its mark and, just as surely, inflict
damage.
     Combine common sulphurous ash and a single black pearl over a hot flame.
When the ash has adhered well to the pearl, remove it and store it until
needed.  Cast the talisman at a foe while uttering "Vas Flam" and a great
flaming ball will smite him.

VAS LOR                                      GREAT LIGHT

     Vas Lor conjures a great light.  This light is equivalent to In Lor's in
quality and range, but Vas Lor lasts much longer than the beginner's spell.
Its endurance comes from rare mandrake root.  Mix the prepared root with
sulphurous ash and proceed as if making In Lor.


   THE FOURTH CIRCLE

AN GRAV                                      NEGATE ENERGY

     Adventuring parties are sometimes prevented from pursuing their objective
by obstructing or noxious fields.  An Grav removes the obstructing field by
negating the field's energy.
     Ash countermines the field's energy; a black pearl thrusts the negating
energy in the direction indicated by the spell caster.  The obstructing field
is instantly dispersed.

DES POR                                      DOWNWARD MOVEMENT
UUS POR                                      UPWARD MOVEMENT

     Magic users often travel with courageous groups, and courageous groups
often find themselves in danger.  When problems occur within dungeons it is
sometimes helpful to use Des Por and its complement Uus Por for moving among
floors.  Only effective when going from empty corridor to empty corridor, Des
Por transports and entire group to the exact same location one floor lower.
Uus Por works in reverse, and transports upward.  Unfortunately, these spells
take too long to intone during the heat of battle.
     Blood moss provides the motion and spider silk keeps the party together
during the transport.

IN SANCT                                     CREATE PROTECTION

     Sometimes young questers join in battles beyond their might.  In Sanct
helps balance the fight by creating a protective shield around each party
member.
     In Sanct works only during combat and does not last long, so knights
should be sure to hit hard and fast while the iron is doubled.
     In Sanct is most effective when sulphurous ash, fast-working ginseng, and
reeking garlic are mixed by the mage and the group's strongest fighter,
simultaneously.

IN SANCT GRAV                                CREATE PROTECTIVE ENERGY

     In Sanct Grav's protective energy provides a strong defense.  Its
shimmering blueness cannot be entered or passed through.  An excellent
recourse when a few moments of safety are required, In Sanct Grav is well used
to block dungeon corridors fully.
     Mandrake root is necessary for In Sanct Grav; choose older, tougher
specimens for this concoction.  Add spider silk to make it impenetrable and
pearl for placement.

WIS QUAS                                     KNOWLEDGE OF ILLUSION

     Wis Quas strips illusion from creatures hidden by the cloak of
invisibility, instantly revealing their positions.
     Nightshade cut many times to form a paperlike sheet, then carved into
lace, is secured by spider silk.  It is glazed, dried in the sun, and then
crystallized into a shiny powder that must be tossed in the sky over the field
of battle as the spell is cast.


   THE FIFTH CIRCLE

AN EX POR                                    NEGATE FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT

     The magical locking of doors works in nearly every situation.  Even
normal locks can be transformed to magical locks by means of this spell.  Thus
the very creature who initially locked a door with its own key may be
forbidden access.
     Mix ash and moss, gathered from darkest glens under heavy clouds, into a
strong garlic paste.  While mixing, sing a melody that no other creature has
ever heard.  For greatest security, the melody should be different each
mixing; so each magical lock will require a subtly different magical key, and
anyone trying to break the magical lock will not be able to use any previously
discovered keys.

IN BET XEN                                   CREATE SMALL CREATURE

     This combat spell creates a powerful ally by calling up four swarms of
small but deadly insects.  All four swarms are generated in the same location.
However, each can be commanded to move independently and on its own turn.
Quartets of insect swarms generated by In Bet Xen have been known to surround
and suffocate an enemy by their very numbers.
     The powder for In Bet Xen consists of sulphurous ash to give life energy,
blood moss to set them swarming, and spider silk to bind the swarm in
obedience.  For deadliest results, blend with stagnant water from the dankest
swamp.

IN EX POR                                    CREATE FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT

     This powerful spell can open magical locks.  The power of In Ex Por is
that it first analyzes the lock to be broken and then actually produces the
precise tool or magical potion that will break the lock.
     The success of this spell comes from combining ash and moss in isolation,
in complete darkness.

IN ZU                                        CREATE SLEEP

     The first mass effect spell the developing magician learns, In Zu causes
the scent of poppies to emanate from the caster in an ever-widening wedge,
dropping into a sound sleep all those touched by it.  Only the toughest minds
and wills may deny it.
     Nightshade, gathered when high tide coincides with a moonless midnight,
must be mixed with ocean ginseng and spider silk.  Moisten with brine and add
sand to mix thoroughly.  Lay to dry in bright moonlight.  Note that this spell
is just as effective on friend as foe; aim carefully.

REL TYM                                      CHANGE TIME

     Rel Tym doubles a party's speed, anytime, anywhere.  It is especially
effective in battle, when a party's members can return two blows for each of
the enemies' blows.  It is also effective in surveillance, when being caught
could be disastrous.
     Sulphurous ash provides energy, blood moss creates movement, and mandrake
root provides the magical power required for this incantation.

VAS MANI                                     GREAT LIFE

     Whole health restored; full vitality given: such is the nature of Vas
Mani.  A miraculous spell requiring concentration and vast knowledge of
anatomy, Vas Mani is reserved for experienced mages.
     Vas Mani fully restores patients from combat wounds.  While it provides
neither antidote to poison nor cure for disease, Vas Mani does heal all damage
wrought by these ravagers, ensuring survival until a cure can be found.
     The difficulty in preparing Vas Mani is in locating the mandrake root;
otherwise the preparation is straightforward: mix the mandrake root with
ginseng and spider silk.
     To cast Vas Mani successfully, the caster must concentrate totally on the
subject to be healed.  When the concentration is full, one can actually see
wounds heal.  Because the healing process can take several hours, Vas Mani
cannot be used during combat.


   THE SIXTH CIRCLE


AN XEN EX                                    NEGATE A CREATURE'S FREEDOM

     A most effective tactic to use against enemies is to charm members of
their party to work against them.  However, this spell is most difficult to
apply where it could be of the most help, against the most diabolical of foes,
those of superior intelligence.
     Control of a charmed individual is limited to fighting and moving; it
does not extend to use of magic or special forms of attack.  This spell can
also be used to bring back party members after they have been charmed by a
foe.
     An Xen Ex requires a careful mixture of nightshade, to poison the mind; a
black pearl, for projection; and spider silk, to bind loyalty.

IN AN                                        CREATE NEGATION

     In An creates an air of magical negation.  Spells fizzle when In An is in
effect, and neither side in combat can use magic for several rounds.
     First, mandrake root must be gathered; the root must be rubbed with
garlic and wrapped in a damn, black cloth for several hours.  At midnight it
must be pulverized and mixed with sulphurous ash.  The mixture must be dried
on a parchment and the parchment then folded into a tricorn.  In casting the
spell, a hole must be cut in the tricorn and the mixture dispensed from this
in a wide arc.

IN VAS POR YLEM                              CREATE A GREAT MOVEMENT OF MATTER

     In Vas Por Ylem is a terrifying spell that can generate a massive
earthquake.  While it reaches every enemy in combat, even if lurking in
distant corners or behind mountains, the magical earthquake leaves allies
unshaken and unharmed.
     Seek mandrake root that has grown unobstructed, so that its form is
strong yet fibrous.  Grind it with sulphurous ash and blood moss until not
ingredient can be distinguished from another.

QUAS AN WIS                                  ILLUSION OF NEGATED KNOWLEDGE

     Quas An Wis turns a foe's orderly, well planned attack in bedlam.
Confusion reigns and creatures strike out at whomever is nearest, regardless
of loyalty.  Extremely effective against the likes of rats and orcs, Quas An
Wis loses much of its impact against more intelligent monsters, which are
often capable of recognizing and resisting it.
     A mix of rare mandrake root and nightshade, the cloud of Quas An Wis
works only for experienced mages.

WIS AN YLEM                                  KNOWLEDGE OF NEGATED MATTER

     Adept magicians are relied upon, not only to aid in battle and to repair
wounds, but to guide their party wisely.  Wis An Ylem provides the necessary
insight by making the hidden, apparent.  For an instant, the caster may see
through the densest forest, the tallest mountain, the most solid rock.  No
wall can be too thick, no door too heavy, and no night too dark.
     Requiring intensity of concentration, Wis An Ylem cannot be maintained
for more than a flash of time.  Thick, mature mandrake root mus be combined
with sulphurous ash in clear rain water.  Boil the mixture until it becomes
steam and capture the steam in a small glass box.  Open the box as the spell
is uttered.


   THE SEVENTH CIRCLE


IN NOX HUR                                   CREATE A POISON WIND

     A cone of poisonous wind emanates from the hands of an agile wizard when
In Nox Hur is cast, widening as it moves forward and sickening all in its
path--friend or foe.  Quite effective against many kinds of creatures, In Nox
Hur is dangerous to use since the slightest error can destroy comrades as well
as foes.  Only the most dextrous should attempt it.
     Nightshade is required, in great quantity, along with blood moss,
thoroughly crushed, and sulphurous ash, as dry as possible.

IN QUAS CORP                                 CREATE AN ILLUSION OF DEATH

     Illusion is a dangerous tool and In Quas Corp creates a powerful
illusion.  Suddenly, in the eyes of all creatures not intelligent enough to
recognize the illusion, each party member may be made to appear as a
twelve-foot giant, with a sword like a guillotine and a staff like a tree
trunk.  Fear strikes foes to the cores of their beings.  They shriek and flee.
     In Quas Corp is expensive.  The dust that must fill the atmosphere as the
spell is cast contains both powerful mandrake root and hallucinogenic
nightshade.  Simple garlic adds to the distastefulness of the experience for
the foe.

IN QUAS WIS                                  CREATE AN ILLUSION FOR KNOWLEDGE

     Travelers in Britannia tell of magical gems that transport the vision of
one gazing into their depths to a viewpoint thousands of feet above the land,
like that of an eagle suspended in flight.  It is an illusion and reality.
The change of viewpoint of illusion, but the knowledge provided is real.
Powerful mages can replicate these miraculous effects through magic.
     In Quas Wis requires only two ingredients to create its illusion.  Only
the most powerful mandrake root with work for this spell; and only the most
convoluted stems of nightshade.  Mix the two in dark of night with seven drops
of ice cold spring water.  Let the moisture evaporate, then place the
shimmering powder in a cloth sack.
     When intoning In Quas Wis, cast the powder high to view the world about
as if from the air.  If cast within a towne, building, or dungeon, all the
detail of that level will be revealed.

IN QUAS XEN                                  CREATE AN ILLUSIONARY CREATURE

     Another powerful combat spell is In Quas Xen.  By means of illusion, this
spell duplicates friend or foe, in every detail.  Although the new creature is
an illusion, it fights, bleeds, cares, exactly as its original.
     When a friend is cloned, the original and duplicate are still joined.
Injury to each is felt by the other, death to one destroys the other.  Yet the
two are physically separate; they have independent turns in battle and may
work together to vanquish a foe.
     When a hostile creature is duplicated, no connection between copy and
original seems to remain.  Pain to a monster's clone is not felt by the
monster; and the death of the creature does not remove the clone.
     The power of mandrake root is essential to this spell; as are the
illusionary properties of nightshade.  To mature root add spider silk to bind
and ginseng to heal; mix with the living energy of sulphurous ash and add
blood moss for animation.
     When casting the spell, fling the glittering sand that results into the
air.  The wind will catch the granules, and where the first ones touches the
earth, there shall the clone arise.

SANCT LOR                                    PROTECT FROM LIGHT

     Sanct Lor affects the path of light, bending it around the caster, so it
may continue on.  The result is the illusion that the caster is not there.
     Mix mandrake root and nightshade picked in absolute darkness with blood
moss to bend the light.  It is essential that, while intoning this spell, none
see any indication of its casting.  Speak without moving lips.

XEN CORP                                     CREATURE DEATH

     Regardless of the strength, size, or endurance of a foe, Xen Corp will
overcome it.  Only a creature with intelligence capable of greater
concentration than that used in the casting, and capable of recognizing the
intent before the spell is completed, has a chance of escaping death when
assailed by Xen Corp.
     Mix nightshade that has never seen light with the blackest pearl.  Pour
the powder into a small lead capsule and seal with black wax.  While intoning
the spell, hurl the capsule at the foe selected for destruction.


   THE EIGHTH CIRCLE


AN TYM                                       NEGATE TIME

     Perhaps the most difficult of spells, An Tym appears to stop time itself.
For eons, scholars of thaumaturgy have tried to learn the secret of
controlling the universe, and the more they discovered, the more convinced
they became that they could never control this power even if they understood
it.  It is a tribute to the brilliance and creativity of Britannian minds that
experts, undaunted by their failures, simply turned the problem around and
found a way to achieve every advantage of briefly controlling time without
actually controlling it at all.
     Those capable of this spell will witness their foes paralyzed in
midmotion.  After a few moments, all returns to normal, just as though time
had actually stopped and started up again.  However, the caster's party
remains active throughout the spell.
     An Tym requires a mixture of mandrake root, well preserved blood moss,
and a garlic clove.

IN FLAM HUR                                  CREATE A FLAME WIND

     In Flam Hur causes the wind itself to catch fire and devastate all in its
path.  Those who intone this spell can direct the flaming wind in a deadly
spreading wedge.  All creatures in the path of this wedge are severely burned;
few ever survive.  Careless direction of In Flam Hur over one's own companions
may result in their deaths as well.
     Sulphurous ash, blood moss, and mandrake root combine best for this spell
in an iron cauldron over great heat.

IN MANI CORP                                 CREATE LIFE FROM DEATH

     There are many rewards for hard work and concentrated practice.  For
practiced wizards, having attained the eighth circle, there is the reward of
being able to reverse death itself.  Resurrection requires such total
concentration and peace of mind that it should never be attempted on the
harried field of battle.
     To mix, place a mandrake root in a sieve in a fresh water spring on a
sunlit day.  One by one, add garlic, to keep away ills and evil, spider silk
for binding the life forces together, ginseng for healing, sulphurous ash for
the spark of life, and blood moss to animate the spirit.
     Remove the sieve from the spring and let the mixture dry.  A small
crystal will form from the drying mass.  to revive a companion, place the
crystal on the friend's forehead and intone In Mani Corp.  The resurrected
person will be weak and in need of further assistance.

IN VAS GRAV CORP                             CREATE A GREAT ENERGY OF DEATH

     In Vas Grav Corp is the most powerful instrument of death yet devised.
This spell lays waste to every living creature in its path unless the creature
be exempt from the natural laws of this world or be of strong enough intellect
to resist the spell.
     Mandrake root must be gathered on a dark night during a lightning storm.
It must be marinated in slime from stagnant mosquito fens and wrapped in
nightshade, which must have been picked at midnight in total darkness.  This
package should be rolled in sulphurous ash and left on a grave overnight.  If
it is not discovered, it is ready to be dried into stringy dreadlocks of
death.

KAL XEN CORP                                 CALL A CREATURE OF DEATH

     Kal Xen Corp resembles Kal Xen, but its summons has far greater
complexity and power.  Kal Xen Corp calls forth a daemon.  But only an
experienced wizard is able to devote the concentration needed to bind the
daemon's allegiance and prevent it from turning on his party.  Then, although
the daemon cannot use its own powers of possession, it can hurl great balls of
fire across long distances to smite foes.
     Mandrake root, gathered as near as possible to entrances to dungeons,
pits, and other vile holes, is the base of this spell.  Add garlic, blood
moss, and the strongest spider silk.  Meld the lot together letting the
moisture of the root act as a binding.  Now shape the mixture into the form of
the winged daemon.  Raise the icon to the sky, intone this spell, and hear it
calling its own.

VAS REL POR                                  GATE TRAVEL

     A moongate traveler cannot rely on magic alone.  The knowledge of the
influence of the moon's phases is also required.  Take a black pearl and shine
it well.  Bury the pearl in a clean piece of mandrake root.  Sprinkle the
whole with sulphurous ash and expose the conglomeration to the moons during
one night.  In morning it will be a fine silver powder.
     To travel, cast the powder in the direction of the gate to be reached
while speaking the name of that gate's town followed by "Vas Rel Por."
Immediately drop to the ground and meditate on the proper phases of the moon
for that gate.  Instantly, the party will be there.



CHAPTER 16.  AFTERWORD

   EDITOR'S NOTE:

     Between the time this volume originally went to press and the time
galleys arrive for final alterations, Lord British was lost while on an
expedition to explore the newly discovered underworld.  Days before we were
to print, Lord Blackthron declared martial law to deal with the general
unrest in the wake of British's disappearance.  The Ethics section of this
book has been added to reflect the new measures imposed by Blackthorn.

   ETHICS

     The Ethics of Britannia, or the accepted measure of proper behavior, were
long based on the Way of the Avatar.  As time progressed, the lessons of this
historic tale came to be interpreted in many ways.  In fact, many people
interpreted the Way of the Avatar in ways that wouldn't require them to strive
to uphold these virtues.
     Now, Lord Blackthorn, acting king of all Britannia, has enacted a Code of
Virtue that leaves no room for misinterpretation.

   1.  Thou shalt not lie, or thou shalt lose thy tongue.

   2.  Thou shalt help those in need, or thou shalt suffer the same need.

   3.  Thou shalt fight to the death if challenged, or thou shalt be banished
         as a coward.

   4.  Thou shalt confess to thy crime and suffer its just punishment, or thou
         shalt be put to death.

   5.  Thou shalt donate half of thy income to charity, or thou shalt have no
         income.

   6.  If thou dost lose thine own honor, thou shalt take thine own life.

   7.  Thou shalt enforce the laws of virtue, or thou shalt die as a heretic.

   8.  Thou shalt humble thyself to thy superiors, or thou shalt suffer their
         wrath.



----------------------------------------------------------------------------


     Well, there she is.  I can't feel anything below my wrists, and I don't
think there's any Strohs left in the fridge...so you damn well better enjoy
this...


             as always,

                 The Mouser      (ring us up at Sietch Tabr)