                       ULTIMATE SOCCER MANAGER
                       -----------------------
                          Supplied by Tails
                        Typed by Pixie/Divine
                           Format by TWeeky


                               CONTENTS

                 Installation and loading instruction
                          Starting the game
                           The main screen
                         The managers office
                         The chairmans office
                               The bank
                               Training
                        Shops and Restaurants
                              Match day
                            Technical tips
                           Before you call
                           Customer Support

  AMIGA and 1200

 Floppy disk users should insert disk1  and switch your machine on.The
 game will automatically start to load  and  you will be  prompted for
 the other disk(s) when required.

 A1200 Hard Drive users should boot  your  machine from the hard drive
 as usual, then insert disk3. Double  click on the HDInstall icon that
 apperars in the window. Follow the  on screen instructions to type in
 the drawer name and insert the other disks when prompted.

 A500 Hard Drive users should  boot  from  your  machine from the hard
 drive as usual, and then insert disk1.  Double click on the disk icon
 and then double click on  the  HDInstall  that appears in the window.
 follow the on screen  instructions  to  type  in  the drawer name and
 insert the other disk when prompted.

 To start the game, all  hard  drive  users  should boot from the hard
 drive as usual, open the drawer where you installed the game and then
 double click on the game icon to load USM.

   STARTING THE GAME

 On loading the game,  after  the  opening  screens,  you will have to
 choose which team to manage and whether to adapt the team statistics.
 You can choose  any  team  from  the  conference  to the premiership.
 Highlight your choice by clicking on  the club name or scroll through
 the list using the arrows.

 You may like to change some of  the  names and statistics of the team
 members, particularly as some players  may  have swapped clubs by the
 time you purchased this game. You  are  able to change any statistics
 of any of the teams. This is  the  only time during the game that the
 players statistics can be changed,  so  choose  wisely. Click on EDIT
 and then on each of the member of the team you wish to edit. When you
 have finished, you can choose  to  save  the statistics or reload the
 default selection by clicking on DISK.  In future game games you will
 then be able to load in your  edited  teams at the start of every new
 game. The default teams  with  their  pre-set  statistics can also be
 loaded in at the start of the game.

 When you are happy with your editing,  highlight the name of the club
 you wish to manage and click SELECT.

  STARTING CASH

 You are presented with a choice of starting capital. This will decide
 how tricky the game is.  Obviously  starting  with £5,000,000 will be
 far less of  a  challenge  than  with  £250,000,  whichever  club you
 select.

 Click on the amount you want.

  COMMERCIAL GAME ON/OFF

 Choose to play with this turned on and  it will be up to you to build
 and run your own shops, restaurants, and stalls. Financial considera-
 tions can make or  break  a  manager  so  be  sure  you're  up to the
 challenge. If you  choose  to  play  without  this  option,  then the
 assistant manager will handle all of  this for you, prompting when he
 thinks that more building work is necessary.

  MUSIC AND SOUND OPTIONS

 Choose whether to play with sound  and/or music enabled. Pressing F10
 during the game will also toggle these options on or off.

  RIGGING ON/OFF

 Allows you to  play  it  dirty  if  you  choose.  Obviously no normal
 manager would resort to these tactics - would they?

  ANIMS ON/OFF

 Turning animations off will increase the  speed of the game. This can
 also be activated during the game by pressing F8.

  PLAYER HISTORY ON/OFF

 Leave this option set to OFF if playing from floppy drives. This will
 reduce the disk access times, as stats from previous seasons will not
 be available.


  MAIN SCREEN.

 This screen shows you the extent  of   your  empire.  If you start as a
 small club, then your facilities  won't   be   too impressive, but as you
 grow, your stands, shops, offices  will  all   grow  with you. As you move
 the mouse pointer over different   buildings   or   areas the text at the
 bottom will tell  you  which  building   is   wich.   Whilst  on this screen,
 pressing F9 will toggle  the   font   between   two styles, so choose your
 favourite.

 The screens that you  can   directly   access  from  this  screen are as
 follows:

  BANK

  YOUR OFFICE

  THE CHARMANS OFFICE

  MATCH DAY OPTIONS

  BUSINESSES

  TRAINING

 At any time you can right  click  with  your mouse and gain access to the
 'FAST ICONC'.  These take you to   the   spots   in the game in which you
 will be spending most of your  time.   Click  on any of the following and
 go straight there.

  MATCH OPTIONS

  MANAGERS OFFICE

  CHARMANS OFFICE

  BANIK MANAGER

  IMPRESSIONS TEXT

  DISK OPTIONS

  TRAINING GROUND

  ACCOUNTS

  FILING CABINETS

  FAX MACHINE

  NOTICE BOARD

  NEWSPAPER REPORTS



  MANAGERS OFFICE.

 This is your office  where  you  will  carry  out most of your managerial
 duties.

  FAX.

 Transfer  list:  The  transfer  list   will   show  all  the  players currently
 on the market  and  thier   values.    Player  statistics  can easily be
 accessed from here by clicking  STATS.    If   you want a closer look at
 the  player,  clicking  on  'VIEW'  will  take  you  to  the  players
 individual details.  From here,  you  can   make   an  offer.   The  offer
 must be acceptable to the player and the  club,  but it's always worth trying
 a bit of negotiation to get a cheaper deal.

  ARRANGING FRIENDLIES.

 At the start of  the   season   you   might   like  to  arrange up to four
 friendly matches.  This is  useful   for   assessing the strengths of all
 the members of your  squad   and   how   they   perform together as a team.
 Scroll through the divisions by  clicking   on  the arrows.  When you see
 a match-up that might  prove  interesting,  click  on that club.  You will
 then have to select  the  date   that   you   would  like  to play on and
 whether to play home or  away.   Bear  in  mind that only clubs below your
 division will accept friendlies  (except  if  you  are in the conference).

  APPROACH PLAYER.

 If you would like to  buy   a   player   who   is not on the transfer list,
 clicking this button will allow you   to  approach  any player in the 5
 divisions.  Bear in mind that  if  he  is  a particularly good player then
 his club may not want to lose him.

  VIEW FAXES.

 This will show  all  the  faxes  that   you  recieve  -  from players agents,
 coaches, the council, the FA or the chairman.

  PHONE.

 The phone is used for  the  shadier  side  of your business dealings. Use
 it to ensure victory  or  to  increase  your  cash.   The majority of people
 in the league are  scrupulously   honest,   so   be  very careful who you
 offer money  to.   If  you  go   to   far   and  the  'FA'  start  to
 investigate you, you could lose your job or your liberty.

  RIG MATCH.

 If matches aren't going your way, and  you  realy need a win, then as a
 last resort you can offer the  opposing   team a large cash incentive to
 lose.  Click on  'RIG MATCH'  and  then  choose  the amount you would like
 to offer.  Click  on  'OFFER'  and  see  the  response.   If the club accepts
 the money, then your  chances   of   winning   increase.  Beware that this
 will not always mean that you will get the result that you want.

  OFFER BUNG.

 If you are having  problems  signing   a   player  you  want,  it may be
 beneficial to offer the players  manager  a  large 'BUNG' to persuade him
 to change his mind.  After  selecting   'OFFER BUNG' chose which club to
 make the offer to,  and  then  the   amount   that  you would like to offer.
 If the club  accepts,  then  the   chances   of  him  now accepting a tranfer
 bid are higher.

  PLACE BET.

 Highlight the win, lose draw  line   and   then enter the amount that you
 want to gamble.

  ANSWEREPHONE.

 Messages from you bookmaker, if you  choose  to use him, will be left on
 your machine.

  NOTICES.

 TEAM: This shows your current team selection.

 FIXTURES: This lists all the  fixtures  for  the  season, and as time goes
 by the results of past  matches.   Click   on the previous matches to see
 fuller details displayed.

 VARIOUS: As your  season   progresses,   messages   will  appear from your
 chairman, the  bank   manager,   the   local   council   and  various other
 people.  Keep a  sharp  eye  out  as  they  could  be  vital  to your
 survival.

  FILES.

 The filing cabinet is where  you   go   to   check  on the player and club
 records.  You can transfer   players   and   sort   out new contracts from
 here.  To transfer list  a   new   player,   click   on  his name and then
 select 'LIST'.  The player will  then   be   made available for sale, and
 offers for him will  come  in  due   course,  which  you can chose to accept
 or reject.  If you need money  badly   you  can  chose to 'FAST SELL' a
 player instead.  This will mean that  a  much  lower fee will be paid for
 the player,  but  the   money   will   be   yours   instantly.   If a
 player's contract runs out then   he   will   automatically  listed and
 offers may start to come in.    Be   careful   about  rejecting  offers, 
 because the players may choose  to  go  and   the   final  fee  will  be 
 decided by tribunal.

 PLAYER: Gives all the  details  of  every  member  of your squad from thier
 statistics to their happiness.

 CLUB: All the club details,  showing   league  and cup positions over the
 past years, top scorers and ground  details.  Click on 'GRAPH' to see a
 chart of your progress in the  league  and 'TRANSFER' to see a record of
 all your transfer deals at your current club.

 MANAGER: Shows your personal record over the years.

 MISC: Shows the vital  performance   ratings,   seaason ticket sales, and
 staff details.  The  performance  ratings  show   the  opinion of the fans,
 the  chairman,  the  bank  manager    and   the  players,  which  all
 contribute to your overall job security.

  IMPRESSIONS TEXT.

 On your TV is huge  array  of   statistics   about the season so far. You
 can look at the fixtures and  form  of every team from the conference to
 the premiership.  The Fast  buttons  will   let   you  move about the pages
 with the minimum effort.

  FIXTURES:   Shows   all   league,   domestic    cup   and   European matches
 sheduled.

  RESULTS:  Shows the last match day results.

  LEAGUE TABLES:  Shows current league tables for all divisions.

  CURRENT FORM:  The clubs with the best current run of form.

  TOP SCORERS:  The top marksmen for the season.

  TOP PLAYERS:  Who are the best performing players in each division.

  NEWSPAPERS.

 Newspaper reports will give   a   detailed   description   of some of your
 games, letters from  fans,   and   the   occasional   scoop.  Reading these
 reports can give you an idea   as   to   your  success in the eyes of the
 public.  Remember that  your,  charman,   bank   manager, players and fans
 will  also  read  the   papers    so    be   careful  when  answering journalists
 questions after the game.

   CHAIRMAN.

 Each club needs a sponsor to  survive.   The lower divisions may find it
 tricky to get a  good   deal,   whilst   the   premiership teams will often
 have to turn offers down.  If you  turn   an offer down, you may have to
 wait for  some  time  before  another  offer   comes  your  way  - be careful!!
 If you are in the middle  of  a   season and still without a sponsor, the
 chairman may start to get a little nervous.

  ADVERTISEMENTS.

 As your stadium   grows,   so   the   opportunities   for  selling ad space
 around the  pitch   increases.    Choose   the   best   deal  from  a large
 selection or let  your   assistant   manager   shoulder  the problem. His
 choice maynot always be as  good  as   yours,  but at least the funds will
 keep flowing.

 TICKET PRICES.

 Price s  are  crucial  to   wheather   your  club  gets  the  support it
 deserves.  Too high and no-one  will   come   to  watch.  Too low and you
 may start to  lose  out  on   the   cash.   Remember  to  keep prices at
 friendlies low, and to milk big cup ties for all they're worth.

  ATTENDANCE GRAPHS.

 Click on the buttons  on  the   left   of   the   ticket panel to see graphs
 that show your  attendance  and  income   at  all  your home matches. Watch
 the graphs closely  as  you  will  see   the  effect  of prices, your current
 form and the style  you  chose   to   play.   The  fans  like  to see an
 attractive game, but they also  need  to   see  you win! Don't forget that
 the figures for  attendance   include   season   ticket   holders and those
 fans with 'free' tickets, which do not bring in weakly income.

  GROUND IMPROVEMENTS.

 Improving  your  stands   and   stadium   facilities   is   extremely simple.
 Clicking on  this  icon  brings  you  into  the  improvements screen. Choose
 to  either  improve   your   grandstands,   commercial  properties, catering
 outlets or the car parking and  roads.    Click   on one of these and the
 particular options will appear.

 When building stands select which side  of  the stadium to develop by,
 North, South, East or West, and   then   click   on the type of stand you
 would like to build.  The 'ghosted' options are unavailable.

 For buildings, choose  which  type   of   structure  you  would  like to
 purchase and click on  it.   Then  possition  the  building where you like.
 Buildings that obscure your  view  will  automatically reduce so that you
 have a  clearer  view.    Left   click   when   you  are  happy  with the
 possition.  If you want to   construct   two  similar buildings, move to
 the new possition and  left  click   again.    When you are satisfied that
 you have placed enough   buildings,   right   clicking  will give you the
 chance to confirm  or  cancel.   Buildings   will  take  some time to build,
 depending on thier size.

  STANDS.

 Better facilities  mean   that   more   fans   will   come   to  your matches.
 Improved stands will mean that  you  can  charge that little bit more for
 tickets  and   it   could   make   all  the  difference  on  your financial
 scoresheet.

  COMMERCIAL.

 As  crowds  grow  so  will   thier    appetite   for  all  your  club
 merchandise.
 Set up shops, programme stands and stalls to stisfy them.

  CATERING

 From burgers to haute cuisine  people  will  always want to eat. Make
 sure that  they  eat  at  the  ground  with  keen  prices  and enough
 differing venues.

  ROADS/PARKING

 It's no use having all the facilities if no-one can get to them. Make
 sure that all the various parts  of  your stadium can be accesses via
 the road. Watch the little men who  wander  about, if none of them go
 where you have placed your  new  building,its  possible that they can
 access it.

 Roads do not have to pass the front  of a building, but must touch at
 least one side to be  affective.  The  more  car  parks you have, the
 easier people will find it coming to your matches.

  DEMOLISHING BUILDINGS

 If you are unhappy with the way  any parts of your club grounds look,
 then use the 'Demolish' option to get  rid  of them. There is no cost
 involved, but you will have to  pay  the  full price for any building
 you put in the same place.

  MAINTAIN BUILDING

 Your buildings will have to  be  maintained  as  you empire ages, and
 will rise  accordingly.  As  buildings  get  larger  there equivalent
 maintenance costs rise. This is  set  initially to 100% coverage, but
 if money is tight this may be  a  good (but risky) place to find some
 quick money. As  the  buildings  age,  it  may  be  cost effective to
 demolish them and replace them  with  a brand new structure. Remember
 that if your stands are being  rebuilt, your ticket sales will reduce
 as capacity falls.


  BANK.

 The bank manager will be keeping a  sharp eye on your progress, so it
 is worthwhile keeping him happy. If  you  need  to borrow money for a
 top player, a good record in this office will be vital.

  APPLY FOR A LOAN

 If your cash flow is good enough  you may be granted a loan, although
 you will be assessed as to  your highest possible monthly repayments.
 Spread the loan up to  nine  years  for  larger amounts, but interest
 rate will probably quite high.

  REPAY LOAN

 If you have the cash, it  is  probably  wise  to pay off your loan as
 soon as possible.

  OVERDRAFT LIMIT

 You can apply for an overdraft limit, and depending on your financial
 position,can then spend money you don't have.

  VIEW ACCOUNTS

 Toggle between your weekly and annual accounts

  DEPOSIT ACCOUNT

 Move your money between current and  deposit  accounts to make use of
 any changes in the interest rates.


  TRAINING

 This part of the game is important if you want to keep your promotion
 and cup dreams intact. Make  sure  you  have enough coaches to fulfil
 all the training obligations.  As  players  statistics  rise, so will
 there value, so it is worth employing the best coaches to train them.
 Skills will only improve slowly over  time,  so be patient. Also bear
 in mind that a players age will  have an influence on his performance
 and his capacity to  improve  through  training.  Make  sure that all
 injuries are treated straight away  to  shorten the time your players
 are out.

  PLAYER DETAILS/GRAPHS

 Using the graph option gives you the  quickest way to see your team's
 strengths and weaknesses. Click on  the  buttons  at  the top of each
 column to see  a  graph  comparing  the  chosen  skill  for  all your
 players. Click the right mouse button to get the numbers back.

  AVAILABLE COACHES

 Shows all the coaches willing to work for you. The amount and quality
 of coaches that apply for jobs  will  be affected by the clubs status
 but also information  that  they  receive  from  your currant coaches
 regarding wages and workloads.

 Once you have hired  a  coach,  his  name  will appear under 'Current
 Coaches'. To get him to train  a  player,  make sure that his name is
 highlighted and then click on the  number (or graph) representing the
 skill of the player you wish  to  improve.  For example, to get coach
 harris to train player Smith's  shooting  skills, you would highlight
 Coach Harris and then click on  the actual number which shows Smith's
 current shooting skill. The number (or  graph) you clicked on and the
 players name will then change to the  same colour as the coaches name
 so that you can see, at a glance, who is doing what.

  ASSISTANT ADVICE

 Instead  of  handling  all  the  training  work  yourself,  let  your
 assistant make some suggestions. They may  not always be perfect, but
 it will save you time.

  INJURY LIST

 Show all injured players, the type  of  injury and the time needed to
 recover. The recovery period  is  the  time  taken  for the injury to
 heal. After  the  injury  heals,  then  the  fitness  will  start  to
 increase. The recovery time  can  be  reduced  by assigning a fitness
 coach to that player.

 Once you have employed some coaches, clicking on there names will let
 you increase their wages, sack them if  they're not much good, or use
 them as scouts.

 When acting as a scout, you can  detail  him to search for players in
 all the divisions and also Europe.  Specify which leagues to look in,
 what strengths you need and how much you are willing to pay. When you
 have found a player you like  the  look  of, order the scout to watch
 him for a few matches. In a couple  of  weeks you will be able to ask
 the scout for his report which  will  tell you how your chosen player
 is performing. A'*' next to a  coaches  name  indicates that he has a
 report available for you to see.


  SHOPS

 With commercial game on, it will be up to you to decide when to build
 a new shops and restaurants, so keep an eye on the performance graphs
 of all you properties.

 LOCAL/FULL PRICES

 If you click on a shop or  a  restaurant on the main screen, you will
 be able to see its prices, sales and profit margin. The first figures
 you will see are the 'local'  details.  These  are the details of the
 particular shop/stall that you have  selected.  If  you would like to
 see how all the shops/stalls of that type are performing, clicking on
 ALL will show you. To quickly see  the full prices, sales and profits
 of all your  goods/services,  click  on  FULL.  On  all these screens
 clicking on the name of the goods will  bring up a graph of sales and
 profits,so you can see market trends and profits per unit.

  MATCH DAY OPTIONS

 This is where all the  action  is!  All  your off pitch exploits will
 come to nothing if the team isn't up to scratch.

 TEAM FORMATION (THE HOME BENCH)

 Choose your playing style from  all  the options available and select
 the formation best suited  to  your  players.  You can switch players
 around in a formation simply by clicking on their name and 'carrying'
 the name to a new  position,  then  clicking. This will automatically
 swap the players around.

 TEAM SELECTION (THE CHANGING ROOM)


 Choose your side with care, as only the subs that you select now will
 be able to come on during  the  game. The assistant manager will help
 with team selection, formation choice  and  training decisions if you
 need it. Changing players in  and  out  of  the  team is as simple as
 clicking on one player to highlight him  and clicking on SWAP POS and
 then clicking where you want him to go.

 VIEW OPPOSITION (THE AWAY BENCH)

 Lets you see the  opposition's  current  form,  their position in the
 table and their playing styles.  Adapt  your  own  styles to suit the
 occasion. To see  the  statistics  of  any  of  the opposing players,
 simply click on his name. This may be useful in the match to spot the
 main threats of the opposition's attack.

 When you are completely happy with  your selection click on the START
 MATCH (if you in one of the tactical screens), or simply click on the
 referee which will get you in to  the  action. As the players move on
 to the field you have a number of options.

 SETUP

 Tell your players how to play individually during the match. Clicking
 on each player will bring up their  statistics and lets you give them
 instructions. Attackers  and  midfielders  can  be  told  to  operate
 up,back,left or right. Defenders can also be given man-to-man marking
 responsibilities for any opposition  player  you nominate. Positional
 instructions will not 'completely' change  the way the players moves,
 but rather it allows you to fine tune your chosen formation.

 If you want your players  to  follow  the  same instructions you gave
 them in the last game you played, click on PREVIOUS instead of SETUP

 KICK OFF

 Start the match straight away with  no prematch instructions. You can
 still give instructions to  the  players  from the touchlines though,
 and make substitutions whenever the  ball  goes  dead. After the kick
 off you can press the 'R'  button  at  anytime. This will show a slow
 motion action replay of the last few seconds of action.

 INSTANT

 Will generate a result  immediately.  Be  wary  of using this option,
 even if the game is a  foregone  conclusion.  Too many teams have not
 paid enough respect to seemingly  lowly opposition, especially in cup
 games By fully playing the match, it at least gives you the chance to
 throw players forward, put new attackers on etc, especially if a late
 goal is needed.

 CANCEL

 Takes you back to the selection  screens  to  draft new players in to
 your team or for last minute changes.

 Once you have kicked off,  you  can  still  issue instructions to the
 team Click on any team member and  issue  your orders. If the game is
 in motion, your selected player will be ringed by a black circle that
 is extremely useful for watching  individual players during the game.
 You can pause the game at any time  by clicking on PAUSE. If you want
 to speed up the action click on  the  arrows to the right of NORM. To
 slow down again, use the arrows on the left. Speed can be NORMAL, X2,
 X4, and X8.

 substitutions can only be made when  the  ball  is dead. Click on SUB
 and it will be highlighted. The  next  time  that  the ball is out of
 play you will be able  to  bring  on  subs,  change your formation or
 change your style. After 40 minutes of playing time, you will be able
 to see the player's match performance rating  next to his name in the
 subs screen. This is useful for  deciding  who needs replacing in the
 line up.

 In the event  of serious injury or red cards being shown, you will be
 taken straight to the  subs  screen  where  you  can decide your next
 move. This may involve switching  players  around in the formation to
 cover a missing player or simply using your two substitutes.

 On the final whistle, the result will be shown on a panel. Also shown
 will be goalscorers, serious  injuries  sustained  and red and yellow
 cards received. From here you can choose to see the player statistics
 or go straight to the results service. These statistics show how each
 individual player (including the opposition) has performed. From this
 you will be able to  see  who  plays  best  in different positions or
 styles.

  SAVING YOUR GAME

 To save your game click on the  disk  icon on the fast icon bar. This
 will bring up the file requester. Choose which slot (from 0 to 9) you
 wish to use and enter a name for the saved game when prompted.

 Amiga floppy disk users will  need  a  blank formatted disk available
 for every game you wish to save. Only one saved game will fit on each
 disk.



 end of file


 typed by Pixie/Divine with a little help from Tweeky