                      D E F J A M - A N G E L S

                           P R E S E N T S

                      DOC TO: THE ULTIMATE RIDE

                      BY : MR.THOMPSON / DEFJAM

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
WHAT YOU NEED
-------------
Amiga 500,1000,2000,3000             Atari ST-520,1040 and STE range
1 or 2 joysticks                     1 or 2 joysticks

Recommended extras : An additional disk drive
                     1 meg of internal ram

GETTING STARTED
---------------
Atari ST - If playing with one disk drive, insert the Master Disk into
           Drive A. For two disk drive systems, insert the Master disk
           into drive A and the Scenery Disk into drive B.
           You will have to switch between the Master Disk and the Bike
           Disk in the main drive.
           If you are using a double-sided disk drive with your ST, you
           can reduce the amount of disk switching required by doing the
           following :
           (a) Format a double-sided disk on your ST.
           (b) File Copy all files from the Master Disk to the new
               double-sided disk.
           (c) File Copy all files from the Bike Disk to the new
               double-sided disk, ignoring any duplicate files.
           Refer to your TOS manual for more information on copying
           files and disks. You can now boot with the new double-sided
           disk. When the program asks for the Bike Disk, simply press
           the fire button to confirm, as it's already in the drive along
           with the contents of the Master Disk.
Amiga    - If playing with one drive, insert the Master Disk into the
           internal drive. For two disk drive systems, insert the Master
           Disk into the internal drive and the Scenery Disk into the
           external drive.

CONTROLLERS
-----------
All main game screen selections are made by joystick 1, which is also
used for the one player mode. Joystick 2 is used only during a two player
game when the second player chooses his/her bike.

TITLE AND INTRODUCTION SCREENS
------------------------------
Any of the title screens can be bypassed by pressing the fire button of
the joystick on the first couple of screens. This will take you to the
Main Option Screen.

MAIN OPTION SCREEN
------------------
The arrow pointer is moved with the joystick. Pressing fire will select
one of the options if the arrow is inside the option box.
 Pressing Normal Game proceeds to the Player Select Screen
 Pressing Custom Disk loads a previously created custom game disk.
 Pressing Make Custom allows the user to create an original custom game
disk from a previously formatted floppy disk. To do this, format a blank
disk before booting the game, and then make your player, bike and course
choices as you would in a normal game. The program will instruct you
along the way on how to complete the custom disk process.
 Note that you can't boot the custom disk. You must first boot the Master
Disk and then insert the custom disk when requested (on Atari ST, your
custom disk is now a combination of the Bike Disk and the Scenery Disk.

PLAYER SELECT SCREEN
--------------------
One Player  - Chooses single player mode.
Two Players - Chooses head-to-head split screen mode for two players

BIKE SELECT SCREEN
------------------
Each player (one or two) must choose a bike to ride, a set of tyres and
transmission type before continuing to choose the course.
 The Player currently choosing is indicated by the flashing PLAYER sign on
the bottom right corner of the screen.
 Pressing fire once within a bike picture temporarily selects that bike
for your ride. The selected bike will be highlighted by a yellow box
around the bike image.
 Pressing fire within a bike picture already selected will show the
performance statistics of that bike. Press fire from the statistics
screen to return to the Bike Select Screen.
 Pressing within the tyre picture cycles through the various choices of
tyres for your bike. Each tyre has different wet and dry handling
characteristics.
 Pressing on the transmission picture selects between standard shift(a
joystick) and automatic shift(shown by a joystick with four arrows
pointing out from it.)
 Pressing the OK button selects that bike, tire and transmission choice
for that player. The player can now enter a name under which to ride.
Press "ESCape" to abort the current choice.

COURSE SELECT SCREEN
--------------------
 The player(s) now have to choose which course to ride on, which will
be either a race track ("Track") course or a road ("Street") course.
 On Track courses, the rider must first qualify in a two lap qualifying
run which determines starting position, and then race against five other
bikes for a spot on the winner's podium.
 On Street courses, the rider is in a cannonball run against the clock,
traffic and maybe another player (in head-to-head mode).
 There are six Track courses and six Street courses. The current selected
course is displayed in the upper left corner. Each players' chosen bike
is shown below the course picture.
 Pressing the up and down arrows cycles through the current set of
streets or tracks.
 Pressing Street or Track will alternate between these types of courses.
 Pressing Normal will choose predesigned course settings. In this mode
players can attempt to break the existing world records for a given
course. In normal mode players can't change the settings listed below.
 Pressing Custom will allow players to choose their own course settings,
but will not allow the players to set world records. (that would be too
easy...because there's no challenge to a straight, short road.)
The course settings can only by changed in Custom mode. All setting
values range from a minimum of 0 (or more...) to maximum of 50.

 For tracks, the settings affect the following :

*Difficulty   - determines the top speed of other race bikes on track. If
                set in the middle the other racers are about even with
                you, if set less then middle they are slower, and if set
                higher then middle they are faster. This value also
                determines the difficulty of qualifying.
*Weather      - determines the chance of rain on the track. 0 means no
                rain, 50 means a definite downpour.
*Obstructions - no effect on race tracks.
*Length       - maximum length of randomly generated course, from start to
                finish line (minimum 10)
*Laps         - number of laps of the course tocomplete the race (minimum
                1 lap)
*Curves       - number and sharpness of curves on the course (minimum 5)
*Hills        - number and steepness of hills on the course

 For road courses, the settings have the same effect as for
the track courses, except the following variations:

*Difficulty   - determines the number of other cars on the road, from 1 to
                20 other cars. It also determines the top speed and
                aggressiveness of police cars. This setting also creates a
                random number of tunnels on the road, from 1 to 4. Tunnels
                only appear if both curve and hill settings are under 22.
*Obstructions - Determines the amount of road construction and wildlife on
                the road construction and wildlife on the road.

SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE COURSE SELECT SCREEN
--------------------------------------------
 Pressing the KEEP button will keep the last randomly generated course
which was ridden. This is useful if you like the current course layout but
want to change only the difficulty, weather, obstructions or laps.
 In the middle of the course select screen is a cluster of option buttons:
 Pressing the upper left button of the cluster will turn most full colour
ROADSIDE OBJECTS into darker SILHOUETTES. This speeds up gameplay and
response time considerably.*
 Pressing the lower left button of the cluster will turn all ROAD VEHICLES
into SILHOUETTES.*
 Pressing the upper right button of the cluster will turn off TUNNELS.
Tunnels only appear in Custom mode if curves and hills are both set below
22. This makes the course a bit less dangerous (and less challenge, too.)
 Pressing the lower right button of the cluster will turn on SMART MIRRORS.
When not set, the bike's mirrors will always display the road behind the
bike. The effect of Smart Mirrors is that the bike's mirrors will only
show detailed images when there is a vehicle close behind you. This speeds
up gameplay and response time considerably.
 ATARI ST ONLY - The top icon of the cluster toggles between digital and
analogue sound effects. Selecting analogue sound effects will speed the
game up by approximately 25% - meaning you are in for a real lightning
ride.

* (for a more technical explanation, this speed increase results from the
computer usually taking much longer to display full colour shapes instead
of shapes with almost no colour.)
If you activate the SMART MIRRORS and turn on all SILHOUETTES the
simulation should run at least 25% faster. This allows for faster,
smoother action and greater responsiveness to your moves on the bike.

If you have chosen a new course or changed some course settings, you may
have to wait for the new 3-D ENVIRONMENT to generate. During this time,
the WORLD RECORD displays will scroll by. Try to get your name up there,
too.
 When the new 3-D environment is created, you will be prompted to press
the FIRE button on joystick 1.

THE ULTIMATE RIDE
-----------------
You are now seated on the super sport bike you have chosen for this
course. Look at the bike. You can see your hands on the clutch and
throttle. The bike's instruments are real, including the speedometer and
tachomater.
The bike control are:

* ACCELERATE
Push up on the joystick to open the throttle.
* DECELERATE
Push down on the joystick to close the throttle.
* BRAKE
Push and hold the joystick down (there is a slight delay before braking
begins in order to allow a quick downshift, if necessary.)
* INCREASE ENGINE RPM's
Hold down the button and push up on the joystick.
* SHIFT UP ONE GEAR
(manual transmission only) - push the joystick up and simultaneously
press the fire button once. Most of the bikes have 6 gears, some only 5.
* SHIFT DOWN ONE GEAR
(manual transmission only) - push the joystick down and simultaneously
press the fire button once.
* CLUTCH IN
(disengaged) - hold down the fire button.
* CLUTCH OUT
(engaged) - release the fire button
* STEER OR LEAN LEFT
Push left on the joystick
* STEER OR LEAN RIGHT
Push right on the joystick

Note that the bike will automatically lean through the corners. Go in too
fast, though, and your tyre traction won't be enough to keep you on
course...

OTHER BIKE FEATURES
-------------------
* MIRRORS
In one player mode only, Mirrors show what's behind the bike. In two
player mode, there's not enough room on-screen for mirrors, so neither
rider gets them. Note that by turning on Smart Mirrors you can speed the
game up.
* RADAR
The course radar is shown on the upper left of the screen, but can be
turned off by pressing the "R" key. Rider 1 is shown by the "1" symbol
moving on the radar and rider 2 is shown by the "2", symbol on the radar.
This helps riders to keep track of their relative position to other riders
and the course.
On normal tracks it shows the actual course map of that race track,
complete with direction and start/finish line. On Custom tracks the radar
shows a circle. This is a "simple" plan of the race and is not intended to
depict the actual course shape.
On normal and Custom road courses, the map is a straight line depicting
the start and the end of the run, and the distance each rider has
completed thus far.
* INFO BOX
This information box is at the bottom of the screen. There are two boxes
for two player mode. The info box tells the following:
GEAR - what gear the bike is in (1-6)
POS  - your current position. In a race, it will be 1-6, and on the street
       it will be either 1 or 2, if two are playing
MPH  - bike speed in miles per hour.

THE RULES - ON THE TRACK
------------------------
Each rider must QUALIFY his bike to make the starting grid of race. To do
this the rider must complete two laps of the race track in the shortest
possible time.
Depending upon the difficulty set, the rider's time will be compared to
that of the other riders(including a human opponent.) Based upon
qualifying time, your rider's position will be one of six on the starting
grid. There are a maximum of six bikes racing at once.
The starting grid looks like this, based upon the fastest times set during
qualifying:

Start/Finish line
         1st
2nd
         3rd
4th
         5th
6th

If any rider CRASHES more than fivetimes during qualifying, his bike is
considered destroyed and that rider is out of the race.
Upon FINISHING the race, if the rider is one of the top three finishers,
he will stand on the victory podium.
FLAGS will be waved by the race marshall at the strat/finish line. The
flags are:
Green - start qualifying run/start race.
White - finish qualifying run/last lap of race.
Chequered flag - finished race.

THE RULES - ON THE STREET
-------------------------
This is a cannonball run! Ride as fast as you dare to the end of the
road...
If you crash more than five times, your bike will be destroyed and you
won't be able to finish the run.
If a cop pulls you over, you will lose both valuable time and a point from
your license. Get pulled-over three times and you lose your license. If
you lose your license you won't be able to finish the run.
Watch out for cars, construction and animals on the roads. But don't worry
about the cones (feel like slaloming?)
Yellow corner signs in the road alert you to upcoming curves. Don't be
put off by corner signs in the middle of the curve which seem to point the
wrong way. These signs are telling you that another curve is approaching
after this one is over.

RIDING TIPS
-----------
- try not to run into things (really?). Sometimes it's better to wait for
  traffic to get out of the way instead of making a dangerous pass.
- To pull the bike in a "power wheelie" (where the front wheel lifts way
  up off the ground), stay in a low gear (1st, 2nd or maybe 3rd gear on a
  big bike...) rev up the engine (by holding in the button and pushing up)
  and then release the button. Then watch the ground disappear. Be
  careful, though, because you can't steer and wheelie at the same time.
- To get around the course faster on a manual transmission bike, you'll
  have to downshift when braking for the corners. This should allow
  you to come out of the corner in the lowest possible gear, which will
  immediately give you much better acceleration on the following straight
  (if there is a following straight!)
- big bikes (750cc and up) are usually much faster on the straights, but
  are generally heavier and slower to respond around corners.
- small bikes (under 750cc) aren't as quick on the dragstip, but are
  light, nimble and are able to outpace the big bikes when the going gets
  curry.
- watch out for steep hills! You'll have a great time jumping, but
  remember, this isn't an off road bike and it's hard to steer when
  you're flying through the air.

STATISTICS SCREEN
-----------------
After a successful run on either the track or the street, you'll get a
chance to view your performance statistics. These include your bike,
tyre and transmission type, average speed, top speed, number of
crashes, fast laps, etc...

CONFIGURATION SCREEN
--------------------
After each ride, you will be presented with the CONFIGURATION screen.
If you want to change the game setup, select those options you wish to
change and then press RIDE. This allows you to avoid re-selecting
options you don't wish to change.*

Press RIDE (without any other buttons selected) to ride exactly the
same course again.
Pressing the other buttons will allow the rider to change the current
game setup.
Press PLAYERS to select the number of players (one or two. This also
involve re/selection of bikes.)
Press BIKES to change the bikes being ridden (this will not allow for a
change in the number of players.)
Press COURSE to make changes to the current course settings.

* Note that this is "smart" configuration screen. You will only have to
select what is absolutely required by the game in order to try your new
setup. This cuts down on loading times and repetitive selection making.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
