       QUICK DOCS AND PLAYING GUIDE FOR URIDIUM 2 - FROM RENEGADE
               TYPED BY: cRUiSe/MYSTIC    28th October 1993


^OVERVIEW^

	The idea is to fly your tiny, one-man Manta across the decks
of huge enemy dreadnoughts, blasting anything that moves (and causing
damage to some things that don't).
	Your ship is dropped from in front of the craft, leaving you
to flip, twist, turn and blast your way through enemy waves, dodging
deck guns and Uridimines as you go. Once you've caused enough
devastation, you must enter the engine core and finish the job. That's
the basic idea, anyway. Things are a little bit more complicated in
practice though. Never mind, just plug in and start flying....


^GAME OPTIONS^

	The default game is a single-ship run across the surface of
the dreadnought, but by switching on CAPS LOCK and pressing F1 you can
switch to twin-ship attack. This gives you a drone wing-man that
follows your every move, effectively doubling your attack. However,
you do have to take into account that you've got two ships to protect.


^MANTA CONTROL^

     FIRE BUTTON - Fires the current weapon.
     JOYSTICK UP AND DOWN - Steers your Manta.
     JOYSTICK LEFT OR RIGHT - Accelerate or slow down. Or turn around.
     HELP KEY OR P - Pauses the game (HELP or FIRE to resume).
     ESCAPE KEY - (While Paused) Quit the game.

   	From time to time a pick-up will appear. Most will drift
towards you, but Victory Points (one of the most useful pick-ups) will
just float off the top of the screen. To pick up a weapon just fly
into it. If you decide that you want to get rid of a weapon (some are
no good for certain tasks) just waggle the joystick and you will be
returned to the default weapon (cannons).


^PICK-UPS^

	BOMBS      - Switches to bombs for a strafing deck attack.
	CHASER     - A deadly drone that ambushes any close targets
                     (limited supply).
	CYCLONE    - A spiralling series of laser strands.
	IONISER    - The classic mega-powerful Defender-type
                     'toothpaste' weapon.
	LASER      - Gives you twin laser streams.
	MANTA      - Adds an extra life.
	PLASMA     - Shoots two streams of ring lasers.
	SCATTER    - Fires laser bolts in all directions.
	SHIELD     - Temporarily surrounds the Manta with an
                     impenetrable energy field.
	TORPEDO    - Similar to a bomb, but is more powerful, can be
                     aimed at specific targets.
	VICT. PNTS - Cause the "Land Now" signal to be sent quicker.
	X2         - Doubles score, and score earned until the end of
                     the level.


^THE DREADNOUGHT^

	Your ship drops out of the warp just to the left of the
dreadnought, so get ready for action. The dreadnought in this preview
is Greemion, which is the third ship in the first fleet. The main
threat to your Manta comes from the attack waves of enemy fighters
that swoop across the decks of the Dreadnought. Blast an entire fleet
and you will receive a pick-up (offering a score bonus or an
alternative weapon).


^THE ENEMY^

	DECK GUNS -  On the first fleet, deck guns only shoot to the
                     left, but can still be nasty if you don't pay 
                     attention. A single cannon shot or bomb should 
                     deal with them.

	URIDIMINES - Uridimines home in on your Manta and cause
                     instant death if you collide with them. Dodge 
                     them or blast them out of the sky (if you can).

	MINE PORTS - Uridimines are launched from these ports. 
                     Dropping a bomb or a torpedo will stop a port
                     from operating (as will shooting a Uridimine as
                     it is launched).
	
	WALLS      - The Manta is a very manoeuvrable little craft -
                     and it needs to be to get around these walls.
                     Constructions like this can't be destroyed on
                     earlier levels, so fly around them... carefully!


^LANDING STRIP^

	When you hear the "Land Now" signal, you need to find the 
landing strip. The arrows will be glowing green to indicate that you
can land. Fly over the landing strip in the direction of the arrows, 
with your Manta flat. You will then land on the strip and can launch 
your attack on the engine core.


^BLASTING THE ENGINE CORE^

	Once landed, you enter the dreadnought's engine room. The core
itself is the shielded globe in the centre. You must blast away the
shield using your Vulcan gun while coping with the low gravity,
security drones and flying debris. The lives display on the panel will
be replaced by energy bars. If these are all extinguished, your
assault suit will be destroyed (meaning the dreadnought won't be) so
be careful.
	Once the core has been obliterated, the engine room will
suddenly start to collapse and extra weapons will be revealed. Pick
them up if you have the nerve, then hold down the fire button to call
the escape teleport. When the teleport ring appears, fly into it to
leave the room, but you must be quick - it won't stay there forever.

                                - eNjOY! -