Galaxy BLast Docs
-----------------             

In every level you will find bases and supply stations in wich weapons'n'
and hostages are kept.
From here weapons can be obtained and hostages released.
The object of the game is to find all the bases in the 3 levels and to -
release the hostages,the you must find the exit and the game is won!

Weapon System
-------------
You have a choice of 2 types of weapons :- standard or extra weapons!
When  playing ya can use both simultaneously..
The standard weapons are chosen by pressing F1-F2-F3....
The extra weapons are chosen by pressing F6-F7-F8.........
At the start of the game you can only use 1 weapon,however,as play progresses
you will find new weapons systems wich can be used!
With the standard weapon thre are 5 levels of improvement.
These are gained by finding and then landing on the bases!
The standard weapon is activated by a short click on the joystick button.
The extra weapon is activated as follow:-
press the jostick button,as this is held down,you wil see than: release beam
displayed below!
Released the 'release beam' now! in the bottem of the half screen this will
the activated the extra weapon,,
The higher the beam goes goes in the 'release column' the more powerful the
weapon becomes.

Landing
-------
In order to land on the enemy bases take note of the special energy balls
(wobblers)....
wich are able to beam you into the bases!
The number of these wich are avaible to you are displayed on the right hand
side of the screen...
When you see a bese where you want to land you must activate a energy ball.
These whirl around your ship for a while before disapearing.
The energy balls must be collected, by doing this you will be beamed into the base!
Once you have landed a list of intems wich you have found will appear,
press space to continue playing.
Energy balls are activated in a similar way to the extraweapon.
When the 'release' beam is in the top of the scale an energy ball will be fired!
The longer the beam stays at the bottem of the scale the longer the energy
balls will spin around the ship!

The display boxes
-----------------

The display screen is split into 2 parts: At the top the following info is
displayed: 
-highscore
-current weapon in use
-current extra weapon in use
-number of weapons 
-number of extra weapons

In the boxes below you can see the following info:
-release 
-shippower
-shipshield 

shippower is removed when the shield is no longer avaible!!!!!!

Completion of this game
-----------------------
the game is over when you no longer have shippower and when you made it!

Highscore
---------
You can enter your name in the highscore as moving your joystick horizontally
to type in your initials.. 

                     well have some happy landings now...

