		G A R F I E L D : W I N T E R`S  T A I L

		              THE MANUAL

		     Typed by THE TWINS OF TRILOGY


CONTROLS

 This game is primarily controlled by joystick alone. Have your joystick
inserted in the main joystick port (usually the one that your mouse is
not using). The keys are used only for the following purposes:
 Space Bar - pause the game
 Return    - restart the game once paused
 Esc       - restart the game without having the complete the current part

A WINTER`S TAIL (or:A Midsupper Night`s Dream!)

 Its been a hard day for Garfield; he`s spent the entire day, well
since waking anyway (which wasn't that long ago...) In the kitchen. The
ice-box is now almost bare after some pretty hard work on his part
helping John to reduce the house's food stocks... Garfield has fallen
asleep in his box in front of the still open ice-box door and as the
cools blasts from the ice-box waft over him he starts to dream...
He dreams of the Alps...and  that reminds him of lagsagna! (hum...
sounds like lunch). As his dream he learns of the mythical 'Chicken
that Eats the Chocolate Eggs'! And the chase is on for Garfield to
catch it!

PLAYING THE GAME

 The game begins in the kitchen. Garfield sleeps in his box, and you
can see what he is currently dreaming in the 'dream bubble' above his
head. When you first start the game this image he is dreaming of is the
top of the Alps, and this is the first part of the game in which
Garfield tries his hand (in his dream!) at skiing down-hill; down-hill
that is in true Garfield style, and down to the world's largest Lasagna
factory at the buttom of the ski run! If you move your joystick left
and right when the game starts you willsee that the image in the dream
bubble changes to reveal other parts of his dream. One image is of a
chocolate factory and the other is of a frozen lake.
The game has been designed so that if you want to complete it entirely
and discover what happens when Garfield finally tracks down the
mythical chicken then you will have to select the skiing to start
with, and work through from that section to the Lasagna Factory, on
from there to desert in the Chocolate Factory, and on from there
chase the Chicken across a frozen lake .... successfully get through
all of this and you will end the game in a Swiss Village and at the
final scene revealed only to successful players!
 But you can also select one of the three main sections of this
game and go straight to it without playing the prior section. If you
do this then you will miss out on your chance of getting to the
final section in the village, but you can play your favourite section
as many times as you like!
SKIING :Press the fire button when this image ("Alps") is in
the dream bubble to enter this section. Garfield has to negotiate his
way down the hill, avoiding as much as possible, or jumbing over it,
and keeping his energy up in the process by eating the food being held
by the spectators that line his way! Use the left and right motion of
your`stick to guide Garfield, and use the fire button to jumb over
things. To use the actual ski jumbs you will have to time your pressing
of the button carefully to coincide with the very end of the ramp (and
get him well lined up tool). To eat the food just push the joystick in
the direction of the spectator whilst also pressing the fire button. 
If you are close enough you will get the food. But not too close! Look
out for Odie; he will appear and if you are not careful he will steal
that precious food before you can! You have some control over Odie`s
movement, and total control when Garfield is jumping on a ramp. So
steer him well clear!
LASAGNA FACTORY :If you get down the slope without waking up
(keep your eye on the Garfield face showing the energy level), and if
you properly jump the final large ramp, then Garfield will crash land
through the roof of the Lasagna Factory! Once in the factory you will
find the lasagna production line, and once there it is a matter of
eating as much as possible (before Odie appears to mark "Dessert
Time"). To eat just push the joystick left and right as fast as pos-
sible...
CHOCOLATE FACTORY :You can get here either by completing the
Lasagna Factory section (in which case you`ll probably begin with more
energy), or by going straight to this part by selecting the corrent
image in the intial dream bubble. Press the fire button to select this
image. Once here you can see the problem! The factory is a maze of
platforms, escalators, poles to slide down, and elevators to take from
level to level. What`s more there seem to be tens of red pipes every-
where! These pipes carry liquid chocolate. By pressing the red buttons
which correspond to each junction in the pipes (you`ll have to decide
which button is which!) you can change the flow of the chocolate
through that junction. See the arrow on the meter at each junction.
As you go around you`ll find various mechanical chickens.
Garfield has to switch all of the meters the correct way to ensure that
each of the mechanical chickens has a supply of chocolate (you'll see..
.they'll start laying eggs). Once all of these chickens are laying then
and only then will you be able to get in to the elevator by the control
room and so get to the floor where the mythical 'Chicken that Lays the
Chocolate Eggs' is living. So where is the control room? You'll have to
look. But do remember that Garfield needs to keep his energy up by
eating from time to time. And look out for Odie - he'll steal the food
if you're not careful, and what he'll do when you get in an elevator
from time to time isn't fair...! So you might try kicking Odie off the
screen to keep the keep the dumb dog out of the way. Successfully find
your way to where THE Chicken is and you`ll find yourself on to the
next part of Garfield`s dream ... the frozen lake!
THE LAKE :You can either get here from the chocolate factory
(if you complete it in the time!), or you can come straight here from
the initial screen by selecting the lake image with your fire button.
The lake is an enormous maze. The chicken has escaped across the lake
leaving a trail of chocolate footateps for Garfield to follow (and eat
as he goes!). Your joystick controls Garfield`s movements, and the fire
button makes him jump (he can`t jump over everything...). (Hint hint:
try to use the joystick to change his direction rather than "steer"
him). Garfield must find his way to the other side of the lake before
he runs out of energy (and wakes up!). Try to stay out of the water
(he`ll wake with a fright!), and look out for food around to collect,
and, well, as few surprises too. Wait around on the spot for a moment
and you`ll see what I mean!
THE SWISS VILLAGE :You can only get here if you complete all
of the above sections ... and you`ll have to wait and see how he finds
the Chicken in the end!
					TYPED BY THE TWINS OF TRILOGY