			Garrison Instruction

Please insert disc into drive 0 when the workbench is demanded and switch off
external drives. After a short leader you are asked to insert the second disc.
A short time later the title screen appears. This may be aborted by pressing
the SPACE key. In case that no key is pressed several playing figures, rivals
and the objects which have to be collected are shown after the title screen.

After having pressed the SPACE key you enter the CHARACTER-SELECTION picture.
Here you can choose the characters you want to play with. All figures have
several different qualities, but we will not betray which advantages and
disadvantages belong to each figure.
You can activate these figures by pressing the function keys F1-F5 or F6-F10,
and if you want to you can deactivate them pressing the same key.

Now the game can begin!

Before each single level you are asked with which figures you want to play
with. Two players may play simultaneously and up to five persons can
participate in this game. Therefore one player can choose his figures with
F1-F5 and another player with F6-F10. On this way different people can finish
in varied combinations a level. Skillful teamwork may become vitally necessary
in the higher levels, and therefore you should not waste any time in mutual
bombarding!
During the game you may choose additional figures. But it is only possible to
dial each figure once in a level.
If your Amiga possessed 512K RAM all figures have the same appearance but have
their typical qualities. With an extended memory all figures have an individual
appearance.

All figures are controlled with the joystick:
Player 1: port 2 / player 2: port 1
The figure follows the moves of the joystick and with pressing the firebutton
you can shoot to the according direction.

The player has naturally only one life, the HEALTH is indicated on the right
side near the SCORES for every player.
Contacts and hits lead to a deterioration of your health, but do not forget
other objects which could have the same effect.

The indication SHMAPF shows all abilities of each figure.
Letters have the following meanings:
S - SPEED of the characters			                     1 - 5
H - HAND-HAND COMBAT
    This stands for the ability hindering a rival in a further participation in
    the game                                                         1 - 5
M - Magic power (MAGIC). This power raises the effect of a SCROLL.
    A SCROLL is an object you have to collect and which eliminates every other
    rival on the screen. You can activate a SCROLL either with the left SHIFT
    key (player 1) or with the right (player 2). And because magic power
    requires concentration the player can not move.                  1 - 5
A - ARMOUR. The stronger the armour the lower are the losses of your health
    touching a rival.                                                1 - 5
F - FIRE-POWER                                                       1 - 9

You can break off the game with ESC.
With pressing the SPACE key you can stop the game up to another pressure on
this key.

But unfortunately the effect of the lot of various figures you may meet in the
legendary castle is up ot now totally unknown.
Some scanty tips may be catched after the title screen.

In the higher levels you will recognize the increasing amount of rivals. They
become stronger and some of them should be immune against SCROLLS.
And these appear out of the "spring of ghosts". This game contains 128 levels
which will be arranged by chance after the fourth level.

After having finished gloriously a level you can write your name into the
HIGHSCORE table. You have to use the keyboard and finish with RETURN.
There are seperate highscore tables for each character and a team list for the
general performances of all players.

These GARRISON docs brought to you by Southern Star.