                                GAUNTLET II

THE HEROES

THOR the Warrior
 ARMOUR: Tough skin - eliminates 20% of damage.
 SHOT POWER: Excellent - twice normal power.
 HAND TO HAND: Excellent - Battle Axe - can destroy generators.
 MAGIC POWER: Poor - damages most monsters and no generators.

THYRA the Valkyrie
 ARMOUR: Shield - eliminates 30% of damage.
 SHOT POWER: Poor.
 HAND TO HAND: Good - Sword - can destroy generators.
 MAGIC POWER: Moderate - damages most monsters and generators.

MERLIN the Wizard
 ARMOUR: None.
 SHOT POWER: Good.
 HAND TO HAND: Poor - Bare Hands - cannot destroy generators.
 MAGIC POWER: Excellent - damages all monsters and generators.

QUESTOR the Elf
 ARMOUR: Leather - eliminates 10% of damage.
 SHOT POWER: Poor.
 HAND TO HAND: Moderate - Dagger - cannot destroy generators.
 MAGIC POWER: Very good - destroys almost all monsters and generators.

THE VILLAINS
The monsters pour out of the generator which lie throughout the dungeons.
Each generator creates a specific type of monster i.e. ghosts or demons.
There are three levels of generators; the toughest monsters. Shoot the
generators to destroy them. Monsters too, have three strengths, the most
powerful taking three hits to kill.

                  GHOSTS: Stay away from ghosts. They hit you only once and
                  disappear. One hit hurts alot. Shoot ghosts, do not run
                  into them!

                  GRUNTS: Grunts will run up to you and hit you with their
                  clubs over and over. Either move the joystick towards them
                  to fight them hand-to-hand or shoot them.

                  DEMONS: Demons will try to shoot fireballs at you if they
                  can, or if they are too close they will bite you again and
                  again. Fireballs hurt more than biting does. Either move
                  the joystick toward them to fight hand-to-hand or shoot
                  them.

                  LOBBERS: Lobbers will try to lob rocks over walls and
                  other things in the maze to hit you. They will also try to
                  run away from you. Try to shoot them or trap them in a
                  corner and fight them hand-to-hand.

                  SORCERERS: Sorcerers try to fool you by disappearing while
                  moving. When they are invisible, your shots will go
                  through them. Either move the joystick towards them to
                  fight hand-to-hand or shoot them.

                  DEATH: Death will drain health from you. He will take up
                  to 200 points and then die. The only way to kill Death is
                  with magic. Don't even thhin about fighting him hand-to-
                  hand.

                  SUPER SORCERERS: This sorcerer appears, takes a shot at
                  the player and then disappears again. He continues to do
                  this until shot by a player. Magic only stuns him and
                  prevents him from shooting or disappearing immediately.

                  ACID PUDDLES: These green pools hurt the player but do not
                  attack him: instead they wander around aimlessly. They
                  cannot be shot. Magic only stuns them.

                  The "IT" Monster: This creature, which looks like a
                  glowing, spinning disc, disappears when it hits a player.
                  That player then becomes "IT". All monsters are attracted
                  to the player who becomes "IT" until he or she leaves the
                  maze or until this player touches another player who then
                  bacomes "IT". This monster cannot be shot but can be
                  stunned by magic.

                  The "THAT" Monster: This creature, which looks like the
                  "IT" monster, chases players around the dungeon. If it
                  touches a player he loses a special power or a potion
                  or 100 health points.

                  THE DRAGON: Dragons appear rarely and should be approached
                  with caution. They need to be hit several times on the
                  head with a missile to destroy them. Don't get too close,
                  though, or it will fry you with it's fiery breath.

                  THE THIEF: The thief appears well into the game at the
                  characters' start position and chases them until it can
                  steal an item from the richest player. Unless it is shot,
                  it will then flee leaving its ill gotten gains on the
                  next level. The thief steals special power potions or
                  normal ones if no special ones can be found.

                  THE MUGGER: This creature can appear more than once per
                  level, and like the thief, steals from the richest player.
                  The mugger only steals health points.

FOUR PLAYER OPTION:
All four players should be selected at the start of the game using any
joystick. Two extra joysticks, making a total of four, may be connected
to your Amiga with a special interface available from Mindscape.

THE DUNGEONS
Around the dungeons are objects to collect and avoid:
POTIONS: Some potions can be shot although their effect is less powerful
when they're collected and used.
SPECIAL POTIONS: These behave as normal potions when shot but endow the
player with special abilities if collected.
These include:
 -EXTRA ARMOUR - increases protection
 -EXTRA MAGIC POWER - increases the effect of potions
 -EXTRA SHOT SPEED - increases missile speed
 -EXTRA SHOT POWER - increases damage inflicted by missiles
 -EXTRA FIGHT POWER - increases hand-to-hand combat ability
 -EXTRA PICK UP POWER - increases carrying ability from ten to fifteen times
POISONED POTIONS: These behave like poisoned food.
FOOD: Plates of meat increase health by 100 and give a bonus 100 score
points.
CIDER: Cider bottles can be shot and destroyed. When drunk this acts like
food.
POISONED CIDER: This can be shot and will slow monsters down for a short
time. If drunk, poisoned cider takes 50 health points and makes the
character dizzy and difficult to control.
KEYS: Score 100 points for collecting. Use keys to open doors.
TREASURE: Treasure chests cannot be shot but give 100 points when collected.
Some treasure chests are locked and need to be opened with a key. They
may contain food, money, a potion, and even Death!
AMULETS: These magic devices confer special abilities on the wearer for a
short time.
INVISIBILTY: Monsters cannot see you and wander around.
INVULNERABILITY: Monsters cannot hurt you, but your health decrements
twice as fast as normal.
REPULSIVENESS: Monsters cannot stand you and run away.
TRANSPORTABILITY: The player can now transport through any solid object by
running into it.
10 SUPER SHOTS: These shots kill all monsters in their path and keep
travelling until they hit a wall.
REFLECTIVE SHOTS: These shots bounce off walls allowing players to shoot
around corners. These bounce a maximum of three times.
WALLS: In general walls are impenetrable objects, but some walls crumble
when shot.
TRAPS: These glowing patterns on the floor make some walls disappear when
stepped on. There can be more than one trap. Traps walls may be invisible.
STUN TILES: These tiles stun any player who treads on them and then
disappear.
TRANSPORTERS: Glowing red discs on the floor, transport players to the
nearest visible transporter. If several transporters are the same distance
away, then one is chosen at random. There are several ways to influence
your direction. Can you find them?
FORCE FIELDS: These go on and off in a particular pattern. If a player
enters a field when it is on his health will quickly drain. Monsters are not
affected. Force fields cannot be destroyed.
EXITS: These labeled holes lead down to the next level or to the level
specified. Some exits are phoney. They are painted floor tiles. On some
levels exits move around by closing and re-opening elsewhere. Treasure room
appears randomly and the player has a fixed time to collect as many
valuables as possible within a time limit, which is displayed at the top of
the screen. There is no score unless the player escapes.

In general players are immune to the other player's shots but in some areas
of the dungeon, missiles can stun or injure fellow players.
If players do not fight for about half a minute, the locked doors will
disappear, freeing all of the monsters. Eventually, if players still avoid
combat then all of the walls turn into exits!

BASIC INSTRUCTIONS
Choose the color and character you want by pointing the gauntlet and
pressing the FIRE BUTTON.

How long you last depends upon your health. Health is lost by contact with
the monsters and as time elapses. It can be regained by picking up the food
which can be found in the maze. Be careful, some food can be destroyed by
your shots and some may be poisoned.

The object of the game is to survive the monsters' attacks for as long as
possible whilst competing for food, treasure and magic potions. You must
also search the maze to find the exit to the next level.

For game controls, details will appear on the screen.

GAUNTLET II LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
Insert the disk in drive and turn on computer.
NOTE: Amiga 1000 owners, Insert Kickstart 1.2 or higher before loading your
program disk.

\\\\\\\\\\\\ Docs provided by THE HELLION  &  THE CORSAIR ////////////

                THE NEXT GENERATION / WORLD OF WONDERS