                                GEAR WORKS
                        %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%


THE OBJECT OF GEAR WORKS
------------------------
The object of Gear Works is to convert 12 of the most
famous monuments of the ancient and modern world
into clocks. Each monument is divided into several levels,
and each level can have up to four Play Areas. You will
place gears within the Play Area that will convert the
monuments into clocks.

A plan of the current monument you are working on will
appear at the beginning of each level. The flashing
rectangles in the monument corresponds t the current
level of the monument you are working on.
Each rectangle represents one Play Area.


SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
-------------------
AMIGA 500, 600, 1000, 1200 , 2000, 2500, 3000, 4000
AMIGA DOS 1.3 of Higher
MEMORY REQUIRED: 512K Minimum
SUPPORTS: Disk Drive, Hard Drive, Joystick

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
Plug the Joystick into port 2 of your computer.
Insert disk into DF0: and turn on the computer.

HARD DRIVE INSTALLATION
-----------------------
To install this program create a directory called
"GWorks" on your hard drive, then copy the contents
of this disk to that directory, you do not have to copy
the S: directory or disk icon, as they will not be
needed.

To run the program open a CLI or SHELL window, CD to
the "GWorks" directory and then type GearWorks and
press RETURN. The program will now load and run.

COPY PROTECTION
---------------
Removed by Skid Row!!!

GAME MENU
---------
The available options on this screen (from left to right) are:
1.) PEN, displays the game credits.
2.) TROPHY, displays the best scores.
3.) GEARS, starts the game.
4.) KEY, allows you to insert a code that will give direct access to the next
    uncompleted level. Type in the code and press RETURN, then use the
    gears option to start the game.
5.) GRAMOPHONE, toggles the music on or off.

Move the joystick left or right to highlight an option, then press the fire
button to select it.

CONTROLLING THE GAME
--------------------
Move the joystick up/down to move vertically.
Move the joystick left/right to move horizontally.
Press the fire button to place the current object.
Press the "P" key to pause/unpause the game.
Pressing the "ESC" key will take you back to the beginning
  of that level, forfeiting one life.
Pressing the F10 key will end the game.

THE SCREEN DISPLAY
------------------
Your screen is divided into two sections.
The Play Area and the Control Panel.

THE PLAY AREA
-------------
The play area consists of:

PEGS fill most of the Play Area. The gears can only be placed on these pegs.
In some Play areas certain pegs are crucial to completing the area.

RED GEARS are the gears that you must link together in order to finish the
level. There can be up to 20 red gears in any play area.

THE ENGINE is the source of power that turns the gears and is usually located
in the first Play Area of each level.

WHITE TRANSPARENT CURSOR controls the placement of any item that is currently
in use (ie: gears, bombs, etc.) and is controlled by the movement of the
joystick. When the game starts this cursor defaults to a gear.

POFFIN'S are creatures that hamper your task of linking the gears together.
You can knock them off the screen by placing a gear on the peg they are
currently on or near, or you can shoot at them using the gun-sight.

  GREY POFFIN jumps from peg to peg and will try to break off the
  pegs unless you stop him.

  BROWN POFFIN jumps from gear to gear and tries to rust the gears
  that you have already placed.

THE CONTROL PANEL
-----------------
The control panel is displayed at the bottom of the game screen.

ENGINE TEMPERATURE is indicated by a row of colored lights (Green, Yellow and
Red), located along the top of the control panel. You must complete all of
the play areas of a level before the temperature reaches its maximum.
Additionally, rust gears will increase the rate at which the temperature
rises.
WARNING: The temperature will increase rapidly if the gears seize-up
(stop suddenly) due to an improperly placed gear. (See Bomb.)

NEXT GEAR BOX is located on the left side of the control panel and it
displays the color and size of the next available gear.

LIVES located to the right of the Next Gear Box, displays the number of lives
you have left. If you cannot finish the level before the temperature reaches
its maximum, you lose a life and must start from the beginning of that level.

POINTS located at the right side of the control panel, and displays the total
number of points you have scored. You gain an extra life for every 50,000
points scored.

COINS located below the Points, this keeps track of the number of bonus coins
you have earned so far in that level. (See Bonus Section.)

POINTS and COINS are awarded when you complete each Play Area in the level
you're playing. If you fail to complete the level you will lose all of
your coins.

OBJECT ICONS are located in the center of the Control Panel. These represent
the objects that you can use during the game. The numbers below certain
icons indicate the number of items available. To access the icons press the
space bar or move the white transparent cursor to the bottom of the screen
until it disappears (out of play). To select an icon move the joystick left
or right; to activate the icon, press the space bar or move the joystick up.

Once selected a transparent cursor representing the icon will appear.
To use, move the cursor to the desired position and press the fire button.
The icons represent:

GEAR (Gear Cursor) represents the size of the gear that you are currently
trying to place. Press the fire button to place the gear. This gear will
remain white if it cannot be linked with any other gear. The gear changes
to a new color if it can be linked. The program defaults to this icon each
time a new level is started.

GUN-SIGHT (Cross-Hairs Cursor) allows you to shoot at the Poffins and knock
them off the Play Area. Position the "cross-hairs" on the offending Poffin
and press the fire button.

BOMB (Bomb Cursor) allows you to eliminate gears that have been placed in
the wrong position or to free up seized gears. Place the bomb over the
unwanted gear and press the fire button.

OIL CAN (Drop Cursor) allows you to oil those gears rusted by the Brown
Poffin. Position the oil drop on the rusted gear and press the fire button.

THE GEARS
---------
The gears come in three sizes (small, medium, and large) and they come in
four different colors (Blue, Green, etc.). There are also gears that only
turn in on direction, (clockwise or counter clockwise).

GEAR COLORS / POINT VALUES:
---------------------------
Light Blue:   (normal)    50 Points
Green:        (bonus)    200 Points
Yellow:       (bonus)    300 Points
Violet:       (bonus)    500 Points
One Way:                 ??? Points

PLACING THE GEARS
-----------------
When placing the gears you must remember that there is a limited number of
ways that the gears can be linked together. Each gear must interlink with
the adjoining gear.

To finish a Play Area, all red gears must be turning. After completing the
Play Area points will be awarded for each turning gear. You will lose twice
the point value for every gear that is not turning. If the level has not been
completed the next Play Area is displayed. Once you have completed the level
you may advance to the Bonus Round.

BONUS ROUND
-----------
During the game, if any two of the bonus gears are linked together you will
receive a coin which allows you to take part in the Bonus Round. The Bonus
Round contains a slot-machine. The bonus coins allow you to play the slot-
machine to gain useful objects (bombs and etc.) to extra points to use
during regular game play. Press the FIRE button to spin the wheels. Once
spinning press the FIRE button three times to try to "lock-in" a winning
combination. The winning combinations and awards are shown to the right
of the slot-machine.


                              The End