HYPER TYPED BY    THE SPEED DEMON    IN 1992


                               GLADIATORS
                               ==========

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS:

Ensure that your computer has been switched off for at least sixty seconds
immediately prior to loading the game. Switch on your machine and insert the
game disc in drive zero (all other disc drives, additional memory,
cartridges etc should have been removed). The game should load
automatically. If the game fails to load on the first attempt, leave the
disc in the drive and reset the machine.

                             THE ROMAN EPIC
                         THE STORY OF SPARTACUS

Taken into slavery as a child, his parents slaughtered by the Romans,
Spartacus was destined to become on of the most famous heroes of all time.
He was trained to fight in the arena, spending many years perfecting his
skills with the sword, shield and spear. Time could not tame him, Spartacus
never forgot the freedome of his past, or the cruel ways of the Roman
Empire.

When his time came to be called to the arena, Spartacus new this was his
chance for revenge. He was to fight the champions fo the arena, in the
presence of the evil Roman Emperor, Crassus. If he could beat these
experienced gladiators, he might be able to escape. Spartacus knew, from the
other slaves, that his plan was filled with danger, he would have to flee
through the streets of Capau and beyond, killing anyone or anything that
stood in his way.

This is your chance to play the part of Spartacus The Sword Slayer in this
epic tale of death and honour.

THE CONTROLS

Use a joystick to control Spartacus.
Functions include JUMP, DUCK and various attack moves.

THE STORY ON THE BACK OF THE BOX

HAIL SPARTACUS The Ultimate Gladiator

Taken into slavery as a child, his parents slaughtered by the Romans,
Spartacus was destined to become one of the most famous heroes of all time.
He was trained to fight in the arena. spending many years perfecting his
skills with the sword, shield and spear.

Time could not tame him, Spartacus never forgot the freedom of his past, or
the cruel ways of the Roman Empire.

When the time came to be called to the arena. Spartacus knew this was his
chance for revenge. If he could beat the Emperors finest gladiators, he
could overpower the guard at the gate and make his bid for freedom.