-------------------------
Dox to Global Commander by Jon Blackhorn
-------------------------
Once the game loads, THe Global Commander logo should appear.
Click the mouse button to advance to the first menu.  Use the mouse to move
the Arrow over one of these options and click again.  This menu reappears
once a week (Global Commander time), giving you options like "Carry On" and
"Quit" (Try to guess which one is the most cowardly!)

Carry On:This lets you start playing or continue the current game.

Ram Save Game:If you have a good rating and worry you might louse things up
later, save the game; as long as the computer is on and you don't save
another game, the saved game can be reloaded.

     Note: The ram is lost when you turn on the computer.........

Ram Load Game:This lets you load the saved game from RAM: this is a nice
feature because if you goof up and start getting poor ratins, you can reload
the RAM game and play with a Good rating again.

Disk Save Game:If you're doing well, you can save the current game onto a
blank formatted disk.  Now if you accidentally turn off the computer, the
game won't wind up in microchip heaven.

Disk Load Game:This allows you to retrieve that brillant game from the disk
and get back to important global matters.

Quit game:This lets you end your term as Global Commander when the strain
becomes too much.

You are also shown a weekly progress report, rating your performance:
Excellent, Very Good, Good, Acceptable, Average, Poor, or Disastrous.

Even if your rating is "Acceptable", you may have recently committed a major
blunder which renders you unfit to command so you'll be fired.

Begin Play
   The moment you choose to carry on, the game commences and you'll receive
the first in an endless stream of annoying memos (The UNN is a yakity
bunch). Clock the mouse button to get a clear view of the map and the five
main icons.

Objectives
   You prime objective as Global Commander is quite simple: keep the world
from blowing itself apart.  Achieving this is no country stroll.  There are
16 member countries of the Unn; some aggressive;some not.. But all have one
thing in common-none can be trusted.

   Not only must you keep the peace (a lost cause, if you ask me), you must
also address the following five objectives.

-Get along with each country
-Help the UNN Nations get along
-Fulfill Everyone's Needs
-Give Everyone Military Security
-Find and Disarm WOT (The World Organization of Terrorists)

Well this will give ya an Idea(?) of the game.......
The two Pics are for you to keep track of forces if you have a printer.  Use
the game pieces to keep track of alliances or enemies!


Well until next time!!!!!!
Later
Jon..........