                                  Globulus

                           docs typed by MERKWooD


Introduction


The bouncing vily wheel approaches from the right, but you quickly select a
smart bomb to obliterate the enemy. Guiding Globy down the first ramp, you
race across the isometric grid collecting switches, points and bombs. Uh Oh!
You've hit a patch of ice and Globy skids straight toward a blank hole. Lucky
for you, a bounce square sends you over the danger.
You can see the exit but there doesn't seem to be any path that leads to the
next level - you can't move uphill in Globulus. You study the puzzle, searching
for an answer. There's only one flip switch left, but you select it and the
screen rotates vertically and changes the slope of the ramps. You see a way out
but just one mistake leaves Globy impaled on a nail mat. That's a nasty way to
go!
Suddenly, a dreaded disco bounces into view. He's headed Globy's way. You move
towards the exit and set a bomb to blow away the mine that blocks your path.
It's a good thing you noticed that one. Now the way is clear. Or is it?


Main Menu


Once you have booted the game, the following main menu is displayed. To select
an option, move the joystick forward or back until the brackets surround the
desired option. Press fire to select.

1. Start Game - Select this option from the startup menu to begin a new game.
The number of lives, smart bombs, bombs and switches, and the starting level
you select from the options screen are used (see Options Screen below).

2. Continue Game - Select this option when you have received a special code
after completing 5 or 10 levels of play. This option allows you to continue a
game from an advanced level.

3. Music On/Off - Move the joystick until the brackets surround this option;
then press the fire button to toggle between Music On and Music Off. Your
selection is highlighted.

4. Sound FX On/Off - Move the joystick until the brackets surround this option;
then press the fire button to toggle between FX On and FX Off. Your selection
is highlighted.


Options Screen


To access the Options Screen, press the spacebar at the main menu. To select
an option, move the joystick forward or back until the brackets surround the
option. Press fire to select.

1. Lives - Select 3,4 or 5 lives. The game ends when you use all your lives.

2. Switches - Select 10, 15 or 20 flip switches for the start of the game.

3. Bombs - Select 5, 7 or 10 bombs for your arsenal at the start of the game.

4. Smart Bombs - Select 3, 4 or 5 for your arsenal at the start of the game.

5. Start Level - Select level 1, 6 or 11 as the starting level for your game.

6. Return to Menu - Select to return to main menu after selecting options.


The Basics


Globulus blends the classic features of the best game designs to deliver
hundreds of hours of mind-flipping fun. As you try to solve the progressively
difficult levels, you'll encounter scenarios that require the reflexes of a
cat, and situations where only the wisdom of an owl guarantees success. You'll
learn the basics in just a few minutes, but it takes weeks to master the
intracacies of the game.
   Your goal in Globulus is to guide Globy across a grid to the exit on each
level within a specific time period. Once time expires, you automatically lose
one of your lives and must start again at the beginning of the level. The time
limits increase as the levels become more difficult.
    Different squares on the grid affect your movement - changing the
direction you travel, bouncing you over the next square or sending you skidding
across the ice. Other squares take your life - from black holes that swallow
you up, to stationary and moving nail mats with glistening spikes of death. As
you race across the grid, you acquire points and pick up bombs, flip switches
and smart bombs. At the end of each level, you can use your accumulated points
to purchase new lives, switches, bombs and smart bombs.
    In Globulus, you can only move down the ramps that are found on each level.
Using flip switches allows you to rotate the screen vertically, changing the
slope of the ramps and many of the directional squares on the grid.


The Play Screen


At the bottom of the main play screen, the following information is displayed
from left to right:

-Flip Switches -Bombs -Smart Bombs -Total Points -Lives -Point Balls -Time Left

To select bombs or switches, press the spacebar until the appropriate option
is surrounded by brackets and press the fire button to use that piece of
equipment.


Buying Options


When you have completed a level, you can use accumulated points to purchase
the following options.

1. Lives - You can buy one extra life for 40 points.

2. Flip Switches - You can buy an extra flip switch for 3 points.

3. Bombs - You can buy a bomb for 5 points.

4. Smart Bombs - You can buy a smart bomb for 20 points.

To purchase an item, move the joystick until the desired option is surrounded
by brackets. Press the fire button to purchase the selected item. When finished
move the brackets to "Next Level," and press the fire button.

Note: You don't have to use all your bonus points at the end of each level.
For example, if you have 39 points at the end of the second level, you can
wait until you complete an additional level to gain the 40 points needed to
purchase a new life.


Equipment


Select one of these items by pressing the spacebar until brackets appear
around the item at the bottom of the screen. Then press the fire button to
use the selected item.

Flip Switch - This item flips the screen vertically and changes the slopes
of the ramps and many of the directional squares. Be careful that you don't
run out of switches before completing a level.

Bomb - Set a bomb to blow away the obstacles that block your path to the exit
(see obstacles). You can only set a bomb when an open square is available
between you and the obstacle.

Smart Bomb - Set off a smart bomb to blow away every enemy that appears on the
screen (see enemies). Smart bombs have no effect on obstacles.


Type of Squares


Arrow Squares - Land on one of these squares and you'll jump one space in the
indicated direction. When you flip the screen, these squares often change and
allow you to move in a different direction.

Forward/Back Square - These squares either jump you forward or backward, but
you won't know which way they'll send you until you try.

Bounce Squares - Step on this and you'll spring over the square that follows,
continuing in the direction you were moving when you hit the square.

Directional Squares - Hit one of these squares and you'll jump one space to
the left or right. The arrow on the square indicates the direction.

Ice Square - You'll start slipping and sliding when you hit the ice and won't
stop until you reach a new type of square.

Black Holes - Touch one of these pulsating black holes and your life is sucked
away. None of your weapoins has any effect on a black hole.

Nail Mats - Step on a nail mat and the spikes take one life away.

Spikies - Spikies move around the grid and the points appear and dissapear at
regular intervals. If you time your movement carefully, you can step across
one of these squares without losing your life.


Enemies


These enemies bounce around the grid at random, but touch one and you'll lose
a life. A smart bomb eliminates every enemy that appears on the screen. There
are four enemies - Vily Wheel, Disko, Globoid, and Springy.


Obstacles


The only way past an obstacle is to use one of your bombs to blow it away. You
must have an open square between Globy and the obstacle to set one of your
bombs.

Mines - Step on a mine and you lose a life.

Stop Signs - It won't harm you, but you can't pass a stop sign.

Blockades - You can't pass one of these walls.


Other Objects


Moving across the grid, you can aquire powers and points by touching these
objects and squares.

Time Toggles - Grab one of these switches and you can flip the screen as often
as you want for 10 to 20 seconds.

Point Balls - Touching these blue spheres gives you bonus points that can be
used to purchase lives, bombs, switches and smart bombs at the end of each
level.

Flip Screen - Land on this square and the screen automatically flips.