                                  GOAL!
                                 -------
                                    2 
 
                               CONTENTS
                              ----------

 INTRODUCTION...............3            ADVANCED FEATURES..............33
 FOOTBALL RULES.............5            TRANSFER PLAYERS...............34
 FOOTBALL PITCH.............4            EDITING TEAMS..................10
 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS......4            REPLAYS........................36
 LOADING INSTRUCTIONS.......4            ARCADE CHALLENGE...............36
 LOADING PROBLEMS...........5            PLAYER CONTROL.................38
 FOOTBALL-FOR BEGINNERS.....9            PLAYER MOVEMENT OFF THE BALL...38
 MASTERING THE MENUS........8            RUNNING........................38
 QUICK START................9            TACKLING.......................39
 THE MAIN MENU..............9            THE HEADER.....................39
 OPTIONS....................9            THE CHEST DOWN.................40
 SINGLE MATCH...............4            THE SCISSOR KICK...............40
 HALF TIME/FULL TIME/QUIT...8            BALL CONTROL...................40
 OTHER FEATURES.............9            THE DRIBBLE....................40
 SCANNER....................8            THE TRAP.......................40
 ACTION REPLAYS............10            THE TRAP TURN..................41
 PAUSE.....................21            THE STOP.......................41
 DIFFERENT VIEWS...........21            PASSING........................42
 SUBSTITUTIONS.............21            SHOOTING.......................43
 PRACTICE..................23            AFTER TOUCH....................43
 FREE PRACTICE.............23            SET PIECES.....................44
 ONE/TWO PLAYER PENALTIES..47            THROW INS......................45
 LEAGUE....................34            TAKING FREE KICKS..............45
 EDIT TEAMS................31            DEFENDING FREE KICKS...........46
 TEAM & MANAGER............31            CORNERS........................46
 FIRST & SECOND KITS.......32            GOAL KICKS.....................47
 PLAYERS...................32            PENALTIES......................48
 PLAYER ATTRIBUTES.........16            BOOKINGS.......................48
 PICK PLAYERS..............33            BAD LOSERS TOP SIX EXCUSES.....48

                                   3
                                 
 INTRODUCTION

 Football (known as SOCCER in some countries) is a game played by millions
 around the world.  Now you can experience the most playable and action 
 packed football game from the comfort of your own armchair.  Goal! offers
 an enormous number of features both on and off the pitch.

 Off the pitch you can set up your own league and cup competitions, pick up
 to 32 teams at once from a pre-defined list of 144 or create your own,
 choose from a selection of different pitch types, weather conditions, 
 officials, alter the length of each match, change the view (from large to
 small scale) or change the pitch orientation to play left to right, or up
 and down.

 On the pitch, winning requires skillful running, passing, chipping, heading,
 tackling and shooting.  All of the set pieces found in real soccer are here
 throw ins, corners, free kicks, goal kicks and penalties.  Players can be
 injured, substituted and booked.  Action can be replayed at any point, and
 saved to disk to create your own match highlights.  The crowd also plays its
 part.  Hear them roar as you approach the penalty area and chant as the game
 reaches its climax. All this and much more is included in Goal!, so why are
 we waiting lets play GOAL!. 

 
                                   4

 This page is a load of bollox telling ya how to load the game
 insert disk one into df0: blah blah blah.....


                                   5

 FOOTBALL
                               
 An overview for beginners

 Football is the world's favorite ball game.  It is believed to have 
 developed from simple contests between rival medieval towns, and has grown
 from a popular amateur sport in the 19th century into one of the world's
 great spectator entertainments.  Millions of people also play the game 
 for recreation.  In the unlikely event that you don't know the the basic
 rules of the game here is an overview for beginners of the rules followed
 by Goal!

 Football rules

 Goal! is played with a round ball between two teams of eleven players 
 each (plus two substitutes).  One player on each side must be a goalkeeper
 and only they can handle the ball during play (although they are 
 restricted to using their hands within their own goal area).  Their job is
 to defend their goal from the opposing team who will attempt to knock the
 ball past them (what a load of crap)and into the net behind him. The ten
 other players kick, head and pass the ball to each other in an attempt to 
 knock the ball into the opponents goal.  These players are divided into
 three types:

 DEFENDERS

 They must stop the opposing team from shooting at the goal.

 MIDFIELDERS

 They play mainly in the middle area of the field (hence the name) but 
 often help out in attack or defence when required.

 FORWARDS

 These players will try to score the goals, although the other players in
 the team can also try if they are given the chance.


                                    6
   
 Players are allowed to try and get the ball off the opposition by 
 tackling them.  However, if the tackle is judged by the referee to be
 illegal then it is called a foul and the team who were fouled are awarded a
 free kick.  If a foul is committed by a player in his own teams penalty
 area then a penalty kick is awarded to the opposition.  When a player
 commits a foul, there is a chance that he will be warned, booked ( a
 yellow card) or sent off (a red card).  What actually happens is determined
 by the referee.  If the player is exceptionally lucky he may get away
 without being penalized at all!  If the ball is knocked outside the
 touchlines then a throw in is awarded to the opposing team.  A match is
 divided into two halves of equal duration.  If any players are injured 
 during a game then the time lost is added to the end of each half as injury
 time.  Some matches can go into extra time if the result at the end of time
 is a draw.  Sometimes penalties are called upon to decide a match if it is
 still drawn after extra time.  Each match kicks off from the center circle
 at the start of each half.  Whenever a goal is scored the team who conceded
 the goal, kick off again from the center circle.  Teams swap ends at half
 time.  This means they will play in the opposite direction in the second
 half.  The winning team is the one that scores the most goals.

 THE FOOTBALL MATCH

 Various markings are found on the pitch that define particular areas
 These are:

                                    7


 THE GOAL LINE

 The line behind the goal, stretching from one corner to the other ( in
 the same half of the pitch!).  If the ball goes out of play after being
 kicked by the attacking team, then a goal kick is awarded. 

 THE GOAL AREA

 Defined for placing the ball in the penalty area or the goal area but
 nowhere else.  An attacking player fouled in either area will be awarded
 a penalty kick.

 THE PENALTY SPOT

 This is where the ball is placed when a penalty kick is awarded.

 CORNERS
 
 If the defending team knock the ball out of play over their own goal line
 then a corner is awarded.  The ball is kicked back into play by the 
 attacking team from within this small area.

 THE TOUCHLINE

 These lines mark the sides of the pitch.

 HALF WAY LINE

 This is the middle division of the pitch, showing where one half ends and
 another begins.

 CENTER CIRCLE

 The team who aren't kicking off must not enter this circle until the ball
 has been played by the opposition.  This only applies at kick off. 


 Football aficianado's will notice the inclusion of the recent back pass
 rule which stops a goalkeeper from using his hands if the ball is passed
 back to him by one of his own team members.  The 'Keeper will immediately
 kick the ball back up the pitch under these circumstances. 

 The offside rule as not been implemented in Goal! as it was felt that it
 would detract from the playability and flow of the game. 


                                     8                                 

 MASTERING THE MENUS

 From the main menu you can set up and play in your own league or cup 
 competition, participate in a single match, practise ball control and 
 penalties plus much more.  These are a number of different options available.
 To select them you must move the pointer (shaped like a football) over the
 option you want with your mouse or joystick and click the left mouse button
 or press fire to confirm your choice. 

 QUICK START

 To get onto the pitch with the minimum of fuss, select the practice option. 
 On the next screen, select the speed box until it says NOVICE, then choose
 FREE PRACTICE.  On the next screen, select CONTINUE.  The final screen 
 requires you to hold and press down fire for a few seconds before you are
 let out onto the pitch.  If you get a message mentioning "possible auto 
 fire detected on joystick" turn off your auto-fire switch and try again.   
 You are now in a practice match against a computer controlled goalkeeper. 
 For information on how to control the players, kick the ball, pass, shoot,
 etc, etc.  Please read the "Player control" section.  Practice will finish
 at the end of the first half.  If you want to abort before then, press 
 <Escape> to take you back to the main menu.  You won't be able to practice
 tackling, free kicks or penalties but you will learn to dribble, pass the
 ball and shoot with the ball.  Now select the SINGLE MATCH option.  You
 might want to select the SPEED PLAY option at the bottom of the screen. 
 The screens that follow are almost identical to those you saw in practice,
 so select continue on the first screen, then hold down fire on the next to
 get out onto the pitch.  You are now playing a one player match against the
 computer.  This will be your first competitive match against opposition. 
 If you want to quit at any point, press <Escape> and select QUIT. 


                                    9
 
 THE MAIN MENU

 All of the features from the Main Menu are now described in full detail. 


 OPTIONS

 You can change a number of features before you play a single match or
 practice by choosing to alter the options from the Main Menu. (league and 
 cup matches have their own separate options screen but they are very 
 similar to the one found here). 

 (1) PITCH

 The pitch type affects the way the ball behaves when it makes contact
 with the surface. 

 NORMAL - This is a standard league pitch. 

 WET - Wet- The ball will travel further on a wet pitch.  There is also
 reduced bounce. 

 MUDDY - The ball tends not to go so far when passed along the ground
 on a muddy pitch.  The ball bounces even less than on a wet pitch. 

 WEMBLEY - The best surface available.  Similar to a normal pitch but 
 the bounce is slightly higher. 

 RANDOM - This will randomly select one of the four pitch types for you. 
 This is the best way to solve any arguments when two players prefer
 different pitch types!!
    
                                   10

 (2) DURATION

 The length of the game can be altered using this option.  You can choose
 from 1, 3, 5, 10 or 20 minute halves.  Each match consists of two halves
 played for the same duration. 

 (3) WIND

 Wind affects the way the ball behaves when it is off the ground.  It can be
 On or Off.  The strength and direction of the wind is shown before you get
 out onto the pitch. 

 (4) KEEPER LEVEL

 For most of a match,  the goalkeepers in a player's team will be under
 computer control.  The settings here affect how the 'keepers in both teams
 (player or computer) will perform.  Note that they no affect when a player
 takes control of the 'keeper for goal kicks or penalties. 
 
 The settings are Hard, Medium, or Easy.  The main differences between 
 these settings is a variation in the keepers speed of reaction and their
 overall accuracy when going for the ball. 

 (5) REPLAYS

 Whenever a goal is scored you can relive the moment by watching an action
 replay.  These settings affect haw and when you see them. 

 AUTO - After each goal is scored,  it is replayed automatically. 

 AUTO + SAVE - The goal is replayed and saved to disk automatically.  This
 requires a 'Replays' disk to have been previously created via the 'Clear
 Disk' at the bottom of the options screen.  

 OFF - Turns them off completely

 You can force an action replay at any time.  It does not have to be after a 
 goal.  Simply press R during a game and the last ten seconds or so will be 
 replayed.  The game resumes immediately after the replay is over.  If you
 wish to save the replay to disk,  press Enter during the replay.  You will
 need a Replays disk inserted in your internal drive.  See 'Other Features'
 for further information. 

                                   11

 (6) VIEW

 Here you can choose the orientation of the pitch.  Which way you play is 
 down to personal choice.  The default setting is vertical. 

 VERTICAL - This will view the match vertically (up/down). 

 HORIZONTAL - This will view the match horizontally (left/right). 


 (7) SCALE

 The pitch and players can be shown in two different scales.  Both are 
 available during a match. 

 AUTO - The game is viewed in a closer zoomed in scale except at set pieces
 (throw ins,  corners, goal kicks, free kicks) when it zooms out to the wider 
 scale automatically. 

 ZOOMED IN - This will force the game to be viewed in the closer zoomed in
 scale all the time, even at set pieces. 

 ZOOMED OUT - This will force the game to viewed in the wider zoomed out 
 scale all the time, showing more of the pitch as a result. 

 You can also force a change in scale during a game or action replay by
 pressing the <Spacebar>.  This will toggle between the zoomed in and zoomed
 out scale each time you press it.  You can also do this at set pieces by
 holding down fire and pushing left or right on your joystick. 


                                    12

 (8) SCANNER

 The scanner is a handy overview of the entire pitch,  showing the position
 of all the players and the ball.  It is overlaid on the screen during a
 match.  The players on opposing teams are color coded by their main kit
 color to distinguish ones teams from the other.  The ball is also 
 displayed in another color for improved clarity. 

 AUTO - The scanner will change it's position on screen so it does not
 obstruct the players view of the ball.  Fissato - La scansione rimane
 sempre nell'angolo alto a sinistra dello schermo (hello luigi)!!!

 FIXED - The scanner will remain in the top left hand corner of the screen
 at all times.  

 OFF - The scanner is not displayed at all. 

 You can also manually change the position and size of the scanner during
 a match.  You can also turn it off if you change your mind. 

 	X - Toggle between various scanner sizes. 
	C - Toggle between various scanner positions. 
 	V - Assign player numbers to the markers on the scanner. 
 	D - Turn the scanner off. 


 (9) CROWD FX

 Goal! features lots of sample sound effects.  The crowd will react to 
 events on the pitch, adding to the atmosphere.  You will hear the roar of
 the crowd as you near the penalty area, or the chants of teams supporters
 over the other.  These can be left on or turned off.  The sound of the ball 
 and the referees whistle will stay on even when the sound effects are off. 

  
                                    13

 (10) REFEREES     
 
 Each referee has his own personality.  This means that each one will react
 differently to the situation in hand.  For example, some will be more whistle
 happy than others.  A few may rarely show the yellow card whist another may
 send you off without hesitation!

 The golden rule to remember is - The referee is never wrong!

 Keep selecting the referee until you are happy with your choice, (if that
 isn't a contradiction in terms!).  You will only learn their temperaments by
 experience.  If you prefer, leave the choice to chance by selecting Random. 

 In the early days of the game, referees were not needed.  Differences of
 opinion were settled in a sporting manner between the two captains.  Some 
 countries had umpires in each half of the field who were called in when a
 player appealed against a decision.  These umpires eventually became 
 linesmen as we know them today. 

 SAVE SETUP

 Once you have altered the options, you can save them to disk.  This requires
 a 'Data' disk to have been created via the 'Clear Disk' option. 

 LOAD SETUP

 This allows you to load in a previously saved setup file from a 'Data disk. 

 CLEAR DISK

 There are two kinds of blank disk required for Goal!, depending on whether
 you are saving replays or other game data.  This option allows you to format
 to either standard.  You can also erase a previously formatted disk from it. 


                                     14
 
 DATA DISK - This is used for all data except action replays. 

 REPLAYS DISK - This is used exclusively for saved action replays. 

 EXIT - Once you have done all you want to on the options screen, selecting
 Exit will take you back to the Main Menu with your newly configured options
 intact. 


 SINGLE MATCH

 This option gives you the chance to choose which team you want to play, and
 whether you play a one or two player game.  Note that the game you play is a 
 one off match and is not part of any league or cup competitions.  All of the 
 details on this screen can be changed by you.  Simply select the one you wish
 to change by using the pointer. 

 (a) TEAMS

 You can choose from any of the available teams.  Select one of the team names
 it will change color.  If you change your mind, select another team instead. 
 When you are happy with your choice, select - DONE - to finish and return
 to the single match screen.  If you would rather go back to the default teams
 choose the cancel option and it will forget any changes you have made and
 return you to the single match screen. 

 (b) CONTROL DEVICES

 Selecting this option will automatically toggle between computer (C) or
 joystick (J) control.  The default players name will also change to reflect
 this. 

                                   15


 (c) NAMES

 You can change the default names if you wish.  These names will appear when
 a goal is scored during a match as you will see later on.  Select the name
 to change and a cursor will appear.  Simply delete the default name and type
 in your own, which must be no more than nineteen characters in length.  To
 delete character by character press the backspace key.  To delete the entire
 text in one go, press Delete. 


 (d) SPEED

 There are five levels of speed available, ranging from Novice up to Ace. 
 The levels affect the speed that the players run around (although these
 are affected by the player attributes to).  Beginners playing a one player
 game should set the computer level to be lower than their own. 

 Once you are happy with your choices, select Play.  If you have changed your
 mind, selecting Quit will take you back to the Main Menu instead. 

 This next screen will always appear no matter which type of match you're
 about to play. The type of game appears at the top.  The left and right sides
 show the two team kits.  Beneath each one is the respective player names. 
 The current score is shown(0-0 before the match begins). Next to each score
 is a square box labelled 'Pick/View teams'.  This allows you to see your
 current player line up and change the team selection if you want from the
 available squad. 
  
 Your current team list is shown on the left.  On the right you can see your 
 current tactical formation.  Beneath this are a couple of options. 


                                    16
 
 
 PICK PLAYERS

 Selecting this option allows you to play as manager and choose the players
 for your first team squad, which will consist of 11 players(including ya
 goalie) and 2 subs. 

 The entire team squad is displayed here, consists of upto 28 players. 

 A default squad has already been selected.   To choose different players,
 you must swap the currently chosen player with the player you want to 
 replace him with. 

 Select the players number and the box should turn black.   Now choose the 
 number box of the player you wish to play in the position instead.   The old
 players number will now appear in the new players box.   If both players 
 were already in the squad then they will simply switch positions. 

 Football players were originally identified in the matchday programmes by 
 the color of the caps that they wore during the match, player numbers 
 didn't appear until 1928.   However, caps still play a part in the modern 
 day football.   They are awarded to players when they represent their country
 in international matches. 

 Select OK when you have finished. 

 UNDO AND QUIT

 Undo will undo any changes you have made.   Quit will take you back to the
 team select screen with the current changes left in tact. 

                                    17

 SELECT FORMATION

 You can choose your preferred team formation from those provided.   Select 
 the arrows to go through them.   You can also change the players within the 
 formation, for example, you might want player #2 to play in the #10s 
 position and vice versa.   Simply select the player name then select the name
 of the player who is in the position.   This change will affect all of the 
 other available formations.   This is most useful when a player has been sent 
 off.   You can press your substitution key, get to this screen and place a 
 midfield player up front if your main striker has been sent off. 

 Once you've finished picking or viewing your team, you can select the 
 referee from the available list.   There are two ways to change the pitch(I
 prefer horizontal personally @"PoB"@).  Selecting the group of arrows will
 alter the orientation of the pitch(horizontal or vertical).  You can also 
 change the pitch type by cycling through the five available settings(Normal,
 Wet, Wembley, Muddy or Random).  Lastly, selecting the Wind option will 
 toggle between a random wind setting and no wind (None).

 THE TOSS

 Which team kicks off is randomly selected by the computer.  Whoever wins the
 toss of the coin will have the choice of which direction of play in the 
 first half.  If a player wins, they can choose the direction they wish to 
 play by selecting the box at the bottom of the screen.  If you are playing 
 a computer team and it wins the toss, you will be informed of its decision.

 Lastly, at the bottom of the screen is the Continue option, which should be 
 selected once you've finished.

 To play, each player must press and hold down the fire button for a second
 or two.  The bar beneath the Joystick number at the bottom of the screen 
 will fill up from left to right.  If it doesn't or the bar is only partially
 fills up, you will get the message "Possible autofire detected on joystick".

                                    18 

 Check that your joysticks autofire is switched off the select OK and try 
 again.  In a 2 player game, both players must do this.  If all goes well
 you will find yourself running out onto the pitch, ready for kick off(the 
 game that started a new era in computerized football).

 To learn how to control the players during the match, please refer to the 
 "Player Control" section on page #38.

 QUITING A MATCH
    
 To Quit during a match, press <Escape> at any time to bring up a new screen.
 This screen also appears at half time and full time.

 CONTINUE -

 Play the second half or confirm at the end of the game(depending on which 
 half has just finished).  If you've interrupted the game during one half 
 then use this option to go straight back to the match.

 MATCH REPORT -

 This will give you the statistics from the first half or the overall stats
 if the match has just been finished.

 You can see from here how many shots you have had on goal, how many saves 
 were made, the number of corners, throw ins, penalties etc etc.  The amount 
 of possession will show which team had the ball most.

 QUIT -

 Abort the game.  You will be asked to verify this.  Note that if you are 
 playing against a computer team in the league or cup competition you will 
 automatically awarded a 5-0 defeat regardless of the current match score.
 This option wont appear at the end of the game.

                                    19

 *OTHER FEATURES*

 Apart from actually playing a game of football, you can adjust a number of
 other features during the match.

 THE SCANNER

 The scanner is a handy overview of the entire pitch, showing the position of 
 all the players and the ball.  It is overlaid on the screen during a match.
 The players on the opposing teams are color coded by their main kit color 
 to distinguish one teams players from the other.

 The ball is also displayed in another color for improved clarity.  You can
 manually change the position and size of the scanner and you can also turn
 it OFF.

 	X - Toggle between the various scanner sizes.
 	C - Toggle between the various scanner positions.
 	V - Assign player numbers to the markers on the scanner.
 	D - Turns the scanner off/on.

 ACTION REPLAYS

 Press R to replay any moment during the game.  There are a number of ways
 of viewing an Action Replay.  This facility is not unlike a video recorder.
 You can play, stop, visual rewind, or visual fast forward through an action 
 replay.  You can also play the action replay at half the speed, if you want
 to.

 	R......................Initiate Action Replay(start)
 	Fire Button/<Escape>...Stop 
 	F1.....................Fast Visual Rewind
 	F2.....................Visual Rewind 
 	F3.....................Freeze Action Replay
	F4.....................Normal Play(after Fast Forward/Rewind) 
 	F4(again)..............Slow Motion(after normal play F4)
 	F5.....................Visual Fast Forward  
 	<SpaceBar>.............Change Pitch Scale on Replay(zoomed in/out)  

                                    20 

 SAVING REPLAYS

 You can also save replays to disk.  To do this you need to have created a 
 "Replays Disk" from the clear disk option found in the "options" menu 
 before the match kicked off.

 To save a replay to disk, insert your "Replays Disk" into your drive after
 the players have appeared on the pitch.  When you have initiated a replay
 by pressing "R", immediately press <Enter>.  Goal! will look at your Replays 
 disk and save the replay if it can.  11 replays can be stored on one disk
 and GOAL! will automatically assign the next available number to each saved
 replay.

 In the corner of the window at the bottom of the screen(where the score and
 the other info is shown) you will see a message appear.  What this message
 says depends on the circumstances.

 1 OK	Replay has been successfully saved to the "Replay Disk". (Example)

 FULL	The Replay Disk already saved 11 replays on it.  If you decide to 
 	press R and <Enter> again, it will save to the disk deleting the 
 	oldest Action Replay found and saving the new one in its place.

 BAD DISK  Somehow the disk has become corrupted and is unusable.
     
 You can put a new Replay Disk in the drive at any time, so you don't have
 to overwrite old -

                                    21

 - action replays because the disk is already full.  Goal! always starts 
 again from 1 on a new Blank Replay Disk.

 AUTO SAVE REPLAYS

 If you have set up Replays from the Options menu to be saved automatically 
 then you don't have to press <enter as this will be done automatically.  If
 a disk becomes FULL it will overwrite the oldest action replay by default.

 PAUSE

 Pressing P during a match will pause the game.  Press P again to unpause 
 and return to the action.

 DIFFERENT VIEWS

 The <Space Bar> can be used manually toggle between the normal zoomed in and
 the wider zoomed out view of the pitch during a match or an action replay.
 You can also do this by pressing and holding down fire and pushing 
 left/right when taking throw-ins or corners.

 SUBSTITUTIONS

 During a game, players can be automatically subbed due to injury.  You can
 also force a sub at any point by pressing your sub keys, during a match
 or at half time or full time(if extra time is played afterwards).

 PLAYER 1 (HOME TEAM):	Left Amiga key(AMIGA), left Alt Key(ALT)
 PLAYER 2 (AWAY TEAM):	Right Amiga key(AMIGA), right ALT Key(ALT)

 You will notice a small arrow appear in the window at the bottom of the 
 screen -

                                   22  
 -
 Your score.  As soon as the ball next goes out of play(for a throw-in, goal
 kick or corner) you will be presented with the sub screen, where you can
 choose who you want to take off.

 Your first team squad is listed on the left.  On the right are the current 
 team tactics.

 If a sub has been forced due to a player injury, the bar on the right will 
 show the number of the player coming off and the number of the sub nominated
 to come on.  If you want to change to the other sub, simply select the name 
 of the injured player from the list on the left and then select the name of
 the other sub instead.

 If you are forcing the sub yourself, select the name of the player you want 
 to take off then select the name off the sub you want to bring on.  Their
 shirt numbers will appear in the bar on the right.  If you change your mind,
 select the bar to clear it.

 If you want to change the team tactics, go through those available by 
 selecting the arrows.  You can also change the players within the formation.
 For example, you might want player 2 to play in player 10s position or vice
 versa.  Simply select the name of the player who is in the position.  This 
 change will affect all of the other available formations.  This is most 
 useful when a player has been sent off.  You can press your sub key, get to
 this screen and place a midfielder player upfront if your main striker has 
 been sent off.

 When you are completely finished, select QUIT.

                                    23

 *PRACTICE*

 Most eager beginners will probably play a single match first to get their 
 taste of football action.  However, if you feel that you might need to 
 practice your footballing skills this is the option for you!  From here you
 can choose to either play a practice match or practice taking and saving
 penalties in the penalty shoot out.

 FREE PRACTICE

 Free practice is a match that allows you to run out onto the pitch and knock 
 the ball around, getting used to the control method.  Whilst you have your
 full squad to play with, the opposition is limited to just the Goal Keeper.
 All throw ins and corners will be taken by you to allow you to practice them.

 Having chosen Free Practice, you will be taken to a screen you might have 
 already seen as you prepared to play a single match.  This very same screen
 will appear immediately before every type of match(Practice, Cup, League).

 The two team names and their respective kits are shown on the left and right
 hand sides of the screen.  The home team is on the left(this will be you 
 during the practice or in a 1-player game).  As the match hasn't kicked off
 yet, the current score is 0-0.  Next to each score is a square box labelled
 "Pick/View Teams".  Selecting the box will allow you to see your current
 team.  This is discussed in more detail in the "Single Match".  As we are
 interested in practising, we don't need to worry about this option for now.

 Beneath this you will normally see the name of the referee.  However, a
 practice game doesn't need one so this will remain blank.  To the left of
 the pitch types you will see a small -

                                    24

 - group of two arrows.  These indicate whether the match is to be played 
 horizontally or vertically.  The pitch option can be selected to cycle through
 those available.  The differences between the various pitches are described
 in the "Options" section, but it is the best to stick with normal pitch for 
 now.

 Select Continue to go to the next screen.  This will summarize the setup you
 have chosen (for example, no referee, normal pitch and no wind).

 You might have noticed in the middle of the screen an instruction telling
 you to "Press Fire to Start".  You should have spotted a bar beneath the 
 option Joystick 1 at the bottom of the screen.  When you press fire to 
 start the match, hold down the fire button for a second or two.  You will 
 see the bar gradually fill up from left to right.  If it doesn't, or the
 bar only partially fills, you will see the message "Possible Autofire 
 Detected on Joystick".  If this appears, check that your joystick autofire
 is turned off.  When it is, select OK then try pressing fire again for a few
 seconds.

 *KICKING OFF*   
             
 Both teams will run out onto the pitch and line up in player order at the
 start of the match.  During practice, the opposing team will only have 
 1-player(the goalie).

 Moments later both teams will automatically run into their correct 
 positions.  In a normal match, one team will kick off the first half
 and the other team will kick off second half.  However, in Practice you 
 only play the first half and you always win the toss to kick off anyway.

 To learn how to control the players, please refer to the "Player Control"
 section for further details.

                                   25  

 There is a special feature implemented in a practice match which allows you
 to practice certain moves over and over again easily.  When the ball is in
 press the <DEL> key.  This will temporarily store the position of all the 
 players on the pitch.  At any other time during a match when the ball is in
 play, pressing the <HELP> key will restore the players to their saved 
 positions.

 For example, you can practice crossing the ball from the wings by positioning
 a player down the right wing then pressing <DEL> once.  Try crossing the 
 ball.  If you want to try again, press <HELP> whilst the ball is still on 
 the pitch and you can try again from the same position if you press <DEL>
 again at any point the player positions will replace the previously saved
 ones.

 PENALTY PRACTICE

 In this situation, both teams have alternately take 5 penalties to decide 
 who wins.  If the scores are tied then you continue taking alternate 
 penalties until one team misses and the other team scores.  

 You can change the number of penalties taken by selecting the "Best of"
 value and cycling through the available numbers.

 One Player Penalty Practice(or PPP)will match your team against computer 
 controlled opposition.  Selecting Two Player will obviously play you against
 a human player (that is if ya call ya m8's human).

 For further details on how to take penalties, please refer to the "Player
 Control" section.

 If you decide you've had enough of practising, pressing <ESCAPE> will take 
 you straight out and back to the Main Menu.

                                   26  

 *LEAGUE*

 GOAL! allows you to define your own league competition.  You will find the 
 options very y similar to those used in defining cup competitions.

 (1) NEW COMPETITION

 LEAGUE NAME

 Select the current league name and a cursor will appear.  Delete the name 
 and type in your own.  A maximum of 23 characters are allowed.

 To change the values for the remaining options you must select the arrow 
 buttons either side of the value you wish to change.

 NUMBER OF TEAMS

 This will define how many teams will play in the league.  The minimum 
 allowed is 2.  The maximum is 32.

 NUMBER OF PLAYS

 This defines how many times the teams play each other in the season.  The
 minimum allowed is 1.  The maximum allowed is 10.

 POINTS FOR A WIN

 You can either award a team 2 or 3 points for a win.  A draw is worth 1.

 NUMBER OF MATCHES PER TEAM

 This value is automatically calculated from the number of teams in the 
 league and the number of times they play each other.  For example, if there
 are 24 teams in the league then -

                                    27

 your team must play the remaining 23 teams.  If you play each other twice a
 season then the total number of games to be played will be 46 in one season.

 COMPUTER LEVEL

 This sets the computer level, ranging from the lowest (Novice) to the highest
 (Ace).  All computer teams will play at this level.

 HUMAN LEVEL

 This does the same as above.

 PLAY

 If you are happy with your choices then select PLAY instead.

 OPTIONS

 You can access the usual Options screen to define the pitch type and so on.
 Before you start.  This options screen only applies to league matches.  You
 can also format a Data or Replay disks from here.

 CANCEL

 If you don't want to play in a league, choose Cancel to go back to the 
 previous screen.

 TEAM SELECT

 You will now have to select your teams as normal.  Selecting a team once
 places it under Computer control (C).  Selecting it twice gives it Joystick
 control (J).  Selecting it a third time, will cancel it from the selection.

 You are told at the bottom of the screen how many teams you have left to -

                                    28 

 - choose.  If you change your mind at any time just select Cancel.

 When you have chosen the required number of teams, select Done.  You will now
 be shown your League table.

 The table shows the position of each team, the team name, and then details 
 on the matches played so far:

 	P......................The number of matches played.
 	W......................The number of matches won.
	D......................The number of matches drawn.
	L......................The number of matches lost.
        GF.....................Goals for(the number of goals scored).
	GA.....................Goals against(the number of goals conceded).
        PTS....................The total number of points awarded.

 Where the points are the same,the team with the superior goal difference will
 be placed higher.  For example, Liverpool and AC Milan have 5 points each,
 Liverpool are placed one position higher than AC Milan because Liverpool 
 has scored 16 and conceded 1 goal (a goal difference of 15), whilst AC Milan
 has scored 14 and conceded 5 goals(a goal difference of 9).

 Only the first 14 teams are shown.  If your league is larger, select the down
 arrow to the right of the table to see the teams further down.  Select the 
 up arrow to return to the top.

 The next fixture to be played and the result of the previous fixture are 
 shown beneath the league table.  At the very bottom are four options:

 PLAY

 This will play the next scheduled fixture in the league.

                                    29

 SAVE

 This option allows you to save the current league table to disk.  You must
 have already formatted the disk as data disk.

 EXIT

 This will take you back to the league menu.

 SKIP

 Skip is a handy feature for getting to player fixtures quickly.  Selecting 
 skip will rapidly play all of the scheduled computer vs computer matches 
 until it comes to the next player fixture.

 You can also change when matches are being played.  By selecting the next 
 fixture which is highlighted at the bottom of the screen(as text) you can go
 through all of the home teams fixtures.  Stop when you reach the fixture that
 you want to play next.  This is most useful in the away team(a player) isn't
 available for a particular match.  Obviously, any matches you decide not to
 play will have to be played eventually.

 You can also choose the home team by selecting the team name directly from 
 the fixture list.  You can then go through the fixtures as described above.

 This is where you can review previously saved action replays.  You will be 
 prompted to insert a Replays Disk.  Those found on the disk will be 
 displayed alongside any comments(which are discussed next).

 Select one of the available replays from the list.  A new screen is displayed
 which looks very similar to the summary screens shown before each match.
 Here you can see the name of -

                                   30 

 - the referee, the pitch and wind conditions.  You can also inspect the 
 match report for the moment the replay was saved.

 At the bottom of the screen there are 3 options:

 VIEW REPLAY

 To watch the replay you have just loaded in.  To re-save the replay with
 the new comments press <ENTER> during the replay.

 MATCH REPORT

 As normal this allows you to see the exact match stats at the moment the 
 replay was saved.

 EXIT

 Once you've finished, select EXIT.

 *EDIT TEAMS*

 If you want to change the names in any way, you must select this option 
 first before you decide what kind of match you are going to play.  If you 
 try editing teams after you have started a new cup or league competition, 
 both cup and league data will be erased and you will have to start them 
 again.

 Firstly select a team from the list.  You will be taken to a screen which 
 will allow you to change the teams details.

 From here you can change the names of the teams, players, and managers.  You
 can also choose their default tactics and change the home/away playing kit
 designs.  About the only thing you can't do is choose the results!

                                 31       

 TEAM NAME AND MANAGER

 Select the relevant box.  Delete the current text and type in your own, 
 which cannot be longer than 19 characters.

 FIRST AND SECOND KITS

 Choose either box to be taken to the Kit Design screen.

 Along the top of the screen are 6 different kit styles.  Simply select
 the one that you want.

 Beneath these are two separate color palettes.  The left side palette is 
 used for the main kit color.  The right side represents the second color.

 The currently selected colors are indicated by a small round marker.

 When you select a color it is immediately shown in the kit designs above.

 When you've finished, select DONE and return to the team screen.  CANCEL
 will also do the same, but it ignores the changes that have been made to the
 kits.

 PLAYERS

 Select a player from the squad shown to edit his name.

 By selecting the players name you can delete the current one and type in a
 new one.  The name must be no longer than 15 characters.

 Whilst you're here you can examine the players attributes.  There are eight
 in total.

 PACE		How fast the player can run and how quickly they accelerate
 		and decelerate.

                                 32      

 STAMINA	How long they can last for at their maximum pace.

 AGGRESSION	How likely a player is to try a tackle and injure an opponent.

 RESILIENCE	How likely a player is going to survive(?) a tackle.

 KEEPING SKILL	How good the Goalies reactions are?

 TACKLING SKILL How good the player is at tackling and gaining the ball.

 PASSING SKILL  How good the player is at passing the ball.

 SHOOTING SKILL How good the player is at shooting(?)at the Goal!.

 Each attribute is represented by a color coded bar.  The color at the right 
 end of the bar indicate the strength of the attribute.  You cannot alter the
 attributes.

 PURPLE...POOR		DARK GREEN...AVERAGE		LIGHT GREEN...GOOD
 WHITE...VERY GOOD 	ORANGE...EXCELLENT

 When you've finished looking, select DONE.

 PICK PLAYERS 

 This is your chance to play Manager and choose the default players for your
 first team squad.  13 players must be selected.  this must include 1 goalie
 (No1) and 10 outfield players and 2 subs(No12 & No14).  Note that you can
 change these default players again before you play a league, cup or single
 match.

 Choosing a player is simple.  Select the pick players screen will now be 
 shown.  Select the number box of the player you wish to add or move in the
 team.  It will turn black.  Now select the number box of the position you 
 want to play him in.  He will swap places with the player who currently plays
 there.  Do this as often as you wish until you have a team line up you are
 happy with.

                       33                          

 *ADVANCED FEATURES*

 TRANSFER PLAYERS

 You can also move a player from 1 club to another.  Instead of selecting the 
 player name, place the pointer over the name and press the <SPACEBAR>.  The
 players name will appear at the bottom of the screen.  Now select OK then 
 QUIT to go back to the team selection screen.  Choose a new team and select
 pick players as before.  Place the pointer over an empty slot in the player
 list and press <SPACEBAR> again to place the player in the team.

 Note that you cannot delete players.
 You can only move 1 player from a club to another, one player at a time.
 Note ya cannot exchange a player from a club if they r in the first squad.
 
 EDITING TEAMS

 You will have to select the team you wish to edit from either the default 
 GOAL! teams or from Custom teams.  You will be presented with a simple 
 file selector.

 Using the selector is simple.  The available files(teams in this case) are
 shown on the left.  A slider button allows you to scroll up and down the list
 if it is to large too fit in the allocated window.  Either select the button(
 keep pressing fire or the lmb) then move up or down to scroll up/down the
 list.  Alternatively, select it once and it will automatically go down to
 the next window full of files for you each time you select it.

 The name of the file you select will appear in the bar at the bottom.  You
 can also select this bar and type in the name of the file that you want to 
 load in if ya prefer.  Either way, when you are finished, select OK if you 
 are happy with your choice or CANCEL if you've changed your mind and want to
 do something else instead.

 What you now do on this screen depends on what mode its in.

 DELETE MODE

 The mode is displayed in the bar near the top of the screen.  It can either
 be in DELETE mode or REPLACE mode.  Say you want to delete a team.  Ensure 
 that the bar is in DELETE mode first(select it to toggle between DELETE/
 REPLACE mode).  Now select the small box -

                               34           

 - to the right of the name of the team you wish to delete.  The team should 
 disappear completely.

 REPLACE MODE

 Replace mode is very handy if you want to take a few teams from France, etc
 and mix them together in one European League or cup competition.  You must 
 first load in the group containing the teams you wish to extract.  These 
 teams haven't replaced the ones that are already in memory.  They are now 
 both in different screens and you will be able to switch between the two of
 them to effectively cut and paste them together.

 Choose your team from those you just loaded in by selecting the name.  You
 will then be shown the previous teams screen.  You can replace a team with 
 the one you choose by selecting the small box next to the team name you wish
 to replace.  Your other team will now appear instead.  Alternatively, you 
 can add the other team to the current list by selecting the first blank slot
 and placing them instead.  To finish in replace mode you must select DONE 
 at the bottom of the screen.  To finish completely you must select done 
 again.

 *ARCADE CHALLENGE*

 The Arcade Challenge will test your playing skills against all five of the
 computer skill levels.

 (Novice, Amateur, Semi-Pro, Pro and Ace).  Each round will progressively get
 harder.  A draw will be enough to get you through but you can beat the cream 
 of the computer teams?  Each match is played on Normal pitch with no Wind 
 and lasts 2 minutes per half.

 	G.............FGOALS for(the number of goals you have scored)
 	GA............Goals against(the number of goals conceded by you)
	DIFF..........The Goal Difference(goals scored/goals conceded)
	LEVEL.........Level 1 = NOVICE, Level 5 = ACE         
	POINTS........Calculated by multiplying the DIFF by the LEVEL.

                                    35

 All the Main Menu options have now been described.  All thats left is to 
 learn you how to move your players(sweetly, slick, fast, smooth).

 *PLAYER CONTROL*

 No matter what type of game you have selected to play, you will eventually 
 run out onto the pitch, ready to play the match.  When the players are in 
 the center circle, press P to pause the game for a moment.  Before we start
 we should look at the screen.  Apart from the players and the pitch you will 
 see a couple of other things that need explaining.  At the bottom of the 
 screen you will see a window displaying lots of useful information.

 The name and number of the player currently in possession of the ball is 
 shown.  (The name is displayed in the teams main color).  The length of time
 in the half is shown between the current score.  The colored arrows next to
 the score indicate the direction the teams are playing in the half.  
 Relevant messages are also displayed from time to time underneath as you 
 will see as the game progresses.

 In the top left hand corner of the main screen you will also see the 
 SCANNER.  This is an overview of the pitch showing the position of all the
 players and the ball.  Each team is represented on the scanner by markers. 
 The color is determined by the teams main kit color.  The ball is also shown
 in a different color.  The scanner can be adjusted by pressing the following
 keys during play(you cant do this when the game is paused).

 	X - Toggle between the various scanner sizes.
 	C - Toggle between the various scanner positions.
 	V - Assign player numbers to the markers on the scanner.
 	D - Turns the scanner off/on. 

                                   36   

 Now that we've looked at these features, press P to unpause the game and we
 are now ready to learn now to control the players and the ball.

 *NOTE THE CONTROLS ARE IN - - LIKE THEM TO AVOID DIFFICULTY?

 *PLAYER CONTROL*

 Throughout the match you will control the player nearest to the ball.  All
 the other players on your team will behave according to their individual 
 attributes and will move into suitable positions according to the tactics
 employed.  The player you currently control is highlighted by a line.

 Note that the following instructions refer to tapping and pressing the fire
 button on your joystick.  A tap is a quick stab and a press is where you 
 hold the button down a second or more, depending on the circumstances.

 Don't worry if the instructions sound complicated.  Many of them will come 
 naturally after a while.

 *PLAYER MOVEMENT OFF THE BALL*

 RUNNING

 To make a player run, push the joystick in the required direction.  The 
 longer the player runs in one direction he will go faster.  The fastest he 
 can go is determined on his attribute and how long he can sustain it is 
 affected by his Stamina attribute.  You will learn more about all the 
 available attributes later.

 When a player is running at full speed, it is harder to suddenly change 
 direction.  This is due to the players turning circle.  The faster he runs
 the larger the circle is.  This is a revolutionary new feature especially
 implemented in GOAL!

                                    37

 *TACKLING*

 Whilst the only way to practice tackling is to play a proper match against
 another team, it is important to understand the principles.  There are a 
 number of different ways of tackling and they each have their own merits.

 THE SLIDE TACKLE

 This tackle is powerful, but it can result in fouling and injuring players.
 To perform a slide you must tap the fire button whilst the ball is low.  As
 a result your player will slidein the direction he is facing.  To make a safe
 tackle your player must make contact with the ball before he makes contact
 with the opponent.  If he makes contact with the opponent before the ball, 
 then that will almost certainly be seen as a foul by the Referee.  For 
 example, tackling from behind the player will nearly always result in a 
 foul.

 -press fire and the direction that you want to slide-

 BLOCK TACKLE

 It is possible to block a player from reaching the ball by getting in his 
 way.  This will slow him down.  To gain the advantage ensure that you get 
 ball side of the player when you make the block, so that you can reach the
 ball first.

 -press and hold fire whilst running to the player/ball-

 *THE HEADER*

 If the ball is in the air, quickly tap the fire button and when the player 
 jumps, push the joystick in the direction you want to head the ball.  You
 can make the player head the ball downwards by holding the fire button down
 while the player is in the air until he heads it.  Note that your players 
 speed and direction will affect the direction and force of the header.  
 Heading is a difficult skill to master but it can be very effective.

 -press fire and direction you want to head the ball-

                                    38 

 *THE CHEST DOWN*

 If the ball is coming towards you at chest height, facing the ball and doing
 nothing will automatically make your player chest the ball down, ready to be 
 controlled.  If the player is facing away from the ball then it will bounce
 off him.

 -press fire-

 *THE SCISSOR KICK*

 Also known as the overhead kick, this is a strong kick given to the ball
 whilst at head height.  To execute it, you must reverse your joystick while 
 the ball is in the air.  To make contact with the ball the kick must be 
 timed to the nearest second.  The player will always fall to the ground after 
 performing this acrobatic kick.

 -reverse the joystick and press fire-

 *BALL CONTROL*

 The following moves are all possible when your player has the ball.

  *THE DRIBBLE*
 
 This is what happens when a player is running with the ball at his feet.  He
 runs forward and kicks the ball ahead of him in the desired direction.  The
 distance the ball is kicked depends on the speed that the player is running.

 -tap the joystick in the direction you are running-
 
 *THE TRAP*

 If you want to pass accurately the first thing you need to do is stop the 
 ball at your feet to give you complete control.  This is known in the game 
 as trapping the ball.  To do this, you must press and hold the fire button
 immediately before your player touches the ball.  You should come to a halt
 to a stop with the ball on your feet.  
 
 -press and hold fire then turn into the direction you want-

                                    39 

 *THE TRAP RUN*

 Turning with the ball when travelling at speed requires good technique to 
 avoid losing the ball.  The Trap Turn method involves slowing down with the
 ball using the Trap and then moving off in a new direction as follows:

 1)	Hold the fire button down and touch the ball.
 2)	Center the joystick(to stop).
 3) 	Release the fire button.
 4)	Push the joystick in the new direction.

 You can try turning at faster speeds, but this is more a case of choosing 
 the right movement to change the direction of your run so that you don't 
 reflect the ball away.  This especially applies when you try cutting in at
 45 degrees to make a diagonal run into the opponents Penalty area.

 *THE STOP*

 Center the joystick while in contact with the ball.  You will slow down and
 stop with the ball.  This is most useful when you intend to continue 
 dribbling but in a different direction.  However, this technique requires
 careful timing but when it works it ensures that you are moving slow enough
 to lose the ball.  180 degree turns with the ball are possible using this
 technique.

                                   40 

 *PASSING*

 THE CONTROLLED PASS

 If you've trapped the ball, keep the fire button held down and then try
 moving your joystick.  You will see your player turn with the ball still at
 his feet.  When you let go of the fire button the ball will be passed to the
 feet of the player who is nearest to yours in the direction you are currently
 pushing the joystick.  Of course, an opposition player may try to tackle you
 to block or intercept the pass so it's not guaranteed to reach your team
 mate.

 -press and hold fire, turn to the direction required and let go of fire-

 THE CHIP PASS

 You can chip the ball by reversing your joystick when contact with the ball.
 This will kick the ball high but with less force than a normal shot.  The
 position of your joystick after the chip will give the ball swerve and allow
 you to adjust the height(see After Touch).  This technique allows you to pass
 the ball over an intervening player to a fellow team mate or make a cross 
 into the opponents Penalty area.

 Usually when making a chip you need to keep the ball low.  This can be done 
 by pushing your joystick forward again immediately after performing the chip
 (thus dipping the ball downwards).  After Touch explains in more detail.

 THE THROUGH BALL

 This is a different sort of pass.  Whilst dribbling with the ball you can
 stop running.  The ball will run ahead of you and if you've judged it 
 correctly it will run through to another of your players instead.  This can
 be very effective as some human players tend to follow the movement of the 
 player rather than the movement of the ball and this can fool them.

                                   41   

 THE LONG BALL

 This technique is simply kicking the ball towards a team mate by shooting the
 ball and using the swerve.  To shoot the ball,  tap the fire button on the 
 joystick when in contact with the ball.  The player you are aiming the long
 ball at must intercept it as it comes down so that he can control it quickly.

 *SHOOTING*

 Seeing that the aim of the game is to score as many goals as possible, you
 should really learn how and when to score one!  Fortunately, there is more
 than one way to do this.

 This is simply a straight shot in any of the eight joystick directions.  Just
 give the fire button a quick tap.  You may then adjust the direction and
 height of the ball using the After Touch.

 You can also try scoring by using a number of other techniques, like headers,
 scissor kicks, lobs from the half way line. etc

 *AFTER TOUCH*

 NOTE THIS IS PISS EASY TO USE!

 This is a very useful technique which allows you to affect the travel of the 
 ball after it has been kicked.  This serves two purposes:

 1)	It allows finer control of the direction and height of a kick.
 2)	It allows you to bend the ball, dip it and put lift on it.

 The direction of your joystick immediately after the kick determines the 
 direction of the swerve.  How soon after the kick you adjust the direction 
 and now long you - 

                                    42

 - hold onto it in that direction before letting go determines the amount of
 swerve.

 To really get a good curl on the ball, you must push the joystick the moment 
 the ball is kicked and hold it there till the swerve dies away.

 Left/Right	- Swerve ball Left/Right
 Center 	- Does fuck all
 Dip the ball	- Push the joystick the way you are shooting
 Lift the ball	- Pull the joystick the opposite way than you are shooting

 *SET PIECES*
	
 Set pieces come into play whenever there is a dead ball situation.  This 
 includes throw ins, goal kicks, free kicks and corners.  When you take these
 set pieces, think about where you are going to play the ball or who you are 
 going to pass it to.

 If you haven't changed the options you will notice that every time the ball 
 goes out of play you are represented with a wider view(zoomed out) scale
 giving you a much bigger view of the pitch, but reducing the size of the 
 players as a result.  Once the set piece is taken, the scale will change
 back to the normal size.  This is automatic rescaling can be changed by you 
 in the Options menu, which was discussed earlier.

 THROW INS

 To throw the ball back into play you must select the direction, length and
 height of the throw.  This is indicated by a white dotted line which is 
 drawn from the players position outwards.

                                   43

 1)	The direction 

 If you push the joystick left/right then the line will rotate around the 
 player.  Stop moving when it is pointing in the direction required.

 2)	The length

 If you push the joystick up/down the indicator will move further/closer.  
 This shows how far the ball will travel when you throw it(the strength).

 3)	The height 

 The height of the throw can be adjusted by pressing and holding the fire 
 button, then moving the joystick up/down.

 When you are happy with the direction, length and height of the line, tap 
 the fire button to throw the ball.

 The original football laws of 1963 awarded a throw in to the first player 
 to touch the ball after it had crossed the touch line.  The ball had to be
 thrown in at right angles to the touch line and it couldn't be played by 
 anyone until it had been touched by the ground first.

 *TAKING FREE KICKS*

 When a free kick is awarded a number of things can happen, depending on 
 where the offence took place.

 If you are near enough to the opposing teams Goal, you will see a number 
 of their players lining -

                                   44  

 up a wall between the ball and the goal.  A few moments later you will see 
 a dotted line similar to the one used for throw ins appear.  Once again you 
 must use the joystick to set the direction, height, length of the free kick.
 When you are happy, tap the fire button to kick the ball.  Remember that you
 can use the after touch to bend the ball when taking free kicks.

 If the free kick is not close enough to the opposing teams Goal, then a 
 normal free kick is required.  Simply kick or pass the ball like normal.

 *DEFENDING FREE KICKS* 

 If you are the defending team, the defensive wall will be set up 
 automatically for you.  However, you do have a few seconds to adjust the 
 number of players in the wall.  By default, four players are lined up, but 
 you can increase or decrease the number of players with the joystick:

 Increase players - Push right on the joystick.  The maximum is 7 players.
 Decrease players - Push left on the joystick.  The minimum is 0 players.
 Moving the wall - Push up/down to move the wall up/down.

                                    45 

 *CORNERS*

 Again you will be presented with a dotted line to set up the direction, 
 length, height of the corner kick.  Once again remember that after touch can
 be used for the flukiest goal ever(over head kick from the corner).

 *GOAL KICKS*

 There are two kinds of Goal Kick.  The first is a drop kick which will occur
 when the keeper has caught the ball in his hands.  He will step forward, drop
 the ball and kick it before it touches the ground.  After touch can be added
 to swerve the kick.  The second type is when the opposition kick the ball over
 the Goal line.  The keeper then places the ball on the edge of the 6 yard 
 area and will kick the ball from there.

 By pushing the joystick and tapping the fire button you can affect where the
 ball is kicked under these circumstances.

 *PENALTIES*

 If a player if fouled inside the 12 yard area then a penalty will be awarded
 to the attacking team.  Some cup matches have to be resolved by playing a 
 penalty shoot out.

 TAKING A PENALTY

 To take a penalty you must first press fire on the joystick to start the run
 up to the ball.  The longer you press fire the higher the kick will be.  Just
 before the player makes contact with the ball, push the joystick in the 
 direction you wish to kick the ball.  After touch can also be applied if you
 are quick enough.

                                    46

 If you miss a penalty in a penalty shoot out then you do not get the chance
 to score from a rebound.  However, in a normal match, the opposition keeper
 saves the shot but the ball bounces of the keeper and stays on the pitch, 
 you can run in and try to score from the rebound.

 DEFENDING A PENALTY

 If you are controlling the team who conceded the penalty, then you will have
 direct control over which your keeper dives when he faces the kick.  Push the
 joystick in the direction require then press fire button to make a save.

 The penalty kick was introduced in 1891 after professional players began 
 deliberately handling the ball to stop certain goals.  Many amateurs thought
 a penalty a disgrace and instructed the Goalie to stand by the corner flag,
 leaving the goal unattended!!

 BOOKINGS

 A player can be booked when a foul is committed.  If it is his first offence
 it will usually be a yellow card.  However, if it is his second offense then
 ne will be sent off(a red card).  Some referees will send a player off for a
 first offence if they believe the foul was bad enough

 Someone once said that football's a funny old game.  Well, it isn't for some 
 people.  In fact, some sad people have to invent excuses to explain why they
 lost.  (Don't they B/\ggy, sorry is it Spiderman or is it Wilma no it is 
 a Big Baby).

                                    47 

 *METHODS*

 The get in the excuse before kick off method this is by far the most popular
 method.  For this to work, the player must mention his excuse before the 
 match begins, and he must ensure that it isn't over emphasized.  Subtlety is
 the key here.

 The post match analysis method the loser tends to blame his defeat on one or
 two key events during the match.  The questioning of the referees ability 
 and the statue type qualities of the Goal Keepers are 2 favorites.