                     Gold of the Realm Documentation

    Gold of the Realm requires at least 1meg of memory and joystick to play.

  Nigel knew it was going to be an odd day when he woke that morning. He had
always been able to tell, when something unusual was about to happen, and sure
enough, something did happen.  A man died on his doorstep that night.  needless
to say, Nigel wasnt very surprised at this and handled the situation as best he
could.   He made the dying man comfortable in his last few minutes, giving
him something to drink and trying not to ask silly questionssuch as where does it
hurt?or Why are you dying on my doorstep?  This kindnessdid pay off,
mind you, for right before the dying man died, he told Nigel the most amazing
secret...
  "Friend...."he managed to say, "listen to me closely, you will be the only one to
know."  Nigel listened, though mostly out of politeness, and the dying man went on.
  "it's there, all there, up in the mountains...Map, I have a map...take it."
Puzzled, but interested, Nigel felt through the man's coat and found a leather tube.
  "Yes, yes that's it." sputtered the dying man. "It's yours...".
   Now Nigel, suddenly feeling inquisitive, muttered, "um, excuse me sir, but,
where's this map to, I mean, whats it of?"   A groan escaped the dying man and
Nigel feared he must have said something rude, but then again, dying men are
supposed to to groan like that arent they? nevertheless, the dying man continued.
"The castles of the princes, it will show you the way!"
  "Castles of the Princes?" thought Nigel. Now that sounded familiar...
  
 "There are four castles, each contains the GOLD of the REALM...you can
have riches beyond your dreams...take the map and explore each abondoned
castle for your treasures."
 
 The GRAY castle was the Steel of Strength, Green for abundance of the land,
Blue for the valience of the people, & Purple as the symbol of royalty!

 To save a game, you'll need a formatted disk.

  At the beggining of the game, you'll have option to begin a new game or
continued a saved game from your save game disk..

 Next, choose the difficulty level..EASY=1 castle with 79 screens to explore
and is always the same game.
Medium=2 castles and 159 screens...always the same game..while EXPERT is
the most challenging...is different every game with 4096 possible games,
all 4 castles and 320 different screens..with lots of items and traps!

 To pause-click left mouse button...<game is real time..for every real
time minute, you lose a little strength.>

 opening doors-
  To open a closed door, stand close to it and press joystick button.
some doors need keys of the same door color. once a door is unlocked using
the correct colored key, it will vanish..one time use only.

 Picking up items-
  To pick up an item , stand next to it and press joystick button, the
name of the item and image will appear in the status bar, in addition, if
you have the scroll, you'll receive a breif description of the item.
To drop an item, click left mouse button and move cursor to item, then
click that item, which makes that item the active item..EI-key,candle,sword,
etc...just press button to drop..(only on wooden floors can you drop)

 Stairs-stand next to one and press joystick button.

 Tips-Since this is an exploration game, i suggest you make maps..its real
easy to get lost..and save gave when youve done alot of moving around...or
accomplished anything big.!

 When the ghost is coming after you, run away..if he touches you, he takes
away some strength and the item you have active..and places it somewhere
in the castle...<real annoying>

AS with locked doors, certain items are funtional only when carrying the
right items.....when you have defeated all obstacles and gotten the treasure
then go back to your horse and press joystick button.

  Comments about the game <Rom Chip's reviews>
  -------------------------------------------

  Well...i kinda liked the game...it wasnt an action packed role playing
game like i had hoped for like FAERY TALE or BARDS TALE or something, but
it was crisp...you could spend days playing the hardest level!

  The game <EASY LEVEL> is kinda straightforward..not too much of a puzzle,
you go into the castle and you can go up a level or down 2 more..and one
the bottem level..ya need a candle so you can see..i found a wand and a 
sword on that level..dont know what ill need em for though...and you 
basically find keys that will open doors to other needed keys and so on
and so on...like i had to go down a level and walk around and then go up
a different staircase so i could access a different part of level 1..that
i couldnt before..use my pink key to get a green key and go down another
level to use green key to get a blue key...it just goes on..after you
do all this chasing around for all the keys..ya get the gold pot and get
out and win!!!..EXCITING to the max..the excitement was all around me, boy.

 Now, the hardest level was quite challening..ya can explore the outdoors
as well...as least it was a little more challenging to have to find the
castles first...they shouldve put more action fighting in it..oh well, its
a good game for awhile..the hardest is definitely worth playing..if ya
want something that wont finish in an hour...
