 GRAHAM TAYLOR SOCCER CHALLENGE   KRISALIS SOFTWARE LTD   FULL MANUAL
 TYPED IN BY--->> POB<<---  THE LOONS...

                           P1
                     CLUB MANAGMENT 

 LOADING THE GAME
 Ensure that your computer is turned off before loading turn on the computer
 and insert DISK 1 in the drive the game will autoboot.....
 upon uploading you will be faced with a choice of NEW GAME or
 RESTORE GAME=to continue a saved game select=RESTORE=otherwise start
 a new game by highlighting the text and clicking the left mouse button

 RESTORE
 Follow on-screen prompts to continue a saved game.....

 NEW GAME
 Before starting the game you have a chance to alter the set up of
 teams and players,to allow you to keep the league up to date...

 CHANGING TEAM/PLAYERS NAMES
 To alter select on screen-menus and use the keyboard to enter new text
 when prompted press the RETURN key when you are happy with the new game..
 
 STARTING THE GAME 
 After proceeding from the set-up menu(by clicking on start game)you will
 be shown a list of the ³rd division teams who are currently without a 
 manager you may choose to join any of these.Next select whether to
 start wth a manager,or load a previously saved career details if
 starting a new manager you will be required to type in your name
 using the keyboard and push RETURN...

 THE MAIN MENU
 This consits of the four icons clicking by the mouse over any of these
 will bring up a menu of choices some of which may lead to a further menu
 
 PLAYERS ICON
 A)Tranees.
 B)Transfers.
 C)Scouts.
 D)Injures/Suspensions.
 E)Squad.
 F)Medical records.
 G)Re-negotiate Contracts

 (A)TRANEES 
 As well as you main squad of players you also have a team of trainees
 who may be signed to your squad or step into replace injured players on
 the match day as these players are very young and inexperianced their 
 skills will not match those of first team players ,however, they 
 will increase with age........

                          P2
                    MAIN MENU(cont)

 The trainee squad names are displayed on the screen at the bottom are 
 icons for recruiting new trainees offering a full contract,releasing 
 trainees and exit
 
 Alternatively clicking on any of the names will show the details
 of that player including his contract expiry date,date of birth 
 and skill evaluation.....
 
 All trainees contracts expire on there 17th birthday when this date is
 reached you must decide on the players future with the club the choice will
 be given to either release the player, offer a full contract or remain a
 trainee. The player will then decide to accept or to leave the club.........
 A player may only remain a trainee until the age of 29 after
 which he may decide to leave the club........

 NEGOTIATING CONTRACTS
 When settling a full contract  you must decide between monthly or yearly
 length and the salary per-annum although trainee players are not to 
 demanding due their enthusiasm on joining the first sqaud..........

 TRANSFERS
 1)Loan in- you may enquire with any club with a view to loaning one of
 their players at any time although the loan depends on many circumstances
 the player will not join your club if he is one of the top players and 
 required for his team if the club is quite a distance and he doesnt wish
 to travel or if he required to drop down a couple of divisions.......
 You may only loan 5 players per season with 2 at 1 time the minimum
 loan period is 28 days with usual maximum of 3 months in special 
 circumstances this may be increased with the league permission....
 
 2)Transfer player- placing a player on the transfer list alerts other
 clubs to his availability and so increases the number of incoming bids
 when selecting this option you will be required to enter the price you
 expect to receive for the player see the pricing table for average prices..

 3)Bid for player- you may take an offer to any club for one of their 
 players whether he is on the clubs transfer list or not the chances of 
 buying him when not on the list however are more unlikely,particualy if
 the player is one of the most valued at the club
 if the club agress to the sale you must negotiate a contract with the 
 player in question be sure to offer an attractive package or the player
 will turn you down dont try to offer too high a price or
 your board of directors will veto the move........

 4)Examine bids- this allows you to view all offers from other clubs for
 your players these may or not on the transfer list clicking on a players 
 name will show any interested clubs and a figure they are offering
 a further click on any of these will allow you to enter into 
 negotiations with that club click on the relevant icon to accept or
 reject the bid or exit.Exiting will leave the club hanging on but
 they may drop there bid in the circumstance......

 5)Examine transfers- click on this option to view transfer listed
 players from all clubs along with their prices......

                          P3
                   NOTES FOR TRANSFERS 

 SCOUTS
 You may send scouts on duty click on his name if he has a report 
 available already this will be shown at this point.Otherwise you will be
 required to select a team or players for him to watch.The next time 
 this team/player plays the scout will report to you the scouts 
 duties may be altered at any time.This option is useful for summaris-
 ing the skills of future opponenets or evaluating a player you wish to buy..

 INJURIES/SUSPENSIONS 
 Selecting this option allows you to see which players are unavailable for 
 playing due to being injured/suspended the lengh of time for which they
 will be out of action is also shown although in case of injuriesi is varied

 SQUAD
 This menu allows you to access statistics and information for your senior 
 squad.Click on any option to view each page......

 MEDICAL RECORDS 
 Clicking on any name will show all the injuries previosly sustained by that
 player.This page shows the date the injury occured,injury type and the 
 lengh of time that the player was out of action.......

 RE-NEGOTIATE CONTRACT
 Players may be offerd a new contract at any time all contracts expire on
 june 30th so for example offering offering on ¹st of june 1992 means
 it will expire on june 30th 1993 players will choose to accept or not

                          P4
                     STATICS ICONS 

 A) FIXTURES 
 B) CUP DRAWS
 C) TABLES
 D) TOP SCORERS 
 E) HISTORY 

 A)FIXTURES 
 Selecting this allows you to view cup and league fixtures and results for
 any team in the league and confrence.Along-side each fixture the match type
 is given as:-
 LGE=LEAGUE MATCH
 RUM=RUMBELOWS LEAGUE CUP
 ZEN=ZDS CUP
 AGT=AUTO GLASS TROPHY

 B)CUP DRAWS
 Click on the required competition and view the fixtures for the current round
 
 c)TABLES 
 Display the league table for any of the 5 divisions ,select the required 
 division by clicking on the relevant icon the top section of the table is
 shown first and clicking on the NEXT icon will toggle top/bottom.......

 D)TOP SCORERS
 Shows the highest scoring players for each division with a breakdown 
 of totals for various competitions.........

 E)HISTORY
 Displays a record of your clubs performance in the league and cup over 5
 years


                          P5
                     MANAGER ICON          
 
 A)DAIRY
 B)STATUS
 C)MATCH INFO

 A)DAIRY
 This is the page that revolves around as its from here that you advance
 and play the days events this dairy shows ²weeks at a time with passed dates
 hatched in red........

 B)STATUS
 This is a personal record of you manergerial career as well as an asseess-
 ment of your progress,The first page display shows your current status
 and clicking on NEXT will display your history.............

 C)MATCH INFO
 To begin the match push left mouse button and the players will run out on
 to the field/click the button again to do instant team set-up..
 hold right mouse to speed the clock up/to subsitute a player hold down
 left mouse button then you should be shown a list then move the pointer
 the sub who you want to come on click left mouse button
 the player who you want to take out left mouse button on the name....
 then push right mouse button to continue game.........


                         P6
                   PRICING CHARTS

   TRANSFER FEE CHART
   
   DIVISION           |     VALUE RANGE 
   --------------------------------------
   PREMIER DIVISION   | 250,000 3,000,000
   -------------------------------------- 
   DIVISION 1         | 70,000 500,000
   --------------------------------------
   DIVISION 2         | 30,000 85,000
   --------------------------------------
   DIVISION 3         | 25,000 60,000
   --------------------------------------
   GM CONFRENCE       | 1,000 10,000



   WAGE CHART


   DIVISION          |     SALARY RANGE
   ------------------------------------
   PREMIER DIVISION  | 90,000 150,000
   ------------------------------------
   DIVISION 1        | 30,000 50,000
   ------------------------------------
   DIVISION 2        | 14,000 27,000
   ------------------------------------
   DIVISION 3        | 13,000 18,000
   ------------------------------------
   GM CONFRENCE      | 6,000 10,000


LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS LOONS
