                          Graham Gooch
                          ============

                       WORLD CLASS CRICKET 
                       =================== 
 
 
LOADING AND CONTROLS 
-------------------- 
This game requires at least 1mb of memory.  First, write protect the Game
Disk (you should never attempt to save to the Game Disk).  Now place the
Game Disk in the internal drive and reboot the computer.  Leave the Game
Disk in the drive even after it has loaded as the program needs to access
the disk from time to time during the game.
 
The game can be played by one or two players or you can watch two computer
teams play each other.  For a two player game you will require two
joysticks:  for a one player game you should connect one joystick and the
mouse (it is slightly easier to use the menu system with a mouse).
 
To select a menu option move the hand which acts as a pointer to the
required option and click the left mouse button.  Options which are
dehighlighted are unavailable (for example if your side is batting you can
select Change Bowler).  To proceed to the next screen either click on the
OK icon or if there isn`t one on a particular screen just click anywhere on
the background (ie not on an icon or tab).
 
NOTE:  many of the options have alongside a red marker in the shape of a
cricket ball.  Click on the option not on the marker.
 
TEAM DISKS & SAVE GAME DISKS  
---------------------------- 
You must not attempt to save to the Game Disk.  If you want to edit the
built-in teams, create your own teams or change field settings then you
must create your own Team Disk.  To create a Team Disk you must use the
format option on the Edit/Create Teams screen (disks formatted outside the
program will not work!).
 
You will also need a formatted disk on which to save an incomplete match.
This can either be formatted in the same way as a Team Disk or using the
standard format command for your computer.  You can save a match to a Team
Disk if you wish.
 
Note only one save game file can be saved to each disk.  Saved games always
have the file name GAME.SV, and so if you save a second game to the same
disk it will overwrite the first one.  However if you change the name of
the first file from GAME.SV (to anything else) it wont be overwritten.
When you restore a saved game the program always looks for a file named
GAME.SV, so if you have renamed the file you must change it back again.
 
Unless you intend to create your own teams from scratch, once you have
formatted a Team Disk you should copy over from the Game Disk the teams
that you want to use.  See the section Edit/Create Teamns below for full
details.
 
GAME OPTIONS 
------------ 
The main menu allows you to choose the type of match you want to play.
Matches can last from one to five days, each team can have either one or
two innings and the number of overs in each innings can be limited or
unlimited.  In a limited overs game no bowler may bowl more than one fifth
of the total number of overs allowed for any innings.
 
Move the pointer to the option you wish to select or change, then press the
left mouse button (or the joystick fire button).  There are three skill
settings - Amateur, Professional, and World Class - you should choose
Amateur for your first game.
 
To play a match choose either One Player Game or Two Player Game, or, if
you decide that you`d rather watch two computer controlled teams play,
click on Computer vs Computer.
 
However, before starting a match you may wish to Edit/Create Teams or
change the Match Settings.  If you have previously saved an incompleted
game you can continue it if you place the appropriate disk in the drive
then select Restore Saved Game.
 
 
HOW TO PLAY 
----------- 
Each match is played between two teams.  Provided on the Game Disk are
teams represting each of the nine test playing countries - England,
Australia, West Indies, New Zealand, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Zimbabwe
and South Africa - and we've also included a World XI.  Of course, you may
not agree with our cho;ce of teams, or the players who have been picked for
the squads - but you can always edit the teams supplied or create new ones
of your own.  You may also wish to update the career averages from time to
time, or replace them with figures of your own, for example the current
seasons averages.
 
Let`s assume that your first match is to be between England (controlled by
you) and Australia (controlled by the computer).  Click on One Player Match
which will bring up a list of the teams on the Game Disk.  (if you select
this option by mistake you can go back to the opening menu by clicking on
Cancel).
 
At this stage you should normally insert a Team Disk which contains either
a copy of the teams on the Game Disk or your own teams.  Click on the Disk
icon to tell the program to read in the teams on the Team Disk.
 
However the first time you play you`d probably (ike to go straight into the
game - that's OK, just so long as the Game Disk is write protected (ie you
can see through the write protect hole), and you don`t plan to make any
changes to the teams or the default fielding set ups that you want to save
(changes can only be saved to the disk from which the team was originally
loaded).
 
Click  on  England  -  the  England squad will be displayed so that you can
select  the  eleven  players  you`d  like  in  your  team.  A dagger symbol
indicates players who are established wicket keepers.
 
Note:  there are twenty players in each squad, more than can be shown on
the screen at one time; to see the rest of the squad click on the bar at
the right hand side.
 
Pick your team by clicking on each of the eleven players in turn (if you
change your mind about a player just click again to drop him from the team.
To save time you can leave it up to the computer to pick the team for you -
just click on Best 11.  When you have chosen your team click on OK.
 
Note:  if you select for your team more than one who is designated as a
wicket keeper the computer will decide which player keeps wicket.
 
Next choose your opponents - click on Australia.  If you wish the computer
will automatically choose its best team to play against you - but you can
also pick the team yourself (this is useful if you want to re-create a
particular match).
 
Now for the coin toss, to decide who has the option of batting first.
Select either take Heads or take tails; if you win the toss you can decide
whether to bat or field first.
 
Let`s suppose that your team is batting first.  If you clicked on Best 11
the batting order is automatically chosen by the computer based upon the
players batting averages, but otherwise the players bat in the order they
were selected.
 
The opening batsmen and bowlers are displayed on the screen.  If you want
to choose different openers click on Change Batsmen which allows you to
revise the entire batting order if you wish just select the player you want
to move up or down the order then indicate the position you'd like him to
bat.  Click on OK when you've finished or else Cancel if you want to go
back to the original order.
 
CONTROLLING THE BATSMAN 
----------------------- 
In a real game of cricket the ball is bowled so fast (up to 9Omph) that the
batsman must react instinctively moving his feet, adjusting his posture and
swinginig his bat to play the stroke.  To emulate all that in real time
using a joystick would be impossible, so instead World Class Cricket breaks
down the batsmans movements into two.
 
First move the joystick left or right to positon the batsman.  Watch the
small white square - this shows where the bowler intends to pitch the ball
when it turns grey it will stop moving and the bowler will commence his run
up.  Start thinking about which stroke you intend to play.
 
When the ball leaves the bowlers hand you have a fraction or a second to
move the joystick into one of the eight possible directions to derermine
which stroke is played - and when it is played (timing is particularly
crucial at Professional and World Class level).  The strokes roughly
correspond to the joystick movement for example if you move the joystick to
the left the batsman (if he is right handed) will attempt a cover drive; if
you move it to the right he will try to hook or sweep the ball.
 
The full repertoire of strokes is as follows: 
 
  Up            Forward or backward defensive 
  Up/Right      Hook or sweep 
  Right         Leg glance 
  Down/Right    On drive 
  Down          Straight drive 
  Down/Left     Off drive 
  Left          Cover drive 
  Up/Left       Cut 
 
These joystick directions are for a right handed batsman; for a left hander
the controls are mirrored.
 
The batsman will play the best stroke that he can in the circumstances, if
you choose a difficult or inappropriate stroke (or if your timing is in
correct) he might mishit the ball, or miss it altogether.  The margin of
error depends on the skill setting you have chosen, and on the batsmans
average.
 
If you succeed in hitting the ball and want to run press the fire button.
The batsmen will start running at a leisurely pace you can make them run
faster by waggling the joystick from side to side (and in fact you can
start the batsmen running merely by waggling theres no need to press the
fire button if you intend to waggle).
 
To take a second (or third) run press the fire button again or just keep
waggling.  If you change your mind about taking a run press the fire button
to turn around and go back to the crease you have just left.  Of, course if
the batsman have already crossed there's no point in turning back, so in
this case when you press the fire button it acts as a signal to go for
another run after the current one.
 
If the ball crosses the boundary the umpire will signal a four or a six,
and the batsmen will automatically return to their, original positions.
 
Overthrows:  in the event that the fielding side throw the ball past the
bowler or wicket keeper the batsmen can continue running.
 
When the batting side are all out (ie ten wickets have fallen) or when the
allotted number of overs has been bowled it is the turn of the fielding
side to bat.
 
CONTROLLING THE BOWLER 
---------------------- 
There are three types of bowler:  fast, swing and spin.  Swing bowlers and
spin bowlers can move the ball in either direction or course, in real life
they will be better able to move the ball one way or the other and for
authenticity you may wish to reflect this in the way that you bowl.
 
Before you can start your run up you must decide where you want to pitch
the ball.  Use the joystick to move the small white square which indicates
where the ball will bounce and press fire to fix it in position (the square
will turn grey).
 
If a fast bowler is bowling he will automatically start his run up and all
you need to do is waggle the joystick from side to side to increase the
speed of the ball.
 
Hint:  when controlling a fast bowler dont always aim to bowl at the
maximum speed.  Often you can catch the batsman out with a slower ball.
 
If the bowler is a swing or spin bowler choose the direction you want the
ball to move and press fire.  Now the bowler will start his run up waggle
the joystick to increase the amount of swing or spin.
 
Hint:  spin bowlers can spin the ball in one direction more easily than the
other.  You`ll find that the response to your joystick waggling varies
accordingly.
 
The opening bowlers are chosen by the computer but you can change either or
both of them by clicking on Change Bowler.  Any player can be chosen to
bowl with the exception of the wicket keeper.  Remember that in a limited
overs game a bowler cannot bowl more than one fifth of the overs allowed
for each innings.
 
SETTING THE FIELD 
----------------- 
You can change the predefined fields, and even save them to disk for use in
future games.  Each bowler has a predefined field setting of his own but
you can copy a field setting from one bowler to another so that if (say)
you want to use the same field for all your fast bowlers you don't have to
enter it more than once.
 
To access the screen which allows you to alter the field settings press the
space bar while the bowler is waiting to bowl.  This will display a menu of
options:

     Position Fielders*           Scorecard
     Keeper Slip*                 Sound & Music 
     Bowl Other Side*             Abandon Match 
 
    * only available if the fielding side is user controlled 
 
 
Select Position Fielders - after a couple or seconds delay (while the disk
is accessed) a diagram of the cricket field is displayed showing the
existing field setting (for the current bowler).  The field To adjust the
position of an individual fielder just move the pointer to his name tag
press the left mouse button and drag the tag to the new position then press
the button again to drop the tag.
 
Around the wicket at the striker's end is a darkened area.  To add an extra
slip drag the players tag into this area.  Fine positioning of players in
this area is carried out using the Keeper Slip option (see below).  Only
two fielders plus the wicket keeper can be in this area.
 
Note:  once you have picked the team you cannot change the wicket keeper or
move him outside the shaded area.
 
If you want to exchange the positions of two fielders click first on the
Swap icon then on the tags of the two players.
 
To copy to the field setting from another bowler click on the Copy Icon
until the correct field setting is displayed.  eg if you want to copy the
field setting for Larwood to Trueman (the Current bowler), keep clicking
until Setup for F Trueman copied from H Larwood appears.  If you keep
clicking on Copy, eventually you will get back to where you started.
 
If you make an error you can select Cancel which exits the editor leaving
the original field placings intact (note that changes which have been saved
to disk cannot be cancelled).  To save your changes to disk click on the
Disk icon however you can if you wish use the new field settings in the
current match without saving them to disk thougth they will be lost at the
end of the match.  Click on OK to return to the game.
 
The Keeper-Slip screen can be selected either from the menu or by clicking
on the icon in the top left hand corner or the field setting screen (beware
- this also confirms your changes to the field, even if you subsequently
select the Cancel icon on the Keeper Slip screen).
 
To move the keeper or a slip just click on him, and move him to your
preferred position.  Be careful - the wicket keeper obeys your Instructions
to the letter, so you will concede a lot of byes if you put him in a silly
position!  When you have the keeper and slips in the correct positions
click on OK to save them to disk.
 
OTHER OPTIONS AVAILABLE DURING A MATCH 
-------------------------------------- 
Bowl Other Side Normally a right handed bowler will bowl over the wicket to
a right handed batsman and round the wicket to a left hander.  However you
can make the bowler bowl on the other side of the wicket by selecting this
option from the menu.
 
Scorecard This displays the scorecard for the current innings.  By clicking
on the tabs at the bottom of the scorecard you call also display the
batting and bowling statistics for the innings, the career batting
statistics or the batting team and the career bowling statistics or the
fielding side.
 
Abandon March Allows you to abandon a match in which case the game goes
back to the opening menu.
 
MATCH SETTINGS 
-------------- 
You can choose to play over any number of days from 1 to 5.  Matches can be
of one or two innings.  For a limited overs game you can choose 20, 40, 50,
55, 60 or 90 overs per innings; otherwise select unlimited overs to play a
first class or test match.  In a limited overs game no player can bowl more
than one fifth of the overs in each innings.  There are also restrictions
on the number of fielders that can be more than 30 yards from the bat but
these are not built into this game.  For total authenticity why not design
your own fields which conform to the restrictions?
 
RESTORE SAVED GAME 
------------------ 
Although the games are played faster than real matches, some games will
last for hours, or even days!  At the end of each over you have the option
to save the game - this will save all the information about the match
including the teams and field settings.  Remember that you do need a
formatted disk on which to save the game.  This can either be formatted
using the operating system on your computer (ie Workbench or Desktop), or
using the Format option from the Edit/Create Teams screen.
 
Note:  if you save a computer vs computer game it can only be restored as 1
or 2 player game.
 
EDIT/CREATE TEAMS 
----------------- 
This option is found on the main menu at the beginning of the game - you
cannot edit or create new teams in the middle of a match.  When you select
Edit/Create Teams the teams from the disk in the drive are read into
memory, so if you have already created a Team Disk it is a good idea to put
this in the drive before selecting the option.  Dont worry though you can
put it in afterwards provided you then click on the Disk Icon.
 
If this is the first time you have selected Edit/Create Teams, then now is
a good time to format a Team Disk and copy over to it all the teams from
the Game Disk.  Place a blank disk in the drive then click on Format and
enter an appropriate name for the disk (eg Team Disk1).  Now, if you`re
sure you want to format the disk (any information on it will be erased)
click on Format A New Disk.  Make a note of the disk name you choose and
write it on the disk label, to help you identify the disk
 
When the disk has been formatted the program will read the teams from the
disk but of course, there won`t be any!  Replace the Game Disk in the drive
and click on Disk.  Once the team names have been read in click on Copy,
then highlight the names of the teams you want to copy.  Now click on OK to
start copying.  If you have chosen more than five teams to be copied then
the copying will take place in two passes; in any case follow the on screen
instructions.  Insert the Game Disk when the message insert Team Disk -
Game Disk appears and your own disk when it says Insert Target Disk (or
subsequently insert Team Disk - Team Disk 1 or whatever).
 
To use your own teams in a match remove the Game Disk before choosing a
team, insert your own disk then click on Disk.  A match can be played
between teams loaded from different disks - just insert the appropriate
team disk and click on Disk to bring up a list of teams on that particlar
disk.  From time to time during the game the program may ask you to insert
one or other of the team disks.
 
To create your own team click on an empy slot in the team list.  Change the
default names and statistics to those of the team you wish to add.
 
HINTS & TIPS 
------------ 
When you save changes in the field settings the team is also saved, in the
batting order you have chosen; this means that the next time you pick that
particular squad the 11 players you chose before are already highlighted.
Of course, you don`t have to pick the same team, but if you were going to
anyway you'll find this feature is a real time saver.
 
Occasionally you`ll find that a fielder gets stuck perhaps running on the
spot.  If you press the ESCAPE key the game will continue normally.
 
When you select Best 11 the batting order is chosen automatically by the
computer - the players with the highest averages bat first.  However if you
make any changes to the team the computer has picked the batsmen are not
sorted into order.  If you chose your own team the players bat in the order
of selection.
 
During a computer vs computer match you can press SPACE (while the bowler
is waiting to bowl) to display the scorecard.  If you press SPACE at the
end of an over you can also save the game.  When you restore the saved game
you will be able to restart the match as a 1 or 2 player game - so you can
take full control.  You cannot restart a game as a computer vs computer
game even if it was under computer control originally.
 
End...................