                              GRAND NATIONAL DOCS!
 			      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                                             Typed by: BamBam/ORACLE
						       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Grand National is regarded as the toughest race in the world, and 
those who ride in it risk injury or death. Your job as jockey is to 
conquer the course by choosing the right horse for the conditions and 
riding it correctly. Running a number nationals will build up a career
record, and a final award is given to the top riders.

The Grand National
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The National has always been run at the Aintree race course near Liver-
pool. The full Aintree course involves sixteen fences, all but two of
which are covered twice, making a total of thirty fences. The maximum
entry list to the National is forty horses, some of whom pull out before
race day due the injury of illness; they can be ridden by either amateurs
or professionals. The National lasts about ten minuts (although the game
clock runs faster).

HORSE RACING

FORM:
Is the measure of a horse's previous performance and is used to calculate
its expected future performance. A horse had to have competed to have form,
and as all horses have won a race with a value of a thousand pounds in the
last year to qualify for the Grand National, all its runners have form. In
the game, form is given as a zero to 25 point rating.

GOING:
Indicates the ground conditions. The best going is gernerally "Good",
although most horses have a preference and perform best on a particular
going.

AGE:
The older a horse gets the more probability it has of dying.

BETTING (ODDS)
Betting in the game is either "On The Nose" - That is, you only bet on a 
horse to come first or "Each Way" - where a horse finishing in the first
four will receive a quarter of the Winnings. The odds have been kept simple,
but a 10% betting tax is deducted, so that if you bet $10, it will be
reduced to $9. If you win, your original stake will also be returned.

EXAMPLE:
You bet $10 on a horse at odds of 10-1. After tax $9 is betted, so that if
it wins. you will get 9 x 10 = $90 + $9 (original stake) = $99

The odds will give you a guide as how to likely a horse is to win: the
lower the odds, the more chance the bookmakers think it has ie. a horse
with odds of 10-1 is more likely to win than a horse at 20-1.

BETTING
1.	Select the BET ICON.
2.	The horse to be backed should be indentified with its number, by
        placing the Cursor on the up or down icons on the Screen keypad,
        you can scroll through the 40 horses.
3.	When the number of the horse is known type the number of the horse
        into the Screen keypad using the Joystick/Mouse or Arrow Keys.
        Then press ENTER.
4.      Then you can type in the amount you wish to bet by using the On
	Screen Keypad. Then press ENTER.
5.	You will then be asked
	1. Win   or
	2. Each Way.
	Chosse 1 or 2 by typing in on the keypad, then press ENTER.
NOTE:	You may only bet up to Five times.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
IMPORTANT - FOR VIRUS PROTECTION
Switch computer off - leave for minimum of ten seconds - switch back on 
and enter disc. Amiga Insert Disc 1 & Reset, Insert Disc 2 when requested.

PLAYING INSTRUCTIONS

The game is split into three parts.
1. Race Report		In which you plan you strategy. Buy a horse or 
			horses for your Stable, decide which horse from
			your Stable you wish to ride that year, bet or 
			sell horses in your Stable
2. The Race		Ride to win!
3. Final Report		Results

1. THE PRE-RACE REPORT
Only ten horses are diplayed at a time - Arrows on pre-race keypad move 
through a list of horses.

CHOOSING YOUR HORSE:
When you own more than one horse, you must choose which of you horses to
ride each year.

THE RACE:
The main race screen allows you to monitor your horse from side and over-
head views.   You increase your speed by cracking the whip.

KEYS: PAUSING GAME:
F1	= Pause (Fire Button, Left Mouse Button or Return to un-pause)
F10     = Quit

RACING		           ON SCREEN	 	 MOVE CURSOR
KEYS:
Up/Down Cursor Keys	   Speed Up		 Up/Down
Return			   Jump			 Select
Left/Right Cursor Keys     Steers Horse		 Left/Right
JOYSTICK:
Up/Down			   Speed Up		 Up/Down
Fire			   Jump			 Select
Left/Right		   Steers Horse	         Left/Right
MOUSE:
Left Button		   Speed Up		 Select
Right Button		   Jump
Move Left/Right		   Steers Horse		 Left/Right

RACE SCREEN DISPLAY:
Bargraph Energy Level Indicator		Horse Position No.
Bargraph Speed Level Indicator		Leading Horse No.

Fence No. Indicator
Course Map & Tracking Dot

STEWARDS ENQUIRY
Bumping other horses while racing is likely cause a Stewards' Enquiry,
the result of which can range from disqualification to a career ban 
(which will be made at the end of the race). So beware!

THE RESULTS REPORT
At the end of the race you will be given the results, any gains made from 
backing a winning horse and any prize money due.

PRIZE MONEY
	1st	$40,000
	2nd	$14,000
	3rd	$ 7,000
	4th	$ 3,000

PLAYING HINTS
When riding your horse you should take into account the running style. So
if your horse is a good all-rounder, you will be able to keep up a good 
pace all round the track. However, if you have a strong finisher, then
don't tire the horse on the first lap!

Refer to this list when buying your horse.

                  NO.		NAME			GROUND
                  1		Greasepaint		Good
                  2		Artimorval		Good
                  3		Doorstep		Good
                  4		Lucky Vane		Firm
                  5		Whistling Genatap	Good
                  6		Hallo Dandy		Soft
                  7 		Corbiere		Good
                  8		West Tip		Good
                  9		Drumlargen		Firm
                  10		Eyecatcher		Soft
                  11		Fortina's Express	Good
                  12		Duke of Milan		Good
                  13 		Broomy Bank		Firm
                  14		Ballinaurra Lad		Good
                  15		Pirate Son		Firm
                  16		Glen Fox		Good
                  17 		Kumbi			Firm
                  18		Fox Bury		Good
                  19		Luck Daughter		Soft
                  20		Matty Buskins		Good
                  21		Fethard Friend		Soft
		  22		Rubistic		Firm
		  23		Rockin' Berry		Firm
		  24		Howarth Halloway	Firm
		  25 		Classified		Soft
		  26		Mr Pepper		Soft
		  27		Grand Ogan		Soft
		  28		Last Suspect		Firm
		  29		Talon			Firm
		  30 		Good Crack		Good
		  31 		Nicky Tam		Firm
		  32		Tacroy			Soft
		  33 		Cockle Strand		Soft
		  34		Why Forget		Firm
		  35		Max Friendly		Soft
		  36 		Succeeded		Good
		  37		Road Mead		Soft
		  38		First Glance		Firm
		  39		Derby Creek		Firm
		  40		Terry's nag		Soft

There are four icons:

1. Horses Head Icon.
This accesses the STABLE window at the top of the screen in Blue. This
screen shows all the horses in they players possession. The player will 
be prompted to choose a horse from their Stable to ride that year and 
input the number of the horse via the numeric kaypad below the 4 icons 
on screen. When a horse has been chose to ride, it will be highlighted in
white when the player views the main list of horses. (Top window with red
text). Pressing the up/down arrows on the on-screen keypeed will reveal 
the horses preferred "going" and any winnings the horse may have won.

2. $ Sign Icon.
This accesses the BUY/SELL window at the top of the screen in Green. The
player will be prompted to input on the on-screen keypad.
	1. 	- To buy a horse.
	2.	- To sell a horse.
If the player selects to BUY a horse, then they must choose one within 
their price range (see 'cash' on main panel) and input its number, this
horse will then have been added to the players Stable screen. If selling,
then the above procedure is the same, but the horse will be deleted from 
the players Stable. When a horse has died, through exhaustion or during
a fall, then its value drops to $100, the dead horse is then best sold.
Pressing the up/down arrows on the on-screen keypad will reveal the 40
horses, preferred 'going' and any money they may have won in teh past.

3. Bet Icon.
This accesses the bet function. The player will be prompted to input via
the on-screen keypad, the number of the horse to bed on, how much they 
wish to bet and whether it is a 'to win' or 'each way' bet.

4. The Running Horse Icon.
This loads the main race, if a player owns more thanone horse that is fit,
they will have to choose a horse to ride that year, via the STABLE ICON.

SPEED/ENERGY BARGRAPH LEVEL INDICATORS:

The bars (meters) either side of the race screen are an indication of the
horses speed and energy that the player is currently riding.

SPEED METER.
The top 'sectioned' quarter of the speed bar indicates the Speed of the 
horse when it is running flat out (this cannot be sustained for long).
When the meter is in this top quarter, the energy of the horse will begin
to drop very quickly. The second top quarter of the speed bar also reduces
the horses energy, but not at such a drastic rate. The ideal speed for the
majority of the race which conserves energy is at the top of the third
quarter from the bottom of the speed 'bar'. If the speed drops into the 
lower bottom quarter of the speed bar, this causes the horses to stop
galloping and will result in a fall at the next fence.

ENERGY METER.
The top 'sectioned' quarter of the energy meter is related to the form of
the horse. If a horse has the highest from, then its energy will fill the
whole top quarter. If a horse has an average form, then the lower half of
the top sectioned quarter will be the most energy that the horse is capable
of using. If the horses speed is pushed over the half way line on the speed
meter, then the energy will start to drop and continue to drop if the speed
is no lowered. If the meter reaches the bottom of the energy bar, then the
horse will fall due to exhaustion. The energy meter will start to rise if
speed is not increesed.

PLAYING TIPS.

1.	The player should make sure he has close to full energy for the 
	final furlong, so that he can make the horse go as fast as 
	possible.

2.	The horses with the best form may not necessarily finish in the top
	places. Try to keep your horses speed at about half way on the 
	meter, conserving energy for strategic bursts of speed.

3.	At the start of every season you should check to see whether your
	horses are fit and consider buying/selling.

4.	Ensure you have bought a horse before you start betting as you may
	not have sufficient funds to buy a horse to ride.

5.	Try to ride a horse in every year.

                                                (C) 1990 Elite Systems Ltd.