                            GUERILLA IN BOLIVIA
                      ===============================


Whats new in the 1992/93 edition.

There is more soundeffects more colors on the maps,it should also be
working on all Amigas. It also runs a hole lot faster than the previous
version of this game.
It was tested on Amiga 1000 , 500 , 600 , 1200 ,2000 and on an Amiga 3000. 


                          1.    Introduction
                          2.    Loading The Game
                          3.    The Conquest Begins
                          4.    Popular Favour
                          5.    Options Menu
                          6.    Save Option
                          7.    Load Option
                          8.    Map Options
                          9.    Selecting Troops
                         10.    Rationing 
                         11.    Obtaining Food
                         12.    Resting
                         13.    Training
                         14.    Ambush
                         15.    What Are The Government Troops Doing?
                         16.    Tactical Advances
                         17.    Defence
                         18.    Movement
                         19.    Exploration
                         20.    Attack                               


1. - INTRODUCTION -
   
Guerilla In Bolivia is a strategic simulation game inspired by the 
1966/1967 Bolivian civil war conducted by Ernesto "Che" Guevara. The
action takes place in camiri, starting on November 7th, 1966.

The aim of the game is to conquer La Paz. To archive this goal you have to
recruit your army and escape from the government soldiers, who will be 
hunting you.

2. - LOADING THE GAME -

Guerilla In Bolivia requires 512K RAM. If you have 1MB or more RAM, the
program will run faster and you will have enchanced sound effects. The
game consists of two disks: the program disk and the data disk.

Before starting the game we recommend that you make a backup copy of the
two disks and use the backups to play the game. Becoz the disks may not be
WRITE PROTECTED when you play the game.

Insert the program disk and turn the computer on.

Follow the prompts on the screen and insert the data disk in any drive,
as requested. Do not remove the data disk from the drive while playing.

The game starts on November 7Th, 1966 at Camiri. If you want to load a 
previously saved game, click on the load option from the options menu.

3. - THE CONQUEST BEGINS -

At the start of the game, the main screen will be displayed. From this 
screen, you can find all the information you need.

The left window shows the date, the time (Shown by a sun-dial), Temperature
and weather conditions. This window also gives information about your 
location - roads, altitudes, towns - with map co-ordinates. This is the 
only time you will know exactly where you are; once you move, identifying
your position becomes a matter of guesswork.

At the bottom of the screen are two displays. The first shows the ambush
odds; the second shows the localpolitical development. In a high political
development region you will find it easier to gain new recruits and find
food or money, and the amount of money you have.

4. - POPULAR FAVOUR -

The higher your popular favour rate, the easier it will be for you to find
food, recruit new soldier's and obtain money; if you have a low rate you 
must be careful because it is possible someone will betray you to the 
government troops.

Your popular support rate may change depending on your behaviour and on
the way your figth is gooing. It can also change due to unpredictable
events (like free food distrubution by government troops).

Also in the window, the General Condition display shows the general
welfare of your troops.

Clicking on the blue box at the top left of the screen gives you the options
menu, which you use to control the Guerilla. 

5. - OPTIONS MENU -

At the top of the screen you will find a box marked OPTIONS. Clicking on
it returns you to previous screen.

Clicking on the Red Cross box gives you a daily medical bulletin, including
details of wounded and sick soldiers and the quantity of medicines
available. Medicines are automatically restored each time the troop gets
into a town.

6. - SAVE OPTION -

This option allows you to save a game to your data disk. You can only 
save one game on each disk; if you want to save the game at different
points, you must create other backup copies of your data disk. If you leave
the data disk in the drive, the previously saved game will be overwritten.

7. - LOAD OPTION -

Use this option to load a previously saved game.

8. - MAP OPTIONS -

There are six different maps available. You can use two Bolivian complete
maps (one with indications of main roads and towns, the other showing the
height of the terrain) or four more detailed maps showing the four quadrants
of the main map. You will be shown your actual map co-ordinates. To return
to the options menu, hit any key.

Warning: Just as in real life, these maps are not completely accurate!

9. - SELECTING TROOPS -

Before you can move on the main part of the game, you need to select your
troops for each particular operation. This option lists all the soldiers
avaiable. Each man has four displays which show:

Health - this is affected by combinations of factors, including general
health, feeding, injuries and fatigue. If it reaches zero, the soldier dies.

Energy - this is affected by the same factors as physical condition, but
changes much faster. It reflects the soldier's actual efficiency.
 
Fighting Capabilities - This shows the soldier's experience. It increases
after training or fights.

Revolutinary Conviction - This depends on the energy level and is also 
affected by the way the campaign is gooing. If it reaches zero, the soldier
deserts.

"CHE" Guevara's military capabilities and revolutinary conviction rates
are not shown.

The fifteen starting guerillas are based upon the real guerillas that 
followed "Che" Guevera in 1966 (as taken from his diary).

These fifteen guerillas are the members of the "Revolutionary Army".
If one of the fifteen dies, you can name another soldier to take his place.

At the bottom of the screen are two boxes. Click on the red box to 
automatically select all the guerillas. Clicking on the blue box adds to
the selected soldiers all the men available (taken from the new recruits).
The final number of selected guerillas will depend on availability of
weapons. We suggest this option is only used in the case of fights.

To select a man you click on his name. To carry out an action, you must 
have at least two men.

Click on the exit box to return to the previous screen.

10. - RATIONING -

Scarsity of food may drive you to ration your supplies. You can reduce
the soldier's portions by a quarter, or a half. Obviously, this will make
their energy rate fall. You can also give a double portion, which will 
restore lost energy.

11. - OBTAINING FOOD -

There are two ways you can get food: buy it or hunt it, you can buy food
only when you are in a village or town. A window showing the daily price
per portion and the quantity available will appear. To buy, click on the 
price indicator.

To pay for the food, you must have money in different denominations. You
can choose to pay a lower price than that asked, or even not pay at all,
but this will adversely affect the popular favour and may cause you 
difficulties in the future.

If there is no food to buy, the selected guerillas will go hunting. The
Results of hunt depend upon the altitude of the region, the weather 
conditions and the number of men used. Hunting for food wastes time and
energy.

12. - RESTING -

This is a good way to regain energy - it is just like going to sleep for a
few hours.

13. - TRAINING -

Training soldiers increases their military capabilities, but training too
many is a waste of time and energy.

14. - AMBUSH -

Ambushing your enemies can increase your popular favour rate, and if you
win you can steal money and weapons. The outcome of an ambush depends upon 
energy and military capabilities of the selected guerillas. An ambush can
take place without the active pressence of "Che" Guevera - You will stay
in your headquarters and only hear distant shouts.

If "Che" Guevera does leads the ambush, you can decide when the attack 
starts by clicking the left mosubutton. A Constant update of the number
of your troops is shown at the bottom of the screen. If an "F" appears on
the screen, it means that "Che" has been wounded; "FG" means the wound
is serious.

You can shoot the men by constant clicking on the left mousebutton, a
small aim will appear on the screen and you are able to win the war easy
on that way. 

If you are in deep trouble or "Che" Guevera is "FG" You can Hit any key to
withdraw from the battle field.

15. - WHAT ARE THE GOVERNMENT TROOPS DOING? -

As well as the government troops spread throughout the contry, which you can
attack, there are seven garrisons near the towns, and some commandos hunting
you. Every time you undertake any military action, you will give position
away to the government commandos. They may also find you by aerial 
reconnaissance.

Every time you ambush the enemy, or they ambush you, the commandos will 
converge on your position. If you are close to a town and the govenment
garrison has enough soldiers to keep the town safe, the garrison will 
also send commandoes against you.

Each town garrison is made up of variable number of soldiers (From 250 up
to 500). The La Paz garrison has 1000 soldiers.

When you conquer a town you automatically destroy it's garrison.
Government troops have their own militairy capabilities display; the level
will vary depending on the way the conflict is gooing and will increase
in the case of advice from North American military counsellors.

16. - TACTICAL ADVANCES -

You must try to strike your enemy where the are vulnerable, Using your few
highly trained professional soldiers. Don't stay in one place to long.
especially after an ambush.

When you are attacked, remember that the ambush odds rate is favourable to
your opponent; a withdrawal may be the correct response.

You can lure the enemy into a trap, where the ambush odds favour your troops.
This kind of action also increases your popular support rate, especially if 
it is made close to a town or a village.

At the end of each fight a special screen will report damages and losses 
from each side.

17. - DEFENCE -

If you are waiting for an attack by the government soldiers, you can choose
the defensive option. Attacking troops will not have any odds and only the 
selected guerillas will fight for defence.

The defence option ends if you move away from position or if you change
the selection of soldiers you are playing.

18. - MOVEMENT -

This option is used to move your troops in the direction of the arrow. A
movement can take one or more days and uses energy, depending upon weather
conditions and the terrain.

19. - EXPLORATION -

This option provides information about presence of enemy troops. You don't
need more than two soldiers to explore.

20. - ATTACK - 

You can only attack town garrisons or troops that are hunting you, and you
first have to select the men that will take part in the attack.

When you select the attack option, you move your guerillas to a nearby target
and assault the enemy troops you find there. The ambush odds will be in your 
favour. For a successful assault it is important that you select men with
a high military capability and a high energy rate. You can withdraw by
striking any key.

In the vicinity of towns you will find new recruits easily, but you must
beware of the government garrison soldiers.

The conquest of a town increases your political support and makes it much 
easier to find food and weapons and to recruit new men. Before you assault
a town check that you have selected enough guerillas and explore the strenght
of the enemy garrison.

Move your troops on roads, and keep them close to the villages. It will make
it easier to find the supplies you need.




                               The End