 ZAK MCKRACKEN AND THE ALIEN MINDBENDERS
                 Part 1

 STARTING OUT TIPS, AND GOING TO SEATTLE
 Once again, it's up to you to save the world from a terrible fate --
rampant stupidity! You, in this case, are Zak McKracken, ace reporter
for the National Inquisitor, the kind of tabloid you see around 7-11
check-out counters. Eventually, you will gain allies in your quest, but
for now I'm afraid that you are on your own!
 First, a few basic hints. Whenever you enter a new room, click on the
command "WHAT IS" and sweep over the objects in the room with your
cursor. Anything that does not register cannot be manipulated by you.
Now, just because it registers doesn't mean it's important, but nine
times out of ten it's there for a reason. Second, I cannot overemphasize
the importance of reading the articles in the newspaper that comes with
the game. It is chock full of clues, and should be consulted regularly.
Remember that there is a twisted logic at work here, and there is often
more than one way of solving a problem. And save often, of course!
 When the game starts, you have just awakened from a strange dream in
which you saw a map. It occurs to you that you should make a copy of
that map, so that's one of your first priorities.
 You awake in your bedroom, so check that out first. There's a dresser,
a desk, a lamp, a telephone, and an answering machine. OPEN the dresser,
then PICK UP the phone bill. READ the phone bill. Then cross to the
desk, and open it. PICK UP the kazoo. Next to the desk there's a piece
of the wall that looks different from the rest. PICK UP the loose piece
of wallpaper. Now, if you look under the desk, you will notice an object
resting there. When you try to PICK UP your CashCard, however, you push
it further under the desk. No problem. USE the phone bill with the
CashCard and it's yours. READ the CashCard. Seems like a lot of money?
It won't last. The only other thing in your bedroom of importance is the
fishbowl, but you don't need that yet, so let's move into the living
room. (If you want to, you can TURN ON your answering machine. It is not
necessary to the solution, but otherwise you won't get messages from
your mother. The phone works, by the way, but I never found any numbers
to call.) WALK to the door and you'll be in the living room.

 When you try to TURN ON the TV, you can't. There are two reasons why:
First, PICK UP the loose cushion. Aha! USE the plug with the power
outlet on the wall. But you still can't TURN ON the TV. If you do a
"WHAT IS" on the TV, you will notice an infrared sensor, so obviously
you have to find the remote control. I don't know about you, but
whenever I can't find my remote control, I always know where to look
first. WALK to the couch and PICK UP the other cushion. Then PICK UP the
remote control you find underneath, WALK TO the TV, and USE the remote
control. Watch the TV to get more of an idea as to what's going on in
the world.
 You might as well TURN OFF the TV and WALK TO the kitchen. Under the
sink you'll find a cabinet. OPEN the cabinet and PICK UP the box of
crayons. USE the yellow crayon with the piece of wallpaper, and you'll
have a map! Then OPEN the refrigerator and PICK UP the egg. PICK UP the
small key by the side of your door, OPEN the door, and go out.
 When you get to the street level, go left to the French bakery. PUSH
the doorbell. When the man leaves, PUSH it again. Then, once again. PICK
UP the stale bread and WALK TO the door to the right of your stairs.
OPEN the door and go inside to TPC -- The Phone Company. Check out the
representative and your surroundings. They will become important later.
For now, GIVE the phone bill to the representative. Then PICK UP the
application next to the counter (on the far left), and USE the yellow
crayon with the application. You can then go back to your entryway, USE
the small key with the mailbox, then USE the application with the
mailbox. CLOSE the mailbox. It's time to take a trip to Seattle to cover
a story about a two-headed squirrel!
 Continue to your right to the corner, where you'll find a bus and a
sleeping driver. USE the kazoo, which will wake him. WALK to the
CashCard reader, and USE the CashCard in the reader. And it's off to the
airport!

 Oh no, one of those obnoxious shaven-headed devotees of some far-out
Eastern religion is trying to sell you a book! For once, give in. GIVE
your CashCard to the devotee. He will give you a book on enlightenment.
Since you already have your ticket, you can just WALK to the gate and
the planes.
 Now there are three things you need on the plane, and the stewardess
will stop you from getting them, so you have to distract her for a
sufficiently long period of time to allow you to do what you need to do.
This section should delight the practical joker in all of us!
 WALK to the back of the plane, OPEN the door, and go into the toilet.
CLOSE the door. PICK UP the toilet paper, then USE the toilet paper with
the sink. TURN ON the faucet and PUSH the call button. OPEN the door and
walk forward to the front of the plane. (Ain't I a stinker?) On your way
to the galley, PICK UP the seat cushion from the seat in front of yours.
You will notice something fall out onto the floor when you do so. PICK
UP the lighter. Then WALK to the microwave oven in the galley. OPEN the
microwave, USE the egg with the microwave, CLOSE the microwave, and,
finally, TURN ON the microwave. (This all must be accomplished before
the stewardess finishes cleaning up the head, so you might want to save
before you try it.) The resultant mess will gain the stewardess's
undivided attention for a while. As she is cleaning up after you, OPEN
all the overhead bins. In one, you will find an oxygen tank, which you
can PICK UP. While you're waiting to land, you can READ the book and the
oxygen tank for future reference.

 When you land in Seattle, WALK to the outside door and into the woods.
PICK UP the tree branch overhead. GIVE the peanuts you received as a
"meal" on the plane to the two-headed squirrel, then USE the tree branch
on the loose dirt. (Alternately, you can USE the butter knife from your
apartment on the squirrel but this will haunt you later in the game.)
WALK to the cave entrance.
 Who turned out the lights? Well, TURN ON the lighter and use its glow
to check out the cave. Up and to your right is an abandoned bird's nest,
and on the floor is a fire pit. You can't reach the bird's nest
yourself, so USE the tree branch with the nest, USE the nest with the
fire pit, then USE the branch with the nest in the firepit, and USE the
lighter on everything. And Lucasfilm said "Let there be light!"
 On the far right wall of the cave is a door with some strange markings
(and they won't be the last!) READ the strange markings, then USE your
yellow crayon on the markings. This one time, the game will complete the
picture for you, and the door will open. Go inside.
 There is a machine holding a blue crystal, which you saw in your dream
at the beginning of the game. You need it, but it's locked in place.
Fortunately, you notice an infrared sensor on the machine that looks
just like the one you've got on your TV back home. Could it...nah! Well,
might as well give it a shot. USE the remote control. Presto!

 Now, take the blue crystal. The lights will go out, but you should be
able to find your way back to the cave with no problems. From there,
return to the airport, and USE the reservation machine to buy a ticket
back to San Francisco. It's time to get some help in your quest!


 ZAK MCKRACKEN AND THE ALIEN MINDBENDERS
                 Part 2

 ANNIE, MIAMI, NEPAL, AND ZAIRE
 You now have an artifact, and you need some advice. Remember the woman
from the Society for Ancient Wisdom you saw on TV? Why not go see her?
 When you get back to the San Francisco airport, WALK to the door on
your right and you will find yourself back on the street corner by the
bus. WALK up to the top of the screen and 14th Avenue. For the time
being, walk by the pawnshop and continue to the second door. USE the
blue crystal on the drop slot. Annie will open the door, invite you
inside, and show you a picture of the machine you need to build in order
to defeat the Aliens. Make a copy of this diagram for future reference.
 About this time, you will also notice that you can use the command
SWITCH. Try it out by switching to Annie and have her pick up the
blotter on her desk, and pick up the CashCard underneath. You won't need
Annie's direct help for a while, so switch back to Zak. You've got to
get the other yellow crystal shard that complements the one that Annie
gave you, and it won't be easy, believe me.
 WALK out of Annie's office and go back left to the pawnshop. There you
will BUY the following: the nose glasses, the hat, the tool box, the
golf club, the guitar, and the wet suit. Go outside and to the right to
the large bobby pin sign. OPEN the tool box, and USE the wire cutters on
the sign. You have now gone from malicious mischief on the plane to
vandalism and petty theft! About this time, you should have received a
letter. Make your way back to your apartment entrance and USE the small
key on the mailbox. PICK up the letter inside and read it. You are now a
proud member of the King Fan Club. If the letter hasn't arrived yet,
wander around a bit until it does.

 Go upstairs to your kitchen. USE the monkey wrench on the pipe below
the sink, then TURN ON the switch behind the faucet. This will activate
your garbage disposal. USE the stale French bread in the sink, and PICK
UP the bread crumbs you've made. Be sure to TURN OFF the disposal and
USE the wrench on the pipe again to fix things back to the way they
were. (It might be fun at this point to PICK UP the butter knife and go
into your bedroom. PICK UP the loose corner of carpet [lower right] and
try to USE the butter knife in the loose floor boards. No go, huh? Well,
try the monkey wrench. Now, USE the rope on the hole and you can climb
down and check out the aliens' secret room!) Now go back to the airport,
and buy a ticket for Miami.
 Miami is closed but there's a panhandler there whom you should take
pity on. GIVE him your cashcard, then GIVE him the book. He will read
it, return it to you, and also give you a bottle of whiskey. From Miami,
fly to either London or Cairo, and from there to Katmandu. (Whenever you
leave the U.S.A., you will have to use the right exit code as found in
the sheet that accompanies the game.) In Katmandu, go right to the fancy
door and try to OPEN the door. GIVE the book to the guard, and he will
allow you inside to meet the Swami. (First read the things on the
bulletin board.) The Swami will tell you how to use the blue crystal to
trade minds with any animal, a talent that will come in useful sooner or
later! In fact, I'll bet you're dying to try it out right now, aren't
you? Go ahead! BUT SAVE FIRST!

 USE the blue crystal on the Yak. Well, no one said it had to be
exciting. About now, your use of the blue crystal will have triggered
something in that secret room. Watch what the aliens do and pay
particular attention to their method of disguise. Return to your own
body, and wait around until the alien shows up. He will take you
captive, bring you back to his headquarters, and brainwash you, taking
your crystals. For now, however, merely restore the game to where you
saved. Go to the left and check out the police station. There is a
flagpole out in front which you need, but stealing a flag is probably
considered treason in Nepal; so, you have to be fast or sneaky. Either
way, you have already saved the game at this point, so give it a shot.
PICK UP the flag pole, and WALK to the yak as fast as you can, then USE
the CashCard in the yak. If your timing is right, you'll get away scot
free.
 The alternative route is to USE the lighter on the hay bale to the
right of the temple. While everyone is busy putting out the fire, you
can nonchalantly saunter over to the police station and pillage it. If
your conscience starts to bother you, remember, it's for a very
worthwhile cause.

 From the airport, buy a ticket, and fly to Kinshasa, Zaire. After going
through several random jungle scenes, you will find yourself in a
clearing. At the far left in the clearing is a hut with a sign out
front. Go inside, and you will meet the Shaman who's in the picture with
the Swami back in Nepal. GIVE him the golf club. Out of gratitude, he
and two of his countrymen will show you a dance. TAKE NOTES! When the
three men stop dancing and line up in a row, write down the order in
which they bob their heads. (This differs from game to game.) The Shaman
will tell you to return when you have the yellow crystal, so it's time
to head out again. Wend your way back through the jungle to the airport,
fly to Cairo, and from there back to Miami.
 About now you should have severely depleted your CashCard. So before we
head home, let's try to get you some more money. In Miami, buy a ticket
to the Bermuda Triangle. Your plane will be caught by a mysterious beam,
and you will end up on a spaceship. The pilot will enter a four-note
combination on the colored panels (this too varies from game to game),
but when he invites you back aboard the plane, stay over on the far
right by the doorway. Once the bright white glare disappears, push the
button by the side of the door. You will be captured and taken before
the King of the Aliens. Before he can decide what horrible fate worse
than death should befall you, give the Fan Club Card (or the guitar) to
the King. This will make you the King's good friend, and one of his
minions will show you a different color combination that will send you
home. Don't use it yet. Instead, return to the King's chamber, and WALK
to the right and READ the Lott-O-Dictor, which will give you tomorrow's
winning number. Then go back to the color panel, press the right
combination of buttons, and stand on the platform to the left of the
panel. You will be teleported straight home. Go back to the pawnshop and
BUY a Lottery ticket. (At this point, you can also SELL your bent butter
knife.) You can pick up your earnings after your trip to Latin America.


 ZAK MCKRACKEN AND THE ALIEN MINDBENDERS
                 Part 3

 PERU, MEXICO, AND MARS
 At SFO, buy a ticket for Lima, Peru. When you reach Lima, you will have
to wander through a few jungle screens until you reach a scenic
overlook. If you continue right past the ancient bird feeder, you'll see
a huge carving. Now, if only you had wings....
 Go back to the bird feeder, and USE the bread crumbs on the feeder.
This will attract a sparrow. Save the game! USE the blue crystal on the
sparrow. Use of the blue crystal will alert the aliens to your location,
and you want to avoid capture. Now, depending on your game system, you
will have to press a certain key or button (on the Amiga, for example,
you click the right mouse button) to avoid watching the "cut" scene of
the Alien putting on his disguise. Activate this feature as soon as the
scene begins. This will give you enough time to do what you need to do.
 In the bird's body, FLY to the giant carving and to its right eye. You
will see a candelabra and a platform. You can't do anything here right
now, so fly out and go to the left eye. PICK UP the scroll on the floor,
and FLY back out of the eye, across the valley, and back to Zak. GIVE
the scroll to Zak, then return to Zak's body. As quickly as possible,
get back into the jungle. You must accomplish this before the Alien
arrives.

 Return to the airport and fly to Mexico City. You'll have to go through
yet another jungle until you reach the Aztec pyramid. Pick any of the
three entrances and go inside. Now you're in a real maze, which you can
map if you want to, but it can be solved fairly easily by trial and
error. In each room there is at least one torch, which you will have to
locate (with a "WHAT IS") and then USE with the lighter. There are three
types of corridors in the pyramid: long ones with green faces on the
walls, medium ones with blue faces, and short ones with no faces. You
will enter a long corridor; try each exit from it until you locate a
medium corridor; from there, try to find which of the several doors
leads to a short corridor. One of the short corridor rooms has a door
which leads into a room with a statue holding a shard of yellow crystal,
and on the base of the statue are some strange yellow markings.
Unfortunately, here you must draw the correct figure yourself, and you
don't know what it is. I would recommend that you save the game at this
point, and prepare to meet the rest of our intrepid crew.
 SWITCH to either Melissa or Leslie, who are standing by their converted
VW Microbus in the Martian desert, just waiting for something to do.
Have the co-ed you switched to OPEN the van door and go inside. OPEN the
glove compartment. PICK UP the boom box, the CashCards, the fuse, and
the digital audio tape from the radio. USE the oxygen valve if you like.
Leave the van, and make sure each girl has the correct CashCard. WALK to
the left, past the alien hostel, and to the black monolith. USE the
CashCard in the slot, and then do it again so you get two tokens. Now
switch to the other girl, and have her do the same, so that each co-ed
has two tokens.

 Bring them both inside the hostel. USE the token on the metal plate to
the right of the airlock door, and PICK UP the burnt-out fuse. Then, USE
the fuse from your van in the air lock fuse box, and PUSH the button,
closing the door. Next, PUSH the button by the door on the right wall,
and send Leslie into the dormitory. (Melissa is a little too squeamish.)
Check out the locker by the door and PICK UP the little strip of yellow
vinyl tape. OPEN the right side of the cabinet, and PICK UP the
flashlight. Move to the right and PICK UP the covers, revealing a dead
alien shaped like a broom. Finally, PICK UP the ladder in the far right
corner, and leave.
 WALK both the girls to the right (past the van) to the Giant Face and a
door that has three buttons on it. Set up the ladder under the highest
button, and send one co-ed up the ladder, while parking the other by the
lowest. Now press the buttons in the order indicated by the dancing
natives in Zaire. This will open the door. Take both girls inside.
 Inside you will find two huge statues and three massive doors. On one
of the statues will be strange yellow markings. READ the markings and
copy the symbol down (they change from game to game). This is the symbol
Zak needs to draw on the Mexican statue's base to get the yellow crystal
shard. But first there are some other matters to take care of in the
Great Chamber. Your oxygen will not last forever, and it might be nice
to see the girls' faces. Let's find the air conditioning unit.

 WALK to the massive door on the left. USE the ladder by the pedestal,
and WALK to the crystal globe. Have the other girl USE the vinyl tape
with the digital audio tape (DAT), allowing you to record over it. USE
the DAT in the boom box, TURN ON the boom box, and set it to Record.
SWITCH to the girl on the ladder and PICK UP the globe. There will be an
annoying whine and the door will open. Send LESLIE with the flashlight
into the chamber.
 You find yourself in a maze of colored doors. You can map this maze if
you like, but the quick and dirty way is to go through the purple door,
then the blue door, then the purple. You should find yourself in a room
with a machine. READ the gauges on the machine, then PUSH both switches.
Once both gauges move into the green, you will be able to remove your
helmets inside the whole Great Chamber.
 Exit the machine room and go through the blue door. From there, take
the purple door, another purple door, and finally the door with the red
edges on your far right. There you will find a room with a familiar map,
a representation of the Sphinx, and more strange markings which you
should copy down. To find your way to the exit, go out and take the
yellow door, then the blue door, the red door on the far left, the red
door on the far right, the red door on the far right, and the red
doorway on the far left.

 Next move to the middle of the three massive doors. The crystal globe
here is broken, so you have to USE the boom box in Play mode, which will
produce the sound you need to open the door. This is not a maze,
thankfully. All you need to do is go through the doorway over on the
right Inside you will see a close relative of the statue in Mexico,
holding an ankh. PICK UP the ankh.
 Finally, you can open the massive door on the far right by either
method, and once you enter and go through the door in that chamber, you
will find a force field, which you turn off when you USE the ankh in the
panel. PUSH the button on the strange machine and you will see what I
assume is a hologram of the ancient aliens who prepared all this for
you. PICK UP the smaller key on the wall (the larger one will crumble
into dust). At this point, it's time to leave Mars, and go back to Zak.
 Save the game here, just in case you make a mistake. USE the yellow
crayon on the strange markings. By placing the cursor on the screen
where you want to draw a line, you can recreate the drawing the co-eds
found on the huge statue. When it's done, click on FINISHED DRAWING. The
statue will release the crystal shard and you can take it. Find your way
out of the pyramid, return to the airport, and from there to San
Francisco. It's time to pick up Annie and finish this game!

 ZAK MCKRACKEN AND THE ALIEN MINDBENDERS
                 Part 4

 LONDON, ZAIRE (AGAIN), CAIRO, MARS (AGAIN), AND ENDGAME
 Once back in San Francisco, go home and get your fish, Sushi, and his
transparent domicile. USE the fishbowl with the sink to give Sushi a
temporary home, and then leave. On your way to Annie's office, be sure
to visit the pawn shop and pick up your lottery winnings. Would that
real life were as full of such sure things!
 GIVE the scroll to Annie (who is the only one who can read it). Then
both of you should walk down to catch the bus (remember only Zak can
wake the driver), and you both should go to the airport and buy tickets
for London. Zak should GIVE the bottle of whiskey to Annie, who should,
in turn, GIVE it to the sentry by the electric gate outside of
Stonehenge. He will get drunk and pass out, enabling Annie to TURN OFF
the switch that controls the electrified fence. Zak can USE the wire
cutters on the fence, and both can WALK to Stonehenge. Zak should USE
the yellow crystal shards on the altar, then USE the flag pole on the
little notch on the left. SWITCH to Annie, who can READ the scroll again
and produce the desired effect. Have ZAK pick up the yellow crystal (now
fused whole), and send both back to the airport.
 Both Zak and Annie should fly to Cairo, but send Zak on from there to
Zaire, and have him visit the Shaman once again. The Shaman will explain
to Zak how to use the yellow crystal for teleportation purposes. Zak
should then rejoin Annie in Cairo.

 On one of the two legs of the Sphinx will be some more of those
ubiquitous yellow markings. Zak must recreate the drawing seen in the
chamber on Mars below the depiction of the Sphinx, which will open a
secret door. Both Annie and Zak must go inside. Yep, it's another maze,
but (a) it's lighted, and (b) there's an easy solution. Always go
through the doorway with a picture of the sun over it (or in one case,
the doorway is at the end of a corridor, and the sun is above and to the
right). Eventually you will find a door with what looks like a pair of
horns above it. Inside you will find some hieroglyphics which only Annie
can read. They will instruct her to push the left button, then the right
button, and the center button. (One of the hieroglyphics looks
suspiciously like an Imperial fighter from Star Wars, by the way.) Once
the panel opens, Zak should USE his yellow crayon on his wallpaper map,
and you should write down the last set of strange markings (whew) by the
depiction of the Great Face.
 Retrace your steps out of the Sphinx. At this point, Zak should go to
the big pyramid across the street, and enter the tiny little door on the
left side. With lighter in hand, he will be able to find the doorway to
the right, find the torch on the way inside that room, and light it.
Bring Annie to join him in the room with the sarcophagus, then send Zak
only back to the airport, and fly him to Miami.

 In Miami, buy another ticket to the Bermuda Triangle, and before the
beam can get you, USE the parachute. The cushion you stole from the
first airplane will keep you afloat. USE the kazoo, which will summon a
dolphin. Save the game here, and USE the blue crystal on the dolphin. As
the dolphin, SWIM underwater and to the lower right to a clump of
seaweed. PICK UP the seaweed, then PICK UP the glowing object behind it.
Return to the surface, GIVE the glowing object to Zak, and return Zak to
his own body. Immediately, USE the yellow crystal. The maps you have
drawn will appear, and you can use the cursor to pick where on the map
you want to go. Click on the yellow dot in South America, and you will
be teleported to the room in the huge carving's right eye where the
candelabra was. PICK UP the candelabra and get ready to teleport to the
secret chamber inside the Martian pyramid. USE the yellow crystal and
click on the pyramid.
 Oops. Nothing happened.

 Well, you have to get to Mars anyway, so USE the yellow crystal again
and click on the Great Face. You will be teleported into a chamber with
three doors and, yes: more strange yellow markings! USE your yellow
crayon to recreate the figure you saw in the map room inside the Sphinx,
and all three doors will open. Go through the center door, and you find
yourself in the maze of colored doors. TURN ON your lighter, go through
the green door on the far left, and the yellow door on the far left of
the second room; go all the way to the left, and you'll be in the Great
Chamber. Zak can meet up with Melissa and Leslie at long last.
 No time for chitchat, though. Have Leslie put her helmet back on and
WALK to the big pile of sand in front on the hostel. USE the broom alien
on the sand, to reveal solar panels, then send her over to stand by the
tram. Next, PUT ON Melissa's helmet, and send her over to the the tram.
Finally, you have to send Zak outside, but he needs a spacesuit. PUT ON
the wet suit, the oxygen tank and the fishbowl, then USE the duct tape
on the fishbowl. Perfect! Send Zak to the shuttlebug where he can use
the oxygen valve to freshen his tank and bring it up the full 15
minutes; then, send him to the monolith, and have him USE his CashCard
in the slot. He needs only one token. Zak should then join the others by
the tram. Save the game here!

 Have each of the three USE the token in the tram. All three must get on
board before it leaves, or you can't finish the game. The tram will go
to the Martian pyramid, and let everyone off. Send Leslie to the
pyramid, and USE the broom alien on the sand pile. Send Zak there, and
USE the bobby pin sign. Then give Zak the flashlight, and have him enter
the pyramid. It is a duplicate of the Egyptian pyramid, except for the
sarcophagus.
 This one can be manipulated. Bring both co-eds into the chamber, and
have one PUSH the sarcophagus's feet. This will open a secret door to
the left of the sarcophagus. Send the second girl up the stairs, have
her stand by the button, and send Zak up there. (You may have to move
the girl away from the sarcophagus's feet to close the hole in the
door.) PUSH the button, quickly SWITCH to Zak, and PICK UP the white
crystal. Zak should USE the yellow crystal to teleport to the dot on the
map near Cairo.

 (While not necessary, it is fun to send Melissa and Leslie back on the
tram, have them pick up their fuse in the hostel fuse box, replace it in
the van, and then USE the controls to head home.)
 Zak is now in a secret room with a big base, two switches and a lever.
First, PULL the lever, which opens a secret set of stairs. SWITCH to
Annie, who has been waiting patiently below, and have her come up the
stairs. PULL the lever again to close the panel in the floor. Have Zak
USE the glowing object on the base, USE the candelabra on the glowing
object, and USE each of the three crystals in their proper position as
shown in your dream and the diagram in Annie's office. (Oh no, you
forgot what order to put them in? You dunderhead, now you'll have to
start from the beginning! Just kidding.... Actually, the program
automatically puts each in the right position.) When the machine is
finished, have Zak and Annie each pull a switch in turn. Then sit back
and enjoy your victory and the amusing epilogue. It's Miller time!