SIMULCRA PLAYERS GUIDE

Docs typed by Nasty Boy.


There is a general priorites list that you should follow on every level:

1.Locate and destroy the next power generator
2.Build up on the SRV`s capabilities
3.Seek extra lives
4.Kill the enemy
5.Get a pod to update your restart position
6.Survive (obvious really)


STARTING UP

The best way to establish your SRV is to generally wipe out the enemy in
the starting area and use the resulting pods to power up your SRV.Pick up
a TAD (Target and Display) as this highlights what pods contain and helps
you decide whether its worth going for pods that are in tricky
positions.Try to pick up a radar pod so you instantly have a map of the
matrix at the foot of the screen.


POWER GENERATING PRANKS

Use the map to locate energy barriers that aren`t connected to the edge
barrier - follow these and you`ll invariably end up facing a power
generator.Following degenerating barriers is also another quick way of
finding another generator without looking at the map.When you reach a
generator try to pick up a pod so that if you die you are instantly put
back near the generator.


SURVIVAL

As you play,its best to leave the shield power-ups behind and then return
to them once your SRV is well-and-truly fucked up.As your SRV is
significantly faster than most of the opposing enemies,retreating to pods
you`ve left behind is often the best tactic.However,If you aint left any
pods behind on your travels,shoot innocuous meanies and hope you get a
shield pod!


DOGFIGHTING

If you attacked by airborne craft there are a few useful tactics.If their
turning circle is better than yours then its advisable to land because
then out-maneuvering your opponent is easier.If an enemy is approaching
you from behind try decelerating and turning,this should cause the ship to
move right into your sights! Try leading attackers into minefields or
towers - they aren`t equipped to avoid such ground-based hazards!


DANGEROUS OPPONENTS

Parked flying craft can be dangerous if you let them take off,so the best
tactic is to simply blast them before they leave the ground.Motherships
will undoubtedly make an appearance sooner or later.These heavily armoured
fuckers follow you around generating other meanies and take loadsa hits to
destroy.The best tactic is if you`ve got plenty of shields,is to ram the
ship head on!

Monoliths have a nasty tendancy to drain all your energy away very quickly
so approach this sucker slowly and as soon as it enters laser range,blows
its balls off! But be sure to keep your distance though.

Homing meanies are another problem.The cunning SRV pilot retreats at
speed,firing at it.It should pose no threat and you can easily outrun it
if not outgun it.

Some droids can be rather nasty and fire frisbee-like homing missiles at
you.Its best to go straight in and shoot the droid rather than the homing
missiles.

End.