Sinbad and the Throne of the Falcon
-----------------------------------

Cheat:

When you are about to die, select the close icon, and then continue.
You'll be as good as new and back at the map.

Solution:                     

ON THE TRAIL:
     At  the crossroads you will see a signpost of the cities you  can  travel 
to.  At the top right of the screen is a bar that tells you where you are.  At 
the right end of the location bar is a restart box and a music box - the  uses 
of which are pretty obvious.  You may plan your destination by clicking on the 
mpa on sinbads belt. Check your progress, as well as the precious time left to 
you  by clicking on the theraniil stone next to the map.  You'll also use  the 
stone to issue orders to the armies of Damaron.  If the Gods smile on you  and 
you find a genie, you may click on his bottle to confer with him. Your travels 
wil take you on ocean voyages as well as overland trecks, and all of the tools 
listed  above  are available to you in your cabin  aboard  the  Sabaralus.  To 
travel  on the high seas,  you may click on any of the destinations listed  on 
the right hand page of the log book. To land at your current location click on 
the left page.
     If your strength runs low click on the strength bar to rest for a day.
     You can converse with characters by clicking on them.
War-What is it good for?
     Evoke the power of the Theraniil stone.  Contact the field commanders  by 
clicking  on the soldier.  A map of Damaron will appear in  the  crystal.  The 
white troops are your men.  Click on them to learn their status:  unit number, 
strength  and current movement orders.  You may order them to move one hex  in 
any direction.  Units ordered into water hex's become ships. Click on an enemy 
unit when one of your troops is adjacent to learn the enemy's  strength.  When 
opposing units move into the same square, the battle commences. Units adjacent 
to  a  battle lend their strength to their comrades,  so keep  your  units  in 
groupsl When your strength runs low,  send your troops to a supply  center(the 
gold hex's and the palace).  Pteranoxos are messengers for the baddy so  shoot 
them  down with your bow before they can return to their  master.  Moving  the 
joystick left and right moves the arrow along the bottom of the screen. Up and 
down alter the angle of your aim.  The cyclops raid your camps and kidnap your 
men.  You must persue the cyclops to his cave,  avoiding nasty wildlife,  then 
kill  the  villian with your sling.  Watch out for the  boulders  the  cyclops 
throws. When ever Sinbad discovers an Idol, he must attempt to grab one of the 
eyes.  To  do  this  click on one of the eyes when you are sure  it  is  safe. 
Disturbing  the three sisters is a risky business.  Their wrath is  liable  to 
take  the form of an earthquake.  If this happens you must reach  the  surface 
before  the opening closes or your strength fails.  Jump across ledges at  the 
same level by pushing left of right and pressing the fire button. To jump up a 
level,  push  up and press the fire button.  Pull back and press fire to  drop 
down a level.

REMEMBER -- Four characters are vital to your success:
LIBITINA (Who wants your body,  and we all know what for). Let her have it and 
she will give you great strength.
THE GENIE -- Able to help you in tight situations.  After you find him he will 
stay on hand to help you as the situations arise. If you lose him, undertake a 
search and you may find him again.
THE SHAMAN -- Is one of the first people you need to find.  He alone holds the 
knowledge of how to free the Caliph from the curse.  When you locate him, heed 
his words. And don't forget where you found him.
THE  GYPSY -- Be patient with her and be sympathetic to her ills and  she  may 
give you some valuable guidance.
     When  in  a port you can send out a recruiting party to attempt  to  find 
some  more  sailor for your ship.  The larger the city prot  the  greater  the 
chance/number of recruits you may find.
Long live the Caliph!