Space Ace II


 CHEAT MODE:

 Type in 'HURRYDEXTER0' and hit [Return] to see the game unroll
 completely on it's own.

Or if you want to do it yourself


Scene 1 - The Goons Attack

The Goons attack and Dexter must use his gun to shoot the Goons.  Press the
fire button when the Goons start running towards him and again when they
start up the platform.

Scene 2 - Yellow Monster

After following Borf to a remote planet, Dexter lands the ship.  But as he
gets out onto the strange alien planet he is attacked by a giant yellow
monster.  Dexter must run to avoid his crushing grip.

Scene 3 - Blue Alien Cats

As he runs from the yellow monster, Dexter is ambushed by alien cats.  His
only hope is to change into Space Ace and overpower them.

Scene 4 - Yellow Monster Appears Again

The danger still lurks, however, as the yellow monster attacks again from
behind a cliff.  Ace must turn to confront the huge beast and use blaster
to fend him off.

Scene 5 - Stone Bridge

Ace races across a precarious stone bridge, but the yellow monster is right
on his heels.  It smashes the bridge and take Ace in its crushing grip as
Ace struggles to take out his laser gun.

Scene 6 - Giant Monster Reaches Out

Stunned by the blast, the yellow monster drops Ace, who changes into Dexter
as he falls.  Dexter must hurry to get away before he is grabbed again.

Scene 7 - Robot Intruder Sentinel

Ducking into a patch of tangled thorn bushes, Dexter finds himself inside a
hallway filled with strange machinery.  As he runs towards the end of the
hallway, Dexter is confronted by a robot sentinel.  He must jump to avoid a
laser blast before making his way to the exit door.

Scene 8 - Ledge To Safety

Getting through the door, Dexter is standing on a ledge with a laser
directly above him.  He must jump to the opening at his side to keep from
being shot.

Scene 9 - Passing Platforms

Dexter lands on a hovering platform which is immediately shot at by an
unseen laser.  He must avoid the blast and jump to a passing platform.

Scene 10 - Machinery Tower

The platform races toward a tower with no way to stop.  Dexter sees ropes
on either side of the tower that lead down into holes.  But which hole
leads to safety?

Scene 11 - Beware the Dark Side

Once at the bottom of the rope, Dexter finds himself hanging above a cliff
ledge.  To his delight, he sees Kimberly standing on the edge of the cliff.
"Beware of the Dark Side," she says and suddenly turns into an exact replica
of Dexter, but strangely colored and evil.  Dexter must avoid the blast and
attempt to shoot his evil clone.

Scene 12 - Dexter Battles The Dark Side

The rope snaps and Dexter falls to a lower platform.  The Dark Side shoots
from above.  Dexter must duck under one blast and leap to safety down a
nearby hole.

Scene 13 - Rising Water in Hole

Inside the hole, Dexter is horrified when it begins to fill with water and
he can't get out.  His only chance is to use his wrist-watch and transform
into Space Ace.

Scene 14 - The Dark Side Transforms

Standing tall over the Dark clone of Dexter, Ace faces his smaller foe.
But the Dark Side energies as well, growing into a Giant Ace!  The giant
Dark Ace takes out his gun and fires.  Ace must jump onto a nearby
platform to avoid being shot.

Scene 15 - The Dark Ace Attacks

As Ace starts running across a narrow bridge he must avoid being hit by
laser blasts.  He makes it across, but as Ace reaches the end of the bridge
the giant Dark Ace comes out of the water and rips the bridge to pieces.
Ace's only hope is to shoot the giant.

Scene 16 - The Dark Ace Makes A Meal Out of Space Ace

The Dark Side lifts a hunk of bridge, which Ace clings onto, towards his
opening mouth.  Ace must scramble away from the Dark Ace's gaping jaws.

Scene 17 - Ace Avoids the Dark Ace's Mouth

Standing on the hand of the giant NEMESiS (hehe...), Ace turns to face the
gaping mouth of the Dark Side and has no choice but to shoot.

Scene 18 - Dark Ace Shoots at Ace

Realizing he can't eat Ace, the Dark Side draws his gun and aims it at the
small Ace crouching in his palm.  Ace must jump to a void each blast and
work his way down the body of the Dark Side.

Scene 19 - Rolling Head

Reduced to a head, the Dark Ace falls and rools after Space Ace.  Ace must
avoid the snapping mouth and keep one step ahead of it or be eaten by the
giant head.

Scene 20 - The Station's Central Complex

Dexter emerges from a portal into Borf's space complex.  Lasers fire twice
and Dexter must avoid the blasts.  Borf has Kimberly slung across his
shoulders as he rides a laser gun platform.  Kimberly punches Borf in the
head and Borf drops her.  Dexter must leap to several ledges to avoid Borf's
laser shots.

Scene 21 - Ace Rescues The Falling Kimberly

Dexter isn't strong enough to save the falling Kimberly and must transform
into Ace before catching her in his arms.  After reaching the top of the
platform, Ace must shoot open a portal in the wall and guide Kimberly to
safety.

Scene 22 - Tunnels Exits to Waiting Space Ship

Sliding down a dark tunnel, Ace must choose between two exits.  Once outside
he must take off quickly to avoid being eaten by a big green monster.

Scene 23 - Outside the Complex

Thinking they've escaped, Kim and Ace turn to kiss each other when the evil
Borf emerges from inside a deep pit next to them.  He shoots at Ace who must
jump away.  The villain snatches Kimberly as the ground gives way beneath
Ace.  Ace must grab the ledge to keep from falling into the pit.

Scene 24 - On the Edge of the Pit

Holding on to the edge of the pit, Ace must avoid the laser blasts that Borf
aims at his hands, while also keeping away from a vicious monster who is
trying to gobble him up from below.

Scene 25 - Borf Lowers Kimberly Into Pit

Borf is lowering Kimberly into the pit to be eaten by the waiting monster
that lives there.  Ace must reach for a nearby vine and swing across to
save his love.

Scene 26 - Ace Swings Across Pit To Kimberly

As Ace swings to Kimberly, he must grab the vine Borf is holding and pull
it to send Borf falling towards the Pit Monster.  Ace must then use his
momentum to carry Kimberly to the other side of the pit.

Scene 27 - Safe At Last?

With Borf in the belly of the Put Monster, Ace and Kimberly are finally
safe... or are they?  Ace must put an end to the yellow monster for good.