                                SPEEDBALL II

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.


KICK OFF
Providing that you have built up your centre-forward to maximum power on all
stats, gaining possession of the ball when it comes into play is actually a
doddle.  When the ball is thrown into the arena, wait for you opponent to
rush for it, and then barge in with a well timed push.  With their centre-
forward out of the way, this leaves a clear path to your opponents goal with
only the deflection dome to avoid.  Alternatively, if your centre-forward is
sufficiently powered-up, you can risk gaining possession as soon as the ball
appears, and then barge past.

TACKLING
As a rule, it is best to barge the player in possession from either the rear
or from the side.  Aiming for a head-on confrontation normally results in
your player taking a tumble, whereas sliding from behind allows you to turn
on the spot and throw the ball to one of your attacking team mates.
Similarly, to avoid losing possession never keep hold of the ball too long.
And if you do risk a long run, ensure that you keep weaving from side to side
so that any pursuing player's can't get too close.  However, to avoid any
risk, it is better to keep the ball moving by passing from player to player.

PASSING AND INTERCEPTION
Passing has been made as easy as possible and as your players get more
intelligent, tight moves can be performed.  Always use the wingers for runs
up the side of the pitch as they might be able to try for a sneaky shot at
the accumalator during the run.  Also when performing long passes, if you
have a player between the thrower and the would-be catcher, make him
intercept the floating ball as it lessens the possibility of the oppositions
defence collecting it before it reaches the player it was intended for.
Intercepting the ball during an opponent's throw should be attempted in the
same manner, and is particularly effective if the player crosses the ball's
path from the side, as he can then turn and throw it down to the waiting
attackers.

ATTACKING
Thanks to the number of pitch-side features, attacking offers a number of
useful tricks.  Whenever possible, use the score multiplier to add extra
pointage to any goal scored.  A neat little cheat here is to throw the ball
into it mid-run and, if your timing is spot-on, you collect it before it
emerges from the tube and before the opposition get to it.  Another advantage
of using the multiplier is that it doubles the number of players that are
stunned when the ball is electrified using the charger.  This is an added
bonus when the ball is thrown towards the goal.  If the opposing team
position a defender between the goalie and the goal, even the weakest of
shots will get through.  It'll be sure to stun both the players on contact.
Another neat feature is the ability to bend shots.  As in KICK OFF 2, after
touch can be added by keeping the joystick pushed into the direction you want
to curl the ball after shooting.  This enables shots to curl around the
goalie with ease and foxes most of the defenders, too.  In addition, if all
else fails, simply run in and nobble the goalie.  As he tries to throw the
ball, intercept it, and throw it back.  Then run in and barge him and slam
the ball in.  Finally, never take a shot from directly ahead of the 'keeper,
because even if it curls, he will get to it every time - aim from a diagonal
whenever possible.

THE STARS
Throwing the ball at the pinball-esque stars adds two points to your score -
however, the opposition can remove them by hitting the lit star again.  As
you become more proficient, experimenting with certain angles as good
positioning often allows you to light two stars at once.  In addition,
whenever you make a run, aim for a star (providing the opposition aren't
breathing down your neck) as hitting all five grants the player an extra ten
points which can't be taken away.  When you're ahead you can allow yourself
the luxury of cancelling out your opponent's stars.

GOALKEEPING
Intelligence is of paramount importance for goalies, as is strength.  As a
goalie's intelligence is raised, he gets progressively more daring and takes
less risks.  Likewise, the goalie doesn't come into play until really
necessary, and this avoids confusion between the 'keeper and the defenders.
Also, other basic rules are: NEVER throw the ball across the goal, and NEVER
keep hold of the ball for longer than is genuinely needed.  Breaking these
cardinal rules means disaster, as the 'keeper will get nobbled and a goal is
almost certainly going to be conceded.  Finally, although the goalie can
wander roughly quarter of the way up-field, try to make the defenders do the
running, leaving the goalie free to cover his area if need be.

GOALKEEPER
It is essential to have a strong 'keeper, he must be able to win any head-to-
head tackles, losing almost certainly guarantees the opposition a goal.
Intelligence is also important.  A goalie with a high IQ is more likely to go
after rogue balls or intercept passes.  He also needs to be able to clear the
ball effectively, so increasing his passing skills.

DEFENCE
A powerful defence stems from its ability to block.  Concentrate on boosting
your defender's strength, power and passing.  Don't hesitate once a defender
has the ball; pass it up field straight away.

MIDFIELD
The midfield's there simply to pass the ball to the attackers so build up
their speed and passing ability.  Midfielders are also useful for operating
the score multiplier to increase points.

WINGERS
Next to the centre-forward the winger are the most important players.
Possessing high strength, aggression and intelligence, your wingers will
concentrate on occupying the opposition goalkeeper and defence, allowing the
forward to get a good scoring position.

CENTRE FORWARD
The centre-forward is the anchor man of the team.  His role is to win
possession at kick off, do the bulk of the team's running and, most
importantly, score goals.  Strength, speed and a good passing ability are a
must.  This must be the first player you build up.

SUBS
Substitutes are usually overlooked when a team is being built up, which is a
mistake.  The centre-forward is generally the first player to be injured in a
match, so he needs to be replaced by someone with almost equal skill.

TOKENS
Going out of the way to collect tokens can be risky, opening holes in the
defence or attack, so you need to be selective.  Go for tokens that have a
lasting effect, these include Freeze, Shut, Reverse and Transport.  Any other
tokens should be considered as luxuries and aren't worth going after.

End.