 SPELLBREAKER

   Part One
 SPELLBREAKER, by Infocom, is one of the most difficult games I've ever
played. As with other Infocom games, there's more than one way to solve
it. This walkthru is one possible solution. Special thanks to Ms. Wiz,
Gulliver Foyle and Deranged Bat, for without their help, this walkthru
would not be possible.

 SPELLS AND WHERE TO FIND THEM:
 (1) BLORPLE - Explores objects' magic - appears in Spell Book after
Belwit Square. (2) LESOCH - Causes gust of wind - in Spell Book at start
of game. (3) YOMIN - Mind probe - in Spell Book at start of game. (4)
FROTZ - Causes object to give off light - in Spell Book at start of
game. (5) REZROV - Opens locked or enchanted objects - in Spell Book at
start of game. (6) GNUSTO - Copies spells into Spell Book - in Spell
Book at start of game. (7) MALYON - Animates objects - in Spell Book at
start of game. (8) JINDAK - Detects magic - in Spell Book at start of
game. (9) GIRGOL - Stops time (long and complicated) - found in zipper
on Flimsy Scroll. (10) THROCK - Causes plants to grow - found on Mid
Cliff on Dirty Scroll. (11) CASKLY - Causes perfection - found in Roc's
Nest on Stained Scroll. (12) ESPNIS - Causes sleep - found in Ogre's
Cave on Dusty Scroll. (13) LISKON - Causes living things to shrink -
found in bottle in ocean on Damp Scroll. (14) TINSOT - Freezes things -
found in Glacier Room on White Scroll. (15) SNAVIG - Changes shape -
found in Moldy Book in Cell.

  CUBES AND WHERE TO FIND THEM:
 NOTE: When you find the cubes, write on them with the Magic Burin in
order to identify each. I labeled each cube by the name of the room to
which it transported me. If you have labeled your cubes differently,
please make the necessary changes where I refer to a cube by "my label".
(1) "Earth" cube - Found in Belwit Square. (2) "Soft" cube - Found in
Hut. (3) "Water" cube - Found in Ogre's Cave. (4) "Change" cube - Found
in Outflow Pipe. (5) "Air" cube - Found in Idol's mouth in the Temple.
(6) "Spider" cube - Found in Roc's Nest. (7) "Light" Cube - Found in
grouper's Nest. (8) "Bones" cube - Found in Dungeon. (9) "No Place" cube
- Found in Octagonal Rooms. (10) "Dark" Cube - Found on Brown Eyed Rock.
(11) "Fire" cube - Found in Grue's Cave. (12) "Magic" cube - Found on
Volcano Outcropping. (13) "x?" cube - Found in Inner Vault. (14)
Hypercube - Created by the Shadow in the Castle.

 SPELLBREAKER
   Part Two
 COUNCIL CHAMBER/GUILD HALL. When the game starts, you are in the
Council Chamber with the other Guild Members. Wait and listen to the
speeches to get an idea of what is happening to magic. The shadowy
figure will appear and turn everyone (except you) into various
amphibians. Follow the shadowy figure to Belwit Square. Wait for the
smoke to clear. Take cube he left there. Don't waste time with the
guard. Go back inside the Guild Hall. Take the bread and fish. Read your
Spell Book. Learn the BLORPLE spell. BLORPLE the cube. This will take
you to the Packed Earth Room.
 PACKED EARTH. It's dark. FROTZ some object. I FROTZed the knife.
Explore. Go east to the Hall of Stone then south to the Ruins Room. Get
the zipper, open it, and enter zipper. Find and take the Flimsy Scroll.
This is the GIRGOL spell, which is long and complicated. You can't copy
it into your Spell Book so keep the scroll. Exit the zipper, but keep it
because you will need it! While you're in this territory, go north and
explore the Smooth Room. You might YOMIN the Snake just to get an idea
of what it's all about. BLORPLE back to the Packed Earth Room. Examine
the hole in Packed Earth. Go down. The Roc will catch you and take you
to her nest.
 ROC'S NEST-FIRST TIME. You'll find a Stained Scroll and a Cube. You
can't get the Cube while Mama Roc is present. You'll have to return
later when you have gained a means of transportation and know Mama is
away. Take the Stained Scroll, which contains the CASKLY Spell. GNUSTO
CASKLY. Then BLORPLE back to the Packed Earth Room and explore some
more.
 OGRE'S CAVE-FIRST TIME. Exploring the area east and north of Packed
Earth will result in your finding an Ogre sitting in the entrance of a
cave. There is a passage going down but the Ogre prevents you from
entering this passage. The Ogre has the sniffles (perhaps he has an
allergy problem). Don't try to help him. Later, you should look for some
means to aggravate his problem; but, for now, go on to the Cliff.
 CLIFF/AVALANCHE. You'll find a Dirty Scroll on the Mid Cliff. This is
the THROCK spell. Take it and GNUSTO THROCK. Go up the mountain. Timing
is critical here. You'll be warned a couple of times that the rocks are
about to fall but continue up. I found it best to wait until the
avalanche had started and the rocks made a "curtain..." then GIRGOL.
Time stops and the rocks are frozen in space. Climb the rocks to top of
mountain and follow the trail to the hut. You'll find a gold zorkmid
coin. Take it, then enter the hut.
 HERMIT'S HUT. This is the hermit's home. He is very possessive of it
and the Cube which supports it. Simply pointing at the cube will cause
the hermit to become very talkative. He will explain why you cannot take
the cube. It's a good idea to SAVE the game here for I found that my
magic often "flickered", and it's a pain to replay the whole thing
because a spell does not work properly. Now CASKLY the hut and take the
Cube. Also, I found that the CASKLY spell worked better if I cast it
before I heard the noise of the avalanche resume. Once you have taken
the Cube from the hut, BLORPLE it to get to the Soft Room.
 SOFT ROOM. Go south to the Meadow. You'll find a ragweed and a pair of
pruning shears here. Take both but be sure to pull up the ragweed -
don't cut it. BLORPLE the "Earth" cube and return to Packed Earth. Go
east then north to reach the entrance to the Ogre's Cave.
 OGRE-SECOND TIME. Plant the weed in the Cave and THROCK weed. Go down
the passage and get the Gold Box and the Dusty Scroll. Go back to the
Cliff Bottom to examine them. The Dusty scroll contains the ESPNIS
spell. GNUSTO ESPNIS. Then check out the box (see BOX for details). Open
it and take the Cube. Blorple this cube to reach the Water Room.
 BOX. Examine the box. Notice the designs on it. Try putting different
Cubes in it and note how the designs change - the box identifies the
Cubes. Try leaving the box somewhere while you BLORPLE to another
location. Then enter one of the other exits which always says "Oddly,
though there appears...". You will find that you can enter the
"Oddly...Exit" and that you are back to where you left the box. This
will be the solution to a problem later in the game.
 WATER ROOM. You'll be returning here more than once. I dealt with the
south exit first. Memorize BLORPLE, get bread (or fish), drop all except
bread (or fish) and go south. You will fall into the ocean. A hungry
grouper will appear while the cube and a bottle are floating away. Drop
the bread (or fish) for the grouper and get the Cube. The grouper will
eat the food you dropped and swim away. You should then get the bottle.
BLORPLE the "Water" cube and return to the Water Room. Open the bottle
and get the Damp Scroll which contains the LISKON spell. GNUSTO LISKON.
Go north to the Oubliette.

 SPELLBREAKER
  Part Three
 OUBLIETTE-FIRST TIME. You must solve this one twice - both "up" and
"down". I had the spell I needed so I went down first. Memorize LISKON
and put ALL but your light source in the zipper (this is assuming that
the Spell Book is not your light source). Close the zipper then LISKON
yourself and enter the outflow pipe. The current will carry you west.
Watch for a white cube in a damaged section of the pipe. Take the cube
and continue west until you reach the Ruins Room then exit the pipe. You
can either BLORPLE the Cube you found in the pipe and go to the Changing
Room, or you can go to the Temple now. I went to the Temple at this
time.
 TEMPLE/IDOL. To get to the Temple you must get past the Snake in the
Smooth Room. By YOMIN, you have learned that he is just an over-grown
snake which is swallowing his own tail. Learn the LISKON spell and
LISKON the Snake. As soon as he shrinks enough to allow you to pass, go
north twice to reach the Temple. The Temple contains an Idol which has
one large opal eye and holds a Cube in its mouth. You need both the cube
and the opal. To get the opal you must climb the idol, pry the opal with
the shears or the knife and take the opal. Getting the Cube is a bit
more of a challenge. Be sure to climb down from the Idol before you try
anything else. Once you have the opal, the Idol will be "blind" which
will help in what follows. Timing is critical for the next part so a
SAVE GAME would be a wise move. Learn MALYON and ESPNIS. MALYON the
Idol, take a LOOK and then ESPNIS Idol. The objective here is to bring
the Idol to life, then cause him to become sleepy and turn back into
stone while in the *MIDDLE* of a yawn (with his mouth wide open). It
might take several tries. After you accomplish this, take the cube from
his mouth and BLORPLE it to reach the Air Room.
 AIR ROOM. Going south from the Air Room I fell through the clouds and
was once again caught by the Roc and taken to the Roc's Nest but one
can't depend on that Roc. She may not catch you this time and there's no
reason to go back to the nest at this particular time; so, may I
recommend avoiding the southern exit. Go north to Glacier Room. Get the
White Scroll which contains the TINSOT spell. GNUSTO TINSOT. Blorple
back to the Air Room. Go west to the Bazaar. Here you must bargain with
the merchant to obtain a magic carpet.
 MERCHANT/CARPET. I managed to buy the blue carpet with the gold coin
but you can make the same purchase more easily by using the opal. Here's
how I did it: Examine Blue Carpet. Buy Blue Carpet. Merchant will state
he wants 800 zorkmids for the carpet. Offer 300 zorkmids. He will lower
his price to 700 zorkmids. Offer 400 zorkmids. He will come down to 600.
 Offer 500 zorkmids. He will take the gold coin and give you the *RED*
carpet. Say, "TAKE BLUE CARPET." The merchant will reply, "That's right,
you wanted the blue carpet." (I found that if I did *ANYTHING ELSE*
between his giving me the *RED* carpet and my taking of the *BLUE*
carpet, I was stuck with a *RED* carpet.) After you obtain the blue
carpet, BLORPLE back to the Water Room and tackle the Oubliette for the
second time.
 OUBLIETTE-SECOND TIME. Learn TINSOT three time. Put everything in
zipper and close the zipper. TINSOT the Outflow Pipe twice. Wait until
the Oubliette is full then TINSOT the water. Stand on ice floe, open the
trap door and go Up. Get the cube from the Dungeon. You can use the box
here. Put the cube in the Box then take it out. Drop the Box and BLORPLE
the cube to the Bones Room. Finding nothing of interest there, go
through the West Exit (an "Oddly, though..." exit) to return to the
Dungeon. Go east from the Dungeon then north to reach the Cell.
 CELL-FIRST TIME. Make notes on how the cell looks and what you do while
you are here for you will need this info later. REZROV the cabinet. Get
the Moldy Book and CASKLY it. Read the Moldy Book and GNUSTO the SNAVIG
spell. Go back to the Dungeon and make preparations to fly on the Magic
Carpet to the Roc's Nest.
 ROC'S NEST-SECOND TIME. Make preparations while in the Dungeon. Learn
BLORPLE and take carpet from zipper. Go up to the Guard's Tower, drop
carpet, sit on carpet and go up. (You must get up in the air before the
Roc grabs you or it won't work.) Fly west on the carpet until you are
above the Roc's Nest. Mama Rock is at the Guard's Tower but that egg
could hatch any minute so don't waste time. Go down, get off carpet,
take cube and carpet, then BLORPLE the cube to arrive at the String
Room.

 SPELLBREAKER
  Part Three
 OUBLIETTE-FIRST TIME. You must solve this one twice - both "up" and
"down". I had the spell I needed so I went down first. Memorize LISKON
and put ALL but your light source in the zipper (this is assuming that
the Spell Book is not your light source). Close the zipper then LISKON
yourself and enter the outflow pipe. The current will carry you west.
Watch for a white cube in a damaged section of the pipe. Take the cube
and continue west until you reach the Ruins Room then exit the pipe. You
can either BLORPLE the Cube you found in the pipe and go to the Changing
Room, or you can go to the Temple now. I went to the Temple at this
time.
 TEMPLE/IDOL. To get to the Temple you must get past the Snake in the
Smooth Room. By YOMIN, you have learned that he is just an over-grown
snake which is swallowing his own tail. Learn the LISKON spell and
LISKON the Snake. As soon as he shrinks enough to allow you to pass, go
north twice to reach the Temple. The Temple contains an Idol which has
one large opal eye and holds a Cube in its mouth. You need both the cube
and the opal. To get the opal you must climb the idol, pry the opal with
the shears or the knife and take the opal. Getting the Cube is a bit
more of a challenge. Be sure to climb down from the Idol before you try
anything else. Once you have the opal, the Idol will be "blind" which
will help in what follows. Timing is critical for the next part so a
SAVE GAME would be a wise move. Learn MALYON and ESPNIS. MALYON the
Idol, take a LOOK and then ESPNIS Idol. The objective here is to bring
the Idol to life, then cause him to become sleepy and turn back into
stone while in the *MIDDLE* of a yawn (with his mouth wide open). It
might take several tries. After you accomplish this, take the cube from
his mouth and BLORPLE it to reach the Air Room.
 AIR ROOM. Going south from the Air Room I fell through the clouds and
was once again caught by the Roc and taken to the Roc's Nest but one
can't depend on that Roc. She may not catch you this time and there's no
reason to go back to the nest at this particular time; so, may I
recommend avoiding the southern exit. Go north to Glacier Room. Get the
White Scroll which contains the TINSOT spell. GNUSTO TINSOT. Blorple
back to the Air Room. Go west to the Bazaar. Here you must bargain with
the merchant to obtain a magic carpet.
 MERCHANT/CARPET. I managed to buy the blue carpet with the gold coin
but you can make the same purchase more easily by using the opal. Here's
how I did it: Examine Blue Carpet. Buy Blue Carpet. Merchant will state
he wants 800 zorkmids for the carpet. Offer 300 zorkmids. He will lower
his price to 700 zorkmids. Offer 400 zorkmids. He will come down to 600.
 Offer 500 zorkmids. He will take the gold coin and give you the *RED*
carpet. Say, "TAKE BLUE CARPET." The merchant will reply, "That's right,
you wanted the blue carpet." (I found that if I did *ANYTHING ELSE*
between his giving me the *RED* carpet and my taking of the *BLUE*
carpet, I was stuck with a *RED* carpet.) After you obtain the blue
carpet, BLORPLE back to the Water Room and tackle the Oubliette for the
second time.
 OUBLIETTE-SECOND TIME. Learn TINSOT three time. Put everything in
zipper and close the zipper. TINSOT the Outflow Pipe twice. Wait until
the Oubliette is full then TINSOT the water. Stand on ice floe, open the
trap door and go Up. Get the cube from the Dungeon. You can use the box
here. Put the cube in the Box then take it out. Drop the Box and BLORPLE
the cube to the Bones Room. Finding nothing of interest there, go
through the West Exit (an "Oddly, though..." exit) to return to the
Dungeon. Go east from the Dungeon then north to reach the Cell.
 CELL-FIRST TIME. Make notes on how the cell looks and what you do while
you are here for you will need this info later. REZROV the cabinet. Get
the Moldy Book and CASKLY it. Read the Moldy Book and GNUSTO the SNAVIG
spell. Go back to the Dungeon and make preparations to fly on the Magic
Carpet to the Roc's Nest.
 ROC'S NEST-SECOND TIME. Make preparations while in the Dungeon. Learn
BLORPLE and take carpet from zipper. Go up to the Guard's Tower, drop
carpet, sit on carpet and go up. (You must get up in the air before the
Roc grabs you or it won't work.) Fly west on the carpet until you are
above the Roc's Nest. Mama Rock is at the Guard's Tower but that egg
could hatch any minute so don't waste time. Go down, get off carpet,
take cube and carpet, then BLORPLE the cube to arrive at the String
Room.

 SPELLBREAKER
  Part Four
 STRING ROOM. Go south and talk to Belboz. He will ask you a question.
I've been told this is Infocom's copy protection thing. You must answer
Belboz's question using the information supplied on the cards from the
game package. If you do otherwise, Belboz will show up later to kill
you.
 After you answer the question, Belboz will give you a key. BLORPLE back
to the Water Room and prepare to visit the grouper again.
 GROUPER-SECOND TIME. Learn SNAVIG and BLORPLE while in the Water Room.
Put all in the zipper and close the zipper. Go south. You'll fall into
the ocean again and again the grouper will appear. Get the cube and the
zipper first then SNAVIG grouper. You will change into a grouper. Go
down and find the grouper's nest. It contains a cube. The zipper and the
"Water" cube should be nearby. Wait until you change back into yourself
then take ALL and go up. BLORPLE the cube from the grouper's nest to
arrive in the Light Room (Volcano).
 LIGHT ROOM OR VOLCANO-FIRST TIME. Go west to Volcano Base. When the
lava fragment falls near you, TINSOT it, then take it. BLORPLE to the
Changing Room (the cube you found in the Outflow Pipe will take you to
the Changing Room).
 CHANGING ROOM. Go north to the Bare Room and get the Compass Rose.
BLORPLE back to the Changing Room. Go west to the Carving Room and solve
the puzzle of the Octagonal Rooms.
 OCTAGONAL ROOMS. While in the Carving Room, put the Compass Rose in the
carving of the Compass Rose and an opening will appear in the north
wall. Get the Compass Rose and go north. Map carefully. Notice the color
of the Runes. Touch the compass Rose to the Rune. If either the Rune or
the Compass Rose is lead, that direction is dead. If the Rune is Silver
or gold and the Compass Rose shows the direction as Silver (and you have
not already been in this direction) an opening will appear under the
Rune so you can go in that direction. I believe there is a total of
eight rooms. The objective here is to find the room with a *GOLD* Rune
and an Alabaster plug. This is the point where I went a little bit
*CRAZY*. I had read hints saying, "Go for the Gold," "The gold is found
in the 6th or 7th Room." Well, I spent days trying to find that *GOLD*
Rune in the 6th or 7th Room. I thought I had to explore all 8 rooms.
But, I kept finding the *GOLD* Rune too early (I thought), because I was
finding it in the third or fourth Room. Finally, when all else failed, I
quit trying to explore all the rooms and started messing around with the
Alabaster Plug. Lo and behold, that's all I needed to do. Here's my
solution - hope it works for you: Starting in the Carving Room, go N, W,
NW, NE. The West Rune should be *GOLD* with an octagonal hole containing
an Alabaster Plug under it. You can open the hole or REZROV the hole but
this accomplishes nothing. REZROV the Alabaster (it will melt). Then go
West and get the cube. BLORPLE this cube to No Place.
 NO PLACE-FIRST TIME. Going east will take you to the Outer Vault. But
you can't do anything here until after you have obtained the "Magic"
cube (some people refer to it as the Power Cube). For now, go south from
the No Place Room to the Rock Grid.
 ROCK GRID. Bone up on your chess and chess terms for this is a game of
chess played with two kings. The game board and the tempo have been
changed. The chess players refer to it as ZUGSWANG. Anyway, it's a
peculiar grid so map it *CAREFULLY*. You'll find you can't walk so you
must find a means of transportation. There is a Green Eyed Rock near you
and a Brown Eyed Rock a distance to the east. The Brown Eyed Rock has a
cube on his back. Prime Objective: To corner the Brown Eyed Rock so that
you can take the cube off its back. Try getting within one square of the
Brown Eyed Rock on the same line. I mapped the grid then used a green
button and a brown button to represent the rocks moving on the grid.
 Solution: Give the lava fragment to Green Eyed Rock so it will allow
you to ride on its back. The Brown Eyed Rock will not always move in the
direction you anticipate so this solution will not work every time; but,
I think it gives you an idea of how to solve the puzzle. Go W; Brown
moves N. Go NE; Brown moves S. Go S; Brown moves N. Brown is cornered .
If you move E, Brown must move either W or S. Either move will put Brown
one move from you on the same line. When you advance toward Brown, it
will freeze in place. The Green Eyed Rock will loom over the Brown Eyed
Rock so you must go down or jump to the Brown Eyed Rock. Take the cube
and BLORPLE to the Dark Place.

 SPELLBREAKER
  Part Five
 DARK PLACE. Memorize SNAVIG and BLORPLE. Go down. Extinguish your light
source. Go down again to the Grue Cave. When you see the Grue Cave,
SNAVIG grue. You will change into a grue but will retain a little of
your human self so you can endure the light a little. Go down to pool of
light. Climb the pillar and get the cube. Wait until you are yourself
again then BLORPLE the cube to arrive in the Fire Room (Volcano-second
time).
 FIRE ROOM OR VOLCANO-SECOND TIME. If you have left the box anywhere,
retrieve it now for you will need it! Go north to Volcano Top. There is
an Outcropping in sight. Put "Fire" cube in Box then remove it. Throw
the box to the Outcropping. BLORPLE back to the Fire Room and go west
through the "Oddly...exit" which will take you to the Outcropping where
the box is. Get the cube and the box from the Outcropping. BLORPLE this
cube to reach the Magic Room.
 MAGIC ROOM-FIRST TIME. You can explore this room now but you aren't
ready to solve it yet. You'll notice a circle of darkness to the east;
but, for now, go north to the Meadow and BLORPLE the "No Place" cube to
return to the Inner Vault.
 INNER VAULT. You have the "Magic" (or Power) cube now so you can REZROV
the vault. Before you do this though, you should learn JINDAK three
times, REZROV once and BLORPLE once.
 In the vault you will find two piles of cubes, each pile containing 6
cubes. Twelve cubes in a vault - only one is magical. Since the number
of the magical cube will vary, I will refer to it as the "x?" cube.
Objective: find the magical "x?" cube. You are allowed to use up to
three JINDAKs before the Fairy appears. No, there's nothing you can do
about the Fairy.
 What can I say? This one stumped me! First Ms. Wiz, then Deranged Bat
came to my aid. Ms. Wiz's solution worked fine while the cube was
"brighter"; but, alas, sometimes it was "dimmer". Deranged Bat's
solution seems to cover ALL possibities; but, it is longer. I'm
presenting both solutions here.
 MS. WIZ'S SOLUTION: (1) Take "x1", "x2", "x7" and "x8". (2) JINDAK. (3)
If both piles are glowing equally, drop all but zipper. (4) Take "x3",
"x4", "x5" and "x6" and put ALL in zipper. (5) Get ALL. (6) Put "x1" and
"x2" in first pile. (7) Put "x7" and "x8" in second pile. (8) JINDAK.
(9) One pile will be glowing brighter so put dimmer pile in zipper. (10)
Get the two cubes from the brighter pile. (11) Put one cube in first
pile and other cube in second pile. (12) JINDAK. (13) Grab the cube from
the pile that's glowing brighter. (14) BLORPLE this cube and get out
before the Fairy appears. Note: Never are the cubes referred to as
glowing brighter - just the piles they are in.
 DERANGED BAT'S SOLUTION: Take and drop "x1", "x2", "x7" AND "x8".
JINDAK "x3", "x4", "x5","x6" vs "x9", "x10", "x11", "x12". If they are
equal in brightness, then the cube you want is "x1", "x2", "x7" or "x8".
JINDAK "x1", "x3" vs "x7", "x8". If these are equal brightness, then
"x2" is the cube we want.
 If these are not equal then we must decide among "x1", "x7" and "x8".
Say the "x7", "x8" pile is brighter. Then the third and last JINDAK is
"x7" vs "x8". If they are equal, "x1" is our cube. If they are unequal,
take the brighter one. Similarly, if the "x7", "x8" pile is dimmer, the
third JINDAK is "x7" vs "x8". If they are equal, "x1" is our cube. If
they are unequal, take the less bright one.
 The above fully explores all possibilities given that our first JINDAK
showed "x3", "x4", "x5", "x6" equal to "x9", "x10", "x11", "x12. We were
able to definitely determine which of "x1", "x2", "x7", "x8" was our
cube in at most 2 additional JINDAKs.
 If "x3", "x4", "x5", "x6" does not equal "x9", "x10", "x11, "x12", we
can assume without loss of generality that "x3", "x4", "x5", "x6" is
brighter. This tells us that our cube is either "x3", "x4", "x5" , "x6"
and brighter or "x9", "x10", "x11", "x12" and dimmer.
 Take and drop "x3", "x4", "x5". Move "x9", "x10" to pile one. Add "x1"
to pile two. JINDAK "x6", "x9", "x10" vs "x1", "x11", "x12.
 If these are equal, then our cube is "x3", "x4", or "x5" and is
brighter. The third JINDAK is then "x3" vs "x4". If equal, choose "x5";
if unequal choose brighter. If "x6", "x9", "x10" is not equal to "x1,
"x11, "x12" assume first that "x6", "x9", "x10" are brighter. In this
case "x9" and "x10" are not ours, so ours is either "x6" (brighter) or
"x11" or "x12" (dimmer). JINDAKing "x11" vs "x12" will decide if it is
"x6", "x11" or "x12". Now assume that "x6", "x9" and "x10" are dimmer.
In this case "x6", "x11", and "x12" are not ours so ours is either
"x9"or "x10" and is dimmer. JINDAKing "x9" vs "x10" will decide.
 That's it!! I sure hope there is a simpler one but I don't have time to
look for it. BLORPLE the "x?" cube to the Sand Room.
 SAND ROOM. This is somewhere you've not been before. After you've
solved the Cell and BLORPLEed back to the Sand Room, go up to the Ruins.
Don't leave anything in this room and don't come back to it after you
have solved both the Cell and the Ruins for there's no way out after
that.
 CELL-SECOND TIME. Objective: Remember how the cell was when you were in
it before and arrange everything the way you found it before. Solution:
Unlock the cabinet with the key. Open the cabinet and take the Vellum
scroll (it's blank). NOTE: If, through trial and error, you discover
that you must sleep between now and the end of the game, ESPNIS self
now! Sleep will cause you to forget *EVERYTHING* you have learned and
you won't have your Spell Book. Memorize BLORPLE at least 2 times then
put the Spell Book in the Cabinet. Close the cabinet and lock it with
the key. REZROV the Cell Door and BLORPLE the "x?" cube to go back to
the Sand Room. From the Sand Room, go up to the Ruins.
 RUINS/SACK. You can't hold very many objects! While still in the Sand
Room, put everything in the zipper but get the Magic Burin and the
Vellum Scroll (have them in your hands when you leave the Sand Room).
You must have the "Magic" (or Power) cube with you in order to copy the
GIRGOL spell; so, if you've left it somewhere, I hope you can retrieve
it now. Go up to the Ruins. The "x?" cube will appear in your hand - put
it in zipper. Open sack. Empty the zipper into sack. Take sack and enter
the zipper. Take the Flimsy scroll and exit the zipper. (Entering and
exiting the zipper may not be necessary but I found I could pick up an
"extra" object by doing this. Copy GIRGOL on VELLUM. Put the Flimsy
scroll in the zipper (making sure the zipper is empty except for Flimsy
Scroll), close zipper and drop it. Take the "Magic" cube from the sack
and BLORPLE it back to the Magic Room. You are ready for your encounter
with the Shadow.
 MAGIC ROOM-SECOND TIME OR ENCOUNTER WITH SHADOW. Go east through the
circle of darkness and wait for Shadow to appear. The Shadow has four
cubes of his own. He will take all of your cubes and the four of his own
and construct a Hypercube. Then unless you stop him, he will enter the
Hypercube and the Reign of the Shadow will begin. Your score will be
-99. However, you can stop him.
 Solution: Enter the Castle. Wait two or three moves until the Shadow
appears. Then take something from your sack. (If you don't have the
Vellum in your hand, take it. If you already have the Vellum, take
anything.) This action will cause the Shadow to *FREEZE* you! You will
revive in time to stop him if you cause him to freeze you SOONER. Then
just wait until one move after "...he ignores you." Then GIRGOL. The
objective is to freeze him in mid-air. He will have taken ALL of your
cubes but you can still see one floating in the Hypercube. Take it out
and put some *JUNK* in the Hypercube. I still had the fish, so I put it
in the Hypercube. I also tried the sack and the coin. Any NON-MAGICAL
item will work nicely.
 This should give you a total of 600 out of a possible 600 points. Now
take the beautiful poster of ALL INFOCOM GAMES from the game package.
Using either tape or thumb tacks, secure it to a wall. Throw darts at it
giving yourself 5 points each time you hit anything on the bottom row
and 10 points each time you hit SPELLBREAKER. You should feel better
soon!
 SPELLBREAKER is copyrighted
    1985 by Infocom, Inc.
 This walkthru is copyrighted
    1985 by Terry Clayton.
     All Rights Reserved.