	GARFIELD.

	GENERAL HINTS & TIPS.

  1) NEVER EVER attempt to go into the sewers without the torch.

  2) To get lots of points do any of the following:

     a)Go to the Pizza Party (a building without a sign on it). Waggle your
       joystick left and right to eat pizzas. When you get splatted by a 
       pie you'll fall down a hole to the sewers. If you've eaten a lot
       you'll see a pizza monster!

     b)Take the golf ball from the shed to the golf course (the scene before 
       the busty lady picture). Kick it to try for a hole in one. If you
       miss you'll find the ball near the busty lady.

     c)Jump on the settee and kick it. You'll then see that it's ripped.

     d)Pick up the anissed balls for invincibility (as long as you carry
       them).

     e)If Odie picks up the aniseed balls he'll not pinch any of your items.



	SOLUTION.

  As soon as you start, it's best to pick up the rubber bone and drop it 
  next to the door with the catflap (left from where you start). Wait near 
  the door and, providing he's carrying something already, Odie will bounce
  up to the door and open the catflap. This gives you quicker access to the
  "world outside".

  Now get the torch from the bedroom. Go to the sewers (you can enter them 
  by going to the shed or the park where a busty lady sits). Find Nermel, 
  the kitten, and keep kicking him until he drops a clockwork mouse. Let
  Odie pick up the mouse and make your way back to the top.

  Swap Odie, the torch for the mouse and go to the health food shop. The
  woman's head will spin around and she'll give you a green doughnut. Swap
  Odie the torch for the doughnut.

  Head back to the sewers. When you see a large rat near a chest, get the
  doughnut back from Odie. Drop the doughnut and the rat will clear off 
  and eat it. Kick the chest and a key will appear. Then give Odie the key
  and make your way back to the top (WITH the torch).

  Now get the bucket from the back garden. Take it to the hardware shop and
  drop it. A dollar note will float down. Pick this up and go to the health
  food shop. Select 'USE' with your joystick and a pile of birdseed will
  appear. Pick this up.

  Go once again to the park where the lady sits. Drop the birdseed and 
  quickly pick up the key. A bird will swoop down and take you to the City
  Pound. Go right, up the alley and right again. Yuo'll now find Arlene!!!
  She'll give you a smacker on the lips, the screen will fill with flowers
  and you'll go off together arm in arm!!


	by Craig Thornton                  typed in by DOUG.....