Ghostbusters II


 CHEAT MODE:

 Hold down [Alt], [Ctrl], [S], and [U] when the Activision logo
 appears and press fire. You should have infinite lives.
 This also stops the cable from breaking on level one.

 
 HINTS:
 
 1. Level:
      The Ghostbusters have detected a river of slime floating under
      Fifth Avenue and leading to the Museum of Art.
      So they jackhammered a hole into the street to go down and 
      collect a specimen of slime from the underground river.

     You have to steer Ray (with the Joystick, of course) down to the
      river to collect some slime. On the way down you have to pick up
      the 3 little parts which form the Scoop to collect the shit.
      The parts are to be found at 7 metres on the left side, at 27
      metres on the right side and at 117 metres again on the right.
      after collecting the Scoop go down to the river. Now the cup will
      fill itself with red slime and you'll enter the second level.

      On the way down you can also collect extra weapons and energy.
      It's useful to pick up one or two bottles to restore your energy.
      With the space bar you can choose the different weapons but you
      really don't need them to solve this easy level.
 
 
   2. Level:

      The Ghostbusters have climbed the Satue of Liberty which began to
      move and is now walking down Broadway straight to the Museum of
      Art.

      On the way several formations of evil ghosts approach you which
      you have to shoot down. After being hit, each ghost falls down as
      a little drop of slime. Some little humans are walking behind the
      Statue of Liberty who can be used to collect the slime.
      In the left corner of the screen there's your 'slime-o-meter' which
      shows your energy. Of course it should always be filled.
      Press the space bar to force the people to go forward or backward
      to collect the slimedrops.

      Right of your energy-pointer there are some units that show you
      how much of the level you have completed. There are some bigger
      aliens after 6,9,13 and 16 units. When you have killed the ghosts
      at the 16 units mark you only have to shoot down one more alien
      formation to enter the last stage.


   3. Level:

      The master of the evil ghosts, Vigo the Carpatian, who is living
      in a painting from the 16th century has kidnapped a little baby
      that he needs to be reborn to rule the world. Your quest is to
      rescue the baby and to kill the evil lord (as always..).

      The 4 Ghostbusters, Ray, Pete, Egon and Winston have to descend
      from their Statue of Liberty down to the floor of the museum.
      They do this by sliding down a rope. You can control the sliding
      speed by pressing the joystick up and down. You can start at a
      high speed but pay attention that the 4 heroes need a soft landing.
      (and this means a very very soft landing....) Otherwise they will
      be stunned for a while or be dead. 
   
      After landing go to the upper right corner to pick up the baby
      (by pressing fire) that is lying on a little table in front of
      the painting. Put down the baby on the safe place behind the boxes.
      Anyway, you can switch the different characters by pressing the
      space bar. If you press Enter you can transfer the weapons 
      Now take Pete and Egon (who have both a ghost-energy-phaser) and
     let them shot the painting. 
      Now take Winston to shot down Janosz, the slave of Vigo. To kill
      him you have to hit him several time at his front side. When you
      have killed Janosz, Vigo will take possession of Ray who will 
      disappear. Now shoot at the painting until the ugly head explodes.
      After that Ray will appear in front of the painting.


   Well, now you're very close to the solution of the game. I still heven't
   found the last step to complete the game. The only further information
   I can give you is that it's possible to move Ray around by shooting him
   with an energy-phaser. 
   I saw the movie about 2 months ago so I cannot remember how the evil has
   been killed in the film. I try to get a copy of the movie again to get
   the last hint that I need to complete the game. But I hope nevertheless
   that this text has helped you to go through the game.