Ghouls 'N Ghosts


 CHEAT MODE:

 During play type 'KARENBROADHURST' to turn the collision off.
 
 Or
 
 When the credits screen appears type 'DELBOY'. Now the next time you play
 you will be completely invulnerable.

                               
 SOLUTION:


GHOULISH TIPS
If you lose your armour and there's a magic chest nearby, open it and get
changed into a duck by the evil magician.  Avoid any ghouls and when you
change back, lo and behold you've got your armour back!  Chest contents
invariably change from a weapon to a magician if you lose your weapon so
don't panic too much if you are in your undies.
Magic is best in moderation, it takes vital seconds to power up and even
then it's effects aren't always total.  The Magic to create an Arthur clone
(when armed with a dagger) is best for double firepower on nasties
requiring mass hits but the 3 way fire electrical beams used with the lance
is best of all.
Take it carefully when jumping or falling onto platforms, the game
collision detection is a bit ropey but luckily it's in your favour so all
is not lost.

A GUIDE TO EACH LEVEL

LEVEL 1
A nice, easy introduction to the game, this level.  Watch out for
skeletal reapers coming up from below and those approaching from just
under your line of fire.  Try to avoid staying on top of hills if you
can and avoid falling reapers.  The second chest contains Magic
armour.  Climb onto the top of the ruins to shoot at the vultures but
try to avoid leaping when near the gullotines.
In the second half, duck to avoid the whirlwind creatures, jump if they're
low flying.  Climb the hill, jump up and run up to the left, jump up again
and run up to the right (be quick about this or the skull-spitting fire
will appear).  Kill the wimpy pig creatures and fall down the 'cliffs'.
Take it slow as you walk up to the head-lobbing final guardian.  Jump up
and fire like mad until he's upon you and then turn around and run with him
and quickly fire up at his head.  Fingers crossed you'll kill him without
taking a hit. (When you've no armour you're VERY vulnerable so take extreme
care or give up!).  If you can, get the fast-fire dagger and couple it with
an autofire joystick.

LEVEL 2
An easier level than the first if you know what to do, honest!  Run up as
fast as you can, time your movements under the leaps of the low-bouncing
turtle heads, and collect the Magic Armour from the second chest.  Kill any
low flying, winged monsters, and jump up onto the collapsible platforms.
The platforms fall away very rapidly so take care as the creature below is
MEAN!  Run along the first half of the platform and leap over the second
half to land on the edge, jump onto the next platform and keep leaping!.
Jump onto the third and then off onto the floor between the two sand traps.
Jump up onto the next platform and immediately do a running jump to leap
the gap, keep jumping again and again, leaping the final platform and then
off! simple! If you fall and find the wormy thing chasing you, do a series
of running jumps up the sand trap to escape.
To get a chest, drop through a hole in the last bridge of all ( a risky
tactic!).  Kill the winged demon by standing in the centre and firing up,
dodging his evil 'spit'!  Watch for the collapsing holes in the ground
(look for  the ever-so-different ground graphics) and leap over the
erupting ground.  Watch out for the pesky fire sprites: shoot one if it
gets too close.  Kill the Venus Fly Trap with 2 shots and hop over the fire
chasm (not too early though!).  Kill the other Fly Trap  and when you reach
the Fire Wolf, fire like mad at him before he leaps.  Turn around and fire
again, keeping low to avoid low attacks just in case he collides (he never
has yet).  He needs 15 shots to kill, but shoot the falling fire bombs for
bonus points.

Here's a cheat to get infinate lives I'm not sure if it works but there's
no harm in giving it a try?

When you meet the Fire Wolf, shoot it as usual but let it leap to the left
before killing.  Run towasrds it before dealing the final blow and keep
pushing the joystick left as the key to level three comes down.  An extra
life tune should be heard and you should now have unlimited Arthurs!

LEVEL 3
I must confess that even with the cheat I could only do this level once!
The first bit isn't too hard, but the second half-aaargh!
Keep to the right to kill the first kniving knight (each requires four
hits), move to the left for the second, and then the middle for the third.
The green sprites are best avoided, especially the stone-dropping ones.
The fourth knight is tricky because he's so near after the third and the
fifth is near impossible to kill.  If you can, don't go for him: instead,
go to the left of the spikes and run over them to the right as fast as your
little legs can go and ON NO ACCOUNTS STOP!
You may think it's fun to blast the knight and the fat, floating fish-like
creatures but the screen is constantly scrolling up, taking you ever nearer
the spikes and stalactites.  However, you can't afford to waste even one
second on the way up!!  This is an unbelievable vicious section!!  Keep
running and you may get away without loss of armour; if you inevitably lose
it to the first set off fishy things you've still got a chance.  Instead of
wading through them, wait on their left next to the spikes and run past
just above the spikes (like before).  You can just about scrape by without
hitting the ledge above.
From here on, it's all leaping-onto-'tongues', (urgh!) and wait under the
second.  Leap up and run up to the second as it rises (leaping over the
fire) - timing is everything if you're to land on the platform below (death
if you don't).  Keep running with the platform and try to jump onto the
next 'tongue' (ignore the chest, it's not worth it).
Miss the third 'tongue' and you may just land on a platform.  If so then
quickly leap back to the next platform on your left and keep leaping to
avoid following the platforms into the void.
Make it onto the third 'tongue' and again you have to time it so that you
fall onto the next platform.  Do this and you're almost there!!  Jump onto
the fourth slimy 'tongue' and down onto the last 'tongue', and then jump
onto terra firma (well, sort of).  Leap the holes and finally keep firing
at the rotating cloud-eye (I prefer to fire down as it often slows down at
that point and can't really come towards you from below).  Phew!!

LEVEL 4
If you made it so far, may I just say "Very Well Done!"  Use the same
tactics as level one to avoid the skeletal reapers.  Kill the dragon head
by firing like mad from a distance.  Kill the spitting stone by jumping up
and firing from the ledge below (where the dragon head was).  Take your
pick as the route to reach the slippery slope - I prefer going along the
top instead of down the ladder and leaping across the gaps, coward that I
am!
For the slippery slopes, initially keep in the centre of the screen: this
avoids falling off the slope and dying just before the next slope comes
into view.  The hands are a mite tricky if you time it wrong: just wait
until they fire and run up close and sock it to to 'em!  Don't jump too
late over the gaps as the spikes overhead can get you.  Don't jump too late
either as the spikes underneath will have you instead!
Once through, just take it carefully on the falling platforms.  Follow the
map instructions to know the way to go but wait until you see the platform
that you're to land on.  Do an extra large jump off the final platform and
you'll land on the maggot creature (ugh!).  Kill the maggot nests in left-
to-right order by running above them, leaping up, and firing down on them.
Any loose maggots obviously need to be shot first.  Not too difficult
providing you beware of the roaming maggots.

LEVEL 5
Last level and things are getting spooky!  The music on this level is ace
but the enemies and the time limit sure as anything aren't!  There are no
platforms to leap between but there's many a demon which need to be killed
- if they aren't they keep following and firing at you!
Avoid or kill the winged creatures and climb the ladders.  The two ledges
after the harmless stationary eye must be walked right up tobefore jumping
up onto them; the collision detection is a little dodgy here and a running
jump made too early is rewarded with death!  Nasty!
After this, climb the ladders, vanquish the piggies, and collect any useful
weapons from the chests.  The flame-spitting skulls aren't too difficult to
avoid; just move in staggered steps between skull spits and you should get
to the top.  Jump off the platform and then back again to attract the Demon
Lord's attention, and just leap up and fire at him after he's fired his
salvo of fireballs at you (you don't need to duck)
The two flame-gobbing heads are easy providing you're quick.  Kill the left
one before it fires (a random event, so be careful) and then keep your
distance to destroy the second head.  Next open the chest and pick up the
Magic Armour to face the Demon Lords (a dose of Magic when using the
standard Lance is best for these).  The two clouds can be similarly
disposed of.  Once they're dead, just be careful running up the slopes,
open the final treasure chest, climb the ladder, and drop down into the
final room (whoooooo!!!).
To kill the Fly King it's best to stay under it and fire up (while being
VERY quick to dodge his 'bullets').  You can't stay on the ledge and fire
at him as his head is the vital bit, the swarm of flies are invulnerable so
avoid!!  This is a very tough opponent if you lose your Magic Armour as
he's fast moving, fast firing, and accurate.  Even worse is the horrible
tight time limit and the penalty for running out of time or dying - you're
taken back miles!!
After all that I would of liked to see an animated end-sequence or
something.  You don't even see Princess Hus!
Even once the Level 5 Fly is defeated,  Lucifer awaits in the final
room and can only be killed by the weapon Princess Hus kindly gives
you.  Like the robots in BIONIC COMMANDO Lucifer's feet stomp up and
down, so wait until they're on the way up before rushing underneath.
Now keep leaping up, to avoid his lightning bolts, and fire at the
same time and you should do it!

End.