                 GOLD OF THE AZTECS - SOLUTION

by Delporte E.

1) Caught up in the tree by your parachute, simply press fire to
cut yourself free. Once on the ground, immediately walk right and
exit the area. You don't have to kill anybody.

2) Take a couple of steps into the screen and then somersault
over the bowman and his arrow. Alternatively, you could shoot him
but this takes more time. Leave to the right.

3) Stop as soon as you enter the screen. Wait until the bird has
swooped, then jump your way to the other side of the screen. This
way, the deadly plants won't harm you.

4) Take one stride into the screen. Shoot the snake that emerges
from the tree then point your gun at the floor. Shoot the three
snakes that sneak through the fauna.

5) Shoot the armoured guardian of the bridge twice in the head.
When his sword falls to the ground, walk along the bridge. You
must somersault off the end of the screen.

6) Stand completely still. A large bird will swoop close by, but
it won't actually harm you if you remain motionless. Once it has
passed, walk to the end of the screen.

7) Here, you have the option of either shooting the unfriendly
natives or somersaulting over them. Both are equally effective
and allow you to progress onwards.

8) Draw your gun immediately and shoot the monkey directly ahead.
Next, concentrate on disposing of the natives. Once this is done,
press on into the next screen.

9) Shoot the tribesmen who insist on giving you a hard time. Fire
a volley of bullets and walk onto the next screen uring them as a
shield to protect you against further attacks.

10) When the panther bounds towards you, kneel and shoot it
quickly. Once it's defeated, pull the mounted lever, collect the
gold, and return to the doorway that is three screens back.

11) Reach the ground and face to the left. As soon as the hot
cinder disintegrates, jump across the large gap and climb down
the ladder onto the next playing area.

12) Leap quickly off the platform to the right. Turn left and
then jump. Turn and face right, then very quickly jump up onto
the rope. Climb down to reach new locations.

13) Swing across the ropes to the one on the far right. Don't
worry about the bat as it will not become aggressive unless you
approach it. Climb down to the next screen.

14) Travel left, walking off the ledge that you landed on when
you fell from the rope. That bat will not move. You will now land
on another ledge on the playing area below.

15) Tread on the bridge then retrait. the bridge will fall into
place on the screen below. Climb down the ladder, jump across,
knock the key and collect it. Continue down the ladder.

16) The bats on the left will fly away. Leap across the flames
and grab hold of the rope. When the remaining bat moves, climb
down, grab the other rope, and descend.

17) Get onto the ledge, turn right, draw your gun, and keep
shooting. The nearest bat will fly into your line of fire. Jump
onto the horizontal rope and move across.

18) Fall off the end of the rope. Stand still and shoot the
scorpions that wander back and forth. Then collect the jewel,
jump onto the rope, and shift along to the right.

19) Walk to the edge of the platform and jump onto the first
rope. If you climb down quickly enough, you won't be attacked by
snakes that twist around the ropes.

20) Clamber across to the farthest of all the ropes without
pausing for absolutely any reason. Now leave the rope climbing
for a while and walk onto the next screen.

21) Climb onto the nearest rope. Swing across to the right-hand
side and then head for the ladder, being careful to avoid the
falling cinders. Simply climb up the ladder.

22) Reach the top of the ladder. This is a quiet position where
you can savely take time to reload your gun. Once this is done,
you can leave the screen to the right.

23) Watch out for the falling slab of rock. Another will crash
down when you approach the green plant, so beware! Use the key to
shift the wall and then move on.

24) Take one stride into the cavern. Shoot the snakes that appear
from behind the pile of rocks. Once all of the three snakes are
dead, you can proceed without caution.

25) Take another single stride. Shoot all the loose rocks that
hang from the ceiling, then jump across the small gap to the rope
on the other side and climb down.

26) Shoot the flying insect, then move to the very edge of the
ledge. Jump onto the lily pad, and keep the momentum going to
bound across all the other soft, soggy pads.

27) Keep jumping right until you reach the last lily pad. Here,
you must change to jumping upwards until you grab the rope. Haul
yourself up, and exit to the right.

28) Don't stop! Walk all the way to the rope, and climb down it to
the floor below. Move left, collect the ring along the way, and
travel onto the following playing area.

29) Stand on the pier and jump onto the rather rickety raft. Turn
immediately, crouch, and shoot the killer fish that breaks through
the surface of the water. Reload your gun.

30) Shoot the four rocks in the water, otherwise they will
tragically sink your raft. Again, you must relaod in preparation
of what awaits on the following screen.

31) Unleash all your bullets in the direction of the giant squid.
When you hit its eye, the blood will pour, and it will cease to
live. You are now safe to continue onwards.

32) Shuffle to the back of the raft. Jump up when the crocodile
attacks. After that, shoot all the stalagtites above, otherwise
they knock you into the water where you will drown.

33) Duck down. Once the grinning monster lurking in the background
has tried to grab you, get back to your feet and prepare to
disembark on the following screen.

34) Jump onto the rope and slide across to the first rock. Land on
it, shuffle back twice, and jump across the rocks. Climb onto the
horizontal rope and sidle along.

35) Cross waterfall and onto next screen. Return back to here,
drop on platform, down the rope, collect the treasure, go back up
the rope, and right once again.

36) Move over to the place just above the ledge on the right-hand
side of the screen. You must then drop onto the ledge below,
clutch the rope, and pull yourself up.

37) Go right and collect the treasure. Return to this screen and
walk left. When the rats attack, kneel and shoot them all. Then
climb down the ladder of skulls.

38) Turn to the right at the bottom of the ladder, You must then
leap across the molten lava and land on the rocks, making sure you
avoid the lava when it spurts upwards.

39) Keep leaping from rock to rock until you reach the other side.
Once you have finally succeeded in crossing, climb down the ladder
to the next playing area below.

40) Walk to the left, being careful to avoid the swams of flying
insects that will kill you upon contact. Wait until they are at
the top of their flight circle then proceed.

41) Stand in front of the pillar. When the head fires two quick
consecutive bursts, walk across to the collection of statues. They
will act as a ladder to the screen below.

42) Here, you can either walk left to safety, or collect the
treasure in the corner to the right. The head uses the same firing
pattern as before so it shouln't pose a problem.

43) Walk straight across the screen. Look out for the horrific
animation sequence where the girl loses her head! This sacrifice
will lead to a demon chasing you.

44) Walk directly to the rope in the centre of the screen. Pull
the rope and then dash off to the left. A wall will rapidly
descend to temporarily block the demon.

45) Shoot two bullets to break the ropes to the left. Somersault
over the bridge, shoot the remaining rope, and leap onto the next
screen. You have to be extremely fast!

46) You can free the caged fairy by shooting the rope. There
doesn't appear to be any particular reason for doing this. You
must then leap over the pit and onto the next screen.

47) Walk to the far end of the screen, turn around, and then shoot
the barrel of dynamite for a spectacular explosion that halts the
demon. Leave by moving off to the left.

48) The hole in the centre of the floor is the only hole you
should fall down. This will take you to another part of the
adventure where the demon will ni longer chase you.

49) The man will set alight when you approach him. Shoot the slab
of rock where the water falls from to douse the deadly flames. You
can now climb down the rope.
50) The safest and quickest way to tackle the next screen is to
clamber onto the heightened walkway and to then simply walk off to
the right. Couldn't be easier, really!

51) Take two strides and then jump to avoid falling through a
trap. Go down the rope and edge as far to the left as possible.
Jump to the left to continue the correct way.

52) Collect the chalice which is easy enough to do. Fall off to
the right but don't just carry on, for now you must jump twice to
the right to avoid the hidden traps.

53) Shuffle up to the edge of the ledge and pull the lever. Jump
over the mantrap on the floor and stride into the elevator. Pull
the lever to the right of the lift.

54) You can risk your life by going for the treasure to the left,
but if you want to continue without danger, walk off to the right.
The crossbow bolts will miss you.

55) Stand on the lower moving green platform. Step off onto the
ledge to the right. Step onto the upper moving platform and then
onto the ledge to the left, and up the rope.

56) Shift along the horizontal rope and land on the large, moving
platform. Turn to face the right, move along to the edge of the
platform, and leap off to the right.

57) You will find yourself entering this screen standing on a
platform. Grab hold of the rope and move yourself down and onto
the next screen. There is nothing else to this section.

58) This is another of the few screens that are easy to conquer.
There is nothing complicated here. Move down the rope and then
walk onto the next playing area.

59) This is quite a tricky section. You must jump between the
axes, duck, and repeat this process until you have reached the end
of the screen and are in the open.

60) When the second acid drop falls, jump over the first mantrap,
and quickly grab hold of the rope. Clamber up the short rope and
then exit the screen to the right.

61) Watch out for opening floors. You can see where they are as
the floor is slightly risen in the dangerous places. Jump to
succesfully avoid falling into fatal spike pits.

62) The spinning axes can be somersaulted over but you must judge
the correct run-up distance and your timing must be perfect. Once
over, journey right to the next screen.

63) Simply jump over the wooden spikes when they recede into the
floor but be wary of the distance each jump will take you, and
prepare to adjust your steps accordingly.

64) Walk as fast as possible across the screen, collecting the
treasure as you go. It isn't necessary to collect all treasures
but they do boost your percentage score.

65) By pulling the lever in front of you the wall will quickly
lift out of your way. Repeat this process to exit the screen but
beware of the spikes that slowly shift downwards from the ceiling.

66) Walk onto the following screen, pull the lever, and return to
the screen you just came from. Shoot the two sticks supporting the
boulder and then run to the right.
67) Race to the rope and jump onto it. Hitch yourself up as far as
you can go. If you shot the supporting sticks, the boulder will
roll and smash through the mountainside.

        ..........MISSION IMPOSSIBLE ACCOMPLISHED ........

68) Being the best explorer of the nineties has its rewards! The
woman swoon over you and the treasures you collected will keep you
filthy rich for the years to come.

                       CONGRATULATIONS !

                    **********************