                  ALLO ALLO From ALTERNATIVE DOCUMENTATION

                      Typed By -* CRAIG/CRYSTAL *-
                   Supplied By -* CRAIG/CRYSTAL *-
                    Cracked By -* I.B.M/CRYSTAL *-

Listen very carefully, I shall zay zis only wance!  Ze Colonel's men
`ave got 'old of ze real Fallen Madonna wiz ze Big Boobies by Van
Clomp.  You, mon brave Rene, muts lead ze resistance in a galant
attempt to swap ze real painting wiz ze forgery.  Ze painting 'as
been `idden in ze safe in Lieutenant Gruber's room".

"But Michelle... zey will torture me if zey catch me wiz ze Fallen
Maddona wiz ze Big Boobies by Van Clomp.  I am not a brave man.
I will 'ave to tell all I know - not zat I know anything of course..."

"Do not worry, Rene.  If i can spare ze time I will come and 'elp
you.  But anyway, we 'ave drugged ze colonel's wine to make things
easier for you.  You 'ave to find your way to ze safe in le chateaux,
avaoiding ze guards and pick up any 'elp you can on ze way.  Some
of ze guards are very 'ard to fool and you must use your friends
to get past zem.  If you are caught by ze guard you must use some
of your great courage to get away.  Remember, ze future of all
France is in your 'ands.  Good luck man amie!"

Rene is depending on you to help him through his difficult task.
Avoid the guards, collect any gold you may find lying around(!),
pick up bottles to increase your confidence level and remember,
if all else fails, THROW SOMETHING!
                                   
If you select the two player game, one person controls Rene, and the
other Michelle.  Both players are active at the same time but of
course, you can only see one at a time (unless both are in the same
room!)  You can centre the screen on either player by a simple key
press but remember, the other player is still able to move about
when you cannot see them.  Although the guards will not attack the
off-screen player he or she can still be injured in falls etc.  So 
TAKE CARE!

* LOADING THE GAME

Amiga - Switch on the Amiga and wait for the disk prompt before 
        inserting the disk into drive DF0:  The game will load
        automatically.

IBMPC - Insert disk into drive A:  From the dos prompt type "ALLOALLO"
        and press the <Return> key.  The game will load automatically.

* CONTROLS FOR AMIGA AND IBM/PC VERSIONS

Amiga owners will need a joystick (two for the two player game)  PC
owners can play both keyboard or Player 1 on joystick and Player 2
on keys (see the in game screen).

On the title screen  F1  Start One Player Game
                     F2  Start Two Player Game

Use the fire button to start each level and the following keys during
the game...

  F10.. Pause game on/off
  ESC.. Quit (only when paused)
SPACE.. Toggle screen display to show player 1 or player 2 in the
        two player game.

In the game...

   UP.. Lets you jump, climup up or go through trapdoors etc.
 DOWN.. Lets you duck, climb down or go down trapdoors etc.
LEFT AND RIGHT.. Moves you in that direction.
 FIRE.. To throw objects and drop off the balloon and pigeon!

Hints and Tips...

At certain points in the game you can get your friends to help you
by throwing something at them!  Officer Crabtree is particularly
useful and is one to watch out for!

Remember there is more than one fake painting (of the Fallen
Madonna with the Big Boobies by Van Clomp) hidden in the
knockwerst sausages on the first level.  Don't leave any behind!

The train driver is easily bribed to stop for you but you'll
need to collect as much forged money as you can on the way to
the front of the train.  (Hint - To get ahead, get a hat!)

TYPED BY : CRAIG/CRYSTAL 199CSL