                            ACTION FIGHTER

Transform For Combat!

Power Up
--------

1) Set up your computer as shown in the Commodore Amiga owner's manual.
2) Plug in your joystick or mouse as shown in the manual. Turn on the
   computer and the monitor.
3) Insert the Action Fighter disk.

NOTE: Kickstart 1.2 or higher is required to play this game on the Amiga
1000.

Taking Control
--------------

GET READY

When you're ready to go, press the fire button.

To move left/right: Push the joystick (mouse) in the desired direction.

To accelerate: Push forward on the joystick (mouse).

To decelerate: Pull back on the joystick (mouse).

To shoot: Press the fire button.

To pause during game: Press CTRL, press again to continue.

To restart the game: Press ESC key.

YOUR NAME IN LIGHTS

At the beginning of the game, you must enter your name. Move the joystick
right or left to highlight each letter. Press the fire button to make your
selection. When you are finished entering your name or initials, highlight
ED and press the fire button again.

WINNING TIPS

When you have picked up letters A through D, you may switch back and forth
from the motorcycle to the sportscar. To switch back and forth, hold down
the fire button on the joystick for an extended period of time.

Vary your speed and position fairly randomly in order to "throw off" enemy
fire.

For every 10,000 points you accumulate, you will gain an extra life.

Mastering the Game
------------------

SEEN ON THE SCREEN

In order to complete your missions successfully, you'll have to
familiarize yourself with what's on the screen.

THE SEGA TRUCK

From time to time, the SEGA truck appears on the screen. By "docking" with
the truck, your vehicle gets extra weapons. The first time you duck into
the back of the truck, your vehicle will emerge shooting double bullets.
The second time, you earn a rocket. The third time, you will have a rear
force field, which prevents enemies from sneaking up on you. And the fourth
time, you will become invincible with a protective shield all around you.
These weapons will be highlighted in the blocks at the top of the screen.

FLAGS

Small flags appear on the road throughout the game. Pick them up for bonus
points.

LETTERS

A through F can be found on the road. If you pick up all of them, you will
be automatically transformed from a motorcycle into a car.

Throughout the game, other letters will float by.
Catch them if you can.

B    =    Smart Bomb                  S    =    Speed Up
L    =    Extra Life                  T    =    40 Time Ticks
I    =    Invincible Shield
P    =    1000 Bonus Points

Action Fighter
--------------

In this ever changing game, you start with a customized motorcycle, convert
into a super charged sportscar and end up as a high tech plane. Jump over
target infested waters, evade enemy attackers and shoot down airborne
infiltrators. In five fantastic missions, you will be challenged to
overcome U-boats, gunships, tanks and more. Stand by for action, because
it's coming your way, no matter which vehicle you're in.

()()()()()()() Doc provided by The Hellion  &  The Corsair ()()()()()()()
