                           QUIK & SILVA

Typed by Zigor of The Punishers.


Once upon a time not long ago in a far off land:

Every  Monday she went to aerobics, Tuesdays was the self-discovery group
and from the middle of the week it was always the beginners cookery
course at the local  night  school.  Princess Leila was certainly a
really active girl; she did,  after all, want to inherit the throne and
sceptre of Funnyland some day and  rule  the  small  island kingdom with
a wise hand.  "Under my rule", she used  to  say  to her friends at
coffee, "there will never be any scandals!".
The  inhabitants  of Funnyland remembered last summer with horror, as a
horde of  mutated biscuits suddenly attacked the local McMac branch.
(Fortunately, the  amount  of  colourings  and  preservatives  didn't
agree  with the fast lollies!).   "No,  no,  such a catastrophe will not
occur under my control!", exclaimed  the  little  princess.  To clearly
underline the importance of her words,  she  poked holes in the air with
her well-manicured finger nails.  (A crying  shame,  for it wasn't really
her fault!).  Now Now it came to be that the  old  king had no more
interest in ruling Funnyland.  "At 63, I've really worked  enough.   I
want  to  enjoy  my  life at last like everyone else; go fishing,  watch
Sesame  Street  on  the  telly  and  grow peas in the castle garden!"
"Great, daddy," thought Leila to herself, "then I can take over the
reins at last!"
The deserving King Walter abdicated in a magnificant ceremony in the
castle's hall  of  mirrors and the ambitious princess took over the
crown.  "The first task  is  to paint the royal carriage pink and light
blue!" Just on that very evening  - how could it be any different in a
computer game - a few extremely strange  coincidences  occurred!   You
should  know  that  the  worlds  most beautiful  toy  factory  is
located  in  the  north of Funnyland.  (They are currently  doing  a
fantastic trade in soft cuddly toys from the ozone hole!)
And  it  was prcecisely at this spot that the horror started...  A few
sloppy workers  had  left  the  microwave  open for reasons unknown (a
pre-war model without  a  fuse!).  It happened as a rhino fly decided to
take a rest on the mains  switch:   the  thing  started  up and the
dozens of fluffy and plastic creatures  lying  around  received  a
megadose  of microwaves!  And as these things  happen,  the  once  cute
little beasts mutate to become destructive, blood-thirtsy monsters.
Nothing and no-one was safe from them.  Comment from the  monarchy:
"Heeelllp!   Why doesn't someone help?" "So,  Leila,"  thought  the
angry  people  of  Funnyland, "now you have your industrial  scandal!
And what now?"
It  must  be admitted that Princess Leila had real problems and no
solutions!
But then came the face-saving idea:  "What about these two metal boys
invited to  my last birthday party." She rummaged through her handbag:
"Where's this cursed  visiting  card?"  She  discovered  the  card  under
tons of rouge and lipstick  in the record time of nearly half an hour.
"QUIK & SILVA Computer Game  Heroes  Inc.   -  we  crack  any  nut with
and without cheating!"
Leila grabbed her cordless telephone:  "Hello, hello!  Can I speak to
QUIK & SILVA,  the  robot  heroes?  Please come as fast as you can!  I
have an awful problem  here!"
Now  it's  all  up  to  you!   Must  Leila abdicate?  Will the toy
factory be nationalised?   Is  Funnyland  doomed?
Question after  question!   Only you know the answers!  May the joystick
be with you - you can bank on Princess Leila's thanks and a high score!

The  OBJECT OF THE GAME:  is to guide the small robots through all the
levels of  the game without losing all their lives.  The little metal
chaps have the unbelieveable  ability  to  fire  plasma torbpedoes
(FIRING button) to defend their  skin - sorry armour!  The spreading
power of the light shells (max.  5 shots)  is  increased  by collecting
"P" symbols.  Whoever prefers to collect "B" bullets receives bonus
points and X symbols give an extra life.
Some  of  the  stones  hide  interesting  features!   So  examine them
all as accurately  as  possible  by  jumping at the blocks from below
with the robot heroes (JOYSTICK forwards + direction).
Touching  the  enemy  or  the  peaks or falling into deep (water)
trenches is fatal!!   Such actions automatically lose a valuable life.
This is prevented by  avoiding  all  the dangers in good time!  Note the
extremely good jumping ability of the two heroes - practice also makes
perfect with QUIK & SILVA!

You can accurately check the effect of the individual special blocks
again by using the graphics.
One  last  tip:  some tasks seem utterly impossible at first sight!  But
they aren't  -  almost  every  problem  can  be mastered by skilful
practice.  For example,  look  exactly where your shots are richocheting.
You could in fact always  stand  there.  But enough for now - the NEW
BITS team and Platzhalter wish you happy puzzling!

P key activates "pause" / M key:  music on/off

End.
