     A F R I K A   K O R P S  -  I N S T R U C T I O N   M A N U A L


ABOUT THIS GAME

Afrika Korps is a strategic war game, simulating the desert theatre of
the Second World War.  The game involves one person playing against a
computer opponent.  This computer opponent has taken years of
development and testing - and the result is a system which offers three
real difficulty levels.  The first level is designed to be easy enough
to offer a challenge to newcomers to wargames; more experienced gamers
should try level 2, or, for a real challenge, level 3.


INTRODUCTION

Afrika Korps is an historical simulation of the campaign fought in the
western desert during World War II.  You can command the Axis forces of
Erwin Rommel, or the Allied forces of the British Army.

The game is played in turns, from two principle screens - the tactical
and the strategic maps.  The tactical map covers a far larger area and
gives you an overall perspective.

Your objective is either to defeat the opposing army, or to reach either
El Agheila or Alexandria, depending on which army you are commanding.
You control the divisions forming your army by issuing orders to each
individual divisional commander.  This involves an attack and/or defence
line for their divisions.  The computer-controlled intelligent commander
will then direct their units with their new objectives in mind, thus
enabling you to influence your commander's strategy.

Each division can be directed to a new area of operations or a new axis
of attack and defence by changing the front line of parameters.

Divisional commanders will tell you of their intentions using a series
of messages, and your own General Headquarters will advise you in the
same manner.  At the end of each game turn you have a number of
indicators providing information on reinforcements, division strengths,
commander's plans and the relative effectiveness of both armies.


LOADING

Insert the disk and turn on your computer.
To start a brand new game, press return when the game has finished
loading.
To load a previously-saved game, follow the on-screen menu instructions.


SAVE GAME

Follow the on-screen menu instructions to save a game to disk.  You will
need a blank formatted disk for this purpose - the game disk may not be
used.  Note that the save game option is not permitted before the first
turn is completed.


DIFFICULTY LEVELS

Afrika Korps has three difficulty levels: 1 is the easiest, 3 the
hardest.  You must select the level you wish to play.


PLAYING AFRIKA KORPS

There are two main modes of control in the game - Map control, and Menu
control.  When in Map control, moving your mouse/keyboard scrolls around
the map; in Menu control, you move between the different command
options, all of which are available from a menu.

You play the game by assigning units to divisions (if you wish to
reallocate strength from one place to another) and setting attack and
defence lines for each division.  You then instruct each division
whether to advance or defend, and thus move your forces around with a
view to defeating your computer opponent.


GAME CONTROL

you may play Afrika Korps using either the mouse or keyboard.  You are
given the option to toggle between these two control methods at the
start of each game turn.  Press RETURN to select keyboard control, or
click the left mouse button to select mouse control.

Where these instructions say 'select' something, this means moving the
mouse pointer to that item, and pressing the left mouse button (unless
specific instructions say otherwise).  For users wishing to use the
keyboard, selecting menu options is done simply by pressing the
appropriate letter on the keyboard.  If in keyboard mode, use the cursor
keys to move the mouse pointer around the map.


KEYBOARD CONTROL

You may scroll the maps using either the cursor keys or the mouse.

Single letter keystrokes should be used to avoid the possibility of
skipping the next section if that section responds to the same letter
key.  (Cursor can, though, be held down for scrolling the maps) The game
automatically sets Caps Lock on; if this key is inadvertantly pressed,
the keyboard will not respond - simply press Caps Lock to rectify this.


MOUSE CONTROL

Movement of the mouse scrolls both maps.

The right hand button is used to switch between map and menu control.

In menu control, mouse movement will highlight the various section names
on the menu.

The left hand button will access the section highlighted.  When you exit
a menu section, control automatically reverts to map control.  If you
wish to access another section, press the right hand button again to
regain control.

Armies are accessed by moving the mouse pointer to your desired army,
and clicking the left mouse button.  Please ensure that the mouse is
stationary when you click the left button, and do not hold the mouse
button down - or you may skip the next section.


MAIN MENU

This is the first of two control menus.  It provides the following
functions:

     Scrolling of strategic and tactical maps
     Direct access to any part of the tactical map
     Access to the army menu
     Access to Army Re-Organisation
     Start Next Game Turn

With Keyboard Control:

     Use the S and T keys to switch between maps
     Use appropriate letter keys to access functions
     Press Zero key to start next game turn

With Mouse Control:

     When in map control use the left button to switch between maps
     Move the mouse to highlight differnet options, and click the left
     button to access that option
     While in Menu Control, clicking on MAP and then T or S changes the
     map.

In order to avoid accidentally starting the next game turn, you must
press the left mouse twice (when MOVEMENT 0 is highlighted) to start the
next turn.


ARMY ORDERS - A

This option allows access to the army menu, for the purposes of issuing
orders, or reviewing unit details, current orders, road move, and army
information.


REORGANISATION - R

Press the R key or use standard mouse procedure to access this option.

Then select R to access strategic reserve, or M for strategic movement.
Initially there are no units in either of these sections.


STRATEGIC RESERVE

In between game turns 8 and 24, you will receive a number of
reinforcement units.

Units in strategic reserve with a strength below 100% will amalgamate
with other similar units to form new full-strength units.

For each turn that a unit spends in strategic reserve, its morale is
increased by one step, to a maximum of excellence.


UNIT ASSIGNMENT:

To assign a reserve unit to a division, highlight it on the map, then
press the U key, and then enter the appropriate division letter key for
your chosen division for that unit.

If there are more than 12 units in strategic reserve, access the second
page of them via the P key.

Under mouse control, highlight the unit you wish to assign, from map
control, then select your chosen division from Main Control, using the
left mouse button.

To abort the command, simply select EXIT at any time.

Note that you cannot assign units to a division that has lost all its
units, and you can only assign units to divisions of the same
nationality.

You can check that this assignment process has been carried out
satisfactorily by accessing the strategic reserve - the newly units
should no longer be there, but should instead be seen in the strategic
movement section.


STRATEGIC MOVEMENT

This section contains details of all units moving between divisions and
strategic reserve.  The time this travel actually takes depends upon the
units distance from the appropriate map edge; the maximum delay is
twelve game turns.

A unit moving to a division will show that division's colour code
alongside the unit details.

A unit arriving at the division to which it has been assigned, will
appear on the map if:

     the division has less than six units on the map
     AND
     the division has a supply rate greater than 25%
     AND
     the HQ symbol of that division is not already covered by another
     unit.

The unit will then appear over the HQ symbol.  Any number of units can
be assigned to a division, although only six will appear on screen; the
rest will form a tactical reserve for that army.


DIVISIONAL REINFORCEMENTS

During the course of the game, both armies will receive reinforcements,
which will arrive at either El Agheila or Alexandria.


TO START A NEW GAME TURN

When you have given all the orders you wish to give, start the movement
and combat again by pressing/highlighting and clicking on, MOVEMENT-0.


THE ARMY MENU

This second control menu allows you access to the following functions:

     Army Orders
     Unit details
     Army information
     Current orders
     Road Move
     Main Menu (via EXIT X)

Access each section in the same way as for the main menu options.

Please note that only the tactical map is displayed when using this
menu; to view the strategic map, you must return to the main menu.


ORDERS - O

Each division is allocated both a letter and a colour code.  To select a
division, simply highlight the division on screen, and either click the
left mouse button or press the appropriate letter key.

Select A to change the attack front line, or D to change the defensive
front line of the individuaol army.

You can change just the division commanders mode without changing either
of the front line parameters, by selecting X.


CHANGING THE FRONT LINE:

After access, a cross-hair cursor will appear on the divisional HQ, an X
on one unit, an R on a second unit, and an L on a third unit.

For the first unit, move the cursor to the position you wish that unit
to move to, and press the T/left mouse button.  Then repeat this
procedure for the R and L units, forming the three points to your
desired new front line.

Repeat this procedure again for all units in the division (in batches of
three units at a time).

Should you wish to retain a previously issued order to any unit, press
the X key rather than the T key, or press the right mouse button to skip
a unit.  This allows the player to change one or more unit's orders
without needing to reset all units.


ATTACK (A)      DEFEND (D)      DISCRETION (E)

To instruct your divisional commanders whether to attack or defend, or
whether you wish to leave it to their individual discretion, simply
press one of the A, D or E keys (as appropriate) or use standard mouse
procedure.

These 'modes' for divisional commanders have the following effects:

ATTACK:

The divisional commander is biased in favour of an attack, but is not
forced to do so.  The division commander can decide either to move
towards his attack front-line, or towards any enemy units in his
immediate proximity.  If the commander feels that his position is
particularly hopeless, he may still decide to defend, when he will use
the rules governing a defend order.

DEFEND:

The divisional commander here has just two options - to move all units
towards their defensive front line positions, or, if he thinks his
positions hopeless, to retreat.  In retreat, the divisional commander
will use his defence front lines as a guide as to where to retreat to.

DISCRETION:

While still using the front lines set by the player as a guide to
movement, the divisional commander will decide himself whether to
attack, defend or retreat.

Clearly, the player has most control over divisional commanders when
they are in defend mode.


UNIT DETAILS D

Select D, followed by either A(llied) or G(erman) to access the
respective armies.  Computerised opponents army units will not be shown
if the units are too far away from the player's army units.

The numbers at the bottom of the player units display the current morale
levels.

If one screen will contain an entire division's units, then the whole
division's details will be shown at once.  Select X to access another
division of the same side, or X twice to access one of the other side's
divisions.  Return to the controlling menu screen by selecting Z.


ARMY INFORMATION (I)

Press I and then use control as for unit details; army information,
including the supply situation, will then be shown.

Unit details and army information sections can be used for general
information purposes, or for specific comparisons of two opposing
divisions.  Scroll the map so that two opposing divisions are displayed
in the centre of the screen, then access unit details or army
information for both divisions.

The screen will now show both relative positions, and information about
the two divisions for detailed decision-making purposes.


SUPPLY STATUS

The higher the supply status of a division, the more effective its units
will be in combat, the more individual combats the units of a division
indulge in per game turn, the more likely the supply status is to
decline.


SUPPLY RATE

The supply rate of a division is determined by the distance each
division is from an 'in-supply' road position: the greater the distance,
the lower the rate of supply.  Road supply is cut if an enemy unit is
on, or adjacent to, a road position.  All road positions after the point
at which supply is cut, will be out of supply.

The supply rate is used to top up the supply status of a division.  If
the supply status used as a result of combat is less than the supply
rate, then the supply status will be increased by the difference, to a
maximum of 100%.

The units of a division with less than 30% supply rate, will suffer a
one step reduction in mmorale per game turn.  The units of a division
with abysmal supply rate will progressively lose effective strength.


CURRENT ORDERS (C)

Select G or A to access respective armies, then the code letter of the
army required.

For the Player's units, the current movement order of each unit will be
displayed by a series of arrows.  Should the arrows extend off screen,
scroll the map to the required position, and press a key other than the
X key, or click the right mouse button.

The arrows are not printed if movement extends through another units.
The short arrow denotes the objective position of a unit.

For Computer-Opponent units, the arrows represent the previous turn's
incomplete movement.  They indicate what the opponent was trying to do
on the previous turn.  The computer opponent may or may not continue
along similar lines.


ROAD MOVE (R)

Select R to access this section.  Select the appropriate division, then
select R to move the division towards the right hand map edge or L to
move towards the left.

To allow the road move, the following conditions must be met:

     The division HQ is within 4 units of the road
     No enemy HQ is within 10 unit positions of the friendly HQ
     All units of the division are within command radius of the HQ

You will not be allowed to access a division in this section if any of
these conditions are not met.


MOVEMENT

Each player unit is allocated a number of movement points each game
turn, dependant upon its type (see unit chart).  These points are used
up according to terrain crossed, according to the rates shown on the
terrain chart.

Each unit exerts a degree of control over adjacent positions; as a
result, no unit next to an enemy unit may move directly to a position
that is also adjacent to an enemy unit.


COMBAT

After each unit's movement, the units of that army are considered
attacking units during combat and the opposing units as the defenders.
Combat occurs between adjacent enemy units, including diagonal
adjacency.

Combat terrain adjustments are applied as shown on the terrain charts.
Units with a Defend order will not attack and, when themselves attacked,
will defend with a 15% bonus added to their effectiveness.  Units will
attack only at the discretion of their respective division commanders.

Units receive a combat bonus according to their type - see unit chart.
The supply status of a division adds a combat bonus to each unit up to
25% of the unit's current strength; the lower the supply status, the
lower the combat bonus.

In a single combat phase, each unit will have its effectiveness reduced
by one quarter of its current strength in its second and subsequent
combat in that combat phase.

Combat losses are shown as a percentage loss to their effectiveness
within each unit's symbol as combat occurs.


ADVANCE AND RETREAT DURING COMBAT

Defending units may retreat, and attacking units advance, depending upon
the results of combat.  A retreating unit will move in a direction
determined by the relative positions of the two units.  An advancing
unit will move towards the position set by its current movement order.
An attacking unit advancing after combat will still resolve combat with
all enemy units it was adjacent to before the advance took place.


DISBANDMENT

At the end of each game turn, each unit is subject to a disorganised
test.  Passing the test is based on the unit's strength, but more
significantly on the unit's morale.  A unit failing this test will
disband and be sent, via strategic movement, to strategic reserve if its
army has a supply rate of more than 25%.  If the unit's supply rate is
less than this, the unit will be lost.

An army containing just one unit will automatically disband at the end
of each game turn.


ARMY HEADQUARTERS

The player's HQ are for purposes of access and control.  The computer's
HQs provides the player with limited intelligence regarding the position
of the computer's forces.  It must be stressed that an HQ is not a
physical unit - units may move freely through the HQ, with no effect.


COMMAND RADIUS

A unit more than five unit positions from its HQ at the start of a
movement phase will move towards its HQ.  It is effectively out of
command.  The position of an HQ is the centre of each divisional
calculated on the average line and column number of all units in each
division.


LIMITED INTELLIGENCE

Computer units whose exact positions are known are displayed on the
screen.  Units whose positions but not type are known are displayed by
an HQ symbol.  Divisions whose general whereabouts are known have their
HQ displayed.


MORALE

The morale level of a unit adds to the overall effectiveness of each
unit as follows:

     Excellent -          +30%
     Very Good -          +25%
     Good -               +20%
     Fair -               +15%
     Low -                +10%
     Poor -               +5%
     Abysmal -            Nil

Any unit suffering 15% or 20% loss in a single combat will have its
morale reduced by one step.


VICTORY CONDITIONS

The game ends when either army is reduced to less than 30%
effectiveness, or when the Axis army reaches the right hand edge of the
map, or the Allied army reaches the left hand map edge.

At this stage, select Y to continue the game, or reset the computer to
play again.


End.
===================================================================================
   A F R I K A   K O R P S  -  H I S T O R I C A L   B A C K G R O U N D

CHAPTER 1.

HISTORICAL BACKGROUND AND DESIGNER'S NOTES

This document has been written to provide some background of the
simulation.  We aim to provide a brief summary of how the desert war was
actually progressed, and to give some information about the two most
successful generals involved - Rommel and Montgomery.

Although this cannot claim to be anything than a small overview, we hope
it will add to your understanding of the conditions during which the
real battles were fought, to your general knowledge, and thereby to your
enjoyment of this product.

The designer's notes are provided as hints towards playing the game,
more specifically regarding tactics for your armies.


DESIGNER'S NOTES

The first point that you should bear in mind is that this game is
historical simulation, not historical duplication.  The intent is to
present you with the type of problems that existed historically, but
without the advantage of hindsight.  To this end, no specific events -
such as the defence of Tobruk - have been programmed into the
simulation.  To do so would create predictability on the part of the
computer, and would restrict the strategic options available to the
player.

Historically, Rommel took immediate advantage of any opportunity that
came his way, stopping only when he was physically stopped.  Montgomery,
on the other hand, waited until he had sufficient force to fight a major
set piece battle.  Winning this battle effectively won the whole
campaign.  This game has been designed to enable the player to indulge
in any kind of strategy.

Divisions, once lost, cannot be re-created.  This restriction is
designed to impose a degree of caution on the player and to penalise the
profligate.  Don't be too worried by the complete loss of a few
divisions, as reinforcements of any unit type can be assigned to any
division of the same nationality.  If commanding the Axis forces
however, remember the limited number of German divisions.

The desert campaign was dictated by supply.  As the supply lines became
extended, an army's effectiveness declined.  It was this effect that
produced the see-saw nature of the campaign.  In the game, this effect
is simulated by the time reinforcements take to reach a division,
dependant on the distance to the relevant map edge.  If possible, assign
more than six units to some division to form an immediate tactical
reserve.  This allows a division to engage in combat for longer periods
without pause.

The battle is not made artificially difficult by weighting it
overwhelmingly in the computer's favour.  Gradually, reinforcements
become available to you, using these effectively is one of the most
important of your functions as Commander-in-Chief.

At the beginning of each movement phase, the commander reports his
intentions (unless nothing has changed since last time).  This constant
feedback gives you a feel for the overall situation and alerts
immediately if his division is incapable of fulfilling his objective.

The main map is very large (comprising 36 screens in all).  This allows
you scope for considerable mobility and manoeuvre.  As a result: the
variety of your options is increased; you can easily avoid a continuous,
immobile front line, which would make things easy for the computer
opponent; you can test the computer opponent's effectiveness by trying
to out-manoeuvre it.  The smaller strategic sketch-map is provided to
give a quick overview of divisional positions.


HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

By February 1941 the British position in Cyrenaica was becoming more and
more precarious.  On the 6th February, Erwin Rommel was appointed to
command a German Afrika Korps - to support the weakening Italian army of
which the Axis force in North Africa had previously consisted.

By late February, clashes between German reconaissance units and
outposts of the British 2nd armoured division convinced Rommel that an
immediate attack was possible.

The almost bloodless capture of El Agheila on March 24th was followed by
a break through of the British position at Mersa Breg. thereafter
British resistance began to collapse and the Afrika Korps indulged in a
rapid advance through Cyrenaica, all the way to the Egyptian border.
Rommel did, however, fail to take Tobruk, and this garrisoned fortress
prevented any immediate advances on the Suez canal.

During May to Jume, the Western Desert Force (later designated the 8th
Army) stabilised the front along the Egyptian border, though attempts to
recover Cyrenaica and to relieve Tobruk failed.

By November 1941, the British desert army had reinforced to become the
strongest force yet assembled in the western desert.  After weeks of
bitter fighting the 8th army forced the Afrika Korps to retreat.  By
January 1942, Rommel once again found himself at El Agheila.

Due to extended supply lines the British advance petered out and, within
two weeks, Rommel was once again on the offensive.  The pattern of the
year before was repeated, but on this occasion the impetus of the Afrika
Korp's advance was checked at Gazala.  The front line stabilised once
more as both sides reinforced and replenished their forces.

The lull in the desert was lasted until June, by which time Rommel was
anxious to continue his recovery of Cyrenaica, and Churchill was urging
his commanders to resume their offensive.

Rommel struck first, but almost immediately ran into trouble.  An
outflanking manoeuvre left the German armour out of supply and trapped
between the front line and the British armour in reserve.  The British
commanders were however too slow to react to this opportunity, and after
bitter fighting the Afrika Korps secured its supply lines.  The fall of
Tobruk followed, and the road to Suez now seemed open - the 8th Army was
pushed all the way back to El Alamein.

The first battle at El Alamein was a classic battle of manoeuvre, in
which the 8th Army, now under the command of Auchinleck, fought hard and
brought the Afrika Korps to a standstill.  After strenuous efforts to
break through, Rommel finally had to concede defeat, and both sides
began digging in along the El Alamein line.

Auchinleck's reward was to be replaced by Alexander - with Montgomery
given field command of the 8th Army.

From July to October, both armies received reinforcements, the 8th Army
receiving considerably more than the Afrika Korps.  During this time,
Rommel made one last concerted bid to break through to the Nile valley -
but was stopped at Alam Halfa.  It was to be his last offensive.

By late Octobre 1942, Montgomery was satisfied that he had the necessary
resources not only to defeat the Afrika Korps on the El Alamein line,
but also to push Rommel right out of North Africa altogether.

The second battle of El Alamein, unlike the first, was a set piece
battle in which the 8th Army gradually ground down the Afrika Korps
until, short of both fuel and equipment, Rommel had no option but to
retreat.

On this occasion there was no stopping them.  Rommel was forced to
retreat all the way back to Tunisia - the was in the western desert was
over.


MONTGOMERY

Monty, as General (later to become Field Marshall) Montgomery became
affectionately known, is very closely associated with the desert
campaign in World War Two - and rightly so, since it was under his
leadership that the Eight Army first repulsed and then defeated Rommel's
Afrika Korps.

Monty's war experience began on the Western Front in World War 1, and
extended afterwards to the troubles in Ireland in 1921-2.  Between then
and the Second World War, Monty concentrated on army training, and
married and raised a family.  He was given command of the 3rd Division
(the 'Iron' division) forming part of the BEF which was sent to France
at the start of the war.

The speed and nature of the defeat of this BEF at the hand of the
superior German forces, which led to the ramshackle evacuation from
Dunkirk, made a huge impact on Monty, and arguably were the cause of his
subsequent rise in the British Army.

He became incensed with retribution for Dunkirk, and developed into a
hard and ruthless commander who would accept no less than the best from
officers and men alike.

During the period of fighting before Dunkirk, Monty realised that the
British army was no match for the Germans at that time - due to
inexcusable failings: lack of faith, poor discipline, worse
communications, and bad generals.  In the months and years which
followed, Monty therefore concentrated enormously in training the army
in these aspects, desperately trying to create the same slick, well-
oiled war machine which would be needed to defeat the Axis forces.  He
succeeded early on - making the 3rd Division in 1940 arguably the most
efficient, best-trained unit in the British Army.

Monty's reputation for command spread rapidly, so that, on 7th August
1942, he received a telephone call from the War Office, explaining that
he was to replace General Alexander as commander of the Northern Task
Force - which was to launch a massive invasion of North Africa, landing
on the Mediterranean coast.  But before this happened, Monty's orders
were changed - and instead he was given command of the Eighth Army,
where he set about rapidly exerting his influence and control:

      'One point was firmly fixed in my mind - desert warfare was not
      suited to remote control.  I decided to give a clear lead and to
      take a firm grip on the English Army from above'
              (cf. A History of Warfare by Montgomery)

Monty installed renewed confidence in the Allied forces, aided
considerably by his high profile and distinct style - wearing a beret
instead of a general's cap.  Together with new supplies and weaponry,
Monty and the Eighth Army first halted the Axis advance and then
reversed it, holding Alamein, and then pushing the Afrika Korps right
out of Africa.

Monty, now triumphant, famous and with an enviable reputation, returned
to command the English components of Operation Overlord, the Normandy
Landings.


ROMMEL

Lieutenant-General Erwin Rommel was the officer appointed by Hitler to
support Mussolini's forces and provide a stable desert front.  He
rapidly acquired the reputation of first-class general, and became known
as the Desert Fox.

Despite being unpopular with certain of the upper echelons of the German
Army (As Monty with the British Army) Rommel commanded Hitler's own
bodyguard at one stage, and was held in high regard by the Axis leader.
Prior to his desert appointment, Rommel had commanded a Panzer Division
on the Western Front.  He arrived in Tripoli to take command of the
Afrika Korps on 12th February 1941.

Rommel made extensive use of the advantages offered by Panzers and other
mechanized transport, and advanced far, fast.  This ultimately proved
his undoing in the western desert, as his lines of supplies became too
weak, enabling the Allied counter-attack to be decisive.

Rommel subsequently returned to Germany, where he took part in a planned
assassination attempt on Hitler.  Once this had failed and the plotters
revealed, Rommel committed suicide - a tragic end to a brilliant
general.


UNIT CHART

           Armour   Mechanized   Motorized   Artillary   Infantry
                    Infantry     Infantry

MOVEMENT
POINTS PER  16        16            14          12          9
GAME TURN

COMBAT
BONUS       45%       15%          ---          30%        ---


End.

