                          Airborne Ranger                

CONTENTS

1 Introduction
2 How to Play Without Reading the Manual

PART 1: COMBAT BEHIND ENEMY LINES
3 Ranger Assignment
4 Mission Selection
4 Fatigue Test -Campaign Ribbon Recognition

AIRDROP TO THE MISSION ZONE
6 Osprey Control
6 Supply Pods
6 Jump Into Danger

COMBAT SCREEN
6 Combat Indicators

RANGER MOVEMENT
8 Direction
8 Changing Movement Speeds
8 Walking
8 Running
9 Crawling

WEAPON USE
10 Aiming
10 Carbine
10 Hand Grenade
11 LAW Rocket
11 Knife
11 Time Bomb

WOUNDS AND FIRST AID
11 Wounds                    
12 First Aid

MAP VIEW
12 Using the Map
13 Map Symbols
14 Map View Indicators

COMPLETING THE MISSION
14 Mission Goals
14 Countdown
15 Recall
15 Capture

MISSION BRIEFINGS
15 Destroy a Munitions Depot
16 Steal a Code Book
17 Disable Enemy Aircraft
18 Capture an Enemy Officer
18 Cut a Pipeline
19 Knock Out Enemy Radar Array
19 Disable a SAM Site
20 liberate a P.O.W. Camp
21 Photograph a Secret Experimental Aircraft
22 Free the Hostages
22 Create a Diversion
23 Delayed Sabotage

AFTER THE MISSION
24 Promotions
24 Commendations and Medals

PART II: AIRBORNE RANGERS
25 Standing Orders, Rogers Rangers, 1759
26 History of the Rangers
32 Ranger Training
36 Weapons and Equipment
38 Designers Notes


Introduction: "Rangers, Lead the Way!!"

THE ELITE UNIT has always captured the imagination of both soldier and
civilian. Units such as the rangers are the point men of the armed forces,
the cutting edge, and they fascinate us to an extent out of proportion to
their numbers. We envy them, their sharp, distinctive appearance, their
high status, their espirit de corps, and most of all their awesome skill in
their chosen profession. They have an aura of competence that is at once
reassuring and intimidating, as if they will admit no limits to what they
can achieve. This unshakable confidence would seem preposterous if it had
not been borne out of time and again by events on and off the battlefield.
They're really as good as they think they are.

Throughout history, when the need was there for a special unit to preform
extremely difficult and hazardous missions, the United States has called on
its soldiers to form a unit of Rangers. And every time  volunteers have
stepped forward - from throughout the army, the toughest, the smartest and
the most dedicated come forth to join the Rangers. They know that a soldier
qualified to wear the small embroidered tab that says "RANGER" is a soldier
who has proven himself in one of the most rugged and rigorous training
courses in the world. They've suffered the worst that man and nature can
throw at them and come out hardened, tempered. They are the best of the
best.

And they better be, for they are often called upon to do the seeming
impossible. Need an impregnable shore fortification taken out in advance of
a landing? Need supply lines cut behind enemy lines? A lightning strike to
liberate a prison camp? A low altitude combat drop on an enemy airfield?
Call the rangers. They will do the job, if it can be done.

Airborne Ranger gives you a taste of what its like to be an elite soldier
on a hazardous mission. Behind enemy lines, cut off from friends and
allies, you have nothing to depend on but stealth, quick wits, combat skill
and guts. You're surrounded, outnumbered and outgunned, your enemies are
dangerous and dedicated, but others are counting on you to complete your
mission. You have surprise on your side, and a creed that won't admit to
failure. Ranger, lead the way!!

				1

HOW TO PLAY WITHOUT READING THE MANUAL

This "quick start" is for players who prefer to learn by experimentation. 
To fully understand the game, you'll want to read the appropriate sections
of this manual, but to get started in a hurry, just follow these
instructions.

*  Loading: See Loading section of the Technical Supplement.

*  Ranger Assignment Screen: Press your controller button to select Assign
   a Practice Range.

*  Mission Selection Screen: Press the button to select MISSION 1: DESTROY
   A MUNITIONS DEPOT.  Next is the Difficulty Level bar, which is already
   set on the easiest level.  Press the controller button again to CONTINUE.

*  Campaign Ribbon Recognition: The next screen to appear will ask you to
   identify a campaign ribbon.  You will notice that there are ribbons with
   identifying names at the bottom of many pages in this manual.  Find the
   name in the manual that matches the name on the screen, then use the
   controller to move the pointer to the matching ribbon.  Press the
   controller button to select.

*  Mission Orders: Read your orders, be sure you understand them, then
   press the button to CONTINUE.

*  Airdrop: The map screen will appear, scrolling toward the top of the
   screen, with your aircraft in the center.  Use your controller to steer
   the aircraft left or right; press the button to drop your supply pods.
   When the Jump Light turns green, press the button again to make the
   Ranger jump.  Use the controller to steer him to a safe (clear) landing
   zone.

*  Combat Screens: Use the controller to move the Ranger; press the button
   to use his current weapon.  Look at the keyboard overlay to see which
   keys enable you to change weapons or movement modes.  Press the MAP key
   to check your location (and pause the game).  When you've accomplished
   this mission, press the PICKUP key to recall your aircraft.  Good luck,
   and keep your head down!

				2

PART I: BEHIND ENEMY LINES

Ranger Assignment

After loading the game, the title screen appears. You can let it run
through its entire animation and sound sequence, or you can leave the title
screen by pressing the controller button. After the title screen, you
report to the personnel office for Ranger assignment. This sequence of
options lets you select a ranger for the upcoming mission. The initial
choices are:
           
           * ASSIGN A PRACTICE RANGER
           * ASSIGN A VETERAN RANGER
           * FORMAT A NEW ROSTER DISKETTE 

The first choice is always highlighted. To highlight a different choice,
use your controller to move the cursor up and down until the choice is
highlighted. Select it by pressing your controller button.

*  Assign a Practice Ranger: Warning: A practice Ranger will not be
recorded on the Veteran Roster after the game. This choice selects an
average Ranger from the ranks and assigns him to the mission. Use this
option for practice games or when you want to get into the mission without
delay.

*  Assign a Veteran Ranger: This choice lets you assign a veteran Ranger
from the Veteran Ranger Roster to the mission. Insert your Ranger Disk so
you can review the veterans and select the one most qualified for the job.
When you select a Ranger, you will be asked to ASSIGN or RETIRE him. Select
ASSIGN to use that Ranger on the mission. Select RETIRE to replace that
veteran with a new ranger. 

Warning: A retired ranger is gone from the roster for good! You can use
this option to assign a "new" Ranger. You will be asked to give him a name;
just follow the instructions on the screen and he'll soon be all set up on
the Roster Diskette.

				3

*  Format a New Roster Diskette: If you have not created a Roster Diskette
for the storage of Rangers on a Veteran Roster, or your previous Roster
Diskette is full and you wish to create another, select this choice and
follow the instructions that appear on the screen. Be sure to have a blank
disk handy so it can be inserted for formatting when the personnel officer
asks for it.

Mission Selection

There are always more missions that need to be done then there are Rangers
to do them. Choose the mission you wish by highlighting it and selecting it
with your controller.

*  Campaigns: Experienced commanders may want to select "Campaign." A
ranger assigned to a campaign will be expected to perform all of these
missions, in an order determined by his superiors. A Ranger on campaign
will not be able to select a specific mission until the campaign is
through. By selecting "Campaign" you show a commitment to a career in the
Rangers, and will be eligible for promotions and awards that are not
available to those who prefer to select their missions.

*  Difficulty Level: After mission selection you will be asked to choose
the difficulty level of the mission (or campaign). The higher the
difficulty level, the more dangerous (realistic) the mission, but the
Ranger will have more opportunity to score more merit points. Use the
controller to move the slider left or right on the difficulty bar (left =
easy; right = difficult). Press controller button to select.

Fatigue Test - Campaign Ribbon Recognition

To test your alertness, the next screen asks you to identify a campaign
ribbon from one of the six showing. (A Ranger too fatigues to tell one
campaign ribbon from another will not be assigned a mission).  There are
ribbons with identifying names at the bottom of pages in this manual.  They
are shown in alphabetical order.  Find the name in the manual that matches
the name on the screen, then use the controller to move the pointer to the
matching ribbon.  Press the controller button to select.  Alternatively,
enter the number corresponding to the correct ribbon.

				4

Airdrop to the Mission Zone

The mission begins. While enemy attention is diverted elsewhere a V-22
Osprey aircraft flies your Ranger to the mission zone, hugging the ground
and dodging enemy radar. The Osprey will pass over the goal area for a
quick reconnaissance, then continue south to the Drop Zone where you can
jump into relative safety. Take note of the terrain you're passing over -
you'll have to find the best way across this territory to get to your goal.

				5

*  Osprey Control: The Osprey flies south at a steady speed, but at your
request it can deviate course east or west to some extent (so you can drop
Supply Pods where you want, and jump at a favorable location). To move the
Osprey east or west, move your controller left or right.

*  Supply Pods: You have been issued three Supply Pods, each containing
extra arms, ammo, and first aid. These may be dropped after the Osprey
enters mission zone airspace. To drop, press the controller button anytime
before the jump light turns green. Each time the button is pressed a Supply
Pod is kicked out of the door of the Osprey; the pods parachute opens and
it falls straight down. It is recommended that supply pods be dropped over
open territory, as they may be damaged and lost if they land in a ditch or
on a boulder. A Ranger can't carry three Supply Pods worth of arms and
ammo, so it's probably a good idea to drop them at intervals so they can be
picked up later as needed.

*  Jump into Danger: When the Jump light turns green, you can jump into the
mission zone. To jump press the controller button. A light-colored
rectangle representing your parafoil (a controllable parachute) appears on
the map view. A dark shadow appears beneath it, indicating your altitude.
Use the controller to steer the parafoil. Try to land in an open area, away
from the enemy defenses such as bunkers and machine gun nests. If you land
in a trench or some obstacle like barbed wire, you could be wounded. If you
land in a minefield, or in the badlands south of the drop zone, the mission
could end before it starts.

Combat Screen

Most of the action takes place on the Combat Screen, which shows you, the
Ranger, in the center, 

				6

surrounded by your immediate environment. In the upper left hand corner of
the screen are the combat indicators.

Combat Indicators

The combat indicators give a quick-reference summary of your current
condition. The combat indicators include the weapon silhouette, ammo
indicator, countdown clock, fatigue bar, and wound indicator.

Weapon Silhouette: This shows the weapon currently being used. (See weapon
Use for details).

Ammo Indicator: This shows how much ammunition the Ranger has 

				7

for the current weapon. (See Weapon Use for details).

Countdown Clock: This shows, in seconds, how much time the Ranger has to
complete the mission. (See Completing the Mission for details).

Fatigue Bar: This shows the Rangers relative tiredness, which affects his
ability to run. (See Ranger Movement for details).

Wound Indicator: This shows how many untreated wounds the Ranger has. (See
Wounds and First-Aid for Details).

Ranger Movement

*  Direction: The direction of Ranger facing and movement is determined
using the controller. Simply move the controller in the direction you want
to go. You'll rotate until facing that direction, then move.

*  Changing Movement Speeds: You start the ground mission walking. To
change to running, press the RUN/WALK key; to switch back to walking, press
it again (it's a toggle). In like manner, pressing the CRAWL/UPRIGHT key
enables you to toggle between walking (or running) and crawling. Press
CRAWL/UPRIGHT to go prone; press again to stand up.

*  Walking: Walking moves you at a reasonable rate of speed, but its
difficult to stay out of sight while walking (your head sticks up above
bushes, hedges, and the edges of trenches).  Its main advantage is that
while walking you regain energy lost.

*  Running: Running moves you at the fastest speed, but tires you rather
quickly. Its best to be used for short dashes across dangerous open
terrain. Note the two "bar" indicators at the top left of the screen. The
leftmost bar grows from the bottom as you become more tired. When the bar
reaches the top you drop back into "walking" mode until rested
sufficiently (bar decreased) to try running again. How fast you tire
depends on your health (number of wounds) and how much gear you're
carrying. A wounded Ranger carrying two Supply Pods can't run far at all.

				8

*  Crawling: Crawling is slowest, but in dangerous areas it's definitely the
safest mode of travel. When crawling, you can hide behind boulders, bushes,
hedges, walls, and other low objects. Furthermore, when crawling in a
depression such as a trench or ditch, enemies cant see you unless they are
also in the depression. When crawling through water you are completely
hidden, but if you stay down too long, you start drowning (taking wounds). 

Weapon Use

An Airborne Ranger has a variety of weapons at his disposal. To see which
weapon you are currently armed with, look at the Combat Indicator at the
top left corner of the screen and note what silhouette appears there. The
Ranger always starts the mission armed with the Carbine. Beneath the
weapons silhouette is a digital ammo indicator showing how many rounds are
available for that weapon. To change weapons, just press the appropriate
key for the weapon you want. The silhouette will change when the weapons
are switched.

When you first land, you are armed with an automatic carbine (with four
magazines), three hand grenades, a LAW rocket, and a time bomb. Further
weapons and ammo must be collected from Supply Pods or (on some missions)
enemy sources.

				9

*  Aiming: No matter which way you face, are Target crosshair appears in
front you. This target crosshair indicates which way the Rangers fire would
go if he were to shoot. To aim, line the target cross with a potential
target and fire. You can face in only 8 directions for movement purposes,
but you can shoot in many more - 32 directions, in fact. To control this
fine aiming ability, you'll have to master rotating just slightly so as to
make the target cross-hair move only one or two positions. Practice tapping
the controller left or right, rotating the target cross-hair just a few
positions, until you get a feel for how to aim using your particular
controller.

*  Carbine: This short automatic rifle fires when the controller button is
pressed. The carbine is effective only against unarmored enemy troops. The
ammo indicator shows how many magazines you have for the carbine. Each
magazine contains 30 rounds; a thrifty Ranger can make his carbine ammo go
a long way. You always automatically return to carbine after using a hand
grenade, LAW rocket or time bomb.

*  Hand Grenade: To throw a hand grenade, press the controller button, then
release it.  The grenade is thrown when the button is released.  The longer
the button is held before release, the farther the grenade is thrown.  Hand
grenades are effective 

				10

against nearly all enemy troops, machine gun nests, wooden doors and other
lightly-armored objects.  The ammo indicator shows how many individual hand
grenades you have.  After throwing a hand grenade you automatically return
to carbine.

*  LAW Rockets: A Light Antitank Weapon rocket is launched when the
controller button is pressed.  LAW Rockets are effective against nearly all
enemy troops and defenses.  The ammo indicator shows how many individual
rockets you have.  After using a LAW Rocket you automatically return to
carbine.

*  Knife: When the controller button is pressed, you stab in the direction
you are facing. The knife is effective only against enemy troops who are
right next to the Ranger. Its advantage is its silent attack (which
attracts no attention) and the fact that it never runs out of ammunition.

*  Time Bombs: These are charges of plastic explosive with variable time
detonator. There are three different Time Bomb keys for weapons selection,
each with a different length of time to detonation: 5, 10, or 15 seconds.
When you select a Time Bomb you also select the length of time its
detonator is set for. After setting a time bomb you automatically return to
carbine. 

To select Time Bomb, press one the Time Bomb keys. Press the controller
button to place the bomb. When you release the button the countdown to
detonation begins. Its a very good idea to get away from a ticking time
bomb. If you can't get away, get behind cover. Time bombs are effective
against all enemy troops and defenses. They are also excellent for causing
diversions, as you can set a time bomb with a long fuse, move well away,
and watch all the enemy troops scurry towards the crater after it goes off.
The ammo indicator shows how many individual time bombs the Ranger has.

Wounds and First Aid

*  Wounds: In the Combat Indicators, the rightmost bar shows how many
wounds you have suffered. Each time you are wounded one part of the three-

				11

segment bar lights up. Thanks to your superb new lightweight body armor,
most small caliber bullets fail to penetrate, and only succeed in knocking
you down. But you can't stand up in front of a hail of fire and expect to
escape unscathed - occasionally you'll get hit in an unprotected spot, or
suffer a light wound even through the armor. With one or two wounds, you
keep moving; with three wounds, you die (and the mission ends). Some
weapons such as the land mines, flame throwers, or anti-tank rockets, can
inflict multiple wounds on a ranger, maybe even kill him instantly.

*  First Aid: To treat a wound, press the first aid key on the keyboard,
you are issued one first-aid kit, with which you can treat a wound and keep
going long enough to complete the mission. Each supply pod contains another
first-aid kit. Use of a first-aid kit removes one wound and exhausts that
first-aid kit. 

Map View

*  Using the Map: You have been provided with a detailed map of the mission
zone. To look at this map, press the map key. (This also pauses the game).
To return to the mission press the map key again or press the controller
button. 

The Ranger's position appears near the center of the map. The map shows the
approximate area within the range of the Rangers vision. To see more, use
the controller to scroll the map up and down.

				12

Desert Map Symbols

Temperate Map Symbols

Arctic Map Symbols

				13

*  Map View Indicators: These indicators are provided so you can see at a
glance the condition of the Rangers supplies. Shown is the total amount of
the ammunition the Rangers carrying. First Aid kits, wounds sustained, and
a backup countdown clock are also shown.

Completing the Mission

*  Mission Goals: Each mission has different goals, explained in the
MISSION BRIEFINGS section.  On some missions it pays to be stealthy,
sneaking past enemy positions and hiding until patrols pass by.  On others
it's best to do as much damage as possible, regardless of how much
attention you attract.  Every mission has a specified Pickup Point, shown
on the Map.  All missions end when you are picked up by the Osprey, killed
or captured.

*  Countdown: These rapid insertion and retrieval missions are timed very
tightly.  You have only a certain specified amount of time in which to
complete a mission.  The time starts counting down the moment the

				14

Ranger lands, as shown on the Countdown Clock in the indicators.  It not
summoned earlier, the Osprey will show up at the Pickup Point when the
countdown reaches zero.  Don't get left behind!

*  Recall: To call the Osprey to pick you up, press the RECALL key.  After
a short delay, the Osprey will return to the mission zone and hover over
the Pickup Point, unrolling a rope ladder so you can climb on.  The Pickup
Point is either at the mission goal or near the mission goal; either way,
it is marked on the map by an "X".  The Osprey comes ONLY to this Pickup
Point to retrieve you.  

The Osprey can only stay above the Pickup Point for a limited time.  If you
don't make it to the Pickup Point before the Osprey leaves, you face death
or capture.

*  Capture: If you miss your pickup and then run out of ammunition, you may
be captured.  The mission is over, but you may not be lost forever.  If not
killed, you will be taken to an enemy P.O.W. Camp. See the liberate a
P.O.W. camp mission for an explanation of how a captured Ranger can be
freed and returned to active duty.

Mission Briefings

Twelve general types of missions are available for assignment.  Four of
these are set in desert terrain, four in a temperate zone (like Central
Europe) and four in an arctic environment.  In the desert, the heat rapidly
tires you out, so the distance you can run before becoming fatigued is
decreased.  In the arctic wastes, sound is absorbed by the snow and the
constant winds; it's hard to hear footsteps and gunfire.

*  Destroy a Munitions Depot: Analysis of high-altitude photography of the
enemy-held desert zone has identified the location of a key munitions depot
which is supplying fuel and ordnance to the enemy.  Your mission is to
penetrate the defenses around this munitions depot and destroy as much of
it as possible, thus disrupting the enemy's line of supply.  

				15

The enemy depot consists of an ammunition shack, a bunker-like explosives
magazine, and a fuel dump.  All three should be destroyed, if possible. 
Intelligence suggests that the enemy is storing ammunition compatible with
your weapons, so it may be possible to raid the ammo stores before
destroying them.  

You are advised to use your own initiative when deciding on a high- or
low-profile approach.  However, extra merit points will be awarded for the
number of enemies eliminated, so Command's advice is to let 'em have it.

Tactical Tip: Keep an eye on the countdown clock!  It pays to be stealthy,
but if you spend too much time sneaking around you'll miss your pickup. 
Try to move quickly through unfortified areas.

*  Steal a Code Book: Your mission is to infiltrate an enemy headquarters
area in the temperate zone, find the communications post, and steal a pouch
containing secret radio codes.  The enemy HQ is somewhere within the walls
of a ruined village.  To find the communications post, look for the
distinctive radio aerial.  Move next to the radio to pick up the pouch. 

Be advised the area is currently occupied by an elite unit of enemy troops
who are expecting trouble. Extra merit 

				16

points will be awarded for number of enemies eliminated, but the primary
target is that code book.

Tactical Tip: Don't drop all your supply pods in one place. If you drop
them all near the goal zone, you'll have a long way to go before reloading;
if you drop them all near your drop zone, you'll find that all that ammo is
too much to carry. Spread them out, dropping them along your probable route
throughout the combat zone. Its useful to drop them between ditches, where
you can make a short dash between concealment, pick up the ammo and get
back to cover. Don't drop them near the enemy fortification!

*  Disable Enemy Aircraft: Your Ranger unit is going to attempt to force a
mountain pass at 0900; to have a chance at success their going to need air
superiority. Your mission is to disable the aircraft that would most
likely be called to support the enemy defence. You'll be dropped near the
crude arctic runway where the planes are stationed. You must penetrate the
runway defenses and damage or destroy every enemy plane you find there.

CAUTION: If the enemy sees you coming and becomes alarmed, they may
scramble the fighter(s) for safety, and the runway will be empty when you
arrive. Try to avoid eliminating enemy troops and installations before your
arrival at the runway area. (If absolutely necessary, use your knife). If
they think they're under attack by a dangerous enemy, those jets will be
gone. Additional merit points will be awarded on the basis of number of
enemies eliminated, but if you don't destroy the aircraft your mission will
be a failure.

Tactical Tips: Stick to the ravines as much as possible, crawling to
maintain minimum visibility. Use the map to plot a course, using the
ravines as "safe" routes past enemy positions. Be patient - wait for
patrolling soldiers to pass before moving.

				17

*  Capture an Enemy Officer: Army intelligence has reason to believe that a
certain enemy elite unit has been tapped for a special assignment. It is
urgent that Intelligence find out what that assignment is. Your Mission is
to infiltrate the desert headquarters of the enemy unit and capture an
officer for interrogation. 

You are advised to search through the tents of the enemy HQ area for a
target. To identify an enemy officer, look for a soldier with a different
colored uniform from other enemy troops. If you can get next to an enemy
officer and threaten him with a weapon, he will probably surrender quietly.

After accomplishing your goal, recall the Osprey for pick up. You may have
to defend yourself and prisoner while waiting for the plane to arrive -
make sure your prisoner isn't hurt! A wounded prisoner may not be able to
stand interrogation, and thus is worth fewer merit points. Further merit
point will be awarded for the number of enemies eliminated. NOTE: The
pickup point marker that appears on the make is for emergency pick ups
only. Once captured the pickup pint moves to the capture location.

Tactical Tip: Once you've captured an officer, don't leave him alone - he
may make a break for it.

*  Cut a Pipeline: Army Intelligence has become aware of a possible
weakness in the enemy's supply line. They have identified a location where
a vital gas pipeline emerges from the ground in the temperate zone at a
pumping station. Your mission is to penetrate the guards around this
pumping station and damage or destroy it. 

The pumping station is known to be heavily armoured - only a time bomb can
destroy it. Further 

				18

reports indicate that its defended by the enemy's new automated mini-tanks.
Good Luck.

Tactical tip: Save LAW rockets for use on minitanks. Learn to trick of
firing from a ditch at a tank or bunker: aim, pop up, fire and duck.

*  Knock Out Enemy Radar Array: Stealth jet overflights have finally
located the enemy early-warning radar array that has been giving the Air
Force so much trouble. The radar antennas are guarded by elite troops, but
one Ranger might be able to take them by surprise, slip in and knock them
out before a proper defence can be organized. 

The radar array is bounded on the south by a partially-frozen river.
Intelligence suggests that the enemy would not expect anyone to be foolish
enough to attack from that direction, so naturally that's where you'll be
dropped. Once you cross the river, disable as many radar antennas as you
are able.

Tactical Tip: Try dropping all supply pods in the top third of the combat
zone. Then, lightly armed, run as far as possible before going to cover,
dodging fortifications and leaving surprised patrols behind. This may get
you to the goal with relatively little combat.

*  Disable a SAM Site: Command has planned an air strike on a critical
enemy installation deep in the desert, but the target is ringed  by
surface-to-air Missile sites. These must be taken out. The SAMs are
portable and can be replaced, so they must be eliminated just before the
air strike. You will be dropped near one of these sites just ahead of
H-Hour with orders to sneak in and disable it, then get out - if possible.

The actual site consists of at least one, and possible many as four, SAM
launchers. (The number depends upon the 

				19

difficulty of the mission.) The primary mission is to destroy all the SAM
launchers. 

It is important that the enemy have little or no advance warning of the
attack on its SAM sites. If you give away the assault too soon,
reinforcements may be called called and the missions of all the other
Rangers in the area may be compromised. Therefore your orders are to avoid
eliminating any enemies (except with knife) until you arrive in the
mission goal zone ( the area around the SAM launchers) They may see you,
but if you refrain from shooting they wont go on full alert. Avoiding enemy
contact will result in large merit point bonus. Premature enemy contact
may result in a merit point penalty. 

Additional merit points will be awarded on the basis of number of enemies
eliminated, but these will never be sufficient to offset the penalty of
premature contact. Keep your head down and finger off the trigger! 

Warning: Intelligence reports indicate that the SAM launchers may be
guarded by new automated mini-bunkers that shoot at any movement their
motion detectors sense.

Tactical Tip: When approaching the automated mini-bunkers, listen for the
distinctive whine of the motion detector. You may be able to tell when a
motion detector is active or inactive even before it appears on the combat
screen. The motion detectors can't tell friend from foe so don't come
between a mini-bunker and a moving enemy soldier or you may get shot by
accident!

*  Liberate a P.O.W. Camp: A pre-planned diversion has drawn most of the
defenses away from a small enemy Prisoner of War camp; one Ranger might be
able to get through and liberate the prisoners. This is your mission. 

The prisoners are being held in "tiger pits," cells set into the ground
with barred steel doors 

				20

across the top. The controls to open these door are located in to small
concrete pyramid set between the tiger pits. To open the pits, you must
blow up the pyramid (exposing the controls), then kick the control lever
over. Once this is accomplished, recall the plane to pick up you and the
prisoners. Defend the prisoners until the Osprey arrives. 

It is important that the enemy have little or no advanced warning of the
attack on the P.O.W. camp. If you show yourself too soon, the prisoners
will be removed from the camp and there will be no one to rescue. Therefore
your orders are to avoid shooting until you arrive in the mission goal
zone. Freeing the prisoners will result in a large merit point bonus.
Premature enemy contact which causes prisoners to be moved may result in a
merit point penalty.Additional merit points will be awarded based on number
of enemies eliminated, but its far more important to liberate the
prisoners. 

If any veteran Rangers have been captured in previous missions, they will
probably be kept prisoner at this camp. A successful completion of this
mission will return them to active duty, making them available once again
for Ranger assignment.

Tactical Tip: If you're caught in the fire zone of an enemy machine gun
nest or bunker, dodge back and forth as you can run and the gunners will
have a harder time drawing a bead on you.

*  Photograph a Secret Experimental Aircraft: The enemy have been testing a
new experimental aircraft of unknown potential at one of their arctic
airfields, sneak into the hanger and remain long enough to take a series of
photographs of the aircraft. Stealth is important in the area of the
hanger, as any enemies that who see you will probably follow and prevent
you from achieving your mission. Elsewhere it probably wont be necessary
to maintain a low profile. Merit pints will be 

				21

awarded on the basis of number of eliminated, but remember to goal of the
mission is to get pictures of that plane.

Tactical Tip: If completely blocked by a barbed wire fence, use a hand
grenade to blow a hole in it. You can also use hand grenades to blow your
way through a mine field (though is does tend to attract attention).

*  Free the Hostages: American and European hostages have been taken by a
group of fanatical terrorists and are now in the hands of the country that
sponsored them. The hostages are being held in a special prison in the
desert, where they are being guarded by enemy soldiers. Your mission is
to infiltrate the mission zone and liberate the hostages. 

According to intelligence, the hostages are being held in a concrete
building with adjacent guard house. You are advised eliminate the guards,
then blow open the prison door with a hand grenade. Once this is
accomplished, recall the plane. Defend the hostages until the Osprey
arrives to pick up you and the hostages. 

Caution: We have reason to believe that the enemy would rather kill the
hostages than allow them to be rescued. The enemy may have wired the prison
with explosives. Do not alert the enemy unnecessarily! When you make your
attack upon the prison, beware the attempts by heavily-armed enemies to
destroy the hostages before you can liberate them.

Tactical Tip: Recall the plane before blowing open the prison door and you
will shorten the period in which you have to defend the hostages before
help arrives.

*  Create a Diversion: Our agents are planning to sneak a very important
person across a fortified enemy border. It is vital that none of the enemy
notice this activity, so it has been decided that a big diversion 

				22

should be staged to attract the enemy's attention. Your mission is to
create that diversion. 

You will be landed on the other side of the border, behind enemy lines.
Your mission is to lie low until your Countdown Clock gives you a beep
alarm, then start fighting your way towards the boarder, causing as much
damage as possible on the way. Your Pickup point is within the actual
border border zone itself; you must make it through the interior defenses
to the pick up point in order to be retrieved. 

Time constraints on this mission are tight. If you start shooting before
the alarm sounds, you will suffer severe merit point penalties. On this
mission, you can not recall the Osprey early; you are expected to keep the
battle going until the full mission time has run out. The Osprey will
appear above the pickup point when the clock reaches zero. 

Warning: the border zone is heavily defended by turret bunkers, barbed
wire, mines, and proximity mines mounted on posts. Stay alert for theses
dangers, but don't let the diversion slack off.

Tactical Tip: Your LAW rocket has quite a long range. You can fire at
targets off the combat screen by lining yourself up on the map. An
exploding LAW rocket also serves as a diversion, attracting attention of
any nearby soldiers. If surrounded by searching troops, a LAW Rocket fired
at a distant target may draw them away from you.

*  Delayed Sabotage: It is necessary that the soldiers at one of the
enemy's arctic airfields be distracted by a presumed attack at around
midnight tonight, but no forces can be spared at that time to cause the
diversion. Therefore your mission is to sneak past the 

				23

airfield's defence perimeter and plant a special time bomb at the aviation
fuel dump. This time bomb will explode at midnight, which should make the
enemy believe they're under attack. You will be issued time bombs that are
all pre-set to explode at midnight, regardless of what fuse time you
select. 

You must maintain a low profile in the vicinity of the fuel dump. If anyone
notices a Ranger, they may become suspicious and find the time bomb before
midnight. Try to catch one of the enemy guards in a guardhouse, eliminate
him and don his uniform. This should enable you to approach the fuel dump
while disguised. Merit point are awarded on the basis of number of enemies
eliminated, but it won't add up to much if the enemy spots you and the bomb
is disabled before it explodes.

Tactical Tip: Wait until no enemy soldiers can be heard moving around the
area before moving into the vicinity of the fuel dump.

After the Mission

When the mission is over, you will see the assessment of your performance,
covering whether you met your goal, and whether you were retrieved,
captured, or killed in action. Merit point score for this mission and new
merit point cumulative score are displayed, as are any promotions or
awards.

*  Promotions: If you complete you mission successfully you can expect to be
promoted. The ranks a Ranger can achieve in this way, in order; Private
First Class (PFC), Corporal (CPL), Sergeant (SGT), Staff Sergeant (SSG),
Platoon Sergeant (PSG), Sergeant Major (SGM), Second Lieutenant (2LT),
First Lieutenant (1LT), Captain (CPT), Major (MAJ), Lieutenant Colonel
(LTC) and Colonel (COL - achievable only by selecting campaign.)

*  Commendations and Medals: Medals are awarded for achievement above and
beyond the call of duty. A Ranger can earn: First Army Commendation Medal
(COM1), Second Army Commendation Medal (COM2), Bronze Star (BSTR), Silver
Star (SSTR), Distinguished Service Cross (DSC) and Congressional Medal of
Honor (achievable only by selecting "Campaign").

				24

PART II: AIRBORNE RANGERS

Standing Orders, Rogers' Rangers, 1759

1. Don't forget nothing.

2. Have your musket clean as a whistle, hatchet scoured sixty rounds powder
   and ball, and be ready to march at a minute's warning.

3. When you're on the march. act the way you would if you was sneaking up
   on a deer. See the enemy first.

4. Tell the truth about what you see and what you do. There is an army
   depending on us for correct Information. You can lie all you please when
   you tell other folks about the Rangers, but don't ever lie to a Ranger
   or officer.

5. Don't never take a chance you don't have to.

6. When we're on the march we march single file, far enough apart so one
   shot can't go through two men.

7. If we strike swamps, or soft ground, we spread out abreast, so it's hard
   to track us.

8. When we march, we keep moving until dark, so as to give the enemy the
   least chance at us.

9. When we camp, half the party stays awake while the other half sleeps.

10. If we take prisoners, we keep'em separate till we have had time to
    examine them, so they can't cook up a story between'em.

                               25

11. Don't ever march home the same way. Take a different route so you won't
    be ambushed.

12. No matter whether we travel in big parties or little ones, each party
    has to keep a scout twenty yards ahead, twenty yards on each flank and
    twenty yards in the rear, so the main body can't be surprised and wiped
    out.

13. Every night you'll be told where to meet if surrounded by a superior
    force.

14. Don't sit down to eat without posting sentries.

15. Don't sleep beyond dawn. Dawn's when the French and Indians attack.

16. Don't cross a river by a regular ford.

17. If somebody's trailing you, make a circle, come back onto your own
    tracks, and ambush the folks that aim to ambush you.

18. Don't stand up when the enemy's coming against you. Kneel down, lie
    down, hide behind a tree.

19. Let the enemy come till he's almost close enough to touch. Then let him
    have it and jump out and finish him up with your hatchet.

History of the Rangers

* Early Days: The history of the American Rangers is a long and honorable
one, beginning a hundred years before there even was a United States of
America. The early English colonists quickly discovered that the rules and
tactics of European standup warfare were of little use tn the backwoods of
17th century North America, where the combatants were loose confederations
of Indians and independent-minded settlers.  In European wars, armies met
by consensus and fought set battles to determine who would be victor; in
America the Indians attacked wherever they would do the most damage and
meet the least resistance.

                               26

Inevitably, the European colonists began to adopt similar tactics.

Small "Ranger" units were first formed to scout the territory around the
settlements, watch for signs of approaching enemies, nd eventually strike
back at enemy bases with raids of their own. The key attributes of these
reconnaissance and strike teams were stealth, independence, physical
toughness and versatility -- still the chief characteristics of Rangers
today.

The first commander to really articulate the concept of the Rangers and
exploit their unique capabilities was Major Robert Rogers, who organized
and commanded a large Ranger company during the French and Indian War (1754
1763). Rogers emphasized a vigorous program of training and preparedness,
another Ranger trademark. (Rogers' Standing Orders are reproduced at the
beginning of Part II of this manual.) Rogers' Rangers could move fast and
strike hard. When most units were immobilized by winter weather, the
Rangers were on the move, attacking the enemy when and where they least
expected It.

When the Revolutionary War came. Ranger units were at the forefront,
confounding and confusing the British and their allies with their
unorthodox tactics.  Dan Morgan's "Corps of Rangers," an expert riflemen
from Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia, played crucial roles at Saratoga
and the Battle of the Cowpens, two important American victories. Thomas

                               27

Knowlton's Connecticut Rangers performed dangerous reconnaissance duty in
the Northeast. Most famous of all were the Rangers of Colonel Francis
Marlon, the "Swamp Fox," irregulars who disrupted and disorganized the
British efforts in the Carolinas.

The Rangers were disbanded at the end of the war, the usual fate of these
elite but specialized units. Maintaining highly-trained elite groups like
the Rangers is expensive, and difficult to justify in peacetime. But when
war breaks out they suddenly seem essential, and the Rangers rise again. A
few years later, in the War of 1812. Congress raised twelve companies of
Rangers to serve on the frontiers, protecting the United States on its
vulnerable inland side.

* The War Between the States: The Confederacy made by far the most
effective use of Rangers during the Civil War. Confederate Rangers under
Colonel Turner Ashby and Colonel John S. Mosby operated behind Union lines,
conducting effective campaigns that tied down many times their number in
Union troops. The threat of Mosby's Rangers forced the Union to garrison
soldiers at many locations that would otherwise have gone safely
undefended. Mosby showed what a small, fast-moving group of Rangers could
accomplish in enemy-held territory.

*  World War Il: Shortly after the United States entered World War II. It
became apparent that the Army would once again need small specialized units
of tough, elite troops. Six Ranger Battalions were organized, all composed
of soldiers who had volunteered for

                               28

the Rangers' rigorous training and hazardous missions. The Rangers were
employed in every theater of the war, acting as spearhead units, and
performing dangerous independent assaults that no other type of unit could
handle.

The 1st, 3rd and 4th Ranger Battalions were commanded by Major William O.
Darby. Darby's Rangers got their feet wet in the Dieppe commando raid and
the North African campaign, and played significant roles in the amphibious
invasions of Sicily and Italy. They fought with great distinction against
the German Army on the Italian front, often in exposed positions or behind
enemy lines.

The 2nd and 5th Ranger Battalions were key players in the Normandy "D-Day"
Invasion. The 2nd Battalion had the difficult and Incredibly hazardous
mission of scaling the sheer cliffs at Pointe du Hoc to destroy the heavy
gun emplacements there. Without reinforcements, and despite fierce
resistance, the position was taken. The 5th Battalion landed on Omaha Beach
with the 1st and 29th Divisions, where the entire assault force was pinned
down by an elite German division dug in on the bluffs overhead. The
Americans had to break through and get inland, or Omaha Beach could turn
into a massacre. It was here that the Commanding General of the 29th
Division gave the Rangers their motto, when he turned to the commander of
the 5th Ranger Battalion and said, "Rangers, lead the way." Drawing on all
their training, resourcefulness, and sheer guts. the Rangers penetrated the
German defenses and led the breakout from the beach.

The 6th Ranger Battalion was assigned to the Pacific Theater, where they
performed the classic Ranger missions of recon and raiding behind the enemy
lines. The 6th Ranger Battalion was the first American unit to return to
the Philippines, paving the way for the invasion forces to follow.

Though not specifically designated as a Ranger unit, the 5307th Composite
Unit (Provisional), commanded by General Frank D. Merrill and known as
"Merrill's Marauders," performed classic Ranger-style operations against
the Japanese Army in Burma. Merrill's all-volunteer unit operated behind
Japanese lines. disrupting supply, cutting communications, and eventually
driving the enemy from the mountains of northern Burma. The 5307th was
redesignated the 75th Infantry. the current official unit designation of
the Rangers.

                               29

*  The Korean War: As usual, the Rangers were disbanded after World War II,
but they were needed again sooner than anyone expected. At the outbreak of
the Korean War, Colonel John Gibson Van Houten was appointed to head a new
Ranger training program at Fort Benning, Georgia (where Ranger training is
held to this day). Eight Ranger companies were to be organized, and for the
first time airborne skills were to be included In their training. The call
went out for volunteers. and the response was phenomenal, particularly from
the crack 82nd Airborne Division. Many of the volunteers had fought In
various elite groups In WWII, Including the OSS and earlier Ranger units.
Since only a few could be chosen, the new Ranger Infantry Companies
(Airborne) were composed of the cream of America's fighting men. At this
time, the U.S. Army was still racially segregated. One of the first four
Ranger companies was composed entirely of experienced black paratroopers,
the only all-black Ranger unit ever formed.

Instead of operating as battalions, these Ranger companies were assigned to
Infantry divisions, one company per division. In Korean combat the Rangers
were used as firemen, sent from one hot spot to another. stiffening
defensive lines, leading attacks. scouting, raiding and counterattacking.
They often found themselves in that classic Ranger situation, wreaking
havoc behind enemy lines. They conducted raids on the enemy by land, water
and air. They performed with great courage, endurance, and wit, but due to
being attached to larger units, they received precious little publicity.
Everybody knew, however, that in a bad situation they could count on the
Rangers.

                               30

* Recent History: Veterans of the Korean War Airborne Rangers were involved
in the creation of the Special Forces in the late 1950s. Later, when the
United States became heavily involved in the Vietnam War, Ranger companies
were once again trained and went to wherever the fighting was hottest. As
in Korea, the fourteen Ranger companies that served in Vietnam were
attached to other units. These Ranger companies were primarily utilized for
reconnaissance missions, rather than raiding. As America's role in the
Vietnam conflict diminished most of these companies were deactivated.

With a global need for quick reaction forces (and finally realizing the
waste of experience involved in Rangers every time they were needed). In
1974 the Army formed two permanent Ranger Battalions. The 1st and 2nd
Battalions (Ranger), 75th Infantry, were trained at Fort Benning and
stationed in Georgia and Washington state. The utility of maintaining
standing Ranger battalions was proven during the sudden invasion of
Grenada. In 1983. The 1st and 2nd Ranger Battalions performed a dangerous
low-level combat drop on the airfield at Port Salines, securing it in short
order. As a result of this graphic example of the effectiveness of the
Ranger battalions, a 3rd Battalion and a Headquarters Company were added,
bringing the 75th Infantry Rangers up to full regimental strength. Today,
the Rangers stand ready to perform, any time, any mission they may be
assigned. as soon as they hear the command: " Rangers--lead the way!"

                               31

Ranger Training

U.S. Army Ranger Training is one of the most rigorous military training
programs in the world. It stresses physical toughness, combat and
leadership skills, resourcefulness and independence. This training is
standard for soldiers assigned to the 75th Infantry (Ranger) Regiment. It
is also available for qualified officers and noncommissioned officers of
the U.S. armed services and allied armed forces. Students wear no insignia
or rank during the course all are addressed merely as "Ranger."
Understandably, it is a mark of some status to make it through Ranger
school: graduates of the Ranger course can be found in key positions
throughout the armed forces. (The troopers assigned to solo missions in
Airborne Ranger are graduates of the Ranger course who have been assigned
to a secret Special Operations Group.)

The purpose of the Ranger course is to provide rigorous training in
tactical and leadership skills in a realistic environment. There is little
classroom study, as the emphasis Is on practical, and strenuous, field
work. The course is eight weeks long, and training goes on seven days a
week, for an average of 19 hours a day. During the training, Ranger
students are often subjected for long periods to mental and physical stress
similar to that found in combat. Even while near-exhausted, students must
learn how to cope with complicated tactical problems, solve them and move
on to the next challenge.

* Prerequisites: All applicants to the Ranger course are volunteers. They
need not be airborne qualified, but they must be in top physical condition,
able to do at least 50 push-ups, 60 sit-ups. and run two miles in under 15
minutes. They must have passed the Combat Water Survival Test, which means
they can walk blindfolded off a 3-meter diving board, and swim 15 meters,
in full combat gear. They must be qualified in marksmanship, first aid,
camouflage, orienteering, and construction of observation posts and
defensive positions. They must be confident of their skills and abilities,
and ready and eager to improve them.

There are four main phases to the Ranger course: the Benning phase, the
mountain phase, the desert phase and the Florida phase. Each emphasizes
different skills: each builds on the skills learned in the preceding
phases.

                               32

*  The Benning Phase: The initial phase is run at the Ranger  Course
Headquarters at Fort Benning, Georgia. The first segment of this phase
consists of a tough physical training program that includes three- to
five-mile runs, hand-to-hand combat, demanding obstacle courses, and skill
training in map navigation, first aid and demolitions. The second segment
of the Benning phase is more mission-oriented, and  includes airborne.
reconnaissance and combat patrol training. The student must take part in
five combat-style operations. By the end of the Benning phase, the Ranger
student is in a hardened physical condition and has learned the basic
skills required in the demanding later phases.

*  The Mountain Phase: In this phase the Ranger learns to put theory into
practice, leading squad and platoon-sized units through ambush and raiding
missions in rugged terrain. The Ranger must maintain himself and his
equipment in the field

                               33

for long periods of little or no supply, performing infiltrations, river
crossings, and mountaineering. The mountain-climbing segment culminates tn
a 200-foot night rappel down a sheer mountain face.

*  The Desert Phase: At the end of the mountain phase, the Ranger students
are picked up by aircraft and flown to the Utah desert. They prepare for a
jump on the way, and as they arrive they conduct a parachute assault into
the next training area. Here the Ranger student learns desert tactics and
survival skills, then undertakes a five-day fast patrol across the desert
to a distant destination. In the second segment of the desert phase the
students undertake combat exercises that involve simulated enemies. Each
student is required to plan. rehearse and command a platoon-size assault
that includes mortar support, air strikes and demolition of targets with
explosive charges. This is a live fire raid, i.e. all weapons use live
ammunition.

                               34

*  The Florida Phase: This phase begins with a combat parachute jump into
the Florida Jungle. In the first segment the training focuses on Jungle
combat skills. use of boats and river navigation, beach landings,
helicopter rappelling, air resupply and evacuation, and counterinsurgency
techniques. The second segment features combat exercises employing guerilla
and counterguerilla warfare tactics, culminating in a company-sized beach
assault followed by an attack on a fortified guerilla camp. This final
exercise is no pushover--it simulates a very dangerous mission. The Ranger
students must draw on all their training to succeed.

* Graduation: Ranger students must receive passing grades on all of these
physical and leadership tests. They are rated by their instructors, by the
other students, and by themselves--and none of these groups are easily
satisfied. But those who make it, the best of the best, go on to the
graduation ceremony at Fort Benning, where they receive they right to join
the exclusive fraternity of those who wear the unobtrusive patch that
reads: RANGER.

                               35

Weapons and Equipment

*  Parafoil: Not the usual globe-canopy parachute, the parafoil is shaped
more like an airplane wing. This shape is difficult to control, but in the
hands of an expert it enables the parachute to glide forward rather than
drop straight down. The 'chutist can control the direction of the glide by
pulling down on the left or right side. This action spills air out one side
of the foil, causing it to pivot on the other side and turn in the
direction of the pull. Since tuning spills air, you fall faster in a turn.

*  Carbine: The CAR-15 Colt Commando assault rifle. This is basically a
handier version of the M-16A1 assault rifle, with a shorter barrel and
collapsible buttstock. Designed for close-quarters work, it was issued to
Special Forces soldiers in Vietnam. Its small size makes it particularly
useful for airborne and air calvary troops. Loaded it weighs less than
eight pounds. Ammunition: 5.56mm (.223 caliber) cartridge, in 30 round
magazines.

*  Hand Grenade: M26 Fragmentation Grenade, which looks like a smooth-sided
version of the familiar "pineapple" grenade. It consists of an outer
casing, a coil of notched wire, a high explosive filling, and a fuse with a
cap on top. A lever is attached to the cap, and a pin safety holds the
lever down. When the pin is pulled and the lever released, the fuse is
ignited, and after a short delay the grenade explodes, scattering sharp
bits of wire all around.

*  LAW Rocket: M72A2 Light Antitank Weapon (LAW) consists of a collapsible
launch tube with an antitank rocket already loaded. The whole assembly
weighs less than six pounds. To fire it, the soldier extends the tube, pops
up the sight, disarms the safety, aims, presses the trigger and fires. The
rocket launches in a sudden burst of propellent (all of which is cleared
before the rocket leaves the tube in order to protect the soldier from its
backblast); as it emerges from the tube folding fins pop up to stabilize
its flight. The warhead detonator explodes on contact, firing a shaped
charge forward, penetrating inch-thick steel or concrete several inches
thick. The explosion tends to set off ammunition or fuel stored inside the
target. The launch tube is disposable.

*  Time Bomb: A shaped charge of plastic explosive with an attached
timer-detonator. The time detonation is selected; When detonator counts
down to zero, it sends an electric charge into the plastic explosive,
detonating it. The shaping forces most of the explosion against the object
it is attached to.

*  Knife: M7 Knife, which doubles as a bayonet for the Colt Commando.

Keyboard Commands:

F1 - Carbine
F2 - Hand Grenade
F3 - LAW Rocket
F4 - Knife

F9 - Map
F10 - Run/Walk
Backspace - First Aid
Fire Weapon - Enter

Number Keys (not Keypad)

1 - Call Pick Up
5 - Set Time Bomb 5 Seconds
6 - Set Time Bomb 10 Seconds
7 - Set Time Bomb 15 Seconds

Enter Key - Fire Weapon

Keypad Keys - Movement

         8
       7 | 9
        \ /
    4 -- 0 -- 6
        / \
      1  |  3
         2

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================