                        ALIEN FISHFINGER FULL DOCS


LOADING "ALIEN FF"

From floppy disk: Insert disk into your internal disk drive df0:. Reboot the 
Amiga. The game shouled work with out problems. I recomend you make a backup 
copy to play from, and that you store the backup in a safe place. Write 
enabling the disk allows 

From hard disk: To install 'ALIEN-FF' to your Hard disk, you shouled first 
create a new drawer on your Hard Disk, and give it a name. Now copy all 'AFF' 
files to your new drawer. You can now run the game from there.

THE STORY

Death, destruction, pain, misery. What was once a bright, beautiful planet is 
now blackend by the constant invasions of death making Alien bombers. Planet 
'Earth' as it is today. Thousands, if not millions of innocent lives wiped out 
with the constant 

There is only one force of the resistance who are known as the freedom fighters. 
A Earth based force of defence now crippled with the heavy fire power of the 
fearsome enemy. One man stands brave, 'Lt Frank Finger', one of the few 
fighters to survive. He and the others are all sickened of the site of the 
aliens near to winning the war. They prepare to launch one final attack, the 
final chance of survival. If they don't succeed the Earth is doomed. 'Lt Finger'
gathers his men. He stands tall and pauses to look at all of his comrades, one 
by one, before saying "They've killed our families, they've destroyed our world, 
and they've destroyed our home. Now we will do the same to theirs!.........


PLAYING THE GAME

You play the role of 'Lt Frank Finger'. You will be given the task of completing 
a series of missions on the alien planet surface. Your only guide is from Head-
Quarters, in touch with them by micro-radio. They will brief you on your mission 
and progres

On successfully completing a mission, return back to your Space-Ship. To take 
off, jump into the cockpit and sit down. The door should close, and the sjip 
shouled take off.

On the status bar, at the top of the screen, are the following things:-

ENERGY METRE: Each life you start with, you are given 5 energy squares. Every 
time you get hit you will lose one. When you have lost all 5 you will loose a 
life. More energy can be picked up from alien dead bodies.

GRENADES: On starting a game, you are granted 5 grenades. These are used for 
throwing at aliens. If timed right you can kill multiple aliens with one throw. 
They can be thrown against certain walls to destroy them. As well as being able 
to kill aliens

WEAPON GAUGE: Upon starting a game, you are given a low powered basic weapon. 
Each time you kill an alien, and pick up his gun, the gauge is increased by one 
notch. This does not power up the weapon you are firing but powers up your next 
weapon. When y

SPELL EXTRA: By picking up letters, and spelling the word extra, a man will 
appear. Collect this man, and you will gain an extra life.

MEN: The number of men displayed on the title bar represents the number of 
lives you currently have. The more men you have the better chance you have of 
survival.

SCORE: Each time you kill something, pick some thing up, or walk onto a new 
screen, your score will increase. Score as much as possible to achieve a high 
score in the high score table. Type in your name if successful.

Every time you lose a life, your dead body will remain in the game. So every 
time you play a new game of 'AFF' you will see where you died. The bodies will 
also be saved to disk along with your high scores. The dead bodies and high-
scores can be cleare

CONTROLS:

< > =Run Left or Right

/\  =Jump

\/  =Duck

/ \ =Duck and lower gun

FIRE =Fire Weapon


Hold down fire button for 1 second to throw a grenade.

Left Mouse button to Quit.

GENERAL TIPS:

Some levels require you to complete a mission before you can go on to the next, 
so read each mission briefing carefully before starting.

Take your time when running around. Steep drops can hurt 'FRANK', so take your 
time when running down hills or jumping from cliffs.

Use grenades when ever possible, as there are plenty to go around. Grenades can 
be bounced of walls, so getting the angle right could kill some aliens out of 
reach of your normal line of fire. By jumping and then throwing a grenade will 
extend the dista

Search out the levels for secret rooms. Some are easily found while some are 
not. They contain lots of goodies from energy to 1-ups.

Try not to miss many guns because as the game gets harder, you will need the 
best weapon for survival.

Last off all the best tip is to enjoy your self, and Kill Kill Kill and Kill 
again.

If you think that the game is to easy, and own a A1200, then by pressing the 
letter 'T' on the title screen will put the game into turbo mode. This will make
the game run twice as fast. This is for speed freaks.

WHY ALIEN FISH FINGERS?

Well, I had to call it something. The hardest part for me was to name the 
thing. So why 'Alien Fish Finger'? Well the main hero of this game is called 
'Frank Finger' and on your travels you will come across a person. I won't tell 
you any more, but his 

So thanks for buying the game and Enjoy.

Typed up by TRIGGER 95
