                   ALIEX DOC'S TYPED BY T.D.B. FROM LEGEND!

Loading:
Ensure your machine has been switched off for ten seconds, insert the write
protected game disc and switch on.
Ensure your phzer is plugged into the correct port of your computer before
loading the game.
Calibrate the Phazer carefully at the beginning of the game.

ALIEX:
After a long couragerous space battle your orbital destroyr craft substained
too much damage and you have fforce landed on what looked like a friendly
planet. Boy where you wrong!
As soon as your landing was detected all available trops and equipment where
despatched to whipe you out.
You must fight for your life and the change to escape this evil planet.

SHOOT OR BE SHOT:
You are stranded, your only weapon is your hand held puls cannon, but with
limited energy it can run out of ammo, so look for ammo boxes dropped at
10.000. 20.000, 40.000 etc points, shooting these will replenish your
ammunation and lifeforce energy.
Your lifeforce energy starts at 100% but as the attackers bomb and shoot you
it goes down, if it reach zero your game is over.
Your craft put down in a desert, this is where your battle commences but 
aftera period of time (The time the desert is scanned ten tims) you flee to
a jungle for more cover, but all you find is more attackers.


                             DESERT RATS


The enemies you encounter on the desert are:
Mutant Troops:
These take two hits to kill, but watch out they will randomly turn and shoot
at you or, even mutate into an energy disc, if this energy disc reaches the
screen edge in will deplete your lifeforce.
Tanks:
Heavily Armoured these take four hits to destroy.
They drop timebombs which if allowed to explode will consume your energy.
Hoverbikes:
These bikes take six hits to destroy, shoot them quickly as they release
lifeforce depleting energy disks as before.

                      
                            JUNGLE WARFARE

Mutant men:
These have got tougher, they take three shots to kill and carry timebombs.
Bomber:
This madman qill take four of your best shots to kill him.
Perieye:
An aquatic terror who will rise from underwater to fire at you.
WHen you can see if you will have to hit if three times.
Hoverbike:
The turbo model, Faster but the reduced amour plating means four shots to
destroy it.
King Wasp:
Do not let this king wasp reach the end of the screen,
two hits should suffice.
Mosquito:
A Close relative to the king wasp, and the same rules apply.
Birds:
Large birds are common to both levels, one hit should show who's boss.

                              NOTE
 
Press C from the title screen to calibrate gun, and press ESC to exit game.


Returns:
If you find a fault within 28 days of purchase, please return it for a free
replaacement, Proff of purchase should be sent with any returns.

ALL RETURN TO :    FIRESTAR RETURNS
                   TROJAN PRODUCTS
                   UNIT 7
                   DAFEN PARK
                   LLANELLI
                   DYFED
                   SA14 8LX
                   UNITED KINGDOM


                                          Brought To You By LEGEND!

