Documentation to    A L I E N  S Y N D R O M E
---------------------------------------------------------------- 

GETTING STARTED

Player 1 uses a Joystick plugged into the joystick port.  Player 2 can use
either another Joystick plugged into the mouse port, or the keyboard
controls displayed on the screen.  When prompted, choose between a
one-player or a two-player game, then select your character(s).  Level 1
will then load.


PLAYING

Play either on your own, or as a two-player team.  Each level has two
parts...

Part 1 - The time bomb has been set!  Your objective is to rescue your
trapped comrades from the station complex, then escape via the exit - all
the while defending yourself against the mutant hordes - and with only a
short time before the bomb goes off!

You start armed with only a basic Shot blaster, but scattered about the
complex are weapon bays from which, by touching them, you can change to
other weapons - laser, bombs, flame thrower or fire ball, plus Option - a
protective droid that protects your rear and fires backwards.  There are
MAP points which, when touched, flash up a map of the complex, showing the
location of your remaining comrades.  There are also Bonus bays, marked
with a ?  that you can touch for extra points.

On each level the complex is totally different - you may have to run along
causeways or watch for holes in the floor!

The EXIT will not open for you until you have rescued the required number
of comrades - indicated by the comrade counter, a row of heads in the score
panel.  Once through the EXIT you go on to part 2.

Part 2 - At the end of each level you will have to tackle a huge and
grotesque monster that must be destroyed, still within the time limit,
before you can proceed.  There is a different one on each level - each with
its own vulnerable points, and each with its own bizarre method of attack!

You enter part 2 with the weapons that you found in part one, and it is
always best to face the big aliens carrying the best weapon possible.  If
you succeed, the next level will load in.  If you fail, you must start
again.