ALIEN 3 - by Acclaim Entertainment                   
(c) Virgin Software                                               
-----------------------------------

The Future is now ... 
The space ship SULACO, which is carrying the cryotubes that 
Ripley, Newt and Hicks have been in a state of hyper sleep 
within, is being propelled through space when a malfunction 
occurs. 

In response to this malfunction, SULACO's 'brain' ejects the EEV 
containing the cryotubes. We later find out that not only has the 
synthetic human, bishop been aboard as well, but an unborn ALIEN 
has also managed to infest itself within the body of Ripley. 
                                                            
As the SULACO plummets helpless through space, the EEV is hurled 
out of its hold and crashed on an isolated section of the mining 
planet and 'penal colony', FIORINA 161.     
                                                               
Upon impact, the EEV is seriously damaged, Newt and Hicks are 
dead. Bishop,the android is reduced to negative capability, while 
Ripley is left unconscious but alive.   

FIORINA 161 is inhabited by hard-core individuals, convicts 
serving time in this maximum security facility. These outcasts 
were left on the planet as a maintenance crew, unable to function 
in civilisation. They are joined by a medical officer, Clemens, 
and two supervisors. 

Ripley, suspecting that aliens have followed her, searches the 
proof. She knows that 'The Company', considers the Aliens to be 
an important species and has ordered them not to be harmed. 
'The Company' has millions of dollars invested in the 'Alien 
Retrival Project'which would bring this strain of hideous killing 
machines back to earth and used as 'weapons'.    
                                                      
Ripley now takes on her most important assignment. She must 
rescue the Alien's captives, then find and destroy them.

THAT BUMP ... is your heart ... as you get to confront the 
ALIENS! 
--------------------------------------------------------

Getting started:
Option screen: check it after pressing  fire on the intro screen.

Controls:                               
---------                               
Use a joystick in port two like on all the other platform games 
as well ...      
                                           
SPACE     - Toggles weapon              
P         - Pause Game                  
                                        
RADAR:                
------                                   
Pick up batteries to activate the Radar Screen, situated in the 
bottom right corner of the screen.

The Stages:                             
-----------
There are several stages divided into different missions ... 
So when the game writes one of the following you are going to 
expect something special.                                           

MISSION: Get all the prisoners and free them, destroying all 
           aliens along the way. 
RESCUE (MAYHEM): Concentrate on the prisoners and remember time 
                  is against you.
EXTERMINATE: Seek and Destroy ! You cannot exit these stages 
              until all aliens are dead.
GUARDIAN: Just a bigger one to kill ...      

You must search everywhere, jump through walls and crawl through 
tunnels. Destroy every hidden Alien Pod. The survival of even one 
Alien could mean that Earth is in danger. Without you, the Aliens 
will take over. Remember, they bile acid -  they hunger for 
humans - they destroy their host!  Dramatic - ain't it ? 

-END-