                          ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN

Hardware Requirements

   o  A minimum of 512K RAM is required.

Loading Instructions

  1. Turn on your monitor and computer.
  2. If you have an Amiga 1000, KICKSTART your Amiga with version 1.2
     or later.
  3. Insert All Dogs Go to Heaven Disk 1 into your internal drive.

Getting Started

Selecting Level and Mode of Game Play

   o  Press a Y or an N to answer the question, Are you using a joystick?
      Please Note: If you answer this prompt with a Y, both the
      joystick and the keyboard will be functional.
   o  Press a number key to select the level of play (Novice, Expert or
      Champion).
   o  When prompted, Would you like to play all the games?:
      Type Y for Yes if you would like to read the All Dogs Go to
      Heaven storybook and play all of the games in sequence.
      Type N for No if you would like to select individual games from the
      games menu.

Please Note: You may press the Tab key to exit the program credits and
immediately begin selecting the level and mode of game play.

Instructions for Playing the Games in Sequence

If you type a Y when asked if you would like to play all of the games,
the program will present a sequence of storybook screens with pictures
(frames) and text.  To view the text associated with a particular frame,
use the Space Bar or Joystick Button 2 to position Charlie's Watch of
Life on the frame of your choice.  Press Enter (Return) or Joystick
Button 1 to view the text.  To exit the text and return to the full
screen pictures, press Enter (Return) or Joystick Button 1.

After viewing the last frame of a particular screen, press the Space
Bar or Joystick Button 2 to position Charlie's Watch of Life in the
lower right-hand corner of the screen.  Press Enter (Return) or Joystick
Button 1 to continue to a new screen, or press the Space Bar or Joystick
Button 2 to review the text associated with the frames on the current
screen.

Please Note:  You may bypass the text entirely by continuing to press
the Space Bar or Joystick Button 2 until Charlie's Watch of Life is
positioned in the lower right-hand corner of the screen.  Press Enter
(Return) or Joystick Button 1 to move to the next screen.

Instructions for Playing Individual Games

If you type an N when asked if you would like to play all of the games,
the program will present a menu of ten games from which you can choose.
Each game is represented by a graphic icon which appears next to the
game title.  To select a particular game, use the Space Bar or Joystick
Button 2 to cycle through the game icons until you find the icon which
represents the game you wish to choose.  Press Enter (Return) or
Joystick Button 1 to select the game.

Controls for Playing the Games Sequentially or Individually

F1  Turns the sound off.  Press F1 again at the conclusion of the current
    game to turn the sound on again.

Tab key  Allows a player to exit the current game.

Esc  Allows a player to exit the program entirely.

Rat Race

You are standing in the middle of Carface's nightclub, a crowded,
noisy, smoke-filled room located in the hull of an abandoned ship.
In the center of the room, dogs of every mix and breed are gambling
their dog bones on the rat races.  The odds have just been shifted to
Squad Car, the littlest, scrawniest rat of the racing stable.  Yet,
this fleet-of-foot, runt-of-a-rat has been known to come from behind
to lead the pack and win races.  He needs your help, though, because he
sometimes gets his directions mixed up and can't find his way past the
other rats.

The Challenge

Maneuver Squad Car over or around oil slicks, bed springs and sliding
rats until he reaches first place and wins the rat race.  If Squad Car
"wipes out," the race starts over.  Squad Car's position in the race
is displayed in the box in the upper left-hand corner of the screen.

Levels of Play

Novice: Squad Car must race 3 Rats. Expert: Squad Car must race 4 Rats.
Champion: Squad Car must race 5 Rats.

Controls

Left Arrow Key or Joystick Left Moves Squad Car to the left.

Right Arrow Key or Joystick Right Moves Squad Car to the right.

Up Arrow Key or Joystick Up Enables Squad Car to jump.

Please Note: Squad Car cannot jump over the bed springs. (His feet get
entangled in the springs.)

Watch Arcade

Awakened from what he thought was only a bad dream, Charlie finds
himself at Heaven's gate with a dog called Whippet.  "Who are you?
What is this?  Where am I?  I want to go back!"
Charlie barks out.
Whippet explains, "Why, Charlie, you are now D...E...A...D, dead.
Don't you see?  Your Watch of Life has stopped."
Well Charlie, being the character that he is, won't stand for it and
wants to return to Earth to get revenge on his old partner and one
time friend, Carface.  He begins to drink, "What if I can get my watch
back and wind it?"

The Challenge

Maneuver Charlie to grab a watch when Whippet has her back turned.  Not
just any watch will do, however.  Charlie cannot return to Earth unless
he grabs his Watch of Life, so he may have to grab several watches
before he finds the right one.
Once Charlie finds the Watch of Life, he will return to Earth and the
game is over.  If Whippet catches Charlie in the act of grabbing a
watch, the game must be restarted.  If Charlie isn't trying to grab
a watch when Whippet turns around, however, she will turn around
and resume dancing to the music.  Once a watch is removed, it will not
appear again unless the game is restarted.

Levels of Play

Novice: 6 watches to choose from initially.  Expert: 8 watches to choose
from initially.  Champion: 10 watches to choose from initially.

Controls

Space Bar or Joystick Button 2 Enables Charlie to jump up and grab a
watch.  Enter (Return) or Joystick Button 1 Restarts the game.

Catch the Flea

"It's a ghost, it's a ghost!" screams Itchy, Charlie's best friend.
Charlie has returned from his short visit to heaven and now stands in
front of one very scared dachshund.  Charlie stands over Itchy trying
to shake some sense into him.  "Itchy, it's me your old pal," Charlie
shouts out.  But it's no use.  Itchy still thinks that Charlie is a
ghost.
"But you were hit by Carface's car and drowned!  It can't be you!"
howls Itchy.  Charlie has an idea.  He'll grab a flea off of his back
and show it to Itchy as proof that he's alive.  Because, as everyone
knows, ghosts don't have fleas.  But as Charlie reaches to grab his
one and only flea, it hops off of his back and climbs into a brick
wall in Itchy's room.  Without that flea, Charlie won't be able to
stop Itchy's infernal howling!  Charlie decides to use his watch to
knock the flea out from behind the brick wall.

The Challenge

Maneuver Charlie in order to bounce his watch off of his paws and smash
the bricks that are in front of the flea.  After the bricks that are
in front of the flea are smashed, Charlie must retrieve the flea by
hitting it with his watch and then catching the flea in his
outstretched paws.  If either the watch or the flea bounces past
Charlie's outstretched paws at any time during the game, the game must
be restarted.

Levels of Play

Novice: Charlie's watch will bounce at normal speed.  Expert: Charlie's
watch will bounce at full speed.  Champion: Charlie's watch will
bounce at hyper speed.

Controls

Up Arrow or Joystick Up Moves Charlie upward.
Down Arrow or Joystick Down Moves Charlie downward.
Enter (Return) or Joystick Button 1 Restarts the game.

Rescue

Itchy overhears two of Carface's thugs talking about the monster he
has hidden in the basement.  Being a curious mutt, Charlie says to
Itchy, "Why would Carface have a monster?  I gotta see this for myself."
Charlie and Itchy make their way to Carface's ship, unnoticed by
Carface and his gang.  But the only way Charlie and Itchy can find the
room where Carface has hidden the monster is by crawling through the
air vents in the hull of Carface's ship.  As these two mutts begin
their search, they soon discover that the ventilation system in
Carface's ship is like a big maze.

The Challenge

Charlie and Itchy together must search a maze of tin walls and grates
in order to find the room where the monster is hidden.  Hint:  The
monster's location changes each time the game is played.

Levels of Play

Novice: The "monster" will be hard to find.  Expert: The "monster" will
be very hard to find.  Champion: The "monster" will be extremely hard
to find.

Controls

Up Arrow or Joystick Up Moves Charlie and Itchy forward.
Left Arrow and Joystick Left Moves Charlie and Itchy to the left.
Right Arrow and Joystick Right Moves Charlie and Itchy to the right.
Down Arrow and Joystick Down Turns Charlie and Itchy around.

The Great Escape

Charlie and Itchy search the air vents until they find Carface's monster.
But they soon discover that their "monster" is not a monster after all.
No, Carface's monster is actually a cute little girl named Ann Marie.
As they peer through the grate, Charlie and Itchy overhear Ann Marie
asking a caged rat who will win the next rat race.  Charlie, being
the betting hound that he is, is seeing dollar signs.  He is convinced
that befriending a girl who talks to animals will help him win a few
bets on animal races.  So after Carface's thugs leave the room, Charlie
and Itchy sneak in to rescue Ann Marie.

The Challenge

Charlie must build a stairway on the left-hand side of the screen so
Ann Marie, Itchy and Charlie can escape from the room where Ann Marie
is being held captive.  Charlie must build the stairway by moving only
one block at a time, only placing a smaller block on top of a larger
block.

Levels of Play

Novice: Charlie must build a 3 block stairway.  Expert: Charlie must
build a 4 block stairway.  Champion: Charlie must build a 5 block
stairway.  The game is restarted if a larger block is placed on a
smaller block.

Controls

Left Arrow or Joystick Left Moves Charlie to the left.
Right Arrow or Joystick Right Moves Charlie to the right.
Up Arrow or Joystick Up Enables Charlie to pick up a block.
Down Arrow or Joystick Down Enables Charlie to drop a block.

Junkyard Chase

Charlie has become very attached to his watch.  As a matter of fact,
his life depends on it.  Losing the watch could be the end of him.
and in the junkyard where Charlie lives, there are lots of places for
him to lose his watch.  And as you may have guessed by now, Charlie's
watch is missing and he thinks he lost it in the junkyard.

The Challenge

Charlie must catch his Watch of Life as it moves around the junkyard
maze.  Charlie can only catch his watch when it is displayed in a
light color.  If he catches the watch when it is displayed in a dark
color, the game must be restarted.  The game continues until Charlie
catches the required number of watches for the particular level of
play chosen by the game player.

Levels of Play

Novice: Charlie must catch 1 watch.  Expert: Charlie must catch 2 watches.
Champion: Charlie must catch 3 watches.

Controls

Up Arrow or Joystick Up Moves Charlie upward.
Down Arrow or Joystick Down Moves Charlie downward.
Left Arrow or Joystick Left Moves Charlie to the left.
Right Arrow or Joystick Right Moves Charlie to the right.
Enter (Return) or Joystick Button 1 Restarts the game.

Stables

It's the Grand Chawhee's birthday!  And at every good birthday party,
games are played.  Ann Marie has come up with a guessing game using
many of the words or phrases from her All Dogs Go to Heaven adventures.
Let's see how many words you remember from the All Dogs Go to Heaven
movie and how long will it take you to guess these words!

The Challenge

Fill in the missing letters in order to complete a word or phrase from the
All Dogs Go to Heaven movie.  The level of play chosen by the game
player determines the difficulty of the words Ann Marie will present
and the number of wrong guesses that she will accept.  If a player is
unable to guess thew word and exceeds the number of alotted guesses,
Ann Marie will present a new word to be completed.

Levels of Play

Novice: Ann Marie will present novice level words, and she'll allow 9
mistakes before the round ends.  Expert: Ann Marie will present expert
level words, and she'll allow 7 mistakes before the round ends.
Champion: Ann Marie will present champion level words, and she'll allow
5 mistakes before the round ends.  

Controls

Letter Keys on the keyboard Fill in the missing letters.

Betting Montage

Charlie, Itchy and Ann Marie have hit the jackpot.  Ann Marie has been
luckier than a horseshoe for our gambling duo.  She talks to the
animals, tells Charlie who's going to win each contest and Charlie
places the bet.  With all the money they've won they are able to buy
just about anything they want, or are they?  Ann Marie still wants a
mom and dad.  For her, money can't buy happiness.

Controls

Press Enter (Return) or Joystick Button 1 to stop the Montage wheel and
view all of the pictures.

Press Enter (Return) or Joystick Button 1 a second time to exit the
Montage.

Please Note: The Betting Montage only appears when a game player has
answered "Yes" to the prompt, "Would you like to play all the games?"

402 Maple Street

When she overhears Charlie telling Itchy how he is going to put her
in an orphanage and that he and Itchy would open another gambling
casino, Ann Marie becomes angry and hurt.  She tells Charlie he is a
bad dog and runs away.  Itchy, Charlie and Flo, the dog that runs the
puppy orphanage, run after Ann Marie.  Flo tells Itchy to take Ann
Marie's doll and find 402 Maple Street because the people who live there
will know what to do.

The Challenge

Itchy will be randomly placed in a maze and must walk from screen to
screen in order to find 402 Maple Street.  The game ends when Itchy
reaches 402 Maple Street.  Hint:  The location of 402 Maple Street
changes each time the game is played.

Please Note: 402 Maple Street offers one level of play.

Controls

Up Arrow or Joystick Up Moves Itchy upward.
Down Arrow or Joystick Down Moves Itchy downward.
Left Arrow or Joystick Left Moves Itchy to the left.
Right Arrow or Joystick Right Moves Itchy to the right.

Dog Fight

Charlie finds Ann Marie being held captive by Carface.  Now Charlie
won't admit it, but he really loves Ann Marie, and he's not about to
let his best friend get hurt, atleast not without giving a good fight.
Charlie reaches deep down inside himself for the strength to take on
that mangy mutt named Carface.  Now who will be the victor, Good or Evil?

The Challenge

If Charlie growls and Carface growls, there is no action.
If Charlie punches and Carface punches, there is no action.
If Charlie punches and Carface is still, Carface backs up 2 ft.
If Carface punches and Charlie is still, Charlie backs up 2 ft.
If Charlie growls and Carface is still, Carface backs up 1 ft.
If Carface growls and Charlie is still, Charlie backs up 1 ft.
If Charlie punches and Carface growls, Carface backs up 1 ft.
If Carface punches and Charlie growls, Charlie backs up 1 ft.

Please Note:  When either Charlie or Carface lands a punch, a starburst
appears on the screen.  Charlie's punches are represented by one
starburst color and Carface's punches are represented by another.

In order to win the fight, Charlie must push Carface off the deck of
the ship and into the water where King Gator hungrily awaits.  If
Charlie is pushed off the screen, the game is restarted.

Levels of Play

Novice: Charlie must fight Carface on one level of the ship.  Expert:
Charlie must fight Carface on two levels of the ship.  Champion: Charlie
must fight Carface on three levels of the ship.

Controls

Right Arrow or Joystick Right Enables Charlie to walk forward.
Up Arrow or Joystick Up Enables Charlie to deliver a punch.
Down Arrow or Joystick Down Enables Charlie to growl.

Junkyard Jigsaw

Charlie's home, a cab in the middle of the junkyard, has just been
ravaged by some of Carface's thugs.  Charlie needs your help to rebuild
his home.  Pieces are scattered everywhere, so much so that it's kind
of like a jigsaw puzzle.  All we have is a picture of the way Charlie's
home used to look.  Try to reconstruct Charlie's junkyard home so he
can continue his adventure.

The Challenge

Piece together a portrait of Charlie's not-so-beautiful junkyard home.
The amount of help a game player may receive is determined by the
level of play he or she has selected.  If a puzzle piece is placed
incorrectly, the player will hear a beep.

Levels of Play

Novice: The finished picture is displayed initially and may be
redisplayed when the player presses the Space Bar or Joystick Button 2.
Expert: The finished picture is displayed initially but is not
redisplayed.  Champion: The finished picture is never displayed.

Controls

Up Arrow or Joystick Up Displays the remaining puzzle pieces, cycling
forward.
Down Arrow or Joystick Down Displays the remaining pieces, cycling
backward.
Space Bar or Joystick Button 2 Removes or redisplays the selection box
in order to display the entire puzzle board.
Enter (Return) or Joystick Button 1 Selects a puzzle piece from the
selection box.

Placement of Pieces

Space Bar or Joystick Button 2 Redisplays the puzzle picture (Novice
level only).
Arrow Keys or Joystick Moves a puzzle piece around the puzzle board.

+ Key Toggles Up/Down Arrow Keys or Joystick Up/Down to move a puzzle
piece up or down in rapid mode.  (Pressing the + Key a second time
returns Up/Down Arrow Keys or Joystick Up/Down to normal mode.)

Please Note: Up/Down Arrow Keys or Joystick Up/Down should be switched
to normal mode when preparing to connect a puzzle piece with other pieces
on the board.

- (Minus) Key Returns the current puzzle piece to the selection box.
Enter (Return) or Joystick Button 1 Connects a puzzle piece with other
pieces on the puzzle board.

Controls

Same as above except for the following keys:

I Key or Joystick Up Displays the remaining puzzle pieces, cycling forward.
M Key or Joystick Down Displays the remaining pieces, cycling backward.
I, J, K, M Keys or Joystick Moves a puzzle piece around the puzzle board.




P A R A N O I M I A   brought you this great game and it's complete manual...

Imported by Midnight Maniac & Mayday of Trilogy
