			ALTERNATE REALITY: THE CITY

			   GUIDEBOOK TO THE CITY

Welcome to The City of Xebec's Demise. Read this Guidebook before entering; it
gives vital pointers to help you survive.  The separate Reference Card gives
instructions for using your computer to enter Alternate Reality.

A Map of The City is included in your package. The Floating Gate in the center
of the Map is surrounded by Granite Bank, Best Bargin Store, Best Armourers,
and Tail of the Dog Tavern. Use this as a base for exploring and mapping the
rest of The City. Also enclosed is an artist's rendering of major City sites
that may be useful in your mapping efforts.

There are many establishments in The City. This list will help you in your
travels: 15 shops; 7 inns' 14 taverns; 3 banks; 4 smithies; 2 healers; and 12
guilds. The City game doesn't allow you to interact with Weapons Trainers and
some other institutions. Also, you'll discover entrances that require the use
of a disk you don't yet have. Alternate Reality - The City is designed to be
expanded. Future additions include The Dungeon, The Arena, The Palace, The
Wilderness, Revelation, and Destiny.

In addition to the game, you need a blank disk to use as a Character Disk.
Without a Character Disk you can't save the game.

You're kidnapped by an alien spaceship and find yourself in a room with only
one exit. Through this doorway you see The City of Xebec's Demise. An energy
field moves across the opening. Overhead is a panel with constantly changing
numbers. The moment you step through the door, the numbers freeze. This sets
your levels of Stamina, Charm, Strength, Intelligence, Wisdom, Skill, Hit
Points, and Wealth. The higher these beginning Stats, the better your chances
of surviving in The City.

During the first few days, you're extremely vulnerable to foul play (of which
there is an annoying amount). The safest area is near the Floating Gate. Of
course, safety isn't your only consideration; there are benefits to discover in
the more dangerous locales (cheaper food and lodging, better treasurer,
etcetera).

Keep a low profile until you're familiar with the ways of The City. And, avoid
Encounters with life forms that are obviously superior (don't tease a Wizard
during these early days!)  NOTE: Save games and backup your Character Disk
regularly.

Once you're familiar with The City Square (the area marked on the enclosed
Map), it's time to be more daring and explore further afield.

The object of your sojourn in The City is to become oriented to Alternate
Reality, build your Stats, and become the sort of Adventurer who can survive
hardships, fight heroic battles, and solve the quests presented in The Dungeon
and subsequent adventures.

STATS - The values at the top of the screen shop off you know for certain about
your Character. Increasing them is crucial for your development. Stats are
increased by certain potions, by a first visit to any Guild, and by moving up a
Character Level. Charm, Strength, and Intelligence also improve with use.

	EXPERIENCE is gained through encounters with life forms in The City
(you start the game with Experience points and Character Level at 0). The more
encounters you survive, the more Experience points you gain. When Experience
builds to somewhere between 250 and 300, you move up a Character Level (all
your Stats influence how many Experience points you need). When you move up a
Character Level, you usually gain other Stat points as well. Each Charactere
Level requires twice as many Experience points as the one before.

	STAMINA is important if you're to survive.  This Stat determines your
health, endurance, and how long you can hold up in battle.

	CHARM determines how other life forms react to you. If you aren't
"charming" enough, you're more likely to be attacked without provocation.
Bribing an opponent is easier for a "charming" Character; and the battle tactic
of charming (an evil act - see Encounters) requires a great deal of Charm. The
more you use these tactice, the higher your Charm level becomes.

	STRENGTH is very advantageous when fighting. The stronger you are,
initially, the better, since you enter Encounters armed with noting but your
bare hands. Later, when you acquire Weapons, how well you're able to use them
depends on Strength (and Skill). Strength also determines the size and number
of objects you can carry. Fighting prolonged battles in whichyou're ultimately
the victor improves your Strength.

	SKILL helps you avoid blows from an adversary. It also helps in
wielding certain close-combat weapons during battle: Short Swords, Daggers,
Stillettoes, and the like.

	INTELLIGENCE enhances your Wisdom and is crucial for tricking your
enemies (see Encounters - this is an evil act). using your Intelligence helps
to increase it.

	WISDOM is for discernment. When you find a Treasure, Wisdom is the Stat
that helps you discover whether it's Cursed, Magical, or Mundane (see
Treasure). It's also important when you're trying to decide whether or not a
Potion is one you want to quaff (see Potions).

	HIT POINTS are very important: the move you have, the harder you are to
kill!  As you build Strength and Experience, you also build Hit Points.

You are closely monitored! Many things, including your personality, are
constantly being taken into account by the computer. But the Stats on the
screen don't tell the whole story.

	PHYSICAL SPEED - When you enter one Guild (discover which one for
yourself!), you are given an increase in Speed. That is the only time you'll
ever know exactly how hight this Stat is. Speed controls how fast and easily
you can escape undesired Encounters.

	MORAL JUDGEMENT - You enter The City with Neutral morality (neither
Good nor Evil). It's up to you to develop your personality. The City is
designed to be harder on Evil Characters than on Good ones (although, as in
"real" life, it's oven difficult to see the whole picture).
	Evil acts include things such as charming and tricking Good or Neutral
life forms, or attacking them with no provocation.
	To develop a Good Character, you must really be on your toes! Try to
avoid battles whenever you can, especially with Good life forms. Be careful
about which Guilds you join and what sorts of Spells you use. The straight and
narrow is not an easy path!

	TIME - A City year has twelve months, 30 days in each. There are 24
hours in a day, divided into 12 hours of darkness and 12 hours of light
(allowing for dusk and dawn). Each AR hour is equal to approximately 4 actual
minutes. However, when you're sleeping in an Inn, working, or attending classes
at a Guild, time passage is (thankfully) speeded up so you don't spend forever
waiting to wake up, finish work, or get out of school!

	WEATHER - Rain, cold, and heat can hit at any time in The City. The
weather can affect your Stats if you aren't dressed properly, so it's a wise
idea to ensure that you're adequately protected against the elements. If you
spend too much time in the rain, for example, without proper attire, a bad cold
could be the consequences! Heatstroke or a chill are other possible results of
bein unprepared. Being out in severe weather can make you tire more easily,
too; and heat definitely produces thurst!

	MAPPING - Use the 64 x 64 grid in the center of this manual for
building your Map of The City. It's a good idea to make photocopies of the grid
and keep the original intact (everyone makes mistakes!)
	If you look closely at The City's walls, you'll notice faint, vertical
lines, six "steps" apart. The distance between these lines corresponds to one
square on the grid.
	In the daytime, you can use the position of the sun to keep track of
which direction you're going. At night or when it's raining, you need a Compass
(see Compass).

	SECRET DOORS AND ONE-WAY WALLS - A Secret Door looks like a regular
wall, but you can walk through it (accomplanied by a whooshing noise and an odd
melody). One-Way Walls are visible on one side; you can pass through the
invisible side, but trying to go through the visible one will only prove
embarrasing!

	OBJECTS - How much you can carry depends on Strength and Stamina, plus
the size and weight of the items you're lugging. Check your inventory
occasionally to see how efficiently you're managing your objects. Otherwise,
you may be unpleasantly surprised when items your Stats don't allow for start
falling on the ground.
	You can drop objects at any time during gameplay (press D). Any item
you drop can be picked up again (press G), if it hasn't been stolen by Thieves
or whisked away by magic.
	Carrying objects is not the same as using them. Press U and follow the
prompts to use an item. This goes for absolutely anything you carry, except a
Compass (it's always in use, if you own it).
	Some objects are listed in your inventory permantly, whether you
actually possess them or not. If you aren't sure whether you own an item, try
to use it.

	CLOTHING - You enter The City with a minimum of clothing. Although this
arrangement is fine for hot summer afternoons, you could be in real trouble if
there's a sudden cooling trend or a rainstorm. Shops offer clothing in all
price ranges and weather-protection values. Use common sense in deciding which
items of clothing to buy.
	Aside from its advantages in protecting you from the elements, clothing
also has a "dapper" value. Some life forms you Encounter are influenced by the
style, fabric, or colour of what you wear.
	To wear an article of clothing, press U and follow the prompts.

	FOOD PACKETS AND WATER FLASKS - As you step through the portal into The
City, you see that you've been supplied with three Food Packets and three Water
Flasks. These are important staples as you will become hungry and thirsty in
your travels and may not always be near a Tavern.
	To use a Food Packet or Water Flask, press U and follow the prompts.
Replenish your stock at a convenient Tavern.

	COMPASS - This is the single most important item for a new Character to
own in The City. Without a Compass, it's very easy to get lost. As soon as you
enter The City, go to the nearest Shop (if it's closed, come back the instant
it's open). Tell the shopkeeper you aren't interested in his stock and he will
offer to sell you a Compass. Buy it!
	Once purchased, your Compass is displayed at the left of your screen.
The direction you're heading is always topmost on the Compass; the arrow always
points North.

	TREASURE - Treasure (found lying about or acquired after a successful
Encounter) takes many forms: Watches, Gems and Jewels, Money, Weapons and
Armour, and Portions. All Treasure, except Money, is potentially Magical or
Cursed. Magical items are usually very valuable; Cursed items can be a source
of great despair.

	WATCH - Usually, to find out the time, you must go into an Inn.
However, there will be occasions when you arn't near an Inn and could use a
good Watch.
	A watch is a precious commodity in The City; you can't buy it in a
Shop, but must find in in Treasure or after an Encounter. To use your Watch,
press U and follow the prompts.

	GEMS AND JEWELS - These valuable items aren't legal tender in The City,
but they can be exchanged for Money at any Bank. Some Banks offer more than
others (occasionally, Gems or Jewels are absolutely worthless).

	MONEY - Currency in The City is in Gold, Silver, and Coppers. One Gold
piece is worth 10 silvers; one Silver is worth 10 Coppers. naturally, carrying
your money in Gold and Silver is easier than carrying it all in Copers. When
you find yourself with more cash thatn you can easily tote, open a Bank
account. Just be sure to keep enough currency in your pocket for food and
lodging.

	WEAPONS AND ARMOUR - Even if you abhor violence, you need a Weapon for
self-defence and Armour for personal safety. Some creatures in The City will
attack you no matter how nice you are.
	There are three ways to acquire Weapons and Armour:
		1. Finding them after an Encounter.
		2. Finding them after uncovering a Treasure.
		3. Buying them from a Smithy.
	When you defeat an opponent in an Encounter, you won't always get the
Weapon he was fighting with or the Armour he was wearing. Often, they were
broken in battle, or were magical and simply disappeared!
	Always examine Weapons or Armour carefully before picking them up. The
more Intelligent and Wise you are, the easier it is for you to tell if these
Treasurer are Magical or Mundane (normal). Magical means they have special
properties: there're very valuable or thery're Cursed. Once you pick up a
Cursed item, you can't drop it; you need help to get rid of it (see Guilds).
	Weapons and Armour come in a variety of types. Any item's value in
battle is determined by many factors, including: the type of creature you're
fighting; whether or not your battle accoutrements are Magical; and your levels
of Strength and Skill.
	Armour comes in pieces that protect body parts: head (helmets, caps),
torso (breastplates, mail coats), legs (greaves), and arms (gauntlets). To use
Armour, youmust use each part specifically.
	Press U to use a Weapon or piece of Armour (follow the prompts).

	Here are a few points that will help you determint eh value of certain
armaments: A Longsword is a better Weapon than a Dagger; a Flamesword is the
most effective of any Sword; Shields come in all sizes and shapes, the Tower
Shield being the most defencive; any Mail offers more protection than Quilted
or Leather Armour; Plate Armour is more effective than Mail (Crystal Plate is
the strongest!).
	If, while carrying the maximum load, you find a Weapon you want, drop
one of the Weapons you already have in order to pick up the new one.
	Weapons, even Magical ones, can wear out or break. If you notice that a
formerly formidable Weapon is no longer doing the same job in Encounters, it's
probably time to discard it and find or buy another.

	POTIONS - Some Potions are beneficial in advancing your Character.
Others are just the opposite. When you find a Potion, examine it for colour.
For more information, taste, then sip it. Each sip or taste tells you a little
more about the Potion. You can then save the Portion for later or quaff it to
get it's full effect. CAUTION: Sipping a Potion can cause you to receive some
of the Potion's effects (though not as strongly as if you quaffed it). To use a
Potion you've saved for later, press U and follow prompts.
	Potions of Defusion or Drunkenness are two of the worst; they aren't
deadly, like Poisons, but they won't go away by themselves (many Potions are
time-limited). When you're under the effect of these Potions, you can't
navigate properly, your Stats aren't at all what they appear, and you're very
susceptible to being attacked by unfriendly life forms. Find a Healer!
	There are also Potions, such as Treasure-Finding and Invulnerability,
that make the Potion-taking risk truly worth the trouble. The effects of these
Potions usually wear off after awhile.

	EMPLOYMENT - Part-time jobs may be available to you (if you meet the
qualifications) at Inns, Taverns, and Banks. There is a mimimum wage (depending
on the job), but part-time workers do not receive any benefits or job secutity;
job availability, duration, and wages are all determined solely by the "boss."
You decide whether to accept or reject the job offer.
	Some jobs are more strenuous than others, but all result in some degree
of fatigue. There is also the risk of on-the-job injury (you may lose Hit
Points); danger is directly related to the type of work (and ther's no
Workman's Compensation!)
	BELLHOPS, JANITORS, AND DESK CLERKS are the jobs available at Inns. you
must have a certain level of Strength to work as a Bellhop. Stamina is
important for a Janitor's job, Charm for the Desk Clerk position.
	BOUNCERS, HOSTS AND DISKWASHERS are in demand at Taverns. Strength is
the main criteria for Bouncers, Hosts must have Charm, and a Diskwasher has to
have enough Skill to avoid breaking the glassware.
	GUARDS, FILE CLERKS, AND COIN ROLLERS are necessary at Banks. Bank jobs
pay more than any others, but they also have higher requirements. A Guard needs
both Strength and Stamina; a File Clerk needs high Intelligence as well as
Skill; and a Coin Roller must be skilled and honest (Evil Characters need not
apply).

	INNS - Inns offer lodging - for a price. They're also Time and Date
information centers. When you sleep in an Inn, you're offered several choices
of accommodations. The better the room, the faster you're likely to rebuild
lost Hit Points. You use up nourishment while sleeping, so be careful about
sleeping 'round-the-clock; it's humiliating for an adventurere to die in his
sleep!

	TAVERNS - When you buy food and beverage at a Tavern, you automatically
consume them. The exception is when you buy Food Packets and Water Flasks.
These must be used (press U) in order to be beneficial. It isn't necessary to
be in a Tavern to use Food Packets or Water Flasks.
	Make friends in Taverns by buying rounds of drinks afor the house.
Everytime you buy a round, you endear yourself further to the Tavernkeeper and
his customers. This comes in handy if you're broke and hungry and enter a
Tavern where you're known.
	Pay attention to food items you purchase. Some of them not only satisfy
your immediate hunger, but also add Food Packets to your inventory! If an item
you want (Food Packets, for example) isn't on the menu, come back in an hour
(AR time) after the menu changes.
	Taverns serve alcoholic beverages; but, as in real life, drink only in
moderation. If you're drunk, movement is hampered, manipulating screens is
difficult, and you can even black out! Find an Inn and sleep it off.

	BANKS - Banks offer inverstment plans for your money. The higher the
interest rate, the greater the risk. It's a good idea to spread your fortune
between the Banks and account types; don't put all your eggs in one basket!
	Banks are exchequers where you can sell Gems and Jewelry. But they have
regular hours; you can't do business in the middle of the night!

	SMITHIES - As you approach a Smithy, you may hear the Smith hammering
away on his aanvil. This helps if you're trying to find one of these
establishments that's hidden away in an obscure corner of The City.
	Smithies offer a variety of Weapons and Armour (these are never Magical
or Cursed and inventories change hourly, AR time). Prices 9and quality!) vary
greatly, so haggling is essential. However, don't be misled; the items for sale
in Smithies aren't the only Weapons in The City. Mny items you find after
Encounters or as Treasurers are not available in any Smithy.

	SHOPS - Enter a Shop and you're offered a menu of the shopkeeper's
wares. All manner of Clothing is available for sale. Try to bargain for a lower
price, but don't insult the shopkeeper or he will ask you to leave! Say NO when
he wants to show you his stock and he'll offer to sell you a Compass.
	If the Clothing you're looking for is not available, try another Shop.
Or, come back later; shopkeepers update their stock every AR hour (when you
aren't on the premises).

	GUILDS - The first time you enter a Guld, you're rewareded with
Character-enhancing knowledge. For a fee, any Guild will help you get rid of
Curses.
	You may also join a Guild, but they are very particular about accepting
new pledges. Don't expect to be welcomed as a member on your very first visit.
Each Guild has certain Stat and Character Level requirements for membership
candidates (these include the Stats at the top of the screen, as well as
Physical Speed, Moral Alignment, and other Stats that you can's see)
Requirements are different for every Guild.
	You can belong to as many Guilds as will accept you; membership is for
life.

	SPELLS - Once you're accepted into a Guild you're given the opportunity
to learn a Spell. You must attend classes on a specified number of consecutive
days in order to learn the Spell. These classes last 8 hours (AR time), so you
can become hungry, thirsty, and tired while learning. If you miss a day of
class, you have to make it up.
	Each Guild has a limited number of Spells that it can teach. The Guld
"director" selects which Spell you're allowed to learn and will never offer you
classes in a Spell that you already know. The quantity of items you're carrying
necessarily limits the number of Spells you can acquire.
	When you Cast a Spell, there's no quarantee it will work! The more you
use a particular Spell, the more your ability to use it increases (just as
Strength improves with fighting); the better you know the Spell, the more
likely it is to have an effect. Casting Spells makes you tired, so use them
with care. CAUTION: Spells can backfire and cause you to lose Hit Points.

	POISON - When poisoned, you sustein initial Hit Point and neuyrological
damage in line with the strength of the Poison. If you're lucky enough to find
a Potion that cures Poison, drink it! Otherwise, find a Healer right away! Your
Stats will continue to go down until you eventually die.
	There are four ways of being poisoned:
		1. Swallowing poisonous Potions;
		2. Being clawed by a poisonous creature;
		3. Being bitten by a poisonous creature;
		4. Being stung by a poisonous tail.

	DISEASE - Left untreated, Disease is almost always fatal. Contracting a
Disease results in Hit Point and neurological damage in line with the severity
of the infection (although, some Diseases don't show effects until several days
have passes - an incubation period). If you get a Disease, drink a Potion that
Cleanses or seek out a Healer. If you're clawed or bitten in an Encounter, find
a Healer to prevent possible infection.
	There are three ways to contract Disease:
		1. Contact with bacteria from Mold and Slime;
		2. Being clawed by a Diseased creature;
		3. Being bitten by a Diseased creature.

	ENCOUNTERS - It is common to Encouter other life forms. Some areas of
The City have a higher probability of Encounters than others. Also, Encounters
are more common at night and when it's raining than they are on sunny
afternoons.
	The five categories of Encounters are listed below, in the order most
favourable to you:
		1. You surprise a life form;
		2. You notice a life form (before it sees you);
		3. You see a life form (at the same time it sees you);
		4. You are notice by a life form (before you see it);
		5. You are surprised by a life form.

	In an Encounter you are given several options (do nothing at all and
you'll be attacked):
		1. Attack your opponent. You move offencively, while
maintaining a decent defence;
		2. Trick an opponent if you're Intelligent. You aren't prepared
for defence if a Trick fails; plus, it's an evil act if used against a Good or
Neutral life form;
		3. Charm an opponent if your Charm level is high (also an evil
act);
		4. Offer an item to a life form, if you have something he'll
accept. (a good act that may even save your life);
		5. Leave to get out of the Encounter. Sometmes, this is the
only solution;
		6. Lunge at your opponent; this is a two-handed blow that lands
with great force. If it fails, you have virtually no defence.

You may also (whether or no you're in an Encounter):
	C - Case a Spell (if you know any);
	D - Drop an item or check your inventory;
	G - Get an item you've dropped or discovered;
	U - Use an item or check your inventory;
	P - Pause the game (this suspends all time and activity - press any key
to continue);
	S - Save a game (follow the prompts).

	Tailor your Encounter strategy to fit your condition and the kind of
life form confronting you. It's easier to trick a Warrior than a Master Thief.
Don't expect to charm or trick mindless life forms; you's look pretty silly
trying to charm Mold!

	HEALERS - Healers can: Restore Sight (heal DRunkenness); Restore
Clarity (restore Defusions); Cleanse Poison; Diagnose Diseases; Cure Diseases;
and Heal Wounds (both Major and Minor);
	If you've been hit during an Encounter or become ill or poisoned, see a
Healer as soon as possible. There are some effects of Disease or Poison that
don't show up right away, so don't wait!
	Like doctors everywhere, Healers charge a fee for their services. The
prices usually go up on successive vists, but ther;s a way around this
inflation; Wait 24 hours (AR time) and return. The prices should go back down
to a reasonable level.
	Occasionally, you'll visit a Healer and discover that he isn't in! When
this happens, you just have to find The City's only other clinic, or wait until
the Healer comes back from his rounds.

	LIFE FORMS - There are many life forms in The City. Some are Good and
some are Evil. The good guys are usually out on the streets during daylight
hours and the evil ones at night and in the rain. The music accompanying the
appearance of a life form gives you a clue to its alignment: heavy, foreboding
music indicates an evil being; lighter, more cheerful sounds mean the Encounter
is of a friendlier nature.
	Below is a list of some of the beings you may Encounter in The City.

	PAUPERS have no amition or have met with some catastrophe that has put
them in dire straits.

	COMMONERS possess no special skills or distinctions. This is your class
when you enter The City.

	MERCHANTS work hard to keep The City's economy healthy. You usually see
these capitalist types on their way to or from wheeling-and-dealing.

	COURIERS deliver messages and parcels.

	GUARDS police The City. Don't cross them! If you're being attacked by
Guards, it probably means you've become evil.

	GLADIATORS fight in the Arena games.

	NOBLEMEN live in the Palace and are fond of Arena games. Rich and
powerful, theye're attended by private Guards when out in public.

	DWARVES	 resist many Poisons and Magic Spells, have excellent night
vision, and are terrific close-combat fighters.

	MAGES AND OTHER MAGICAL TYPES dwell in The City. Most are associated
with Guilds or other learning institutions. Acolytes, Novices, and Wizards
belong to this category.

	THIEVES	 take anything that isn't nailed down! They abound in The City
and each has his own criminal specialty (Muggers, Cutthroats, etc.)

	ASSASINS strike swiftly, without warning. One blow can be the end of
even the strongest Character.

	GIANT RATS AND WOLVES carry Rabies and love to share it by biting and
clawing you.

	BROWN MOLD AND BLACK SLIME leave you with horrible Diseases that are
neither diagnosed nor cured easily.

	IMPS lash out with long, dagger-like, poisonous tails. They're nasty
creatures; avoid them!

	DRAGONS attack with claws and flame.  There are Blue Dragons and Green
Dragons, small and large. They usually can't be defeated with ordinary Weapons,
so use caution!

	WRAITHS, GHOSTS, SPECTRES, AND ZOMBIES hover menacingly. They're Evil
creatures that require a stout heart in any adventurer who Encounters them.

	NIGHT STALKER is a legendary creature of the night. It's an extremely
powerful beast that no one can be sure doesn't exist.


			     AMIGA REFERENCE CARD

IMPORTANT: It's crucial to read the enclosed Guidebook before playing the game.

REQUIREMENTS:
	Amiga computer (512K)		Blank disk (Character Disk)
	TV or video monitor		The City game disk
	Mouse or Joystick (optional)	Kickstart (version 1.2 or later:
					only necessary with Amiga 1000)

NOTE: Make sure the game disk is Write Protected. Do not Write Protect your
Character Disk.

			CREATING A CHARACTER DISK

	Use the Amiga Workbench to initialize a disk to use as a Character Disk
(follow the instructions in your Introduction to Amiga manual for initializing
disks). When you create your Character Disk, name it ARCHAR. You can save up to
eight Characters on a Character Disk, but can only play with one at a time.

			    GETTING STARTED

	Turn on the computer and TV or monitor (if prompted, insert Kickstart
1.2 at this point). When you're prompted to insert a Workbench disk into the
drive, insert Disk 1 of The City. The game loads automatically.

	NOTE TO AMIGA 1000 USERS: Kickstart MUST be installed in your computer
before you can load The City.

	Once you're familiar with the opening sequence, you can press any key
to bypass it and go directly to the Character Decision Menu.

			CHARCTER DECISION MENU

	The Character Decision Menu offers four options:

	Hit N to become a New Character
	Hit E to resume and Existing one
	Hit T for a Temporary Character.

	PRESS N TO CREATE A NEW CHARACTER. If you wish to keep this Character,
you must have a formatted disk ready with fewer than 8 Characters saved on it.
As prompted, type a Character name (up to 31 letters) and Press RETURN. Followe
the prompts until you're at the portal to enter The City.

	PRESS T FOR A TEMPORARY CHARACTER. Follow the prompts, pressing RETURN
after each reponse. You can't save this Character, but it's useful for getting
into The City quickly to look around and get the feel of the game. You don't
need a Character Disk for a Temporary Character.

	PRESS E TO RESUME AN EXISTING CHARACTER FROM A PREVIOUS VENTURE INTO
THE CITY. Type the Character number (1-8) corresponding to the name you're
using. Follow the prompts.

IF YOU MAKE A WRONG SELECTION FROM THE CHARACTER DECISION MENU OR AN ERROR WHEN
TYPING A CHARACTER'S NAME, press the ESC key.

			TO ENTER THE PORTAL

After you've created a new Character, you're taken to The City's portal. To
enter, press the SPACE BAR (this sets yours Stats).

			TO SAVE A CHARACTER

Save your Character when you're ready to stop playing or when you've built it
up to a level you want to keep (you can save up to eight Characters on a
Character Disk). Press S and follow the prompts. If you don't save your
Character to disk, you'll lose it when you turn off the computer.

To resume play with a saved Character, reload The City and select E at the
Character Decision Menu.

			     BACKING UP

After saving, take time to make a backup copy of your Character Disk. You can
do either a disk copy or a file copy (see your Introduction to Amiga manual),
but make sure the backup disk is named ARCHAR.

			      COMPASS

Finding your way around is simplified by using a compass, available for
purchase at Shops in The City. Say NO when a shopkeeper asks if you want to see
his wares. He then offers to sell you a compass. Once purchased, the compass
appears at the left of your screen. The direction you're heading is always
topmost on the compass and the arrow always points North.

				MOUSE CONTROL

At the right of the screen there are four large arrows. The left and right
arrows are for turning left or right; the top and bottom arrows are for moving
forward and backward. Move the Mouse cursor to an arrow and press either
button. This highlights the arrow and you move or turn in the direction it's
pointing. You can use the Mouse to enter Shops, Banks, and other
establishments, but you must use the down Arrow key or a Joystick to exit (see
below).

			JOYSTICK AND KEYBOARD CONTROL

Use a Joystick for quick movement through The City. Push up on the Joystick to
move forward, pull back to move backward; move the joystick left or right to
turn left or right.

Movement via the Keyboard is accomplished using the Arrow keys for movement;
the up Arrow moves you forward, the down Arrow moves you bakcward, the left and
right Arrow turn you left or right.

Whenever you move in any direction using either a Joystick or the Keyboard, the
large arrow at the right of the screen 9correponding to the direction you're
going) is highlighted.

To enter a Shop, Bank, or other establishment, push up on the Joystick or press
the up Arrow key. Pull back on the Joystick or press the down Arrow to exit.

You also use the Keyboard to interact with businesses, review and position your
belongings, and during Encounter.

	In a business or during an Encounter, a menu at the bottom of the
screen displays your options. Each option has a flashing number or letter. To
choose, press the appropriate flashing character.

	Press the < (back) and > (forward) keys to get a full account of your
condition. These keys cycle through all the menus describing your wealth,
weapons, armour, magic, etc.

	Some commands you need aren't shown on any menu (press ? to get a list
of these commands at any time during the game):

	C - Cast a Spell (you cn't cast Spellin in the Inn);
	D - Drop an item or check your Inventory;
	G - Get an item you've dropped or discovered;
	U - Use an item or check your inventory;
	W - Switch Primary and Secondary Weapons;
	P - Pause the game (press any key to continue);
	S - Save the game (you can't save games during Encounters).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Alternate Reality: The City docs are brought to you by The Southern Star.
