The Amazing Spider-Man and Captain America 
in Dr. Doom’s Revenge 
Brought to you by Belgarath

INTRODUCTION 

Dear Mighty Marvel Computer Whiz: 

Zoom back in time, in your imagination, to the early days of World 
War II. America needed a hero to inspire us in the fight  against Nazi 
tyranny-and it got one! His name was Steve Rogers, but the world
knew him as the star-spangled sentine! of liberty, Captain America!

Now, rocket ahead twenty-two years to 1963, when a shy high-school
student was bitten by a radioactive spider. His name was Peter Parker.
but he gained world-wide fame as the wall-crawling, web-swinging,
wise-cracking Amazing Spider-Man!

Since those early days, these death-defying national icons, Captain
America and Spider-Man, have become two of the most exciting
and admired superheroes of ail. 

Comicbooks have evoived rapidly during the last fifty years, from 
the comicbook itself, to cartoons, television series, full-length motion 
pictures, and finally to entertainment software for the home 
computer. At the same time, the audience for the comicbook heroes
has grown by leaps and bounds. Just think, when Captain America
first appeared in the late  ’30s.  computers didn’t even exist! Even in 
the early ’60s. when Spidey exploded upon the scene, computers as
we know them were still in their infancy! 

But the times they are a’changin’! Today, in the high-tech world of 
1989, the computer has become an  indispensible  tool for education, 
finance, communication, correspondence, and of course   - 
entertainment. The entertainment software industry is burgeoning as
new and more innovative concepts are created daily, and more
and more computers are introduced into the home.

Always on the cutting edge of the future, mighty Marvel Comics is
proud to join this new, exciting field of entertainment software with
SPIDER-MAN AND CAPTAIN   AMERICA  IN DR. DOOM’S REVENGE,  a 
challenging and sophisticated new game developed by Paragon
Software Corporation. 

Just think! An original Marvel comicbook sets the stage for the 
incredible adventure to follow. The game itself becomes an 
interactive comicbook, continuing where the original illustrated saga
ends! So instead of just reading a comicbook panel, you can control 
the fate of Spidey and Cap as they face some of the most  spine- 
tingling, challenging arcade sequences ever created!

You will help your two colorful Super-Heroes in their life-and-death
struggle against some of the most powerful and destructive  Super- 
Villains of all, including Batroc, Machete, The Hobgoblin, Oddball 
and other equally fearsome foes! 

You’ll discover full-screen color graphics. lightning-fast animation and 
awesomely realistic sound as you face one of  the  most challenging 
and thrill-packed games ever created.

Best of all. with the development of this first interactive comicbook
adventure, the entire Super-Hero concept has taken a giant step
forward. Just imagine battling shoulder-to-shoulder with Spidey and 
Cap as you actually participate in adventures that, up till now, you 
were only able to read about! 

So, dare to accept the challenge of a lifetime and join forces with 
your bullpen buddies and Paragon Software as we prepare to take
the Marvel Comics Universe into the Twenty-First Century! Think of
the wonderment that lies ahead! 

Excelsior! 

Stan Lee 

BACKGROUND

The sinister Dr. Victor Von Doom, monarch of Latveria. has
masterminded and executed the theft of a US nuclear
missile. Doom plans to launch the warhead at New York
City if the United States does not surrender and become a
colony of Latveria. The President and his cabinet, realizing
the imminent catastrophe ahead, call upon the aid of
Captain America and The Amazing Spider-Man to thwart
Doom’s twisted plot of revenge. Spidey and Cap set out
for Latveria to stop the launch of the warhead and
apprehend the evil Dr. Doom.

Only the most skilled and powerful Super-Heroes could survive such
a test. Doom has recruited some of the mightiest and most dangerous
Super-Villains of all time to guard the castle complex. Batroc.
Machete, Rattan, Boomerang, Oddball, Grey Gargoyle, Eduardo
Lobo, Electra, and Rhino have all become pawns in Doom’s immoral
scheme. Upon arriving at the castle complex, Spidey sets
out to stop the launch of the missile while Cap plans to
battle and apprehend Dr. Doom,

YOU must become a Super-Hero and assume the identities
of both Spider-Man and Captain America as they face the
treacherous villains, hidden traps and deadly obstacles
contained in Dr. Doom’s mysterious fortress. You'll need fast
reflexes and quick decision-making skills to succeed on your
journey. In the numerous arcade-style
challenges contained within the onscreen
comicbook pages, you control
the destiny of Spidey and Cup and the
fate of New York City.

Can you thwart the launch of the missile
and save New York City from
destruction? Can you seize Dr. Doom
and banish him forever to a life of
imprisonment? Can you display the skill
and character needed to become a true Super-Hero? Prepare to
find out in SPIDER-MAN AND CAPTAIN AMERICA IN DR. DOOM’S REVENGE!


GAME PLAY 

Getting Started

Before you can embark on your journey to seize the sinister Dr. Doom
and save New York City, you must   follow  the specific loading 
instructions for your personal computer that appear on the Reference
Card The Reference Card also contains   all of the keyboard and 
joystick commands and game play options for your particular 
computer.

When the game boots up, you will be asked a series of questions 
pertaining to game play areas such as joystick and graphic options 
as weii as what difficulty mode you wish to play (Beginner. Hero, Super- 
Hero).

In addition, a question concerning a Super-Villain in the game is
displayed. You will need to read the Biographies of Key Characters
section of the manual to answer the question and proceed to the
Title Screen. 

Spider-Man and Captain America in   Dr. Doom’s Revenge is, in The   Object of the 
essence, a live interactive comic book adventure where the game Game 
player assumes the identities of both Spider-Man and Captain   
America as they battle their way through the castle complex of the 
evi! Dr. Doom. The game begins where the actual comic book saga
ends, Spidey sets out to prevent the launch of the missile, while Cap 
journeys toward Doom’s inner sanctum in an effort to seize the evil 
monarch.

At the beginning of the game, a comic page, similar to the ones in
the actual comic book, appears on the computer screen. This first 
comic page   follows  the adventures of Captain America. You will 

notice that an icon in the shape of Captain America’s hand is pointing 

on the first comic panel. After reading the panel press any key or 
press the joystick button. Captain America’s hand will move toward
the second comic  panel. You  will notice that Cap’s hand changes 
to a halt or stop motion. When the hand is in this
position, you are thrust  into  the comic book panel. 
Here, you must control the actions of Captain 
America, and face whatever opponents or 
obstacles that stand in his way in exciting, fast paced 
arcade challenges.

After the arcade challenge has been successfully
completed, the scene fades back to the comic
book page where Cap’s pointing finger progresses
to the next panel  and another arcade  challenae 
awaits. After the entire  Captain America comic page is  completed, 
a new comic page foliowing the adventures of Spider-Man appears. 
Once again, Spidey’s pointing finger leads you through the arcade 
challenges of the comic page. When Spidey’s page has been 
successfully  completed, a new Captain America page appears with 
all new opponents, obstacles and challenges. The Captain America
and Spider-Man computer comic pages alternate until the  Super- 
Heroes have successfully seized Doom and thwarted the launch of
the missile, or met with ultimate defeat. 

Remember, when Spidey and Cap’s hands are pointing on a comic
panel, it means that this panel can simply be read before progressing 
forward. However, if the hand is in a halt or stop position, you must 
press any key to enter the panel,  control that particular Super-Hero 
and face the arcade challenges that await. 

The arcade challenges vary greatly. You may find yourself battling 
Doom’s robots or fearsome henchmen including  Rhino, Batroc. 
Oddball, The Hobgoblin and more. Traps, hazards and obstacles will
also be present. These unique obstacle challenges require strategy. 
alertness and quick thinking to survive. Be on the lookout at all times!
Doom is a devious mastermind with many tricks and surprises up his 
sleeve. You never know what you’ll come across, or who you will 
encounter in Doom’s castle complex.

Below the arcade sequences you will notice a graphic representation
of Spidey or Cap’s character as well as their opponent or obstacle.
A health bar appears below each graphic picture. This health bar
indicates the amount of health for Spidey or Cap and the particular 
opponent or obstacle being faced. The health bar will decrease with The  Object of the 
each blow of damage scored. When the health bar runs out, Cap Game (continued) 
and Spidey will be unable to continue and the mission will end with
Doom victorious. Likewise, when an opponent’s health bar runs out, they
will be defeated. apprehended and helpless.

To emerge victorious on your mission. 
you will have to successfully lead 
Spidey to the missile silo where he 
must prevent the launch of the 
deadly warhead. In addition, you 
must guide Cap to Doom’s private 
quarters where he must defeat and apprehend the King of Latveria. 

You may find it enjoyable to play the game  with  a friend. One person 
could take the role of Captain America while the other assumes the 
identity of Spider-Man. Each person would play a full page before 
passing control over to the otter. 

Game Play Modes

At the beginning of the game, the player chooses one of three Game  Play Modes: 
progressive skill levels. If the player is fortunate enough to succeed
at one level, he can progress to a more difficult skill level for a whole
new challenge! The three skill levels are: 

A) Beginner 
B) Hero 
C)  Super-Hero 

The Beginner  mode is the easiest of the three. It features less ferocious 
attacks from opponents and easier obstacles. Less damage is caused 
from combat and fewer objects are thrown at the player’s character. 
During the Hero and Super-Hero mode, game play becomes 
progressively more difficult, with faster and more damaging attacks 
by foes, and more deadly objects hurled. In addition, obstacles 
encountered will be far more difficult and will require more strategy
and quick thinking to survive.

A warning to those who attempt the Super-Hero mode  -  you may 
indeed need superhuman powers to succeed on this  level!  Take our 
word  for it  ...  it’s a killer! 

Cap and Spidey’s Combat Moves

Spider-Man and Captain America’s combat moves are different and 
Combat Moves unique. Combat moves  are  determined by the distance Spidey and 
Cap are from an  opponent  or obstacle. These distances are: 

A)  Close to an opponent or obstacle 

B)   Mid-distance from an opponent or obstacle 

C)  Far-distance from an opponent or  obstacle 

Some moves are consistent no matter what distance you remain from
your foe. Combat moves are executed using a convenient and
simple user interface. Your Hero’s combat moves are listed below 
(see reference card for specific keyboard and joystick controls): 

Captain America 
From all distances: 
. Walk Left
. Walk Right
. Vertical Leap 
. Duck 
. Forward Leap 
. Backward Somersault 
. Turn Around/Change Directions 

Close distance from opponent: 
. High Attack: Mighty Shield Punch to the head 
. Midsection Attack: Mighty Shield Punch to the body 
. Low Attack: The Commando Low Kick 

Mid-distance from opponent: 
. High Attack: Star-Spangled Leaping Kick 
. Midsection Attack: The Corporal K.O. Lunging Wallop 
. Low Attack: Power-Packed Low  Shield Toss 

Far distance from opponent: 
. High Attack: Destructive Mighty Shield Hurl 
. Midsection Attack: Destructive Mighty Shield Hurl 
. Low Attack: Power-Packed Low Shield Toss 

The Amazing Spider-Man
From all distances: 
. Walk Left 
. Walk Right 
. Vertical Leap 
. Duck 
. Backward “Spidey” Flip 
. Forward “Spidey” Flip 
. Turn Around/Change Direction 

Close distance from opponent: 
. High Attack: Jawcrusher Blow 
. Midsection Attack: Rib-breaker Strike
. Low Attack: Crippling Low Kick 

Mid-distance from opponent: 
. High Attack:  Black Widow Tomahawk Kick 
. Midsection Attack: Lunging   “Spidey” Kick 
. Low Attack: Whirling Low Web Shot 

Far distance from opponent: 
. High Attack: Dynamic High Web Shot 
. Midsection Attack: Dynamic High Web Shot 
. Low Attack: Whiriing Low Web Shot 

Opponents and Obstacles
Captain America and Spider-Man face a wide variety of opponents, Opponents and 
obstacles  and hazards. Their opponents are some of the most Obstacles 
treacherous and feared Super-Villains of all time. Each opponent has 
his own unique combat moves, specialized weapons, and fighting 
style. This list showseach opponent’s most devastating combat move 
or weapon Success depends upon defending against these attacks, 

. Batroc - Leaping Jump Side Kick 
. Boomerang   - Detonating “Shatterang” Heave 
. Dr. Doom  - Optical Laser Blasters 
. Electra Electrifying Lightning Bolt Hurl 
. Robotic Gorilla  - Atomic Piledriver 
. Grey Gargoyle  - Stone Casting Right  Hand...Beware!! 
. Hobgoblin  - Exploding Pumpkin Bomb Toss 
. Machete  - Slashing Saw Blade Pitch 
. Eduardo Lobo Severing Claw Thrust 
. Oddball  - Plunging Acrobatic Grenade Drop 
. Rattan  - “Noggin Knocker” Stick Bash 
. Rhino The Impaling Freight Train Thrust 

Doom,  a master of robotics, has also created several robot troops 
and robotic devices to guard his vast complex. Beware of Doom’s
robot guards who are armed with destructive laser blasts. You will be
sure to encounter a number of them on your adventure!

Also, Doom has clever obstacles planned for anyone heroic (or 
foolish) enough to invade his fortress. Always be on the lookout! Doom 
is a twisted criminal mastermind with many tricks and gimmicks in his 
grab bag of evil! It’s  time to embark on your perilous journey. 

GOOD LUCK Would-Be Super-Hero! 

SPIDER-MAN 

Real Name:  Peter Parker 
Occupation:  Freelance  Photographer. Adventurer 
Legal Status: Citizen of the U.S. with no criminal record
Place  of Birth: New York City 
Height: 5’10 
Weight: 165  Ibs. 
Eyes:  Hazel 
Hair: Brown 
Strength  Level: Superhuman  strength.  Can  lift  10 tons. 
Superhuman Powers:  Spider-Man possesses  superhuman  strength and 
equilibrium.  He con  cause  parts of hi  body to stick to most surfaces. 
Spider-Man also possesses   a  subconscious   premonitional  danger 
warning  called the “spider-sense.” 
Weapons:  Web shooters worn on his wrists. 
History:  Peter Parker.  alias   The Amazing  Spider-Man   was orphaned  at 
the age  of six when his  parents  were killed in  a plane crash overseas 
He  was raised by his aunt  and uncle. Ben and May Porker. ii) Forrest 
Hills. New York. The shy  and introverted  Parker   was  a bright honors 
student. but  a  social  outcast. One evening Porker  was bitten by  a 
massively irradiated house  spider ot o  public exhibition  demonstrating 
the safe handling of  nuclear  laboratory  waste materials. Porker left 
the exhibition ond soon discovered he hod superhuman  "spider”   abilities 
that could be directly trocedfo the spider bite.
The Young Porker sow his newfound obilifies  as  a method to become 
rich and famous. He  showcased  his new powers  at a highly publicized 
wrestling challenge match where, as a masked grappler, he  easily upset 
the mighty and undefeated wrestler. A television  talent   agent  took 
notice of Peter at the match and offered  him  a segment  as  a stunt 
performer on  a network variety show. Porker  accepted  the offer, 
designed  a spectacular costume. invented  a web  shooting  device, 
and took on the identity of The Amazing  Spider-Man  for his television 
debut. His first  television  appearance  was marked with great success 
and The Amazing Spider-Man become an  instant medic  sensation.  A 
new show business  career  was underway for Peter Porker!  Just after 
the conclusion of the television show,  a  burglar  being pursued by  a 
security guard  ran by Parker. who failed to stop him from  escaping. 
When queried by the  security guard.  Parker arrogantly  stated thot he 
was  a "star"  and it  wasn’t  his job to chose criminals. 
Sadly,  a few  days later. Peter’s beloved Uncle Ben was murdered by 
on  intruder  in his home. A distraught Peter,   as Spider-Man. tracked down 
and easily  captured  the murderer. To his shock and honor, Peter 
recognized the   killer  as the some  man he  failed to stop at the television 
studio. Filled with guilt  and remorse. Peter Porker  decided  to use his 
special powers to fight crime. He  currently  earns a living for himself ond 
his Aunt May  as  a freelance photographer for  a large metropolitan 
newspaper. The Daily Bugle. 

CAPTAIN AMERICA 

Real Name:  Steve Rogers 
Occupation: Freelance  artist, crimefighter 
Legal  Status: Citizen of The U.S. with no criminal record 
Place of Birth: New  York  City 
Height: 6’3” 
Weight: 240  Ibs. 
Eyes: Blue
Hair: Blond 
Strength Level: Although not superhuman, Captain America is  as strong 
as  a human  can be,   He can  press  over  600 pounds. 
Known Superhuman  Powers:  None. However. he has speed, strength. 
agility, endurance. and reaction time superior to that of  tiny   normal 
man. He is  also a master  of many forms of hand-to-hand combat. 
Weapons: Indestructible.   impenetrable   adamantium  shield with 
astounding aerodynamic properties.
History:  Steve Rogers  was born during  the great depression and grew 
up a frail and  underdeveloped  youth in  a poor family. Angered by  the 
Nazi effort in Europe. Rogers enlisted in the army but  was rejected due 
to  his weak and frail physique.  Overhearing  his pleas to be accepted, 
a high ranking  General offered Rogers the  opportunity  to take  part in o 
special  experiment...Operation  Rebirth. Rogers agreed and was taken 
to  a  laboratory  in Washington.  D.C. There. he was administered  the 
Super-Soldier formula and exposed to “vita-rays.” 
Rogers emerged from the ‘vita-ray”  chamber  with the perfect human 
body. A Nazi spy, who witnessed the astounding   transformation, 
murdered the  creator of the formula before he  had the opportunity to 
write down the components. thereby   leaving  Rogers the sole 
beneficiary of the formula. 
Rogers was trained extensively by the government in hand-to-hand 
combat. gymnastics. and military strategy. He  was presented with  a 
red. white.  and blue  uniform and hailed as Captain America. All during 
the  war, he served  as both  a symbol of freedom and  America’s  most 
efficient  Special Agent. 

DOCTOR DOOM 

Real Name: Victor  Van Doom 
Occupation: Monarch
Legal  Status: King of Latveria 
Place of Birth: Gypsy camp outside of  Hoasenstadt  (now Doomstadt). 
Latveria 
Height: 6’ 2” (with  armor 6’7”) 
Weight 225  Ibs.  (with  armor 415 Ibs.) 
Eyes: Brown
Hair: Brown
Strength Level: Without his  armor,  Doom possesses the strength of  a 
normal man of his age. height, and  build who engages in regular 
exercise. Doom’s armored suit contains an electric  endo-skeleton  which 
enables Doom to lift approximately  two tons. 
Superhuman Powers: When armored. Doom  has superhuman  strength, 
In  addition,  Doom can  physically  transfer  his  consciousness  into the body 
of another human being. and transfer his victim’s  consciousness  into his 
own  body in exchange  Doom  is also one of the  Earth’s greatest scientific 
geniuses in fields such as robotics.  trans-Einsteinian  physics. genetic 
engineering and weapons technology. Also, Doom has  a limited degree 
of  mystical knowledge and is  able to utilize objects of  occult power. 
Weapons: Nuclear-powered, micro-computer enhanced   suit of iron 
armor with various built-in weapons, Doom has also created an  army 
of semi-humanoid robots who guard his castle complex.
History: Victor Von Doom   was  born to Werner Von Doom. a gypsy healer. 
and  Cynthia  Von Doom. an accused witch. While still a child. both of 
his  parents  died under strange circumstances.  and Doom vowed to 
make the entire world  pay for the loss of his parents. 
As a young man. Doom  discovered  a chest,  left to him by his mother, 
which contained herbs. medicines. and objects said to  have mystic 
powers. During this time, Doom  began developing his powerful scientific 
abilities. For several years, he traveled the countryside peddling clever
devices and potions to the gullible.
The Dean of Science at State University in the United States learned of 
Doom’s extensive knowledge and offered him a  full scholarship.  There, 
Doom met Reed Richards. another   brilliant science student   who  became 
his intense  rival. An explosion in the science lab scarred Doom’s face. 
and he bitterly blamed Richards for the accident. Richards. the founding 
member of The Fantastic Four. remains an archenemy of Doom  today, 
Doom left the University and traveled to Tibet where he studied Oriental 
sorcery with a sect of monks who assisted Doom in creating a suit of
armor and a metal mask As the armored Dr. Doom. he planned to
conquer the world.  in on urgent rush to  begin  his quest for  world 
domination, Doom donned his new mask before  it  hod completely 
cooled. thereby disfiguring his entire face. 
He left Tibet and returned to  Latveria where he toppled the existing 
monarchy and established  himself as dictator.  Doom  remains in Latveria 
today  where he  plans his hell-bent ambitions of  global command. 

SPIDER-MAN’S VILLAINS 

EDUARDO LOBO

Real Name: Eduardo Lobo
Occupation: Professional Criminal, leader of criminal
organization
Legal Status: Citizen of Mexico: no known criminal record
Place of Birth: An unidentified village in Mexico
Height: 6’ 2"
Weight: 200 Ibs.
Eyes: Brown (as werewolf, red)
Hair: Black (as werewolf. grey)
Strength Level: Eduardo normally possesses the strength
of a man of his age. height. and build who exercises
regularly. In werewolf form, Lobo possesses superhuman
strength, enabling him to lift (press) ten tons.
Superhuman Powers: Eduardo Lobo is able to transform
himself into a humanoid wolf under a full moon. He reverts
to human form at down. As a werewolf. Lobo possesses
superhuman strength. agility. night sight, hearing and
smelling ability Unfortunately. his Intelligence is reduced
to that of a wolf, dominated by animalistic bloodlust.
Weapons: Razor sharp claws
History: Eduardo and his brother Corlos grew up in a poor
Mexiccn village. They resorted to stealing in order to
survive. At 17, Eduardo fell in love with Bonito. a high-born
young girl whose brothers tried to stop the romance In a
fit of rage. Eduardo transformed into a werewolf and killed
the brothers. Unfortunately. in his uncontrollable frenzy.
he also killed Bonita. Deeply distressed. Eduardo and his
brother, also a werewolf, left Mexico and started a
criminal organization based in New York City.

GREY GARGOYLE
Real Name: Paul Pierre Duval
Occupation: Former chemist, now professional criminal
Legal Status: Citizen of France with a criminal record
Place of Birth: Fontainebleau. France
Height: 5' 11"
Weight: 175 tbs. (as stone. 750 1bs.)
Eyes: Blue
Hair: Brown
Strength Level: The Grey Gargoyle possesses
superhuman strength when fully transformed to stone.
He is able to press 11 tons. Normally. he has the strength
of a typical man of his age. height, and build who
engages in regular exercise.
Superhuman Powers: The Grey Gargoyle possesses t h e
ability to transform the substance of a n y organic or
inorganic object to an immovable. granite-like rock
substance by touching it with his permanently
transformed right hand. His transformations last an hour.
after which the objects return to their normal state,
History: Paul Duval was a Young chemist in Paris when
he accidentally spilled a potion contaminated by some
unknown organic substance on his right hand. To his
surprise. his hand turned to stone. but was still capable
of movement. He soon learned he could transform his
entire body to stone while still retaining his reflexes and
movement. Further, he discovered that everything he
touched with his right hand turned to Immovable stone,
Taking the name Grey Gargoyle. he decided to use this
power for personal gain and become a master thief.

MACHETE 

Real Name:  Ferdinand  Lopez 
Occupation: Former  revolutionary,  now mercenary 
Legal Status: Citizen of San Diablo  with no criminal  record 
Place  of Birth: Son Diablo 
Height:  6’ 2” 
Weight 200  lbs. 
Eyes:  Blue 
Hair: Black
Strength Level:  That  of an athlete of  his age. height, and 
build. 
Superhuman Powers: None
Weapons: Machete carries  two  3-foot  machetes. sow 
blades. and  numerous  throwing knives. 
History: As  a revolutionary in the small South American 
Republic of San  Diablo,  Machete became  a mater of 
blades. knives and machetes. He became  a mercenary 
to help   finance  the revolution In   his home country 
Machete is able  to fling saw blades over great distances 
wifh  deadly  accuracy   as easily   as he wields two 
machetes in hand-to-hand combat.   Spider-Man  and 
Machete hove crossed paths on many  occasions. 

BOOMERANG	

Real Name: Fred Myers 
Occupation:  Ex-boseball  pitcher. now freelance  assassin 
Legal  status:  Naturalized U.S.  Citizen  with   a  criminal record 
Place of  Birth: Alice Springs,  Northern  Territory.  Australia 
Height:  5'  11” 
Weight: 175  Ibs 
Eyes: Brown
Hair: Brown 
Strength Level:  Boomerang  possesses the  normal human 
strength of  a  man of his age. height.  and build who 
engages in intensive  regular  exercise 
Superhuman  Powers: None, but possesses   a deadly 
accurate  throwing  arm. 
Weapons:  Boomerang’s main  weapons  ore his 
boomerangs. which he wears on his costume. These
boomerangs ore often rigged with special gimmicks. 
Some of these deadly boomerangs are called 
shatterangs,   gasarangs,   razorangs,   screamerangs,   and 
baderangs.
History: Born  in Australia but  raised in America, Myers’ 
greatest love during adolescence  was baseball, and he 
developed on  extraordinary  pitching arm. In his  early 
twenties,  Myers became  a professional  baseball  player. 
Suspended during his first season for accepting bribes.
and feeling  bitter  and  angry, he accepted  a posifion 
with the Secret Empire.  a subversive criminal organization. 
He trained as  a special operative. taking the code-name 
Boomerang. He decided to become  a freelance  asassin 
by  exploiting his pitching ability w i th  deadly boomerangs. 

CAPTAIN AMERICA’S VILLAINS 

ODDBALL

Real Name: Elton  Healey 
Occupation: Professional  juggler  turned  criminal 
Legal Status: Citizen of  the U.S. with  a criminal record 
Place of  Birth:  Reno, Nevada 
Height:  5'11  " 
Weight: 195  Ibs. 
Eyes: Green 
Hair:  Black 
Strength  LeveI: That of an athlete of his  age. height.  and 
build.
Superhuman  Powers: None 
Weapons: Exploding  balls, fire balls. ice balls.  reproducing 
balls
History:  Oddball Is   a master juggler with   a deadly 
accurate throwing arm. The bolls he juggles are  often 
filled with deadly substances such  as gas  and fire. He  is 
also  highly agile and fast and can defend himself  ably  in 
hand-to-hand  combat. 

RATTAN

Real Name:  Bud  Cable 
Occupation:  Former CIA agent. now  a mercenary 
Legal Status: Citizen of the  U.S. with  a criminal record 
Place  of Birth:  Mount  Pleasant,  Pennsylvania 
Height:  6’ 
Weight: 195  Ibs. 
Eyes:  Brown 
Hair: Black 
Strength Level: Rattan possesses the strength of  a normal 
man of his  age, height, and build who engages In 
intensive exercise,
Superhuman Powers: None
Weapons:  Escrimo (oriental fighting sticks) 
History:  Bud  Cable  was  born  and raised in  a  small  western 
Pennsylvania town. By the age of seventeen. Cable was 
a recognized  martial  arts expert with  a third degree 
black belt in  Goju Ryu karate and  Escrima (oriental stick 
fighting). Cable  was recruited by the CIA as  a  special 
agent  and assigned dangerous missions in   exotic 
locations throughout the world. On one such mission  a 
high  ranking  CIA  operative   was  murdered  by  a 
communist spy Cable was falsely accused of the murder 
and convicted  as a communist agent. While serving  his 
90 year jail sentence, Cable found  himself on  latrine duty. 
There. he broke  a mop over his knee and began forcing 
his way  past dozens of guards using his martial arts skills 
and  escrima  technique.  After  successfully  escaping, he 
donned  a disguise   and became   Rattan. freelance 
mercenary. assassin.  and enemy of American justice 


ELECTRO

Real  Name: Maxwell Dillon 
Occupation: Former lineman for Con Ed,  now  professional 
criminal
Legal Status: Citizen  of the U.S. with a criminal  record 
Place of Birth:  Endicott, New York 
Height: 5' 11"
Weight:  165   lbs 
Eyes: Blue 
Hair:  Red-brown 
Strength Level:   Electro possesses   the  normal  human 
strength of  a man of his  age. height. and  build who 
engages in regular exercise.
Superhuman  Powers:  Electro possesses  the  superhuman 
ability to bodily generate  electrostatic  energy  at a rote 
of about  1000 volts per minute. up to his  maximum 
storage capacity of  100,000 volts. 
Weapons:  Lightning bolts from  his fingertips 
History: Maxwell Dillon  was  a  high-wire  lineman for New 
York’s major  electrical  power company. While  holding 
power lines that were still connected to their  spool,  he 
was struck by lightning. The magnetic field that resulted 
from the lightning caused mutagenic changes In Dillon’s
nervous system. Dillon   was transformed into   a living 
electrical  capacitor. powered by the rhythmic muscle 
contractions  that normally  regulate  body  temperature. 
Donning  a colorful disguise,  Dillon took the  name Electro 
and set out to use his powers for his own personal  gain. 


HOBGOBLIN

Real Name: Unknown 
Occupation:  Professional  crimina1 
Legal Status:  Unknown 
Place  of  Birth: Unknown 
Height: Unknown 
Weight: Unknown 
Eyes: Unknown
Hair: Unknown
Strength  Level:  By utilizing chemical methods. the 
Hobgoblin has been  able to Qoin superhuman strength 
that is believed to  equal that of Spider-Man who can 
press  10 tons. 
Weapons:  Smoke and   gas bombs. Goblin-Grenade. 
Throwing   Bat, Pumpkin Bomb. 
Transportation:   The  Hobgoblin  rides  a one  man “goblin 
glider” capable of great  maneuverability. 
History: The  Hobgoblin,   whose  identity Is  a complete 
mystery. is  a ruthless  criminal and foe of Spider-Man. The 
Hobgoblin's  most  dangerous  weapons  are his pumpkin 
bombs

RHINO

Real Name: Unknown
Occupation: Professional Criminal
Legal status: Citizen of the U.S, with a criminal record
Place of Birth: Unknown
Height: 6’ 5"
Weight: 710 Ibs.
Eyes: Black
Hair: Brown
Strength Level: Possesses superhuman strength. pressing
nearly 80 tons.
Superhuman Powers: Rhino possesses superhuman
strenghth, speed, endurance. and a high degree of
imperviousness to physical damage.
Weapons: Thick. polymer mat uniform similar to rhino skin.
This uniform is nearly indestructible and con withstand one
ton explosions and temperature extremes between -50
ond 1 0 0 0 degrees without cracking or melting. Horns on
the top of his costume are able to dent two-inch thick
plate steel.
History: The Rhino was a small time thug who ‘worked
various jobs for professional criminals. He was later hired
by two foreign spies and subjected to months of chemical
and radiation treatment that brought him superhuman
strength and made him a dangerous assassin. A team
of specialists developed a material of extraordinary
toughness. like that of rhinoceros hide. and developed
a skin-tight body suit which was permanently fused to his
body. Rhino is currently one of the most powerful
mercenaries in the world.

BATROC

Real Name: Georges Batroc
Occupation: Mercenary
Legal Status: French Citizen with a criminal record
Place of Birth: Marseilles. France
Height 6’
Weight: 225 Ibs,
Eyes: Brown
Hair: Black
Strength Level: That of an athlete of his age. height, and
build.
Superhuman Abilities: None
Weapons: None
History: Batroc. The Leaper, trained himself in sovate, a
French form of foot-boxing. while in the French Foreign
Legion. He later became a costumed mercenary for hire.
He has had numerous battles with his archrival Captain
America

Brought to you by Belgarath