              F U L L   D O C U M E N T A T I O N   T O


                             A M E G A S


Typed by SIDEWINDER/LSD.

NOTE: This is an old game, but we haven't seen docs for it before!


AMEGAS is a version of the arcade classic 'Breakout', featuring 40
levels, excellent graphics and a stunning soundtrack.  The game is
played in the usual way.  The player controls a moveable bat placed at
the bottom of the screen.  This bat is used to bounce a ball, so that
it collides with a wall at the top of the screen, thus destroying a
section of wall.  Collecting the coloured blocks which drop from the
wall, provides the player with special powers, these include:

        RED.................LASERS
        BLUE................EXPANDING BAT
        GREEN...............MAGNETIC BAT
        PURPLE..............LEVEL WARP
        YELLOW..............SLOW DOWN
        ORANGE..............EXTRA LIFE
        LIGHT BLUE..........MULTIPLE BALLS

NOTE: When the wall is completely destroyed, the player is transported
to the next level.

CONTROL
After extensive playtesting, the authors decided against the inclusion
of a joystick or keyboard control option.  This is because they found
that using the standard Amiga mouse gave vastly improved performance.
Therefore the mouse controller is the only control option available.

The game can be played by 1 or 2 players by pressing the left or right
mouse button respectively at the Amegas title screen.

Move the mouse left and right to move the bat left and right
respectively.  Pressing the right mouse button will activate a
collected capsule.  Pressing the left mouse button will fire lasers if
you have caught and activated a red capsule.  The left button will
also fire the ball if you have caught and activated a green capsule.

After losing all your lives, pressing the right mouse button allows
you to restart the game where you left off, pressing the left mouse
button will start the game from level 1.

AMEGAS STONES
Amegas also include a wide variety of different blocks, each with its
own characteristics, these include:

        Survivor Stones flashing white

        Stones with an L are Exit Stones, they give you a bonus.

        Stones with a + are Power Stones.

        Stones with a Triangle are Jumper Stones.

        Stones with a X are Spreader Stones.

        Stones with a Skull are Killer Stones.

        Stones with a Small Square are Sheet Stones.

NOTE: If you score enough points to reach the high-score table and
want to save your name on the disk, remove the write-protection on the
disk.

end.