                      Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure!

                            Instructions

Page 3

Contents

Dear Parent ......................................  4
System Requirements ..............................  5
Hard Drive Installation ..........................  6
Loading The Program ..............................  7
The Menu .........................................  8
Disk Swapping .................................... 10
The Exit Button .................................. 10
Let's Count! ..................................... 11
Matching With Marty .............................. 12
Music Magic ...................................... 14
Cookie Castle .................................... 16
Ending The Game .................................. 18

Page 4

Dear Parent,

Thank you for purchasing Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure.  We're sure it will
bring many hours of fun and education to your child.  Amy's Fun-2-3
Adventure contains detailed graphics, smooth animation, and high quality
speech and sound effects, all which combine to create a very captivating
and entertaining learning experience.

Your child interacts with Amy and her environment by using the mouse --
no typing is required!  We have tried to create as child-friendly an
interface as possible, and from our frequent play-testing results
(using 3 year old subjects), we believe we've succeeded.

In Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure your child can visit Amy's Doghouse where
numbers and counting are introduced.  After that, a visit to see Marty
the Match Machine could result in Amy being a very happy puppy if
Marty is supplied with correct answers to his matching game.  From
there your child might choose to go to Cookie Castle, where Amy and your
child help to rebuild a damaged castle wall.  King Cookie himself gives
a reward for a job well done!  Along with presenting numbers and
counting skills to youngsters, music is introduced in Amy's Fun-2-3
Adventure which helps to instill number recognition skills and creativity
in your child.  (It also gives Amy a chance to show off her dancing 
prowess!)  All in all, there is much to do and see in Amy's world.

So let's get started!  Learning how to count has just gotten a lot
"ruffer" now that your child has Amy as a friend!

Page 5  

System Requirements

You will need the following to run Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure:

1) An Amiga 500, 1000, 2000 series or 3000 series Computer and Color
   Monitor.
2) A minimum of 1 megabyte of memory.  (See A Note On Memory below.)
3) One (or more) 3.5" Floppy Disk Drive(s).
4) A Mouse.

   Note: If you are using Version 2.0 of the operating system, you
should be using V2.04 or later (Kickstart V37.175 / Workbench V37.64),
otherwise, Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure may not run properly.

Optional Equipment:

1) A Hard Drive.  (See page 6 for hard drive installation procedures.)

A Note On Memory:

If you have been using your Amiga for a while before running Amy's
Fun-2-3 Adventure, your Amiga's memory may be fragmented.  Amy's Fun-2-3
Adventure requires large amounts of contiguous chip memory to run 
properly, so you may have to reset your Amiga before running Amy if
memory is fragmented.

You will get an indication that memory is low or fragmented if after
choosing a destination from the Menu Screen, Amy fails to go to that
destination, and the program simply returns to the Menu Screen.  Before
running Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure, make sure to end all other programs,
and close any unnecessary windows on the Workbench.

Page 6

Hard Drive Installation

If you have a hard drive, you may want to install Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure
on it.  Doing so will speed up loading times for your child.  You will
need at least 2 MB of space on your hard drive to complete this procedure.

To install Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure on a hard drive, open a CLI and enter
the following: (We assume a name of DH0: for the hard drive.  Substitute
the name of your hard drive or partition for every instance of DH0: if it
differs.)

1) Type MAKEDIR DH0:AmyFun23.  Press ENTER.
2) Insert Amy's Disk 1 in any drive.
3) Type COPY AMY1:HDicons to DH0:.
4) Type COPY AMY1: ALL TO DH0:AmyFun23.
5) Insert Amy's Disk 2 in any drive.
6) Type COPY AMY2: ALL TO DH0:AmyFun23.
7) Insert Amy's Disk 3 in any drive.
8) Type COPY AMY3: ALL TO DH0:AmyFun23.

Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure is now installed on your hard drive.  Now, to
properly set up the directory, edit the Startup-Sequence in your S:
directory and add the following 3 lines to it.

    Assign Amy1: DH0:AmyFun23
    Assign Amy2: DH0:AmyFun23
    Assign Amy3: DH0:AmyFun23

Save the new Startup-Sequence and reset your Amiga to execute the new
Assigns.  You're all set to go!

Page 7

Loading The Program

From Floppies:

There are 2 methods for loading Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure from floppies.
The first method is the easier of the two and is recommended if you have
only one floppy drive.  Method 1 also assures that your Amiga's memory
is not fragmented when Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure begins.

-Method 1-

1) Turn on your Amiga.  Load Kickstart if required.
2) When the Amiga asks for the Workbench disk, insert Amy's Fun-2-3
   Adventure Disk 1 instead.
3) Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure will now load and run.

Note: You may also reboot your Amiga with Disk 1 in drive DF0: if your
Amiga has been on for awhile.

-Method 2-

1) Turn on your Amiga.  Load Kickstart if required.
2) Load the Workbench disk when asked for and wait for the Workbench to
   load.
3) Insert Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure Disk 1 in drive DF1:.  (leave your
   Workbench disk in drive DF0:.)
4) Click twice on the Amy1 disk icon when it appears.
5) Click twice on the Fun23 icon when it appears.
6) Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure will now load and run.
7) After the Menu Screen loads, you may replace your Workbench disk and
   Amy's Disk 1 with Amy's Disk 2 and Disk 3.  No further disk swapping 
   will be required.

From a Hard Drive:

1) Turn on your Amiga and wait for Workbench to load. 
2) Click twice on your Hard Disk Drive icon.
3) A window will open.  Click twice on the AmyFun23 Drawer in this window.
4) Another window will open.  Click twice on the Fun23 Icon in this window.
5) Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure will now load and run.

Page 8

The Menu

The Menu Screen lets your child choose where he or she would like to go
in Amy's world.  This is the central point of the program -- in other
words, after going to say, Cookie Castle and then returning, this is the
screen you will return to.

There are four choices on this screen.  Any one of them may be chosen by
moving the mouse pointer over the box of where your child would like to
go, and then clicking on either mouse button.  The program will then
give an audible tone indicating that the choice has been received.

In brief, the four destinations your child may choose from are as follows:
A the upper left corner of the screen is Amy's Doghouse, where number
recognition and basic counting skills take place.  Clicking on the upper
right box will take you to see Marty the Match Machine.  The lower left
box is the Music Magic Room, where your child can make up music of their
own, or choose from 8

Page 9

different songs to play.  And finally, Cookie Castle can be visited by
clicking on the box at the lower right-hand corner of the screen.

More detailed information on each of the above destinations is given
in the following sections.

P.S. For a little surprise, have your child click on Amy in the center
box.

Page 10

Disk Swapping 

If you are using floppies and have a 1 drive system, the program may ask
you to insert Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure Disk 2 or 3 after a selection has 
been made from the Menu Screen.  It does so by displaying the Disk Change
Screen, where a sad disk displays the number of the disk which should be
loaded.  At this time, the disk in the drive may be removed, and then
replaced by the requested disk.  The program will then load.

If you have 2 floppy drives, Disk 2 and Disk 3 may be put in both drives
after the Menu Screen has loaded.  At this point, Disk 1 will never be
asked for again, so no future disk swapping need take place.

Note: Be careful never to remove a disk while the floppy drive light is
still on.  Doing so could cause damage to the disk.  Also, never remove
a disk unless the program asks for another to replace it.  The program
may not run properly if you do.

The Exit Button

When your child makes a selection at the Menu Screen, he or she will be
transported to that destination.  Once there, they can play until they
would like to move on to another section in the program.

The Exit Button is a convenient way for your child to leave each section
of the program.  It is depicted as a scrolling arrow in a box, and is
located at the lower left corner of each screen.  By clicking on it with 
the mouse, your child will be brought back to the Menu Screen, where
another selection may be made.

Page 11

Let's Count!

Just what is a number?  And what is its purpose?  As adults, the answers
to these questions are simple, but to a child, these abstract symbols 
that somehow relate to quantity represent quite a challenge to understand.

In this section of the program, number recognition and counting skills
are introduced.  At the top of the screen are the numbers 1 through 10.
By clicking on any one of these ten numbers, your child will set into
motion one of an assortment of animations to show what the number clicked
on symbolizes.

For example, if your child clicked on the number 5, a voice will say "5"
to show your child how to pronounce the number.  (Be sure to turn the
volume up on your Amiga to hear this voice.)  Then Amy might bounce a
ball on her nose 5 times, or jump over her doghouse 5 times, or do any
one of a variety of other examples to show how much "5" is.  The voice
counts along with Amy's example, to reinforce the idea of how counting
is done and what it sounds like.

Page 12

Matching With Marty 

Marty the Match Machine is a computer at the Brainy Guys Institute of
Science.  Howard Sneezlezug is the head scientist of the institute
who lets Amy come in and play with Marty.  "We don't use Marty much
these days," says Howard, "because we have acquired much more advanced
computers that do things like display letters of the alphabet.  So Amy
is welcome to come in and visit with Marty anytime she wants."

"Perhaps Amy can come and use our more advanced computers someday, but
for now, we keep them very busy displaying letters and such," said
Howard, as he hints towards a possible future (and software package)
for Amy.

This part of the program will help your child further develop his or her
number recognition and counting skills.  In addition, comparison skills
come into play as Marty asks your child to count 2 sets of shapes and
then match one of them to a number he has chosen.

Page 13

After Amy turns Marty on, Marty will generate a random display of shapes
and numbers.  When Marty has chosen a final set of 2 shape sets and a
number, it is up to your child to match the number Marty has chosen with
one of the shape sets.  Your child can position the arrow over one of the
shape sets by moving the mouse, and then can press either mouse button to
make a choice.

Your child helps Amy get Doggie Treats from Marty by making a correct
choice between the 2 sets of shapes.  If a correct choice is made, a
happy tune will play, and Marty will drop a treat for Amy to eat.  But
if an incorrect choice is made, a sad song plays, and an unhappy Amy
expresses her discontent. (sniff)

Your child may leave Marty by clicking on the Exit Button when the mouse
pointer is present.  The program will then return to the Menu Screen.

Page 14

Music Magic 

If you have ever seen a child "play" a piano or a toy drum, you know the
enthusiasm that they have for music.  While playing an instrument is fun
for all ages, children seem to enjoy it all the more, gaining a certain
excitement from the random notes that they string together.  While
everyone in the house may not share in this excitement at all times,
the fact remains that this wonder for playing music should be encouraged,
as so many of us tend to unfortunately lose these creative feelings
as we grow older.

In this part of the program, your child can compose melodies of his or
her own design, or choose from up to 8 different children's songs to
play.  Amy dances to your child's creative canticles, but shows when a
mistake is made in the "match the number" songs by waiting patiently
until the right key is hit.

To play a song of their own, have your child move the mallet over the keys
by moving the mouse left and right.  (Be careful not to move too far to
the left, other-

Page 15

wise the mallet will turn into an arrow, which can be used to make other
choices.)  When your child moves the mallet over the key they wish to
hit, they can press either mouse button to make the mallet hit the key.

To play a song from Amy's selection of children's songs, move the mallet
all the way to the left pass Key 1.  The mallet will turn into an arrow
which will allow you to click on the Song Choice Button.  The Music
Magic Screen will fade down, and the Song Choice Screen will fade onto
the screen.  To choose a song, have your child move the pointer over the
song he or she wishes to play, and then click the mouse button to select
it.

Now, the Music Magic Screen will fade up, and the first note of the
chosen song will be displayed in the Note Box at the upper right corner
of the screen.  Your child should choose the key that matches the number
in the Note Box, and press either mouse button to hit it.  After the 
correct key is hit, another number will appear in the Note Box.  Hit the
correct key that matches that one, and then repeat the procedure until
the song is finished.  Amy will continue to dance as long as the correct
keys are hit in a timely manner.  If an incorrect key is hit, or the
time between key hits is too long, Amy will stop dancing.

To exit Music Magic, move the mouse to the left past Key 1 until it
becomes a pointer.  Then click on the Exit Button to return to the
Menu Screen.

Page 16

Cookie Castle

Not far from Amy's Doghouse, at the top of Majestic Mountain, sits Cookie
Castle.  Cookie Castle is a happy place where the people and animals
play together and pass the time by baking King Cookie's delicious cookie
recipes.  Amy loves to visit her friend the King, and play in his giant
castle.

On this day of Amy's visit, Danny Dragon came upon the castle.  Now Danny
is really a very nice dragon, unlike a few of the dragons who live on the
mountain, but he had never seen a castle before.  "Hmmm, I wonder what
this is", he thought.  So, being a bit curious and even more dim-witted,
he began to puff his fiery breath on the castle wall.  "Uh-Oh!"

So begins Amy's job of rebuilding the castle wall.  But because Amy
would much rather have fun then think of it as a job, she makes up a
game for your child and her to play together.

The game starts after four flashing number squares are put at the bottom
of the broken wall.  Amy will choose a number from one of the squares to
count out on her fingers.  Your child's part in the game is to count

Page 17

the number of fingers Amy is holding up and match that number with one
of the numbers on the squares.  If your child chooses the correct number,
a brick will fall into place and become part of the wall.  But if your
child doesn't choose the correct number, the brick will fall and break
up when it reaches the bottom of the wall.

The mouse pointer will appear after Amy is done counting a number out
on her fingers.  To choose the number of fingers that Amy is holding
up, your child can move the pointer to the corresponding number in
one of the flashing squares, and click either mouse button to make a
choice.  After the brick falls, Amy will choose another number until the
wall is finished.

When your child has helped fill the entire wall, Amy will do a little
celebration dance, and King Cookie will reward her and your child for a
job well done!  The program will then return to the Menu Screen.

Your child may leave Cookie Castle before the wall is finished by
clicking the mouse on the Exit Button at any time.  The program
will then return to the Menu Screen.

Page 18

Ending The Game

You can end Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure at any time by pressing the ESC Key
on your keyboard.  (This is the key at the upper left-hand corner of the
keyboard.)

After the ESC Key is pressed, a Quit Screen will appear which asks you
to confirm your wish to exit the program.  Clicking on the "Nodding
Yes" Button on the left will allow you to leave the program.  Clicking
on the "Shaking Head No" Button on the right will return you to the
Menu Screen of Amy's Fun-2-3 Adventure and allow you to continue the
program.

End..............
