                        A P A C H E  F L I G H T
                        ------------------------

LOADING
-=-=-=-

On Workbench prompt. insert Apache Flight disc.  The game will auto-load
LEAVE DISK IN DRIVE WHILST PLAYING!!

STORY
-=-=-

The cold War is Over.  Communism has been replaced by democracy throughout 
Eastern Europe and the threat of a nuclear holocaust is nothing but a bad 
memory.  Arms reduction treaties have been signed and the major powers are 
destroying their stock-piles of nuclear war heads.  However, some of these 
weapons have fallen into the hands of multi-national terrorist organisation 
and unless they are destroyed, who knows what barbarous acts of terrorism
could ensue.

Reconnaisssance operatives have pinpointed the 4 bases of the organisation
and marked them for destruction.  For this mission the new Apache attack
helicopter has been hurriedly completed and you have been chosen to lead
the asault.

The positions of the targets have been entered into the Apache's on-board
guidance system and all weapons have been loaded and armed.  as well as
it's normal compilment of armour piercing bullets and strontium tipped 
missiles (two of which are heat seeking), the Apache is also carrying a
revolutionary top secret energy transmutation device (E.T.D) which allows
the collection and use of weapon and fuel pods that are released when 
certain of the enemy and enemy installations are destroyed.

These pods contain fuel, missiles, guided missiles, smart bombs, power
bullets and power weapons.  It is imperative that the extra fuel and 
weapons are taken on board if you are to over come the massive fire power
of the enemy defenses.

CONTROLS!
-=-=-=-=-

JOYSTICK UP/DOWN/RIGHT/LEFT = to control your Apache attach helicopter.
Use FIRE BUTTON repeatedly to fire armour piercing bullets.  HOLD FIRE
BUTTON to release missiles (heat seeking missiles will be released first
if any remain in your weapons system).  To RE-FUEL, fly over a refueling 
point (white cross) and hold the fire button.  Fuel will automatically be
taken aboard whilst you hover overhead.  When your fuel reaches 999, your
tanks are full.  If you attempt to take on more fuel, your Apache heli
becomes unstable and you risk explosion.

When armed only with conventional weapons, terrorists kill thousands of
innocent people every year.  Armed with nuclear weapons, the resulting
carnage does not bear thinking about.  The success of your mission is
vital.  If you fail, the world will pay the price.


						GOOD LUCK!
End...........
