                                   APB DOCS
                                   --------   
THE GAME
--------
APB - All Points Bulletin. Put your foot on the gas and let rip as you roar
through the streets of the city in a series of hilarious and wild car
chases.

GETTING STARTED
---------------
You play the role of Officer Bob, a tough Cop in this challenging
cartoon-style game, whose job is to patrol the streets of the city and
apprehend various criminals in your trusty Police Car.

Each day you are given a quota of offenders who must be apprehended before
the day is out in order to get a salary bonus and keep your job. These
include litter louts, drunks and hitch-hikers. At times you'll recieve an
All Points Bulletin on a particularly dangerous villian who must be tracked
dwon and arrested.

Should you catch Sid Sniper, Freddy Freak or any of the other master
criminals, you must return them to the station for 'questioning'. If they
confess, you can forget about your quota for the rest of the day. However,
wringing a confession out of them is not that easy, and you must be through
before the Chief comes in. Waggle the joystick left and right as quickly as
you can - a grid shows how fast you're going and how close the criminal is
to confess.

To arrest an offender, you must position the Steering Wheel Cursor over
their car and switch on the siren. Continue to hold down the fire button
for as long as you need the siren. Some criminals may ignore you the first
few times you signal them them to stop, depending on the severity of their
crime. As the game progresses you can obtain a gun and shoot their cars,
but don't hit any innocent bystanders. APB offenders must be rammed of the
road and will not give themselves up without a fight. If you collide with a
vehicle while the siren is off, crash too hard or injure an innocent party,
you'll get a Demerit point. You'll also get a Demerit for every offender
you do not catch on your quota. Collect too many Demerits and you'll be
fired.

BONUSES
-------
Visit the drive-in Donut shop for extra time, pick up money bags to enhance
your pay packet and stop off at Gas Stations to refuel. You can also visit
the Speed Shop and buy extra equipment for your car including radar,
armour, better brakes and faster acceleration. However, paying for a
souped-up car will be difficult if you've failed in your daily quotas and
not collected enough money.

CONTROLS
--------
Atari ST, Amiga : Use joystick.

Left                    :Steer Left
Right                   :Steer Right
Up                      :Accelerate
Down                    :Brake
Fire pressed quickly    :Shoot gun (if present)
Fire held down          :Switch on Siren

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
Atari ST and AMIGA : Insert Disk and switch on machine
