                         "Apidya '94 - Full Docs" 

Typed In By: Charon/GOD
 
LOADING INSTRUCTIONS:
AMIGA 1000
Turn off your Amiga 1000 and put in the Kickstart-Disk.  now turn on the
Amiga again and wait until the order o put in the Workbench-Disk appears.
Now put the "Apidya boot disk" into the internal disk drive of your Amiga.
If you have a second disk drive, please put Disk 2 into it.
 ALL OTHER AMIGA`S
Turn off your Amiga. Put your "Apidya boot disk" into the internal disk
drive of your Amiga.  If you have a second disk drive, please put Disk 1
into it.  (Or consult the info file).  Now turn on your Amiga again.
		
			THE OPTIONS MENU

After pressing the fire-button to start the game, an Options menu will
apear on screen.  If you are satisfied with the offered selections, just
press the fire-button again and the game will begin.  If you would like to
change any of the selections, just move the arrow to the chosen option (up
and down) by using the joystick.  Show different options by moving the
joystick either left or right.  Your selection will turn white.

	To start the game after having made your selections, just move back
to the starting position and press the fire-button.

LEVEL
Choose among four different difficult level.
Practise
Practise your skills while playing in the first four worlds
Easy
The first four worlds as a beginner`s game.
Normal
The complete game with moderate difficulties.
Hard
Like "Normal" but a little meaner.


LIVES
The number of lives you will start your mission with.  You can choose
between 3,4 or 5 lives.  When playing the "hard" level, your number of
lives will be limited to three.

TEAM MODE.
Decide whether you want to play with one or two players/
 simultaneous
The second player steers a drone and so is limited to its abilities.  The
rone`s weapons system cannot be used when playing this mode.
	Every drone is able to protect the bee against five shots before it
will be destroyed.
 alternate
Two players alternating with each other.

EXTRA SELECT 
Decide how your weapon systems are selected.
 Auto
Your weapon systems are automatically selected by the computer.
 2nd Button
Pick your systems by using the second firebutton(only possible with
joysticks which have two independent firebuttons).
 Stick
Pick your weapon systems by quickly moving the joystick left and right..
	In every mode, you can also select your weapon systems by using the
Spacebar.

CONTROL
There are different ways to steer "Apidya".  Make sure you have plugged
into the right terminal.
 Pad
Allows steering with a Megadrive type Joypad.
 Competition
Steering with a usual joystick.

1 UP
You determine the number of points that have to be achieved to gain an
additional life.

BGM
This option allows you to listen to the different background melodies.  The
selection has no influence on the gameplay.

START
Starts the game.

SAVE
By picking this option, you can save your selections for future games.  To
do so ensure you disable the write protection facility for Apidya - Disk 1

			THE CONTROL

By using a joystick, you can move your magic bee around the screen during
play.  To destroy an opponent, you have to throw light-swords by pressing
the firebutton.  An extremely powerful light-sword (Power Blast) can be
produced by holding down the firebutton to give the sword its maximum power
level. then release the firebutton.  You will know when the sword is loaded
as you`ll hear a very distinctive rattling sound.  To perfectly control
this powerful weapon you need a good perception of time.  After a while,
you will become a master swordsman.

			FLOWER POWER!

But how does the bee obtain new weapon systems?
	When you transform an opponent into magic steam wih your
light-swords, some of them will leave a red flower symbol behind.

	Flying over a flower power-up will automatically collect it and the
first icon on the weapons line will start to blink.  With every collected
flower, the blink.  With every collected flower, the blinking will move one
position to the right.  Now you can activate the weapon which is
represented by the blinking symbol.  Depending on your decision at the
beginning of the game from the Options menu, you can activate weapons by
pressing the second firebutton on your joystick - you can also select the
weapon by moving the joystick quickly to right and left.

			THE WEAPONS SYSTEM
Below is a break-down of the weapons bar giving details if each weapon
system available to you during the game.  Effective choice of weapon
systems can be vital to your chances success.
	During the game, the different weapom systems can always be used by
pressing the firebutton.  Their activation, though, takes place at the
beginning of the game in the Options menu,
Most of weapon systems can be chosen several times.  Their power increases
with every selection,
		If it is impossible to choose a system again, its
apporpriate symbol on the weapons line will change colour from red to
yellow!.

SPEED-UP
	Accelerates the movement of the bee.
	The Speed-up can be activated almost as often as you want.  But be
carefule as too many Speed-ups will render your bee uncontrollable... well,
almost uncontrollable.

BOMB
	These two weapon systems can be activated alternately.  The bee
drops enery-boms on the ground.  The bee shoots two torpedoes at the same
time.  This weapon is able to doge the smaller obstacles.

SPREAD SHOT
	THe bee throws light-swords at the same time.  The bee can even
throw five swords.

LIGHTNING
	A single lightning bolt which will easily strike through your
oppenents. Two lightning bolts of the same kind.  Three lightning bolts of
the already mentioned quality!

PLASMA PULSE
	A chain of pure energy that burns everthing it touches.  Two
crossing lasers but thicker and more powerful.  Deluxe version: amazingly
thick and incredibly powerful,  Almost unbeatable.

DRONE
	A small drone that follows every one of the bees`s movements,
independent of the chosen weapon!, It protects your bee against the
enemies, standard shots and is able to throw its own
light-swords(automatically!)
A second companion of the same fantastic quality.

SHIELD
	Energy shield which can protect the bee against five of your
enemies standard shots.  The shield can be re-armed as often as you like.

SPEED DOWN
	In case you activated too many Speed-ups.  You can reduce the bee`s
speed with this device.

Whenever your bee loses one of its valuable lives, every activated weapon
system will be weakened by one level!
	The collected and already activated systems will automatically be
transferred to every stage and into every new world.  The only exception is
the Energy shield which will be lowered to zero in every new world!.  Oh
well, life can be touch....

			THE GAME

The way to the castle of the dark magician is guarded be Hexaa`s magical
hordes.
	In the brains of these magically influenced creatures, there is
only on though - they seek to punish every intruder into Hexaa`s domain
with death.
	Without the weapons system of the bee, you would not have any
chance against these beasts.
	To complete the mission of revenge and to save Yuri`s life, it is
necessary to be able to control these weapons perfectly and to develop the
right tactics.  But remember, nobody really knows what horrible dangers are
waiting to hurt your bee in the cruelest of ways.

	However, Hexaa has to be stopped and Yuri has to be saved.
	It is completely up to you whether Yuri will ever see a new
morning.  It`s a task that can only be accomplished by a true hero... May
the joystick be with you!!