                  AQUAVENTURA FROM PSYGNOSIS - THE DOCS                  

Here at Psygnosis we are dedicated to bringing you the best in computer 
entertainment. Every game we publish represents months of hard work 
dedicated to raising the standard of the games you play. Please respect 
our endeavours and remember that copying software reduces the investment 
available for producing new and original games; It is also a criminal 
offence.

This software product, including all screen images, concepts, audio 
effects, musical material and program code is marketed by Psygnosis Ltd 
who own all rights therein including copyrights. Such marketing of this 
product gives only the lawful possessor at any time the right to use this 
program limited to being read from its medium as marketed into the memory 
of, and expected by, the computer system to which this product is
specifically adapted. Any other use or continuation of use including 
copying, duplicating, selling, hiring, renting, lending or otherwise 
distributing, transmitting or transferring this product in contravention 
of these conditions is in breach of Psygnosis Ltd's rights unless 
specifically authorised in writing by Psygnosis Ltd.

The product Aquaventura, its program code, manual and all associated 
product materials are the copyright of Psygnosis Ltd who reserve all 
rights therein. These documents, program code and other items may not in 
whole or part be copied, reproduced, hired, rented, lent or transmitted 
in any way nor translated or reduced to any electronic medium
or machine-readable form without prior consent in writing from 
Psygnosis Ltd.

Psygnosis and associated logos are registered trademarks of Psygnosis Ltd.
Aquaventura cover illustration is Copyright 1992 Psygnosis Ltd/Roger Dean
Amiga , AmigaDOS , and Kickstart are trademarks of Commodore-Amiga Inc.

               Psygnosis Ltd, South Harrington Building
                    Sefton Street, Liverpool L3 4BQ
                          Tel: (051) 709 5755
         Copyright 1992 by Psygnosis Ltd. All Rights Reserved

                                Page 2
                   

                 LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

IMPORTANT: Always switch your machine off for at least 30 seconds 
before loading the game. Failure to do so may result in virus 
contamination of the Aquaventura master disk. See the Virus Warning 
and the Warranty Notice in this manual for further' information.

AMIGA

Switch your computer on. Insert a Kickstart disk if so prompted. When 
the display prompts for a Workbench disk insert Disk 1 of Aquaventura 
in your computer's internal drive. Insert Disk 2 when prompted.
Aquaventura is played with a joystick plugged into the second 
joystick port.


LOADING TIPS
Should the title screen not appear within 45 seconds of turning 
on your machine there may be a problem with your computer system. Check 
your computer connections and that the above instructions have been 
correctly carried out. If you are sure your computer is functioning 
properly (i.e. other software loads successfully) and are still unable 
to load Aquaventura then you may have a faulty disk, in which case you 
may obtain a free replacement from Psygnosis Ltd. All Psygnosis products 
are fully guaranteed - see page 21 for details.


                               VIRUS WARNING !

This product is guaranteed by Psygnosis to be virus free. Psygnosis Ltd 
accept no responsibility for damage caused to this product through virus 
infection. Please see page 21 of this manual for details.                                

To avoid virus infection always ensure that your machine is switched 
off for at least 30 seconds before loading this game. Please see page 21 
for more information regarding viruses and your warranty.


It has become almost traditional in computer game manual
scenarios to begin with a nuclear holocaust. However; we at
Psygnosis are always looking for innovative ways to embellish our
games...

Mmm...

Um...

Err...

Oh, to hell with it!




There were few survivors of the holocaust. Most were living and
working in comestible research labs deep underwater at the time of
the wipe-out. These labs were self contained and self sufficient;
they had their own power source, the food they grew remained
safe from radioactive contamination (and could be cultivated for
years to come) and the distillery was still intact. Hence, the
survivors were able to remain totally distant from the effects of the
holocaust until it was safe - if it ever would be - to return to the
surface.

All outside communication systems appeared dead, and so the
survivors regularly sent out patrols of their one-man sub-aquatic
vessels to seek out other colonies in a similar situation to theirs.

They found eight.

Communications were set up, AquaTunnels were built to link the
colonies (travelling unprotected in contaminated water was
detrimental to both craft and pilot) and the people began trading
with each other and working together to enhance their fleet of craft
so that they may search further afield. These AquaCraft, although
well armed, were used mainly for reconnaissance and training
missions.


The Spurcians came to earth with one aim: to pillage, plunder and
despoil (also they couldn't count). And with a fleet of craft as
potent as theirs, this dying planet was a world they could easily
conquer.

The humans didn't know what had hit them and, although many
AquaCraft were dispatched to counter the attack, the battle was
short. But the losses to Man were great.

Those left alive converged at Colony 1 and fled to the stars in
Genesite, an old Irrigation Cruiser that just happened to be
passing.

The Spurcians prepared to dispatch a unit of attack craft to follow
and destroy it...



On board Genesite:

A meeting was called by Lekan, the only surviving member of the
governing council.

Everybody congregated in one of the larger food stores and waited
for Lekan to speak.

"My friends, I'm afraid we are in more of a dilemma than first it
would appear."

"How could it be worse? We're out in the middle of nowhere, with
no home to go to, aliens are destroying our past and our future's
looking grim to say the least! How much further up the creek
could we be?"

Lekan merely looked at Ridder, willing to let his outburst pass. "If
I may continue?"

"In our haste to flee earth we did not have time to bring the power
source regenerator required by Genesite to maintain her life
support systems. In approximately fourteen hours we will die from
lack of oxygen."

The silence of the clans was absolute - apart from a faintly
whispered but heavily sarcastic, "Brilliant.", from somewhere at
the back of the crowd.

"The only hope for us, the remainder of mankind, is for our best
pilot, Josh Aldrin, to take the one surviving AquaCraft back down
to earth to retrieve the regenerator.".

All eyes turned to Josh.

Without hesitation he accepted the mission. Hands on hips, he
said, "Better to die for something one believes in than to sit and
wait for death to come calling." Josh immediately realised this was
a naff thing to say but it looked as though he'd got away with it.

"...There is another problem."

The gathering looked at Lekan wilh resignation... "Brilliant" was
heard again.


"I'm not sure at which of the colonies the generator currently lies.
It was being used by all eight of them in an attempt to replicate it
and thus enhance power supplies at each complex. It could be
anywhere."


"No sweat.", said Josh. "It'll just take me a little longer to find,
that's all."


"Hoorah for Josh Aldrin!" chorused the gathering.


Josh couldn't wait to blurt out another corny line if that was the
reaction he was going to get. Yes, Aldrin was getting a real buzz
out of this.


Lekan continued, "We have analysed the Spurcian forces and I
must say it looks encouraging. Their surface defences consist of
electrically charged small attack craft. These are dispatched from
generators positioned around the landscape. You will have to
knock out these generators to cut off the supply of enemy craft
then rid the area of the remaining craft. Doing so will clear their
solar panels for your attack."

                               Page 9
"Is that it?" asked Josh.

"I haven't even started yet, Josh. In fact now comes the tricky bit:
The solar panels guard Pyramids built by the Spurcians to prevent
our access to the AquaTunnels. These must be destroyed to enable
you to use the tunnels. However, obliterating the Pyramid will
evoke the tunnel Guardian. The Guardian must be annihilated
before you may gain entry to the tunnel."

"And what shall I do after breakfast?" quipped Josh.

He was ignored

"Once the Guardian has been destroyed you may enter the
AquaTunnel system. As you traverse the tunnel you're likely to be
attacked by small fighter craft, however, these should not prove a
problem to a man of your piloting skills, Josh. This tunnel is your
link to the next colony.

At the exit to every tunnel is an automated enemy weapon depot.
Here, you will be provided with an extra weapon - either
Plasma/Laser or Chaser - and have your energy level and missiles
fully replenished."

"Why?", asked Josh

"Don't worry about that now. Just be grateful for small mercies.
Now, where was I? Oh, yes.
There are eight colonies to search, Josh. Don't let us down. If you
fail, we are all doomed."

Josh said nothing.

"As AquaCraft aren't built for prolonged space flight, we shall
take you to a drop-off point closer to earth. We're likely to face
retaliation from the enemy, so please leave the ship as fast as you
can, we don't want to hang around too long. And don't fry any
more hangar maintenance men if you can help it."

Amid encouraging cheers and cries of "Brilliant", Josh took off in
his AquaCraft, determined to save his race... except for the one
guy he fried on the way out...

As he left, the Spurcians attacked Genesite and quickly destroyed
her. Seeing the ship explode in his rear view mirror, Josh Aldrin
realised he now had no choice but to head for earth to avenge the
human race. There was no longer any point in finding the
regenerator, he was just going to scourge the eight colonies and
kick donkey! Or die in the attempt.

"Brilliant."

Cue music...




AQUAVENTURA - The Game
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Your objective on each level is to destroy the solar panels that
protect the Spurcian Pyramid, then attack the Pyramid and defeat
its Guardian to gain access to the AquaTunnel and the next
confrontation.

On each level you encounter the enemy generators that create
Spurcian attack forces. The generators launch alien craft and then
sink into the water for protection. However, they quickly reappear
to launch further craft. Generators only have one life - once
disposed of they remain disposed of. Thus, by destroying them,
you reduce the alien threat on each level.

While fending off alien craft you also should attack their solar
panels. Having destroyed these, you must then destroy the
Pyramid to evoke its Guardian.

However, the Pyramid is defended by four forcefield generators
which charge it with sufficient electrical power to counter any
attack you may make on it. These generators may only be
destroyed once their own protection systems, the solar panels,
have been annihilated.

Defeat the Guardian to gain access to the AquaTunnel and the next
base. The tunnel is patrolled by enemy forces which must be
destroyed if you are to get through.

At the far end of the access tunnel lies the enemy weapons depot.

Here you are awarded an additional weapon, and also have your
craft's energy replenished and missiles restocked, ready for the
next level.


In Game Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Your Ship
---------
Even though your ship is an Aquacraft, its ability to travel
underwater is limited due to water contamination as a result of the
holocaust - althou~h it can submerge for a few seconds at a time, it
may only safely cruise through water using Aquatunnels .

Your Weapons
-------------
Plasma: You begin your quest already armed with this weapon.
The most difficult to aim and the least potent of your arsenal.
Missiles: You begin your quest armed with three of these. Lock on
to your target (press Right Shift key) and fire. They have limited
range.

Laser: Given to you (alternately with Chaser) when you visit
weapons depot. Easy to target and quite potent.
Chaser: Given to you in weapons depot (alternately with Laser)
and provides an aiming system in the shape of a square with which
to target your plasma weapon.

Radar Blips
------------
Yellow = Pyramid, Green = Solar Panels, Red = Missiles,
Purple = Alien Generator & Craft, Black = Your Flak,
White = Your Ship, Light Blue = Energy Drainer

Solar Panels
------------
Destroy the required nllmber of solar panels in each colony. But
watch out for their SAMs.

Pyramids
--------
Pyramids are protected by four shield power generators which
must be destroyed before it will open.

Guardians
----------
Emerge from opened Pyramids. They get tougher as you progress
through the colonies.

AquaTunnel
----------
Avoid the sides of the tunnel and dispatch alien craft as you go.
your shield strength is indicated bottom right of the screen.

Enemy Weapon Depot
------------------
Your craft automatically enters and is given full energy and missile
replenishment plus an extra weapon (Laser or Chaser).


CONTROLS

Aquaventura features two control methods, either may be selected
from the options screen.

CONTROL METHOD 1
-----------------
Joystick controls:


                       Dive
		        ^
			|
			|
			|
 Bank left ------------------------ bank right
                        |
   		        |
			|
		       Climb

Fire = Fire current weapon.

F1-F10 = Velocity Control : (F1 is lowest velocity)


CONTROL METHOD 2
----------------
Joystick with fire button pressed.



			Increase Speed
			    ^
			    |
			    |
			    |
    Bank Left --------------------------- Bank Right
		   	    |
			    |
			    |
			    |
			 Decrease Speed.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS
-----------------
Aquaventura also requires the use of various keys to control all of the
possible craft manoeuvres. They are:

  SPACE BAR   = Auxilliary Weapon.
  RIGHT SHIFT = Target Missile.
  ENTER       = Fire Missile
  A  	      = Cancel Target Lock
  R	      = Radar Short/Radart Long Range Toggle.
  CTRL+ESC    = Quit.
  S           = Gun sight on/off
  P           = Pause



                          WARRANTY LIMITATIONS
		          --------------------

The disk(s) included with this product are guaranteed to be in correct
working order and free from all manifestations of the 'Virus'. It is the
purchasers responsibility to prevent infection of this product with a
'Virus' which, although a very rare occurrence, will always cause the
product to cease working. Psygnosis Ltd will replace, free of charge,
any disks which have manufacturing or duplication defects. These disk
should be returned directly to Psygnosis Ltd for immediate replacement.

Psygnosis Ltd will in no way assume responsibility or liability for
'Virus' damage which can always be avoided by the user switching off
the computer for at least 30 seconds before loading this product. In the
unlikely event that your disks are destroyed by a 'Virus' then please
retum the disk(s) directly to Psygnosis Ltd and enclose œ2.50 to cover
replacement costs. When returning damaged product please return
DISKS ONLY to Psygnosis Ltd.
The Psygnosis Ltd warranty is in addition to, and does not affect, your
statutory rights.

End...................
