Arcade Trivia Quiz

Manual (typed by Rob http://the-underdogs.org)


HANG ON A MINUTE I KNOW THAT ONE.!

GAMESPLAY
There are literally thousands of testing Trivia questions that 
are found in four banks.

After selecting the number of players in the game (between one
and three), the main questions screen appears with your starting
credits.

There are six types of question card which are randomly dealt
on the screen:

SCROLL - Arts and Literature
TEST TUBE - Science
MUSICAL NOTES - Music
CAMERA - Film and Television
SNOOKER TABLE - Sport
GLOBE - History and Geography

The question cards are arranged in a pyramid shape. On starting
Trivia Quiz the first card is taken from the base of the pyramid.
If you answer the question correctly, you move to the next row of
cards further up the pyramid. Because the choice of cards narrows
the higher you climb, the trickier it becomes to find a favourite
category!

Answer a question incorrectly and you can either RESTART the game
at the base of the pyramid, or choose another card and CONTINUE
in the current row. If you have used up all the cards in the row
then you will automatically restart the game.

The computer flashes each card in turn on the current row. To 
choose a card press fire when it is highlighted.

The question then appears on the screen and you must select an
answer from the possibilities given without running out of time.

Your financial success improves as you answer more correct 
answers, and the expressions on the faces of the contestants
reflects the success or failure of the players.

If you manage to answer questions all the way up to the top card,
you may enter the big money CASH RUN. This is where quick fire
questions allow the players to rake in the real big money.

When a JACKPOT question appears, a correct answer allows you to
take your winnings or risk your stake on a chance of doubling
your money.

Arcade Trivia Quiz tests your trivia knowledge to the limits!!

Controls:

Cursor LEFT - left
Cursor RIGHT - right
Cursor UP - up
Cursor DOWN - down
SPACE - Select Option
ESC - Quit

Or use the Joystick