                          ARCHER MACLEANS POOL 
                     ===============================
                          TYPED BY SHARD - N&B

WELCOME!
--------
Welcome to Archer Maclean's Pool (Pool):  pool-hall Virtual Reality in your
home.   This  manual has been produced to ensure that you get the very best
out  of this premium product.  If you should find either the program or the
documentation  unsatisfactory in any way, do not hesitate to drop us a line
detailing  in  full  the  reasons  for  your dissatisfaction.  Opinions and
complaints  should  be  sent  to The Project Manager Archer Maclean`s Pool,
Virgin Games Ltd, 338A Ladbroke Grove, London W10 5AH.

CONTENTS
--------
Pack Contents
Equipment Requirements
Loading Archer Macleans Pool
Loading Problems
The Title Sequence
Copy Protection
If You Have Played Jimmy Whites Whirlwind Snooker
The Options
Playing Archer Macleans Pool
Using The Mouse: Icon Controls
Using The Mouse: On The Table
Using The Keyboard
Appendix One: Pool Rules
Appendix Two: Understanding Spin and Swerve
Appendix Three: Preparing a Game
Appendix Four: Advice
Appendix Five: Archer Maclean - A Life

PACK CONTENTS
-------------
Accompanying  this  manual  inside this pack you should find a Pool program
diskette.   If  you do not wish to use the program disk for the storage and
retrieval  of  scores  and  games we advise that it is "write-protected" by
ensuring the black plastic tab in the corner of the disk is moved "up" so a
"hole" is created.

EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS
----------------------

AMIGA
Runs in 512k RAM
Compatible With: A500, A500+, A600, A1000, A2000, B2000, A2500, A3000

ATARI ST
Runs in 512k RAM
Compatible With: 520ST, 520STe, 1040ST, 1040STe, Mega ST

NOTE
If  a  mouse  is to be used to play Pool, ensure that it's plugged into its
usual hole, ie the port marked "1 JOYSTlCK" (Amiga) or "0" (Atari ST).

LOADING ARCHER MACLEAN`S POOL
-----------------------------

AMIGA & ATARI ST
If  your  computer is turned on, turn it off.  Wait for at least 30 seconds
before  turning  on  your computer again.  This will remove any virus which
may  be  present  and  so  minimise  the  risk  of  infecting  and possibly
destroying your Pool disk.

Insert the Pool disk into the computer's internal disk drive.

The program will load and run automatically.

Please note that Pool cannot be installed on a compatible hard disk drive.

LOADING PROBLEMS
----------------
In  the  unlikely event that Pool fails to load, turn off your computer and
remove  any  extraneous  external  peripherals  such as printers (leave the
monitor  or  television  connected) before repeating the loading procedure.
If  Pool still refuses to load then pop the faulty disk (not the packaging)
into a suitably sized jiffy bag or padded envelope along with your name and
address.   To  aid  the  trouble shooting depart ment, please provide in as
much  detail  as  possible your equipment configuration (not forgetting any
RAM  expansion  devices).   Send  the  package  to:   ARCHER MACLEAN`S POOL
REPLACEMENTS,  Virgin  Games  Ltd,  338A  Ladbroke  Grove,  London W10 5AH.
Virgin  Games  Ltd will endeavour to replace the faulty disk within 28 days
of its receipt.

THE TITLE SEQUENCE
------------------
When  you  see  the  animated  title sequence you will know Pool has loaded
successfully.   The  program  disk is no longer needed so you can remove it
from  the  computers  internal  drive.   If  you  wish, you can replace the
program  disk with a formatted disk for saving and loading games and scores
(see APPENDIX THREE:  PREPARING A GAME STORAGE DISK)

To  pass  the  title  sequence  at any time press a mouse button or any key
other than "Ctrl", "Caps Lock", "SHIFT", "Alt" or "A".

If the title sequence is shown for approximately two minutes, it will stop.
The  program will then enter a short computer-controlled demonstration mode
which serves to show a complete game of pool using a set of rules chosen at
random  from  the  three  available.  Simply press the "Esc" key or a mouse
button to quit this demonstration and return to the title sequence.

COPY PROTECTION
---------------
When  you  first stop the title sequence in its tracks you will be asked to
enter  a  four-digit  number  from  the Data Protection Pool Table (haheho)
provided.   Use  the  keyboard  to type the number.  If you make a mistake,
press the "BACKSPACE" key to remove the right most number shown.  Press the
"RETURN" key to register the number.

If  an incorrect number is entered you are given two furthur chances to get
it  right.  If three incorrect numbers are entered you cannot play Pool and
must reload from scratch.

If  the  correct  number  is  entered  you  will be presented with the GAME
CONTROL window from which Options are selected and play begins.

IF YOU HAVE PLAYED JIMMY WHITE'S WHIRLWIND SNOOKER
--------------------------------------------------
You  will  immediately  feel  right  at  home  with  Pool  and  need little
introduction  to  it.   You  are  however  advised to read THE GAME CONTROL
WINDOW section and to study APPENDIX ONE:  POOL RULES.

THE OPTIONS
-----------
The  many  Options in pool are displayed in panels or "windows".  When some
Options are selected, a new window is "opened" on top of the previous one.

SELECTING AN OPTION
-------------------
Options  are selected with the mouse or the keyboard.  To show which Option
is to be selected, it is highlighted

USING THE MOUSE
---------------
The  mouse  is  used  to move a Mouse Pointer and select Options.  Move the
Mouse Pointer so its tip touches the desired option.

Press the left - hand mouse button to highlight the Option in question.

Press the right hand mouse button to select the highlighted Option.

USING THE KEYBOARD
------------------
Press  the "UP ARROW" ("CURSOR") key or "DOWN ARROW" ("CURSOR") key to move
the highlight up or down.

Press the "RETURN" key to select the highlighted option.

CANCEL
------
Maybe  you  selected  the wrongOption or perhaps you changed your mind, you
fickle  thing.  Either way, select "CANCEL" when its available to remove or
"close"  the  current  window  and return to the previous Option window and
game state.

To  cut  corners  you can press the "Esc" key to return to the GAME CONTROL
window from any of its associated Option windows.

PLEASE NOTE
If  no  key  is  pressed  and  the  mouse  is  not  moved  in  any  way for
approximately  one  minute  when  not  in  play, the title sequence will be
replayed.   The  balls  will be reracked, as seen on the table layout below
the GAME CONTROL window which shows the current state of play.

THE GAME
--------

CONTROL WINDOW

SELECT TYPE OF POOL
-------------------
There  are  three sets of rules on offer:  8 BALL UK COIN OP TABLE RULES, 8
BALL  USA  BAR  TABLE RULES, and 9 BALL USA TOURNAMENT RULES.  See APPENDIX
ONE:   POOL  RULES  for  further details.  Note that selecting a new set of
pool rules will reset the table layout shown below the GAME CONTROL window.

CHOOSE TYPE OF GAME
-------------------
There are six types on offer (Fig 6).

TWO PLAYER PRACTICE
-------------------
Play a single game for laughs against a human opponent.

You  can  UNDO the last shot played.  You can use the computer to determine
the best possible shot.  You cannot save the game to disk for later use.

START ONE PLAYER GAME
---------------------
Play  a  single  game  for  real  against  one  of  20  computer controlled
opponents.

You  cannot  UNDO  the  last  shot  played.  You cannot use the computer to
determine  the best possible shot.  You can save the game to disk for later
use.

ENTER NAME 1
------------
Before  you  can  do  anything  else  you  must  register your name - well,
anyone`s  so  long as it's someone`s.  You can use a maximum of 8 of the 26
letters of the alphabet only.

Use  the  "BACKSPACE"  key  to  remove the right most letter shown.  If you
attempt  to  begin  play  without  registering your name the highlight will
return  to  the  ENTER  NAME 1 prompt and you will have to enter something.
The name is considered registered when the "RETURN" key is pressed.

Note that with a registered name highlighted, pressing the right hand mouse
button or the "RETURN" key will clear it so you can enter another.

SELECT YOUR OPPONENT
--------------------
When  this  is selected you will be presented with a choice of the names of
20  computer-controlled  opponents  of  differing abilities.  Some are fat,
ugly,  smelly  and  need glasses, while others look like Mel Gibson and eat
their carrots.  Take your pick.

OK - START PLAYING
------------------
With  an  opponent chosen a "coin" is "tossed" to determine who will break.
If  the  outcome is to your liking, select the "OK START PLAYING" Option to
begin  play.  Otherwise, select the "CANCEL" Option and start the selection
from  scratch, you sad person, and the outcome of the "toss" may eventually
be to your liking.

START TWO PLAYER GAME
---------------------
Play a single game for real against a human opponent.

This  Option  is almost identical to START ONE PLAYER GAME except the human
opponents  name  must  be  entered  (it can be the same as PLAYER 1`s).  If
PLAYER  1 has entered a name previously then it is retained.  The procedure
for  entering  a new name is the same as detailed in START ONE PLAYER GAME.
When  both names have been entered they will be retained for use with other
Options until you change the names.

SETUP ONE PLAYER MATCH
----------------------
Play  a  series of games for real against one of the 20 computer-controlled
opponents.  This Option is almost identical to SETUP ONE PLAYER GAME except
you  get  to  decide  how  many  games  will  be  in  the  match  before  a
computer-controlled opponent is chosen.

SET GAMES IN MATCH
------------------
When this is selected you are given a choice of playing the best of 3, 5, 7
or 9 games, ie, the first pleyer to win 2, 3, 4 or 5 games wins the match.

SETUP TWO PLAYER MATCH
----------------------
Play  a  series of games for real against a human opponent.  This Option is
almost identical to SETUP ONE PLAYER MATCH except the human opponent's name
must be entered as it is in SETUP TWO PLAYER GAME.

SETUP MULTIPLAYER TOURNAMENT
----------------------------
Eight  players  (human  or  computer-controlled)  take  part  in a knockout
tournament.   Your  first  choice  is  how  many human players and computer
opponents  will  take part in the tournament.  The computer will choose its
own  opponents  (from  the  20 available) when necessary.  Note that mostly
medium level players will be chosen to avoid unfair selections.

With  the number of human players and computer-controlled opponents chosen,
the names of all the human players taking part must be entered.

VIEW TOURNAMENT LADDER
----------------------
This Option shows the names of all the human players and computer opponents
taking  part  in the tournament.  They will be randomly sorted against each
other  in pairs to play the first four games.  The winner of each game goes
through to the semi finals.

EDIT 8 BALL RULES
-----------------
A simple editor which allows you to change three minor aspects of the rules
associated  with  UK  and  USA  8 ball pool.  Before using this Option it's
advisable  to  understand  the  rules  of  the  UK and USA 8 ball pool, See
APPENDIX ONE:  POOL RULES.

SETUP TRICK SHOT
----------------
Arrange  the  balls  to  set  up  specific situations, trick shots or solve
problems.   This  Option  also doubles up as a handy single-player practice
mode.

You  can  UNDO the last shot played.  You can use the computer to determine
the best possible shot.  You can save the trick shot to disk for later use.

START TRICK SHOT EDITOR
-----------------------
All  the  Functions  available  in the TWO PLAYER PRACTICE Option or a real
game are available here.  It's advisable that you understand how Pool plays
before you read this section.

You  will notice that the CONTROL PANEL is slightly different.  It sports a
few  new  Functions.   The biggest difference between the trick shot editor
and  the  other  Options  is that the balls can be arranged on the table at
your leisure.  It shouldn't come as any great surprise to learn that a ball
cannot  be  placed  on top of another ball.  Balls cannot be placed outside
the table, on its cushions or in its pockets.

THE TRICK SHOT CONTROL PANEL
----------------------------
There are two different versions:  one for the 8 ball rules and one for the
9  ball rules (see APPENDIX ONE:  POOL RULES).  The Functions are the same.
What's  different  is  the  number  of  balls available to be placed on the
table.

CLR
---
Press  the  left-hand  mouse button to clear the table of every ball except
the cue ball.

Press the right-hand mouse button to rerack the balls.

UNDO
----
Press  the  left-hand  mouse  button  to reset the table to the layout seen
prior to playing a shot or using the CLR Function.  Note that if you return
to  the  GAME  CONTROL window from the Trick Shot Editor, the computer will
UNDO the previous shot or use of the CLR Function.

PLACING BALLS ON THE TABLE
--------------------------
Balls  are placed one by one on the table in one of two different ways:  in
a  circle  around the Main Camera's focus point or in a straight line ahead
of  it.   The  letters  show the order in which the balls are placed.  This
defaults  to  "A"  if the table and thus the focus point is moved.  Use the
Mouse Pointer to touch the desired ball in the Control Panel.

Press  the  left hand mouse button to place the ball in question around the
Main  Camera's  focus  point  as part of a circular arrangement.  Press the
right-hand  mouse  button  to  place the ball in question ahead of the Main
Camera's focus point as part of a straight line.

Note that you can only place available balls on the table.  There can never
be  more  balls  on the table than the rules allow (see APPENDIX ONE:  POOL
RULES).

MOVING BALLS
------------
Use  the  mouse  to touch the Mouse Pointer on the ball to be moved.  Press
the  left  hand mouse button to focus the Main Camera on the ball (pressing
the  right  hand button has the same effect but it also lines up the centre
of  the  ball in question with the centre of the cue ball).  Press and hold
the left hand mouse button.  The Mouse Pointer will change to show the ball
has been "grabbed".  Now moving the mouse will move the ball.

REMOVING BALLS
--------------
"Grab"  a ball then, with the left hand mouse button still held down, press
the "DEL" key to remove the ball from the table.

PLEASE NOTE
If  no  key  is  pressed  and  the  mouse  is  not  moved  in  any  way for
approximately four minutes while in Trick Shot Mode, the program returns to
the GAME CONTROL window.  This only happens in Trick Shot Mode.

ENTER DEMO MODE
---------------
Watch two computer-controlled opponents battle it out to see how it's done.
Press  the "Esc" key during the demonstration to return to the GAME CONTROL
window.   Note  that  while  the  cue  is  in  motion  the "Esc" key has no
immediate effect.  A demonstration game cannot be saved to disk.

BEGIN DEMO GAME FROM THE START
------------------------------
A complete game unfolds before your very eyes.

START DEMO GAME FROM CURRENT LAYOUT
-----------------------------------
See  play  begin from the table layout shown below the GAME CONTROL window.
Now  you  can discover how the game previously in play unfolds in the hands
of  computer-control  led  professionals.   This Option can also be used in
conjunc  tion  with  saved  games to see how the computer would handle them
(and  certain  trick  shots  can be solved, too).  Load the saved game then
quit to the GAME CONTROL window.  Now select the ENTER DEMO MODE Option and
choose to begin play from the current layout.

DISK FEATURES
-------------
Save to and load from disk trick shots and games.

SAVE CURRENT GAME
-----------------
From  here  you  can  save  the  table  layout shown below the GAME CONTROL
window.   When  this Option is selected you will be presented with a choice
of  15  "slots"  to  which games can be saved on the disk in the computer`s
internal  disk  drive.  Selecting "CANCEL" returns you to the GAME CON TROL
window.   Select  a  slot,  be  it empty (a line of 27 dots) or an existing
named saved game to be overwritten.  The slot will be highlighted.  Now use
the keyboard to enter a title, up to 27 characters in length, for the saved
game.   Unlike  the  player names, saved games can include spaces, numbers,
full  stops and dashes.  Press the "BACKSPACE" key to delete the right-most
character  shown.   Press  the  "RETURN" key to enter the name and save the
game to the disk in the computer`s internal drive.  When the game is saved,
the GAME CONTROL window will be presented.  Remember press the "Esc" key or
select  the  GAME  CONTROL  Icon  during play to return to the GAME CONTROL
window from where the saving process can begin.

LOAD A TRICK SHOT
-----------------
Selecting  this  Option  calls  up  15  trick  shot save slots on the disk.
(Remember:  slots with no title are empty.) To load the saved trick shot of
your  choice,  simply select it.  Once the saved trick shot has loaded, the
GAME  CONTROL  window  is presented with the table layout shown below.  You
can  now  return  to  the  table.   Don't  worry  if you can't remember the
contents  of a saved game - the table layout of a highlighted slot is shown
at  the bottom of the screen.  Press and hold the left-hand mouse button or
the  "RETURN"  key  and  move  the  highlight  up  and down to view all the
available saved games.

LOAD A SINGLE GAME
------------------
Almost  identical  to LOAD TRICK SHOT except single one or two player games
are  loaded.   One  and  Two  Player  Games  are  denoted  by  1PG  and 2PG
respectively.

LOAD A MATCH GAME
-----------------
Almost  identical  to  LOAD TRICK SHOT except one or two player match games
are  loaded.   One  and  two  player match games are denoted by 1PM and 2PM
respectively.

LOAD A TOURNAMENT
-----------------
Almost  identical  to  LOAD  TRICK  SHOT  except  tournament situations and
ladders  are  loaded  instead.   Select  a slot with a tap of the left-hand
mouse button to view the table layout in use.  Press and hold the left-hand
mouse  button  for  a little over a second and the toumament ladder will be
shown on top of the table arrangement.

VIEW BEST 8 BALL RANKING
------------------------
See the 15 best Rankometer scores from a One or Two Player Game.

VIEW BEST 9 BALL TIMES
----------------------
See the 15 fastest times to win a One or Two Player Game.

VIEW BEST MATCH RESULTS
-----------------------
See the 15 best performances in Match situations, from 5-0 down to 2-1.

VIEW TOURNAMENT CHAMPIONS
-------------------------
See the number of tournaments won by the 15 top names.  Every win by a name
is  added to its total - unless a name wins a tournament for the first time
when  it  will  be added to the list above any names of winners of a single
toumament and the 15th entry will be lost.  Note that if there are no empty
slots  or  names  of winners of a single game, the win of the new name will
not feature.

EMPTY FILES
-----------
You  cannot  load them and will be told as much with a CLANG!  sound, too -
if you try.  So don't.

OPTIONS
-------
Remove  all  saved games from your Games Storage disk.  You can also return
to the title sequence from here.

ERASE ALL SAVED GAMES ON DISK
-----------------------------
Selecting  this  Option  calls up a new window.  Select YES to remove every
saved  game from the saved game disk in the computer's internal disk drive.
You  will  then  be returned to the GAME CONTROL window.  Note that erasing
all saved games does not affect the rest of the disk.

ERASE ALL SCORE DATA ON DISK
----------------------------
This Option functions the same as above, only it removes all scores instead
of games.

SHOW HINTS AND TIPS PANEL
-------------------------
Take a look at the hints and Tips Panel before you play.  Select the OK box
to return to the Game Control window.

PRINT UP THE ICON HELP SCREEN
-----------------------------
This  summary  of the controls and functions available is accessible during
play but you may wish to see it before hand.  Select the "OK" box to return
to the Game Control window.

QUIT TO TITLE SCREEN SEQUENCE
-----------------------------
So  you  just can`t get enough of that super duper effect, eh?  Select this
Option to see it again.

RETURN TO TABLE
--------------- 
If  you  left  an incomplete game to use the GAME CONTROL window, selecting
this  Option  will  resume play from the point it was abandoned even if the
computer  was thinking.  Otherwise, selecting this Option puts you in TRICK
SHOT mode with the table layout shown below the GAME CONTROL window.

PLAYING POOL
------------
There  are  three  different  ways  to  actually  play a game in Pool.  Two
methods  of  control  are mouse orientated, while the keyboard provides the
third alternative.  All three modes of control are available at once so you
can use any combination you see fit.

DO YOU WANT TO SEE THE HINTS AND TIPS PANEL?
--------------------------------------------
You will be asked this the first time you come to the table.  The Hints and
Tips  Panel  provides  you  guessed it advice for playing pool.  Select the
"OK" box to remove this Panel and begin play.  This panel will not be shown
again  unless  you  ask for it via the "OPTIONS" Option on the Game Control
window (see OPTIONS ).

WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT TO SEE
--------------------------
The  pool table is viewed from almost any angle above the baize through the
Main  Camera  (which  is  usually attached to the end of the cue).  It even
sports  a  zoom  feature.   The  table's  movement  is relative to the Main
Camera's focus point on the screen.  A further eight cameras are positioned
above  the  table  for the purpose of displaying plan views.  These cameras
cannot be moved, although from these positions you can still zoom in on the
table or select a ball.

FOCUSSING THE MAIN CAMERA ON THE CUE BALL
-----------------------------------------
There  are  two ways to focus the Main Camera on the cue ball (and you need
to  use one of them if you are to take a shot - see CUE IMPACT POINT).  Use
the  Mouse  Pointer  to  touch  the  cue  ball  on  the table and press the
left-hand mouse button.  Or select one of the following Icons (or press the
corresponding  key):   VIEW  Q BALL, VIEW LINE, TOP SPIN, SIDE SPIN (LEFT),
SIDE SPIN (RIGHT), BACK SPIN and TAKE SHOT.

FOCUSSING THE MAIN CAMERA ON ANY OTHER BALL
-------------------------------------------
You  may  wish to view the table from another position relative to any ball
other  than the cue ball.  There's only one way to focus the Main Camera on
any  ball  other  than the cue ball:  touch the desired ball with the Mouse
Pointer  and  press  the  left  hand  mouse  button.  A second press of the
left-hand  mouse  button while touching the ball in question with the Mouse
Pointer  will rotate the view through 180 degrees.  Note that the effect of
a second press is different in trick shot mode (see SETUP TRICK SHOT).

When  the Mouse Pointer's tip is touching any ball other than the cue ball,
pressing  the  right  hand  mouse button lines up the centre of the ball in
question with the centre of the cue ball.  The Main Camera will move behind
the ball in question.  Now if the Mouse Pointer's tip touches the cue ball,
pressing  the  right-hand  mouse  button will line up the center of the cue
ball  with  the ball in question.  The Main Camera will move behind the cue
ball.

THE CUE
-------
The cue only appears on screen when the shot is being taken.

CUE IMPACT POINT
----------------
When  the  Main  Camera is focused on the cue ball, a cross is shown on the
TAKE  SHOT  Icon.   The cross indicates where the cue's tip will strike the
cue  ball.  The Position of the cue tip`s impact point affects the movement
of  the  cue ball (see APPENDIX TWO:  UNDERSTANDING SPIN AND SWERVE).  Note
that  a  shot  can only be taken when the Main Camera is focused on the cue
ball.

THE BALLS ARE IN MOTION
-----------------------
The Mouse Pointer changes when a shot is taken and the balls are in motion.
Some Functions are not available while the shot is in play.

THE COMPUTER IS THINKING
------------------------
The  computer-controlled  opponent  may be considering its next move or you
may  have  asked  for help with the best possible shot available.  Whatever
the reason, the Mouse Pointer changes to a Clock icon while the computer is
thinking.  You cannot select any Function other than GAME CONTROL.

THE CONTROL PANEL
-----------------
This  is  packed  with  small  descriptive pictures of available Functions,
better  known  as Icons.  An Icon is selected by firstly using the mouse to
touch  it  with  the  tip  of  the  Mouse  Pointer.  The Icon's Function is
displayed  in  the  UNDO window.  Now pressing or pressing and holding down
the left-hand or right-hand mouse button (or both) will perform a Function.
The Icon is then highlighted to show it is in use.

1.  VIEW Q BALL
2.  VIEW LINE
3.  GAME CONTROL
4.  CHALK CUE
5.  TOP SPIN
6.  INFORMATION
7.  SIDE SPIN (LEFT)
8.  TAKE SHOT
9.  SIDE SPIN (RIGHT)
1O. SCREEN TYPE
11. BACK SPIN
12. PLAN VIEW
13. ZOOM OUT
14. VIEW ANGLE (INCREASE)
15. VIEW ANGLE (DECREASE)
16. ZOOM IN
17. CUE LEFT
18. CUE RIGHT
19. PLAYER 1 STATUS
20. PLAYER 2 STATUS
21. SET POWER

CAMERA FUNCTIONS
----------------

VIEW Q BALL
-----------
Press  the left-hand mouse button to focus the Main Camera on the cue ball.
A  second  press of the left-hand mouse button will rotate the view through
180 degrees.

Press  the right-hand mouse button to focus the Main Camera on the cue ball
from  a  slightly  higher position.  A second press of the right hand mouse
button on the Icon or ball will rotate the view through 18O degrees.

Note  that  the  view  is rotated through 180 degrees if the Main Camera is
already focused on the cue ball when a mouse button is pressed.

VIEW LINE
---------
Preview  the  direction  in  which  the  cue  ball  will  travel  if  it is
uninterrupted  and  no  form of spin is applied.  Note that the Main Camera
automatically focuses on the cue ball when this Function is selected.

Press  the  left  hand mouse button to toggle on and off a single view line
projected from the centre of the cue ball.

Press  the right hand mouse button to toggle on and off a double view line.
The  second  view  line  shows the angle at which an uninterrupted cue ball
with no form of spin applied will rebound off a cushion.

If  either  view  line is active, touching any ball other than the cue ball
with  the  Mouse  Pointer  and  pressing  the right-hand mouse button has a
slightly different effect.  In a real game, ie, not the TWO PLAYER PRACTICE
or  TRICK  SHOT, the view line is adjusted so it runs through the centre of
the  cue  ball  and the ball in question.  The Main Camera moves behind the
cue ball.  (This does not necessarily set up a perfect shot.)

In  a  Two Player Practice game or the Trick Shot Editor, the computer sets
up  the  parameters necessary to pot the ball in question.  All you have to
do  is take the shot.  Use this in conjunction with the UNDO Function as an
aid improving your game.

PLAN VIEW
---------
View  the  table  from  the  cameras  situated  above  it.  There are eight
different  views  available:   four  of  the table's width when the Control
Panel is positioned at the top of the screen and four of the table's length
when the Control Panel is positioned to the left hand side of the screen.

Press the left hand mouse button to show the first plan view.

A second press of the left hand mouse button shows a plan view of the table
rotated through 18O degrees.

A third press of the left hand mouse button shows a closer plan view of one
end of the table.

A  fourth  press  of the left-hand mouse button shows a closer plan view of
the other end of the table.

A  fifth  press  of  the  left-hand  mouse button shows the first plan view
again, and so on.

Press  the right hand mouse button to record the plan view shown and return
to  the  original  Main  Camera  view  seen  before  the PLAN VIEW Icon was
selected.   Now  when  the right-hand mouse button is pressed the last plan
view seen is shown.

Note  that  if a recorded plan view is shown and the left hand mouse button
is pressed, the next plan view is shown.  If the right hand mouse button is
pressed  when  a new plan view is shown it will be recorded.  With two plan
views  recorded,  pressing  the  right hand mouse button will flick between
them.  Select the TAKE SHOT Icon to return to the Main Camera's view of the
table.

VIEW ANGLE (INCREASE)
---------------------
Increases the angle between the Main Camera and the table, ie, look down on
the  table.   This  is especially useful for raising the view and forming a
bridge over balls when the shot is blocked.  The view is adjusted at one of
three speeds.

Press  and  hold  the  left-hand mouse button to affect the view angle at a
slow speed.

Press  and  hold  the right hand mouse button to affect the view angle at a
fair speed.

Press and hold both mouse buttons to affect the view angle at a fast speed.

VIEW ANGLE (DECREASE)
---------------------
Decrease  the angle between the Main Camera and the table, ie, look up from
the table.  The view is adjusted at one of three speeds.

Press  and  hold  the left hand mouse buttons to affect the view angle at a
slow speed.

Press  and  hold  the right hand mouse button to affect the view angle at a
fair speed

Press and hold both mouse buttons to affect the view angle at a fast speed.

CUE LEFT
--------
Move  the  Main  Camera in a clockwise direction around the table at one of
three speeds.

Press  and  hold  the  left-hand mouse button to rotate the table at a slow
speed.

Press  and  hold  the right-hand mouse button to rotate the table at a fair
speed.

Press and hold both mouse buttons to rotate the table at a high speed.

CUE RIGHT
---------
Move the Main Camera in an anti clockwise direction around the table at one
of three speeds.

Press  and  hold  the  left-hand mouse button to rotate the table at a slow
speed.

Press  and  hold  the right-hand mouse button to rotate the table at a fair
speed.

Press and hold both mouse buttons to rotate the table at a high speed.

ZOOM IN
-------
Press  and  hold  either the left-hand or right-hand mouse button to take a
closer look at the action.

ZOOM OUT
--------
Press  and  hold  either  the  left-hand or right-hand mouse button to take
steps back from the action.

GENERAL FUNCTIONS
-----------------

CONTROL
-------
Press the left hand mouse button to return to the GAME CONTROL window.

Press  the right-hand mouse button to call up a window showing a summary of
how to access the available controls.

SCREEN TYPE
-----------
Press  the  left  hand or right-hand mouse button to toggle the position of
the Control Panel between the top and the left hand side of the screen.

INFORMATION
-----------
View  details of the Players' performances or ask the computer to calculate
and  set  up  the  best  possible shot.  Press and hold the left hand mouse
button  in  any game, match or tournament to call up the information window
This  shows the performance statistics for each player the number of object
balls  potted legally, the total number of shots played and fouls incurred.
The  order in which the last 16 balls were potted is also given.  In 8 ball
pool,  the  RANKMETER provides a percentage rating for each player based on
the  performance statistics.  The better you play, the higher your ranking.
In  9 ball pool, the total time elapsed since play began for each player is
used  instead of the RANKOMETER.  The type of game in play is also shown at
the bottom of the window, in case you`d forgotten, with match results given
when appropriate.

Press and hold the left-hand mouse button in Trick Shot Mode to call up the
Trick Shot Control Summary window.

Press  and hold the right hand mouse button in a tourna ment to call up the
tournament ladder.

COMPUTER ASSISTED SHOTS
-----------------------
Press  the  right  hand button to ask the computer to calcu late and set up
the  best  possible shot.  Note that this Function is only available in the
Two Player Practice and Trick Shot Options.

CUE FUNCTIONS
-------------

CHALK CUE
---------
The  chalk  improves  the  cue  tip's  grip on the cue ball to minimise the
possibility  of  miscuing.  Note that you can chalk the cue before or after
spin  is applied and you do not need any chalk when playing a straight shot
with  no  spin  applied.   The  greater the spin applied, the more chalk is
required.  (There is still a remote chance of miscuing though).

Press either the left hand or right hand mouse button to apply chalk to the
tip of the cue.  You will hear a squeaking sound to indicate chalk is being
applied.

TOP SPIN
--------
Press either the left hand or right-hand mouse button to move the cue tip's
impact point up from the centre to the top of the cue ball.  The higher the
cue tip`s impact point on the cue ball, the greater the top spin applied to
it.   Note  that the Main Camera automatically focuses on the cue ball when
this Function is selected.

SIDE SPIN (LEFT)
----------------
Press either the left hand or right hand mouse button to move the cue tip's
impact  point from the centre to the left of the cue ball.  The further the
cue  tip's  impact  point  is  to the left of the cue ball, the greater the
left-hand side spin applied to it.  Note that the Main Camera automatically
focuses on the cue ball when this Function is selected.

SIDE SPIN (RIGHT)
-----------------
Press either the left-hand or right-hand mouse button to move the cue tip's
impact point from the centre to the right of the cue ball.  The further the
cue  tip's  impact  point  is to the right of the cue ball, the greater the
right-hand   side   spin   applied  to  it.   Note  that  the  Main  Camera
automatically focuses on the cue ball when this Function is selected.

BACK SPIN
---------
Press either the left-hand or right hand mouse button to move the cue tip's
impact point down from the centre to the bottom of the cue ball.  The lower
the  cue  tip's  impact  point  on  the cue ball, the greater the back spin
applied  to it.  Note that the Main Camera automatically focuses on the cue
ball when this Function is selected.

TAKE SHOT
---------
Press  either  the  left-hand  or right hand mouse button to bring your cue
into  view  on  the  table  and strike the cue ball directly up the screen.
Remember  the shot can only be taken when the Main Camera is focused on the
cue ball.

NO
--
When  "NO"  is  shown  on  the TAKE SHOT Icon the shot cannot be taken even
though  the  Main  Camera  is  focused  on the cue ball.  The cue could not
possibly  strike  the  cue  ball  from  the angle in question because it is
blocked by another ball or a cushion.

FOLLOW THAT BALL!
-----------------
The  Main Camera can follow the action from almost any position once a shot
has  been taken .  Perhaps the most impressive view points of all are those
which follow the cue ball or the first ball it hit around the table.

As soon as the shot has been taken, touch the TAKE SHOT Icon with the Mouse
Pointer's tip.

Press  and hold the left hand mouse button to attach the Main Camera to the
cue  ball  and follow the path of the first ball hit by the cue ball from a
position directly behind the cue ball.

Press  and  hold  the right-hand mouse button to follow the path of the cue
ball from the position the shot was taken.

Press  and  hold both mouse buttons to follow the first ball hit by the cue
ball from the position the shot was taken.

As  soon  as  the  shot has been taken, touch the VIEW Q BALL Icon with the
Mouse Pointer's tip.

Press  and hold the left-hand mouse button to attach the Main Camera to the
cue ball and follow its path from directly behind it.

Press  the  right  hand mouse button to increase the angle between the Main
Camera  and  the  Table.   Now press and hold the left hand mouse button to
attach  the  Main  Camera to the cue ball and follow its path from directly
behind it.

SET POWER
---------
Determine  the  strength  of  the  shot  from ZILCH POWER to LOTS OF POWER.
Select  the cue and press and hold either the left hand or right hand mouse
button.   Move  the mouse up or down to decrease or increase the cue power.
The length of the cue in this box acts as a rough guide to the power of the
shot.   The  shorter the cue, ie, the further away from the cue ball it is,
the  more  powerful  the shot.  There are 88 settings of cue power in total
(and  with  23,040  angles  and  81  different spin points that makes for a
staggering  164  million  possible  shots).   The relative strengths of the
gradu  ations  of  cue power are shown here.  Note that the distances given
are  approximate  and  assume the cue ball encounters no other balls on its
travels and that no form of spin is applied to it.

RELATIVE SHOT STRENGTHS
-----------------------
The  graph  provided  should  give  you  an idea of the strengths of the 88
different power settings.

PLAYER STATUS WINDOWS
---------------------
The  Player's  name is highlighted when he is at the table.  This window is
also  used  to  display  certain  messages  and to show which ball has been
potted by the Player.

When  balls  are potted in real pool they hardly make a sound.  When a ball
is  potted  in  Pool a POP!  sound is heard.  Just to let you know it`s, as
they  say, "in the bag".  The potted ball will be shown next to a small map
of the table with the pocket highlighted.

USING THE MOUSE ON THE TABLE
----------------------------
The  Mouse  Pointer  can  be used directly on the table and balls.  This is
probably  the most natural method of playing Pool.  As is the case with the
Icon  control,  combinations of mouse buttons being pressed and pressed and
held  down  produce different Functions.  Here however the Functions depend
on  whether  the Mouse Pointer's tip is touching a ball or an empty area of
the table.

Move  the Mouse Pointer so it touches any area of the screen other than the
Control Panel or a ball.  Press and hold down the left hand mouse button.

You  can now rotate the table in a clockwise or an anticlock wise direction
by  using the mouse to "draw" a circle around the Main Camera's focus point
(see CUE LEFT and CUE RIGHT).  The closer the Mouse Pointer is to the focus
point,  the  faster  the table rotates.  The faster the mouse is moved, the
faster the table rotates.
 
Move  the Mouse Pointer so it touches any area of the screen other than the
Control  Panel  or a ball.  Press and hold down only the right hand button.
The Mouse Pointer will change.

Moving  the  mouse  in a forward direction makes the Main Camera zoom in on
the  table.   Moving the mouse in a reverse direction makes the Main Camera
zoom out from the table (see ZOOM IN and ZOOM OUT).

Move  the Mouse Pointer so it touches any area of the screen other than the
Control  Panel or a ball.  Press and hold down both the left hand and right
hand mouse buttons.  The Mouse Pointer will change.

You  can  now rotate and tilt the table in any direction by using the mouse
to  "draw"  a  circle  around  the  Main  Camera's  focus  point  (this  is
effectively  a  combination  of  the  CUE  LEFT,  CUE  RIGHT and VIEW ANGLE
Functions).  The closer the Mouse Pointer is to the focus point, the faster
the  table  rotates.   The  faster the mouse is moved, the faster the table
rotates.

USING THE KEYBOARD
------------------
The  Functions  as detailed in the ICON CONTROLS section on can be selected
simply by pressing their respective keys, as summarised here.

KEYBOARD CONTROL SUMMARY
------------------------

V.........................View Line
H.........................Side Spin (Left-Hand)
J.........................Side Spin (Right-Hand)
N.........................Back Spin
U.........................Top Spin
M.........................Centralise Hit Point
Z.........................Zoom In
X.........................Zoom Out
Q.........................View Cue Ball
P.........................Plan View
C.........................Chalk Cue
W.........................Screen Type
?.........................(SHIFT + /) Information
S.........................Compute Best Shot (When Available)
A.........................Answer Question
B.........................Answer Question
UP ARROW..................View Angle (Decrease)
DOWN ARROW................View Angle (Increase)
LEFT ARROW................Cue Left
RIGHT ARROW...............Cue Right
< ........................Cue Left (Fine Control)
> ........................Cue Right (Fine Control)
1 ........................Place Red Ball (8 Ball Trick Shot Only)
2 ........................Place Yellow Ball (8 Ball Trick Shot Only)
1-9 ......................Place Number Ball
                          (9 Ball Trick Shot Only)
0 ........................Clear Table (Trick Shot Only)
BACKSPACE ................Relay Table (Trick Shot Only)
Esc* .....................Game Control Window
+ ........................Set Cue Power (Increase)
- ........................Set Cue Power (Decrease)
RETURN ...................Take Shot & Follow Shot
F10 ......................Undo (When Available)
Ctrl .....................Repeat Previous Key Command
SHIFT ....................Repeat Previous Key Command
Alt ......................Repeat Previous Key Command
Alt ......................Repeat Previous Key Command
A ........................Repeat Previous Key Command
A ........................Repeat Previous Key Command

*  When  the "Esc" key is pressed during TWO PLAYER PRACTICE or TRICK SHOT,
the last shot taken or in action is cancelled and the table is reset to the
layout  prior  to  the  shot.   In  any  other  type of game, the effect of
pressing  the  "Esc"  key  will not be performed until the current shot has
ended.

IN GENERAL
----------

FOUL
----
Any  Player  who  breaks  the  rules  of pool is penalised accordingly (see
APPENDIX  ONE:   POOL  RULES).   One  of  two  types of FOUL window will be
displayed.

The  first  FOUL  window  details  the  player  who committed the foul, the
penalty  for  fouling and the foul itself.  Select the "OK" box to continue
play.

The  second  FOUL  window  features  the same details as the first only the
fouling  player's opponent has a choice related to the penalty.  Select the
A or B box.

1st FOUL, 2nd FOUL, 3rd FOUL, STALEMATE
---------------------------------------
The  1st FOUL, 2nd FOUL or 3rd FOUL are shown in the Player's Status window
for  reference  regarding  the  stale-  mate  rules in 8 ball USA pool, see
APPENDIX ONE:  POOL RULES.

CHOOSE YOUR COLOUR
------------------
In  8  ball  pool,  if neither Player has potted a colour and when a Player
pots  an  object  ball from both groups, ie, a red and a yellow, he gets to
choose which colour he will continue to play.

CUE BALL IN HAND
----------------
In accordance with the 8 ball UK rules, the cue ball may be placed anywhere
within the D line.  In accordance with the 8 ball and 9 ball USA rules, the
cue ball may be placed anywhere on the table (see APPENDIX ONE:  POOL RULES
for  details).  How the cue ball is picked up and positioned is detailed in
the TRICK SHOT.

PUSH NORM
---------
This  only  appears in a Player's Status window in 9 ball pool.  And no, it
doesn't  mean  give  poor  old  Norman a shove.  When these two Options are
shown in a Player's Status window it means that player can choose to play a
PUSH  shot or a NORMal shot, in accordance with the 9 ball pool rules.  The
opponent  then  has  the choice of accepting the push shot or asking you to
play on.

NOMINATE POCKET
---------------
When playing 8 Ball USA Rules, a player who has potted all the object balls
in his group and is about to pot the 8 ball (black) must first nominate its
destination  pocket.   Simply  select  the  desired pocket as you would any
Function.   The  chosen pocket will be highlighted on the table and its map
shown  in  the  Player's  Status  window.  Note that you can select another
pocket as often as you wish before the shot is played.

TINK!
-----
A  "TINK!"  sound  will be heard if a Function is selected but it cannot be
performed.

GAME OVER
--------- 
When  a game is won or a stalemate occurs in accordance with the rules of 8
ball  9  ball pool, a panel is shown detailing everything you need to know.
Select  the  "OK" box to return to the Game Control Window.  Note that If a
game ends on a foul, the win is not saved to disk.

APPENDIX ONE: POOL RULES
========================

8 BALL UK COIN OP TABLE RULES 
-----------------------------

1. REQUIREMENTS OF THE GAME 
The game is played on a rectangular 6 pocket table with 15 balls plus a cue
ball.   Balls  comprise  of  two  groups 7 red and 7 yellow known as object
balls plus the 8 ball which is black.

2. OBJECT OF THE GAME
The  player  potting  all  the  object  balls in his group and then legally
potting the 8 ball (black) wins the game.

3. COMMENCEMENT OF THE GAME (OR RESTART)
(a)The  balls  are racked with the 8 ball (black) on its spot placed at the
intersection of the centre and corner pockets.

(b)  The order of play is determined by the flip of a coin and the winner of
the flip has the Option of breaking or requesting his opponent to do so.

(c) The opening piayer plays at the triangle of object balls by striking the
cue  ball  from  any  position on or within the "D".  The player must pot a
ball  or  cause  at  least  two object balls to hit a cushion otherwise the
break is a foul and the balls are reracked and the opposing player restarts
the game with two visits each comprising of one shot or a series of shots.

(d)  On  the  first  occasion a player legally pots an object ball including
following  a foul then that ball denotes his group unless he pots a red and
yellow ball when he must nominate his choice before play continues.

(e)  If  no  ball  is  potted  from a legal break then the players continues
alternately until such time a ball or balls are potted.

(f)  If  a  foul is committed other than as 3 (g) on the first occasion and
one  or  more  object  balls  are  potted  then  those balls are ignored in
determining  the  groups  to be played and the oncoming player plays at any
ball on the table.

(g)  If the player pots the 8 ball (black) from the break the game shall be
restarted  by the same player and no penalty will be incurred and the balls
will  be reracked even if other balls including the cue ball were potted as
well.

(h)  If  a ball or balls are legally potted this entitles the player to one
additional shot and this continues until the player....

(i) ...fails to pot one of his set of allocated objects balls.
(ii)...commits a foul at any time.

(i)  Combination shots are allowed provided that the player hits one of his
own group of balls first unless rule 5 (b) applies.

4. FOULS
The player commits a foul if...
(a) ...he pockets the cue ball (also known as an In Off)

(b) ...he  hits  an opponent's ball before his own, except when rule 5 (b)
       applies.

(c) ...he fails to hit any ball with the cue ball.

(d) ...he  hits  the  8 ball (black) with the cue ball on the first impact
       before all his own object balls have been potted except when rule 5
       (b) applies.

(e) ...he pots any opponent`s ball, except when rule 5 (b) applies.

5. PENALTY FOLLOWING ANY FOUL
(a)  Following  any  foul  the offending player loses his next visit to the
table and his opponent is entitled to two consecutive visits to the table.

(b)  (i)  On the first shot only of his first visit the oncoming player may
without nomination play the cue ball onto any ball including his opponent`s
balls and the 8 ball (black) without penalty.

(ii)  If the player pots any ball or balls directly or by combination he is
deemed  to  have potted a legal ball or balls and continues his first visit
however  he  may  not  pot the 8 ball (black) which would mean loss of game
unless he is on the 8 ball (black).

(iii)  When  the player fails to pot a ball on the first or subsequent shot
of his first visit he will then start his second visit as rule 3 (d).

(c)  If  a  player is snookered, ie, he is unable to play a legal full ball
shot  at  any of his own group of object balls after a foul stroke then the
cue  ball  may  be  played  from the "D" and proceed as rule 5 (a) and (b).
Moving the cue ball in this manner does not count as a shot or visit.

(d)  A  full ball shot is defined as being able to strike the centre of the
object ball directly within the centre of the cue ball.

6. LOSS OF GAME
A player loses the game if he...
(a)  ...pots the 8 ball (black) before potting all his object balls, except
        where rule 3 (g) applies.

(b) ...pots the cue ball off the 8 ball (black) when the 8 ball (black) is
       potted.

(c) ...pots  the 8 ball (black) and any other ball on the same shot except
       following a foul when only the 8 ball (black) and a ball or balls of
       the  opponent`s group are on the table when he may legally pot the 8
       ball (black) as well as balls of his opponent's group in any order.

7. GENERAL
(a) When a player has the cue ball in hand he plays it from any position on
    or within the "D" and in any direction.

(b) The  game is completed when the 8 ball (black) is potted in any pocket
    and  all  the  remaining balls including the cue ball have come to rest
    except where rule 3 (g) applies.

8. STALEMATE
Should  any  situation  arise through accident or design where a legal shot
cannot be played then the game shall be restarted by the same player.

9. UNSPORTSMANLIKE CONDUCT
No  player  shall interfere with his opponent or the computer on which Pool
is running and its associated peripherals.

8 BALL USA BAR TABLE RULES
--------------------------

1. REQUIREMENTS OF THE GAME
The game is played on a rectangular 6 pocket table with 15 balls plus a cue
ball.   Balls  comprise  of two groups 7 red and 7 yellow-- known as object
balls plus the 8 ball which is black.

2.OBJECTS OF THE GAME
The  player  potting  all  the  object  balls in his group and then legally
potting the 8 ball (black) in a designated pocket wins the game.

3. COMMENCEMENT OF THE GAME OR RESTART
(a) The balls are racked with the head ball of the triangle placed at the
front spot intersection of the centre and corner pockets.

(b) The order of play is determined by the flip of a coin and the winner of
the flip has the option of breaking or requesting his opponent to do so.

(c)  The  opening  player plays at the triangle of object balls by striking
the  cue  ball  from  any  position on or behind the head string line.  The
player  must  pot  a  ball  or  cause  at  least four object balls to hit a
cushion.   It  is  not  necessary  to hit the head ball to initiate a legal
break.   If  the player fails to make a legal break, it is not a foul.  The
opponent has the option of...

(i)  ...accepting the table in position and playing a shot or...
(ii) ...having the balls reracked and taking the break.

(d) To perform a legal shot, ie one other then a break or when the table is
open  as  defined  by  3 (g), the player must hit one of his group of balls
first and pocket an object ball or cause the cue ball or any object ball to
contact  a  cushion.   A player can shoot the cue ball off a cushion before
contacting  an  object  ball, however after contact with an object ball, an
object  ball must be potted or the cue ball or any object ball must contact
a  cushion.   A ball is considered illegally potted when the object ball is
potted on the same shot a foul is committed.  An illegally potted ball will
not be replaced on the table.

(e)  On  the first occasion a player legally pots an object ball, including
following  a  foul, then that ball denotes his group - unless he pots a red
and yellow ball when he must nominate his choice before play continues.

(f)  If  no  ball is potted from a legal break then no choice of colour has
been  made  by  a  player and the table is open, ie, it is legal to hit any
ball,  even  the  8  ball (black), to pot an object ball but not the 8 ball
(black).   The players continue to take shots alternately until such time a
ball  or  balls are potted.  Note that the table is always open immediately
after a break.

(g)  If  the  player  pots  the 8 ball (black) from the break no penalty is
incurred  but  the player is allowed to determine whether the balls will be
reracked  or  the  8  ball  (black) will be replaced before the same player
plays again.

(h)  If  a ball or balls are legally potted this entitles the player to one
additional shot and this continues until the player...

(i) ...fails to pot one of his set of allocated objects balls.

(ii) ..commits a foul at any time.

(i)  Combination shots are allowed provided that the player hits one of his
own group of balls first unless rule 5 (b) applies.  He may only strike the
8  ball  (black) first when the table is open and he may not pot the 8 ball
(black) which would mean loss of game unless he is on the 8 ball (black).

(j) If the player pots the cue ball on a legal break...

(i)  ...all  balls  remain  potted  except  for the 8 ball (black) which is
        replaced.

(ii)...it is a foul.

(iii) ...the table is open.

(k)  When the player has potted all the object balls in his group and comes
to pot the 8 ball (black) he must first nominate a destination pocket.

4. FOULS
The player commits a foul if...

(a) ...he pockets the cue ball (also known as a scratch).

(b) ...he  hits  an opponent's ball before his own, except when rule 3 (f)
       applies.

(c) ...he fails to hit any ball with a cue ball.

(d) ...he  hits  the  8 ball (black) with the cue ball on the first impact
       before  all his own object balls have been potted except when rule 3
       (f) applies.

(e) ...he pots any opponents's ball except when rule 3 (f) applies.

5. PENALTY FOLLOWING ANY FOUL
(a)  Following  any  foul the offending player's visit to the table is over
and his opponent gets the cue ball in hand as rule 7(a).

(b)  If  a  player is snookered, ie, he is unable to play a legal full ball
shot  at  any one of his own group of object balls after a foul stroke then
the player has the cue ball in hand.

6. LOSS OF GAME 
A player loses the game if he...

(a) ...pots the 8 ball (black) before potting all his object balls, except
       where rule 3 (g) applies

(b) ...pots the 8 ball (black) and any other ball on the same shot

(c) ...he pots the 8 ball (black) in a pocket not nominated

(d) ...fouls when potting the 8 ball (black)

(e) ...pots the cue ball off the 8 ball (black) when the 8 ball (black) is
       potted.  Note that the game is not lost if the 8 ball (black) is not
       potted when a foul is committed or the cue ball is potted.

7. GENERAL
(a)  When a player has the cue ball in hand he may place it anywhere on the
table before taking his shot.  The table is not open.

(b)  The  game  is  completed when the 8 ball (black) is potted in a pocket
nominated  by the player and all the remaining balls including the cue ball
have come to rest except where rule 3 (g) applies.

8. STALEMATE
If  in  3  consecutive  turns at the table by each player (6 in total) they
foul or scratch then the game will be considered a stalemate.

9. UNSPORTSMANLIKE CONDUCT
No  player  shall interfere with his opponent or the computer on which Pool
is running and its associated peripherals.

9 BALL USA TOURNAMENT RULES
---------------------------

1. REQUIREMENTS OF THE GAME
The  game  is  played  on  a rectangular 6 pocket table with 9 object balls
numbered 1 through 9 and a cue ball.

2. OBJECT OF THE GAME
The player legally potting the 9 ball wins the game.

3. COMMENCEMENT OF THE GAME
(a)  The  balls  are  racked  with  the  1  ball  placed  at  the foot spot
intersection  of the centre and corner pockets and the 9 ball in the centre
of the diamond.

(b) The order of play is determined by the flip of a coin and the winner of
the flip has the option of breaking or requesting his opponent to do so.

c) (i) The opening player plays at the diamond of object balls by striking
the cue ball from any position on or behind the headstring line.

(ii)  The opening player must strike the 1 ball first.  If the player fails
to  contact  the  1  ball  it  is  not  a foul.  The balls are re racked if
necessary  and  the  opening player breaks again from behind the headstring
line.

(iii)  The opening player must attempt an "open break", ie, he must attempt
to pot a ball Failure to do so is a foul.

(iv) If the cue ball is potted from a break and no other foul is committed,
the  incoming  player  has  the  cue ball in hand from above the headstring
line.   The  1  ball  will  be replaced on the table if it is not below the
headstring  line.   The  incoming player can play the shot or pass it.  The
opening player must then play with the ball in hand above the headstring.

(v)  On  the shot immediately following a legal break the player may play a
push shot as defined by rule 6.

(d) To perform a legal shot, ie, one other than a break, the first ball the
cue  ball  hits must be the lowest numbered ball on the table but the balls
need not be potted in order.

(e)  If  the  opening  player  pots  one  or more balls on a legal break he
continues  to  play  until he misses, fouls or wins the game, After a miss,
the  incoming  player  must  play  from  the  position left by the previous
player,  but  after a foul the incoming player has the ball in hand and may
play from anywhere on the table.

(f) If the player pots the 9 ball from a legal break he wins the game.

(g)  Combination  shots  are  allowed provided the cue ball hits the lowest
numbered ball first.

4. FOULS
The player commits a foul if...

(a)  ...the  cue  ball  does  not first hit the lowest numbered ball on the
        table.

(b)  ...he fails to hit any ball with the cue ball.

(c)  ...no  object ball is potted and the cue ball or any object ball fails
        to hit a cushion after the cue ball contacts the object ball.

(d)  ...he pockets the cue ball (also known as a scratch)

5. PENALTY FOLLOWING ANY FOUL
(a)  Except  immediately  after  an  illegal  break, following any foul the
offending  players  visit  to  the  table  is over and any balls potted are
returned  to  the  table.  The incoming player gets the cue ball in hand to
play  from  anywhere  on the table.  If a player commits more than one foul
with one shot they count as only one foul.

(b)  If a player is snookered, ie, he is unable to play a legal shot at the
lowest  numbered  ball after a foul stroke then the player has the cue ball
in hand.

6. GENERAL
(a)  With  a  push shot, no ball is required to contact any object ball nor
any  cushion  so  rules  4  (a), (b) and (c) are suspended.  All other foul
rules still apply.  Any ball potted on a legal push shot does not count and
is returned to the table.  Following a legal push shot, the incoming player
is  permitted  to  play  the cue ball or pass the shot back to the previous
player.

7. UNSPORTSMANLIKE CONDUCT
No  player  shall interfere with his opponent or the computer on which Pool
is running and its associated peripherals.

APPENDIX: TWO
-------------

UNDERSTANDING SPIN AND SWERVE
-----------------------------

It  makes  sense to plan ahead in pool.  Don't play every shot as if it was
your last.  Consider where the cue ball will end up on the table after your
shot has been taken.  This is where spin can come in handy.

Access  the  trick  shot  editor if you aren't already using it.  Clear the
table.  Place an object ball on the table then move it to the centre.  Line
up the centre of the cue ball with centre of the object ball (see FOCUSSlNG
THE  MAlN  CAMERA  ON ANY OTHER BALL).  You are now ready to play a perfect
straight shot and learn about spin and swerve into the bargain.

Play  the  shot  with, say, MEDIUM POWER.  Note the way the cue ball pretty
much  stops in its tracks once contact has been made with the object ball -
Select UNDO to return the table layout to its previous state.

TOP SPIN
Set  the  top  spin  to maximum (see TOP SPIN).  Apply three dabs of chalk.
Take  the  shot.   As  you can see, the cue ball does not stop after making
contact with the object ball.  Instead, the effect is a follow through shot
where the cue ball follows the ball it hit.

Now  that's  all  very well for straight shots when you get them.  But what
happens  when  the  cue ball has to hit the object ball at an angle?  Let's
find out.

Select UNDO ready to replay the shot.  Move the cue ball to the right.  Use
the  view  line  to  ensure the cue ball will hit the object ball but at an
angle.  Now take the shot.

You  can  see  the  angle at which the cue ball leaves the object ball once
contact  is  made.   Select UNDO and this time set the top spin to maximum.
Apply three dabs of chalk and take the shot.

With top spin applied, the cue ball still follows the object ball only to a
lesser  extent.   Note that top spin is never passed on to the balls hit by
the  cue  ball.   All  top spin is removed from the cue ball when it hits a
cushion.

BACK SPIN
Set  the  back spin to maximum (see BACK SPIN).  Apply three dabs of chalk.
Take  the  shot.   As  you can see, the cue ball does not stop after making
contact  with  the  object  ball.   Instead the affect is a screw back shot
where  the cue ball appears to rebound off the ball it hit and shoot off in
the opposite direction.

And  what happens when the cue ball hits the object ball at an angle?  With
back spin applied, the cue ball still screws back from the object ball only
to  a  lesser  extent.  Note that back spin is never passed on to the balls
hit  by  the  cue ball.  All back spin is removed from the cue ball when it
hits a cushion.

SIDE SPIN
A  cue  ball  with side spin applied behaves quite differently to one under
the  influence  of top or back spin.  The extent of the effect of side spin
depends  on  the  power  of  the shot and how long the cue ball has been in
motion.   Note  that  side  spin is never passed on to balls hit by the cue
ball.

We  can  see the effect of side spin when a cue ball hits a cushion.  Clear
the table and activate the double view line adjust the view so the two view
lines  overlap.   If  the  shot  were  taken now, the cue ball would bounce
straight  back  in  the  direction from which it came.  Set the lefthand or
right hand side spin to maximum.  Chalk the cue and take the shot.

The  cue  ball  hits  the cushion and rebounds in the direction of the side
spin.   As  you can see, the effect of side spin on an object ball when hit
at an angle by the cue ball is slightly different.

SWERVE SHOTS
They  are  surprisingly  easy  to  perform  and  often  useful.  All that's
required  is  a combination of top or backspin and side spin.  The severity
of  the  swerve  depends on the degree of spins applied and the strength of
the shot.  It also helps if no other ball gets in the way of the cue ball.

Clear  the  table  as before.  Set the top spin and right-hand side spin to
the  maximum.   Chalk  the  cue  and take the shot.  The swerve to the left
should  be  obvious.   An  equivalent swerve to the right would be achieved
with top spin and left hand spin set to the maximum.

APPENDIX: THREE
---------------

PREPARING A GAME STORAGE DISK
------------------------------

Any  disk  can  be used for the purpose of storing and retrieving games and
scores  - provided it's formatted.  If you don't know how to format a disk,
consult the manual supplied with your computer.

Ensure  the  formatted disk's write protect tab is enabled (the hole in the
corner  of  the  disk  should  be  closed)  before  inserting  it  into the
computer's  internal  disk drive.  Select the ERASE ALL SAVED GAMES ON DISK
Option  from  the  OPTIONS window.  When "YES" is selected to erase all the
saved  games,  blank slots for the purpose of saving games are also created
on a small section of the Disk.

COPYING SAVED GAMES 
Here`s  a  handy  method  of  copying saved games from one disk to another.
Take  your  Games  Storage  disk and insert it into the computer's internal
drive.   Select  the  SAVE  CURRENT  GAME  Option  to  call up the relevant
category  of  saved games slots.  All existing saved games in that category
have  been  loaded from your Games Storage Disk.  Remove your Games Storage
disk  and insert a new one (format it first).  Now save the game as normal.
The  current  game will be saved along with all existing saved games to the
new disk.

APPENDIX FOUR: 
--------------

ADVICE
------

Using  the  mouse in conjunction with the keyboard is recommended.  You may
be interested to know that Pool`s author Archer Maclean prefers to use only
the  Icons  for  applying  chalk, fine control of aim and actually taking a
shot.   Everything  else he does by using the Mouse Pointer directly on the
table and balls.

Position the Control Panel at the top of the screen when playing across the
table and to the side when playing up or down the table.

The  cue  is  shared between Players so remember to check its power setting
before you take a shot.

You will never need any more than three dabs of chalk.

If  you  find  yourself  stumped  by  a  particular shot within a real game
situation,  try this for size...  Press the "Esc" key to return to the GAME
CONTROL  window.   Select  the  SETUP TRICK SHOT Option and enter the trick
shot  editor.   You have abandoned your game (perhaps you should have saved
it  first)  but  now the shot can be played in a more flexible environment.
You  can  use  the  computer  to show you how the shot should be taken (see
INFORMATION on page 25).  The trick shot Option can be used in the same way
to "solve" problems in saved games.

Racking  the  balls  on a real pool table is open to a very small margin of
error,  which is reproduced in Archer Maclean's Pool.  The pack of balls is
reracked  with  every new game.  To see this effect in action simply follow
the following steps from within the Trick Shot Option.

(a) Rerack the balls.

(b)  Zoom  in on a ball in the pack and adjust the view so the pack is seen
from above.

(c)  Rerack  the  balls  again.  You will see the balls shuffle slightly as
they  are  reracked.   Archer Maclean's Pool never produces the same layout
twice.

APPENDIX: FIVE
--------------

ARCHER MACLEAN - A LIFE
-----------------------

In  his eight years in the computer entertainment software business, Archer
Maclean has only ever written four titles, every one an award winner.  This
one  man  band  provides  the  visuals  and  sounds  for all the designs he
programs.

Archer's  next  project will be a conversion of his Jimmy White's Whirlwind
Snooker  to  the  Sega MegaDrive.  Beyond that..  "I have a couple of ideas
but  nothing  I can really talk about.  I can tell you it won't be anything
to do with balls though after three years of them I`ve had enough of them."

When  he`s not busy creating award winning conputer entertainment software,
Archer  Macleans  pusuing danger around every corner with such crazy stunts
as skiing on snow and water and hand gliding.

SOFTOGRAPHY 

Dropzone .........................(1985) .....Commodore 64, Atari 800
International Karate .............(1986) .....Commodore 64, Atari 800
IK+ ..............................(1987) .....Commodore 64
IK+ ..............................(1988) .....Amiga, Atari ST
Jimmy White's Whirlwind Snooker...(1991) .....Amiga, Atari ST
Archer Maclean's Pool ............(1992) .....Amiga, Atari ST


----------------------------------END--------------------------------------                               
