           ARMOUR GEDDON II - CODENAME HELLFIRE
           ====================================


THE STORY CONTINUES... 

I  thought  the end of the world could only happen once in a lifetime.  Now
I`m not so sure ....

                        Mark Day
                        Chairman of the Survivors Committee, 2083

Seventy  years  ago  the  forces  of  EDEN  (Earth  Defence Network) came a
hairsbreadth  away from total annihilation at the hands of their enemy, the
radiation  ravaged  surface  dwellers.   Fortunately for the human race the
Hellfire  satellite malfunctioned before it could unleash its coup de grace
onto the remnants of our post holocaust civilisation.

It  was  the  last  weapon  of  mass  destruction  the  surface dwellers or
ourselves  possessed  and the more sane of us on both sides breathed a sigh
of  relief.   We had pushed the planet right up to the brink for the second
time  in  a generation, stared into the abyss of extinction and been jerked
back at the last moment.

Perhaps  now  was  the time to lay down our arms and embrace our fellow men
above  ground  (even  if  their pustullated, seeping, sinewy appearance can
turn the stomach of the most battle hardened Marine).

But  such  thoughts were soon ploughed under by the blood-fixated realities
of  life in a post holocaust society.  Neither side seemed to care that the
same  lethal  cocktail  of  aggression,  prejudice and abject ignorance lay
behind the nuclear maelstrom that erupted in June 1997.

Instead both sides blamed the other for sad progression of disease, despair
and desparation that began on that awful Summers day.
 
We had tried and failed - just - to manufacture the end of the world once.
 
But progress is progress. And practise makes perfect ....

                         Introduction to An Uncensored View
                         Professor Noam Chomski Jr

This  manual  does not take sides.  In the computer simulated world, ethics
and  morality  are an uncharted province.  Here there is only Darwins Law -
the survival of the fittest.  Kill or be killed.

The facts are simple.  You have total control of the land and air forces of
EDEN.   Your  objective  is to launch a space probe to destroy the Hellfire
Satellite  - and so to remove forever the Damocles Sword that threatens our
civilisation.    Unfortunately  the  enemy  knows  that  the  satellite  is
recoverable and has pulled out all the stops to recapture the weapon.

Neither  of our current industrial bases is developed enough to allow us to
complete  the  launch  booster  without  capturing  the resorces, mines and
factories  of  the enemy.  By annexing raw materials and the factories that
can  develop  them  you  not  only boost the production of the Yuri Gagarin
launch  pod, you can also give yourself additional resouces to develop more
weapons to help the cause.

Furthur details - including plans for your rocket probe and the location of
its  launch site - will be passed onto your command centre as and when they
become available.

The  time scale depends on the successful completetion of your intelligence
gathering missions.

OBJECTIVES
----------

GENERAL

The  Earth  Defence  Network  HQ  is located deep below ground at three key
locations All above ground sorties will be made from these locations.

As  Commander-in-Chief  of EDEN's land and air forces you will have control
of up to six different vehicles at once.  Co-ordinated control of a variety
of  attack  craft is essential for quick and effective progress against the
enemy.   That progress is measured by the construction of your space probe:
successful  completion  of  missions  will  speed up your construction rate
while slowing down the enemy's.

REMEMBER - Your supplies of vehicles and armaments are limited.

In this scenario wastage is a cardinal sin.

DO NOT SQUANDER YOUR PRECIOUS ORDINANCE. THE WAGES OF WASTAGE ARE DEATH.

LOAD AND SAVE 

To load a game make sure no game is playing then:
 
(1) click on the disk icon in the CONFIG screen.  A file selector will then
    be displayed.

(2) Select a file to load then click on load or cancel.

Note:-  if  the game is being run from floppy disk then the save files will
be  written  to  and  read from drive DF0:  (You must have pre-formatted an
Amiga DOS disk before beginning AG2 if you intend to save your game).
 
To save a game:

(1)  click  on  the CONFIG disk icon while a game is playing.  Once again a
     file selector will then be displayed.
 
(2)  select  a  file slot to save to, type in a filename, and then click on
     save or cancel.

Note:   the  first  time load or save is used to a blank disk or hard drive
the  directory  file  will  not  be  found,  this  will  cause  the message
"Directory  Load  Error" to be displayed, simply click on CANCEL to display
the  file  selector,  after  saving  to disk this warning should not happen
again.

TWO PLAYER SERIAL LINK 

A  two player game option is available if you have access to two Amigas and
a Null Modem cable.

To do this:
 
(1) Make sure both Amigas are turned off
 
(2) Connect the Null Modem cable to the serial ports of both Amigas

(3) Turn on and boot up both Amigas, then run AG2. 
 
(4) Select 2 Players from the AG2 CONFIG screen.

The Null Modem cable should be wired with:-

Plug A   to   Plug B 
Plug 2   to   Plug 3
Plug 3   to   Plug 2
Plug 7   to   Plug 7

All other pins are unused or ignored.

TWO PLAYER SAVE GAME

If  a game is currently playing and you click on the config disk icon, both
machines  will  bring up a file selector box.  If you wish to continue with
the game at a later time you must save the game on one of the machines (You
only  need  to  save  on  both the machines if either machine uses the hard
drive to play the game from).

TWO PLAYER LOAD GAME
 
To reload a saved game for two players the saved game must be reloaded into
both  machines before clicking on the "2 players" button.  A saved game may
be  used  to  play a one or two player game.  If used for a two player game
then you must load the game onto both machines.

If  the game is run from floppy disk then games are saved - and loaded from
drive DF0:

If the game is run from hard drive then games are saved and loaded from the
AG2 directory of the hard drive.

NOTE:   Occasionally when playing a 2 player game you may find that the two
computers  are  "out  of  sync"  with  each other.  To bring the games back
insync, save the games to disc and reload.

MEMORY

The program needs a minimum of 1 Meg of RAM to run.  When a game is started
there  will  be  a  short  delay while the program loads in files.  If your
Amiga  has  enough  memory, these files will only need to be loaded once at
the start of game play.

BEGINNING A CAMPAIGN
--------------------

OPERATIONS SCREEN

This  is  the  first  screen  you  will  see  once  Armour  Geddon  II  has
successfully loaded.  It is the nerve centre of EDEN command, from here you
can  access  every part of the battlefield scenario.  Across the top of the
screen  is  a  menu  of commands - simply point and click with the mouse to
activate them

To start the game from scratch click on the CONFIG command

Choose  the difficulty rating (Training/Easy/Difficult/Hard) and then click
on  the  difficulty  bars  to fine tune your setting - the range that these
bars  can  be  adjusted  depends  on  the  level  selected.  Training level
restricts  the  game  map size making it impossible to complete but it does
give  you  access  to  fully  developed  and manufactured equipment and the
ability to adjust the difficulty bars across the whole range.

Click  in  the  controller  icon  until  your preferred means of control is
highlighted (AG II supports keyboard, mouse or joystick play)

Select  one or two players to start the game (see additional section on two
player  play).   The  game will now return to the operations screen and the
battle has begun

MAP SCREEN (MAP) 

This   gives  you  an  overview  of  proceedings  across  the  entire  AGII
battlefield.   Your  forces  are  coloured  white,  the  enemy vehicles are
coloured yellow.

To  stop  the  map  rotating click the mouse on the word SPIN in the bottom
left hand corner of the map.  To restart the rotation click the word again

To  adjust the speed of rotation, click on the arrows to either side of the
SPIN  button  while  the  map  is  rotating  (If the map is stationary then
clicking  on  these  arrows  will rotate the map for the duration the mouse
button is held).

To zoom in on the map place the pointer on the area you want to see in more
detail  and then click the left mouse button.  To zoom out, click the right
mouse button.

To  centre the map screen on a particular vehicle in the battlefield, point
to  the  vehicle`s icon in one of the six boxes located on the bottom right
of the screen then click the right mouse button.  To move straight from the
map  screen  to  the cockpit of a particular vehicle repeat the process but
this time hit the left mouse button.

To  return to the operations screen from any other screen in the game press
the  MAP  MENU  COMMAND,  the  OPS  on screen prompt or click on the ESCAPE
button.

Click on M button to the right of "Messages" to change map display mode

MESSAGES SCREEN (MESSAGES)

This  screen gives you an up to the minute account of the battle.  Check it
regularly  to  see the current state of your factories, mines and bases and
your progress in the game.

To  scroll  back and forth through the messages click on the arrow pointers
in the bottom left hand corner of the screen.

STATISTICS SCREEN (STATS)

This  gives  an  even  more  detailed  account  of your current status.  It
includes charts comparing your rate of manufacturing and progress towards a
complete  rocket  with  that  of  your  enemy.   There  is  also a relative
breakdown  of  how  many factories, mines and HQ's you and the enemy forces
have captured and destroyed.

TACTICS SCREEN (TACT)

This screen has a variety of functions:

Missions  as our intelligence teams and recon satellites gather and process
information the results are analysed and displayed on the Missions bulletin
board.   Simply  point  and  click  on  the Missions button to activate the
screen,  click on upprr/lower area of the text window to scroll through the
various  available missions, if necessary.  Completing these missions is an
essential  component  of  a winning strategy - for instance you will not be
able  to  begin  constructing  your rocket probe until you have completed a
certain number of missions.

Research  & development many of the potential weapons in Armour Geddon (TM)
will  not  be  available  to  you  until you have ploughed in the necessary
scientific  and material resources to develop them (except when playing the
game  on the "Training" setting).  To access the R&D screen hit the button.
You  will  have  a  contingent of scientist each of which you can assign to
develop  and improve your military hardware.  The more scientists you place
on  a  particular  project the faster they will produce blueprints for that
piece  of  hardware.   But remember once the blueprints have been completed
the  hardware  is  NOT  automatically placed at your disposal.  You have to
manufacture  the  equipment  either at your initial base (Base Alpha) or at
enemy  factories  that  you  have captured.  A factory can only manufacture
when it is supplied with raw materials by a mine.

RESOURCES (mines and manufacturing)

Once  you  discover and capture mines they will be displayed on the Tactics
map  when  the  Resources  button  is  pushed Enemy mines and factories are
coloured  black,  friendly installations are yellow and destroyed mines and
factories are shown in blue.

A  quick  click  on the mine will activate it and display information about
its  mineral  reserves.   If  you  keep  your finger held down on the mouse
button,  you  can  -  assuming  the  mine is captured and "friendly" drag a
supply line to cover the factory you want the mine to supply.

(If the factory is within the mine's 32 km range the line is coloured green,
otherwise it is a drab brown). Release the mouse button and you should see
the suppIies "flow" to the factory on the map.

Now  click  on  the factory itself.  A window will open in which you select
what  three  items you want the site to produce.  Scroll through the select
screen  until  the  item  you  want  is highlighted then click in the empty
production  box.   Provided  there  is  enough  of  the  right  type of raw
materials  (e.g.   explodium is essential for missiles, shells, bombs, Etc)
the  hardware  will  roll  off  the  production  lines  and be added to the
stockpile at Base HQ.

If  there  are not enough materials for the factory to produce the selected
goods, the icon will flash constantly.
 
Remember  -the  factory will always try and produce the products at the top
of the list.  If the item at the head cannot be produced (say because its a
missile  which needs explodium and your mines run dry) then any items below
it  which  require different raw materials which are available will be held
up.  The solution is to highlight the goods which you can produce and place
them  at  the  top  of  your  list by overwriting the item that has stalled
production.

Waypoints  &  navigation  - a crucial part of success in Armour Geddon 2 is
the ability to assign waypoints to which vehicles will be directed by their
on board auto pilots.
 
To  assign a waypoint to a vehicle click on the vehicles icon in Nav Panel,
located  in  the top right hand panel of the Tactics screen.  Any waypoints
already assigned to the vehicle will be highlighted.  You can move or add a
waypoint  in  two ways:  first by clicking on an existing waypoint and then
moving  the  mouse  to  the location where you want the vehicle to go next.
Alternalively click on the waypoint cross hair then use the four cursors on
the Nav Panel.

All  vehicles must have at least one waypoint (that assigned to the base it
was  launched  from)  up  to  a  maximum of five.  Use the next base button
(INCLUDE  ICON  PICTURE)  to cycle through waypoints that can be moved with
the cursor arrows.

You  can  delete a waypoint by clicking on it and dragging the crosshair to
an  adjacent  waypoint  assigned  to  the  vehicle.   You cannot delete the
vehicles first waypoint (the one assigned to the base it was launched from)
nor can it be moved from its original position.

NOTE  -  You  can  download waypoint co-ordinates directly from the mission
computer  to your vehicles on board Navicom.  To do this, simply select the
mission  you  intend to pursue, select a vehicle icon and then click on the
NEXT  BASE/AUTO  DOWNLOAD  button  (at the top right of the screen), making
sure you have kept the game on the Mission screen.

Confirm the downloaded settings by clicking the cursor on an unused part of
the  Nav  Panel  (in  other  words any part of the panel except the vehicle
icons, cursor controls and NEXT BASE/DOWNLOAD button)

EQUIP SCREEN (EQUIP)

Selecting  this  option  from  the  operations screen menu takes you to the
primary launch bay.  From here you can select and equip vehicles and launch
them from one of your three bases (except in training mode).

Selecting and Equipping a vehicle:

1.  Point  and  click the cursor over one of the six squares in the bottom
    right of the screen.

2.  Use the cursor to press the left and right buttons which scroll through
    the vehicle roster in the bottom left hand side of the screen.

3.  When  the  vehicle  you want to Equip and launch is highlighted in the
    window  click  and  drag it to the empty window in the bottom right of
    the screen - a wire outline of the vehicle should appear.

4.  To  equip  the vehicle, use the cursor to flip through the bottom left
    hand  screen  again  (the vehicles will now be replaced by the arms and
    accessories  available for the selected craft).  Click on the equipment
    you want and drag the selection across to the vehicle's wire frame

You  can  only  place items on vehicle mountings highlighted in yellow, and
you  may find that a craft can only carry a limited number of certain types
of equipment.

Remember  that there must be supplies of the selected piece of ordinance in
the  bunker  before  it  can be loaded onto a vehicle (the number below the
icon in the window indicates current reserves).

5.  Having loaded the selected vehicle with all the ordinance you require,
    now  is  a  good  time  to  set  the craft`s waypoints (SEE WAYPOINTS &
    NAVIGATION  section  above).  To launch the craft into the battlefield,
    use the cursor to click on one of the three doorways at the rear of the
    launch  bay.  Each one corresponds to one of your bases.  The lift will
    now  take your vehicle to the surface and youre ready for action!  Note
    each  lift  is  placed above a hanger specifically designed for certain
    vehicle  types  which  means  that  it  is only possible to launch each
    vehicle type through one specific lift at each base.

If  the  lights  above the lift doors have changed colour from green to red
then  that  lift cannot be used - either because the lift is damaged or the
entire base is destroyed (Damaged lifts may be repaired only if the base is
not  destroyed).   If all the lifts are red then the likelihood is that the
game is over.


VEHICLE CONTROL KEYS
--------------------

                    \      engine start/stop
            Cursor Up      increase throttle (nose down on aircraft)
          Cursor down      decrease throttle (nose up on aircraft)
          Cursor left      turn or bank left
         Cursor right      turn or bank right
           Back space      brake (aircraft only)
                    +      increase throttle
                    -      decrease throttle
                  < >      rudder left/right (aircraft only)

THE WEAPON CONTROL SYSTEM

                    V      activate payload display (in the bottom left 
                           hand of the vehicle cockpit) Repeated pressing 
                           cycles through the target, payload and teleport 
                           modes
                    W      move to next payload entry/teleport entry
                    S      select the highlighted payload entry or activate
                           teleport
                    T      select airborne target (for missiles) from those
                           indicated on the radar display
          Shift and T      select ground target from those indicated on the
                           radar display
            SPACE BAR      activate or fire the selected payload
                  TAB      raise tank gun barrel (tanks only)
                 CTRL      lower tank gun barrel (tanks only)
AMIGA(right)and ALT(right) fire flare

OTHER USEFUL FUNCTIONS

                  ESC      go to operations screen
                    P      pause game
     Left ALT key + A      Activate auto pilot to next waypoint
   Left AMIGA key + A      Activate auto pilot to next beacon
                           (while beacon is switched on)
                    F      attempt to refuel from fuel pod
                    L      attempt to use lift
                 F1-6      select vehicles 1 - 6
          shift + ESC      vehicle self destruct

OTHER COCKPIT FUNCTIONS

                    M      go to tact map
              shift M      display last message
                    B      beacon on/off
                    C      select control mode
                    H      hud brightness control
                 Help      increase shield charge rate
                  Del      decrease shield charge rate

GETTING STARTED
---------------

The  first  thing  you  must  do after you have launched a vehicle into the
battle  field  is start its engine.  If youre piloting an aircraft, taxi it
onto the runway, pick up speed and take off.

If  youre  in  control  of  a  land vehicle pick your direction and gun the
throttle.

Now  is  a  good time to set your waypoint (if you havent done so already!)
From  the vehicle cockpit push the escape button to bring up the operations
screen.  Click the mouse on Tactics to bring up the tactics screen.  Select
your vehicle icon - all the current waypoints assigned to your vehicle will
be  highlighted  on  the map.  If youve just started the game there will be
only  one  -  the  base  from  which the craft was launched from.  If youve
already  assigned a waypoint(s) prior to launch they will now be programmed
into the Navcom.

First  off, activate your shields otherwise your vehicle will be a cloud of
radioactive  particles  before you can say "Gott in Himmel".  Push the HELP
button  to activate your shields and increase their charge rate (the higher
you  pump  it, the quicker the shields will energise and be replenished but
the bigger the drain on your fuel reserves).

Where  do you go?  Check out the Mission screen.  Here you will find a grid
reference  for  your  next  mission objective and use it to set the vehicle
waypoint.

Getting  bored  with steering your vehicle all the way to the waypoint?  No
problem!   Simply  select  the  Auto  pilot  by  pushing the left ALT and A
buttons.  To deactivate the auto pilot press A on its own.

Coming  under  fire?   Youve  got  two  choices either you can activate the
cloaker  to render yourself undetectable to enemy radar or you can take out
the  bandits  (of course you can do both if you want to the so called "belt
and braces" approach).

To  activate your cloaker if your craft has one on its payload - first push
the  V button.  This should bring up a list of all your payload contents in
the  right  hand  cockpit screen.  Press the W button to scroll through the
list  highlighting  each  item  in  turn.  When the cloaker is highlighted,
activate it using the S button.

CAPTURING ENEMY INSTALLATIONS
 
To  capture  an  enemy  base, factory or mine you must park your vehicle in
front  of  the  enemy  HQ (Occasionally the precise spot will be marked but
more  often  than  not you will have to rely on trial and error to discover
the exact vulnerable spots).  If you capture an enemy base, the EDEN ensign
is  run  up  the  flagpole  -  the  seizure  of mines and factories will be
confirmed by the vehicles on board computer

Once  you  capture  an enemy base its defences will be trained on any enemy
insurgents  providing  that  those defences have not been destroyed in your
initial assault.

If the HQ is not destroyed, damaged buildings near a base and the HQ itself
will be slowly repaired.

You  can  use any captured mine to supply raw materials to a single factory
within  a 32 km radius.  That factory can manufacture up to three different
weapons,  vehicles or accessories depending on the type and quantity of raw
materials  supplied  to  it  by the mine (Note:  several mines can supply a
single factory but a single mine cannot supply more than one factory)

All  equipment  produced  by a factory will be automatically transported to
EDEN`s   central   warehouse   facility  and  is  available  for  immediate
deployment.

The  enemy  will attempt to recapture or destroy mines, factories and bases
so  it  is  advisable  to  annex these with the minimal amount of damage to
their buildings and defences.

COMBAT MODE

The  weapons  you  are  using will determine your precise combat procedure.
But  all  weapons  are  activated in much the same way as your cloaker (see
above).  Select the payload ordinance you require, arm it with the S button
and fire when ready by pushing the SPACE BAR.

Tank  cannon  shells these are aimed by controlling the tank cannon Use TAB
and  CAPS  LOCK  keys to adjust the elevation, CURSOR RIGHT AND CURSOR LEFT
KEYS (or joystick/mouse) to determine the direction.  Naturally, the higher
the  elevation  the further the shell will travel (Remember that the barrel
can only be moved when the engine is running)

WARNING:  discharging shells when the barrel is at its lowest elevation can
cause serious damage to your tank.

Lasers  -  if  you  attached lasers to the tank barrel when the vehicle was
equipped  then  they  can  be  aimed  in the same way as shells.  Otherwise
lasers  can  only  be fired in the direction the vehicle is facing, and can
only  be  aimed  by  rotating the vehicle left or right (and by climbing or
diving if the lasers are mounted on an aircraft)
 
Missiles  -  missiles  are  self  guided  weapons  that home in on the heat
emissions  of  aircraft,  land vehicles etc.  To target the missile, select
the  weapon and arm it with the W and S buttons The targeting icon will now
drift  towards  the  current  target as shown on your cockpits radar screen
(you  may  have  to manoeuvre your craft to allow the icon to lock onto the
target on screen).  Once you have achieved missile lock, hit the SPACE BAR.
To  override the computers chosen target press the T button until the bogey
you want to take out is highlighted

Rockets  -  unlike missiles, rockets are dumb weapons.  They do not home in
on  bogeys but travel in the direction they were fired for as long as their
propellant  lasts.   Consequently this makes them useless for ground to air
purposes (although they can be used as air to ground weapons)

Flares - these are your main defence against heat seeking missiles.  When a
cruise  missile  is  on  your tail discharge some flares (research suggests
that a salvo of three is most effective) using the RIGHT AMIGA or RIGHT ALT
buttons and take evasive action.

It just might save your life.

Beacons  -  there  are  over  112,589  km2  of  battlefield  out  there and
occasionally you may lose track of your vehicle or want to attack using two
or  more  craft  in close proximity.  This is where beacons come in useful.
Every  vehicle has a beacon that can be activated by pressing the B button.
Other craft can now home in on this beacon using their auto pilots.  Simply
bring up the cockpit screen of the vehicle you want to track the beacon and
push the LEFT AMIGA KEY + A

BUILDING YOUR LAUNCH PAD AND ROCKET PROBE

You will not know the location of your launch site until you have completed
certain  intelligence  gathering  missions  and  captured the site from the
enemy.

From  then on its a race against time to build and complete your launch pad
and  rocket  before  the enemy can.  To do this your factories must produce
"high  strength  composite  building  materials, which like other items are
immediately transported to your main storage facility for deployment in the
field.

You  must  haul these materials to the launch site by truck (drive it right
up to the launch tower).  As materials arrive at the site, the construction
will  take  place  automatically and you will see the launch pad and rocket
develop before your eyes.

WARNING:   while  loading  materials your launchpad may be damaged by stray
fire from enemy aircraft attacking the truck.

OTHER IMPORTANT FEATURES

Teleport Pods

The  limited  range  of some of your key weaponry such as heavy tanks means
that  effective  use  of  teleportation is crucial to success in the Armour
Geddon  battlefield  As the name suggests, Teleport Pods transfer a vehicle
from  location  A to location B instantaneously and without using up any of
its fuel.

Only  base Alpha begins a game with the teleport pod which is alongside the
control  tower.   Other teleport pods can be distributed throughout the map
by  loading  them  onto  the bomber and "dropping" them (in the same way as
bombs are released) above the desired location.

In  order  to  use  a  teleport  pod  a vehicle must be stationary directly
beneath  the  device.   Then activate the teleport information panel within
the  cockpit  display  by pushing the V button until it is on screen.  This
will  list  all the current teleport pod locations and their grid reference
numbers.   Use  the  W  button to scroll through the list until the desired
location  is  highIighted.   Then press the S button to engage the teleport
pod.  But remember the destination can only be another teleport pod (If you
havent  placed  any you cant go anywhere!) and the process will not work if
there  is  another vehicle within 30 metres of the destination teleport Bon
voyage!  (And keep an eye out for rogue house flies!)

Recycle Pods

Raw  materials  are scarce in 2083 and if you squander what little reserves
you  have  you  will  soon be in big trouble.  But inevitably there will be
occasions  when  one of your vehicles runs out of fuel or is badly damaged.
After  all  this is war.  When this happens it means that all the resources
and  materials  that  went into that vehicle are tied up in the battlefield
doing nothing.  The solution is to salvage the craft by using recycle pods.

To  do  this you must first develop and manufacture the recycle pods.  Then
equip  and  launch a vehicle with one or more of the pods (depending on how
many stranded vehicles you intend to salvage)

Steer  the  craft to the stranded vehicle, highlight the recycle pod on the
cockpit control panel with the W button and activate it with the S button.

The  stranded  vehicle  will  be  teleported back to (the nearest) base and
broken  up  into  its constituent raw materials although the rigours of the
recycling process mean that around 20% of the materials are unusable.

Fuel Pods

Fuel  pods,  as  their  name  implies,  allow  vehicles to refuel but their
crucial  advantage is that they can be dropped anywhere on the battlefield,
allowing  surface and aircraft to refuel during sorties without the need to
return to base.

The  pods  themselves  are  "dropped" by bombers in exactly the same way as
teleport  pods.   To use the pods, park your vehicle as close to the pod as
possible and then press the F button until its tank is full.  Remember that
the  pods  contain  a limited amount of fuel so heavy usage will soon empty
them.

Attention hi-tech junkies - heres what all those other buttons are for

                    select next base tower view (tracks your vehicle)
    1               select cockpit view
    2               select nose camera view
    3               select satellite view
    4               select weapon camera view
    5               select external view 1
    6               select external view 2
    7               select external view 3
    8               select flyby view
    9               select target track view (shift 9 = reversed target 
                    track)
    U               move camera up (zoom out in satellite view)
    J               move camera down
                    (zoom in during satellite mode)
    I               zooms camera in/narrows cockpit radar range
    O               zooms camera out/extends cockpit radar range
    K               resets camera/radar options to default settings
    NKP (           rotate camera anti clockwise
    NKP )           rotate camera clockwise
    F7              adjusts cloud cover
    F8              adjusts view range level
    F9              adjusts frame rate factor
    F10             toggles between high and low resolution
    NKP 1-9         view direction
    []              rotate camera
    ;#              rotate camera +/- 45o

    NKP = Numeric Key Pad (Not A600)

ORDNANCE SURVEY
---------------

HEAVY TANK 

Speed:                   48 - 102 km/h
Shield:                  Medium - Strong
Weight:                  42,200kg - 34,700kg
Range:                   140km
Weapon capabilities:     Shells, rockets, lasers
Non weapon capabilities: Cloaker, teleport, external fuel tank night 
                         sight, recycle pod

LIGHT TANK

Speed:                   68 - 150 km/h
Shield:                  Medium - Strong
Weight:                  23,000 - 19,000
Range:                   126 km
Weapon capabilities:     Shells, mini rockets, lasers
Non weapon capabilities: External fuel tank, night sight


HOVERCRAFT 

Speed:                   91 - 190 km/h
Shield:                  Weak - Strong
Weight:                  2400 - 1440kg
Range:                   665 km
Weapon capabilities:     Missiles, rockets, lasers
Non weapon capabilities: External fuel tank, Night sight


MISSILE DEFENCE PLATFORM (MDP)

Speed:                   75 - 123 km/h
Shield:                  Medium - Strong
Weight:                  2500 - 2050
Range:                   135 km
Weapon capabilities:     Mini missiles, Laser
Non weapon capabilities: External fuel tank, Night Sight, Cloaker


TRUCK (RTV)

Speed:                   61 - 89 km/h
Shield:                  Weak - Medium
Weight:                  1600 - 1450 kg
Range:                   55 km
Weapon capabilities:     None
Non weapon capabilities: External fuel tank, Materials, Night sight,
                         Cloaker, Recycle Pod


BOMBER

Speed:                   300 - 345 km/h
Shield:                  Weak - Medium
Weight:                  22,000 - 21,000
Range:                   970 km
Weapon capabilities:     Rocket, Free Fall Bomb
Non weapon capabilities: Night Sight, Cloaker, External Fuel Tank,
                         Teleport Pod

FIGHTER 

Speed:                   565 - 570 km/h
Shield:                  Weak - Medium
Weight:                  4590 - 4200 kg
Range:                   1248 km
Weapon capabilities:     Laser, missile, rocket, mini rocket, retarded bomb
Non Weapon capabilities: Night Sight, cloaker, External fuel tank


HELICOPTER 

Speed:                   279 - 295 km/h
Shield:                  Weak  - Medium
Weight:                  3300 - 2900 kg
Range:                   464 km
Weapon capabilities:     Laser, missile, rocket, mini rocket
Non weapon capabilities: Night sight, cloaker, External fuel tank, 
                         recycle pod


AIRSHIP 

Speed:                   60 - 82 km/h
Shield:                  Weak - Medium
Weight:                  1400 - 1200kg
Range:                   98 km
Weapon capabilities:     Laser, mini missile, rocket
Non weapon capabilities: Night sight, cloaker, External fuel tank,
                         recycle pod
