Ashes Of Empire
===============
Brought to you by Belgarath

“HOW HORRIBLE, FANTASTIC, 
INCREDIBLE IT IS THAT 
WE SHOULD BE DIGGING 
TRENCHES AND TRYING ON
GAS MASKS HERE BECAUSE 
OF A QUARREL IN A FAR 
AWAY COUNTRY BETWEEN 
PEOPLE OF WHOM WE 
KNOW NOTHING”. 

-  Neville Chamberlain in a radio broadcast about 
Germany’s annexation of Sudetenland, 
27 September 1938.

CONTENTS 

1. NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN
   RADIO BROADCAST

2. PREFACE

3. HOW TO PLAY

4. REGIONAL PROFILES

5. NEWS PAPER CLIPPINGS

6. THE ACCIDENT

7. THE MEETING

PREFACE  
By Mike Singleton 

After more than forty years of global confrontation between East and West, the Cold War
ends. Gorbachev brings glasnost and perestroika to the Soviet Union. The Iron Curtain 
begins to suffer from terminal rust. The Eastern Bloc crumbles. In Poland, in 
Czechoslovakia, in Hungary, in Bulgaria, in East Germany and in Rumania, communist
regimes lose their grip on power. The Berlin Wall is torn down. The Baltic states declare
independence from the Soviet Union. East and West Germany are re-united.  Hardline 
politicians attempt a coup in the Soviet Union but are foiled by Yeltsin and the citizens of
Moscow. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics dissolves into the Commonwealth of
Independent States as republic after republic refuses to remain part of the old, centralized
union. 

With Cold War tensions and loyalties melting away, nationalism begins to reassert itself
through Eastern Europe and beyond. Yugoslavia flies asunder and civil war breaks out as
Slovenia and then Croatia declare independence and defy the attempts of the   Serbian- 
dominated federal army to force them back into the fold. In the CIS, conflict grows
between Azerbaijan and Armenia and, in the enclave of Nagorny-Karabakh, there is bitter
fighting. The Ukraine and Russia both claim ownership of the Black Sea Fleet. A Russian 
minority enclave in Moldavia declares independence from the Moldavian Republic. There 
is more bitter fighting in Yugoslavia as ethnic conflict breaks out between the Serb, Croat
and Muslim communities of Bosnia-Herzegovina. Sarajevo is besieged and, once again, 
the roads of Europe are choked with refugees.

Further east, an uneasy peace holds between the states of the   CIS.  The daunting question 
of who controls the nuclear weapons of the old USSR is not resolved. As market forces
begin to bite, the fragile economies of the former Republics falter. Russia appeals for
economic aid. All the while, civil unrest and ethnic tension rises. 

We live in remarkable times. At breathtaking speed, the political map of the world has
changed beyond recognition. This is the backdrop to Ashes of Empire. Through fiction, 
this game looks at the sort of problems that face the world today and asks you to solve
them. Your task is to bring peace and harmony to the CSR, a vast, multi-national,   nuclear- 
armed superstate where central authority no longer prevails and where the danger of
ethnic conflict and civil war looms large.

In Ashes of Empire, you will find echoes of the real world and, I hope, echoes of how
delicate a task it is to bring peace and prosperity to lands where there is, at the moment,
only hardship, bloodletting and misery. 

Wishing you success in your mission of mercy   

Mike Singleton


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS 

COMMODORE  AMIGA 

Turn off your computer and remove all unnecessary peripherals. Insert the disk into the internal drive 
and switch on the computer. The program will auto-load. On the conclusion of the intro sequence,
remove the disk, insert the “Ashes” program disk and then restart your Amiga. Should you not wish 
to run the intro sequence, please insert the program disk into the internal drive and switch on your 
computer. The program will automatically load. 

WHAT IF MY GAME FAILS TO LOAD? 

In the vast majority of cases a loading problem is caused not by faulty software but by either, an
incorrect loading procedure  or a hardware fault. Please ensure that the loading instructions have 
been properly followed. Most hardware failures are due to a misalignment of the heads in the disk 
drive. It may also be that a virus has been transferred onto your hardware from other software, pirated 
copies of games are a common source of viruses. 

In the unlikely event of a software fault on your mirage game, please return the complete package 
with receipt to the place of purchase. Alternatively, contact Mirage on our helpline 0260-299919

HOW TO  PLAY

YOUR AIMS 

THE  OVERALL AIM 
PACIFYING A REPUBLIC
CAPITAL PROVINCES
PACIFYING A PROVINCE 
THE UC BUILDING PROGRAMME 
THE UC DEMOLITION PROGRAMME 
THE UC PACIFICATION PROGRAMME 
THE UC ETHNIC HARMONY PROGRAMME 
SUCCESS IN A PROVINCE 
TIME IN A PROVINCE 
SUCCESS IN A REPUBLIC 
TIME IN A  REPUBLIC 
ALL-OUT NUCLEAR CIVIL WAR 
SUCCESS IN THE CSR


THE OVERALL AIM 
The overall aim of your Commission is to bring peace and
harmony to the entire CSR.
To do this, you must pacify each of the  CSR’s   five Republics  - 
Ossia, Ruzakhstan, Belokraine,   Moldenla,  Servonia. 

PACIFYING A REPUBLIC 
Each Republic has one capital province and up to eight other 
provinces within its borders.
There are two ways to pacify a Republic: 

EITHER 
1) Pacify the capital province of the   Republic  and at 
least two other provinces in the   Republic. 

OR 

2) Pacify all the provinces in the Republic except the 
capital province. 

CAPITAL PROVINCES 
The capital provinces of the Republics each encompass one
of the five great lakes of the CSR. 

Republic        Capital Province 
Ossia           Zemla 
Ruzakhstan      Abakan 
Belokraine      Ostrov 
Moldenia        Tasejevo 
Servonia        Chor 

PACIFYING A PROVINCE 
To pacify a province, you must successfully complete four
different United Community programmes   in  the   province. 
These are your aims in a province. 

1) The UC Building Programme 
2) The UC Demolition Programme 
3) The UC Pacification Programme 
4) The UC Ethnic Harmony Programme 

The precise composition of these programmes varies 
considerably from province to province. 

THE UC BUILDING PROGRAMME 
Under the   United   Community  Building Programme, you must 
provide a number of different types of buildings to meet the
most urgent needs of the   population  of the province. 

You can provide these buildings either by gaining control of
existing ones or, with the help of the local  professionals, by 
building new ones. 

THE UC DEMOLITION PROGRAMME 
Under the United Community Demolition Programme, you
must rid the province of a number of different types of
buildings whose very existence is a threat to harmony and
prosperity.

You can demolish these buildings either by military action or
by securing the help of local professionals who will undertake
the demolition themselves.

 
THE UC PACIFICATION PROGRAMME 
Under the United Community Pacification Programme, you
must eliminate from the province a certain number of CSR 
military units.

Local military commanders, if you secure their help, can bring
CSR military units over to your side. Alternatively, by direct
military action, you can force units to surrender. 

THE UC ETHNIC HARMONY PROGRAMME 
Under the United Community Ethnic Harmony Programme, 
you must secure the support of different ethnic groups
within the province. This support comes in the form of 
democratic votes pledged by the ethnic minorities. 

The votes are pledged when you secure the help of key 
members of the various provincial communities. 


SUCCESS IN A PROVINCE 
If you succeed in all your aims, you will achieve peace and
harmony in the province. The province will place itself under
United Community control and you will be given various 
additional resources by the grateful population.

All the buildings in the province fail under UC control, all the
military units surrender and the professionals in the province 
join the staff of your military, medical, engineering and 
administrative teams.

The extra resources and the extra professional assistance you 
gain  will  then help your peace  mission in  other troubled 
regions of the CSR. 

TIME IN A PROVINCE 
You only have a   limited  amount of  time  in a province before 
reactionary  elements start to  disrupt  your efforts. If you 
spend too many days in a province, saboteurs will start to set
the forests ablaze. Unless dealt  with,  the forest  fires will 
spread  rapidly,   causing  a massive  diversion  of resources. 

The  burning  down of forests steadily reduces the resources 
you will  gain  by  pacifying  the province. If too many forest 
fires  burn to conclusion, you may end up   with  no extra 
resources at all when you   finally  pacify the province. 

You can, however, gain extra   time in  a province by  gaining 
control of  certain  buildings or by  securing  the help of certain 
key members of the  community.   Gaining  extra  time  delays 
the onset of forest fires. 

SUCCESS IN A REPUBLIC 
If you succeed in  pacifying   sufficient  provinces, you will 
achieve peace and harmony in the Republic. The whole
Republic will place itself under   United  Community control 
and all remaining unpacified provinces will likewise place 
themselves under   United  Community control. 

You will be given various additional resources by the grateful 
population of the Republic. All the buildings in the Republic 
fail under UC control, all the military units surrender and the 
professionals in the Republic join the staff of your military,
medical, engineering and administrative teams. 

The extra resources and the extra professional assistance you
gain will then help your peace mission in the other troubled 
Republics of the CSR. 

TIME IN A REPUBLIC 
You only have a limited amount of time in a Republic before
reactionary elements in the fragmented but still functioning
CSR Strategic Command start to disrupt the peace process by
launching nuclear missiles against the province you are in.

Once you have exceeded your time limit, every day you spend 
in the Republic carries the risk of a nuclear strike against the 
province you are operating in. 

If a nuclear missile does explode in a province, it becomes
very difficult indeed to adequately pacify the province.
Consequently, it becomes very  difficult  to   pacify  the Republic.
Unless you are very close to success already, your cause may
well be doomed.

You do, however, gain extra time in a   Republic  as you pacify 
each of its provinces. This  gives you more time before the 
nuclear strikes begin. 

ALL-OUT NUCLEAR CIVIL WAR 
Once nuclear strikes start to be made anywhere in  the CSR, 
the level of nuclear tension starts to rise. There are three
levels of tension, low, rising and  critical. 

The number of strikes it takes to raise tension to a new level 
is unpredictable   - it could take two missiles, it could take five 

Regardless of the number of nuclear strikes, nuclear tension 
in the CSR will rise anyway by one level every fifty days.  This 
means that you have a maximum of 150 days in which to
pacify the whole of the CSR.

When the tension level rises above critical, a catastrophic
nuclear civil war will break out in the CSR. Over one hundred
nuclear missiles will rain down on CSR territory, devastating
the land mass and annihilating millions of innocent men,
women and children.

This is the consequence of failing in your Commission.  It 
must be avoided at all costs. 

SUCCESS IN THE CSR 
If you succeed in pacifying all of the five  Republics, your	
mission  of peace is complete. You will have brought peace
harmony and  democratic  freedom to the grateful people of
the CSR and saved them from the horrors of  civil  war.


THE PEOPLES OF THE CSR 

AN EMPIRE IN DECLINE 
THE POLITICAL STRUCTURE
THE NATIONS 
THE NATIONAL LEADERS 
THE NATIONAL HIERARCHY 
NATIONAL LOYALTIES 
CROSS-BORDER LOYALTIES 
THE PROFESSIONS 
PROFESSIONAL TEAMS 
PROVINCIAL SOCIETY 
SPECIAL HELP
PROFESSIONAL DEMANDS
PROFESSIONALS LOYAL TO YOU
ORDINARY CITIZENS


AN EMPIRE IN DECLINE 
The Confederation of Syndicalist Republics has, for decades,
been a militaristic totalitarian state ruled with a rod of iron by 
the all-powerful Syndicalist Party.

The lands comprising the CSR are much the same lands that
comprised the old Ossian Empire at the turn of the century:
Ossia itself, Ruzakhstan, Belokraine, Moldenia and Servonia.

Over the past three years, the CSR has been in turmoil. The
Syndicalist Party, in an attempt to stimulate the moribund 
centralised  economy, relaxed its grip on the population, 
introducing piecemeal democratic reforms and some
elements of a market economy.

The outcome of these attempted reforms has been the
overthrow of Party rule, the breakdown of central authority
in the CSR and chaos verging on civil war. 

THE  POLITICAL STRUCTURE 
The CSR comprises 5 Republics, each of which consists of up
to 9 provinces. Each Republic has a capital province, where
the central administration of the Republic is to be found. 

OSSIA 
Zemla,  Caracal,  Temir, Makinsk, Siret, 
Sebalino, Armavir. 

RUZAKHSTAN 
Abakan, Nadym, Samara, Arad,   Turu, 
Magadan, Kazan, Curug. 

BELOKKAINE 
Ostrov, Kurunach, Borovan, Agonar, 
Timis,  Asino,   Balkas,  Govina. 

MOLDENIA 
Tasejevo,  Marcha,   Parabel,  Celkar, 
Selenga, Elista, Palanka, Agia. 

SERVONIA 
Chor, West Suja, Corabia, Pasino,
Joskar, Ekonda, Liman, Kalaras, Murom. 

THE NATIONS 
The population of the CSR is made up of 5 different nations,
the Ossians, the Ruzakhs, the Beloks, the Moldenes and the
Servs.

The national territory of each of these nations corresponds to
each of the CSR’s  five Republics. However, intermingling and 
deliberate relocation of entire populations by the central
authorities has given each Republic and each province  a 
population of mixed nationalities 

The  majority  of the population in the Republic of Ossia is of 
Ossian   nationality,  but in each province, there are large 
ethnic  minority groups of Ruzakhs, Beloks, Moldenes 
and Servs. It is likewise for each of the other   Republics. 

Following the breakdown of central authority, ethnic conflict
is a major problem throughout the CSR. 

THE NATIONAL LEADERS 
With central government in disarray and ethnic tension rising,
the people of each nation in the CSR look to their   national 
leaders for guidance, rather than to the government of the
Republic they live in.

In times past, the national leaders were simply cultural
figureheads wielding little or no power but now they hold
real political power. In particular, they command the loyalty
of the professional classes, the nomenklatura, whose local
power and influence is considerable. 

THE NATIONAL HIERARCHY 
Each nation has a President, controlling the whole
professional  class of that nationality. The President 
commands 4 Governors.

Each Governor controls a faction. The Governor of a faction 
commands 4 Heads of Profession: the Head of Medicine, the 
Head of the Military, the Head of Engineering and the Head 
of Administration. 

Each Head of Profession controls a professional group 
consisting of 7 other professional personnel.

Professional group: 
7 personnel plus the Head of Profession
8 professionals in  total. 

Faction: 
4 professional groups plus the Governor
33 professionals in total 

Nation: 
4 factions plus the   
President 133 professionals in total 

The CSR: 
5 nations
665 professionals in total 

NATIONAL LOYALTIES 
To bring peace and harmony to the CSR, you will have to
secure the help and cooperation of the professional classes.

You will have the opportunity to meet professionals and
recruit them to your cause during the course of your travels
through the CSR. To secure their help, you will need to
provide them with various resources that they urgently need
for the people of their locality. This can prove an expensive 
process. 

However, the higher ranking members of the hierarchy 
command the loyalty of all the people under them.

When you secure the help of a high ranking professional, you
gain the loyalty of all the professionals he controls. Then, 
instead of having to bargain for their help, these 
professionals will offer you their help as soon as you meet
them. In addition, their locations will be revealed on the map,
providing you are in the same province as them.

If you secure the help of a President, you gain the loyalty of
his entire nation, 133 professionals.

If you secure the help of a Governor, you gain the loyalty of
his entire faction, 33 professionals.

If you secure the help of a Head of Profession, you gain the
loyalty of his professional group, 8 professionals. 

CROSS-BORDER LOYALTIES 
Because the national communities are scattered throughout
the CSR with some of the population living in their national
homeland but others not, national loyalties apply across the
borders of the Republics.

Although many Ossian professionals will be found in Ossia
itself,  there will be some in Ruzakhstan, some in Belokraine, 
some in Moldenia and some in   Servonia.  Likewise,  members 
of the same faction or professional group within a faction are 
scattered between   different   provinces. 

Consequently, if you gain the loyalty of a professional group, 
a faction or a whole  nation,  you  will  only  find  some of  
its members  in  the province or Republic you are in.  The others 
are waiting to help you in  other provinces and Republics. 

THE PROFESSIONS 
There are four different  professions in the CSR: the  medical 
profession, the   military   profession,  the   engineering 
profession and the administrative  profession. 

Each professional group in  a faction has  eight  members of 
various different ranks: 

MEDICAL GROUP 
Head of Profession:  1 Professor 
                     1 Surgeon 
                     2 Doctors 
                     3 Nurses 
                     1 Medical  Coordinator 

MILITARY  GROUP 
Head of Profession:  1 Strike  Marshal 
                     1 Group Commander 
                     2 Commandants 
                     3 Assault Adjutants 
                     1 Military Coordinator 

ENGINEERING GROUP 
Head of Profession:  1 Constructor General 
                     1 Link  Builder 
                     2 Captains of Works 
                     3 Engineer  Builders 
                     1 Engineering Coordinator 

ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP 
Head of Profession:  1 Controller 
                     1 Principal Executive 
                     2 Superintendent Administrators 
                     3 Lieutenant Administrators
                     Administrative Coordinator 

PROFESSIONAL  TEAMS 
From time to time during the course of your Commission,
you will be asked to   provide  professional teams   -  medical, 
military,  engineering or administrative teams. 

The provision of teams is often   vital  in  securing the help of 
key members of the   professional  hierarchy and thereby 
achieving your aims with a province, so the professional 
teams at your disposal are an important human resource.

You enter the CSR with a small number of UC  professional 
teams already at your disposal. To succeed  in  your  mission, 
you will have to gather more teams  within  the CSR Itself. 

There are a number of ways of getting more teams. When
you succeed in pacifying a province and the province puts 
itself under UC control, professional teams are one of the
extra resources you gain.

Alternatively, you can form new   professional  teams yourself 
by recruiting appropriate professional personnel in  person. 

Anyone below the rank of Head of Profession is a   potential 
team member. If you are able to recruit him, you can either 
accept the special help he offers or you can allocate   him  to 
the staff of your professional teams.

To form a new team you need: 

MEDICAL TEAM 
1 Surgeon or Doctor 
2 Nurses 

MILITARY  TEAM 
1 Group Commander or
  Commandant 
2 Assault Adjutants 

ENGINEERING TEAM 
1 Link Builder or Captain of Works 
2 Engineer Builders 

ADMINISTRATIVE TEAM 
1 Principal Executive
  or Superintendent Administrator 
2 Lieutenant Administrators 

If the team is of mixed nationality, you will also need a
Coordinator to ensure the smooth working of the team. For 
a medical team, you need a Medical Coordinator, for  a 
military team you need a Military Coordinator and so on.

Once you have allocated personnel to your team staff, the 
actual formation of teams is handled automatically by your 
computer which will inform you of the number of complete 
teams available and any surplus team staff on request.

When a Republic or a province places itself under UC control,
all the remaining lower-ranking professionals in the region, 
not yet recruited by you, come over to your side and join 
your team staff. 

Presidents, Governors and Heads of Profession, however, can 
only be recruited by you in person or by your securing the 
help of their superiors.  They can never form part of your 
team staff. 

PROVINCIAL SOCIETY 
In each province there are 16 or 17 professionals who can
help you  in  your  Commission.  When you first enter a 
province, you will usually know nothing of   their 
whereabouts.

The professionals move about from town to town   in  the 
course of  their  duties and the inhabitants of each town they 
visit are well aware of their movements. 

By visiting different towns and meeting the inhabitants, you 
will  soon be told about one of these professionals and be 
able to arrange a meeting   with   him. If you then manage to 
secure  his  help, you will find yourself on the provincial   societal 
network. 

The professionals in a province have   their  own hierarchy of 
social  contacts. Each professional knows someone further  up
in  the social contacts hierarchy. At the top of the hierarchy 
a person who knows every other professional in  the 
province. 

When you secure the help of a professional, he will tell you
where to find another professional further up   in  the   social 
contacts hierarchy. If you then secure the help of this
professional, you will be told where to   find  someone even 
higher up. 

This always leads you eventually to the  provincial  fixer, the 
man who knows everyone. If you secure his help, you will be
told where to find all the professionals in the province -  a 
highly  valuable   piece of information. 

Presidents or Governors are even higher than the top of  the 
social  network of a province. The only person who can tell 
you where to find a President or a Governor is the man who 
knows everyone, the professional at the top of the social 
contacts hierarchy. 

SPECIAL HELP 
When you recruit a professional, he can help you in one of
two ways: he can join the staff of your professional teams 
he can   give  you special help. You must decide on the spot 
which sort of help to accept.

As soon as you meet the person, he will tell you what sort  I 
special help he can give you. This comes in a number of
forms.


1) ETHNIC VOTES 
Every professional is a person of influence and he
will always offer to pledge you a   certain  number of 
votes from his own ethnic community. These can
be vital in achieving your ethnic harmony aims. 

2) RESOURCES 
Various commodities and strategic resources can 
be offered to you. These can help you in further
bargaining and also be of direct help during your
Commission. 

3) BUILDING 
The person can offer to construct new buildings
for you. This can be of vital importance in
achieving the aims of your building programme 
because it is the only way to construct new
buildings in a province.

In many provinces, there are insufficient   buildings 
of the correct type to   fulfill  your building 
programme aims and you have to construct new
buildings to succeed. 

4) DEMOLITION 
The person can offer to demolish old buildings for 
you. This can be of importance in achieving your
demolition programme aims, saving you the time
and trouble of demolishing the buildings yourself. 

5) PACIFICATION 
Certain professionals will sometimes offer to
bring all the CSR military units in the area over 
to your side. This can be of vital importance in
achieving your pacification programme aims,
eliminating large numbers of CSR units at once. 
Furthermore, these units actually join your side, 
forming assault groups that you can use to 
intervene on your behalf when military action is 
called for. 

Because he moves from place to place during the 
course of  his   duties,  the same professional will 
recruit more or less CSR  units.   This  depends on the 
troop concentrations  in  his  current location  at the 
time  when you secure   his  help In some cases  it 
may be worth   following   him to the next town 
where there are more CSR units to recruit. 

It  IS  important to remember that you lose all the 
special  help a person offers you   if you allocate  him 
to your professional teams Whether to accept the 
person’s special help or allocate   him  to a team is
often a   difficult   choice  to make and  it should be 
made  with care. 

PROFESSIONAL DEMANDS 
When you meet a professional, he will always tell you what 
he needs from you for his  local  community  before he can 
help you. Such demands come in  two forms: 

1) RESOURCES 
He will ask for various  commodities  and strategic 
resources. 

2) PROFESSIONAL  TEAMS 
He will ask for the assistance of professional 
teams. 

If you have the necessary  combination  of teams and 
resources, you will be able to   recruit   him   immediately  If you 
don’t have the necessary  combination,  you will not be given 
the option of recruiting him. 

The act of recruiting the person seals the bargain and the
transfer of resources and teams   IS   automatically  completed. 

If you don’t or can’t recruit a professional, you always have 
the option of visiting him again later on. 

If you do recruit a professional, you will not be able to meet
him again later; all  his  help has been   given. 

PROFESSIONALS LOYAL TO YOU 
If you have gained the loyalty of a   professional  by recruiting 
one of  his  superiors  (his Head of  Profession,   his  Governor or 
his President), when you meet   him he   will  make no demands 
of you but  simply  offer you his help.

The location of professionals loyal to you   IS  always marked on 
the map of the province you are   in. 

ORDINARY CITIZENS 
You will meet many ordinary citizens of the CSR   during  the 
course of your Commission. There is always a   citizen  of some 
description in control of every single   building  and   installation 
and there are many thousands of these   in  the CSR. 

You meet the citizen in charge every  time  you, in person, 
enter a building. To gain control of the   building  you must 
recruit the citizen to your cause. The building will then fall
under UC control and its resources will be handed over to
you, going straight into your stocks.

There are two ways to recruit the citizen in charge: 

1) BARTER 
The citizen will demand various   commodities  in 
exchange for his help. If you have these
commodities in your stocks, you are given the
option of recruiting the citizen by barter.
If you don’t have the appropriate commodities,
you are not given the option of bartering.

When you take the barter option, the citizen is
recruited immediately and the commodities he
needs are transferred to him automatically from
your stocks. 

2) PERSUASION 
You can employ various lines of conversation in an
attempt to persuade the citizen to join’ your cause.

You are bound to succeed eventually but it’s  a 
question of finding the right line of conversation.
Each new tack you take costs you valuable time.
On the other it costs you nothing in commodities.

When your stocks of commodities run low, you
may be forced to use persuasion to recruit  citizens 

Recruiting citizens and gaining control of buildings
is important in two ways.  Firstly, you can get 
additional commodities and strategic resources.
Secondly, gaining control of particular types of 
building can be of vital importance in achieving 
your provincial building programme aims.

CIVIL AND MILITARY RESOURCES 

YOUR STOCKS 
COMMODITIES 
TRANSPORT AND MUNITIONS 
SUNDRIES
BUILDINGS AND INSTALLATIONS
LIMITLESS SUPPLIES 
BOMBPROOF BUILDINGS 
VEHICLES
AIRCRAFT
SEA-GOING VESSELS 
UNDERWATER CRAFT 
GROUND VEHICLES

YOUR STOCKS
Throughout your Commission in the CSR, you will need to
draw on your available supply of commodities, vehicles, fuel,
ammunition, medical treatment, military assistance, air lifts
and so on. Together, these form your stocks.

At the start of your Commission, the UC has already provided
you with a limited stock of resources. During the course of
your mission, you will have to replenish these stocks from
within the CSR itself by recruiting citizens gaining control of
buildings and securing the special help of key professionals.
When you succeed in pacifying a province and it places itself
under UC control, you get a further boost to your stocks

COMMODITIES
There are eight essential commodities that you will need to
barter with ordinary citizens (and hence gain control of
buildings) and to bargain with professionals.
The eight commodities are: bars of gold, diamonds, food,
wine, goods, tools, medication and clothing.

TRANSPORT AND MUNITIONS
There are eight different resources in this category: ground
vehicles, sea-going vessels, submarines, aircraft, fuel,
ammunition, movement papers and interdiction papers.

All of these are important bargaining counters when you are
negotiating for the help of a professional but they are also of
direct use to you during your mission.

VEHICLES
At any time, you can airlift any of the four categories of
vehicle to your location - invaluable when you have no
transportation, or when you need a different sort of vehicle.
This depletes your stocks by 1 vehicle.

FUEL
Fuel is used up by airlifts and by assault groups.
Every airlift you call for depletes your stocks of 1
tonne of fuel and 1 aircraft.
Every assault group you use needs 1 tonne of fuel, 1
company of troops and 1 crate of ammunition.

AMMUNITION
At any time, you can airlift ammunition directly to
your location and fully re-arm your vehicle. This
depletes your stocks by 1 crate of ammunition.

MOVEMENT PAPERS
Movement papers are used to give yourself
temporary immunity from enemy attack. Using 1
set of movement papers will give you two hours
immunity (unless you open fire in the meantime).

INTERDICTION PAPERS
Interdiction papers are used to enter buildings
under the control of enemy ground troops.

The presence of CSR motorcycle units, armoured
car units or six-wheeler units places nearby
buildings under an interdiction and you will be
unable to get in.

Using 1 set of Interdiction papers will enable you to enter
interdicted building.

SUNDRIES
There are SIX different resources in this category: emergency
medical treatment, fire fighting teams, power cells, extra
time, companies of troops and air lifts.

With the exception of extra time, all of these may be
important bargaining counters when you are negotiating for
the help of a professional but they are also of direct use to
you during your mission.

EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT
If you are Injured during your mission, 1 course
of emergency medical treatment will quickly get
you back into action. If you have no emergency
treatment available, you will be hospitalised for
some days.

FIRE FIGHTING TEAMS
When you run out of time in a province and
enemy sabotage begins, fire fighting teams are
of great Importance for extinguishing the forest
fires. 

POWER CELLS 
Power cells can be used to immobilise hostile 
vehicles when you are on foot. Each power cell
contains  a   powerful  ECM (Electronic Counter 
Measures) device which scrambles the   control  system of the 
hostile vehicle. Using 1 power cell will immobilise 1 hostile 
vehicle. 

EXTRA TIME
Extra time records the additional time you have 
gained within a province before reactionary
elements start lighting forests fires (which
deplete the extra resources the province can provide when
you pacify it).

COMPANIES OF TROOPS
A company of troops is an essential
component of an assault group. When you
call for military assistance, an assault group
rushes to your aid. The assault group,
however, needs resources: a company of
troops, fuel and ammunition.

You gain an extra company of troops by forcing a CSR unit
to surrender or, by recruiting a military commander,
persuading a CSR unit to come over to your side.

AIRLIFTS
Airlifts are of vital importance in airlifting
vehicles and ammunition to your own
location or in airlifting yourself to a new
location. Each airlift you use also requires
1 aircraft and 1 tonne of fuel.

BUILDINGS AND INSTALLATIONS
During your Commission in the CSR, you will encounter a
large variety of buildings and installations, each of which
serves a different purpose.

You gain control of a building by recruiting the citizen in
charge of it. Each building can provide you with extra
resources - commodities, transport and munitions and
sundries. In addition, gaining control of particular types of
building is of vital importance in fulfilling your building
Programme aims.

Building Type     Provides
House             food, wine
                  1 day of extra time in the province
Church            medication
                  7 days of extra time in the province
Mosque            medication
                  7 days of extra time in the province
Depot             goods, tools
                  5 ground vehicles
Fuel Dump         goods
                  5 tonnes of fuel
Admin Block       gold
                  1 set of movement papers
Barracks          clothing
                  5 crates of ammunition
Command Post      diamond
                  5 sets of interdiction papers
Factory           limitless supply of vehicles within the
                  province
Refinery          limitless supply of fuel within the
                  province if you also control a well head
Power Station     5 power cells
Pumping Station   wine
                  1 fire fighting team
Barn              food
                  1 day of extra time in the province
Farmhouse         food, wine
Processing Plant  food
                  limitless supply of food within the 
                  province if you also control a pumphead
Vault             10 gold bars
Bombproof Factory limitless supply of vehicles within
                  the province
Bombproof Complex gold, goods, tool, medication
                  5 crates of ammunition
                  5 tonnes of fuel
Bombproof W/house diamond, clothing, goods, medication
                  5 sea-going vessels
                  5 underwater craft
Mine              diamond
                  limitless supply of ammunition within
                  the province if you also control a fort
Hospital          medication
                  5 courses of emergency medical
                  treatment
Radar             food
                  information, plotting all nearby towns
                  and CSR units on your map
Fort              gold
                  limitless supply of ammunition within
                  the province if you also control a mine
Comms Centre      goods, tools, information,
                  plotting all nearby professional
                  personnel on your map
Windmill          clothing, 1 power cell
Well Head         limitless supply of fuel within the
                  province if you also control a refinery
Pump Head         wine, tools
                  limitless supply of food within the
                  province if you also control a processing
                  plant
Control Tower     goods, tools
                  5 aircraft

LIMITLESS SUPPLIES 
Gaining control of certain combinations of buildings can give
you limitless supplies of a resource within that province. 
Gaining limitless supplies does not change your finite  stocks 
of that resource.

However, within the province, you can use as much of that 
resource as you want without depleting your finite stocks. 

Outside the province, the limitless supplies are not available
and you must rely on your finite stocks. 

If the buildings or installations providing the  limitless supplies 
are subsequently destroyed, you lose your limitless  supplies. 

BOMBPROOF BUILDINGS 
Bombproof buildings are designed to survive a nearby
nuclear attack. Being air-tight, they can still operate even if
the area is completely flooded. In fact, a fair number of
bombproof buildings have actually been constructed
underwater as an additional protection measure. 

Each of these buildings, even when underwater, remains 
accessible  to the   professionals  who need to  visit  them  in  the 
course of   their  duties   -  each bombproof building is equipped 
with a small submersible shuttle to ferry personnel in and out 
in  the event of the building being submerged. 

Bombproof buildings are not designed to survive   direct  hits 
either  by nuclear or conventional weapons and they can be 
destroyed during a military action by your own or enemy
firepower.

In terms of  achieving  the aims of your building programme, a 
bombproof factory is treated as an   ordinary  factory. 

VEHICLES 
Many different types of vehicle are available both to yourself, 
your assault groups and to CSR military units. 

AIRCRAFT 
Cargo Planes, Groundhawks, Seahawks,
Fighters, Bombers 

SEA-GOING VESSELS 
Hydrofoil, Patrol Boats, Barges 

UNDERWATER CRAFT   
Minisubs,  Flying Subs, Hunter-killers, 
Sea-Spiders, Amphibious Tanks 

GROUND VEHICLES 
Snowmobiles, Motorcycles,   Armoured 
Cars, Six-wheelers, Tanks, Rocket Launchers 

Each of these   vehicles  has different ways of movement and 
different attack capabilities. 

If you personally have no vehicle, you are open to attack by 
all types of enemy vehicle except fighters, rocket launchers
and six-wheelers. 

AIRCRAFT 
All aircraft are VTOL aircraft (Vertical Take Off and Landing: 
As well as possessing normal aircraft flight capabilities, they
can hover, fly backwards and make vertical ascents or
descents.

Aircraft                        Military Capability
Cargo Plane                     Will not come under enemy attack.
                                Carries no weapons systems
Groundhawk                      Attacks only ground vehicles and
                                buildings, Possesses automatic   ground 
                                hugging software for low-level attack
Seahawk                         Attacks only sea-going vessels and 
                                underwater. Possesses automatic sea- 
                                skimming software for low-level attack 
Fighter                         Attacks only aircraft. Will not attack you 
                                if you have no vehicle. 
Bomber                          Attacks only buildings. Has some stealth
                                capability and will not come under
                                attack by enemy fighter aircraft. 

Ground-hugging and sea-skimming software enables you to 
fly at low-level at high speed over appropriate terrain with no 
risk of crashing your aircraft. However, ground-hugging 
software does not operate over water and sea-skimming
software does not operate over land  -  beware! 

SEA-GOING VESSELS 
Sea-going vessels are all surface vessels. If the water gets too
shallow, they may be beached.

Sea-going Vessel         Military Capability   
Hydrofoil                Attacks only hydrofoils and underwater
                         craft.
Patrol Boat              Attacks only sea-going vessels
                         (excluding underwater craft) and
                         aircraft.
Barge                    Will not come under enemy attack. 
                         Carries no weapons systems.

UNDERWATER CRAFT 
The underwater craft move in various ways.
The  minisub  and the hunter-killer manouevre in the same 
way as conventional submarines.

The flying sub has all the capabilities of a conventional
submarine but it also has a slow   VTOL flight capability. 

The amphibious tank and the sea-spider are fundamentally
land vehicles but can also move slowly across the sea-bed.

Underwater Craft         Military Capabilities 
Minisub                  Attacks only  minisubs  and sea-spiders 
Hunter-Killer            Attacks only underwater craft and sea-
                         going vessels. 
Flying  Sub              Attacks only aircraft 
Amphibious Tank          Attacks only ground vehicles,
                         amphibious tanks, sea-spiders and
                         buildings (including underwater
                         buildings). 
Sea-Spider               Attacks only sea-spiders 

GROUND VEHICLES 
Ground  vehicles  have   different   capabilities over different 
terrain. In particular, the snowmobile, as you would expect,
moves quickly across snow but slowly across other terrain. 
The  remaining  land   vehicles  move slowly across snow but 
quickly across other   terrain. 

Ground Vehicle         Military  Capability   
Snowmobile             Attacks only aircraft and ground 
                       vehicles.
Six-Wheeler            Will not come under attack by 
                       enemy ground   vehicles. 
                       Carries no weapons systems.
Motorcycle             Attacks only motorcycles. 
                       Your own motorcycle can also attack 
                       six-wheelers. 
Armoured Car           Attacks only motorcycles,
                       rocket launchers and   armoured  cars. 
                       Your own   armoured  car can also 
                       attack  six-wheelers. 
Tank                   Attacks only ground vehicles and 
                       buildings. 
Rocket Launcher        Attacks only aircraft and ground
                       vehicles. Will not attack you if you 
                       have no  vehicle.


THE FIRST PHASE 

ENTERING THE CSR 
SELECTING A PROVINCE 
ENTERING THE PROVINCE 
THE ACTIVITIES

ENTERING THE CSR 
At the start of your Commission, the political map of the CSR
shows  the Republics of Ossia, Ruzakhstan.  Belokraine. 
Moldenia  and Servonia and all their provinces. In   addition, 
there are two contaminated areas, marked in black, where
nuclear accidents have made the region   uninhabitable. 
Surrounding the CSR is the border zone, marked in grey.

Your first task is to choose your entry point. You can only
enter the CSR in a province which is next to the border zone
or which has a coastline on the Western Sea. 

SELECTING A PROVINCE 
The political map has six levels of magnification. At level 1, 
you see the whole of the CSR with the each of the Republics
marked by name. At level 2 you see a quarter of the CSR at
2x2 magnification, with each of the provinces marked by
name. At level 3, you see a sixteenth of the CSR at 4x4
magnification, and so on.

You can select the level of magnification by pressing 1, 2, 3, 
4,5 or 6 on the keyboard. The map will then be redrawn 
centered on the position of the map pointer.

To select the province where you will enter the CSR, simply 
click on the province. As soon as you have clicked, you will
enter the CSR in that province and your Commission will
begin. 

ENTERING THE PROVINCE 
When you enter your chosen province, the display changes to
a physical map showing a close-up of the province. You have
just crossed the CSR border in a   VTOL fighter aircraft. Your 
Position is marked by a pin. 

The information you have about the province is limited. Only
a handful of towns and CSR military units are marked on
Your map.   As you proceed with your Commission in the 
Province, your information will steadily grow, revealing more 
and more towns and CSR units on the map.  

move the pointer to the relevant part of the 
screen and then press the fire button. 

You begin your peace mission with various commodities and
strategic resources already placed at your disposal by the
United Community. You will need to draw on these during
the course of your Commission but you will also be able to
replenish your supplies by gaining control of buildings and 
securing  the help of key members of the community. 

When you enter the province, you will  already have a valid 
set of movement papers   in  operation,  giving  you at least two 
hours of  immunity  from attack but  opening   fire   whilst  the 
movement papers are   in   operation  cancels   this Immunity. 

THE ACTIVITIES 
There are a number of  major   activities  open to you 
throughout the game   which  are selected from the keyboard. 
All of these  activities  can be selected at any  time  to  give  you 
information,  to return you to the action, to save the game or 
to load a   previous  game. 

Key                Activity        Purpose
ESC                RESTART         Start a completely new game
F1                 MAP             Look at the map
F2                 ACTION          Resume  3D real-time action
F3                 NATIONS         Check your recruits from each  nation
F4                 TEAMS           Check your professional teams
F5                 STOCKS          Check your resources
F6                 AIMS            Check your aims within the province
F7                 MEETING         Return to your meeting with a person
F8                 PEOPLE MET      Check the demands of people you have met
F9                 SAVE            Save your current game
F10                LOAD            Load a previously saved game 


You can switch freely between these activities at any time
simply by pressing the  appropriate  key.


THE MAP 

ACCESSING AND LEAVING THE MAP 
MAGNIFICATION LEVELS 
THE PROVINCE YOU ARE IN 
THE MAP SYMBOLS 
THE PERSONAL  
HIDDEN DETAILS 
THE MAP MODES 
FLAT OR ISOMETRIC PROJECTION 
SEA SURFACE OR SEA BED
PHYSICAL OR POLITICAL MAP 
NO JOURNEY OR PLAN JOURNEY
INFORMATION OPEN OR CLOSED 
AIRLIFTING YOURSELF
ASSIGNING FIRE FIGHTING TEAMS


ACCESSING AND LEAVING THE MAP 
YOU   can access the map at any time during the game by 
pressing  F1, the MAP activity key. 

To leave the map, you must select another activity. such as 
ACTION, by pressing another of the activity keys (F1 - F10). 

 MAGNIFICATION LEVELS 
The  map can be displayed at 6 different magnification levels. 

Level 1 1x1 magnification, showing the whole of the CSR 
Level 2 2x2 magnification, showing a quarter of the CSR 
Level 3 4x4 magnification, showing   1/16th  of the CSR 
Level 4 8x8 magnification 
Level 5 16x16 magnification 
Level 6 32x32 magnification 

If you press any of the number keys 1-6, the map will be
redrawn at that level of magnification,   centred  on the 
position of the pointer. 

THE PROVINCE YOU ARE IN 
The province you are in is highlighted on the physical map by 
brighter contour   colours.  On the political map, the province 
you are in is highlighted by a mixture of white and the colour 
of the Republic it belongs to. If the province you are in is
already under UC control, it is highlighted in pure white.

Detailed information such as the location of towns, military 
units, roads and canals, is only displayed for the province you 
are in.  To access detailed information about any other 
Province, you must first move into it. 

THE MAP SYMBOLS 
The map gives you most of the vital information about  a 
Province. Various symbols on the map mark the location of
forests, towns, people, vehicles and military units as well as 
indicating your own current location. 

Symbol                Marks 
[ms1]  pin            your own position
[ms2]  tree           a forest 
[ms3]  flame          a forest fire 
[ms4]  red button     a building or a town
[ms5]  orange button  a professional person
                      (low mag)
[ms6]  human figure   a professional person 
                      (high mag)
[ms7]  purple button  a CSR  military   unit  (low mag) 
[ms8]  marled fist    a CSR  military  unit (high mag)
[ms9]  blue button    a UC  vehicle  or assault group (low mag) 

[ms10]  vehicle       a UC  vehicle   (high  mag) 
[ms11]  phoenix badge a UC assault group (high  mag) 

[ms12]  blue line     a canal
[ms13]  black  line   a road
[ms14]  white line    a journey you have planned


THE PERSONAL ORGANISER 
Simply  knowing the  location  of some of the   items  marked on 
the map is sufficient   information   -  there   is  nothing more to 
know. With other Items, you   will  want to know more details. 

To find out more about towns,   buildings,  people, vehicles or 
military units, just move the   pointer  to the symbol and your 
personal organiser will appear, giving you more   details  about 
the  item  pointed at. 

Pointing at a town, the organiser   displays its name and what 
types of building it contains. Pointing at a person, the
organiser displays his profession, his rank and his name. 

Pointing at a vehicle, the organiser displays its  type. Pointing 
at a military  unit,  the organiser displays what sort of  unit  it is 
and how many vehicles are attached to it.

If there is more than one item at the location you are
pointing at, then the organiser will display details for each 
item one-by-one. 

When you move the pointer away from the map symbols,
your personal organiser will disappear. 

HIDDEN  DETAILS 
When you first move in, the information you have about  a 
province is very limited. Consequently, only a few details are
shown on the map and many of the towns, the professional
people and the CSR military units remain hidden.

As you go about your   mission  in  the province, you steadily 
glean more Information. What was once   hidden  detail   is  now 
revealed on the map.

just moving in person close to towns or   buildings  or   military 
units is sufficient to reveal these on the map.

Gaining control of a radar station reveals all towns,   buildings 
and military units in a wide radius from the radar   station. 

Gaining control of a communications centre reveals all
professional personnel in a   similarly  wide  radius. 

Finally, talking to people and securing   their  help   will   often 
reveal towns, buildings and other people. 

THE MAP MODES 
The map modes allow you to work   with  the map in a number 
of different ways.

Pressing the fire button will reveal  various   icons  at the 
bottom of the screen.

Clicking on one of these will select the mode you want. 
Clicking  elsewhere on the screen will   hide  the icons. 

There are 5 pairs of alternative modes: 
(a) Flat projection     or (b)   Isometric  projection 
(a) Sea surface         or (b)   Sea bed 
(a) Physical map        or (b)   Political  map 
(a) No journey          or (b)   Plan journey 
(a) Information open    or (b)   Information closed 

In each case, you can have either mode(a) or mode(b) but
never both at once. Consequently, if the map is in mode(a), 
only the icon to select mode(b) will appear. If the map is in
mode(b), only the icon to select mode(a) will appear. 

FLAT OR ISOMETRIC PROJECTION 
[map 1a] SELECT FLAT  PROJECTION 
When you click on this icon, the map   IS   displayed 
in a flat projection, looking down on the surface
from directly above. 

[map  1b] SELECT ISOMETRIC PROJECTION 
When you click on this icon, the map displayed in 
an isometric projection, looking down on the
surface from an angle.

Political map, plan journey and   information  open 
are impossible in this mode. 

SEA SURFACE OR SEA BED 
[map  2a]  SELECT SEA SURFACE 
When you   click on this icon, the surface of 
the sea   IS   displayed. 

[map  2b]  SELECT SEA BED 
When you click on this Icon, the surface of
the sea bed  IS   displayed. 

PHYSICAL OR POLITICAL MAP 
[map  3a]  SELECT PHYSICAL MAP 
When you   click on  this Icon, the  physical  map  IS 
displayed,  showing  all the contours of the surface 

Different colours   indicate  different types of 
terrain. 

White  indicates  snowfields. 
Green indicates grasslands and   alpine  meadow. 
Yellow indicates beaches and desert. 
Blue indicates the sea or the sea bed. 

[map  3b]  SELECT  POLITICAL MAP 
When you click on this icon, the political map   IS 
displayed,  showing  the territory of each republic 
and province   in  different colours. Provinces   with 
large  ethnic  minorities are shown in darker 
shades, provinces with small ethnic   minorities  in 
lighter shades.

Provinces under UC control are shown   in  shades 
white. 

The province you are in is highlighted by a
mixture of white and the   colour  of the republic 
it belongs to. If the province is already under 
UC control   it  IS  shown in pure brilliant white. 

Isometric projection, sea bed, plan journey and 
information  open are Impossible   in   this mode. 

NO JOURNEY OR PLAN JOURNEY 
[map 4a] SELECT  NO JOURNEY 
When you click on this icon, any journey you ha
planned  IS   cancelled and the   white  zig-zag   line 
marking out its route disappears from the map.: 

[map  4b] SELECT  PLAN JOURNEY 
When you click on this icon, you are then able
plan a journey.

You plan a journey by moving the pointer across
the map and pressing the space bar at each point
you want to   visit  en route. Your planned journey 
IS  marked out by a white zig-zag   line. 

If you change your   mind,  press backspace to 
delete the previous section of your journey.

Once you have planned a journey, all you have to
do is return to the 3D real-time action. You will
then travel automatically (auto travel) along the
chosen route without having to touch the controls.

During auto travel, you are normally  in  full 
screen radar mode. Press the radar on/off key to
switch to visual mode.

You can take a break from your journey at any
time by pressing the auto travel on/off key and
you can resume your journey by pressing the key 
again. 

INFORMATION OPEN OR CLOSED 
[map  5a]  SELECT INFORMATION  OPEN 
When you click on this icon, all currently known 
province information is displayed on the map. This
includes the locations of forests, towns,
buildings, vehicles and military units. 

[map  5b]  SELECT INFORMATION  CLOSED 
When you click on this icon, province information 
is removed from the map to give a clearer picture 
of the terrain. This includes the locations of
forests, towns, buildings, vehicles and military 
units.

Roads and canals remain visible on the physical
map even when information is closed. 

AlRLIFTING  YOURSELF 
During any activity (including looking at the map) 
you can press the AIRLIFT SELF key to airlift
yourself to a new location. To do this, you must
have at least one airlift available.

Once you have pressed the AIRLIFT SELF key, the
map will appear. To select a new location, move
the pointer to the chosen spot and press the space
bar. The pin marking your position will be moved 
to the new location 

If you are not happy  with your  choice,  you can 
change the  location  as many  times  as you like by 
repositioning  the  pointer  and pressing  the space 
bar.  This   will   not cost you any extra  airlifts. 

As soon as you select AIRLIFT SELF, you are
committed to the process and you cannot return 
to any meeting  you might  be having  with another 
person.

The  airlift  happens as soon as you select another 
activity,  such as ACTION You are transported 
directly to the new   location  together   with 
whatever  vehicle  you are  in,  at the cost of one 
airlift.

The  time  an  airlift  takes depends on the   distance 
travelled. 

ASSIGNING FIRE FIGHTING TEAMS 
If forest  fires  break out  in  the  province,  you can 
extinguish  the  fires   either  in  person or by assigning 
fire  fighting  teams to put them out. 

To  assign  a  fire   fighting  team you must, of course, 
have a one available and you must be   looking  at 
the map. 

Move the  pointer  to the fire  you want to 
extinguish  and press the FIRE FIGHTING TEAM key. 
The  fire  is extinguished  immediately  at the cost 
one fire fighting team.



GOING  INTO   ACTION 

ACCESSING AND LEAVING ACTION
VEHICLE CONTROLS 
THE INSTRUMENT PANEL 
MESSAGES 
THE RADAR
THE ACTION ICONS AND KEYS 
LEAVE/ENTER VEHICLE 
AUTO TRAVEL ON/OFF 
ENTER BUILDING 
ASSAULT GROUP
AIRLIFT AMMUNITION
AIRLIFT VEHICLE
AIRLIFT SELF 
FIRE FIGHTING TEAM 
AIM MISSILE
AIM GUN 
MOVEMENT PAPERS
RADAR ON/OFF
USING POWER CELLS
ROADS AND CANALS 
FORESTS 
BUILDINGS 
OTHER VEHICLES 
INJURIES
DEFEATING ENEMY UNITS 
ENTERING OTHER PROVINCES

ACCESSING AND LEAVING ACTION 
you can access action at any  time   during  the game by 
pressing  F1, the ACTION  activity  key. 

To leave action, you must select another activity, such as 
MAP , by pressing another of the activity keys  (F1   -F10).  If you 
are in an appropriate   location,  you can also leave  action  by 
entering a building (press the ENTER BUILDING KEY).

During action, you move around   in  real-time through a 3D 
landscape either in control of your own personal movements 
(if you are on foot) or in control of a vehicle. You will see 
hills, valleys, forests, moving water, roads, canals,   friendly 
and hostile vehicles and a variety of  buildings  and 
installations. If you dive underwater, you will see the rippling 
waves above you and the sandy bed of the lake or sea below you. 

If you have no vehicle, there are four different ways of
moving through the landscape   -  on foot,   swimming  on the 
surface, swimming underwater as a frogman or by parachute 
if you are careless enough to lose your aircraft in mid-air. 

VEHICLE CONTROLS 
Your  vehicle  (or your self on foot)   IS  controlled by a 
combination  of the  joystick  and the cursor keys on the 
keyboard. 

JOYSTICK 
FIRE  BUTTON       fire  weapon  (if  in  vehicle) 
                   Use ECM power cell  (if on foot) 

LEFT/RIGHT         Turn left/right 

UP/DOWN            Tilt aircraft up/down 
                   Tilt  submarine  up/down 
                   Tilt  self as frogman up/down 
                   Look up/down (other modes of transport) 

CURSOR  KEYS 
LEFT/RIGHT         Decrease speed   / Increase speed 

UP/DOWN            Ascend/Descend  in   VTOL aircraft 
                   Surface/Dive   in  submarine 

MESSAGES 
There are a number of possible messages that appear on
your control panel: 

VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION       What type of  vehicle  you are 
                             in. 

BUILDING  IDENTIFICATION     What sort of  building  you are 
                             looking  at.

CSR  UNIT  SURRENDERS        Informs you of the retreat
                             and surrender of a CSR unit.

THE RADAR 
The small radar display shows a variety of Items. each   colour 
coded:

White         Your own position
Green         Forests
Dark red      Buildings and installations
Bright red    Enemy ground vehicles 
Orange        Enemy aircraft 
Purple        Enemy sea-going vessels and submarines 
Yellow        Enemy flying subs, amphibious tanks, 
              and sea-spiders 
Blue          Friendly assault group vehicles
              Neutral vehicles
              Immobilised CSR vehicles 

The radar display is aligned with your direction of movement,
so that you are always moving vertically up the radar screen.
AS you turn to re-align yourself, the dots on the radar screen 
rotate in a similar re-alignment. 

THE  ACTION  ICONS AND KEYS 
The 7 action icons correspond to the first seven action keys
on the keyboard. The action icons light up in different
colours  to give you a clear indication of what actions are 
possible at any moment in time. 

LEAVE/ENTER  VEHICLE 
If you are in a vehicle, you can get out of it at any time by
pressing this key.

If you not in a vehicle already, you can get into a vehicle by 
pressing this key. The LEAVE/ENTER VEHICLE icon   lights  up   in 
bright green whenever you are able to do this. 

To enter a  vehicle:- 

1) You must be on foot, swimming or a frogman. 
2) You must be close to   it. 
3) You must be looking towards it. 
4) It must be a vehicle you have previously abandoned
   OR a neutral vehicle
   OR an enemy vehicle you have   immobilised 
   OR a vehicle from a friendly assault group 

Neutral vehicles   will  be found plying their way up and down 
roads and canals. All the   different  types of ground   vehicle  are 
found as neutral road vehicles. Along a canal (and 
occasionally  out  into  a lake or  into  the sea), barges are the 
only  kind  of neutral vehicle. 

You can   immobilize  an enemy vehicle by using 1 ECM power 
cell. 

Providing  you are close enough, you can get into vehicles 
from your own friendly assault groups at any  time,  even 
aircraft  in  flight. 

In  this sort of case, when you press the key, you are  in  fact 
sending  a radio message to the driver or pilot, instructing   him 
to stop and pick you up. 

The action, however, flows smoothly on and you find yourself 
inside  the   vehicle  immediately  -  to  maintain  the pace of the 
action,  the routine and inconsequential event of the vehicle 
stopping  and yourself clambering in is deliberately edited out 
of the action sequence.

AUTO TRAVEL ON/OFF 
If  you are travelling across the landscape using auto travel, 
you can Interrupt the journey at any time by pressing this key. 
You  will then take direct control of your vehicle. 

YOU  can also resume an interrupted auto travel journey at   any 
time  by pressing  this  key. The AUTO TRAVEL ON/OFF key 
lights  up in   bright   green  whenever you are able to do this. 

An auto travel journey enables you to move across the 
landscape under automatic directional control. To set up   such 
a journey, you must first mark out a route on the map 
and then return to action.  
You will then drive along that route to your chosen 
destination. 

During  auto travel, you are   still   able  to fire your weapons  and 
if  you  are  in  an aircraft or submarine, to alter your altitude or 
depth by using up/down on the cursor keys.

ENTER BUILDING
You can enter a building by pressing this key. The ENTER
BUILDING icon lights up in bright green wherever you are
able to do this. The icon lights up in bright orange by
entering the building, you will use up 1 set of interdiction
papers.

To enter a building:-
1) You must be close to it.
2) You must be looking towards it.
3) You must be stationary.
4) It must be free of enemy interdiction
   OR you must have a set of interdiction papers (V1)
5) You can be in a vehicle. If it is an aircraft,
   it must be on the ground. When you subsequently
   return to action, you find yourself back in your
   vehicle.

All buildings are under enemy interdiction if there is a CSR
motorcycle, six-wheeler or armoured car close to your position

ASSAULT GROUP
You can call for the military assistance of one of your friendly
assault groups by pressing this key. The ASSAULT GROUP icon
lights up in bright green whenever you are able to do this.

To call up an ASSAULT GROUP:
1) A CSR military unit must be nearby.
2) You must have an assault group available.
   An assault group is available if you have 1
   company of troops, 1 crate of ammunition and 1
   tonne of fuel in your stocks.

An assault group is a combined operations force. A mixture of
appropriate vehicles will be sent to help you according to
whereabouts you are and what CSR vehicles are in the
vicinity.

The assault group will counter-attack those enemy units close
to your position, greatly enhancing the firepower you in
Person can bring to bear.

Only one assault group at a time can conduct operations. It
will cease operations on any one of the following conditions:-

a) It loses 16 vehicles.
b) You move rapidly out of the area.
c) There are no more enemy vehicles nearby.

AIRLIFT AMMUNITION
You can airlift ammunition directly to your position by
pressing this key. Whenever you are able to do so, the
AIRLIFT AMMUNITION icon lights up in bright green.

To airlift ammunition:-
1) You must be in a vehicle.
2) You must have 1 crate of ammunition, 1 aircraft,
   1 tonne of fuel and 1 airlift in your stocks.

Airlifting ammunition will completely re-arm your vehicle.

AIRLIFT VEHICLE
You can airlift a vehicle directly to your position by pressing
this key. Whenever you are able to do so. the AIRLIFT
VEHICLE icon lights up in bright green.

To airlift a vehicle:-
1) You must be on foot, swimming or a frogman.
2) You must have 1 vehicle appropriate to your
   current environment in your stocks (for instance
   an underwater craft if you are underwater).
3) In addition, you must have 1 aircraft, 1 tonne
   of fuel and 1 airlift in your stocks.

If you want to swap vehicles by using an airlift, you must first
get out of the vehicle you are in.

When you are in a vehicle (and therefore cannot airlift
another) and you have sufficient stocks to airlift in another
vehicle, the AIRLIFT VEHICLE icon lights up in bright red to
tell you you could airlift a vehicle if you left your current
vehicle.

AIRLIFT SELF
You can airlift yourself directly to a new position by pressing
this key. Whenever you are able to do so, the AIRLIFT SELF
icon lights up in bright green.

To airlift yourself you must have 1 aircraft, 1 tonne of fuel
and 1 airlift in your stocks.

When you press the AIRLIFT SELF key, you automatically look
at the map to select the new position. To do this, move the
map pointer to your selected location and press the space
bar. The airlift proceeds as soon as you return to action

You can airlift yourself to anywhere   in  the same province. 
You can also airlift yourself  directly  to any  province  already 
under UC control. 

You cannot airlift yourself  into  a province   still  under CSR 
control. To enter another CSR province you must cross the 
border on foot or in a vehicle.  

FIRE FIGHTING TEAM 
This key is use to  assign  fire fighting teams to  extinguish 
forest fires. It can only be used from the map

AIM MISSILE 
If your vehicle is equipped with   missiles,  pressing   this  key  will 
select the missile aiming sights  (which  also  light  up on the 
keyboard).

When you subsequently press the   fire  button, a   homing 
missile will be fired (rather than a shell). 

AIM GUN 
If your vehicle is equipped with a cannon or a gun, pressing
this key will select the gun aiming sights (which also light up
on the keyboard). 

When you subsequently press the fire button, a line-of-sight 
shell will be fired (rather than a   missile). 

MOVEMENT PAPERS 
If you have a set of movement papers available in your
stocks, pressing this key will set them in operation

Movement papers give you two hours of  immunity  from 
enemy attack providing you don’t open fire yourself in the
meantime! 

RADAR ON/OFF 
Pressing the key switches the full screen radar on or off. You
can use this facility at any time during the action. 

The full screen radar replaces your normal   view  of the 
landscape with a large radar map of the   vicinity  As well as 
giving you long range radar information, time is accelerated 
whilst the radar is on, enabling you spend less of your own 
real time getting from A to B (but still  the same amount of 
game time). 

Some care should be exercised when using full screen radar 
particularly  when   flying  an aircraft - it is quite  possible to 
Inadvertently crash   into  the ground. 

USING POWER CELLS 
When you have no vehicle, you have no weapons either. 
However, you may have ECM (Electronic Counter-Measures
power cells. These send out a powerful pulse of  
microwave   radiation   which  temporarily 
scrambles  vehicle  control systems and enables you to 
immobilise  enemy vehicles,  Having   immobilised  an enemy 
vehicle, you can get  into   it and commandeer   it. 

To  immobilise  an enemy  vehicle:- 
1) You must be on foot,  swimming  or a frogman. 
2) You must have 1 power cell  in  your stocks. 
3) You must be fairly close to the vehicle. 
4) You must be looking towards it. 

ROADS AND CANALS 
Roads and canals are routes for neutral   vehicles  which you 
can commandeer. By commandeering a barge, which will   
come under enemy attack, and sailing it along a canal, you
can move safely through enemy troop concentrations.

Roads, as you would expect, link town to town. By  following 
a road you are likely to discover many vital Installations  
in close  proximity  to it. 

FORESTS 
When you are on foot or in a ground vehicle, forests offer 
you cover from under enemy attack. When you plunge   into 
forest, the enemy lose track of you and will not attack you 
again  for at least half-an-hour. 

Do not try to plunge into a forest that’s on fire   -  you get 
badly Injured. 

BUILDINGS 
Buildings  and Installations, naturally, are obstacles to 
movement.

Crashing  into  a building with a tank or an amphibious tank will  demolish the building leaving the   vehicle  unscathed. 

Crashing  into  a building with an   aircraft  will destroy both   the 
building and the aircraft.

Crashing into a building on a motorcycle will wipe out the 
motorcycle,  leaving  the building undamaged.

Colliding with a building in any form of transport results in  a 
harmless collision which reduces the speed of the vehicle to
zero. 

OTHER VEHICLES   
Other vehicles can also form obstacles to movement.

Usually, if any two vehicles collide, they will both be
destroyed. There are, however, some exceptions to this
general rule. 

A tank, an amphibious tank or a rocket launcher will survive
a collision with anything but a tank, an amphibious tank,  a 
rocket launcher or an aircraft. 

Anything except another motorcycle will survive a collision
with a motorcycle. 

INJURIES 
You get injured when your vehicle either crashes or is hit by
enemy fire.

If you have emergency medical treatment in your stocks, you
will recover from your injuries in no more than two hours. 
This costs you 1 course of treatment which is automatically 
debitted.

If you have no emergency medical treatment available, you
will be hospitalised for three days before returning to the
action. 

DEFEATING ENEMY   UNITS 
Each enemy unit has a finite number of vehicles, which you
can find out by looking at the map and using your personal 
organiser. 

After a certain proportion of these vehicles has   been 
destroyed or immobilised, the enemy unit will retreat and
surrender. When the unit surrenders, you gain one company
of troops and the surviving vehicles from the unit go into
your stocks.

Whenever an enemy unit retreats, a message to that effect
appears on your control panel. 

ENTERING OTHER PROVINCES 
You can enter other provinces whenever you like. When you
do so, your mission in you current province is put on hold
and you can resume the mission whenever you choose,
suffering no time penalty  - the number of days you have to 
pacify the province is based on how many days you 
personally spend in the province.

Likewise you can enter other   Republics  whenever you like. 
When you do so, your mission in  the Republic is put on hold 
and you can resume it whenever you like, suffering no time 
penalty  - the number of days you have to   pacify  the Republic 
is  based on how many days you personally spend there. 

You will  sometimes  need to move  into  other  provinces  or 
Republics to accumulate resources that you need to fulfill 
your original mission but which are   unavailable   in  the original 
region.

Of course, when you succeed in a province, you will also
want to move in to another one!

To enter a province under CSR control, you must cross the
border either   in  person or   in  a vehicle. To enter a province 
already under UC control, you can airlift yourself directly in.

NEGOTIATIONS 

MEETING PEOPLE 
RECRUITING CITIZENS 
MOVING AROUND TOWN 
WAITING FOR A PROFESSIONAL 
RECRUITING PROFESSIONALS 
HEADS, GOVERNORS AND PRESIDENTS 
RETURNING  TO A MEETING

MEETING PEOPLE
During the course of your Commission, you will meet
numerous people, both ordinary citizens and professional
personnel.

Every single building and installation in the CSR has an
ordinary citizen in charge of it. To meet the citizen, you must
leave the outside action and enter the building. You will then
get the opportunity of recruiting the citizen. If you do so, you
gain control of the building and gain additional resources.

As well as ordinary citizens, there are 665 professional
personnel who you can recruit. Unlike ordinary citizens, the
professionals move from town to town during the course of
their duties. To make contact with them, you must first track
them down.

There are 4 ways of getting clues to a professional’s
whereabouts-

1) Ordinary citizens will tell you about the
   movements of professionals who have visited their
   town.
2) Gaining control of a Comms Centre will reveal the
   location of nearby professionals on the map.
3) Each professional you recruit will tell you the
   location of another professional in the province.
   The top professional (socially) in the province
   will tell you the location of all professionals in
   the province.
4) If you recruit a Head of Profession,! a Governor or
   a President, you gain the loyalty of all those under
   him and their locations will be marked on the map
   of the province each loyal professional is in.

When you are in the same building as a professional, you get
the opportunity to meet him and to recruit him. If you recruit
him, you can either accept his often invaluable special help or
you can assign him to one of your professional teams.

RECRUITING CITIZENS
Citizens can be recruited either by barter or by engaging
them in a particular line of conversation and persuading
them of your cause. Barter will cost you resources but loses
YOU no time. Conversation costs you time but loses you no
resources.
Clicking on the appropriate icons enables either course of
action.

[meet1] BARTER
Click on this icon to hand over the
commodities the citizen has asked. You
then recruit the citizen and take control
of the building.

This icon only appears if you have the
right commodities in your stocks

THE PERSUASION ICONS

There are eight ways in which you can try to persuade a
citizen. Only two of them will actually succeed.

If you select a successful means of persuasion you will recruit
the citizen and gain control of the building.

If you select an incorrect approach, the available choice
reduces by one.

Each time you try a different means of persuasion takes one
hour of game time.

(i)    THE CHARMING APPROACH
(ii)   THE BEGGING OF HELP
(iii)  THE MESMERIC APPROACH
(V)    THE USE OF TRICKERY
(Vi)   THE THREAT OF VIOLENCE
(vii)  THE PLEDGE OF LOYALTY
(viii) THE DISCIPLINED APPROACH
(ix)   THE PEACEFUL APPROACH

[meet2]TALK TO THE CITIZEN 
Click on this icon to engage the citizen in general
conversation.

By getting to know the person better, a number of 
the PERSUADE options, representing incorrect 
possibilities, will disappear. Your chances of
choosing a successful means of persuasion are
improved. 

Talking takes 15 minutes the first time you talk 
to the person, 30 minutes the next, then 45
minutes and so on. 

If you persevere long enough, talking to the person will 
eliminate all the incorrect possibilities and you will recruit 
the citizen immediately. 

MOVING AROUND TOWN 
In a town, you can move freely from building to building 
-without having to return to the action. To do this, simply 
click on the door-knocker icon shown below. 

[meet3]  MOVE AROUND TOWN 
When you click on this, a display depicting the 
town appears. The display contains an icon for 
each building in the town.

Moving the pointer over the icon will reveal details 
of the building. Clicking on the icon moves you 
inside the building.

If  there is  a professional in town, you will want to 
use this  option to find out what building he is in. 

WAITING FOR A PROFESSIONAL 
If  a professional is due to arrive in town in some hours time, 
the clock icon appears. 

[meet4]  WAIT POR PROFESSIONAL 
When you click on this, time moves on until the 
next professional arrives in town. You will then get 
the opportunity to meet him. 

RECRUITING PROFESSIONALS 
If there is a professional in the same building as yourself,  a 
MEET PROFESSIONAL icon appears. To meet the professional, 
you must click on this icon. 

[meet5]  MEET PROFESSIONNAL 
When you click on   this  icon,  a special display 
appears. At the top right  IS  a portrait of the 
person. At the bottom left is his own personal 
badge.

The text at the top of the screen explains who he 
knows. If you recruit him, you will be told the 
location of  this  person. The text also explains what 
special help he will give you if you recruit  him. 

The text at the bottom of the screen explains what
he needs from you if he is to help you. If you can
provide what he is asking for, you will be able to 
recruit him. 

If you have already gained the loyalty of a
professional by recruiting one of his superiors, he
will ask for nothing and simply offer his Immediate
help.

When meeting a professional, the icons   are:- 

[meet5]  MEET  PROFESSIONAL 
This appears if there is another professional in the
same building. Click on this to meet him instead. 

[meet2]  MEET CITIZEN 
Click on this if you want to meet the ordinary
citizen in charge of the building   again. 

[meet3]  MOVE AROUND TOWN 
Click on this if you want to move around town. 

[meet  6] ACCEPT SPECIAL HELP 
This icon only appears if you are able to recruit the
professional.

As soon as you click on it, the bargain is sealed
and you accept his special help.

[meet  7]  ASSIGN TO A  TEAM 
This icon only appears if you are able to recruit the 
professional. 

-As soon as you click on it, the bargain is sealed
and the professional joins the staff of your 
professional teams.

Heads of Profession, Governors and Presidents 
cannot be assigned to teams and in their case this 
icon never appears. 

PROFESSIONAL BADGES 
Each professional has his own personal badge. The colour of
the badge is the colour of his nation and his native Republic.
The upper symbol is the symbol of his profession and the
lower symbol is the symbol of his faction. The Roman
numeral also indicates his faction.

All the 8 members of a professional group wear the same
badge  - they are of the same profession in the same faction 
of the same nation. 

HEADS, GOVERNORS AND PRESIDENTS
Heads of Profession, Governors and Presidents are powerful   
people who will make considerable demands of you in return 
for their help. 

Unlike other professionals, who will automatically join the 
staff of your professional teams if you gain control of their 
province, Heads of Profession, Governors and Presidents
make no such automatic commitment.

If you fail to recruit them in person you forego their help, 
even when you gain control of the province they are in. 

RETURNING TO A MEETING 
Sometimes, you may want to interrupt a meeting to look at 
the map, to check on your stocks or to check on your aims
and current   achievements. 

If you do  SO , you can always return to the same meeting  
by pressing  the MEETING  activity  key  (F7). 

If you have returned to the   action  or  airlifted  yourself 
somewhere  in  the   meantime,  you can no longer return to the 
meeting  in   this  way. You have to  physically  get back to the 
building. 

OPERATIONAL DATA 

DEALING WITH DATA 
NATIONS 
TEAMS 
STOCKS 
AIMS 
PEOPLE MET 
SAVE, LOAD AND RESTART


DEALING WITH DATA 
All the data about your current situation is available at the
touch of an  activity  key at any time  during  the game. 
Likewise, you can return to the action or to a meeting by 
pressing  the   action  or meeting key. 

Where there   IS  more than 1 screenful of data to be   viewed  a 
simple click of the   fire  button will access the next screen. 

NATIONS 
The Nations   display  enables you to check which professionals 
you have recruited, which remain to be recruited and which
are deceased.

There are 5 screens, one for each nation. Each   nation’s 
professionals appear on a parade ground. 

[nat1] The blue silhouette represents a professional still to
       be recruited. 
[nat2] A human figure represents a professional you have
       recruited.
[nat3] A  coffin  represents a professional who has been 
       killed. 

At the start of your Commission, the parade ground is full of
the silhouettes of professionals you have not yet recruited
but as time goes on, the parade ground fills up with human
figures as you recruit more and more professionals.

The position of a figure on the parade ground corresponds to 
his rank, his professional group and his faction. 

The President stands on the podium. 

Behind him stand the   4 Governors, each at the head of their 
faction (whose Roman numeral is chalked on the paving
stones).

In each faction stand four columns, corresponding to the
professional groups.

The Head of Profession stands at the head of the column
with the other members of the group behind him in rank
order. A medical group, for instance, would be ranked the 
Professor, a Surgeon, 2 Doctors, 3 Nurses and 1   Medical 
Coordinator.

To check on the next nation, press the fire button. 

TEAMS 
The Teams display has two screens which help you to keep
track of your human resources.
The first screen shows how many teams of each profession 
you have at your disposal.

The second screen shows the   remaining  team staff. These  are 
professionals  who cannot be formed   into   a  team because 
there  IS  not the correct  combination  of personnel available   in 
that profession.

This screen enables you to work out exactly what persons 
you need to make up a fresh team.  Nationality   IS  taken   into 
account here because a team of  mixed   ethnic   origin  needs a 
Coordinator  to   function  properly. 

To  switch  between these two screens, press the   fire  button. 

STOCKS 
The Stocks  display  has three screens  which  help you keep 
track of your   material  resources 

The  first  screen shows the  Commodities   at your disposal: 
gold, diamonds, food,   wine,  goods, tools,   medication  and 
clothing. 

The second screen shows Transport and   Munitions  at your 
disposal: ground vehicles, sea-going vessels, underwater
craft, aircraft, fuel,   ammunition,  movement papers and 
interdiction papers. 

The third screen shows the   Sundries  at your disposal: 
emergency medical treatment,   fire   fighting  teams, power 
cells, extra  time  you have  gained,   companies  of troops and 
airlifts. 

To  switch  between these screens, press the   fire  button. 

AIMS 
The Aims display enables you to check on your   aims   within 
the province and keep track of your progress   in  achieving 
them. There are six screens  in  the  Aims   display. 

The Headlines screen   gives  the background to your   mission 
of peace   in  the province. 

The Building Programme screen tells you what   buildings   you 
must provide to succeed   in  the   province 

The  Demolition  Programme screen   tells  you   what  buildings 
you must  provide  to succeed  in  the  province. 

The  Pacification  Programme screen   tells  you   how many CSR 
units  you must  eliminate  to succeed  in   the  province. 

The Ethnic Harmony Programme screen   tells you how many 
votes from each  community  you need to  succeed  in  the 
province. 

Finally, the Resources screen tells you   what   additional
resources you will be   given  by the grateful  population   if you 
do succeed in all your aims and the   province  puts  itself  under 
UC control. This screen also records the   dwindling  of these 
resources if forest fires spread throughout the   province. 

To switch between these screens, press the   fire  button. 

PEOPLE MET 
The People Meet display allows you to keep track of 
professional demands in the province you are   in. 

There is a screen for each professional you have met  in  the 
province but not yet recruited. It  displays  the person’s  portrait 
together with what help he can offer and what demands he
is making in return   - a useful reminder if you are   trying  to 
gather together the necessary resources to recruit   him. 

To switch to the next professional you have met, press the 
fire button. 

SAVE, LOAD AND RESTART 
These options are more or less self-explanatory. 
By  choosing the Save option, you can save all your game data 
and resume play at a later date. If you wish, you can continue 
play after using this option.

By choosing the Load option, you can load a   previously  saved 
game and continue from where you left off. 

By choosing the Restart option, you can start a fresh game. If 
you are running the game from floppy disk, you should have 
a blank formatted disk available.

Both Load and Restart will delete your current game.

ACHIEVING YOUR   AIMS 

WAYS TO SUCCEED
RADAR STATIONS 
LIMITLESS SUPPLIES 
COMMUNICATION CENTRES 
THE SOCIAL NETWORK
PRESIDENTS AND GOVERNORS
SUCCESS BREEDS SUCCESS

WAYS TO SUCCEED 
There are two ways of  achieving  most of your  aims   within  a 
province. 

Your Building Programme aims can be   fulfilled  either by 
gaining control of the relevant buildings in  person or by 
securing  the help of professionals who will build them for 
you. 

Your Demolition Programme aims can be fulfilled   either  by 
demolishing the relevant   buildings  in person or by  securing 
the help of professionals who will demolish them for you.
Your Pacification Programme aims can be fulfilled   either  by 
forcing the surrender of CSR units through your own direct 
military action or by securing the help of  professionals  who 
will recruit  CSR  units to your side. 

In all these cases, there is a direct approach   involving  your 
own personal actions and an indirect approach  using  the 
help of others. 

Only with the Ethnic Harmony Programme are you forced to
seek the help of others in   securing  the  appropriate   ethnic 
votes.

To gain control of buildings, to demolish buildings and to
engage in military action against CSR units in person will
require some use of resources held in your stocks but not
vast amounts. However, it will certainly cost you valuable
time. 

Securing  the help of professionals will enable you to fulfill 
your aims much more quickly but professional help is often 
expensive in terms of material resources and professional
teams. 

Careful husbanding and allocation of your human and
material resources is a key factor in your ultimate success. 

RADAR STATIONS 
When you first enter a province, it is wise to gain control of
radar stations. These are always marked on you map and
when you capture them, all nearby towns and CSR units   will 
be marked on your map.
Armed with this extra information, you can then plan out the
rest of your mission. 

LIMITLESS SUPPLIES 
Atop priority will be gaining control of those   buildings  and 
installations which offer you limitless supplies of resources 
within the province.

A factory offers limitless supplies of vehicles. A   refinery   with 
a well-head offers limitless supplies of fuel. A processing
plant with a pump-head offers limitless supplies of food.  A 
vault offers  limitless  supplies of gold. A fort with a mine 
offers  limitless  supplies of ammunition. 

Many of these   installations  will be found close to roads. 
With limitless  supplies  at your disposal,  recruiting  high- 
ranking  professionals  becomes much less costly  in  terms of 
resources. 

COMMUNICATION CENTRES 
Once you have secured adequate resources   in  the province, 
you will want to start recruiting professionals. 

Gaining  control of Comms Centres marks on the map the 
location  of all professionals currently  in  the area,  enabling 
you to make   rapid  contact with them. 

THE SOCIAL NETWORK 
When you recruit a professional, he will always tell you the 
location  of another professional higher on the   social  circuit. 
Eventually,  following  the pathway of social contacts will lead 
you to the person at the top of the social  circuit  who will 
reveal the   location  of every professional  in  the province.  This 
IS  the best way of locating the often reclusive Presidents and 
Governors. 

You can then pick and choose which professionals to recruit.
You will not need to recruit all the professionals   in  a province 
and it  IS   not  wise  to try to  -  when you succeed  in  the 
province, the remaining lower-ranking professionals
automatically  join  the staff of your professional teams in any 
case. 

PRESIDENTS AND GOVERNORS 
Presidents  can   give you the loyalty of 132 other professionals, 
scattered throughout the CSR. Governors can give you the
loyalty of 32 other   similarly  scattered professionals. 
Therefore,  recruiting  Presidents or Governors gives  a 
tremendous boost to your chances of success in other 
provinces.  All the professionals  in  a nation or in a faction   will 
be loyal to you and  give you their help as soon as you meet 
them, at no cost in resources.

However, you must recruit Presidents or Governors before
you gain  control of the province they are   in,  They do not 
automatically   join  you if you succeed. 

This  can mean deliberately delaying your success   in  a 
province  or even in a Republic so that you can locate the 
President or Governor and gather sufficient resources to 
recruit  him. 

SUCCESS BREEDS SUCCESS
When you succeed in a province, the grateful population
provide you with extra resources and the
remaining professionals join the staff of your teams - you
gain additional human and material resources. This boosts
your chances of success in the next province.

When you succeed in a Republic, all the remaining provinces
put themselves under UC control and you gain additional
human and material resources from each. This gives a
massive boost to your chances of success in the next Republic
and in the whole of the CSR.

As your successes mount, further successes come more
quickly and more easily.


Ashes of Empire text manual was brought to you by Belgarath.
