            AV8B HARRIER ASSAULT - OPERATIONS MANUAL - Part 1
            -------------------------------------------------
                                           Typed by SHARD N&B
CONTENTS
--------

Preface   - about the game.
Configuring your system for AV-8B

Section I   : Introduction
Section II  : Campaign
Section III : Quick Start
Section IV  : AV-8B Pilot's Manual
Section V   : Ships and men of the task force
Section VI  : Aboard the Tarawa
Section VII : Flight Training 
Section VIII: Task Force Commander's Manual
Section IX  : Intelligence Briefing 
Section X   : Historical Background:
              Development of the Harrier
              The rebellion in East Timor

Acknowledgements

AMIGA ADDENDUM
--------------

1 Meg required.

To  install  on  hard  disk run INSTALL program on disk 1 (you can only run
from a hard disk if you have more than 1 mb of memory).

To  run  from  floppy  double  click  on  AV8B  icon  on  disk 1 and follow
instructions.

When  running  from floppy you will need a DATA disk.  To create one double
click on the CreateDATA icon and insert a blank disk in the drive.

In  the  case of low memory warning save the game state, re-boot and re-run
and then reload the saved game state.

For more information double click on the README icon on disk 1.


PREFACE - ABOUT THE GAME
------------------------

Welcome  to  the  world  of  interactive simulation, and congratulations on
choosing  what  we  think  is  one  of  the  best  and most accurate flight
simulators currently available.  Good flight simulators have been available
for  several years, but AV-8B HARRIER ASSAULT extends the concept by asking
the  player  to  play  two roles.  (1) As Commander of the Rapid Deployment
Force  (RDF)  you  will  run  the  campaign  of  Operation  Ocean  Saber, a
UN-authorised  invasion  of  East  Timor  in  Southeast  Asia.  Tasked with
landing   US   Marines  in  hostile  terrain  held  by  a  well  armed  and
numerically-superior  enemy,  you'll  make strategic and tactical decisions
for  the  force  as a whole.  (2) As a squadron pilot, you`ll fly the AV-8B
Harrier  jump  jet  from  the  flight  deck  of  the USS Tarawa taking this
revolutionary  vertical  take-off  fighter  into  combat  against the armed
forces of Indonesia, the nation which seized East Timor in 1975.

AV-8B  HARRIER  ASSAULT  will  place  you  in command of a naval task force
consisting   amphibious  assault  ships,  an  escort  of  powerfully  armed
warships,  transport  ships,  landing  craft,  eight thousand troops, their
vehicles,  stores,  helicopters,  and a squadron of McDonnell Douglas AV-8B
Harrier  II aircraft.  Get the feel of what it's like to be in command of a
powerful  naval  force able to project US military power on distant shores,
then  feel  the  thrill  of  being  the  pilot  of  one of the world's most
effective  close  air support aircraft.  But remember if you fail in either
role,  the  prisoners  of  war being herded behind barbed wire to await the
journey home will be wearing US rather than Indonesian uniforms.

If  you  prchased  AV-8B HARRIER ASSAULT expecting it to be a normal flight
simulation,  and  don`t want to play the role of task force commander, then
don`t  worry.   Using  expert  systems technology built into the game, your
computer  will be able to run the campaign, selecting the objectives of the
land and sea forces, positioning the ships, and specifying the missions for
the  AV-8B  Haariers,  leaving  you free to enjoy flying a simulation whose
flying  characteristics and cockpit layout are closely modelled on those of
the real aircraft.

The  expert  systems also control the actions of the enemy forces, who will
respond  to  your  decisions and tactics.  This allows you to play the game
many  times,  trying  different  methods  of dealing with a large defending
force  determined to fight for what it regards as Indonesian territory.  It
won't  be easy - a decade of struggle against the East Timor resistance has
honed the combat skills of the Indonesian Army.

CONFIGURING YOUR SYSTEM FOR AV-8B
---------------------------------

AV-8B  requires  a  minium  of 2 megabytes of RAM to run.  It will run with
EMM386.SYS  but  it  will  make  better use of memory if you do not use it.
Included  on  disk  2  is a bare bones AUTOEXEC.BAT and CONFIG.SYS.  To use
these  rename your existing files to .OLD and replace them with the ones on
disk 2.

Installing AV-8B

To  install  AV-8B,  at the A:  prompt type INSTALL and follow the onscreen
prompts.

Thrustmaster

AV-8B  is  fully  compatible  with  the  thrustmaster range of joystick and
throttle controllers.

SECTION 1 - INTRODUCTION
------------------------

AV-8B  Harrier  Assault  is  essentially two games in one.  The first is an
accurate  flight  simulation  of  the  McDonnell  Douglas  AV-8B Harrier II
vertical/short   take-off  and  landing  fighter.   In  this  part  of  the
simulation  you'll  take  the role of an AV-8B pilot.  The second is a full
simulation  of  an  amphibious landing operation on a hostile shore by a US
Marine  Expeditionary Brigade.  In this part of the simulation, you`ll play
the task force commander.

The flight simulation

AV-8B  Harrier Assault incorporates an extremely accurate simulation of the
AV-8B Harrier.  This is based on two sophisticated aerodynamic models.  One
is   designed  to  provide  as  true  a  representation  of  the  aircrafts
performance  as  possible,  and  is  one  of  the  most  realistic aircraft
simulations  ever  written  for  a  personal computer.  The second model is
simpler,  and  is  designed  to help the novice player get into the game as
quickly  as  possible without having to worry about the complexities of the
full  aircraft  model.   Players  are  advised  to  start  with the simpler
version,  particularly  if  new  to  flight-simulation  games.  Once you've
mastered combat flying using this version, switch to the full simulation to
experience  the  nearest thing your PC can offer to the sensation of flying
the real aircraft.

As  a  pilot, you'll fly a series of missions in support of the task force.
Before  each  mission, you will provided with a pre-flight briefing on your
targets  and  the likely level of enemy defences you'll encounter.  The Nav
(navigation)  system of your aircraft will be automatically programmed with
the  co-ordinates  of  these  targets,  and  a suitable weapon load will be
installed.   You  fly  your  mission and, if you survive, can return to the
Tarawa.   A  post-flight  debriefing  session  will  report  the success or
failure  of  your mission, results which will have an effect on the overall
state  of  play.   The Marines on shore are relying on you for support.  If
you fail, they too may fail in their mission.

The Stategic Simulation

As  commander  of  the  task  force,  you  have two objectives.  Before the
outbreak  of  hostilities,  you will have to devise an overall plan for the
amphibious  landing  and  the  subsequent  ground  battle  with the enemies
forces.   You`ll  decide where to move the ships under your command, and on
which  beaches  to  send  the  Marines  under your command storming ashore.
Which  targets  will  you  "soften  up"  by  air  attack?   Which are to be
assaulted by helicopter borne special forces?  Deciding won't be easy.

Once  a  plan has been devised, you can start the simulation.  The computer
will  act as your staff, passing commands to the units tasked with carrying
out  the individual parts of your plan.  They, in turn, will try to achieve
what  you  have asked.  To provide a challenging and realistic campaign, we
have  simulated  the  entire  combat  zone  and  every vechicle in it, both
friendly  and hostile.  Every unit, vehicle and weapon participating in the
battle  is  controlled by the simulation software.  This will react to your
actions  and  inputs,  creating  a  simulated  battle in which friendly and
hostile forces respond in a realistic manner both to each other and to your
commands.

Multi-layer  expert  systems are used to control the enemy forces, creating
life-like  response  in real time.  Moving realistically, these enemy units
will  fight  your  forces,  providing  you  with  a  strategic and tactical
challenge.   As  the  campaign  progresses,  you'll have to "fine tune" the
battle plan, responding to the movements of the enemy, and the successes or
failures  of  your own forces.  You may have to send out new units or alter
the  orders  of units in the field in order to reinforce a critical part of
the battlefield, exploit an breakthrough, or stop a retreat.

To win the game, you must play both roles to some extent.  You can play (or
replay) the game acting predominantly as a pilot or as overall commander or
attempt  to perform both roles to an equal degree.  If you`ve played flight
simulations  in  the  past, you will probably start by concentrating on the
pilot's  role.  If you're a war games player, you may opt to concentrate of
being  commander  for  your first campaign.  Eventually you'll want to face
the challenge of handling both functions.

To  play  predominately  as  a  pilot, all you need do, as commander, is to
select  and  initiate  a  battle plan from the Tarawa's Tactical Amphibious
Warfare  Data  System  (TAWADS) computer.  AV-8B missions will be generated
automatically,  according  to the pre-set plan and also as required to meet
changing  state  of  battle.   On  its  own,  TAWADS  is not a particularly
effective  commander;  it  can only respond in a limited manner to changing
tactical  circumstances.   If  you  don't take any decisions in the role of
commander,  but  leave  it  all  to  TAWADS,  you  will  have  to be a very
successful pilot to win the campaign!

To  play  predominately  as  the  task force commander, you must create and
initiate  your  own  battle plan, then monitor the progress of the conflict
and  respond  tactically  by  creating  more plans.  AV-8B missions will be
flown automatically for you by the computer, but be aware that the computer
is much less effective at knocking out targets than all you will be after a
few  hours  of  play.   The  Marines  are outnumbered and out gunned on the
ground  by a factor of 4 to 1, so winning air superiority and flying strike
missions  is  very  important.   To win by playing purely as commander, you
will  have  to be a strategic and tactical genius and be prepared to accept
high  casualties  on  the  ground as your Marines fight without the massive
level of air superiority and air support which US ground forces have always
had in the wars of the last half century.

The  information  you  need  to play the game is contained in the following
sections of the manual:

Campaign Overview

The  crisis in East Timor, and why the United Nations has authorised the US
forces to intervene in this long-running conflict.

Quick Start

A  walk-through  of  two typical AV-8B missions.  This section will get you
into  the  air  and flying combat missions as quickly as possible.  It will
also familiarise you with the general features of the simulation.

AV-8B Pilot's Manual

This  describes  the AV-8B, its on-board electronic system and its weapons.
You'll   learn   how   to   obtain  pre-flight  briefings  and  post-flight
debriefings;  how  to select, weapons, how to control and fly the aircraft;
and  how  to  use the aircraft's electronic systems and sensors to navigate
and attack air and ground targets.

Ships and men of the Task Force

A  description of the USS Tarawa, and the other warships, assault ships and
support  ships  taking  part in the operation.  This section also describes
the  Marine  forces  under  your command, explaining how they are organized
into  battalions,  companies  and platoons, and gives short descriptions of
their weaponry.

On board Tarawa

How  to move around the flagship of your Marine Expeditionary brigade.  The
location  and  purpose  of  each of the vessel's compartments in described,
plus  short-cuts  which  will  take  you rapidly from one major location to
another.  You'll also learn how to jump from the Tarawa into the cockpit of
any  AV-8B  currently  flying  a  combat  mission,  and  how  to  switch to
spectacular outside views of the aircraft.

Flight Training

Aboard  Tarawa  is  a  flight  simulator  which you can use to practice the
flying  skills  needed  in the game, and allows these to be practised.  For
players  new  to the world of flight simulation, a Primary Training section
explains the basics of how to fly an aircraft.

Task Force Commander's Manual

The  entire  process  of  creating  a  battle plan is described, along with
instructions  on  how  to  use  the Tactical Amphibious Warfare Data System
(TAWADS),  the sophisticated command and control system which you`ll use to
create this plan and to pass orders to the forces under your command.

Intelligence Brief

Descriptions  of  the aircraft and weapons you're up against, and estimates
of  the  numbers  available  to  the  enemy.  The intelligence experts also
report  how  the AV-8B performed during combat missions in the Gulf and how
the  Harrier  and Sea Harrier performed in the Falklands - this information
should help you visualise V/STOL jet combat and the problems you'll face.

Historical Background

The  information  in this section is not needed to play the game, but it is
provided  as background reading.  The first section describes how the AV-8B
Harrier  family of V/STOL jets was developed; the second charts the history
of East Timor since that territory was seized by Indonesia in 1975.

Controlling the simulation

AV-8B  Harrier  Assault  is  designed  to be played using a pointing device
either  a  joystick  or  a  mouse.   You  can  fly  the simulation from the
keyboard, but you'll need a mouse or joystick for full control of TAWADS.

Mouse & Joystick

In  the  rest  of  the manual, you'll find reference to "clicking", "double
clicking"  ,  and  "dragging".  If you've already used a mouse or joystick,
you`re probably familiar with these terms already.  If not, heres what they
mean.

Single Click - depress and release pointer button immediately

Double Click - depress and release pointer button twice in quick succession.

Drag - depress button, move pointer and then release button.

Menus

You  will  also  meet several menus.  In many cases these will have a title
line,  appearing  as  a  box at the top of the menu.  In other cases, their
purpose will be self-explanatory when you look at the menu contents.  A red
check mark is shown against options which are currently selected.

Several  options will be greyed out, indicating that they are not available
under the current circumstances.

Select  the  option using the up and down arrow keys, then press (space) to
change  its  state.  Press (ESC) to close the menu when you're finished The
menus  you'll  meet below decks in Tarawa can also be operated by the mouse
or  joystick.  Clicking on an option will select or de-select it, and close
the  menu.   If  you want to change several options in a menu its easier to
use the keys.

Mouse  and  joystick  control are not available for menus accessed from the
AV-8B  cockpit in this case, the mouse or joystick is already being used to
control the aircraft, so these menus must be operated via the keyboard.

Waypoints

An essential concept throughout the simulation is the use of waypoints.  If
you`re  an  experienced  war  gamer  or flight simulator enthusiast, you`re
probably  familiar  with waypoints.  If not, don't worry - waypoint is just
the  military  jargon for something you've been using for years when giving
directions.   A  waypoint  is  a simply a geographic location at which some
sort of action must be taken when you get there.

To  see  waypoints  in  action,  imagine  giving  a  friend  the  following
instruction:

"Drive  south  along  Main Street, turn left at the first stop light, carry
stright past the school, turn left at the town hall, and the pizza joint is
on  the  left, directly opposite the library.  Buy six pizzas, then go back
up  the  street,  go  left  at the town hall, then watch for Joe's Computer
store on the right.  Wait in the parking lot behind Joe's until the rest of
us show up with the beer".

The  stop  light,  school,  town hall, library and Joe's Computer Store are
waypoints  in  a  plan  which will eventually see six pizzas delivered to a
bunch of hungry guys in the parking lot, To fulfil the mission, your friend
had  to  go  from  one waypoint to another, changing direction or following
other instructions ("buy pizzas" or "wait") as he reached each one.

In  AV-8B  Harrier  Assault,  you`ll  use  waypoints  to navigate ships and
aircraft,  and  to  command  the  start  of  different  types  of  military
operation.   Instead of sending your hypothetical friend to the pizza joint
waypoint  to  buy  pizza,  you  might  be  commanding  Tarawa to proceed to
waypoint  3,  then  launch  a Harrier to attack Lore then Tutuala.  For the
Harrier,  Lore,  Tutuala,  and Tarawa will be waypoints programmed into its
Nav system.

SECTION II - CAMPAIGN
---------------------

Campaign Overview

Five  months ago, a hard-line faction in the Indonesian Army seized control
of  the  country  while  senior  members  of the Indonesian Government were
visiting  Japan to sign a long-term agreement covering trade and industrial
co-operation between the two nations.  Since then, the country has been run
by a military junta.

Following  the  imposition  of  press  and broadcasting censorship, the new
rulers  moved  swiftly  to silence all civilian opposition to their regime,
imprisoning  without  trial  all  major  opponents of the junta:  Prominent
politicians  of  all  parties and trade union leaders, plus those religious
leaders,  journalists, broadcasters and members of the police and judiciary
who spoke out against the coup.

Large-seale  pro-democracy  demonstrations  in  the streets of Djakarta and
other major cities were ruthlessly suppressed by armed soldiers.  Estimates
of  the  number  of  demonstrators killed by troops have ranged from 300 to
over 1,500.

In an attempt create some measure of public support, the new regime has now
promised  a speedy end to the long-running rebellion in East Timor a former
Portuguese  colony  which  Indonesia  invaded and annexed in 1975.  Despite
repeated  United Nations resolutions, Indonesia has always refused to grant
independence  for  what it regards as one of its legitimate provinees.  For
more  than  a  decade,  repeated  reports  from  East  Timor have described
persistent  human  rights  violations  of the Timorese people by Indonesia,
including mass arrests, detention camps, executions, and the destruction of
entire villages.

Recent  military  communiques  from  the  junta talk openly of a "final and
complete  military  solution"  intended  to  end  the  rebellion.  From its
temporary  exile in Japan, the legitimate Government of Indonesia has asked
the  United  Nations to intervene to prevent the possibility of large-scale
atrocities in the region.

The  only military force in the area with the capability to intervene is an
amphibious  force  of  US Marines.  Currently at sea and scheduled to begin
Exercise  Ocean  Guardian,  the  small  force is not a full strength Marine
Expeditionary Brigade, but has only a single vessel equipped with the AV-8B
V/STOL  jet fighter.  Although some replacement aircraft are present on the
decks of the other assault ships in the fleet, this force must make do with
less than half the number of aircraft which would normally be assigned to a
landing operation, and only a single flight deck from which to operate them
the assault ship USS Tarawa.

As this small force cruises off the southern coast of East Timor the United
Nations discusses the crisis.  Following an all-night debate, the UN passes
a resolution authorising the United States to intervene in East Timor.

As the US President signs the orders which will translate the wishes of the
UN  into  action,  in  the  Timor  Sea it's a few hours until dawn.  Aboard
Tarawa,  technicians  give  the  vessel's AV-8B Harrier II fighters a final
check  over  while armorers fit fuzes to bombs and missiles.  In Tarawa and
the  other  vessels  of  the  task  force,  live ammunition is readied, and
landing craft are prepared for action.  Aboard the escorting warships, guns
and missile launchers are loaded with live rounds.  Ocean Guardian is about
to become Operation Ocean Saber.....

Priority: Flash (transmitted 16.12 EST)

Classification: Top Secret
From: National Security Adviser
To: Commanding Officer, Operation Ocean Saber

In  pursuance of last night's United Nations resolution authorising the use
of  force  to protect the people of East Timor, the President of the United
States issued the following orders at 16:00 Eastern Standard Time today:

1. Using  the  vessels,  aircraft,  and  personnel  currently  under your
   command,  you  are  ordered  to  use  such force as might be required to
   suppress  and terminate all operations in the territory of East Timor by
   the  Indonesian  armed  forces,  and  to  prevent the arrival of further
   Indonesian forces.

2. In a personal phone call to the President, the Secretary General of the
   United  Nations has made it clear that he views the situation as urgent.
   You  will  not  await reinforcements.  Operations against the Indonesian
   forces  on  East  Timor  are  to  commence immediately using those units
   currently under your command.

3. For  reasons  which  will  made  clear to you in a separate classified
   intelligence  briefing,  the ships of the task force are to remain south
   of   East   Timor  at  all  times.   Your  naval  units  must  under  no
   circumstances  move  north  of  Ilheu  da Jaco - the small island at the
   eastern tip of east Timor.

4. You  will land your Marine Expeditionary Brigade on the southern coast
   of  East  Timor,  then  move  inland  to  engage, defeat, and disarm the
   Indonesian  forces  operating there.  Your troops will remain to provide
   protection  and  assistance  to  the  local population, until the United
   Nations  can  consult  all  parties  to  bring  about an end to the long
   running conflict.

5. An   operational   plan   "Saber"   was  despatched  last  night  via
   communications  satellite  and  downloaded  into  the  battle management
   computers  aboard your flagship Tarawa.  You are free to modify or adapt
   this as you see fit, or to use an alternative plan of your own.

6. You  may  open  fire  against  the  Indonesian  forces without further
   authorisation  from  the US Government or the United Nations.  If, prior
   to  the  start  of  hostilities,  Indonesian  aircraft approach your own
   aircraft or fleet in a manner you judge to be a possible threat, you may
   treat them as hostile.

While  carrying  out these orders, you are to keep the following constraint
in mind.  Indonesia has for many years been an ally of the US.  In the hope
of  quickly  repairing  the  damage  to relations between the two countries
which Ocean Saber must inevitably cause, the President wishes this campaign
-  to  be  kept  "low  key"  and  resolved with the minimum amount of force
necessary to get the job done.

The  President  has  also asked me to convey his concern that you are being
asked  to  carry out this mission with such limited forces.  But even had a
second  Marine  Expeditionary  Brigade  been  available at short notice, or
guided  missile  cruisers  for  extra anti-aircraft protection, both he and
State  Department believe that their use would be counter-productive with a
new round of international arms reduction talks due to start within months.
For  the  US  to  use the level of military force which the Joint Chiefs of
Staff  would  have preffered on purely military grounds could also prove an
embarrassment  to  US  foreign policy, allowing unfriendly nations to raise
charges of "Imperialist bullying".

The best intelligence information available from Djakarta and from the East
Timor  resistance  movement  leads  the US Government and the UN to believe
that a swift intervention will not only prevent large scale loss of life by
the  civilian  population  of  East  Timor,  but  could  also bring about a
collapse  of  the  current military dictatorship, and a return to democracy
for all the people of Indonesia.

SECTION III - QUICK START
-------------------------

When  you've  just got back from the computer store, ripped the shrink wrap
off  the  box  and unpacked the game, the chances are you don`t want to get
bogged  down in reading a manual and mastering all the details of running a
task force - you bought the game in order to fly.  AV-8B Harrier Assault is
designed  to  give  you  many hours of game play, simulating all aspects of
both  V/STOL and carrier flight operations, but for the moment we'll ignore
these and get you into the cockpit and into the air.

Even  if  you are an experienced flight simulation enthusiast, we recommend
that  you fly both of the sample missions detailed below.  Flying them will
give  you  a  useful  overview of the entire game, including the process of
planning and flying missions.  The experience you'll gain on these missions
will help you understand the other sections of this manual.

First you must install the game on to your hard disk and get the simulation
running.  The software is not copy protected, so you should have no problem
in getting it installed and started.

Once  the  game loads, you'll see an introductory sequence showing an AV-8B
rising  from  the  hanger  of the amphibious assault ship USS Tarawa to the
flight  deck.   Tarawa  is  the  flagship  of the task force, and once this
animated  sequence  has  ended,  you will be placed in the vessel's command
center.

The  two  AV-8B  missions  described  below  will  give you a chance to get
airborne and fly a simulated V/STOL fighter.

STARTING A BATTLE PLAN AND FLYING YOUR FIRST MISSION.

Starting the Action

1. Run TAWADS
All  battle planning and control of the landing operation is done using the
Tactical  Amphibious  Warfare  Data  System  (TAWADS) in the Command Center
aboard  the  Tarawa.  Full instructions on how to use this system are given
in  the  Task  Force  Commanders Manual, but in this section we'll give you
enough information on TAWADS to get the campaign started and fly your first
missions.

The  game  will start in the Command Center of Tarawa.  To start the action
the  commander  must  instruct  the  TAWADS  battle  computer  to  commence
operations  with  SABER,  the  pre-loaded battle plan.  Click on the TAWADS
screen  (the  central monitor showing a map of Timor on screen).  This will
open the TAWADS interface.

2. Activate a battle plan.
Your  control  pointer is limited to the BATTLE PLAN SELECTION window which
will  show  SABER  as the current battle plan.  To start this plan running,
click  on  the GO icon.  There will be a short pause as the simulation runs
in fast forward mode, taking the task force from your current position (8am
on  day  0, 2 hours sailing time from Timor) to the first waypoint at which
flight operations are scheduled.  The fleet will now be off the east tip of
East  Timor  and  the  time will be 9:3Oam.  Click on the Exit icon (bottom
right of screen) to close TAWADS.

Notice  that  a light is flashing on the white telephone in the foreground.
This  is to tell you that AV-8B missions are available to be flown.  If you
don`t  go  to  the  Pilots Briefing Room to accept a mission, after a short
delay the mission will be allocated to a Harrier flown by the computer.

Pre-Flight Preparation

1. Go to Pilots' Briefing Room 
Clicking  on  the  white  phone  will take you to the Pilots Briefing Room.
This  is dominated by a large whiteboard display, which currently shows the
missions  waiting  to  be  flown.  Combat Air Patrol is always available if
there  is  a  Harrier  on  deck.   The  next  mission  on  the  list  is an
interdiction  (ground  attack)  sortie to the east tip of East Timor.  This
area  has  only  light  defenses,  so, for your first operational sortie we
suggest  that  you  accept this mission.  Click on mission HA\1-1 to accept
it.

2. Intelligence Briefing
The whiteboard will now give you the following information:

The primary and secondary targets for your mission.

The Flight Plan for this mission, including the assigned waypoints.

The defenses you are likely to encounter.

Read this information carefully, then click on ACCEPT to continue. 

3. Aircraft Arming
The armorers will already have installed a suitable combination of ordnance
for this mission.

Click on OK to accept this weapon load.

FLYING THE MISSION

1. Takeoff

You  are in the cockpit of your aircraft, and the engine is running.  Ahead
of  you is the flight deck of Tarawa.  Press the W key to release the wheel
brakes,  then  0  (zero)  to  run the engine up to full throttle.  When you
reach  the  end of the deck pull up the nose and press the G key to retract
the  undercarriage.  From now on, the key(s) you are to press will be shown
in brackets.

2. Fly to Target

Your  left  hand MFD is showing the EHSI navigation display with waypoint 1
selected - this is your target.  Press (/) until the scale at the top right
on the EHSI reads "7".  Turn the aircraft to keep the line to this waypoint
vertical  in  the  display.   When the line shortens and the waypoint - the
small  cross  at  the end of the line - is about half-way between the outer
edge  of  the  EHSI  display  and  the aircraft symbol at the centre of the
display, you are approaching the target and should be able to see it in the
forward  view.   Don't expect the target to appear directly ahead - the Nav
system  is  only as good as the data it received from TAWADS.  Minor errors
could result in the target appearing to one side or the other of the flight
path.

3. Attacking the Target

You  will  be  using  Hydra unguided rockets to attack the target (Read the
weapons  section  of  the  "AV-8B Pilot's Manual" if you want to learn more
about  these).   Press (backspace) until HYD (followed by a number) appears
at the bottom left of HUD.  This indicates that the Hydra rockets have been
selected,  the  number  showing  how  many  rounds  each  of  the underwing
launchers  can  carry.   A  T-shaped  marker in the HUD shows the predicted
impact  point  of  the  rockets  - fly until these are over the target then
press the fire button or (space) to release the rockets.

4. Return to Tarawa

Cycle through the waypoints on the EHSI display (using the ; key) until a T
is  shown at top right of display.  This is a TACAN radio navigation beacon
carried by Tarawa as a navigation aid for its aircraft.  Either fly back to
Tarawa using the EHSI display to guide you, or select the autopilot (A) and
just  sit  back and watch it do the work of flying you back and landing the
aircraft.  Even if you've flown back manually, we'd recommend that for your
first few flights you turn the autopilot on for the landing.

When  you  have  landed, ask for a debrief by pressing (Ctrl D).  This will
take  you  to  the pilots' Briefing Room.  A summary of the success of your
mission will be shown on the whiteboard.

If  you  would like to fly another mission, click on the right hand monitor
in the briefing room to see what's available to be flown.

Time Control

If  no  AV-8B  missions  are  available  to  be flown, you can speed up the
simulation,  "fast  forwarding"  to  the  point  where  the  next batch are
ordered.   To  do  this,  go  to  the  command  centre, click on the TAWADS
console,  then  click  on  the  digital  clock  at the top right of the map
display.  A menu will open, offering the following options:

StopTime

This pauses the simulation.

Normal

The  simulation  runs in real time - this is the normal operating mode when
playing the game.

Fast

The  simulation  runs  at four times normal time.  This can be useful while
units  are  on  the  move,  but  little  else is happening - for example if
landing craft are heading from the assault ships to the beachhead.

Step 1 Min

This is an alternative method of temporarily speeding up the game.

Step Next Mission

This  advances  the game to the point where the next mission is about to be
launched.   This  allows  the player to "fast forward" through parts of the
plan  in  which  no operations are to be launched.  For example, plan SABER
contains  relatively  few  night  missions  for  the  AV-8Bs.   If none are
scheduled,  selecting  "Step  next  mission" will advance the simulation to
dawn of the next day.

Pausing the Game

You  can pause the simulation at any time to cope with phone calls or other
interuptions.   When  aboard  Tarawa, go to the Command Center and click on
its  digital clock.  If you're in the cockpit flying a mission, press the P
key.

A MORE ADVANCED SESSION

When  you`re  ready  to  learn  more  about the game, the next sortie to be
described  will  show  you  how  to  create  an  immediate mission (one not
contained in the battle plan), fly it, then save the game state.

This  example  follows on from the previous one, and assumes that it is has
been  flown.  If you've flown other sorties in the meantime, you'll have to
quit  the  game,  then  reload it, restart plan SABER, and refly that first
mission (or let the computer do it for you).

Checking on Auccess in TAWADS

When  you  have  flown your interdiction mission (if you survived) you will
recieve  a  pilots'  debrief  telling  you  how  successful  you have been.
However, as the commander you will want more of an overview telling you how
that  mission fitted into the "big picture" of the overall campaign.  While
you  were  busy  with  your own sortie, other military operations have been
under way.

To get this you must run TAWADS again.

1. Run TAWADS

From the command control room click on the TAWADS screen, this will run the
TAWADS computer.

2. Zoom into the Target

Your  previous  mission  was  to attack a fixed base on Jaco Island, at the
east  end  of  the  main  island.   Zoom  the  map view into this island by
clicking  with  the  pointer  over the island until the name "Jaco" appears
next  to  a  white square indicating a fixed base or town.  You may have to
move  your  map  view  to keep Jaco near the center of the screen.  This is
done by clicking on the MAP SCROLL icon (four arrows) at the bottom left of
the screen.

3 Open the Intelligence Window

Click on the Intelligence icon (at the top right of the screen).  This will
open a window over the top right corner of the map.

4 Select the Base to Get an Intelligence Report.

Click  on  the  white  square  by  Jaco  with the left (select) button, the
Intelligence  window  will  show the state of the selected object - in this
case, Jaco.  This is an Indonesian military base containing two buildings -
the information window will display the number remaining.

If  you  have been very successful, this will read 0, but is more likely to
be  1 or even 2!  We will assume that one of the targets remains, requiring
the  creation of an unplanned mission to send another aircraft back to Jaco
Island to attack the remaining target.

Creating an Immediate Mission in TAWADS

1. Open the AIR PLAN Window

Click on the AIR PLAN mission icon (near top left) - a window will open top
left  with  the  words  HARRIER  WAYPOINTS  in  it.  You must now enter the
waypoints for the mission.

2. Enter Mission Waypoints

Double click with the pointer over Jaco, a red waypoint icon will appear (a
pyramid with the top cut off) under the pointer.  You have now indicated to
TAWADS that Jaco is to be a waypoint for the new mission.

3. Change the Waypoint Type
 
Click  on  the  background  of  the  HARRIER  WAYPOINTS  window to open its
sub-menu.   Click on PRIMARY TARGET.  This action tells TAWADS that Jaco is
not a navigational waypoint, but a target to be attacked.

4. Finish the Mission Entry

Click  on the EXIT icon in the HARRIER WAYPOINTS window to finish the entry
of the mission - this window will close.

5. Exit TAWADS

Clicking on the TAWADS exit icon to exits the TAWADS system.

Selecting and Flying the Mission

The  red  light  on  the  Pilots' briefing Room telephone will be flashing.
Click  on  the phone to go directly to the briefing room.  Your new mission
will be shown as the second on the whiteboard.  It will be named:

INTERDICTION H\0-0

PRIMARY TARGET JACO

Follow  the  instructions in earlier PRE-FLIGHT and FLY MISSION sections to
fly  mission.   As  you  fly  combat  missions,  you will hear the sound of
explosions.   These  are  the  result  of  ground-based  combat between the
marines  and  the  Indonesian defenders.  When the mission is completed you
will  be  returned  to the Pilots briefing Room.  Clicking on the telephone
will take you back to Command Center.

Flying an Air Combat Mission

To  get  your  first  experience  of  air-to-air  combat, go to the Command
Centre,  and  use  TAWADS  to  create  an Immediate Mission with one of the
airstrips on the south coast of East Timor specified as the primary target.
Go  to  the Pilots' Briefing Room and accept the newly created mission.  As
you  approach the airstrip, defending fighters should try to intercept you.
Once you're familiar with the landscape of East Timor, you can simply go to
the  Pilots' briefing Room, accept the Air Combat Mission which is normally
available, then head for an enemy air base.

SAVING GAME STATE

Assuming  that  you  have  been  fairly  successful in your attacks on Jaco
Island,  we  will now save the state of the game, so that you can return to
it in the future.

1 Click on SAVE icon in the Command Center (a diskette on the table).  This
will open the SAVE/LOAD screen.

2 Click on one of the 10 available slots.  It will become highlighted.

3 Click onto the Save Game icon (an arrow pointing at a disk).

The  current  game  state  will be saved to the hard disk, and the selected
slot  will  now  contain  the  name  of  your  saved state.  It should read
something  like  SABER 0/9:50.  The name is made up to the name of the plan
currently  being  run,  plus  the current date and time.  The example shown
contains  Plan SABER at the state it had reached by 9:50 am on day 0 of the
campaign.

4 Click on the exit icon to return to the command center.

This  saved  game can be retrieved at any time by re-entering the SAVE/LOAD
screen,  clicking  on the slot which contains the saved game, then clicking
on the Load Game icon (an arrow pointing away from a disk).

Full  details  of-the  SAVE/LOAD  facility are provided in Section 7 of the
manual "Aboard the Tarawa".

KEYBOARD CONTROLS
-----------------

Engine & nozzles

Engine thrust:         1 to 0 (0% to 100% in 10% increments)
                       or
Increase thrust:       =
Decrease thrust:       -
Nozzle position:       SHIFT 1 to SHIFT 0
                       (0 deg to 100 deg in 10 degree steps)
                       or
Raise nozzles:         SHIFT -
Lower nozzles:         SHIFT +
Engine on/off:         E

Flight Controls

Roll Left:             LEFT ARROW or Joystick or Mouse
Roll Right:            RIGHT ARROW or Joystick or Mouse
Pitch Up:              DOWN ARROW or Joystick or Mouse
Pitch Down:            UP ARROW or Joystick or Mouse
Rudder left:           <
Rudder right:          >
Pitch trim +:          PAD +
Pitch trim -:          PAD -
Remove Pitch trim:     PAD *
Calibrate joystick:    Z
Autopilot off/on:      A
Airbrakes:             B
Wheelbrakes:           W
Landing Gear up/down:  G
Eject:                 Ctrl-E

Weapons & Nav system

Drop flare:             F
Drop chaff:             C
Radar altimeter on/off: R
Next weapon:            BACKSPACE
Weapons in salvo:       N
Change bomb aiming mode:`
Cycle left MFD:         [
Cycle right MFD:        ]
EHSI range:             /
Next waypoint:          ;
FLIR on/off:            I

Fire weapon:                 Space, Joystick 1, Mouse Left
Mark ground target:          Enter, Joystick 2, Mouse Right
Jettison all unused weapons: Ctrl-R

Views

Cockpit view

Look up/down:     F1
Forward view:     F2
Left 60 deg:      F3
Right 60 deg:     F4
Left 120 deg:     F5
Right 120 deg:    F6
Zoom in:          PAGE UP (If NUM LOCK is off)
Zoom out:         PAGE DOWN (If NUM LOCK os off)

Outside Views

Missile View:     M
Enemy View:       J
Outside view:     V
Camera view:      O
Rotate left:      F7
Rotate right:     F8
Rotate up:        F9
Rotate down:      F10

Time control


Fast time:        X
Pause:            P 
Single Step:      S (when paused) 

Game configuration 

Mouse:            Ctrl-M
Joystick:         Ctrl-J
Keyboard:         Ctrl-K
Advanced Model:   Ctrl-A
Simple model:     Ctrl-S
Menus:            ESCAPE

Return to Command Center: Alt-X
TSR keys on:              Alt-K

(This  opens  a  window  which  allows you to give keyboard commands to any
Terminate  and  Stay Resident routines you may have in your computer.  Most
players will never need to use this facility).

Engine noise on/off:   Q
All sounds on/off:     Ctrl-Q

                              End Of Part 1
                              -------------
            AV8B HARRIER ASSAULT - OPERATIONS MANUAL - Part 2
            -------------------------------------------------

SECTION IV - AV-8B PILOTS MANUAL
--------------------------------
 
The  McDonnell-Douglas/British  Aerospace  AV-8B  Harrier  II is the latest
member  of  a  unique  family  of vertical/short take-off fighter aircraft.
Originally  designed  in  Britain,  and taken into service by that nation's
Royal  Air  Force,  Harrier was later adopted by the US Marine Corps as the
AV-8A.   A collaborative effort involving the US and UK finally resulted in
today's much-improved AV-8B.

Only  46ft  4in long and 30ft 4in in wingspan, Harrier is smaller than many
present-day  fighters,  and  closer  in  size  to the General Dynamics F-16
Fighting  Falcon than aircraft such as the McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle and
F/A-18  Hornet.   The  factor which makes the Harrier family unique is that
the  thrust  of  its  engine  can  be  deflected from rearward to downward,
allowing the aircraft to take off and land vertically, and to hover.

Harrier  may not qualify for the adjective "beautiful" but its curved lines
are evidence of its ancestry from the classic British Hawker fighter design
team  -  an  organisation  which firmly believed that if an aircraft looked
right,  it  was right.  Like another famous British export, the Rolls Royce
automobile, the AV-8B has its own very distinctive appearance.

Its  most  distinctive  feature  is  that its single engine does not have a
single  jetpipe  in  the rear fuselage, but a total of four - two on either
side  of the center fuselage.  A single cockpit control allows the pilot to
move all four in unison through an angle of more than 90 degrees.  Known as
"thrust vectoring" this technique is used for vertical takeoff and landing,
and  hovering.   It  can  also  be  used in combat to increase the aircraft
agility  -  this  is  known as "viffing" (Vectoring In Forward Flight), and
you'll learn how to do this later in this section of the manual.

Vertical  take-off  and  landing  is  only possible if the engine thrust is
greater  than  the  total weight of the aircraft.  This is usually the case
when  landing,  since  most  of  the fuel will have been used, but can be a
problem  at  takeoff  if  the aircraft is carrying a heavy weapon load.  In
such  cases,  deflecting the nozzles downward by 30 - 40 degrees allows the
aircraft  to get airborne after a very short run.  This procedure is widely
used, so Harrier can be thought of as a Vertical/Short Take-Off and Landing
(V/STOL) or even a Short Take-Off/Vertical Landing (STOVL) aircraft.

The  use of afterburning would turn the four nozzles into runway destroying
blowtorches,  so  Harrier does not use this technique.  All the thrust must
be provided by normal engine power.  The sheer size of the engine needed to
provide  the  required  amount  of thrust gives the aircraft its relatively
wide center fuselage and huge "elephant ears" air inlets, while the absence
of an afterburner limits the aircraft to subsonic speeds.  Maximum speed at
sea level is around 575kts (Mach 0.87), rising to Mach O.91 at altitude.

Tactical  range  - the distance the aircraft can fly loiter for long enough
to  perform a useful military mission, then fly back to base depends on the
height  at  which  you  fly  and  the weight of weapons carried.  A typical
figure with a good bomb load would be around 480nm.

A  full history and description of the Harrier family up to and even beyond
todays  AV-8B  is provided at the rear of this manual, but this information
is not needed in order to fly the aircraft.

YOUR WEAPONS

The  AV-8B can carry five types of ordnance guided missiles, "dumb" bombs",
laser-guided  bombs,  cluster  munitions, and unguided rockets.  It is also
equipped with two 25mm cannon.

Two  types  of guided missile are available.  Both are homing missiles, and
must  be  locked  onto the chosen target before being fired.  (You'll learn
how  to  do this when flying the Part Task Trainer missions described later
in  this  section  of  the  manual).   Once  fired,  the  missile will home
automatically with no further action needed on your part.

AIM-9M Sidewinder

The  AV-8B would normally carry four AIM-9M when deployed in the air-to-air
role,  or  two  (one  on each outboard wing pylon) for self defense when on
strike missions.  The AIM-9 flies at a speed of around Mach 2.5, and uses a
nose-mounted  infra-seeker  seeker  to  home  onto an aircraft target.  The
seeker  responds  to  heat.   Early-model AIM-9s could only home on the hot
engine exhaust of the target, but the -9M model is sensitive enough to home
onto the aircraft from any direction.  Maximum range is around 19,000 yards
when  fired  against  an approaching aircraft, but falls sharply when fired
against  a retreating target.  If you find yourself on the tail of an enemy
aircraft, close the range to a few thousand yards before firing.

AGM-65E Maverick

On  strike  missions,  the  AV-8B  can  carry  up  to four AGM-65E Maverick
missiles.   These  have  a  maximum  range of up to 26,000 yards, so can be
fired  from  outside  the range of light SAMs and AAA defending the target.
The AGM-65E version of Maverick was specifically designed for close support
of Marine operations.  It homes not against heat but a bright spot of laser
light.   When  a target needs to be attacked using Maverick, the Marines in
the  front  line  will  use  a man-portable laser designator to shine laser
light  onto  the  target.  The small amount of laser light reflected by the
target  will be detected by the seeker head of the AGM-65E, which will home
onto  the  illuminated target.  The warhead weighs 300lb, so a single round
should be enough to destroy a tank, bunker or artillery position.

AGM-88 HARM

The  High Speed Anti-Radiation Missile is a specialized weapon developed to
destroy  enemy radars.  Its sophisticated seeker head is designed to detect
and  lock  onto  radar  signals,  guiding the weapon to a direct hit on the
radar.   The only counter available to an enemy is to turn off the radar as
soon as the Harm is launched.  If he turns off too late, Harm will continue
its  Night  by "dead-reckoning", landing as close as possible to the radar.
Maximum range of Harm is about 10 miles.

GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS

Often  referred to as "iron" bombs, these simple but effective weapons have
been  used  in  combat  since  the  First World War.  They take the form of
streamlined metal casings packed with explosives, and fitted with fuzes and
stabilising  fins.   For low-level strikes, retarded bombs are used.  These
incorporate  a drag-producing device such as pop-out fins or a tail-mounted
parachute.   These slow the weapon after release, so that the aircraft will
be  a  safe  distance  away  by the time the bombs hit their target.  Bombs
range in weight from 250lb to 2,000lb.  The AV-8B can carry up to 16 of the
smaller sizes, but only a few of the largest.

"Iron" bombs are a relatively inexpensive weapon, but are only as effective
as  the  pilot  who  aims  them.   A bomb which misses the target is a bomb
wasted.  During the Vietnam war half the bombs released by US pilots landed
within  150  -  200ft  of  the target.  During Desert Storm in 1991, better
training  and  improved  aircraft  had  but  this figure to around 30-40ft.
Despite  this  small  distance,  the  success  rate  of "iron bomb" attacks
against  Iraqi  targets was around 30 per cent.  Tanks, bunkers, and troops
who  have  time to "dig in" are heavily protected, so only a direct or near
direct hit will be effective.

Laser Guided Bombs (LGBs)

First  used  during  the  Vietnam  War LGBs (often known as "smart" bombs")
combine  the body of a general purpose bomb with an add-on laser seeker and
control  fins.   Like the AGM-65E Maverick, these rely on laser designation
by  friendly  ground  forces.  They need to be locked on to a target before
being  released, then home automatically against targets.  LGBs combine the
explosive power of a bomb with the precision of a guided missile.

The  most  common  US  patterns  are the GBU-10 (based on the Mk 84 2,000lb
bomb)  the GBU-12 (based on the Mk 82 500lb bomb), and the GBU-16 (based on
the  Mk  83 1,000lb bomb).  During Desert Storm, US LGBs had a success rate
of around 90 per cent.

Cluster Munitions

These are the pilot's equivalent of a blast from a shotgun.  Like a general
purpose   bomb,   cluster  munitions  are  unguided,  and  thus  relatively
inaccurate,  The explosive payload consists not on a single large explosive
charge,  but  of hundreds of small bomblets.  Just before impact, a cluster
munition  bursts  open,  scattering  these  over  the target area.  Cluster
Munitions  are  highly  effective  when  used  against  tanks, soft-skinned
vehicles  such as trucks, and troops caught in open terrain.  Several types
are  in  US  service.   The  Rockeye Mk20 Mod 0 is designed for use against
tanks, and contains 247 anti-tank bomblets, each weighing just under 2lb.

Unguided Rockets

Carried  in  underwing  launch pods holding between six and 18 rounds Hydra
2.75"  rockets  fly  an  unguided  course to the target.  In the hands of a
pilot  with  a  steady  aim,  unguided rockets can be used against the same
sorts  of  targets  as  cluster  munitions.  (When flying your first combat
sorties, you'll find the Hydra rocket an effective and easily aimed weapon.
Equip  your aircraft with two or more 18 round launchers, and select a four
or eight-round salvo size).

25mm Cannon

Like most fighters, the AV-8B is fitted with a gun.  The GAU-12/U Equaliser
is  a  five-barrelled  rotary  cannon  based  on  the  configuration of the
legendary  Gatling.  Driven by pneumatics, the weapon has a maximum rate of
fire of 60 rounds per second.  The 25mm ammunition comes in three varieties
-  Armor  Piercing  Incendiary  (API), High Explosive Incendiary (HEI), and
Tactical Personnel (TP), and has a muzzle velocity of 3,500ft/sec.

The  cannon  is not mounted within the fuselage, but in one of two fairings
on  either  side of the lower fuselage.  The port-side fairing contains the
gun,  the  starboard fairing the weapon's 300 rounds of ammunition.  Rounds
pass from the magazine to the gun via a linkless feed.

Each  pod  incorporates  a  flat  surface  known  as  a  strake.   When the
undercarriage  is  lowered, the gear door is positioned across the fuselage
just  behind the strakes, while a retractable fence is extended in front of
them.   The  resulting "box" traps the cushion of air created by the engine
exhaust  gases  bouncing  from  the  ground  as  the aircraft hovers at low
altitude, creating extra lift.

THE AV-8B COCKPIT

The  cockpit  display  in this simulation is a close replica of that in the
real  aircraft.   The  game designers have made some minor modifications in
order  to  improve the player's forward view but apart from that, the basic
layout of the cockpit would be familiar to any AV-8B pilot.  The only AV-8B
pilots  who might find it unfamiliar are those of Britain's Royal Airforce,
which has fitted an extra display screen in the cockpit.

Like  the  simulation  model itself the cockpit is as realistic as possible
while  still  being  able  to  run  on a personal computer.  There are more
accurate  simulators,  but  they're classified, your annual salary wouldn't
match  th  price  tag,  and  you'd have to undergo a long interview at your
nearest  USMC  recruiting  office,  the  rigors of "boot camp", then a long
training course before getting your hands on them.

If  you`ve  used  other  flight  simulators, you may find this one a little
difficult  at  first.   The aircraft simulation is based on a sophisticated
aerodynamic  model  is  designed to provide as true a representation of the
aircrafts  performance  as  possible.   Although  this  makes AV-8B Harrier
Assault  one  of  the most realistic simulators ever written for a personal
computer, it makes the aircraft quite sensitive to control inputs giving it
a  more  "live"  feel  than on many other products.  The novice player will
find that it's easy to overcorrect with the controls.

If  this  is the case, pressing Ctrl S will switch in a simpler model, with
smoother  and  more  easily  controlled  responses.   This may be closer in
"feel"  to  the flight simulator software you're used to, and will help you
get into the game as quickly as possible, without having to worry about the
complexities of the full aircraft model.

When  you`re ready for a greater challenge, pressing Ctrl A will return you
to  the  advanced  model, giving you a more accurate simulation of the real
aircraft  and  making  greater demands on your piloting skill.  Once you`ve
become  used to this more accurate simulation, you're unlikely to return to
the simple model.  The advanced model has a fascination of its own.

Flight Information.

The  pilot  has  six  basic  sources  of information - the view through the
canopy, the Head-Up Display (HUD), two Multi-Function Displays (MFDs) and a
single  Up Front Control Panel (UFCP).  All of the above data is duplicated
on  conventional  instruments mounted on the aircraft control panel.  These
will  allow  the  aircraft  to  keep  flying if the HUD fails due to combat
damage.   These  reversionary  instruments  are  mounted in two rows at the
center of the instrument panel:

ASI                             Attitude        Altitude       AOA
AOA

Each will be described after the HUD or MFD function it duplicates.

Looking Aronnd

The  normal  view  in flight is forward.  Pressing the F1 key lets you look
up.  F3 and F4 look 60 degrees to the left and right respectively, while F5
and  F6  allow  you  to  look 120 degrees backward over your left and right
shoulders.  F2 returns your view to the normal forward direction.

The Head-Up Display (HUD)

The  primary  source  of  information  for the pilot is the Head-Up-Display
(HUD),  a  reflective surface mounted ahead of the pilot's eyes.  Projected
onto  this  is  all  the  flight,  navigation,  target  and  weapon  aiming
information needed to carry out a combat mission.

The main symbols visible in the HUD are used for navigation:

LFD

Directly  in  the  center of the HUD, the Longitudinal Fuselage Datum (LFD)
shows  the  direction  in  which  the aircraft nose is pointing.  This is a
fixed  mark.   If  the  HUD fails during a combat mission, the LFD could be
used  as  a  simple sight for the cannon or unguided rockets, but the pilot
will  have  to  aim  high  to  compensate  for  the  ballistic  drop of the
projectiles  caused by gravity and off to one side or another to compensate
for the turn rate on his aircraft.

Velocity Vector

This  moving  marker shows the direction in which the aircraft is currently
flying.   In  normal  flight,  this  will be close to the horizon.  If it's
above the horizon, you're gaining height; if it's below the horizon, you're
losing  height.   If  the aircraft is in a dive, it will be pointing at the
ground,  showing  the  point where the aircraft will crash if it remains on
this course and speed.

V/STOL Velocity Vector

The normal Velocity Vector cannot cope with the slow speeds associated with
nozzle borne and hovering flight.  At speeds of less than 100kts (knots), a
V/STOL  velocity  vector  mark automatically appears in the HUD.  This will
give  some indication of where the aircraft is currently headed, but as the
airspeed  slows to a hover even this marker will not be reliable.  When the
predicted touchdown point falls below the aircraft nose it can no longer be
seen in the HUD, so the marker falls to the bottom of the HUD field of view
and stays there.

Pitch Bars

A  series  of  vertical pitch bars indicate the amount by which the nose is
above  or  below the horizon.  These bars remain parallel to the horizon at
all  times,  so can be used to keep the wings level when the horizon is not
visible  in  a  steep  climb or dive.  The bars are at 10 degree intervals,
with  90  degrees  being  represented  by  a  cross.  If one of these cross
markers  is  in  the  center  of  the  HUD, the aircraft is either climbing
vertically or is in a vertical dive.

Aircraft  altitude is also displayed on the artificial horizon, the central
instrument  on the top row of three circular dials.  The single bar on this
instrument  is  the equivalent of the zero-degree pitch bar in the HUD.  It
remains  parallel to the horizon, and moves up or down to indicate aircraft
pitch.

VSI (Vertical Speed Indicator)

A  vertical  bar  at  the right hand side of the HUD indicates the speed at
which  the  aircraft is gaining or losing height, a small horizontal marker
protruding  to the left of the line indicating the center point - zero rate
of  climb.   The  further the VSI line stretches above this zero point, the
faster  you're  climbing;  the further it stretches down, the faster you`re
losing  height.   A  second marker below the center point shows the maximum
descent   speed  which  the  aircraft  undercarriage  can  withstand.   VSI
information  is  also  displayed on the right hand analog instrument of the
bottom row of three.

Altitude

A  box  at the upper right of the HUD shows the aircraft height in feet The
aircraft  has  two  altimeters - the radar altimeter indicates height above
the  terrain,  while the barometric altimeter shows height above sea level.
You  can  switch  from  one  to  the  other using the R key; when the radar
altimeter is in use, an "R" symbol will be displayed in the HUD just to the
left  of  the  altitude  box.   The  radar altimeter is useful in low-level
flight,  since  it shows your height above the ground.  It only operates at
heights  of  below  5,000ft.   Above  that  height,  you`ll need to use the
barometric altimeter.  An analog altimeter is also provided at the top left
of  the  array  of  six  round-dial cockpit instruments.  the large pointer
makes  one  complete  revolution per 1,000ft, while the smaller advances by
one "hour mark".

Airspeed

A second box at the upper left of the HUD shows airspeed in knots (nautical
miles per hour).  This information is shown in analog form on the air speed
indicator (ASI) at the top left of the bank of six cockpit instruments.

Heading

A  horizontal  band  running  across  the  top of the HUD shows the current
heading in tens of degrees.  00 is north, 09 is east, 18 is south and 27 is
west.   The  direction  in  which  you're  flying  is  indicated by a small
vertical  tick  below the heading display.  A V-shaped steering cue visible
above  the  heading  display  is  linked  to  the  aircraft Nav system.  It
indicates  the  direction  you  must  steer  to  reach  the next navigation
waypoint  or  target.   This  gives  no  indication  of range, and can only
indicate  angles within the HUD field of view if the steering cue is at one
end  of  the  heading  indicator  turning in that direction will eventually
bring  it  moving  toward the center of the heading indicator.  (Target and
waypoint bearings, along with distance to be flown to reach them, are shown
in the EHSI display which is described later in this section).

A  second compass if provided in the form of an analog horizontal situation
indicator (HSI) at the center of the bottom row of instruments.

Nozzle Angle

The AV-8B Harrier II obtains its hovering and VTOL capability from the fact
that  the  four nozzles of its Rolls-Royce Pegasus engine can be moved from
the  full  aft  position  to  vertically downwards.  The topmost of the two
numbers  visible  directly below the VSI indicator shows the angle to which
the  nozzles are currently set.  This varies from 0 (fully aft) to 110 (110
degrees).   Nozzle  angle  is also shown in analog form on an instrument at
the  top  right  of the instrument panel.  A small mark on the edge of this
instrument  shows  the  correct  nozzle angle for hovering.  This is not 90
degrees,  but  80  degrees  -  Harrier  sits  on  its  undercarriage with a
pronounced nose high stance.

There  are  two  ways of moving the nozzles.  Shift = and Shift - swing the
nozzles downward and rearward respectivcly, while Shift 1 to Shift 0 select
the nozzle position in ten degree steps between 0 degrees and 100 degrees.

Engine RPM

The  number  directly below the Nozzle Angle shows engine RPM.  Full thrust
responds  to  a  figure  of around 98 per cent, pre take off idle is around
30-40 per cent.  RPM is also shown on numerically on the instrument panel.

AOA (Angle of Attack)

This  shows  the  angle  between  the  fore-and-aft  axis  of  the wing (an
imaginary  line  drawn  between  the  wing  leading and trailing edges) and
airflow  across  the  wing  caused  by  the  aircraft's  forward  velocity.
Increasing the AOA by a small amount increases the amount of lift generated
by  the wing.  Take this process too far, and the wing stalls (typically at
an AOA of around 20 degrees).

When the wing stalls, the airflow across its surfaces is disturbed, and the
lift  falls  off  dramatically.  In a conventional aircraft, control of the
aircraft  is momentarily lost, the nose falling until the AOA is low enough
to  restore  normal  lift.  By swivelling its engine nozzles, an AV- 8B can
substitute  engine  thrust for lift, so will remain controllable beyond the
stall, and even down to the hover.  An analog AOA indicator is available at
the bottom left hand of the six cockpit instruments.

G Force

This  shows the G force currently being experienced by the aircraft and its
pilot.   The  airframe can accept more G force than the pilot.  At G levels
of  more than around 9 g, he will begin to "grey out" as the G force drains
blood  from  his  head  and  upper torso to the lower torso and legs.  This
causes  a  dimming  of  vision,  or  if  the G load is high enough, loss of
consciousness.   Pushing  the  control  column sharply forward can have the
opposite  effect,  the  resulting  negative G forces pushing blood from the
pilot's torso to his head.  This will create "red out."

Forward-Looking Infra Red (FLIR) System

The  version  of Harrier you are flying is equipped for night attacks.  The
time  of day is reflected by changing light level in the external view seen
through the canopy.  This will dim during dawn and dusk, and darken further
at  night.   For  night  flying  you must use the FLIR night vision system.
This  is  turned  on  by pressing the I (capital i) key, and will project a
full-sized  green  thermal  image  of  the  outside  world  into  the  HUD,
superimposing this on the external scene.

Multi-Function Displays

The  cockpit  also includes two Multi-Function Displays - the screens which
can  be  configured  to one of four modes.  Use the [ key to cycle the left
MFD through its available modes, and the ] key to cycle the right hand MFD.
In  this  way you can set the MFDs to the configuration with which you feel
most  comfortable.  The same display cannot be selected on both MFDs at the
same  time, so a little manipulation may be needed to get the displays into
the configuration you prefer.

STORES DISPLAY - This shows the number and type of weapon available on each
of  the  aircraft's  underwing  pylons, also the number of rounds of cannon
ammunition,  chaff  cartridges  and  flares  available  for  use.   It also
indicates  which  type  of weapon is currently selected, and in the case of
bombs,  laser-guided bombs or unguided rockets, the number of weapons which
will be released when the fire button is pressed.

EHSI  -  Electronic  Horizontal  Situation  Indicator (EHSI) mode shows the
aircraft  in  symbolic form, surrounded by a compass rose.  This display is
centered  about  the aircraft.  The top of the screen always represents the
direction  directly  ahead  of  the  aircraft.   As the aircraft turns, the
compass  rose  moves  to  the  correct  orientation.   When  a  waypoint is
selected,  the  EHSI  displays  this as a small cross, and draws a steering
line  whose  angle indicates the direct to steer and whose length indicates
the distance to be flown.

The  steering  information  is echoed by the steering cue at the top of the
HUD.  The scale of the EHSI display can be toggled by the / (slash) key, so
that  the distance from the center of the display to the compass rose is 7,
15,  30 or 60 nautical miles.  The other type of marker seen on the ESHI is
a cluster of three dots.  These show all the other waypoints currently with
the range setting of the EHSI.

Before  takeoff  a  series  of  waypoints  is  automatically  stored in the
aircrafts  Nav  system,  and  you'll  be given details of these when you're
assigned a mission in the Pilots Briefing Room.  The system can store up to
eight  waypoints  (numbered  1-8),  also  a waypoint T (the TACAN beacon on
Tarawa),  and  a  waypoint  zero.   The Nav system can be switched from one
waypoint to another by pressing the ; (semicolon) key.  The waypoint in use
is  indicated at the top right-hand corner of the EHSI, and on a readout at
the foot of the instrument panel.

Waypoint  T  -  the TACAN radio-navigation beacon carried by Tarawa - is an
important  feature of the Nav system.  Selecting waypoint T at the end of a
mission  allows  the  pilot to find his way back to the ship.  If Tarawa is
sunk, TACAN will no longer be available, but in practise this will not be a
problem.  Lose Tarawa, and you've lost the game.
 
You  can  set  waypoint  zero in flight to mark a target of opportunity - a
target  you  have  not  been briefed on, but noticed on your journey to the
target you're scheduled to attack.  A target of opportunity can be inserted
into  the  Nav  system by pointing the HUD LFD at it and pressing the Enter
key  if  you  have unexpended weapons left after knocking out your assigned
target,  you  can  get the Nav system to fly you back to waypoint 0 so that
you can use the remaining weapons on this target.  To help you re-acquire a
target  of  opportunity, its position on the ground is marked by a cross in
the HUD field of view.
 
If  the MFDs fail in flight, the analog HSI in the center of the bottom row
of  instruments  will provide you with the navigation information needed to
find the carrier.  This is always set to follow the TACAN beacon on Tarawa.
Like  the  EHSI, the analog HSI is stabilised with respect to the aircraft.
The green end of the moving indicator shows the bearing of Tarawa.

Radar  Warning  -  Like  the  EHSI,  the  Radar Warning display is aircraft
stabilised,  with  the direction of forward flight corresponding to the top
of the display.  Any spoke-like lines appearing from the centre towards the
circular  outer  indicate that a sensitive receiver within the aircraft has
detected  a  radar  transmission  on  that bearing.  The length of the line
gives  an  indication  of  the  strength  of the detected signal.  The more
powerful  the  signal,  the  closer  the  threat  radar  is  likely  to be.
Concentric  circles  on  the this display help the pilot judge the relative
strength  of  any signals detected.  A Missile Launch Warning detector will
sound  a  warbling  alarm  tone  whenever  a  SAM  or air to air missile is
launched against your aircraft.

ARBS  -  The  final MFD mode is linked to the aircraft's nose mounted Angle
Rate  Bombing System.  This consists of a laser spot tracker linked with an
imager.  This is used for Automatic Bombing, and is described later in this
section.

Up-Front Control Panel

The  complex  electronic  warfare  (EW) systems aboard Tarawa and the other
ships of the task force will monitor Indonesian tactical communications, so
will be able to tell if fighters are likely to intercept your mission.  The
airspace  above  East  Timor  is being continuously monitored by Boeing E-3
Sentry  Airborne  Early Warning and Control (AWACS) aircraft operating from
the US base at Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean so an E-3 will always be on
hand  to  warn  of any enemy fighters if these are operating in your patrol
area.

These  warnings  will appear on the Up-Front Control Panel.  Threat bearing
will  be  shown  in terms of the clock face, with 12 o`clock being straight
ahead,  3  o`clock  directly to the right.  9 o'clock directly to the left,
and  6  o`clock  directly  to  the  rear.   Targets marked H are above your
altitude,  so  will probably be fighters.  Those marked L are below you, so
are probably helicopters.  Those marked C-130 are Hercules transports AWACS
data is updated every five seconds.

Autopilot

Pressing  the A key will toggle the autopilot off or on.  When engaged, the
autopilot  will fly you to the currently selected waypoint, and if you dont
switch  it  off  through  all  subsequent waypoints.  During this time, the
normal  flying controls will have no effect.  When the autopilot is engaged
an  AUTO  indication  will  appear  in the HUD.  An indication will also be
presented at the left hand side of the instrument panel.

The  autopilot  can  be  used  to  fly the aircraft while the pilot is busy
selecting  armament or changing MFD modes, or as a convenient way of flying
from  one waypoint to another.  If the Nav system is set to waypoint T (the
TACAN  beacon  on  Tarawa),  and  the  autopilot is engaged it will fly the
aircraft  back to the ship, and even carry out the landing.  Landing aboard
Tarawa can be difficult, so beginners will find this facility useful.

The  aircraft  also incorporates a Stability Augmentation and Attitude Hold
System  (SAAHS) designed to tame the natural instability which results from
flying  partly  or totally supported by engine thrust.  The aircraft can be
flown  without  SAAHS,  but one pilot has described the experience as being
"like  trying  to balance an egg on a knife edge".  In this simulation, the
SAAHS  is  always  activated,  so  you should`nt have too much trouble when
trying to hover.  To show the capability of the system to journalists taken
for  demonstration flights in the two-seat trainer version of the aircraft,
pilots  have  been  known  to  take  both  hands off the controls while the
aircraft is hovering.

Fuel

The  amount  of  fuel  left  in  the  tanks is shown on an instrument panel
indicator.   Multiply this figure by 10 to get the amount of remaining fuel
in  pounds.   Judging what will be the "Bingo" fuel state for the mission -
the  amount needed to get you back to the ship - is not easy.  When you get
to  the combat zone over East Timor.  check the amount of fuel you`ve used.
Two,  three  or  even  four times that amount might be a reasonable "Bingo"
value, leaving you a good margin for emergencies.

Several  circumstances  could see you running low on fuel during the return
trip.   Tarawa will have moved since you left her, and could now be further
away.   Minor  battle  damage  may  be  causing  you  to  lose  fuel  at an
uncomfortably  high  rate.  If enemy fighters catch you on the return trip,
you'd better have enough fuel for a session of dogfighting at full thrust.

When the Fuel state drops to "Bingo" level, head for Tarawa without further
delay.   Unlike a full size aircraft carrier, Tarawa has no tanker aircraft
able to top up your tanks.  Get this one wrong, and you`ll be examining the
Timor Sea in close up from the comfort of an inflatable dinghy.

Jet-Pipe Temperature

A  sensor  in the aft section of the engine measures the temperature within
the aft nozzles of the Pegasus turbofan, and the result is displayed on the
instrument  panel.   If  this  rises  above normal you could have an engine
problem.   If  you've  taken  combat  damage,  keep  a  watch  on  jet pipe
temperature.   An  abnormally high value could be the first indication of a
possible engine fire.  If the jet pipe temperature misbehaves, head back to
Tarawa.   The  maintenance technicians can change an engine in a few hours,
but  they  can't  build  you  a new Harrier if you crash en route due to an
engine problem which you`ve ignored.

Fuel Flow
 
Mounted  to the right of the Jet-Pipe Temperature indicator, this shows the
rate at which fuel is being used by the engine.

Undercarriage

Harrier  has  a novel undercarriage of bicycle form.  The main gears are in
the  lower fuselage.  Forward and aft of the engine, while two outriggers -
one about mid span on each wing provide the stability needed to prevent the
aircraft tipping over if the ship rolls heavily, or you make a bad landing.
Use  the  G  key to raise and lower the undercarriage.  It should be raised
after  take  off  to reduce drag.  Failing to lower it on landing will send
your  aircraft  to  the  hanger  for  extensive maintenance.  Undercarriage
position is shown on the Indicator Strip (see below).

Wheel Brakes

Undercarriage  wheel  brakes  are  controlled by the W key.  Attempting the
rolling  takeoff without removing the brake is bad for the tyres, and could
see  you  crashing to the sea.  If the take off roll seems slow, hit W then
shift  5.  The thrust from the downward tilted engine nozzles will probably
compensate  for  your  low forward speed.  The state of the brakes shown on
the Indicator Strip (see below).

Air Brake

A  large  air  brake is positioned under the fuselage, just aft of the main
landing  gear.   Extending  the  air  brake  increases  drag,  slowing  the
aircraft.   This  can be useful in combat, where it can reduce your speed -
and thus your turning circle in a dogfight, or in a diving attack.  The air
brake is controlled by the B key and its position is shown on the Indicator
Strip (see below).  Just remember to retract it when it's no longer needed!

Indicator Strips

A  vertical  column  of  five lamps are mounted to the left of the Up Front
Display.  These show the status of several important sub systems:

Unused          Undercarriage        Wheel Brakes      Air Brake
Unused

Warnings

A  vertical column of warning lamps is mounted to the right of the Up-Front
Display.   The  large  FIRE  indicator will light in the event of an engine
fire.  The others will illuminate if any of the following system fail:

Hydraulics         HUD          Nav system      Multi-Function Display
Unused

If  the  hydraulic  system fails, your undercarriage and air brakes will be
unable  to move from their current positions.  Break off the mission return
to  Tarawa,  and  make  the  best landing you can.  HUD, Nav system and MFD
failures  will  make effective attacks near impossible, although the LFD in
the  HUD  can  be  used  as  an impromptu sight for the cannon and unguided
rockets.   Use  the  reversionary  instruments  to  fly  back to Tarawa for
repairs.

Further   malfunction  indications  are  provided  by  a  vertical  row  of
indicators  at the far right hand side of the instrument panel.  These warn
of  sub-system  failures,  and  in practice are of no direct concern to the
pilot.   If  any  light,  one  of  the main warning lamps will also be lit,
identifying the major system which has been affected.

Ejection Seat

If  battle  damage causes you to lose control of the aircraft or if you run
out  of  fuel  and  are  about  to crash, press Control E to eject from the
aircraft.   If  you survive ejection, you will be picked up either from the
sea  or  East  Timorese territory, and returned to Tarawa for a post-flight
debriefing.

FLIGHT CONTROLS

The  main  flight  control of any modern fixed-wing aircraft is the control
column or "joystick", so the easiest way to control the AV-8B simulation is
with  an  analog joystick.  Just as in a real aircraft, forward movement of
the joystick moves the nose of the aircraft down, putting the aircraft into
a  dive, while backward movement raises the nose, putting the aircraft into
a climb.  Moving the joystick to the right rolls the aircraft to the right,
while movement to the left rolls the aircraft left.

If  your  joystick  is spring loaded, the spring force will help you fly by
automatically  centering  the control stick after each maneuver.  The force
of the springs will also provide a crude representation of the stick forces
felt by the pilot.

A  joystick  needs  to  be calibrated before playing the game.  This can be
done  in  two  ways, both of which are available from the aircraft cockpit.
Both are described in the Pre-Flight Customisation section below.

The  next  best control method is to use a mouse.  You should visualise the
mouse  as being the top of an imaginary control stick, moving it forward to
push  the  nose of the aircraft down, pulling it back to lift the nose, and
moving  it  right  and left to command the aircraft to roll.  Unfortunatley
the mouse will do nothing to help you return the imaginary control stick to
the  central position.  To get around this problem, pressing the Z key with
mouse  control selected will re-center the aircrafts flying controls at the
current position of the mouse.

The final method of simulating a control column is to use the arrow keys on
the  keyboard.  Once again, the trick is to imagine these as moving the tip
on  an  imaginary control column.  The Up Arrow will push the aircraft nose
down,  while the Down Arrow pulls it up.  The Right and Left Arrows command
the  aircraft to roll.  Like a mouse, the Arrow keys can do nothing to help
you center the controls.  A flight simulation really needs a good joystick.
If  you  don't  own one, the advanced aircraft model contained in the AV-8B
Harrier  Assault  software is the best excuse we can think for investing in
one.

The  other  significant  flight  controls  are the rudder and trim.  Rudder
control  is  via the < and > keys.  In flight, it can be used to make small
horizontal  aiming  corrections,  or  to  final  heading  corrections  when
landing.   In the hover it turns the aircraft by operating the yaw reaction
jets, while on the ground, it steers the aircraft via its nosewheel.

Pitch  trim  can  be  inserted  using  the  + and - keys on the keypad, and
removed  using  the  * on the keypad.  The + key raises the nose; the - key
lowers it.

If  you`ve  never  used  a  flight  simulator  and  are unfamiliar with the
controls  of  an  aircraft, we strongly recommend that you read the Primary
Training section of part 8 "Flight Training" of this manual.

THE USE OF VECTORED THRUST

Until now there has been no true PC based simulation of a vectored - thrust
jet  fighter.  Whether this is your first flight-simulation purchase or the
latest  of  many you must learn to cope with the aircrafts unique system of
vectored  nozzles.   To  help you, the following flight procedures describe
how  to use this capability.  Most are based on flight procedures contained
in the official Harrier manual.  The fact that they work on this simulation
is  testimony  to the accuracy with which the aircraft has been modelled by
the software.

Vertical Take-Off

This  can  only  be flown with light weapon loads.  Maximum take-off weight
(shown  on  the  right center of the Weapon Loading Screen) must not exceed
the maximum engine thrust of 23,800lb

1. Set the nozzles to 80 degrees, then select full engine power.

2. At a height of 50ft, move the nozzles slowly backwards.

3. At  a  forward  speed of around 180kts, the wings will generate enough
   lift to support the aircraft.

Rolling Take-Off

1. Set  the  engine  nozzles  to  between 40 and 50 degrees, depending on
   aircraft weight.  The heavier the aircraft, the greater the angle should
   be.

2. Remove the wheelbrakes, and select full engine power.

3. Apply a slight back pressure on the controls as the aircraft leaves the
   flight deck, then hold the nose just above the horizontal.

4. When  the  aircraft reaches a forward speed of more than 180kts, raise
   the undercarriage and the engine nozzles.

Tarawas  flight  deck  is  long enough to allow a take-off with the nozzles
left  fully  aft.   You  will  lose  around 20ft of height in the first few
seconds of flight, so keep the nose above the horizontal until the aircraft
has regained height.

Short Rolling Take-Off

This  is  the  procedure used to minimise takeoff run when operating out of
very  short land strips.  You won't need to use it in the game; it has been
included  here  for  your  interest.   Try  to get airborne in the shortest
possible distance while carrying a heavy weapon load.

1. Remove the wheelbrakes, and select full engine power.

2. As the aircraft approaches the end of the flight deck, hit (Shift 5) to
   set the nozzles to 50 degrees.

3. When clear of the ground, hold the nose just above the horizontal.

4. At a height of 50ft, move the nozzles slowly backwards.

5. At  a  forward  speed of around 180kts, the wings will generate enough
lift to support the aircraft.

Returning to the Hover

1. Jettison all unused weapons (Ctrl-R)

2. Set the nozzles to 20 degrees.

3. Increase the nozzle angle to 40 degrees as you approach the ship.

4. At  an  altitude of around 100ft, and about 1,200 yards from the ship,
   move the nozzles to 90 degrees.

Control in the Hover

Once  the aircraft is stabilized in the hover, you'll probably find that it
is not over the intended landing spot.  To move the aircraft in the desired
direction,  the  line  of the vectored engine thrust must be moved from the
vertical.  There are two ways of doing this:

1. Slightly  decreasing the nozzle angle will direct the thrust backward,
   giving  a small forward velocity to the aircraft.  Increasing the nozzle
   angle  will  move  the  thrust  forward,  resulting  in a small rearward
   velocity.

2. Pushing the nose downward slightly will deflect the thrust line enough
   to move the aircraft forward, while pulling it up will move the aircraft
   rearward.   Using sideways movements of the control column will roll the
   aircraft slightly in the direction of control column movement.

In both cases, the rudder can be used to turn the aircraft horizontally.

Vertical Landing from the Hover

1. Apply  power  as  needed  to  maintain your height and use the control
   column to position the aircraft for landing.

2. Once in position, reduce the engine rpm by a few per cent.

3. At touchdown, close the throttle to idle.

4. Move the nozzles to 0 degrees, then apply the wheelbrakes and shut down
the engine.

VIFFING (Vectoring in Forward Flight)

The  AV-8B has a relatively low top speed and effective ceiling compared to
most fighters, but the high level of installed thrust gives it a phenomenal
acceleration in flight, while rotating the nozzles forward provides equally
impressive  amounts  of  braking.   The aircraft is at its best when flying
below  10,000ft; tactics are more important than brute power maneuvers.  In
air combat, the Harrier pilot can use the vectoring nozzles to out-maneuver
a conventional fighter.  The following techniques may be worth trying:

1. By  lowering  the nozzles, the pilot can increase the turn rate of his
   aircraft, trading speed for turn rate.

2. If the Harrier is being pursued by an enemy fighter, moving the nozzles
   to  100  degrees will sharply reduce forward speed, forcing a pursuer to
   overshoot, perhaps to the point where he becomes the pursued.

3. Lowering  the  nozzles  at  the  top of a loop will pitch the aircraft
   quickly  into  a  dive, allowing the pilot to quickly line up his gun or
   missile.

4. Set  to 100 degrees or more, the nozzles can act as an brake, allowing
   the aircraft to dive steeply without a rapid build-up of speed.

5. If  a fast dive is needed, this can be done at full power.  Instead of
   reducing  power  for the pull-out, the pilot can lower the nozzles, turn
   at the maximum G possible, yet still have full power available after the
   pullout to ensure fast acceleration.

PRE-FLIGHT CUSTOMISATION

The  first  time  you  enter the cockpit in a game-playing session, you may
wish  to  customise  some of the features of this simulation.  Pressing ESC
will open a menu with the following options:

Controls

Aboard  Tarawa,  the  game  can  be  controlled  by the keyboard, mouse, or
joystick,  but  in  the  air only one method of command can be active.  The
options for aircraft control are - Joystick, Mouse, or Keyboard.  Selecting
joystick will open a further menu offering Calibrate, and Save as Default.

After selecting calibrate, move the joystick to each of its four corners in
turn.   Once  you've  done that, press either button to end the calibration
process.   To  make  a  permanent  record  of  this  calibration which will
automatically load every time you start the game, around its limits.  press
ESC to re-open the control menu, then select Joystick, and Save as Default.
The  joystick can be recalibrated at any time by pressing the Z key, moving
the stick around its limits and pressing either of its keys.

Display

If  you find that the game does not run smoothly the two options offered in
this  menu  will help reduce the demands it is making on your computer.  As
its  name  suggests, cancelling the Horizon Shading options will remove the
simulated  atmospheric  effects  which  reduce visibility near the horizon.
Selecting Fast Cockpit Draw will replace the normal cockpit display with an
alternative  version  which  presents  the same displays and information in
slightly simpler form.

Simulation

The  default  conditions  here  are  for  the  effects  of G Grey Out to be
simulated,  and  for the game to use the Advanced flight model.  The latter
menu item is also controlled by the Ctrl-S and Ctrl-A keys.

Sounds

Default  is  All  sounds, but you can opt to remove the Engine Noise, while
retaining the others.

Commander

This option returns you to the Command Center on Tarawa.

Exit to DOS

This allows you the end the game session.  Repeatedly pressing ESC from any
point in the game will eventually allow you to exit to DOS.

The  choices  you  make  will  remain in effect for the rest of the current
game-playing  session.   If  you  want  to  make these changes permanent, a
similar  menu can be found in the Save/Restore game screen.  This will save
the changes to the hard disk, so that they can be automatically loaded each
time you play the game.

PRE-FLIGHT OPERATING PROCEDURE

Details  of  missions to be flown are given during briefing sessions in the
Pilots Briefing Room.

Central  item  in  this  compartment  is a large whiteboard used to display
information  to  pilots.  On either side are monitor screens which are used
to call up further information.  Clicking on these selects the type of data
displayed on the whiteboard.

When  you  enter  the  room  from the corridor or directly from the Command
Center  the  whiteboard will show the new missions waiting to be flown.  If
you  want  to  see  this at any other time, click on the right hand monitor
screen.

The  currently  available missions are shown on the whiteboard in two- line
summary form:

<mission type>

Primary Target <type> at <name>

                            End Of Part 2
                            -------------
            AV8B HARRIER ASSAULT - OPERATIONS MANUAL - Part 3
            -------------------------------------------------


CLOSE AIR SUPPORT

Primary Target fuel dumps at DILI

As  an  AV-8B  pilot,  you  can be tasked with five types of mission during
Operation Ocean Saber.

Combat Air Control

Objective:   To  fly top cover for the fleet or ground forces, engaging any
destroying  any Indonesian aircraft found the in air.  At least one Harrier
will always be available to fly CAP missions.

Waypoints: No waypoints will be programmed into the aircraft's Nav system.

Default weapons: Sidewinder; cannon.

Reconnaissance

Objective:   To  observe the battle area, and to relay intelligence back to
TAWADS  in  order to provide a more compete tactical picture of the current
state of the campaign.

Waypoints:   Automatically  programmed into the aircraft`s Nav system using
TAWADS data.

Default  weapons:  ALQ-164 jamming pod (Its electronic systems will observe
and record Indonesian radar and radio signals); cannon.

Close Air Suppport

Objective:   To  provide fire support for US forces in direct conflict with
Indonesian  units.   Some  targets  will  be laser designated by the ground
forces, allowing pilot to use Maverick missiles and laser guided bombs.

Waypoints:    Automatically  programmed  into  the  aircrafts  Nav  system.
Targets  will  be  described  in  the  mission  briefing,  and  TAWADS will
automatically set waypoints over the targets to be attacked.

Default weapons: Laser guided bombs; Maverick; cannon.

Interdiction

Objective:  The destruction of one or more targets well behind enemy lines.
Targets  will  not  be laser designated, so must be attacked using unguided
bombs and rockets.

Waypoints:    Automatically  programmed  into  the  aircrafts  Nav  system.
Targets  will  be  described  in  the  mission  briefing,  and  TAWADS will
automatically set waypoints over the targets to be attacked.

Default weapons: Unguided rockets; unguided bombs; Sidewinder; cannon.

Air interception

Objective: Engage and destroy enemy aircraft.

Waypoints:   Automatically  programmed  into  the  aircrafts  Nav system by
TAWADS.  Waypoints will be placed at last known location of enemy planes.

Default weapons: Sidewinder; cannon; countermeasures.

To  start on one of the missions waiting to be flown, click on that mission
on  the  whiteboard.   If you don't accept one of the waiting missions, the
computer will assign a computer-controlled AV-8B to fly that sortie.

Clicking  on  an  available  mission  will display on the whiteboard a full
briefing  for  that  mission.   This  will  list  the  primary  target, any
secondary  target,  and the programmed waypoints for both.  An intelligence
briefing  will  also be given, listing the anti-aircraft ground defences at
these targets, and the risk to being intercepted by enemy fighters.

The aircrafts Nav system has pre-set uses for several waypoints.

T  The TACAN radio-navigation beacon on Tarawa.

O  Any target of opportunity marked by the pilot during the flight.

From: Squadron Commander VMA-513

To: All pilots

Subject: Nav waypoints

Before  leaving the briefing room to begin a mission, take care to note the
identity  of  every  waypoint  programmed  into your aircraft's Nav system.
Once  over  East Timor, you'll be busy enough without the added workload of
trying  to remember the purpose of each waypoint.  I know you guys are keen
to  be  heroes,  but  time  moves fast when you're flying at low level at a
speed  of more than 500kts.  Time wasted struggling with waypoint selection
is time in which a fighter, SAM or AAA battery can get a shot at you.

Accepting the mission will take you to the Weapons Loading Screen to select
the weapons you want to carry then into the cockpit ready for take off.

If  you  want to take over a mission currently being flown by the computer,
click  on  the  left  hand  monitor to bring up on the whiteboard a list of
currently-airborne  AV-8Bs.  Clicking on any one of these will put you into
the  cockpit of that aircraft.  Turn off its autopilot, and you can fly the
mission.

Always remember that after a few hours of operating experience, you`ll be a
better  pilot  than the computer.  If several missions are being flown, the
most  effective  tactic  is to let the computer fly them all, while you use
TAWADS  to monitor their progress.  As each aircraft approaches its target,
jump  into  the  cockpit,  switch  off  the  autopilot,  and fly the attack
manually.   Once  the target has been knocked out, re-engage the autopilot,
and  let  the computer fly the aircraft to its next waypoint while you jump
back  to  the  Command  Center and the TAWADS display.  This technique will
give  you  the  most  interesting part of the mission to fly, and leave the
autopilot to handle the routine parts of the sortie.

ARMING THE AIRCRAFT

Once  you've  accepted a mission, go to the flight deck, where the armorers
are  waiting  to  load weapons on your aircraft.  The aircraft arrives from
the  hanger  with all its pylons empty.  A series of buttons at the foot of
the screen allows the individual types of weapon to be selected.

There are two ways of loading your weapons.  One is to leave the job to the
armorers,  who'll already have loaded the pylons with what they consider to
be a suitable warload for the mission you're about to fly.  Details of this
combination  will  have  been  given  during the pre-flight briefing in the
Pilots Briefing Room.

If  you don't like their selection, you can remove it by clicking on CLEAN,
or modify it by removing the weapons you don't want and installing your own
choice.   If you've previously flown a mission, clicking on LAST will order
the armorers to repeat the loading you specified for that mission.

To  install a weapon of your own choice, first select it by clicking on its
button.   It  will appear in the window at the foot of the screen.  To load
this  weapon  onto the aircraft, click below the pylon you want to mount it
on  using  the left mouse (SPACE).  The chosen weapon should then appear on
the  pylon.   To  remove  an  installed  weapon, click with the right mouse
button (ENTER).

As you load weapons, an information line half-way down the screen will show
the  weight  of the weapon currently selected for loading, and the take off
weight  of  the aircraft with the current warload.  If you plan to take off
vertically the latter figure must be kept below the maximum engine thrust!

The  outboard  pylons  (the  one nearest the wingtip) on each side can only
carry  a  small load, but those inboard are closer to the wing root, so can
carry  a  greater  load  without  straining the aircraft structure.  If the
weapon won`t install on the pylon you chose try one further inboard.

In  some cases, several weapons of the same type can be carried on a single
plylon  using  a  multiple  ejection  rack (MER).  If another weapon can be
carried without exceeding the pylon's load carrying capability, clicking on
a pylon a second time will install a second weapon.  In some cases clicking
a  third  time may install a third weapon.  The limits on pylon loading can
be  found  by  experimenting.   The 25mm cannon is always carried under the
fuselage.

If  you`re  going  to  fly  a  reconnaissance  or strike mission, and enemy
fighters are expected, you might want to carry an AIM-9M Sidewinder on each
outboard  pylon.   This  reduces  the number of pylons available for air to
ground  weaponry  but  increases  your chances of shooting down any fighter
which attacks you.

Carrying  an LQ-164 jamming pod will reduce the range at which enemy radars
will  detect  your  aircraft.   This  will  make  it  difficult  -  but not
impossible  for  SAM  batteries  to  launch  radar-guided  missiles at your
aircraft.   Carrying  a jamming pod reduces your chances of being shot down
by  a  radar  guided  missile,  but takes up a valuable pylon, reducing the
weapon load you can carry.

Within  the  fuselage  of the aircraft are dispensers for chaff and flares.
These  are  released by pressing the C or F key.  The numbers remaining for
use are shown on the weapons display on the right hand MFD.

When  released, a chaff cartridge bursts to release a cloud of fine strands
of metalized glass fibre.  These form a radar-reflective false target which
can confuse a hostile radar.  If attempting to lock onto your aircraft, the
radar  may instead lock onto the chaff cloud.  If already locked on, it may
"break  lock",  following  the slow moving chaff cloud rather than the fast
moving  aircraft.   If  a radar guided SAM has been fired at your aircraft,
dropping a chaff cartridge will offer it an alternative target.

Jamming pods and chaff have no effect on anti-aircraft guns, shoulder fired
heat-seeking  SAMs  or on the less efficient optical back up guidance modes
available  of  the  SA-3  and  SA-6  SAM systems.  If a heat seeking SAM or
Sidewinder  is headed for your aircraft, release a flare.  Missiles of this
type  home  onto  heat  radiated by your aircraft.  Flares are fast-burning
devices  which  offer the missile an intense heat source which may distract
it from your aircraft.

When  attempting to distract an incoming missile, it may not be enough just
to release chaff or a flare.  For a start, timing is critical.  Release the
chaff or flares too soon, and the missile will re-acquire you; release them
too   late,   and   the  weapon  will  reach  your  aircraft  before  being
significantly decoyed.

Pulling  a  sharp  turn  in the direction of the attack will help break the
missile's  lock.  Never turn away from the missile - this gives it a simple
"tail-chase"  flight  path  and  an  easy kill.  Turning toward the missile
forces it to maneuver hard in order to follow you.

If you run out of chaff or flares, a sharp turn might still save you.  Once
again,  timing is critical.  The closer you let the missile approach before
making  the  turn, the harder it must maneuver to compensate for your sharp
change of course.  The missile does not have unlimited maneuvering power so
what  you're trying to do is to get out of its way so rapidly that it can't
follow.  If tasked with attacking a heavily defended target, you might want
to carry an external chaff/flare dispenser on one of your pylons.

While  the  armorers  were  loading  and  fuzing your chosen weapons, other
members  of  the  flight  deck  crew  were busy fuelling your aircraft, and
recharging  its  oxygen  system.   To  begin  the  mission, click on the OK
button.  This will put you in the cockpit, and start the aircrafts engine.

SELECTING AND USING WEAPDNS

Once  airborne  and  on  the way to the first waypoint, it's time to select
weapons.   Pressing  BACKSPACE  cycles  through  the  weapons available The
Stores  Display  on  one of your MFDs will show the selected pylons and the
numbers of weapons on each.
 
You can only select weapon types, not individual pylons.  Bombs or unguided
rockets  can  be  released  individually or in a salvo.  Pressing the N key
will  change  the  salvo size.  Guided missiles cannot be salvoed; only one
missile   will   be   released   for  each  press  of  the  firing  button.
Alphanumerics  at  the  bottom left of the HUD will show the type of weapon
selected,  and the number to be released in the salvo.  This information is
duplicated  on  the  MFD  Stores  Display and on cockpit indicators mounted
above the left-hand MFD.

During  the  pilot`s briefing, you`ll sometimes be warned that fighters are
expected.   On  the way to and from the target area, choosing GUN or AIM-9M
will  ensure  that you-re ready to fight back if enemy F-16s or F-5s try to
intercept you.

Use  the fire button or SPACE to release weapons.  When a multi round salvo
has  been  selected,  a  single  press will release all the weapons in that
salvo.   Rockets  fire with an interval of 0.2 seconds between rounds bombs
at  0.4 second intervals.  After releasing weapons, the fire button / space
control is inactive for 0.5 second, 0.1 second in the case of the cannon.

Cannon

The  aircrafts 25mm cannon is aimed using the velocity vector marker in the
HUD.   The  gun  has  300 rounds of ammunition, and the number remaining is
shown in the Stores Display screen on the MFD display.

Iron Bombs & Rockeye

Free  falling  bombs  can  be  delivered  on  one  of  two modes - CCIP and
automatic.  Both are available in this simulation.

CCIP Mode

Normal method of aiming iron bombs is by means of the Continuously Computed
Impact  Point (CCIP) mode.  As its name suggests, during a CCIP attack, the
aircraft's  Nav  system is continuously computing the point where the bombs
would  land  if  released  now,  and  marks  this  in  the HUD with a small
cross-shaped  aiming mark.  A line is automatically drawn between this CCIP
marker  and  the LFD.  Known as the CCIP line, this is used when delivering
bombs in Automatic Bombing mode, or when aiming laser-guided bombs (LGBs).

When  dive bombing, the CCIP marker will be easily visible in the HUD field
of  view.   If you fly a horizontal attack at low level, you`ll have to fly
fast  to keep the CCIP marker in the HUD field of view.  In practice, AV-8B
pilots  normally  keep the speed to 450kts or more when making CCIP attacks
from low level.

Automatic Bombing Mode

To  toggle  between  CCIP  mode and the alternative Automatic Bombing mode,
press the ` (single quote) key.

Once  the  target  is visible in the HUD, place the LFD aiming mark over it
and  press  ENTER  or  the  second  mouse  or joystick key.  This locks the
nose-mounted  ARBS  video  camera  onto  the  selected  spot on the ground,
designates  this  as  waypoint 0, and selects waypoint zero.  Remember that
the  ARBS isn't locked on to the target, but is tracking a designated point
on  the  ground.   If  that  point  wasn't  lined  up  with the target, the
automatic system has no way of compensating for this.

The aiming point will be marked by a cross on the ARBS video display, and a
cross  in  the  HUD.   Position  the CCIP line over the target, and hold it
there.   Press  and  hold down the fire button to indicate to the automatic
bombing  system  that it is free to release ordnance.  If you keep the CCIP
line  on  the  target,  and the fire button pressed down, the bombs will be
released  automatically.   If  no bombs are released, the CCIP line was not
aligned  accurately  with  the  target  -  the Automatic bombing mode won't
release  weapons  which  have  no  chance  of hitting the designated aiming
point.

Unguided Rockets

Rockets  are  launched  in CCIP mode.  In this case the HUD does not show a
CCIP line - only a "T" shaped CCIP aiming mark.

AGM-65E Maverick

Maverick  is designed to home onto targets which have been laser designated
by  friendly  forces.   If  Maverick  is  selected,  andd a target is being
designated  by ground forces, a square marker will appear in the HUD as you
approach  the  target  area.   Maverick  can  then  be  fired and will home
automatically without further action by the pilot.

Firing  a  Maverick  -  or any other guided weapon - does not automatically
result  in a "kill".  For a start, you may have fired at too great a range.
Also be aware that missile homing systems are not perfect, but should bring
a  missile  within  several  feet of its target.  During trials in the late
1970s,  half  the  Maverick  rounds  fired  landed  within four feet of the
target.   The  others  exhibited  greater  errors, in some cases 10 feet or
more.   All  guided  missiles  exhibit  such variations in accuracy between
individual  rounds,  and in some cases may not land close enough to score a
"kill".   In  AV-8B  Harrier Assault, missile behaviour has been accurately
modelled  to reflect such small errors.  If firing a guided missile doesn`t
result  in a kill, the simulation is not at fault.  Make a second pass, and
fire another weapon at the target.

Laser Guided Bombs (LGBs)

Like Maverick.  LGBs are laser-homing weapons which require their target to
be  designated.   Operating  procedure is similar to that for Maverick, but
these unpowered weapons have less range and maneuvering capability than the
AGM-65.   LGBs  must  be  dropped close enough to the target to allow their
limited maneuvering power to successfully guide the weapon to a "kill".  It
is essential that the CCIP line be positioned inside the square marker when
the bomb is released.

AIM-9 Sidewinder

Selecting AIM-9 will automatically activate the IR seeker of the Sidewinder
missile.   This  will  scan  an  area  ahead  of the aircraft looking for a
suitable  target.   Any  target aircraft visible through the HUD will be in
the sidewinder's field of view, and the missile will lock on automatically.
If  several  aircrafi are visible within the HUD, Sidewinder will lock onto
the nearest.

You will receive two indications of successful lock-on.  A circular mark in
the  HUD  will  track  the  target,  and  you  will  hear a "growling" tone
generated  by  the missile seeker head.  The missile can then be fired, and
will  home  automatically.  If the seeker has not locked onto a target, the
missile can still be launched, but it will not home.

AIM-9M  will  not  home onto Indonesian C-130 Hercules transports.  Use the
cannon to attack these.

AGM-88 HARM

If  you wish to attack a radar guided SAM site, turn your aircraft onto the
threat  bearing indicated by the radar warning receiver.  Once the radar is
within  the  HUD  field  of view, a square aiming mark will become visible.
This will track the target, indicating that the missile has locked on.

Firing  at  too great a range can fail to generate a "kill", either because
the  missile  did not have enough range to reach the target, or because the
radar  has  been switched off (The latter tactic is a good counter to HARM,
since  it  deprives  the  missile  of  its  ability  to make furthur course
corrections).   Launching  the  missile  at  closer  range  will reduce the
enemy's  chances  of switching off in time, but if misjudged could give him
the chance to fire a SAM at your aircraft.

POST-FLIGHT DEBRIEFING

On  landing  from  a  successful  mission, waiting a short time or pressing
Ctrl-D  will  bring  you  back  to  the  Pilots Briefing Room.  De-Briefing
information  will  be  displayed  on the whiteboard.  Once you`ve read this
clicking  on  the  right  or  left  monitors will bring up a listing of the
missions waiting to be flown, or those currently under way.

ALTERNATIVE LANDING SITES

Under  normal circumstances, you will always land back on Tarawa.  Although
some  of  the  other  assault ships are carrying spare AV-8Bs and can ferry
them  over  to Tarawa to replace aircraft lost in combat, the aircraft were
loaded  onto  these  ships by crane.  You cannot land on vessels other than
Tarawa.

If  you  run  short of fuel when flying over East Timor you may land at any
airfield  which  has  been  captured  by  the  Marines.   They  will almost
certainly  find  enough  Indonesian fuel to refill your tanks, and may even
have some 25mm ammunition available to reload your cannon.

SECTION V - SHIPS AND MEN OF THE TASK FORCE.
--------------------------------------------

Tarawa: Lead Vessel of the Assault Force
 
The  most  important  vessel in the fleet under your command is the assault
ship LHA 1 Tarawa.  Built in the early 1970s, this was the first of a class
of  five  vessels intended to combine the functions of the earlier Iwo Jima
class  helicopter carrier (LH), with those of a dock landing ship (LPD) and
an assault cargo ship (LKA).

Tarawa  was  built  by Ingalls Shipbuilding Corporation.  She was laid down
15th  November  1971, launched on 1st December 1973, and commissioned on 29
May  1976.  She was followed by five sister ships the Saipan, Belleau Wood,
Nassau,  and  Peleliu.  A total of nine had been planned when the class was
trimmed to only six in 1971 even before Tarawa had been laid down.  All six
ships was built by Ingalls, with the last example entering service in 1980.

Tarawa and her sister ships are the world's largest amphibious vessels.  To
the  layman,  Tarawa  looks like an aircraft carrier.  Similar in size to a
Second  World  War  Essex-class aircraft carrier the ship is 834 feet long,
132ft  wide,  and  has a full load displacement of 39,967 tons.  Impressive
though  these  figures  are,  Tarawa  is  some  200ft shorter than a modern
aircraft  carrier,  has  about  half the displacement, and lacks the angled
flight  deck,  aircraft  catapults,  and  arrester  gear  needed to operate
conventional jet fighters.

Tarawa  is designed not to provide the large-scale air power available from
an  aircraft  carrier, but to embark a Marine amphibious unit, transport it
over  long  distances, deploy it ashore, then loiter in the area to support
it.  This ability to land forces on a distant shore is one component of the
mobile force structure which makes the United States a superpower.  Nations
such  as China may have strategic nuclear weapons, but lack this ability to
intervene   at  trouble  spots  around  the  globe.   The  Commonwealth  of
Independent  States  which  resulted  from the break-up of the Soviet Union
would have difficulty in carrying out this sort of force projection.

Tarawa  has  enough  accommodation  space  below  decks  for  a  reinforced
battalion  -  total  of  around 2,000 men, plus the hardware needed to give
them fire power once ashore - five M60 tanks and six 105mm field howitzers.
Although  powerfully  armed,  it's  a  numerically  small force, one better
suited to a swift "surgical" strike rather than long slogging match against
enemy  forces  operating  at brigade strength (around 5,000 - 8,000 men) or
divisional level (around 15,000 - 20,000 men.)

On  land,  armies  can  request  supplies,  firepower, or even diversionary
attacks  from  other  units  along  the  same front line.  There is no such
tactical  luxury  for Marine units sent onto a hostile shore.  Every bullet
and  band  aid they need, they must take with them.  Trained to fight under
such  self sufficient conditions, the Marines regard themselves as an elite
unit,  perhaps  the  elite unit.  A US Marine may pudgingly accept that the
British SAS, the Russian Spetsnaz, the Israeli paratroopers, and the French
Foreign  Legion  are  tough,  but  this  won't dent his conviction that the
Marines are the toughest soldiers who walk this planet.

Tarawas 820ft X 118ft night deck can handle twelve CH-46 Sea Knight assault
helicopters, or nine of the heavier CH-53 Sea Stallion.  Directly below the
flight  deck  are  two  half-length hanger decks.  These can house up to 26
CH-46 or 19 CH-53.  These aircraft can be moved to and from the flight deck
via  one elevator mid-way down the port side of the ship, and a second near
the  stern.   AV-8B  Harriers  are  carried  as required for the individual
mission.

For Operation Ocean Saber, Tarawa carries eight AV-8B, plus 28 helicopters.
A  separate  vehicle deck carries the wheeled and tracked vechicles for the
vessel's force of Marines.  The vessel is operated by a crew of around 900,
bringing the total to around 2,900.

In  the  lower part of the aft section of the vessel is a feature unique to
amphibious  assault  ships  - a large docking well.  This can be flooded to
allow landing craft to enter and leave via a stern-mounted door which gives
access  to the sea.  On Tarawa, the well is 286ft long and 78ft wide so can
acommodate  a  wide  range of landing craft.  For this mission, it contains
four  LCU, and two LCM-6.  Forty LVT tracked landing craft are carried on a
separate vehicle deck.

Built  in  large numbers between the mid-1950s until the mid-1970s, the LCU
(Landing  Craft  Utility)  is  the  descendant  of the Second World War LCT
(Landing  Craft  Tank).   Maximum payload of these 135 foot long vessels is
180  tons.  For example, they can carry three tanks.  Later models have bow
and  stern ramps, to enable vehicles to drive through.  LCUs are powered by
four diesel engines, and have a top speed of 20kts.

The  56  foot  long  LCM-6  was  a Second World War design, but remained in
production  until the 1970s.  It can carry 80 soldiers or 34 tons of cargo.
Two diesel engines give a top speed of 20kts.

One  of  the  most  tactically  useful  vehicles  in the early stages of an
assault  is the LVTP-7 Amphibious Assault Vehicle.  (In the game, these are
referred  to  simply  as  LVTs).   As its full designation "Landing Vehicle
Tracked Personnel" suggests, this is a vehicle able to propel itself in the
water,  climb  a  beach  under the power of tracks, then carry its soldiers
inland.

The  LVT  weighs  around  50,000lb, and can carry 25 Marines, who enter and
leave  the  vehicle  via a rear-mounted ramp.  Hatches in the upper surface
allow  cargo  to  be  loaded from above, either when the vechicle is aboard
ship  or floating alongside a ship.  A Cummins VT8 diesel engine drives the
vehicle at speeds of up to 39mph, while in the water, two water jets propel
it at speeds of up to 8.5mph.

It  takes  primitive  terrain  to top an LVT.  The vehicle can cross an 8ft
wide  trench,  climb over a 3ft obstacle, and has a ground pressure of only
8lb/sq in.  The hull is made from aluminum armor between 0.27 - 1.77 inches
thick,  and the vehicle has a turret armed with an M85 0.5" caliber machine
gun.

More  than  33,000  square feet of storage space is available aboard Tarawa
for  vehicles,  plus  almost  117,999  cubic  feet  of space for palletised
stores.   To  support  the  landed force of close to 2,000 Marines requires
several  hundred  tons  of  stores,  so  the  ship  has  built in automated
cargo-handling  facilities  include  conveyors  and  elevators.   These can
handle up to 240 one-ton pallets per hour.

A massive conveyor system runs along the top of a central support structure
which  divides the docking well in two, then forward onto the vehicle deck.
Five  elevators  - two in the well deck area, and three at the front end of
the  conveyor lift the cargo pallets from the cargo holds deep in the ship,
allowing  them  to  move  rear  ward  to  the  well deck, where an overhead
monorail  system  loads  them  onto  the  landing  craft.   The aft pair of
transporters can also be used to move pallets to the hangar deck.  While an
inclined  ramp allows pallets to be moved up to the flight deck for loading
onto helicopters.

To  be  effective,  Tarawa`s  Marines  must  be  able  to  perform  at peak
efficiency  as soon as they go ashore.  To help prepare the Marines to cope
with  the climate they will experience at their destination, a 5,000 square
foot  training  and  acclimatisation room is available.  (In this game, the
acclimatisation  room  also contains the Part Task Trainers which will help
teach  you  how to fly the AV-8B.) Other facilities include a hospital able
to provide intensive care for up to 90 casualties.

Command  facilities are located in the massive island superstructure at the
starboard  side  of  the  night  deck.   From  here  the  commander  of the
amphibious   task  group  and  the  landing  force  commander  issue  their
instructions  via  the Tactical Amphibious Warfare Data System (TAWADS) - a
computer-controlled  system  able to store information on targets, and keep
track  of landing craft, helicopters, vehicles, soldiers, and cargo.  Later
in  this  manual,  you'll learn how to use TAWADS to generate battle plans,
and to control the amphibious assault forces and the AV-8B Harriers.

In an era when most major US warships are driven by gas turbines or nuclear
power,  the  Tarawa  class  relies  on a traditional steam powerplant.  Two
Combustion  Engineering  boilers  provide  the  steam  needed  to drive two
Westinghouse  geared  turbines, each of which powers one of the vessels two
propeller  shafts.   The  turbines  deliver  a  total of 70,000 shaft horse
power:   enough to take Tarawa to a top speed of 24kts.  Maximum range at a
more economical cruising speed of 20kt is 10,000nm.

The Navy has only two Blue Ridge class command ships:  so may not be in the
area  of  an  amphibious operation.  To get around this problem, the Tarawa
class  are equipped with extensive command and control facilities including
an SPS-52B radar for fighter control.

During  an  amphibious  operation,  Tarawa  and  her  sister ships would be
obvious  targets  for  enemy attack.  Three types of weapon are carried for
self-protection.   A  single  Mk45  75mm/54  gun is mounted at the port and
starboard  front corners of the flight deck, a third at the starboard rear.
These  can  fire  20  rounds  per  minute.   Maximum  range  is  8nm in the
anti-aircraft role, 12.4nm against land targets.

When  the  vessels  first  entered service, the port rear corner carried an
eight-barrelled  launcher for the Sea Sparrow surface-to air missile, while
a  second  was  positioned  forward  of the island.  The final self defense
weapons were six single-barrelled Mk67 20mm cannon.

In  the  1980s,  a  retrofit program installed two General Dynamics Mk15/16
Phalanx  20mm  close-in  weapon  systems  (CIWS)  on each ship.  These were
mounted  in the positions formerly used by Sea Sparrow.  The 20mm Mk87 gave
way to six 25mm Mk 242 cannons.

Phalanx  is  intended  to protect the ship against anti-ship missiles which
make  it  part  of  the  surface-to-air  missile  fire  power of the fleets
warships.   This  is a "last-ditch" weapon a radar-controlled automatic gun
mount  whose  six-barrelled  Gatling  gun  pours out 50 20mm caliber cannon
shells per second.  Maximum range is short - if an enemy missile is closing
for the kill, Phalanx will have only a few seconds to score a kill.

The  cannon shells do not carry an explosive payload; damaging a missile at
such  short  range  would probably not stop the crippled round striking the
ship.   The projectiles leaving the Phalanx gun barrels are solid, and made
from  depleted  uranium,  one of the heaviest metals known to man.  If hits
are  obtained  on  the missile, the impact energy of these heavy high speed
projectiles  should  be  enough  either  to cause massive structural damage
which  will  knock the weapon off course, or even to detonate the missile's
warhead.

Tarawa also carries extensive electronic warfare (EW) protection, including
the  SLQ-32(V)3  system.   This is designed to detect and jam hostile radar
signals.  Four six-barrelled SRBOC launchers are available to release chaff
and IR decoys in further attempts to confuse incoming anti-ship missiles.

More Ships and More Men

On  its own Tarawa could not carry a large enough force of Marines to carry
out Operation Ocean Saber.  Supporting her are six other amphibious warfare
vessels, an escort of four warships, and a tanker.

To  provide  additional  amphibious capability the fleet includes five Dock
landing  ships.   Like Tarawa, these slightly smaller vessels carry Marines
and  their  equipment,  and  incorporate  docking  wells designed to handle
landing  craft.   Newest  of the five is LSD-41 Whidbey Island.  First of a
class  of  eight  modern  dock  landing  ships  built  to replace the older
Thomaston  class,  this  was  built in the early 1980s by Lockheed Seattle.
Whidbey  Island  is  609ft long, and has a full load displacement of 15.725
tons.  It carries a force of 500 Marines plus their equipment.  Its 440ft X
50ft well deck houses four LCAC air-cushion landing vehicles.

Gradually  replacing  the  older  LCU,  are  the  LCAC  (Landing  Craft Air
Cushion).   These  can carry only 24 soldiers, a single tank, or between 60
and  75  tons  of  cargo,  but have a top speed of 40kts when fully loaded.
Their great advantage, apart from high speed, is that they can land on most
shorelines.   Conventional  landing craft require careful choice of landing
site.   According  to the US Navy the LCAC can cope with around 70 per cent
of  the shorelines around the world, while the LCU was restricted to around
15   per   cent.   Apart  from  their  smaller  payload,  CVACs  have  some
disadvantages  compared  with LCUs.  They are noisy, create clouds of spray
(which sometimes interfered with the driver's vision before the addition of
spray suppressers), and can have problems in rough seas.

Whidbey  Island  also  has  up  to  5,000 cubic feet of space available for
marine  cargo,  and  12,500  square feet for vehicles.  Four Colt/Pielstick
diesel engines driving two shafts give a total of 41,600shp and a top speed
of 22kts.

The  rest  of the Marine Expeditionary Brigade is deployed on LPD-4 Austin,
LPD-5  Ogden,  LPD-7  Cleveland and LPD-9 Denver.  These are 570 feet long,
with  a  16,900  ton full load displacement.  Part of a class of 12 vessels
built  in  the  l960s,  each can each carry 1,000 Marines and 2,500 tons of
cargo.   The  168ft  X  50ft  well  deck can house one LCU and three LCM-6.
These landing craft can be supplemented by several more carried on deck and
lowered  into the sea by an aft-mounted crane.  Austin lacks the helicopter
hanger  added  to  later  vessels  of  the class.  As a result, only Ogden,
Cleveland,  and  Denver  can  carry  aircraft.   Typical loads might be one
SH-60, two CH-46, or four AH-1W.  Being almost 30 years old, Austin and her
sister  ships  are  steam  powered.   Both  have  twin-shaft  installations
delivering around 24,000shp and giving a top speed of around 20kts.

For  self-protection,  all  five  Dock  Landing  Ships  are fitted with the
SLQ-32(V)1, a simpler version of the EW system carried by Tarawa.  All five
also have four SRBOC chaff/flare launchers, while Whidbey Island also has a
pair of 20mm Phalanx guns.

Cargo and Fuel

To  carry  the  rest of the Marine Expeditionary Brigade`s heavy loads, the
force  includes  the Vehicle Cargo Ship T-AK 3009 Pfc Dewayne T.  Williams.
Built  by General Dynamics, this 44,330 ton vessel joined the fleet in 1985
on  long  term  charter.  The ship is operated by American Overseas Marine,
and  has a crew of 30, plus 25 technicians.  On its own it can carry 22,700
tons  of  equipment  and  supplies,  25  per cent of the stores needed by a
Marine   Expeditionary   Brigade   over   a   30  day  period.   It  has  a
roll-on/roll-off  capacity  of more than 150,000 square feet, and can carry
530 cargo containers.  It also delivers vehicle and aviation fuel.

Unlike the Whidbey Island and the Austin class, Pfc Dewayne T.  Williams is
not  an  amphibious  ship.   It  unloads  its  cargo  either  by using port
facilities,  or  at  sea by means of its built-in cargo-handling equipment.
This  includes  two  twin  cranes  and  one  single crane.  A small landing
platform for helicopters is located at the rear of the superstructure.  The
vessel  is powered by two Stork Werkspoor 16 TM 410 diesel engines, and has
a speed of 18kts.  Maximum range at this speed is 12,840 miles.

The Warship Escort

Keeping this assault force safe from land and sea attack is the task of the
warships assigned to escort the formation.  During the Second World War, an
amphibious  task  force  would have been escorted by heavy cruisers or even
one or more battleships, but these massive gun platforms have been retired.

For  this mission, the use of guided-missile cruisers has been ruled out by
Washington,  so  the largest and most powerful of the vessels escorting the
amphibious  force  is the 563ft long guided missile destroyer DDG 933 Kidd.
Originally  laid  down in June 1978 for the Imperial Iranian Navy and named
Kouroush,  Kidd  and  her  four sister ships were taken over by the US Navy
following  the  Iranian  Revolution.   Kidd  was launched by Litton on 11th
August 1979, and was completed in the summer of 1981.

The  Kidd  class  are  a specialised anti-aircraft version of the US Navy`s
Spruance  class destroyer.  The equipment fit of the Spruances were trimmed
to   save   money  but  the  Shah  of  Iran  had  opted  for  the  original
specification.   As  a  result,  Kidd  and  her  sister  ships are the most
powerful destroyers in the US fleet.  Full load displacement is 9,200 tons,
around 1,400 tons more than a Spruance.  This extra weight is partly due to
the  installation  of  armor  protection, also three additional radars - an
SPS-48  and  two  SPG-51  radars.   The  Kidd  class  is ideal for tropical
service,  since  its  air-conditioning  systems  were designed to cope with
operations in the Gulf.

The  ship  is  armed  with missiles and guns.  Two Mk 45 5inch guns mounted
forward and aft have a rate of fire of 20 rounds per minute.  Maximum range
is  12.6nm  against  surface  targets.   Inboard  of the guns are two Mk 26
twin-rail missile launchers able to fire SM-2MR Standard SAMs or ASROC anti
submarine  missiles.   Maximum  range  of this version of Standard is 40nm.
Two  eight-round  launchers  for  Harpoon missiles allow ship targets to be
engaged  at  ranges  of  up  to  70nm.  The hanger carries either two SH-2F
Helicopters,  or  a  single  SH-60.   Two 20mm Phalanx guns are carried for
point defense.

Like Tarawa and the Dock Landing Ships, Kidd is equipped with an electronic
warfare  suite,  plus  four  SRBOC launchers for chaff and flares.  In this
case  EW  system  is  an  SLQ-32(V)2 updated by the Sidekick program to add
jamming  and  deception  modes.  During the late 1980s, Kidd and her sister
ships  were  updated  under  the  US  Navys threat Upgrade (NTU) program to
improve  their  ability  to  deal  with  sopisticated  aircraft and missile
threats.

The  ship  is  powered by four General Electric LM2500 gas turbines.  These
develop  a  total of 80,000shp, and drive two shafts, giving the ship a top
speed of 30kts.  Range at 20kts cruising speed is 6,000nm.

The  other  three  escorts  are smaller and less well-armed vessels - 445ft
long  frigates  of the Oliver Hazard Perry class.  Built in the late 1970s,
FFG-10  Duncan, FFG-11 Clark and FFG-20 Antrim joined the fleet in 1980-81.
Displacing around 3,500 tons at full load, the Perry class were designed as
a  lower  cost alternative to the Spruance class destroyers.  To keep costs
down,  these  vessels  are  armed with only a single Mk13 trainable missile
launcher plus a 3 inch Mk 75 gun.

Two  General  Electric  L2500  gas  turbines  drive a single shaft (another
cost-cutting  compromise),  and deliver a total of 40,000shp.  This gives a
top  speed  of  28.5kts.   Maximum  range at 20kts is 4,500nm.  Normal crew
complement is 206, including 13 officers and 19 aircrew.

The  Mk13  missile  launcher is the vessels, primary armament.  It can fire
Standard  SM01MR  anti-aircraft  missiles,  or  Harpoon anti ship missiles.
This  version of Standard has a range of only 25nm, much less than the 40nm
of  Kidd's  SM-2MR  missiles.   The  vessel  is also fitted with two triple
launchers  for anti-submarine torpedoes, and carries two SH-2F or two SH-60
helicopters.

The  3in gun can fire 85 rounds per minute.  Maximum range is 8.7nm against
surface  targets,  or  6.6nm against air threats.  A single 20mm Phalanx is
mounted  on  the  roof  of  the  aircraft  hanger.   Electronic warfare and
chaff/decoy facilities are similar to those of Kidd.

To  support  the Tarawa, her five supporting ships, and the warship escort,
the  fleet  is  accompanied  by  the  41,350  ton Replenishment Oiler AOR 6
Kalamazoo.   Built  by General Dynamics, and commisioned in 1973, Kalamazoo
is  one of a class of seven ships designed to support naval units operating
at  sea.   It can carry 160,000 barrels of fuel, 600 tons of munitions, 200
tons of dry stores, and 100 tons of refrigerated stores.  Cargo handling is
highly automated.  Powered by General Electric steam turbines, the ship has
a  top speed of 20kts.  Maximum range is 6,500 miles at 19kts, or 10,000 at
16kts.  Normal crew is 454.

A ship with this capability needs to be able to defend itself, so Kalamazoo
carries   a   single  Mk  29  eight  barrelled  launcher  for  Sea  Sparrow
surface-to-air  missiles.   Like  Tarawa,  it is fitted with the SLQ 32(V)3
electronic  warfare  system,  plus  four  six-barrelled SRBOC launchers for
chaff and decoy flares.  Add on armament can include two 20mm phalanx CIWS,
or  four  2Omm  Oerlikon  cannons.   Kalamazoo  has a small flight deck and
hanger.  These were designed to handle two UH 46 helicopters.

The Marine Expeditionary Brigade

The  force  tasked  with  Operation  Ocean  Saber is a Marine Expeditionary
Brigade  (MEB) whose Regimental Landing Team will carry out the landing and
ground  combat.   An  MEB  is  commanded  by a Brigadier General, and built
around  a  reinforced  infantry  regiment  and  a composite Marine aircraft
group.  Self-sustainable for up to 30 days, an MEB is used to provide rapid
response   in  what  are  euphemistically  called  Low  Intensity  Conflict
situations.

In  real  life,  the  Regimental  Landing  Team  is  a complex organisation
incorporating  specialized units such as armour and artillery and supported
by  a  Brigade  Service  Support  Group.  To make the game easy to play, we
assumed  the landing force consists entirely of normal infantry battalions,
and that these incorporate the supporting armour and artillery.  The number
of  infantry  battalions has been increased to compensate for the "missing"
support units.

A  normal  Marine  regiment  consists of three battalions, each with around
1,200  - 1,400 men.  These have a two digit designation.  Our landing force
is  based  on the 9th Marine Regiment, and has three battalions - 1/9, 2/9,
and 3/9, plus two battalions from the 6th Marine Regiment - 1/6 and 2/6.

Each  battalion has three rifle companies.  The first battalion has A, B, &
c  companies, the 2nd E, F & G, the 3rd I, K, & L.  Company designations D,
H,  and  M are never used.  During the last decade, battalions were slimmed
down  from  four  companies  to  three,  eliminating  D,  H  and M, but the
remaining  three  retained  their  traditional  designations.  Each company
consists of a 1st, 2nd and 3rd platoon.

US  military  "shorthand"  for  the  A  company,  1st battalion, 9th Marine
Regiment  is  "A/1/9", but the unit designations you`ll see in the game are
written  in  fuller  form, such as "A coy 1st bn, 9th Marines".  The TAWADS
tactical  map  does not identify individual platoons, so don`t be surprised
to  see  several  units in close proximity all labelled identically.  These
will be individual platoons of the same company.

The  Marines  will go ashore either in conventional landing craft or in the
amphibious  Landing  Vehicle  Tracked  (LTV).   They can also be flown into
battle  aboard  CH-53  Super  Stallion  helicopters.   These  heavy assault
helicopters can carry up to 55 soldiers, or 36,000lb of stores.

Once  ashore,  the  Marines will move inland in their HMMWVs (High Mobility
Multipurpose  Wheeled Vehicles).  Referred to as "Humvees", these jeep-like
vehicles  can  carry  six  men,  or a light weapon such as a 20mm cannon or
recoilless rifle.

One  thing  any  amphibious  assault  force  is  always short of is armored
vehicles.   The  only  main  battle  tanks available to go ashore are 20 M1
Abrams.   These  tanks  weigh around 60 tons, and are armed with a powerful
105mm  gun.   The  accuracy  and  armor-piercing capability of this gun far
surpasses  that  of  the 100mm gun mounted on Indonesian tanks.  The latter
have  no  modern  fire-control system; if the first shot misses the target,
the  crew must try to correct the aim manually.  The computerized system on
the M1 should near-guarantee that if the first shot misses, the second will
score a hit.

The  M1 has a top speed of 45mph on a road surface, can cross 9ft trenches,
and  climb  a  4ft  obstacle.   It  has a crew of four, and is protected by
composite  armor  which is much more effective that the steel used in older
tanks such as Indonesia's T-59s.

To  supplement  this  small  tank  force,  the  Marines  have more than 400
eight-wheeled LAV-25 Light Armored Vehicles.  The standard version is armed
with  a 25mm cannon and a co-axial machine gun, but the air defence variant
has  a  lighter  four-barrelled cannon and four Stinger shoulder-fired anti
aircraft  missiles.   The  LAV has a crew of three, and a top speed of more
than 60mph on a good road surface.

Although  the  AV-8Bs  will  do  their  best to provide air support for the
Marines,  additional  air-strike  capability is available either from AH-1W
Sea Cobra attack helicopters, or from CH-53 rigged with externally- mounted
weapon  launchers,  and cannon or machine gun able to fire through windows.
THe AH-1W Sea Cobra is a custom-built attack helicopter with a two-man crew
-  pilot  and  gunner  -  and  heavy  armor  protection.   A  nose  mounted
night-vision  FLIR  system, allows it to fight by day or night, carrying up
to  eight TOW or Hellfire antitank missiles, plus AIM-9 Sidewinders for air
to air combat.

For  artillery  support, Marine artillery units are equipped with the light
but  hard  hitting M198 155mm howitzer.  This has a maximum range of around
15  miles,  and  can  deliver  shells  twice  the  weight of those fired by
Indoneesias  shorter-ranged  artillery.   The landing force has 18 six- gun
batteries of M198 howitzers.

To  deal  with  enemy tanks, the Marines also have ground-launched TOW anti
tank  missiles,  plus the smaller shoulder-fired Dragon anti- tank missile.
The  Stinger  shoulder  fired heat-seeking SAM is also available to protect
mobile units from attack by Indonesian aircraft.

SECTION VI - ABOARD THE TARAWA
------------------------------

After  the  animated  sequence  which  starts  the game, the player will be
placed  in the command center of the Tarawa.  The entire game is controlled
from this location, including command of the task force and the despatch of
aircraft on combat missions.

From this location, you have four options:

1. Move around the carrier to visit other compartments.

2. Use  the  Tactical  Amphibious Warfare Data System (TAWADS) to plan or
   change combat operations.

3. Save the current state of the game, or reload a saved game.

4. Pause the game

5. Quit to DOS.

Below  deck, a single corridor gives access to all parts of the ship you`ll
need  to  use.   To  get to it, click on the EXIT sign at the top left hand
corner  of  the  screen.   (Similar  EXIT  signs  will  be found in all the
compartments you visit.)

Along  one  side of the corridor are the Pilot's Briefing Room, the Command
Center,  the  Acclimatization Room, and the Hanger.  From the other side, a
passageway leads to the flight deck.

You'll  see  the  corridor  from a position about half-way along its length
Clicking  on  the  red-coloured arrow marking on the deck will allow you to
look in the opposite direction.

To  enter one of the compartments, click on its name, or in the case of the
flight  deck,  on the sign "TO THE FLIGHT DECK".  Note how the shape of the
cursor  changes  from  an  arrow  to a cross as you align it with the name,
sign, or arrow.  This change is shape shows that the cursor is aligned with
a selectable option.

At  either end of the corridor are elevators.  These will take you to three
other levels of the ship;

PRIMARY FLIGHT CONTROL (PRI-FLY) 

COMMAND CENTER (COMM. CNTR)
 
CARGO HOLD

VEHICLE DECK

Clicking on the appropriate switch will take you the level you've selected.

Clicking  on the EXIT sign at the top left of the screen will take you back
to  the  corridor, directly in the case of compartments in the corridor, or
via the elevator in the case of the other decks.

Modern  warfare  is  fast moving, and in the heat of battle, time is short.
To  help  you  "short  cuts" are provided to those parts of the ship you'll
need to visit most often.

There are telephones in most compartments.  Clicking on these will take you
immediately to the Command Center.

                            End Of Part 3
                            -------------
            AV8B HARRIER ASSAULT - OPERATIONS MANUAL - Part 4
            -------------------------------------------------


WHAT THE COMPARTMENTS DO

Each compartment of the ship has its own specialised function:

The Command Center

The  Command Center has two large wall mounted displays, and three computer
consoles.   As  was  the  case in the corridor the cursor will change shape
from an arrow to a cross to indicate possible selections.

The  central  computer  console  in  the Command Center gives access to the
Tactical   Amphibious   Warfare   Data  System  (TAWADS),  a  sophisticated
integrated computer system designed to provide command and control over the
group's aircraft, weapons, sensors and landing craft.

TAWADS  has  two main purposes.  Before the campaign begins, it is used for
detailed  strategic and tactical planning.  When TAWADS is ordered to run a
plan, it will automatically send the relevant orders to the units which are
tasked with carrying them out.  No military plan ever survives contact with
enemy  but  must  be modified and updated as the campaign proceeds.  TAWADS
will  allow you to assess the progress of the conflict, and to issue direct
orders  to  ground  and  air  forces,  ordering  them to carry out specific
tactical tasks not envisaged in the original battle plan.

Full  information  on  the  use  of  TAWADS  is contained in the Task Force
Commander's Manual.

Pausing the Game

When  the  phone rings, or other interruptions disturb the player, its easy
to  pause  the simulation.  Just click on the command centre digital clock.
(When  you're  in  the  cockpit flying a mission, the game can be paused by
pressing the P key).

Saving the Game

The  Command  Center  is  the  only location where you can save the current
state of the game.

As  you  play  through  a campaign, the computer keeps track of the current
position  of  the  fleet, plus the position of all US and Indonesian ground
forces,  and  what  they  are  currentlv  doing.  It also keeps a record of
damage  which you have inflicted on the enemy`s fixed bases, and the losses
in  aircraft,  helicopters,  vehicles,  and  men  which  you have suffered.
Finally,  it  must  also note any changes that you have made to the current
battle plan.

Saving  a  game  takes an electronic "snapshot" of all this information and
stores  it  on the hard disk.  You can reload this saved game at any time -
this  will reset the entire game world back to where you were when the save
was carried out.

There  are  at  least  two  reasons for saving a game.  After you have been
playing  for  several  hours, the Real World may suddenly intrude - the dog
demands to be walked, it's time to eat, or time to sleep.  It might even be
time to use the computer for something so mundane as work.  Saving the game
before quitting will allow you to continue play at a later date.

The  other  reason  for  saving  is to preserve a record of your success to
date.   Saving  regularly  is  an  insurance policy against things suddenly
going wrong.  If you make a tactical error, or the Indonesians hit you with
a  brilliant  counter attack, you can effectively reset the clock and try a
different strategy.

The  save/load game screen is called up by clicking on the disk icon on the
command  center  desk  (You'll  see it to the left of the white telephone).
The  screen has save/load facilities on the left hand side, and a record of
the game-configuration preferences on the right.

There are 10 slots available to hold saved games.

To save a game, click on one of the slots. It will become highlighted.

Click  onto  the  Save Game icon (an arrow pointing at a floppy disk).  The
current  game state will be saved into the hard disk, and the selected slot
will  now  contain  the name of your saved state.  It should read something
like  SABER  0/9:50.  The name is made up to the name of the plan currently
being run, plus the current date and time.  The example shown contains Plan
SABER at the state it had reached by 9.50am on day 0 of the campaign.

A saved game can be retrieved at any time by entering the SAVE/LOAD screen,
clicking  on  the  slot which contains the saved game, then clicking on the
Load Game icon (an arrow pointing away from a floppy disk.

The  Preferences section of this screen allows you to permanently configure
some  features  of the game.  (These can be configured for the current game
session only by the means of a menu accessible by pressing ESC while in the
AV-8B  cockpit).   Each  customizable  feature  has its own icon.  Click on
these  to change a preference for example, click on Joystick Control to set
the  default  control to joystick.  Preferences can be saved by clicking on
SAVE PREFERENCES.

Useful Short Cuts

The  Command  Center also provides three useful "short-cuts" to other parts
of the ship:

This  is the only compartment where clicking on the telephone does not take
you  to  the  Command  Center.   When  playing  the  game,  you`ll often be
switching  between  the  Pilots  Briefing  Room  and the Command Center, so
clicking on the white telephone in the Command Centre takes you directly to
the  pilots  briefing room.  If a red light is flashing on this phone, this
indicates  that  fresh  missions  have been posted on the whiteboard of the
Pilots Briefing Room.

Clicking  on  the  left-hand wall-mounted display takes you directly to the
aircraft cockpit.

Pilots' Briefing Room

Visit  the  Pilots'  Briefing Room to select the AV-8B missions you want to
fly,  and  to  receive  pre-flight briefings before take off.  Return there
after  landing  to  receive  a debriefing report summarizing the success of
your attack.

Central  item  in  this  compartment  is a large whiteboard used to display
information  to  pilots.  On either side are monitor screens which are used
to call up further information.  Clicking on these selects the type of data
displayed on the whiteboard.

When  you  enter  the  room  from the corridor or directly from the Command
Center,  the whiteboard will show the new missions waiting to be flown.  If
you  want  to  see  this at any other time, click on the right hand monitor
screen.   Clicking on the left-hand monitor will bring up on the whiteboard
a list of currently-airborne AV-8Bs.  Clicking on any one of these will put
you into the cockpit of that aircraft.  Turn off its autopilot, and you can
fly the mission.

Consult  the  AV-8B Pilot's Manual for full information on how to use these
displays.

The AV-8B Cockpit.

Once  you`re  in  the  cockpit and airborne, there are four ways of getting
back to the ship:

The  most obvious to is complete the mission, then land (either manually or
under  autopilot control).  After landing, pressing Ctrl-D or waiting for a
short  time will take you back to the Pilots Briefing Room for a debriefing
session  which  will  tell you how well the mission went.  The only type of
mission  which  does  not  result  in  any  debrief is a Combat Air Patrol.
(Having  flown  the  mission you'll already know how many aircraft you shot
down.)  If  you want to skip the debrief press Ctrl-C after you land.  This
will take you directly to the Command center.

Like  all  pilots  sent to war, you run the risk of being shot down.  Using
the  ejection  seat to escape from a crashing AV-8B should see you returned
to  the Pilots Briefing Room for a debriefing session.  Whether you land in
the  sea or on East Timor, a rescue helicopter will almost certainly get to
you, and return you to the ship.  Like AV-8Bs, the small force of pilots is
a valuable resource.

If  you  crash,  either due to pilot error or by being shot down, you'll be
returned  to  the  Command  Center  -  dead  pilots  don't  need debriefing
sessions!

If you press ESC, then select Commander from the menu which appears, you go
back  to  the  command  center,  while  the computer takes over the task of
automatically  flying  your aircraft.  You can jump out of a Harrier at any
time,  return  to  the  command  center,  then  rejoin the mission from the
currently  active  missions  displayed  in  the  pilots  room.   (The phone
shortcut from the Command center to the Pilots Briefing Room makes it quick
to get back to the aircraft.)

Acclimatization Room

This  compartment contains an AV-8B flight simulator.  Here you can practce
flying  the  AV-8B.   Clicking  on  the up and down arrows on the simulator
control  console allows you to select the type of training mission you want
to  fly.   The  simulator  will  then put you in the cockpit of an aircraft
which  has  been  correctly  set  up  for  the  sortie.  At the end of each
training mission you are returned to the Acclimatization Room.

Hangar Deck

From  here,  the  AV-8Bs are raised on the deck-edge elevator to the flight
deck.   Tarawa  carries  eight  aircraft,  and  this view will show you the
number  currently available to fly missions.  Clicking on the ARM icon will
raise  and aircraft to the flight deck, then take you to the Weapon Loading
Screen, and then into the cockpit to begin a Combat Air Patrol.

Flight Deck

Walking onto the flight deck takes you into the Weapon Loading screen, then
into  the  cockpit to begin a Combat Air Patrol mission.  No waypoints will
be  set  in  the Nav system.  One Harrier will always be available to fly a
Combat Air Patrol.

Primary Flight Control (PRI-FLY)

The island is the tall superstructure on the starboard (right hand) side on
the  Tarawa.   A  glassed-in  compartment high up on the island acts as the
shipboard  equivalent  of  the  Control Tower at a land-based airfield From
here, the Air Officer (known as the "Air Boss") controls flight operations.
Seated  in  a  padded chair, he can turn to look out of any of the windows,
observing  the  entire flight deck.  Once the amphibious landings get under
way, the flight deck will be a busy place at times.  Try to stop by Pri-Fly
and watch the flight deck operations.  Pressing Keys F1 F2 F3 F4 will allow
you look out of the various windows.  Esc returns you to the elevator.

Cargo Hold

By  visiting the Cargo Hold, you'll get an idea of how much of the on-board
stores  are  still available for use.  The number of crates visible gives a
general  indication  of  the amount of stores available, and you can assume
that the proportion of the stores available on board the other ships in the
task  force  are  similar  to those on Tarawa.  If the Cargo hold starts to
look  empty,  the  cargo  holds  on the other amphibious ships will be in a
similar condition.

Vehicle Deck

The  vehicle  deck  shows the next group of vehicles available to go ashore
with  the  Marines.   When  the campaign begins, you'll see a group of LVTs
(Landing Vehicle Tracked) ready to go ashore.  As was the case in the Cargo
Hold,  this  view  gives  an indication of the vehicle availability for the
entire task force.

Simulation Viewpoints

As  you`ve  already  seen, the game allows you to jump from one aircraft to
another,  or  back  to  the  Tarawa.   These  are not the only views of the
simulated world you can look at.  Several keys flip you to more spectacular
viewpoints.   Before  trying  this,  you'd  be  advised to hit the A key to
engage  your  aircraft's  autopilot.  It's easy to crash while admiring the
visuals.

Pressing  the  V key switches to an outside view of your aircraft.  You can
move  around  your AV-8B by pressing the appropriate function keys.  F3 and
F4  will  position  you  60  degrees  on  either  side  of the nose of your
aircraft, F5 and F6 will put you 60 degrees on either side of the tail.  F7
and  F8  with smoothly rotate the view left or right respectively, while F9
and F10 rotate the viewpoint up and down.

Pressing  the  0  key  effectively  places  a  TV camera in the sky at your
current  location,  and  provides a movie-like view of your aircraft flying
off into the distance.

The  J  key  switches  to  the  enemy's  viewpoint.   This takes you to the
selected  or designated target.  In air combat, this key will take you into
your  opponents  cockpit,  so gives you a quick way of checking that you`re
not about to be shot down.

If  you launch a guided missile, the M key will show you the view seen from
the   missile  seeker.   It's  not  particularly  useful,  but  it  can  be
spectacular.

SECTION VII - FLIGHT TRAINING
-----------------------------

Primary Training

If  you've never flown a flight simulator, you need to understand the basic
rules of how to fly an aircraft.  (If you already understand these, you can
go directly to the heading "Using the Part-Task Simulators").

An aircraft must be maneuvered in three dimensions - pitch (nose up or nose
down),  yaw  (nose  left or nose right), and roll (nose rotated to move one
wing  down  and the other up).  In a conventional aircraft, these movements
are  generated by hinged control surfaces whose position is controlled from
the cockpit.

The  control  column  often referred to as the joystick - is used for pitch
and  roll  control.   Yaw  is controlled by the rudder pedals.  Luckily for
computer  based  flight  simulations,  the part played by yaw is relatively
minor.  Most flying maneuvers are commanded using the control column.

Dozens  of old movies on TV will have made you familiar with how to control
an  aircraft in pitch, showing pilots pulling back on the control column to
bring  an  aircraft out a dive.  Pulling back the control column causes the
elevators  moveable  surfaces  on  the  aircrafts  horizontal  tailplane to
deflect  upwards  into  the  flow  of  air caused by the aircraft's forward
speed.   The  result  is  similar in effect to moving the rudder of a boat:
The nose moves in the direction in which the hinged surface was moved.  The
airflow  pushes  against  the  raised  elevator,  pushing  the  tail of the
aircraft  downward,  and  lifting the nose.  Cockpit scenes from old movies
showing  dive  bombers in action illustrate the opposite rule - pushing the
control column forward causes the nose of the aircraft to fall.

Given  that an aircraft has a moveable rudder surface on its vertical tail,
it would be reasonable to assume that steering to right and left is done by
moving  the  rudder  to  right  or left.  That works with a boat, but on an
aircraft  produces  a skidding turn which is not particulary useful The way
to turn an aircraft is to roll it in the required direction.

This is done by moving the control column from side to side.  To fly to the
right, move the control column to the right.  A hinged control surface near
the  right wingtip will rise, while a similar surface on the left wing will
droop.  These surfaces are known as ailerons, and always respond to control
column  movements  by  moving in opposite directions In this case the right
aileron will force the right wing down, and the left airelon will cause the
left  wing  to  rise.   This  will start the aircraft turning to the right.
Pulling  back  on  the  control column will tighten the turn.  Once you get
close  to  the  desired  bearing,  reduce  the back pressure on the control
column, and move it to the left until the wings return to level.

Centering  the  controls  after  demanding  a  maneuver does not return the
aircraft  to the straight and level.  At first sight, this may seen hard to
understand,  but  an automobile provides a simple analogy.  If your driving
north, and use the steering wheel to turn onto an eastbound road, returning
the  wheel  to  its  central position once you're headed eastwards does not
bring you back to running north.  Like the steering wheel on an automobile,
the  controls  of  an  airplane  are  used  to order a change of direction.
Centering  them  tells  the  aircraft that the change of direction has been
completed.

In  a real aircraft, the rudder is controlled by the rudder pedals.  In our
simulation,  you must use the < and > keys.  These move the rudder left and
right  respectively.   In a normal flight simulation, the rudder has little
effect.   Its main function is to make small horizontal aiming corrections,
or  to  final  heading  corrections  when landing.  On the AV-8B, it serves
another purpose, one which is unique to V/STOL aircraft.

Lift  the  nose of a conventional aircraft too far and the speed will start
to  fall.  As the speed of the aircraft falls, so does the speed with which
the air flows over the wings and movable control surfaces.  Just as a boats
rudder loses effectiveness at slow speed, so do elevators, ailerons and the
rudder.   Fly  slower still, and the flow of air over the wing is no longer
fast enough to maintain the lift needed to support the aircraft.

Effectiveness  of  the control surfaces falls away steadily but in the case
of  wing  lift  the  deterioration is quite sudden.  The upper surface of a
wing  is  slightly humped in cross section, and at speed the airflow across
the upper surface will cling to the wing on the rear side of the hump.

If  the  speed  of  the  aircraft  gets  too slow this process breaks down.
Instead of staying at the surface of the wing, the air breaks away from the
wing  along  the  highest point of the hump.  This sudden breakaway sharply
reduces wing lift.  In technical terms the wing is said to be "stalled".

Deprived  of  lift,  the aircraft will lose height, and its nose will drop,
and  the resulting shallow dive will build the speed back up until the wing
functions  normally.  At low level, that height loss can cause you to crash
If  you  were  turning  at the time of the stall, the aircraft will enter a
spin.  Ejection may be the only course open to you.

By  moving  the nozzles of the Pegasus engine downwards, an AV-8B pilot can
substitute  engine thrust for wing lift, flying at ever - decreasing speeds
below the stall until the aircraft is in a hover.  At these low speeds, the
control surfaces have no effect, so control is automatically transferred to
a  system  of nose, tail and wingtip mounted reaction jets.  Similar to the
thrusters  used  to orientate spacecraft, these reaction jets allow control
to be maintained even in the hover.  Using the rudder in the hover can send
the  aircraft  pirouetting  round  -  a  trick  often demonstrated when the
Harrier appears at air shows.

Like  an  automobile,  an  aircraft has controls for increasing or reducing
speed.   The throttle controls engine thrust, so works like the accelerator
pedal  of  an  automobile.  The other control you need to know about is the
airbrake.   This  is  a  hinged  surface  which swings downward beneath the
fuselage  of the AV-8B.  It creates drag, reducing the aircrafts speed much
faster than throttling back can.

If  this is the first flight simulation you've purchased, try the exercises
offered by the Part-Task Simulators described below.  The take off exercise
will  give  you  the  chance to fly around and try out the controls without
falling  foul  of  an Indonesian F-16.  Once you can maneuver the aircraft,
and have fired a few weapons in practice, try your hand at combat missions,
opting  to  fly  the Simple Model.  This will be easier to control than the
Advanced  Model.   The  autopilot is there to help you both in the training
exercises  and in combat.  Don't hesitate to use it, particularly when it's
time to land.

Using the Part-Task Simulators

Like USMC pilots assigned to fly the AV8B, you'll learn to fly the aircraft
by carrying out a series of exercises on Part Task Simulators (PTS).  These
are  designed  to help to learn the different aspects of flying and combat.
You'll find the Part Task Simulators in the Acclimatization room of the USS
Tarawa.  There are five different PTSs, each of which will take you through
one  main  aspect  of  the  operation of the AV-8B Harrier.  Information on
recommended  flight  procedures,  and  how  to  aim and fire the weapons is
contained  in  the  AV-8B  Pilot's  Manual, which you should consult before
starting your training exercises.

Take-Off

This  places you in the cockpit of an AV-8B with no underwing stores.  This
lightly  loaded  condition  will  allow you to practice vertical as well as
short  take-offs.   Although  able  to  carry  out  vertical  takeoffs  and
landings,  the  AV-8B  can  carry a heavier weapon load if it makes a short
take  off run.  The PTS will allow you to try.  This section teaches how to
take off and land under heavy load conditions, using the vectored thrust to
keep take off and landing distances to a minimum.  Hovering manoeuvering in
the  hover,  making  the  transition to forward flight, then the transition
from forward flight back to the hover can all be practised in this PTS.

Landing

Landing  an  aircraft  aboard a ship is never easy but Harrier's ability to
fly  at very slow forward speed supported by downward thrust eliminates two
of  the  hazards of conventional carrier landings - the high approach speed
and the need to catch a braking wire with the fighters tail hook.  To quote
Mike  Gaines, defence editor of the magazine Flight International, "It is a
lot easier to stop and land than to land and try to stop."

Landing  is made harder when the ship is stationary since this requires the
pilot  to perform a hover.  This simulation teaches the trainee to approach
the  carrier  from  the  correct angle and height, then to get down without
crashing into the island or any other aircraft on the deck.  You will start
in  the  cockpit of an AV- 8B with no underwing stores.  You will be flying
at  a  height  of  around 250ft, and Tarawa is directly ahead of you, about
five  miles  away.   The  nearest ship visible directly ahead of you is not
Tarawa.  Don't waste time trying to land on it!

Simple Weapons

This  PTS  places  you  in  the  cockpit of an AV-8B flying at around 550ft
altitude  and  heading  toward  a barge target about seven miles away.  The
aircraft  is  armed  with  Mk81 iron bombs.  Hydra rocket launchers and its
25mm cannon.  Fly this exercise several times, trying each of these weapons
in turn.  Diving attacks with guns and rockets are the best way of knocking
out  small  targets,  but  in  combat exposes the aircraft and pilot to the
dangers  of light AAA fire and the risk of failing to pull out in time, and
flying  into  the  ground.   Practice  your  tactics before trying them out
against an enemy who shoots back.

Guided Weapons

You're  at  the  same  height and facing the same target as in the previous
exercise,  but now your aircraft is armed with laser-guided versions of the
Mk81  bomb  (shown  in  the  HUD  as  "Mk81L",  and AGM-65E Mavericks.  Try
attacking the target barge with both types of weapon.

Air Combat

In  this case, your target is an unmanned drone aircraft, programmed to fly
a  circular  flight  path.  This will allow you to practice approaches from
different  angles,  engaging  the drone either with an AIM-9M Sidewinder or
with the 25mm cannon.

SECTION VIII - TASK FORCE COMMANDERS MANUAL
-------------------------------------------

As commander of Operation Ocean Saber, you have two responsibilities Before
the  outbreak  of  hostilities,  you  must  devise  an overall plan for the
amphibious  landing  and  the  subsequent  ground  battle  with the enemy's
forces.   This  will  specify  the  movement of the assault ships and their
escorting  warships,  the  targets  to  be  attacked from the air, also the
landing  points,  subsequent  movements,  and  targets  for  the ground and
airborne troops.

Once  the plan is complete, you can start the simulation.  As this proceeds
under  the control of the computer, your job as commander is to monitor the
air  and  ground war you'll have to "fine tune" the battle plan, responding
to  the  movements  of  the enemy and the successes or failures of your own
forces.

CREATING A BATTLE PLAN

When  planning  a  campaign, the first step is to locate the most important
targets of the map.  These are the major towns, the air bases, and the most
important  fixed military bases.  Having noted their position, identify the
nearest  beaches  on  which  you can send Marines ashore.  Can any of these
inland  targets  be  "taken out" by units landed by helicopter?  Once these
airborne  forces  have  landed,  and  completed their mission, will they be
strong enough to beat off counter attacks?

Once  ashore,  your Marines will advance to attack the inland targets which
you've  assigned  to them.  Use the Tactical Amphibious Warfare Data System
(TAWADS)  to  identify  the enemy forces based at these locations, and work
out  how large an attacking force you`ll need, and how much air support you
can afford to provide with the numerically small fleet of AV8Bs.

Some  targets  can  be  destroyed by air attack using the AV-8Bs.  Identify
these, and decide in which order they should be attacked.

How  are you going to deal with the Indonesian Air Force?  Attack it on the
ground  and accept the losses which will result from flying against heavily
defended air bases?  Or wait for it to come up and fight?

Many of the Indonesian units are mobile, and will only appear on the TAWADS
map if they lie along the route of an AV-8B or helicopter mission which has
been  flown.  To locate those in areas not overflown by current operations,
you may want to launch aircraft on reconnaissance missions to these areas.

Having  listed your priorities, determine where to position the fleet.  The
AV-8Bs  can  travel  to  a distant target quite quickly but the slow-moving
landing  craft  cannot.   The  closer  you  are to a planned beachhead, the
faster the landing craft can make the round trip to the shore and back.

Having  the  ships repeatedly rush from one end of East Timor to another to
get aircraft and landing craft close to their targets will waste time - try
to develop a single integrated plan under which the ships will cruise along
the shore, launching their attack missions.

The  battle  plan  contains  several  components.  At the top level are the
movements  planned  for the ships of the task force.  These fleet movements
are  specified  as  a linked set of numbered waypoints.  At most waypoints,
the task force will launch one or more combat operations.

The  heart of the plan you devise will be a route off shore along which the
fleet  will  sail.   This  route  will  consist  of a series of interlinked
waypoints.   At each waypoint, you will have created one or more operations
-  air or ground missions which must be launched from this location.  These
can  be  assaults  by  ground  forces,  attack or transport missions by the
fleet's helicopter force, or air missions for Tarawa's AV -8B Harriers.

These  operations  in turn will follow routes which are themselves a series
of  linked waypoints, some of which mark the position of targets which must
be  attacked.   Each combat operation is based on a ship in the task force.
When the task force reaches the appropriate waypoint, the combat operations
associated with that waypoint are automatically launched.

It's  impossible  to  "muddle  through" a major amphibious operation Before
starting  the  campaign,  it's essential that you have a clear and coherent
plan.  The US, British and French units which General Schwarzkopf sent deep
into  Iraq  during Operation Desert Storm knew when they crossed the border
where they were going, what to do when they got there, and what to do after
that.   If  you want to win, make sure the Marine units you send ashore are
equally well informed.

TAWADS  will  allow you to create and position waypoints for the fleet, the
AV-8Bs,  the  helicopters,  and  the  ground forces.  It will automatically
handle  much  of  the detail, such as waypoint arrival and departure times,
freeing you to concentrate on shaping the overall plan.  By the time you've
created  a  plan  of  your  own, you'll realise why the job of commanding a
Marine  Expeditionary  Brigade  is  normally  given to a Brigadier General.
It's not easy.

Since  the  software  comes with at least one pre-defined campaign, you may
find  that examining these will give you ideas on how to construct your own
plan.   For example, battle plan SABER sends Harriers to the fixed bases to
bomb  them  heavily  then  relies  on ground forces to mop up the remaining
mobile units.  This is one potential solution - others may be better.

It's  essential  that  your plan should be balanced.  Sending ground forces
onto  East  Timor without air cover will result in them taking heavy losses
as  they  attempt to destroy the fixed bases.  You can`t just leave the job
to  the  infantry.  Don't let the spectacular air component of Desert Storm
fool  you  into thinking that the fight against the Indonesians can be left
to air power.  General Swarzkopf had hundreds of aircraft at his disposal -
you have only eight!  If you rely on air power to attack fixed/mobile units
on  Timor  you  will  probably miss the supporting mobile units.  After the
AV-8Bs  have gone, the mobile forces will get to work to repair the damaged
bases.

FIGHTING THE CAMPAIGN

Once  a  plan has been devised, you can start the simulation running.  Once
activated,  it  will  automatically generate detailed mission instructions.
The  computer  will  act as your staff passing commands to the units tasked
with  carrying  out the individual parts of your plan They in turn will try
to  achieve  what  you  have  asked  them to do.  As the fleet reaches each
waypoint, it will launch all the operations due to begin at that location.

As  your  ground  forces  are  committed  to battle, the multi layer expert
systems  within the software will react to your actions, taking action with
its  own  forces in real time.  Moving in a realistic manner these computer
controlled  enemy  units  will  defend  their ground, advance to fight your
forces, or retreat.

As the campaign gets under way you'll then have to monitor the intelligence
information  and  decide  how  to  counter the enemy's moves In running the
battle you`ll have three main sources of information.

1. The TAWADS map display

2. Intelligence reports.

3. Pilot briefs.

TAWADS  will allow you to assess the progress of the conflict, and to issue
direct orders to ground and air forces, ordering them to carry out specific
tactical  tasks not envisaged in the original battle plan.  It will be your
job  to  modify  the  battle  plan, responding both to the movements of the
enemy and to the successes or failures of your own forces.  You may have to
send  out  new  units or alter the orders of units in the field in order to
reinforce  a  critical  part of the battlefield, exploit a breakthrough, or
stop a retreat.

Like  a  good  military commander, the expert systems controlling the enemy
forces  will not waste time in indecision.  They will monitor the movements
of  the  US  forces,  and  once combat begins will try to identify tactical
weaknesses,  and  move enemy forces to exploit these.  Its view of tactical
priorities  may  not be the same as yours.  Look out for the unexpected and
remember that the enemy may respond faster than you anticipate.

Don't forget that as task force commander you have more information on what
the  enemy  is  doing than your commanders on the ground.  Your guidance is
essential to the efficient operation of your troops.  Every action you take
effects  the  world  you  are  playing  in  thereby giving you a feeling of
realism  never  encountered  before.  Your decisions and actions, successes
and failures will swing the whole conflict one way or the other.

THE COMMAND CENTER

The  Command Center has two large wall-mounted displays, and three computer
consoles.   As  was  the  case in the corridor the cursor will change shape
from an arrow to a cross to indicate possible selections.

The  central  computer  console  in  the Command Centre gives access to the
Tactical   Amphibious   Warfare   Data  System  (TAWADS),  a  sophisticated
integrated computer system desigued to provide command and control over the
group's aircraft, weapons, sensors and landing craft.

The  monitor  on  the  left-hand  side  is  for Tarawa's Air Data Computer.
Clicking  on  this  screen  shows the current state of fleet of eight AV-8B
Harriers  based  on the ship.  It will report on aircraft lost in action or
accidents.

The  monitor  on  the  right-hand  side  is  for  the Ground Data Computer.
Clicking  on  this  will  display the latest combat reports from the Marine
units operating on shore.  These messages will detail major gains or losses
of territory made by the Marines, and report casualties.

Remember to check these monitors regularly.  If one or more unread messages
are  waiting  on  either  of the monitors, the monitor will scroll, and its
cursor  will  flash.   If it isn't flashing, there are no fresh reports for
you to look at.

USING TAWADS

The TAWADS system has 11 operating modes:

BATTLE PLAN SELECTION Selection, overview and activation of Battle plans.

BATTLE  PLAN CONTROL Control over fleet movements and access to battle plan
operations.

OPERATION   DETAILS   Allows  the  creation,  review  and  modification  of
operations associated with the selected fleet waypoint.

HARRIER WAYPOINTS Entry and amendment of individual helicopter movements of
an AV-8B.

HELICOPTER WAYPOINTS Entry and amendment of individual helicopter operation
movements.

GROUND   FORCE  WAYPOINTS  Entry  and  amendment  of  individual  operation
movements by ground forces.

AIR  PLAN  Give  new  instructions  to  an  immediate and unscheduled AV-8B
sortie.

OVERIDE Give new instructions to a ground unit for immediate action.

INTELLIGENCE Provides information on a designated unit or location.

KEY Explains the symbols used on the tactical map.

MENU Customises the running of TAWADS.

Each  of  these modes opens a command window offering tactical information,
and most have two levels of control functions.

The  first  level  of  control are the options available by clicking on the
icons  contained  within  the  window.   Every window has at least one icon
(EXIT or CLOSE), and some have several.

The  second  level of control is via a submenu.  Not normally visible, this
can  be  opened  by clicking anywhere in the grey background of the window.
This  small menu will list the control options available in this particular
TAWADS mode.

Display Conventions

On  the TAWADS tactical map, the routes between mission waypoints are drawn
automatically.   Ground  and  air  routes and waypoints shown in yellow are
currently  active.   Those shown in light grey are planned operations which
have  yet  to  begin, while those in dark grey are history and have already
been  completed.   With its default display options active, TAWADS does not
display  missions  which  have been completed.  The waypoints and route for
the fleet are shown in blue.

Inputting Your Commands

The  main  interface with TAWADS is a two-button pointing device - either a
mouse or a joystick.  The keyboard is used only to enter names of Plans and
Operations.

The left-hand button on the mouse provides the Select function; that on the
right  provides  the  View  function.   The  location  of  the buttons on a
joystick  varies from one model to another.  Later you'll be shown a simple
way  of  determining which provides the Select function, and which the View
function.

The  buttons can be used in the normal three ways - to single click, double
click, or drag.  If the manual simply tells you to click, use the left-hand
button as normal.

The  pointer  is  generally  free  to move over the entire display, however
during  certain  operations  the  pointer  movement will be restricted to a
limited area (for example, during menu operations).

STARTING TAWADS

The  centre  computer  console in the Command Center is the TAWADS display.
The green shape visible on the screen is an electronic map of the island of
Timor.   Clicking on this screen will provide a full screen TAWADS display.
If  no battle plan is being executed as will be the case the first time you
look  at this screen - a rectangular battle planning window will be open at
the top left hand corner of the map.

The  TAWADS  synthesized  map is a simple contour view of the active combat
area  in  this  case  the  island of Timor.  Overlaid on this basic map are
symbols  indicating  the  position  of towns, villages, and roads.  A small
white shape off shore marks the current position of the US naval force.

EXPLORING TAWADS

The  TAWADS interface can be a bit daunting when first seen, so let's try a
simple walk-through of its main features without actually trying to fight a
campaign.   A window in the battle-planning window should show "SABER", the
name  of  the  pre-loaded  battle plan.  If it doesn't, click on the SELECT
icon  (the  up and down arrows) until SABER is displayed.  Now click on GO.
The battle-planning window will close, the battle has begun.  You'll notice
that the fleet has now moved up to the coastline of East Timor.

You`ll  see  various coloured lines and symbols overlaid on the map.  These
represent  the opening moves of battle plan SABER.  For the moment lets get
rid of them and declutter the screen.

Clicking  on  the  MENU  icon will open the Options Menu.  Click on DISPLAY
OPTIONS,  and  you'll  see  a list of features which can be overlaid on the
map.  The default conditions at startup are for Cultural features, Military
Units,  Plans  Forward and Plans Current to be displayed.  Click on Plans -
Forward  to  remove  these.   The menu will close.  Reopen it, and click on
Plans  Current  to  eliminate  these.   Now  you  should  have a reasonable
decluttered map to explore.

With  the  map  set to its initial relatively small scale, it will still be
fairly cluttered, even on a 17" monitor.  The first thing you'll want to do
is  to  centre the map on an area of interest, and change the scale to make
more detail visible.  There are two ways of doing this.

Surrounding  the  map are control icons.  These provide access to the major
functions  of the system.  A single click on any icon performs the function
associated with that icon.

The two icons at the bottom left of the screen provide control over the map
view.

Clicking  on  the up, down, right or left arrows within the MAP SCROLL ICON
scrolls the map view in the appropriate direction.

Clicking on the MAP ZOOM ICON with the select button decreases the scale of
the map, zooming in by a factor of two.  Clicking on the same icon with the
view  button unzooms the view.  A little experimentation at this point will
show joystick users which button is which.  The button which makes the view
of the island get larger is the select button; that which makes the view of
the island larger is the View button.

A small horizontal marker at the top of the map gives an idea of the amount
of  terrain  being  viewed.   As  the zoom setting is changed this line can
indicate  anything  from  tens  of  meters  to hundreds of kilometers (km).
Other  data  displayed  on  the  map surround shows is the current date and
time, also the system mode and selected battle plan.

Trying Out the Map

To  get an idea of how to use the map, use the MAP SCROLL icon to bring the
eastern  tip  of  the island to the centre of the screen.  Click on the MAP
ZOOM  icon  several  times  to  zoom  in.   You'll  soon be able to see the
individual  ships  in  the  fleet, plus several other types of symbol - red
diamonds,  blue  rectangles,  and  faster-moving  orange  airplane symbols.
These  are  military  units taking part in the battle.  Clicking on the KEY
icon at the top right will open a window listing the symbols.  (This can be
closed when no longer required by clicking on its CLOSE icon.)

Keep  zooming  in,  and  place names will appear.  You`ll see that the town
nearest the eastern tip of the island is Tutuala.  (You may have to use the
MAP  SCROLL icon to re-center Tutuala.).  Zoom in further, and you`ll start
to  see  finer  detail.   For example, there is a small wood some ikm north
east of Tutuala.

Click  right  on the MAP ZOOM icon until Lore becomes visible in the bottom
right  corner of the map.  We will use this to become familiar with another
way of moving around and zooming on the map.

Place the cursor on Lore, then use the View button to drag it to the centre
of the screen.  (As you do this, the cursor will change from being a single
arrow  to a tiny version of the MAP SCROLL icon.) When you release the View
button,  the map will move to bring Lore to the location where you released
the button.  If you think of this process as "Dragging Lore into View", you
will  have  a  neat way of remembering how its done - a drag operation with
the View button.

Move  the  cursor onto Lore, then click the view button.  This will magnify
the  map  by  a  factor of two centered about the pointer position.  Double
click with the view button reverses the magnify operation.

To  find  out  more  about  any  location  on  the map, you need to use the
INTELLIGENCE  icon.  To see this feature in action, click on Lore to expand
the  scale.   Clicking  on  the INTELLIGENCE icon will open a window giving
details of enemy strength in the town.

Use  your pointing device to explore the map, zooming in and out to examine
some of the towns and villages, checking the identity of the military units
you  encounter.   You'll  soon become accustomed to using the map controls,
and will be ready to tackle the task of planning an operation.

TAWADS OPERATING MODES

Let's look at each of these TAWADS operating modes in more detail.  To help
you  find the information you need to control combat operations, a standard
format is used to describe each mode:

STARTUP - how to enter this mode.

PURPOSE - a Summary of what this mode does.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT - the area of the display over which the pointer
can be moved.

DESCRIPTION  - a fuller description of the purpose of this TAWADS operating
mode.

COMMAND ICONS - the function of each of the icons contained in this window

SUBMENU the command options available from this windows hidden menu.

                             End Of Part 4
                             -------------

            AV8B HARRIER ASSAULT - OPERATIONS MANUAL - Part 5
            -------------------------------------------------


BATTLE PLAN SELECTION

STARTUP  -  Automatic on the first use of TAWADS.  Subsequently by clicking
on the PLAN icon on the map surround.

PURPOSE - Selection, overview and activation of battle plans

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT - restricted to the battle planning window.

DESCRIPTION  -  Opened over the top left corner of the map, the Battle Plan
Selection  window  allows  the  commander  to review existing battle plans,
create a new plan from scratch, and activate a chosen battle plan.  A brief
outline  of  the  selected  battle  plan  is shown in the lower half of the
window.

Command Icons

SELECT    Click left to select the next battle plan
          Click right to select the previous plan.

OUTLINE   Edit the outline description of the battle plan.

GO        Instructs TAWADS to activate the selected plan.

EXIT      Closes this window.

Submenu 

Clicking  anywhere  on  background of the Battle Plan Selection window will
open a menu offering the following functions :

Review/Change Battle Plan

Review or change the operational details of the selected plan - clicking on
this  will  take  TAWADS into the Battle Plan Control mode described in the
next section.

Add New Battle Plan

Create  a new battle plan - the system has a maximum capacity for 99 plans,
so  feel  free to create lots of new ones.  You will be prompted to enter a
name for the plan.  Type this, then press RETURN.  This newly- created plan
will  contain  no  orders.   To  create the orders which will make up a new
plan, re-open this menu, and click on REVIEW/CHANGE BATTLE PLAN option.

Remove Plan

Remove an unwanted battle plan from the TAWADS computer.

If  you  decide  not  to carry out any of the above functions, you can exit
from this menu by clicking outside of it.

BATTLE PLAN CONTROL

STARTUP  via  the map surround PLAN icon when a battle plan is active, also
via the Battle Plan Selection sub-menu "review/change" option.

PURPOSE  -  provides control over fleet movements and access to battle plan
operations.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT Map and Battle Plan Control window.

DESCRIPTION  -  The  movement  of  the  task  force is directed by a set of
waypoints  defined  by the battle plan.  A waypoint is a map location where
something  is  scheduled to happen - once arrived there, a military unit is
to  make  a  change of course, loiter, or carry out some action.  Waypoints
are used to direct the fleet, and to provide start points for operations.

The  fleet waypoints are shown as a linked set of diamonds on the sea.  All
waypoints are numbered.  Waypoints which the fleet or other forces have not
yet  reached can move moved, but not waypoints that your units have passed.
By definition, these are now part of history, so cannot be altered.

Fleet waypoints can be selected using the pointer select button.  The lower
part  of the Battle Plan Control menu will show the time at which the fleet
is due to arrive and depart this waypoint.

Fleet waypoints can be moved by dragging them with the Select button.  This
will automatically update the displayed fleet arrival and departure times.

Double-clicking on a waypoint will take TAWADS into Operation Details mode.
Described  later  in this section, this will allow you to review change, or
add operations associated with this waypoint

Command Icons

EXIT  -  closes the Battle Plan Control window.  If your designing a battle
plan, this will save any changes you have made to the plan.

Submenu

Clicking  anywhere on the background of the Battle Plan Control window will
open a menu offering the following functions:

Review/Change Operations

This  is  the most common function used in plan updating.  It activates the
Operational  Details window control function, allowing review/change to all
operations  initiated  at the currently selected waypoint.  Double clicking
on a waypoint on the map also activates this function.

Add New Waypoint

This  adds  a  new  waypoint  to  the  plan.   When building a plan, you'll
normally  want  to  add  the new waypoint at the end of the existing set of
waypoints,  so  this  is  where the new waypoint will normally be placed by
TAWADS.  If you`re modifying an existing plan, you may want to insert a new
waypoint between two existing waypoints.  This can be done by selecting the
waypoint before where you want the new waypoint to be.

For  example  if  you  want  to  create  a new waypoint between waypoints 5
waypoint  and 6, click on waypoint 5, open the submenu, then select ADD NEW
WAYPOINT.   A  new  waypoint  6 will appear close to waypoint five, and the
later waypoints in the plan will automatically be renumbered, and the later
waypoints in the plan will be recalculated.

In  every  case  the  newly-created waypoint will be positioned close to an
existing  waypoint  - either the last waypoint of the intermediate waypoint
you  selected.   You'll now need to drag it to the final location where you
want  it  to  be  positioned.   TAWADs  will  automatically compute the new
arrival and departure times for this and any subsequent points.

Remove Waypoint

This  will  remove  the  selected  fleet waypoint from battle plan.  Before
removing  a  waypoint, make sure you have removed any operations associated
with this waypoint.

Change Departure Time

Normally  TAWADS  will  automatically  plan a departure time which allows a
long  enough  interval  for  all  the  operations  you've  planned for this
waypoint.   If  you  add  more operations, TAWADS will increase the time at
this waypoint to accommodate the extra operations.  Sometimes, you may want
the  fleet  to  loiter  at  a  waypoint for a predetermined period of time.
Clicking  on  Change Departure Time will open a submenu showing the current
arrival  and  departure  time.   Clicking  on  the minutes displayed in the
departure  time with the left button will add a minute to the time spent at
this  waypoint;  clicking  with  the  right  button will subtract a minute.
Clicking on the hour or the day will change these values in the same way.

OPERATION DETAILS

STARTUP  -  via  the  Battle  Plan  Control  window's submenu, or by double
clicking on a waypoint while in Battle Plan Control mode.

PURPOSE  -  Allows  the  creation.   review  and modification of operations
scheduled to start at the selected fleet waypoint.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT - restricted to the Operational Details window.

DESCRIPTION  - This mode allows you to create, review, modify or delete any
of  the  individual  military  operations scheduled to take place from this
waypoint.   You can add new missions, remove unwanted ones, alter the order
in  which  the individual operations are to be carried out, alter the scale
of  a  ground  operation, or assign an operation to a different ship of the
task force

Command Icons

Select   Click left to select the next operation from the currently
         selected fleet waypoint.

         Click right to select the previous operation from the
         currently selected fleet waypoint.

         The aircraft or troop movements associated with the
         selected operation are shown in bright green on the map.

Submenu

Clicking anywhere on the background of the Operational Details window opens
a menu offering the following functions:

Edit Mission

This allows you to review or change the selected operation.  Clicking on it
takes  TAWADS  into  either the Harrier Waypoints, Helicopter waypoints, or
Ground  Forces  Waypoints mode.  Consult the relevant heading later in this
section for further information.

Alter Detail

Allows you to alter:

The name of a Harrier operation,

The  name  of  a  Helicopter  operation and the ship from which it is to be
launched.

The name, launch ship, and scale of a Ground operation

Add New Operation

Add  a new operation to the battle plan, to be initiated from the currently
selected waypoint.

The creation of a new operation follows a pre defined structure.

Name

Mission   names  are  generated  automatically  by  TAWADS.   The  selected
alphanumeric code reflects the mission type, waypoint and the new mission's
position is the list on operations due to begin at this waypoint.

Type

Select operation type from menu. The options are:

Ground Assault

Helicopter

Harrier

Select Ship

If  there  is  more  than  one possible ship from which an operation can be
based then you will be required to select from a menu of possible bases.

In  the  case  of  Ground  Assault operations, there will be a third set of
options:

Operation Size
 
Select the size of the planned landing. The options are:

Limited            (one landing craft)
Medium Scale       (two landing craft)
Full Scale         (three landing craft)

Depending  on the type of mission being added, TAWADS will now enter either
the  Harrier  Waypoints,  Helicopter  Waypoints, or Ground Forces Waypoints
mode,  so  that  you  can  define waypoints and targets for this operation.
Consult the relevant heading later in this section for furthur information.

Remove Operation

Remove  selected  operation from the battle plan.  (This is not possible if
the operation is already active or finished).

Operation Schedule

An  Operations  Scheduling  window  will  open  listing  all the operations
planned  from  this  waypoint.  These will be listed in date/time order and
the  list is scrollable by clicking on the up and down arrows at either end
of the vertical orange scroll bar.  If an operation has not yet begun.  its
priority  may  be  changed.   Select  the  operation  to be re scheduled by
clicking on the appropriate line in the listing.  The line will turn red to
show that it has been selected.  Clicking on the clock face icon at the top
left  corner of the Operations Scheduling window with the right button will
advance  the  operation one position up the list:  clicking the left button
will demote it one position further down the list.  When satisfied with the
changes, click on this window's Exit icon.

HARRIER WAYPOINTS

STARTUP  from  the  Edit  Mission  or  Add  New  Operation functions of the
OPERATION  DETAILS  window's submenu, or directly from the AIR PLAN icon on
the map surround.

PURPOSE  -  entry  and  amendment of individual operational movements of an
AV-8B.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT - Map and Harrier Waypoints window

DESCRIPTION  -  The  Harrier Waypoints window shows the current operational
instruction,  which is highlighted red on the map.  In planning your route,
remember  that  the  AV-8B  has  no  forward  looking radar able to provide
terrain-avoidance  information.   If  mountains lie between an aircraft and
its  target,  you  should  add  one  or  more navigational waypoints to the
planned  route in order to take the flight path around these.  Waypoints on
the  planned flight path may be designated as primary or secondary targets.
Waypoints marking targets should be positioned as accurately as possible on
the  map,  since these mark the point to which the aircraft Nav system will
guide  you.  The more accurately the waypoint is positioned, the closer the
target  will be to your flight path, making it easier to locate visually in
the forward view

Command Icons

EXIT returns control to the OPERATION DETAILS function.

Submenu

Clicking anywhere on the background of the Harrier Waypoints window opens a
menu offering the following functions:

Navigation Waypoint

Defines the currently selected waypoint as a navigation waypoints.

Primary Target
 
Defines the currently selected waypoint as a Primary Target.

Secondary Target

Defines the currently selected waypoint as a Secondary Target, one which is
to  be  attacked  if  any ordnance is left after successfully attacking the
Primary Target.

Remove Waypoint

Deletes the currently-selected waypoint from the aircraft flight path.

HELICOPTER WAYPOINTS

STARTUP  -  from  the  Edit  Mission  or Add New Operation functions of the
OPERATION DETAILS window's submenu.

PURPOSE   -   entry  and  amendment  of  individual  helicopter  operations
movements.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT Map and Helicopter Waypoints window

DESCRIPTION   -   The   Helicopter  Wavpoints  window  current  operational
instruction, which is highlighted red on the map.  Waypoints on the planned
flight  path may be designated as navigational waypoints, landing sites for
troops, or targets to be attacked.

In  planning  your  route,  remember  that  the helicopters have no forward
looking  radar able to provide terrain avoidance information.  If mountains
lie  between  an  aircraft  and its destination, you should add one or more
navigational  waypoints  to  the  planned route in order to take the flight
path around these.

Command Icons

EXIT - returns control to the OPERATION DETAILS function

Submenu

Clicking anywhere on the background of the Harrier Waypoints window opens a
menu offering the following functions:

Navigation Waypoint

Defines the currently selected waypoint as a navigation waypoint.

Drop Troops

This  mission  will  be  flown  by  a transport helicopter, which will land
troops at the selected waypoint.

Attack

This  mission  will  be  flown by an AH-1W Cobra attack helicopter, or by a
transport  helicopter  fitted  with  rocket pods and machine guns or cannon
rigged  to  fire  from  the  fuselage  windows.  The aircraft will attack a
ground target at the specified waypoint.

Remove Waypoint
 
Deletes the currently selected waypoint from the aircraft flight path.

GROUND FORCE WAYPOINTS

STARTUP  -  from  the  Edit  Mission  or Add New Operation functions of the
OPERATION DETAILS window's submenu.

PURPOSE - entry and amendment of individual operational movements by ground
forces.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT - Map and Ground Force Waypoints window

DESCRIPTION   -  The  Ground  Force  Waypoints  window  shows  the  current
operational  instruction,  which  is  also  highlighted red on the map.  On
reaching  a  waypoint, the Marines can engage the enemy forces based there,
then either hold the position, or move on to attack another waypoint.

Command Icons

EXIT - returns control to the OPERATION DETAILS function.

Submenu

Clicking  anywhere  on  the  background of the Ground Force Waypoint window
opens a menu offering the following functions:

Navigation Waypoint

Defines  the  currently  selected waypoint as a navigation waypoint.  Since
the Marines will be coming ashore by landing craft, the first waypoint must
be beachhead.  Troops can only be landed on beaches.

Engage & Occupy

The  Marines  will  engage  any  enemy  forees  at this location, and after
defeating  them  will  hold  and  defend  this position until given furthur
orders.

Engage and Continue

The  Marines  will  engage  any  enemy  forces  at this location, and after
defeating them will move on to the next waypoint.

Remove Waypoint

Deletes the currently selected waypoint from the ground movement plan.

AIR PLAN

STARTUP  - from INTELLIGENCE window when an operational unit is selected on
map.

PURPOSE Give new instructions to a ground unit for immediate action.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT Map and Harrier Waypoints window

DESCRIPTION  - If an AV-8B must be immediately despatched - for example, to
re-attack a target which was not destroyed by an earlier strike, or to cope
with  a newly-detected target not contained in the Battle Plan, clicking on
the Air Plan icon will give immediate access to the HARRIER WAYPOINTS mode.

The  Harrier  Waypoints  window  shows the current operational instruction,
which is highlighted red on the map.  In planning your route, remember that
the  AV-8B  has  no forward-looking radar able to provide terrain avoidance
information.   If  mountains  lie  between  an aircraft and its target, you
should add one or more navigational waypoints to the planned route in order
to take the flight path around these.  Waypoints on the planned flight path
may  be  designated  as  primary  or  secondary targets.  Waypoints marking
targets  should  be  positioned as accurately as possible on the map, since
these  mark the point to which the aircraft Nav system will guide you.  The
more  accurately  the waypoint is positioned, the closer the target will be
to  your  flight  path,  making it easier to locate visually in the forward
view.

Command Icons

EXIT - returns control to the OPERATION DETAILS function.

Submenu

Clicking anywhere on the background of the Harrier Waypoints window opens a
menu offering the following functions:

Navigation Waypoint

Defines the currently selected waypoint as a navigation waypoint.

Primary Target

Defines the currently selected waypoint as a Primary Target.

Secondary Target

Defines the currently selected waypoint as a Secondary Target, one which is
to  be  attacked  if  any ordnance is left after successfully attacking the
Primary Target.

Remove Waypoint

Deletes the currently-selected waypoint from the aircraft flight path.

OVERIDE

STARTUP  from  the  Intelligence  icon  on  the  upper  right border of the
tactical map.

PURPOSE - Give new instructions to a Marine unit operating on East Timor.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT - none.

DESCRIPTION  -  During combat the commander may wish to issue a last-minute
change  or  orders  to  ground  forces already sent into action, overriding
their  current orders with a new assignment of higher priority.  The ground
unit  to  be  given  the  new command must be selected on the map using the
Select button.  Opening the Intelligence window (if it is not already open)
will confirm the identity and current status of the unit).

Submenu

Clicking anywhere on the background of the Intelligence window opens a menu
offering the following function:

Overide

Selects  the  new  primary  target  -  this  is done by clicking on the new
target.

This change of plan takes place immediately

CONFIGURATION MENU

STARTUP - from the MENU icon on the upper left border of the tactical map.

PURPOSE - customizes the operation of TAWADS.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT - individual menus.

DESCRIPTION  -  The  operation  of  TAWADS  can  be  configured to meet the
preferences of the player.

Submenu

Clicking  on  the  MENU  icon on the upper right border of the tactical map
will open a menu containing the following options:

Stop Time

This pauses the simulation.

Normal

The  simulation  runs in real time - this is the normal operating mode when
playing the game.

Fast

The  simulation  runs  at four times normal time.  This can be useful while
units are on the move, but little else is happening for example, if landing
craft are heading from the assault ships to the beachhead.

Step 1 Min

This is an alternative method of temporarily speeding up the game.

Step Next Mission

This  advances  the game to the point where the next mission is about to be
launched.   This  allows  the player to "fast forward" through parts of the
plan  in  which  no  operations are to be launched.  For example plan SABER
contains  relatively  few  night  missions  for  the  AV-8Bs.   If none are
scheduled,  selecting  "Step  next  mission" will advance the simulation to
dawn of the next day.

Speeding  up  time is something a commander will want to do quite often, so
you  can jump directly to this function by clicking on the digital clock on
the upper border of the TAWADS map display.

Pressing  any  key during time advance will stop the advance and return you
to normal time.

Display Options

This lists the features which can be overlaid on the map:

Cultural features   (towns, villages, airports, etc. )
Military Units      (friendly and enemy)
SAM Zones           (Areas of terrain protected by surface to air missiles)
Plans - Forward     (Military movements due to take place)
Plans - Current     (Military movements currently taking place)
Plans - Past        (Completed military movements)

The  default  conditions  at  startup  are  for Cultural features, Military
Units, Plans Forward and Plans Current to be displayed.

Preferences

The  sole  option  available  here is to adjust the interval of time within
which you must make a second click on the mouse of joystick button for this
to  be recognised as the second action of a "double click".  The default is
0.2 sec, but you can choose 0.3, 0.4 or 0.5.  If you regularly double-click
when  using  other  software  (such as applications running under Microsoft
Windows),  this allows you so set the mouse double click speed to the value
you've become used to.

INTELLIGENCE

STARTUP  -  from  the  INTELLIGENCE  icon  on the upper right border of the
tactical map.

PURPOSE  -  to provide information on friendly and enemy units operating in
East Timor.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT - none.

DESCRIPTION  -  Towns,  villages,  airfields, plus US and Indonesian ground
units  are  shown on the map as symbols.  To obtain more information on any
of  these,  click on the Intelligence icon.  This will open an intelligence
window  at  the  upper right corner of the map, and show information on the
selected  unit  or  location.  Click on a unit or location using the SELECT
button  to  have the Intelligence window provide a report.  You can call up
reports on as many units and locations as you wish and can leave the window
open  while  the game runs - it will continue to display information on the
last object you selected.

Command Icon

Close

Submenu

Strategic  Overview:   Switches  the  intelligence window to show strategic
information  about  the  overall  process  of  the campaign.  Selecting any
object on the map switches the window back to tactical mode.

Command  Overide:  If a ground unit has been selected, clicking anywhere on
the background of the intelligence window opens a menu offering the OVERIDE
function.  (See the section on OVERIDE for details of this mode.)

KEY

STARTUP - from the KEY icon on the upper left border of the tactical map.

PURPOSE - explains the symbols used on the tactical map.

LIMITS ON POINTER MOVEMENT - none.

DESCRIPTION  -  Towns,  villages,  airfields, plus US and Indonesian ground
units are shown on the map as symbols.  To find the meaning of these, click
on  the  KEY  icon  to open the KEY window at the bottom left corner of the
map.  This window can be left open while the game is running

Command Icon

Close.

Submenu

None.

SECTION IX - INTELLIGENCE BRIEFING
----------------------------------

Lower  the blinds, lock the door and post sentries to make sure we won`t be
disturbed  by  those  not  cleared  for Secret material.  The spooks of the
Defense   Intelligence   Agency  have  prepared  the  following  classified
presentation to guide you through your mission;

THE INDONESIAN ARMY

Current   total   strength  of  the  Indonesian  Army  is  around  210,000.
Provincial and District commands have at their disposal some 80 battalions.
Nominal  strength  of  a  battalion  is around 1,500 - 2,000 men.  Most are
infantry  units,  but  there  are also four airborne battalions, plus eight
artillery  battalions,  and  eight for air defense.  East Timor covers some
7,700  square  miles.  Normal Indonesian Army force level in this region is
between 20,000 - 30,000 soldiers, probably 10 - 15 battalions in all.

For  years,  counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency have been major tasks
both  for  the  Indonesian  Army  and  its  Special Warfare Command and for
specialised  anti-terrorist  units  such as the Armys Detachment 81 Special
Forces,  the  Navy's Kesatuan Gurita, and the Air Forces Satgas Atbara, and
the Satgas Gegana (Counter terrorist Task Force) of the National Police.

Years of combat experience has made Indonesia's commando units probably the
world's   most  effective  counter-insurgency  force.   Over  almost  three
decades,  almost  all  of  the Army's senior commanders have served in East
Timor and regard the campaign as valuable training for the service.

In   its  anti-guerrilla  operations,  the  Army  makes  extensive  use  of
helicopters  to  move  its  commando  forces.   Under  a  scheme designated
Territorial  Counter-Guerrilla  Warfare, the commandos have demonstrated an
impressive  ability to move, fight and survive by using tactics copied from
their guerrilla opponents.

This  sort  of  extended  anti-guerrilla  campaign  has  proved  costly  in
financial terms.  The East Timor National Council of Maubere Resistance has
estimated  that  the  annual  cost  to  the  Indonesian  Government  of its
counter-insurgency campaign is $1,200 million.

Given  Indonesia's long standing and expensive military struggle to end the
rebellion,  the  rulers  of Indonesia will almost certainly use their large
reserve  of forces to reinforce East Timor once Ocean Saber gets under way.
The  Kostrad  (Indonesia's  strategic  reserve)  consists of three infantry
brigades,  three  airborne  brigades,  two regiments of field artillery, an
air-defense  artillery regiment, and two engineering battalions.  There are
also  two  brigades  of  Marines,  Assuming  a typical size of 6000 men per
brigade, this provides a reserve force of at least 30,000 men.

The  Indonesian  Air Force has a fleet of around 19 Lockheed C-130 Hercules
Transports.   Each  of  these four-engined aircraft can carry more than 100
soldiers or up to 20 tons of cargo on a typical mission.  These will almost
certainly be used in attempts to ferry soldiers and marines into East Timor
landing them at the airfields on the north coast.

Other  reserves  exist  in  the form of the Wanra (People's Resistance) and
Kamra (People's Security).  These are local auxiliary forces supporting the
Army  and  Police  respectively.   Lightly  armed and with minimal training
neither should pose any threat to the Marines, and are unlikey to be met in
combat.

Indonesian battalions are identified by three digit numbers, and like their
US   equivalents   consist  of  companies  subdivided  into  platoons.   By
monitoring  radio traffic between units, the general operating area of each
battalion  has  been  established, and this information is contained in the
databanks  of  the  TAWADS  system.   Identification  does  not  stretch to
companies  or  platoons,  since communications at this level are largely by
phone  or  messenger,  rather  than radio.  Intelligence can thus establish
that  a  town  is  being held by the 239th battalion, but not that the cook
house was being guarded by the 3rd platoon, 5th company

To label unidentified enemy units, the US Marines use the following scheme:

U/<unitnumber>,<battalionnumber> bn

For example:

U/7, 239 bn
U/1, 409 bn

The  "U"  in the designation indicates that the identity of this subunit is
unknown.   Each  battalion  has  its  own  set of "U" numbers, so the first
example  would  be  the seventh subunit of the 239th battalion to have been
located.

THE EAST TIMOR RESISTANCE

Although the nominal strength of the East Timor resistance is thought to be
around  1,400,  this  force  is in no position to provide assistance to the
Marines.   The  resistance  operates in units of between 10-50 men, average
age being in the teens or early twenties.  Shortage of radio communications
forces  individual  units  to  operate  autonomously,  without  any form of
effective central control.

Weaponry  is largely small arms, mostly captured M16 rifles, but there is a
shortage of ammunition.  Lacking a large scale backer prepared to arm them,
the  rebels  are  also  short of hand grenades, and light machine guns, and
have no shoulder-fired SAMs able to deal with Indonesian helicopters.

The  resistance tends to avoid pitched battles with the Army.  It considers
itself  a  political  symbol  rather than a fighting force, and is only too
aware  that  it  lacks  the strength and numbers needed to capture and hold
territory.   Once  the  Marines  land, we expect the resistance will do its
best  to  harass  the  defenders with ambushes and diversionary hit-and-run
attacks,  but  it lacks the weapons and manpower to take direct part in the
fighting.

INDONESIAN NAVY

Under normal circumstances, the 17 frigates, four Exocet-armed fast- attack
craft,  and  two  submarines of the Indonesian Navy would pose a formidable
threat  to the US task force.  However, the Indonesian Navy took no part in
the coup, and has publicly distanced itself from the ruling junta.  Through
diplomatic channels, senior Indonesian Navy commanders have informed the US
government  that  their  service  will  not oppose any UN sanctioned action
against  Army  and Air Force units in East Timor.  The US government has in
turn  assured  the  Indonesian  Navy that its neutrality will be respected,
provided that its warships remain north of East Timor and at least 10 miles
from  the island's northern coastline.  This condition has been accepted by
the  Indonesian  Navy,  but  to  avoid the risk of accidental confrontation
between the two navies, the President has directed that the US fleet remain
south of East Timor throughout Operation Ocean Saber.

INDONESIAN AIR FORCE

The  Indonesian  Air  Force  is  relatively small, but well equipped.  With
limited  funds  for  aircraft purchase over the years, the Indonesians have
always  chosen  wisely.   Every type of jet fighter currently in Indonesian
service  was  good  enough  to  be selected by the US Air Force and Navy as
"aggressor" aircraft for Top gun and other air combat training schemes.

F-16 Fighting Falcon

The  newest  and  most  potent  warplane  you'll face is the single engined
General  Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon.  A batch of 12 - eight single- seat
F-16A  and  four  two-seat  F-16B entered service in 1990.  These are basic
Block  15  version of the aircraft, rather than the more potent Block 50/52
model  now  in  service  with  the  USAF but it remains an agile and highly
effective  fighter.  On paper, the F-16 totally outclasses the AV-8B in air
combat.   It has a top speed of around Mach 2.0 compared with the Mach 0.85
of the AV-8B, while its combat ceiling of around 50,000ft is around 5,000ft
above that of the Harrier II.

In  practice,  most  modem air combat takes place at altitudes of less than
20,000ft,  and  at speeds ranging from Mach 0.8 - 1.2.  Here the difference
between the two aircraft is less obvious.  Under typical combat conditions,
the  AV-8B and the F-16 are in a similar weight category.  The F-16's Pratt
&  Whitney  F100  engine  generates  about ten per cent more trust than the
Rolls  Royce  Pegasus in the AV-8B, but burns about twice as much fuel when
doing so.

An  F-16  can  only  reach  full  engine  thrust  by  using  a  fuel hungry
afterburner.   Any  extended  use of afterburning will have the enemy pilot
peering  nervously  at his fuel gauge and wondering if its time to head for
home.   The  AV-8B  develops full thrust without afterburning, so its pilot
can  make  more  use  of full power in combat.  When attacked by F-16s, use
that  thrust, plus all the maneuvering advantage which can be obtained from
"viffing" .  Try to fight on your terms, not his.

The  main  air-to  air  armament of the F-16 is the AIM-9 Sidewinder plus a
built-in  2Omm Vulcan cannon.  The latter has a similar rate of fire to the
25mm  cannon  carried  by  the  AV-8B, but its 20mm shells cannot match the
explosive  power  of  the  larger  25mm projectiles.  The export version of
Sidewinder supplied to Indonesia is less sophisticated than the AIM-GM used
by the AV-8B, so should be more vulnerable to decoy flares.

Indonesia  uses  the  F-16  both  as  an air combat fighter and as a strike
aircraft.   On  a  short-range  attack  mission,  an  F-16  can carry up to
12,0001b of bombs.  If F-16s are sighted, always remember that their target
may not be you, but Tarawa or one of the other ships in the fleet.

F-5 Tiger II

Much the same applies to the other supersonic fighter in Indonesian service
- the Northrop F-5E and F-5F Tiger II.  Top speed in this case is Mach 1.64
at  36,000ft, while the combat ceiling is 54,000ft.  The F-5 lacks the high
thrust-to-weight ratio of the F-16, but its high maneuverability makes it a
dangerous opponent.  In the 1970s this aircraft was used by the "Aggressor"
and "Top Gun" training units of the USAF and USN, who found it well-matched
to the task of simulating the small and agile Soviet MiG-21.

Ten  single  seat  F-5E  and  four  two-seat  combat  capable  trainers are
currently  in  service.   They have two 2Omm internal cannon, and can carry
AIM-9 Sidewinder, or several tons of bombs.

A-4 Skyhawk

The  final  aircraft  you can expect to meet is the McDonnell Douglas A- 4E
Skyhawk.   Originally developed as a lightweight shipboard attack aircraft,
this  small  subsonic bomber can carry up to 8,000lb of ordnance, including
bombs  and unguided rockets.  Britain`s Royal Navy lost several warships to
A-4  attacks during the Falklands War and the 26 in Indonesian service will
pose a high threat to the amphibious- warfare ships of the US force.

After  releasing  its  bombs, the A-4 is a capable subsonic opponent in air
combat.   It can carry the AIM-9 Sidewinder, and has a built-in armament of
two  20mm  cannon.  In air-to-air combat, US and Israeli Skyhawks have used
cannon or unguided rockets to down MiG-17 and MiG-19 fighters.  Indonesia's
pilots  will  be hoping to add the AV-8B to this list so treat the A-4 with
respect in a dogfight.  It's not known as "Heinemanns Hot Rod" for nothing!

Other Aircraft

Indonesias  final  operational  jet  is the British Aerospace Hawk advanced
trainer.   Although an effective light-strike aircraft, it is not currently
based in East Timor and you are not likely to meet it in combat.

The  final  type  of  aircraft  in  East  Timor  is the Bell Model 205 UH-1
Iroquois  better  known  to  the  US services as the "Huey".  The 16 strong
fleet  is  operated by the Army rather the Air Force.  Widely used as light
troop  transports, these can carry between 11 and 14 soldiers.  Since these
are  regularly  used  as light inter-island transports, it is impossible to
determine how many of the 16 are currently in East Timor.

GROUND TARGETS IN EAST TIMOR

Mobile Units

Years  of anti-rebel operations have taught the Indonesian Army the virtues
of  mobility.   Much of the strength of the resident garrison will probably
be  found in small groups of between two and six tanks, personnel carriers,
trucks,  or other heavy vehicles.  Normal development practice is for these
to  be  stationed  around fixed bases, villages and towns, but there should
also  be  opportunities  to  attack  such  units while they are on the road
travelling operating locations.  These units will move when and if they are
required  to  support  their home bases.  The position of mobile units will
not be known until they have been sighted by US aircraft.

Fixed Bases

Typically these will be military camps, with several buildings and bunkers.
Some  have  radio antenna masts.  Installations of this type are positioned
at  road  functions  and further intelligence information relating to these
can be found in the TAWADS databank

Fixed  bases  are  always supported by a number of mobile units, the number
depending  on the importance of the base.  Some indication of the number of
mobile units around a fixed base should be available to pilots during their
pre-mission  briefing, and more exact information on the mobile units which
have  been  detected by US aircraft will probably be available from TAWADS.
These defending units may have shoulder launched SAMs.

If  a  fixed  base  is attacked, normal Indonesian Army doctrine is for the
surrounding  mobile units to regroup around the base and support it.  These
include  engineering  units  which  will probably attempt to repair damaged
bases.   If  you destroy the buildings in a base, but fail to hunt down and
destroy  any  enemy  mobile units in the locale, those building could quite
quickly be repaired and returned to operational status

Fuel Dumps

Petroleum,  Oil,  and Lubricant (POL) supplies for the Indonesian forces in
East Timor are stored in several Fuel Dumps.  These are major installations
with  large  above-surface fuel tanks on ground.  The latter will be highly
vulnerable  to  air attack, but pilots should avoid overflying at low level
the massive explosion which results from the destruction of the filled fuel
tank.   Like  the  Fixed Bases, fuel dumps are located near road junctions,
and will protected by a significant defensive force.

Air Bases

Five  air  bases  have  been  identified.  All are heavily defended by both
fixed  and  mobile  units.   The  two  biggest  air bases are Dili and Vila
Salazar  on the north coast.  Dili also serves as the civil airport, having
taken over this role from Vila Salazar.  By local standards, both are major
airports  with  several  runways,  substantial numbers of hangers and other
buildings, and a control tower.  These are the main operating bases for the
F-16s,  and  would  be  the arrival point for any Indonesian reinforcements
flown in by air

Three  smaller  bases  are  at Suai, Same, and Viqueque on the south coast.
These  have  a  single runway and several hangers, and are normally used by
the F-5 force.  The possibility of F-16s being moved forward to these bases
cannot be ruled out.

Electronic  intelligence  gathering  has  produced  no  evidence  that  the
Indonesian  Air  Force  is  planning  a  pre  emptive  strike on the fleet.
Fighters   are  unlikely  to  be  scrambled  until  US  warplanes  approach
Indonesian Airfields or begin attacking targets on East Timor.

SAM Sites

All the SAM systems in service with the Indonesian forces are either mobile
or  easily  transportable.   Normally  these  are  kept at fixed bases, but
electronic  intelligence gathering operations conducted over the last eight
hours suggests that these are now being deployed under cover of darkness to
their  operational  positions.  As soon as a SAM site is detected, the area
it covers will be noted in the TAWADS databanks.

Villages and Towns

These have no fixed defenses, but mobile units may be based around them.

                           End Of Part 5
                           -------------

            AV8B HARRIER ASSAULT - OPERATIONS MANUAL - Part 6
            -------------------------------------------------


INDONESIAN ARMY EQUIPMENT

Since  seizing  power the military junta has embarked on major purchases of
military  hardware.  These have greatly increased the striking power of the
Army particularly in terms of tanks, artillery and surface-to-air missiles.

Standard  main battle tank is now the Chinese T-59, a version of the Soviet
developed  T-54/55.   Armed  with  only a 100mm gun, these 38 ton tanks are
outclassed  by the US M1 Abrams.  Although crudely made, these are reliable
and  well-armored  for  their  weight  class.   If unsupported by the small
number  of  tanks  available  to  the  landing  force,  Marine  units which
encounter  T-59s  should  be  able  to  deal with these using TOW anti-tank
missiles.   The  T-59  will  also  be vulnerable to attack by the AV-8Bs or
AH-1W attack helicopters.

The  main  artillery used by the Indonesian Army is a Chinese built version
of  the  Soviet 122mm D-3O howitzer.  With a maximum range of just over 9.5
miles  (15km),  these are out-ranged by the more modern M198 howitzers used
by the Marines.

Two  types  of  mobile Anti-Aircraft Artillery (AAA) have been purchased in
large  numbers.   The  heaviest  is  a  Chinese-built version of the Soviet
ZSU-57-2 a twin-barrelled 57mm gun mounted on a T-54 tank chassis.  This is
a  relatively slow-firing weapon, but a single hit can do massive damage to
your aircraft.

Much  more  likely to score a hit is the radar-guided ZSU-23-4 Shilka radar
guided  AAA  gun,  significant quantities of which have become available on
the  international  market  with  the  collapse of the former Soviet Union.
Mounted  on  a  PT-76  tracked chassis, this four barrelled weapon combines
accuracy with a high rate-of fire.

Until  recently  Indonesian  surface-to-air  missile  (SAM)  defenses  were
restricted  to small numbers of British and Swedish systems, but these have
not  been deployed in east Timor.  The SAM defenses of East Timor are based
on  two types of missile purchased from one of the former Soviet republics.
The  SA-3  is a transportable command-guided SAM with a maximum range of up
to  15  miles (25km).  The smaller SA-6 is mounted on tracked vehicles, and
has a range of 18 miles (30km) against low altitude targets, or about twice
this distance against aircraft flying at high altitude.

SA-3  and  SA-6  will  probably be used to defend airfields, and other high
value  targets  such  as  fixed  bases  and fuel dumps.  Flying at very low
altitude  (around  300ft)  should  dramatically reduce the effectiveness of
these  both  types of SAM, but will increase the risk posed by AAA weapons.
The  ALQ-164  jamming  pod  should  also  reduce the effectiveness of these
missiles as will the release of chaff.

Mobile  units  have  been  armed  with  the Chinese built HN-5, an improved
version  of the Soviet SA-7 shoulder fired missile.  This is a heat seeking
missile,  with  a  maximum  range  of  around  two miles (3.5km).  The best
counter to this weapon is to release flares.

INDONESIAN COMBAT PERFORMANCE

The  Marines  have  the  edge  over  Indonesian soldiers in both quality of
equipment  and  level  of  training.   In a firefight against an Indonesian
mobile  unit,  a  US  unit  of  similar size will probably win with minimal
casualties.  When sent against defended fixed bases, the Marines will be an
a  disadvantage,  since  they not only cope with dug-in defenders, but must
also concentrate on trying to destroy base facilities.  Without air support
the marines are likely to take significant casualties in such an attack you
are  advised to bomb fixed bases using the AV-8Bs, then send in the Marines
to  mop  up  any  remaining  defenses.  If this is not possible, the AV-8Bs
should at least provide Close Air Support for the attacking Marine forces.

THE HARRIER AT WAR

Harrier  has  twice seen combat action.  USMC AV-8Bs were deployed to Saudi
Arabia in 1990, and played a successful role during Desert Storm.  Almost a
decade  earlier,  Britain  successfully  used  the aircraft during the 1982
Falklands  War.  Both campaigns illustrated the strengths and weaknesses of
the aircraft, offering useful lessons for the current East Timor campaign.

OPERATION CORPORATE: THE LIBERATION OF THE FALKLANDS

On  April  2nd  1982,  Argentinian  forces  invaded  the  Falkland  Islands
overcoming  the  token  UK  military  forces  stationed there.  The US Navy
believed  that  the  recapture  of  the  islands  by Britain was a military
impossibility  a  view obviously shared by Argentina.  This view overlooked
the  presence  of  two  strong-willed  individuals - British Prime Minister
Margaret  Thatcher and the head of the Royal Navy, First Sea Lord Sir Henry
Leach.   Even  before  the  Argentinian  fleet had reached the Falklands to
begin  what Argentina saw as the liberation of part of its territory, Leach
had  begun  to  assemble  the  naval  task force whose first elements would
depart for the south Atlantic on April 5th.

Britain's  Royal  Navy no longer operates full-sized aircraft carriers able
to  operate  conventional catapult launched fighters.  To provide air cover
for  the  task force, the UK had to rely on the Sea Harrier.  A total of 28
were  deployed  on two vessels.  Invincible was the first of a new class of
light  carriers,  while  the larger Hermes was a conventional carrier which
had  been  rebuilt  as  a helicopter equipped assault ship.  To improve the
endurance  and  firepower of the Sea Harrier, a modification program fitted
the  aircraft  with  larger drop tanks, and increased its armament from two
Sidewinders to four.

In  theory  at  least,  the  British aircraft should have been no match for
Argentina's  top  fighters.   The  21  Mirage  III  and  26 examples of the
Israeli-built  Dagger  copy of this French fighter were supersonic aircraft
with  a  top  speed  of  Mach  2.  Luckily for the British, the Mirage is a
delta-winged  aircraft,  a configuration which requires a long runway.  The
airfield  at  Port  Stanley  was  the largest in the Falklands, but had too
short  a  runway  to handle these aircraft.  The Mirages and Daggers had to
fly  their combat missions over the Falklands from bases on the Argentinian
mainland.   Like  the  Messerschmitt Bf109 fighter which escorted Luftwaffe
bombers  attacking  Southern  England  fifty years earlier, the Argentinean
fighters  were  forced  to carry external fuel tanks to extend their range,
and  even with these could spend only a few minutes flying at full power in
the combat zone.

On May 1, Hermes launched 12 Sea Harriers to carry out attacks on
the airfields at Port Stanley and Goose Green. An hour after their
return, these aircraft were once more airborne on air-defense patrols.
Despite being outnumbered six to one, the force of 28 Sea Harriers
scored 20 "kills" and three "probables" during the brief war. Sixteen of
the Argentinian aircraft were downed using the AIM-9L Sidewinder
the other four by fire from the Sea Harrier's internal armament of two
30mm Aden cannons.

Six  Sea  Harriers were lost.  One was shot down by a Roland surface-to air
missile  the other by AAA.  The remaining four were lost in accidents - one
crashed  after  take  off  while  the  others fell victim to the foul South
Atlantic  weather.   Two which went missing while on patrol are believed to
have  collided  in poor visibility while another rolled off the deck of the
carrier and fell into the sea.

To  supplement the small Sea Harrier force, 14 Royal Air Force Harrier GR.3
fighters  were  selected  to  handle  much  of the ground-attack role.  RAF
pilots  were  hurriedly  trained  in the art of flying from a carrier while
their  aircraft  were  modified to carry AIM-9L Sidewinder missiles.  These
aircraft  were  flown  to  Ascension  Island.   Six  were sent to the South
Atlantic aboard a container ship, then transferred on arrival in mid May to
the  flight  deck  of  Hermes.   Two  more  flew  from Ascension to Hermes,
arriving  on  June  1,  and were followed by a further two which arrived on
June 8th.

The  RAF  Harrier  GR.3s flew 125 ground-attack and tactical reconnaissance
sorties  in  the  face  of  heavy  defensive  fire,  mainly from light anti
aircraft  weapons.   Three  of  the  10  aircraft  were lost in action, all
believed to have been the victims of anti-aircraft gunfire.  "Most aircraft
engaged  in  offensive support survived damage, which usually resulted from
intense  Argentinian  anti-aircraft  gunfire, said the British Government's
official  report  on the campaign.  Most of the close support missions used
unguided  bombs,  the  British  BL775  cluster  bomb  proving  particularly
effective.

Throughout  the  brief  war  task force commander Rear Admiral John "Sandy"
Woodward  was aware that the success of the amphibious landing would depend
on  the  survival  of  his two aircraft carriers, particularly the flagship
Hermes.   Wherever  possible,  he  kept  these  vessels  well  east  of the
Falklands,  and  thus out of range of the Argentinian Mirages, Daggers, and
Skyhawks.  Even at this distance, Woodward still faced the threat of attack
by fighter-bombers equipped with the French built Exocet anti-ship missile,
but Indonesia has no weapons of this type.

For  Ocean  Saber,  the US has only one carrier, while the number of AV-8Bs
available  is  around  a fifth the size of Woodward's combined force of Sea
Harrier  and  Harrier  GR.3 aircraft.  This small air component must handle
both the air to-air and air-to-ground missions, flying against an air force
about a third the size which Britian faced in 1982.  Without Tarawa and its
AV-8Bs,  the landings are doomed to failure.  Lose Tarawa, and you lose the
campaign.

During  the  Falklands War the Argentinian Air Force made two main tactical
errors.   One  was  for  its  fighters  to launch their missiles at maximum
range,  then  turn  away  to retreat at supersonic speed.  The Sea Harriers
were  able to dodge the incoming missiles, close the range, then fire their
own  Sidewinders.   The  other  was the fact that for most of the brief war
aircraft  tasked  with  attacking  the fleet concentrated their fire on the
escorting  warships  rather  than  the  amphibious  ships  and  transports.
Destroyers and frigates could be replaced by others despatched to the South
Atlantic  in  the  wake  of the main task force, but the carriers and their
aircraft,  plus  the  assault  ships  and  transports  with  their cargo of
soldiers and equipment were irreplaceable.

Neither  error is likely to be repeated by the Indonesians.  The F-16 has a
much  longer  range  than  the Mirage and Dagger so will have ample time to
engage  the  AV-8Bs.   It  also  has  a  much  higher  performance than the
Argentinian fighters, and is armed with more effective air to air missiles.
Unlike  Rear-Admiral Woodward, the commander of Ocean Saber does not have a
supply  of fresh escort vessels.  Like the amphibious ships and transports,
Kidd and her Perry-class companions are irreplaceable.

OPERATION DESERT STORM: THE LIBERATION OF KUWAIT

The  part  played  by  the AV-8B in Desert Storm was relatively small.  Two
squadrons  of AV-8B were among the first Marine aircraft to arrive in Saudi
Arabia.   By  the time that the air war began, 6O AV-8B were operating from
shore bases, and a further 26 aboard amphibious- warfare ships operating in
Gulf waters.  This was a total of four squadrons and one detachment.

The  land  based aircraft operated from King Abdul Aziz Airfield.  This was
the  most northerly airfield used by the Allies, and ensured a short flight
time  to  the  combat  zone.   Other  deployment  locations  included rough
airstrips and concrete forward sites.

The AV-8B went into action on the first day of the ground war, knocking out
Iraqi  artillery  which was bombarding Marine ground positions near Khafji.
By  the end of the Gulf War the small force AV-8B force had flown more than
3,380  combat sorties, and some 4,000 flying hours.  During this time, they
delivered  more  than 5.9 million pounds of ordnance.  Mission capable rate
averaged 90 per cent.

To stay out of SAM and light AAA fire, AV-8Bs typically flew at an altitude
of around 15,000ft high enough to say out of trouble, but low enough to see
trucks  moving  on  the  ground.   Assigned  a primary and secondary target
within  a  30  by  30  mile "kill box", pairs of aircraft would make diving
attacks  on  their  designated targets.  If these couldn`t be found, pilots
would  follow  the  roads  until they found a target.  Few AGM-65 Mavericks
were used by the AV-8Bs; the best warload turned out to be between four and
six  bombs  mounted  one  per pylon.  These were normally 500lb, 1,000lb or
Rockeye  bombs.   In a typical CCIP attack the weapons would be released at
around  6,000ft  while  the  aircraft  was  flying at around 525kts in a 45
degree  dive.   At first, the AV-8Bs would trade two bombs for Sidewinders,
carrying  four  bombs  plus  two missiles, but the absence of the Iraqi Air
Force  made this a pointless precaution.  The number of Sidewinders carried
was reduced to one under the left wing, then to zero.

Five  AV-8B  were  lost in combat - two from VMA 542, and one each from VMA
231,  311.   and  331.   Two  of  the pilots - Captain James M Wilbourne of
VMA-542,  and  Captain  Reginald  C.   Underwood  of  VMA  331 were killed.
Captains  Michael  C.   Berryman  (VMA-311)  and  Russell  A.   C.  Sanborn
(VMA-231)  were  taken  prisoner,  and  later released, while Captain Scott
Walsh of VMA-542 was rescued.

Combat experience showed that the aircraft's main weakness was the location
of  its  engine nozzles.  Heat-seeking missiles home of the hottest part of
the target which is normally the jet pipe.  On a conventional fighter, hits
from  light  heat-seeking missiles tend to be one the tail but on the AV-8B
the hot jet pipes are much closer to the engine and cockpit area.

Gulf  War  combat  experience  shows  versatility  of  the  unguided  bomb,
particularly  the  Rockeye,  and the wisdom of staying above the ceiling of
light  AAA  weapons.   If  losses  due to heat-seeking SAMs build up during
Operation Ocean Saber, it may be advisable to carry an external chaff/flare
dispenser so that you can drop flares more frequently during your attack.

SECTION X: HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

DEVELOPMENT OF THE HARRIER

At  Britain's  1968  Farnborough  Air Show, three officers of the Us Marine
Corps  walked  into  the  hospitality  suite  of the British company Hawker
Siddeley  Aviation and announced "We're interested in the Harrier".  The US
services  are  not  in  the  habit  of buying jet fighters from an overseas
supplier, but this was the start of a process which would see the US taking
into  service  Britain's revolutionary vertical take off and landing (VTOL)
fighter and which would lead to todays AV- 8B Harrier II.

To  an  Englishman,  the sale of Harrier to the US Marines might be seen as
evidence  that  his nation can still teach the "Yanks" a thing or two about
aviation,  but  in fact US involvement in the Harrier program dates back to
the  late 1950s.  Without US financial assistance, the airplane would never
have left the drawing board.

Back  in  the  mid-1950s, the Cold War was at its peak, and the NATO allies
had  based their air plans on a network of 8,200ft runways based in Western
Europe.  These would have been priority targets in wartime a fact which led
French  airplane  designer  Michel  Wibault  to  purpose  the  Gyroptere, a
ground-attack fighter able to take off and land vertically.

The  idea  of  a  vertical  takeoff and Landing (VTOL) fighter was not new.
Several  experimental  aircraft  had  already  flown, and others were being
built.   Some, like the turboprop-powered Convair XFY-1 and the jet powered
Ryan X-13 Vertijet, were "tail-sitters." From a vertical starting position,
these  climbed  away  from the take-off point under the power of their main
engine, then reversed this manueuvre in order to land.

An  alternative  solution  explored  by  aircraft  such  as the Shorts Sc.1
involved  taking  off  with the fuselage in the normal horizontal position,
the aircraft being raised by a battery of downward-pointing lift engines.

Both  arrangements  had disadvantages.  The pilot of a tail-sitter was in a
most  uncomfortable position.  During take-off and landing - the very times
when  his concentration needed to be at its highest.  This was not the case
with  an  aircraft  which used liftjets; here the problem was that the lift
engines  occupied much of the internal volume of the fuselage, reducing the
amount  of  fuel  which  could  be carried, and for much of the flight were
simply unwanted dead weight.

Wibault  proposed to get around these problems by using vectored thrust.  A
single  huge engine whose thrust was greater than the aircraft weight could
lift  the aircraft if its thrust could be directed downward, then propel it
in normal flight by directing the thrust rearward.

This  idea  had been tested in 1954 with the twin-engined Bell Model 65 Air
Test Vehicle, and would be explored further in the new Bell X-14 then under
construction  in  the USA, but these aircraft were too small to perform any
military  task.  On the tiny Model 65, the two J44 jet engines were mounted
outside   of   the   fuselage   and   could   be  moved  from  rearward  or
downward-thrusting   positions.    For   the   X-14,   two  British-  built
Armstrong-Siddeley Viper turbojets would be mounted side by side within the
forward fuselage, discharging their exhaust through belly mounted steerable
cascade nozzles.

In  a conventional aircraft, safety is improved by having multiple engines.
If  one  fails,  the  aircraft can keep flying.  This isn't the case with a
VTOL  aircraft  any significant loss of thrust while in the hover will turn
that  hover  into  a  crash.   Having multiple engines simply increases the
chance  of  an engine failure.  This was the problem faced by 1950s designs
such as the Model 65, the X-14, and the Shorts SC.1, and by todays Yakovlev
Yak 38 Forger and Yak 141 Freestyle V/STOL fighters.

For  the  Gyroptere, Wibault planned that the thrust would be generated not
by  several jet engines but by four steerable air blowers, all mechanically
driven  by the most powerful engine he could find - the Bristol Orion rated
at around 8,000hp at sea level, this would be connected to the blowers by a
system  of  shafts  and  bevel  gears.   The  four  blowers would be angled
downwards  to provide the thrust needed for vertical takeoff then turned to
face aft to create the power for conventional flight.

Conventional control surfaces such as ailerons, elevators and rudder obtain
their  effect  by  deflecting  the  rapid  flow  of  air passing around the
aircraft's  wings,  tail fins, and rudder.  When the Gyroptere was hovering
or  flying  at  low  speed, they would be useless.  Wibault realised that a
practical VTOL aircraft would require a second control system for low speed
flight  and  hovering.   He  proposed  to fit the aircraft with a system of
nose,  tail,  and wingtip mounted reaction control jets.  Fed by compressed
air,  these would be used to maintain control until the airplane was flying
fast enough for conventional control surfaces to take over.

Unwilling to fund such as novel airplane, the French suggested that Wibault
apply  for  funding from the Mutual Weapons Development Programme (MWDP), a
scheme  under which the US could fund promising foreign weapons.  Gyroptere
was  too complex to be practical, but gave two British companies Hawker and
Bristol Aero Engines the inspiration to devise a more sensible design.

Bristol  engineers  looked at Wibault's proposal, and decided his estimated
weight  of  only  1,0801b  for  the  four  blowers  and bevel gearboxes was
unrealistic.   Instead,  they proposed that the Orion engine should drive a
single  large  fan section "borrowed" from the companys much larger Olympus
engine.   This in turn passed its output of compressed air to two steerable
nozzles.

Hardly  had  this  BE.48  engine  been  sketched out on the Bristol drawing
boards  when  Hooker  realised  that Bristol's new Orpheus jet engine would
make  an even better power source than the Orion.  This BE.52 engine design
was equally short-lived.  The improved BE.53 eliminated the gearbox used to
drive the fan.  Instead, the fan was driven by its own turbine stage.

The idea of using a second turbine was not new.  Until 1949 all jet engines
had  used  a  single  shaft.   Air from the inlet was compressed by a multi
stage  compressor whose airflow entered a combustor section, where the fuel
was  burned.   The  hot efflux gases leaving the combustor passed through a
turbine used to drive the compressor, before passing to the jetpipe.

This  layout  was  simple,  but  the rotational speed of the turbine-driven
shaft  which  drove  the  compressor  was  always  a compromise between the
optimum  speed  needed  by the early stages of the compressor and the speed
best for the later stages which were handling a higher pressure airflow.

In  1949  two  engine  manufacturers  Pratt & Whitney and Bristol Engines -
tested  new  engines  which introduced a twin-shaft layout, a configuration
still  used  for  most  present-day aero engines.  A low- pressure (LP) fan
feeds  air  to a high-pressure (HP) compressor.  After fuel has been burned
in  this  HP airflow the hot gases pass through an HP turbine used to drive
the  HP  compressor,  then  an  LP  turbine which drives the LP fan, before
passing to the jetpipe.  The two section of the engine - LP and HP can each
rotate at the speed which gives highest efficiency.

On  the  B.53  the fan did not feed the HP compressor.  All its air went to
the  two  large steerable nozzles.  Two small inlets mounted directly above
and  below  the  fan were used to feed air to the Orpheus section whose hot
exhaust  gas  was  released  from  a  rearward-facing  jetpipe just as in a
conventional  engine.   Since  all the compression was done by a compressor
which  was entirely driven by a single shaft and turbine, the BE.53 was not
a  true  two-shaft engine, but it promised enough power to allow the design
of a warplane.

In  the spring of 1957, the Hawker team led by Sir Sidney Camm, designer of
the  World  War II Hurricane, Typhoon and Tempest piston- engined fighters,
drew up plans for what was then known as the P.1127.  With its ugly tadpole
shaped  fuselage,  unswept mid set wing, and tail wheel undercarriage, this
design  looked more like the primitive jet fighters of the mid 194Os than a
combat  aircraft  for  the  196Os.  Air from the nose inlet entered a BE.53
engine in the lower part of the centre fuselage.  The two steerable nozzles
were  located  on  either side of the fuselage directly under the wing, the
jetpipe emerging from the lower fuselage just aft of the wing.  A slim rear
fuselage led to a tail assembly which would not have looked out of place on
a Second World War piston engined fighter.

Since only part of the thrust of the BE.53 was vectorable, the aircraft was
designed  for  short  rather  than  vertical  take-offs  and landings.  Its
take-off and landing speeds would be too low for aerodynamic controls to be
effective,  so  Camm's team planned to feed some of the fan air to a system
of  nose,  tail, and wingtip-mounted reaction control jets similar to those
first proposed by Wibault.  Too small and lacking in engine thrust to carry
a warload, the P1127 was proposed as a lightweight reconnaissance aircraft.

While  this design work was going on, back at Bristol Engines, Hookers team
had  come  up with further improvements.  In a normal two shaft engine, the
task  of the fan stage is to provide LP air for the HP compressor.  The new
engine  now  being  sketched out on Bristol drawing boards had an oversized
fan  which produced enough LP to feed not only a pair of steerable nozzles,
but  also the HP compressor.  Having passed through the HP and LP turbines,
the hot engine efflux entered not a single conventional jetpipe, but a pair
of   steerable  aft  nozzles.   All  four  nozzles  of  this  "four-poster"
arrangement  could be simultaneously moved so that they pointed downward to
provide  the  vertical  thrust  needed for VTOL, then backward to power the
airplane for normal flight.

This  new  engine  allowed  the  Hawker team to make a fresh start.  By the
autumn  of  1957  they  had  created  a  design  able  to take off and land
vertically.   Although  the wing was still unswept, it was recognisably the
ancestor of today's AV-8B Harrier II.

The  new airplane and engine could not have been born at a worse time.  The
British  Government  had  just  decided that the manned combat aircraft was
obsolete, and opted to cancel virtually all its current warplane programmes
in favor of guided missiles.  The idea of a VTOL fighter fell on deaf ears.

US  defense planners rejected the British idea of all-missile air forces as
naive,  and  agreed  to  meet 75 per cent of the cost of developing the new
airplane  and  its  engine.   Refused  British  funding,  the  two  partner
companies  used  their own money to make up the remaining 25 per cent.  Not
until  late  1959  did  the  British  government agree to help fund the two
P.1127 prototypes taking shape at Hawker's Kingston factory.

Camm  and  his  team  wanted  to  create  not just a flying testbed able to
demonstrate  V/STOL  technology  but  an  airplane  which could serve as an
operational  fighter.  The structure was built strong enough for combat and
with  the  internal  volume  needed  to  allow  the installation of mission
related  avionics.   The  problem they faced was that in any VTOL airplane,
the  total  weight  at  takeoff must be less than the thrust created by the
engine.   Get  the  airplane too heavy or be faced with an engine unable to
develop  the specified thrust, and it will refuse to fly a fate not unknown
in the history of VTOL aircraft!

In  September  1959 the new engine, now named Pegasus 1, started running on
the  test  bench.  It developed only 9,000lb of thrust, but showed that the
concept  of  a  "four  poster"  vectored-thrust  engine  worked.  An engine
suitable for flight would have to generate more thrust, plus a supply of HP
rather than LP air for the reaction control system.  Studies had shown that
the  amount  of  LP  air  needed  for  reaction control would reduce engine
performance, and require bulky ducting to feed it to the wingtip, nose, and
tail reaction jets.  To be practical the system would have to be redesigned
to use high-pressure air drawn from the engine's HP section.

To  provide  the extra thrust and a source of HP bleed air, Bristol devised
the  Pegasus  2 engine, which ran for the first time in February 1960.  The
best  that  Bristol  designer  Stanley Hooker could promise was 11,0001b of
thrust  giving  Camm  the  problem  of  packing  this  large engine into an
airplane  about the weight of a Korean-War-era F-86 Sabre.  Redesigning the
reaction  control system was not easy.  The HP bleed air from the Pegasus 2
was  available  in  the  quantities needed to do the job.  and at pressures
high  enough to allow small and compact ducting.  Unfortunately it left the
engine  at  a  temperature  of  around  660  deg F, so had to be ducted via
pipework  made  from  Nimonic  alloy a material originally designed for use
inside jet engines.

By  October  1960, the first P.1127 airplane was ready to fly.  It left the
ground  for the first time on October 21st, beginning the first of a series
of  tethered  tests intended to explore handling in the vertical mode.  The
margin  between aircraft weight and engine thrust was very low during these
first  flights,  allowing  enough  fuel  for  only  two minutes of hovering
flight.   By  early  November,  test pilot Bill Bedford and the P.1127 team
were  ready  to try free flight.  To do this involved the additional weight
of  installing a radio in the cockpit at a time when every pound was vital.
The  first  untethered  flight  was on November 19th.  Soon afterwards, the
British  government  finally  agreed to pay for a batch of four development
aircraft.   Bristol  -  know  known  as Bristol Siddeley also increased the
thrust  of  the  engine  by  a  further  1,000lb,  allowing more fuel to be
carried.

Next stage was to try the airplane out in normal flight.  This phase of the
test  program  started on March 13th 1961, clearing the way for the team to
cautiously  explore  the  problem  of  making  the  way for the vertical to
horizontal  flight  and  back again.  On some hovering flights, the nozzles
were  rotated backward to give the aircraft a forward velocity while during
others  made  from the runway the nozzles were deflected downwards to allow
the  aircraft to fly more slowly, eventually bringing it to speeds at which
its   aerodynamic   control  surfaces  had  little  effect,  control  being
maintained using the puffer jets.

During  a  six  month series of tests using both P.1127 prototypes, the gap
between  the  highest speed attained from the hover and the lowest achieved
in  horizontal  flight  gradually  narrowed, until the first transition was
demonstrated  on  20th  September  1961.   For  todays  AV-8B  pilots, this
maneuver  has  become routine and its one you`ll have to learn to carry out
in seconds.

Early  in  1961,  the  NATO  allies  released  a  specification  for  a new
supersonic  close-support  airplane  able to operate from rough strips some
200  yards  long.   Hawker  had already started work on a supersonic P.1150
design.   Power by an improved Pegasus engine with afterburning in all four
nozzles,   this   would   have   been   a  practical  and  useful  fighter.
Unfortunately its top speed would have been around Mach 1.3 rather than the
then-fashionable Mach 2.  It was never ordered.

By the end of the year, Hawker Siddeley had drawn up plans for the improved
P.1154  -  an  aircraft  which combined the Mach 2.0 performance of the F-4
Phantom  with  the  VTOL  ability  of  the  P.1127.  To power this, Bristol
Siddeley started work on a more powerful engine - the BS.100.

Worried  that the P.1127 concept might be abandoned if left to the British,
around the end of the year the US suggested that a batch of P.1127 be built
to  equip  a proposed tri-national US/UK/West German trials squadron.  Work
started  on a batch of nine aircraft built to an improved design designated
Kestrel.   These  would  have  swept wings and the uprated 15,200lb thrust.
Pegasus  5  engine, but would still not be able to carry a usefull ordnance
load.

Britian  pressed  ahead  with the supersonic P.1154, which was intended for
use by both the Royal Air Force and the Royal Navy and even started work on
a C-130-sized short-take-off and landing transport aircraft able to support
P.1154  operations.   It  was an ambitious concept and one which would even
strain  today`s  technology  let alone that of the mid 1960s.  In practice.
getting  the  Air  Force  and  Navy  to  agree  on joint design proved near
impossible,  and the commonality between the two versions rapidly dwindled.
Late in 1963 the Navy dropped out of the program and an order for McDonnell
Douglas F-4 Phantoms was announced in February 1964.

Work  continued  on  the  Air  Force  version,  which was expected to enter
servive  in  1969.   The  arrival  in  power  in  late  1964 of a Socialist
Government  intent  on  abandoning  most  of the nation's military aircraft
programmes  resulted  in  both  the P.1154 and the Hawker Siddeley 681 STOL
transport being cancelled in 1965 before either had flown.

F-4  Phantoms  were ordered for both British services, but the go-ahead was
also  given  for  the  subsonic P.1127 to be taken into service as a combat
airplane.  It was to use some of the nav/attack systems being developed for
the  P.1154, and be powered by the latest 19,000lb thrust Pegasus 6 engine.
Six development aircraft were ordered in February 1965.

Between  the  spring  of  1965  and the spring of 1966 the Kestrel-equipped
tri-national  squadron  explored  the military usefulness of VTOL aircraft,
flying  around 600 hours for the loss of a single airplane.  After the unit
disbanded,  six of its aircraft were despatched to the USA for trials under
the designation XV-6A, while the others stayed in Britain.  Flying from the
carrier,  Independence,  and  the  assault ships Raleigh and La Salle XV-6A
proved the potential usefulness of a naval VTOL fighter.

The first of the six development P.1127 first flew on August 31st, 1966.  A
batch of 60 production aircraft was ordered early in 1967, and the first of
the  resulting  Harrier GR.1 aircraft flew on December 28th, 1967.  A total
of  114  GR.1's  were  delivered to the RAF, where they remained in service
until replaced by the AV-8B Harrier II in the early 1990s.

In  1968  the USMC realised that the XV-6A tests had showed the feasibility
of  deploying  an  operational VTOL fighter:  Unlike the other US Services,
the  Marines  are  an  offensive  force,  one  designed  to  seize and hold
beachheads.   The  fire  support  they  need must travel with them.  Marine
Forces  can't  take  with them the massive artillery support which the Army
takes for granted, so strike aircraft must provide the close-support needed
to soften up an enemy position, or to break an enemy attack.

In  the  past,  USMC  aircraft  had  operated from carriers, but the P.1127
Harrier  was an airplane which could be deployed from assault ships or even
improvised  airstrips  close to the front line.  At first, Congress refused
to  allocate  money  for Harriers, but the Marines pressed ahead with their
evaluation of the airplane while arguing their case.

When  Congress  finally  did agree to authorise the purchase of 12 Harriers
for  test  and evaluation by the USMC, it insisted that any follow-on order
for  production  aircraft  would  have to be placed with a US manufacturer.
Hawker Siddeley and McDonnell Douglas signed a licence-production agreement
for  the  airplane, while the other deal between Rolls-Royce (who had taken
over  Bristol)  and  Pratt  & Whitney covered US manufacture of the Pegasus
engine.   In  practice  however  the  cost  of  setting  up  US  production
facilities  for  the planned USMC fleet of 102 single-seaters and eight two
seat  trainers  was  so  high that Congress relented, and the aircraft were
purchased from Britian.

By  now  the  RAF  had  progressed  from  the  original Harrier GR.1 to the
improved  GR.1A  (with  the  Pegasus  102 engine), then the definitive GR.3
(with  the  21,000lb thrust Pegasus 103 and additional avionics).  The USMC
version  was  similar  to the GR.3, but did not have the nose mounted laser
ranger  and  marked-target  seeker  fitted to the RAF Aircraft.  The single
seater was designated AV-8A, with the two seater becoming the TAV-8A.

A  further  batch of 13 aircraft was purchased in the early 1970s by Spain.
Ordered by the US Navy in order to spare Britain's socialist government the
political  embarrassment  of  selling weaponry to a right wing regime, they
were  transferred to Spain where they remain in service as AV-8S and TAV-8S
Matadors.   They  entered  service  on  the elderly carrier Dedalo, and now
serve on its replacement, the Principe de Asturias.

The  Marines  use  the  AV-8A  in the close-support role, but what Britains
Royal  Navy  now  needed  was  a  VTOL fighter able to operate from the new
Invincible  class  light  carriers.  Ordered in May 1975, this was based on
the GR.3/AV-8A, but incorporated a raised cockpit, a nose- mounted blue fox
radar, and a marinised Pegasus 11 Mk 104 version of the Mk103 used to power
the  Royal  Air  Force's Harrier GR.3.  The Blue Fox radar was designed for
the task of detecting high altitude targets such as maritime reconnaissance
aircraft,  and  had  none  of the expensive technology needed for look down
operation against low level strike aircraft.

First  flight  of  a  Sea  Harrier  prototype  was  on  20th  Augnst  1978.
Deliveries  to  the  Royal Navy began in June 1979, and the aircraft became
operational  in 1980, first on the carrier Invincible, then on sister ships
Illustrious  and  Ark  Royal.   In its FRS.51 Form, it also serves with the
Indian  Navy  which  purchased 23 (plus four two-seat trainers) for servive
aboard the carriers Vikrant and Viraat.

Both  Britian  and  the US realised that their existing fleets of AV-8A and
Harrier  Gr.1/3  would need to be replaced in the 1980s, so the two nations
had  already  started  work  on  studies  of  a  "Super Harrier".  In 1973,
McDonnell  Douglas  started  preliminary work with British Aerospace (which
had  absorbed  Hawker  Siddeley)  to  develop  an  inproved  version of the
airplane.   The  AV-16A  would  have had a long- span supercritical wing, a
25,000lb   (11,350kg)  Pegasus  15  engine,  and  twice  the  payload/range
performance of the existing aircraft.

The  two  countries were unable to agree on a common design.  In the United
States  the  Marines wanted the most efficient VTOL close- support airplane
which  technology  would permit, but Britain's RAF wanted a design to which
its existing aircraft could be rebuilt.  Not surprisingly in March 1975 the
British  Government  announced  that  there  was  not  enough common ground
between the two requirements to justify a joint programme.

At  this  point  Britain  and  the  US pursued their own national programs.
British  Aerospace  drew  up  plans for what became known as the "Big Wing"
Harrier.   This  would  have had a revised front fuselage, extended intakes
and  a  new  34ft  (10.4m)  span wing of metal construction.  Optimised for
high-speed  flight,  this  enlarged  wing  would have been retrofittable to
existing aircraft.
 
In  the  US,  McDonnell  Douglas pressed ahead with a less expensive design
which  would  combine a new airframe incorporating refined aerodynamics and
the  large-scale  use  of carbon composites with a developed version of the
Sea Harrier engine.  This would be known as the AV-8B Harrier II.

The  cockpit was raised to improve the view back over the inlets and wing a
vital feature in air combat - while a new longer span wing with 15 per cent
more  area  than  that  of the AV-8A produced more lift and less drag.  The
inlets  were redesigned, while under the skin, a new generation oF avionics
promised  better  reliability.  Internal fuel capacity was 50 per cent more
than  that  of  the  AV-8A.   To  minimum  weight,  almost a quarter of the
structure was made not from metal but from carbon composite materials.

To speed the programme, the first two YAV-8B prototypes were not built from
scratch,  but  were  created  by  fitting the new wing to two AV- 8As.  The
first flew on 9 November 1978.  Flight demonstrations were completed during
1979  with  the  two  prototypes  having  flown  more  than  170 test hours
successfully.

The  aircraft  did  have  problems,  but  these  were political rather than
technical.   The Carter administration was opposed to the development of an
aircraft  customised to meet the relatively small Marine requirement.  When
drawing  up  the  Fiscal  Year  1979  Defense  Budget Request, the Pentagon
refused  to  add  funding  for  the  AV-8B.   Instead it suggested that the
Marines  buy  a  batch  of 78 McDonnell Douglas A-4M Skyhawks, and increase
their order for the F/A-18 Hornet.  This would help reduce the unit cost of
the  latter  aircraft,  and  help  keep  the  Skyhawk production line open.
Congress disagreed, and restored funding for the AV-8B.

The  following  year  saw  this  process  repeated,  with the Department of
Defense   refusing   the   $203   million  requested  for  continued  AV-8B
development.   Congress  forced  the release of $108 million held over from
the  previous year and added a further $180 million for FY80.  This allowed
a full scale development contract to be issued in April 1979.

A  year  later  Congress  again  over-ruled  the  Carter administration and
provided  not  only the $240.7 million needed for the FY81 development work
but  also  $90  million  for procurement of "long-lead" production hardware
which  would  have  to  be ordered now to allow procurement of the first 12
aircraft.

By  now  it  was clear that the aircraft's long-term future would depend on
its  becoming  an international program.  The obvious customer was Britian.
In  1980,  the  Royal  Air Force evaluated the aircraft, and concluded that
although  the  aircraft  met the performance standard laid down by Britians
Air  Staff Requirement 409 (ASR 409) in most respects, it was badly lacking
in one area - maneuverability.

The  AV-8B  had  been tailored to meet a US Marine Corps requirement for an
efficient  "bomb truck" able to carry a heavier payload over a longer range
than  had  been  possible with the AV-8A.  In USMC service, the AV-8B would
operate  under the protection of friendly fighters such as the Grumman F-14
Tomcat  and  McDonnell  Douglas  F/A  18  Hornet, but the British wanted an
aircraft  able to fight in Central Europe, where friendly fighters would be
outnumbered by Soviet MiGs

Any  Harrier  replacement  would  have  to be able to defend itself the RAF
decided   so   ASR  409  placed  strong  emphasis  on  maneuverability  and
survivability  for  defensive  air combat performance.  Turn rate of the US
aircraft  was  well  below the 20 degree per second turn rate which the RAF
thought  essential  if  the Harrier was to be able to defend itself against
enemy air superiority fighters.

As  well  as  idetifying  the problem, the British also offered a potential
solution.  The metal wing of the proposed "Big Wing" Harrier - now known as
the Harrier GR.5 would have incorporated wing leading- edge root extensions
(LERXs),  features  intended  to  increase maneuverability.  Studies showed
that by adding similar LERXs to the AV-8B wing, the airplane would meet the
RAF  maneuvrability  requirement  without  jeopardising  the  payload/range
requirement needed by the Marines.

In the summer of 1981, the UK agreed to rejoin the programme, and to buy at
least  60 AV-8B fighters.  British aircraft would be known as Harrier GR.5,
the  designation originally proposed for the "Big Wing" Harrier.  Under the
terms  of  a  deal  announced  in July 1981, the UK agreed to contribute an
initial  $80  million  to  the costs of a joint development program, and to
provide  the  additional $200 million needed for development work unique to
the RAF version.

BAe  would  set  up a production line in England to build the RAF aircraft,
and  would  be  responsible for manufacture of the rear and center fuselage
sections,  center-line  pylon  and  the  reaction  control system.  Fin and
rudder  assemblies may also be included.  Under this work-sharing agreement
McDonnell  Douglas  would  manufacture  approximately  60  per  cent of the
aircraft, BAe the remaining 40 per cent.  Work on the engine would be split
in  a similar manner, with 75 per cent going to Rolls-Royce and 25 per cent
to Pratt & Whitney.

To  keep the existing AV-8A fleet effective until the AV-8B entered service
in   the   mid-1980s,   the  Marines  embarked  on  a  conversion  in  Lieu
ofProcurement  (CILOP) program to rebuild existing aircraft to the improved
AV-8C   standard.    Changes   included  the  installation  of  LIDS  (Lift
Improvement  Devices), plus installation of new avionics such as the AN/ARC
159  radio,  KY-28  crypto  set,  the ALR-45 radar warning receiver and the
ALE-39 flare/chaff dispenser.

The  F402-RR-406  Pegasus 11-2IE engine used in early production AV- 8Bs is
based  on  the  Mk  104 developed for Sea Harrier, but is designed to match
mounting  points  on the AV-8B airframe.  It also incorporates a redesigned
fan  able to run at higher RPM.  It also has new zero scarf cold nozzles, a
revised  swan-neck  intermediate  casing which smooths the flow of air into
the high-pressure compressor a forged combustion chamber, better HP turbine
cooling.   a new shrouded LP turbine and improved seals.  Maximum thrust is
21,500lb

The first true AV-8B was the first of four full scale development aircraft.
It  flew for the first time on November 5, 1981.  All four were sent to the
Naval  Air  Test Center during 1982 to begin a program of flight test.  The
first  of  12 pre-production airplanes flew on August 29, 1983.  A two-seat
TAV-8B version was also developed to help train Marine pilots.

Wherever  possible,  the  AV-8B  uses  off-the-shelf avionics.  Like Marine
pilots assigned to fly the AV-8B, you`ll have to become familiar with these
systems.   Prime  attack  sensor  is  the  Hughes Angle Rate Bombing System
(ARBS),  a  nose-mounted  unit  which  combines a laser spot tracker and TV
contrast  tracker.   This allows day or night attacks to be delivered using
conventional bombs, laser-guided "smart" bombs, unguided rockets, or guided
missiles  such  as the Hughes AGM-65 Maverick.  Navigation is handled by an
ASN-130 inertial- navigation system.

Harrier Gr.3 and the AV-8A had no autopilot, but the AB-8B is fitted with a
unit  known  as  the  Stability  Augmentation  and  Attitude  Hold  System.
Intended  to  reduce  the pilot's workload by about two-thirds, this allows
easier  and  safer hovering and vertical landings.  The pilot can even take
his hands off the controls while the airplane is hovering.

Many  of  the  cockpit  systems were already used on the F/A-18 Hornet, and
include  the head up display (HUD), a multi-function cathode-ray tube (CRT)
cockpit   display   and   an   Up   Front  Control  (UFC)  panel  used  for
communications, navigation, and weapons control.  In the AB-8B cockpit, the
engine throttle and nozzles are operated from a single control to allow the
pilot  to keep his attention focused outside the cockpit during air combat.
Under  this  HOTAS  (hands-on  throttle and stick) scheme the pilot will be
able  to  fly  "viffing"  (vectoring  in  forward flight) combat maneuvers.
Without  looking  down,  he  can  control  the airplanes maneuvering flaps,
select and steer the aircraft sensors, acquire targets, release weapons and
aim the guns.

For  self  protection,  the  AV-8B  is  fitted with an ALB-67 radar-warning
reciever  designed  to  detect  hostile radar signals.  Mounted in the rear
fuselage  is  an  ALE  39  dispenser able to release radar reflecting chaff
designed  to confuse enemy radars, or hot-burning flares able to decoy heat
seeking  missiles.   The aircraft is due to receive the internally- mounted
ALQ-165  Advanced  Self-Protection  Jammer  (ASPJ),  but  delivery  of this
complex  system  has  been  repeatedly  delayed.   (The  RAF version of the
airplane  carries  the  British-designed  Zeus  jamming  system).   For the
moment, the Marines rely on the externally-mounted ALQ-164 jamming pod.

In 1984, McDonnell Douglas started work to create a night-attack version of
the  AV-8B.   This  was  done  by  adding  a  nose-mounted  Forward looking
Infra-Red  (FLIR) system, and equipping the pilot with Night Vision Goggles
(NVGs).   These  systems  are  now standard in current production aircraft,
while earlier examples will be modified to add these.

The  Marines  took  delivery of their first AV-8B in 1984, and the aircraft
became  operational  with  the  USMC's  VMA-331 Bumblebees in 1985.  In its
Harrier  GR.5 form, the aircraft became operational with Britians Royal Air
Force  in  1989.   A  total  of 94 are planned.  Spain ordered 12 EAV-8B to
replace  the  older AV-8A, and these are now in service aboard the aircraft
carrier Principe de Asturias.

In  its  basic  form,  the  aircraft  was  intended  for use by day, but in
September  1989  the USMC took delivery of the first version configured for
night  attack.   A  similar  night-attack version known as the Harrier GR.7
entered service with the Royal Air Force in the following year.

The  new avionics needed to give the pilot a view of the outside world were
developed  in  the  UK.   A  nose-mounted  forward-looking Infra red (FLIR)
creates  an  image of the terrain ahead of the aircraft.  This is displayed
on  the  HUD  as  a  full-sized  image directly superimposed on the outside
scene.   Flying  an  aircraft using only the small area visible through the
HUD  would be difficult, so the pilot also wears night vision goggles which
provide  a  lower-grade  thermal  image  of  the  outside world in whatever
direction  the  pilot  is looking.  This version of the aircraft has a more
powerful  engine, the 23,800lb thrust Pegasus 11-61 known to the US Marines
as the F404-RR 408.

In  AV-8B  Harrier  Assault,  you'll  be  flying  this night-attack capable
version  of the aircraft, the most modern variant currently in service.  An
even  more  advanced  version  known  as  the AV-8B Harrier II plus started
flight  trials  on 22 September 1992, but this will not enter service until
the  mid-1990s.   Main  change  in  this  new  version is a reprofiled nose
containing an APG 65 multi mode radar.

The Marines intend to take delivery of up to 40 AV-8B Plus.  Italy plans to
buy  15  single-seat  and  two twin-seat Harrier II Plus for service on the
carrier  Giuseppe  Garibaldi,  and  could increase this order to around 30.
The  Spanish  Navy  expects  to  operate  12  AV-8B Plus, but will probably
rebuild its existing EAV-8B to this standard rather than buy new airframes.
Japan is known to be interested in the aircraft.

Production  of  the  AV-8B is expected to run into the early 1990s by which
time  the  Marines  will  have  taken  delivery  of 300 AV-8B and 28 TAV-8B
trainers.   Under present plans, 156 of these aircraft will be built to the
night-attack  standard.   To  bring older aircraft up to this standard, the
USMC  plans a rebuild program.  A first phase will install the night attack
avionics; a second could add the APG-65 radar.
 
Britian  will  rebuild  its  Harrier GR.5 aircraft to the GR.7 night attack
standard  but haSs no plan to add a radar as part of a mid-life improvement
programme,  31 Royal Navy Sea Harriers are being rebuilt to FRS.2 standard,
receiving  a  British-developed  Blue  Vixen  pulse  Doppler  radar able to
provide  all-weather look-down capability track while scan, and the ability
to  engage  several  targets  simulaneously using up to four AIM-120 AMRAAM
missiles.   Other changes include a lengthened rear fuselage (to compensate
for  the  enlarged  nose needed to house Blue Vixen), a redesigned cockpit,
and an improved radar-warning receiver

THE REBELLION IN EAST TIMOR

In  August 1975 civil war broke out in the colony of Portuguese Timor.  The
eastern  section  of  the islands which make up the Indonesian archipelago,
Timor had first been settled by Portuguese colonists in 1586.  In 1859, the
island  was  divided  between  the  Netherlands and Portugal.  In 1949, the
western  (Dutch)  portion  joined  the  then  new state of Indonesia, whose
independence had finally been recognised by the Netherlands.

For Indonesia, the continued presence of the Portuguese in Timor remained a
sensitive  issue.   Portuguese  Timor  was  run  as an overseas province of
Portugal,  and  until  1975  no  steps  had  been  taken  to  promote  self
government.   Portugal  finally  decided  in 1975 that it would pull out in
1978,  and  announced  plans to hold local elections for a planned People's
Assembly.

Unfortunately  the  three  main  political factions in Portugese Timor ware
unable  to  agree  as to what form independence should take.  The Associcao
Popular  Democratica  de  Timor  (APODETi)  wanted  the colony to become an
autonomous  province  of  Indonesia,  while  the Uniao Democratica de Timor
(UDT)  favoured  independence  but  retaining links with Portugal.  A third
party  the  Frente  Revolucionario  de  Este  Timor Independente (FRETLiN),
wanted total independence

On August 11th 1975, the UTD announced that it had taken over the colony in
a coup.  Fighting broke out several days later and by the 20th had become a
full  blown  civil  war between FRETLIN on one side and an alliance between
the UDT APODETI and several smaller parties on the other

By  November  28th,  FRETLIN  was  able  announce  the  establishment  of a
"Democratic  Republic of East Timor", but the new state would last for less
than  a  month.   On  December  7th  a  force  of  around  6,000 Indonesian
paratroops  supported  by  bombardments  from Indonesian warships operating
offshore invaded the new republic, and seized Dili the capital.

Four  days  later,  the  United Nations demanded that Indonesia desist from
"furthur  violation of the territorial integrity of East Timor" and ordered
it to withdraw.  Indonesia would admit that its Army was in action claiming
that  the  attack  on  Dili  had been mounted by APODETI, UDT and what were
described as "Indonesian volunteers."

The formation of a "Provisional Government" for East Timor was announced on
December  17th.   Four days later the UN Security Council voted unanimously
for a Resolution calling for a total withdrawal by Indonesian forces.  This
was rejected by Indonesia, which has ignored many subsequent UN Resolutions
on East Timor.

By  mid  February  1976.   the  take  over  of  East  Timor was essentially
completed.   On  May 31st the newly formed "People's Representative Council
of  East Timor" held a meeting which had only a single item on the agenda -
a petition that East Timor be absorbed by Indonesia.

In  a ceremony reminiscent of the colonial era, an Indonesian "fact finding
mission" which arrived on June 24th was handed a portion of East Timor soil
and  a  nugget of gold.  Five days later, Indonesia announced acceptance of
East  Timor  and the existence of the new province was proclaimed on August
17th.

Just over a week later, Indonesian leader Suharto admitted that FRETLIN was
still   fighting.   Two  months  later,  the  Indonesian  Defense  Minister
described  FRETLIN as a "band of bandits" who would be eliminated in two to
three  months.   In  practice,  the  Indonesian  Army was to mount repeated
offensives  against  FRETLIN  over the next few years, the largest being in
1978 and the fall of 1981.

1982  produced  the first reports of human rights violations by Indonesia,
with 4,000 Timorese being held in prison camps on the island of Atauro.  By
this  time, Indonesia estimated that FRETLIN had been reduced to a force of
around  130  combatants,  while  the  guerrillas  claimed  a  force  of six
companies  - about 6,800 in total.  Independent observers suggested figures
ranging  from  200  to 600.  The province seemed quite in the first half of
1983, but fighting broke out again that August.

The mid 1980s saw growing reports of further human rights violations - mass
arrests,  "resettlement  programs",  the  execution of FRETLIN sympathisers
executions   during  the  military  operations,  conscription  of  Timorese
civilians  into  the  Indonesian  Army.  These heavy handed tactics seem to
have  worked.   On 27th December 1988, Indonesia announced that the FRETLiN
rebellion  was  finally  over.   Travel  restrictions  in the area would be
lifted, and the region demilitarized.

In  October  of  that  year  Pope  John  Paul II visited Indonesia, and the
authorities  suppressed  pro Timor demonstrations during his visit.  To the
Indonesian  Government, the most disturbing feature of these demonstrations
must  have  been the relative youth of the agitators many of whom must have
been  children  at  the  time  of  the 1985 invasion .  A new generation of
Timorese was taking up the struggle for independence.

A  program  of  settling  non-Timorese  in  the  region caused protests and
demonstrations in 1990.  A report by Amnesty International in the following
year  spoke  of  an "accelerating program of short term detention, torture,
and ill treatment of political opponents".

On  November  12,  troops  opened  fire  in Dili on a crowd of around 3,500
demonstrators.  The number killed has never been fully established.  At the
time,  the  Indonesian Army claimed 19 deaths, and blamed the incident on a
"misunderstood order" Opposition groups estimated the death toll at between
60  and  180.   A later official investigation by the Indonesian government
put the figure at 50.

Human  rights  groups claimed that within days of the massacre, between 300
and  400 people had been arrested, and that between 60 and 80 were executed
on  November 15.  By late November, claims were being voiced that more than
200 had been executed.

By  this  time,  East Timor had been a closed territory for 13 years.  Some
human  rights  groups  have estimated the number of East Timorese killed or
who have died of starvation in the long-running campaign at around 200,000.
FRETLIN  has  offered  a  cease-fire,  but  this  has  been rejected by the
Indonesian Government.

The  stalemate  continues.   The  rebels  lack  the  strength to defeat the
Indonesian  Army  but that Army in turn has failed to reduce rebel strength
in more than a decade of struggle.  If the people of East Timor are ever to
be  given the chance to decide their own future, this can only be done with
the help of the international community

In  1992,  Portugal  asked President Bush to apply pressure to Indonesia to
persuade  that  nation to accept the many UN resolutions on East Timor, but
with a Presidential election looming and his own poll rating slipping there
was  little,  in  practice,  the US President could do.  For the moment the
problems  of  East  Timor  remain  on  the  international communities "back
burner"


------------------------------------END------------------------------------