Hydra


 CHEAT MODE:

 While playing type in 'KILLKILLKILL' to enable these keys:

      [F] - Extra fuel.
 [Return] - Cycle through weapons.

 TIPS:

Mission one on level one is set in Colorado.  This mission will give you a
good idea of the way the enemy is going to come at you in the future.  It's
a good practise stage, but if you want to progress through the game quickly
your best bet is to skip it completely.

Money is an important commodity which can be gained by collecting the bags
which hang from the balloons.  Your best bet is to use your boost and pull
back straight causing your boat to glide into the air.  Do not push forward
on the stick as this will cause your flight to be prematurely terminated.

In the Hoverdrome you will be able to get your grubby mits on a load of
useful items.  Guide your boat through the hoops to get some lovely money,
and zoom through the nets to obtain fuel.  If you make a mess of one of the
jumps, and crash, the bonus stage will come to an abrupt end.

Collecting either the green or blue globes will bump up your fuel supply
allowing you to complete the section more easily.   The green ones will
appear throughout the game, but the blue ones only turn up in later levels!
The yellow globes are a rare commodity which will provide you with extra
turbo boosts.  You're going to have to keep your eyes peeled because they
don't appear very often!

Try to save the boost for the end of the level just in case you run out of
fuel.  All being well it should push you past the necessary boundary to
start the next level.

At Lake Huron you will find loads of pink boats, which when shot will drop
green fuel globes.  Watch out though, 'cause there are lots of mines bobbing
about in the water.

The final mission will take you across the world, to Libya.  Your mission
here is to transport a doomsday device, and make sure that it does not fall
into the wrong hands.

Arrgggh!  A man drops from an helicopter and attempts to beat you over the
head with a big stick.  How do you shake him off?  Well, your best bet is to
do a big boost up jump and hope that he falls off.  Failing this, you may
find that simply crashing your boat is the easiest way of getting rid of
him.

In the Pacific there will be literally hundreds of boats for you to contend
with, and all of them seem to have particularly nasty intentions!  If you
actually manage to get past this section though, you will be treated with a
bit of surprise - meet the Shadow face to face as you holiday together on a
peaceful island!

STRATEGIC SUGGESTIONS
1.  Fuel is the most valuable commodity - make sure you keep replenishing
    supplies.
2.  Remember! You can cycle through the special weapons.
3.  Save a boost for the end of the level if you can.
4.  If your fuel is low us the turbo boosts mid-level.  Flying doesn't use
    up fuel.
5.  Shoot up as many pink boats as you possibly can.
6.  Get as many globes as you possibly can throughout the game.

End............