Cannon Fodder


 CHEAT MODE:

 At any time go to the save game option. Now when the game requests a
 save name, enter 'JOOLS'. "CHEAT MODE ACTIVE" will now flash on the
 screen and you'll now find that your lead trooper has become a sharp
 shooting 4 star general.


 PLAYING TIPS:

 Keep a watchful eye out - some enemies are very well camouflaged.
 Look out for flying doors etc after you've blown up a hut or building.
 If civilians start firing things at you, shoot them - unless of course
 the mission is to protect the civilians or get them home.
 In missions which you have control of a lot of troopers, separate the
 lowest ranking trooper from the rest and give him all the weapons, make
 sure the rest are safe, then attempt the mission with the one trooper.
 If the trooper dies just press [Esc] and start the mission again.
 This saves a lot of troopers later.
 Troopers are able to throw grenades quite a long way and over walls, trees
 and buildings. Use this to your advantage to protect against Big guns and
 Jeeps. To throw a grenade a long way, simply position the pointer further
 than needed. Buildings can be destroyed even if you can't see them.
 For instance, if a trooper is in a Big gun and there is a building
 slightly off the edge of the screen, roughly aim at the building making
 sure the pointer is at the very edge of the screen and fire.
 Learn to control Jeeps and Skidooz early on. In later levels you may need
 good control to hit ramps at correct angles. This is also useful to get
 away from shells, rockets and grenades.
 An effective way of destroying snipers is to just run straight towards
 them with all-guns blazing. Don't waste grenades on them unless it is
 necessary.
 On the Jungle levels, look out for the different kinds of booby traps.
 There are spikes which come out of the ground (usually in thin gaps
 between the trees). There are also trip wires to look out for.
 Watch out for the quicksand too.
 On the Arctic levels, be careful of exploding snowmen and seals. I know
 it's not very nice, but shoot the seals just in case. Remember that you
 can hide from the helicopter as well as shoot when you are in shallow
 water.
 On the Desert levels, watch out for the civian gunslingers and mines.
 With bridges make sure you don't fall through gaps and also watch out for
 spikes in the middle or either end of the bridge.
 On the Moorland levels, look out for mines and exploding sheep.
 Again it's best to shoot the sheep. There are also spikes on some of the
 levels.
 On the Underground levels, look out for mines. Also be careful near thin
 walls - you can be shot through them.
 On the Jungle, Arctic and Desert levels the turrets can be destroyed by
 grenades or bazookas. On the Moorland and Underground levels the turrets
 are very strong, so if you see one there must be one of your turrets, a
 tank or rocket-firing helicopter nearby.

 Here is some information on where the Supa Dupa range of weapons can
 be found. There is only one of each Supa Dupa product, so they're
 spread out across the game from mission eight onwards.

 Supa Dupa Missile Boosta (Mission 8, Phase 3)
 Go to the bottom right corner of the screen and it's hidden behind a
 big bush.

 Supa Dupa Bullet-Proofa Vest (Mission 12, Phase 4)
 After you've blown up the turrets and boarded the helicopter, fly
 to the top right corner of the screen. The vest is hidden in the
 fat snowman.

 Supa Dupa Rank Boosta (Mission 16, Phase 2)
 Top left corner of the screen. It isn't hidden and it looks like a
 sign for a general (four stars).

 Supa Dupa Troopa Boosta (Mission 20, Phase 1)
 This is a big yellow S in the middle of the screen on quite an easy
 level. It's still worth getting since it improves your rank until you
 die and it gives you a Bullet-Proofa Vest, Missile and Rank Boostas
 for the phase. Watch out when you pick it up though, because there
 is a spike nearby.

 Supa Dupa Troopa Boosta (Mission 22, Phase 2)
 It's in the bottom right corner of the screen and is guarded by a
 turret. It's best to blow up the helicopter with grenades to start
 with, then rocket the turret before getting the Troopa Boosta.