              CHAMPIONSHIP MANAGER `93 - HINTS `N` TIPS
              -----------------------------------------

1.  On a one-player game, still pick two teams - one for yourself and one
    with good players and lots of money. Now in the pre-season you will be
    able to buy their good players for little cost and in return sell them
    your rubish ones.

2.  Although old players are likely to retire after a couple of seasons,
    their low cost and high abilities still make them a wise investment.
    The use of mature premier league players (such as Gary Mabbut) will
    help you rise up from the lower divisions.

3.  High performance youngsters are also worth signing up. A good way of
    improving them is to bring them on a sub when your team is a few goals
    up. They will invariably get a good rating which will increase their
    value for the future.

4.  Actually, the best thing to do is to buy young players to cover for the
    posistions held by the old players (27+). When decline for the old guys
    seems imminent, you can sell them off to a suitably gullible club
    before their values fall - by this stage the young player should be
    experienced enough to take over.

5.  In a two-player game, if a computer team expresses an interest in one
    of your players then get your human counterpart to approach to buy (but
    don`t actually bid). This will make things nastier for the
    cash-wielding computer team in question.

6.  The best formation to use is 5-3-2. The use of three central
    mid-fielders is the important factor, as your success in the game is
    virtually dependent on the strengths in this posistion. (As the success
    of Inca, Keane, McClair and Robson goes to show). You should have five
    or six decent mid-fielders in your squad and alternate them to maintain
    fitness. Use variations in strengths also; where you might have all
    players with Pace and Passing, it is wise to blend your flair players
    with your hard tacklers.

7.  Use a sweaper who is good at passing, heading and creativity. Push
    forward on the full backs for extra width and remember their
    distribution skills are perhaps even more important than their tackling
    abilities. This type of team suits the counter attack and pass to feet
    approach and is always successful.