CONFLICT EUROPE.....


	IF WORLD WAR THREE IS GOING BADLY FOR YOU, TRY SOME 
	OF THESE TIPS, THEY COULD JUST MAKE A DIFFERENCE.


    NATO Strategy...

  NATO's main role is to halt the Warsaw Pact advance before the red stamroller
reaches France. Depending on the scenario and strength of units there are a 
number of ways of accomlpishing this.
  The first requires NATO to open a gap at the centre of the pact line. The
quickest way of doing this is to set a dozen or so planes on your assault 
breaker, set your units to chemical weapons and launch a single nuclear strike
early on at the strongest, most central unit. Before long a gap of two squares
should have been opened. Send your three nearest, strongest units through the
gap behind the northern pact armies. Keep these three units supplied as best
as possible. The only obstacle will be the 9th Shock Army who have an army
strength of nine. Concentrate your assault breakers on this unit and try to
whittle it down. Also set ten squadrons of planes to attack supply lines in 
order to prevent the Soviets from restocking. This should end with the pact
northern armies being eliminated leaving you to concentrate all efforts on the
weaker southern army group.

    Warsaw Pact Strategy...

  The Warsaw Pact role is easier. Try to drive three groups through the centre,
top and bottom of the NATO line as the objective is to conquer France and West
Germany rather than get bogged down in combat. Don't waste time attacking
neutral units either as it just wastes time. If you really do feel like massed
combat, use one or two single nuclear strikes plus chemical weaponry, this
should prove fun, if not lengthy.

   Nuclear Tactics...

  While not the most devastating, single nuclear strikes are the safest. They
stand a lesser chance of provoking heavy retaliation and more importantly
limit civilian casualties, helping to give you a good score. If towards the
end of thirty days it looks as though you are not going to complete your goal
there is a fireplan that will eliminate eight enemy units - also a good move
to use when you are on the verge of defeat as it can swing the course of the
war. One side-effect it does carry a potentially large reprisal from the
enemy, so be warned!

  And remember, the object is not to end civilisation, but to triumph with
minimal civilian and military deaths.


   from ACE Mag.    Oct. '89.            typed by DOUG.....