Hints for Crime City:

1)   Where do I find the combination to the safe?
2)   I've found some film... what do I do with it?
3)   What do I do with the photos?
4)   Something happened to Phil, and I can't find him!
5)   What can I find out from Phil?
6)   What can I do at the bridge?
7)   Phil's Girlfriend keeps getting upset when I talk to her.
8)   What do I do at Phil's house?
9)   What do I say on the phone to Jeff?
10)  How do I keep an eye on George?
11)  What do I do while I wait to hear from my girlfriend?
12)  How do I know that George is telling the truth?
13)  What do I do on the BBS?
14)  I'm keep losing Jason when I try to follow him.
15)  After I get beaten up for following Jason, I'm stuck!
16)  What do I do regarding the affair?
17)  After I talk to Debbie, then what?
18)  Simon's story seems too good to be true.  How do I check it?
19)  The vicar wasn't very helpful.  Now what?
20)  How do I help Ian?
21)  How do I find Bill?
22)  I can't past that man in the hospital!
23)  How do I track down Bill's murderer?
24)  I can't get into Stancrowe!
25)  How do I get into the safe?
26)  How do I find Gordon's house?
27)  How do I get in to Gordon's house?
28)  What do I do in Gordon's house?
29)  What do I do with the contents of the Stancrowe safe?
30)  Once I've got the evidence from Stancrowe, then what do I do?
31)  Where's the weapon?
32)  I've got all the evidence to clear my father.  What do I do now?
33)  I think I've uncovered everything, but the policeman says I've
     still got two suspects!  What do I do?

VAGUE ANSWERS

1)   Maybe David (the owner of the safe) told someone he knew about it?
2)   You'll need someone to develop it for you.  Look at the
     bulletin board in your office for a clue.
3)   There's someone at the pub around lunchtime who may be helpful.
4)   What happened to Phil was pretty serious...
5)   It's better to find things out from the living...
6)   Look out for litterbugs.
7)   Then stop upsetting her!
8)   Look for some evidence to connect him to the crime.
9)   Don't say anything too blunt or obnoxious.
10)  Isn't there someone out there who'd do anything for you?
11)  Check out old haunts, and kill some time.
12)  Someone near him should check out his story.
13)  There are clues to be had here.
14)  Perhaps you need more training?
15)  Shouldn't you warn your loved ones about the threats that have 
     been made?
16)  Check with old sources.
17)  You should look for some confirmation of what she says.
18)  Surely someone can vouch for his whereabouts.
19)  You should follow his advice carefully.
20)  Have you talked to him?  Dave should have given you what you
     need to help him.
21)  The clue you need will come from the company he works for, and
     your computer.
22)  You need some friendly assistance.
23)  Did you see the slip of paper in the hospital?
24)  Patience and skill will both be rewarded.
25)  The key to your problems lies with one of Stancrowe's employees.
26)  Look at the paper the wastebasket at Stancrowe.  Someone
     involved with the murder has his address -- do you remember where?
27)  Try the direct approach, but not too direct.  Patience and
     training are virtues as well.
28)  Find the key to your problems.
29)  Do what comes naturally to those types of things.
30)  You need to learn about the murder weapon from someone who'd
     know about it.
31)  Follow Jeff's advice.
32)  Tell someone!
33)  You've ignored affairs of the heart.

SPECIFIC ANSWERS

1)   Your father, who's currently in prison, has information that
     will lead you to it.  Your computer will come in handy as well.
2)   Your mother works at the chemist's, which is where they
     develop film.
3)   Go to the pub and ask the bartender for information -- he'll
     tell you who to talk to.
4)   Check out the morgue -- it's in the hospital.
5)   Reading his medical report will show you where he died; a clue
     waits there.
6)   Someone's phone number is written on some trash here.
7)   Use the calmest possible responses.
8)   In particular, try the phone and the letter on the floor.
9)   Mention a friend, and then mention what the friend was after. 
     Jeff will help you greatly with money and training.
10)  Try your girlfriend.
11)  Dave will give you information that you should use on your
     computer right away.  And in a few days, Lisa will write you.
12)  Your girlfriend could check it out for you.  Call her and ask.
13)  Look for two phone numbers here.  Also, you might want to try
     downloading the VirusWipe program.
14)  Jeff can teach you surveillance and other useful skills. 
     However, you'll need to pay for them.
15)  Talk to your mother about the attack.  She'll tell you some
     information you need to continue.
16)  Talk to Dave, then do some surveillance.
17)  Your father's locked in the jail.  Why not ask him?
18)  Try the vicar at the church.
19)  Seek out another person who visits the church -- David's wife.
20)  If you've talked to Dave lately, he will have given you the
     password to delete records from the police computer.
21)  Access the BBS from your computer, and you'll find the phone
     number for Bill's company there.
22)  Talk to the nurse.  You'll need to talk to her more than once. 
     Also, try entering ward A1 more than once.
23)  Attempt surveillance on Nick Hobson, then visit the company
     where he has been sighted.
24)  Pay Jeff to train you in lockpicking, and don't be afraid to
     try several times.
25)  Gordon, an employee with Stancrowe, has the key.
26)  Check Phil's house again.
27)  Pick the front door.  You need to pay Jeff for lock-picking
     training, and it may take several attempts.
28)  The key to the Stancrowe safe is somewhere in Gordon's clothing.
29)  Use the disc in your computer, use the money to pay off Jeff,
     and use the evidence to give to the police when everything is
     figured out.
30)  Talk to Jeff about the weapon (after paying off all of your debts).
31)  It's somewhere in Phil's house.  Check everywhere -- even
     places you checked before and found nothing.
32)  Go to the police and show them the evidence.
33)  Your girlfriend, once she regains consciousness, holds the
     remaining key to the mystery.