Crystal Kindom Dizzy

 LEVEL CODES:

 Level 2: G5J 73Q 8HK
 Level 3: H7T 554 Y9L
 Level 4: 83J 5G6 2KF

                  Crystal Kingdom Dizzy Solve 
                  ---------------------------


Part 1:  The Yolkfolk Village

     Climb up to Denzil's Hut and jump left from the edge, you land on a
     cloud, continue jumping left otherwise you fall thru the cloud.
     On the other side grab the Screwdriver & a Peanut, then go back to
     Denzil's Hut. Talk to denzil and he takes the screwdriver.
     take the spanner and go all the way down and right, give peanut to CJ
     the elefant, and continue right, use the spanner on the generator.
     Go to the lift and jump right to Daisy's, go in thru the window and
     take the whip.
     Now go up to the village and enter the hut in the right corner
     (Dora's Kitchen) talk to dora and take the cake, then go back to CJ
     and give him the cake, take the umbrella and walk left to the waterfall.
     Enter the cave and grab the diamant, the go right to the well, and use
     the diamant, then the genie will appear and you make a wish.
     Go back up to denzil's hut and take the glasses, go outside and jump
     up to the next platform twice, you should be on the top middle platform
     in the village, jump strait up and you see a platform to your right jump
     up on it, then place dizzy on the left edge and press fire and you will
     swing over to the other platform, go left and jump the the hut and enter.
     Talk to dylan and take the news paper, then go back to the village and
     enter the hut in the middle of the screen.
     Talk to Grand Dizzy and he tell you the news in the paper..
     That was the first Part...


Part 2:  Blackheart's Pirate Ship

     Walk right and enter Fat Freddies Shop, talk to freddie and he will give
     you a can of tunafish, leave the shop and continue right.
     At the pier throw the tunafish in the water, talk to dolphin, then jump
     on it's back and it will take you to the ship, jump up on the anker and
     climb up, talk to captain beardy.
     Climb up the pole til you reach the aft sail, take tape, walk right to
     the edge and jump right (keep joystick to the right until you land)
     then climb the pole until you reach the grow's nest, take the blu-tak
     and climb down.
     place the tape next to the door and walk right to the bow and take the
     saw, go left to fore sail bottom and climb the pole, then take the
     steering wheel and go down and left to the helm, use the blu-tak on the
     wheel holder? and you fixed the steering wheel, go right to mast bottom
     take the tape and enter the door, You need to find a plank of wood, leave
     all other items you find for now, when you got the wood find the bilges
     then use the plank of wood on the hole. go up the ladder to your right
     then go left and take the needle + thread, then go back to the place
     where you found the plank of wood.
     Take the sheet from the captain's bed and head for the exit, take the
     scissors on the way to.
     from the mast bottom go left to the captain and climb the pole, walk
     to the right edge and jump out (joystick right all the way down) and
     climb the pole, You have to cut all the bindings so the sail is down.
     You can see a hole in the sail, go to the hole and press fire and you
     fix the hole if you have the following things (needle + thread, sheet
     & scissors) go to the captain and talk to him.
     Climb down the chain and jump on the dolphin's back again and it brings
     you back to the pier, go to Fat Freddies shop and enter, go up the
     stairs and exit thru the window, jump right,right,right,left,right
     take superglue,jump left,left,left,left,use scissors on hammock, talk to
     dozy and take the flag, now go back to the pier and let the dolphin take
     you back to the ship.
     Climb the pole next to the captain and jump from the edge as you done
     twice before, and then climb to the top and place the flag in the nest.
     Go back down to the captain, take badge and climb down the chain to the
     dolphin.
     Walk to Fat Freddies and talk to him, drop the scissors and take the map
     & the telescope, run back to the ship, and give the map to the captain,
     then climb up to the grow's nest, then use the telescope.
     End of Part 2....


Part 3:  Desert Island

     Walk right, take torch and continue right, jump on the platforms until
     you find a pair of flippers, then go down again.
     Walk right to the jetty, take box and walk right, get up on the green
     crate next to the boat and drop the box you have, jump up on it and
     now you can jump up on the roof, walk left and take the oxygen tank.
     Walk right and jump in the water, swim down to the cave and enter.
     In the Cave drop the tank & flippers.
     From here on i only write what to do..
     Climb up,left,up,right,down,take pickaxe,up,left,down,left,take pin,
     down,left,up,down,left,stand next to the wall behind joe and use the
     pickaxe,take pickaxe,drop pin next to joe,right,up,down,right,up,right,
     drop torch,take flippers & tank,jump in the water, swim back up,walk left
     to the oil pipe, stand on top of it and use the pickaxe,drop pickaxe,walk
     left,jump in the water and swim back to the cave, drop flippers & tank,
     take torch,up,left,up,left,down,left,jump over hole,left,up,right,take
     oil can,left,down,right,down,right,up,right,drop torch,take flippers &
     tank and swim back up the the pier.
     walk left to the oil pipe, and use the oil can on oil, walk left to the
     elevator , use oilcan on elecator, take oilcan, press button, drop oilcan
     Walk back to the pier and swim back to the cave.
     drop flippers & tank, take torch,up,left,up,left,down,left,press the
     right elevator button,down,go to the treasure room and put the treasures
     on the elevator,talk to joe, and press the elevator button,take pin,right,
     up,down,right,up,up,right,up,left,down,left,press the left button,jump
     over hole,right,up,right,down,right,down,drop torch,take flippers & tank.
     At the pier drop everything, and walk left to the elevator,talk to joe
     take plaster,walk to pier and use plaster on dinghy,take tank and use it
     on the dinghy,go back to the elevator and pick up the treasures,go back
     to the dinghy and put the treasures in it,take pin and use it..
     End of Part 3...


Part 4:  The Ice Palace

     Talk to man, enter the maze, just follow the maze you have 3 mins to get
     the diamant & get out again.
     give the diamant to the man and you get a parachute, enter the maze again
     now there is a extra way, go that way, follow it to the end, drop the
     parachute, and walk back to collect the treasures.
     Walk back to the dead end, and put the treasures in the stone thrower,
     take the parachute and jump on the stone thrower.
     enter ice palace,jump up to the ice bridge and walk over it, jump up and
     take the block of ice,walk right over high ice bridge,take salt shaker.
     walk back over high ice bridge,down and walk over ice bridge,walk right
     then down, you should now see a frozen crown, use the salt shaker, and
     take the crown, walk left to the enterance to ice palace,exit the palace
     and go to the crystal garden, drop ice block in the water then take the
     wooden chalice, go back in the palace,jump up to the ice bridge again
     walk over it and enter the sacred alter, drop the wooden chalice & the
     crown, walk back over the ice bridge, walk right, then jump up to the
     top of north tower, then go right to the big jump, and jump.
     just let dizzy fly straigt down and then grab the sword when you can see
     it.
     On the ground walk left to enter ice palace, then find your way back to
     the ice bridge and enter the sacred alter, take the wooden chalice & the
     crown (drop your parachute first), and place them in the right order.

      YEAH!!!!  End of Part 4..   And end of game....