                               GNOME RANGER

                       Solution To Part 1 (Animal)

From the starting point just outside the Centaur`s shop first Knock on the
Door. Enter the shop and do things such as Examine All until the Centaur
(Cap) asks you to deliver a letter for him. Take the letter and then when
asked by the Centaur, take the Shovel. Now you may GO TO or RUN TO any of
the important locations. There is no particular order in which to do
things, and many of the items you will find are of no real use. A random
element exists here and some things will require perseverence to achieve.
This is one solution.

Move around until you see the Eagle above you. Examine Eagle and then WAIT
until it lands and carries you off to its nest. HIT CHICKS to be rewarded
by the Eagle. Go to just outside the gate at the entrance to the Witch`s
Cottage. DO NOT ENTER! It is a one-way gate! Ring the Bell that the Eagle
gave you and wiat until the Eagle lands. Say (for example) EAGLE< GO TO PEG
AND TAKE IT THEN FIND ME AND DROP PEG. The Eagle should then go into the
cottage garden and free the Dog from its kennel. The Dog will now come
thgrough the garden gate. Follow the dog until it meets the Swarm Of Dogs.
They will reward you with a whistle for freeing their friend. The Llama
will give you a flower. There is a hank of hair in the brambles. There is a
coin in the mud beside the puddle. There is a nugget and a yellow fungus in
the middle of the marsh. If you take the nugget and fungus a mist will
suddenly come down and you will be unable to move. To find a way out either
dropeverything you are holding OR wait for someone to come past and FOLLOW
them. You could for example summon the Dogs and send them somewhere and
then follow them.

Go to the Forest in the Northeast of the land and WAIT. After a while a
nymph will appear and wait to be given something pretty. If you have the
Flower from the Llama or the Necklace from the Centaur then give one to the
nymph. (To get things from the Centaur in addition to the Shovel you will
need to trade other items on a two-for-one basis).

Once the nymph has been befriended you can give her commands. One of the
first should be to go the the Rock under which is a Bridle. If you drop all
you are carrying and lift the rock, you can tell the nymph to get the
Bridle. Pick everything up again and go with the nymph to a position just
West of the Waterfall where you can see the Rainbow. Give the Shovel to the
nymph and tell her to go East and then Dig. Wait for a while and then go
East. You will now find a Crock of Gold and a Leprechaun. Take the Crock of
Gold and give it the Leprechaun who will now offer to help you in future.
He will tel you how to summon him when you are in need. Bear in mind that
the ONLY way to complete the first part of Gnome Ranger is to defeat the
Witch by destroying her source of power, her Magic Wand. In fact only the
Leprechaun is strong enough to break the Wand.

Blow your Whistle and when the Swarm of Dogs arrives say, DOGS, FIND
UNICORN. Then tell the nymph to follow the Dogs and then follow the Dogs
yourself. Once the Dogs track down the Unicorn and the nymph sees the
Unicorn you will be rewarded again, this time by the Unicorn.He will give
you a set of pipes with which to summon him if you need his help.

Now open the envelope the Centaur gave you, read the letter and go back
into the shop. You will be thrown out but that is no problem, it is the
game points that we after here.

It is now time to go through the gate into the cottage garden. Go round to
the back door and summon the Unicorn by blowing the pipes. When he arrives
tell him to break the door. Go South into the cottage and snap your
fingers to summon the Leprechaun. When he arrives wait for the Witch to
also turn up and quickly tell the Leprechaun to break the Wand. Be quick or
the Witch will turn one of you into stone.

At this point you should have scored 300 out of 300 and will be offered the
opportunity of moving on to part 2.



                      Solution To Part 2 (Vegetable)

Start by taking the tea leaf. Then go to the kitchen and from there into
the library. Read the books to get several clues as to what to do and how
to do it. Go back to the kitchen and take the seed and the bulb. Go back to
the garden and plant the seed. The seed will grow at once and become the
greenslave. It needs to be animated, brought to life. To make the animate
potion taje the elder berry, thistle flower, rowan berry and mint leaf and
take them to the kitchen. put them into the pot one at a time in the order
given above to produce the anitidote potion which will automatically be
added to your inventory. Return to the garden and put the potion onto the
greenslave. Plant the bulb in the garden and the blue telelily and the
white telelily will appear. Climb the trees to get to the treehouse. The
treehouse and the greenslave can be given instructions in the same way as
the dogs and the nymph etc in part 1.

Take the telelilies and the compost heap. Go northeast and drop the compost
heap. You will need to take the compost heap at times and drop it on rocky
ground in various places to enable the treehouse to move. Send the
treehouse and greenslave to the cave and then follow them. When you, the
treehouse and the greenslave are all outside the cave give the blue
telelily to the greenslave then enter:- treehouse, hold cave wait 5. Then
enter:- greenslave, find stinkwort shoot and put it in blue telelily.  Then
wait until the stinkwort shoot and the greenslave appear. If you experiment
with the telelilies you will find that anything put into the blue one will
reappear from the white one. Also note that once a potion has been used the
ingredients that have been used up will grow again in the garden. They must
be picked again because each potion will need at least some, if not all, of
the same ingredients again. So get what you need from the garden and go
back to the kitchen and make the weedkiller potion by putting into the pot
in this order:- thistle flower, elder berry, mint leaf and rowan berry. Now
with the telelilies and the weedkiller being carried and with greenslave
following go to the hedge. Wear the weedkiller to go east past the hedge.
Drop the blue telelily into the pond and put the white one on the skinny
beanstalk. Wait until it explodes then go up. Examine the fern plant and
take the fern shoot. The only way to pass the hedge from this side is to
enter:- greenslave, push rock, push rock, push rock. Then enter:- push
rock, push rock. (This way both you and greenslave will be pushing the rock
at the same time). The rock will then roll down onto the hedge and make a
path through it. Back to the garden again and then the kitchen to make the
next potion, the antidote to the poison of the air plant. Make it in this
order:- stinkwort shoot, mint leaf, fern shoot, elder berry. It helps to
know where the treehouse and the greenslave are at all times. (It
generally helps to send them back to the garden when they have finished a
task and pick them up from there when needed). Now go to the garden and
send the treehouse to the air plant. Drink the antidote potion and follow
the treehouse. At the air plant examine it to find the air flower and tell
the treehouse to take the air flower and give it to you. You may need to
leave the location while the treehouse gets the air flower as it is scared
of animals.

Get some more ingredients and go back to the kitchen to make the fertilizer
potion. The method is:- mint leaf, rowan berry, elder berry, air flower.
Back to the garden and put the fertilizer on the tea bush. Take the tea
leaf and the other ingredients needed and back to the kitchen.

Now make a pot of tea using:- tea leaf, rowan berry, mint leaf, thistle
flower. When the tea is made, the old man reappears and you drink tea with
him.

You should now have 600 points and be ready for the third part.



                       Solution To Part 3 (Mineral)

Start first on the cloud 9 area. Find the yeti and by talking to him in the
usual manner, ask him to lead you to the diamond. Follow him carefully.
Take the diamond and the cloudstuff you find near it. Use the cloudstuff to
line the yetis snowshoes.

Now go to the penguin. The mother penguin is looking for a baby sitter.
Take the egg and the mother penguin will become your friend. Find the
icebridge and move south onto it. The icebridge will collapse and you will
find yourself on an icefloe. When the icefloe sails past the mother penguin
say:- penguin, push me west. The will then arrive at the iceberg. Take the
sapphire and enter:- penguins, push me east. Now you will be back on the
coast.

Go to the caves and find the fireking. After that go the prison cell and
open it. Go inside and put the icechild in the sack so that the fireguard
cannot see that you are freeing the child. Now go out and south to the land
of the icepeople. When the icequeen offers to help you, get her, the
icejester and the icepeople to follow you and go to the icefall. You cannot
get out of the caves due to a flooded series of tunnels.Water is constantly
coming into the caves but cannot get out quickly enough because there is an
obstruction, a log, in the outlet pipe. You have to temporarily stop the
water coming in so that you can enter the tunnels as the water level drops
and remove the obstruction. A dam can be built if the icefall is pushed
into the water. HOWEVER! Each player move causes the water level to
increase by 1 level. Each push of the icefall builds the dam level up above
the water level by 1. If the water level reaches the top of the dam it will
break. If the water level reaches 10 the pressure becomes too great and the
dam breaks anyway. Help is needed here to build the dam and help is needed
to remove the log from the outlet. the idea is to get the icequeen and
the icepeople to help you by repeatedly pushing the icefall into the water
while you send the icejester down to remove the log from the outlet.

This, or something like it, should work with the icequeen, icejester and
icepeople all together with you at the icefall. Enter:-
ICEQUEEN, WAIT 5 THEN PUSH ICEFALL, PUSH ICEFALL
ICEPEOPLE, WAIT 2 THEN PUSH ICEFALL, PUSH ICEFALL, PUSH ICEFALL
ICEJESTER, FIND DEBRIS AND TAKE LOG
PUSH ICEFALL

Try to keep the dam somewhere between 1 and 3 feet above the water level.
Do this by either pushing the icefall or waiting. Eventually the dam should
break but a cheer should go up as the water level rapidly drops showing
that the log has been removed. Now follow the icequeen until she shakes
hands with the fireking. Now get the icequeen to follow you again.

Run to the treetrunk and enter:- ICEQUEEN, WAIT 12 THEN PUSH TREETRUNK. Now
run to the garden where the gnome requires a gemstone to let you enter the
garden. Give him any of your gemstones and you will be thrown into the
garden. You will find your gemstone on the ground along with the emerald
and the ruby. Drop everything and pick up the ruby and put it in the sack.
Put the other three gemstones (diamond, sapphire and emerald) into the sack
as well and pick up the sack. If you timed it right, round about now the
treetrunk should come sailing into view along the river. STAND ON TREETRUNK
to escape from the garden. The gnome will not you leave through the gate if
you are holding anything you found in the garden. The treetrunk will sail
past the iceberg area and when you see a suitable bit of land you should:-
get of the log.

You should be carrying the 4 gemstones and the sack. Return to the gate at
the beginning of the game. Put the gemstones in the sockets one at a time
and then go north. If all is well then you will be in Gnomebridge on the
road to Gnettlefield.

This is the end of the adventure and you should have 1000 points.