                        GOBLIINS II SOLUTION
                        --------------------

World 1
-------

Village

The first thing you need to obtain is the bottle. You do this by getting
Fingus (F) to steal the bottle whilst distracting the old men`s attention
by getting Winkle (W) to try and steal the notable`s sausage. The notable
will hit W across the screen and the old men will laugh so much that they
do not notice F pinching their bottle. Once you have the bottle, move on to
the fountain.

Fountain

Hacing procured the bottle, you must now fill it. Fortunately the bottle
seems endowed the magical power of being eternally full once filled for the
first time!

The way to fill the bottle is to get W to hold the bottle in the stream of
water that emerges when F operates the fountain. It may take a few goes to
get it right, but having done so it`s now back to the Village.

Village

Get F to water the flowers by using the bottle on them. They will now grow
and be ripe for the picking. Get F to take a flower and give it to the
notable. He will now fall asleep which will enable W to steal his sausage.
To do this, place W on the doormat thing whilst F operates the switch. W
will be catapulted onto the roof and can then steal the sausage without
fear of molestation by the notable. You can now kiss the Village goodbye
and return to the Fountain.

Fountain

Get W to use the bottle on the frog. He will spit water at it and it will
leap away to reveal a stone. Take the stone, then get F to use it on the
mechanism on the right hand side of the roof. This will bring down a rung
which F must hold down in order for W to climb the ladder. Get W to stand
near the chimney. Now get F to knock on the door of the Wizard`s house. He
will open his window and, when spoken to, say that he has no time. Keep
trying him until he opens the window and wags his finger. Now get W to try
and climb down the chimney. He will get blown out, but the Wizard will open
his door to you. Enter the Wizard`s house.

Wizard`s House

Get F to chat to the Wizard before procuring the matches. These are in the
tiger rug`s mouth, so the best way to get them is to get W to stand on the
rug`s tail. It`s mouth will open and F can now take the matches.

Get F to use first the bottle and then the matches on the kettle. This will
start to boil and will result in a poster peeling back to reveal the clock
key. Blow out the kettle and then retrieve the key. Now take this up to the
clock and wind it. Get W to stand under the clock whilst F winds the clock
again. A key should pop out with the cuckoo, get W to use the stone on it
to get it. This may need a few tries. Now it`s time to go back to the
Fountain.

Fountain

Get W to open the cellar door with the key. Take the wine and move on to
the Giant.

Giant

You need to get an egg, so get F to stand behind the chicken whilst W picks
it up by the throat. When the chicken is firmly in W`s grasp, get F to hit
the chicken over the head with the sausage. An egg will pop out, which you
should collect.

You now need to wake up the Giant. Not easy when the dog won`t let you
pass, so some sort of trickery is needed. To get past, have W stand next to
the dog whilst F sticks the sausage down the pot hole. The dog will be
stunned enough to let W through. W must now go through the hole in the
tree, which opens a secret tunnel. F and W can then both go back through
the tunnel to the Giant.

The way to wake the Giant is to let him smell food. Use the matches on the
sticks to get a fire going, and then get F to use the egg on the fire. The
smell of the egg cooking will wake the Giant. Now give him the wine and the
sausage and he will let you past and onward to World 2.

World 2
-------

Trench

Much bomb-related chicanery is needed here. Get F to enter the small tower,
he will then throw out an unlit bomb. Get W to hold the bomb whilst F
lights it. He will then throw it and the guard will explode. Now get W to
enter the tower. Get F to hold the bomb whilst W lights it. When the bomb
is thrown it will make the carpet fall until a hand catches it. Send F back
into the tower and then have W light the bomb as before. The hand will now
drop the carpet. Board the carpet and go and talk to Soka. He will tell you
to collect the hourglass from Tom.

Tom

The first thing you need here is a ball. There`s one on the far right of
the screen on a branch. Get W to throw the stone at it so that it falls to
the ground. A little boy will now come and pinch it and disappear into the
house with the window. W should now enter the house, upon which the little
boy will reappear from the house on the bottom right. During all this F
must go through the top right door to reappear behind the little boy and
collar him. This will require quite exact timing, but you can have as many
goes as you need to get it right.

Having regained the ball, F must give the ball to the basketball player. He
will shoot at the hoop, but W must intercept the ball with a header,
sending it in the direction of the mayor`s window. The mayor now emerges so
chat with him before moving up to Tom`s on the top right of the screen. He
tells you that you can have the hourglass if you bring him a melody. To
find this, your next stop is Kael.

Kael

W must wake the nymph with the bottle before giving the tree a drink!
Having done this he is invited by the tree to climb on his hand up the
branch. Now get F to stand on the rock under the branch. W should be made
to shake the branch, during which time a flower will fall which F will
catch. Get him to put the flower under the small stone. Now get F to lift
the stone. A bee will fly out and F will grab it`s honeypot. Now get him to
stand on the big rock to the left of the stone. Get W to make the bee fly
out. As soon as this happens F should be made to climb on the bee`s back,
which will then carry him up to the nymph. Give the nymph the honey, and
she`ll show you the magic mushroom. Pick up the mushroom and get W to knock
on Vivalzart`s door. Show him the mushroom and then go in.

Vivalzart

Get W to put the mushroom into the machine and then get F to activate it.
The machine starts up but the liquid is blocked by the clothes peg. Get W
to take a worm from the jar. Now put F on the trapdoor under the vulture.
Get W to activate the switch which will launch F up to the vulture. While F
is hanging in there W should throw the worm to the vulture. He will now
drop F who will now have a piece of meat. This should be given to the
piranha who will eat it and spit out the bone.

Place one Gobliin on the trash can and get the other to give the bone to
Vivalzart. He will throw it in the bin which will launch the Gobliin up
onto the shelf. Now collect the kindelixir and remove the peg that blocks
the pipe. The liquid will now drip into the container. Each Gobliin should
collect some liquid in the bottle and drink it. They will disappear,
apparently into a dream.

Jazz

Recover the drumstick by getting W to stick a hand in the headlight. Use
this on the hood to make a butterfly net. Get F to jump up and down on the
spring and, for a brief moment a bicycle pump will appear next to the
drummer. W can again it by sticking a hand in the headlamp.

Now get one Gobliin to stand on the spring (without bouncing on it) and
then get the other to jump up and down on it. The two will then jump in
turn and a door will open on the left. Go through here, and get the other
Gobliin to use the peg on the base of the hose. Now go through the bottom
right hole to get to the top right. Speak to the guitarist, he plays and a
note will die slowly at top right. Catch it with the butterfly net.

Now get W to use the pump on the saxophonist and get F to catch the
mosquito in the net. Now get F to use the pump on the sax man and get W to
catch the note which comes out. Use the mosquito on the headlamp with W to
make the drummer play. F should catch the last note and you will have the
melody you need. Go and give it to Tom.

Tom

Put the melody in the door on the bottom left. It will now enter the clock,
and you can now collect the hourglass from Tom. From here, it`s back to the
trench.

Trench

Open the contents of the hourglass into the Trench. Cross the new bridge
and exit through the opening in the castle wall to World 3.

World 3
-------

The aim here is to get the blacksmith to forge the key to the chest which
will provide the diving suits required for World 4.

Guards

Each of the guards has a name, so use the pointer to find the names of each
one. Take the mayonnaise and put it near Gromelon. Take F up onto the shelf
and get him to jump down onto the mayonnaise. Gromelon will get covered in
the stuff, so while he`s otherwise engaged get W to nick his sword. Get W
to activate Rustik. This will cause `Stalopicus` mouth to open, in which F
will find chewing gum. Take it and use it in the chest lock to obtain an
imprint. Now toddle off to the Forge.

Forge

The first thing to do here is to give the blacksmith both the chewing gum
and the sword. He will request your help to activate the bellows. Get W to
use the stool on Oto to make him mad. Get F to stand next to him and grab
hold of the lance as it swings past. He can now jump on the bellows and
allow the smith to forge the key. Take it.

Now use the mayonnaise on Focus with W and get F to take a piece of the
meat when it is lowered. This may take a little practise. You can now leave
this screen, but not before taking the anvil. It`s now time to pay the
Guards a second visit.

Guards

Make F use the meat on Amidal to obtain his false teeth! Use the key on the
chest and have each Gobliin take a diving suit. Now exit to the Well.

Well

Have W enter the tunnel. He will press a button which will open a secret
door near the monster. Lift the hatchet with W to reveal another button.
Get F to press it, but be quick. This will open the door into the monster.

Enter the tunnel again but this time with F. He will press the other button
which will make the monster move it`s mouth. As soon as this happens get W
to go through the door. He will thrn shout at Schwarzy who will be so
shocked that he will become momentarily stunned. While he is in this state,
get F to use the stool on the hoist and hitch him up. Now use the false
teeth on him with W before throwing the anvil at him before he comes up.
The well cover will now get lifted, so have each Gobliin put on his diving
suit and take a dive to World 4.

World 4
-------

The aim in World 4 is to get the Mermaid and Octopus to open the passage to
the Throne Room.

Wreck

Don`t waste your time here just yet, go through on to the Mermaid.

Mermaid

Use the stool on the sea-horse with F. From now on you can use the
sea-horse directly to go up. Take F through the hole going up to the right.
Activate the shell with W who will throw it up to F. Take W up the whole
going to the right. Activate the cavity with F and a gloved gand will
emerge. When it stops get W to drop the shell on it. Get W to pick the
shell up and take the glove with the starfish inside. Now is the time to
visit the Wreck.

Wreck

Go onto the deck and through the door with W. Light the lamp with F and a
lamp-fish will arrive. Get F to go up to the top of the mast, from where he
can catch the fish. The lamp-fish should be used on the ??? zone to
illuminate a chest.

Now place F on the big shell. Light the lamp with W and when the moray eel
appears operate the rudder. F will be thrown by the big shell near the
statue. Use the starfish on the chest with W and activate the statue with F
while the chest is open to obtain the sword. Use the sword on the skull to
retrieve the diamond and go back to the Mermaid.

Mermaid

Neutralise the blob by putting the glove over it. Get F to grasp the bottle
to recover a parchment containing an SOS from the Prince Buffoon. Do the
same with W to get a pearl. Give the pearl and the diamond to the Mermaid
and she will open part of the passage. Get F to give the parchment to the
Octopus to get him to open the other. Recover the glove from the blob and
also the stool and make your way to World 5.

World 5
-------

The aim in world 5 is to release the Prince Buffoon by getting Amoniak and
his henchmen to drink the elixir of kindness.

Store

Obtain the salt by getting F to prod the swordfish. Now get F to lift the
lid of the pot whilst W pours salt over the small fellow inside. He will
tell you to take the file from the bowls on the shelf, so do this with W.

Now get F to hold onto the rope on the right whilst W jumps onto the one on
the left. F will not hold on for long so good timing here is essential. If
you get it right then F will get himself a lift up to the shelf. He is now
in a posistion to free Colibrius by filing through the chain. Do this and
he will fly away, leaving F free to remove a thumb tack from the wall.

The next thing to do is to get W to pour salt over the meat balls. The hand
of Oumkapak will come out in anger and grab the cook. While he is held
aloft, get W to place the thumb tack on the case the cook was sitting on.
The cook will sit on it and throw up a meat ball in pain. At this point get
F to pour the kindelixir on the meat ball. This requires precise timing and
placement so you may need quite a few attempts to get it right. When you
do, Amoniak will become pacified and a trip to the Throne beckons.

Throne

First thing to do here is to take the pepper pot. Having done this the
Gobliins need to get up onto the ledge, so get W to use the stool on the
comice and have F climb up using W`s hands. W can now be helped up by
getting him to go through the door in the eye on the right hand side that
opens when F operates the switch.

Your next task is to obtain the crown. This is done by getting W to walk
into the left ear (right as we see it) whilst at the same time getting F to
pull the tongue on the left hand side. W should now pop out and steal the
crown.

You now need to get a cockroach, and this feat is performed by getting F to
walk through the left ear whilst W pulls the tongue. The next task is to
catch the thing, and this is done by getting W to use the orifice on the
left hand side whilst at the same time getting F to use the hole on the
right using the glove. Timing is important here but, all being well, you
should be able to catch the cockroach. You must now put the cockroach in
front of the hole at the front on the right (next to Glotziok). Pour
kindelixir on it and Glotziok will eat it and become pacified. Catch
another cockroach in the same way as before and exit left to the Armour
screen.

Armour

Your mission here is to disguise the cockroach as a ladybird which, covered
in kindelixir, will be eaten by Amoniak. You first need to obtain a feather
from the helmet with F and dip it in the paint pot on the shelf. Use the
brush (as the feather has become) on the cockroach and put the insect in
front of the little hole at the front. Now cover it first with pepper and
then with kindelixir.

You now need to speak to the king. You can do this by clicking on the loose
stone near the bottom of the tower which will take you up to the helmet.
Get the Gobliin to knock on the helmet and give the king his crown back. He
will now return to his normal size. A return to the Throne is now
necessary.

Throne

As a change from the last time you were here, Amoniak has disappeared and
Glotziok and Oumkapok now have daft grins. You can now take the Prince
Buffoon, who becomes the third member of the team. Back now to the Armour.

Armour

Put the Buffoon near the shrinking machine at the top and get first F and
then W to stand under it. They will shrink and the Buffoon will do likewise
before they all jump out of the learned man`s window and on to World 6.

World 6
-------

Parchment

Lift the knife by getting F to lift the handle and W to lift the point.
This needs to be done twice. Now get F to take the book mark. Use this on
the candle to give it a wick.

Now have W take the match and use it on the eye, which will fall out. Get
the Buffoon to kick the eye, which will break the glasses. You should now
get F to take the shard of glass and use it on the ray of light. This will
light the candle and produce a lump of wax.

Get F to take the wax and use it first on the seal and then on the imprint
on the lock. Take the seed that emerges and plant it on the village map.
The Gobliins and the Buffoon can now climb down and on to the next screen.

Plant

The Buffoon, living up to his name, has fled up the tree and won`t come
down, even though he`s hungry. The tree Kael will donate if only something
can be found to carry them in.

Get W to go through the hole at the base of the plant. The Buffoon will not
be pleased with this and his actions will cause a bean to fall. Open the
small stone and a mole will pop out. Get W to take the bean and use it on
the mole. During the ensuing struggle have F steal the mole`s hat.

W should now be made to climb up and use the match on the apples. An apple
will bounce down which F can catch in the hat if he stands to the left of
the screen. Use the apple on the hole to give it to the Buffoon. He will
rush down and eat the mushroom. Get F and W to follow his example and move
on to the Toys.

Toys

An important point to remember here is that F should not be allowed to go
past the guy with the cymbals to the left of the screen until he absolutely
needs to.

Get F to go to the skittles. As the bowling ball arrives and smashed into
them get W to go onto the star and jump onto the ball and hence stop it.
Now get W to put the bowling ball on the cover along with himself. F can
how activate the lower flagstone which will result in a pin landing on the
umbrella.

Catch another bowling ball, and put it on the cover as before and get W to
stand on the see-saw at bottom left. Get F to activate  the flagstone again
and  W will be catapulted up onto the rainbow. He must now go and activate
the left feeler to produce a bubble. Get W to jump on the bubble and float
down onto the cover. Get F to activate the flagstone again and the bubble
(and with it W) will be blown up onto the umbrella (if you get your timing
right). W can now take the pin.

Get W back up onto the rainbow as before and then get F to stand at the end
of the rainbow. Get W to activate the top flagstone and then get him to
press the switch to make the Buffoon fall into the bubble-maker`s circle.
Get F to activate the feeler and the Buffoon will be trapped in a bubble.
Now W can burst the bubble to free the Buffoon, And now, back to the Plant.

Plant

Put the Buffoon onto the catapult. Press the button with one Gobliin and,
once the key comes out of the statue, get the other to jump on the other
end of the catapult. The Buffoon becomes airborne, unhooks the key, and
gets taken off by a bird! Time to leave via the rear exit.

Mountain

You need to get the stone from the first level up to the third. This is
done by getting one Gobliin to lift the stone while the other, placed on
the level above, takes it from him. Once the stone is on the third level
put one Gobliin on the lion and then throw the stone with the other. The
upshot of this is that one of them is now on the giant`s right shoulder. Go
through the hole and next to the red head, which should be pushed off.

Come down and take the stone to level 2. Put W on the lion and have F throw
the stone. Winkle will end up on the giant`s left shoulder and should go
through the hole and next to the fallen head. Put F on the lion and get W
to push the head off. F will land on the levitating rock.

Move F to the centre of balance ("!!!"). He will start to jump and the rock
will descend. When it gets to W`s level get him to jump on. The rock will
rise up to the top. Use W on the small rock near the cage and, during the
time he is between the two, get F to walk over him to the other side.
Timing is critical here as a mistake means you have to start the screen all
over again!

Get F to use the file on the cage and retrieve the key. Back to the Plant
again for the last time.

Plant

Just use the key on the door. Simple, and the perfect route to World 7.

World 7
-------

Lab

You will find that your inventory contains only magic water. Use this on
the Buffoon and an evil creature will take him to the Kingdom Of Death.

Get W to take the pencil on the ledge and use it 3 times on the blackboard.
The wizard gets a bit narked with him and throw a sponge at him, which he
should take. Now get F to use the pencil on the portrait. The Wizard will
throw a boomerang at him which W must catch by jumping onto the armchair.

Now use the mug on the Wizard. He will bang the table and a toothpick will
bounce to the other side of the room. While the toothpick is still bouncing
get F to throw the boomerang at it. Get W to collect the toothpick and use
it on the skeleton. The rib cage will open and a bottle fall to the floor
and smash. Use the sponge on the pool of liquid.

Now get W to blow on the pipe. As he does this get F to use the sponge on
the smoke. This will reveal the door to the final show-down - the Kingdom
Of Death. Take your courage with both hands and send both Gobliins through.

Kingdom of Death

Stand F on the eye at the bottom of the screen and get W to jump off the
left edge of the top right platform ("!!!"). F will be thrown upwards. Get
the mouse and have W use it on the mud. A crocodile will come out and W
should jump on him straight away. He will fly upwards and while Amoniak
reaches out to catch him get F to throw the boomerang at the teeth. If you
get yout timing right Amoniak will drop the Buffoon.

Before the little demon that pops out can retrieve the Buffoon, make a
Gobliin jump from "!!!" which will cause the eye to jump out and stun the
little nasty creature. Put the sponge on the rock.

Now put the Buffoon on the eye and make W jump from "!!!". The Buffoon will
be thrown onto the sponge which in turn will wet the rock. As the water
flows out, get F to draw a door on the rock. This will create an exit which
will last a short time. Get W to turn the handle and our three heros can
make a triumphant exit. Well done, you have now completed Goblins 2! Now do
you feel a hero or what?