                      ULTIMA IV SOLUTION
                      ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  Part 1

 ULTIMA IV begins very much like an illustrated text adventure, except
that there is nothing for you to do but follow passively along until you
are seated in the old gypsy's wagon (more about that in a bit). The
opening scene is rather unique in that you're supposed to boot up the
game and begin before you read the instructions! (Actually you *should*
read your player reference card before booting up the game, but the
illustrated adventure tells you when to start reading the History of
Britannia).
 Once you've read the Book and followed the scenes into the gypsy's
wagon, you're ready to make your first important decisions of the game:
making the choices that the gypsy presents to you as she turns over the
cards.

 CREATING A PRINCIPAL CHARACTER

 Your answers to the gypsy's questions are not just a mental exercise,
and they're not some form of test; instead, they determine the
profession that your principal character in the game will have and where
on the huge map of Britannia (16 times larger than the Sosaria of ULTIMA
III) you will start. Here is where ULTIMA IV makes its first dramatic
departure from ULTIMA III. You begin with only one character, not a
multi-character party. You can get up to seven other characters to join
your party as you journey around Britannia (much more about that later),
but at the start you are on your own. Also, all the characters in ULTIMA
IV are human; there is no multiplicity of races as in previous ULTIMAs.
There are, however, eight different professions, each with its own
unique set of attributes as described in the History of Britannia, and
this is where your answers to the gypsy's questions are key.
 Each card that the gypsy turns over stands for one of the eight virtues
of an Avatar. Each question asks you to choose between two of the
virtues. The questions are structured so that at the end of the gypsy's
questions you will have favored one virtue over all of the others. Each
of the eight possible professions is associated with one of the virtues,
as is each of the eight principal cities of Britannia. Thus, the virtue
that you favor will determine both the profession of your character and
the city where you begin the game. The following chart lists the eight
virtues, the professions, and the cities associated with them.

 VIRTUE        PROFESSION    CITY

 Honesty       Mage          Moonglow

 Compassion    Bard          Britain

 Valor         Fighter       Jhelom

 Justice       Druid         Yew

 Sacrifice     Tinker        Minoc

 Honor         Paladin       Trinsic

 Spirituality  Ranger        Skara Brae

 Humility      Shepherd      Magincia

 It is probably best to answer the questions in favor of Honor so that
your principal character is a Paladin. Paladins have the strongest
combination of magical and physical fighting abilities. They start out
armed with a sword and wearing chain armour (a considerable advantage in
the early going), and they can use all types of weapons and wear magical
armour (a considerable advantage later in the game, as your principal
character is always first in the order of battle and can expect to take
a lot of punishment).

 ULTIMA IV
  Part 2

 GENERAL STRATEGY

 The *ultimate* goal of ULTIMA IV is easy to describe: You strive to
prove yourself worthy in each of the eight virtues of an avatar so that
you may view the Codex of Ultimate Wisdom and guide the people of
Britannia from the Age of Darkness into the Age of Light. Sounds simple,
right? No? Well, I'll bet you've played an ULTIMA or two before! And if
you have played any of the previous ULTIMAs, you already know the two
most important skills required to successfully complete this game:
Patience and Perserverance.
 As in the previous ULTIMAs, there is no single strategy or order of
play that must be followed in order to complete the game. Unfolding the
plot of ULTIMA IV, by far the most tightly woven and intricate of any
ULTIMA so far, is rather like peeling an onion: you scrape away the
outer layers in order to get at the juicier parts in the center. Unlike
the onion, however, you don't have to peel away those outer layers in
any particular order. Nevertheless, there are some things you must do if
you wish to complete the game within an ordinary lifetime:

 1) Read the History of Britannia, the Book of Magic, and your Player
Reference Card thoroughly before beginning play. In fact it's a good
idea to read them more than once (especially the Player Reference Card).
There's lots of important information in these materials that you will
want to have in the back of your mind throughout the game.

 2) Talk to everybody. Virtually all of the clues to solving the various
problems contained in this game are held by the people who you will meet
in the various towns, villages, and castles. The only way to get this
information is to (T)alk to everyone you encounter. You should pay
special attention to the information in your Player Reference Card. Ask
each person his or her name, job, and health, and note their replies.
For example, if a Paladin responds to "job" by saying, "I fight to
protect the shrine of Honor," you should respond by asking the Paladin
about fight, shrine, and honor. In this way, you will eventually learn
everything you need to know.

 3) Write everything down. This is absolutely crucial. You must write
down the name of everybody you meet (whether or not they have anything
important to say to you the first time that you meet them), where you
met them, and what, if anything, they had to say. The reason that this
is so important is that the plot of ULTIMA IV is designed to make you
visit every location in the game, usually more than once, and it is
written in such a way that you may not know what to ask people the first
time you meet them. For example, the first time you meet Sir Simon and
Lady Tessa in Paws Village, they will tell you only that they know a
great secret. Later, someone else in another town will tell you exactly
what it is that you should ask Sir Simon and Lady Tessa about. But, he
will not tell you where to find them. If you hadn't written down that
they were in Paws, you wouldn't know where to go to get this important
information.

 4) Thoroughly explore all the towns, villages, and castles. As your
Player Reference Card says, many quests in the game are contained
entirely within the individual towns, villages, and castles of
Britannia. Take the time to familiarize yourself completely with their
geography. Don't limit yourself to the areas that are immediately
visible. Much of the really important stuff is hidden on the perimeters
of the towns and behind secret doors. As for the perimeters, experiment
by trying to walk around the areas immediately outside the town. You
will find that in many places you can walk around the outside border of
the town without the game forcing you to exit back to the Britannia map.
You will often run into people who have very important things to say.
Vital information can also be found behind the secret doors in most of
the towns, villages, and castles. How do you know where a secret door
is? Well, look carefully at the brick work that forms the walls of the
room where you are. If you see what appears to be an oddly-placed
rectangle in the brick work (one that doesn't fit in with the pattern of
the other bricks) that's a secret door! Just move your character through
it to get to the other side. When exploring in this manner, you'll
sometimes come up against locked doors or passages blocked by magic
fields. Don't be concerned that you can't get by these barriers. Just
make note of their locations; they'll be easy enough to handle later on
in the game.

 5) Be virtuous! Who is an avatar? One who has proved him/herself worthy
in each of the eight virtues. The eight virtues are: honesty,
compassion, justice, spirituality, valor, sacrifice, humility, and
honor. You can't play ULTIMA IV in the same way that you played the
first three ULTIMAs and expect to win. This game does *not* reward
stealing and beating up on the guards. If you insist on lying, on taking
the gold that's just sitting there to tempt you in the towns and
castles, and on attacking non-evil creatures, the Seer Hawkwind will
recognize you for the evil cur that you are, and you'll be a complete
washout as an avatar. Play this game with the golden rule in mind and
walk the straight and narrow.

 ULTIMA IV
  Part 3

 EXPLORING THE CASTLES, TOWNS, AND VILLAGES

 The heart of the game in ULTIMA IV is exploring the various castles,
towns, and villages and conversing with the many NPCs that you will find
residing there. It is in these locations that you learn virtually all of
the secrets that the game holds. Keeping accurate notes of what the NPCs
say to you and who said what is vital to the successful completion of
the game. You should also note where each NPC was found, since later in
the game another NPC will tell you that a certain character holds
important information, but the NPC won't tell you where that character
is located.
 Listed below are summaries of the important information to be found in
each of the castles, towns, and villages. Rather than attempt to repeat
each drawn-out.
 Where possible, I have included the name and profession of
the NPC who provided the information (alas, my notes weren't perfect,
especially those I took early in the game, but all the necessary
information is included). The locations are listed in the order that I
explored them. you can explore them in any order you want. You
should, however, go have a talk with Lord British in his castle as early
in the game as possible. I have also included in brackets the latitude
and longitude of each location. You will need a sextant obtained from a
guild shop in order to use these coordinates.

 CASTLES:

 BRITANNIA CASTLE [G'L", F'G"]

 Lord British -- Find Lord British in his second floor throne room. Ask
him of the Virtue, and he will describe the towns that represent each
Virtue. He will also tell you of the castles that represent each
principle. And he will tell you of the Abyss and
the Codex. LB will also raise the levels of you and your party members
when you earn enough experience points. If you ask him of his health and
respond "no" when he asks if you are also well, he will raise all of the
hit points of your party to their current maximums for free. So visit
him often!

 The Seer Hawkwind -- Hawkwind is located in the southwest area of the
castle's first floor. Visit him often to learn of your progress toward
avatarhood in each of the 8 Virtues.

 Sheesha -- Injured fighter -- Seek out the Smith named Zircon in Minoc
for he made the mystic arms, only they will save thee in the Abyss.

 Shawn -- Shepherdess both strong and beautiful -- Her town was
destroyed for its pride. The ruins lie on an isle at Lat-K'J",
Long-L'L".

 EMPATH ABBEY [D'C", B'M"]

 Guard -- In the Oak Grove many find the meaning of peace and Love.
Visit the small Shrine within the Abbey.

 Chinup -- Stately Child -- Visit the Oak Grove. There four profession
types seek the Truth.

 Pass guard -- From the altars a 3-part key is gained, needed to enter
the chamber of the Codex.

 Brother Antos -- Wise Druid -- Ask the Bard beyond the secret passage
about the Candle of Love.

 Suzanna -- Lovely Lady -- Malchor can lead thee to the Silver Horn.

 Malchor -- Bold Paladin -- The Silver Horn is buried on a small isle
off the tip of Spiritwood.

 Lady Marcy and Lord Robert -- They know one syllable of the word of
passage: "Amo"

 To learn of the White Stone, find the Old Hermit Sloven, he lives near
Lock Lake.

 OAK GROVE (LOCATED WITHIN EMPATH ABBEY -- REQUIRES KEYS TO ENTER)

 Benjamin -- Love alone forms compassion.

 Lastro -- Spirituality is based on Truth, Love and Courage.

 Deirde -- Justice is formed from Truth tempered by Love.

 Thomas -- Sacrifice is comprised of Love and Courage.

 Isaac -- The White Stone sits atop the Serpent's Spine. It can only be
reached by one who floats above the clouds.

 Garam -- Fighter -- The Bell is at the bottom of deep well at sea at
N'A", L'A".

 Ask the Beggar Jude about the Skull. He is very poor.

 THE LYCAEUM [G'M", N'K"]

 The Charming Lady -- Beth Frasier, The Stately Baron -- Robert Frasier
-- They know one syllable of the word of passage: "Ver"

 Scatu -- Tall Mage Wearing Strange Armour -- Visit the seer often.

 Nigel -- Noble Wizard -- The Resurrection spell consists of one part
each of Ash, Ginseng, Garlic, Spider Silk, Bloodmoss and Mandrake Root.

 Injured Warrior -- A Fighter -- Was lost in a dungeon altar room. They
connect the dungeons unto each other. Each of the three rooms connects
to four dungeons each.

 SERPENT'S HOLD [P'B", J'C"]

 The ruler of this Castle knows the third part of the word of passage:
"Cor"

 Ranger -- Ask teach about rooms.

 Shyra -- Training Master -- In the Altar Room of Courage use the Red,
Orange, Purple and White Stones.

 Noxum -- Nixie -- HMS Cape had a magical wheel that would strengthen
her hull. Ask Lassorn.

 Lassorn -- Sailor -- HMS Cape lies sunken in the deep waters of the Bay
of the Cape of Heroes.

 TOWNS:

 TRINSIC [L'I", G'K"]

 Rigmore -- Strong Paladin -- Information about the Virtue of Honor is
found throughout Trinsic. There are 2 requirements to enter and use the
Shrine of Honor.

 Publius -- Sleepy Fighter -- Seek the purple Stone of Honor.

 Winthrop -- Scruffy Merchant -- Go to the pub in Jhelom and ask of
sextants.

 Kline -- Searching Paladin -- The Mantra of Honor is "Summ." The Shrine
of Honor lies to the south and west beyond the swamps.

 Swindrik -- Wizard -- Ask at the Folley Tavern of Mandrake.

 Terrin -- Cowering child -- Rune of Honor is buried in the southwest
corner of the town.

 Quix -- Wandering mage -- The skeleton knows a great secret about the
purple Stone of Honor.

 Barkeep -- Ask the old hermit Sloven who lives near Lock Lake of the
white Stone.

 Virgil -- Mage (Located inside poison field in southwest corner of
town) -- Nightshade may be found at Lat-J'F", Long-C'O" only on the
darkest of nights.

 BRITAIN [G'K", F' C"]

 Gweno -- Jester -- Beggars are thankful for small donations; shows
compassion.

 Sprite -- Beggar -- Pepper knows of the Rune.

 Shapero -- Druid -- Find the Shrine of Compassion east across 2
bridges.

 Sebastion -- Prostrate -- Mondain's influence has not left the world.
An artifact remains. At Bucaneer's Den, ask at the pub there of the
Skull.

 Joe -- Fighter -- The yellow Stone may be found in the Dungeon Despise.

 Pepper -- Bard -- The Rune of Compassion lies at the end of a hall
somewhere in this town.

 Cricket -- Bard -- The Mantra for the Shrine of compassion is "Mu."

 The great Stygian Abyss is the darkest pocket of evil left in
Britannia.  In its deepest recesses lies the Codex, which only one of
the highest Virtue may enter. Give of thy life's blood so that others
may live.

 Meditation lights the path.

 Runes are needed to enter Shrines.

 Mantra chants are needed to focus thoughts while meditating.

 SKARA BRAE [I'A", B'G"]

 Carlyle -- Wise Mage -- Magic missiles need but one part ash.

 Presto -- Very Small Wizard -- Ask the barkeep at the Axe-N-Ale in
Vesper about Nightshade.

 Barren -- Small Child -- The Mantra of Spirituality is "Om."

 Mitre -- Radiant Ranger -- The white Stone is no longer in the Dungeon
Hylothe, it is gone. Ask for the Stone at the tap in Trinsic.

 Romasco -- Teacher -- Teaches of the Abyss, a word of passage is needed
at the last gate. Seek Zair the Wise in Paws for more on the word.

 JHELOM [N'O", C'E"]

 (NOTE: In order to completely explore this town, you will need keys
obtained from a Guild shop and several Dispel spells.)

 Guards -- Passages are restricted.

 X -- Strange Person -- Seeks the red Stone of Valor. Thou shalt need
the red Stone in one altar room to get the third part of a key.

 Sir Hrothgar -- Mighty Warrior -- Seek the Shrine of Valor. Ask Aesop
for the Mantra.

 Aesop -- The Mantra of Valor is "Ra." Use it in the Shrine on the next
isle.

 Lord Robert -- Ask Nostro of the Rune.

 Nostro (he's located deep in the restricted passages) -- The Rune is
buried in a Tower.

 Senora -- Virgil in Trinsic knows about Nightshade.

 Gravnor -- Grave fighter -- The red Stone is found on an altar in the
Dungeon Destard. For navigation a sextant is vital. Ask for item "D" in
the Guild shops.

 Bingrod -- Wounded fighter -- Find the altar room of the Dungeon
Destard. Therein use the Stones found in the connecting dungeons.

 MOONGLOW [I'H", O'I"]

 Calabrini -- Tall Mage -- The Shrine lies on an isle to the north.

 Tyrone -- Battered Mage -- The Stone of Honesty is found on an altar in
the Dungeon Deceit.

 Browning -- Tall Mage -- Truth is the root of Honesty.

 Shazom -- Dying Young Wizard -- Nigel lives at the Lycaeum.

 Cosima -- Elderly Woman -- Sleep spell actually requires but one part
spider silk.

 William -- Child Eating Sandwich -- Search for the Rune of Honesty by
Mariah's gold.

 Cromwell -- Regal Paladin -- The Mantra of Honesty is "Ahm."

 Dekker -- Bouncy Jester -- Humility is not derived from the direct
combination of Truth, Love or Courage.

 YEW [C'L", D'K"]

 Druid -- Wandering Druid -- The Shrine of Justice lies to the East then
North. Ask Talfourd about the Rune.

 Pinrod -- Thin Man -- The Druids chant the Mantra.

 Talfourd -- Wise Judge -- The Rune is hidden well.

 Silent -- Chanting Druid -- Chants "Beh." Seek the green Stone in
"Wrong."

 Calumny -- Old Mage -- Mandrake root is found only in the fens of the
dead and in the Bloody Plains where the ground is always damp. Quickness
requires but one bloodmoss.

 MINOC [B'E", J'P"]

 Mike Ward -- Stocky Ranger -- Rune of Spirituality is missing from
Skara Brae.

 Azure -- Tinker at Table -- Ask Mischief of Rune of Spirituality

 Alex -- Teenage Boy -- Give all you can to the needy.

 Alkerion -- Old Ragged Man -- The Stone of Spirituality is Orange in
Colour and used in the altar rooms of Love and Courage.

 Jude -- Ragged Soul -- The Skull of Mondain may be found at P'F", M'F"
on the darkest of nights. Use it only at the mouth of the Abyss to
destroy it.

 Merida -- Wandering Tinker -- The Shrine of Sacrifice is on a lake to
the East. A hidden Shepherd knows the Mantra.

 Singsong -- Cute Bard -- "In the Corn the Raven sayeth 'Cah.'"

 Zircon -- Tinker -- The Mystic Weapons and Armour he gave to Sir Simon
and Lady Tessa.

 Mischief -- Happy Tinker -- Search for the Rune of Spirituality in the
Treasure Chamber of Britannia. Enter the Gate of Full Moons by Minoc
with the Rune to find the Shrine.

 The Candle of Love is found in a secret place hidden off Lock Lake.

 Mystics can be found only by an 8-parts Avatar.

 MAGINCIA [K'J", L'L"]

 Nate the Snake -- Ask in the Pub in Britain of the Black Stone.

 Casperin -- Ask Heywood of the Mantra of Humility.

 Heywood -- Ask Faultless of the Mantra of Pride.

 The Silver Horn must be used to pass the Demon guard of the Shrine of
Humility. Ask Demitry of the Horn.

 Demitry -- Ask the Lady in Waiting of the Queen of Love of the Horn.

 Faultless -- The Mantra of Pride is "Mul."

 VILLAGES:

 PAWS [J'B", G'C"]

 Sir Simon and Lady Tessa -- If you are not yet an 8-parts Avatar, they
will tell you only that they know a great secret. If you *are* an
8-parts Avatar, they will tell you that the Mystic Weapons lie in the
training room of Serpent Castle and that the Mystic Armour lies in the
center of the Oak Grove at Empath Abbey.

 Zair the Wise -- A 3-part key and a word of passage are needed to enter
the Chamber of the Codex. Ask his brother beyond Lock Lake of the Word.

 Jingles -- Young Mage -- His master, Mentorian, lives in a hidden
village in Lock Lake, reachable only by ship. Ask Mentorian of the Gate
Spell.

 Greg N Rob -- Bartender -- The last person I knew that had any mandrake
was an old alchemist named Calumny.

 Damsel -- Small Druid -- Rations are used in the dungeons. In the great
castle there is a secret entrance.

 Wheatpin -- Meek Shepherd -- The Rune is around there in nook of
mountains.

 VESPER [D'L", L'H"]

 Flatbush -- Visit each Shrine for One, Two, Three cycles each for paths
to be clear.

 Plain -- When the 3 principles of Virtue combine in 8 ways, pride has
no Virtue.

 Gem -- When thou knowest the Mantra of pride, reverse it.

 Job -- The Shrine of Humility lies on the North bank of the Isle of the
Abyss and guarded by endless hords of Demons. It is Southwest of
Britannia.

 Traveling Dan -- Knows the world is round.

 BUCANEERS DEN [J'O", I'I"]

 Ragnar -- If you ever use the Skull except to destroy it, all thy
Virtues will be lost.

 Starlight -- Powerful Magic Missiles are made from one part Black Pearl
and one part ash.

 COVE [F'K", I'I"]

 Frontis -- Find peace in our Shrine.

 Brother Zair -- The Kings of the Castles which represent the 3
Principles of Virtue each know but one syllable of the Word of Passage.

 Blissful -- The Shrine Ankh knows how to Enter the Chamber of the
Codex.

 Shrine Ankh -- To enter the Chamber of the Codex, one must be an
8-parts Avatar, have the key of 3 parts, the word of passage and know
the Pure Axiom.

 Mentorian -- A gate spell requires Ash, Pearl and Mandrake Root.

 Circe -- The whole of the Axiom is greater than all its parts. The
measure of unending Love, the limitless Courage needed to face all
obstacles, the Truth which encompasses all things.

 Spellbind -- For the Codex, one must know the combination of the 3
principles of Virtue. The combination equals the measure of time and
space.

 Only the ghost of Isaac who haunts the Inn at Skara Brae can tell thee
of the White Stone. Stay until he shows.

 Allen -- The Abyss may only be approached by ship and the ship must
have a magically strengthened hull.

 Merlin -- To find the Black Stone, stand where the Gate of Both Moons
Dark shall appear, search when the moons go dark.

 Zorin -- In the castles, find all named Antos and ask of the bell, book
and candle.


 ULTIMA IV
  Part 4

 CHARACTERS

 1. Dupre.........Paladin (Trinsic)
 2. Katrina.......Shepherd (Magincia)
 3. Shamino.......Ranger (Skara Brae)
 4. Janna.........Druid (Yew)
 5. Geoffrey......Fighter (Jhelom)
 6. Mariah........Mage (Moonglow)
 7. Julia.........Tinker (Minoc)
 8. Iolo..........Bard (Britain)

 DUNGEONS AND THEIR LOCATIONS

 1. Deceit.........E'J"/P'A"
 2. Wrong..........B'E"/H'O"
 3. Despise........E'D"/F'L"
 4. Covetous.......B'L"/J'M"
 5. Dasterd........K'I"/E'I"
 6. Shame..........G'I"/D'K"
 7. Hylothe........Behind Castle Britannia
 8. Abyss..........O'J"/O'J"

 RUNES AND THEIR LOCATIONS

 1. Honesty........A'G"/A'I" (Moonglow)
 2. Valor..........B'O"/B'O" (Jhelom)
 3. Spirituality...A'I"/B'B" (Britannia)
 4. Humility.......B'N"/B'N" (Paws)
 5. Justice........In Yew
 6. Sacrifice......In Minoc
 7. Compassion.....A'B"/B'J" (Britain)
 8. Honor..........In Trinsic

 MANTRAS

 1. Justice........"BEH"
 2. Compassion....."MU"
 3. Sacrifice......"CAH"
 4. Humility......."LUM"
 5. Valor.........."RA"
 6. Honesty........"AHM"
 7. Spirituality..."OM"
 8. Honor.........."SUMM"

 STONES AND THEIR LOCATIONS

 1. Black..........Moongate
 2. White..........Serpents Spine
 3. Blue...........Deceit (level 7)
 4. Green..........Wrong (level 8)
 5. Yellow.........Despise (level 5)
 6. Orange.........Covetous (level 7)
 7. Red............Dasterd (level 7)
 8. Purple.........Shame (level 2)

 SHRINES AND THEIR LOCATIONS

 1. Justice........A'K"/E'K"
 2. Compassion.....F'M"/I'A"
 3. Sacrifice......C'N"/M'N"
 4. Humility.......N'I"/O'H"
 5. Valor..........O'F"/C'E"
 6. Honesty........E'C"/O'J"
 7. Spirituality...B'D"/K'G"
 8. Honor..........M'N"/F'C"

 STONES USED FOR 3-PART KEY AT ALTARS

 1. White/Orange/Green/Yellow...Love
 2. White/Orange/Red/Purple.....Courage
 3. White/Blue/Green/Purple.....Truth

 MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS

 1. Bell...........N'A"/L'A"
 2. Book...........A'G"/A'G" (Lycaeum)
 3. Candle.........A'B"/B'G" (Cove)
 4. Mystic Arm.....A'E"/B'G" (Empath Abbey)
 5. Mystic Weap....A'P"/A'I" (Serpents Hold)
 6. Silver Horn....K'N"/C'N"
 7. Wheel..........N'H"/G'A"
 8. Skull..........P'F"/M'F"

 PLACES VIEWED THROUGH TELESCOPE IN THE LYCAEUM

 A....Britannia
 B....Lycaeum
 C....Empath Abbey
 D....Serpents Hold
 E....Moon Glow
 F....Britain
 G....Jehlom
 H....Yew
 I....Minoc
 J....Trinsic
 K....Skara Brae
 L....Magincia
 M....Paws
 N....Buccaneer's Den
 O....Vesper
 P....Cove

 ULTIMA IV
  Part 5

 THE ABYSS

 To reach the Abyss, you must sail through the pirate armada and land on
the eastern shore. Disembark, and quickly make your way to the fiery
lava cross. Make sure you have the maximum number of spells available.
Save game. At the center of the cross (don't worry about being burned;
it can't be helped), use your bell, book, and candle. You may destroy
the skull here by using it, if you wish. Do not dispell the field.
Enter.
 There are 8 levels in this dungeon. To go down a level, you must locate
an altar, answer a question, and use the appropriate stone. All 8 levels
must be completed in one sitting (no save game here!). What follows are
the answers to the questions and the correct color of the stones to be
used on each level:

 LEVEL     VIRTUE        STONE

   1       Honesty       Blue
   2       Compassion    Yellow
   3       Valor         Red
   4       Justice       Green
   5       Sacrifice     Orange
   6       Honor         Purple
   7       Spirituality  White
   8       Humility      Black

 Some altars are difficult to find, so you'll have to use a lot of gems,
and search very carefully for hidden triggers (sometimes two in one
room!). There are also many terrible monsters to defeat. Use your spells
judiciously, and run when you're really overwhelmed.

 When you finally reach level 8, you must be extremely careful. You will
have to type in a number of answers to questions, and one mistake can
throw you out to the surface. Here is the list of answers to the
questions that are posed when all goes black:

 PASSWORD = VERAMOCOR

 THE TWELVE ANSWERS

  1. Honesty
  2. Compassion
  3. Valor
  4. Justice
  5. Sacrifice
  6. Honor
  7. Spirituality
  8. Humility
  9. Truth
 10. Love
 11. Courage
 12. Infinity

 The Codex opens, and all knowledge is revealed to you! Congratulations!

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1986 by Patricia Fitzgibbons. All rights
reserved.