MANCHESTER UNITED

If you`re losing a game,simply press the mouse button to put the game
into two-player mode.Then just score loadsa goals!!!

                        MANCHESTER UNITED TIPS

Typed in by SIDEWINDER for LSD.


Playing games is not only essential for progression - it also comes in
mighty handy for rooting out any players who aren't performing particularly
well.  Look for anybody who isn't pulling his weight for some reason, and
then review his training programme accordingly (poor training is more often
than not the reason behind his bad performance).  Goalkeepers in
particular, need to be watched.

You'll find that many players are pretty slow on the ball, and it's when
you're in control of one of these that it's best to play a passing game as
much as possible.  Don't try to run with the ball as the defence will catch
you every time.

Similarly, don't attempt to play a running game if your team as a whole is
pretty slow.  Players run slower than normal when they're on the ball, so
its best to adopt 'chip and chase' tactics, where you kick the ball in
front of you, catch up with it and so on.

The scanner is a lot more useful than many players appreciate - in fact
it's an essential passing tool.  Use it as much as you can to highlight
players that are ready to move forward into open space and to avoid areas
filled with opposing players.  It's a bit like a crystal ball in a sense,
allowing you to see things in your mind just before they happen and so be
prepared for them.  And don't worry about the scanner being obscured by the
action on the pitch - it moves automatically into the corner of the screen
that's most quiet to give you best views at all times.

And Smith must score! Or must he? Well, only if he knows exactly what he's
doing.  Like a lot of contempary soccer simulations, you'll find that
diagonals always work best against the keepers, as they have a hard time
with the unusual angle of approach.  The best place to shoot from is just
outside the box, and up into the corner of the goal - if it's on target the
keeper will have a very hard time diving for it.  Oh, and don't waste your
time with any fancy 'dribbling round the keeper' tricks.  The goalies here
are far too shrewd for that caper and will take the ball straight off you.

As nasty as it may sound, you should try to play dirty as much as possible.
It's well worth chopping down the opposition if only to break up his flow
of play - at best you could stop a potential lethal attack before it's too
late.  The worst you are ever likely to come up against is a free kick, but
a lot of the time you'll get away with it completely!

When playing the computer team, there's a handy tactic to employ which
enables you to find your way around annoying defenders - take the longest
route!  Computer players expect you to take the shortest route around them,
so it's easy to sell them a dummy.

Training is vital - without it, your team will perform like a bunch of
geriatric wallies.  It's a time consuming procedure to make sure everyone
has a training program for that week, but if you want to stay with a chance
you simply HAVE to do it.  And make sure you go through the entire squad,
not just the team you want to play in the next game, as you can never be
sure as to exactly who will be playing.

When buying players, always bid less than the asking price, as the club
that's selling the player you want is obviously keen to get rid off him.
And to make sure that your funds are topped up at all times, make sure
you've always got plenty of players up for sale.  You can root out the ones
that are best to get rid of during the matches.

Formation selection is always important, but something that's often
overlooked.  When making this choice, you should select a formation that
caters to your team's style the best by covering it's weak areas.  For
example, if your team is weak in defence, select a formation that has a
strong defensive line-up.

End