                      M O R T V I L L E   M A N O R
                                 (Lankhor)

Do  not  search  in the rooms if you are not alone! Go directly towards the
Manor  (don't  waste  any  time outside...). Once in the Manor's Main Hall,
choose  the  last left door (Guy's room). Enter the room. There should be a
suitcase  on  the  wardrobe.  Open it and search inside it. Take the golden
ring. Don't forget to close the suitcase...Go back to the Hall.

Choose  the last door to the right (Bob's room). There's also a suitacse on
the  wardrobe.  Take  the knife inside it, close the suitcase and go to the
Cellar.

Inside  the  Cellar,  you should find a little crack over a picture. Insert
the knife inside the crack and a secret passage opens on your left...To use
this passage, you will have to answer to some questions.
Here are the answers:
                    Julia has died from natural causes.
                  Leo is a kind of historical researcher.
               The signs are to be found in the dining-room.
                        The main sign is a scroll.
                         There are three scrolls.
                 Ten characters are implied in this case.
                The first name of the unknown is Murielle.
                       Murielle was Guy's mistress.
               Murielle was sharing an occupation with Leo.

A  statue stands before you. Put the ring on the statue's bowl and turn the
ring.  A passage appears, leading to a Crypt. Go inside the Crypt. You will
discover  a  corpse  (  Murielle  ). Search it, and take the wooden object.
Leave  the  Crypt, get back the ring, and go back to the Cellar then to the
Hall.

Go to the Attic. In the Attic, open the first drawer of the desk and search
it.  Take  the  wooden  stick, and close the drawer. Place the stick of the
first  superior  corner  of  the  desk, then place the wooden object at the
extremity  of  the stick. Make the whole thing turn! A secret drawer should
open! Read the letter.

                   The guilty will denounce himself!!!!!