Legends of Valour
-----------------

Find some treasure and pick it up, then find a person. Throw the treasure at
the person. Now he (or she) will drop a bag of money.  And remember that the
persons with the most money are often the women.

                   LEGENDS OF VALOUR - PLAY TO WIN!


The Basic Laws Of Survival
--------------------------

Mitteldorf is a big,big place,and it can be a scary one too for the novice
adventurer walking it's streets for the  very first  time. Here, then, are
some simple  step-by-step guides  as to what you should do  as soon as you
walk inside the city's walls:

1)Mitteldorf's no place for bums,and sleeping  on the  street is  not only
uncomfortable it's also illegal and highly dangerous. So first thing to do
is to get a room - you'll find the Seaman's Tavern has the cheapest rates,
so make your way there.Remember:Whatever you do,never sleep in the street.

2)Whether you're of a religeous frame of  mind or not, you  should join  a
temple of some sort. All you have to do is perform one First  Level  quest
and then you can get healed when you need it on the cheap. Not  only that,
you'll start earning a wage.

3)There are all kinds of thieves and brigands roaming the darker  alleways
of Mitteldorf,and they can tell when someones loaded. So,unless you're out
trading,never carry more than 30 Groats around with you at any time -stash
the rest in your room where it's safe. Probably.

4)The town guard have  a bad  thing  about fly-by-night  adventurer-types,
always coming into the city and causing havoc. Whenever you see on, try to
get out of sight as quickly as you can. Out of sight,as they say,is out of
mind,and the mind of a town guardsman is no place for anybody.

5)There are three magical  items that  you should try  to find as soon  as
possible,as they have a highly benificial effect on your character. One is
the pair of Seven League Boots,and you should be able to locate  them in a
small room just south of East Gate (have a good hunt around).The second is
the pair of Gauntlets Of Power, which reside in the  upstairs  room of the
armoury.The third is the necklace,but you'll have to  hunt  that  down for 
yourself.

6)Everybody needs to take time out to rest from time to time,and you're no
different. Once you've completed a quest  always spend  at least two  days
lounging around,eating,drinking and sleeping to replenish your  statistics
for the next adventure.

7)If you have sufficient cash cash,buy life insurance.Lots of it.You never
know when it'll come in handy.

8)If you ever find yourself in the furtunate position of having some spare
cash on your person, splash out on some weapons training. It's money  well 
spent.

9)Life being what is is you may occasionally find yourself being possessed
by an alien spirit.But dont panic - it's  actually good for you!  Not only
is it  beneficial to  your health, your personal  appeal and energy  get a
whacking boost as well.You'll soon wish it happend more often!

Guild/Temple Conflicts
----------------------

There's a great deal of hostility between the  various Guilds and  Temples
of Mitteldorf,and if you're,say,a member of the Temple of Set then  theres
no chance of getting into the  Men At Arms Guild. This l ittle table below
will help you not to waste your time..

        Asegir  Loki  Men  Merc.  Thieves  Set  Odin  Freya  Aegir
                ----------------------------------------------------------
Asegir        .      X     Y    Y       Y      X     Y      Y      Y
Loki          X      .     X    Y       X      Y     X      X      Y
Men At Arms       Y      X     .    X       X      X     X      X      Y
Merenaries        Y      Y     X    .       Y      Y     X      Y      X
Thieves           Y      X     X    Y       .      Y     X      X      Y
Set               X      Y     X    Y       Y      .     X      X      X
Odin          Y      X     X    X       X      X     .      X      X
Freya         Y      X     X    Y       X      X     X      .      X
Aegir         Y      Y     Y    X       Y      X     X      X      .

Key:Y - No problems;X - No chance.        

Spells
------

The magic spells can only be used by a magician/priest of a certain level,
and each uses up a certain amount of enery. This  table gives you the full
low-down..

SPELL       ENERGY USAGE        LEVEL NEEDED
----------------------------------------------------
Portal      Small                2
Fireball    Small                2
Thunderbolt Small                2
Create Food     Great                3
Create Drink    Great                3
Power       Medium               4
Protection      Medium               4
Heal        None *               4
Sanctury    Medium               5

*But totally exhausts you.


How To Make Money...Lots Of It
------------------------------

Money.It's one of the great evils of the world but you can't live  without
it! Especially in somewhere so commerce led as Mitteldorf.So how do you go
about making pots of the stuff? Well,there are three main ways:commodities
trading,running errands and mugging.
 
Commodities Trading
-------------------

The most lucrative of these is  commodities  trading. So long as you  know
your way around the town and can handle the risk of carrying large amounts
of money/goods on your person,then by buying  cheap and s elling high  you 
can soon make youself a tidy little packet.The cheaper shops in town,Dirty
Daglish's and Downends to name  but two, are typically  very  difficult to
find,being stuck in some non-descript little backstreet.it pays to explore
,ifyou've got the time and the inclination.
The quickest and most profitable run is usually between the prison stores/
ships chandlers and Hotches/armoury. I normally  use the West Wall  route,
veering around the Temple Of Freya, the casino,the  Mercenaries Guildhouse
and then up to Castle Boulevard.
The risk of being  mugged or  pickpocketted  are high, so try not to carry
more than 250 Groats on you at any time - this should be more than  enough
for a full load of goods. If you've a powerful member of a temple or magic
Guild then this is,of course,where you can use those sanctury/warp  spells
to good effect - taking sanctury in Freya,buying at the prison, warping to
the stones,ect.
 
Errands
-------

By checking out the inn  noticeboards you can see what errands are  going.
The pay is'nt up to  much - usually between  10  and 20 Groats - but  they
can be useful if you're  out of cash and  in need of some capital to begin
commodities trading.

Mugging
-------

Mugging can,assuming you've picked the right victim, get you quite a large
amount of goods. however,the  inevitable fees you'll have to  pay for mean
that this  activity, quite apart  from  being highly illegal  and  morally
dubious,isn't usually all that profitable.

Pocket Money
------------

Apart from these methods, there are  various other ways of turning a  fast   
buck. One of the more unusual of these  is going hunting  for bat  snacks:
throw a weapon at  a bat, pick up the bloody  remains and sell them  for 2
Groats - worth  much  more  than  their  nutritional  value  as  they  are 
considered to be a delicacy by the Mitteldorfians.
Don't forget that you can  sell  off any  surplus items  left  over  after
you've completed a quest,such as scrolls and so forth.  Don't forget  that
each of the Guilds and Temples offers  small wages  to their  members  (as
they should,after all they took enough off you when you joined!) but these
a fairly nominal.
As you wander around term its often worth picking up the itmes that litter
the city streets. While most of them are worth little  more than a  Groat,
others can get you a fair amount. Take potion bottles,for example - theyre
worth 30 Groats!

Combat
------

Each  monster has  it's  own set of strengths  and weaknesses. This  table
describes them all,including attack rate (how fast they hit you), strength
(how much damage they do if they hit you) and difficulty (how  hard it  is
to kill them). Also listed is the attack that they're each most vulnerable
to. During cambat  bear in mind  that if you hit the  monster at the  same 
time that they hit you then they cancel out and no damage occurs to either
party. Also, try using the  autocombat from time to time - it's  very good 
you'll discover!

CHARACTER   ATTACK RATE STRENGTH    DIFFICULTY     BEST ATTACK
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Acolyte     Average     Average     Average     Slash
Bat     Average     Average     Average     Slash
Bear        Slow        Strong      Hard        Thrust
Cyclops     Average     Strong      Hard        Crush
Dragon      Average     Strong      Extremely Hard  Thrust
Dwarf       Average     Weak        Very Hard   Any
Goblin      Average     Weak        Easy        Slash
Gorgon      Average     Strong      Extremely Hard  Slash
Lamia       Average     Instant Death!  Very Hard   Slash
Lizardman   Average     Strong      Very Hard   Crush
Male        Average     Average     Average     Thrust
Militia     Fast        Very Strong Average     Thrust
Minotaur    Average     Strong      Average     Slash
Monk        Average     Average     Average     Thrust
Mummy       Average     Average     Very Hard   Any
Satyr       Average     Weak        Average     Slash
Spider      Average     Weak        Easy        Crush
Troll       Average     Strong      Hard        Thrust
Vampire     Average     Strong      Hard        Thrust
Werewolf    Average     Strong      Hard        Thrust
Zombie      Average     Average     Hard        Thrust

                            THE END