Legend of Djel

You have a limited number of moves to complete the game. Passages between <> are not
necessary to make the game progress, but give hints. If you lose the game and have to
restart, which will probably happen, avoid them to gain time.


RIVERS OF FIRE : click on the lava pool to gain power; move your cursor towards the cave
	repeatedly and talk to the master; get the crystal.
EVERLASTING THIRST : talk to the critter and buy the diadem for $10 (you can get it from
	Azeulisse, too, but it makes the next part harder).
MOVING LAND : solve the puzzle then fight the right master to gain a hint.
<ALAMBIC : click on the scroll at the top of the shelf to see a portrait of the daughter.>
EVERLASTING THIRST : click on the 3 candles and get the crystal (actually, do it 5 times,
	returning home each time; this cheat that will slightly raise your odds of completing
	the game) then click on the pile of rocks; choose the rightmost portrait.
HOME : look through the window and talk to Az's daughter.
<ALAMBIC : talk to the fake daughter and agree to help her; then click on the portrait to
	get a hint.>
KAL : click on the statuette to summon Kal. Win the fight (if you lose, you'll have a 2nd
	opportunity to fight); get the crystal (you could click on the snake to gain power,
	but money is more important); click on the 3rd brick above the fireplace and get the
	spell.
HOME : look through the window and cure the daughter.
AZEULISSE : touch the lamp to summon Azeulisse; touch the mirror and get the crystal.


HOME : use the crystal ball to receive Theros' statuette; Kal gets his back.
THEROS : put out the left candle and fight the demon (you MUST win this fight, since Theros
	will get his statuette if you don't; I didn't find any way to retrieve it after that,
	so if you lose the fight, you might as well restart the game. If you win, the hard
	part *should* be over); get the dagger; click on the fountain, light the right candle
	and click on the lava pool; click on the crack under the window then on Creor.
OCEAN OF PEARL : open the door and fight the bats several times (you need at least 24 bats);
	try several times to reach the bridge then click on the rock on the ground and on the
	idol to the left; when the old man appears, talk to him; since you know the answer to
	his riddles about the Orah, he'll let you pass.
GLADES : click on the left tree and trade your dagger for the atlas.
ALAMBIC : fight the witch (you're supposed to do that earlier, but would you really want her
	to steal Kal's statuette *before* you have cured Az's daughter 
HOME : drink from the flask if you've been cursed;use the crystal ball to learn about
	Theros' sickness.
ALAMBIC : talk to Petroy and get the power (you can take the candles at the bottom of
	the shelf, too).
HOME : use the crystal ball to get Azeulisse's message (if you had not completed her quest,
	you could go to her realm, talk to the mirror, and fight bats protecting an Eye (which
	I never managed to get))
ARCH : click on the grate to talk to the snake; click on the bat, fight the bats, then get
	the key; open the left door and buy the Eye for $5.
HOME : look through the window and talk to Petroy.
GLADES : click on the river and pay $10; talk to the prisoner, to the ant king and get the
	Fruit.
HOME : drink from the flask.
ALAMBIC : Petroy makes the potion.
THEROS : read the tablet to summon him.


MARSH : click on the rock, then on the creature; talk to the creature behind the hut and
	fight the bats; talk to the creature sitting on the post and trade your diadem for
	information.
ALAMBIC : click on the torch and get the Orah; use the alambic to make gold (if you followed
	my instructions, you should have a little over $300).
ICE FLOES : click on the gem and win the fight (if you lose, you can return home and come
	back); click on the snake and agree to give it the Orah; you should now have enough
	gold to complete the game; if not, you'll have to do the treasure hunt (and risk losing
	all in the last fight !!).
HOME : use the crystal ball to learn about the treasure.
ARCH : open the far door to get a hint.
HOME : look through the window and talk to the 3 gnomes.
MARSH : talk to the creature and win the fight to get $100 (you only have one chance !).
KAL : summon him and give him $600; return home.