LOOM
----


TYPED BY FINNY


ESCAPING THE ISLAND

At the beginning you will be summoned by the Elders of the village. 
Make your way to the village and  enter  the tent to the left. Once 
inside  the  tent,  walk  to  the  far  right  and  listen  to  the 
conversation for a bit of background.  Once the people have stopped 
talking pikc up the distaff and cast the open draft on the egg.

Listen to what Hetchel has to say and then leave the tent and go to 
the tent on the far right.  Inside,  take the book (even though you 
will not need it), and examine  the  flask to find out the emptying 
draft. Also examine the dye-pot  to  learn  the notes of the dyeing 
spell, and try it out on some white wool.

Now leave the village and  go  through  the forest to the cemetery. 
Take  a  look  at  the  thorns  to  disturb  a  rabbit  which  will 
unfortionatly be caught by the own  that was on the headstone. Read 
the headstone that the owl was on (a  clue to what you should do in 
a minute) and then walk  off  in  the  owls direction back into the 
forest. Examine all of the holes  in  the  trees to learn the notes 
of the night vision spell and  then  go  back to the village. Enter 
the tent in the  middle  and  cast  the  night  vision speel on the 
darkness to reveal a wheel, some  gold  and some straw. Muck around 
the wheel to find out the Straw  into Gold spell; try this spell on 
the straw to improve your skills.

Pop down to the docks  and  cast  the  open  spell  on the clam and 
hopefully you should gain the  power  to  be  able to cast the next 
note on your distaff.  Now  go  back  to  the  cliff  top where you 
originally started and cast the open  spell  on the key, and a huge 
lightning bolt will hit the tree  and  knock  it into the water. Go 
down to the docks and jump into the water then climb onto the tree. 
You will automatically go out to  sea,  and  there you will come up 
against a large water spout streching  up  to the sky. Get close it 
and learn the twisting spell, and then cast it backwards to ger rid 
of the obstacle. You'll also  learn  the  next  note on the distaff 
when your reach the island.



INSIDE THE DRAGON'S LAIR

The first thing to do is to turn  the gold that the dragon is lying 
on into straw (you should learn  the  next note at this point) then 
put the dragon to sleep. As he snores the straw will start to catch 
fire and frighten him off, leaving  you  to  find  a way out of the 
volcano.

Make your way through the maze of tunnels within the mountain until 
you come across a pool  of  water.  Examine  the pool and learn the 
reflection spell, and then cast the empty spell the drain the water 
away. Stuck in  the  mud  you  will  see  one  of the Crystalgard's 
spheres and if you look into it you will see into the future. Leave 
this chamber and head outside the mountain to where you will find a 
set of winding stairs but on  the  other  side, the path has broken 
stopping you from going any further.

Cast the twisting spell backwards on  the stairs and they will join 
to the other side of the ledge, enabling you to get across safely.



MEETING THE OTHER GUILDS

The first place to go when you  arrive  on a new found island is to 
the forest. There you will be  stopped by some invisable shephards. 
As they appear so do the  notes  to  a  spell. Make a record of the 
tune as the  shephards  become  visable  ,  it  is the invisibility 
spell!

Head towards the grass city, but don't go inside yet, If you have a 
look around you will notice some men working at the top of a tower. 
Cast the invisibility speel on  them  for  later use. Now go inside 
and find two people  talking  alongside  a  large sphere. Listen to 
what they have to say and then  use the teleporters to get into the 
tower where the men are working  (they  won't see you thanks to the 
invisibility spell).

Examine the scythe that they  are  rubbing  to learn the sharpening 
draft and then go through the  other  teleporter. You should now be 
by the sphere, so look into it  for a solution to your problem with 
the shephards (you will see yourself  cast a terror spell). You can 
also look in it twice more for more information.

Go back to the shepherds and  when  they  ask  you to cast a spell, 
cast terror to dispose of them. Walk  to the left and into the next 
screen where you will encounter  a  flock  of  sheep and a sleeping 
shepherd. Examine the sheep to aquire  a sheep draft and then carry 
on going left. Eventually, you  will  arrive  at the village of the 
shepherds. Go inside the first house  and examine the lamb. A women 
shepherd will notice you and after quite  a bit of talking and more 
examining of the lamb she will tell  you the healing spell. Go back 
outside and cast the dyeing spell on the sheep to protect them from 
the dragon; unfortionatly, it won't protect you and the dragon will 
pick you up instead.



THE GUILD OF THE BLACKSMITHS

Walking onto the next screen, you  will notice a young boy sleeping 
on the group. Use the sleeping spell  backwards to wake him up, and 
when he goes back to sleep cast a reflection spell to make yourself 
look like him. You can now go into the Blacksmiths guild and have a 
look around.

When you arrive at the furnace room the stoker will mistake you for 
the boy and throw you  in  a  cell  without the distaff (oh shit!). 
There is not a lot you can  do  without the distaff, so go to sleep 
on the straw. While asleep  the  young  boy  will  be killed by the 
dragon and Hetchel will  rescue  the  distaff  from the furnace and 
push it under the door of your cell. Pick up the staff and open the 
door. Exit the cell and go down the the furnace room.

Here you will see the man that you saw in the sphere talking to the 
foreman. He has just bought a load  of  swords. When the man in the 
centre  holds  up  the  sword,  cast  either  the  reverse  of  the 
sharpening spell or the twisting spell to ruin it. You will then be 
captured and taken to the  castle  of  Mandible  and locked up in a 
cage.



MANDIBLE THE CLERIC

Mandible will ramble on for a  little  while but when he eventually 
stops, do as he stays and cast  open  on the cage door. When he has 
finished talking to you again and  has  left  you by the cages with 
cob, look into the sphere. Cob  will  stop  you  and try to look at 
your face (and you are not pretty). After he has gone look into the 
sphere three times and then go out to the parapet where Mandible is 
and examine him.

After Chaos has disposed of  Mandible,  pick  up the distaff and go 
back down to where the cages are;  notice that the monster from one 
of the cages is gone. Go back out  to the parapet and you will find 
out where the beast got to.

Now that you  are  inside  the  hole  that  Mandible created, float 
around and into the various  holes  as  you  encounter them. In the 
first one you will meet rusty's ghost. Cast healing on his bones to 
bring him back  to  life.  The  next  hole  takes  you  back to the 
shepherds. Cast heal on them  as  well  before moving onto the next 
location. At Crystalgard try to heal  Goodmold but he when he won't 
let you, move on.

At last you will arrive at the  shore  of wonder, and this is where 
all the swans went to. Cygna will tell you to go back and close all 
the holes. Do as she says and  then  go back to the shore of wonder 
and continue left.



BACK AT THE WEAVERS ISLAND

By now you should know yet another  note  on the Distaff. Go to the 
great loom and examine  it.  At  this  point  Hetchel should arrive 
closely followed by chaos himself. She will  try to tell you how to 
destroy the loom, but chaos will cast  Silence on her first. Make a 
note of the draft he plays  and  then  play it backwards to restore 
Hetchel's voice.

Before she can tell you what the spell is, Chaos will deal with her 
once more turning her into  a  cooked  turkey.  If you didn't catch 
what spell he cast, examine the  loom  and  it will show what chaos 
cast. Once more  restore  Hetchel  by  casting  the spell (shaping) 
backwards. Finally, chaos  will  destroy  Hetchel  totally,  but in 
doing so he will reveal to you the spell that Hetchel was trying to 
tell you all along.

Cast this spell on the Loom  to  destroy  it ripping a hole in this 
Dimension. Get in the hole  and  cast transcendence on yourself and 
now, at last you will have completed the game!