				 LURKING HORROR
 
				    Part 1

 As the name implies, LURKING HORROR is a horror story. It is Infocom's first
game of this genre. Although the puzzles have logical solutions, I can think of
one or two which might send a frustrated gamer in search of a walkthru. There 
are several possible ways to solve the game and I've had trouble deciding how 
to write the walkthru. The order in which the puzzles are presented and solved
are not lock-step. For example, the first time I played the game I solved the
Alchemist puzzle before I discovered the rats in the muddy tunnel.

 On my second play, I solved the rat puzzle before going to the Department of
Alchemy. Most of the puzzles require the use of specific objects. Naturally,
you'll have to find the necessary objects before you can use them. I'll
attempt to lead you to the necessary objects and offer a possible solution to
each puzzle. I'd like to mention that I played the review version of LURKING
HORROR for the Macintosh. I'm keeping my fingers crossed that no major changes
were made in the final release version of the game and that no major
differences exist for different computers.

 You're a student at G.U.E. Tech. It's late on a cold, winter night, but your
20-page report is due tomorrow. To work on your assignment, you make your way 
to the Computer Center through the worst storm of the winter. The game starts
with you standing in the Terminal Room. There is a PC before you, so have a seat
and log on, please. Your user ID is printed on the Student ID Card included
in the game package. Your password is written in the back of the "G.U.E. at a
Glance Guide for Freshmen" (also included in the package).

 Once you've logged on, you'll see a menu on the PC. Use the PC's mouse by
clicking on MENU then YAK. Read the strange document which has replaced your
paper. You'll faint and awaken in "a place." Go down into the bowl, look at
the platform, and take the small stone. Wait a couple of turns and you'll wake
up in the Terminal Room. Look at the PC's screen. The hacker will attempt to
fix the PC, but your paper will be lost.It was mixed up on the file server with
some files from the Department of Alchemy. The hacker will suggest, "Maybe
they could help you down there."

 Look at the hacker and notice the keyring. Ask the hacker about the keys
and he'll show you one you haven't noticed -- a Master Key. Ask him about
it and he'll say, "It'll open three out of five doors at Tech." Then he'll
complain of hunger. That's your cue. Go to the kitchen and get the Chinese food
from the refrigerator.The hacker won't like it cold so heat it in the microwave
oven for about two minutes on "HI." In case you have problems controlling the
microwave, set the timer to 200, press HI, then press START. Give the food to
the hacker in exchange for his master key.

 A NOTE ABOUT GETTING TIRED. When and where you start getting tired will vary
depending upon the number of moves you've made. For that reason, I could
not determine when or where to tell you what to do about it. Thus, this note:
When you get tired, drink from the bottle of Coke which you will find in
the refrigerator in the kitchen.

				     Part 2

 Go south twice to the elevator. Enter the elevator, open the panel, and take
the flashlight. Go down to the Basement then east to the Temporary Basement.
Take the gloves and crowbar then go up to the Temporary Lab. Take the flask and
return to the Basement then go west twice to the Aero Basement. Get on the
forklift and drive east until you reach Dead Storage. Use the forklift to move
the junk until you've cleared a path to Ancient Storage. In Ancient Storage,
open the manhole with the crowbar and go down to the Brick Tunnel. Go north and
down to the Altar. Take the knife, open the iron plate, and look in the pit.Now
you know what has been done with the missing students! Return to the Brick
Tunnel and go south. Try to open the trap door (this will be useful later).

 Return to the Basement then go west, west, and up to the Aero Lab. Now go
south to the Infinite Corridor. (NOTE: If the maintenance man should block your
path while you are in the Infinite Corridor, simply wait for him to move
on. Waiting will work until you have reached the end of the Infinite
Corridor.) Take the plastic container and go east in the corridor until you
reach the stairs. Go up to the Great Dome, wear the gloves and climb rope.
(It's not really a rope but climb it anyway.) On the Catwalk, open the small
metal door and exit north to the Roof of the Great Dome. Climb up to the top of
the dome, remove the plug and take the paper -- it's a suicide note. Go back
inside the Great Dome. Take the ladder and put it on the Catwalk. Go down the
ladder and return to the Infinite Corridor.

 Go east to the glass fronted cabinet, break glass, and take the axe. Go west
to the wall socket where the waxer cord is plugged in and cut the cord with the
axe. When the maintenance man starts toward you, open the plastic container
and pour the liquid on the floor. Go east to the end of the corridor then
north to Fruits & Nuts. Go down to the Cluttered Passage and southeast to the
Brown Basement. Take the rubber boots and wear them.

 Go up to the Brown Building then up to the Top Floor. Read the sign over the
door then unlock it with the master key. Exit the door (north) to reach the
Skyscraper Roof. Go up to the Semi-Transparent Dome, look in the tub,
and take the hand. I had a little trouble concerning the hand and the
winged creature. It appears the creature always takes the hand away if you're
holding it when he enters the dome. My solution was to put the hand in the
plastic container before the creature entered the dome. When the winged
creature enters the dome, he will block your exit. Throw the stone at creature,
retrieve it and go down. The creature will be waiting for you at the bottom,
so throw the stone at him again. Both the stone and the creature will go off
the south end of the building. Go east, down, then south to the Courtyard and
get the stone. Go north, down, northwest, and up to Fruits & Nuts. Then
go south until you reach the Department of Alchemy.

 The door to the Department of Alchemy is locked and the master key will not
unlock it. Knock on the door and wait. The professor will open the door and
usher you into the room. Read the sign-up sheet, show the suicide note to
the professor, then go south. Oops! You're in a pentagram. Wait until the
professor has entered another pentagram and has begun his ritual. Cut the line
with the knife and exit the pentagram. Move the lab bench, open the trap door,
and go down. If you time your moves just right, the mist will grab the 
professor just as you go through the trap door.Wait a turn below the trap door then
re-enter the lab through it. Put the dead hand in the vat and it comes to
life! Take the hand. You can put the professor's ring on the hand if you
wish; it fits nicely.

				     Part 3

 Look for an urchin slouching somewhere.I found one in the Computer Center.Show
the living hand to the urchin and take the bolt cutter which the urchin will
drop.

 Return to the Basement, go west twice to the Stairway and down to the
Sub-Basement. Now go northwest to the Tomb and read the graffiti. Unlock the
padlock with master key, and take the padlock. Open the hatch and go down. You
hear rats! Go east and open the pressure release valve with the crowbar. Timing
is important here for your objective is to scald the rats. When you see them,
open the valve. Examine the dead rat; it has a strange symbol branded on its
neck.

 Close the valve and go east until you reach the brick wall. Move the loose
brick with the crowbar and look in the hole. Use the crowbar to move the second
brick and you will have made a hole in the brick wall through which you can see
a reinforcing rod and a small room containing some machinery. Think about
the levels of the building and try to place where you are now in relation to
what's above you. You must be somewhere near the elevator.

 Go back to the Basement and send the elevator to the first floor. Then open
the elevator doors in the Basement. Wedge the doors open with the crowbar
and go down the elevator shaft to the Concrete Box. Take the chain and put the
chain on the reinforcing rod. Put the padlock on the chain and go back up. Put
the chain on the hook, remove the crowbar and the elevator will start
moving. You'll hear a tearing, rending sound, then a rumbling crash. Open the
elevator doors again, wedge them open with the crowbar, and go down to the
Concrete Box. The brick wall will have an enormous hole ripped in it. This is
the opening you need for those objects which will not fit through the opening
to the Tomb.

 You'll need the bolt cutter, the flask,the axe, the stone, the flashlight, the
master key, the boots, the gloves, and the hand for the puzzles that follow.

 From the hole in the brick wall, go north then west until you reach the
Tunnel Entrance then go down to the Muddy Tunnel. From the Muddy Tunnel, go
down to the Large Chamber and look at the slots; a wire goes to each. Cut the
wire with bolt cutter.

 Go down to the Wet Tunnel, the hand will start pointing the way so go as the
hand directs but watch out for the curtain of slime. When you find it, open
the flask and pour the liquid on the curtain. A wooden door will be revealed.
Unlock the door with the master key and enter the Inner Lair. Reach in the pool
and take the line. Cut the line with the axe and take the line again. Open the
box, unplug the coaxial cable, and put the line in the socket.

 The huge mass will change shape. Wait until it becomes a winged creature with
its mouth open and the stone has turned red. Throw the stone at the creature
then take the stone again. The hacker will ask, "Can I have my key back?"

 Your score should be 100 out of a possible 100. Graded on the curve, you
are in the class of President of the Institute. THE END.

 LURKING HORROR is published by Infocom, Inc.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1987 by Judith Terry Clayton. All rights
reserved.