                       E-Motion Dox
                     ----------------
                            by

                   Mr.Thompson of Defjam
------------------------------------------------------------
SCENARIO
--------
E-Motion takes place in the sub-atomic world where particles
can be brought into existence, accelerated, collided and
destroyed. Strange elastic bonds can form between particles
and complex lattices will block your path. But beware:
nothing is stable in this strange world, and only the most
experienced and expert nuclear pilots can prevent particle
melt-down.....

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
Virus precaution: switch off your computer and wait 10
seconds. With the game in DF0, switch the computer on. The
game will load and run automatically. When the music starts,
the loading is complete.
To install on a Hard Disk, copy all the files into a folder
on the hard disk, but the original floppy disk must be
present both for copy-protection (hahaha) and because the
high scores can only be saved to the original game disk.

GAMEPLAY
--------
E-Motion gives you control of a ship which can be rotated
left and right, and moved in the direction it is currently
facing. The ship is used to push coloured spheres around the
screen and each sphere may be one of three different colours
(contains one of three different shapes). At the start of a
level, these spheres pulsate slowly, but as the levels
progress they pulsate faster and faster until finally they
explode. Every time a sphere explodes, energy is lost
(indicated by a bar at the top of the screen). When the
energy bar reduces to zero, a life is lost, when all lives
are lost the game is over. The strategy is to avoid the
exploding spheres by pushing two spheres of the same colour
(same shape) together, whereby they'll both disappear
harmlessly. If you should accidentally push two differently
coloured (different shaped) spheres together, a small pod is
formed. Initially this can be picked up for an energy
recharge, but if left alone for too long it grows into a new
full-sized sphere, which must itself then be disposed of.
The level finishes when there are no spheres left on the
screen. If there is only one sphere left on the screen then
obviously it cannot be disposed of by pushing it into
another one, so it explodes immediately, to finish the
level.
To complicate your progress, there are pipes scattered
around the screens which both your ship and the spheres will
bounce off. On some levels spheres are joined by elastic
bonds which means that to push one around will result in it
dragging other spheres (or even your ship) with it. Most
levels have all the spheres that you need to finish, but a
few higher levels leave some of them out which forces you to
make new spheres by pushing different coloured ones
together.
Every fourth level is a bonus level where you have the
chance to score bonus points but you cannot lose a life.
There are three different types of bonus level and each one
contains instructions as to what must be done to score
points.
There are 50 levels in all and upon completion of all levels
comes the congratulations sequence.
There are 5 secret bonuses to be discovered throughout the
game. When each one is found, a message flashes up at the
end of the level it was found on.

GETTING STARTED
---------------
E-Motion requires a colour monitor and is best played with a
joystick (through the keyboard can be used). When the game
has loaded, the title screen is displayed, followed by the
high score page and then a demo mode. Watching the demo mode
will give you an idea of what to expect when you start the
game. Press the FIRE button to take you to the opening menu,
where you can preset all of your options.

MODE: NORMAL, PRACTICE OR DEMO
------------------------------
NORMAL MODE  : play the game.
PRACTICE MODE: try the five first levels but without the
               balls ever exploding.
DEMO MODE    : runs the same demo sequence which is seen in
               the attract mode.

PLAYERS: ONE OR TWO
-------------------
E-Motion can be played by two players simultaneously, each
controlling their own ship. Both players must co-operate to
finish the level. The players share one joint score.

JOYSTICK/KEYBOARD CONTROLS
--------------------------
These can be set according to preference. Note: On the Atari
ST, playing a two player game with both players on the
keyboard will be restricted because only two keys can can be
detected at once.

CONTROL MODE: NORMAL OR ALTERNATIVE
-----------------------------------
The mode that most people will recognice at once is the
left-right-thrust mode used as a default. As an alternative,
though, there is another mode where left and right work as
normal but up accelerates and down brakes.

ROTATION SPEED: FAST OR SLOW
----------------------------
If you find it difficult to control your ship, try adjusting
your rotation speed to slow instead. The ship will then
rotate at half speed.
After selecting your options, press FIRE to start the game.
Your preferences are remembered for the rest of the session,
so you can go straight past the menu by pressing FIRE twice
in succession from the title page.

CONTROLS
--------
PLAYER 1               PLAYER 2
UP       :W            UP       :8 (numeric keypad)
DOWN     :X            DOWN     :2 (numeric keypad)
LEFT     :A            LEFT     :4 (numeric keypad)
RIGHT    :S            RIGHT    :6 (numeric keypad)
FIRE     :SPACE        FIRE     :0 (numeric keypad)

PAUSE    :P
QUIT     :ESC

SCORING
-------
Points are awarded for pushing spheres together; either 200,
250 or 300 points depending on the colour of the spheres. At
the end of each level, a 500 point bonus is awarded if no
pods are created. A 1000 point bonus is awarded if no
spheres explode during the level. An extra life is awarded
for every 20000 points.