BERLIN 1948
Amiga Reference Guide

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
 * Amiga 500, 1000, 2000
 * Color Monitor
 * Joystick and Mouse Required

BEFORE YOU BEGIN:
 * You must have a formatted disk prepared to save games to disk.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
 1.  Insert Berlin Disk 1 into the drive, (label side up), and turn on your
     computer.
 2.  Follow the Quickstart Tutorial on page 14 of the game manual.

VIEWING THE INTRODUCTION
  After starting the game, you have the option of beginning the game or
viewing the introduction.  The introduction incorporates the use of the audio
cassette enclosed in your package and requires the use of an audio cassette
player.
  To view the introduction, move the pointer to "Intro" on the startup screen
and press select.  When the film projector appears on the screen, you must
synchronize the display with your audio tape.
 1.  Insert the audio tape (Side 1) and fully rewind.
 2.  Press play on your tape recorder, and when you hear the fourth beep,
     press Enter on the computer.
 3.  When the projetor appears again, repeat steps one and two using Side 2 of
     the audio tape.
 Note:  You can exit from the introduction by pressing Q when the projector
        appears on your monitor.

SAVING YOUR GAME
  You can save up to six different games in progress to disk in Berlin 1948 or
save a single game at up to six different stages in your journey.
  To access the save game screen, move the pointer to the advertising pillar
on the right side of the main play area until a "disk" icon appears.  Press
select while the icon is displayed to access the "Save/Load" window.
  Six storage areas are numbered.  Point at one of the storage areas and press
select, then point at the disk icon with the down arrow and press select.
  The second level window appears, with the selected storage area displayed.
Click on the spiral notebook and type in the name for the save game.  You can
also type in additional notes to remind yourself of the point at which you
saved that particular game.  Press Enter until the pointer appears again on
the screen.  Then point at the icon with the down arrow to save the game, or
the "X" icon if you want to exit without saving.

LOADING A SAVE GAME
  You can load a game from one of your six storage areas in Berlin 1948.
  To access the load game screen, move the pointer to the advertising pillar
on the right side of the main play area until a "disk" icon appears.  Press
select while the icon is displayed to access the "Save/Load" window.
  Six storage areas are numbered.  Point at one of the storage areas and press
select.  A single page is displayed with whatever name and information you
typed in during the save process.  Point at the icon with the up arrow and
press select to load the displayed game.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduction

The Background

Berlin, 1948 -- The former capital of the German Empire lies in ruins
following the devasttating Allied Bombing attacks at the end of World War II.
As a result of post-war reparations, the city was divided into four sectors,
controlled by French, British, American and Soviet occupation forces.
Recently, however, in an attempt at total control of the region, the Soviets
have attempted a blockade of West Berlin, sealing off the city from the rest
of Germany and preventing the import or export of vital goods and services.
The people suffer while the Black Market thrives.

America has respoinded by airlifting massive amounts of food, medicine and
other supplies into the ravaged city.  So far, the airlift has kept the
citizen's hopes alive, but new information reveals an even greater threat to
the future of Berlin.

The Plot

Deep-cover CIA informants in the Eastern sector have verified that Soviet
agents have smuggled an atomic bomb into West Berlin.  It is believed that the
weapon will be used to hold the city hostage to Soviet demands, and detonated
if any attempts to disarm the device are uncovered.  It's an unacceptable
situation.

Your Mission

Tempelhof Airport, Berlin;September 28, 1948; 6 p.m.  -- Standing alone at the
entrance to the airport, you, as CIA agent Sam Porter, consider your options.
Your mission is a desperate one, and requires the varied skills you have
developed in years of experience in the world's troublespots.  Handpicked by
the upper echelons of the agency for this covert operation, you must establish
a fake identity, explore the city, find the perpetrators of this insidious
crime, and disarm the bomb -- secretly.  As you make your way through the
city, look carefully at every building, talk to every interesting person you
encounter and explore every nook.  You never know where a clue might be found!


The Play Screen

+---------------------------------------------------------+
|                                 |     Street Name       |
|                                 |-----------------------|
|                                 |                       |
|                                 |-Street Number         |
|                                 |                       |
|                                 |-----                  |
|                                 |      Clock/Time       |
|                                 |-----                  |
|                                 |                       |
|        Main Play Window         |                       |<-- Current Date
|                                 |                       |    Day/Month
|                                 |                       |
|                                 |                       |
|                                 |                       |<-- Advertising
|                                 |                       |
|                                 |                       |
|                                 |                       |
|                                 |                       |
+---------------------------------------------------------+

Main Play Window

The main play window shows an overhead view of Sam Porter and the rest of the
characters in the game, as well as the buildings and vehicles you'll see in
Berlin.  This window is used to move throughout the city, to explore buildings
and objects and to converse with other characters in the game.

Street Name and Number

At the top of the area to the right of the main play window, street signs show
the street name and number for your current location.  The street signs are
changed automatically when you move to a new area.

Clock/Time

The clock shows the current time, with the sun symbol on the right side of the
face indicating a.m.  If you move the pointer to the clock, a new "clock" icon
appears.  You can use this icon to view the current date or to move time
forward.  Moving time is often desirable if you are are early for a meeting
and want to "wait" for someone.  Time can only be moved forward.  You can't
move into the past and change any of the actions you have already made.

 * To access the "time change" window, just press the select key when the
   clock icon is displayed.

Up arrow icon   = Select this to move the minute hand ahead.
Down arrow icon = Select this to move the minute hand back.
Thumbs up icon  = Return to main window with new time.
Left arrow icon = Return to main window without changing time.

Save/Load Game

If you move the pointer to the advertising section on the right side of the
main play window, a new "disk" icon appears.  Press the select key to access
the following save and load game window.

Specific insturctions for saving and loading games for your computer are
included in the Reference Card for your machine.


Moving Around in Berlin

Walking

Walking is the slowest method of moving through the city, but it gives you the
opportunity to meet and talk to people, enter buildings, gather objects, and
read descriptions of the items and objects you'll find on your journey.

To walk in a specific direction, simply move the pointer to the spot you want
to approach and press select (see your machine-specific Reference Card for the
specific keys used to move the pointer and select).  Sam Porter will move to
the pointer.  If you point to an apporpriate area (street or sidewalk) at the
edge of the screen, the display will shift in the proper direction.

Exercise care when walking the streets of Berlin.  When a vehicle approaches,
it will honk it's horn at you.  If you don't move quickly enough, however, it
will run you down and end the game.  Staying on the sidewalks in Berlin is the
safest way to travel.

Although taxis are faster, when traffic is bad you might be able to follow on
foot a suspect who is in a car.  Don't give up if your quarry is attempting to
drive away and you can't find a taxi.

Entering Buildings and Rooms

As you move your pointer around the main display screen, different icons
appear when information exists about a specific item or an entrace exists to a
building.  The Door icon appears when you point at a specific location on a
building that can be entered.  To enter that building, just point at the Door
icon and press select.  Sam Porter will automatically enter the building or
room.

When you point at a specific object, item or building and the Book icon
appears, it indicates that information is available.  To read a description,
move the pointer to the Book icon and press select.

Taking a Taxi

Taxis are definitely the preferred method of traveling long distances or
following suspects in Berlin.  You can call a taxi from one of the taxiphones
scattered throughout the city or a stop a taxi that you see driving down the
street.

To call a taxi, point at one of the taxiphone icons you'll find on the
sidewalks of Berlin and press select.  A taxi appears in just a few seconds.

To stop a taxi, step in front of the moving vehicle to make it stop.  Once the
taxi stops (the driver will honk the horn), point at the taxi and press select
to enter.  You can identify a taxi by the small, rectangular sign on the top
of the car.

Once you've stopped and entered a taxi, you must tell the driver where you
want to go.  A map of the city is automatically displayed.  Move the pointer
to a street on te map (it will highlight when you point at it, and the name of
the street is displayed) and press select.  Next, the driver asks the number
of the address you want to be driven to.  Point at the up or down arrow and
press select to change the number of the address.  Point and select the curved
arrow after the correct address is displayed.  The taxi driver takes you to
the displayed location.

Note:  When selecting a street number, an exclamtion point is displayed if
detailed or important information exists about that address.  To read the
information, press select while the exclamation point is displayed.

Action in Berlin

Checking Your Inventory

As Sam Porter, you begin with a basic inventory that includes you CIA
identification card, some money, a pistol, cigarettes and a note.  As you play
the game, you will acquire many more items that you find or are given by other
individuals in the game.  To access your inventory, move the pointer to the
character of Sam Porter and press select twice.  A "window" of inventory icons
is displayed.

The spiral notebook displays individual items in your inventory.  Notice the
arrows and question mark which appear above and to the right of the notebook.

 * Point at the up and down arrows on the right side of the notebook and press
   select to scroll up and down through the items in your inventory.
 * When an item is displayed, point at the question mark icon and press select
   to read the narrator's description of that object or item.
 * Point at the arrow above the notebook and press select to return to the
   main play window.

Using Your Inventory

You can also use or give away items in your inventory, but only after
initiating contact with another individual in the game.  To initiate contact,
simply move in from of another person (they will stop walking), point at the
him/her and press select.  The main viewing window now shows two pictures.
Sam Porter is always represented by the picture on the lower left.  The
individual you can give items to is shown on the upper right.  Point at the
picture of Sam Porter, and the inventory icon is displayed.  Press select to
access the inventory window.

While the window is similar to your normal inventory display, this time two
different icons appear on the right side of the spiral notebook (the other
icons work the same as in normal inventory mode).

 * Point at the top icon to give the displayed item to the individual.
 * Point at the bottom icon to use the displayed item on the individual.  If
   it is not possible to use the item, the narrator will let you know.

Talking In Berlin

Starting a Conversation

Before you can speak in Berlin, you must find someone to talk to.  Stand in
front of another character you see walking or standing around on the streets
or in one of the buildings, and click on him/her.  Two new pictures appear on
the screen.  You, Sam Porter, always appear on the lower left, while the other
character representation appears on the upper right.  Move the pointer to the
other character's picture, and when the "microphone" icon appears, press
select to access the "main conversation" window.

The Main Conversation Window

The "main conversation" window is comprised of two parts; the larger window is
the selection field, while the smaller window is the editing field.  From the
selection field you can access times, inventory items, people or locations to
talk about.  When you choose one of these options, a new window is displayed
that allows you to select specific people, locations, times and items to talk
about or to ask about these categories in general.  The editing field is used
to structure your statements or questions or correct mistakes in your
conversation.

The Selection Fields

After accessing the "main conversation" window, you can select one of the four
selection fields to speak about items, times, locations or people.  The
selection fields all work in the same way, but for this example we'll use the
"People" field.  If you point at the people silhouette in the "main
conversation" window, a new window with a spiral notebook is displayed.

The first page in the notebook displays a question mark and a sihouette of a
person.  If you select the up and down arrows, you scroll through specific
individuals.  The question mark page in the notebook is used to ask questions
or make statements about people in general.  For example, if you wanted to ask
a question like "What person was on Berlinstreet?," you would select the
question mark option.  If you wanted to ask a question about a specific
individual, you would scroll through the people until the correct individual
was displayed and then select their picture.  The same would be true of
locations or items.  If you wanted to ask "Where" or "What" item, you would
select the question mark at the beginning of that notebook.

Making Specific Selections

When scrolling through the various options in a selection field, you can
return to the first page (the question mark option) by selecting the question
mark to the right of the notebook.

 * To select a displayed option, simply click on the red triangle in the upper
   right corner of the appropriate notebook.
 * To return to the main play screen, select the left arrow above the
   notebook.

The Editing Field

The editing field is used to combine your choices from the selection fields to
form a question or statement.  For example, if you wanted to ask "Where is
Colonel Harris?," you would select the question mark option on the first page
of the "locations" notebook and then select Colonel Harris' picture from the
"people" notebook.  When you make choices from the selection fields, the
corresponding icons are placed in order in the editing field.

If the items you select can only form a question, the computer automatically
places a question mark after your statement.  If the items could form either a
question or a statement, then a questions mark/exclamation point is placed at
the end of the statement and you must select the proper option.  To select,
point at the question mark or exclamation point and press select.

On the left side of the field are a "thumbs-up" icon and an "X" icon.  Select
the thumbs-up icon to ask the question or make the statement displayed in the
editing field.  Select the X icon to clear the editing field and start over.

You can alsos make changes in any of the icons that appear in the editing
field.  For example, if you want to change the person you are asking about,
move the pointer to the "people" icon in the editing field.  A magnifying
glass appears.  Press select and the "People" notebook is again displayed.
Use the up and down arrows to display a new person, and select the triangle in
the upper right corner of the notebook.  Now the new individual is represented
by the people icon in the editing field.  This is a real timesaver in
restructuring your questions, allowing you to change a single option instead
of using the X to clear the field and starting over.

Notes on Conversations

 * You might not get the response you're looking for when you just stop
   individuals on the street and ask them a question.  Typically, the people
   you encounter due to specific clues are the ones you need to question or
   talk to in the game.
 * Sometimes your questions or statements just need a minor modification to
   elicit the proper response.  Try making slight changes in the way you pose
   a question or statement before giving up on your strategy.
 * Including specific times and locations shouldn't be tried at random.
   Include these in your questions and statements only if you have received a
   clue that uses specific times and locations during the game.

Sample Questions and Statements

The following are examples of the selection icons you would choose to ask
specific questions or make specific statements.

Do you know Colonel Harris?
Colonel Harris icon and Question mark icon

Where is Colonel Harris?
Street with question mark icon, Colonel Harris icon and Question mark icon

What do you know about the identity card?
Identity card icon and Question mark icon

Lina Boreva is in possession of the A-bomb!
Lina Boreva icon, A-bomb icon and Exclamation point icon

The porter took the identity card to Konigsplatz 5!
Porter icon, Identity card icon, Konigsplatz 5 street icon and Exclamation
point icon

Mr. Rosenblum knows Colonel Harris!
Mr. Rosenblum icon, Colonel Harris icon and Exclamation point icon

Lina Boreva meets/met Mr. Rosenblum on the 30-9 at one o'clock in
Berlinerstr.30.
Lina Boreva icon, Mr. Rosenblum icon, Berliner Strabe 30 street icon,
Time=1:00;Date=Sep9 icon and Exclamation point icon

Colonel Harris will be at Konigsplatz 5 on friday 30-9 around one o'clock. (To
be interpreted as an order, when talking to the person in question.)
Colonel Harris icon, Konigsplatz 5 street icon, Time=1:00;Date=Sep9 icon and
Exclamation point icon

When did/will Colonel Harris and Mr. Rosenblum meet?
Time=? icon, Colonel Harris icon, Mr. Rosenblum icon and Question mark icon

When did/will Mr. Rosenblum and Colonel Harris meet in Berlinerstreet.30?
Time=? icon, Mr. Rosenblum icon, Colonel Harris icon, Berlinerstreet 30 street
icon and Question mark icon

Quickstart Tutorial

1.  After booting the game, select "Game" from the first screen to begin your
    quest.
2.  The narrator welcomes you to the game.  Move the pointer into the text
    area and press select to scroll through the rest of the text.  Then move
    the pointer of the text.  Then move the pointer outside the text area and
    press select again.
3.  Move the pointer to the character of Sam Porter (he is standing in front
    of the Tempelhof Airport), and press select twice to access your
    inventory.
4.  Move the pointer to the "up" arrow on the right side of the window and
    press select until the note is displayed.  Then move the pointer to the
    question mark on the right side of the screen and press select.
5.  A window appears that gives you the contents of the note and indicates the
    next action you must take in the game.  Move the pointer into the window
    and press select to scroll through all the text.  It's a good idea to take
    notes as you receive information.
6.  Move the pointer outside the window and press select to return to the
    inventory window.  Move the pointer to the left arrow above the note icon
    and press select to return to the main play window.  Now we must take a
    cab to 28 Oranienburger Strasse.
7.  Cabs don''t just appear when you want one, so just walk around for awhile
    until you see a cab come down the street.  When you see one, move Sam in
    front of the cab (he will honk at you), move the pointer to the cab and
    press select to enter.
8.  When the taxi/map screen appears, move your pointer to Oranienburger
    Strasse (it runs right through the French flag at the top of the screen).
    The taxi driver will ask if you want to go to Oranienburger Strasse.
    Press select.
9.  Now the driver asks for the number.  Point at the up arrow and press
    select until the number "28" is displayed.  Then point at the curved arrow
    and press select to take your ride.
10. You are standing right in front of the door at 28 Oranienburger Strasse.
    Move the pointer to the right of your character, until the "door" icon
    appears.  Press select to enter the bookstore.
11. Move to the counter, in front of the store's clerk.  Put the pointer on
    the clerk's head and press select.  Two pictures appear.  We're going to
    ask the clerk about the Faust book.  Move the pointer to the picture on
    the upper right (the clerk), and when the microphone icon appears, press
    select.
12. The conversation selection field and editing field appear.  Move the
    pointer to the icon on the upper right in the window (it looks like a
    hammer) and press select.
13. The items/inventory window appears.  Point to the up arrow and press
    select until the Faust book appears on the spiral notebook.  Now move the
    pointer to the triangle at the upper right of the notebook and press
    select.  The items icon appears in the editing field window, with a
    question mark/exclamation point icon after it.  Move the pointer to the
    question mark and press select.
14. Now move the pointer to the thumbs-up icon on the left side of the editing
    field and press select to task the sotre clerk about the book.  The
    bookeeper responds.
15. Quickly follow the clerk into the back room of the store.  He will begin
    talking to you.  Move the pointer into the text area and press select
    until you have read all the text.  Then exit the store.
16. As you remember from the original note, a room has been reserved 17
    Friedrich Strasse.  Go there (by taxi) and show the innkeeper your
    passport.  Then go into your room and examine the table.  Read the
    message.
17. Return to the innkeeper and ask who left the message using the following
    icons from the conversation windows:  Who, Message, 17 Friedrich
    Strasse,?.
18. You're off to a good start, but the real work is just beginning.  Good
    luck Sam!