Complete Docs for Elfmania

THE GAME
--------
Title Screen

When the game has loaded you will be shown the title screen and the high score 
tables for both one player (1 PL) and two player (2 PL) games.Pressing fire
on the joystick at any point will take you to the map screen where you can
choose your Champions.

THE MAP SCREEN

The map screen is divided into two areas, the map and the portrait area,
which will be explained later in more detail in Choosing a Champion.

The map shows you Muhumulandia divided into 36 squares, which we will call
coutines, on a 6 x 6 grid.The player uses the map to pick the location
where a fight will take place.The first venue is chosen by the computer
while further locations are chosen by the winner of the previous fight.

When player 1 wins, an X is displayed in the conquered county square.When
the CPU (or player 2) wins, a O is displayed instead.To win the game
outright,you must create an unbroken line of 6 conquered counties in a
row.

Muhmulandia is also split into six regions and opponents are located in
their home counties, so by choosing a county you also you also choose an
opponent.In the course of the game the home counties of the opponents start
to change.Certain locations will not reveal the identity of the opponent in
that location until you have chosen your own champion.All opponents have a
difficulty level attached to them denoted by stars under their name.

During a fight the round number of the fight indicates the number of
successive wins on that map line.To complete the game the game you must
therefore win Round 6.

CHOOSING A CHAMPION
-------------------
Below the map of Muhmulandia two portraits can be seen.One or both or these
portraits can be changed for different player portrait depending on the
type of game chosen.The number of different portraits that can be seen by
the player at any one time depends on the amount of cash that the player
has.

In a 1 player game Player 1 should push left or right on the joystick to
cycle through the available champions on offer.Pressing fire will confirm
the choice.

If a second challenger (Player 2) wishes to play against Player 1, they
should press fire on the map screen and then choose a champion of their
own.More on the 2 player challenge later.

JOYSTICK CONTROL
----------------
Push the joystick withous using the fire button to move your character
around the screen.

Push the joystick with the fire button pressed to perform various offensive
and defensive moves.

There are a few basic rules to learn about performing move in ELFMANIA:

1.A punch is always performed by pushing the joystick in the direction your
character is currently facing.

2.A kick is always performed by pulling the joystick away in the opposite
direction (towards the character's back).

3.The height of the blow is determined by the height of the joystick - high,
middle or low.

4.Blocks are performed by pulling the joystick down and pressing the fire
button.The order of this move determines whether it's a stand-block (press
fire then pull down) or squat-block (pull down then press fire).

SPECIAL MOVES
-------------
Each character has a special move which can prove to be devastating against
an opponent if allowed to build to it's full power.

Special moves can be recognised from their spinning appearance, for
example,Seven's SPECIAL move is the 360 degree sword spin.

The special move is initiated like any other,except that it requires
further rapid x directional joystick waggling before the previous blow has
been completed.

This is NOT the same way as pushing the joystick in one direction,holding
it there and then rapidly pressing fire to repeat a move.The joystick MUST
return to It's central position before the move is repeated.

Special moves take time to build up to full power,so the opponent can take
measures against one if they realise what's happening.Please note that
blocks do not have any effect on special moves which have developed to
their full power!

EXTRA KEYS
----------
Pressing SHIFT and ESC together (either on the map screen or during a fight)
will quit the game and take you back to the title screen.

Pressing P during the game will pause the game.Simply press P again to
return to the action.

1 PlAYER GAME
-------------
Coins

You are given 75 coins at the start to hire your first Champion.Extra coins
are awarded during a fight.The characters cost from 50 coins upwards.

THE FIGHT
---------
Your coin supply is indicated by the COIN BAR in the score display.Lose
all your coins and you lose the fight.The miniature treasure chest above the
COIN BAR indicates that you have some coins left on the map screen.Hitting
your opponent releases coins.These coins can be hit back towards the
opponent to cause additional damage.

If you win,you are awarded the amount of coins you have managed to hit
during the fight and an additional 50 coins for winning the bout.You can
speed up the Bonus Count by holding down the fire button.

If you completely run out of coins the game will end.

2 PLAYER CHALLENGE
------------------
Both human players are given 300 coins,and all 6 fighters are immediately
available,each costing between 50 and 100 coins each.The winner is the
first player to win 6 counties in line or to waste all of their opponent's
coins.

ADDITIONAL GAME FEATURES
------------------------
A fully beaten opponent releases treasures.Hit all of these to be awarded
with the COIN RAIN.The aCOIN RAIN allows you to collect more coins before
the fight ends.

Collect enough coins to be able to enter either the BONUS STAGE or the
PRIZE FIGHT from the map screen.The amount of coins required to enter the
BONUS STAGE depends on which round you are in.Round 1 requires you to
collect 10 coins.

BONUS STAGE
-----------
Hit the objects until they break down into coins.Every coin that is
released or hit will be awarded as additional coins.The time remaining at
the end of the stage is also awarded as coins.

THE DOUBLE PRIZE FIGHT
----------------------
This is a normal fight except that the winner is awarded with a double
score multiplier.
