Eliminator
by John M Phillips (C) 1988
Typed by Belgarath


Loading Instructions

Atari ST

Atari 520 ST series and 1040 ST series with disc drive if necessary.
You are advised to disconnect all hardware from your computer.
Place the disc in the drive and press the RESET button. The game
takes a few seconds to loads.

Commodore Amiga

A500, A1000 and A2000. You are advised to disconnect all
hardware from your computer. Insert Kickstart if required. Insert
the game disc. The game takes a few seconds to load.


Scenario

From underground there came a machine encircled by death, that
kills but cannot be killed... The Eliminator.

A war machine whose solitary quest is to eradicate all forms of
life - travelling from planet to planet obliterating all in it's path.

Eliminator - the ultimate in fire-power.


Gameplay

Eliminator is a progressive shoot'em'up set on a long
winding track. The objective of the game is to drive your vehicle through
each stage, shooting everything in sight and negotiating/destroying obstacles.


Display Layout

Down the righthand side of the screens are 6 icons which represent
your current weapons. From bottom to top these are:

1. SINGLE-FIRE CANNON    you start only with this
2. DUAL-FIRE CANNON
3. SIDE-FIRE CANNON
4. BOUNCING BOMBS
5. DOUBLE-FIRE CANNON    uses up ammo quickly
6. TRIPLE-FIRE CANNON    uses up ammo even more quickly

only one weapon may be active at a time

Down the left hand side are the following:

1. AMMO     limited supply of ammunition
2. SHIELDS  you lose shield energy every time you are hit, lose it and you are dead.
3. LIVES    you start with 3 lives and gain extra every 10000 points

the objects and creations you meet along the track come in various forms:

1. ALIENS            These bounce around, hover or home-in on you. They can usually
                     be destroyed with a single shot.
2. WALLS             Stationary objects which cannot be destroyed.
3. TARGETS           flashing beacons which must be shot in order to pass by.
4. RAMPS             sloping ramps which either lift you into the air for a few
                     seconds or may even flip you up to the ceiling.
5. WEAPON BONUSES    Collect these revolving pyramids for an extra weapon.
6. AMMO BONUSES      Collect these revolving cubes for extra ammunition.

You begin the game with 3 lives. If you make contact with an alien
or obstacle, or lose your shields then you lose a life and restart
the game with the loss of the last weapon you collected.


Controls

On title screen:

F1/F2         = Music off/on.
F3/F4         = Effects off/on.
F5/F6         = 50/60Hz screen.

In game:

You're craft is controlled using the joystick only:

FIRE:           Shoot weapons
LEFT/RIGHT:     Steer left/right
UP/DOWN:        Select weapon from those available (ICONS at left of screen)
Space:        = Pause/Continue.
Q             = Quit.


Password System

Every few levels you will be given a password which you can type
in on the HELP screen. This allows you to skip the early levels once
you have become proficient at them.


Credits

Original Atari ST program designed and written by John Philips.
Amiga version by Linel Software.
Graphics by Pete Lyon (Atari ST).
Typed by Belgarath
(C) Hewson Consultants Ltd., 1988