Embryo Keys....


How to play:

MOUSE:
	Left mousebutton fires selected weapon.
	Right mousebutton held shortly changes weapons.
	Right mousebutton kept pressed combined with mouse movement
	forwards-backwards allows acceleration/decceleration.

JOYSTICK:
	Joystick movement rotates the ship.
	Firebutton fires selected weapons.
	To accelerate, you have to move joystick forward-backwards as well as
	keep pressed weapon changer key (simulate right mousebutton, these
	keys are TAB,RETURN,SPACE).

KEYBOARD:
	We have tried to ease playing to left handed people as well, and have
	placed keys symetrically.

	1. configuration (right-handed):
		cursors rotate ship
		TAB,SPACE or RETURN change weapons
		SHIFTs fire
	2. configuration (right-handed):
		,	fires
		.	left
		/	right
		TAB	changes weapons
		Q	up
		A	down
	3. configuration (left-handed):
		<	left
		Z	right
		X	fires
		RETURN changes weapons
		]	up
		'	down

While you fly, you can also affect preferences in limited manner (no
changes will be saved):
	F7	alter sound during message displaying
	F8	visibility: normal/high
	F9	clouds: on/off
	F10	ground dots: none/rare/dense

Views:
	F1	front cockpit
	F2	look behind
	F3	look left
	F4	look right

On numeric keypad there are some keys that we use in developement process,
so don't press anything there, it's not for you !

Additional keys:
	ESC	aborts mission
	DEL	changes password (not in this coverdisk: only exits)
	HELP	requests primary target info (partially here)

In  loader,  you  can  press  ESC  key  to exit from "Embryo" (confirmation
needed).   All  other  keys as well as left mousebutton and joystick button
continues  during  wait  (for  example picture display).  Right mousebutton
aborts insert-disk-request.

At the end, here is a concept of "Embryo"...

In  an  era  of  Mesozoic,  a  spacefleet  approaches Earth and begins with
colonisation.   First,  an enormous number of microorganisms is spread into
orbit  to  adjust  evolution  of  our  planet  to  the  evolution of theirs
homeplanet.  Somewhere in deep waters at the place of todays Northern Pole,
huge  containers of hibernated colonists and technology necessary for their
survival  is  dig.  They are left to wait for a millions of years, untill a
proper evolution stage is reached.
Unfortunatelly,  human  kind has progressed so fast, that we allarmed their
probes  with  nuclear  tests.  Aliens are quickly dehibernated and some 100
years  later  they  are  ready  to  take  "their"  planet from us, inferior
natives.   Their  superior  technology soon wins many battles.  Survival of
humans seems highly uncertain.  But, from a small resistance base hidden in
Australia desert, a recuperation is started. Just a few brave men will grow
into "Terra liberation front", which will finally change everything...

Greeting from "Beyond Arts"...
							Damir Bulic
							Dinko Nazor
							Dobrica Pavlinusic
							Damir Nazor
							Mirela Bozic
							Marko Sekulic
							Zvonko Tesic