                            E M M A N U E L L E
                                   
                            A GAME OF EROTICISM
	
	           Adapted from EMMANUELLE Arsan's famous
                  novel, here is a game which will take your
                   breath away, situated in the heart of a   
                     Brazil which is both luxuriant and
                                enchanting.

             


                    	    E M M A N U E L L E


	1. THE ADVENTURE
	Rio, its beaches, its women, its carneval, its potent eroticism!
	Now I've landed here, I have to find Emmaneulle. I have to get on
        the plane with her when she flies back to Europe. I don't have
	much choice; to attract her to me, I must increase my "erotic
	potential" by applying the rules of the "three laws of eroticism"
	which Mario will dictate to me. When I've found out wherre he is,
        in this vast country of Brazil....

	Here we go! This sweet languishing which is traveling up my spine
        will make my brain boil if I don't get myself organised right now.
	Let's get a few things settled before this ambiant eroticism start
	takink me over.

	1.1 MY MOVEMENTS
	Emmanuelle landed in Rio. This is where I'll start looking for her.
	I can move around as I see fit, using the regular air service lines,
        sea lines, or the private helicopters which some hotels will put
        at my disposal.

	1.2 MY MEANS OF ACTION
	I will certainly have to fight off jealous husbands and defend
	myself against all sorts of crooks. I am unarmed and will fight
	bare-handed. A judo master could give me some very useful advice
	but i guess it wouldn't be for nothing. 

	I must at all cost keep a strict eye on three personal score
	counters which will affect my actions;

	MONEY
	There are numerous expenses and informaton is very expensive.
	I'll fill out my wallet at the casino, mixing business with pleasure!
	
        ENERGY
	I relly must keep my physical efforts to a minimum as fighting
        and seduction will wear me out. Apparently, though, there are
	potions which will help me keep going!

	EROTICISM
	My natural charm and my experience with woman will come in very
	useful, but they won't be enough. Only by keeping strictly to
        the three laws dictated by MARIO will i be able to increase my
	erotic potential, the only thing which could attract EMMANUELLE to me.

	1.2 WOMAN
	My experience has shown me that, to establish any sort of contact,
	you have to tell them what they want to hear right from the start.
	Many of them will help me in my search. They are all over the place;
	in the hotels and airports, on the beaches, in the Casino....

	 
	2 UNDERSTANDING YOUR COMPUTER SCREEN

	2.1 THE SCORE COUNTERS
	Your aim is to take the same plane as EMMANUELLE, with an erotic 
	potential of between 75% and 100%.

	The PURSE measures your money. IT's top mark is 25000.
	The CHAMPAGNE GLASS measures your energy, on a scale of 1 to 100.
	You are allowed three full glasses.
	Your erotic potential is represented by the LIPSTICK, on a 
	scale of 1 to 100.

	2.2 PRICES
	Whem you buy something, remember that these are the prices;

	1 toucan                                          3000
	1 lift in a helicopter                            2000
	1 plane ticket                                    1000
	1 pandiero (drum)                                 1000
	Information about Emmanuelle at reception         1000
	1 cigar at the Casino                              500
	Opera glasses                                      500
	Information about Emmanuelle at the bar            500
	Help from the porter at the hotel                  500
	Information about the girls at the bar             200
	1 whiskey at the Casino                            200

	2.3 PLACES
	You are free to go as you choose to any or all the towns of
	Rio de Janeiro, Salvador de Bahia, Iguacu and Manaus.

	HOTELS
	Luxurios worlds where the lobby and bar staff are at your disposal
	for any information you may require. Moving around the floors can
        sometimes hold a few surprises!

	AIRPORTS
	You can buy your plane ticket over the counter. Pleasant hostesses
	will be there to welcome yoy. To choose your destination, click
	the mouse outside the bubble and the different places you can
        go to will appear one by one on the screen. Click inside the
	bubble when your chosen destination appears.

	BEACHES
	On the sand and in the water.....everything can prove interesting!
	The entrance to the Casino in Rio de Janeiro is on the beach.

	GENERAL VIEWS
	To go to a precise spot, all you have to do is click the mouse
	over it. For example, to go to the hotel in Rio de Janeiro, click
	the mouse over the modern building in the general view of the town.
	To go to the "favelas" (the poor area of town), click the mouse
	over the hills.
 	                     
	2.4 OBJECTS
	Several objects are to be acquired for the smooth running of the
	game. Don't hesitate to pawn them to get what you want.

	Beware of pick-pockets and kleptomaniacs. They could rob you of
        your precious statuettes.

	2.5 PEOPLE
	The hotel staff can call you a taxi to take you to certain places
	in the town you are in. You can also find about the hotel clients,
	the regular helicopter service which leaves from the hotel terrace
	and EMMANUELLE's presence or movements....

	All the women everywhere are adorable. They have their own
        personality. If you know how to win them over, they will do or
        tell you everything you want.

	2.6 CONVERSATIONS
	To talk to all of this peoplel, click the mouse over them;

	...3 thouht bubbles appear on the screen, each of wich corresponds
	to a different appraoch. Choose one by clicking the mouse anywhere
	on the screen, even outside the thought bubble. The thought bubbles
	will then change into speech bubbles. The person you are talking
	to will reply immediately. In some cases, you will need to speak
	two or three times to get what you want.
	
	2.7 THE RULES OF ROULETTE
	Tokens representing your money are at your disposal. You may bet 
	once, twice or three times, as follows;

	-On a single figure, you win 35 times the stake. However, if the
	zero comes up, everything goes to the house.
	-On either of two numbers, you winn 17 times the stake.
	-On any of four numbers, you win 8 times the stake.
	-On a column of twelve numbers, you win twice the stake.
	-Manque (Miss; nos. 1 to 18), Passe (Pass; nos. 19 to 36),
	 Impair (odds), Pair (Evens), Noir (Black) and Rouge (RED) all
	 win your stake.
	-On either of two columns of twelve figures, you win half the stake.

	TO PLAY
	Click the mouse on the tokens on the left of the table (100, 500,
	1000) and place them on the desired spot on the table by clicking
	 the mouse again.

	TO STOP BETTING
	Click the mouse to the right of the table.
                        
	2.8 THE FIGHTS
	These always take place on the beach at Rio de Janeiro or Salvador
	Your enemy is the brute on the right. You are the weedy-looking
	man on the left.

	To move, use the left-right arrows (on PC, use the X and C keys).
	To fight, use the number keys. The 7 and 9 keys treacherously
	distract your adversary's attention. Take advantage whilst he is
	not paying attention to you and use this opportunity to thump him
	really hard (use 8 key).

	Use the 1,2 and 3 keys to dodge the brute's blows, punches and
	headbutts.

	If you do not wish to control the fight, the computer will direct
	it automatically, taking into account you strength and that of your
	enemy.

	2.9 THE END OF THE GAME

	DELIBERATE EXIT; all you have to do is go to an airport and choose
	the flight destination Paris.

	COMPULSORY EXIT; the game will automatically end when you run out
        of energy.

	EXIT IN STYLE; once yoy have met up with EMMANUELLE and are on the
        plane to Europe with her, you've won the game!


	3. FINDING EMMANUELLE

	3.1 THE LAWS OF EROTICISM
	These laws are symbolised by three statuettes which, if you possess
	them, will permit their automatic application. They relate to precise
	characters in the game. These are the laws;

	-the law of ASYMETRY; There must be an odd number of partners.
	-the law of UNUSUAL; You must never see your partners's face.
	-the law of NUMBER; You must have multiple relations with the same
	 partner.

	NB;
	When you apply thr rules of one of these laws, if you have the 
	corresponding statuette, it will flash on and off.

	3.2 ON EMMANUELLE'S TRACKS
	If you want to catch up with EMMANUELLE, you will have to anticipate
        her next destination. Ask at reception whether EMMANUELLE is at the
        hotel and ask around at the bar to find out where shi is off to next.

        THEN TRY TO MEET UP WITH HER WHEN YOU ARE ON YOUR BEST EROTIC FORM.