 ERIK DOCS
 =========

 STORY:

 Erik is'nt your ordinary 8th Century pillaging, marauding Viking.  He
 doesn't go around invading other countries, burning their villages,
 murdering their men-folk and carrying off their women.  No, Erik is a
 friendly Viking who enjoys a quite life exploring old castles, building
 computer controlled robots, scuba diving and sitting peacefully in his
 garden.
 However, Erik's peace and quite is shattered when the reincarnation of
 the evil god Loki comes onto the scene.  Angry at Erik's refusal to 
 join in with the more murderous Viking pursuits, Loki casts a spell over
 Erik's worlds, turning his normally peaceful hobbies into a battle of
 life and death.
 Journey with Erik through each of his worlds as he confronts the terrible
 dangers that await him.  Help him to find the skill and cunning nessecary
 to overcome the forces of evil god Loki and so earn the right to live in
 peace.

 GAME PLAY:

 Erik's 4 wrolds are each divided into 7 levels, the last of which
 contains a guardian that needs to be defeated to gain access to the
 next world.  Each level is littered with monsters, cash, bonus items
 and booby traps.  Cash comes in the form precious jewels and can be
 used in the shops, which are to be found on certain levels, to buy
 extra weapons, shields and lives.  In addition, each world contains
 2 secret rooms which, if found, can be entered to find extra lives
 and weapons not normally available from the shops.
 On each level there is a key which, when collected, opens the exit
 door and allows you to move onto the next level.  But don't move on
 too soon.  The more cash you collect, the better the weapon you can
 buy and the easier it will be to kill the many types of monster that
 you will meet on your travels.  However, be careful.  If you lose a
 life, you also lose any extra weapon that you may have obtained, and
 that will make your task more difficult.
 You have been warned.  The choice is yours.  Choose wisely.

 LOADING:

 Commodore Amiga: On workbench prompt, insert ERIK disk.  The game
                  will load automatically.  When loaded the disk 
                  can be removed.

        Atart ST: Insert ERIK disk and switch on computer.  The game
                  will automatically load.  Leave the disk in drive
                  during play.

 CONTROLS:

         UP!          Use FIRE button repeatedly to use weapon held.
          |           Pull DOWN on joystick to enter room.  ESC to
   LEFT!--O--RIGHT!   quit game.
          |
        DOWN!

End.....
