               ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE ROBOT MONSTERS
              """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

                DOCS DONE BY SCOTT OF >>ORACLE<< 04-07-90 .


   THE GAME :

 Escape is a two player simultaneous rescue mission in which you as Jake
 or Duke must rescue Professor Sarah Bellum and free the enslaved hostages
before they are turned into Robo-Zombies ! Find and break in to the food and
bomb lockers to get special weapons to help you destroy the evil Reptilons.

   GETTING STARTED :

 The object of the game is to progress through the factories of Planet X
rescuing the hostages and destroying the reptilons that guard them .
 To activate the escalators, find the power switch and switch it on. This will
allow you to reach the port-o-matic and exit the level .
 Around the complex of factories you will find lockers that contain food, extra
energy, more bombs or sometimes special weapons that will increase your chance
of survival.
 When destroyed, some of the Reptilons will leave behind green crystals that
enhance your `Ray power'. The more crystals you collect the more devastating
your weapon will become.
 To rescue the hostages simply run into them and they will be beamed aboard
your rescue ship which is orbiting Planet X. Some of the hostages have been
imprisoned in glass cases. To unlock the glass cases you must find the computer
console that controls them and destroy it with your ray gun.
 Every three levels you will encounter an evil Reptilon which can only be
destroyed by continous shooting and bombing. Watch out, each Reptilon has its
own form of defence.
 On 16-bit versions only, you will have to traverse a Canal Zone after every
fourth factory level. In this stage Jake and Duke hop into their Cyber Sleds
and have thirty seconds to find their way through the maze to the next factory.
Should you make it to the end of the end of the canal in time you can choose
the next sector to play by selecting one of three doors. You are also awarded
an extra bar of life. Should you fail you will not get an extra bar and the
computer will select your next sector .
 At the end of each factory you will be shown a bonus screen where you are
rewarded for each freed hostage on that level. If you have rescued a full
shuttle load of hostages you are awarded an extra bar of energy.

  HINTS and TIPS :

 Save bombs for use on the Evil Reptilon.
 Learn the layout of the factories for faster progress.
 Use your fire power wisely. Remember each shot lowers your ray power slightly 
so more powerful weapons can be lost.
 Try to rescue all the hostages for a larger life bonus at the end of each
level.
 Don't hang around in the Canal Zone, the time limit is very tight!
 Remember two players means twice the firepower!

 LOADING INSTRUCTIONS :
 
 Amiga - Reset the machine and insert game disk.

 CONTROLS :

 Player 1 - Joystick in port 2 or keyboard
 Player 2 - Joystick in port 1 or keyboard

 JOYSTICK -
 Push LEFT - Moves player left
 Push RIGHT - Moves player right
 Pull DOWN - Moves player down
 Push UP - Moves player up

 ADDITIONAL KEYS -

 LEFT ALT - Player 1 bombs
 RIGHT ALT - Player 2 bombs

 KEYBOARD -

 PLAYER 1 -         PLAYER 2 -
 Z-left             [-Left
 X-right            ]-right
 1-up               0-up
 q-down             p-down
 LEFT ALT-bomb      RIGHT ALT-bomb
 LEFT AMIGA-fire    RIGHT AMIGA-fire

 OTHER KEYS -

 F1-MUSIC ON/OFF
 H-PAUSE ON/OFF
 Q&U-QUIT GAME

 HAVE FUN WITH THIS AWESOME ORACLE RELEASE !!!!!!!!!!!!!!