                          ESCAPE FROM COLDITZ

Typed by SIDEWINDER & PARASITE of LSD.


AIM
Your four characters have been imprisoned in Colditz castle and its up to you
to guide them to freedom.  Each character is allowed to move freely within his
own quaters, and at certain times in the inner courtyard.  You will need to
explore deep into the German quaters in order to collect the equiptment you
need to escape.

CONTROLS
Joystick in port 2

OPENING DOORS
There are hundreds of doors throughout the castle and many will be locked.  A
collection of keys and lock-picks can be found and used to open these doors.
There are three types of door, which are:

Low Security Door       -       Use a lock-pick to open it
Grade 1 Security Door   -       Use a Grade 1 key to open it
Grade 2 Security Door   -       Use a Grade 2 key to open it

Each key/lock-pick can only be used once but any unlocked doors will remain so
until the end of the game.  Beware of the Prisoner's Quarters because many of
the doors here lead into small empty rooms - therefor precious keys may be
unecessarily wasted.
Explore all areas as soon as possible and remember which contain useful items
so they can be collected early on in future games.

AVOIDING GERMANS
The Castle is regularly patrolled by sentries, who walk around on selected
routes looking to stop escape attempts.
Some Germans (if they think a POW's getting away) may open fire.  As these
guards are skilled marksmen, they will need only one bullet to kill a
potential escapee.
To minimise the chance of a Guard shooting you in the back, place a solid
object (such as a wall) between yourself and the Nazi.  Even better is to walk
through an unlocked door where you will be able to hide and should remain safe
for a while.  Wait in a room in 'Stooge' for a couple of minutes and the guard
should go away, as they rarely enter certain rooms at all.  However, leaving
sanctuary too early may mean the guard is still snooping around and you are
likely to get arrested.
Beware when opening doors because sentries have a nasty habit of waiting on
the other side.  Arrest in this situation is almost unavoidable, as you will
usually walk straight into the German!
Remember there are always AT LEAST two sentries patrolling each courtyard AT
ANY TIME.

EQUIPMENT
Various tools and other important items can be collected to aid your escape.
Most are hidden behind walls, tables, bunks, etc, so you should investigate
every possible hiding place.
Some of the most important equipment includes:

Keys            -       Use these to open specific doors.
Lock-pick       -       Use these to open low-security doors.
Uniform         -       Disguise yourself as a Nazi.
Pass            -       Use this with the uniform.  It will be discarded
                        if stopped and interrogated by genuine guards.
Papers          -       Needed at the main gateway in conjunction with
                        the Pass and Uniform.
Pick-axe, Saw, Spade -  Use to re-open disused tunnels.
Candle          -       Needed in tunnels to light your way.
Stone           -       Throw to distract the attention of suspicious
                        guards.

Never carry too much equipment at once because if you're caught every item
will be confiscated and lost.  Stash equipment in 'Safe' areas (such as the
Chapel) as these places are never searched by the Germans.  Although several
trips may be required and this can be time consuming, you run no risk of
having valuable equipment confiscated.


YOUR MEN
You can set up one or more of your men as 'stooges' or lookouts, by pressing
F10.  When a German comes near to him, control will automatically switch to
him and thereby give you a warning of approaching guards.  To come out of
'stooge' mode reselect him by pressing keys F1 to F4.

KEYS
<SPACE>                                 Toggles Walk/Run.
<LEFT ARROW>, <RIGHT ARROW>             Cycles through your inventory.
<UP ARROW>                              Pick up.
<DOWN ARROW>                            Put down.

F1                                      Control British POW
F2                                      Control French POW
F3                                      Control American POW
F4                                      Control Polish POW
F5                                      View all POW's
F10                                     Stooge

GENERAL HINTS
Pressing the F9 key will allow your POWs to go to sleep in a bunk at their
start location.  This is very useful at night because the Fatigue bar will
diminish.  If a tired POW is sent to Solitary, rest him for a few minutes when
he is returned to his Quarters.
Use the map supplied with the game as it gives an outline to each sector of
the castle.  Although not every room is included, at least it shows you
roughly your current whereabouts.
Nazi guards will not hesitate to open fire if it looks as if you're getting
away.  If a pursuing sentry stops running then it's a safe bet he's about to
fire - and they never miss.  A good tactic to avoid this is, if the German is
not too close, to suddenly stop running.  The sentry will run towards you to
make an arrest at which point you should continue your escape and head for a
door or obstacle to put between you.  As it takes a second for a Nazi to raise
and lower his rifle you will still be able to successfully avoid him - but
only if your timing is right!
Fatigue plays an important part in the game, especially after a POW has been
doing a lot of running.  If the Fatigue bar is filled, you will only be able
to walk.

End.