ESPANA - THE GAMES '92

GETTING STARTED
    
AMIGA 500, 600, 1500, 2000

Insert disk 1 into drive A and turn on the computer, the program
will then load automatically. Follow any on screen instructions for
further loading. If you have any other disk drives, insertion of
disk 2 into any other drive will prevent disk swapping. 

CONTROLS 
The game may be controlled by mouse, keyboard or joystick. 

KEYS
Use cursor keys to move the mouse pointer. 

Use Space bar as the left mouse button. 

JOYSTICK
Use Fire Button 1 as the left mouse button.
    
INTRODUCTORY SCREENS

After the credit screens you will be presented with the following:
    
FLAG SCREEN

The Games '92" is an international product and may be played in many 
languages.

Move the mouse pointer to select the flag of the country denoting 
the language of your choice and "click on" the left mouse button. 
Once a flag is selected the screen will fade and the Country 
Selection Screen will appear. 

COUNTRY SELECTION SCREEN

This screen allows you to select the country you wish to represent 
in "The Games '92". Moving the mouse pointer, select the country by 
clicking on the left mouse button. Once a country has been selected 
the screen will fade and the Category Selection Screen will appear. 


CATEGORY SELECTION SCREEN 

This screen depicts a display of the events that you will be able to 
select. At the corners of the screen are Icons representing the 
three major selections.


Top left - A High Jumper - Track and Field   
Top Right - A Diver - Swimming and Diving 
Bottom left - A weight-lifter - Boxing, Wrestling, Judo and Fencing 
plus a return to DOS icon at the bottom right. 

Move the mouse pointer over one of the icons to select the category 
you desire.

Once a category has been selected the screen will fade and an Insert 
Disk prompt screen will appear. 

DISK PROMPT SCREEN 

This screen displays the disk you need to insert in order to 
continue with your selection. Insert the appropriate disk and 
re-select the icon. Once selected this screen will fade and the 
Section Selection Screen will appear.

SECTION SELECTION SCREEN
    
This screen depicts the four choices available to you as follows:

Top Left quarter depicts the Action Section

Top Right quarter depicts the Statistics Section

Bottom Left quarter depicts the Reference Section

Bottom Right quarter depicts the Management Section

In the centre of the screen the Category Selection icon is displayed 
from the previous selection screen.

Moving the Mouse pointer over the section required and clicking on 
the left mouse button will select the relevant section.

THE FOUR MAIN SECTIONS
    
ACTION SECTION

You may control an athlete in any of the available events, either 
practice or in actual competition.

ACTION CONTROLS
    
In the action sections the athlete can be controlled by keyboard, 
joystick or mouse.

If you are using a joystick substitute a left joystick movement for 
a left cursor key, a right joystick movement for a right cursor key 
and Fire button 1 for space bar.

If you are using a mouse substitute a left mouse button for a left 
cursor key, a right mouse button for a right cursor key and use the 
space bar as instructed. 

F1 pause / unpause 

ESC retire from current event 

The effect of the key depressions are directly connected to the 
timing of the athletes movement. To speed up the athlete, press the 
Lett cursor key when the athlete's left foot is on the ground and 
press the Right cursor key when the athlete's right foot is on the 
ground and the Up cursor key to jump. 


Listed below are the varlous events available. 

TRACK AND FIELD -  100m, 200m, 400m, 800m and 1500m.

All races under 1500m start on blocks.

The player has to qualify in two heats before the final. 

RELAY
Relays are run at 4 x 400m and 4 x 800m. Athletes are disqualified 
if they drop the baton or they do not exchange the baton within a 
certain distance. 

In these running events your athlete's pace is dependant on 
co-ordinating the left and right key presses with appropriate 
foot-falls. During the relay race the athletes will exchange batons 
automatically. 

HURDLES 

Hurdles are run at 110m and 220m. An athlete is not penalised for 
knocking over a hurdle. 

STEEPLECHASE

A 400m circuit has 4 steeples set on the track. The event is 800m 
and 1500m. These steeples are rigid hurdles with a ditch on one 
side. The technique for jumping over these steeples is different to 
jumping over the hurdles. Athletes tend to step on the hurdle to 
clear as much of the ditch as possible. 

In the two events above, in addition to the pace of the 
athlete you also control their jump by pressing the space bar.

DISCUS

To gain momentum, most athletes favour a spinning technique before 
releasing the discus. 
    
SHOT PUTT
This event highlights sheer strength and power. Most athletes prefer 
a technique that involves a crouch followed by a forward lunge. 

HAMMER THROW 
The hammer which is similar to a shot on a chain, is 
launched after the athlete spins within a circle to gain momentum.

In the Discus, Shot Putt and Hammer Throw your momentum is gained by 
co- ordinating left and right key presses with the appropriate tilt 
of the athlete. When you feel you have sufficient momentum you may 
execute the throw by pressing the space bar.

JAVELIN
The javelin is thrown after a short run. The athlete must not cross a 
marker before or atter the launch. To gain maximum distance the 
javelin is thrown at 45 degrees to the horizon. 

YOU must build up your athlete's speed as in the running events and 
press the space bar to release the javelin as close to the line as 
possible. 

LONG JUMP 
Athletes run to a marker and launch themselves forward feet first to 
land in soft sand without falling backwards. 

TRIPLE JUMP 
Athletes atter a short run, must "hop" then "skip" before the final  
jump. Measurements are taken from the point of the "hop". This event 
is for men only. 

During he run-up to the jump you must build your athlete's speed as 
in the running events. It you are competing in the Long Jump press 
the space bar when your athlete is close to the second white line. 
If you are competing in the Triple Jump you must start your jump at 
the first white line. 


HIGH JUMP
After a short run, the athlete can use any method to clear the bar. 
Many athletes favour the "Fosbury flop" which requires the clearance 
of the bar using a backwards jump. 

POLE VAULT 
After a long run athletes aim to engage their compound fibreglass 
pole into a rut, before launching themselves. using their momentum 
and the flexing of the pole to clear the high bar. 

During the run-up you build your athlete's speed as in the running 
events. When you feel you are close enough to the jump press the 
space bar. In the High Jump this will commence the jump, whilst in 
the Pole Vault the pole will start to lower. When you feel your 
athelete is high enough to clear the bar and the athelete will 
either 'flop' or release pole.

SWIMMING AND DIVING

FREE STYLE 
Races are swum at various distances i.e. 100m, 200m, 400m and 800m. 
The swimmers dive from blocks and can use any style. The timing of 
the turn is very important in these races.

BREAST STROKE 
The breast stroke is swum at 100m, 200m and 400m distances.  Again 
the turn can prove vital in the winning of this race.

BACK STROKE
The back stroke is started with the swimmers in the water with a 
"push" start from the side. The turn is more difficult in this event 
as the swimmer must twist and turn underwater. 

BUTTERFLY 
The butterfly is swum at 100m, 200m, and 400m distances.  The timing 
of the turn is very important in this race. 

RELAY 
There are 4 x 100m and 4 x 200m medley relays with the first leg of 
the relay being the back stroke. The butterfly, breast stroke and 
freestyle legs of the relay are swum from a diving start. The 
subsequent swimmers cannot leave the blocks until the swimmer in the 
water has touched the side 

The speed at which the athletes swim is determined by your 
co-ordination of left and right key presses with the appropriate arm 
movement. When the athlete reaches the turn you must press the space 
bar when you feel the athlete is at the wall. 

DIVING 
Six judges give ratings to each diver. Points can be lost for 
hitting the water at an incorrect angle and gained for style and 
also for the number and timing of the somersaults done during the 
dive. 

You may commence your dive by pressing the space bar. Once your 
diver starts to descend press the space bar to move into the tuck 
position. Pressing lett and right will cause your diver to rotate. 
Pressing the space bar will make your diver straighten out ready for 
entry into the water. 

BOXING, WRESTLING, JUDO AND FENCING BOXING 
Six judges give points over 3 rounds. Between 0 and 10 points are 
awarded and the winner is the boxer with the highest amount of 
points or with a knock-out. One round is one minute in duration. 
There are various weights of contestant from light flyweight to 
super- heavyweight. Light Flyweights being 48kg and super 
heavyweight being over 91 kg. 

The boxer is moved left and right with the appropriate keys. If 
RETURN is pressed whilst the left key is also pressed, he will 
punch. If RETURN is pressed with the right key he will block. 

WRESTLING 
Each bout consists of 2 x 3 minute rounds. As a match progresses 
contestants score points as a result of successful holds, positions 
of advantage and near throws. If the six minute mark is reached 
without a fall, the wrestler with the most points is declared the 
winner. Each man is then assigned a certain number of penalty  
points for the match mainly due to passivity or lack of 
aggresslveness. If a wrestler accumulates six or more bad points he 
is eliminated from the tournament. 

JUDO (MENS ONLY) 
Points are awarded for successful throws. Preliminary matches are 6 
minutes, semi finals 8 minutes and finals 10 minutes. The winner 
will have the most points awarded by a referee and two judges. The 
more technically difficult the throw, the higher the points awarded. 
Bantam weight is 60kg which is the lowest and the highest category 
is heavyweight over 95kg. 

Move left and right using the left and right cursor keys and press 
RETURN to gain an advantage over your opponent. Use different 
combinations of the four cursor keys to select one of eight possible 
moves. If your opponent has the advantage, press RETURN to break 
free. 

In Judo and Wrestling the aim is to force your opponent sufficiently 
off- balance to allow you to throw him. Pushing the left key will 
start to push your opponent off balance. If the opponent executes a 
counter move before you can execute another push, he will regain his 
balance. If your opponent, pushes you, you must execute a counter 
move by pushing the right key before he executes another push. This 
process is repeated until one, opponent completely loses his 
balance. 

FENCING (MEN AND WOMEN) 
There are three events in fencing - sabre, foil and epee. Fencing 
consists of a series of set moves. The winner is the fencer who 
scores the most number of hits against his opponent. There are three 
coloured lights to indicate hits. Green and red lights indicate 
individual hits and the white light indicates a simultaneous hit 
when points are divided between the fencers. 

Pushing the left key will cause your athlete to lunge towards their 
opponent. If you push the left key again your athlete will follow 
through with a thrust, or if you push with the right key your 
athlete will retreat. If your opponent thrusts at you, you may push 
the left key to perform a parry. If this is successful then pushing 
the left key will follow through with a riposte; or pushing the 
right key will allow you to retreat. 

ACTION SECTION 
At the top left of the screen is an graphic inset of the Athlete you 
have chosen, (Kiri Kimboto has been chosen as a default).

At the top right of the screen is a status panel displaying 

Name of Athlete
Country of origin 
Manual or Automatic control of movement    
Practice, Heat or Final 
Men's or Women's Event 
The event itself    

In the middle of the screen at the top are four icons. Moving the 
mouse over these icons and clicking on the left mouse button will 
select the following :

Top Left Icon selects practice mode

Top Right Icon selects enter competition mode

NB Competition Mode may only be selected when the date is correct 
for that event. See Management Section.

Bottom left Icon - The Starting pistol - starts the event

Bottom right Icon selects return to last selection screen.
    
At the bottom of the screen is a further row of icons. These icons 
"roll" left and right when clicking on the minus and plus icons 
respectively. The icons depict all the events for the disk you are 
using. The bright icons depict the events that the athlete you have 
chosen is particularly good at. You cannot select an event that the 
athlete is not trained for.

Once you have decided which event you wish to participate in, move 
the mouse pointer over the bright icon and press the left mouse 
button. The event should now be displayed in the top right 
information box. 

If this is the first time you have played The Games '92 you will now 
be in practice mode and manual control. If you select the starting 
pistol, the event * you have chosen will be loaded and Kiri will 
appear on the track ready to practice. 

ACTION DISPLAY PANEL 
At the top of the action screen there are important features 
displayed that will help your performance. At the top left there is 
a graphic inset of your chosen athlete, in the middle, the time or 
distance that you have achieved. At the far right there is a 
lightening icon in which the horizontal line depicts the power 
output of the athlete, i.e. how good you are at synchronising the 
cursor key depressions with the athlete. The higher the horizontal 
line the better your synchronization. To the left of this display is 
a plus/minus icon. This depicts the athlete's stamina, an indication 
of the athlete's fitness. To the left of this display is your 
current position super-imposed on the event icon. 

PRACTICE, HEATS AND THE FINAL 
Unless you have been into the Management Section you will not be 
able to compete in any event. The actual events take place on 
specific dates. identical to the dates of the Olympic games held in 
Barcelona. Without advancing the date all you can do is practice. 
But practice makes perfect. 

Once you have trained the athlete and looked in the diary (See 
Management Section) you may take part in the Heats (of which there 
are two) and hopefully win a medal in the Final. 

STATISTICS SECTION 
Selecting the Statistics section allows you to browse through 
achievements of yesteryear. At the top of the text is the event and 
listed below are the timings or distances achieved by athletes since 
the Olympics began. 

The icons shown function as follows:- 

The far left icon, that of the printer, allows you to print out the 
"file" you have on screen. 

The icon to the right is that of leafing backwards in a book, this 
simply depicts going back a page. 

The icon in the middle depicts the disk you have selected i.e. Disk 
one Track and Field, Disk Two Swimming and Diving or Disk Three, 
Boxing, Fencing, Wrestling and Judo. 

The icon to the right is that of going forward a page. 

The icon on the far riaht is that of going back to the last screen 
selection. 

REFERENCE SECTION 
This section operates in a similar way to that of the statistics 
section. This section contains information about the following:- 

The Olympic games since they began
Information about the Games in Barcelona 1992
Information about the events, the people and the evolution of the 
modern games.

The icons at the bottom of the first screen you see are as follows:- 

The icon on the far left is a Coliseum icon. Selecting this icon 
will allow you to view pictures and information about the current 
Games in Barcelona. 

The icon on the right is the Olympic torch, selecting this icon will 
allow you to view information about the generic history of the 
Olympic Games since they began in 1896. 

The icon to the right is an icon depicting the disk you have 
selected, i.e. Track and Field, Disk One, Swimming and Diving, Disk 
Two and Wrestling, Boxing, Judo and Fencing Disk Three. Selecting 
this icon will give you specific information about the chosen disk 
events through history. 

The icon to the far right is the now familiar return to the last 
screen. 

Selecting either the Coliseum, Flames or Disk Icon will change the 
icons at the bottom of the screen as follows:- The icon at the 
far left depicts a printer, selecting this icon allows you to print 
the "file" you are currently looking at. 

The icon to the right of the above is that of an open book and 
depicts going back a page. 

The icon to the right of the above is a minus sign. Some of the 
"files" contained in this section are more than one screen in size. 
Selecting either the plus or minus will allow you to browse through 
the files. The icon to the right of the open book displays the date 
of the current event. The icon on the far right will take you back 
to the previous screen.

MANAGEMENT SECTION 
Selecting the management section will allow you to train your 
selected athlete to the peak of physical fitness. 

OFFICE SCREEN 
Your office is fully equipped with all you need to train and manage 
your athletes to win Gold Medals in the Games. Moving the mouse over 
to the door on the left and clicking the left mouse button will 
allow you to return to the previous selection screen. Selecting the 
middle door will allow you to enter the Medical Room. 

Selecting the right hand door will allow you to enter the gym. 

Your desk has some very important features also. There is a diary. 
Moving the mouse pointer onto the diary and clicking the left hand 
button will open the diary and allow you to peruse the activities 
leading up to and including the Games themselves. On the diary page 
you will see three icons, the top right con depicts next page. The 
middle icon depicts the previous page and the bottom icon to return 
to the last screen. Also on your desk is a '92 pad. Selecting this 
pad shows you the medal winners to date. 

Other features in the office are also very important. Selecting the 
top drawer of the filing cabinet allows you to review the gallery of 
athletes. Double clicking on an athlete will reveal information on 
the athlete and preferred events. The bottom right icon will return 
you to the last screen. 

Clicking on the clock will advance the time by one hour. Clicking on 
the calendar will advance the day by one day. 

MEDICAL ROOM 
Once you are in the medical room, you will be able to assess the 
fitness of the athlete you have chosen. By moving the mouse on to 
the Doctor anc clicking the lett hand mouse button. the doctor will 
advise on the fitness of the athlete and recommend a work-out and 
practice regime. Moving the mouse pointer onto the Cardiovascular, E.
C.G. machine and clicking the left hand mouse button, will reveal 
the stamina level of the athlete. 

The door on the lett hand side on the screen is the exit back to 
your office. Move the mouse pointer over the door and click on the 
left button to exit. 

THE GYM
Once you are in the gym, you are able to set a work-out schedule. 
Click on the body of the athlete and watch the exercise. The initial 
click will set the athlete to work-out everyday for one hour. 
Subsequent clicks will advance bl the time in the gym by one hour. 
Once this is set, it is assumed that the athlete will train at this 
level every day until the Games commence. 

The door on the left hand side on the screen is the exit back to 
your office. Move the mouse pointer over the door and click on the 
left button to exit. 

FUN CLICK-ONS 
You may find areas of the Office, Gym and Medical room that react to 
the mouse pointer and selection. Try and see what you can find!

HINTS AND TIPS

1. Don't panic.

2. If you are lost somewhere in the hierarchy just select the last 
screen/page icon found mainly at the bottom right of the screen to 
return from whence 

3. You may only compete in the Heats and Finals on the specific date 
of that Heat or Final. Consult your diary and calendar.   

4. In the swimming events as the athletes approach the turn they 
will go under water. You have to judge when they are in the right 
position to execute the turn - practise will help you achieve 
this.   

5. While your boxer is executing a punch if you release the space 
bar he will return to the normal stance. Use this to create feints 
and confuse your opponent.

THE GAMES '92

THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT HAS BEEN CAREFULLY DEVELOPED AND   
MANUFACTURED TO THE HIGHEST QUALITY STANDARDS. PLEASE READ THE   
INSTRUCTIONS FOR LOADING CAREFULLY.   

This game has been tested and checked for viruses. Please do not use 
any form of disc utility with any Ocean product as it may corrupt 
the data and render the disc unusable 

NOTE: PLEASE CHECK THE READ.ME FILE FOR ANY LAST MINUTE ADDITIONS OR 
CHANGES.

End..................
