DOCS FOR EUROPEAN FOOTBAL CHAMP / DOMARK

GAME SELECTION: Euro Football Chamo gives you the options of
                a one-player game, a two-player game
                (competition) or a two-player game
                (cooperative)

                Press fire to select your country once the
 		title screen is displayed. Push the joystick
     		left or right to scroll the flag of the
		country you wish to represent into the white
		highlight at the bottom of the flag circle.
 		For the 2-player game, player two should
		press fire to join in at this stage to select
		his team.
                
 		1-PLAYER GAME:
 		
		If only one fire button is pressed, you will	
		play alone against a series of computer
		teams of increasing skill. You must beat
		each of these to go to the next.

    		2-PLAYER COMPETITION:

 		Ensure that the two teams selected are
		DIFFERENT. You will now play a series of two
		player games with these two countries
		against each other.

   		2-PLAYER COOPERATIVE:

 		Pick the SAME team. You will now play a
		series of games, with player 1 and player 2
		ON THE SAME SIDE. The computer will	
		automatically assign control between the
		players as the match is played. Together you
		will play against a series of computer teams
		of gradually increasing skill. You must beat
		each of these to go on to the next.

                Press fire again to confirme the country.
		now the player has the opportunity to play
		his star player - this player has greater
		skill, stamina and speed than normal
		players.

         	Now select the duration of the game by
		pressing the joystick UP and DOWN until the
		desired time is displayed. Press fire to
		start the match. If you press fire without
		moving the joystick your match will
		automatically set for 15 minutes.


CONTROLS:       The player under control has a coloured
		arrow pointing in the direction the team is
		kicking and a "1P" (player 1) or "2P"
		(player 2) above his head.

                Use the 8 directions on the joystick to move
		our player around the pitch. The fire button
		is used in two different ways - SINGLE PRESS
		and DOUBE PRESS. Single press is just a
		short press and release of the fire button.
		Double press requires two such presses in
		quick succession - this requires a little
		practice but is soon picked up.

		WHEN OUR PLAYER HAS THE BALL:

                SINGLE PRESS: this executes a low, fast kick
                DOUBLE PRESS: this executes a lob kick

                WHEN YOUR PLAYER DOES NOT HAVE THE BALL:

                SINGLE PRESS: this executes a legal sliding
			      tackle
                DOUBLE PRESS: this executes an illegal
			      tackle. Punch (close range) or
			      jump kick (long range)

		WHEN YOUR GOALKEEPER HAS COLLECTED THE BALL:

		SINGLE PRESS: this executes a drop kick in
			      the direction of the joystick
                DOUBLE PRESS: this executes a throw-out in
			      the direction of the joystick


KEYBOARD CONTROLS:
                
                P - Pause ON/OFF 
                Z - Zoom mode disable/enable (while paused)
 		Q - Quit back to title screen (while paused)
 		

GAME FEATURES:

  		SCREEN DISPLAY:
                
 		At the top of the screen are displayed a
		scanner showing pitch positions, scores and
		country flags, the game clock, and in each
		top corner, an identifier showing the number
		of the player currently under control for
		each team (this displays the face of your
		star player when he is under control)

 		TRICK SHOTS:

		Euro Football Champ features diving headers,
		back heel kicks and overhead kicks (bicycle
		kicks). These are all activated
		automatically.

		DIVING HEADERS:
  
 		They occur when the ball is kicked forward
		but is OFF the groundand a little way in
		front of the player.

		BACK HEELS:

		They occur when a player kicks the ball
		backwards (press fire and move joystick
		simultaneously) and the ball is ON the
		ground.

		BICYCLE KICKS:

		They occur when a player kicks the ball
		backwards (press fire and move joystick
		simultaneously) and the ball is OFF the
		ground.

		REFEREE:

		Euro Football Champ has a referee who
		insists on fair play. However, he is rather
		slow and clumsy, and sometimes has trouble
		keeping up with the action. If you commit
		an illegal tackle and the referee is close
		and sees the offence, a foul will be 
		awarded and a yellow card will be issued
		to the offending player. If the same player
		commits a second offence in the game he will
		be given a red card and sent off for the
		remainder of the game.

		THROW-INS:

		The player must wait for the referee to
		arrive before selecting direction and press
		fire.

		FREE KICKS:

		Your player can select a direction and take
		a lobbed free kick.

		CORNERS:

		Select a direction for the kick and press
		fire.

		PENALTIES:

		Select a direction for the penalty and press
		fire.

		HALF-TIME:

		The game will pause, and then restart with
		the teams playing from the other ends.

		ZOOM:

		Euro Football Champ features a unique zoom
		mode for special moments during the game.        
		This feature may be switched off permanently
		if you prefer.

Docs type by: CENOBYTES/CRYSTAL
