           ... EURO SOCCER - FROM FLAIR SOFTWARE - AMIGA DOX ...


Amiga


Amiga  Minimum requirements.
500/500+/600
1 Meg of Ram
Joystick.

Insert disk 1 into the drive and switch on following on screen prompts.



SELECTION SCREENS


After the intro sequence has played you will the be presented with
several options.
Use Joystick to make selection.

OPTION SCREEN ONE

Select one or two player game by moving the football cursor.
The Two player option is only available in the Arcade/Friendly Mode.
Now select the next option screen, press fire.

OPTION SCREEN TWO

Select required options in the same way as Screnn one

Time of Each Half  2, 4, 6, 8 Minutes
Pitch Conditions   Wet or Dry
Penalty Option     On/Off

Arcade/Friendly (One or Two Player) or Tournament (One Player Mode Only)
Arcade/Friendly Mode is a Single game for a one and two player game.
Tournament is a series of games, played from eight teams from each of
the eight competing countries.

Exit    To continue to next option

OPTION SCREEN THREE

Here you may select from the European map the country you are to play for.
Move the Joystick tp the flag of the country, pressing fire button 
to make decision.
Repeat the exercise for the second player in the two player mode.

OPTION SCREEN FOUR

From the country you have selected you can choose from the top Eight
teams in their country league.
      Each team has it's own preset strenghts and weaknesses!
In the One player Arcade Mode the higher up the league the team is, the
better the team will play.
In the two player Arcade Mode both teams will have the same equal ability

OPTION SCREEN FIVE

Formation of Play  4-4-2, 4-3-3, 4-2-4

In the Tournament Mode the Computer player starts off with an average
ability, increasing as it progresses through the rounds to the cup final.

Pressing fire will take you to the selected team and score 
screen displaying the team you will be playing against.
Pressing fire again starts the action.
The players will run on the pitch, line up in front of the Royal box then
continue to take their positions on the field for the game to begin.
With the ball on the centre circle Player 1 has the kick off.
Press fire for play to start.


PLAYER CONTROLS

You control the playerwith the coloured circle aroun his feet.

Amiga     Joystick controlled only, one or two player


To pass the ball to the nearest         Tap the fire button
team player

To kick or lob the ball straight        Hold down fire button
ahead up the field

To tackle the opponent for the          
ball you can either do a sliding
tackle from several angles or
try and cleanly take the ball in        Tap fire when near the player
a head to head tackle.

Corners Kicks & Throw -Ins              Select direction and press fire

Heading the ball towards goal           When a hick ball is lobbed
                                        towards you near the goal you
                                        will automatically try a header
                                        towards the goal.

Chesting the ball to the ground         When the ball is lobbed at a
                                        height too low to take a header
                                        the player will try and chest the
                                        ball down automatically before 
                                        trying a shot at goal.

The player may also chest the ball over the goal keeper
depnding on the speed and bounce of the ball

GOALIE CONTROLL

The Goalie is fully automatic for diving and saving, diving and punching
the ball, goal kicks and pick ups.
The agility of the goal keeper varies from team to team.

PENALTY SHOOT OUT

A penalty shoot out will occur ( If selected in the options ) at the end
of a tournament game if the scores are level.
Each team has Three penalty kicks- Three attepts at scoring a goal and
Three at saving a goal. If the scores are still level at the end of this
the shoot out will continue until one of the teams pulls ahaed.

CONTROLLS

To controll the player on the ball      Move the Joystick in the 
                                        direction you want the ball
                                        to be kicked and press fire.

To controll the gooalie                 Once the ball has been kicked,
                                        move the joystick in the 
                                        direction you want him to
                                        Make his save and press fire.



                         ... TYPED BY  -[RAT]- ...