Evil-Garden


LOADING PROCEDURE 

Loading Evil Gardenon the Amiga

To play Evil Garden you require either the Amiga 500, 1000, or
2000, with at least 512K of RAM and a color monitor or television.
If you are using an Amiga 1000 you require Kickstart 1.2 or greater.

To load EVIL GARDEN follow these steps, then sit back and enjoy.

1)  Set up your Amiga system as described in the manual.  If this
 	presents a problem please check that all cables are connec-
	ted properly, or refer to Chapter 2 in your Amiga manual.

2)	Turn on first the monitor or television set and then your
	Amiga.

3)	When the computer prompts you to insert the Workbench
	disk, place the EVIL GARDEN disk into the internal drive,
	the computer will now start the loading procedure.
	If you are using an Amiga 1000 you must first place the
	Kickstart disk into the internal drive (1.2 or greater).
	Please wait until your computer prompts you to insert the 
	Workbench disk, at this prompt insert the EVIL GARDEN disk
	into the internal drive and the computer will start loading the
	game.
	If your computer does not load the game at this time, check if 			
everything is properly set up.  If you are sure that there is a
	problem with the disk,return it to your dealer and have it repla-
	ced.

4)	After approximately 70 seconds the title screen will appear
	and you can now follow the instructions on the screen and
	begin playing EVIL GARDEN...good luck...

5)	At this time the copyprotection will ask you a question
	regarding the packaging.  Please read the following....

Page 2


LOADING EVIL GARDEN ON THE COMMODORE 64

To load Evil Garden from disk on your Commodore 64, you need
a Commodore disk drive (1541, 1570 or 1571) or a compatible drive.
If you have more than one drive connected to your computer, turn
all except the one with address 8 off.

1)  Turn on first the monitor or television set and then your com-
puter.

2)  Place the Evil Garden diskette into the disk drive with side
	one facing up. (Disklabel on top)

3)	At the Basic prompt type in LOAD "*",8,1 and press the
	RETURN key.  The program will now load automatically.

4)	After a few seconds you will be asked if you wish to use the
fastloader built into the program.  If you are using a drive which
has no fastloader built in, you should answer this question with the
letter Y (YES).  If you have problems loading, or if you have a flop-
pyspeeder which is faster than factor 5 answer this question with N
(NO).  The program will now load.

5)	The title screen will appear, by pressing the RUN/STOP
the Q key you can continue the loading procedure.  At different
the computer will wait for you to press the fire button, after doing
this loading will continue.  When you are asked to place side two
the program disk into the drive, turn your disk around (labe face
down) and the press the fire button.

Page 3

THE COPYPROTECTION

We think that a copyprotection which disables the user to make a
backup copy of his original disk is a, well a ripoff.  Because of this
we have not put any copyprotection onto the disk, instead we have
used another type of protection.  We are very sorry about this, but
there are very many people who do not realise that we, DEMON-
WARE, have to make a living with selling our games to you, our
customers, and if we do not succeed, you will not have our games to
buy anymore.  So please, if you are asked to give away a copy of your
game, think about what our friends at Aegis are telling you "spread
the word, not the disk!"  Thank you.

After the title screen of EVIL GARDEN has appeared, a window
will open on the screen and you will be asked some question about
the package or to type in a word from the manual which you are just
reading.

For example:  Please type in the number of screenshots on the
back of the package.
The answer would be: 4

Or maybe:  Type in the 1st word of the second sentence on page 2.

The answer might be: loading

The copyprotection does not require you to capitalise any letters,
so do not worry about that.
If you have made a mistake, and have answered the question incor-
rectly, sorry you will have to boot again.  So when you have finsished
typing, check your answer if you have typed everything correctly.
We have done our best to make the questions as easy for you to
answer as possible.  Now you are ready to start the game, we know
your goona dig thisone!

Page 4

AMIGA

THE DIFFERENT OPTIONS OF PLAY

There are two basic types of play, one player and two players.  To
see the game menu, press the HELP key on your keyboard while
some other menu is on the screen, the menu will now appear on the
screen.

Use your mouse as you would do in the Workbench to choose the
mode you want.  (Please leave your mouse plugged into port one as
usual.)

ONE PLAYER:

When you have chosen this option of play from the menu, you are
on your own, you may now play Evil Garden by yourself.  Once the
game has started, you can use your mouse to manouver your player
around the bottom of the screen, press the left mouse button to
shoot, holding the button down will also work.

TWO PLAYERS:

This option is divided into two modes, the basic two player game
with one person playing and the other sitting around enjoying a
warm cup of coffee, or you can play with two people at the same time.
To use this option you will either need a trackball (see offer inside
package) or a second mouse, so ask your friend to bring either one
along with him.

But that's definitely not all Evil Garden has to offer, because your
can combine the options in the game menu to have up to a four
player game.  To do this you must turn on the "simultaneous" mode
in the menu.  Now you are ready to have some fun.

To begine playing press the left mouse button.

Page 5


EXTRA WEAPON SYSTEMS

Pumpkin:  At different times throughout the game, a pumpkin will
jump over the top of the screen.  This pumpkin (in German we say
Kurbis, but to bad we do not have halloween) has a very special
funktion, it carries all of your extra weapons.  All you have to do is
shoot it and catch the weapon it is carrying, damn, if those cen-
tipedes weren't always in the way, it might be a little easier.

Heart: This is an easy one, all it does is give you an extra life, but
trust us, you'll need them.

Satellite: This weapon is only carried by the pumpking when you
are playing in the one player mode. This is a very handy
weapon to have, specially when you're in about level 10, it will be a
lifesaver.  Try it sometime.

Door: With this you can leave, or should I say escape, from
the level you are currently in. The door is not always the right thing
to take, sometimes its better to stay where you are.

?: This is a bum, when you're in desperate need, it may stop your
repeated fire and you will have to press the fire button each time
you wan't to shoot, or it will give you a satalite, or some better
amunition.  You just never know what its got in stock for you, oh no,
not now....

Shield:  This will protect you from the shots fired at you by
the enemy, no matter how many.  You can move over mines and
mushrooms, but against other enemies it might not be to helpfull.
I came, I saw, it kicked my ass is what you may say when you see the
worm eat you with pleasure.

Gun: This is a fun little gadget, try to pick up as many of
these as you can, they're always helpfull. At first it only makes your
shoots a little stronger, but after a few more times, they might
bounce all over the screen, just wait and see.

Page 6

REMEMBER

You must move your player over the gadget as it falls down to pick it
up, if it disappears at the bottom it's gone, you wil not be rewarded
this weapon.

SCORE

What follows is a listing of all enemies which appear in Evil Gar-
den and how many points you will receive for each of them.

Mushroom		:  1-3 Points
Centipede		:  10 Points
Spider		:  25 Points
Pumpkin		:  30 Points and the extra weapon
Demon		:  50 Points
Ghost		:  100 Points
Laice		:  50 Points

When a monster appears on the screen, you will receive 15 points
for every hit, and an additional 500 points for a kill.

Page 7

COMMODORE 64

OPTIONS OF PLAY

You are now ready to play, insert your joystick in PORT 2 if you
which to play alone, or have to play alone. In this case you will have
to do some things for the droid which follows you.  To do this please
plug another joystick in PORT 1 or use the keys (,1,2,CONTROL,
Q).  If you want to play together, your partner will be controlling
this droid with the joystik plugged into PORT 1.  You may also use
a Trackball to play.

You can switch between the weapon you want to use, by pressing
the "Q" key, you will see the weapon you have currently chosen as a
little symbol on the right side of the screen. This does not mean that
you will immediatly continue play with this weapon, you will have to stop
fireing for a short period.  You will be able to see which
weapon you have chosen by the number which appears over the sym-
bol of the weapon.

Weapon Systems

GUN: The gun is the cheapest and most ineffective weapon in Evil
Garden.  The short shooting distance and the long time between
reloading and fireing can mean death.  You should only use the gun
as a last resource.

BLASTER: A very good alternative to the rifle, it does not fire
to fast, but it will do.  The bullets are very powerful and the amuni-
tion is cheap, this might make this weapon your favorite, but only
when there are not to many monsters around.

RIFLE:  A standard weapon.  Very powerful, and fast.

MASHINE GUN:  This is a good wepon to have, but watch your
amunition, it is not good if you suddenly run out of it, especially at
night you should always have it handy.

Page 8

SPECIAL RIFLE: This Rifle fires bullets which have a little bit
of poison in them.  When the Centipedes come at you with awesome
speed, you will be happy to have this weapon.  But you must hit the
head or it wont do any good.

MISSILE LAUNCHER: This weapon is almost chaotic, no
matter if you want to get rid of some mushrooms, or kill a couple
of worms, it does its job well.  But remember, everything has two
sides.


Page 9

STORY

Before you sign your own deathwarrant, you might want to know
who you are and what you are supposed to do.

As a soldier, who has done his job well for many years, and has
fought against blood thersty aliens, or a mean dictator of some lit-
tle country which is not even on a map, it has become clear to you
that money is everything, and what good is it if you can not spend
any of it because your skeleton is lying in some far off desert, rot-
ting?  At some point in time you will realise that the enemie is to
strong, and can not be defeated.  Hopefully it is not to late then to
quit.  If you do not, who is supposed to come back later, to, with new
strength, fight or maybe even defeat the enemie?  Think about this
when you have to make your decision, fight or surrender....

"Hey man! are you listening?"

Thesharp voice of the heavily built giant sitting across from you
brings you back into reality.  Until now he has had that dirty, wide
smile on his face.  But now his dark glasses shine very threatening
on his large nose. The air is sultry and thick, and the loud music
and the man ydifferent voices don't make thinking any easier.  You
think:  Damn, I don't have a cent in my pocket, and I don't know if
I can pay for the warm beer, which they serve you here for as long
as I can remember.  And that guy beside you, with his foul scent,
who has just blown some more of his cigarette smoke into your face,
doesn't want to give you a few seconds time to decide. Sure, Fred is
one of those rich guys now, he drives one of those big European cars,
and thinks that he will never have to work again.  But Johnnie, well
he is laying in some dirt hole thousands of miles from here.

'There is no risk at all for a guy with your skills..believe me!' They
probably told Johnnie the same thing. But then again...you'll need
some money anyway, and a job like the one 20 years ago is out of the
question.  Yeah, Johnnie was always a bit incautious, like in Kongo,
where they would have shot him for sure if you hadn't come in and
blown them away first.

Page 10

STORY (continued)

OK,I'll give it to you straight.We'll fly you there,for free of course
First of all we will give you some good weapons,to start out you will
get a 45 Magnum, the rest of the weapons will come by you as you
go along.All this won't cost you a cent, on the contrary, you can make
a hell of a lot of money with it.
It will all start tomorrow morning.  For every centipede you kill,
you get cash, the further you get, the more you'll get, for the larger
ones of course more than for the small ones.  You'll even get some
for every mushroom you destroy, and believe me, there are many of
those around there.

As far as we know from Fred, there are different families, even dif-
ferent tribes of those worms, or whatever they are, crawling around
all over the place. When you have killed a whole tribe, it will take a
little while before more of them come, at this time you can let your
trigger finger rest a while, but be on the lookout,when they come,
they come.

By the way, you do have a partner, right.  Well if you don't we will
send you our newly developed GX-3, he fires like hell, but is a little
stupid, all he does is fly around you in circles, but trust me, he's a
good pal to have when the ride gets rough.

Listen,a chance like this comes by once in a lifetime.  I can see that
you need some cash,and if it gets to hot, don't worry, we will get you
out of there in a matter of seconds, and you'll get your money right
then and there.

Think about it, I need your answer right now.

Great, lets get going, by the way, leave the disk you get in your com-
puter at all times, when playing, or it may be destroyed and there
is no way we can get you out then.

NOTICE:

Please do not forget to send the registration card,included in this pack
age, back to us.This makes better support possible,and we are then
able to supply you with information about new releases and improve-
ments.  Thank you.

Page 11

THE CONTEST

To make things a little more challenging for you, we thought a con-
test would be a good thing.  Here is how it works:

The person with the highest score will win the actual Arcade
Mashine, prizes 2 - 10 will be a coupon getting you all of the new
Demonware games ever appearing for your personal computer for free.
The contest will end on March 31,1989.All scores,to this date, will be
checked and the winners will be announced in the following ad.

You must send either a copy of the Evil Garden disk including your
score in the Hall of Fame, or a screenshot showing your score.

To be eligable for this contest you must be a register user,this means
it is very important that we receive your registration card as soon as pos-
sible.


Page 12

Demonware would like to thank the following persons for
their help in bringing you this game.

Anreas Herbst and Kurt Cotoaga for programming.

Thural Inan for graphics.

Dennis Sarratou for music and sounds.

Steffan Schwenkreis for additional programming.

Peter Uhlich and Alex Koppisch for support and pro
ductions.

Christian Sabel for manual layout

Lutz Vieweg for the C-64 version of this title, good
job.

	for C-64 graphics.

Edyta Filipow for good sleep at night.

Christine Pflaume for the same.

Alex Koppisch, Peter Uhlich, my mother, Christine
Pflaume, Edyta Filipow, Willhelm Weber, Boris
Kunkel and others for extensive testing.

We would like to thank you for purchasing this product and
we all wish you as much fun and excitement playing this game
as we all had.

Following is the German translation of this handbook, read it
if you like.

Page 13



P.S.  Sorry about some of the spellings, but they were like that in the
original manual.  


EXTRA NOTES:

Code Sheet from Back of Box:

4 Screen Shots
     "     "   #1 = Everything is quiet
     "     "   #2 = Then you hear the scream
     "     "   #3 = They are coming
     "     "   #4 = Can you escape the claws of the Centepede?

***  BEWARE  ***

The Y key and the Z key are transposed on keyboard.  To type a name with a
Y (like Mary) you must hit the Z key to get a Y.

Package Color - Silver
