                          EXODUS 3010                 
                  ==========================

     Exodus is a pretty complex game at first glance, but when you get a
grasp on what you are supposed to be doing, it gets a bit easier. Hopefully
this doc will help you do just that.

     The game has three different parts. The 1st, which I call the MSM
(Mother Ship Mode) is where you start the game. The 2nd and third parts are
Strategic Mode (SM) and Flight Mode (FM). [Details to follow, so hang on!]

The Object:
-----------
     As it says in the intro, you were headed for a new world after your
old one was destroyed. The computer has woken you up to regain control of
the mother ship after it detected other beings nearby. The goal is to pass
the challenges that now face you, and make it to the new world.

Mother Ship Mode:
-----------------
   Pilot Submenu -> Revive pilots to fly ships.
       Available Pilots - Computer tape data for all frozen pilots.
       Tape Window      - Data for combining with frozen pilots.
       [Note on Tape and Pilot Windows: Each one can only be used once.]
        - Buttons for Tape Window:
               Thaw - After selecting a Pilot and a Tape, you can unfreeze
                      the pilot to ready him for flight.
               Freez - Like thaw, only refreeze the pilot.
               Average - Show Tapes as a combined average of all attributes.
               Imp - No idea, Maybe improvemnt?
               Aggr - Show tapes based on highest aggression.
               Courage - Show tapes based on highest courage.
               Flight - Show tapes based on highest flight skill.
               Pilot - Show the current pilot.
   Engine Submenu -> Fix broken engine parts.
        To use this submenu, click on the broken part. (You may have to
      search around a bit, but most of the time the damage starts in the
      upper right part of the engine.) Then click on the element you want
      to repair the engine with. The click repair. The screen will tell
      you whether it worked or not. (Beware of using things like explosives
      and radioactive material. In most cases they just do worse damage to
      your system.)

   Laboratory Submenu -> Discover new weapons/objects by combining elements.
        This menu is simple to operate, but awful to figure out. Once again,
      be careful about combining anything with an explosive or radioactive
      material. You can do some severe damage to the mothership.
      Select objects to combine by using the left mouse button on them,
      then clicking on one of the three spaces in the top right window. To
      remove an item from the combination area, click on it with the right
      mouse button. After you've selected what you want to combine, click
      the "reaction" button.
        You can learn about things that will react from aliens that you meet.

   Products Submenu -> Combine materials to create known objects. 
      [Note: You can't make an object that you havn't discovered yet.]

   Equipment Submenu -> ASA: The Hanger. Put pilots and weapons on ships.
      - Buttons:
           Add Blue - Add a blue fighter to your sqadron.
           Add Red  - Add a red fighter to your squadron.
           Add Black - Add a black fighter to your squadron.
           Pilots - Pick a pilot to put in the ship. Click the left mouse
                    button on the ship to put the pilot in; select the
                    pilot; and click left button on the large picture of 
                    the ship.
           Sub. Ship - Take the ship offline and make it into parts.
                       (remember to select the ship first. :)
           Ships - To come back from the equip screen. (See Equip)
           Equip - Equip the selected ship. (heh) Select the ship to equip.
                   Pressing the equip button opens a new window that contains
                   all tech. known to you. Each picture has two lines. The
                   grey line is how many you can have max (I believe, I've
                   never gotten to where I had that much stuff! :), and the
                   orange line is how many you have. Click the left button
                   on the picture to install it on the ship, the right to
                   take it off.
           Start -> After selecting which fighters will go on this mission
                    by clicking on them with the right mouse button, (and
                    after making sure you have picked a destination in the
                    main window) you can launch your fighters.

   Message Button -> After clicking on an object in the upper left window
      (the radar screen), you can attempt to communicate with it. If it
      is possible to communicate with the object, the word "Possible" will
      be flashing in green on your radar. If the alien desires to contact
      you, the word will be flashing red on your radar. When an alien sends
      you a message, click the message button to clear it, and select what
      your response is by clicking on in in the Info window.

   Load/Save Buttons -> Obvious. :) Follow the directions it gives. You
      will want to have a blank disk ready, because it's important to save
      often in this game. The chances to goof up are enormous. :)

Strategic Mode:
---------------
   This screen contains a display of each of the pilots send on the current
  mission, as well as a general view and controls for the pilots.
  Select a ship by clicking the left mouse button on that pilot's display.
   - Buttons:
       Fight - Command the pilot to fight the enemy.
       Wait  - Have the pilot hold current position.
       Return- Return to the mothership.
       Clicking the "All" button beside any of the commands will cause all
       pilots to follow that command.
       Helps - This is VERY handy when stuck in Null-K zones. Click on helps
               and then your ship that is stuck until u are free.
       "tab" on keyboard will switch you to control of the selected pilot's
       ship.

Flight Mode:
------------
   The flight mode has two parts. First, of course is your display. You can
  control your movement with the mouse by holding down the right mouse button
  for acceleration, and the left to fire weapons. You can also use the arrow
  keys and the shift key for accelleration. Weapon firing is done with the
  "a" key. (See key descriptions below.)
   The second is your weapons rack at the bottom. Most of them are for higher
  levels of things, and using the "a" key will handle all weapon functions.
  To select an item, press the space bar. The "E" at the end will put you
  into Strategic Mode. (As well as the "Tab" key")

   - Keyboard commands:
       Shift - Accelerate
       T     - Activate tracktor beam on the object in your gunsight.
       C     - Continue the previous direction. (Useful if you want to
               temporarily take control of the ship)
       A     - Attack the object in your gunsight.
       F9/F10- Zoom in and out on your radar.
       Right Amiga/Right Alt - Shuffle through bottom menu.
       Space - Select highlighted item in bottom menu.
       Tab   - Toggle to strategic mode.
       Arrows- Move your ship in that direction.
       P     - Puase the game
   - Mouse Commands:
       LMB - Fire weapons.
       RMB - Accelerate.
       Moving the mouse will move the ship in that direction.
   - Joystick commands:
       Fire button - Fire weapons.
       Moving Stick- Move ship.

                              THE END