                               EXTENSOR
                               ========
                                               TYPED BY SHARD - N&B


THE GAME OF THE FUTURE
----------------------

Welcome  to  the  arena  of  Zarth.   Welcome  to EXTENSOR, the game of the
future.

Extensor requires a combination of lightning arcade reflexes, and strategic
planning,  as  you  ride  your revolutionary laser cycle at unstable speed,
around  the  arenas  many  obstacles.   You  can  compete against up to six
computer controlled opponents.

Extensor  features  amazing  solid  three  dimensional  realtime  graphics,
exhilerating non-stop action and a stunning soundtrack.

One wrong move and you'll be vapourised.  So grit your teeth, stay calm and
go for it.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------

ATARI ST:
Ensure  that  your computer has been switched of for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the  gama  disc  in  drive zero (all other drives, printers, cartridges etc
should  have  been  removed).   The game should load automatically.  If the
game  fails  to load on the first attempt.  leave the disc in the drive and
press the reset button.

AMIGA:
Ensure  that your computer has been switched off for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the game disc in drive zero (all other drives, printers, additional memory,
cartridges   etc   should   have   heen   removed)  The  game  should  load
automatically.   If  the game fails to load on the first attempt, leave the
disc in the drive and reset the machine.


Welcome to Extensor - game of the future.

You  have been selected to compete in the Extensor tournament on the planet
Spazm,  the  Spazm  Council  of  Elders  have provided you with the fastest
meanest ground level combat vehicle, the Lazercycle.

The  object  of  the game is to vaporise the computer controlled opponents,
this  is  accomplished  by  forcing  them to collide with the energy trails
emitted by the Lazercycles.

EXTENSOR MENU
-------------

Once the game has loaded a menu will appear, with the following options:

GAME VARIATION:    You can select EASY, MEDIUM or FAST skill levels.

COMPUTERDROMES:    Lets you select the number of computer opponents.

SPEED:             You can select either variable or constant speed.

LONG RANGE SCAN:   This can be turned on or off.

DROME STRATEGY:    You can change the strategy of the enemy cycles.

SOUND AND EFFECTS: The sound may be turned on or off.

CONTROLS:          Toggles between joystick and keyboard control.

PATTERN:           Various grid obstacles may be selected.
 
 
Menu  items can be selected by keyboard or joystick.  Using up/down an item
is  selected, with left/right parameters can be changed.  To start the game
press  up.   The  view  from your cockpit is displayed in the middle of the
screen,  below  this  a scanner displays the energy trails and positions of
the computer controlled Lazercycles.  To the right of the scanner a compass
shows  the  direction in which your cycle is facing, above this is your air
speed indicator.

CONTROLS:
---------

Joystick up/Q                Increase speed
Joystick down/A              Decrease speed
Joystick left/cursor left    Rotate left
Joystick right/cursor right  Rotate right

Other controls - H: see highscores. R: abort game

WRITTEN BY  Holger Gehrmann
GRAPHICS BY Uwe Grabosch