                              10 OUT OF 10
                                 ENGLISH
                           EDUCATION SOFTWARE
                     
                            
                            

 INTRODUCTORY NOTES:-

Before you first use 10 out of 10 you should note that the disk (or Disk 
2 of two-disk package) will be updated with player's names, scores and so 
on.  It is therefore recommended that you use a backup and keep the 
origanal in a safe place. The disk may only be backed up for your own use.
    Full loading instructions on the accompanying sheet but, if you are 
running the software from floppy disk, please note that the disk (or disk 2) 
should be left in the drive while you are playing 10 out of 10 to allow data
saving when required. This guide gives you all the information necessary to
play and learn from the games and printing results in the accompanying 
Parent/Teacher Guide.



 GETTING STARTED:-

When you first load 10 out of 10 you're presented with the Main Menu. At the 
bottom is the name of the current player - it's set to empty to begine with. 
The first thing you should do is enter your own name. Here's how to do it:
Move the mouse pointer to the red box on the right of New Player to highlight
it in blue. Click the left hand mouse button and then just enter your name.
Press return and you'll go back to the main menu with your name at the bottom.
The top six options on the main menu are the games themselves. Before looking 
at these, let's look at the other options:

Player Information.
------------------
When you select this you're presented with the table with the players name at
the top. This is called your ACHIEVEMENT RECORD and has on it numbers showing 
various parts of the National Curriculum covered by the games.
    To start with these numbers are all on a black background. They each 
change colour individually depending on what percentage of questions you get 
right (not the score - that depends on how well you played the game too!).
They go red if you play the game and achive less than 50%, yellow if you 
score over 50% and green if you achive 100% - that's your aim! If you can do 
that 10 times it will turn blue - you prove you're a genius!

Change Player.
-------------
This lets you alter the current player to someone else who has previously 
entered their name. Try it. First enter another name just like you did with 
your own - you'll find it replaces yours on the main menu. Now select Change 
Player, highlight your own name and press return. You're back on the menu.
    If you ever want to leave the list of players without making a change, 
press escape.

Remove Player.
-------------
Using this lets you remove names from the list. Try removing the spare name 
you just entered

Print Cerificate.
----------------
When you turn any of the boxes in the Acheivement Record green you can print 
a certificate (you can't this until at least one is green). You can also 
"print" your certificate to a disk and the saved file can then be loaded into 
a paint program and printed in the usual way. You can also send a copy of your
disk to 10 out of 10 Educational Systems and receive a special certificate -
more details are in the ReadMe file.

Quit.
----
use this option to exit from the program.




                  THE GAMES
                  *********

When you select a game from the main menu you are presented with a Game Menu
with the following options.

Play Game.
---------
Select this to play the game once you have set all the other features. While
you are playing you can PAUSE the action at any time by pressing P.

High Score Table.
----------------
This lets you view the high score table. Higher scores are obtained by playing
the games at higher speeds, with timers on, at higher grades and so on.

Number of Players.
-----------------
Click on the number with the mouse pointer to cycle through 1,2,3 or 4. If one 
is selected the current player's name is used. If more than one play, you are 
asked for their names the first time the game starts. If you want the change 
the names, change the number of players - return it to the same number if 
necessary.
    When more than one person is playing the first to go is chosen at 
random and, in most of the games, he or she keeps playing until a mistake has
been made. The exception is Cheers where the players take it in turns.

Timer.
-----
Click on this to cycle through various times and off. Lower times mean harder
games and higher scores.

Grade.
-----
When you first start this is fixed on Grade 1. Once you've reached yellow on 
the Achievement record you can progress to Grade 2 and so on. Eventually you
can cycle through six grades. They all have six Practise Grades - use 
F1(easiest) to F6 (hardest) to choose one. The Achievement Record does not 
alter as you practise. On cheers you can also select USER to use questions
written by a parent or teacher.

Volume.
------
Providing the sound has not been turned off, this lets you choose the volume 
of the sound effects (7 is loudest).

Information.
-----------
This displays a small version of the Acievement Record, just giving details 
for the particular game.

Exit to Main Menu.
-----------------
This takes you back to the Main Menu.


   Now that we've looked at the features common to all the games, let's
                   look at the games themselves:


  SNIPER

This super shoot-'em-up will enhance your word skills and punctuation 
along with your fire power. The question appears at the top of the display
and the message at the centre tells you what to do. You must shoot the 
target next to the words or letters one at a time as they pass, but note 
that punctuation matters - "Next" is different from "next".
There are many options including the speed and how many clips of bullets 
you have - you use one each time you get a complete answer correct or miss.
If the timer is on, you must take all you shots within a set time. Choose a
fast belt to go for a bigger bonus and higher score!

  COVER UP

This is a game of matching: Match the words on the lower half of the screen 
to those at the top. The rule for the pair is given at the foot of the screen
and you click on any word in the lower half then click on the one t6hat you
think matches. If you're right they both disappear and you move on to the next, 
but if you're wrong they remain. When you select more than one player, the 
first player continues until a mistake is made. 
    The timer counts down to the start of the question answering time: 
during that time you should think about the matches (with timer off the game
starts straight away). You can also select doors open or closed. In the 
former case the words show all the time for you to match the pairs. If closed
is chosen they close after the timer expires and it's a game of memory too.
    Whether the timer is on or off, the bonus ticks away between correct
matches so be quick for the high scores. Finally you can select the number 
of rows - with four doors on each - that you want to match up. If you have 
more doors you can achieve higher scores!

  WORD FIT

The aim is simple - fit as many of the words you are given onto the grid as 
you can. They can be fitted vertically or horizontally - rotate them with 
the right-hand mouse button and fit them with the left-hand one.
    The first word can be placed anywhere, but after that every word 
must cross one that is already on the grid and there are extra points if 
it crosses two. Every letter placed on a grey square scores you points and
a green one give you an extra bonus too. Beware of the red ones because you'll
lose points as letters fall on them. Words that do not fit can be dropped in
to the dustbin but, apart from on Grades 1 and 2, your score will be decreased
each time you do this.
    On all grades except the first, certain words must be banked - the 
score is increased for correctly banked words and reduced for mistakes. The
rule you must follow for banked words is displayed on screen. As with all the 
games, you can obtain higher scores with the timer on - but you need to be 
quick!

  GRAB IT

How fast can you grab? A word with letters missing, a sentence with a word 
omitted, or a question is displayed. The answer or missing item is somewhere
on the screen. Once you spot it move the hand there and grab. You must be 
quick though: the answers move around so it won't be in the same place for 
long.
    This is a fast action gameand you can choose how fast the answers 
move around - the faster you choose the higher you can score.

  LIBRARIAN

This is a two-part game: first you must sort the books on the top shelf into 
order, then another shelf appears and you must match the lower shelf to the
top one. The windows at the top of the screen constantly displays the book 
title under the hand.
    When the game starts and the first book appears, click with the 
mouse on any book and it will move into the empty space. Note that to achieve 
the maximum of 100% you must only move a book either into its correct space 
or the right hand one (left if you opt to sort from right to left).
    Once you have sorted the top row, you'll be given the rule to match
the second row and then it will appear. Note that this row may not necessarily 
be alphabetically sorted. Again, for maximum marks books must only be moved 
straight to the correct space or to the "buffer" at the end.

  CHEERS

Here's a fast-action quiz game to keep you on your toes. You just answer the
questions correctly for cheers to move up the board by the number shown on 
the dice (choose how many dice you want to play with from the main menu).
On Grade 1, if you hit a ladder you move up while hit a tube and you go down-
other grades have the same rules but different graphics.
    If the dice shows a total that you don't want accept (if you would 
land on a tube for example) you can re-throw them once for each question. To
do this just click the mouse pointer on the dice.
    The bonus ticks away from the start of the game and you get points 
for correct answers. So answer correctly and reach the top as quickly as you 
can to get a high score. 
    When you start loads of questions is shown on the menu. This ensures 
you will have enough to finish the game. If you want to limit the numbers of
questions it can be set in the same way as on the other games.
    The bonus ticks away all the time so answer as quickly as you can for
high scores.



                                  END