1000 MIGLIA
THE OFFICIAL SIMULATOR

1927-1933
VOLUME 1

THE ROARING YEARS OF SPORTS CARS

MANUAL

[Simulmondo logo omitted]

[1000 Miglia map omitted]

[All drawings and screenshots omitted]

Francesco Carla presents:
1000 MIGLIA (TM) VOL. 1

Art Director: Ivan Venturi

Storyboard and design: Gaetano Dalboni

Programmers: Mario Savoia (Amiga)
             Natale Fietta (PC)
             Pietro Pino (C64)
             Stetano Balzani (C64)

Art: Mario Savoia
     Michele Sanguinetti
     Ivan Venturi

Soundtrack: Massimo Perini (Amiga)
            Gianluca Gaiba (PC)
            Stefano Palmonari (C64)
            Ivan Venturi (C64)

Lead Testers: Luca Ghini
              Andrea Salati
              Andrea Bonini

English translation: Adriana Gandolfi

Trademarks & copyrights:
SIMULMONDO is a registered trademark owned by SIMULMONDO Srl;
1000 MIGLIA is a registered trademark owned by ACB/DARMA Srl Brescia;
(C) 1991/1992 SIMULMONDO SRL.


NOTICE

SIMULMONDO srl reserves the right to make improvements in the product
described in this manual at any time and without prior notice. This
manual and the software described herein are copyrighted. All rights
are reserved. No part of this manual or the described software may be
copied, reproduced, translated or reduced to any electronic medium or
machine-readable form without the prior written consent of SIMULMONDO
srl.

SIMULMONDO srl makes no warranties, express or implied. The company
makes only certain limited warranties regarding the software and the
media for the sottware. Please refer to the "Warranty Slip" inside the
game package.

This manual, its quality. merchantability, fitness for any particular
purpose, is provided "as is".


1000 MIGLIA(tm)

Introduction

March 26, 1927, the starting gun is about to signal the drivers to
begin a brand new race, an automobile race which was so enormously
difficult to set up that its creators honestly believed that this race
would be the first and last of its kind: the 1000 MIGLIA.

New regulations issued by the International Federation of Racing
reducing engine capacity in terms of cubic centimeters had caused
Italian automobile companies, who were manufacturing cars with much
greater potentials, to withdraw from competitive racing. In December
1926, four friends, three car racing enthusiasts and a reporter from
the "Sports Gazzette", got together to see what they could dream up in
order to save the sport from certain death.

Aymo Maggi, Franco Mazzotti, Renzo Castagneto and Giovanni Canestrini,
came up with the idea of a wild round-trip excursion from Brescia to
Rome and back to Brescia again.

The round trip totalled one thousand six-hundred kilometers or one
thousand miles and so, Franco Mazzotti thought of calling the race
"The 1000 MILE Cup", later shortened to 1000 MIGLIA.

The race was such a great success that it was decided to repeat it
once a year and it was, (except during World War II), until the late
1950's. It immediately gained fame and notoriety in Italy and, over
the years, throughout the entire world. Within no time, the 1000
Miglia had become a tradition involving thousands of people
everywhere.

The first drivers to participate in the race looked and acted more
like the transaltlantic airplane pilots of the day than like
automobile racers. They were the pioneers of road racing where the
difficulties and hazards of unpaved streets replete with rocks, dust,
and mud when it rained, had to be faced and overcome in regular
everyday asssembly line cars.

Once out of Brescia, each team had to face its own destiny: the
participants were tried physically and tested as to their mechanical
skill.

Many consider the 1000 MIGLIA a determinant in the future technical
advances which were to take place in the automobile industry.

Any breakdown which occurred during the race from a flat to a
mechanical problem had to be seen to by the racers. (There were always
two persons to a car, one was usually a better driver and the other a
more skillful mechanic). This meant that they had to be good at
improvising repairs on the spot and quite versed in how cars were
built and how they ran.

All of this has bestowed the 1000 Miglia with something wonderful and
magical completely out of touch with the technological and consumer
oriented environment in which modern day automobile competitions are
raced. Money was not the driving force to make people want to
participate, each person's innate spirit of adventure was. The desire
to try oneself against one's own limits and not against an opponent
made these drivers go beyond history to become legends: Brilli Peri,
Nuvolari, Borzacchini, Fagioli and all the others who raced.

We at SIMULMONDO wanted to recreate the atmosphere which surrounded
the 1000 MIGLIA by simulating actual historical situations. It wasn't
easy as the photographs of the period aren't very good ones and this
made reconstruction difficult.

But we did the best we could and we believe to have succeeded in our
intent especially thanks to the support given us by our researchers
and by the help afforded us by the Historical Documentation Center of
Brescia's "MILLE MIGLIA" company and by Dr. Costantino Franchi who
conceded us the rights to the trademark and name.

We believe that with 1000 MIGLIA-VOLUME 1, SIMULMONDO has brought you
a totally different version of the automobile simulators on the market
today and we hope that it will give you the chance to feel the
excitement which was so integral a part of THE ROARING YEARS OF SPORTS
CARS.


1000 MIGLIA(tm) - VOLUME 1

PRE-RACE SELECTIONS

The game is divided into two parts. In the first part, you will choose
which edition you want to race, with which driver and what kind of
strategy you'll use. In the second part, you'll be busy at the wheel
of the car you selected or the one you were assigned, racing on
Italian roads in order to succeed, through all the various
checkpoints, at winning the race.

Of course all the selections made during the first phase of the game
will greatly influence how the race itself is run.


HOW TO MAKE SELECTIONS

Selections will be made using a joystick or mouse to move a red
pointer on-screen through the options. From this point onward, when we
refer to an option to be selected, we'll mean moving the pointer to
the option you want and pressing the left button on the mouse or the
fire button on the joystick to choose.


MAIN SELECTIONS

The following options will appear on the left-hand side of the screen:

LOAD GAME: this option allows you to load a previously saved-on-disk
game in progress (also on cassettes, C64 only).

SELECT ACTUAL DRIVERS: this allows you to choose an actual driver from
a roster of all the drivers from the historical time period you
selected.

CREATE NEW DRIVERS: by choosing this option, you can use your
imagination to make up your own pair of personalized drivers.

THE GREATEST: choose this option to visualize the top ten scores.

You can choose the language you want on-screen prompts in by moving to
the bottom of the screen and clicking when you're on the language icon
of your choice.

Race years are listed on the right-hand side of the screen, move the
red arrow to the edition you want to race in and click the button, a
red letter "x" will appear on the year you've just chosen or select
"ALL" in order to compete in all 7 editions of this volume.

The roster of drivers and the cars to select from will vary according
to which race year you choose. If you choose "ALL", the game will
begin with the first edition and, depending on your standing at the
end of the race, you will either receive offers from the automobile
companies or you'll be eliminated from the roster.


SELECT ACTUAL DRIVERS

When you choose this option, a roster of the drivers, in pairs, from
which to choose, will appear on the screen. The 1000 Miglia was never
raced by one driver alone but always by two persons who shared the
tasks of driving and repairing the car. The characteristics of these
two racers (driving skill, physical stamina, abilities as an
automobile mechanic) will determine the type of strategy you'll choose
to follow during the race.

Another very important aspect to remember is that each driver had his
own special stretch of road, area, or province where he trained for
the race itself. This means that each driver knew certain areas like
the back of his hand, while he had never seen most of the route before
actually having to race on it.

When you choose a pair of racers, you'll probably notice that one was
usually a very able driver and at the wheel most of the time, while
the other was a skilled car mechanic who saw to all the repairs and
took over the wheel only to give his partner a chance to rest up a
bit.

The entire roster ot the pairs of drivers can be gone through by using
the two arrows below the list of names. Once you've chosen your pair
of drivers, their names and traits (shown on a histogram) will appear
on the right-hand side of the screen. At this point, you can choose to
"SEE CAR" so that you can carefully examine the car your pair of
drivers will drive. When you are certain that this is the choice you
want to make, move the arrow to "ACCEPT" and click the button.


YOUR DRIVERS' CAR

The features of the car driven by the pair of racers you chose will
now be displayed - name, no. of cylinders, H.P., capacity in terms of
cubic centimeters, top speed, how the car is classified in terms of
cubic centimeters and the year in which the car was built. The car is
also rated (on a scale from 1 to 9) on acceleration, brakes, handling,
resistance, fuel consumption and a brief general description of the
car.  It's clear that you'll have to decide if the car is fit to the
type of driving you've decided to employ tor the simulated 1000 Miglia
and that it is the right auto for the racers you've chosen.


SELF-MADE DRIVERS

By choosing this option you can create your own pair of drivers. Just
follow your strategic instinct when selecting the values you want to
give your drivers - skill, stamina, mechanical ability and favorite
stretch of road where the drivers train for the actual race.

You can also choose which car the racers will use by selecting the
option "CHOOSE CAR". This option is yet another aspect in the creation
of your team. Use the arrows at the bottom of the screen to scroll
through the automobiles from which you must choose.


HAVING COMPLETED ALL SELECTIONS

Following a screen summarizing your selections and after having
successlully completed the security aptitude tesr (on the last page of
this manual [Note: Which I decide not to type in, since everyone has a
cracked version, right? ;-)]), you'll be shown a table giving you the
final standings of the various editions. Use the "SAVE GAME" option to
save the game in progress on diskette (follow on-screen prompts).
Betore the race begins, you'll have a chance to choose up to 6 spare
parts - spark plugs, fuel cans, water bottles, spare tires, fuel
pumps, fan belts, batteries, and dynamos depending on the car you
choose - to take along in case of unforeseen breakdowns during the
race. Move the arrow through the "SPARE PARTS" to choose the ones you
want. How much extra fuel and water you'll need will be in strict
correlation to the type of car you choose. The amount will vary
according to the H.P. and reliability of your car. Choose "START" to
begin the 1000 Miglia.


THE RACE

The race is divided into sections or legs. Before each leg, a brief
presentation of the stretch of road you're about to race on will be
given. This is to help you decide on the driving strategy you wish to
employ. Click the button on the mouse or press fire and your car will
appear in the center of the road. To drive your car, use the following
commands:

Joystick up: accelerates

Joystick down: brakes

Joystick right: steers right

Joystick left: steers left

Push the button with the joystick pushed forward to up shift and push
the button only to down shift.


At any time during the race you can press the following keys:

"L": headlights on/off.

"P": (pause) allows you to stop the race temporarily.

"Space Bar": to see the map. By looking at the map, you'll be able to
see how much road you've already covered and how much is left to go to
complete the leg you're currently racing.

"ESC": allows you to start the game again from the "Main Selections"
screen.

You can run into all sorts of trouble during the race.

Your team will have to see to all repairs. Success will depend on your
team's mechanical skill and know-how and whether or not you chose to
take along the right spare parts. How much time you'll lose for
repairs will depend on the above-mentioned factors and on how serious
the damage is.  If there is irreparable damage, the message "GAME
OVER" will appear on the screen and the game will pick up again from
the "Main Selections" screen.

Remember, too, that the drivers are not made out of steel. Each one of
them will be able to withstand just so much physical strain, after
which point, driving prowess will start to decline drastically. To
avoid getting to this point. consult the map (by pressing the space
bar) often and when you see that your racer's stamina is nearing zero,
stop the car along the side of the road, take the map out again, and
choose to swap drivers. This is the only way in which to give the
driver a chance to replenish his energy so that he'll be ready to face
the upcoming legs. In short, you'll soon realize that 1000 Miglia is a
very special game.

The sensation you'll experience will not be of pure speed alone.
They'll be stretches of road where you can drive fast but not
frenetically.  You'll have a chance to fully exploit the power of your
vehicle without the interruption of too many bends.

If the weather is on your side, you'll even get a chance to see a
starlit sky when night falls and the approaching dawn when a new day
is about to begin. So, make up your team, choose your car, and get
ready to relive the fantastic times of 1000 Miglia's glorious years.