                         3001 - O'CONNORS FIGHT
                         **********************
              A strategic game by Ingo Boeker and Jan Dark
                        
                       Released by T.E.W. of AEON
           Instructions translated into english and typed down by
                             T.E.W. of AEON


BACKGROUND
----------
It's 3001. It has not been possible to develope an indipendent Space-Travel,
yet . Because of this, travel through space and live on other planets is only
possible in a distance of 15 light-years (from our sun) .
The imperium was reigned by an imperator, who kept up law and order for
some time. But now, the imperator is dead and a war has started between the
six lords of the universe, who'll become the new imperator .
The six lords do nearly everything to expand themselves and to reign the
wholeuniverse one day .
One of them is John O'Connor . A master in strategy and a beliver in law and 
order . Will he reign the universe one day and will he cope with the other
5 cruel lords ?

How to load
-----------
Insert disk when Workbench-Disk is desired .
As soon as the titlescreen appears and loading has finished, press the left
mousebutton to start .

What to do 
----------
The player takes the role of O'Connor and has stop all other lords and to take 
over their planets .
After the titlescreen has disapeared, you have the possiblity to enter a 
code . By clicking on the upper numbers, you can change the startingpositions 
of the lords .
Click left button again to enter the game .
On the left side, all planets are shown (planets have the color of the lord who
reigns the planet/Players color is white) .
The whole gameplay is controlled by the menus on the right side of the 
screen ...

The menus on the main screen
----------------------------
TOP VIEW
By this the view can be changed to 3D 

INFO
In the middle of the screen a comunicationcreen appears. In the upper
side of the screen the date and the position of the own Spacecrafts is
shown . Under this it's shown, how many systems produce spacecrafts
or fuel for the player .
It's shown, how many spacecrafts the player has . These can be stationed
by the cursorkeys .
If no ships are in the system, it's naturally easy for the other lords
to take this one over . The more ships you have in a system, the wider you
can expand . This is also shown . (Maximum is 11 lightyears)
By clicking the right button you can leave the info-screen .

RAID
By this other planets can be taken over . First you must choose one planet in
the graphicscreen on the left (by clicking on it) . On the upper right
side of the mainscreen, more details are shown (also, if it is possible for
the player to reach the system) .
After you haven chosen a planet click on RAID . Now you have the following
possibilities :

1) Noone reigns the system (grey) , No problem to take it over, you just
have to decide, if it shall produce ships or fuel .
2) The system belongs to another lord (colored) and has its own trups
(circles) . Now a new screen appears, on which is shown, wo'll win (depends
on troops of enemy/own troops)
3) The system belongs to another lord (colored) and the lord himself is in
the system (arrow) . A fight will start as described in 2) . The loser of
the fight has to leave all his own systems and the winner will reign 
them from now on . If a lord looses 2 times in such a fight, he's no longer
in game . 

Sometimes it's possible to land on the mainplanet . To land down on the 
base, some obstacles have to be avoided . This is controlled by the
cursorkeys on the lower part of the screen . If you collide to often with
certain obstacles, landing cannot be finished .


PUTSCH
This is possible for three times . To win this, you have to fly through 
an asteroid-field . Steering is the same as landing-steering . 


The menus on the systemscreen
-----------------------------
This menus can be reached by clicking once more on the system .
On the left side are some informations about the system on the right side 
those menus :

CHANGE STATUS
By this you can change production on one of your planets from fuel to
ships or vice versa . A landing on the planet is necessary .

TROOPS
All troops of all six lords are shown .

NEW GAME
End game and return to startposition .

AUTHORS
Information about the authors of the game (or not ?)


After one menu has been chosen the other 5 lords will start theri action .
After they are finished, the number of spaceships and the amount of fuel
will grow (if a lord has taken over some new planets) .

If you wanna quit the whole program click on the power LED on the lower 
left side of the screen .

PROGRAMCODE AND GRAPHICS : Ingo Boeker + Jan Dark
