         The Complete Docs for 4-Get-It from TTR Development, Inc.


                               INSTALLATION

If you click on the "Install Program" icon, just follow the menus and 
instructions to install 4-Get-It wherever you wish on your hard drive.
After installing the program, you need to install the font with the 
"Install Font" icon.  This will copy the 4-Get-It font to your font
directory.  If you boot from any disk other than the 4-Get-It disk, you
will need to have the font installed, or you must click "FontSet" to tell
the program where to find the font.

                             LOADING FROM DISK

4-Get-It will self boot if you reset the machine with the game disk in a 
bootable drive.  You may also load from workbench by double clicking the
4-Get-It disk icon and then double-clicking the 4-Get-It program icon.

                          LOADING FROM HARD DRIVE

Just open the proper drawer (where you put 4-Get-It on the hard drive) and
double-click the 4-Get-It icon.

                               GAME OPTIONS

From the title screen you may press any key on the keyboard and the Game
Options screen will appear.  On this screen are a number of options detailed
below.  Also on this screen is the current level number (the level you will
be on if you start the game).

PASSWORDS

By pressing "E" when the Game Options screen is displayed, you can enter an 
8-digit password that will start you on a pre-selected level.  These passwords
are given to you after you finish the tenth level, and after every five levels
further.  The password will start you on the level five boards back from the
one that gave you the password (i.e. - on the tenth level, the password you
get will let you start on the fifth level).

SOUND ON/OFF

By pressing "S" when the Game Options screen is displayed (or at any time
during the game) you can turn the sound on or off.

STARTING THE GAME

Pressing the space bar at the Game Options screen will start the game at the
level indicated by the Current Level number.

                               GAME CONTROLS

While the game is running, you may pause, re-start, toggle sound or quit the
game.  These options are detailed below.

PAUSE

If you press the "P" key while playing a board, you will pause the game.  
While paused, the high scores will be displayed.  The top ten will remain
stationary and the remaining 490 will scroll.  Pressing any key will unpause
and let you continue playing.

USING A RETRY

If you reach a point where you feel that you can make no further progress, 
press "X" and you will be allowed to restart that board.  You have 2 retries
at the beginning of the game and your counter is reset to 3 every five levels
thereafter (unless you already have three or more, in which case a retry is 
added to the current number).

TOGGLE SOUND

Pressing "S" will toggle the sound on and off.

QUITTING

Hitting "ESC" while playing the game will return you to the title screen.

                            BASIC GAME CONCEPT

You must try to remove all the tiles from the screen before the timer runs out
by placing them next to matching tiles.  When two or more tiles match, they 
will vanish.  Once all tiles have vanished, you will proceed to the next 
(harder) level.

As you proceed through the game, you will be given passwords that will allow 
you to start at higher levels in the game.

                              CURSOR MOVEMENT

You control the cursor (the flashing hollow square) with the up, down, left
and right keys.  You may move in any direction you want, including diagonally,
by pressing the appropriate keys (for diagonal, just press up and right, for
example).  You may move anywhere you wish on the screen, but you can only
affect the tiles, not the walls or the background.

                             SELECTING A TILE

When you have positioned the cursor over the tile you want, just hit the space
bar and that tile will be selected.  A selected tile will rotate to indicate
that you can move it.  If you want to de-select the tile, just hit the space
bar again.

                               MOVING TILES

Once you have selected a tile, you can move it either right or left, but not
through things.  If your path is blocked by a wall or tile, you will not be
able to move in that direction.  If you move it over a gap of any kind, it
will fall until it lands on something.  You can not control the direction 
that the tile falls, nor stop it from falling.  Any tiles that were on top of
the tile that is moved, will drop down to fill the gap.  Remember---If you
drop a tile, you cannot move it back upwards (usually...), so think carefully
before moving.

                              MATCHING TILES

The goal of 4-Get-It is to match all the tiles on the screen in sets of two 
or more.  To do so, the tiles must be adjacent to one another, either
horizontally or vertically, not diagonally.  When you have two or more tiles
with the smae picture on them which are adjacent to each other they will 
vanish and you will be awarded points.  You have to be careful not to match 
up two tiles of the same type if there is a third one on the board because
you will no longer have any way to match that last tile.  You can not put
two tiles next to each other and then add a third, the first two will vanish
as soon as they touch.  Three-way matchups can be accomplished by placing two
of the tiles one space apart and dropping the third one in between.  There are
other ways of doing three-way matches as well, but you will learn those on 
your own.  Four way, or greater, matchup are also possible, but again, you
will have to learn them on your own.  Special tiles will also activate their
powers when they are matched together.  It is also possible to set up chain
reactions by matching tiles above which could then match up, dropping the 
ones above those, etc.  Multiple matches like this will score you a lot more
points than regular match-ups and will often finish levels much more quickly.

                               MYSTERY TILES

There are several tiles and wall types that do strange and unusual things in
the game.  We are leaving it up to you to discover and use these, however we
will hint that the board name usually warns you when one of these is used 
for the first time.  Enjoy!

                                  SCORING

You will earn points for matching tiles and for the time remaining on each
level.  The first tile in any matchup is worth 100 points and each subsequent
tile is worth 100 points more than the last.  You will earn points for EVERY
tile in a chain reaction (for example, if you match two tiles that cause 
others to match, it counts as a four-tile matchup, that's 100 plus 200 plus
300 plus 400 = 1000 points!).

                              HIGH SCORE LIST

The top five hundred scores are saved to disk.  If you earn enough points you 
will be allowed to enter your name (up to eighteen characters) which will be
recorded along with the date, score and number of levels completed (only
levels you actually played are counted, not ones you skip using a password).
When the game is paused the high score list will scroll past.  The high scores
may be rest at any time by deleting the file "4-Get-It.his" from the disk or
the directory from which you have been running 4-Get-It.

                                 STRATEGY

You should pay special attention to the title of each board, sometimes they
contain valuable clues to the solution (and sometimes they don't).  Also,
work from the bottom of the screen to the top whenever possible.  That way,
if you make mistakes, they can be corrected more easily.  Try to think through
each level backwards.  If you know you've messed up a level, do as much as you
can anyways, you may learn something else which will be valuable in the next
attempt!

                              AMIGA ADDENDUM

This addendum contains several useful bits of information that were left out 
of the manual.  For the most part, the Amiga version of 4-Get-It plays
identically to the PC version.  Basic game controls will remain the same, with
the following additions:

                               GAME CONTROLS

In addition to the cursor buttons and space bar, you may also use the Joystick
or mouse or numeric keypad to control the cursor.  The mouse buttons, joystick
button, return and enter all provide the same function as the space
bar-selecting or de-selecting tiles.

                             KEYBOARD CONTROLS

Volume control for the game sound effects is adjusted by pressing F1-F5, music
can be adjusted with F6-F10.  Mouse and joystick sensitivity can be altered
with the top row of buttons (` through 0).  Pressing "`" makes control very
sensitive, while "0" makes it sluggish.  All the buttons in between provide
varying degress of sensitivity.  to quit the area of the game that you
currently in (i.e. playfield, high score list, option screen), press "ESC".
If you are on the options screen, pressing "ESC" will reset the board number
1.

                             NEW INSTALLATION

To install 4-Get-It to your hard drive, just double-click the install icon.

                             ADDITIONAL LEVELS

Included on the Amiga version of 4-Get-It are several sets of boards that can
be loaded by typing the appropriate password.  Just type the password in from
the options screen after hitting "E" to enter a password.

LOADEASY - These boards are the easiest we have, they will also teach the
	   basic concepts of 4-Get-It gameplay, as well as showing you how
	   special tiles work.

LOADTHEM - The boards in this set are themed, using tiles of similar types
	   and board designs that fit a given theme.  Some are easy, some
	   are hard, you'll have to try them out yourself.

LOADALP  - These boards can be very tricky because they give you almost no
	   time to think.  Lightning reflexes and mental processing are 
	   required to complete these.  (Sorry Nemesis you won't do well!)

LOADBM   - These are some of the hardest boards around, so hard that they were 
	   removed from the final game due to overwhelming frustration.
	   Giant piles of tiles that must be carefully sorted through one at
	   a time before the timer runs out.  Make one mistake and you have 
	   to start again.

LOADORIG - These are the original boards, type this password when you want
	   to re-load the original game boards.  These are the ones auto-
	   matically loaded in when you start the game.

LOADTRIK - All of these boards hinge on one or more tricks that you have to
	   figure out.  They require clever use of special tiles and
	   thinking in different directions.

                               SPECIAL TILES

These tiles, when matched up, will cause something to happen besides just 
having them vanish.  What they do, and how it affects your game, is detailed
below.

Bomb Tiles - These tiles have a picture of a lit bomb on them, when you match
	     two or more of them up, an explosion will take place.  The blast
	     will obliterate any and all surrounding blocks, but no tiles.
	     When these tiles match up, the upper right most bomb will be the
	     one that explodes, so watch how you position them...

Wild Cards - These tiles have question marks on them, they will NOT match
	     each other, they will only match other tiles.  Wild cards will
	     match ANY other tile, causing them to vanish or exhibit their
	     appropriate effect.  Wild cards will also make multiple matches
	     with tiles that normally do not match each other.

AntiGravity- The tiles with the picture of the two arrows, one pointing up
	     and the other pointing down, are Reverse gravity tiles.  When
	     matched up, the gravity of the board will reverse.  If the tiles
	     had been falling downwards, now they will fall upwards and vice-
	     versa.

Radiation  - These tiles look like Radiation symbols, when they match up, they
	     will turn the City tiles into Ghost City tiles.

BlockMaker - These have a picture of several small squares on them, when
	     Blockmakers are matched up, they will change into blocks.  Once
	     they have become blocks, they can no longer be moved or matched
	     to anything.

                              SPECIAL BLOCKS

Some of the blocks that the tiles move on have special properties, these are
descriptions of them and how they affect tile movement.

Slimed       - These blocks have a coating of green sticky slime.  If a tile 
	       on one, it can no longer be moved right or left.  Tiles may be
	       slid right or left onto one of these, but you will have to
	       figure out some other way to get them off...

Ice Blocks   - When a tile is moved onto an Ice Block, it will continue to 
	       move in that direction until it no longer has ice under it,
	       or it hits something.  Stopping is possible, but....

Mock Blocks  - These blocks aren't really there at all and when you slide a
	       tile onto one, it will fall through.  Only by careful exam-
	       ination and constant vigilance will you be able to avoid these.

Ghost Blocks - The spirits of blocks long since gone, these are very hard to
	       see but yet act just like normal blocks.

Hover Blocks - These blocks have a large red arrow on them that will push 
	       tiles upwards when they are slid onto them.  There are a great
	       many tricks that can be done with these, so experiment!

Warp Blocks  - These look like floating red downward-pointing arrows.  When
	       a tile drops onto one of these, it will fall out from under
	       the upper left most Warp Block that is on the screen.  If that
	       one is blocked, it will come out the next one...There are also
	       many tricks that can be done with these, so try different
	       things and pay attention!

                         ADDITIONAL STRATEGY TIPS

Use you ten second countdown timer to carefully study the board, make note of
where the various Mock Blocks and Ghost Blocks are before you start madly 
sliding tiles.  try to find a "path" of sorts through each level.  Make sure
that you have no further need for a tile before you match it up, and remember
its a lot easier to make a tile go down, right or left than it is to try
making it go up...

End.......
