                            A320 AIRBUS PLAYER GUIDE                      
                            ========================

   This guide assumes you have done a training flight and/or have got used
   to the controls.

   When asked to select TRAINING or DUTY select Duty, as a student pilot
   the Departure Airport is selected for you.

   This is where the problem of not having the Maps supplied with the game
   comes in, but can be overcome, all you need is an atlas which shows the
   UK and Western Europe.

   So for example your Departure airport is EGNV - Teeside so enter as 
   destination EGLL - London (Heathrow).

   Passengers any amount within the limits.

   Freight     "    "       "    "    "

   Remember that the above is all weight and this has a direct effect on
   fuel consumption.

   Fuel - this is tricky as you have to work out how much fuel you need to
   cover the distance and in addition if you land at the destination with 
   over 1000l approx your penalised on your fuel calculation score at the
   end of the mission, also if you land with less than 300 approx you also
   get penalised (so it seems). This maybe that if you land with too much
   its unsafe and if you attempt a landing with to little and have to be 
   diverted you have had it.. Anway as a general guide enter 35 - 45 and
   you will soon get the hang of it.

   Click on VOR or IFR and then OK.. (VOR/IFR) seems to be related to 
   some sorta flight regs.. Use VOR if ya unsure.


   MET:

   Click on VMC unless you want to muck around with Cloud base and other
   weather anomalies...
   
   Click On OK..



   You are now told everything is OK.. (But it aint..hehehheheh)



   Right, now you naff off to the cockpit..

   Got ya best suit on and your reinforced Y fronts.. packed lunch in 
   your pilots case and a packet of condoms so you can bonk a stewardess
   when yout flying at 35000ft with nothing on your mind except should you
   have had that Vindaloo last nite after 16 pints of lager!!...  

   Ok get ya arse in the seat and look at the controls..(eeek!!)

   Yup you gotta get this baby off the ground... so follow this:



   Press 4 & 6 get the engines going.

   Select N1 this is the Navigation beacon for the destination airport ILS
   code. London - Heathrow is 10950 (see Airports codes)
    
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Now this is where the maps come in. To find the direction you must fly
   in you enter into N2 a direction beacon code. (see Navigation fires).
   So what you do is look at the atlas and select a Nav site nearest to
   your departure point but in line (or as close as) destination path.
   This will enable you to set your heading in the right direction. Once 
   you take off and gain altitude, if the beacon has DME capability this
   will tell you how far to the beacon. When this decreases to 50 - 25 you
   can then enter another beacon on the flight path, and so on until you
   reach your destination. (Got it..) In this example.. we all know
   TEESIDE is North of London, so you dont need to enter N2 if you dont
   want to, just bung in the ILS code in N1 (Always enter this) and set the
   heading for 175. Because Heading 0=North 90=East 180=South 270=East..
   Yerr I know its common sense but some peeps just havent got that much.
   Anyway ya got the basic idea.
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Select N2 for VOR Nav sites.

   Select DF for NDB Nav sites with DME capabiltity.

   Press [8] get ya engines to 34% and roll onto the runway, line up to
   the centre and put ya boot to the floor. When you get to speed 150 then
   pull that stick back - thats  it you should be going up - 2000ft press
   [F9] get your wheels out the way. Climb to 20000ft and check the NAV2 
   display for your heading. If the up arrow is highlighted the beacon is
   in front of you and down is behind. With the left right cursor keys 
   adjust your heading till the up arrow is highlighted. You will see a 
   yellow vertical line in the display. Now you have to press [Left Alt 
   or [Left Amiga] until the line centres, when this is done the number
   in the NAV display is your heading to follow. So adjust to this with
   cursorkeys. Now level out and reduce engine speed to 80-90% and proceed
   to the beacon. If DME is available at the beacon a countdown clock will
   appear and show distance. If the display reads 9999 this means that either
   you are not high enough (below 3-4000ft) or you are not close enough to
   the beacon for DME, so get your height up if thats low otherwise just
   keep on the heading indicated and once you are in range for DME the 
   countdown will initiate.

   I am not going to explain how to keep height etc cos that should be obvious
   to you. You can use [E] ECFS once you have selected all the flight controls
   as you want them.

   Fly beacon to beacon and then when you are at the last Nav beacon and 
   heading for Destination airport start dropping height to 2500ft and an
   airspeed of 180. As you approach the Airport and the ILS display comes
   into life you can make the final adjustments to heading. Again the
   rules for countdown clock applies except that for ILS you have to be
   flying low (Approach height 2000 - 5000) keep an eye on the ILS display
   and when 2 yellow cross hairs appear then whack the return button and
   go into full ILS (Auto-land) from here on in the plane is controlled
   by on board computers. On the Approach you will hear a beeeping and 
   [O] will flash in the ILS display, this just means that the Outer marker
   has been reached and the same for [M] Middle Marker

   The Airbus will fly down onto the runway and at touchdown you need to 
   take control. Press [0] on keypad for reverse thrust, when your speed
   falls to 45 press [.] on keypad to stop reverse thrust and then press
   the spacebar (Brakes) keep it held down until speed reaches 0.

   You will then get your mission stats and points. Thats it mission
   completed.

   You have to fly 10 missions to go up the next rank and your overall
   performance rating has to be adequate too.  This is where the fuel
   estimation can make a big difference.


End.............