Arazok's Tomb

COMPLETE SOLUTION

Go North and examine statue. Get jewel in belt and put jewel in eye. Go Down, North and North again then enter circle. Get tostins and then eat tostins. Go West, West, Southwest, Southwest, West, West and South. Get book and then read book and read book again. Drop book, say rezrathron and say rezrathron again.

Go North, West and Up then get sword. Go Down, East, East, East, Northeast, Northeast, Northeast and Northwest then kill zud with sword. Look then drop sword. Get pouch and open pouch then go Northwest, North and North.

Get candle then go South, South, Southeast, Southeast, Southwest, Southwest, West, West and West then push wall. Say light then go Down and then South. Get prism and go West and West again. Get disk then go East, East, South and South again. Get power pack then go North and East. Examine computer and get card. Put card in slot. Get card then go West, North, North and Up. Push wall, say unlight, go East then East again. Examine screen, put disk in slot then push button. Get disk then go West and Down.

Get remote control then examine remote control. Push button and then enter car. Say light then push handle. Exit car then say unlight. Drop candle and drop remote control. Go Down, North, North and North again. Get wand then go South, and East. Get printout, read printout then drop printout. Go West, South, South, Up and Up again. Wave wand, drop wand then get box. Say nepo, look then get statue. Say tnahcne then drop statue.

Go Down, Down, North, North and East. Examine computer then put card in slot. Pour powder on pack then go West, South, South, Up and Up again. Get key then go East and North then open West door. Go Up and get decanter then examine decanter and drink water. Get rifle then go Down and East and open East door.

Examine screen then put disk in slot and push button. Go West and drop key then go South, West, Down, Down, North, West and West again. Shoot rifle at zud then look and then get projector. Go East, East, South, Up, Up, East, Southeast, Southeast, Southwest, Southwest, West, West and finally South. Drop all then get prism. Say "Bozelbon" then put prism in portal. Enter portal then get prism and put prism in eye. 