  Game : Austerlitz

  Author : PSS

  General Hints:

    1. Before you can get very far into the game you must understand the 
       ordering system. A handwritten order is dispatched by a rider who 
       takes it to the relevant corps commander while (hopefully) avoiding
       the enemy and any routing units. If received, orders aren't carried
       out immediately - relevant commanders must be informed and their 
       units may be several miles from the HQ. You may never know if your
       orders reach their destination or if they are misunderstood down 
       the chain of command.

    2. It is a good idea to ask for battle reports every half-an-hour or so,
       especially from heavily engaged units. The corps commander will 
       normally send a couple of messages with the rider who returns his
       combat reports, giving information concerning the status of his men.
       Even if the news seems irrelevant, you will learn more about how
       your troops are doing than if the corps commander only seldom sends
       a report.

    3. Artillery is precious and should not be wasted. Royal Horse Artillery
       can move very fast - they can shell one target and abruptly change 
       location to shell another. Move your artillery to high ground as 
       soon as possible where it has a clear field of fire all around and 
       is difficult to dislodge.

    4. Do not try ordering routing or disordered units because they will
       ignore you. Routing units usually retreat away from the enemy, but
       can blunder into deadly artillery fire. Beware if they pass near 
       your HQ because several important riders may be caught up in the 
       rush and killed. Routs are worse than disorders and routing units
       may become disordered before they rally and be ordered again. Keep
       a it out of battle for a while when it rallies and when engaged,
       ensure allied units are ready to give support if necessary.

    5. Surround stubborn enemy units instead of assaulting them head-on.
       This will ensure that no messages leave or reach the unit and it is
       completely isolated making it easier to destroy.

    6. It is possible for "Blitzkrieg" tactics to succeed. Your cavalry,
       while being supported by horse artillery, can penetrate the enemy
       lines. When the enemy is weakened enough, he can be routed by the
       slower moving infantry and foot artillery units.

  Hints For Napoleon :

    1. Davout's corps are several miles from the HQ and your riders will 
       take time to reach him. He, with Merle, Fery and Maragon, are in
       danger of being cut off from the rest of the army. Order these corps
       as soon as possible or they will form a defence line and retreat if
       they can't hold ground.

    2. Trielhard's divisions can form a rearguard to replace lost or routing
       units. At the end of the day, they can be used to charge the enemy
       off the field when he's weak.

    3. Reinforce Lannes as he prepares to repel the attacks of Bagration,
       two miles to the east. He is heavily outnumbered with his 16 units
       facing Bagration's 24 and although an offensive line will need more
       men, he can defeat Bargration with minimal casualties when defending,
       especially on rough ground.

    4. Girschowitz, Puntowitz and Schlapanitz are usually the scenes of
       fierce battles so try to hold them if you can. Your troops can later
       regroup here. Remember, the terrain favours a defensive stance.

  Hints For Alexander :

    1. The Austrian militia under Kollerwrath are poor quality and can be
       relied on to rout very easily. However, they are good cannon fodder
       and can be sacrificed to hold off artillery fire when you attack the
       enemy elsewhere.

    2. Bagration is in prime position to attack the northern French flank
       and if he advances fast enough (by smashing Lannes' corps) he can
       be a serious threat to the enemy HQ. Napoleon may even have to move
       the HQ futher from his troops and waste valuable time reinforcing
       Lannes' troops.

    3. You have enough forces to split the French army in half, possibly
       at Kobelnitz. If this is achieved, communications will be cut
       because all the riders trying to barge through your troops will be
       killed. Napoleon must now either send his riders on a long detour
       or try to break through your troops, both of which will be costly
       and time consuming. During this period the French commanders will
       their own initiative and (hopefully) launch unsuccessful and
       uncoordinated attacks. It's doubtful the French can now recover the
       position.