                 P.P. HAMMER AND HIS PNEUMATIC WEAPON
                 ------------------------------------

Full docs by BEAST of Quartex !!


Introduction
------------

Firstly, thank you for buying (HAHHAHAH) our new jump and run game. For 
maximum enjoyment please read this manual first, as it will prevent any
possible frustration later!

Loading Instructions
--------------------

Put the disk into drive DF0:

Controls
--------

a) Joystick: Use the joystick in Port 1 to control PP Hammer

1) Jump.

Pressing the joystick up will make PP Hammer jump high.
Pressing the joystick diagonally up and to the left or right will make
PP jump in the desired direction.

2) Dig.

Press the button and hold the joystick in the direction that you want
to dig. You need to keep the button pressed until the block you are drilling
disappears. Please note that PP must stand on one clear block in order to
drill one next to him.

3) Crawling.

Push the joystick down to duck. Holding the joystick down and left or right
will make PP crawl in the direction you want.

4) Collecting Items.

By running over items such as potions and oil etc. you will collect 
different extras. These will appear in the left side of the display at the
bottom of the playing screen. You can activate these by pressing the
appropriate function keys. Only 5 items can be carried at a time, so make
sure you know what you want!

b) Amiga Key Controls

F1-F5: acivate collected items.

F10: music on/off.

P: pause on/off.

HELP: suicide (if PP gets trapped!)

ESC: quit game

The Game
--------

The idea of the game is to complete each level by collecting all the hidden 
treasures, finding the exit and escaping before the timer runs out. PP can
use his pneumatic drill to destroy certain blocks that obstruct his path.
But be careful! The blocks will reappear. If PP happens to be in the way
when a sone reappears then POOF!!! Bye, Bye Hammer. However, there are plenty
of extra features to give PP an even chance of finishing.

Displays
--------

At the top of the screen you can see from left to right:- Number of lives
remaining, Score, Treasures left to find, Time remaining.

At the bottom is displayed any collected items, health and power status and
a text display with hints and tips.

Bonus Items
-----------

a) Magic Potions and oil - these will only last a short time, so use wisely!

   RED BOTTLE: Touching any enemies, fire, water or traps will reduce your
   energy. Drinking the red potion recharges your energy to full strength.

   BLUE BOTTLE: Gives extra jump power.

   YELLOW BOTTLE: Gives invisibility (and immunity to all enemies, traps
   and nasties).

   OIL BARREL: This lets PP drill faster.

b) Other Collectable Extras

   KEYS: Use the keys in the locks of the sam colour to open or close doors.

   HOUR-GLASS: Gives 50 more units of time.

c) Extras that activate upon touching.

   HEART: Gain an extra life. Sometimes it's hidden!

   SCROLLS: Gives useful hints and tips.

   BLUE CRYSTAL: Gains access to the bonus level (Some bonus levels are
   accessed through hidden entrances).

   TELEPORT: Magically transports you to another location.

Enemies and Traps
-----------------

a)  MUD: Slows you down.

b)  SLIPPERY STONES: You will slide in the direction you choose until you
    hit an object or other stone.

c)  TRAP DOORS: You will fall through without warning.

d)  SPITTING HEADS: Fire out balls that should be avoided.

e)  FIRE: Don't get burned!

f)  WATER: Be careful not to drown!

g)  TRAP-SPIKES: They will appear before you, so be careful!

h)  FIREBALL: Leaps from the fire, so time your jump carefully.

i)  LOOSE ROOF STONES: Rather heavy, you will lose a life if they fall on
    you.

j)  OTHER ENEMIES: Some are intelligent, some are stupid. Jump, run or 
    trap them!



THAT'S ALL FOLKS!!!!

Docs typed by BEAST .... And less mistakes than the real manual !!! 