                                  P - 4 7
                                  ~~~~~~~

P-47: THE PLANE

 The Republic P-47 Thunderbolt was one of the top American fighters in
World War II. In 1943 they were under the control of the British RAF
Fighter Command and, operating from bases in England, their principal
tasks were relatively short-range sorties over northern France. The
following year they were equipped with "drop tanks", giving the extra
fuel needed to compliment their immense fire-power, and enabled deep
daylight raids further behind enemy lines. The p-47 was at the time the
fastest and heavist bomber in the USAAF, and in combat consistently
proved its immense strenght. With exceptionally good dive
characteristics and hard hitting armaments, the "Lead Sled" was the 8th
Air Force's premier deadly weapon.

PICK-UPS

B  bombs..............These drop from the plane each time you fire.

E  spray missile......These fly from the front of your plane as
                      missiles and then split into small projectiles
                      (2-8 depending upon your energy level), flying
                      out in fan formation.

M  multi-missile......2-8 missiles fly from the front of your plane,
                      split into a wing formation, and then continue
                      onwards.

S  speed-up...........Depending upon your energy level, these cause
                      your plane to speed up.

T  directable fire....2-8 bullets are fired in the direection you are
            currently holding the joystick. The plane will
            also move in same direction - a deadly but tricky
            manoeuvre.

1up extra life........Gives you an extra life.

P-47: THE GAME

 Fly your P-47 through eight frenzied levels of enemy activity, bombing
ground vehicles and shooting aircraft. At the end of each level you
must confront and destroy a large enemy battleship, tank or plane to
progress to the next level.
 Along the way there are several pick-ups. Each time you collect one of
these, your energy level determines the nubmer of special weapons that
each pick-up releases. For exampl, when you have collected the pick-up
for bombs, you will fire one bomb for a each level of energy.

END GAME

 On completion of all eight levels you will receive a congratulatory
message and be given the option of running the mission again with a
greater degree of difficulty. There are four degrees of difficulty.

CONTROLS

 All versions will have redefinable keyboard controls, as well as a
joystick option.


             -----  AGAIN ANOTHER 100% POWER-TYPING  ----

                ---  DONE BY THE TWINS OF TRILOGY  ---


           Spread by Midnight Maniac and Mayday of Trilogy

