Pac-Land 
Typed by Dominic Holmes <dominic@pavilion.co.uk>.


PAC-LAND

Pac -- the world's most famous computer character ever is back as
starring in his own adventure cartoon, Pac-Land, a superb conversion
of the internationally famous coin-op.

Pac Man is a worldwide phenomenon.  There are scores of imitators in
the arcade and in the home but there is only one Pac-Land.

There are four very different journeys for Pac to attempt, giving the
full flavour and complexity of the gameplay which made the arcade
machine such a huge hit.

Set on his home island, Pac resolves to help a lost fairy home to
Fairyland.  To succeed, Pac must pass through towns, forge through
rugged mountains, cross dangerous ravines and trek across deserts.

Throughout the adventure.  Pac is hindered by his relentless enemies
Blinky, Pinky, Inky and Clyde.  These persistent Ghosts dwell in
Pac-Land and they will do everything in their power to prevent Pac
succeeding.

Pac has allies too.  Power pills are ready and waiting, and when
eaten, the ghosts turn blue and can be caught  - leaving their eyes
to flee the screen ready for a rapid regeneration.

Pac has an addiction to fruit and although he can move around the
whole screen, may have to jump in order to bite the fruits which
appear.

The hazards on his path are numerous.  In the town watch out for the
fire hydrants and ghosts in cars.  Ravines must be crossed, tumbling
logs and moving platforms negotiated carefully.  Also watch out for
the ghosts as they take to the skies in their aircraft when Pac is
riding on the clouds - they are no fools!

When you succeed in getting to Fairyland~, the Queen will present you
with a reward of a pair of flying shoes.  These will speed you on your
journey home, but don't be complacent as Blinky, Pinky, Inky and Clyde
are still chasing you and it's a long way to go.

The round is over when you have rejoined your family in Pac Town.

~ Please note: there is no Fairyland sequence on the Spectrum, Amstrad
and MSX due to machine limitations.


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

ATARI ST - Insert disk, turn on machine.  The program will now load
and run.

AMIGA - Insert disk, turn on machine.  The programme will now load and
run.

CBM Disk - Load "0":*",8,1 and press return.

AMSTRAD 6128 Disk - /CPM



KEY CONTROLS OR JOYSTICK

CBM Disk - 0=left, P=right, CTRL=jump, F1=credits, F3=1 player,
F5=2 player, F7=pause.

ATARI ST - 0=left, P=right, Space=jump.  Joystick Port 2.

AMIGA - 0=left, P=right, Space=jump.  Joystick Port 2.

AMSTRAD 6128 Disk - 0=left, P=right, Space=jump.



HINTS

To achieve maximum speed, move joystick or key twice in direction
required.  Hold joystick or key in that position to maintain speed.

Pac's energy will decrease and once it reaches zero the monsters will
go after him.

Jumping on and on top of objects can generate fruits and extra life
bonuses.

Jumping from springboard with repeated left and right movement of the
joystick or key will keep Pac in the air.

TM and (c) 1984 by NAMCO Ltd.
Licensed to Grandslam Entertainment Ltd.
All right reserved.