			PACIFIC ISLANDS - GAME MANUAL			 
                        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

BACKGROUND and PROLOGUE


CONTENTS

   

                    Background
                    Prologue
                    Chapter 1- Setting Up
                      Making back-up copies
                      IBM PC and compatibles
                      Commodore Amiga
                      Atari ST
                    Chapter 2 - Controls
                      IBM PC Keyboard
                      Keyboard shortcuts
                    Chapter 3 - The Start-up screen
                    Chapter 4 - Vehicle Identification Screen
                    Chapter 5 - Battle Selection Screen
                    Chapter 6 - Vehicle & Ammunition Purchase Screen
                    Chapter 7 - The Briefing Screen
                    Chapter 8 - The Gameplay Screens
                      Quadrant Mode
                        Quadrant-3-d view
                        Map quadrant
                        Status quadrant
                      Full screen Mode
                        Full screen 3-d view
                        Full screen map view
                        Full screen status view
                    Chapter 9 - The De-briefing Screen
                    Chapter 10 - How to Play Pacific Islands
                    Chapter 11- Differences between Team Yankee
                        and Pacific Islands
                    Chapter 12 - Vehicle Types
                      M-1 Abrams Main battle tank
                      M-113 Armoured personnel carrier
                      M-2 Bradley Infantry fighting vehicle
                      M-901 Improved TOW vehicle (1TV)
                      T-62 Main battle tank
                      T-72 Main battle tank
                      BMP-2 Infantry fighting vehicle
                      BTR-60 Armoured personnel carrier
                    Chapter 13 - Glossary
                    Chapter 14 - Training Scenario
                    Chapter 15 - NATO Military Symbols
BACKGROUND

  Pacific Islands is the sequel to the highly successful Team 
Yankee. In this game, you direct the fortunes of Team Pacific as you 
attempt to recapture the pacific atoll of Yama Yama from enemy 
hands. The overall layout of this product Is similar to that of its 
predecessor. If you have already played Team Yankee then you will 
find it quite simple to get started and feel in control of your tank 
platoons. However, you will find a number of significant 
Improvements and changes which mean that Pacific Islands is even 
more challenging and rewarding to play. If you are not familiar with 
Team Yankee, then you will find all the information you need in this 
manual. If you enjoy this product, why not also consider playing its 
predecessor?

  In Pacific Islands you have control over the four tank units of 
Team Pacific. Your aim is to recapture all of the battle areas of 
each of the five islands in the Yama Yama atoll. Although islands 
must be attacked in a sequential order, you have some latitude as to 
the order in which each area of any island may be attacked. You will 
be responsible for the funding of your campaign, insofar as you will 
have to purchase ail of your vehicles and weapons. At the start of 
each Individual battle you have the opportunity to purchase new 
equipment. You are provided with funds at the start of the campaign, 
and your performance in battle will determine whether or not any 
more money Is forthcoming. If you are successful in recapturing 
areas under enemy control, or you manage to destroy vital enemy 
installations, then you will find yourself well in credit However, 
if you buy the wrong equipment, or if you follow a policy of 
shooting up everything in sight, then you will run Into financial 
trouble.

Pacific Islands provides a novel control system which allows you to 
control all of your four tank units ' independently, and at the same 
time. There are fully detailed battle maps, three dimensional views 
of the battlefield updated in real time, and status reports on your 
vehicles, ail available at any time. If you played Team Yankee you 
will find that the scenarios are rather more complex - you will 
often find that there are quite a few objectives and sub-objectives 
to accomplish within the given time limits. Also, there are many new 
types of objects and buildings, which are vital to your progress 
throughout the game. You will have to destroy communications 
facilities - satellite dishes, radio aerials, radar towers etc. - as 
you come across them. Unless you do this successfully and swiftly, 
then you will find that the enemy will have more and more 
Information on your offensive, and will be able to meet your 
challenge with greater strength.

  We would like to stress that Pacific Islands is not intended to be 
the most accurate tank simulator on the market. After all, it takes 
many years to become a truly proficient tank commander, and we doubt 
whether any of you would be willing to take that long to become 
proficient at controlling this product Although we have tried to be 
scrupulous in certain areas, so that the product is lent an air of 
authenticity, we have made concessions in others. We recognize this, 
but believe that In general our concessions have been made in tine 
interests of game play, and getting tile product to you before the 
end of the century. Pacific Islands and Team Yankee together 
represent Some six man years of development. If the end result 
offends the purist, then he/she will know that we have at least 
tried our very best.

  If you are to succeed in Pacific Islands you will need tactical 
assurance, managerial flair and a good deal of courage and 
persistence. We hope that you enjoy the end result as much we 
enjoyed creating it for you.

PROLOGUE

  Associated Press news story, 23 March: "The small Pacific atoll of 
Yama Yama is believed to have been invaded late yesterday.  It has 
been suggested that a substantial force of disaffected Soviet 
communists, with the backing of the North Korean government, are 
responsible.  There is as yet no confirmation from US intelligence 
or official North Korean sources.  No obvious motive for this 
unprovoked attack has been suggested."

  State Department press release, 25 March: "The attack by forces, 
under the patronage of North Korea, on the independent state of Yama 
Yama three days ago is a violation of international law.  The United 
States and the free world cannot allow such an act to go 
unpunished.  While the United States continues to pursue all 
available means to resolve this issue peacefully, military options 
are being considered." 
 United Nations press release, 26 March: "An all night meeting of 
the United Nations security council passed a unanimous resolution 
condemning the territorial violation of an associate state. The 
council views such an act with the gravest concern and calls upon 
North Korea to remove all allied forces immediately.  The severest 
sanctions will be applied unless such action is taken."

  Associated Press news story, 27 March: "Intelligence sources close 
to the White House have revealed that the atoll of Yama Yama has for 
some years been a communications link for the early warning 
monitoring system in the Pacific Ocean. This points to a clear 
motive for the invasion by forces sympathetic to P'yongyang the 
capital of North Korea).  It seems likely that the United States may 
be forced into early action to avoid secret communication equipment 
getting into enemy hands."

  Department of Defense press release, 28 March: "The destroyer U.S.
S. Charles Logan, while on patrol in international waters off the 
atoll of Yama Yama, was attacked by North Korean cruisers this 
morning.  U.S. forces returned fire.  Damage and casualties on 
either side are not known at this time."

  White House press release, 29 March: "In view of the current 
crisis in the Pacific, and the lack of response from the North 
Korean government, the President has issued a final request for an 
immediate withdrawal of all alien forces from Yama Yama."

  Television news story, 30 March: "We believe that the two ships of 
the Pacific fleet closest to the Yama Yama atoll have been providing 
transport for a number of tank units returning from the Gulf of 
Persia.  Intelligence analysts suggest that an offensive involving 
some of these units would be highly unconventional, but would 
probably provide the swiftest means of ejecting the North Koreans.  
Intercepts have revealed that Yama Yama's communications facilities 
are now entirely under enemy control.  It is likely that any 
offensive would destroy most of these."

  Secret orders to Captain Sean Bannon, 31 March: "Tomorrow morning 
at 09:15 hours your unit - Team Pacific ù will spearhead the first 
offensive to retake the atoll of Yama Yama.  You will be landing on 
the island of Aloha and there will be further detailed instructions 
sent to you just prior to landing. This will be a highly unusual 
campaign. As you are well aware, you would not find the use of tank 
units to spearhead this sort of action in any military manual.  We 
are severely constrained by the need for swift action.  You will 
also be aware of recent Pentagon directives regarding the financing 
of this type of operation. This means that you have unparalleled 
control over the funding of your part in the offensive.  You will 
find that this places an even greater burden on your judgement.  We 
all know that this is an extremely tough mission. Please ensure that 
your men understand this and that they are mentally and physically 
prepared.  We have created a specially designed training run for you 
on a neighbouring island.  Good luck."

  
Pacific Islands

CHAPTER 1 SETTING UP


 1 - SETTING UP

Making a backup copy

  Your game disks are unprotected, and so you are advised to make 
working copies of the game before you play. Before you do this, 
ensure that the game disks are write protected by either attaching 
write protect strips (5.25" disk) or opening the write protect 
notches (3.5" disk). Use your copies while playing the game 
(ensuring that they are write enabled, since Information is written 
to disk during play) and only use the original disks for making 
further copies. If you are unsure how to copy a disk, read the 
manual for your computer. 

 IBM PC and Compatibles

  Pacific Islands will run on any PC compatible which has:
  ù 550k or more available memory ù 3.5" or 5.25" disk drives;
  ù CGA, EGA, VGA or Tandy 16-color graphics adaptors;
  ù A version of MSDOS 2.0 or greater;
  ù Mouse (recommended) or joystick;
  ù An Adlib sound board (optional).

  Insert your operating system disk and wait until you see the a> 
prompt on your screen. This game will perform better if you reduce 
to a minimum the amount of unnecessary software installed in your 
computer. If you have difficulty loading the game, you may need to 
reduce the number of files in your AUTOEXEC.BAT program. Now insert 
your copy of disk 1 and type Pl. followed by ENTER (or RETURN). 
After a few moments the loading sequence will commence. If you wish 
to skip this at any time then press the space bar. Once the loading 
sequence has finished you will be asked to insert disk 2, and then 
you will be presented with a filing screen. Read about how to 
proceed in Chapter 3.

  Pacific Islands can be Installed onto the hard disk of your PC. To 
do this place disk 1 into the internal drive (either A: or B:) and 
type in the following line by line instructions. These instructions 
will create a directory called Pl. on drive C: A: INSTALL C: Then 
follow the on-screen instructions regarding when to swap disks. To 
play the game type in:

    c :
    CD \PI
    PI

  If you wish to install it on a different drive, then replace the C: 
after the INSTALL command with the pathname of where you want it 
installed, for example to install it in a directory d:\games\pi, 
type; 

       INSTALL D:\GAMES

Commodore Amiga  

Pacific Islands will run on any Amiga 500/500+/1000/2000 with a 
minimum of 512k RAM and Kickstart version 1.2 or higher. Performance 
will be enhanced if you disconnect all external disk drives and 
peripherals and ensure that no other software is running. Turn on 
your computer and insert your copy of Pacific Islands disk 1 at the 
Workbench prompt. (A1000 users should insert their Kickstart disk 
first.) After a few moments the loading sequence will commence. If 
you wish to halt this at any time then hold down the left mouse 
button. Once the loading sequence has finished you will be asked to 
insert disk 2, and you will then be presented with a filing screen. 
Read about how to proceed in Chapter 3. You can install Pacific 
Islands by running the Install program on disk 1. The program will 
ask you the name of your hard disk or the partition where you wish 
to put the game. You will need at least 1.5 Megabytes of free memory 
on your hard disk.


Atari ST

  Pacific Islands will run on any Atari ST or STE system with 
double-sided disk drives, a minimum of 512k RAM and a colour monitor.

  Insert your copy of Disk 1 Into drive A and switch on the 
computer. After a few moments the time sequence will commence. Once 
the time sequence has finished, you will be asked to Insert disk 2. 
You will then be presented with a filing screen. Read about how to 
proceed in chapter 3.

  You can install Pacific Islands onto a hard disk by running the 
program INSTALL.PRG on Disk 1. Use the file selector box to select 
where you want it to be installed. You will need at least 1.5 
Megabytes of free space on your hard disk.

  To play the game double click on the Pl.TOS icon or PACIFIC.TOS 
icon to by-pass the time sequence.

Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 2 CONTROLS


2 - CONTROLS

  The game is designed to run using keyboard, analogue Joystick or 
Microsoft compatible mouse on the IBM PC. On the Atari ST and 
Commodore Amiga, the game should be controlled with the mouse. In 
the following documentation the phrases "click on icon X" and "press 
fire with the pointer over icon X" are synonymous and should be 
taken to mean either:

IBM PC keyboard

  The default keys defined for direction are the CURSOR keys; the 
SPACE BAR for fire [left mouse button] and ENTER for the right mouse 
button. You may change these on the set-up screen K you wish. While 
you are playing the game you can use the pre-defined keyboard 
shortcuts listed below. Additionally, when the keyboard mode is in 
use you can, at any time, hold down the ALT key and press any other 
key on the keyboard. The position of the pointer will then be 
memorised and associated with that key. This position can then be 
recalled by holding down the CONTROL key and pressing the required 
key. This allows you to define a cursor position for every key on 
the keyboard. if you wish Keyboard Shortcuts Using certain keyboard 
shortcuts instead of directly using the (for all machines) pointer 
can become a quick way to perform certain actions


Key                    Action
F1 or 1                Chose Platoon 1
F2 or 2                Chose Platoon 2
F3 or 3                Chose Platoon 3
F4 or 4                Chose Platoon 4
F7 or 7                Select map view for chosen platoon.
F8 or 8                Select 3d view for chosen platoon.
F9 or 9                Select status view for chosen platoon.
F10 F0,                Toggle between map, 3d and status view for chosen platoon.
or o
Escape                 Toggle between "Quadrant" and "Full screen"
Undo (ST)              Quit Game
Delete (Amiga)         Quit Game
Help                   Pause Game ( ST and Amiga only)


Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 3 THE START-UP SCREEN


3 - THE START-UP SCREEN

  If you have previously played Team Yankee, and you are proficient 
in your control of the game, then you may turn to Chapter 11 if you 
wish. There you will find details about the differences between Team 
Yankee and Pacific Islands. This will allow you to start playing 
Pacific Islands without delay. The opening screen resembles an open 
filing cabinet - ail of the Information about your battle 
performances can be accessed from here. Figure 3.0 shows a 
representation of this screen. On the front of the filing cabinet 
are three large Icons . On the left Is the QUIT GAME Icon. If you 
click on this icon then you will be asked to verify whether or not 
you wish to quit the game. In the middle Is the Pacific Islands 
Language Icon, which will allow you to change the language of the 
text in the game. Your default language will be written to disk and 
recalled the next time you play the game. On the right is the 
PRACTICE icon, which allows you to play a practice scenario. This 
scenario will familiarize you with the control of the game, without 
stretching your tactical expertise. It Is highly recommended that 
you attempt to master this scenario before you pitch yourself into a 
full-scale battle. If you wish to practice, then go to Chapter 14, 
which details all about this training


Figure 3.0 - The Start-up Screen

  There are eight files available in the filing cabinet, and each 
one can hold information about your campaigns. When you first start 
to play the game you will hold the rank of private, and the default 
name on the left hand side of each file marker Is PFC. Bannon. On 
the right hand side of each file marker you will see the characters 
#1. This represents the first island in the Yama Yama atoll. There 
are five islands to recapture if you are to conquer Pacific Islands.

If you wish to start playing the game proper, then you must register 
yourself as a new player. To do this, locate the pointer over one of 
the eight file markers and press fire. The relevant file will now 
pop up from the cabinet, and you will be presented with ail of the 
file contents. See Figure 3.1. Start by typing in the name you wish 
to use in the area at the top of the registration menu. The program 
will automatically append all of your combat record under this name 
in the filing cabinet Under-neath your name you will see recorded 
your strike rate under KILLS and LOSSES. This details the number of 
enemy vehicles you have disabled and the number of your own vehicles 
which have been lost At the start, since you will not have seen any 
action, the KILL and LOSS values will both be 0. In the middle of 
the file is the name of your present island. At the bottom of the 
file there are three icons.

  On the left Is the PLAY icon which takes you into the game via the 
vehicle Identification stage detailed in the next chapter. If you 
select PLAY before a name has been inbred, a request box will appear 
asking you to register your name.

  The CANCEL icon causes the current file to go back into the filing 
cabinet

  The RESET icon causes ail of the campaign information under the 
current filename to be erased, in case you wish to start your 
campaign over again.

  You may have information for up to eight different campaigns 
stored in your filing cabinet All of your campaign information is 
automatically written to the filing cabinet at the end of each 
successfully completed scenario. You may only play a particular 
scenario at any one time as one of the characters in your filing 
cabinet Once each battle has been completed, win or lose, you will 
return to the filing screen. If you were victorious, then your file 
will have appended your latest successes, and you may proceed to the 
next battle. If you were unsuccessful, then the Information on your 
latest battle is erased, and you are free to start where you left 
off with no penalty.

  There are five separate islands in the Team Pacific campaign. If 
you manage to recapture the first island, by securing all of its 
battle areas, then you will be rewarded with a promotion to the rank 
of Corporal. You will then move on to the next island. The tactical 
skills required will become more complex and demanding. You will 
have to recapture all five islands in order to completely succeed In 
your mission. Victory in Pacific Islands is not going to be simple!

Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 4 VEHICLE INDENTIFICATION SCREEN

4 - VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION SCREEN

  If you are playing the full game rather than the practice 
scenario, then you must make the grade at a vehicle identification 
class before you are allowed to commence. The screen shows the 
profile of a particular American or enemy vehicle from twelve 
different directions, with a rotating view of the same vehicle at the 
centre of the screen. You must Identify the vehicle by clicking on 
the vehicle name on the right hand side of the screen.

  You will be shown three successive screens with the profiles of 
three different vehicles, and you must Identify ail three correctly 
to proceed. You will only be asked for vehicle Identification at the 
start of each playing session after your machine has been turned on. 
Figure 4.0. shows a representation of all eight vehicles.

  In the mayhem of battle It Is imperative that you can tell at a 
glance the difference between an M113 and a BMP-2, if only because 
if you shoot the wrong one you will be killing men who are on your 
own side! If you study the section in the manual on vehicle types 
(Chapter 12), you will receive all the information you need for 
vehicle identification. 

Of course, the game Pacific Islands does not need this 
identification, being long ago cracked by The Humble Guys.


Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 5 BATTLE SELECTION SCREEN

5 - BATTLE SELECTION SCREEN

  Once you have graduated from vehicle identification you will be 
shown a map of your current island on the battle selection screen. 
This map shows all of the major terrain features of the island, with 
ail of the roads and villages of military significance. At the start 
of your offensive on the island you will see two different colours of 
square grids overlaid on the map. Red squares represent battle 
areas - these are the locations where your battle scenarios will 
take place. Your offensive on the island will only be successful 
when you have succeeded in subduing all of the battle areas on the 
island. Blue squares represent those areas you are free to move over 
to reach the battle areas. See Figure 5.0.

  The flashing blue square represents your start position. To move 
you must place the cursor over an adjacent square and then press 
fire (i.e. you can only move directly up, down, left or right, where 
possible). When you reach a red square and press fire you will 
initiate your attack on that battle area and move to the next portion 
of the game. The direction of your approach will determine the start 
position of your tank units In the battle area

  If you succeed in your forthcoming engagement, then when you 
choose to continue your offensive, you will find that the battle 
area on which you were victorious has turned yellow. You are then 
free to move from there over any adjacent squares (blue or yellow), 
until you choose another red battle area. When all of the battle 
areas on the island have been retaken you will move on to the next 
island.

  If your battle is unsuccessful, then you will simply return to 
your previous position on the map. You will suffer no penalty, and 
may proceed once again.

  As the game progresses you will find that you have some choice as 
to the order in which battle areas can be attacked, or the direction 
from which your attack can proceed. You will have to make Judgements 
according to all of the information you have gained, and the 
importance you hold on destroying communications facilities swiftly.

Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 6 VEHICLE AND AMMUNITION PURCHASE SCREEN

6 - VEHICLE AND AMMUNITION PURCHASE SCREEN

  At the start of your offensive there is a sum of money (fifty-five 
million dollars) available for the financing of your campaign. This 
funding is entirely under your own control, and you will be allowed 
to continue indefinitely until you have either won a complete 
victory and retaken the entire Yama Yama atoll, or you have run out 
of money. You are not permitted an overdraft, so you must ensure 
that you are not too profligate with your purchases. If you are 
victorious in battle, or if you destroy certain key installations, 
then there will be further credits to your account. But you will be 
debited for any gratuitous collateral damage you cause during your 
missions, and you will have to pay to restock any vehicles damaged 
or destroyed, or ammunition used, during your campaign.

  The first time you reach the purchase screen (See Figure 6.0) you 
will be asked whether you wish to make a default selection of 
purchases. If you answer YES, then the four units of Team Pacific 
will be stocked immediately to allow you to continue swiftly towards 
your first battle. Unit 1 will have two M1 Abrams tanks and two 
ITVs. Units 2 and 3 will have four M1 Abrams each. Unit 4 will have 
two M2 Bradleys and two M113s. (See Chapter 12 for more details 
about these vehicles.) All four units will be fully stocked with 
ammunition. You may then continue to the next stage of the game by 
clicking on the icon at the top left corner of the screen.

  If you do not wish to make a default selection then you are free 
(within financial constraints) to select whatever vehicles and 
ammunition you wish for your four units. Each unit may have up to 
four vehicles, giving a total of sixteen as the maximum number of 
vehicles in Team Pacific. However, you start with no vehicles 
whatsoever.

  Along the top of the screen are the names of each unit The unit 
shaded In yellow is the one displayed In the main part of the 
screen. If you wish to refer to a different unit, then simply click 
on the name of that unit.

  The total sum of money in your account is displayed on the top 
right of the screen. This is instantly debited when you make any 
purchase.

  There are three major icons down the right hand side of this 
screen:

  The top Icon is the vehicle purchase icon which allows you to buy 
the vehicles for your Team. Click on the arrows at the bottom of 
this icon to browse through the selection of all available vehicles. 
There are four allowed vehicle types - the worlds foremost tank, the 
M1 Abrams; the all-purpose M2 Bradley; the M113 armoured personnel 
carrier and the TOW missile carrying ITV. (For further information 
on these vehicles read Chapter 12.) Below each vehicle you will see 
its purchase price. You will find that there are also sub-standard 
versions of each vehicle available for purchase at a cut-down price. 
These might prove useful if you are in financial difficulty, but be 
warned that these vehicles will not perform as well as their fully 
fitted counterparts In battle. When you have decided how you wish to 
stock your unit, then chick on the tick at the bottom of the icon to 
purchase the currently displayed vehicle. You may choose up to four 
vehicles for each of your units, so long as you have money to pay 
for them. Note that once you have made a purchase you will not be 
allowed to change your mind, so be sure that you know precisely what 
you want.

  You may now stock your vehicles with weapons using the middle, 
weapon purchase icon. Use the arrows under this Icon In the same 
manner as above to browse through the full selection of available 
weaponry, and use the tick to make a purchase. There are four 
different types of ammunition available - HEAT, SABOT, TOW and SMOKE 
missiles. (See the Glossary for more information on these weapons.) 
Each vehicle can only carry certain types of missiles, so when you 
make a purchase the program will automatically distribute the 
weapons between the relevant vehicles as it sees fit. (See Chapter 
12 for information on which type of missile each vehicle may carry.) 
You will not be allowed to purchase unsuitable weapons, or more 
weapons than your vehicles can carry. Because some of the vehicles 
can carry many weapons (for instance a single M1 may be armed with 
up to 30 SABOT shells), you will find selections of groups of ten 
missiles, so that you do not have to purchase everything 
Individually. You cannot buy weapons on their own - they can only be 
bought for previously purchased vehicles.

  The lowest Icon on the right hand side is the extras icon. There 
are three options accessible by clicking on the arrows. The repair 
option allows you to repair vehicles damaged in battle, or to repair 
damage to the vehicles In the displayed unit (for the cost displayed 
under the Icon). When the lower bar to the right of a displayed 
vehicle extends to the edge of the main part of the screen it is 
fully repaired. The morale icon allows you to Improve the morale of 
your vehicle crews by providing them with some R&R. The morale of 
the crew in any vehicle is represented by the upper bar to the right 
of the vehicle in the main part of the screen.

  Note that incrementing both damage and morale not only costs money, 
but takes time. You will have to take this into account, because 
extra time gives the enemy more time to re-group and to counter your 
attack with more forces.

  The time option allows you to increment the time in steps of one 
hour units. This allows you to decide on the time of your attack. 
The major use you might make of this feature Is when you do not wish 
to make an attack at night. (It is dark between the hours of 11 p.m.
and 4am.)

  You should ensure that you purchase vehicles AND weapons for ALL 
of the desired units in your Team before you move to the next 
screen. You are not allowed to change previously chosen vehicles.

  When you are happy with your selections, you may proceed to the 
briefing screen by clicking on the icon at the top left corner of 
the screen.


Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 7 THE BRIEFING SCREEN

7 - THE BRIEFING SCREEN

  The briefing screen, figure 7.0, presents all of the intelligence 
Information and command instructions for your forthcoming scenario, 
and also allows you to set up artillery bombardments where 
applicable.

  In the central part of the screen, to the left, you will see a 
full map of the battlefield area This displays all of the major 
terrain features - forests, roads, rivers and villages. It also 
shows the disposition of your forces at the start of the battle. 
Each unit of Team Pacific is represented by an American flag. To the 
right of the map Is a notebook which details all of the important 
information available to you before the battle. You may flip through 
this notebook by clicking on the arrows at the bottom or top of each 
page, where applicable. There Is nothing to prevent you from reading 
through the notebook as many times as you wish. Beneath the map you 
will see displayed the battle commencement time on an LCD display.

  The crossed swords icon will take you Into the full battle. After 
you have clicked on this you will be asked to confirm that you wish 
to go into battle. Make sure that you are fully prepared!

  The notebook Icon reactivates the notebook if you have previously 
activated one of the next two icons. This contains your briefing 
based on all available Information before your engagement.

  The eye - or information - icon is a special feature which allows 
you to glean further Information from the map. When you are In 
information mode place your pointer over the map, and you will 
notice that it changes shape into a cursor. If you click at any point 
you will notice that a flashing box will appear on the map. This box 
appears at the closest point of special interest relative to your 
cursor position. The notepad will now display the particular 
information about this position on the map. You will find out 
important facts relating to local topography when you use this 
feature. Alternatively, now that you are in information mode, you 
can look at all the special points of Interest simply by clicking up 
or down through the notepad. When you get to a new page, so the new 
point of Interest flashes on the map.

The cannon Icon allows you to set up artillery barrages or lay 
minefields In advance of the battle. You are not able to access 
artillery or mines during the battle itself. You will sometimes be 
allowed to create a number of separate barrages of HE (High 
Explosive), DPICM (Dual-Purpose Improved Conventional Munitions) and 
SMOKE shells, or to lay mines over a chosen 400mx400m area. The 
precise availability of artillery will depend on the particular 
engagement you have chosen - some battles do not allow you any 
artillery or mine backup. The precise details of each barrage that 
you set up for the battle may be varied on the overlays which appear 
on the notepad. By pressing either of the two arrows next to the 
timer on the artillery overlay, figure 7.1, you may alter the start 
time for a particular barrage. (This Is not relevant in the case of 
laying mines.) Clicking on the red cross stops any chosen barrage 
from taking place.

  The location for a particular barrage is shown by a flashing 
yellow square on the map. This location may be changed by moving the 
cursor over the map and clicking at the desired position. For 
further information on the available artillery types, please read 
the glossary near the end of the manual.


Pacific Islands

CHAPTER 8 THE GAMEPLAY SCREENS

8 - THE GAMEPLAY SCREENS

  You have access to ail 16 vehicles in Team Pacific, and you are 
going to have to become proficient at managing all of them. In 
either quadrant mode, when ail four platoons may be controlled at 
once, or full-screen mode, when the display homes in on Just one 
platoon, you have the flexibility to display either an overhead map 
view of the surrounding area, a simulated 3d view of the bat- 
tlefield, or a status screen showing the performance of all vehicles 
in a platoon. Irrespective of which screen mode you choose during 
battle, there is a constant column of information to the right of 
the screen.

  Just beneath the Pacific Islands logo you will see the current 
state of your bank balance, which is update as soon as it changes 
during the game. Beneath this there is a white flag, or game QUIT 
icon, which allows you to exit the battle. You will be asked to 
confirm this decision before you are allowed to quit.

To the right is the game PAUSE icon, which allows you to take a 
break during battle. Underneath, you will find the TIME display, 
which gives the time In hours, minutes and seconds on a 24 hour 
clock, You should keep an eye on this to note forthcoming artillery 
attacks or when your scenario Involves a deadline. Beneath the clock 
there are two STRENGTH bars topped by enemy and American flags. 
These show the relative strengths of the two sides, calculated 
according to casualty and morale factors. At the bottom of this 
column you will see your RANK displayed graphically. Along the 
bottom of the screen there is a single text line which will display 
any vitally important information. You will be told about forthcoming 
artillery strikes, casualties In your team or hits on opposing 
cavalry.

                            QUADRANT MODE

  When you first enter the game you will be In quadrant mode, where 
the active part of the screen Is split up Into four sections 
relating to each of the four platoons of Team Pacific. The upper row 
of Icons In each quadrant allow you to alter what is viewed on the 
screen. The leftmost icon will expand the view of that particular 
platoon to occupy most of the screen - In this full screen mode you 
will be offered extra features - but you will not be able to see all 
of the action.

In the middle, the name of the platoon Is displayed. To the right 
there are three icons. The map icon changes the view to a map 
quadrant with a plan view of the battlefield. The 3-D view icon 
changes the view to a 3d simulation of the battlefield. The status 
icon changes the view to a screen detailing the status of ail 
vehicles in that unit. The Icon corresponding to the current viewing 
mode Is shaded In yellow. Chapter 2 details how to access these 
features by using the keyboard.

At the start of the game each quadrant displays a simulated 3d view 
of the battlefield, see figure 8.0:

3D VIEW QUADRANT

When a three dimensional view of the battlefield is displayed, then 
at the bottom of the display you will see the following icons:

  To the left there are two Icons, one on top of the other. The red 
dead stop Icon allows you to halt the movement of your unit. It Is a 
toggle switch, and so when clicked again your unit will start to 
move at its previously determined speed. When you start the game you 
will always be stationary. You are only able to set your course and 
speed using the map views, rather than the 3d views.

  The zoom icon will magnify the view on the screen by a factor of 
6. This icon toggles between magnify and non-magnify.

  To the right of these two Icons are two red arrows which form a 
rotate and compass icon, allowing the player to rotate the view 
clockwise or anti-clockwise through 360ø. This Is equivalent to 
rotating the gun turret - IT DOES NOT ALLOW YOU TO ALTER THE 
DIRECTION IN WHICH YOU ARE TRAVELLING. Between the two rotate arrows 
lie two compasses: the upper (red) compass shows the direction which 
you (i.e. the gun turret) are facing; the lower (green) compass 
shows the direction In which the vehicle Is facing. If you click on 
the central part of the compass, then your view will rotate towards 
the direction in which you are traveling.

  Useful shortcut for players with a mouse: If the player de- 
presses the RIGHT mouse button while the pointer is on the 3-d view, 
then the view will rotate at a rate relative to the distance of the 
pointer from the centre of the view. (The further the pointer from 
the centre, the faster the rotation.)

  To the right of the compasses are five Icons which represent the 
various types of weaponry available to the unit. Clicking on any of 
these Is equivalent to a command to the loader to load a particular 
shell. When the shell Is selected the Icon clicks In (like a button) 
and when it is loaded the icon lights up. You will also hear a 
signal when the weapon Is available for firing. The weapon loading 
times accurately reflect the time taken for a vehicle to rearm 
itself In battle. See Chapter 12 for more details. Once a weapon is 
fully loaded, the pointer becomes a set of sights when moved over 
the 3d display. Clicking at a particular point on the landscape 
leads to the shell being aimed at that point (with some 
predetermined inaccuracy factors). The five available weapon types, 
from left to right, are:

  HEAT - a high explosive anti-tank round (see glossary);
  SABOT - an armour-piercing tungsten shell (see glossary);
  TOW - a high-range anti-tank missile (see glossary, and note
  In particular that this may only be fired when your vehicle is
  STATIONARY);
  SMOKE - a smoke grenade which allows enemy vision to be
  obscured (see glossary);
  MACHlNE GUN - which Is always available to the player and
  has an infinite number of rounds (see glossary).

  Most platoons will not have all weapon types available (for 
instance, the M1 Tank does not carry TOW missiles). If a weapon is 
not available then that particular icon will not be displayed.

  Once the platoon has no more loaded shells of a particular type 
there will be a delay before it is possible to use them again, 
according to the re-load times of your weapons.

  All of these screens operate in a multi-tasking mode. This means, 
for instance, that while you are waiting for one platoon to load its 
weaponry, you are free to do anything you wish with any other 
platoon.

MAP QUADRANT

  The map quadrant screen shown in figure 8.1, allows you to alter 
the movement and formation of any platoon. The whole of the map may 
be viewed at once, or you may zoom Into any portion of the 
battlefield using the Icons to the right of the map. All of the 
major terrain features of the battlefield are displayed on the map - 
roads are light grey, rivers are blue, forests are green shaded 
clumps, and buildings are marked as red and white boxes.

  There are two zoom Icons represented by magnifying glasses. 
Clicking on the upper zoom icon magnifies the resolution of the map. 
Clicking on the lower zoom Icon demagnifies the map. There are seven 
levels of magnification. On the lowest level the whole width of the 
battlefield - 4 miles across is displayed. On the highest 
magnification the width of the displayed map is 0.2 miles across.

The full width of the map In miles shown between the two zoom icons. 
If you have a mouse, and you are not viewing the whole battlefield, 
you may scroll the map in any direction by locating the pointer over 
the map and depressing the right mouse button. The map will then 
scroll at a speed and direction relative to the position of the 
cursor from the centre of the n ap. In order to move your platoon 
you have to provide information about the desired destination and 
the speed. Place the pointer over the map at the required 
destination and press fire. A crossfire will be left on the screen 
to mark the current destination point Now go to the slider bar and 
set the intended speed of travel. You may do this either by clicking 
on the arrows at the top or bottom of the slider bar, to increase or 
decrease the platoon speed respectively, or by moving the pointer to 
the desired speed. The current speed Is displayed, in miles per 
hour, under the bottom arrow of the slider bar.

The expected time of arrival, or ETA, at the current destination Is 
printed at the top of the right hand side of the map quadrant. Note 
that only one destination is allowed for any platoon at any time and 
what this destination may be altered at any time, whether or not the 
previous destination has been reached. The maximum speed of any of 
your vehicles is 50 miles per hour. The maximum speed you may 
achieve depends on the terrain type across which you are traveling. 
The fastest terrain type is road, followed by cross country, forest 
and then river, which is the slowest terrain type. If you wish to 
travel by the fastest possible means, try to find a suitable road.

STATUS QUADRANT

  The Status quadrant is accessed by clicking on the status icon. 
Every vehicle in the unit will when be displayed on the screen. (By 
now you will, hopefully, bo able to recognise and Identify the 
profile of all of your vehicles) To the right of each vehicle are 
two bars. The upper bar represents the morale of the personnel In 
the vehicle. Morale is improved when the vehicle achieves a hit on 
an enemy tank, and decreases when the platoon is fired at, or there 
are losses on the American side. The lower bar represents the 
efficiency of the vehicle and Its personnel. The efficiency de-
creases when the vehicle has suffered some damage from opposition 
fire power. The values of morale and efficiency affect the ability 
of your platoon to strike the opposition accurately and swiftly when 
a command to launch a weapon is raised. If a vehicle is terminally 
damaged it will turn red on the status screen. That vehicle and any 
remaining personnel will be left behind when the platoon moves on. 
If all of the vehicles In a platoon are disabled, that platoon 
becomes ineffective, and a red status screen will be displayed. See 
figure 8.2. You are also able to alter the quadrant view of a 
disabled unit to display the map of the battlefield.

FULL SCREEN MODE

You may expand the view to one single unit by clicking on the top 
left icon of any of the quadrant. This will take you into full 
screen mode for that platoon. See figure 8.3. The top row of icons 
in this mode are identical in function to those in quadrant mode. 
The only difference you will note is that all of the unit are named, 
with the current platoon in view highlighted in yellow. If you click 
on another unit name then the screen will change to a full screen 
view for that unit

FULL SCREEN 3D VIEW

This type of view Is Identical to the quadrant 3-d view, except that 
it occupies the full screen(l) and there are additional facilities 
available. The control panel underneath the view has the following 
Icons:

Engine smoke icon. Clicking on this icon causes your platoon to 
produce engine smoke. This will prove very useful in confusing your 
enemy if you find yourself in a tight comer. If you find that you 
are always getting destroyed by the enemy, try to use engine smoke 
more frequently.

Infra red (or thermal) imaging icon. This system is vital to see 
what is happening when it is dark, or when enemy forces are covered 
by smoke. Anything which produces heat can be imaged using a thermal 
sight - you will soon get used to Identifying vehicles by their thermal image.
 This feature Is very useful for identifying vehicles camouflaged on the edge 
of forests. The thermal image generated In a modem tank is green and not red.

  Rotation icon and compass display. These work in the same way 
as in the quadrant view, and the mouse shortcut still applies.

  Dead stop icon. This allows you to come very quickly to a dead 
stop. You will find this feature very useful if you suddenly find a 
target, and you need more accuracy or you need the use of

  Zoom icon. When this icon is accessed, the central portion of the 
screen is magnified by a factor of 6. You will find the zoom 
facility essential for spotting vehicles which are over 500m away. 
Since the range of some of your (and the enemies) weapons is over 2 
km, using the zoom feature may save Team Pacific from destruction. 
Note that if you rotate your view when you are in zoom mode, the 
speed of rotation is slower than in normal viewing mode.

  Weapon icons. These icons work in Identical fashion to the 
quadrant weapon icons. The only difference is that the number of 
remaining missiles for each type is displayed underneath each icon. 
If you have more than one hundred missiles of a particular type in 
your unit, the number displayed will be ninety nine.

  Laser range finder icon. Underneath the weapon displays you will 
find the laser range finder, which lights up red when in use. The 
range finder will lock on to a reflective target (such as an 
armoured vehicle) if the firing cursor Is placed directly over the 
object. You will know that the system has locked on when the cursor 
changes shape to a rectangle. The range finder, however, will not 
keep a moving object permanently locked - so it is easiest to use on 
a stationary target when you are stationary. Remember, though, that 
when you are stationary you present an easier target for your 
opponent. Although use of the range finder will increase your 
shooting accuracy, It does not provide a 100% hit rate. Clicking on 
this icon will toggle range finding on and off.


FULL SCREEN MAP VIEW

  The full screen map for a particular unit has all the capabilities 
of the quadrant map, as mentioned earlier, with some additional 
features. See figure 8.4. On the map Itself you will see that the 
11ags relating to each Team Pacific platoon have a number next to 
them - these relate to the platoon number of that unit. The extra 
Icon features to the right of the map are as follows:

  Scroll icon. The four arrows underneath the ETA display allow 
you to scroll your map In any of the four directions. The shortcut 
of using your right mouse button to scroll still applies. If you 
click on the region In the centre of the arrows the map will 
automatically centre on your platoon position, and if you are moving 
the map will scroll to keep your unit at the centre of the display.

  Dead Stop icon. This red Icon, Just to the bottom left of the 
speed slider bar, causes your platoon to come to a dead halt.

  Wide formation icon. This increases the spacing between vehicles 
In your platoon to 100 metres. You might wish to Increase your 
formation spacing n you are traveling In file through a narrow gap 
between forests. If you are spotted while you go through the gap, 
then you will have more time to react

   Narrow formation icon. This reduces the inter-vehicle spacing 
In your platoon to 50 metres.

   The bottom six icons of the vertical column to the left of the 
screen allow you to change the formation type of the vehicles In 
your platoon:

   In-line places your vehicles In a line abreast relative to your 
direction.

   Column places your vehicles In a line ahead relative to your 
direction. Narrow Formation Icon

  Echelon right places your vehicles on a left to right diagonal 
relative to your direction.

  Echelon left places your vehicles on a right to left diagonal 
relative to your direction.

  Wedge places your vehicles in a wedge formation.

  Vee places your vehicles in a vee formation.

  The choice of different formation types will alter your exposure 
to enemy fire according to your relative locations.

FULL SCREEN STATUS VIEW

  As in the quadrant status view, the morale and efficiency of each 
vehicle in a platoon Is displayed. The extra information provided in 
full screen view is the number of available weapons for each vehicle 
In your platoon. All vehicles in Team Pacific are armed with an 
infinite number of machine gun rounds. Particular damage to any 
vehicle is displayed in red.

Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 9 THE DE-BRIEFING SCREEN


9 - THE DE-BRIEFING SCREEN                                       

  A battle may end for a number of reasons. You may have won because 
you have reached a desired location, held a defensive position for 
enough time, or destroyed the majority of the opposing forces. You 
may have lost because you have not gained a desired attacking 
position, held a defensive position for long enough, or lost too 
many of the vehicles of Team Pacific. In general, if you do not 
achieve your objectives within forty playing minutes, then you will 
lose the battle. If you fulfil all of the mission objectives 
mentioned during briefing then you should be victorious, if not then 
you will certainly have been defeated. 

When the end of the scenario has been reached you will be told the 
outcome in the text line at the bottom of the gameplay screen. You 
then have the option to click on this line In order to view the 
de-briefing screen, or to quit the game using the white flag Icon. 
The reason we have provided this option is for the case when you 
have WON a scenario, but have lost so many vehicles or been debited 
so much money that you would rather re-try the scenario again. If 
you win a scenario and then select to go onto the de-briefing 
screen, then all of your gameplay information is written to disk for 
the start of the next scenario. You may review the status of all of 
your platoons before deciding whether or not to go to de-briefing 
and hence Increment your game file. In this case you will not be 
allowed to repeat the battle again using the same registered player 
file. Note that if you have LOST the scenario, then you will have to 
replay the scenario again and no information is written to your game 
disc. 

If you move to the debriefing screen, then you will receive a 
summary of your battle progress. Once you have noted the comments on 
this screen then press fire to return to the start-up filing screen. 
The game can then be continued as before. 

Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 10 HOW TO PLAY PACIFIC ISLANDS


10 - HOW TO PLAY PACIFIC ISLANDS

  STRATEGY
  Before launching yourself into a scenario it Is best to use the 
briefing information to decide on your strategy for the forthcoming 
battle. Quite often you will be expected to position your vehicles or 
take some action very quickly at the start of the scenario 
particularly as it is a defensive scenario). Through practise you will 
learn the strike power of Team Pacific, as well as the enemy. This 
will allow you to make more appropriate decisions about which 
vehicles to purchase at the start of each scenario. The information 
In Chapter 12 referring to vehicle types and the additional Informa- 
tion In the Glossary will give you an idea of the relative strengths 
and ranges of all of the weapons that you will use or come up 
against. For instance, a BTR has very little armour and is only 
armed with a machine gun. If you are In a platoon manned with M1 
tanks, you therefore have very little to worry about from a BTR, and 
you should dispose of it at your leisure, while realising the 
threat from a T72 is rather more potent. The TOW missiles on your 
M-2 s and ITV's are your most potent weapons in terms of strength 
and range, but remember that your vehicle must be stationary before 
they can be fired. Because you have to control four tank platoons 
simultaneously In Pacific Islands, we have not been strictly 
accurate In our operation of these wire guided missiles. Instead of 
leaving you to control and aim the missile over Its flight of up to 
15 seconds (thus causing you to relinquish your control of 
everything else that is going on), we have treated the TOW as a 
normal missile - once launched it will strike the area you have 
aimed at The loading times for all of the missiles are accurately 
presented and re11ect the length of time it takes for a missile to 
be loaded after the tank commander (you) has ordered his gunner 
and loader to set up a target It is put of the frustration of war that 
it takes some time to load an appropriate missile when confronted by 
a new and threatening target.

Because of the Importance of communications facilities on the Yuna 
Yuna atoll, these will play a crucial role in your mission. The 
following section, Communications facilities, provides detailed 
information regarding this aspect of the mission. 

It is worth remembering that tank battles are often fought at long 
range, and in particular that a platoon of tanks in the middle of an 
open plain are cannon-fodder for suitably placed opposition. The tree 
line of forests or Jungle provides very adequate protection for 
tanks, because of the camouflage provided by the trees. In Pacific 
Islands, you will find that the forests/jungles on your battle map 
extend about 75 metres further than they do on the three dimen- 
sional display. This denotes the area where you can place yourself 
in order to look out on the battlefield while still camouflaged 
from your enemy. It is therefore often a good policy to always look 
for an appropriate area of tree line when considering your 
manoeuvres. As soon as you fire, however, you will give your 
opponents a chance to locate you for about ten or fifteen seconds, 
if they happen to catch a glimpse of smoke from your gun barrel. 
Remember that the opposition can use the same tactic of utilising 
forest cover. Your infra-red sights will often be invaluable to spot 
vehicles which would otherwise be hidden in the tree line. 

The magnify mode on the 3d view is very powerful. Since you should 
be able to destroy a vehicle which is well over a mile away from 
you, you will often need to use the magnified sights in order to 
locate the enemy before they spot you. When you are being attacked 
try to locate the precise vehicles which are firing at you, since 
they will be the most potent threat. It is obviously more urgent to 
dispose of a threat which is attacking you rather than one which is 
performing some other Action! 

The position of known enemy units will often be marked on the map 
displays with a flag representing each unit These flags will be 
displayed either when the player should have the units In his sights 
or when there has been information received from Intelligence. 
However, Just because an enemy flag does not appear on the map does 
not necessarily mean that there are no enemy units nearby. For 
Instance, if an opposing unit is in a forest or on the tree line of 
a forest, there will normally be no information presented on the map 
screens. It is up to you to seek and destroy the enemy. 

It is inevitable that some of your battles will be due to take place 
at night It Is dark between the hours of 11 p.m. and 4 a. m. Between 
these times you will find that all of your normal external views are 
completely dark. If you do not wish to Join battle In the dark, when 
you have the option to Increment the time on the vehicle purchase 
screen. But remember that time is of the essence during this 
campaign, and you will lose valuable hours. If you are going to 
fight at night then you must use your Infra-red sights at all times. 
At first this will seem quite disconcerting, but you will have to 
learn to cope

  COMMUNICATlONS FAClLITlES

  As you will already have gathered, one of your constant objectives 
while playing Pacific Islands Is to locate and destroy as many 
communication facilities as possible. The enemy have taken over and 
supplemented the communication facilities throughout the atoll. It 
is vitally important that secret information about the nature of the 
Pacific early warning network is not transferred to North Korea. On 
a more immediate level, the enemy will be using these facilities to 
pass on information about your whereabouts, as well as your 
strengths and weaknesses. On each island, the longer it takes you to 
achieve success, and the longer it takes you to destroy communication 
centres, the harder you will be attacked by the opposition. Keep this 
in mind when you decide to do repairs, or give your tank crews some 
time off. It is a fine balancing act. 

Sometimes you will find that Intelligence has pinpointed certain 
facilities with great accuracy, and you will be told this during your 
mission briefing. However, there will be many communication stations 
which have escaped their eyes, and so you will constantly have to 
search during your offensives. Your battle maps do not show the 
location of most comms centres, so you will not have any extra 
information from this source.

  SCOUT UNITS

  In many battle areas there are also isolated scout vehicles, which 
the enemy use to help locate and assess your movements. These are 
modified BTR personnel carriers which can travel at fairly high 
speed. They will appear on your battle maps in the same manner as 
any other opposition vehicle. although they cannot cause any physical 
damage to your Team, it will be vital to locate any scouts within 
your area so that information is not passed on to other enemy units.

  YAMA YAMA'S ARCHITECTURE

  There are many different types of buildings and objects which you 
will come across throughout the Yama Yama atoll. They range from 
road signs and houses, to factories and satellite dishes. Every 
object which you can see can be destroyed. The amount of explosive 
force required depends very much on the type of structure you are 
attacking. A statue or palm tree will collapse if directly hit by a 
HEAT missile. A factory, on the other hand, might require many 
direct hits from TOW missiles to be completely destroyed. It is 
important that you try to aim at the centre of any object If you are 
going to destroy it efficiently and without wasting valuable and 
expensive ammunition.

  Every object which you destroy will have an effect on your 
financial balance sheet. Buildings which are clearly Islanders 
property and not a direct part of the opposition war effort should 
be left Intact Any unnecessary object which Is destroyed, even by 
the opposition, will result in a fine being imposed, and an 
immediate reduction to your financial account The scale of these 3 
charges will become apparent to you as they happen, and you will 
learn how to proceed by experience. The destruction of churches and 
hospitals are regarded with the gravest concern, and commensurate 
fines will be imposed. Occasionally, if the level of destruction is 
too great, then your battle will be forcibly terminated.

You will learn that In the middle 1990s excessive collateral damage 
is no longer politically acceptable On the bonus side, there are 
always financial incentives for destroying opposition facilities, 
particularly communications centres. Hopefully this will satisfy any 
destructive tendencies you might have. The major types of objects you 
will encounter can be seen below;

  TERRAIN

  There are many different types of terrain over which you can move 
in Pacific Islands. You will only be able to achieve your full 
operating speed while traveling over roads, which are grey on the map 
and In your 3d view. Traveling over cross-country reduces your speed 
and increases the amount of pitch which you will encounter in your 
3d view. This will make engagement of the enemy rather more difficult. 
Your speeds on the tree line of forests are further reduced, but 
these regions do provide camouflage from your opponents (as detailed 
above). Inside forests you will often find tracks (which look like 
brown roads) which will allow you to make faster progress than 
simply battling through the trees. It will often be useful to locate 
These tracks and Incorporate them in your strategic plan. Rivers 
provide the slowest type of terrain over which to cross, and can 
leave you very exposed to enemy fire while you are crossing them.

Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 11 DIFFERENCES BETWEEN TEAM YANKEE & PACIFIC ISLANDS


11 - DIFFERENCES BETWEEN TEAM YANKEE AND PACIFIC ISLANDS

  Much of the direct control of your tank platoons will already be 
quite familiar to you, so this brief chapter outlines how to quickly 
find out the differences between Pacific Islands and Team Yankee 
without having to read all of the manual. We would recommend that at 
some stage you do browse through the complete manual, because there 
are certain to be aspects of the game which you have not fully 
grasped from your previous experiences.

  Unlike Team Yankee, the game does not play entirely sequen- 
tially, and no scenarios are repeated at a more complex level. Each 
battle Is entirely different and you have some control over the 
order in which battles are engaged. The first unfamiliar screen will 
be the battle selection screen, and you are referred to Chapter Five 
for further explanation. Once you have selected the site of your 
next engagement, you will be required to purchase vehicles and 
ammonium, and details for this are to be found in Chapter Six. 
Pacific Islands will require you to control the funding of your 
entire campaign, and so you will find that this adds an extra 
dimension to the product. After you have performed your purchases 
you will proceed to the familiar Briefing Screen. This works in the 
manner of Team Yankee, except that you will find that under the 
artillery option you are occasionally allowed the facility of 
planting a minefield. This is positioned by your crosshair over the 
map, and each minefield covers a 250m x 250m area. Make sure you 
remember where you have laid mines, because they can't differ- 
entiate between you and the enemy, and will treat you both in the 
same manner Remember that your opponents are also able to lay 
mines, and it will be very clear when you have entered an opposition 
minefield.

  The gameplay screens operate in a very similar manner to Team 
Yankee. The only obvious differences are that we have added dead 
stop and zoom Icons to the quadrant three dimen- sional views, and a 
dead stop icon to the full screen three dimensional views. This was 
in response to comments made by players of the original game who 
were frustrated by having to switch back and forth between 3d and 
map screens In order to perform these simple functions. Note that we 
take all of your comments seriously

  The objectives you will face in Pacific Islands are rather more 
complex than In Team Yankee. Often there will be multiple objectives 
and sub-objectives in any particular scenario. For an update on 
important issues relating to playing the scenarios, the last chapter 
we would point you to is the previous one - Chapter Ten. You will 
find that an often unwritten objective is to destroy any 
communications facility you may come across. You are now able to 
destroy any object which you can see on the three dimensional view, 
and we hope that this adds to the realism and pleasure of playing 
the game. You will find other Improvements as you play through the 
game. The 3d routines have been speeded up, and this allows us 
sometimes to create villages, which would have caused Team Yankee to 
perform rather too slowly. The opposi- tion strategy is now under 
rather more intelligent control, and this means that although the 
game may be more testing, It should now be more satisfying. There Is 
also genuine line of sight now operating, and this should iron out 
any problems with stray opposition units attacking you from 
unfeasible positions. The use of the tree line as camouflage has also 
been altered to be more acceptable.

  If you played Team Yankee and enjoyed it then we are sure that you 
will get even more pleasure from Pacific Islands!

Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 12 VEHICLE TYPES


12 - VEHICLE TYPES - Team Pacific

M-l Abrams Main Battle Tank

   The M-1 Abrams is the fastest and best protected main battle tank 
in service With any army in the world today. Its 105 mm gun is 
extremely effective and, while it does not have the muzzle velocity 
of the 125 mm hypervelocity smoothbores of Soviet tanks, its 
advanced ammunition and very effective ballistic computer combine to 
give comparable or superior performance. New SABOT ammunition (see 
glossary) has recently Increased this effectiveness. The thermal 
sights, allowing the gunner improved visibility through smoke and 
darkness, give the vehicle a unique combat advantage over its 
adversaries. The M-1 uses 'Chobham' composite armor, which contains a 
large outer layer of hard steel, with successive Inner layers of 
other metals and ceramics. This type of armor very effectively 
absorbs the heat from the hot gasses of HEAT ammunition. Great 
emphasis has been placed on reliability and maintenance, and it is 
claimed that the complete engine can be removed for replacement in 
under 30 minutes.

Specifications
Crew                  4
Weight (Tonnes)       54.5
Full Length           977
Engine Type           Turbine
Road Range (Km)       498
Max Speed (Km/h)      72.4
Max Speed off road    48.3
Frontal Armour (mm)   380
Main Gun              Smooth
Calibre (mm)          105
Effective Range       2500
Maxrate (round/min)   8
Total Rounds          55
HEAT Rounds           Yes
SABOT Rounds          Yes
TOW Rounds            Yes


M-113 Armoured Personnel Carrier

   The M-113 is the basic armored troop carrier in the U.S. Army, and 
has been since the Vietnam War. It was destined 'to provide a 
lightweight, armored personnel carrier for armor and Infantry units 
capable of amphibious and air-drop operations, superior cross-coun-
try mobility and adaptations to multiple functions'. The all-welded 
aluminium hull protects the crew from small arms fire and shell 
splinters. It is fully amphibious, being propelled in water by its 
tracks. Successful adaptations include the M163 Vulcan 
self-propelled anti-aircraft gun, the M577 Command Post and the M901 
Improved TOW Vehicle. The M-113 is being replaced by the M-2 Bradley 
Infantry Fighting Vehicle, but the slow procurement rate means that 
many US mechanised units will continue to use the M-113 into the 
1990's.

Specifications
Crew                  2(+11)
Weight (Tonnes)       11.2
Full Length           486
Engine Type           Diesel
Road Range (Km)       321
Max Speed (Km/h)      64.4
Max Speed in water    5.8
Frontal Armour (mm)   38
Main Gun              Machine
Calibre (mm)          12.7
Effective Range       500
Maxrate (round/min)   N/A
Total Rounds          1200
HEAT Rounds           No
SABOT Rounds          No
TOW Rounds            No
M-2 Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicle

   The Bradley Is a reasonably protected Infantry carrier and is 
extremely mobile and well armed. The hull of the M-2 is of welded 
aluminum armor with additional laminate fitted to the hull front, 
sides and rear. It is fully amphibious, being propelled through water 
by Its tracks. By 1987 only 3000 Bradleys had been delivered to the 
US Army out of a procurement of nearly 7000 vehicles. The M-2 has 
come under considerable fire from critics due to its expense and slow 
delivery. Critics also suggest that its inferior armor protection 
will hamper its ability to operate with the M1 tank. An effort is being made to 
equip battalion scout platoons with Bradleys, however. The M-2 has 
extra firing ports to side and rear and can carry a full rifle 
squad. It Is worth noting that the M-2's TOW missiles may only be 
launched when the vehicle is stationary.

Specifications
Crew                  3(+6)
Weight (Tonnes)       22.7
Full Length           645
Engine Type           Diesel
Road Range (Km)       483
Max Speed (Km/h)      66
Max Speed in water    7.2
Frontal Armour (mm)   60
Main Gun              Cannon
Calibre (mm)          25
Effective Range       1000
Maxrate (round/min)   100
Total Rounds          900
HEAT Rounds           No
SABOT Rounds          No
TOW Rounds            2+5

M-901 Improved Tow Vehicle,s (ITV)

   This is a variant of the M-113 mounting the 'hammerhead' armoured 
TOW launcher in an overhead mount. The launcher assembly contains 
twin TOW launch tubes with another 10 launch missiles carried In the 
hull This gives the ITV the ability to park with the entire vehicle 
behind cover and only the missile launcher exposed The launcher can 
also be reloaded from Inside the vehicle. A major disadvantage is that 
the armored TOW launcher and ammunition carried internally have badly 
overloaded the chassis and reduced its mobility significantly. Also 
remember that a TOW missile can only be launched from a stationary 
vehicle The ITV is the standard anti-tank missile carrier of the US 
Army having first entered service in 1979.

Specifications
Crew                  4
Weight (Tonnes)       11.2
Full Length           486
Engine Type           Diesel
Road Range (Km)       321
Max Speed (Km/h)      55
Max Speed off road    N/A
Frontal Armour (mm)   38
Main Gun              None
Calibre (mm)          -
Maxrate (round/min)   -
Total Rounds          900
HEAT Rounds           No
SABOT Rounds          No
TOW Rounds            2+10
Effective Range TOW   4000m

VEHICLE TYPES - The Opposition

T-62 Main Battle Tank

   First fielded In the 1960's the T-62 was the first major tank to use 
a smoothbore gun. There were severe limitations due to engineering design which for example meant that reloading could only occur at a 
set turret angle and barrel elevation. The T-62 has now been superseded 
in front line service by more modem types such as the T-72. The T-62 
has been used In combat by the Egyptian and Syrian forces as well as 
Iraq during the Gulf War. Although not so sophisticated as western 
tanks the T-62 has proved itself a rugged and reliable machine. It is 
estimated that at least 40,000 T-62 tanks have been built by the 
Soviet Union and It is also in service with Afghanistan, Algeria, Cuba 
,India, Israel, Libya and North Korea

Specifications
Crew                  4
Weight (Tonnes)       37.5
Full Length           933
Engine Type           Diesel
Road Range (Km)       450
Max Speed (Km/h)      50
Max Speed off road    N/A
Frontal Armour (mm)   200
Main Gun              Smooth
Calibre (mm)          115
Effective Range       1500
Maxrate (round/min)   3-5
Total Rounds          40
HEAT Rounds           Yes
SABOT Rounds          Yes
Anti-Tank Rounds      No

T-72 Main Battle Tank

   The T-72 is one of several modem tanks that equip the Red Army, 
and was its main battle tank throughout the 1970's. It Is a logical, 
progressive development of the T-62, Incorporating a larger gun, 
Improved fire control system, better protection and a more powerful 
power plant. The strange drums on the back of the T-72 are long range 
fuel tanks. The fire control system is believed to include a laser 
range-finder. Standard equipment includes an NBC system, a full 
range of night vision equipment, a snorkel for deep wading and 
dozer blade which is mounted to the hull. In the late 1980's a new 
model was spotted, which had a bulging turret front, known 
colloquially as the 'Super Dolly Parton'

Specifications
Crew                  3
Weight (Tonnes)       41
Full Length           953
Engine Type           Diesel
Road Range (Km)       450
Max Speed (Km/h)      70
Max Speed off road    N/A
Frontal Armour (mm)   250
Main Gun              Smooth
Calibre (mm)          125
Effective Range       2000
Maxrate (round/min)   6-8
Total Rounds          39
HEAT Rounds           Yes
SABOT Rounds          Yes
TOW Rounds            No

BMP-2 Infantry Fighting Vehicle

   BMP is an abbreviation for Bronevaya Maschlna Piekhota or "Armored 
Vehicle Infantry" The BMP-1 was the first Infantry fighting vehicle In the 
world to mount a cannon and antitank missile armament, thus giving the 
rifle squad the ability to engage enemy armor at substantial ranges 
with a reasonable prospect of success. The newly introduced BMP-2 is an 
Improved version with a larger turret which mounts a 30 mm auto-cannon 
and an AT-5 'Spandrel' anti-tank missile.

Specifications
Crew                  3(+6)
Weight (Tonnes)       14.5
Full Length           674
Engine Type           Diesel
Road Range (Km)       500
Max Speed (Km/h)      70
Max Speed off road    N/A
Frontal Armour (mm)   19
Main Gun              Auto-Cannon
Calibre (mm)          30
Effective Range       1000
Maxrate (round/min)   N/A
Total Rounds          40
HEAT Rounds           No
SABOT Rounds          No
Anti-Tank Rounds      Yes
Anti-Tank Range(m)    4000

BTR-60 Armoured Personnel Carrier

   The BTR-60 is a wheeled armored personnel carrier which equips 
many Soviet motorised rifle units, The advantage of a wheeled vehicle 
is a higher road speed, lower manufacturing costs and generally 
increased ease of maintenance and mechanical reliability. The main 
disadvantage is that a wheeled vehicle loses more of its road speed 
when travelling cross country - however it is sufficiently fast on the 
road that it can keep up with most tracked vehicles cross county.

Specifications
Crew                  2(+12)
Weight (Tonnes)       10.2
Full Length           722
Engine Type           Petrol
Road Range (Km)       500
Max Speed (Km/h)      80
Max Speed off road    N/A
Frontal Armour (mm)   9
Main Gun              Machine
Calibre (mm)          14.5
Maxrate (round/min)   N/A
Total Rounds          500
HEAT Rounds           No
SABOT Rounds          No
TOW Rounds            No

Pacific Islands
CHAPTER 13 GLOSSARY


13- GLOSSARY

  BMP-2: A Soviet fully tracked infantry-fighting vehicle mounting 
a 30 mm cannon, an antitank guided missile, and a 7.62 mm machine 
gun. The BMP carries a crew of three and a six-man infantry squad. 
The BMP provided the prime motivation for the design and production 
of the Bradley fighting vehicle.

  Bradley: An armoured fighting vehicle that comes in two ver- 
sions, the M-2 mechanized infantry fighting vehicle version and the 
M-3 scout version. Both have a two-man turret that mounts a TOW 
missile launcher, a 25 mm chain gun and a 7.62 mm machine gun 
mounted coaxially.

  BTR-60: A Soviet eight-wheeled armoured personnel carrier. This 
vehicle comes In several versions, from the original, which has an 
open top, to the BTR-60PB, which is completely enclosed and carries 
a small turret mounting a 14.5 mm and 7.62 mm machine gun. In 
addition to the personnel carrier version, the BTR-60 serves as a 
command and control vehicle, close air support vehicle, and other 
such uses.

  CO: Short for Commanding Officer.

  DPICM: Short for dual-purpose, improved conventional muni- tions. 
This is an artillery round that contains many small submunitions 
or bomblets that are capable of defeating the thin armour located on 
top of armoured vehicles as well as being effective against 
personnel and other U50fr targets.

  HEAT: Short for high explosive antitank, a round that depends on a 
shaped charge explosion to penetrate an armoured vehicle's armour. 
Because the round contains high explosive, it has a secondary role 
as an antimaterial round. A typical muzzle velocity might be 1100 
metres per second, with a penetration of over 150 mm In reactive 
armour. It is, however, much more effective against APC's than 
tanks, for which SABOT or TOW ammunition is more appropriate.

  ITV: Short for Improved TOW vehicle. A modified M-113 armoured 
personnel carrier that has an antitank guided missile launcher 
mounted on a small rotating turret. TOW stands for tube launched, 
optically-tracked, wire-guided antitank guided missile. The TOW is 
currently the heaviest antitank guided missile In the U.S. Army s 
inventory capable of hitting a tank-sized target out to a range of 
3700 metres.

  Machine Gun: Every tank and personnel carrier in Pacific Islands 
carries an M2 calibre 0.50 machine gun, nicknamed 'Ma Duce'. This is 
the same heavy machine gun used in World War 2 - and Serves as a tank 
commander's weapon. Additionally, each tank Is provided with two 
'M240' 7.62 mm machine guns. Of Belgian design, one is mounted 
coaxially next to the main gun - hence the nickname 'Coax'. The 
second M240 Is mounted free- swinging outside the loader's hatch - 
its main value being that the two machine guns are interchangeable, 
as well as giving the loader something to hang on to when the tank Is 
moving

  M-1: This is currently the main battle tank of the U.S. Army. It 
has a crew of four, mounts a 105 mm main gun, an M2 calibre 0.50 
machine gun, and an M240 7.62 mm machine gun. The 5~ton tank Is 
powered by a 1500 horsepower turbine engine and is capable of 45mph. 
The fire-control system incorporates a laser range finder, a solid 
state computer, a thermal imaging sight, and other electronics that 
allow the main gun to fire while on the move with a high degree of 
accuracy, day or night.

  M-113: Until recently, the M-113 was the primary U.S. Army 
armoured personnel carrier. Weighing 11 tons, it has a crew of two, 
driver and commander, and the capacity to carry an entire Infantry 
squad. The M-113 is normally armed with a calibre .50 M2 machine gun 
located at the commander's position. Because infantry cannot fight 
while mounted, the M-113 Is being replaced by the M-2 Bradley 
fighting vehicle. The M-113 still remains a mainstay In the U.S. 
Army, performing support roles on or near the front.

  Mech: Short for mechanized or mechanized Infantry.

  SABOT: The word Is actually French for shoe. Here, it is the name 
of an antitank round. SABOT is short for armour-piercing 
fin-stabilized discarding sabot (APFSDS). The round consists of a 
small tungsten alloy or depleted uranium penetrator that has a 
diameter smaller than the diameter of the gun tube. To compensate 
for this, the penetrator Is seated In a boot that Is the same 
diameter as the gun. This boot, called the SABOT, fails away after 
the round leaves the gun, leaving the penetrator to continue to the 
target The SABOT round has a very effective armour penetration out to 
2500 metres. More useful against tank armour than a HEAT round.

  Smoke: Smoke Is very usefully generated In battle In order to 
obscure the location of vehicles from the enemy. There are three ways 
in which smoke can be produced in the battlefield. M-1 tanks and M2 
Bradleys have smoke grenade launchers on the sides of the turret 
These can be fired forwards, giving a short-lived smoke-screen. The 
same vehicles can also produce engine exhaust smoke, which produces 
a smoke screen from the ve- hicle's rear, and which will move with 
the vehicle if it is in motion. Artillery smoke is very useful when 
called in just before an attack on an enemy position, to obscure you 
from their view.

  T-62 Tank: A Soviet tank with a four-man crew and mounting a 115 
mm smooth bore gun, a 12.5 mm and a 7.62 mm machine gun. Though 
considered obsolete, It is still very capable and found in many 
Warsaw Pact units.

  T-72 Tank: A Soviet tank with a three-man crew and mounting a 125 
mm smooth bore gun, a 12.5 mm and a 7.62 mm machine gun. The 
elimination of the fourth crewman is achieved by using an automatic 
loader for the main gun. Special armour and a sophisticated 
fire-control system make it a powerful foe that Is difficult to stop.

  Team: A company-sized unit that includes both tank and mechanized 
Infantry platoons. Unlike a peacetime company, the number and type of 
platoons in a team can vary according to its assigned mission. In 
the case of Team Pacific, the default Team initially has two tank 
and one mechanized infantry platoon as well as two improved TOW 
vehicles.

  Thermal Sight: A sight that detects the heat emitted by an object 
and translates that heat into a visible image for the gunner or the 
tank commander.

  TOW: Short for tube-launched, optically-tracked, wire guided 
antitank guided missile. The TOW Is the U.S. Army's current heavy 
antitank guided missile with a range of nearly 4000 metres. The 
guidance system provides a high probability of hitting a tank- sized 
target out to its maximum range. A TOW missile can only be launched 
from a static vehicle.

  Track: This term can be used either to refer to the caterpillar 
tracks of a vehicle, or any tracked vehicle, other than a tank. For 
some perverse reason tanks, although having tracks, are not referred 
to as 'tracks'.

  Warsaw Pact: A now outdated military alliance founded by the 
European Communist countries to counter NATO.
14 - TRAINING SCENARIO

  Because of the urgency of your mission to Yama Yama, we're putting 
you through a 40 minute tank assault test to get you prepared. If you 
follow these Instructions, and get through the scenario, then we know 
we've done our best, whatever happens.

  Click on the Practice icon on the filing cabinet, and you will go 
straight Into the briefing screen. Turn to Chapter 7 and read through 
how this operates. Read the three page brief, and look at the map 
of the training ground. Click on the Information Icon to gain more 
details about the layout. Click on the artillery Icon, and you will 
see the artillery setup. Leave HE and DPICM barrages alone, but you 
can play with mines to see their effect If you wish. Now click on 
the upper left Icon and get Into training.

  Keep an eye on Chapter 8 of the manual for all the information 
about the operation of these screens as we progress. Click on the 
zoom Icon of Unit 3 and rotate your view of the area (either using 
the compass arrows or your right mouse button with the cursor over 
the view), until you get a tank on the main road In view. This Is one 
of Unit 1's tanks. Now rotate the view of unit 1 and notice how the 
turrets move In the view from Unit 3. This Is bit-mapped technology 
for you

  Now, click on the centre of the compass for unit 1, and notice 
that the turret rotates to face the direction of the main body of the 
tank. Click on zoom and you will see a church right ahead of you. 
There should be a lot of banging In the background - this Is an 
artillery barrage. Unit 4 Is looking straight at a factory. Zoom In 
on the house Just to the left of this and you should start seeing the 
effects of a combined HE and DPICM attack - The house will 
eventually get blown up.

  Now just play around and get used to changing between the three 
types of display on each of the four tank units - see how they all 
work quit Independently. Go to a map view and click In and out on the 
magnification Icons and get used to scrolling around the map using 
your right mouse button.

  At about 09:19 hours a display of vehicles will be presented to 
you on the brown track just In front of unit one. To see this best go 
to the full screen 3d view for Unit 1 (by clicking on the Icon at 
the top left corner of the screen while In 3d zoom mode). Get used 
to tracking the vehicles as they pass, and get a good look at them.

  Once the drive-past has finished (about 09:23), it's time to start 
moving. Go to the map view for Unit 1. Zoom In until you get to a map 
range of 0.5, and you will see that each Individual tank Is 
displayed on the map. Now scroll the map rightward until you see the 
point where the road turns. Set your cursor on this point, and set 
your speed to maximum You will get up to a maximum speed of 39 MPH 
on the road, but this will be reduced nearby the track as you pass it. 
Now turn to the 3d view and watch the world go by. As you pass the 
bridge you will see a red STOP sign appearing on the middle of the 
track Turn off your ZOOM, and try to stop just In front of the sign 
by clicking on the DEAD STOP Icon. Now turn zoom back on and try to 
locate and Identify the four nearby vehicles. Two are American and two 
belong to the enemy. Go to the map screen and you'll see two enemy 
flags. Now you can try a useful feature. Click on top of one of the 
flags (making sure you're not moving!), go back to the 3d view and 
click on the centre of the compass. You should see a correctly 
Identified enemy vehicle (BMP-2) In view. Click on one of your 
weapon Icons, and see if you can destroy the BMP. Now look around 
and you should be able to spot a radar station and two food dumps. 
See how many missiles it takes to destroy the radar station.

  Now it's time to get your other Units moving. The aim of this 
training scenario Is to get you used to controlling all four units 
together. The Idea Is to traverse the circuit - on the roads - anti- 
clockwise. Each time you pass a red stop sign In the middle of the 
road, then you should leave one unit behind. We'll' leave you to get 
the other units on the road, and past Unit 1. You'll notice that none 
of your units achieve their full road speed unless you alter their 
formation to COLUMN. This is because some of the vehicles will 
otherwise be off the road - so make sure that they are ail In column 
formation.

  When you reach the second stop-off point, leave Unit 2 behind. 
Unit 2 should be able to Identify two small ammo stores, and a 
communicators aerial to the north west. To the west and east there 
are two units of tanks which are rather difficult to spot. Turn on your 
Infra-red, and you will see why Infra rod Imaging Is so Important 
for the modem tank, You will have to learn how to identify vehicles 
by their thermal Image - and there's no better time to start than now. 
To give you a guide, there are M113's to the east and BTR-6O's to the 
west. Try to destroy the BTR's. On the map you'll see a building to 
the North East. Centre your view on this and you'll see a Warehouse. 
If you destroy it two BMP's will come out and very slowly come 
towards you. See if you can destroy a moving tank. It won't be so 
easy In battle!

  NOW move Unit 3 up to the next stop off point In the North East 
corner of the battlefield. You'll see a satellite dish, some hellicop- 
ters, two fuel stores a group of T-62s and a group of M2 Bradleys. See 
what it takes to destroy the enemy vehicles and installations. If you 
go to your map view, you will also see two moving enemy flags to the 
north west These are spotter vehicles. They are converted BTRs, and 
move at fairy high speed. See If you can destroy them both. You'll 
find that It will be easier If you use Infra red AND your laser 
ranging device. BTRs are very small, even on zoom at that distance 
(almost 2 kilometers!)

  Now, move Unit 4 round to the final position. You will have to go 
through a forest track, and so getting used to what moving through 
trees feels like. Not the sort of speeds you can achieve on tracks. 
See If you can keep to the track at all times. At the centre of the 
forest you should try to spot and destroy a T72. At the final stop 
off point look out for the vehicles and the hospital. Now, spot the 
statue beside the trees on the other side of the forest track you 
Just came through. Move as close to it as possible. You will see 
what you are still out of the forest, and yet if you look at your 
tanks on the highest lever of magnification on the map, they should 
be Just Inside the area of forest. You are now In the tree line, and 
this area around all forests (a concentric ring of about 75 metres) 
allows you to see all of the Action, and yet provides you with 
protection from being spotted by the enemy. The only proviso Is that 
if you fire at an enemy vehicle, then they will probably see the 
smoke from your gun barrel, which allows them a spot on you for 
about 10 seconds. Make sure that you use tree lines to good effect 
when you try to retake Yama Yama.

  Now, it's time to see If you can use ail four units at once in 
action! When the clock reaches 09:51 each of your four units will 
have one set of very slowly moving enemy vehicles to destroy within 
range. Try to destroy them while using the quadrant views. You will 
find that there has been a smoke barrage set up obscuring the view of 
Unit 4, w you will have to turn to Infra red, at least for that unit 
If you can destroy most of the moving enemy tanks then you will have 
'won' this training 'battle'. It means that you can now progress to 
the retake of Yama Yama itself.

  If you don't feel confident at this,point, why not try and repeat 
your training. The action In a real battle will be far quicker. And 
also the enemy will be properly armed, and that means that you are 
going to be shot at as well

Good luck on Yama Yama!

Pacific Islands

End.................
