                              PANZA KICK BOXING

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.


KICK BOXING THE FIGHTING SPORT
Kick Boxing is a fighting sport where the fighter use both foot and fist.
Thai Boxing, French Boxing and Full Contact are three other sports belonging
to this same family.
Actually, great champions like Andre Panza are most of the time familiar with
those different boxing categories.
Kick Boxing is a quite recent sport.  Its main characteristic is the high
efficiency of its technics and the knock out is usually the fatal issue of the
fight.

The 'ADVANCED' chapter shows you the difference between Kick Boxing and the
other fighting sports.  You will have the possibility of playing according to
the rules of French Boxing, Full Contact (in PANZA KICK BOXING), and even
English Boxing, this is only by selecting some fist technics.

ANDRE PANZA KICK BOXING WORLD TRIPLE CHAMPION
You do not become Kick Boxing world triple champion and French Boxing Europe
double champion just because of good luck.
University graduate in Judo and English Boxing, Andre Panza is International
Coach and Technical Manager of a league in Kick Boxing.  He also won the
Golden Katanas in 1989 and 1990.
A high style fighter as well as a devastating puncher, he is good at
everything and often has to fight in different categories in order to find
opponents who do accept to challenge him.
What more is there to say about this great champion except that the school he
manages, LA PANZA GYMNOTHEQUE, gives to France and Europe an impressive number
of new champions, because he knows how to train them.

COMMANDS

MOVING IN A MENU
You have 2 ways of moving in a menu.
A - Use the joystick + the fire button to validate your choice.
B - Use the keyboard (the keys of the numeric keypad) + the RETURN key or the
    space bar to validate your choice.

MOVING DURING A FIGHT
During a fight, the joystick allows you to hit 13 different blows and to move
in different directions: forward, backwards, turn around and parry position.
You just have to move the joystick in the corresponding position.

AVAILABLE POSITIONS WITHOUT HOLDING THE FIRE BUTTON:

                                    HIT B
                                      |
                               HIT A  |  HIT C
                                  \   |   /
                                   \  |  /
                                    \ | /
                      BACKWARDS------   ------FORWARD
                                    / | \
                                   /  |  \
                                  /   |   \
                               HIT D  |  HIT E
                                      |
                                 TURN AROUND

AVAILABLE POSITIONS WHEN HOLDING THE FIRE BUTTON:

                                    HIT E
                                      |
                               HIT F  |  HIT H
                                  \   |   /
                                   \  |  /
                                    \ | /
                          HIT I------   -------HIT J
                                    / | \
                                   /  |  \
                                  /   |   \
                               HIT K  |  HIT M
                                      |
                                    HIT E

FUNCTION KEYS
F1:  Start the VCR during a fight
F2:  Pause
F3:  Run the game again
ESC: Quit

RE-INITIALIZE YOUR COMPUTER
To re-initialize your computer press CTRL A A
To make the directions easier to follow, we mainly mention the Joystick
function, but all the manipulations are possible with the keyboard.
In case a second joystick is plugged to the mouse port, this one is not
mentioned in the menus.

TO PLAY RIGHT AWAY
1:      To start the fight, press the fire button: this will select the COMBAT
        icon by default.
        If you do not press any key or do not start any action, a preview will
        automatically begin after a few seconds.

2:      After some advice from the referee, the fight begins.
        You are the boxer on the left side.  To strike a blow at your opponent,
        move the joystick: each movement you give to the joystick corresponds to
        a blow or position (refer to chapter 'SELECT HITS' to see all the
        possibilities).

3:      If a boxer is knocked out, it is the end of the fight and you have to go
        back to the main menu.
        If you go through the first round, you have 2 rounds till the end of the
        fight.
        If you wish to stop the fight or the preview, just press the ESC key.

MENU

PREVIEW
The preview gives you a demonstration of a Round.  This can help you evaluate
the strength of a boxer before confronting him.  The preview starts
automatically after a few seconds of inaction while the main menu is still on
the screen.

SELECTING YOUR COMMAND
This option allows you to define the configuration of the commands available
to you during the game.  With the joystick or the keyboard, you can play
against a human opponent or against the computer.  In both cases, several
commands exist.

EXAMPLES:       JOY 2   AMIGA  -  One player against the computer.
                JOY 2   JOY 1  -  One player against another player.
              KEYBOARD  JOY 1  -  One player against another player.
              KEYBOARD  AMIGA  -  One player against the computer.

NOTE: Joystick 1 is plugged into the mouse port and you cannot use it to
select your choices.

PHYSICAL SHAPE
Each boxer has a 'physical shape' capital.  At the beginning of the game, the
8 boxers reserved to the player benefit of the same capital.
This capital consists of 3 rubrics that define a boxer's characteristics.
The more value a rubric has, the better your boxer is.
These rubrics are:

STRENGTH:   The stronger a boxer is, the more efficient his blows are.
RESISTANCE: The more resistant a boxer is, the tougher it is to knock him out.
REFLEX:     The more reflexes a boxer has, the better his parry positions are.

All the boxers are professional.  Each of them has a value estimated in
DOLLARS.

OTHER BOXERS
Each time you press the fire button of the joystick, the program proposes to
you a different boxer.
If you press and HOLD the fire button, the physical qualities of this new
boxer appears on the screen.

COMPUTER BOXERS

BOXER 1
NAME:           WEAK
FIRST NAME:     DOM
AGE:            31
STRENGTH:       40%
RESISTANCE:     25%
REFLEX:         35%
TROPHY:         NEW YORK CITY MEDAL
VALUE:          $65,000
BIOGRAPHY:      NEW YORK, USA.  Former docker, he got his first boxing lesson
                on New York waterfronts.  He just turned professional.  He is
                now New York Champion, his opponent having withdrawn from the
                fight.

BOXER 2
NAME:           ROCKY
FIRST NAME:     C.B.
AGE:            29
STRENGTH:       45%
RESISTANCE:     60%
REFLEX:         40%
TROPHY:         CALIFORNIA STATE GOLDEN MEDAL
VALUE:          $100,000
BIOGRAPHY:      CHICAGO, USA.  Cook in a northern suburb fastfood, he quit his
                job for KICK BOXING and the hot atmosphere of the rings.  He
                has 15 years of English Boxing behind him.  See for yourself!

BOXER 3
NAME:           TEDDY
FIRST NAME:     FRED-ALAN
AGE:            25
STRENGTH:       40%
RESISTANCE:     90%
REFLEX:         30%
TROPHY:         UNITED KINGDOM CHAMPION CUP
VALUE:          $105,000
BIOGRAPHY:      LIVERPOOL GB.  Raised in a family of soldiers, his interest for
                the fighting sports started at a very young age.  After his
                military service, he turned professional.
                He is a rapid and powerful boxer.

BOXER 4
NAME:           CASANOVA
FIRST NAME:     ALDO
AGE:            27
STRENGTH:       65%
RESISTANCE:     75%
REFLEX:         55%
TROPHY:         EUROPE CHAMPION CUP
VALUE:          $150,000
BIOGRAPHY:      PALERMO SICILY.  He began KICK BOXING very young to defend the
                interests of his uncle's pizzeria.
                He has a nice style and an excellent resistance.

BOXER 5
NAME:           PANTHER
FIRST NAME:     TURBO DIESEL
AGE:            25
STRENGTH:       75%
RESISTANCE:     80%
REFLEX:         85%
TROPHY:         USA EAST COAST CHAMPION CUP
VALUE:          $500,000
BIOGRAPHY:      DENVER USA.  At the age of 15, he discovered boxing in a disco
                club of the 8th Avenue.  KICK BOXING doesn't have any secret
                for him.  He is a specialist of the 'jumping kicks'.

BOXER 6
NAME:           BULLDO MAN
FIRST NAME:     JO
AGE:            29
STRENGTH:       90%
RESISTANCE:     95%
REFLEX:         70%
TROPHY:         USA WEST COAST CHAMPION CUP
VALUE:          $650,000
BIOGRAPHY:      LAS VEGAS USA.  Former Security Guard at the Ceasar's Palace he
                is now fighting on its ring.  He strikes most powerful and
                redoubtable blows.

BOXER 7
NAME:           MARVEL
FIRST NAME:     KICK
AGE:            32
STRENGTH:       90%
RESISTANCE:     90%
REFLEX:         90%
TROPHY:         USA BELT CHAMPION
VALUE:          800,000
BIOGRAPHY:      SAN FRANCISCO USA.  Coming from a rich western family, he was
                boxing for fun and not for surviving.
                He has beautiful style and you don't hit him easily; don't let
                him keep you at a distance.

BOXER 8
NAME:           PANZA
FIRST NAME:     ANDRE
AGE:            35
STRENGTH:       99%
RESISTANCE:     99%
REFLEX:         99%
TROPHY:         WORLD BELT CHAMPION OF KICK BOXING
VALUE:          $950,000
BIOGRAPHY:      STRASBOURG FRANCE.  The supremely all round boxer, rapid,
                powerful, resistant.  He has everything to defeat you.  Some
                boxers even refuse to challenge him.

OPTIONS
To move in the menu, use the joystick and the fire button.

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BOXER ON THE RIGHT SIDE: PHYSICAL SHAPE
                                                RESISTANCE
                                                REFLEX

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BOXER ON THE LEFT SIDE:  PHYSICAL SHAPE
                                                RESISTANCE
                                                REFLEX

NUMBER OF ROUND: defines in how many rounds (usually between 3 and 12) a fight
will be played.

SAVE FIGHTERS CHARACTERISTICS: You can keep in memory the name and
characteristic of your boxer so that you can use them later on.

NOW: Allows you to immediately save on disk the boxer's characteristics.

NEVER: Prevents you from saving on disk the data as well as the boxers'
characteristics when they are modified in case of defeat or victory.

IF PROGRESSING: Allows you to save the data when:
you improve your fighting skills
you win a trophy
you change your blow section

ALWAYS: Allows you to save a data as soon as you modify it.

BACK TO A BOXER' CHARACTERISTIC: Allows you to get back to the initial
characteristic of your boxer: his starting percentage, his trophies, and his
name.

CHANGE THE NAME OF A BOXER: Select the name you want to change with the
joystick then, validate your choice with the fire button.
To enter a new name, use the joystick: UP/DOWN to modify a letter, RIGHT/LEFT
to change the cursor position in the word.
To quit, press the ESC key, or type the name on your keyboard and press RETURN
to quit.

BACK TO MENU: Return to the boxer's menu.

TRAINING SESSION
The training sessions help a boxer to better his physical capacities.  You are
going to improve your RESISTANCE by practising skipping-rope, your STRENGTH
with weight lifting and your reflex by kicking moving targets.  Thanks to
those exercises you are going to be the best.
To practice skipping-rope, use the joystick.  Move it from right to left,
several time per second and hold on to that rhythm for 30 seconds.
To practice weight lifting, use the joystick.  Move it in every direction as
fast as possible.
To practice kicking on mobile targets, use the joystick to hit the upper
target, the middle target and the lower target.
If your training session has been efficient, your physical shape percentages
will increase.

MATCH
To start the fight, just select the MATCH option with your joystick and press
the fire button.  After a few seconds the fight begins.
If there is too much difference between the two boxers levels, the program
will automatically refuse the fight.
Before the fight, a POM POM GIRL indicates the round number.  To erase her
from the screen, just press the fire button.

SELECT HITS (This option isn't available on 512k machines)
The boxers can select 13 KICK BOXING blows among 55 blows available in the
game.  You can action either one by using the joystick or the keyboard.

Technically, we could have given you direct access to the 55 blows but that
would mean very complex combinations of the positions of the joystick.  So to
make things easy, we chose the simple and easy to use solution.

The limitation to 13 blows allows an immediate access to the technique you
want to use, that means more rapidity and precision in your performances.

On the SELECT HITS screen page you can see:
On the left, 9 squares with the different available blows.
On the right, different menus from which you can select a blow.

THE 9 SQUARES
Scrolling through the 55 blows: Joystick to the left or the right when
pressing the fire button.

Select a hit: With the joystick (and without pressing the fire button),
position the boxer in the red pants in the square of your choice and press the
key corresponding to the position of the joystick.

Examples of a position:  Key B corresponds to the upper position of the
                         joystick without pressing the fire button.

MENU 1
The menu including the A.B.C.D.E keys shows the position of the joystick when
the fire button is not pressed.

MENU 2
The menu including the F.G.H.I.J.K.L.M keys shows the position of the joystick
when the fire button is pressed.

OPTIONS
The X option allows you to see all the selected blows.  As long as you press
the X key, you see the MENU 1 positions and the message F0 appears in the
central square.  When you release the X key, the MENU 2 positions appear on
the screen the F1 message in the central square.  No changes occur on the
screen until you press another key.
The Y option allows you to quit the selection without any modification.
The Z option allows you to validate your selection.

NOTE: You cannot modify the selection of the boxer's blows ran by the
      computer.  Some of the positions are not available :RIGHT,LEFT,DOWN.
      These are moving and parry positions already determined by the computer.

EXAMPLE OF A SELECTION
EXAMPLE:  You wish to assign blow #10 to the upper position of the joystick,
          without pressing the fire button.
          Move the joystick to the RIGHT when pressing the fire button.  The
          second screen of blows appears.  Move the boxer in the red pants to
          the square number 10 without pressing the fire button.  Now that you
          have selected your blow, press the B key corresponding to the upper
          position of the joystick.  Blow number 10 is now assigned to the
          upper position of the joystick.

Proceed the same way for each blow you wish to modify.

To get some training and become familiar with your new selection, you can
fight a boxer who doesn't defend himself.  Just follow the example:
If you have boxer A with joystick 1, choose to fight boxer B (using the
keyboard) and don't touch the keyboard.
Boxer B will be your Sparing Partner.

LIST OF THE 55 BLOWS AVAILABLE TO YOU IN THE MENU SECTION:

POSITIONS

BLOW No 00:     Parry position

REAR LEG
BLOW No. 01:    High back round kick
BLOW No. 02:    Low back round kick
BLOW No. 03:    Middle back round kick
BLOW No. 04:    High jumping back side kick
BLOW No. 05:    High jumping back round kick
BLOW No. 06:    High jumping back round kick (facing hips)
BLOW No. 07:    Low front kick
BLOW No. 08:    Middle front kick
BLOW No. 09:    High front kick
BLOW No. 10:    Axe kick
BLOW No. 11:    Jumping axe kick
BLOW No. 12:    Middle jumping front kick
BLOW No. 13:    Jumping side kick
BLOW No. 14:    High hook kick
BLOW No. 15:    'Going up' kick
BLOW No. 16:    Low round kick
BLOW No. 17:    Middle round kick
BLOW No. 18:    High round kick
BLOW No. 19:    Middle jumping round kick
BLOW No. 20:    High jumping round kick
BLOW No. 21:    High side kick
BLOW No. 22:    Middle side kick
BLOW No. 23:    Low side kick

PUNCHING
BLOW No. 24:    Plunging hook
BLOW No. 25:    Uppercut
BLOW No. 26:    Straight right to the face
BLOW No. 27:    Middle straight right
BLOW No. 28:    Middle straight right straight left
BLOW No. 29:    Right hook to the face
BLOW No. 30:    Straight left to the face
BLOW No. 31:    Left hook to the face
BLOW No. 32:    Back fist
BLOW No. 33:    Left swing right swing, with back fist

FRONT LEG
BLOW No. 34:    Back round kick (facing hips)
BLOW No. 35:    Middle back side kick
BLOW No. 36:    Jumping axe kick
BLOW No. 37:    Middle jumping front kick
BLOW No. 38:    Low front kick
BLOW No. 39:    Middle front kick
BLOW No. 40:    High front kick
BLOW No. 41:    Middle round kick
BLOW No. 42:    Hook kick to the face
BLOW No. 43:    'Going up' kick to the face
BLOW No. 44:    Jumping 'going up' kick to the face
BLOW No. 45:    Jumping round kick
BLOW No. 46:    Low round kick
BLOW No. 47:    High round kick
BLOW No. 48:    Middle round kick
BLOW No. 49:    High round kick with change of parry position
BLOW No. 50:    Middle round kick with change of parry position
BLOW No. 51:    Low round kick with change of parry position
BLOW No. 52:    Middle side kick
BLOW No. 53:    Low side kick
BLOW No. 54:    High side kick
BLOW No. 55:    Middle side kick while moving

We didn't keep the technical terms referred to those blows that you hear in
the clubs.  We chose names easy to remember for the novice players.
Those technical names you hear in the boxing clubs have French, English and
Japanese origins: KAKATO, YOKO GERI, BACK FIST, FRONTAL...

GRADING
There are two ways of grading:
One in DOLLARS, reflecting the strength level of a boxer.  It is determined
according to the values in DOLLARS, which is itself calculated according to
the boxer's STRENGTH, RESISTANCE and REFLEX.
The other, according to the trophies.  If you have one or several trophies you
automatically appear in the trophies classification.

MATCH
INFORMATION DISPLAY
It consists of a chronometer and two light ramps located above the ring.
The CHRONOMETER indicates how long you have to fight before the end of the
round.  We reduced the time of a round to one minute, but in reality, a round
lasts 2 minutes.
Each light ramp is placed above a boxer.  The lit one indicates which boxer is
leading the game.  This is why luminosity will vary according to the blows hit
during the fight.  There are 4 projectors on each ramp, and each projector has
3 different intensity of lighting

YELLOW: Maximum lighting = maximum physical shape
ORANGE: Medium lighting  = medium physical shape
BLACK: Null lighting     = null physical shape

When the 4 projectors above a boxer are black, it means the boxer is knocked
out and loses the fight.

STRIKING A BLOW
To strike a blow, just move the joystick in one of the 13 available positions.
The blow corresponding to the chosen position is automatically stricken.  To
see the different available positions, refer to the COMMANDS and SELECT HITS
chapters.

HITTING YOUR OPPONENT
To make sure that your blow hits your opponent, one of your attacking zones
(fists, feet, tibias) must touch a non-protected and sensitive part of your
opponent's body (head, torso, thigh).  So, if you are too close to your
opponent or too far from him, your kick will miss its target.
A circular kick will hit your opponent if he stands in the trajectory of the
blow.  For example - you are behind your opponent (closer to the ropes than he
is) and you strike a circular kick aiming to the back of the ring: your
circular kick will have few chances to touch your opponent.  On the other
hand, if your circular kick is aimed at your opponent (to the front of the
ring) the chances are your kick will hit him.
So, for your blow to hit your opponent, you must stand to the right position
when you start your blow (not too close, not too far), and your blow must hit
a non-protected and sensitive part of your opponent's body.

PARRY AND DODGE
To parry a blow you must move the joystick in the down position without
pressing the fire button.  Depending on his REFLEX percentage, your boxer will
then choose a more or less efficient parry position.  If there is no attack,
he automatically chooses a parry position.  When a boxer reaches a good level,
he chooses quality parry positions, like a professional: dodge, duck, block...

BLOW
When you strike a blow, some parameters will define its quality:
STRENGTH of the attacker
RESISTANCE of the opponent
POWER of the blow
HEIGHT of the blow

Scores are precisely kept according to those parameters.
The variants in the projectors lightning reflect a boxer's vitality.  When the
projectors of a boxer are off, this boxer loses the fight.  It is also
possible that after a blow on the head, a boxer falls to the ground and loses
some vitality.

RECOVERY
It happens automatically at the end of each round.  In the game, recovery time
is of 30 seconds and it allows the boxer to regain strength.
Recovery is also possible during a fight when there is no attack or when a
boxer falls to the ground.

CLINCH
When two boxers fight too close from one another, sometimes they clinch.  The
referee must then separate them.

TURN AROUND
It may happen that after a blow you find yourself turning back to your
opponent; it is essential to turn around in order to go on fighting.  You have
two ways of executing this turn:
the first one is to totally loosen the joystick which will automatically get
back to its neutral position and this will give to the program the instant
order to turn.
The second way is to move the joystick in the down position without pressing
the fire button: the turn is immediately performed.

UMPIRING
The referee's office is to oversee the proper behaviour of the two fighters.
He stops the fight when one of the boxers strikes the same blow in succession.
Varying your blows is one of the essential conditions for a quality fight.
When, after a sweep, a boxer falls down to the ground without being hurt, the
referee stops the fight to allow him to get back up.
If a boxer is knocked out, the referee counts up to 8 to give him time to
regain consciousness; if a boxer is not able to fight again within the
required time, the referee counts up to 10 and proclaims the other fighter the
winner.

END OF THE MATCH
At the end of the last round, the boxer with the more lit projectors wins the
fight.  If the loser has one or several trophies, the winner gets the smaller
of these trophies.  If the fight was not that easy to win (too much difference
between the two fighters), the STRENGTH, RESISTANCE, REFLEX parameters of the
winner will be increased.  This way he is progressing in the classification
and another title is added to his prize-list.
A Pom Pom girl shows his trophy to the winner.
The loser's parameters automatically decrease.

VCR
As soon as the fight begins, you can start on the VCR by pressing F1.
The Logo o_o appears on the left side of the screen.  The VCR is taping the
round.  At the end of the round, the colours turn red to simulate a picture
taped on a VCR.

Now you can see the tape.

From the neutral position of the joystick (pause)

Re-winding the tape:            JOYSTICK moved once to the left
Slow motion:                    JOYSTICK moved once to the right
Play:                           JOYSTICK moved twice to the right
Fast motion:                    JOYSTICK moved three times to the right
Pause of the VCR:               JOYSTICK moved up or down

So, each move you give to the joystick corresponds to a specific function of
the VCR.
To quit the VCR option, press the fire button or the space bar.

INTERNATIONAL REGULATIONS OF KICK BOXING
Rules and Regulations of World Kick Boxing Association.

RULE 1          AUTHORITIES
The regulations listed in this document constitute the official law of the
W.K.A and must rule the world kick boxing organization.
The W.K.A will nominate official representatives who will assume these law
constraints.

RULE 2          THE RING
The dimensions of the ring, its equipment and its fighting surface must be
approved by the officials in service.

RULE 3          THE ROUND
Male:   World Championship              12 x 2'
        Europe Championship             10 x 2'
        France Championship              7 x 2'

Female: World Championship              10 x 2'
        Europe Championship              7 x 2'
        France Championship              5 x 2'

In C division, the fights have three rounds of two minutes each for men, three
rounds of one minute thirty seconds each for women.

In B division, fights do not have more than five rounds of two minutes each,
for both men and women.

In A division, fights have more than five rounds for the men, more than three
for the women.

Recovery time between the rounds is always of one minute.

RULE 4          THE FIGHTER
BEHAVIOUR AND EQUIPMENT
1)      A fighter must be neat and have good appearance.  Only the organization
        will judge whether or not the facial appearance of a boxer is regular
        (moustache, beard, etc...), whether or not the length of his hair can
        bother him during the fight (obstructing his view, modifying his
        behaviour...).
        Excessive use of vaseline or other substances is forbidden.

2)      The referee or the officials can require from the fighter to have a
        correct appearance that is, to be correctly shaved, washed or dressed.

FIGHTERS EQUIPMENT
-Foot-gear      -Gloves
-Bandages       -Leg-gear
-Mouth piece    -Box

Fist gear and foot-gear must be approved by the W.K.A and are compulsory.
Wearing leg-gear during the fight is authorized but optional; they must not be
made of any rigid material.
Male fighters must wear a plastic or aluminium box, sustained by an elastic
band.  An abdominal protection is also authorized.
Women must wear breast-gear; plastic is authorized.
Every fighter must wear a mouth piece, approved by the organization.
To hold their hair, women may wear a cap approved by the organization.

RULE 5          WEIGHT CATEGORIES
MALE
Fly-weight                              -52kgs
Bantam-weight                           -53kgs 500
Feather-weight                          -57kgs
Super feather-weight                    -59kgs
Light-weight                            -61kgs
Super light-weight                      -63kgs 500
Welter-weight                           -67kgs
Super welter-weight                     -70kgs
Middle-weight                           -72kgs 500
Super middle-weight                     -76kgs
Heavy-light weight                      -79kgs
Super-heavy light weight                -83kgs
Half-heavy weight                       -86kgs
Heavy-weight                            -95kgs
Super-heavy weight                      +95kgs

FEMALE
Flea-weight                             -48kgs
Fly-weight                              -50kgs
Super-fly weight                        -52kgs
Feather-weight                          -55kgs
Super-feather weight                    -57kgs
Light-weight                            -59kgs
Super-light weight                      -61kgs
Welter-weight                           -63kgs
Super-welter weight                     -67kgs
Half-heavy weight                       -70kgs
Heavy-weight                            +70kgs

RULE 6          THE OFFICIALS
Every fight must be supervised by:
-1 referee              -3 judges plus one rotating judge
-1 scoring board        -1 chronometer
-1 physician            -1 supervisor from organization

A speaker can be provided.

The organization must determine in advance the part played by each official
and the qualifications he has.

RULE 7          UMPIRING
1)  The referee will be in charge of supervising the fight.  He, or she, will
    see that regulation is respected and will keep an eye on the safe-conduct
    and fair-play of the fighters.

2)  Before the fight, the referee must check on each boxer's coach and
    assistant names who will be in charge during the game.  A maximum of two
    persons is authorized in the corner of the ring.

3)  Before each fight, the judges, the referee, the fighters and their helps
    must have a meeting.

RULE 8          THE JUDGES
The judges will be placed on the sides of the ring, at a spot chosen by the
organization.
They will work in collaboration with the referee and will be in charge of
counting the points marked during each round of the whole fight.

RULE 9          THE PHYSICIAN
1)  An approved physician will be placed on one side of the ring.  No fight
    can take place without the presence of a physician.
    He cannot leave before the end of a fight.
    In case of emergency, he must be ready to intervene and give the fighters
    the necessary medical cares if they are wounded even lightly.

2)  If a boxer is wounded, the coach or his assistant cannot take any
    decision without the physician's opinion.
    When the physician intervenes time is deducted.

RULE 10         THE FIGHT
The fight starts when the bell rings the first round.
It ends when the bell rings the last round.
Except the referee and the fighters, no-one is admitted on the ring during the
fight.

RULE 11         DISHONEST BEHAVIOUR
During the fight, any non-sportive or dishonest behaviour will be penalized by
the referee and will involve punitive sanctions decided by the umpiring board.
A fighter with a dishonest behaviour during a fight will get a warning from
the referee and points will be deducted from his score.  A dishonest behaviour
can involve the disqualification of a fighter and his immediate suspension.
His cash bonuses will be withheld.  The organization will notify by writing
its decisions concerning the cash bonus and the penalty.

Examples of dishonest behaviour:
-Spitting, biting or speaking rough language on the ring.
-Striking blows with the head, the knee, the shoulder; bludgeon striking with
 one or both hands.
-Aiming the eyes with the thumbs of the gloves.
-Hitting any part of the back, except when the opponent is making a revolving
 movement (for the women, also hitting the breast).
-Deliberate use of the whiplash.
-Hitting with the wrist or with an open glove.
-Hitting irregularly the knee or below the belt.
-Holding your opponent with one hand while hitting him with the other hand.
-Climbing on your opponent's foot or leg, or gripping them.
-Holding your opponent's leg or climbing on one of his foot to keep him from
 kicking you with his other leg.
-Gripping any part of your opponent's body for any reason.
-Attacking your opponent during the break.
-Attacking your opponent after the bell rings the end of the round, or when he
 has left the ring.
-Deliberately pushing your opponent outside of the ring.
-Making your opponent fall to the ground using irregular methods.
-Hitting your opponent when he is on the ground, or when he is getting up.
-Falling down to the ground without being hurt.
-Any non-sportive action that would wrong your opponent.

RULE 12         THE FORBIDDEN KICKS
All the low level side kicks:
Ex: French boxing (Chasse bas)  Karate (Yokogueri)
1)  All kicks in the legs (internal and external face) are authorized
    including sweeps.  Sole restriction: low side kicks, low back kicks and
    kicks on the knees.

2)  Kicks aiming at the knee or at the hip, back-handed blows, all are
    prohibited and are counted as faults.

RULE 13
When a boxer, intentionally and for an extended period, refuses to get into
the fight or keeps holding on to his opponent, he gets an immediate warning
from the referee.
If he sticks to this attitude after the warning, the referee will determine the
points he will deduct from the boxer's score.
If he repeats the same passive tactic during the same round or in the
following rounds, the boxer can be considered as guilty of fault and will get
a penalty.
In a fight with no title at issue, the referee must stop the fight and the
chronometer when a fighter loses his mouth-piece.  The referee will have to
rinse the mouth-piece and replace it in the boxer's mouth.  No boxer is
allowed to fight without this protection.  If he does, it will be considered
as a fault and will be penalized.
In a fight with a title issue, the fight will not be stopped if a boxer loses
his mouth-piece.

RULE 14         BLOWS LEADING TO ACCIDENTS
1)  If a fight is stopped because of an accident caused by a fault, the
    referee has to decide whether or not the wounded boxer can go on
    fighting.  The referee can ask for the physician's assistance.  If the
    boxer is not seriously wounded, the referee must restart the fight after
    a reasonable lapse of time.

2)  In case of an accident caused by a fault and if the referee declares the
    boxer unable to go on, the fight is over.  The official in charge of
    counting the points will have to calculate the total of each score with
    all the penalties deducted.
    If the score of the wounded boxer is declared inferior by the majority of
    the judges, the match will be declared a draw.  If it is declared
    superior, the referee will declare the wounded boxer winner by technical
    decision.

3)  If an accident occurs during the first round and the fight has to be
    stopped, the referee declares the match a draw.

RULE 15         STOP THE MATCH
1)  The referee has the power and the duty to stop the fight whenever he
    wants during the competition if the fighters (male or female) don't
    respect the rules, the fighting area, or if one of them is physically
    inapt to go on fighting.  In any case, the remaining boxer will be
    declared winner by referee decision.

2)  If both fighters are in a bad physical shape (with a danger of serious
    wounds), the match will be declared unacceptable.

3)  If a fighter has been hurt by a regular or irregular blow, the wound
    might get worse if he goes on fighting.  In that case, the referee must
    ask the physician to examine the boxer; the diagnosis will allow to
    determine whether or not the boxer can fight.
    The chronometer will stop during this intervention.

4)  Only the physician and the referee can momentarily or definitely stop the
    match in case of: wounds, accidents, material damages.
    Other cases: throwing up the sponge, knockdown, knockout, evident
    differences of level.

RULE 16
When the referee thinks the boxers don't fight honestly (fake K.O or fake
blows), he can stop the match and declare the end of the fight.
In that case, the judge can require an investigation on both fighters and
suspend them till the Organization comes to another decision.

RULE 17
1)  No fighter can leave the ring during the recovery time.
    If a boxer refuses to fight when the bell rings the next round, the
    referee declares the opponent winner by technical knockout.

2)  If the referee thinks the circumstances wrapping the end of the fight
    demand disciplinary actions or an investigation, no final decision will
    be taken.  The referee will suspend the fighters and call upon the
    competent committee who then will pronounce its judgement.

RULE 18
1)  A boxer will be declared KNOCKDOWN when any part of his body, except the
    feet, touches the ground, or if he despairingly clutches at the ropes.

2)  A boxer is not considered KNOCKDOWN if he has been pushed, thrown to the
    ground, or if he slipped.  The referee is the only one who has the
    authority to differentiate a KNOCKDOWN from the incidents above-mentioned.

RULE 19         COUNTDOWN
1)  When a boxer is knocked out, the referee asks the opponent to stand in
    the neutral corner and then immediately starts to count down.  He must
    count each passing second in a loud voice, and indicate the counting with
    his fingers in a visible way.

2)  If a boxer is KNOCKED OUT, the referee automatically starts the count
    down of 10 seconds; if the boxer can stand up, he is allowed to go on
    fighting.
    The person in charge of the chronometer will give to the referee the
    exact interval between the seconds.  The counting of the referee is the
    official one.

3)  While a fighter is standing in the neutral corner, time of the fight will
    be stopped till he gets back to the fight.

4)  When the fighter who fell to the ground gets up before the 10 seconds and
    then falls down again, the referee will start counting down from where he
    stopped.

5)  When a fighter is still on the ground after the 10 seconds, the referee
    will raise his arms to indicate the Knockout and will announce to the
    other fighter that he is the winner.

6)  If a round ends before the referee finishes counting, the count down will
    still go on allowing the boxer to get up if he can.

7)  When two fighters fall down to the ground at the same time, the referee
    will count as long as one of them is still on the ground.
    If both fighters stay on the ground till the count down is over, the
    fight will be stopped and the referee will declare the match a draw.  If
    one of them gets up before 10, he will be declared winner by Knockout if
    the other boxer is on the ground.
    If both fighters get up before 10, the round will go on.

RULE 20         COUNTING UP TO 8
A boxer may get hurt but yet not fall to the ground.  After sending the
opponent in the neutral corner of the ring, the referee can start counting
while examining the hurt boxer; once the count is over, the referee will
decide whether or not the boxer can go on fighting.  If he thinks he is unable
to fight, he will stop the match and will declare the opponent winner by
technical Knockout.

RULE 21         RELAY OF COUNTING
When a boxer has been hurt, the person in charge of the chronometer starts
counting down from 1 to 10 while the referee sends the opponent to the neutral
corner of the ring.
Then the referee gets back to the hurt boxer starting the countdown from where
the chronometer stopped it.

RULE 22                 FALLING FROM THE RING
1)  Every boxer who has been pushed, ejected from the ring or who fall from
    the ring can be helped back on the ring by anyone except his assistant
    and his manager.
    The referee will give a reasonable lapse of time to allow the boxer to
    get back on the ring; after that time he will start counting down.
    When a boxer is outside of the ropes but still on the ring, he can
    immediately go back to the fighting area.  But the referee may start to
    count down if he wishes, till the boxer gets back inside the ropes.

2)  Each time a boxer goes through the ropes, his opponent must stand in the
    neutral corner of the ring and stay there till the referee allows him to
    go back to the fight.

3)  A boxer who intentionally pushes or throws his opponent out of the ring
    will be penalized.

RULE 23         CLEANING OF THE GLOVES
Before a boxer who fell gets back to the fight, the referee must clean his
gloves so that they get rid of any extraneous element.

RULE 24         PHYSICIAN ASSISTANCE
1)  At any time during a round the referee can ask the physician to examine a
    boxer.  The chronometer will be stopped during the time of the exam.

2)  If the physician thinks one of the boxers is unable to go on fighting, he
    can ask the referee to stop the match.

RULE 25         KEEPING THE SCORE
1)  The judges will keep the score of every fight and will determine the
    winner according to a 10 points system.
    According to that system, the winner of each round gets 10 points and his
    opponent gets less points in proportion.  But the loser of a round can
    never get a note inferior to 7 points.
    If the round is judged a draw, both fighters get 10 points each.
    No fractional point can be given.

2)  The notes will be given according to the relative efficiency of each
    fighter.  In a round, a KNOCKDOWN always shows a superior efficiency.
    Nevertheless, a boxer who is knocked down because of his own lack of
    balance and not because of his opponent's blow, can stand up and fight
    with such good techniques that he wins the round.
    The value of a KNOCKDOWN must be equal, in points, for both fighters.

3)  Usually, a sweep will not get the same score than a KNOCKDOWN.  The
    judges will consider the technical efficiency and will reduce the score
    of one of the fighters.

4)  When a fighter wins a round because he strikes above the belt and has an
    exceptional technique, he will receive an advantage of points compared
    with a boxer who wins a round because of superior fists technique.  The
    LOW KICK technique below the belt has the same value in points than the
    fist technique.

5)  A fighter who spends a whole round aggressively rushing his opponent with
    kicks and punches will not be as favourably judged as a fighter enduring
    these attacks with good defence tactics.

6)  More precisely, this is the base upon which the points are given
    according to the following scores:

        a)  10 to 10 when no fighter is dominating the other with an obvious
            efficient superiority.
        b)  10 to 9 each time a fighter is obviously leading the round because
            of his  superior efficiency.
        c)  10 to 8 when a fighter leads the round with his exceptional
            technique of hits above the belt or because his high superior
            efficiency which can lead to a KNOCKDOWN.
        d)  10 to 7 when a fighter obviously dominates the whole round by his
            superior technique and efficiency (performing several KNOCKDOWN...)

7)  At the end of each round and at the end of the match, the referee will
    record the judges decisions, will transmit them to the person in charge
    of counting the points who will then add up the scores.
    If there is no majority vote, the match will be declared a draw.

8)  When the officials of the Organization are through with checking and
    adding up the points, the final result will be made public.

RULE 26         CHANGING DECISION
1)  Any public made decision will be definitive and will not be changed
    except for the following reasons:

        a)  Pre-agreement between two fighters that could fake the result of the
            match.
        b)  Error in the addition of the judge's notations that could modify the
            final decision.
        c)  Evident violation of the W.K.A regulations.

2)  If one of these incidents occur during a match, the Organization will
    have the right to change the final decision.

REGULATION OF CHAMPIONSHIP, CHALLENGE AND FIGHT

RULE 27         CHAMPION TITLE
1)  A title of World Champion, or European, National, Regional Champion will
    be determined by the Organization regarding the sex and the weight
    category.

2)  A champion title can only be awarded in a fight organized by the W.K.A.
    One can lose a title:
        -by default
        -by withdrawing from the competition
        -by getting overweight

RULE 28         CHAMPIONS
1)  A fighter is declared champion when he wins a title after a fight in a
    specific category which has been rated by the Organization.  He must also
    accept to put his title at stake against the possible qualified
    challenger.

2)  The W.K.A will acknowledge the champion titles, only if they have been won
    during championship fights (with the required number of rounds) set up by
    the Organization itself, and within the following conditions:

       -When an acknowledged champion has been defeated while defending his
        title.
       -When there is a vacant title in a category, the most qualified
        challenger will be declared champion.
       -A vacant title in a category will be awarded during a fight between
        challenger No. 1 and challenger No. 2 belonging to this same category.

3)  If the issue of a championship fight is a draw, the title will not be
    attributed and still be vacant.

RULE 29         CHALLENGERS
1)  A challenger has to be a fighter whose qualifications are ratified by the
    Organization in order to fight a champion.  If he wins, he must be ready
    to put his title at stake in another fight.

2)  The Organization will acknowledge the best challenger if he wins a
    ratified match (with the required number of rounds) and if the following
    conditions are fulfilled:
    The challenger has been recognized as the most qualified of the
    classified fighters listed and ratified by the Organization; he is also
    recognized for the performances he showed during the different fights.

3)  A National or Continental Champion can fight against a World Champion.
    A Regional or a local Champion can fight against a National Champion.

4)  A ratified challenger or the champion of a category can fight another
    ratified challenger or the champion of another category.

5)  A ratified champion or a champion back from a recent period of
    retirement, can fight a challenger in championship.

6)  A champion or a challenger coming from another boxing category (American
    Boxing, French Boxing...) can fight a champion or a challenger from the
    W.K.A of an equal stature, after approval from the Organization.

RULE 30         CHAMPION TITLE AT ISSUE
1)  Any challenger who fights for a title in a championship set up by an
    official organization must have the exact weight of his category.

2)  If one hour before the match the challenger has not reached this exact
    weight, the Organization cancels the fight and declares the title still
    vacant.

RULE 31         FIGHT WITH NO TITLE AT ISSUE
Champions can fight in a match with no title at issue but with written
authorization from the Organization.

RULE 32         TITLE MANDATE
1)  Every titular champion must put his title at stake in another fight after
    a 6 months delay maximum at a national level, one year delay maximum at
    an international level.

2)  A champion will defend his title against the number 1 of a category,
    determined by the Organization.

3)  The Organization can exempt a champion from defending his title in the
    following circumstances:
        -Major personal problem
        -Physical problem
        -Illness

RULE 33         ILLNESS
When a boxer under contract has to fight but is sick, the official
representative has to make a written statement of the facts to the
Organization.
Nevertheless, the Organization can ask the fighter to undergo a medical
examination.

RULE 34         ABSENCE
A boxer under contract who doesn't attend a match he is supposed to fight in,
will undergo disciplinarian actions except if he took the precaution of giving,
in absence, a medical certificate or a good excuse to the Organization.
If no explanation is given, the Organization will declare vacant the title of
the champion capable of such misconduct.

SPECIAL RULES FOR THE KICK BOXING GAME
Some blows available in the game are forbidden in KICK BOXING but authorized
in FRENCH BOXING or FULL CONTACT.
The referee doesn't penalize those 'forbidden' blows so you can easily change
categories.
In the game, a round lasts 1 minute; in reality, it lasts 2 minutes.
The recovery time between two rounds lasts 30 seconds in the game, and 1
minute in reality.

ADVANCED
MAIN DIFFERENCES BETWEEN KICK BOXING
AND THAI BOXING, FULL CONTACT AND FRENCH BOXING

Thai boxing is a specific category.  Hitting a blow with the knees is
authorized as well as grabbing and throwing your opponent.
These techniques are not used in the game.

In FULL CONTACT you never kick your opponent in the legs; this is the main
difference with KICK BOXING.

FRENCH BOXING forbids axe kicks, back fists, unarmed kicks.
For example, a regular round kick must go through an armed state when, in KICK
BOXING, the leg can be stretched at the beginning and at the end of the
movement.  Kicking is authorized only with the foot and not with the tibia as
it is in KICK BOXING.

Some blows are forbidden in KICK BOXING but permitted in the game:
-Front kicks and side kicks under the belt
-round kicks to the inside of the thigh

The front kicks have been hit with the heel (but in KICK BOXING, the regular
kick is hit with the tip of the toes), this way you can play according to the
FRENCH BOXING rules and still use the front kicks at any height.

SOME ADVICE FOR A GOOD QUALITY FIGHT
-All blows don't have the same impact.

-Watch your distance when you hit.

-If you are standing behind your opponent (close to the back of the ring), do
not try a round kick aiming at the end of the ring, you would miss your
opponent.

-Try to vary your blows as much as you can.  For example, if the computer or
your opponent realizes that you are always fighting close, he will stay far
away from you to strike long kicks.

-If you hit a non reacting opponent (during a training session for example),
your boxer will shrug his shoulders, wondering what is going on with his
opponent.  Shrugging the shoulders indicates a non-motivated boxer.  The
absence of motivation is program processed.  It decreases the power of a
strike and the REFLEX percentages during a round.

-Don't use too many sweeps to make your opponent fall, it gets on his nerves.
The computer takes in consideration a boxer's state of nerves.  A nervy boxer
strikes harder but doesn't parry the blows as well as he could.  The striking
force of a nervy boxer can increase one third.

-The nervy state of a boxer lasts for the whole fight and cancels his absence
of motivation.

-Strike a sequence of blows aiming at different parts of your opponent.  For
example, a high kick followed by a low kick will more likely get your opponent
than several identical kicks.

-Don't let yourself get caught in a ring corner, it would keep you from using
your techniques.

-If two boxers have the same number of points at the end of a fight, the
winner will be the one who tried the most varied blows.  Don't forget it!

HOW TO SELECT YOUR BOXER'S BLOWS SO THAT HE IS CORRECTLY DRIVEN BY THE
COMPUTER IN THE PREVIEW MODE.
When the computer drives a boxer (its boxer or one of yours in the preview
mode), it needs to know his selection.
Let's take the selection menu.  The joystick position can be identified by
letters going from A to M.
These are the positions the computer can identify:

A       corresponds to a long stretched blow.

B,C,D   correspond to a direct blow hit with the front arm or the front leg,
                or to a round kick, coming from the end of the screen.

E,F,G   correspond to a direct blow hit with the rear arm or the rear leg,
                or to a round kick, coming from the end of the screen.

H,I,J   correspond to a direct blow hit with the front arm or the front leg,
                or to a round kick, aiming at the end of the screen.

K,L,M   correspond to a direct blow hit with the rear arm or the rear leg,
                or to a round kick, aiming at the end of the screen.

End.