                           H E L L F I R E   P R E S E N T S 

Full documentation to PENGUINS!

How to play the game...

The idea of the game is to get the penguins to the exit, which is obviously
not as easy as it sounds! There are various switches on each level that
operate different objects such as lifts, conveyor belts, doors, ladders,
etc. You can use these objects with the penguins or with other objects like
the movable block, which can then be used to `put out` a flame jet or to
cover up some spikes! There are loads of different ways in which to use
each object. Your task is to work out which object to use, the best way to
use it, and in what order should you use that object.

The penguin also have their own special abilities. The penguin with the
blue coat can collect two different type of keys to open doors, the red key
for small doors, and the silver key for larger doors. the penguin with the
club will take care of any baddies. Just guide him in front of a baddie and
he will do the rest!

You also have bombs at your disposal. They are limited to a maximum nine at
any one time, but you can pick up more as the game progresses. The bombs
can be used to blow up the destroyable blocks, or to remove a baddie, you
could aso use them to kill a penguin. This is useful if he is stuck in a
hole, and don`t want to restart the level again.

To use a bomb, hold <DOWN>, then press fire. If you move you will see the
bomb, which will explode after a short period of time. You can also `SLIDE`
the bombs. To do this hold <DOWN>, then hold the direction to slide the
bomb in (left or right), and finally press fire. The bomb will slide along
the floor until it comes in contact with something, but it willnot explode
until the timer runs out.

At the beginning of each level you are presented with a screen giving you
information on that level. This also gives you a level code which you can
use on the options screen, allowing you to restarton that level when you
load that game up next.

There are also fifty eggs scattered around the sixty levels. You do not ned
to collect these to complete the game but if you do not collect all fifty
then you will not be able to see the End Game Animations. This is just an
incentive to play the game again once you have completed it!

IN GAME HINTS AND TIPS...

To make things easier when thinking how to complete a level, there are
`MAP` screens placed throughout the levels. These allow you to scroll
around the level with the joystick. To use a `MAP`, simply stand in front
of a `MAP` screen and press fire. You should see a message flashing in the
middle of the screen saying `MAP MODE`. You can now use the joystick to
scroll around the level. If you press fire again, then you will
automatically be taken back to the `MAP` screen, and taken out of `MAP
MODE`, allowing you to continue play.

You can also `TRACK` the penguins. To do this, press key F8 or F9. The
screen will now be split into two, with th etop half showing you and the
bottom half showing one of the penguins. To put the screen back to normal
press F10.

If you leave the title screen running the game will load up various demos.
You can also boot from disk 3. This gives you a brief description of most
of the objects and how they COULD be used!

If you change the game mode in the options menu to TRAINER, then you will
be able to play levels 1 to 8 without loosing any lives. These levels also
introduce the main objects in the game.

Although you have a time limit (show top right of the screen), it does not
make much difference to the early levels, so take your time and thinkthings
through one step at a time.

If you make a mistake and find you cannot complete the level, then press
the <ESC> key to restart the level.

THE KEYBOARD
------------

The following keys have various functions.

HELP....Will PAUSE the game. The TIMER will stop.

ESC.... Will RESTART the current level. If you have any lives left.

SHIFT+ESC.... Will QUIT back to the title screens.

F8.... Will `TRACK` the key penguin.

F9.... Will `TRACK` the club penguin.

F10... Will turn `TRACKING` off.
