                             PEPE'S GARDEN
                              TYPED BY DIT 

                              INTRODUCTION

 Pepe is a mouse who likes to encourage children to play. He does this
with the help of his children and a number of wacky friends. there isn't
a corner of his garden left undisturbed. Even at night some mice sneak
out and play only to be chased back to bed by Pepe.

 Your child will love the games which will give hours of fun and teach
some important skills as well.

 Take a look in Pep's garden with Garden Games. In level 1 your child can
learn to match simple shapes in easy stages and in level 2 some of the
shapes begin to look almost like letters. Pepe takes his children to fly
their kites in level 3. The children however are a little mischievous
when they tamper with a chair ... In level 4 we have a naughty little
mouse searching the garden with a torch. It is quite dark and it may well
need mum and dad to help with telling the patterns apart.

 In one corner of the garden we can find the Alphabet Tree. This tree is
laden with letters which Pepe's feathered friend has to find. Without the
right guidance however he can be very accident prone. Pepe's children
come to play and see how things are getting on. Your child will learn the
letters in the alphabet, both lower case and upper case.

 Every garden should have a wall and Pepe's garden has a wall which is
covered with creepers, both the growing kind and the crawly kind. Pepe
himself likes to stand on top of the wall and watch his children run up
and down it. They have to find some hidden objects like boats, hats,
dragons and many more. To make their task a little more challenging they
also have to find the names of these objects. Your child will love to
learn to read the words with this game.

 Pepe has a quiet corner in his garden, just right for reading. Quite
often though he nods off and then he dreams of butterflies and elephants
and much more. His children like to count them and that wakes Pepe up,
but only for a little while and he soon is dreaming again. Your child
will learn to count and do simple addition.

 There is another quiet spot in Pepe's garden. This is reserved for your
child. Here Pepe invites your child to paint pictures and let his/her
imagination run away. The grass can be pink and the sky green, Pepe does
not mind. This is a very easy introduction to a paint package.

                          HOW TO PLAY THE GAMES

    GARDEN GAMES

 This game cane\ be played with a joystick (confirm with the FIRE BUTTON)
or arrow keys (confirm with SPACEBAR).

 There are four levels to this game:

 Level 1:  basic shapes and colours.

 Level 2:  more complex shapes, some almost like letters, and more
           colours.

 Level 3:  different shapes and colour combination.

 Level 4:  different shapes and patterns.

 Before you choose the level you to play you have to decide if you want
to be timed:

         0 means no timing
         1 means a long time
         6 means a short time

 Type the number you would like.

 Level 1:  Pepe will hold up a shape, move the little mouse directly over
           the corresponding shape, confirm.

 Level 2:  A little mouse will hold up a shape, move the bee to the
           toadstool with the corresponding shape, confirm.

 Level 3:  A shape will appear on Pepe's magic carpet, make the kite of
           the corresponding shape wave in the wind, confirm.

 Level 4:  A shape will appear in the light of the torch, move the
           butterfly to the corresponding shape, confirm.

                              ALPHABET TREE


 The best way to play this game is with the mouse (confirm with the LEFT
BUTTON), but the arrow keys (confirm with the SPACEBAR) or joystick
(confirm with the FIRE BUTTON) can also be used.

 There are three levels in Alphabet Tree:

 1: lower case
 2: upper case
 3: a mixture of lower and upper case

 Move the bird to the level you wish to play, confirm.

 A letter will appear on Pepe's wheelbarrow and to play the game move the
bird to the corresponding letter in the tree, confirm with the left
button of the mouse, spacebar or fire button.

                                CREEPERS

 Use the arrow keys (confirm with SPACEBAR) or joystick (confirm with
FIRE BUTTON) with this game.

 There are four levels in Creepers. You can start with any level you wish
and the game will continue until the end of level 4 has been reached.

 Move the little mouse to a word or object on the left side and confirm.
The word will change to red, if an object, it will be underlined in red.
Find the corresponding word or object on the right side, move the little
mouse to it and confirm. The little mouse can be moved up and down, left
and right on the leaves.

 In level 4, words only are used and to help your child to learn to read
follow this procedure;

 1. Your child should move the little mouse to a word on the left,
    confirm.

 2. Read the word to your child and your child must repeat the word.

 3. Your child then moves the little mouse to the same word on the right
    side, confirm. Let your child look for the word, this may take some
    time, but it is best not to prompt.

 4. Your child should read the word to you without being prompted.

 Encourage your child to remember the word from hearing it on the left
side to having to read it on the right side.

 At the end of level 4 you will have a choice of another go (Y/N)?

                             COUNTING CORNER

 Use the arrow keys (confirm with SPACEBAR) or joystick (confirm with
FIRE BUTTON).

 There are two games in Counting Corner:

 1: counting
 2: adding up

 Move the little mouse to the correct number and confirm.

                                PAINT POT

 Use the mouse (confirm with the LEFT BUTTON), the arrow keys (confirm
with the SPACEBAR) or joystick (confirm with the FIRE BUTTON).

 To save a picture you will need a DATA disc. Format a dics in the usual
way (consult your computer manual) BEFORE you start to paint a picture
and label it DATA. If you do not have a DATA disc when you are ready to
save your picture the game will crash. You do not of course have to save
your picture and in that case you can choose a new picture by clicking on
"NEW".

 When Paint Pot is loaded a bar will appear at the bottom of the screen.
Below the colour squares you will see a number of boxes, move the pen
over the boxes and click with the LEFT BUTTON of the mouse, the SPACEBAR
or the FIRE BUTTON.

 "NEW" will give you the choice to load a picture which is ready for you
to paint.

 If you make a mistake "OOPS" will clear the last area painted.

 If you wish to start again with the same picture click on "CLEAR".

 To save the picture you have painted or are working on click on "SAVE".

 Remember to insert the DATA disc.

 To load a finished or partly finished picture click on "LOAD". Remember
to insert the DATA disc.

 The music can be turned on or off at any time.

 There are six pictures to choose from. Choose one of them and you are
ready to paint.

 Select the colour you wish to use from one of the boxes at the bottom of
the screen by moving the pen on to it and clicking the LEFT BUTTON of the
mouse, the SPACEBAR or the FIRE BUTTON. Now take the pen to the part of
the picture you wish to paint and confirm.

                            NOTES FOR PARENTS

 Educational computer games can give your child a head start. They can be
a lot of fun, as well as versatile and as computers are infinitely
patient your child can learn in a relaxed atmosphere.

 In Pepe's garden we have collected together a number of games which will
give your child hours of fun, while at the same time following the
recommendations set out by the National Curriculum.

                              GARDEN GAMES

 This is a shape, colour and pattern matching game. It starts with simple
shapes like squares and circles with basic colours like red, green, blue
and yellow.

 As the game progresses the shapes and patterns become more complex and
more colours are introduced.

 Level 4 might even challenge an adult, particularly if the timer is set
on 6.

 To be able to distinguish between shapes is the first step towards
learning the letters of the alphabet. Your child should be able to
complete level 1 with ease before embarking on Alphabet Tree.

                              ALPHABET TREE

 Level 1 teaches lower case letters. Your child should be familiar with
the lower case letters before going on to level 2 which teaches upper
case. To be able to read lower case letters enables your child to read
books, but it has become increasingly important for children to know the
letters in upper case so they can use a computer.

 Level 3 teaches your child to match upper case and vice versa. This is
important so your child can use a simple word processor.

                                CREEPERS

 This game is based on the acclaimed "PLAY AND READ" series which teaches
children to read.

 In Creepers your child will learn to read the names of familiar objects.
To follow the outdoor theme, most of the objects are found outside, like
boat, snail and worm.

 If you would like your child to learn to read a vocabulary which
includes verbs and adjectives etc. we can recommend "PLAY AND READ" which
teaches useful words from an approved list. "PROF PLAYS A NEW GAME" from
the "PLAY AND READ" series is used in schools all over the UK and has
proved to be highly successful in the teaching of reading.

                             COUNTING CORNER

 The counting game will help your child to learn to count to 10. It will
also teach that numbers can be written in words and so help your child to
read the numbers to ten.

 The adding up game introduces your child to simple additions as well as
characters needed to set out simple mathematical tasks.

                               PAINT POT

 This helps your child to use colour. Some of the pictures are simple and
others are more complex. Your child will have to learn precision when
colouring in some of the pictures.

 There are also some boxes at the bottom of the screen which can be found
in the more advanced painting packages. This is a good introduction to
paint packages and will help your child to develop a sense of colour and
lead naturally to use the more advanced paint packages.

           ABOUT "PLAY AND READ": THE COMPLETE READING TUTOR.

 Part 1:  Prof plays a new game teaches a sight vocabulary and enables
children to read the 5 books included in this package. No initial reading
ability is required.

 Part 2:  Prof looks at words takes a closer look at the words learned in
Part 1. There are five games, looking at beginnings and endings of words,
as well as vowels, double letters and vowel combinations.

 Part 3:  Prof makes sentences teaches sequencing. The words used in Part
1 are used to make the sentences. There are two games, "FINISH A
SENTENCE" and "MAKE A SENTENCE" both games are divided into a number of
ability levels. There are may permutations, which will give hours of fun
and learning.

 Part 4:  Prof hunts for words helps children to understand the text they
are reading. Two games "CHOOSE A WORD" and "FIND A WORD" use the words
learned in Part 1 in an imaginative way which will increase children's
understanding of words and give hours of entertainment and fun.

 Any of the "PLAY AND READ" Parts can be used separately or together.