                         PGA TOUR GOLF

              Command Summary Card for PGA TOUR Golf

To  play PGA TOUR Golf, you need an Amiga with at least one floppy drive and
512K of memory.

If  you  are  using  the minimum memory configuration (512K), you'll need to
disconnect  your external disk drive when you play PGA TOUR Golf.  With 512K
of  memory,  you'll get fewer sounds and less music.  You need 1MB of memory
to get full music and sound.

Floppy Disk Users

Before  you begin play, MAKE COPES OF YOUR PGA TOUR Golf game disks.  You'll
need two blank, initialized floppy disks.

If you are installing PGA TOUR Golf on your hard disk, see Hard Drive Users,
below.

Copying Your Disks

To copy your PGA TOUR Golf disk:

1. Turn on your computer.

Amiga 1000 owners, insert Kickstart (1.2 or 1.3).

2. Insert Workbench into DF0:.

3. If you have a single drive system, remove Workbench and insert the PGA
   TOUR Golf Program disk. If you have two drives, simply insert the PGA
   TOUR Program disk into the other drive.

4. Place the mouse pointer on the PGA TOUR Golf icon and click to highlight
   it.

5. Pull down the Workbench menu from the menu bar. Drag the highlighted bar
   down to Duplicate and release.

6. Follow the on-screen instructions.

    You'll need to swap disks from time to time. Once the disk is copied,
    you must rename it.

7.  Place the mouse pointer on the copy of the PGA TOUR Golf icon and click
    to highlight it.

8. Pull down the Workbench menu from the menu bar. Drag the highlighted bar
   down to Rename and release.

9. Use the delete key to erase "Copy of" from the Rename box, so the disk
   is called PGA TOUR Program. Press return when you have finished.

10. Repeat steps 3-9, substituting the PGA TOUR Golf Courses disk for the
    PGA TOUR Golf Program disk. Name your copy of the Courses disk, PGA
    TOUR Courses.

When  the copy is complete, remove the Courses disk from the drive and store
both original disks in a safe place, away from heat, moisture, magnets, sand
bunkers, and water hazards.

Starting the Game--Floppy Users

To play PGA TOUR Golf:

1. Turn on your computer.

Amiga 1000 owners, insert Kickstart (1.2 or 1.3).

2. At the Workbench prompt, insert your copy of PGA TOUR Golf Program disk
   into DF0:.

DO  NOT WRITE PROTECT YOUR COPY OF THE PROGRAM DISK.  SAVE PLAYERS AND SAVED
GAMES WILL BE STORED ON THIS DISK.

3. The game will load automatically. The game's splash and credits screens
   appear one after the other.

If  you  want  to  rush  through these screens and begin the game, press the
spacebar or click either mouse button.


Answer a Question, Please.

Following  the  splash  and  credits  screens,  a  grid with yardage markers
appears.   To get to the Pro Shop so you can begin to play PGA TOUR Golf you
need  to  answer  one  quick question.  You do that by selecting the correct
yardage for the hole listed at the bottom of the screen.

1. Turn to the middle of the manual (pages 28-29). You'll find scorecards
   with yard age markers for three Tournament Players Club [TPC] courses.
   Note the number that corresponds to the course, hole, and tees (TPC,
   Blue, White, or Red) listed at the bottom of your screen.

2. You need to highlight the matching number on the grid so you can move on
   to the Pro Shop.

   Move the cursor arrow to the appropriate number. The number under the
   cursor arrow is automatically highlighted. Click the number to select
   it.

In  a  moment  you'll  be  at  the  Pro  Shop.  From there you can go out to
practice your strokes or begin a tournament round.

Hard Disk Users

Installing the Game

To install PGA TOUR Golf on your hard disk:

1. Boot your computer as you normally would.

2. At the Workbench, insert PGA TOUR Golf Program disk into any disk drive.

3. Double-click on the PGA TOUR Golf Program disk icon to open it. A disk
   window appears on the desktop.

4. Double-click on the HDInstall icon. You're asked whether you want to
   install the game at this time.

5. Type Y and press Return to install the game.

   You're asked which hard disk partition and drawer you want to install
   the game in.

   For example, say you had a drawer called "Games" in a hard drive
   partition called "Fast". If you wanted to create a drawer called "PGA
   TOUR Golf" in Games, you'd type exactly, including quotes,
   "Fast:Games/PGA TOUR Golf".

   Once the install program has copied the files from the PGA TOUR Golf
   program dick onto your hard drive, you'll be prompted to insert the PGA
   TOUR Golf Course disk.

7. Insert the PGA TOUR Golf Course disk in any disk drive.

When  the installation is complete, remove the disk from the drive and store
the  originals  in  a  safe  place,  away from heat, moisture, magnets, sand
bunkers, and water hazards.

Saved  players  and  saved  games will automatically be stored in the drawer
that was created in item 6, above.

Starting the Game--Hard Disk Users

To play PGA TOUR Golf:

1. Double-click on the drawer you installed PGA TOUR Golf in.

2. Double-click on the PGA TOUR Golf game icon. The game's splash and
   credits screens appear one after the other.

If  you  want  to  rush  through these screens and begin the game, press the
spacebar or click either mouse button.

Answer a Question, Please.

Following  the  splash  and  credits  screens,  a  grid with yardage markers
appears.  A grid with yardage markers has appeared on screen.  To get to the
Pro  Shop  so  you  can  begin to play PGA TOUR Golf, you need to answer one
quick  question.   You do that by selecting the correct yardage for the hole
listed at the bottom of the screen.

1. Turn to the middle of the manual (pages 28-29). You'll find scorecards
   with yardage markers for three Tournament Players Club [TPC] courses.
   Note the number that corresponds to the course, hole, and tees (TPC,
   Blue, White, or Red) listed at the bottom of your screen.

2. You need to highlight the matching number on the grid so you can move on
   to the Pro Shop.

   Move the cursor arrow to the appropriate number. The number under the
   cursor arrow is automatically highlighted. Click the number to select
   it.

In  a  moment  you'll  be  at  the  Pro  Shop.  From there you can go out to
practice your strokes or begin a tournament round.

Key Commands for Menu Options

Almost every menu option in PGA TOUR Golf has a key assigned to it--pressing
that  key  automatically  selects that option.  To select a menu option with
the keyboard, press the first letter of the option.  For example, press P to
select  Practice  from the Play Menu.  If two or more options share the same
initial  letter,  select  the  option  as you normally would using the arrow
cursor.

AMIGA differences in the FUNDAMENTALS (pages. 10-11) of PGA TOUR Golf

1. Making Selections with the mouse.

   Access a menu and select options from a menu by clicking the Right mouse
   button.

2. Dialog Boxes

   The highlight follows the cursor in the Amiga version. Click the
   highlighted entry to select it.

3. No Joystick Control

   The Amiga version has no Joystick control.


PGA TOUR GOLF: FROM TEE TO GREEN WITH THE GREATEST PLAYERS IN THE WORLD

Welcome to PGA TOUR Golf, a close-up, inside look at what's been called "the
greatest sportsman has ever devised." PGA TOUR Golf lets you play like a pro
against  the  TOUR's  most  competitive  players  on some of the finest golf
courses  in  the  world  -  Its  you  against  a choice field of 60 PGA TOUR
professionals.  And, on any given day, you could win it all.

PGA  TOUR  Golf  will  stretch your skills and psychological strength to the
limit.   Just  like  your  favorite TOUR players, you'll need to size up and
execute  special  shots  from  a  variety of lies, rise above the exhausting
pressure  of  a win-it-all putt from the fringe, and defend your hard-earned
reputation as a master of coordination, timing, deftness of touch, and sheer
power.   The game consistently demands your finest effort only when you give
your best will you make it to the top of the Leader Board.

It's  THE  PLAYERS  CHAMPIONSHIP  at  the  Tournament  Players Club [TPC] at
Sawgrass.   Pick  the  right club, make the perfect swing and experience the
thrill of making a birdie on the famous 17th hole.  Later you can blend your
skill  and  discipline to tame the mountainous bunkers and undulating swales
of  PGA  West  Stadium  Course  [TPC]  at  La  Quinta].  Or try to reach the
notorious  tiered green of the 13th at the TPC at Avenel with a middle iron,
shooting through a driving cross-wind.

These are just a sampling of the exciting challenges you'll face in PGA TOUR
Golf.  You're about to experience everything offered by the real game except
the  dirt  from  a  divot and an unexpected cloudburst.  If you're ready for
great  action and realistic play, let's install the game, and get right down
to the Pro Shop.


INSTALLING AND STARTING PGA TOUR GOLF

Boot  your  computer  with  Dos  (any  version  between 2.11 and 3.3) before
installing  or  starting PGA TOUR Golf.  If you don't have a hard disk, skip
the  next  section, HARD DISK USERS, and turn to page 5, for instructions on
how to install PGA TOUR Golf on a floppy system.

Hard  Disk Users
To  install PGA TOUR Golf you need to copy both of your game disks onto your
hard disk

1.  Type C: and press Enter. (If your hard disk isn't drive C, type
    in the appropriate drive letter.)

2. Type MD\GOLF and press Enter.

3. Type CD\GOLF and press Enter.

4. Insert the PGA TOUR Golf Program Disk into floppy drive A or B.

5. Type COPY A:*.* and press Enter. If you inserted the Program
   Disk into a different floppy drive, replace A with the correct
   letter.

6. After the Program Disk is copied, remove it from the drive,
   insert the PGA TOUR Golf Course Disk and repeat step 5. Note:
   If you're using a 3.5 inch disk, you need to only copy one disk.

7. When the copy is complete, remove the Course Disk from the drive
   and store the original floppy disks in a safe place, away from
   heat, moisture, magnets, sand bunkers, and water hazards.

Starting the Game

Note:  You can play PGA TOUR Golf with a mouse, a joystick, or directly from
the keyboard.

Tandy  Users:   If  you  have  two joysticks plugged into your computer, use
Joystick  #2  to play PGA TOUR Golf.  If you only have one joystick, plug it
into Port #1.

To start PGA TOUR Golf from a hard disk:

1. Type C: (or whatever letter designates your hard drive) and
   press Enter.

2. Type CD\GOLF and press Enter.

If  you want to run PGA TOUR Golf in a particular graphics mode, see Special
Loading  Features,  on  page  8.  After you've completed the instructions in
that  section,  come  back  here and continue the start-up routine beginning
with  step  number  4.   If  you  don't  want  to  issue any special loading
instructions at this time, but would just like to begin the game:


3. Type GOLF and press Enter

4. Once the game loads, the title screen appears followed by a
   credit screen. Press the spacebar, mouse button, or joystick
   button to continue.

Answer a Question, Please.

A  grid  with yardage markers has appeared on the screen.  To get to the Pro
Shop  so  you  can begin to play PGA TOUR Golf, you need to answer one quick
question.   You do that by selecting the correct yardage for the hole listed
at the bottom of the screen.

1. Turn to the middle of this manual. You'll find scorecards with yardage
   markers for three Tournament Players Club [TPC] courses. Note the number
   that corresponds to the course, hole, and tees (TPC, Blue, White, or
   Red) listed at the bottom of your screen.

2. You need to highlight the matching number on the grid so you can move on
   to the Pro Shop. If you're using a:

   Mouse: Move the cursor arrow to the appropriate number and click a mouse
   button to highlight the number. Then click OK (or press Enter).

   Joystick: Use Up/Down, Left/Right on the joystick to move the highlight
   to the appropriate number. When the number is highlighted, press either
   joystick button.

   Keyboard: Use the directional arrows on the keypad to move the highlight
   to the appropriate number. When the number is highlighted, press Enter.

In  a  moment  you'll  be  at  the  Pro  Shop.  From there you can go out to
practice your strokes or begin a tournament round.

If  you're  playing PGA TOUR Golf from a hard disk, you can move directly to
the section called Fundamentals, on page 9.

Floppy Disk Users

Before  playing  the  game,  you need to copy the PGA TOUR Golf disk(s) onto
your  own  floppy  disk(s).  Copies prevent your original disk(s) from being
accidentally damaged while in use, and guarantee that you'll be able to make
future copies of the game.

One Drive Systems

To  copy  PGA  TOUR  Golf  with  a  one  drive  system, you'll need a blank,
formatted floppy disk (or two if you're using 5.25 inch disks).

Put your DOS disk in drive A. Type A: and press Enter.

2. Type DISKCOPY and press Enter.

3. When you're asked to enter the source disk, insert the PGA TOUR Golf
   Program Disk into the drive and press Enter. The computer will tell you
   when to insert the destination disk (the blank disk) and when to
   reinsert the source disk (Program Disk).

DO NOT WRITE PROTECT YOUR COPY OF THE PROGRAM DISK.  SAVED PLAYERS AND SAVED
GAMES WILL BE STORED ON THE PROGRAM DISK.

Note to 5.25 Inch Disk Users Only:

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 to copy the PGA TOUR Golf Course Disk.

Two Drive Systems

Follow  this  procedure  if  both of your drives are the same size.  If your
drives are not the same size, follow the instructions for one drive systems,
above.   To copy PGA TOUR Golf with a two drive system, you'll need a blank,
initialized floppy disk (or two if you're using 5.25 inch disks).

1. Put your DOS disk in drive A. Type A: and press Enter.

2. Type DISKCOPY A: B: and press Enter.

3. You're prompted to insert the source disk in drive A and the destination
   disk in drive B. Insert the PGA TOUR Golf Program Disk in drive A and
   the blank disk in drive B; press Enter.

DO NOT WRITE PROTECT YOUR COPY OF THE PROGRAM DISK.  SAVED PLAYERS AND SAVED
GAMES WILL BE STORED ON THE PROGRAM DISK.

Note to 5.25 Inch Disk Users Only:

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 to copy the PGA TOUR Golf Course Disk

*  DOS  commands  may  vary.   If  you  have any difficulties with this disk
copying  routine,  refer  to  your  DOS  manual  for specific information on
copying disks.

Starting the Game

Note:  You can play PGA TOUR Golf with a mouse, a joystick, or directly from
the  keyboard.   If  you want to use your mouse, make sure your mouse driver
software (not provided by Electronic Arts) is installed before you start the
game.    Check  the  documentation  that  came  with  your  mouse  for  more
information.  If you're playing with a joystick, make sure it's plugged into
port #l of your computer.

Tandy Users:  If you have joysticks plugged into your computer, use Joystick
#2  to play PGA TOUR Golf.  If you only have one joystick, plug it into Port
#1.

To start PGA TOUR Golf from e floppy disk.

1. Insert your copy of the PGA TOUR Golf Program Disk into drive A or B.

2. Type A or B: (whichever drive you put the disk in) and press Enter.

   If you want to run PGA TOUR Golf in a particular graphics mode, see
   Special Loading Features, on page 8. After you've completed the
   instructions in that section, come back here and continue the stan-up
   routine beginning with step number 4. If you don't want to issue any
   special loading instructions at this time, but would just like to begin
   the game:

3. Type GOLF and press Enter.

4. Once the game loads, the title screen appears followed by a credit
   screen. Press the spacebar, mouse button, or joystick button to
   continue.

Answer a Question, Please

A  grid  with yardage markers has appeared on the screen.  To get to the Pro
Shop  so  you  can begin to play PGA TOUR Golf, you need to answer one quick
question.   You do that by selecting the correct yardage for the hole listed
at the bottom of the screen.

1. Turn to the middle of this manual. You'll find scorecards with yardage
   markers for three Tournament Players Club (TPC) courses. Note the number
   that corresponds to the course, hole, and tees (TPC, Blue, White, or
   Red) listed at the bottom of your screen.

2. You need to highlight the matching number on the grid so you can move on
   to the Pro Shop. If you're using a:

   Mouse: Move the cursor arrow to the appropriate number and click a mouse
   button to highlight the number. Then click OK (or press Enter).

   Joystick: Use Up/Down, Left/Right on the joystick to move the highlight
   to the appropriate number. When the number is highlighted, press either
   joystick button.

   Keyboard: Use the directional arrows on the keypad to move the highlight
   to the appropriate number. When the number is highlighted, press Enter.

In a moment you'll be at the Pro Shop.  From here you can go out to practice
your strokes or begin a tournament round.

Special Loading Features

PGA  TOUR  Golf automatically detects and selects the best graphics mode for
your  computer.   There  might be times, however, when you'll want to change
the  graphics  mode,  to give the game a different look - For example, maybe
your  computer  is  capable  of handling EGA mode, but you'd rather view the
game in CGA mode.

To  change  the graphics mode of PGA TOUR Golf, you need to type an argument
after the loading command, GOLF.  The arguments you can use are:

           V  Run the game in VGA mode
           E  Run the game in EGA mode
           T  Run the game in Tandy graphics mode
           C  Run the game in CGA mode
           H  Run the game in Hercules mode

Add a space between the loading command and any argument

Let's  say you want to load the game in CGA graphics mode.  You'd type GolfC
and press Enter.

Sound Board

The  game  automatically  detects  the  presence  of  a  soundboard  in your
computer.   If  you  have more than one soundboard, the game will choose the
first one it finds, based on the following order

Roland MT-32
AdLib board
CMS board
Tandy
PC Speaker

If  you  do  not wish to enter any special instructions at this time, simply
type  GOLF  and  press Enter.  If you're loading PGA TOUR Golf for the first
time,  return  to  step  4  in  the start-up routine on page 4 or 7 for more
information.

FUNDAMENTALS

Every  pro  who  qualifies  for  the  PGA  TOUR knows that golf is a game of
fundamentals.   The elegant simplicity of the game accounts for its enormous
popularity  and  for  the frustration most of us feel when we don't keep our
heads  down.  But we shouldn't feel too badly; even the greatest pros return
repeatedly  to  their teachers for reminders about watching the ball, proper
swing mechanics, and body rotation.

Golf  begins  and  ends with fundamentals; without them the occasional great
shot,  the  superb sand save, the hole-in-one, are just accidents.  As it is
on  the  real PGA TOUR, so it is in PGA TOUR Golf.  You've got to master the
fundamentals  to  play  with  the  big  boys.   They've  been practicing and
perfecting their games for years and now it's your turn.

The  game  offers  a  number  of  options to help you learn and practice the
fundamentals  of  playing  on  the  PGA  TOUR.  To learn how to hit the ball
properly,  using  a  variety  of clubs, you can go to the Driving Range.  To
practice  putting, go to the Putting Green.  Or you can try a Practice Round
when you're ready to put it all together.

All of the action begins in the Pro Shop.

The Pro Shop - Making Selections

You  start  PGA  TOUR Golf in the Pro Shop.  From here you'll select most of
your  play  options.   Notice the menu titles at the top of the screen.  You
can  select options from any of these menus using the keyboard, the mouse or
joystick.

For  a  list of the menu options and details on how to use them, see The Pro
Shop and the PGA Tour Tent, page 23.

Making Selections with the Keyboard

You  can  select menus and play options from the keyboard simply by pressing
the  corresponding  highlighted  letter.  You can look at the options in any
menu  simply  by  pressing  the first letter in the menu's name.  Or, when a
menu  is  showing,  you can expose a different menu by pressing the left- or
right-arrow  keys.   Menus  and  menu  options which share the same keyboard
command  (for  example, Play menu and Practice Round can both be accessed by
pressing P) are never available for selection at the same time.

Making Selections with the Mouse

Point the cursor arrow at the menu title (Play, File, View etc.) you want to
use.   When  it's  highlighted, click a mouse button.  Then point the cursor
arrow  at  the menu option you want to choose, so the option is highlighted,
and slick a mouse button again.

Making Selections with the Joystick

Use  joystick  button  2  to  access  the  menus of PGA TOUR Golf.  Move the
joystick left or right to display different menus.  Move the joystick up and
down  to  highlight different options on the displayed menu.  Press joystick
button  l  to  make the selection.  Make subsequent selections by moving the
joystick,  which  moves  the highlight Press joystick button l to accept the
option, button 2 to cancel.

Escape Key

All  users  can  press  the Escape Key to move back one "layer" in the game.
If,for  example,  you  want  to go to the immediately previous screen, press
Escape,  and  you'll  return to it.  Multiple presses are allowed.  Pressing
Escape in the Pro Shop or the PGA TOUR Tent exits you to DOS.

You'll be prompted to save your game.

Driving Range

To  prepare  for your upcoming tournaments, you've got to do more than buy a
new pair of shoes (although that wouldn't hurt).  A little practice seems in
order.   Put your new clubs to work by heading off to the Driving Range.  Be
sure to experiment with your woods and your irons.  And keep your eye on the
wind gauge; you're not playing under a dome, you know.  When you're ready to
start,  move  the  highlight  to  Driving Range on the Play menu and click a
mouse (or use the joystick or keyboard).

All  three  professional courses and your home course, Sterling Shores, have
Driving Ranges.

Select the course of your choice and click OK.

*  If  you're  not using a mouse, you can use the up- and down-arrow keys /\
and  \/)  on  your keyboard to move through the list of courses.  Press O or
Enter to confirm your choice.

Fore!  Hitting the Ball with the Stroke Bar

The Stroke Bar displays the distance potential of your selected club, and it
lets you control the power and accuracy of your swing.

To  hit  the ball, you need to press the Stroke Button (spacebar, left mouse
button,  or  joystick  button 1) three times in succession.  The first press
(1)  starts  your  backswing  -  the  second  (2)  ends  your  backswing and
determines  the  power  of  your  stroke;  the  third  (3) hits the ball and
determines whether the shot will hook, slice, or travel straight.

1. Press the Stroke Button to start your backswing. The Power Bar quickly
   extends left from the Accuracy Point, indicating the growing strength of
   your backswing.

2. Press the Stroke Button to stop your backswing. Each club has a distance
   potential, which appears in a box to the left of the Stroke Bar. The
   percentages below the Bar indicate the percent of the total distance
   potential you want to use. When tho Power Bar reaches the strength you
   want press the Stroke Button to stop it. The Bar begins to shrink back
   toward the Accuracy Point, leaving a small line that marks the spot
   where you stopped it.

3. Press the Stroke Button to hit the ball. To hit the ball straight, press
   the Stroke Button when the Power Bar returns to the Accuracy Point. If
   you stop the Bar exactly on the Accuracy point, you'll hit the ball
   straight. If you press the Stroke Button before the Bar reaches the
   Accuracy Point the ball hooks to the left, if you press the Stroke
   Button after the Bar has moved beyond (to the right of) the Accuracy
   Point, the ball slices to the right.

   For example, let's say you're at the tee and are ready to use your
   driver whose distance potential is 260 yards. If you press the Stroke
   Button (the second press) when the Power Bar  is at 80%, your shot's
   calculated distance will be 208 yards (260 x 0.80 = 208). The actual
   distance of your stroke varies from the calculated distance depending on
   the wind, the type of terrain on which your ball lands, the lie of the
   ball, and your accuracy.

   You can also let the Power Bar extend beyond 100% to give the stroke
   more power than you Stroke Bar with Power Bar at 80% can accurately
   control. If you hook or slice the ball with more than 100% power, any
   errors you make when you hit the ball (the third press) will be
   exaggerated.

Info Box

The Info Box at the Driving Range displays the club you're practicing with.

To select a different club:

Mouse:  Move the cursor into the Info Box, and click either mouse button.

Joystick:   Move  the joystick up to increase the number of the club or down
to decrease.

Keyboard:  Press the up or down arrows on the keypad to change the number of
the club.

Club             Range
Type             (Yards)

Driver            260
2 Wood            248
3 Wood            236
4 Wood            224
5 Wood            212
1 Iron            227
2 Iron            215
3 Iron            203
4 Iron            191
5 Iron            179
6 Iron            167
7 Iron            155
8 Iron            143
9 Iron            131
Pitching Wedge    119
Sand Wedge        100
Putter             *

Club Distance Potentials

*  You can adjust the putter's distance potential between 5 and 120 feet, in
5 foot increments.

Notice  how  the  distance potential in the Stroke Bar changes as you change
your  club.   When you're playing a tournament round, your "caddy" will give
you  the club he thinks is appropriate for the shot, but the final choice is
yours.   If  possible,  choose a club with a distance potential that exceeds
the  distance  to  the  pin,  so  you  can  maintain  control of your stroke
particularly if you plan to intentionally hook or slice your shot.

Note:  These are total distances, not aerial distances.  If you try to carry
a  4 wood (distance potential 224 yards) over a water hazard 200 yards away,
you  probably  ought  to  teach your ball how to swim.  Remember, that these
distance  potentials  assume a perfect lie, no wind, and a flat spot for the
ball to land on so it can bounce and roll.

Aiming Your Shot

The  aiming  crosshair (flashing in the middle of your screen) indicates the
direction  the  ball will travel if it is well-hit To change the position of
the cross hair.

Mouse:  Move the mouse cursor to the direction you want, and click the right
mouse button to fix the cross hair in the intended target area.

Joystick Move the joystick left or right.

Keyboard:  Press the left or right arrows (<-- or-->) on the keypad.

Wind

The  rotating  arrow  indicates the wind speed and direction.  Watch out for
occasional wind gusts!

Adjust  the  direction  and  strength  of your strokes to compensate for the
wind.

Go to a Different Driving Range

You  can go to the Driving Range of any other course by selecting New Course
from  the  Go  To menu.  Then make your selection.  If you want to return to
the Pro Shop select Pro Shop from the Go To menu or press Escape.

Putting Green

We  all  know  solid  players  who  are long off the tee, with strong middle
irons,  and  sweet  short  games, whose concentration completely falls apart
once  their  ball hits the so-called "putting surface." (The very mention of
the  word  "green"  gives them the yips.).  PGA TOUR Golf can help you avoid
the dreaded y-word.  You can practice putting on different greens, and learn
how  to really "read" them.  If you want to practice your stroke now, select
Putting Green from the Play menu.

Grid View

When  you  select  Putting Green, a grid showing the topography of the first
practice  hole's putting surface appears on the screen.  A message above the
contour grid reports the distance to the cup, and how far your ball is above
or  below  the pin.  To get a better view of how the topography of the green
will  affect the roll of the ball as you putt use the F1 and F2 keys to move
the grid, so the ball and the cursor are in alignment.  Use the grid and the
message  to  determine the appropriate direction and speed of your putt.  As
it  says  on  the  screen, you can use the left and right arrows to move the
aiming cursor.

Click  the  left  mouse  button, joystick button 1, or press the spacebar to
move  to the putting green.  The aiming cross hair on the green reflects any
aiming adjustments you made on the grid.  There's no need to re-aim.  If you
wish  to  see  the  grid  again, choose Green from the View menu (or press G
after pulling down the View menu).

How to Putt

The Stroke Bar on the Putting Green works exactly like the Stroke Bar at the
Driving  Range.   See  the  "Driving Range" section for a description of the
Stroke Bar.

When  on the green, you always use a putter.  Sorry, no trick clubs allowed!
The  distance  potential  of  your putter can be adjusted in increments of 5
feet  over  a range of 5 to 120 feet.  To change the distance potential with
a:

Mouse:  Move the cursor into the Info Box, and click either mouse button.

Joystick:  Move the joystick up or down.

Keyboard:  Press the up or down arrows on the keypad.

Info Box

The  Info  Box on the putting green displays your club type and the distance
to the pin.

Aiming Your Putt

The  flashing crosshair indicates the direction the ball will travel, if you
hit it squarely.  As with any ball you hit in PGA TOUR Golf, you'll pull the
ball to the left if you hit too early, or push it to the right if you hit it
late.  To change the position of the cross hair with a:

Mouse:  Move the mouse cursor to the direction you want, and click the right
mouse button to fix the cross hair in the intended target area.

Joystick:  Move the joystick left or right.

Keyboard:  Press the left or right arrows (<-- or -->) on the keypad.

* Changing the position of the cross hair on this screen has the same effect
as changing its position on the grid.

Short Putts

You'll  sink  short  putts  with ease if you play them like the pros do (and
avoid  the yips).  The putts of 5 feet or less, go straight for the hole and
make  sure  you  don't baby the ball.  As it is on the PGA TOUR, so it is in
PGA TOUR Golf:  No guts, no glory!

Go to a Different Hole

To  go  to  a different hole on the course, select Hole from the Go To menu.
Select the hole you want, and then select Ok.

Go to a Different Course

To  go to a different course, select New Course from the Go To menu.  Select
the  course  you  want,  and then select Ok.  To leave the Putting Green and
return  to  the  Pro  Shop,  select  Pro  Shop from the Go To menu, or press
Escape.

Practice Round

Rather than just hanging around the Pro Shop swapping stories with the caddy
master, you might think about shooting a practice round.  To play a practice
round on any course, choose Practice Round from the Play menu.

You'll  be  asked  to  make a few selections from the dialog boxes that will
appear automatically.

First  the  game  asks  how  many  players are practicing this round (Select
Number  of  Players);  second  it  asks  who  is  playing (Human or Computer
Players);  then you're asked whether you wish to register as a New player or
load a previously Saved (Old) Player; if you choose New Player, type in your
name  on  the  replica  of  a PGA TOUR Player's Card; select Professional or
Amateur  Tees,  choose the clubs you want to bring on your round.  PGA rules
require  that  you  have  no more than 14 clubs in your bag.  If you hit the
long  ball  well,  take some long irons and an extra wood on your round.  If
your  short  game  needs  some work, make sure you have a full complement of
short irons.  Finally, select any one of the four golf courses.

In  a moment an overview of the course you chose appears on the screen.  The
next  thing  you  see  is an expanding fly-by view of the first hole on your
course.   If  you  chose  a TPC course, this fly-by will be accompanied by a
brief  commentary  from  one of the ten professional golfers featured in PGA
TOUR  Golf.   Ignore  this  advice  at  your  peril!  The fly-by is followed
automatically by an overhead view of the hole.  A flashing dot marks the tee
and  a  dark  dot  opposite  to it marks the pin placement on the green.  To
return  to  the  tee,  press  the  space  bar, a mouse button, or a joystick
button.

Note:   In  general,  you  can  speed  up any screen transition, as from the
fly-by  view  to  the  overhead, by pressing the left mouse button, joystick
button 1, or the spacebar.

The Tee

Hitting  the  ball from the tee works just like hitting at the Driving Range
or  Putting Green.  The Info Box displays useful additional information.  It
now  tells  you what hole you're on, the number of strokes you've taken, the
current  distance  to the pin, par for the hole, and your status compared to
par so far this round (E means Even Par).  The current player's name appears
in  the  upper right corner of the screen.  You face the target fairway from
each  tee,  or  you  face  the  pin  when it's within range.  Plan your shot
accordingly.

OVERHEAD VIEW (F5)

Any  time  you want to look at an overhead view of the hole, select Overhead
from the View menu (or press O on the keyboard, after you've pulled down the
View  menu).   This view displays the path (called vectors) traveled by your
previous shot(s).  From this view you can easily see how much trouble you're
in,  or,  to keep a good thought, how much trouble you narrowly avoided.  To
return to the course, press the spacebar, either mouse button, or a joystick
button.


TAKE A MULLIGAN (F2)

If  you want to try a stroke again, just for practice you understand, select
Take  a Mulligan from the Options menu, and you can take the shot over.  You
can take multiple mulligans and even "mulligan" your way back to the tee, if
you wish.

BALL LIE (F3)

Choose  Ball  Lie  from the View menu to see how your ball is sitting on the
grass  or  in  the sand.  Every PGA TOUR pro knows that ball lie will affect
your choice of a club and the stroke you use.  If you land in the rough, for
example,  your  irons will have a lower distance potential and less accuracy
than if you were hitting from the fairway.  For more information on Ball Lie
and club selection, see the Strategy Guide, pages 18-22.

SPECIAL SHOTS

PGA TOUR Golf lets you hit three types of unique shots on the course.  If we
hit   all   the  greens  in  regulation,  we  probably  wouldn't  need  this
flexibility.   But  sometimes, the ball doesn't go exactly where you want it
to.   Sometimes  you  have to make a special shot.  When that happens choose
Special  Shots  from  the  Options menu.  From there you can choose to Chip,
Punch,  or Putt from the Fringe.  For tips on how to use these useful shots,
see the Strategy Guide on pages 18-22.

INSTANT REPLAY (F1)

Choose  Instant  Replay  to see your last shot again.  Spectacular shots are
automatically replayed.


TOURNAMENT PLAY

Playing  a  Tournament and learning to drive a car have one thing in common:
you  don't  know  how  it feels to do it until you do it.  You can hone your
strokes  on  the  practice tee, or work all the controls while the car is in
the  garage, but until you tee it up for money or pull out into 5:00 o'clock
rush hour, you really don't know how you'll perform.

PGA   TOUR   events   put   a  premium  on  preparation,  mental  toughness,
coordination,  and  the  will  to  win.   If  you think you're ready for the
exhilarating  challenge  of tournament play, say good bye to your buddies in
the Pro Shop and choose Tournament from the Play menu.

HOW TO PLAY

When you choose Tournament, you'll be asked a series of questions.  You just
can't  walk into a PGA TOUR Golf event unannounced, you know.  For now, just
press Enter in response to each question to accept the default choice.  When
you're asked to enter your name, type it and press Enter.  When you're done,
an  overhead  shot of the entire course appears, followed by a fly-by of the
first hole and then you arrive on the tee.

After  you  make  all  your  usual  selections,  you  are  introduced to the
tournament and the total prize money being offered.

Then  you  see  the  Leader  Board  which  shows the current ranking for all
tournament participants.

Following  each  ranking  is  the  players  name,  score, and the hole he is
currently playing.

During tournament play, you cannot change courses or holes, and no Mulligans
are allowed (so keep your head down).

If  you  score  among the top 48 players after Round 1, you make the cut and
move  on to Round 2.  You have to place in the top 32 to get to Rounds 3 and
4.

STRATEGY GUIDE

PLAY PGA TOUR Golf like a Pro -- Take Your Best Shot!

In this Strategy Guide we outline how to play through most of the situations
you'll confront while you play the challenging courses in PGA TOUR Golf.  We
chose the nasty 529 yard par-5 11th hole from the Tournament Players Club at
Sawgrass  as  a representative hole because it includes every element that a
TOUR  pro  must consider during a complete tournament round.  In THE PLAYERS
CHAMPIONSHIP,  which  is  played  every  year  at Sawgrass, the daunting and
treacherous  11th  has  demolished  the  dreams  of more than one tournament
hopeful.  With practice, skill, and judgement you can avoid this fate.

Off the Tee

Like  all  the  great  pros,  you  should  strive  for  consistency and good
placement  off  the  tee.   If  you hit like a gorilla but can't control the
ball, you'll find yourself in trouble on most of your second shots.  Keep in
mind that all the TPC courses are designed to penalize risky shots that turn
out  badly.   Watch  the  aerial  fly-bys  for  important club selection and
ball-location  comments  from  our  10  featured  PGA  TOUR pros.  They have
already learned the rule that it is better to be 20 yards shorter and in the
fairway than to be long and in the rough (or worse).

How Far Can You Hit It -- Club Distance Potential

It is important to understand that the distance potential listed to the left
of  the  Stroke  Bar defines an AVERAGE shot hit at 100% power with no wind,
and  includes  the  ball's  flight in the air PLUS roll.  Remember this when
you're  about  to  hit  over  a  sand trap or water hazard:  When you have a
choice between two clubs -- always choose the longer one.  You'll land where
you wanted to be more often if you use this rule throughout your play.

Overswing -- Risk vs. Reward

The  area  to  the left of the 100% Power mark on the Stroke Bar is reserved
for  what  we  call  "overswing".  The farther you let the Power Bar go into
this  area  the  farther you will be able to hit the ball.  But, as with all
good  things,  there's a price to pay.  If you don't hit the shot perfectly,
that  is,  smack the ball precisely at the Accuracy Point, the ball can, and
most  likely  will  react erratically because you aren't in total control of
your  swing.   Remember:   The greater the deviation at the top or bottom of
the  swing,  the  more  unpredictable the outcome of the shot.  Usually, you
will not appreciate that outcome.

A word for the prudent player

Do  not  stray  into  the Overswing area if you're trying to hook (draw), or
slice  (fade)  your  shot.  Overswing, by definition, eliminates reliability
even when you're playing the ball straight.  It will make your intended hook
or slice wildly unpredictable.

Toyed with by the Elements

While  your ball is traveling through the air, it will be battered around by
the  wind.   Adjust your aim to compensate for the direction and strength of
the wind.  CHECK THE Wind GAUGE!  It's more informative than throwing a clod
of  grass  in the air.  The stronger the wind, the more of an adjustment you
should  make.   The Driving Range is an excellent place to test your ability
to adjust for the wind.

Playing Your Second Shot

Horrible Lies

No, we're not talking about your IRS returns.  We mean ball lies.  Let's say
you  hit  your drive on the money.  Terrific, but where did it land?  You've
got to check your ball lie.  Other than distance to the hole (which PGA TOUR
Golf's automated club selection helps you with), a TOUR pro worries the most
about his ball lie.  That is, how is the ball sitting on the grass or in the
sand?   Ball  Lie  is so important because it affects the amount of backspin
you  can impart to the ball, how far each club can hit the ball, and how the
ball  reacts  to an imperfect swing (overswing, hook, and slice).  The worse
your  ball lie, the more these factors affect your shot.  The following is a
list, from best to worst, of all possible ball lies in the game:

1. Teed Up                        6. Half-Buried in Light Rough
2. Fairway/On Fringe (of green)   7. Buried in Sand Trap
3  In Divot in Fairway            8. In Heavy Rough
4  In Light Rough                 9. Half-Buried in Heavy Rough
5. In Sand Trap

On tho Beach--How To Play Out Of A Fairway Sand Trap

If  your ball isn't buried in the trap you can hit all of your irons between
50  and  90  percent  of  their distance potential.  When you're in trouble,
resist  the  temptation  to try a spectacular saving shot and concentrate on
getting  your  ball  back  into  play  (on  the  fairway  or  green).   Play
conservatively  out of the sand and you'll save a lot of pars.  If your ball
is buried in the sand, it's risky to hit any club longer than a 4 iron.  The
danger of flubbing a shot out of that lie is too great to risk the few extra
yards you might get with a longer club.

The Punch Shot (F8)

When  you're half-buried in the rough, or buried in the sand, select Special
Shots  from  the  Options menu and choose Punch Shot.  Use the punch shot to
just  get  the  ball back to the fairway from whatever trouble your ball may
have found.  The distance the ball will travel is shorter than if you took a
full  swing  at the ball, but you're not likely to flub or whiff the shot or
shank it and have it sail wildly off your clubface.

Go For The Green In Two? -- Only for the Brave

On  this hole you would have to hit a very big drive (300 yards or more) and
then  cross  an  ocean  of  sand to have a reasonable chance of reaching the
green  in  two.   Remember  that  the  distance potential listed next to the
Stroke  Bar is the amount the current club will go in the air PLUS roll.  If
you  are  240  yards away from the pin and try to hit a 3-wood to the green,
your  ball  will skip off the back of the green (IF, repeat IF, you are able
to  hit the green on the fly with this club).  A better strategy would be to
either:  a) take less than a full swing with the 3-wood and try to bounce it
onto the green; or b) hit a long iron with overswing and try to fly the ball
to the green (via the overswing).  The safest play on this hole is to lay-up
short of the green and get set up for your third shot, the approach.

Approaching the Green

Check  Your  Ball  Lie  --  The  importance  of  your  Ball  Lie  cannot  be
overemphasized.  You should check it out before almost every shot you hit!

The Chip Shot (F7)

If you are close to the green, or on the fringe, this is the perfect time to
use  your  Chip  Shot (select Special Shots from the Options menu and choose
Chip  Shot).   This  shot will not fly very far in the air.  The strategy of
the  shot is to fly the ball just on to the green and hope it rolls the rest
of  the way to the hole.  If you choose to use the Chip Shot you should look
at  the Grid View of the green to read the contours of the green between you
and  the  hole.   The moment your ball hits the green it will react to these
contours.   IMPORTANT!   It is not advisable to use the Chip Shot out of the
following lies:

Half-Buried in Light Rough    In Heavy Rough
In Sand Trap                  Half-Buried in Heavy Rough
Buried in Sand Trap

Warning:  A ball hit as a Chip Shot will stop dead in its tracks if it lands
on the fringe.

Playing To The Green From A Bunker

Ball  lie in the bunker is critical.  If your ball is "sitting up" (that is,
not buried) it will not roll as far when it hits green as it would if it had
been buried.  Remember this when you are thinking about how hard to swing at
a  sand  shot.  If you are playing your shot out of a trap beside the green,
look  at  the  Grid View of the green to see its contours.  The ball will be
affected by these contours the moment your ball hits the green.

Backspin--How To Use It

The  ability  to  control  the  ball with backspin is one of the skills that
separates  the pros from most of the rest of us.  Still, it's never too late
to  learn, and if you want to play on the TOUR, it's a necessity.  So take a
lesson in hitting with backspin.

Since  any  ball  you  hit  with the shorter irons will roll backwards after
bouncing  on  the  green  (if  your  shot  hits  the  green on the fly) it's
important  to know how far you should try to hit shots with these clubs into
the green.  Instead of trying to go exactly to the pin, it's probably better
to hit the ball just past the hole and rely on the backspin to roll the ball
back close to the hole.

IMPORTANT:   Be  very careful in using this strategy if the pin is placed at
the back of the green (check the pin placement with the Overhead View if you
can't  remember where the pin is).  Your shot might fly exactly the distance
you  wanted,  but  land  on  the fringe (or worse).  If it does land off the
green  it  will NOT roll back toward the hole (the other surfaces remove the
backspin from the ball).

Fringe Putting (F9)

If  you land on the fringe of the green, PGA TOUR Golf assumes that you want
to  putt  from  the fringe and auto-selects your putter.  Sometimes the hole
will  be  too  far away to putt and you might want to chip the ball.  If you
choose  a  different  club  for this shot, and then change your mind, select
Fringe Putt from Special Shots in the Options menu to get your putter back.

Make sure you take a look at the Grid View of the green prior to making your
Fringe  Putt.  The fringe is not as low-cut or smooth as the green so you'll
have  to putt the ball a little harder.  The more fringe between you and the
green--the  more  over  the  listed  distance  you'll need to hit your putt.
Don't short-arm your putt.

Tips On Putting

Okay,  you made it the green in good shape.  Unfortunately, for a lot of us,
this  is  when the heartache begins.  The number of things that can go wrong
in such a small place is almost beyond belief.  But, as experienced hackers,
we believe!

Using the Putting Grid

The  pros  spend years learning to "read" greens.  PGA TOUR Golf gives you a
hand by providing a grid view of the green that will help read its contours.
Once  the  grid  is  displayed,  use  the F1 and F2 keys to rotate the grid.
Press  the  F1  key  4  times  and  you'll  be right behind your ball with a
straight  look at the hole.  Note the elevation (above or below) between the
ball and the cup as well as the distance.  This information is printed above
the  Grid  View.   You  may find that the grid is the best place to aim your
putt.   Use  the  arrow keys to align your ball with the aiming cursor.  All
aiming  you  do on the grid will be carried back to the normal view when you
return to the green.

Putting and the Stroke Bar

Make  sure  that  the  distance your ball needs to travel to get to the hole
(shown  in  the  Info  Box) is encompassed by the distance at the end of the
Stroke  Bar.  Change the distance potential so that you can hit most of your
putts  near  the  100%  mark.  You can change the distance potential of your
putter with the mouse (click the left mouse button in the Info Box), or with
the up- and down- arrows from your keyboard.

The Notorious 5-foot putt is not a Gimme even to tho Pros!

If  the  computer  selects  the 5-foot distance potential for your putt, the
contours  on  Grid  View  should not come into play unless the slope is very
severe.   Hit  your putt as close to the 100% mark as possible regardless of
the  distance  between  you and the hole.  You'll make more short putts this
way (and perhaps decrease the level of your frustration).

Practice Makes Perfect

No one can just walk out on the PGA TOUR and putt as well as the best in the
World.   Use the Putting Green(s) on all the courses to familiarize yourself
with  how  to read the Grid View as well as how hard to hit your putts given
their distance and topography.  Good luck, and good golfing!

MENUS

THE PRO SHOP & THE PGA TOUR TENT

Here's where you make most of your selections.  (Keyboard commands are shown
in  parentheses.)  Whenever  you  start  PGA  TOUR Golf, you begin each play
session  at  the  Pro  Shop.   During  Tournament play, you'll return to the
hospitality tent (rather than the Pro Shop) when you leave the course.

PLAY MENU (P)

The Play menu lists all the same play modes.

Practice Round (P)

Lets  you  practice  a  round  of  golf on any of the PGA TOUR Golf courses.
You'll be prompted to make the following selections.

1. Select Number of Players.

2. Specify Human or Computer Players.

   The rest of these selections are repeated for each human player.

3. New or Old Player--Enter a new name or select a player you've previously
   saved to disk.

4. Professional or Amateur Tees--Pro tees are farther from the pin than
   amateur tees. In Tournament play professional tees are selected
   automatically.

5. Select Clubs--PGA rules strictly enforce a 14 club rule, so play to your
   strengths. If you really want to take that 5-wood, one of your irons
   will have to stay at the Pro Shop. The clubs your caddy has loaded into
   your bag are marked with an asterisk. If you want to make some changes,
   highlight a club you can do without and click Remove (or press R on the
   keyboard).Then highlight a club you want in your bag and click Take or
   Press T). An asterisk will appear next to that club to show that it's
   clean, in your bag, and ready to perform miracles.

6.  Select the course you want to play.

During  a  practice round, you can select any option except those associated
with tournament play, like the Leader Board and Tournament Results.

Tournament (T)

Starts  a  PGA  TOUR  tournament.   You  make  the  same selections as for a
practice round, except you must play from the professional tees.

During  a tournament, you can select any menu option except those associated
with  practice.   You  must  play  the  holes  in  sequential  order, and no
mulligans are allowed.

Driving Range (D)

Takes  you  to  the  driving  range  of the current golf course.  To go to a
different  course,  choose  New Course from the Go To menu.  (The Go To menu
title  appears  only  when  you  are on the Driving Range, Putting Green, or
playing one of the courses.)

Putting Green (G)

Takes  you  to  a  random  spot on the green of a random hole on the current
course.   As  you  sink putts, you're taken to random places on the green of
that  hole.   To go to a different hold, select Hole from the Go To menu and
make  your  choice.  To go to a different course, choose New Course from the
Go  To menu.  (The Go To menu title appears only when you are on the Driving
Range, Putting Green, or playing one of the courses.)

Resume Game (R)

Takes  you  back  to  whatever you were doing before you returned to the Pro
Shot or the TOUR Tent from any of the other Play modes.

Quit (Q)

Exits to DOS.  You'll be asked if you want to save your game before exiting.
You can only save one game at a time.

FILE MENU (F)

The file menu lists all the disk options.

Save Game (S)

Saves your current status in a tournament or a practice round.  You can only
have  one  saved  game at a time.  Please note that the game will attempt to
save to your copy of the Program Disk.

Restore Game (R)

Loads your last saved game, either a tournament or practice round.

Delete Player (D)

Deletes a saved player from the disk.

VIEW MENU (V)

The View menu lists all your score displays.

Scorecard (S)

Your  scorecard  for  the current game.  Press the spacebar (mouse button or
joystick button) to return to the golf course.

Leader Board (L)

Displays  the  leader  board  for  the  current  tournament.  Press Enter to
advance  through  the pages of the board more quickly than the game presents
them.  Press the spacebar to return to the golf course.

Tourney Results (T)

Displays  the  results  of a tournament as soon as the last player holes his
putt  on  18.   Each  page  is  shown  for  a few seconds before the next is
displayed.   Press  Enter  to  advance  through  the pages of the board more
quickly  than  the game presents them.  Press the spacebar (mouse button, or
joystick button) to return to the Pro Shop.

STATS MENU (S)

The  Stats  menu  lists all the performance statistics available in PGA TOUR
Golf.

Current Players

This  shows  the  lifetime  statistics  for  any  player playing the current
tournament or practice round.

Longest Drive (yards).
Driving Accuracy (%) in fairway.
Greens in Regulation (%) the percentage of greens reached at least two
   strokes under par.
Putts/G.I.R. (#)--putting average based on the number of putts hit on
   greens reached in regulation.
Par Breakers (%)--the percentage of holes where the player beat par.
Tournaments Won (#)

Earnings ($)
Average Score (#)
Best 18 holes (#)

Saved Players (S)

Shows  the lifetime statistics for any player saved on disk, as listed above
in Current Players.

Tournament (T)

Shows  the  tournament  earnings  for all players.  Press Enter (or the left
mouse  button  or  button on your joystick) to page ahead to see the Leading
Scorers.   Press  spacebar  (or the right mouse button or button two on your
joystick) to return to the course.

Leading Money Winners

Earnings ($)--total money won.

Won (#)--tournaments won.

Top 10 (#)--tournaments finished in the top 10.

In the Money (#)--tournaments in which the player made the cut into rounds
3 and 4.

Leading Scorers

Average (#)--average lifetime score.

Best 18 (#)--best 18-hole score.

Best 72 (#)--best four-round score.

Reset Pros (R)

Resets the accumulated stats of the pros to zero.

OPTIONS MENU (O)

When  you're  at  the  Pro  Shop or in the Tournament Tent, the Options menu
displays  the views and sound options that are available for use during your
round.   Activate  (or  deactivate)  any  option  by  clicking  on it (or by
pressing  the appropriate highlighted letter).  An active option has a check
mark  in front of it.  Auto-views that are activated automatically, can also
be activated by a keyboard command.

Overhead (Auto-view) (O)

After  you  hit  the  ball  an  aerial view of the current hole, showing tho
vectors of your shots, automatically appears.


Ball Lie (auto-view) (B)

Automatically displays the lie of the ball after every shot you take (except
on the green).

Greens (auto-view) (G)

When  you  land  on  the  green,  a  contour  grid  of  that  green  appears
automatically.   You  must be near or on the green to use keyboard command G
to see this grid.

Fly-by-Hole Preview (F)

Offers  a  bird's-eye  view of the current hole, which shows everything from
the  pin  placement to the fairway hazards to the tee.  Each fly-by on a TPC
hole  is accompanied by instructive commentary or helpful advice from one of
PGA  TOUR  Golf's  featured  professionals.  Only the fool-hardy will ignore
their remarks.

Music (M)

Play music during the fly-by and the introduction.

Sound Effects (E)

Toggle  the  game's  sound effects on and off.  Effects include the sound of
the  club hitting the ball, the ball's bounce, and the ball bottoming out in
the cup.

Save Setup (S)

Saves  your  Options configuration to disk.  This setup will be loaded every
time you start PGA TOUR Golf.

ON THE GOLF COURSE

When you're out on the course, the menus of PGA TOUR Golf are different than
when  you're  at  the  Pro Shop.  You'll use these new menus to make special
selections  on the courses, the driving ranges, and the putting greens.  Not
all options are available in all places.

GO TO MENU (G)

The Go To menu lists all the places you can go to as you play PGA TOUR Golf.

Hole (H) (Not available in Tournament Mode)

Takes you to any hole on the current course.

New Course (N) (Not available in Tournament Mode).

Takes you to any of the four golf courses for a practice round.


                    TOURNAMENT PLAYERS CLUB
                             AVENEL

HOLE           1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   OUT

Championship
BLUE 72.0     376  564  185  408  340  447  422  409  150  3321

WHITE 70.0    362  553  162  342  328  410  396  394  136  3083

HANDICAP       11    1   15    7   13    5    3    9   17

PAR             4    5    3    4    4    5    4    4    3    36

======================================================================

HOLE           10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   IN    OUT

Championship
BLUE 72.0     349  136  413  503  275  458  401  181  425  3141  6462

WHITE 70.0    314  125  403  481  239  418  391  156  400  2927  6010

HANDICAP       12   18    4    2   14    6   10   16    8

PAR             4    3    4    5    4    4    4    3    4    35    71

======================================================================

                    TOURNAMENT PLAYERS CLUB
                            SAWGRASS

HOLE               1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   OUT

    Slope 135
TPC               388  571  162  360  454  381  439  215  582  3492
    Rated 74.9

    Slope 130
BLUE              364  456  139  339  408  351  403  201  554  3215
    Rated 71.9

    Slope 126
WHITE             331  441  121  295  367  328  376  162  514  2935
    Rated 68.7

PAR                 4    5    3    4    4    4    4    3    5    36

HANDICAP           12   16   18   10    4   14    2    8    6

=======================================================================

HOLE           10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   IN    OUT

TPC           395  529  336  172  438  426  497  132  440  3365  6857

BLUE          358  509  299  150  418  413  491  121  420  3179  6394

WHITE         335  464  280  132  370  359  438   97  351  2826  5761

PAR             4    5    4    3    4    4    5    3    4    36    72

HANDICAP       11    7   15   17    3    5    9   13    1

=======================================================================

                               28

                            PGA WEST
                     TPC STADIUM GOLF COURSE



                                       D
                                       O
                                       U
                                       B
                                       L         B         R
                                       E         L         E
                             C    S              A         F
                   P    C    R    A    T         C         L
                   R    R    E    N    R         K         E
                   E    A    S    D    O              L    C
                   L    T    C         U    A    H    I    T
                   U    E    E    P    B    M    O    N    I
                   D    R    N    I    L    E    L    K    O
                   E    S    T    T    E    N    E    S    N
=======================================================================
HOLE               1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   OUT

TOURNAMENT
RATING - 77.1    440  373  470  184  533  255  350  557  450  3612

CHAMPIONSHIP
RATING - 74.4    383  351  445  175  513  222  320  530  430  3370

REGULAR
RATING - 71.4    360  335  401  156  493  197  308  488  386  3124

HANDICAP          11   15    3   17    1    7   13    9    5

PAR                4    4    4    3    5    3    4    5    4    36

LADIES HANDICAP    7   13    9   15    1   17    5    3   11

========================================================================

                                                S
                                 S              A
                                 E              N
                                 C
                                 O         T    A
                                 N         U    N
                                 D         R    D
                                           N    E
                       E         T         I    A    A    C
                       T         H         N    S    L    O
                   Q   E         O    C    G         C    L
                   U   R         U    A         F    A    I
                   A   N    M    G    V    H    A    T    S
                   R   I    O    H    E    O    U    R    E
                   R   T    A    T    R    M    L    A    U
                   Y   Y    T    S    N    E    T    Z    M
=======================================================================
HOLE              10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   IN   TOT

TOURNAMENT
RATING           414  618  360  220  390  470  571  166  440  3649  7261

CHAMPIONSHIP
RATING           383  593  352  198  376  442  530  147  408  3429  6799

REGULAR
RATING           354  535  336  173  352  411  485  128  390  3164  6288

HANDICAP          12    2   16   10   18    8    6   14    4

PAR                4    5    4    3    4    4    5    3    4    36    72

LADIES HANDICAP    6    2   12   18   14   10    4   16    8

========================================================================

                               29

Pro Shop (P) (or) PGA TOUR Tent (P)

Returns  you  to  the Pro Shop during practice, or takes you to the PGA TOUR
tend during a tournament.

OPTIONS MENU (O)

The Options menu lists special play options.

Special Shots (S)

See  the  Strategy  Guide  for  instructions on how to use the three special
shots, Chip Shot (C); Punch Shot (P); and Fringe Put (F).

Normal (N)

Deactivates the conditions that apply when using special shots.

Take a Mulligan (M) (Not available in Tournament Mode).

To  repeat  a  shot  during  a  practice  round.   Mulligans do not count as
strokes.   Think  of  them  as a learning experience.  You can take multiple
mulligans  of one shot, or select Take a Mulligan repeatedly to move back to
the tee.

Pick up Ball (P)

Accept  a  score  of  12 strokes for the current hold, and go on to the next
hole.

Instant Replay (I)

Show a replay of the last shot.

VIEW MENU (V)

The  View  menu  lists  all the special views and score displays.  Press the
spacebar, a mouse button, or a joystick button to return to the course.

Ball Lie (B)

Displays your ball lie on the course.

Overhead (O)

Displays the aerial view of the course showing your shots.

Green (G)

When you're on or very near the green, this option displays a contour map of
that green.

Scorecard (S)

Displays your scorecard for the current game.

Leader Board (L)

Displays the Leader Board for the tournament.

Tourney Results (T)

Displays the results for the tournament just after it's over.

Hot Keys (H)

Displays   shortcut  commands  for  some  of  the  more  common  and  useful
selections.

F1 Instant Replay  F6 Scorecard
F2 Mulligan        F7 Chip Shot
F3 Ball Lie        F8 Punch Shot
F4 Green           F9 Fringe Putt
F5 Overhead        F10 Normal Shot

STATS MENU (S)

The Stats menu lists the performance statistics for all current players.

Current Players (By Name)

Displays  the  lifetime  statistics  for  any  player  playing  the  current
tournament or practice round.  See Current Players on page 25.

Tournament (T)

Displays  the  tournament  statistics  for  all  players:  the Leading Money
Winners, and then for the Leading Scorers.


                         PGA TOUR GOLF GUIDE

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE PGA TOUR

The  exact  beginning  of  professional  golf  in  America  is  difficult to
discover.   The  names  of the best golfers from the early 1800s are for the
most  part  lost  to  us.   Unfortunately,  what  they  did, who they played
against,  what  they  played  for,  and  sometimes even where they played is
shrouded  in  the  mystery  of time past.  But that there were professionals
dedicated  to  the  game,  and fans who thrilled to outstanding play, no one
doubts.

Beginning  in  1898,  the  historical  record  starts to yield more concrete
information.   The  distinguished  history  of  professional  golf begins to
emerge  on  New  Year's  Day  of  that  year.   In the middle of winter, ten
professional golfers played 36 holes of stroke play at the Ocean County Hunt
and  Country  Club in Lakewood, New Jersey and competed for a total purse of
$150.   The  winner,  Val  Fitzjohn,  defeated his brother in a sudden-death
playoff and took home $75.

Despite  the weather, a large gallery came to witness the event, and the New
York   Times   provided  extensive  coverage  of  the  tournament.   Shortly
thereafter,  tournaments  began  to pop up across the country.  But this was
not  'tour' golf, as we know it today, because the events lacked continuity.
Interest  in  the  game, however, continued to grow.  American professionals
were   rapidly   improving   their  games  and  crowds  were  becoming  more
knowledgeable.   When John McDermott became the first native-born to win the
U.S.  Open (l911), enthusiasm for the game expanded exponentially.

Helping   this   growth  was  a  commercially-backed  exhibition  'tour'  by
Englishmen  Harry  Vardon and Ted Ray.  The two travelled across the country
and attracted huge crowds whenever they stopped to play during the summer of
1913.   However, the biggest explosion of interest in the game occurred that
September.   A 20-year old "local boy," Francis Quimet, defeated the pair in
a playoff for the United States Open Championship at Brookline, MA Suddenly,
golf became front page news and a game for everyone.

The  early  Twenties  saw  the  first development of what we know as the PGA
TOUR.   In  the  winter,  tournaments were held on the West Coast, Texas and
Florida.   By  the  middle  of  the decade, the TOUR was offering $77,000 in
total  purses  and donating a substantial amount of money to charity.  Names
like  Walter  Hagen,  Gene  Sarazen and Bobby Jones became folk legends in a
nation hungry for heroes.

In  the  Thirties,  the TOUR continued to grow.  The PGA of America provided
support  to  the fledgling tour and despite the financial woes caused by the
Great Depression, golf tournaments were able to attract large crowds.  It is
interesting  to  look back at some figures of the time.  Paul Runyan was the
leading  money  winner of 1934 with $767.  In contrast, in 1989, the top two
money  winners  --  Tom Kite and Payne Stewan -- each earned over $l million
(see  PGA  Facts  and  Figures,  The  Growth  of Tour Purses, below for more
information).

Like  other  outstanding  professional athletes of the era, the names of the
TOUR's best golfers became household words in the late 1930's.  By the early
1940's  Sam Snead's name started to appear in the headlines with regularity.
Then came Ben Hogan, Byron Nelson, Jimmy Demaret and others who were to gain
nationwide fame.

Following  World War II, the TOUR became more structured and as Tvs appeared
in  more  and  more  of  the  nation's  homes in the late 50s and early 60s,
interest in the game exploded.  Once television became a player in the game,
the  eyes  of the world were on golf.  The exposure inspired millions to try
the  game and at the same time, TV-advertising revenues sent purses soaring.
The  bulk  of  these  revenues, which are distributed by the PGA TOUR to all
co-sponsors,  have gone back into the purses, accounting for the tripling of
prize money in the last decade alone.

During  Commissioner  Deane Beman's administration, which began in 1974, the
value of tournament purses has escalated at an unprecedented rate.  PGA TOUR
assets  have  grown  from  $730,000  in 1974 to $80 million today, and total
revenues  have  increased from $3.9 million to $140 million in the same time
period.   This tremendous growth in revenues has created a number of wealthy
athletes,  but  more  importantly  it has allowed the PGA TOUR to vigorously
pursue  its  goal  of  being  a  major  contributor  to  charitable  causes.
Charitable  donations  have been a hallmark of professional golf almost from
the  very beginning.  The idea of turning over a tournament's after-expenses
profits  to  charity  has  its  origin  in  1917.   During  World  War  I, a
professional  tournament  was  played  to  raise  funds  for  the Red Cross.
Likewise,  numerous  exhibitions  were  staged  for the same purpose.  These
practices  set  the  mold  for the TOUR and since 1938, PGA TOUR events have
donated  $145  million  dollars  to charity.  Each of the last 13 years have
seen charitable contributions increase dramatically, to the point where over
$100  million  has  been donated since 1984.  The slogan, "The leading money
winner on the PGA TOUR is Charity," is definitely not just a catch phrase.

Great    athletes,    knowledgeable    fans,   progressive   and   inventive
administration,  and corporate involvement have made PGA golf the great game
it is today.

--adapted from the Official 1990 PGA TOUR Media Guide


PGA FACTS AND FIGURES

Golfers  and  fans  from  every  level of the game have a long-standing love
affair with the statistics of golf.  After all is said and done, the numbers
tell  us  who  won, and who didn't do as well.  Though the game is played in
tranquil  settings,  in  reverent  silence, this calm is often belied by the
frantic  excitement  caused  by  the  large  prizes  that are at stake.  The
professionals naturally feel the 'heat' a bit more acutely than we do.  That
doesn't keep us from living and dying with our favorite's next shot.

What  follows  are  three  different kinds of statistics that we thought you
would  enjoy.   They  are  all  a part of the fascinating texture of the PGA
TOUR.

GROWTH OF TOUR PURSES:  A SIX-FOLD INCREASE IN THE LAST TWENTY YEARS

Year   No. of Events  Total Purse

1970        55        $6.751.523
1971        63         7,116,000
1972        71         7,596,749
1973        75         8,657,225
1974        57         8,165,941
1975        51         7,895,450
1976        49         9,157,522
1977        48         9,688,977
1978        48        10,337,332
1979        46        12,801,200
1980        45        13,371,786
1981        45        14,175,393
1982        46        15,089,576
1983        45        17,588,242
1984        46        21,251,382
1985        47        25,290,526
1986        46        25,442,242
1987        46        32,106,093
1988        47        36,959,307
1989        44        41,288,787


PRIZE MONEY DISTRIBUTION

To  finish  a tournament "in the money" is every professional's goal when he
starts his first round on Thursday morning.  If he makes the 38-hole-cut, he
accomplishes  his goal and has a chance for a really big payday.  How much a
golfer  can  make  in a given tournament depends entirely on the total purse
being  offered  by the tournament sponsors.  Below are some examples of what
the  PGA  TOUR  pros  are  playing  for  when they tee it up on Saturday and
Sunday.

Total Purse: $600,000 (The Southern Open, Green Island Country
Club, Columbus, GA)
Position    1        2       3       4       5
Prize  $108,000   64,800  40,800  28,800  24,000

Total Purse: $1,000,000 (Federal Express St. Jude Classic, TPC at
Southwind, Memphis, TN*
Position     1        2       3       4       5
Prize   $180,000  108,000  68,000  48,000  40,000

Total Purse: $1,500.00 (THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP, TPC at Sawgrass, Pointe
Vedre, FL)
Position     1        2        3       4       5
Prize   $270,000  162,200  102,200  72,000  60,000

1989 PGA TOUR STATISTICAL HIGHS/LOWS

Those with 50 rounds or more based on 186 ranked players.
Statistical Category  Highest   Average   Lowest

Driving Distance       280.9     261.8     245.5
Driving Accuracy        .826      .650     .479
Greens in Regulation    .726      .655     .535
Putting                1.734     1.787    1.878
Par Breakers            .224      .183     .148
Eagles                  14        4        0
Birdies                 415       268      137
Scoring Average        69.49    71.08    72.92
Sand Saves              .660      .505     .361

                               35

"10 of the best" in PGA TOUR Golf

As  you  play the challenging TPC courses in the game, ten of the PGA TOUR's
most  outstanding  professionals offer their insights and advice to help you
along.   You'll  get  the  benefit  of  their  experience  and  perhaps take
inspiration  from  their  success.   Consistency and competitiveness are the
hallmarks of these featured professionals.  Learn from their experiences and
let them guide your play through the exhilarating TPC courses.

TOMMY ARMOUR III

Owner of one of the most revered names in the distinguished history of golf,
Tommy  is the grandson of the "Silver Scot," winner of the U.S.  and British
Opens,  the  PGA  Championship, and charter inductee to the PGA Hall of Fame
(Palm Beach Gardens, Florida).

Despite his lineage, a career in golf was not automatic for Tommy (III).  He
was  a  fine  schoolboy  athlete, who excelled in several sports.  lt was at
first with regret that he had to choose A between golf and baseball, because
they  shared the same season.  By the time he finished high school, however,
the  regrets were gone.  The decision to dedicate himself to golf introduced
a new sense of purpose and commitment to his life.

Following  are markably successful amateur career, topped off by winning the
William  Tucker Intercollegiate event while at the University of New Mexico,
Tommy qualified for the TOUR in 1981, when he was 21.  He now thinks of this
as a kind of "false" start in his chosen career.  1982 was not what he hoped
it would be.  For the next five years he tried to get his cardback, and each
year he just barely missed.

Naturally,  Tommy was disappointed.  But he was undaunted.  He used his time
off  the  PGA  TOUR  to  good  advantage.   He gained precious experience by
practicing  hard and playing competitively in several events on the European
and  Asian Tours.  His perseverance and dedication have paid off handsomely.
Since  he regained his card at the PGA TOUR's Qualifying Tournament in 1987,
his "real" career has taken off brilliantly.

In  1988  he  finished 66th on the prize money list, and in 1989 he tied for
runner-up  in  the  Kemper  Open  at the challenging Tournament Players Club
[TPC]  at  Avenel.   He completed the year ranked in the top twenty in three
statistical  categories:   greens  in regulation, birdies, and eagles.  When
Tommy talks golf shots, people listen.

The future looks bright for this descendant of one of golf's great families.


PAUL AZINGER

New  England born and raised, Paul honed his game with collegiate experience
and  great  coaching at Brevard Junior College and Florida State University.
Following  an  unheralded  entry  to  the  PGA TOUR in 1982, and a couple of
undistinguished  (though not unproductive) years, Paul began a meteoric rise
to  the  highest  levels  of the game in 1985.  Some would call that rise an
assault.   Paul  took  no prisoners.  He simply improved every aspect of his
game  including his competitiveness, and his efforts were recognized in 1987
when he was named PGA Player-of-the-Year.

No   one  doubted  that  this  honor  was  well-deserved.   Paul  won  three
tournaments  that  year and had led the TOUR in Sand Saves in 1986 and 1987.
His  earnings  for  1987  exceeded  his  1988  take  by  over half a million
dollars--the fifth largest one-year increase in PGA TOUR history.

While never terribly long off the tee, Paul is always among the TOUR leaders
in  hitting  greens  in  regulation.  His uncanny ability to select just the
right  club has positioned him consistently high among the Par Breakers, and
in 1989 he was ranked best all-around golfer on the TOUR.  His amazing 69.69
scoring  average  is the envy of all his peers.  Consistency and shot-making
ability  made  him  an obvious choice for the Ryder Cup team to which he was
named in 1989.

Paul's  boyish  good looks, lanky frame, and pleasantly engaging manner have
won  him  a  loyal  and  enthusiastic  following.   But it's his superlative
all-around  game  which has made him tremendously popular with galleries and
golfing   fans   everywhere.    His   even  disposition  and  ever-improving
consistency  foretell even greater accomplishments for this fine competitor.
As  1990  began  Paul  held  10th position in the Sony World Rankings, which
compares player performances around the world.


FRED COUPLES

A  fine  all-around  athlete,  Fred  was  encouraged  by his father to begin
competing  in junior golf events in his native Seattle.  The young man loved
the   game  and  demonstrated  his  skill  and  commitment  by  becoming  an
All-American  at  the  University  of  Houston  in  1978  and  1979.   After
qualifying  for  the  TOUR  in  1980,  he  showed  that  he was equal to the
challenge  of  professional competition by becoming the leading money winner
among rookies in 1981.

By  1983  seasoned  professionals  and golf fans everywhere were discovering
that  Fred  has  as  much talent as anybody on the TOUR.  He is consistently
ranked  in the top 15 professionals in scoring, eagles, putting, and driving
distance.  And, if "pressure" could be a middle name, it would be his.  Like
all great TOUR competitors, Fred thrives on playing, under pressure.

At   the  1983  Kemper  Open,  Fred  calmly  won  the  now  famous  5-player
sudden-death  playoff.   In  1984,  after  shooting a record-tying 64 in the
first  round of THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP (TPC at Sawgrass), where every shot
must  be  precise,  Fred  never  looked  back.  Even though Tom Watson, Seve
Ballesteros,  and  Lee Trevino mounted furious challenges to his leadership,
Fred came away with the victory by one stroke!

Great  shot-making  ability  and  immunity  from  pressure:   what a winning
combination!   It came as no surprise that Fred was ranked number two in the
1989  all-around  ratings of players on the TOUR (right behind Paul Azinger)
and was also named to the Ryder Cup team.

As  1990  began  he  held  15th  position  in the Sony World rankings, which
compares player performances around the world.


BRUCE LIETZKE

When  Bruce  was  just  a  small  boy in Kansas, his older brother, a course
professional  in  Wichita,  gave  him  a  set of cut-down clubs.  Gifts from
admired older brothers being at least equivalent to diamonds in value, Bruce
and  the  clubs were inseparable.  And the boy just didn't haul them around:
he  tried  to  master  his  brother's game, at all times,in all weather.  He
became  a fine highschool player, and while on scholarship to the University
of Houston, won the Texas State Amateur title in 1971.

Ironically,  Bruce's early start in the game led him to give it up.  Shortly
after he left Houston in 1973, Bruce felt he had played so much golf that he
had  nothing  left  to give back to the game.  He put his clubs away for six
months and wondered his goals and ambitions.  Not surprisingly it turned out
that  becoming  a successful professional golfer wasn't the top of his list.
With  his  priorities reordered and his enthusiasm revived, he qualified for
the PGA TOUR in the spring of 1975.

He  played  well  on  TOUR almost from the start, although his first victory
didn't  come  until  1977.  But then the flood gates were opened and Bruce's
sparkling  play  made  him  an  easy  selection for the Ryder Cup (1981) and
allowed  him  to  finish  in  the  top twenty of the money list for the next
several  years.   He  reasserted  his exacting game in 1988, winning the GTE
Byron Nelson Classic at the TPC at Las Colinas.  In 1989 he nearly tamed the
TPC at Sawgrass in THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP before tying for third.

Once  again in 1989 Bruce had the best percentage among active professionals
for  hitting  greens  in  regulation (73%).  His accuracy with the driver is
almost  unmatched,  so  the message is clear When Bruce is playing well, the
rest of the field better turn it up a notch.


MARK MCCUMBER

The  past four years (1986-1989) have seen Mark solidify his position as one
of  the  finest  players  in  the game.  He finished 1986 ranked 80th on the
money  list,  with  three  TOUR victories to show since he qualified for his
card in 1978.1987 opened a new chapter in his professional life as a player.
He  won  the  Anheuser-Busch  Classic  and  followed  that  victory  with an
aweinspiring  triumph  at  the  THE  PLAYERS  CHAMPIONSHIP (TPC at Sawgrass)
shooting  a record-breaking 273 (15 under par).  In addition to walking away
with  the  first prize check, mark received a 10-year TOUR exemption for his
stunning victory.

Mark  continued  his  winning  ways  in  1989.   In  addition to winning the
Beatrice  Western  Open  and tying for second at the U.S.  Open, he had five
other  top  10  finishes.   This  amazing performance placed him 14th on the
money  list  and insured his selection to the Ryder Cup team.  As 1990 began
he  held  18th  position  in  the Sony World rankings, which compares player
performances around the world.

Considering   his   consistently   fine   performance  at  the  THE  PLAYERS
CHAMPIONSHIP  (TPC  at  Sawgrass)  it's no surprise that Mark and his family
make  their home in Ponte Vedra, Florida.  "Live where the luck is," as they
say.   But  Mark  may  have  another reason for living nearby the Tournament
Players  Club  at  Sawgrass:  it gives him an opportunity to study and learn
the lessons of one of the most beautiful and challenging courses in the U.S.
This  is appropriate because when Mark puts on his other hat, he's among the
best of the new generation of golf course architects.

Mark  and  his  brothers  have  founded  a  firm specializing in golf course
design.   Several of their courses have already been built and have received
high  praise.   As  a  designer,  Mark has the potential of having a greater
impact  on  the  world of golf than he has as a player.  And considering his
excellent golf game, that would be some impact, indeed.


LARRY MIZE

As  a  complement to his superbly consistent game (of 25 tournaments entered
in  1989,  he  finished  22  of them in the money) and in recognition of his
valuable  off-course  contributions  to  the  game, Larry was elected by his
fellow  professionals  as  a  Player  Director  of the PGA Tournament Policy
Board.  The Board establishes the goals and policies of the PGA TOUR.  It is
a  tribute  to  his concentration and dedication that Larry has been able to
fulfill  both  his  playing  and administrative responsibilities with flying
colors.   When  Larry  was  nine  years old, living in Augusta, Georgia, his
father--a  scratch  handicapper--taught  him  the game.  That early training
served  him  well.   He  had  a  fine  collegiate  career at Georgia Tech in
Atlanta, and qualified for the TOUR in 1981.  Six years later he returned to
Augusta to win the Master's Tournament (1987) with one of the most thrilling
shots in recent memory.

After  dropping  an  8-foot birdie putt on 18 to force a be with Greg Norman
and  Seve  Ballesteros,  Larry  birdied the second play off hole (No.  11 at
Augusta National) by holing out with a 140-foot chip shot.  The appreciative
crowd  erupted  with  applause  appropriate  to such artistry.  Norman later
missed  his  putt  for  birdie  and  the  victory  was Larry's.  This, as it
happened,  was  tit for tat, because Greg had beaten Larry on the sixth hole
of a fiercely contested playoff at the Kemper Open (TPC at Avenel) in 1988.

Larry's  middle  name  is Hogan.  Given his father's love of the game, is it
possible  that  Larry  has  a  namesake  from  the world of golf?  Given the
honored  name, is Larry destined for even greater things on the golf course?
You can bet on it!

As  1990  began  Larry  held 19th position in the Sony World rankings, which
compares player performances around the world.


MARK O'MEARA

Mark  started  to  play  the  game seriously as a teenager in Mission Viejo,
California.   His  progress  was rapid and his skill sufficient to win him a
place  on his high school team.  Dedication and constant improvement won him
a  scholarship at Long Beach State, where he became an All-American in 1979.
His  amateur  career  culminated  in  his victory over John Cook in the 1979
United States Amateur Championship.

With  his  professional  career  off  to a running start, Mark fulfilled his
boyhood dream and qualified for the PGA TOUR in 1980.  Predictably, his work
habits   and   his   talent   impressed   everyone.    He   was  named  TOUR
Rookie-of-the-Year in 1981.  Although it took him a couple of years to break
away  from  the  pack,  Mark showed in 1984 that he was destined to become a
great player.

In  1984  he  finished  second on the money list, putting together an almost
unequaled  record  of  top  three  finishes  (9)  and forged a well-deserved
reputation  for  consistency  and  toughness  that  lasts  to this day.  His
performance  led to his being named to the Ryder Cup team in 1985.  This was
no  flash  in  the  pan.  It was real gold.  Mark was named to the Ryder Cup
Team a second time in 1989 following a great year in which he ranked 13th on
the money list.

Mark  has  always  been  known  by  his  peers  as  a great putter, a superb
tough-course  player,  and an avid student of all facets of the game.  As if
to  prove  his  colleagues  right,  Mark  was  ranked 13th among PGA pros in
putting in 1989; won (for the second time) the always difficult Pebble Beach
National  Pro-Am;  and  won  the  respect of golf course architects with his
perceptive and inventive advice on course design.


JOEY SINDELAR

Like  so  many of the fine players on the PGA TOUR, Joey learned the game at
his  father's  elbow.   He was six years old when he first picked up a club,
and  the game has continued as a passion to this day.  Likewise his father's
involvement in his professional life has remained a constant.  Joey's dad is
his coach, mentor, sounding board, advisor, and source of inspiration.  With
characteristic,  though  perhaps  too  much  modesty,  Joey says "Dad's been
behind everything I've done."

Joey  improved  his  game  in  high school and won the New York State Junior
Tournament  in  1972.   He  had  realized  by  then  that  he  would  need a
scholarship  if he was to continue his education.  Colleges came running for
his  talents  and  he  decided  on  Ohio  State  University following in the
footsteps   of  Jack  Nicklaus  and  Ed  Sneed.   Joey  honored  his  famous
predecessors   and  the  OSU  program  by  being  named  All-American  three
consecutive years.

After  receiving  his  B.S.  in 1981, Joey turned professional and qualified
for  the  PGA TOUR in 1983.  From the start he played like a champion.  Many
of  his  peers  think  Joey plays the long courses as well as anyone.  He is
consistently among the TOUR leaders in Distance Driving and Par Breakers.

Following a spectacular year in 1988, including two TOUR victories, Joey was
named  to the Kirin Cup team.  His earnings that year gave him some title to
the  fourth largest single-season earnings gain in TOUR history (over half a
million  dollars).   It's  fair  to  suspect  that he used some of that hard
earned  money  to  indulge  his  habit of collecting antique golf equipment.
With  Joey's  explosive  game it's likely that some of his fellow pros often
find themselves wishing, if only in jest, that he'd bronze his own clubs.


CRAIG STADLER

With  a  current  total of eight TOUR victories, a bushel basket full of top
ten  finishes,  and  the  ungrudging  respect of his peers, Craig Stadler is
unlikely  to  sneak  up  on anybody in 1990.  He has proven his mettle.  But
Craig's  amateur and early professional history is an instructive example of
how  difficult  it  is  for  even  a  great golfer to rise to the top of his
profession, and how truly competitive the PGA TOUR has become.

If  anyone ever looked like a "sure thing" entering the TOUR in 1976, it was
Craig.   His  credentials  were  impeccable.  California born and raised, he
started  playing  the  game year-round with his dad, at the age of five.  At
eighteen,  he  won  the  World  Junior Championship (1971) in 1973 he became
United States Amateur champion.  Unanimously selected as an All- American at
the  University  of Southern California (USC) in 1974 and 1975, he was named
to the Walker Cup in 1975.  And then he qualified for the TOUR.

Strange to say, four years of completely unexpected mediocrity followed.  He
wasn't  playing  badly;he  just was not excelling.  There were too many good
players  in  front of him.  But in 1980 his star began to shine with two PGA
TOUR  victories.   "Cream rises," as they say.  Does it ever!  Craig won the
Kemper; Open in 1981.  In 1982 he notched four more victories, including the
Masters  and  his  second  Kemper title and finished the year by winning the
Arnold  Palmer  Award as the leading money winner on the TOUR.  The star had
become  a  supernova, and although he's had to work through a few low energy
cycles,  he's  still burning brightly in 1989.  After monopolizing the title
of  TOUR's  champion  Par Breaker in 1984,1985, and 1986, Craig is currently
ranked number 5 in that critical category.  Of the twenty-two tournaments he
entered  in  1989, he finished in the money twenty-one times.  It's clear to
all  his  peers  and  the  informed  golfing public that one nickname should
replace all the colorful monikers that have been suggested by Craig's unique
physique:  just call him "Winner."


FUZZY ZOELLER

When  talk  turns  to the great professionals playing today, Fuzzy Zoeller's
name always comes up.  And rightfully so.  A United States Open Championship
crown (1984) and a Master's Tournament title (1979) are enough to insure his
place  in  history.   But  to hear people talk, one might think that Fuzzy's
middle  name  was  "Potential"  so  often  is that word connected to the New
Albany, Indiana native.

Discussing  "what  might  have  been"  is  usually  a futile and aggravating
exercise.   But  in  Fuzzy's  case  it's  understandable.   From the time he
qualified for the TOUR (1974) until he had partially corrective back surgery
(1985)  pain, resulting from a high-school basketball injury, was a constant
companion.   No  one  doubts  that  pain  affects performance.  He won seven
events on the TOUR before 1985.  In the first year after his surgery, he won
three events.  Draw your own conclusions.

Fuzzy has never used his health as an excuse.  He plays when he is able, and
doesn't  play  when he thinks he can't perform up to his exacting standards.
In  fact,  his overall play has been outstanding, and he has been an obvious
choice  for  the  Ryder  Cup team on three occasions (1979,1983,1985).  Many
people  "in  the  know"  believe that if Fuzzy is in contention on Sunday he
will, more often than not, win the tournament His stylish game combined with
an  open  and  winning personality have made him a gallery favorite, and his
fellow professionals have admired and loved him for more than a decade.

While  he  currently  ranks  among  the  PGA  leaders  in  hitting greens in
regulation,  par  breaking and scoring average, most professionals think the
strongest part of Fuzzy's game is his remarkable ability to make a difficult
shot   under   tremendous   pressure.    He  used  this  capability  at  the
awe-inspiring  PGA  West  (TPC  at  La  Quinta)  where he won The Skins Game
against great competition in 1988.


TOURNAMENT PLAYERS CLUBS [TPC]

Among  the  many exciting and original concepts developed by the PGA TOUR in
the  psst  decade,  nothing  has affected the millions of golf spectators as
much  as  the  invention  and  construction  of the Tournament Players Clubs
[TPC].   The  TOUR  believed that over the years the interests of spectators
had  often been ignored or sacrificed for other important concerns when golf
courses  were  designed.   The  PGA  TOUR  determined  that  when it got the
opportunity  to  build  its  own,  it  would construct courses that not only
challenged  the  players, but allowed spectators an unprecedented, unimpeded
look  at  the action.  This dream was realized in 1980 with the construction
of the TPC at Sawgrass.  And in less than ten years the dream has grown into
a  network  that now encompasses 21 TPCs in 12 states and, with the addition
of TPC International courses in Japan, two countries.

The  TPC  courses are sometimes referred to as Stadium courses, because many
of  the  greens  are  designed like amphitheaters.  All over the courses one
finds  spectator  mounds  that  afford  fans unrestricted views of the tees,
fairways,  and  greens.   In  fact,  the  18th  hole  at the original TPC at
Sawgrass  can  accommodate  more than 40,000 people all have a clear view of
the  action.   You  won't  see  any  periscopes  at an event on a Tournament
Players Club course!

All TPCs are designed to host PGA TOUR or Senior PGA TOUR events and to date
the courses have been designed by some of the top architects in the business
--  Pete  Dye,  Arthur Hills,and Ed Ault Associates, just to name a few.  In
addition  to  securing  the services of top flight designers and architects,
the  PGA  TOUR  often  assigns  a  TOUR player to act as a consultant to the
designer, in the hopes that his special expertise and point of view will add
a  bit  of  spice  to  the  project.   Since  the Tournament Players Club at
Sawgrass  opened,  the  TPC  network  has  now truly become the "best set of
clubs"  in  America.   This  has  been a great benefit to the entire golfing
public  as  well  as the PGA TOUR players.  When you join a TPC club in your
area,  it's  like  joining a nationwide country club.  Membership at one TPC
club  allows you to play at any of the other clubs across the country and an
opportunity  to view the greatest players in the world in action on your own
course once a year.


Domestic Tournament Players Clubs

Club                Architect      Consultant     Hosts

TPC at Sawgrass     Pete Dye                      THE PLAYERS
Ponte Vedra,FL                                    CHAMPIONSHIP

TPC at Eagle Trace  Arthur Hills                  Honda Classic
Coral Springs, FL

TPC of Connecticut  Pete Dye       Howard Twiny   Canon Greater
Cromwell, CT                                      Hartford Open

TPC at Prestancia   Ron Garl       Mike Souchak   Chrysler Cup
Sarasota, FL

TPC at Avenel       Ed Ault        Ed Sneed       Kemper Open
Potomac, MD         Associates

TPC at StarPass     Bob Cupp       Craig Stadler  Northern Telecom
Tucson, AZ                                        Tucson Open

TPC at Scottsdale   Jay Morrish/   Jim Colbert/   Phoenix Open
Scottsdale, AZ      Tom Weiskopf   Howard Twitly

TPC at Piper Glen   Arnold Palmer                 Paine Webber
Charlotte, NC                                     Invitational

TPC at Southwind    Ron Prichard   Hubert Green/  Federal Express
Memphis, TN                        Fuzzy Zoeller  St Jude Classic

TOURNAMENT PLAYERS COURSES "Licensed facilities"

TPC at The Woodlands Von Hagge/                     Independent
The Woodlands, TX   Bruce Devlin                  Insurance Agent Open

TPC at Las Colinas  Jay Morrish    Ben Crenshaw/  GTE Byron
Irving, TX                         Byron Nelson   Classic

TPC at PGA West     Pete Dye                      The Skins Game
La Quinta, CA


FUTURE TPCs (Announced, Planned and Under Construction)

Club Architect                         Consultant         Hosts

TPC at Snoqualmie Falls Rees Jones      Don January/       To Be Announced
King County, WA                        Peter Jacobsen

TPC at Ventura County  To Be            Corey Pavin        To Be Announced
Simi Valley, CA       Announced

TPC of Michigan       Jack Nicklaus                       Mazda Senior
Dearborn, MI

Tournament Players Championship

TPC at Summerlin      PGA TOUR Design  Fuzzy Zoeller       Las Vegas
Las Vegas, NV         Services, Inc.                     Invitational

TPC at Ka'upulehu     Jack Nicklaus                       To Be Announced
Kona, HI

TPC at Cheval         PGA TOUR Design  Chi Rodriguez  GTE Suncoast
Tampa, FL             Services, Inc.                      Classic

TPC INTERNATIONAL

TPC of Kijima                          TPC of Batoh       TPC of Ichihara
(Japan)                                (Japan)            (Japan)

COURSES AND TOURNAMENTS IN PGA TOUR GOLF

Tournament Players Club [TPC] at Sawgrass, Ponte Vedra, Florida

The  TPC  at  Sawgrass  was the first Stadium Golf course to be constructed.
From  the  outset  it  was  destined  to  be a special course.  The PGA TOUR
looking  for  a  permanent  site for THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP and wanting to
establish;  "home  club"  for  the members of the TOUR, saw greatness in the
lush tropical setting near Jacksonville, and the TOUR was thrilled.

The  famous  (some  say notorious) Pete Dye was chosen as the designer.  His
mission  was  to amenities, including a variety of unobstructed views of the
golfing   action.   To  say  that  Dye  succeeded  admirably  is  almost  an
understatement.   The  nail-biting,  pressure-packed  precision  required by
almost  every  shot  is  offset  perfectly  by  the spacious serenity of the
course.  And the fans can see it all!

Three  of this TPCs' first nine holes are judged to be among the 100 hardest
holes  in  America.  The treacherous 17th green is surrounded by water.  Its
bold  original  design has served as a model and inspiration for many of the
new  breed of architects.  And when the huge amphitheater circumscribing the
18th  green  is packed with an appreciative gallery, every TOUR professional
wants to play his very best one final hole.

No  detail  was  ever looked at Sawgrass.  The 6,857 yards of the course are
beautifully integrated into the natural terrain rather than being imposed on
it.   The  thoughtful  combination  of  water  hazards and wide sand bunkers
introduces  a  challenge  to  every  player.   Even  the  extensive practice
facilities are beautifully designed.

TPC  at  Sawgrass perfect location for THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP.  Every year
the  144  best  players in the world pit their skills against the course and
golfing  has  around  the  world  have  been  thrilled  by  the  outstanding
performance  of  several  PGA  TOUR professionals.  Among the most memorable
feats  were Fred Couples' astonishing 64 (8 under) in the first round of the
PGA  tournament;  Sandy  Lyle's  exciting  playoff victory in 1987; and Mark
McCumber's incredible record-setting victory round of 273 in 1988.

TOURNAMENT PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP

Year     Winner      Score     Location      Par/Yards

1982   Jerry Pate     280   TPC at Sawgrass   72/6857
1983   Hal Sutton     283   TPC at Sawgrass   72/6857
1984  Fred Couples    277   TPC at Sawgrass   72/6857
1985  Calvin Peete    274   TPC at Sawgrass   72/6857
1986  John Mahaffey   275   TPC at Sawgrass   72/6857
1987   Sandy Lyle*    274   TPC at Sawgrass   72/6857

THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP

1988 Mark McCumber    273   TPC at Sawgrass    72/6857
1989 Tom Kite         279   TPC at Sawgrass    72/6857

* = Playoff

                               49

Tournament Players Club [TPC] at Avenel, Potomac, Maryland

In typical TPC fashion, the layout of the course at Avenel, with its natural
amphitheaters  and  spectator  mounds, offers clear views of all the golfing
action  spectators  never  have  to  strain  to  see  their  favorite  pros.
Definitely  a  course  for  the  bold player, Avenel like all great courses,
rewards  good  shots,  and penalizes poor ones.  The mixed topography of the
rolling  Maryland countryside requires a player to take a substantial number
of risks to master the course.

Avenel  was  designed  by  Ed  Ault Associates and is the home of the Kemper
Open, the oldest continuously corporate-sponsored golf tournament on the PGA
TOUR.   Kemper  National Insurance Companies hosts this great tournament and
can  rightfully  boast  about  as  prestigious list of participants and past
champions  including golf greats Craig Stadler, Tom Kine, and Arnold Palmer,
who won the first Kemper Open in 1969.  Since it's inception ,the tournament
has  given Kemper the opportunity to donate more than one million dollars to
local and national charities.

The  course  itself  is a model of thoroughly diversified design.  At almost
7,000  yards  in length the successful player needs to control every club in
his  bag to score consistently well here.  Gorgeous elevated tees, a variety
of  doglegs,  tiered  greens, rock runs, and water hazards contribute to the
course's  exciting  character.  The scenic and demanding 9th hole is typical
of  Avenel:   It's not long, but features hazards all around the green.  The
elevated  tee  complicates  the player's perspective.  Ponds guard the front
and  right  side  of  the  green;  a bunker looms on the left.  In short the
course is beautiful but treacherous.

KEMPER OPEN

Year      Winner      Score            Location            Par/Yards

1982   Craig Stadler   275   Congressional CC, Bethesda,MD  72/7173
1983  Fred Couples*    287   Congressional CC, Bethesda,MD  72/7173
1984   Greg Norman     280   Congressional CC, Bethesda,MD  72/7173
1985   Bill Glasson    278   Congressional CC, Bethesda,MD  72/7173
1986   Greg Norman*    277   Congressional CC, Bethesda,MD  72/7173
1987    Tom Kite       270   TPC at Avenel, Potomac,MD      71/6864
1988  Morris Hatalsky  274   TPC at Avenel, Potomac,MD      71/6864
1989    Tom Byrum      268   TPC at Avenel, Potomac,MD      71/6864

* = Playoff

PGA WEST

Stadium  Course at La Quinta, California The TPC Stadium Course at La Quinta
was conceived and designed by Pete Dye.  lt is the current site of The Skins
Game.   With a USGA rating of 77.1, the Stadium Course is unanimously ranked
one of the 100 greatest golf courses in the world.

Unarguably  a  major  part of the course's greatness resides in its enormous
difficulty.  The fainthearted simply can't play here.  Its unique collection
of swales, valleys, humps, and mounds give pause to even the most courageous
professionals.   Numerous  intimidating driving holes with greens guarded by
cavernous bunkers and merciless water mean that collars can get pretty tight
in the closing rounds of a tournament.

The fairways are thin ribbons of undulating turf.  Sand, pot holes, and even
fairway  bunkers make every shot an adventure.  The greens, when you can see
them,  are  deep  and  conspiratorial.   Like all great courses, the Stadium
Course  at  PGA West makes you take your best shot every time you step up to
the  ball.   Each  shot  is  make or break.  If you try to bail out, you get
burned.   If  you  try  to  lag up to the water when you should be trying to
carry over it, trouble is guaranteed.

Each  hole  carries  a descriptive epithet, and the pros know that these are
more  than  nicknames.  The 6th hole called AMEN, is on The PGA of America's
18 toughest holes in America.  It is in fact held by many to be the toughest
hole  in existence.  The pros are ecstatic when they've finished playing it.
The  signature  bunkers of the San Andreas Fault (16) and Eternity (11) have
deprived many golfers of sleep.

All  fun  aside,  the  pros  and  the fans love the TPC Stadium Course at La
Quinta.   The  galleries  get  superb  views  of PGA TOUR members, playing a
supremely  challenging  course  at  the  top  of  their  games,  executing a
magnificent  variety of almost impossible shots with the precision and grace
that  we  all  love  to  dream  about.   The United States Ryder Cup team is
eagerly  looking  forward  to  hosting its European competition at PGA West,
which has already been selected as the site of 1991 Ryder Cup matches.