                         PHANTASM

KEYS
          O   More left
          P   More right               Or joystick for
          S   Increase speed           these function.
          X   Decrease speed

A   Anti missile blaster
B   Speed booster
H   Increase height
G   Decrease height
M   Fire missle
Q   To land and quit (tilled off)
Esc To pause game for a cup of tea
R   Changes view right on screen
    but does not alter direction of flight
L   Changes view left on screen
    but does not alter direction of flight
Game level 1 - For training purposes.
                 Difficult to be destroyed but cannot score.
                 Name of object in range is displayed to destroy
                 but cannot score.
Game level 2 - Now scoring. Game difficulty increased.
Game level 3 - Higher to game level greater score.
Game level 4 - Most difficult.

THE TIME IS KNOW
You are destitute ,etc., skipping from town to town, bedsit to
bedsit keeping one step ahead of the omnipresent POLL TAX
collector. Your only relief is to sleep and fantasize.
Suddenly you are wisked away to the future to a distant moon, you
are a pilot of HM ship PEGASUS (reason for horse). Your object is
to find and destroy 8 re-constitutions that are randomly placed on
the moon. The re-constitutions are capable of putting together the
remains of the enemy that you destroy but only within their own
area. only when you have destroyed all 8 are you allowed to be
re-docked. Except in game level one, the higher you score the
higher in the score table you go. The brightness of the playing
screen is adjusted so that the two center bands are brightest and
the two poles are darkest.

BREAKDOWN: ON SCREEN VIEWS
1. Top right corner, Compass.
2. Just below it is your view(direction you are looking out).
3. Next is ADF which points the way to your docking unit that you
   leave behind when you play.
4. In-Range , when object or enemy are in range of your laser or
   missles.
   Tracking , Shows when radar towers are tracking you.
   Damage , When you are being hit by enemy fire.
5. Missles count (max 8). When you collide slowly with an enemy
   military supply dump, your instrumentation is repaired and
   missles collected.
6. BST  Booster doubles speed but uses more fuel, used for
   escaping heavy fire.
7. SPD  Speed.
8. LSR Phloxer laser fires burst of laser light.
9. Fuel  Dead when zero, you can then pick up fuel at the enemy
  supply centers, but be careful not to fire on them.
10. SHLD Shield  dead when zero.
11. HGT  Hieght.
12. AMB  Anti missle blaster.
13. RADAR Gives an indication of area of planet your ship is in.
14. Real time clock   Used for breaking off for diner time,going
    to bed etc.....

End.
