 PHOBIA

 Game control : control is by keyboard , joystick or mouse.

     F1  - Select control method

     F2  - Redefine keyboard controls

     F3  - Select one or two players

     F9  - Abort game

     FA  - Screen mode (ST 50/60 Hz, AMIGA High/Low res)

 The default key settings are :

     ,      -   UP

     ?      -   Down

     Z      -   Left

     X      -   right


     Space  -   Fire

     Return -   Split ships

     P      -   Pause (Fire to Restart)


     The AMIGA screen centralisation is controlled by the curser keys.


    LORD PHOBOS , MASTER OF FEAR , has imprisoned the daughter of the Ga-
    lactic President and is holding her captive on the surface of the Sun

    Knowing that a rescue mission would be launched, Phobos has created a
    series of worlds which must be  passed through before any prospective
    recuer gains access to the Sun.Afer careful study of the a human mind
    and  subconscious , Phobos has fashioned each planet in the form of a
    human Phobia - he knows that this is the most powerful human emotion ,
    and the fear of fear itself is enough  to deter any would- be Situated
    in the core of each planet is a rare  element which affords total pro-
    tection against the heat of the Sun-nine of these are required to pro-
    tect the entire ship and allow an attack on the Sun itself.

    Phobos has  other defensive  systems to deter the rescue mission - his
    dreaded Sun Troops will start out from the opposite and of the Stellar
    System and attempt to cut off the routes to  Pgobos -  they will leave
    light  barriers between planets which will destroy any ship attempting
    to pass through of Light Speed.The only way through these is to either
    sacrifice a ship, or to collect a Space -pad from an obriting moon and
    sacrifice this.Space Pods will also produce firepower after sufficient
    power-ups have been collected.

    Progress though the game is made by destroying a Phobic planet,travel-
    ling through to the core and colecting a shield piece,then progressing
    on to the next  planetary system system . It the moon on the planet is
    flashing this indicates that Space Pods are present , and you have the
    opportunity of fighting through the Lunar defences to collect these.

    There components of the Phobic planet will leave behind power-ups when
    destroyed which can be  collected to improve the fighting characteris-
    tics  of your craft.  Also present on every Phobic  planet are the Key
    Generator which power an impenetrable shield at the end of each system
    - these must be identifed and destroyed before the shield is reached .

                     sigend :
                              Shut Berlin of Supreme !