                  D E F J A M  B R I N G S  Y O U :

               T H E  D O C  T O : P I C K ' N  P I L E

                     B Y : M R . T H O M P S O N

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     - AMIGA REFERENCE CARD -

I. LOADING INSTRUCTION :

   - Turn off your computer.
   - Insert the Pick'n Pile diskette into drive DF0.
   - Turn on your computer.
   - The game will load automatically.
   - To access directly to the menu during the presentation page, press
     the left button on the mouse.

II. MENU :

    F1 : ONE PLAYER
         Game for one player
    F2 : TWO PLAYERS
         Game for two players.
         For two players, when one player finishes a screen or loses a
         life, the other palyer begins.
    F3 : MOUSE/JOYSTICK (KEYBOARD)
         Choice of controls:
         MOUSE
         JOYSTICK
         If you choose joystick or keyboard, a sixth option (F6) appears
         on the menu. This option will permit you to choose the speed of
         the cursor.
    F4 : LEVEL EASY/HARD
         This is the level of difficulty:
         EASY begins at level 1.
         HARD begins at level 50.
    F5 : TICTAC ON/OFF
         Sound of the clock on/off.


                            - PICK'N PILE -

III. OBJECT OF THE GAME :
The object of the game is to make the highest possible score and to reach
the highest screen.

IV. CONTROLS :
The cursor can be moved with the : Joystick , Keyboard or Mouse. The choice
of controls is made in the menu (key F3)

MOUSE    : To move the cursor (up,right,etc...), move the mouse in the
           corresponding direction.
           To choose a shape, press the left button of the mouse. To make
           more shapes fall, press the right button of the mouse.
KEYBOARD : To move the cursor, use the arrows up, down, left and right
           on the keyboard.
           To choose a shape, press the DEL key and to make more shapes
           fall, press either the HELP key or the space bar.
JOYSTICK : To move the cursor, move the joystick up, down, right, left or
           diagonally. To choose an object, press the fire button of the
           joystick. To make more objects fall, press either the HELP key
           or the space bar.

V. INSTRUCTIONS :

a) Screen :

The screen is divided into three parts:
1) The largest part of the screen is the main game screen.
2) The information grid is at the top of the screen and gives you the
   following information :
   - Upper left is the number of lives which remain,
   - Upper right is the time that remains to finish the screen,
   - Upper center is your actual score,
   - Below the score is the number of screens already completed.
3) When you obtain a diamond (see below), it is posted at the bottom of
  the screen.

b) Moving the objects :

Moving the objects is actually made by an exchange of two objects. To
exchange two objects, move the cursor onto the object that you wish to
move, press the left button of the mouse (a rectangle around that object
means that it has been chosen). Then move the mouse onto the second object
and press the left button of the mouse again : the first will take the
place of the second and vice-versa.
An object can also exchange places with an "empty" spot by following the
same directions.

c) Making the balls disappear :

A screen is finished when there are no longer any balls on the screen. You
must make them disappear in a limited amount of time.
To make then disappear, you must pile balls of the same color in the same
column. The column will disappear if all the balls are identical. Even one
different object (except the bonus points: see below) in the column will
prevent it from disappearing.

d) Pausing the game :

During the game, press "P" on the keyboard to pause and any key to
continue.

VI. THE OBJECTS :

- BALLS: On each screen, the balls are three different colors. You must
put them in thesame column to make them disappear.
THESE ARE THE ONLY OBJECTS THAT MUST DISAPPEAR TO FINISH THE SCREEN.

- BONUS: Other objects can disappear with a column.
They can replace the balls to make a colunm. NOTE: for a column containing
balls and bonuses to disappear, a ball must be placed at the bottom of
the column.
These bonuses can also disappear without a ball in the column.
Here is a list of the bonuses :
a) BONUS POINTS : They increase the number of points made in a column,
b) BONUS MULTIPLIERS : They multiply the total points in the column by the
value written on them.
NOTE : when two bonus multipliers disappear in the same column,the greater
value is used (for example : if x2 and x6 disappear, the total number of
points of the column will be multiplied by 6).
c) HOURGLASS : When an hourglass disappears with a column, the time that
remains to finihs the screen is increased by 200.
d) DIAMONDS : When a column with a sum of more than 1000 points disappears
,a diamond appears at the top of the column (the diamond will be more or
less precious depending on the value of the column).
On AMIGA, the diamond is automatically placed in the storehouse.
When the storehouse is filled (the line of diamonds reaches the right of
the screen), your score increases.

- SPECIAL OBJECTS :
a) BOMBS : To make a bomb explode, you must move it to the place where you
want it to explode. It will make the eight objects which are surrounding
it disappear.
b) WALLS : These are the only objects which keep their balance without the
help of other objects surrounding them.
These objects can be very useful with certain screens....
c) DEATH-HEADS : These objects are very dangerous: when they touch the
ground your time diminishes twiec as fast. It is imperative to put them at
the top of the columns.
You cannot move them directly. You must exchange them with a previously
selected object. These death-heads can be destroyed....
d) FLAMES : Flames burn whatever is above them. They must therefore be
placed towards the top.
e) FLOWER POTS : A flower pot destroys the objects placed below it when it
falls. It is thus impossible to move it or to make a column in this spot.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------