Pinball Illusions
Typed out By DeCreator

THE MENU SYSTEM

After the game has loaded, press the space bar to activate the menu system. All menus use the following controls:
CONTROL 	ACTION
Cursor Keys 	Select an option
Space Bar 	Confirm a selection
ESC 	Go back to the previous menu
F1 	Play Law n' Justice table
F2 	Play Babewatch table
F3 	Play the Extreme Sports table

In the first menu, choose to access the table menu or exit the game.

In the second menu, choose to play a table or read its background information.
CONTROLS

Once you have loaded a table, use the following controls to start playing:
KEY 	ACTION
F1-F8 	Start game with 1-8 players
Enter 	Add 1 player into a game
Return 	Shoot ball into play
Left shift 	Flip left flippers
Right shift 	Flip right flippers
Space bar 	Nudge table upwards
Left A / Left Alt key 	Nudge table to the right
Right A / Right Alt key 	Nudge table to the left
F9 	Switch to low-res
F10 	Switch to hi-res
P 	Pause game
ESC 	(during pause) Quit table
ESC 	(with ball in chute) Restart table
ESC 	(during attract mode) Quit table or continue play
HIGH SCORES

When you manage to achieve a good enough score for the high score table, you are allowed to enter your name as three initials. Simply type in your chosen letters when prompted. Incorrectly entered letters can be erased with Backspace as normal.
LAW N' JUSTICE
	
SKILL-SHOT

Launch a ball from the chute and use the top left flipper to try and shoot it into the Skill-Shot ramp, which is positioned above the top-left mushroom bumper.
BALL-LOCK FEATURE

To enable the ball-lock feature, you have to shoot both the drop targets in front of the right balltrap. The trap itself lies under the top of the Skill-Shot ramp. Once the ball-lock feature is enabled, watch the score panel for a message which will tell you how many balls you need to lock away before the 2-ball M-ball will start.
2-BALL M-BALL MODE

Once you have locked away the required number of balls in the right ball-trap, one or two new balls will be shot into play. Use the balls to shoot for the jackpot in the left ball-trap. Once you have collected the jackpot you can re-enable it by shooting the left targets, as long as there is more than I ball in play.
MULTI-BONUSES

Shoot both of the left targets to enable a multi-bonus on the middle ramp. You can collect multibonuses of x2, x4, x6, x8 and x I 0. Collecting the x I 0 multi-bonus will also enable the Extra Ball feature in the City jail (middle ball-trap). Each time you complete the left targets and the middle ramp after collecting the x I 0 multi-bonus, you will score 10 million points.
RAMP COMBOS

Each time you shoot a ball through a ramp, a red arrow will light at the mouth of a number of the other ramps. If you shoot a ramp while its red arrow is flashing, you will score a combo bonus of 1 million points. Scoring repeated combos (shooting ramps one after the other time and time again) raises the combo bonus value by I million points each time.
HOVERSPOT

The Spot light is positioned in the mouth of the left ramp and is lit by shooting the ball into the flipper return lane next to the right kicker bumper. Once the Spot light is enabled, shooting the left ramp will award one of eight Hover bonuses, which range from 1 million points to enabling the Extra Ball feature in the City jail.
HURRY-UP

The Hurry-Up light is enabled once you have collected the fifth Hover Spot. A red arrow ramp light will begin to flash and a score of 20 million will start to count down in the score panel. Shoot the flashing ramp to collect the score shown in the panel.
AMANDA AND EN-HANS MISSIONS (MODES)

To enable a mission, shoot the ball through the Skill-Shot ramp - the Start Mode light will begin to flash in the left ball-trap. Now shoot the ball into the trap to start the lit mission.
To complete any mission, you should aim to shoot each ramp or target that shows a flashing light. You can change the missions by shooting the mushroom bumpers - each time the ball hits a bumper, you will advance one mission.
DRUG-BUST MODE - JOHNNY CRACK

You have climb the six floors to catch Johnny Crack by shooting the flashing ramps. Reach the top floor to put him in jail and enable the Super-jackpot.
PRISON BREAK MODE

The City jail has suffered a mass escape of its inmates, and you have to round up all the prisoners and put them back in jail before the Mayor hears the news.
Shoot the mushroom bumpers to capture prisoners and then shoot the ball into the City jail to lock them up.
RIOT MODE (3-BALL M-BALL MODE)

Big groups of people are rioting all over the city.
Use the three balls in play to calm them down (shoot the ramps with flashing arrows) and then shoot a ball into the City jail to collect the Super-jackpot.
DOWNTOWN SHOOT-OUT

This is a "videomode" sub-game which you play in the score panel.
Aim your gun by using the left and right flipper keys - your gun will be fired automatically when correctly targeted. But beware, as if you get shot four times, you'll be the one going down!
DE-ACTIVATE BOMB MODE - DYNAMITE DORK

A bomb alert has been called down at the City Halls - Dynamite Dork has planted six timebombs there.
You have to find each of the bombs and deactivate them before the timer in the score panel runs out. Each time you shoot a ramp you will be awarded the timer value displayed in the panel. If you manage to de-activate all of Dynamite Dork's bombs before the timer runs out, the Super jackpot will be enabled in the City Jail.
SNIPER MODE

A group of terrorists has taken hostages in a disused building. Shoot the flashing ramps to line up your gunsight on each of the terrorists and eliminate them one by one. Once you have cleared them away, the Super-jackpot will be enabled in the City jail.
ARSON MODE - SPARKY

Sparky has been setting the city on fire.
Shoot all the ramps in any order to put out his fires. If you put out all 3 fires in time you will collect a score bonus, but if you fail, another fire will start and the completion bonus value will decrease. Once all the fires are extinguished, shoot for the Super jackpot in the City jail.
HOVER CHASE MODE - MAX SPEED

Max Speed has escaped from jail and is speeding away in his Hovercraft. To catch him, you have to shoot the left ramp when the spot light is lit. Each time you shoot the ramp you will be awarded a big score bonus. Shooting the ramp for the eighth time enables you to catch up with Max, arrest him and enable the Super-jackpot in the City jail.
THE FINAL CHALLENGE

Once you have completed all eight missions you will enter the Final Challenge Mode, where big scores are on offer but watch out after the timer runs down!
BABEWATCH
	
MULTI-BONUSES

Light up the "R","N" and "R" roll-overs in the top right corner of the table to collect a multi-bonus. You can collect multi bonuses of x2, x4, x6, x8 and x I 0.
Lighting the x]O multi-bonus also enables the extra ball feature in the right ball-trap (under the Roulette table, just to the left of the jukebox).
Each time you light up all three roll-overs after collecting the x I 0 multi-bonus, you will collect I 0 million points.
"CHICKEN RACE"

You are racing towards a sheer drop against a rival car. Will you be the one to "chicken-out" furthest from the drop and lose the contest?
To enable the "chicken race" mode, shoot the left and right ramps one after the other in quick succession - this will enable the RACE light on the "road" ramp.
Shooting the "road" ramp will now start a counter in the score panel. The counter will steadily count from 5 up to 20 million. Each time you shoot the ball back through the "road" ramp you will collect the score displayed in the panel.
Remember - the longer you wait, the closer to the edge you will get but the more points you will score!
CASINO AWARD

Try your luck in the"temple of dough".
Enable the Casino by shooting the ball into the left ball-trap. Now shoot the ball into the Casino via the left ramp and the top flipper and stand back to see if you win...
If you're lucky, you will collect one of a number of bonus features each time you enter the Casino, including the next available multi-bonus, bonus held, x-ball, I 0 million points, million bumpers, etc.
"DUDE" ACCESSORIES

There are many things which will help a guy to look cool and only the coolest guys will find enough of them to be classed a true "cool dude".
Try looking for some dude accessories throughout the table - if you can collect them all, you may get a chance to try and impress more babes by enabling the extra ball feature (x-ball lit) in the right ball-trap.
IMPRESSION MODES

Do you want to look good in front of the many babes on the beach? If you do, then you'll have to play some Impression modes!
To enable an Impression mode, shoot the ball through the left ramp so that it fails onto the Casino platform and then rolls into the jukebox. You will enable one mode each time you shoot the jukebox, and the modes are always enabled in the following order:
MODE 1 - BEACH-GYM

To start this mode, shoot the ball through the right passage when the GYM light is flashing.
You now have 60 seconds to build up your muscles by shooting the mushroom bumpers - every 5 hits increases the jackpot value by 5 million.
Once the timer has run out and you have finished pumping those muscles, shoot the ball into the flashing ball-trap to lock the ball away and start a 2-ball M-ball mode. Use the new balls to shoot for the flashing Muscle jackpots.
MODE 2 - SURF"S UP

Prove you can survive the wildest waters and the treacherous tides by getting on that surf-board and strutting your stuff.
To start this mode, shoot the ball through the right ramp when the SURF light is flashing.
You now have 60 seconds to show your surfing skills and increase the Surfer jackpot by shooting the ball anywhere where a light is flashing.
Once you have finished 60 seconds surfing, shoot the flashing ball-traps to lock away 2 balls. You will now enter a 3-ball M-bail mode (Surf-Mania) - use the new balls to shoot for the flashing Surfer jackpots.
MODE 3 - BURGER BAR

Show that you have the appetite of a horse and prove that you can eat your own weight in food by visiting the Burger Bar.
To start this mode, shoot the ball into the left ball-trap when the BURGER light is flashing.
You will now start a timer and a 2-ball M-ball mode. Increase the size of your menu by shooting the balls through the flashing ramps before the timer runs out.
When the timer reaches zero, shoot the balls into the flashing ball-traps and lock away 3 balls to start eating your food and enable 5 Burger jackpots. If you collect all 5 jackpots, you may get a chance to shoot for the Super Cholesterol jackpot!
MODE 4 - CASINO

Prove that you have a natural talent for Roulette table by playing a few games in the Casino.
To start this mode, shoot the ball hard through the left ramp when the CASINO light is flashing so that the ball fails onto the Casino platform.
Now use the top flipper to shoot the ball into the Casino. You will start a 60-second timer and a 3-ball M-ball mode. Increase your jackpot bet for the roulette game by shooting the balls at the flashing targets.
Once the timer has run out, shoot the balls at the flashing ball traps and try to lock away 4 balls this will enable the Money Hunt feature, where you have to shoot the flashing ramps to win back as much money as possible - perhaps even as much money as you bet!
MODE 5 - BABE HUNT

Use your smooth-talk and charm to chat-up those girls!
To start this mode, shoot the ball into the top lock when the LOCK light is flashing.
Your objective now is to chat-up 4 babes by shooting the ball back into the top lock 4 times in a row. Every time you get the ball into the lock, you will get a chance to smooth-talk another babe, but you must be quick as you only have 5 seconds to get the ball back into the lock once it has been ejected.
If you manage to smooth-talk all 4 babes, you will get a once-in a-lifetime chance to talk to your dream-babe - and collect I billion points if you can chat her up successfully!
EXTREME SPORTS
	
E-X-T-R-E-M-E

Try your hand at 5 secret extreme sports..if you dare!
To enable the 5 sports you'll need to light up EXTREME, letter by letter. To light a letter, shoot the ball through the right flipper return lane (next to the right kicker) and then shoot the flashing right target.
Once you have spelt EXTREME, a different secret extreme sport will be enabled on each ramp. Be quick to shoot the ramps and play the sports, or else you'll miss collecting the big score bonuses!
SPEED

There is always a need for speed, and now's your chance to show that you have a natural talent for high speed sports such as skateboarding, mountain biking, skiing and dragster racing.
To enable a speed mode, shoot the ball through the left passage 5 times. The speed modes are always enabled in order: skateboarding, mountain biking, skiing and then dragster racing. Once the ball has passed through the left passage for the 5th time, a counter will start and you will have 30 seconds to build up your speed by repeatedly shooting the lower right ramp.
Once the counter reaches zero, a new I 5 second timer will start and you should try and collect jackpots by shooting the ball through the left passage before the time runs out. Each jackpot you collect will award a score bonus equal to the speed you managed to reach at the start of the mode.
After a speed mode finishes you can enable the next one by shooting the left passage another 5 times. If you manage to collect all 4 speed modes, shoot the same passage another 5 times to start the Super Speed Ball feature.
SUPER SPEED BALL

A 3-ball M-ball mode will start, and a massive score bonus (made up from the total of the scores you collected during the Speed modes) will start to decrease in the score panel. Use the 3 balls to shoot the flashing ramp, trap or passage to collect the score shown in the panel - the Super Speed jackpot!
The Super Speed jackpot will be available as long as you have at least 2 balls in play. Once it has decreased to 10 million points it will stop there so that you get the chance to pick up some extra points if you have not collected a much bigger score during the countdown.
SPECIAL-FEATURE TARGETS

Shoot the 3 targets to enable a special-feature on the top-right ramp. Now shoot the ramp to collect features such as Bonus Held, 5 million points, x-ball, etc.
EXTREME SPORTS MODES

To enable a mode shoot the ball at the trapped ball, which is situated above the special-feature targets. The mode start lamp will begin to flash at the top-lock ball-trap. Now shoot the trap to start a mode.
IRON MAN RACE MODE

Do you have what it takes to become the Iron Man? This is a real tough test for any extreme sports fan - participate in gruelling distance swimming, biking and running.
Once initiated, a 3-ball M-ball mode will start, 3 ramps will begin to flash and a score counter will start to count down in the score panel.
Use the 3 balls to shoot the flashing ramps as quickly as you can, as this will freeze the score shown in the panel and add it to the Super Iron Man jackpot.
This sequence will happen 3 times (once for each sport) and if you complete all 3 sports the Super Iron Man jackpot will be enabled. If you collect the jackpot and have more then I bail in play, you can restart the mode to build up your score.
FREE FALL MODE

You've seen those crazy people jumping off cliffs and buildings, only to open their parachutes at the last minute? Well now it's your turn! Your aim is to make as many free-fall tricks as possible before you have to release your parachute and save yourself from certain death!
Once the mode has been started, you'll have 30 seconds to do your mid-air tricks by shooting the lower right ramp. Every move you make will increase the Parachute jackpot - aim to collect this jackpot before the timer runs out otherwise you'll be history
If you survive the free-fall by releasing your parachute in time, you will restart the mode but from a lower height. You now have less time to make your moves in, but will collect bigger scores for making them.
If you're cool enough to wait until the last minute before releasing your parachute, you'll collect the Extreme Adrenalin Bonus, but if you hit the ground the only thing you'll collect is the Extreme Death bonus!
CLIFF DIVING MODE

This is a real test for any extreme sports fan, and the cliffs of Acapulco give you the chance to dive from heights that have never been jumped from before!
Starting this mode will trigger a 2-ball M-ball mode. You now have 60 seconds to shoot the bails at the mushroom bumpers to increase the height from which you'll dive, and then shoot the flashing ramp to go ahead with it. Making the dive will award the Diver Score - the greater the height you jump from, the bigger the Diver Score will be!
OFF-PISTE MODE

Here's your chance to demonstrate your skiing skills by making your way down a treacherous incline and launching yourself into the sky on 5 power jumps.
5 ramps will start to flash and each will represent a specific power jump - the ramps that are hardest to shoot will represent the more difficult jumps.
Shoot the ramps to collect big jump bonuses - if you manage to make all 5 jumps you will enable the White Powder jackpot.
BUNGEE-JUMP MODE

Now is the time to test those rubber ropes! Can you prove you've got the guts to make bungeejumps from crazy places?
A 2-ball M-ball mode will start and one of the ramps will start to flash. Use the 2 balls to shoot the flashing ramp - another ramp will then be enabled automatically. Each time you shoot a flashing ramp, you will make a jump and collect a score bonus.The more ramps you shoot, the crazier the jumps will get and the more points you'll collect!
If you manage to make the Airplane jump, you'll enable the Rubber Band Super jackpot - collect this for an out-of-this-world score!
FREE-SPEED CLIMBING MOD

Okay pal, so you think you can scale a rock-face? Well just how fast can you climb one without a rope?
Once you start this mode, you will have IS seconds to make each step of your climb. To make a step, shoot the ball through the flashing ramp - whenever you successfully shoot a ramp, another will be enabled automatically.
If you manage to reach the top of the rock-face, you will collect the Mountain Goat jackpot!
THE EXTREMIST MODE

Once you have completed all the Extreme Sports modes, you will be ready for the ultimate Extremist mode.
This mode will start 3-ball M-ball and will enable 6 lights across the table. The 6 lights represent 6 jackpots which are equal to the 6 scores you managed to collect in each of the Extreme modes. Use the 3 balls to collect these jackpots, and boost your score to an all-time Extreme!