                           Pipe Dream

                         Reference Card

Amiga

Getting Started

NOTE: It is recommended that you first make a backup copy of your
disk and put the original in a safe place.  The disk is not copy-
protected, so to make a copy, just follow the instructions that
came with your computer.

You can play from either a hard disk drive or a floppy disk
drive.

From a floppy drive:

1.	Place the Pipe Dream backup disk you have just made in drive
        A, and switch your computer on.

2.	Follow the instructions in your manual for the secret code
        procedures.

3.	For set up procedures:

	a. Pressing any fire button on the title screen brings up
     the options screen.

	b. Use the joystick or the keyboard to move the cursor up
     and down through the options.

	c. Moving the joystick right or left, or pressing the right
     and left cursor keys cycles through all the options
     available for the current setting.

	d. Once you have set the options, press the fire button or
     return to start a game.

4.	Follow the instructions in your manual for game play
     procedures.

To install Pipe Dream on a hard disk

1.	After booting, place the Pipe Dream backup disk you have
     just made in drive A.

2.	On your hard disk create a new folder called Pipe.

3.	Using the copy command, copy the two files ("PipeDream" and
     "PIPEDREAM DATA") into the new folder.

	This will install the game in a directory called 'pipe' on
your hard disk.  To move the game just copy the files into a new
folder.

To load the game from your hard disk:

1.	Enter the "Pipe" directory and type pipedream.

2.	Follow the instructions in your manual for the secret code
     procedures.

3.	For set up procedures:

	a. Pressing any fire button on the title screen brings up
     the options screen.

	b. Use the joystick or the keyboard to move the cursor up
     and down through the options.

	c. Moving the joystick right or left, or pressing the right
     and left cursor keys cycles through all the options
     available for the current setting.

	d. Once you have set the options, press the fire button or
     return to start a game.

4.	Follow the instructions in your manual for game play
     procedures.


Game Controls

One player basic

	-move the joystick or mouse forward to move the cursor up
one square.

	-move the joystick or mouse backward to move the cursor down
one square.

	-move the joystick or mouse to the right to move the cursor
to the right one square.

	-move the joystick or mouse to the left to move the cursor
to the left one square.

	-pressing the joystick or left mouse button places the
source piece next in the square that the cursor is highlighting.

	-all of the keyboard settings are available at the same
time, when the keyboard option is selected.

	8 - moves up
	4 - moves left
	6 - moves right
	2 or 5 - moves down
	0 - drops a piece

also available

	I - moves up
	J - moves left
	L - moves right
	K - moves down
	Shift Left - drops a piece

also available

	Up Cursor - moves up
	Left Cursor - moves left
	Right Cursor - moves right
	Down Cursor - moves down
	Return - drops a piece

	-pressing the 'F' key (flow) will accelerate the flow speed
and bring the current round to a swift conclusion.

	-pressing the 'P' key (pause) will pause the game and force
the title screen to appear, hiding the gameplay information.

	-pressing the 'ESC' key (cancel) will quit the game and
bring up the 'Title' screen.

One player expert

	-all basic mode cursor movement commands apply to expert
mode.

	-you may use the same settings as listed above with the
following adjustments:

	in order to select a piece from the upper source tube press
the fire button and move the joystick forward, click the left
mouse button, or press the key you are using to move up.
	
	in order to select a piece from the lower source tube press
the fire button and move the joystick backward, click the right
mouse button, or press the key you are using to move down.

Two player

	-all input commands are the same as they are for one player
basic mode.  The players may choose any combination of
mouse/keyboard, joystick/keyboard, joystick/mouse, two joysticks,
or two mice.

                             Manual

Can you think under pressure?  How about under flooz pressure? 
You'll find out when you play Pipe Dream, the fast-flowing game
of speed, strategy, and plumbing.  Make your pipeline as long as
you can, but always stay ahead of the flow or your score will go
down the drain.  Maybe you can imagine yourself as the plumber-
in-chief at Acme Chemical Company.  OK?  Well, Acme has just
invented this miracle sewer cleaner called flooz.  Problem is,
they're making flooz faster than they can pipe it into tank cars. 
Your job is to build an emergency pipeline with spare plumbing
parts, and keep Acme from sinking under a sea of sickly green
sludge.

	Pipe Dream has 36 increasingly cunning levels, with almost
infinite variations in each one.  There are three playing modes
(basic, expert, and two-plumber) and a training mode that's a
real plumber's helper.  What are you waiting for?  Take the
plunge!

GETTING STARTED

	To start Pipe Dream on your computer, please use the
reference card included with the game.  It contains the special
instructions specific to your computer.

SECRET CODE

	When you start the game a screen will appear with one large
symbol and seven assorted pipe pieces.  You'll use the large
symbol to get the secred code from the code wheel.

	To find the secret code look at the large symbol on the
screen, and find the matching symbol on the outside edge of the
wheel.  Turn the wheel until the notch lines up with the on-
screen symbol.

	There are seven windows on the wheel; choose the one that
matches the color under the large screen symbol.  In the window
you'll see three pipe pieces.  Find the matching pipe pieces on
the screen and click on them in the same order they appear in the
window.  You'll find the instructions for selecting the pipes in
your computer reference card.

IMPORTANT

	Don't lose your secret code wheel!  You can't begin the game
without it.  If you lose it, you can buy another from Lucasfilm
Games.  Call (415) 662-1902 for information.

HOW TO PLAY PIPE DREAM

	Pipe Dream starts on a playing field that is empty except
for the starting piece.  The object is to score as many points as
possible by contructing a continuous pipe from the starting
piece.

	As you play, pieces appear in a dispenser to the left of the
playing field.

                                3

You can place a pipe anywhere you like, whether or not it
connects with other pipe sections.  In fact, you'll learn to
place pieces in a pattern that anticipates connections five or
ten moves in advance.

	You can't rotate the pipes, nor can you alter the order in
which they appear, nor can you skip a pipe and come back to it
later.  You'll have to play 'em as they come.

	You can "bomb" a pipe by placing a new pipe on top of the
previously played one.  The old pipe will explode and the new
pipe will appear in its place.  There is a short time delay for
replacing pipes, and a 50 point penalty.

	Once a pipe piece fills with flooz, you can no longer
replace it.  And, at higher levels, the game field will contain
advanced pipe pieces and obstacles.  You can't "bomb" and replace
those special pieces that appear at the start of a round.

	After the round has started, a timer set for the level of
difficulty in that round will allow the flooz to start flowing
from the starting piece into the pipeline you're constructing. 
Keep placing pipes and adding to the pipeline until the flooz
catches up with you or spills off the edge of the playing field. 
When the flooz reaches the end of your pipeline, the round is
over.

                                4

	Once you've placed all the pipe pieces you can (or want to),
press the "flow" key (as in "fast flowing flooz" - see your
reference card for details) and the flooz will speed up and end
the round quickly.  You will score double points for each
additional pipe piece the flooz flows through.

ADVANCING TO THE NEXT LEVEL

	In order to advance to the next level, you must make the
flooz flow through a certain number of pipes.  Look at the
counter in the upper right corner of the screen.  At the start of
each round, this counter tells you many pipes the flooz had to
flow through in order to advance to the next level.  Then as the
flooz flows through the pipeline, the counter decreases, keeping
track of how many more pipes the flooz must go through.  When the
counter reaches zero, you qualify for the next level.

	On higher levels, many things change:

	* The flooz flows at a faster rate.

	* Obstacles appear in the playing field. You can't place
pipes in those squares.

	* Bonus pieces may show up.  These earn you extra points if
the flooz goes through them.

	* One-way pieces appear in your pipe dispenser.  The flooz
can only flow through these in one direction.

	* End pieces show up.  In addition to achieving the required
pipeline length, you must direct the flooz inot the end piece in
order to advance to the next level.

	* Reservoir pieces appear.  The flooz takes a little longer
to fill these up, so they gain you some valuable time.

	* There are sections of the playing field that allow the
flooz to exit one side of the screen and reappear on the other
side.

SCORING

Basic Game Scoring

	* 50 points for each pipe the flooz flows through, until you reach
	the distance required to advance to the next level.

	* 100 points for each pipe the flooz flows through after you reach
	the distance required to advance to the next level.

	* 500 points for each time the flooz crosses itself in a cross
	pipe.  (If the flooz does not cross itself you still receive 50 to
	100 points for going through the cross pipe.

				5

	* 500 points for each bonus or reservoir piece the flooz flows
	through before you reach the distance required to advance to the
	next level.

	* 1000 points for each bonus or reservoir piece the flooz flows
	through after you reach the distance required to advance to the
	next level.

	* 1000 points for using the end piece.

	* 100 point penalties at the end of the round for each unused pipe
	left on the playing field.

	* 50 point penalty for each replacement made.

	* After you hit the "flow" key, every pipe the flooz flows through
	earns you double the usual point value.

Expert One Plumber

	The basic scoring rules apply, but:

	* 100 bonus points are given every time the flooz flows through
	pipe pieces selected from alternating (top and bottom) dispensers.

Competitive Two Plumber

	The basic scoring rules apply, but:

	* Points from the flooz flowing through a pipe - including the 500
	point bonus

				6

	for crossovers - are scored only by the player who placed the pipe.

	* The 100 point penalty from the flooz not flowing through a pipe
	is levied to the player who placed that pipe.

	* The bonus piece points go to the player who placed the previous
	piece and connected it to the bonus piece.

	Two-plumber Pipe Dream encourages both teamwork and competition. 
You have to work together to keep the flow going, but you'll want the flooz
to flow through more of your own pipes and fewer of your opponent's.

PIPE DREAM PLAYING MODES

	Pipe Dream has three playing modes: basic one-plumber, expert
one-plumber, and competitive two-plumber.  There is also a training mode
that allows you to play any of these modes at a slower rate of flow.

Basic one-plumber

	Pipe pieces appear in a single dispenser on the left side of the
screen.  You can always see the next five pipes in the dispenser.

				7

Expert one-plumber

	Pipe pieces appear in two dispensers on the left side of the
screen, one above the other.  The pipe pieces nearest the middle of the
screen are available to be placed on the playing field.  You can always see
tne next three and one-third pipes in each dispenser.

	See the Reference Card for instructions on how to select which
dispenser your next piece comes from.

Competitive two-plumber

	As in expert mode, pipe pieces appear in two dispensers on the left
side of the screen.  Player One uses the pipes from the top dispenser, and
Player Two uses the pipes from the bottom one.

				8

PLAYING TIPS

	* Use the training mode to become a good plumbing strategist. 
	Learn how to visualize the completed pipeline and place pieces
	accordingly.

	* If you want a big score, don't be too eager to advance quickly to
	the next level.  Earn as many points as you can on each level.

	* Think ahead.  If you don't need a piece right away, put it where
	you can connect it later.  Blowing up pipes wastes time and
	valuable points.

	* Use cross pipes wisely.  You only get a limited number of them,
	and each one can deliver bonus points.  Make sure you place them
	where there's room to loop back through.

	* Even if you're way ahead of the flow, work fast.  That way,
	you'll have time to figure out how to fill as much of the playing
	field as possible.  Or you can press the "flow" key and score bonus
	points.

				9

PLUMBING PARTS

	You'll encounter a variety of pipes, obstacles, and specialty
pieces as you progress through the levels of Pipe Dream.  Here's a preview.

Basic Pipes - The seven basic pieces conduct the flooz straight, around
corners, and back through itself in a loop.  Remember, the flooz always
flows in a straight line unless it has no other choice.

Player Two Pipes - They are just like player one's pipes, except for the
identifying dots and/or color differentiations, depending upon your
computer system.

One Way Pipes - The flooz can only flow in the direction of the arrow on
the one way pipes.  So be careful how you use them.

				10

Start Pieces - Soon after the round begins, the flooz oozes out of the
start piece, identified by the letter "S", or an arrow.

End Pieces - On some levels, you'll find an end piece, identified by the
letter "E", or an arrow.  Try to build a pipeline that exceeds the minimum
distance requirement and terminates in the end piece.  When the flooz
enters the end piece, you'll earn a 1000 point bonus.

Obstacles - You can't blow them up or go through them, so you'll have to go
around them.  Try to construct loops with the obstacle in the center.

Reservoirs - Reservoirs are your friends, because they buy you a little
extra time.  The flooz has to fill the entire reservoir before it continues
out the other side.  Use a reservoir before your pipeline reaches the
minimum distance and earn 500 bonus points.  After, you'll earn 1000 bonus
points.

Bonus Pipes - Build a higher score by directing the flooz into a bonus
piece.  Before the minimum distance requirement, each bonus piece is worth
500 points.  After the minimum distance, each bonus piece is worth 500
points.  After the minimum distance, each bonus piece is worth 1000 points.

				11

============================================================================
Pipe Dream docs are brought to you by The Southern Star for M.A.A.D.
