                        PLANET OF LUST

STORY
     You are Captain Brad Stallion, owner and operator of the one-
man space vehicle known throughout the entire galaxy as..."The Big
Thruster".  Once again, the Federated Government honchos have
called upon you to carry out an important mission.  Dr. Dildo has
captured the pleasure planet Erotica in his powerful force field.
If the Federated Government does not hand over its ultimate
weapon, the Mind Imprinter, Dr. Dildo will increase the force
field and crush the planet.  So much for next year's vacation.
     Your assignment is to capture Dr. Dildo and deactivate the
force field generator before he can carry out is evil plan.

THE CONTROLS
     You are Brad Stallion.  You see through his eyes and
manipulate objects with his hands (the Hand Pointer).  The lower
one fourth of the screen is your console.  There is a text display
area and game controls.  The text display area will display a
'What now?' prompt when there is no text to display.  You clear or
activate the text area by clicking on the left mouse button.  The
hand pointer is used to manipulate objects in a scene.  This may
include touching someone, turning on controls, opening doors,
etc.  Be careful, some things  may not be safe to touch!
Additionally, the hand pointer is used to tell you of certain
game conditions.  If there is more text for you to read than can
be displayed at one time, the pointer will become the word 'MORE'.
When this happens, no other game controls are active.  clicking
the left mouse button (or pressing RETURN will then display the
next section of text.
     To the right of the text display area is a four point compass
rose, up-down gadgets and three buttons.  These buttons are
labeled 'I' for inventory, 'L' for location and 'S' for game
status.  The compass rose may be used for going North, South, East
or West.  The up-down gadgets may be used for standing or climbing
up and sitting, lying or going down (as a direction, that is).
     Clicking on the 'L' button will display the text associated
with the scene.  To find out where you are in the galaxy, type
"where am I" at the 'What now' prompt.
     Clicking on the 'I' button will provide you with an inventory
of the items currently in your possession.
     Clicking on the 'S' button will generate a status report from
Sandie, you Ship's computer.  ('Sandie' stands for "Ship's
Automated Navigation Data and Information Entity".)  Sandie is your
best friend and companion.  She is totally dedicated to your well
being.  She will help you, offer advice on occasion and sometimes
act as your conscience.  But be careful!  Like! you, Sandie has
been in space a LONG time.  Thanks to the wonders of futuristic
electronics, Sandie is almost always with you via tele-link.
     The 'Console' button near the compass rose is for a second
group of game options.  These options include Printer on/off,
Music on/off, Save a game position, Load a saved game and Resume
the game.  For producing a printed transcript of the game session,
see "Printer Notes" below.  there is another way to turn the music
on and off from within a scene.  Can you find it?  The Save
position feature will save the displayed scene and any attributes
or objects which you have collected.  Load position will recall
this scene and your attributes, objects and galactic location.
     The 'What Now' prompt is your keyboard entry method.  All
game commands have a keyboard equivalent.  Typing 'n', 'N' or
'North' is the same as clicking on the north arrow of the compass
rose.  You may get the 'What Now' prompt by pressing the left
mouse button with the pointer over the text display area or by
pressing the ESC, RETURN or SPACEBAR keys.  The 'What Now' prompt
must be displayed before any keyboard commands are given.
To execute a command, type in the command, such as 'stat' or
'status' for a Status Report and press RETURN.  If an illegal
command is given, the text area will display "Can't...".
     Every scene has its own group of legal commands.  What may be
legal in one scene may be required in another.  Most scenes may be
solved by touching an object with the hand pointer (such as a
snake, a directional arrow or a control button).  Some scenes
require text input.  This may be a one word command such as "eat"
or a two word command such as "take nap".  None of the scenes
require complex sentence input.

THE GAME OPTIONS MENU
     Hidden in the upper left corner of the Text Display area is
the Game Options Menu.  This is accessed by pressing the right
mouse button while in the text display area.  (Note:  This is the
only time you need to use the right mouse button.)  Continue to
hold the right mouse button down and then move the pointer over
the desired selection and release the button.  Two options are
available at all times (unless the pointer is asleep or indicates
'MORE').  These options are 'Start New Game' if you are dead or in
a similarly hopeless situation.  After selecting this option, you
will be returned to the control room of the spaceship.  If you
have Saved a previous position, you may Load this position by
clicking on the Load button in the Console menu.
     
PRINTING  
     Planet of Lust will generate a printed transcript of all game
and text commands.  To do this, the appropriate printer driver
must be selected in Preferences.  Preferences may be accessed by
expanding the bird icon window and then clicking on preferences.
The most common printer drivers are included on Disk 1.  If your
driver is not provided, copy it onto the 'devs/printer' directory
on Disk 1.  Consult your Owner's manual for guidance in selecting
printer drivers with Preferences.