                              PLAYER MANAGER 2
                              ================

                             INSTRUCTION MANUAL

                                                   TYPED BY SHARD - N&B

                    BRING BACK THE GLORY DAYS




Dear Customer

You  can  play  this  game  without  even reading this manual, but it is
unlikely that you will get to the top.  This game is far far deeper than
any  game  you  have played.  It punishes mistakes, tolerates occasional
misnomers  and  rewards  good  judgements.    Judgement  is based on the
information in the manual.  How you use the information is half the fun.


We hope you enjoy this product.

Any constructive suggestions are most welcome.

Anco software Ltd


1.0 INTRODUCTION
----------------

At  the  age  of 28, you are at the peak of your career a capped player.
You have been appointed the Player Manager of a 2nd division club.  Your
superior  skills  and  experience on the pitch will be a great advantage
for  gaining  promotion  initially,  but  as  you  grow  older   and the
competition  gets  tougher  the only way to the top is by assembling the
best  squad,  employing brilliant tactics and having enough money in the
bank.

1.1  Player  Manager  2  is  a 1 - 4 player game.  All four managers are
appointed  to  neighbouring  clubs.   Even in a 1 player game, the other
three computer managers will keep a close eye on you.

1.2  The  manager's office is the nerve centre of the management part of
the  game.    Here  you  can  assess  the  squad, look at the individual
player's  attributes  and  skills, buy and sell players renew contracts,
loan  in  and  loan  out players, in fact control all the most important
aspects of club management.

1.3 Another important aspect is, of course, coaching.  Not only must you
continually  strive  to improve the skills of your whole squad, you must
also  ensure  that young players develop and become an asset.  They need
playing  experience yet must be used sparingly.  You need to keep a very
close eye on player fatigue and the fitness of the injured players.

1.4  For  those  who  want  to  concentrate on management only there are
Predict, Watch and Fast Scanner options.

1.5  For  those  who  wish to play on the pitch, two playing options are
available.   Normal and Role Play.  The NORMAL option is controlling the
player  nearest  to  the ball and ROLE PLAY is playing in a pre-selected
position i.e.  Midfield etc.

1.6  You  also  have  four views of the pitch to play on.  Each view has
certain  advantages.  The views are Overhead, Up and Down, Overhead Side
to Side, Perspective and Isometric.

1.7  There are four divisions in the league, PREMIER, 1st, 2nd and 3rd.
Three  clubs  are promoted and three clubs are relegated.  There are two
domestic and three European Cup Competitions.

Like  all  simulations,  the  final  outcome  depends  on a multitude of
factors and their mix.  We leave you to learn from your experience.

1.8 ASSISTANT MANAGER

The  Manager  has  to  hang  up his boots at the age of 36.  You will be
allowed  to  appoint  an Assistant Manager after one year i e for a year
you  can not play on the pitch and must concentrate on management.  Once
the  assistant  manager has been appointed, he can play on the pitch i e
you  can  play  on the pitch.  The assistant manager has a contract of 3
years.  On the expiry of the contract, the manager will have to wait for
one year before appointing another assistant manager.


2.0 MENU CONTROLS
-----------------

2.1  You  will need a mouse or a joystick for controiling the menus, but
to play on the pitch you will need a joystick.

2.2 Mouse : Use the LEFT mouse button to SELECT an item.

Use the RIGHT mouse button to QUIT the menu.

Some  menus have a DONE icon in the bottom right corner.  Select Done to
quit the menu.

2.3 Joystick :

Two button Joystick : Use as the mouse.

One button Joystick : Use ESC instead of right mouse button.

2.4  Multiple  Players  :  Each  player  takes  his turn to complete his
management.    The  number  on the cursor corresponds with the player in
control.    Once a player has finished the management part, he clicks on
the  Boot Room to finish his turn.  The number on the cursor will change
and  the  next player takes control.  When the last player has completed
the  management,  the  Boot  Room  will  be  displayed.  The cursor will
display the player number playing the first match.  The name of the team
controlled by the player will also be displayed on the wall.


3.0 OPENING MENUS
-----------------

These menus set up the game environment before you assume the management
responsibilities.

3.1 The opening menu gives you the three following choices.

3.1.1 NEW GAME : You start a totally new game.

3.1.2 CONTINUE GAME : This option is used to continue a previously saved
game.    A  directory  of the saved games is displayed.  Select the file
name of the game you wish to continue.

3.1.3 DEMO GAME : This is a tutorial mode to get you acquainted with the
game.    The  season  week 16 and at the end of the season the Demo Game
returns  to the main menu.  This gives you an opportunity to explore the
whole game.

3.2 GAME SET UP

3.2.1 No of Players : 1 to 4 players. Select the icon.

3.2.2  Game  Set  Up  : There are 11 different set-ups A to K.  A set up
creates  a  game environment.  It creates a different mix of numbers and
quality  of  11  categories of players i.e.  keepers, strikers, midfield
generals etc.  for the whole league of 64 English and 64 European clubs.
Since  each  player  is  a  unique mixture of 15 physical attributes and
skills,  the  players  for a particuiar set up are very different.  Each
set  up  therefore  gives  a  very different game play which gives you a
variety of problems and solutions within the game.

3.3  SEASON  :  This  is the starting date of the Player Manager career.
Click on it to edit the year.

3.4 APPLICATION FORM

3.4.1 Manager Name.  The default name is given.  To edit the name, click
on  it,  flashing cursor will appear.  You can now change the name using
the keyboard.  To terminate the input press the Return key.

3.4.2  Style  :  To change the style, click on one of the four styles to
select a replacement.

3.4.3  Position.  You have a choice of ten positions.  This choice is of
great  importance as it has significant influence on your performance on
the  pitch.  To change a current position, select the required position.


3.4.4  Mode.  You can select Normal or Role play (see 1.5 for details).
You  play  in the position selected in 3.4.3 if you select the role play
option.

3.5  The  style  selected  will now be implemented.  The players created
under  Set  Up  (3.2.2)  will now be distributed to all the clubs in the
league.    Your  team  wiil  get the players to suit your style i.e more
defenders if you selected defensive style.

3.6  Appointment  :  You  will  be  appointed  manager  of a club.  In a
multiple  player game, select the small scrolls to see the appointments.



4.0 PRE-SEASON
--------------

On  your appointment, you have 6 weeks Pre-Season before the real season
starts.    The  first  week is spent on the beach then five weeks in the
office.    During  this time you can buy and sell as many players as you
like.    The  minimum  squad size is 16 and the maximum is 24.  You must
also  organise rigorous fitness training as your squad is semi fit.  The
tasks in the first week are as below.

4.1  Sponsorship  (Entry  : book) : You have three types of sponsorship.
Straight cash, cash + gate receipts and cash + cup win bonus.  Highlight
the  offer  you  wish  to  accept  and then select Accept to confirm the
choice.

4.2 Arrange Friendlies (Entry : telephone) : You have five friendlies to
arrange.    You  can  select  any team in the league or teams in Europe.
Click  on  PS.  Wk2 ( pre-season week 2) to display the divisions, click
of your choice and the teams in that division will be displayed.  Select
a team.  Repeat for PS Wk 3, 4, 5 and 6.

4.3  Make  Appointments  (Entry  : laptop) : The contracts of the scout,
physio  and  coach  are  yearly  so their contracts must be renewed each
year.    They all have a rating which is reflected in their salary.  The
ratings  range from 1 to 5 with 1 being the lowest rating .  A five star
coach  will  import  a  lot more skill in your squad in a shorter period
than  a one classed coach.  You must select a coach, physio, scout and a
specialist keeper coach before you can exit the pre-season.  menu.

4.4  School Boy Contracts : From the 2nd season onwards, you can sign on
schoolboys  to  :he squad.  You can coach the young talented players and
sell  them  in  time  to  Premier division clubs.  You can bid for up to
eight players as long as you do not exceed the maximum squad strength of
24.

PREMIER DIVISION CLUBS CAN NOT BID FOR SCHOOL BOYS.

4.4.1  Signing  on  School  boys  : Scan through the list of players and
select  which players you wish to buy.  Once you have selected, your bid
will  be considered against other bids.  If your bid succeeds, the young
players will join your squad.

4.5 When all tasks have been completed, select Done to go to your office
complex.


5.0 THE OFFICE COMPLEX
----------------------

The office complex consists of eight rooms-

ARCHIVES : Information on the league, clubs, hot shots, club history etc.

FINANCIAL DIRECTORS : Gives you an overall picture of the club's finances

PRESS ROOM : All the gossip and all the information you will ever need

BOARD ROOM : Habitat of your bosses.

MANAGER'S OFFICE : The nerve centre of the club

COACH'S ROOM: Coaching and training.

PHYSIO ROOM : Takes care of all Injured players.

BOOT ROOM : Final preparation before match day.

The functions of each office will now be described in more detail.


6.0 MANAGERS OFFICE
-------------------

As  you  move  round  the  managers office, the functions of the various
items will be displayed at the bottom of the screen.  Selecting the item
will  take  you to the menu.  The menus are self explanatory but a brief
description is given below.

6.1 THE SQUAD (Entry : Picture on the wall)

Your squad is the heart of your club. Take good care of it.

6.1.0  Team Rating : Your Team Rating is shown at the top.  There are 64
teams  in  the  league.    The  rating  shows your position based on the
ability and strength of your squad.  It has nothing to do with the value
of your squad or your position in the division.

6.1.1  Tactics : The current match tactics is shown at the top.  You can
change  the tactics by clicking on it.  It will cycle through 4 selected
match tactics.  To change Match Tactics, see 7.4.

6.1.2  The  shirts  colour  in  the  2nd column will change according to
tactics indicating the type of player required for the selected tactics.


Green                Keeper

Blue                 Defender

Yellow               Midfield

Red                  Forward

6.1.3 Now you know the type of player required for the selected tactics,
select  the right type of player for the position.  The 3rd column shows
the  natural  playing  positlon  of  the  player.  There are 10 types of
specific  players.  The type is colour coded as above.  To get the right
type of player in the right position, match the two colours.

6.1.4  A  shirt  number for a given tactics defines the functions of the
player  wearing  that shirt.  We have broadly defined these functions as
10 positions.  The positions are as follows:

Centre Back (CBK)      : A Central Defender

Full Back (FBK)        : Defender playing  wide  Player  generally   has
                         better than average pace.

Defender (DEF)         : Utility defender

Playmaker (PMK)        : A midfielder used for distributing the ball

Midfield (MID)         : Good Passing ability.

Midfield General (MGN) : Battling type of mldfielder

Winger (WNG)           : Playing wide. Has high pace.

Centre Forward (CFW)   : A forward playing in central position.

Target Man (TMN)       : Used in conjunction with wingers as receiver of
                         crossed balls.

Striker (STK)          : A good goal scoring forward.

Players  playing  in  these  positions  have  a  unique  mix of physical
attributes and skills.  See 16.0 for a detailed explanation.

6.1.5  AVAILABILITY : An unavailable player can not be used for a match.
The  reasons  for  availability are injury, sickness, suspension after 4
yellow cards, red carded or on International duty.

6.1.6  AGE  :  Age range is 16 - 35.  A 16 year school boy is not really
ready  for  a  league  game  and if used, should be used sparingly.  His
stamina  is  also  a  bit  suspect.    On  his 36th birthday a player is
retired.

6.1.7 RATING : A player is rated from 1 to 5 in that division.  A 5 star
player  in  the  1st  division  may  only  rate  3  stars in the Premier
division.    The ratings give you a broad comparison of the abilities of
the players in the squad.

6.1.8  RANKING  : This is a league ranking.  There are 20 ranked keepers
from  1  to  20.   These are the 20 best keepers in that order in the 64
clubs  in  the  league.   There are 20 ranked defenders, midfielders and
forwards.

6.1.9  CARDS  :  It  shows  the  number  of yellow cards received by the
player.    A  player  receiving his 4th yellow card is suspended for the
next  2  weeks and is unavailable for 2 matches.  A red carded player is
suspended for 3 weeks.

6.1.10 CONTRACT : A player displaying 0 in this column will leave at the
end  of the current year.  You can renew his contract in the Player Data
menu.

6.1.11 TRANSFER OR LOAN LIST : Following messages appear:

Tr Listed    : Player has been transfer listed

Tr Request   : Player is requesting a transfer

Bid Recd     : Bid has been received for the player

Loan Lstd    : Player is on loan list

6.2 PLAYER DATA

6.2.0 The player as an action menu data gives very comprehensive details
of the player.  It is an information as well as an action menu.

ACCESS  : Click on the Availability column of the required player in the
squad.

6.2.1  The following information is displayed NAME of the player and his
CLUB  VALUATION  Player's  AGE,  playing  POSITION,   RATING,   RANKING,
NATIONALITY and his LAST CLUB.

6.2.2  RANKING.   While Rating is a divisional indicator of the players'
ability,  ranking  is  a  league  measure,  See  6.1.8.  As the player's
ability  changes  all the time, ranking can change from week to week.  A
player may be ranked one week and not the next.

6.2.3  NATIONALITY  The league contains players from 16 nations.  If you
have non-English players in the squad, it has two effects.

6.2.3.1  European  Competitions : You are allowed to use only 4 overseas
players in a European Competitions.  Any player of other than an English
nationality is a foreign player.

6.2.3.2  Internationals  : The player may be called away to play for his
country.

6.2.4 SKILLS AND ATTRIBUTES

A  combination  of  skills  and  physical  attributes uniquely defines a
player.    The  bar  graph  displays each skill and attribute.  A marker
gives  you  the  divisional  average  as a guide, so you can see how the
player compares with the rest of the players in that division.

6.2.5 The bar colours are as follows:

Red          Below Average

Orange       Average

Yellow       Above Average

The assessment of skills and attributes of each individual player is the
most important aspect of a Manager's job.

6.2.6 ATTRIBUTES

6.2.6.1  PACE  :  Speed of the player.  The pace decreases as the player
gets  tired.  You know how useful it is to have that extra yard of pace.
Pace  is  the  main  attribute  of a winger and to some extent of a Full
Back.

6.2.6.2  ACCELERATIDN  :  Determines  how  quickly  a player gets to his
maximum pace.

6.2.6.3  STAMINA Directly affects pace and skills.  A tired player can't
be that agile or accurate in shooting.  See 7.2 for improving stamina.

6.2.6.4  RESILIENCE  :  A  player  with  low resilience is liable to get
injured more often.

6.2.6.5 AGILITY : Determines how quickly a player can get the ball under
control.

6.2.6.6  VISION  : Vision is about reading the game.  A player with good
vision  will  not  automatically  pass the ball to the nearest Playmaker
player  but  see  which  player can utilise the ball best.  An important
requirement for a Playmaker.

6.2.6.7  ADAPTABILITY  :  A  player  with  high  adaptability  will play
competently out of his natural position.

6.2 6.8 AGGRESSION : A player with high aggression will go for the ball.
He  is  also  liable  to  fall  foul  of  the referee unless he has good
tackling and control skills and good temperament.

6.2.6.9  FLAIR  :  A  player  with  high  flair  is greedy, an important
requirement for a striker

6.2.7  TEMPERAMENT : A player with good temperament will keep cool under
pressure and not get wound up by the opposition.


6.2.8 PLAYER SKILLS

6.2.8.1 PASSING : Passing skill is probably the most important skill for
a player specially for midfielders.

6.2.8.2 SHOOTING : Shows the accuracy of player shooting, very important
for a forward.

6.2.8.3  TACKLING  : The ability to get the ball and not foul the player
is  the  measure  of  tackling.  The measure of tackling is an important
skill for a defender or midfielder.

6.2.8.4 CONTROL . The skill in controlling the ball.

6.2.9 KEEPER SKILLS

The  Keeper has his own measure of skills.  Special Keeper skills are as
follows

6.2.9.1 THROWING : How far the keeper throws or rolls the ball

6.2.9.2 KICKING : How far the keeper kicks the ball.

6.2.9.3  KEEPING  :  This  determines  the  keeper's diving and catching
ability.

6.2.9.4 JUMPING : The height he can jump to tip the ball over the bar.

6.2.9.5 HANDLING : His anticipation to come off the line.


6.2.10  COMPARISDNS  :  If  at  any  time you wish to see one particular
attribute or skill for the whole squad together select that attribute or
skill  i  e.   select pace and the whole squad's pace will be displayed.
The  word  pace  will  be displayed over the bars.  Click on it to cycle
through all the skills and attributes.

6.2.11 ACTION PANEL : This is displayed on the right.

6.2.11.1  AVAILABILITY  : If a player is available for selection, a tick
mark  is  displayed.  If he is not available the duration and reason for
his absence is displayed.

6.2.11.2 CARDS : Shows disciplinary cards.

6.2.11.3  INT.    STATUS  : Shows whether the player has been capped and
whether he is Current International or Past International.

6.2.11.4 INT CAPS : Number of caps gained by the player.

6.2.11.5  WAGES.    The  player  gets appearance money equivalent to his
wages  if  he  plays on the pitch.  If he plays twice in a week, he gets
two appearance fees plus the wages shown.

6.2.11.6  LOAN  OUT  :  If  you  wish to loan out a player click on this
option.   you can loan out a player for 4 to 7 weeks.  Select the number
of weeks.  The player will then become Loan Listed.

6.2.11.7 TRANSFER : If you wish to transfer a player select this option.
The  player  will  be  transfer  listed.    You can only transfer list 2
players in 1 week.

6.2.11.8  CANCEL  TRANSFER  :  You  can  cancel  the transfer listing by
selecting  the transfer option.  You can't cancel it in the same week in
which  the  player was transfer listed.  You can loan out a maximum of 4
players in a year.

The  transfer list is closed from week 25.  All transfer listing is then
closed.

6.2.11.9  SELLING  PRICE  : You can set a different selling price to the
price  shown  for  the  player.    If you want to sell a player quickly,
reduce the price.  You can also set it higher if you dont really want to
sell a player requesting a transfer.

6.2.11.10  CONTRACT : You can renew a player's contract.  Max.  duration
is 3 years.  Select the duration.

6.2.11.11  SEASON  APPEARANCES  AND GOALS : Displays the number of times
the player has played on the pitch and the number of goals he has scored
in the present season.

6.2.11.12  CAREER  APPEARANCES AND GOALS : Cumulative total of the above
in his entire career.

6.3  FIXTURE LIST (Entry : Board on wall) : The fixture list gives you a
list  of  all  the  known  fixtures  for  the season.  The cup fixtures,
replays and postponed fixtures are added as they become known.

6.3.1 Attendance: The last column shows the attendance for each match, a
very good indicator of your performance.

6.4 THE ACCOUNTS ( Entry: Laptop ) : The accounts in the managers office
are  weekly.   The balance is carried forward to the next week.  All the
fixed  expenses  are  calculated  after Saturday's match.  If there is a
mid-week  match,  the  gates  and  appearance  money  of the players are
included  in  expenses  immediately.  The accounts are self explanatory.
You  must keep a close eye on the accounts, failure to do so may lead to
your sacking.

6.5  THE  SCOUT  (  Entry: Laptop ) : There are 5 grades of scouts.  The
quality  determines  the class of player he finds.  You can instruct him
to look for 3 players at any one time.  Select the header Player 1.  Now
click  on  each sub header to display the choices available, for example
click  on  Type  and Keeper Defender Midfield and Forward are displayed.
Make your choice.  You can now give the scout detailed instructions.

6.5.1  When  all the instructions have been given, the scout will give 1
of 4 responses:

             No Problem, Do my Best, Very Difficult or Impossible

6.5.2  The  last  two  indicate that you may have to wait a long time to
find  a player.  You can relax conditions sufficiently to get one of the
first two responses.

6.5.3  You  can  cancel  scout  instructions  at any time by clicking on
Cancel Inst.

6.5.4  Bidding For a Scouted Player : When the Scout Report for a player
turns  from  no  to  Yes,  click  on Yes to go to list of players he has
found.    Select the player you wish to bid for and you will go straight
to the bid screen.  Follow the procedure detailed in 6.10.

6.6  THE OPPOSITION ( Entry : Laptop ) : The opposition option gives you
the following information.

6.6.1 The Squad : Shows the full opposition's squad.

6.6.2 Comparison : This compares your current selected squad against the
opposition  squad  used  in  the  last  match.  It compares the keepers,
defence, midfield and forwards in the pertinent skills.

If  the bar is to the right, the opposition has the advantage and if the
bar  is  to  the left, you have the advantage.  The length and colour of
the  bar displays the degree of the advantage.  Light colours 0 to 50 %,
Dark colours 51 to 100 %.

6.6.3 Form : The form shows the opposition results in the last 5 home or
away games depending on whether they are playing home or away.


6.7  LEAGUE  TABLES  (  Entry : Filofax ) : A Handy reference to see the
league tables, results and fixtures of your own division.


6.8  TACTICS  DESIGNERS (Entry : Easel ) : Eight tactics are provided in
the  program.  These are fairly standard tactics and may not accommodate
the  special  needs  of  your squad.  You can now fine tune any of these
tactics or design any number from scratch.

6.8.1  The  basis  of  the tactics design is that you move the ball from
square  to  square and position the players on the pitch relative to the
ball.   You can design the tactics with your player in possession of the
ball (Attack) or the opposition with the ball (Defence).

6.8.2  You  can  use  the Ray Trace facility to ensure that the players'
paths  don't  cross and that you do not ask them to move too far as they
may not have enough pace to get to the new position.

6.8.3 There are various icons at the top and to the left of the pitch.


The icons are as follows:

6.8.3.1 Attack : When you have the possession of the ball.

6.8.3.2 Defence : Tactics when the opponents have the ball.

6.8.3.3  Ray  Trace  :  Traces  the  position of the players for up to 5
movements of the ball.

6.8.3.4  Copy  :  Copies the position of the players for one position of
the ball to the next position of the ball.

6.8.3.5  Load and Save : You can load any existing tactic, modify it and
save it on your disc.

6.8.3.6  Position  : Specify the shirt numbers used in defence, midfield
and forward areas.

6.8.3.7 View : Your team is on the pitch.

6.8.3.8 Opposition : Opposition team is on the pitch.

You can view both teams simultaneously.

6.8.3.9 Top Corner

Attack: Position of your players when you are taking a corner.

Defence: Position of your players when the opponents take a corner.

6.8.3.10 Goal kick

Attack: Position of your players when the opponent's keeper takes a goal
kick.

Defence: Position of your players when your keeper takes the goal kick.

6.8.3.11 KICK OFF

Attack : You kick off.

Defence : Opposition kicks off.

6.8.3.12 Bottom corner: As in 6.8.3.9

6.8.4  Making a start : When you go to tactics design, a default tactics
is  already  loaded.    You  can  modify  and adapt this tactics or load
another tactics to modity or form a basis of a new tactics.

6.8.5  Loading  a  Tactics : Select the Load icon.  A directory of eight
pre-designed  tactics will be displayed.  You can also load a previously
designed tactics.  Select the disc icon to load a saved tactics.

6.8.6  Saving  a  Tactics  :  Use  the  Save option.  You CAN NOT save a
tactics under the heading already used for pre-designed tactics.

6.8.6.1  You  will  need a formatted disc to save the tactics.  Insert a
formatted blank disc in the drive before selecting the Save option.  The
SAVE disc can store 10 tactics and 5 save games.

6.8.7  Moving  the Ball : Move the cursor to the ball.  Press left mouse
button.   Keep the button pressed and drag the ball to the new position.
Release the button.

6.8.8  Moving  a  Player  :  Move  the cursor to the player and move the
player as you do the ball.

6.8.9 Attack and Defence tactics are different.  Select one or the other
say  :  Attack  and  move  the  ball  to  each square in turn.  For each
position of the ball, move the players to their new positions.  You need
to fix the position of the players for corners, kick off and goal kicks.


6.8.10  Use  the  Ray Trace facility to ensure that players do not cross
each  others  paths.    The  movements  of the players should be limited
otherwise the players will not be in position.  Of course you can design
deep runs.

6.8.11  Copy  :  This  facility  allows  you to copy the position of the
players  for  the  ball  position to another square.  For example if you
wish  to  make  the square 2 position the same as the square 5 position,
select the Copy option.  You then click on 5 then on 2.

6.8.12  Positions : Before going to the Save option, you must define the
playing position of each player i e defence, midfield or forwards.  When
you  option,  the  pitch  will be divided into three sections - Forward,
Midfield and Defence.  Place your forwards in the forward section and so
on.    Placing  them  accurately  in the position they will play is also
important,  ie.    if 7 is a winger and midfielder and tactics is 4 2 4,
place  him  wide  in the midfield area but right on the boundary joining
the  forward  area.  The display you arrange will be used in Team Talk.
Study one of the tactics for an example.

6.9 TRANSFERS ANO LOANS

Transfers and loans options are a very important part of the management.

6.9.0.1  Transfers  and  loans  are  accessed  in  the Player Data for a
player.  To get Player Data of any player, simply click the availability
column of the required player in the Squad in the Manager's office.

Transfer  and  Loan  List closes from week 25.  Any players still on the
Transfer or Load List are removed from the list.

6.9.0.2  Transfer and loan out options are displayed in the green column
on the right.

6.9.1  Selling  A  Player  : To sell a player, you put the player on the
Transfer list.

6.9.11 Click on Transfer and 'Tr Listed' will appear against the option.

6.9.2 RULES.

6.9.2.1 You can only put 2 players on the Transfer List in one week.

6.9.2.2  You can not Transfer List an injured player or a player who has
been loaned out to another club.

6.9.2.3 If a player gets injured after being Transfer Listed a red cross
will appear against his name in the Transfer List.

6.9.2.4  Removing  A  Player  From Transfer List : To remove a Tr Listed
player from the Transfer List, simply click on the transfer.

6.9.2.5  Player  must remain on the Transfer List for one week i.e.  you
can not change your mind immediately.

6.9  3 Loan Listing A Player Select Loan Out option.  You can loan out a
player for 4 to 7 weeks.  Select the period.

6.9.3.1 Removing Player From Loan List : Click on Loan Out to cancel the
instruction.


6.9.4 BID RECEIVED

If your player is on a transfer list, keep a close eye on the Transfer /
Loan  column  in  the  squad  screen.  If a club bids for your player, a
message  'Bid  Received'  will  appear.  This message may appear even if
your  player  is  not  transfer listed.  Your player has been scouted by
another club.

6.9.4.1  To  sell this player, click on the Bid Received message and you
will go straight to the Bid Screen.

6.9.5 BID SCREEN

The bid screen is used for both buying and selling a player.

6.9.5.1 SELLING A PLAYER

If you are selling a player, your selling price appears at the top.  The
price  bidders are prepared to pay is displayed.  A cursor will flash to
give  you the opportunity to change the price.  The bidder may bid again
with a higher price or go away.

6.9.5.2  If  there  is  more  than  one  bidder, the bidders may compete
against each other until only one bidder is left.  All you have to do is
press the Return key to show you are not changing your price.


6.10 BUYING A PLAYER

The  selling  price  is  displayed.    You can enter your bid, Press the
Return  key  to  terminate the input.  The seller will respond in one of
three ways:

a.    Give a new price.

b.    A BLUE cross will appear against the bid to invite you to increase
      the bid.

c.    A RED cross will appear to terminate the transaction i e Go away.

6.10.1 You can, in the case of a or b, enter a new bid.  The transaction
is complete when two prices are equal.

When a red cross appears, you have no option but to leave the bid screen
as the seller has gone away.

The  sale might be blocked after the price has been agreed by your board
if they feel it will imperil the club finances.

6.11 SAVING GAME ( Entry : Drawer in Manager's desk )

You  can save a game so far at any time.  Before you save a game for the
first  time,  you  must  have a blank formatted disc ready (Amiga).  For
formatting a disc, refer to your Amiga manual.  This disc can be used to
save  five  games  and ten tactics.  This will be called SAVE disc.  You
can have as many Save discs as you like.

6.11.1  Click on the drawer.  A menu with five slots will be displayed.
Use the keyboard to insert the file name.


7.0 THE COACH
-------------

After  the  manager, the coach probably plays the most important part in
the  development  of the squad.  There are five grades of coach.  Higher
the grade, the better the coaching.

7.1 THE COACH ( Entry : The Sofa )

The  details of the coaching staff and their specialities is displayed.
If  an  assistant  manager  has been appointed, he will be a part of the
coaching  staff.  The keepers are trained by a specialist keeper coach.
The specialist is appointed in the Pre-Season menu.

7.1.1 The coaching activities are divided into two parts :

TEAM PRACTICE and GROUP COACHING.

During  the  season,  the  number of hours assigned to the coach are 20.
During the five weeks of pre-season, the number of hours are 40.

7.1.2 You must divide the available time between Team Practice and Group
Coaching.    Adjust the slider to allocate the hours.  The Team Practice
is  taken  by the whole staff together, while the Group Coaching is done
by  each  member  of  the staff individually.  You should vary the hours
each week depending on the need.


7.2 TEAM PRACTICE ( Entry : Footballs )

There  are  seven items for the Team Practice.  You can allocate time to
each activity.  The more you practice, the more familiar you get and the
better the execution.

7.2.1  Four Match Tactics : Usually you use two of the four tactics, You
should  become  familiar  with these two.  The other two need occasional
refreshing.

Corners  need  a  lot  of practice to make a real difference.  Set Piece
Free  Kicks  also  need  practice but they do not occur in the game very
often.  Five a Side improves the team's stamina.

Tactics  you  use  all  the  time  do  not  need  familiarising.    High
familiarity will be displayed.

7.2.2 Following our suggestions -

Tactics 1 and 2      70 % minimum familiarity

Tactics 3 and 4      40 % minimum familiarity

Corners              70 % minimum familiarity

Free Kicks           30 % minimum familiarity

Tactics 3 and 4 are usually the replacement tactics for Tactics 1 and 2.
When  the  familiarity gets better than 70 %, you can replace one of the
top 2 tactics and use it in the match.


7.3 GROUP COACHING ( Entry : Cones )

Each  member of the coaching staff can be allocated two activities.  The
activities are Shooting Passing, Tackling, Control and Fitness.

7.3.1  If  you  select any activity, the bar display shows their current
status.   The marker shows the skill at the start of the new season i.e.
WK 1.  If you coach the player, you will see his skill improving and the
improvement in the skills is reflected in his price.

7.3.2  To  give  the player coaching, select the skill you wish to coach
and  then  select one of the coaching staff.  Select the players for the
coaching before you select the players, bear the following in mind.

7.3.3  Suitability  of  the  Coaching  Staff  :  All  the  staff  have a
speciality  and  therefore will give better coaching in their particular
speciality.

                       Shooting    Passing    Tackling    Control
Defender               Worse       So - So    Best        OK

Midfield               O.K         Best       So - So     OK

Forward                Best        So - So    Worst       OK

7.3.4  The optimum number of players that one member of staff can handle
for  a skill is eight.  Any more than eight players being coached at the
same  time  will  dilute  the coaching.  Each member of the staff can be
allocated  a  maximum  of  two skills.  Select the players to be coached
carefully.    Do  not  waste  time  e.g.   by giving a defender shooting
coaching.

7.3.5 Fitness : At the start of the pre-season, the players are semi-fit
and  you have 40 hours of coaching available.  Use it to get the players
fit  and  improve  skills.  The players recovering from injury are given
fitness  training  until they are fit.  They can not be given any skills
coaching.

7.3.6 Fatigue : As the season wears on, the players get tired especially
if  you have not rested them.  Young players get tired easily and become
prone to injuries.  Look at the fatigue factor and rest good players for
unimportant matches to give other players experience, and keep them away
from  requesting transfers.  Be very careful how often players are used.
Do  not  burn  out  a  young player.  You have the opportunity to select
squad, in this menu based on the above considerations.

7.4  TACTICS ( Entry : Easel ) : You are allowed to take four tactics to
a match.  The top listed tactics is the START Tactics.  You can exchange
tactics i.e.  make any of the four tactics a START tactics.

7.4.1  To  load  a new tactics discard one of the match tactics.  Select
the tactics to be discarded and then click on the trash can.

7.4.2  Select the tactics to be loaded from the directory and then click
on the vacant slot.

7.4.3 Exchange the new tactics with the vacant slot in the match tactics
tables.

7.4.4 Usually the top tactics is used.  The second and the third tactics
are  reserve  tactics,  one for all out attack and the other for all out
defence.

The  fourth  tactics  is  a  nursery tactics which is fine tuning of the
first  tactics.    You  train  for this tactics and when the players are
sufficiently  familiar  replace  the start tactics with the New tactics.
You can then fine tune the second tactics.


7.5  ASSESSMENT  ( Entry : Wall Chart ) : The coach gives the assessment
of  the  first  team  forwards,  midfield,  defence  and  keepers in the
important skills for that position.

7.5.1 He also assesses the whole squad


7.6 COACH MESSAGES ( Entry : Paper on the Table ) The coach is your eyes
and ears in the dressing room.  Pay heed to his messages.


8.0 PHYSIO
----------

The  physio  looks  after  the injured and sick players.  There are five
grades  of  physio.  The better the physio, the better is the treatment,
hence the shorter the injury time of the player.

8.1 INJURY LIST .  ( Entry : Chart at tHe end of Bed ) : All the injured
players are listed.  Against each name the duration of the recovery from
injury  is  given.    The diagnosis is also given.  In the first week of
injury, you have the option to select the treatment.

8.2 Recovery time is displayed if you use the club doctor.  You have the
option  to  use  Private  treatment  or  engage a specialist.  These two
options  cost  extra  but  they  may  reduce  the recovery time.  Player
fitness  deteriorates  as  the  weeks  pass.  When he has recovered from
injury or illness, the physio takes over.

8.3  Against  each  player  is also listed 3 other periods which will be
needed before the player is fully fit.

8.4  PHYSIO.    This is the time the physio needs to get the player to a
certain level of fitness.

This  time  depends  on  the  quality of the physio and deterioration in
player fitness.

8.5 Physio and Coach work together to get the patient to 90 % fitness.

8.6  COACH.   This specifies the time required to get fully fit provided
the coach gives fitness training (See 7.3.5).


9.0 FINANCIAL DIRECTOR (F.D)
----------------------------

As  you  would expect, the Financial Director has overall responsibility
for  the  clubs finances.  Managers come and go, but the clubs are there
forever.   The books in the F.D.  office are very useful for an overview
of the club finances.

9.1  WAGES  (  Entry : Books ) : This gives the up-to-date wages of each
player.    Against  each  player  are  recorded  his basic wage to date,
appearance money, bonuses and total amount paid to date.

Each  player  gets  a basic wage and appearance money equal to his basic
wage  every time he plays on the pitch.  If there is a mid week fixture,
he can get appearance money twice.

9.2 INCOME ( Entry : Safe ) : This totals all the income to date.

9.3  EXPENDITURE  (  Entry  ,  Cheque  Book  )  :  This  details all the
expenditure to date.

9.4 BONUS (Entry : Cash Box ) : There are two types of bonus that can be
given.

WIN Bonus : This is an incentive bonus given to the players selected for
the next match.  They only get the bonus if they win.

CASH  Bonus  :  Unconditional bonus given to the whole squad as a morale
booster.

9.5  To  give  a  bonus,  select the type and the amount.  Use cancel to
cancel the bonus.

9.6 Once you have quit the menu, you can not go back to cancel the bonus.

9.7  CONSOLIDATED  ACCOUNTS  (  Entry:  Laptop  )  :  Shows consolidated
accounts to date.


10.0 BOARD ROOM
---------------

The  board  on  the whole is very supportive of the manager.  However it
keeps  a  close  eye on finances and will block your bid for a player if
the  bid  will endanger the club's finances.  It will also stop you from
selling  a player too cheaply.  The board expects you to produce results
with your team rating.

10.1 RATINGS ( Entry : Diary )

10.1.1  Manager's  Rating  : Keep a close eye on this.  It shows how the
board rates your performance.  Low ratings means impending sack.

10.1.2  Team  Rating.    This rating is based on the class of players in
your  squad.    The  rating is a percentage out of 100.  Higher the team
rating,  the  better  the  board  expect  you to perform.  Rating has no
connection  with the value of the squad.  You may have paid too much for
players or been a shrewd buyer.

10.1.3 FINANCIAL RATING ( Entry : Book ) : This is based on how well you
have managed the club finances.

10.2  BOARD MESSAGES : From time to time, the board sends you messages.
It  may  be  warnings  or  messages  of  encouragement  or  the  dreaded
termination of contract.

10.3  SUPPORTERS  MESSAGES  :  The  messages  convey  the views from the
terraces.

10.4  TAKE  A  BREAK  :  This is a morale booster.  There is a choice of
location,  activities  and  duration.  When you have selected all three,
the  cost  will  be  shown.    You  can  cancel  the choice and make new
selections.

10.4.1  Before making a selection, check how many days are available and
that you can afford it.

10.5 STADIUM IMPROVEMENTS

You  will  need  to  improve the capacity of your stadium right from the
start.   You will require large gates to survive in the higher division.
The  improvements  can  be  ordered at any time but take place after the
current  season is over and are finished before the start of the season.


10.5.1  The  money  for  the  improvements  is  deducted  as soon as the
improvements  are  ordered.    It  is  best to order improvements as the
season is closing.


11.0 PRESS OFFICE
-----------------

11.1 International Squad (Entry : Notice Board) The players selected for
England  are  listed.   The second list shows the foreign players in the
league called for International duty by their countries.

11.2  ANCO  TIMES  (Entry : News Rack) : Factual match reports.  One for
each manager.

11.3 HOT NEWS (Entry : Paper On Table) : Gossips, scandals, sackings and
much  more.   The news keeps you informed of what is Happening elsewhere
and can be useful.

11.4  RANKED  PLAYERS (Entry : Printer) : The movement of ranked players
is chronicled.

11.5  PROMOTIONS AND RELEGATIONS (Entry : Laptop) This lists last year's
promotions and relegations.

11.6 VACANCIES AND APPOINTMENTS (Entry : Fax Machine)

The  league  is  notified  of  the  new  appointments and termination of
contracts either by resignations or sackings.

If  you  are  interested  in  a vacancy, click on the vacancy to see the
details.

You  will  have  the opportunity to apply for the vacancy.  If the board
agrees,  you  will  be  given  an answer straight away.  You will assume
responsibilities at the new club immediately.


12.0 ARCHIVES
-------------

This  gives  you  full information on all the 64 clubs in the league and
lots more.  This information can be used to great advantage.

12.1 There are in total five racks labelled as:

     The League , Records, Clubs, Champions and Cups

12.2 THE LEAGUE

The rack has four shelves, one for each division.  Each shelf gives that
division's Fixtures Results and Tables.

12.3 CLUBS

This  rack  also  has  four  shelves, one for each division.  Select the
division to display the names of the clubs in the division.

12.3.1  Select  the  club  to view History, Background, fixtures and the
Squad.

12.3.2 HISTORY This shows the club's position in the league, promotions,
relegations  and  the  number  of  times they won any of the domestic or
European cups.

12.3.3  SQUAD  :  Gives  a  list of the players' names, ages, positions,
ratings, rankings, nationalities and international caps.

12.3.4  BACKGROUND  :  A  source of very useful information on the club.
All you need to know about the club.

12.3.5 FIXTURES : The club fixture list.

12.4  RECORDS : This gives you information such as the highest gate, top
scorer etc.

12.5 HOT SHOTS : Top scorers for each division are listed.

12.6  RANKED  PLAYERS  :  Top  20  Keepers,  Defenders,  Midfielders and
Forwards in the league are listed.

12.7 PAST TRANSFERS : Details of 50 past transfers are given, as the new
transfers come in, the old transfers scroll off from the top.


13.0 BOOT ROOM
--------------

This  is  the  final  room  before  you  go to the match.  Once you have
selected  the  Boot  Room,  you  can't  go back to any other room in the
office complex until that match has been played.

13.1 Multiple Players

If  more than one player is playing, each player goes to the Boot Room.
When he has done all his tasks, he clicks on the window for Match day.

13.2 The cursor will change for the next player and he will complete his
tasks  and end his turn by clicking on the window.  When all the players
have taken their turn, clicking on the window will take you to the Match
day of the first fixture which is independent of the player number.

13.3 SQUAD ( Entry : Shirts ) : Your match squad is shown giving you the
opportunity to change it.  Referee name is given.

13.4  PRE  MATCH  ASSESSMENT.    There is a pre-match assessment by Alan
Hansen.

13.5  TEAM  TALK  (  Entry : Easel ) : Your squad is shown on the pitch.
You  can  give  each  player  a  maximum  of  two instructions.  To give
instructions,  click  on  the  instruction  and then on the player to be
instructed.  The instructions are:

13.5.1 Play Wide : The instructed player will move towards the side line.

13.5.2 Push Forward : The instructed player will move forward.

13.5.3 Tuck In : The instructed player will move towards the centre.

13.5.4 Drop Back : The instructed player will drop back.

13.5.5  Run  With  THe  Ball  :  The  player  will  take the game to the
opposition.

13.5.6 Get Stuck In : The instructed player will put himself about.

13.5.7 You can change the tactics by clicking on the current tactics.

13.6  END  OF  SEASON  : When all your fixtures have been completed, the
Boot  Room  will  be  closed  to  you.   You can browse round the office
complex and look at archives, accounts etc.

The  Boot  Room  will now change to a Beach Scene.  Click on this to end
the season.


14.0 MATCH DAY
--------------

14.1 The two opposing teams are shown along with the referee.

You have four choices:

14.1.1  PLAY  :  You  can  play  on the pitch provided you have selected
yourself  to play.  If you get injured, sent off or substitute yourself,
the game will revert to Watch mode.

14.1.2  WATCH : You watch the game.  You can implement substitutions and
change tactics.

14.1.3 PREDICT : The result is predicted.

14.1.4 FAST SCANNER : The game is played at high speed.

Selecting one of the options will take you to the next screen.

14.2  This  display  shows  the  kit colour of both teams.  You have the
option to play in FOUR VIEWS

    Top Down - Up and Down, Top Down - Side to Side, Perspective, Isometric

14.2.1 Each view has advantages and disadvantages.

14.2.2  Isometric  is  the  nicest looking.  It gives you a good overall
view of the game but is not menable for controlling a player.

WARNING  :  As nearly all the players are visible a lot of the time, the
game is likely to slow down from time to time.

14.2.3  Top Down Views - Excellent for playing but moves like volley etc
are not so evident.

Perspective: Is a good compromise between Top down and Isometric views.

14.2.4  TOSS  :  Click on the coin for it to flip.  If you win the toss,
you can select.

Up or Down pitch for Isometric or Top Down - Up and Down pitches.

Right to Left or vice versa for the other two pitches.

Once the selection has been made, you will go to the match.

If you have selected Predict, the result will be predicted.

14.3  This  gives the headlines of the four match reports.  Click on the
headline to get the full match report.


15.0 GAME CONTROLS
------------------

Joystick Required

Movements : Players move in the eight joystick directions.

15.1 SHOOTING : Press fire button to shoot the ball.

15.2  PASSING  : You must trap the ball before you can pass.  Press fire
before you touch the ball.  The ball is then trapped.  Move the joystick
in the direction you wish to pass and release the fire button.

15.3 CHIP THE BALL : Reverse the joystick quickly.

15.4  HEADER  :  If  the  ball is in the air, press fire button to jump.
Move the joystick in the direction you wish to Head the ball.

15.5 CROSSING : If the ball is in the crossing area ( near the byline of
the  opposition  goal)  reverse  the  joystick to cross the ball into 18
yards box.

15.6 TACKLING : If the opposition has the ball, press F8 to do a sliding
tackle.

15.7  THROW  INS  :  Press  the fire button and move the joystick in the
direction you wish to throw and release the fire button.  The longer you
keep the FB pressed the longer the throw.

15.8  CORNERS AND SET PIECE FREE KICKS : These are computer controlled.
THE MORE YOU PRACTICE IN TEAM COACHING, THE BETTER THEY ARE.

The  corners  are  lethal.    If  practiced a lot they can be real match
winners.

15.9 SUBSTITUTION :

15.9.1 Substituting A Player.

Press  F1  if you want to bring on Player 1, 2 or F2 for player 14.  The
message "Substitute warming up" will be displayed when the ball goes out
of  play, one of the player names and his shirt no will appear.  Use the
up  and down cursor keys to cycle through the squad.  Press Enter key to
implement  the substitution.  The player whose name is in the panel will
go  off and the substitute will run on to the pitch.  Team 2 uses F9 and
F10 keys.

15.9.2 Substituting an Injured Player

Substitute 1 2 or 1 4 and the name will appear in the panel.  Use up and
down  cursor  keys  to cycle through them.  Press Enter key to implement
the substitution.

15.10 CHANGING TACTICS

You can change Tactics when you make a substitution.  Use F4, F5, F6 and
F7 to change tactics.


16.0 CUPS AND COMPETITIONS
--------------------------

16.1  LEAGUE  :  There  is  a  four  division  league.   Three teams are
relegated  from  the  Premier  division.  The 1st and 2nd divisions have
three  teams  promoted and three teams relegated.  The 3rd divisions has
three teams promoted.

16.1.1 The win in a league game secures 3 points, a draw - one point and
a  loss  -  no points.  If the points are equal, the difference in Goals
For and Goals Against decides the position.

16.2 F.A CUP : This is a knock out competition.  If there is a draw then
a Replay is ordered.

16.2.1  If  at  the  end of full time, the result is still a draw, extra
time is played.  If the result is still a draw then sudden death penalty
shoot out takes place.

16.3  LEAGUE  CUP : Rounds 1, 2, 3, quarter finals and finals are played
according to the rules described in 16.2.1.

16.3.1  The  Semi Final however is played as a two leg competition.  The
winner  is  decided on aggregate.  However if the aggregate is the same,
the  result  is  decided by extra time and if still unresolved a penalty
shoot out.

16.4 U.E.F.A CUP, CUP WINNERS CUP and EUROPEAN CUP

If  an  English team is the holder, the team qualifies automatically, if
not  a  preliminary  round  takes  place.  The preliminary round and the
other  rounds  excluding  the final consist of two legs one home and one
away.    Matches are decided on the aggregate score of the two legs.  If
the  aggregate is the same it is then decided on away goals.  Away goals
count  double.   If both sides are still equal then extra time is played
followed by a penalty shoot out if necessary.


17.0 UNDERSTANDING STATS
------------------------

17.1 There are two types of stats

17.1.1 Personality Stats : These are the stats a player is born with and
do  not  change  very  much.    The  stats  are  Aggression,   Flair and
Temperament.

17.1.2 Curving Stats : These stats change with age.  The stats are Pace,
Stamina, Resilience, Agility, Adaptability, Acceleration and Vision.

17.1.3  In  PM2,  there  are  50 curves for each of these stats i.e.  50
curves for pace, 50 for stamina and so on.

Each curve is of different shape.  As a player ages he will be on one of
these curves for each attribute.  During the ageing period, he will move
to  different  curves  depending  on  the  coaching,  type  of   manager
opportunities,  experience  etc.    ie.  the factors that shape a career
With  a  few glaring exceptions, all 16 year olds joining a professional
club  as  school  boys are much the same.  Some make it to the top while
others  either  languish  in  the  lower divisions or leave professional
football.  All depends on the managers, coaches and the breaks they get.


Skills  :  A  player  is born with skills.  There are 50 curves for each
skill.  These skills improve with coaching, experience and a player, can
move dramatically from one curve to another.

17.1.4  After  a  steady  rise,  some of these curves flatten out as the
player ages, for instance passing skill, Another curve may rise, flatten
for  a  while then fall.  On the other hand it can keep on rising as the
player gets experience.

17.1.5 Once you can appreciate the significance of the changes, you will
be  able  to get better players for your money - and use your staff more
effectively.

17.1.6 When you are looking for a player, the information below may help
you  to  access the player.  The important stats for each type of player
are listed.

KEEPER              Agility, vision, handling and keeping.

FULL BACK           Pace, aggression, acceleration and tackling - high

CENTRE BACK         Stamina and passing - so so.
                    Aggression, tackling and heading - high

DEFENDER            Vision - so so
                    Pace, stamina and aggression - high

MIDFIELDER          Vision -so so. High if using as a sweeper
                    Stamina - high

PLAYMAKER           Aggression, shooting and vision - so so
                    Vision, control and passing - very high
                    Shooting and tackling - so so
                    Pace and aggression - low

MIDFIELD GENERAL    Stamina and aggression - very high
                    Passing and tackling - high
                    Resilience, shooting and heading - so so

WINGER              Temperament - low
                    Pace, passing and acceleration - high
                    Agility, flair control and shooting - so so
                    Heading - low.

CENTRE FORWARD      Shooting and Heading - high
                    Pace, stamina, aggression and flair - so so

TARGET MAN          Control and Heading - high.
                    Passing and shooting - average

STRIKER             Pace - low
                    Agility, acceleration and shooting - very high
                    Pace, agility and control - high
                    Control and heading - average
                    Flair, vision and tackling - low

These are ideal stats and the correct mix will be expensive to buy


SOME HlNTS AND TIPS
-------------------

1.    You  are  advised  not  to  save the game more than 6 times in one
      season.  There is a penalty for doing so.

2.    Employ the best staff you can afford, especially the coach.

3.    Listen to the coach.

4.    Keep  a  careful  eye on the fatigue, rest players especially good
      ones, use school boys sparingly but do use them.

5.    A squad full of Internationals can leave you vulnerable.

6.    Decide your tactics in pre-season but stick to it. Refine it by all
      means.

7.    Buy players of talent from lower divisions.

8.    Improve your stadium year after year.

9.    Leave room in your squad at the end of the season for school boys.
      There is a fortune to be made.

10.   Above all do coaching seriously.  It  is an integral part of  the
      game.


DATA DISCS
----------

The  first  data disc will be released in August before the start of the
season.    The details are not yet fully finalised.  Product information
will be sent to all registered users by the end of July.

There will be two versions Amiga 500 and Amiga 1200.

Amiga 500 version will be suitable for 500, 500+ and 600 users.

Amiga  1200  will  have enhanced 256 colour graphics and a host of extra
features.    Amiga  1200  upgrade  will  be a 4 to 5 disc product.  This
product will only be available to registered users.



------------------------------------END--------------------------------