                             MEDWAY BOYS & IKARI

                                   PRESENT

                         P L A Y E R   M A N A G E R

                                  (By Anco)

               ALL DOCS, AS EVER, TYPED BY THE ONE AND ONLY...

         _____              ___             _______   _____    _____
        |     |  |     |   /   \   |\    |     |     |     |  |  |  |
        |_____|  |     |  |     |  | \   |     |     |     |  |  |  |
        |        |-----|  |-----|  |  \  |     |     |     |  |  |  |
        |        |     |  |     |  |   \ |     |     |     |  |  |  |
        |        |     |  |     |  |    \|     |     |_____|  |  |  |

                               _____    _____    _____
		     |        |     |  |     |  |     \
		     |        |     |  |     |  |     |
		     |        |     |  |_____|  |     |
		     |        |     |  |    \   |     |
		     |______  |_____|  |     \  |_____/


LOADING: AMIGA - Insert the disc in drive when the computer asks for the
WORKBENCH.
	 ST - Insert the disc in drive and switch on the computer.

CONTROLS: MANAGER - MOUSE Control
	  THE MATCH - JOYSTICK Control
 
                                INTRODUCTION
				------------
The newly apointed PLAYER MANAGER of a third division club, an
International class player, can use his immense skill and experience on the
pitch and help his club to be promoted swiftly. Further promotion and
success in the top division will require a balanced team and winning
tactics.
Four well proven tactics are provided and he can refine these tactics or
design totally new tactics. The transfer market gives him an opportunity
toi strengthen his squad. There are over 1000 players in the league. Each
player is an individual with a unique mixture of several attributes and
playing skills.
The financial control of the club rests with the board. the manager is kept
informed as to how much money he has available to buy players. If extra
money is required, he must seek the board's permission. The board may also
ask him to sell players in order to help the clubs finances.
The actual match uses a refined version of KICK OFF, retaining the pace,
controls and the game play. The match lasts five minutes each half and the
manager if he selects himself can play in the game. Only in his assigned
possition, will he play as an International class player. In other
positions, he will assume the attributes of that player. He can substitute
the players and change tactics when the ball goes out of play. If watching
the match instead of playing in it, he has the option to watch any one
player on the transfer market. He also has the options to watch an
eccelerated version of the game on the scanner, still retaining the options
to substitute and change tactics.
The manager can greatly improve his chances of success by paying great
attention to the Player Information. The player attributes and skill change
with experience and training. A player improves in skills associated with
his playing position, yet his talents may lie elsewhere. The manager may
experiment by training a player in a different position and perhaps
discover a real hidden talent. The real task of the manager is to
understand how events can affect the morale of an individual player or the
whole team and the measures he must take to counter the effect. The manager
must be aware of his own contribution to the team as a player. When to hang
up his boots finally, is the single most important decision he will make.
The manager must at all times pay due attention to the individual player
morale and the Team Morale notified in the Coach Report. The morale effects
the individual player performance and the team performance.
The MESSAGE screen appearing from time to time is used by the Board and
Coach to keep the manager informed. It also displays interesting NEWS items
which may or may not have a direct bearing on Manager's decisions. He must
at all times pay attention to the messages from the Board. His job security
rests with the Board.

MANAGEMENT
NEW GAME

                                   WARNING
				   -------
DATA DISC is required to save a NEW GAME. You may use a BLANK
disc or a disc with previously saved Player Manager games. A blank disc or
a disc with any other program or other data will be FORMATTED for Player
Manager format.
Insert the disc and press any key. The computer requires approx. 8 minutes
to initialise. You will be asked to give the new game a file name. The next
screen will show the Player Manager's name and his playing record. It will
also give the club name. Use the keyboard to edit the Player Manager's name
and the club name. You will also be asked to select whether the Manager
will.
                               PLAY AS A TEAM
			       --------------
The option allows you to control all the players on the
field if the manager is playing.
                              PLAY IN POSITION
			      ----------------
The Manager plays in his selected position i.e. as a
Forward. This option is the right and best way to play the Player Manager
game. A manager playing as a team is handicapped to compensate for the
immernse versatility of a human player.
The next display allows you to see all the teams in each division of the
league. You can edit the names of the clubs using the keyboard. If the name
you have chosen for your team has already been used in one of the
divisions, the name in that division will be replaced by BURY. You will not
be allowed to use your club name in any of the other divisions. Please
check the team names in all divisions before exiting the option. The option
to edit the team names is only provided at this stage.
You can also LOAD the division list from a previously played Player Manager
game or SAVE the current list for use in later games.
   CONTINUE GAME : FILE NAMES of all previously played games is displayed.

                                  MAIN MENU
				  ---------
The options on the Main Menu take you to various aspects of the
Management. Select the option by clicking the mouse. The Week No. of the
season is displayed on the Main Menu and advances by 1 after returning to
it from the Match Day.

   THE SQUAD - The Squad screen shows the Name, Age, Position, Shirt No. 
and Status of all the players in the squad.
   POSITION - There are four categories of player, namely Forward, 
Midfield, Defence and Keeper. A player training in a given category will 
over a time acquire the skills associated with that category.
   SHORT No. - With the exception of No.1 shirt which is assigned to the
Keeper, all the Shirt numbers are dictated by the Shirt numbers selected in
Tactics design.
   STATUS - The status shows the availability of the player for selection.
If he is injured or banned, letters I or B will appear. A player on the
Transfer list (T) or requesting transfer (R) is also displayed. This
information can be useful to the manager. Click the status column for
STATUS SCREEN, a detailed information on each player.

                             PLAYER INFORMATION
			     ------------------
The details of a player's attributes and skill levels
are obtained by Clicking the Mouse pointer at the Player name. The
attributes and skill levels are rated on 100 being an average. A rating of
400 for pace for instance signifies four times the average pace. The
ratings are on absolute scale. The information on each player should be
studied with care by the manager and specially the change in the skills and
attributes over a period.

                                STATUS SCREEN
				-------------
Click on the status column for any player on the Squad
screen to display the Status information of that player. This screen
provides the following facilities:
   INJURY REPORT: Gives the manager the extent of player's injury and the
approximate period the player will not be available to play. If a player
has been put on light training after a serious injury, the manager can play
him but runs the risk of aggrevating the injury.
   DISCIPLINARY REPORT: A red card means suspension for the next two 
matches.To keep the behaviour record of a player, each Red card equals 10
points. Exceeding 10 points results in an automatic suspension of two 
matches. Each yellow card is equal to 4 disciplinary points.
   TRANSFER REPORT: A player's tranfer request, the reason for the request and
the duration for which he is waiting for a reply is shown. The manager has
the option to ignore the request, take an action to cause the player to
withdraw the request or deny request. His action will determine the
player's performance. Information regarding a player put on the transfer
list on his own request or by the managerial decision and the duration on
the list is displayed. If a player is not sold, the manager has the option
to cancel the transfer or re-value the player.
   REVALUE : The Manager has the option to revalue a player at an higher or
lower figure. The former is basically to keep a good player requesting
transfer and the other to unload an overpriced player. The manager can set
his selling price independant of the board's valuation.
   OFFER NEW CONTRACT: A player coming to the end of his contract or
requesting transfer may be offered a new contract. The manager has the
option on duration but not the cost of the new contract. Long contracts are
generally more expensive. The cost of new contract on a lump sum basis will
be deducted from the money available to him for buying new players. The
manager should keep a close watch on the players nearing the end of their
contract. The offer of a new contract should be made as early as possible
as the player may refuse the offer. At the end of the contract, the player
is on FREE transfer and no longer a member of the squad. The club is likely
to get only a fraction of their valuation for a plyer on free transfer. A
manager can offer a new contract to a plyer only once in a week. He may
accept or refuse the offer.

                                  THE CLUB
				  --------
The following options are available.
   THE BOARD : The baord informs the manager as to how much money he has
available to but players or the money the board needs quickly, i.e.
instructing him to sell players. The board also informs the manager of
their views on the team's and manager's performance.
The Club fixture list for the season and results.
The club record in the league over past five years.

                                 THE LEAGUE
				 ----------
The following options are available.
List of clubs in the League.
The Division table.
The fixture list and the results week by week.

                                   THE CUP
				   -------
The CUP matches are played in the same week as a league match. If there is
no result, the result is settled by a PENALTY SHOOT OUT. Each team takes a
penalty in turn. If after 5 minutes, there is a Tie, the result is decided
on the basis of sudden death. The Cup menu takes you to the draw and the
results.

                                   TACTICS
				   -------
This feature allows you to design your own tactics. You can design and
store as many tactics as you like. The screen is Icon driven. The icons on
the top are instructions operators while the icons on the right hand side
are for set pieces like corner kicks etc. The Pitch divided in grids 
numbered 1 to 12 is also shown. Highlighting a sector by clicking the left
mouse button places the ball in that sector. The tactics are designed for
your team playing left to right as indicated by the arrow at the bottom.
When your team switches sides at half time, a mirror image of the tactics
with the players switched to the opposite wing is automatically produced by
the computer. The tactics must be designed with the following rules in
mind.
1. At Kick Off, the opponents must be outside the circle and each side in
   its own half.
2. No more than 6 players of any side excluding the Keeper can be inside
   the 18 yard box.
3. No opposition players can be inside the 18 yard box at the time of Goal
   Kick.
4. When a ball is in grid numbers 1 or 5 or 9, no players except the Keeper
may be present in 4,8 and 12. Similarly if the ball is 4 or 8 or 12, no
player except the Keeper can be positioned in 1,5 and 9.

Tactics not obeying these rules can not be saved. One of the players in the
offending group of players will flicker if an attempt to save such tactics
is made.

To move a player, point the pointer at the player and press the left mouse
button. Keeping the button presssed, place the pointer at the desired
position and release the button.
To exchange a player with another, place the pointer on the first player
and press the RIGHT mouse button. the player will start flashing. Carry out
the operation on the player with which you want to exchange position.

The first two icons on top are SAVE and LOAD respectively. The next icon
is FLIP icon. This places all players on the opposite wing. The next icon
is Ray Trace. RAY TRACE is ver useful in testing the movement of the
players as successive sectors or set pieces are highlighted. The manager
should make sure that his players have the pace to get to the required
positions and that their line of movements have minimum crossings.
The best way to learn to design is to load any of the already provided and
experiment with it.

                                  THE COACH
				  ---------
The coach menu provides the manager with an opportunity to train his squad.
The following optiong are provided.
   SQUAD TRAINING: The manager having studied the Player Information can
now decide to change the playing position of a player.
   TACTICAL TRAINING: Though any number of tactics can be designed and
stored, the squad can only use 4 tactics in any one week. A list of the
current tactics is displayed. An option to replace one of the current
tactics is provided. Only one tactic in a week can be replaced. Select
RETRAIN option. Any of the current tactics in use can be refined by
selecting MODIFY TACTICS option.
   EXTRA TRAINING: The squad can be given extra training to improve their
performance. Too frequent a use is not advised.
   HAVE A BREAK: This is a morale booster for the squad. This option can
only be exercised at the start of the week. NO other activity except
playing a match is possible if the squad and the manager are having a
break.

                                  TRANSFERS
				  ---------
This option is solely used for buying a player. Select the type of player
and the price range. All the available players on that category are
displayed. To give a greater variety of players, overseas players are
marked INT, under the club heading are also included. You can look at any
player's detailed information by clicking the mouse button on the player's
name. The skill and ability figures are an indication only and based on the
average for the division and not absolute. Once you have decided on a
player to buy, select BUY option and the name of the player.
The asking price and your offer will appear. You can increase your offer
and the seller may reduce his price or quit dealing if your offer is too
low. The deal is done only if you and the seller's prices match. If you
need more meny than you can ask the board for extra money. You can only bid
for TWO players in a week. The maximum size of the squad is 24.
As an offer for your player on the transfer list can come at any time, a
selling screen operating as above can appear at the start of the week.

                                  MATCH DAY
				  ---------
The Match Day option takes you directly to a display of the opponent's
squad. Click mouse to look at the player details. Once again, the player's
skills and ability are based on the divisional average. The team details
are also shown.
   SELECTING TEAM: The available squad and the current tactics are
displayed. Select the tactics to be used. Select the shirt number and then
the player. You cannot exit until 13 players have been selected.
If you are not playing, you can select watch a normal game or an
accelerated version on the scanner.
When the team has been selected, the LINE UP of the two teams and the
Referee is shown. The pitch conditions, the wind direction and strength are
shown before the Toss. The winner of the toss has the choice to play Up or
Down the pitch. Now you can KICK OFF for the real game of soccer on the
pitch. On returning from the game, the match report, the results of the
other games are shown. Returning from the match day of the Main Menu marks
the end of the week.

                                  SAVE GAME
				  ---------
The game so far can be saved at any time to be continued later.

                                  THE MATCH
				  ---------
The match is played on one of the following surfaces.
   NORMAL - Normal playing conditions.
   WET - Increased ball speed and travel. Increased chance of player
   injury.
   SOGGY - Little ball bounce. Reduced ball travel. Reduced player pace and
   stamina.
   HARD - Increased ball bounce, speed and travel.
The manager has two options.
   PLAY IN THE MATCH
A manager on the field playing in position or playing as a team can:
1. Select type of corner kicks.
2. Assume the control of the keeper while taking goal kicks or defending a
   penalty.
3. Take a penalty.
   WATCH THE MATCH
1. Focus the camera on the ball or any player on the field. The camera will
   follow the ball or selected player.
2. Watch an accelerated version of the game.

The manager can change tactics only at half time or while making a
substitution. The substitution can only be made at half time or when the
ball is out of play.

                               PLAYER CONTROL
			       --------------
   MOVEMENT - The player moves in all 8 joystick directions
   HEADERS - If the ball is in the air, pressing the F.B. will make the
controlled player jump. Move the J/S in the direction in which you wish to
head the ball when the player is in the air.
   TACKLE - There are two types of tackles.
   BLOCKING TACKLES - The purpose of this tackle is to gain possession of
the ball from the opponent. You cannot tackle a player from behind without
fouling him. You must intercept the ball by running beside the opponent and
get to the ball travelling ahead before he does or tackle from the front.
   SLIDING TACKLE - This tackle can be done from any direction. A Sliding
Tackle on an opponent without a ball is a foul. Press the F.B. to do a
sliding tackle. You must touch the ball before the player to avoid being
penalised. A sliding tackle from behind is a foul if seen by the referee.

                               KEEPER CONTROL
			       --------------
The keeper is controlled by the computer during the game. The control is
tranferred to the player for PENALTIED and GOAL KICKS only if the manager
is playing.

                                     JUMP
			       DIVE   |	  DIVE
				   \  |  /
			DIVE--------CATCH--------DIVE
				   /  |  \
			       DIVE   |   DIVE
				    STOOP      

Press the F.B. to start the move. The longer the F.B. is pressed thr bigger
the movement.

The player is also given control of the Keeper for Goal Kicks, if he so
desires. To keep the game flow, if the player fails to exercise control,
the computer assumes the Keeper control. The player must therefore exercise
the option quickly and well before the computer goes into default mode.
The are 9 types of goal kick.

                                 HARD AHEAD
				      |
		          HARD LEFT   |	  HARD RIGHT
				   \  |  /
	        MEDIUM LEFT------MEDIUM AHEAD------MEDIUM RIGHT
				   /  |  \
			  SOFT LEFT   |   SOFT RIGHT
				      |
				 SOFT AHEAD

Move the J/S to the required position before the Keeper kicks or throws the
ball. Press the F.B. to quickly boot the ball upfield to catch the
opponents out of position or to stop keeper wasting time. Use the scanner
to select the direction and type of goal kick.

                                BALL CONTROL
				------------
The ball controls have been specialy designed for ease of use. In a fast
moving game and under pressure, there is no time to remember the
complicated joystick movements. The action has to be instinctive. You are
advised to learn the controls by using the Practice Skills option in the
Main Menu.
   DRIBBLE BALL - The ball travels in front of the player. The distnace it
travels depends on the speed of the player when he made contact with the
ball.
   SHOOT BALL - Press F.B. AFTER touching the ball shoots the ball in the
direction the player is facing. 
   STOP BALL - Press F.B. BEFORE touching the ball will stop the ball and
give you total control.
   PASS BALL - You must STOP the ball before you can pass it. Keep the F.B.
pressed and move the joystick in the direction you wish to pass and release
the F.B.
Releasing the F.B. when J/S is centred and the ball is stationary takes you
back into Dribble action. The player will turn in the joystick direction
and start dribbling the ball in that direction and if F.B. is pressed
again, shoot in that direction. The ball will remain stationary as long as
J/S remains centred.
   CHIP BALL - Reverse the direction of the joystick on making contact with
the ball.

                                 SET PIECES
				 ----------
   CORNER KICKS - There is a choice of 9 corner kicks. A selection panel
appears. Look at the scanner to see the position of your players and select
the option by highlighting it and press the F.B. The computer takes the
corner. The arrows on the ball show the direction of the ball movements
relative to the goal. The options allow you to curl the ball on or out. A
ball kicked at the top will travel on the ground, in the middle at half
height and at the bottom to the bat height.
   PENALTIES - The angle and the height of the shot are controlled enabling
the penalty taker to put the ball anywhere in the net.
There is a bar with a pointer moving rapidly from left to right. This
indicates the horizontal position of the ball. The height of the ball is
determined by how long the button is pressed before the contact with the
ball is made. The longer the F.B. is held down, the HIGHER the ball will
travel. It is therefore possible to overshoot or hit the goal posts and the
bar. As soon as the fire button is pressed, the pointer in the bar freezes
giving the keeper a split second chance to guage the direction of the shot
and a fighting chance to save. The penalty must be taken as soon as
possible after the referee blows the whistle.
   SUBSTITUTION - Press F5 to bring player 12 on to the field or F6 for
player 14. Captions S12 or S14 will appear on the screen to indicate that
the referee has noted your request. The game will stop when the referee
decides to let you make a substitution. the number and name of the player
last to touch the ball will appear. Use UP and DOWN cursor keys to change
the player name. Press SPACE BAR to make the substitution. The named will
be substituted and the game will re-start.
   CHANGING TACTICS - if you wish to make a change of tactics while maiing
substitutions, use the keys F1 to F4 to select tactics BEFORE pressing the
Space Bar.
   HALF TIME - You can make substitution or change tactics or both at half
time. Follow the instrction detailed above. Press Space Bar to start the
game.
   CAMERA - If watching the match, the manager can focus the camera so that
it either follows the ball or any player on the field. Press F to toggle
between the two options. When the option to watch a player is selected, the
players name and shirt number are displayed. Use UP and DOWN cursor keys to
change the name. Use LEFT and RIGHT cursor keys to toggle between the two
teams.

                              KEYBOARD OPTIONS
			      ----------------
   X - Change SCANNER size.
   D - Scanner On/Off.
   P - Pause Game On/Off.
   Q - Sound On/Off.
   C - Crowd Sound only On/Off.
 

                    ANOTHER SET OF DOCS DONE ON 21/03/90

                                SEE YA LATER