               -- --- -->  pLAYER mANAGER 2 EXTRA  <-- --- --

                          - --> fULL dOCS! <-- -


                              GETTING STARTED
                              ---------------

A. AMIGA
--------

Insert Disk 1 in the drive and switch the computer on. Insert the required
disc when requester appears.

B. PC COMPATIBLES
-----------------

INSTALLING PROGRAM: Insert key disc and log on to the relevant drive. When
A: or B: appears, type Install and press return.

B.1 RUNNING THE PROGRAM: The program needs 4MByte memory and 550K of
conventional memory. Type PM2 and press return.

THE KEY DISC MUST BE LEFT IN THE DRIVE TO RUN THE INSTALLED PROGRAM

B.2 CLEARING ENOUGH MEMORY TO RUN THE PROGRAM

B.3 PC DOS: If you have DOS 6 or above, press F5 when message Starting
MS-DOS is displayed on Power Up. If DOS 5 or lower, you will have to make a
boot disc. Please note you will still need to load a mouse driver. If you
don't know what it is called, follow section B.9 to find the line
containing mouse, write it down on paper, exit program. Now type the line
in and press return. This will install your mouse driver. Now you can run
PM2.

B.4 CD ROM: Usually removal of smart drive which occupies nearly 1 M.Byte
memory will cure the problem, otherwise you will have to make a BOOT disc.

B.5 To remove SMART DRIVE: You will need a DOS EDITOR or some kind of
Editor to do this action. DOS EDIT is in your DOS directory.

B.6 TYPE: EDIT C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT (Return)

B.7 Listing of Auto EXEC will be displayed. Look at the listing and
identify the line starting with word SmartDrv. Insert Rem before word
SmartDrv. It may look as below.

Rem SmartDrv 512K

Now save the file and exit the program by holding down ALT and pressing F
then X.

Press Y to save the edited file.

B.8 CREATING A BOOT DISC: Before you make a boot disc, you have to find
some lines. Type

B.9 Edit C:\Autoexec.bat (Return)

Look for a line containing word MSCD. Copy this line on paper. (This will
be called line 1). Look for a line containing the word Mouse. Copy this
down as well (Line 2). Quit the program by holding down ALT key and then
press F then X.

B.10 Now type

Edit C:\config.sys (Return)

Look for the line containing words MSCD. Copy the line down (Line 3).

Quit the program.

B.11 You are now ready to create a BOOT disc. Insert a blank disc in your
drive and type:

B.12 Format A:/S

When the disc has been formatted, type Edit A:\Autoexec.bat (Return).

B.13 A blank screen will be displayed. Type:

@ECHO OFF

prompt $p$p

Path = c:\Dos

Line 1 i.e. type Line 1 from paper

Set Blaster = A220 15 D1 H5 P330 T6

Line 2 i.e. type Line 2 from paper

Line 1 may look something like C:\DOS\MSCDEX.EXE/D:MSCD001/V/M:15

Line 2 may look something like LH C:\Mouse\Mouse.Com.

Hold ALT key down and press F then X

Answer Y to save edited file.

B.14 Now type

Edit A:config.sys (Return)

device = C:\dos\himem.sys

device = C:\dos\emm386.exe noems

Line 3 i.e. type line 3 from the paper

dos = high,umb

shell = C:\command.com c: /P

Line 3 may look like device =C:\SB16\drv\sbcd.sys/d=mscd001/p:220

Hold ALT key and press F then X. Answer Y to save edited files.

PC-DOS follow the instructions in B.12, B.13 and B.14.

In B.13 omit instruction to type Line 1

In B.14 omit instruction to type Line 3

C. CD ROM
---------

Place CD in the CD ROM drive.

When the MS DOS prompt appears, type the prompt letters for the drive e.g
D: and press return.

Type SETUP and press return.

The SETUP will be loaded. Now follow on screen instructions.

To run the game, ensure the CD is in the CD ROM drive.

Type CD\PM2 or the given directory name and press return.

Type PM2 and press return.

CLEARING ENOUGH MEMORY TO RUN THE PROGRAM - See B.4

D. WINDOWS 95
-------------

D.1 From the Windows 95 desktop, select the `Start' button, then the
`Shutdown' option.

D.2 At this point a dialog will appear. Select `Restart the computer in
MS-DOS and press the `YES' button.

D.3 The computer will unload Windows 95 at this point, and return you to
the DOS prompt.

D.4 Here, simply enter the letter for your CD-ROM drive, for this example
it will be `D'.

D.5 Type D: and press enter.

D.6 From this point simply install and run the game as normal.

D.7 Note: If your CD ROM drive letter, does not appear to be available
after entering MSDOS mode, that is probably because the CD ROM drive is not
properly supported under Windows 95.

D.8 To counter this, simply re-install the CD software that came with your
drive and reset the computer.,

D.9 Next follow the above instructions, and when you re-enter MS DOS mode,
the drive letter should be available to you.

E. JOYSTICKS
------------

E.1 You need a joystick to play on the pitch.

E.2 A two player game requires a two port game card. If you have such a
card, make sure that you have disabled the joystick port on the sound card.

You cannot use a joystick splitter for a 2 player game on the pitch.

E.3 Do not touch the joystick when you leave the Menus until KICK OFF is to
take place. During this time the joystick is being automatically
calibrated.

F. SOUND CARDS
--------------

F.1 The program supports Sound Blaster or hardware compatible cards.

F.2 The sound card menu will be displayed with commonly used default
values. If your sound card has a different IRQ or PORT channel settings,
alter the values using the keyboard.

F.3 The modified file will be saved on the hard disc.

F.4 No Sound: Check settings for Port Address, DMA, and IRQ have been set
correctly in the set up utility.

F.5 If you do not know the settings, use the software that came with your
card to determine the correct values.

F.6 Once you know these values, run the SET UP program on your CD.

F.7 Save the settings by choosing the Save Settings option.

G. QUIT PROGRAMME (PC ONLY)
---------------------------

When office complex is displayed, press Escape button.

H. HARD DISC REQUIREMENTS (PC ONLY)
-----------------------------------

The programme requires about 20 M.Byte of Hard Disc space to run
efficiently.


                             1.0 INTRODUCTION
                             ----------------

1.1 At the age of 28, you are at the peak of your career, a capped player.
You have been appointed the Player Manager of a 2nd division club. Your
superior skills and experience on the pitch will be a great advantage for
gaining promotion initially, but as you grow older and the competition gets
tougher, the only way to the top is by assembling the best squad, using
tactics that maximises the strength of your squad and having enough money
in the bank to buy success when shove comes to push.

1.2 Player Manager 2 is a 1 - 4 player game.

1.3 PM2 is a game of great depth. Each aspect of the management has
significance. You can't ignore an aspect and not pay the penalty.

1.4 For those who want to concentrate on Management only, there are
Predict, Watch, Management Scanner and Highlight options available. In
early years, against weak teams, playing on the pitch may give you more
favourable results, specially if you are a good player. This advantage
disappears as you get older and opposition gets tougher.

1.5 For those who wish to play on the pitch, two playing options are
available. Normal and Role Play. The NORMAL option is controlling the
player nearest to the ball and ROLE PLAY is playing in a pre-selected
position i.e. Midfield etc.

1.6 You also have four views of the pitch to play on. Each view has certain
advantages. The views are Overhead Up and Down, Overhead Side to Side,
Perspective and Isometric.

1.7 There are four divisions in the league, PREMIER, 1st, 2nd and 3rd.
Three clubs are promoted and three clubs are relegated. There are two
domestic and three European Cup Competitions.

Like all simulations, the final outcome depends on a multitude of factors
and their mix. We leave you to learn from your experience.

1.8 There is a SAVE GAME facility. DO NOT SAVE MORE THAN SIX TIMES IN A
SEASON. There are severe penalties if you exceed this limit.

1.9 ASSISTANT MANAGER: The Manager has to hang his boots at the age of 36.
You will be allowed to appoint an Assistant Manager after one year i.e. for
a year you can not play on the pitch and must concentrate on management.
Once the assistant manager has a contract of 3 years. On the expiry of the
contract, the manager will have to wait for one year before appointing
another assistant manager.

                             2.0 MENU CONTROLS
                             -----------------

2.1 You will need a mouse or joystick for controlling the menus, but to
play on the pitch you will need a joystick.

2.2 MOUSE: Use the LEFT mouse button to SELECT an item.

           Use the RIGHT mouse button to QUIT the menu.

Some menus have a DONE icon in the bottom right corner. Select Done to quit
the menu.

2.3 JOYSTICK: Two button Joystick: Use as the mouse.

              One button Joystick: Use ESC instead of right mouse button.

2.4 MULTIPLE PLAYERS: Each player takes his turn to complete his
management. The number on the cursor corresponds with the the player in
control. Once a player has finished the management part, he clicks on the
Boot Room to finish his turn. The number on the cursor will change and the
next player takes control. When the last player has completed the
management, the Boot Room will be displayed. The cursor will display the
player number playing the first match. The name of the team controlled by
the player will also be displayed on the wall.

2.5 When the KEYBOARD is used to enter a value, TERMINATE the input by
pressing ENTER or RETURN key.

2.6 Sound (PC ONLY). Use the specified keys to switch the sound ON and OFF
at any time.

Background Music               M

Menu Sound Effects             S

Use the + and - keys to adjust the volume.

The sound effects in the planning part can not be switched off.

                             3.0 OPENING MENUS
                             -----------------

These menus set up the game enviroment before you assume the management
responsibilities.

3.1 MAIN MENU
-------------

3.1.1 NEW GAME: You start a totally new game.

3.1.2 CHALLENGE: This is a personal challenge. After one season, you are
set a target of points to achieve in the next season. The points are
awarded for a range of achievements like promotion, F.A Cup Quater final
victory, etc.

3.1.2.1 The points gained can be used to start a NEW GAME in higher
divisions. Enough points will enable you to manage teams like Newcastle,
Liverpool, Manchester United, etc., powerful and rich. The points can also
be used by any time during the game to seek appointment as a manager of
another club.

3.1.3 KNOCK OUT: A game for 2 to 4 players. The players start in the same
division. The game continues as normal until one of the players is promoted
or relegated. The clock starts and unless within a set period, all players
are in the same division again, the bottom player is eliminated. The game
continues until there is a winner.

3.1.4 CONTINUE GAME: This option is used to continue a previously saved
game. A directory of the saved games is displayed. Select the file name of
the game you wish to continue.

3.1.5 DEMO GAME: This is a tutorial mode to get you acquainted with the
gane. The season starts in week 12 and at the end of season the Demo Game
returns to the main menu. The Demo Game gives you an opportunity to explore
the whole game.

3.2 GAME SET UP
---------------

3.2.1 NEW GAME

3.2.1.1 THE MANAGER: As you come to the menu, four manager faces are
displayed. You can click on the face to cycle through the available faces.
(PC CD ROM only)

3.2.1.2 MANAGER NAME: Click on the manager name then use the keyboard to
insert the name. Terminate the input by pressing the Return key. If you
have accidently clicked on a manager name, press ESC key to get the Ball
cursor back.

3.2.1.3 POSITION: Default position is displayed. To select a new position,
click on the current position to cycle through other positions.

3.2.1.4 CHALLENGE POINTS: Your Challenge points are displayed. The higher
the points, the better the choice. You can manage top teams like Newcastle,
Man. Utd, Liverpool, Leeds etc. Click on your team name to display the
available teams.

3.2.1.5 TEAM NAME: A team in the 2nd division is allocated to each player.
You can select another team. Click on your team name to display the teams
available for selection.

3.2.1.6 ROLE PLAY: Default value NO is displayed. You will control the
player nearest to the ball. Click on it to change it to YES. You will now
only control the player playing in the position specified in 3.2.1.3.

3.2.1.7 DIVISION: All players normally start in Division 2 unless challenge
points are used. The division in which each manager starts is displayed.

3.2.1.8 SKILL LEVEL: There are 3 skill levels namely NORMAL, EASY and VERY
EASY. The skill level spplies to all the managers. Click on the option you
wish to select.

3.2.1.9 SEASON: To change the year, click on the numbers to delete. Use the
keyboard to enter new numbers. Press ENTER key to terminate the input.

                              4.0 PRE-SEASON
                              --------------

On your appointment, you have 6 weeks Pre Season before the real season
starts. The first week is spent on the beach then five weeks in the office.
During this time you can buy and sell as many players as you like. The
minimum squad size is 16 and the maximum is 24. You must also organise
rigorous fitness training as your squad is semi-fit. The tasks in the first
week are as follows.

4.1 SPONSORSHIP (Entry: book)
-----------------------------

You have three types of sponsorship. Straight cash, cash + gate receipts
and cash + cup win bonus. Highlight the offer you wish to accept and then
select Done to confirm the choice.

4.2 ARRANGE FRIENDLIES (Entry: telephone)
-----------------------------------------

You have five friendlies to arrange. You can select any team in the league
or teams in Europe. Click on P.S. Wk2 (pre season week 2) to display the
divisions, click on the division of your choice and the teams in that
division will be displayed. Select a team. Repeat for P.S. Wk 3, 4, 5 and
6. To benefit from the Friendlies, you should start with either lower div.
clubs and build up to stronger clubs. Watching the game or getting some
useful joystick practice will be a good idea.

4.3 MAKE APPOINTMENTS (Entry: laptop)
-------------------------------------

The contracts of the scout, physio and coach are yearly so their contracts
must be renewed each year. They all have a rating which is reflected in
their salary. The ratings range from 1 to 15 with 1 being the lowest
rating. A five star coach will import a lot more skill in your squad in a
shorter period than a one star coach. You must select a coach, physio,
scout and a specialist keeper coach before you can exit the pre-season
menu. Only a 5 star scout can look for players in Europe. Getting the best
you can afford is money well spent.

4.4 SCHOOL BOY CONTRACTS
------------------------

From the 2nd season onwards, you can sign on schoolboys to the squad. You
can coach the young talented players and sell them in time to Premier
division clubs. You can bid for up to eight players as long as you do not
exceed the maximum squad strength of 24.

4.4.1 The schoolboys are reborn players who retired or left football for
one reason or another. They retain their names and playing positions i.e. a
winger will be reborn as a winger but their stats are different and
coaching and handling determines what sort of players they develop into.

4.4.2 The schoolboys start with 3 years contract and can be bought and sold
like any other player. Their price during early years is very low.

            PREMIER DIVISION CLUBS CAN NOT BID FOR SCHOOL BOYS

4.4.3 SIGNING ON SCHOOL BOYS: Scan through the list of players and select
which players you wish to buy. Click on the selection to cancel it. Once
you have selected, your bid will be considered against other bids. If your
bid succeeds, the young players will join your squad.

4.4.4 The schoolboys are very important to you financially. You can train
him and generally look after him and sell them later on for a good price.

4.5 When all tasks have been completed, select DONE to go to your office
complex.

                          5.0 THE OFFICE COMPLEX
                          ----------------------

The office complex consists of eight rooms-

ARCHIVES: Information on the league, clubs, hot shots, club history etc.

FINANCIAL DIRECTORS: Gives you an overall picture of the club's finances.

PRESS ROOM: All the gossip and all the infomation you will ever need.

BOARD ROOM: Habitat of your bosses.

MANAGER'S OFFICE: The nerve center of the club.

COACH'S ROOM: Coaching and training.

PHYSIO ROOM: Where injured players are cared for.

BOOT ROOM: Final preparation before match day.

The functions of each office will now be described in more detail.

QUITTING THE GAME: Press Escape key.

                           6.0 MANAGER'S OFFICE
                           --------------------

As you move round the manager's office, the functions of the various items
will be displayed at the bottom of the screen. Selecting the item will take
you to the menu. The menus are self explanatory but a brief description is
given below. You will find the manager's office in darkness (PC CD ROM
only) on weekday matches. Just switch on the lights.

6.1 THE SQUAD (Entry: Picture on the wall)
------------------------------------------

Your squad is the heart of your club. Take good care of it. Minimum size of
the squad is 16 and the maximum 24. You can edit the names of the players
in your team.

6.1.0 TEAM RATING: Your Team Rating is shown at the top. There are 64 teams
in the league. The rating shows your position based solely on the average
value of 16 of the best players in your squad. If you have spent a lot of
money buying players, your TEAM RATING will get higher. If your league
position then does not improve dramatically, you have bought foolishly and
the board will not be very pleased. Try to get a League position higher
than the team rating. The bigger the gap, the better you have done in
transfer market. Use your expertise in Buying and Selling of players to
impress the board and their assessment.

6.1.1 TACTICS: The current match tactics is shown at the top. You can
change the tactics by clicking on it. It will cycle through 4 selected
match tactics. To change Match Tactics, see 7.4.

6.1.1.1 The shirt colours in the 2nd column will change according to
tactics, indicating the type of player required for the selected tactics.
The colour of the shirts are as follows. This is a broad classification.

Green    -->    Keeper

Blue     -->    Defender

Yellow   -->    Midfield

Red      -->    Forward

6.1.2 NAMES: The first coloumn details the names of all the players in the
squad. You can edit the names of the players in your squad.

6.1.2.1 EDITING PLAYER NAMES: The names are edited on the Player Data
screen. See 6.1.3.2 for access to the screen. Click on the name. Use
the keyboard to enter the new name and press the Return key.

6.1.3 PLAYER INFOMATION

6.1.3.1 The Player infomation provides detailed infomation on each player
in the squad to help you to manage the squad.

6.1.3.2 ACCESS: Select the player first. A panel is displayed in the bottom
left corner with arrows on either side. Click on the arrows to display one
of the following options and then select the option.

a) PLAYER DATA     See 6.2

b) ASSESSMENT      See 6.1.9

c) PERFORMANCE: This is a record of a player's match data for 28 weeks
LEAGUE performance. The cup records are not displayed. If he has not played
in a match, a cross will be displayed. To give you as much infomation as
possible, the performance figure is displayed on a rolling basis i.e. if it
is only 6th. week of the season, the performance figures are up to wk 5 for
the current season and the remainder are from the last season.

d) RECORDS: The personal records of the player are displayed.

e) COMPARISON: Displays the skills or attributes of the whole squad. Click
on the header to cycle through skills and attributes.

6.1.4 SELECTING MATCH SQUAD: You can only select available players. The
first column shows the availability of the player. A player can be
unavailable for the following reasons.

(a) Injured       : Red Cross

(b) Sick          : Green Cross

(c) Unfit         : Red Heart

(d) Int. Duty     : Red Cap

(e) Suspended     : S - Shows Red Card

A yellow heart shows that player is SEMI FIT and can be played if
necessary.

6.1.4.1 The 2nd column shows the type of player required for the selected
tactics. Select the right type of player for the position. The 3rd column
shows the natural playing position of the player. There are 11 types of
specific players. The type is colour coded as in 6.1.1.1. To get the right
type of player in the right position, match the shirts. If it is not
possible to do so, then look for a player who will suit best. For example,
the tactics requires a Centre Back but you have defenders. Look at his
adaptability besides other stats.

6.1.4.2 To move a player from one position to another, simply click on the
two names.

6.1.5 A shirt number for a given tactics defines the functions of the
player wearing that shirt. We have broadly defined these functions as 11
positions. The positions are as follows:

Centre Back (CBK)             : A Central Defender.

Full Back (FBK)               : Defending playing wide. Player generally
                                has beter than average pace.

Defender (DEF)                : Utility defender.

Playmaker (PMK)               : A midfielder used for distributing the
                                ball.

Midfield (MID)                : Good Passing ability.

Midfield General (MGN)        : Battling type of midfielder.

Winger (WNG)                  : Playing wide. Has high pace.

Centre Forward (CFW)          : A forward playing in central position.

Target Man (TMN)              : Used in conjunction with wingers as
                                reciever of crossed balls.

Striker (STK)                 : A good goal scoring forward.

Players playing in these positions have a unique mix of physical attributes
and skills. See 19.0 for a detailed explanation.

6.1.6 AGE: Age range is 16 - 35. A 16 year old school boy is not really
ready for a league game and if used, should be used sparingly. His stamina
is also a bit suspect. On his 36th birthday, a player is retired. As a
player gets older, some, not all of his attributes and skills detoriate.

6.1.7 STAR RATING: A Player is rated from 1 to 5 in that division. A 5 star
player in the 1st division may only rate 3 stars in the Premier division.
The star ratings give you a broad comparison of the marketable abilities of
the players in the squad.

6.1.7.1 AMIGA - PC DOS: If a player is ranked, his ranking is displayed
instead of his skill level.

6.1.8 COACH ASSESSMENT: This is an overall assessment of a player by the
coach. He takes various factors like experience, match performance into
account. A coach is only as good in his assessment as his rating and
experience.

6.1.9 MANAGER'S RATING: When you first go to the squad screen, this column
will be blank. Select ASSESSMENT as detailed in 6.1.3.2. A new panel will
be displayed. Select the player to assess by clicking against his name in
this column.

You can now do your own assessment of any player. You can decide which
skills you wish to take into account and how much importance you wish to
give it in overall assessment. For example, a forward can have all the
skills but if he has a short temper i.e. his temperament is low, he is not
going to be of much use.

6.1.9.1 Skills: The ratings for each skill is displayed. The important
skills according to player position are highlighted and the overall skill
rating is shown. You may include other skills or remove a selected skill
from consideration by clicking on it. The overall rating may change as a
different combination is made up.

6.1.9.2 Attributes: As 6.1.9.1

6.1.9.3 Assessment: The table shows a list of 7 factors that can be
important in arriving at an overall assessment. See UNDERSTANDING STATS at
the back of the manual for the skills and attributes you should concentrate
on for a given type of player. The factors are:

Skills and Attributes

Stamina: You need stamina if the pitch is heavy or there may be extra time.

Adaptability: Only to be considered if you have to play him out of
position.

Experience: Player skills and some attributes decline but his experience
can be valuable, specially on big occasions like cup or derby matches.

Performance: This rating is based on recent match performances.

Disciplinary: If you get a tough referee, your disciplinary record can be a
problem.

Temperament: Can the player keep his cool when under pressure?

6.1.9.4 Against each heading, a rating is given. You can decide how
important an aspect is. For instance, you may give skill - 50%, Attributes
- 30%, Experience - 5%, Performance - 15%, Others - 0% importance. Each
player has to be assessed differently and regularly during the season.

6.1.9.5 The overall rating will be displayed as Manager's rating. Once you
have a good coach, you will be able to rely on his advice.

6.1.10 RANKING: This is a league ranking. There are 20 ranked keepers from
1 to 20. These are the 20 best keepers in that order in the 64 clubs in the
league.

There are 20 ranked defenders, midfielders and forwards. Ranking is
assessed every week.

6.1.10.1 AMIGA - PC DOS: See 6.1.7.1

6.1.11 CARDS: It shows the number of yellow cards recieved by the player. A
player recieving his 4th yellow card is suspended for the next 2 weeks and
is unavailable for 2 matches. A red carded player is suspended for 3 weeks.

6.1.12 CONTRACT: A Player displaying 0 in this column will leave at the end
of the current year. You can renew his contract in the Player Data menu.
The player may refuse the contract. The main reason for refusal is that the
player is unhappy at the club. He has not been given enough opportunities
to play for the club.

6.1.12.1 You have two options:

             a. Give him a few games to lift his morale and try again.

             b. Negotiate a contract with him.

6.1.12.2 When a player refuses a contract, a requester will come up to ask
you if you wish to negotiate the contract.

6.1.12.3 If you select YES option, a panel is displayed showing your
current offer and the player's demand. You can change the weekly wage and
the contract period. The player may modify his demand. You can quit
negotiations at any time or reach an agreement with the player.

6.1.12.4 WARNING: Think hard before you negotiate an individual contract as
it destroys the wage structure of the club. Other players will ask for more
money when their contract comes up for renewal.

6.1.13 TRANSFER OR LOAN LIST: Following messages / icons (PC CD ROM only)
appear.

Red Telephone		:Tr. Listed	:Player has been transfer listed.

Yellow Telephone        :Tr. Request    :Player is requesting a transfer.

Green Telephone         :Bid Recd       :Bid has been received for the
                                         player.

White Telephone         :Loan Lstd      :Player is on loan list.

6.1.14 INTERNATIONAL CAPS: The caps awarded by the national teams are
diaplayed.

RED CAP                 :Player is on International duty.

YELLOW CAP              :Past International.

BLUE CAP                :Current International.

6.1.15 APPEARANCES: The number of club appearances made by the player are
displayed.

6.1.16 NATIONALITY: The Nationality of the player is displayed.

6.1.16.1 AMIGA - PC DOS : The Nationality of the player is only displayed
if selecting the squad for European fixtures. It then replaces the
appearances.

6.2 PLAYER DATA
---------------

The player data gives very comprehensive details of the player. It is an
infomation as well as an action menu.

ACCESS: See 6.1.3.2

6.2.1 The following infomation is displayed - NAME of the player and his
CLUB VALUATION, Player's AGE, playing POSITION, RATING, RANKING and
NATIONALITY.

6.2.2 RANKING: While Rating is a divisional indicator of the players'
abiltiy, ranking can change from week to week. A player may be ranked one
week and not the next.

6.2.3 NATIONALITY: The league contains players from 16 nations.

6.2.3.1 European Competitions: You are allowed to use only 4 overseas
players in a European Competitions. Any player not of English nationality
is a foreign player.

6.2.3.2 Internationals: The player may be called away to play for his
country.

6.2.3.3 A representive player's face is displayed. It shows player MORALE.
It has 5 stages from very happy to depressed. (PC CD ROM only).

6.2.4 SKILLS AND ATTRIBUTES: A combination of skills and physical
attributes uniquely defines a player. The bar graph displays each skill and
attribute. A marker gives you the divisional average as a guide, so you can
see how the player compares with the rest of the players in that division.

6.2.5 The bar colours are as follows

Red             Below Average

Orange          Average

Yellow          Above Average

The assessment of skills and attributes of each individual player is the
most important aspect of a Manager's job.

6.2.6 The ATTRIBUTES are as follows:

6.2.6.1 PACE: Speed of the player. The pace decreases as the player gets
tired. You know how useful it is to have that extra yard of pace. Pace is
the main attribute of a winger and to some extent of a Full Back.

6.2.6.2 ACCELERATION: Determines how quickly a player gets to his maximum
pace.

6.2.6.3 STAMINA: Directly affects pace and skills. A tired player can't be
that agile or accurate in shooting. See 7.2 for improving stamina.

6.2.6.4 RESILIENCE: A player with low resilience is liable to get injured
more often.

6.2.6.5 AGILITY: Determines how quickly a player can get the ball under
control.

6.2.6.6 VISION: Vision is about reading the game. A player with good vision
will not automatically pass the ball to the nearest player but see which
player can utilise the ball best. An important requirement for a Playmaker.

6.2.6.7 ADAPTABILITY: A player with high adaptability will play competently
out of his natural position.

6.2.6.8 AGGRESSION: A player with high aggression will go for the ball. He
is also liable to fall foul of the referee unless he has good tackling,
control skills and good temperament.

6.2.6.9 FLAIR: A player with high flair is greedy, and important
requirement for a striker.

6.2.6.10 TEMPERAMENT: A player with good temperament will keep cool under
pressure and not get wound up by the opposition. The higher the
temperament, the cooler the behaviour.

6.2.7 PLAYER SKILLS

6.2.7.1 PASSING: Passing skill is probably the most important skill for a
player especially for midfielders.

6.2.7.2 SHOOTING: Shows the accuracy of the player shooting, very important
for a forward.

6.2.7.3 TACKLING: The ability to get the ball and not foul the player is
the measure of tackling. The measure of tackling is an important skill for
a defender or midfielder.

6.2.7.4 CONTROL: The skill in controlling the ball.

6.2.8 KEEPER SKILLS

The keeper has his own measure of skills. Special Keeper skills are as
follows:

6.2.8.1 THROWING: How far the keeper throws or rolls the ball.

6.2.8.2 KICKING: How far the keeper kicks the ball.

6.2.8.3 KEEPER: This determines the keeper's diving and catching ability.

6.2.8.4 JUMPING: The height he can jump to tip the ball over the bar.

6.2.8.5 HANDLING: His anticipation to come off the line.

6.2.9 COMPARISONS: If at any time you wish to see one particular attribute
or skill for the whole squad together, select comparisons in the bottom
left corner.

6.2.10 EDIT PLAYER NAMES: You can edit a player's name. Click on the name
to delete the current name. Use the keyboard to enter a new name. Terminate
the input with Return key.

6.2.11 ACTION PANEL: This is displayed on the right.

6.2.11.1 AVAILABILITY: If a player is available for selection, a tick mark is
displayed. If he is not available the duration and reason for his absence
is displayed.

6.2.11.2 CARDS: Shows disciplinary cards.

6.2.11.3 INT. STATUS: Shows whether the player has been capped and whether
he is Current International or Past International.

6.2.11.4 INT. CAPS: Number of caps gained by the player.

6.2.11.5 WAGES: The player gets appearance money equivalent to his wages if
he plays on the pitch. If he plays twice in a week, he gets two appearance
fees plus the wages shown.

6.2.11.6 LOAN OUT: If you wish to loan out a player, click on this option.
You can loan out a player for 4 to 7 weeks. Select the number of weeks. The
player will then become Loan Listed.

6.2.11.7 TRANSFER: If you wish to transfer a player, select this option.
The player will be transfer listed. You can only transfer list 2 players in
1 week.

6.2.11.8 CANCEL TRANSFER: You can cancel the transfer listing by selecting
the transfer option. You can't cancel it in the same week in which the
player was transfer listed. You can loan out a maximum of 4 players in a
year.

The transfer list is closed from week 25. All transfer listing is then
closed.

6.2.11.9 SELLING PRICE: You can set a different selling price to the price
shown for the player. If you want to sell a player quickly, reduce the
price. You can also set it higher if you don't really want to sell a player
requesting a transfer.

6.2.11.10 CONTRACT: You can renew a player's contract. Max. duration is 3
years. Select the duration.

6.2.11.11 SEASON APPEARANCES AND GOALS: Displays the number of times the
player has played on the pitch and the number of goals he has scored in the
present season.

6.2.11.12 CAREER APPEARANCES AND GOALS: Cumulative total of the above in
his entire career.

6.3 FIXTURE LIST (Entry: Board on wall)
---------------------------------------

The fixture list gives you a list of all the known fixtures for the season.
The cup fixtures, replays and postponed fixtures are added as they become
known.

6.3.1 ATTENDANCE: The last column shows the attandance for each match, a
very good indicator of your performance.

6.4 THE ACCOUNTS (Entry: Laptop)
--------------------------------

The accounts in the manager's office are weekly. The balance is carried
forward to the next week. All the fixed expenses are calculated after
Saturday's match. If there is a mid-week match, the gates and player's
appearance money are included in expenses immediately. The accounts are
self explanatory. You must keep a close eye on the accounts, failure to do
so may lead to your sacking.

6.5 THE SCOUT (Entry: Laptop)
-----------------------------

There are 5 grades of scouts. Only a 5 star rated scout can look for
players in Europe. The quality determines the class of the player he finds.
You can instruct him to look for 3 players at any one time. Select the
header Player 1. Now click on each sub header to display the choices
available. For example click on Type and Keeper, Defender, Midfield and
Forward are displayed. Make your choice. You can now give the scout
detailed instructions.

6.5.1 When all the instructions have been given, the scout will give 1 of 4
responses - No Problem, Do my Best, Very Difficult or Impossible.

6.5.2 The last two indicate that you may have to wait a long time to find a
player. You can relax conditions sufficiently to get one of the first two
responses.

6.5.3 You can cancel scout instructions at anytime by clicking on Cancel
Inst.

6.5.4 Bidding for a Scouted Player: When the Scout Report for a player
turns from No to Yes, click on Yes to go to list of players he has found.
Select the player you wish to bid for and you will go straight to the bid
screen. Follow the procedure detailed in 6.10.

6.5.5 VISIT: When you select this option, you can give the Scout some
specific instructions.

6.5.5.1 VIEW: You can see the predicted results of as many matches as you
wish. The predict will show you the players used, the incidents, player
performances etc. Every match is played in real time and can therefore
provide valuable infomation on other teams. The selection is made from that
week's fixture list and is therefore only valid for 1 week. Select the
division to display the divisional fixture list and select the games to
view.

6.5.5.2 FOLLOW: Select any team in the league to follow. The instruction
will remain operational until cancelled. Select the division to display the
teams in the division.

6.5.5.3 WATCH: You can instruct your scout to watch any player in the
league. Select the team to display the squad. Select the player.

6.5.5.4 The purpose of this instruction is to watch the player before
buying him. As you select the player, the following infomation is
displayed.

Name, Age, Position, Rating, Ranking, Carrier and Season goals and
appearances and Scouts estimated price which depends on his ratings.

6.5.5.5 At this stage, you have the option to change your mind and select
another player. Once you proceed with the selection, this option is closed
for 3 weeks. The Scout will report after 3 weeks.

6.5.5.6 SCOUT REPORT: The Scout will come back with the following
additional infomation.

Player performance, Scout Assessment, Contract duration, Expected Price.

6.5.5.7 BUYING SCOUTED PLAYER: You can bid for this player by selecting YES
option. It will take you straight to the bid screen.

6.5.5.8 CANCEL: Cancels the Follow instruction.

6.6 THE OPPOSITION (Entry: Laptop)
----------------------------------

The opposition gives you the following infomation.

6.6.1 The Squad: Shows the full opposition squad. The names of the players,
their playing position and the top 5 scorers. To see the performance record
of any player, click on the name. His performance over 28 weeks of league
games will be displayed. If the current week is 7, then first 6 weeks will
be from current season and the remainder from the last season.

6.6.2 Comparison: This compares your current selected squad against the
opposition squad used in the last match. It compares the keepers, defence,
midfield and forwards in the pertinent skills.

If the bar is to the right, the opposition has the advantage and if the bar
is to the left, you have the advantage. The length and colour of the bar
displays the degree of advantage. Light colours 0 to 50%, Dark colours 51
to 100%.

6.6.3 Form: The form shows the opposition results in the last 5 home or
away games depending on whether they are playing home or away.

6.7 LEAGUE TABLES (Entry: Filofax)
----------------------------------

A handy reference to see the league tables, results and fixtures of your
own division.

6.7.1 KNOCK OUT: The positions of the players are shown.

6.7.2 THE CHALLENGE: The state of challenge so far is displayed.

6.8 TACTICS DESIGNERS (Entry: Easel)
------------------------------------

Eight tactics are provided in the program. These are fairly standard
tactics and may not accommodate the special needs of your squad. You can
now fine tune any of these tactics or design any number from scratch.

6.8.1 The basis of the tactics design is that you move the ball from square
to square and position the players on the pitch relative to the ball. You
can design the tactics with your player in possession of the ball (Attack)
or the opposition with the ball (Defence).

6.8.2 You can use the Ray Trace facility to ensure that the players' paths
don't cross and that you do not ask them to move too far as they may not
have enough pace to get to the new position.

6.8.3  There are various icons at the top and to the left of the pitch.

The icons are as follows.

6.8.3.1 Attack: Tactics when you have the possession of the ball.

6.8.3.2 Defence: Tactics when the opponents have the ball.

6.8.3.3 Ray Trace: Traces the position of the players for up to 5 movements
of the ball.

6.8.3.4 Copy: Copies the position of the players for one position of the
ball to the next position of the ball.

6.8.3.5 Load and Save: You can load any existing tactic, modify it and save
it on your disc / hard drive.

6.8.3.6 Position: Specify the shirt numbers used in defence, midfield and
forward areas.

6.8.3.7 View: Your team is on the pitch.

6.8.3.8 Opposition: Opposition team is on the pitch.

You can view both teams simultaneously.

6.8.3.9 Top Corner

ATTACK: Position of your players when you are taking a corner.

DEFENCE: Position of your players when the opponents take a corner.

6.8.3.10 Goal Kick

ATTACK: Position of your players when the opponent's keeper takes a goal
kick.

DEFENCE: Position of your players when your keeper takes the goal kick.

6.8.3.11 Kick Off

ATTACK: You kick off.

DEFENCE: Opposition kicks off.

6.8.3.12 Bottom corner: As in 6.8.3.9

6.8.4 Making a start: When you go to Tactics Designer, a default tactics
is already loaded. You can modify and adapt this tactics or load another
tactics to modify or form a basis of a new tactics.

6.8.5 Loading a Tactics: Select the Load icon. A directory of eight
pre-designed tactics will be displayed. You can also load a previously
designed tactics. Select the disc icon to load a saved tactics.

6.8.6 Saving a Tactics: Use the Save icon. You CAN NOT save a tactics under
the heading already used for pre-designed tactics.

6.8.6.1 AMIGA: You will need a Formatted disc to save the tactics. Insert a
formatted blank disc in the drive before selecting the Save option. The
SAVE disc can store 10 tactics and 5 save games.

PC: The tactics are stored on the hard drive.

6.8.7 MOVING THE BALL: Move the cursor to the ball. Press left mouse
button. Keep the button pressed and drag the ball to the new position.
Release the button.

6.8.8 MOVING A PLAYER: Move the cursor to the player and move the player as
you do the ball.

6.8.9 Attack and defence tactics are different. Select one or the other
e.g. Attack and move the ball to each square in turn. For each position of
the ball, move the players to their new positions. You need to fix the
position of the players for corners, kick off and goal kicks.

6.8.10 Use the Ray Trace facility to ensure that players do not cross each
other's paths. The movemnets of the players should be limited otherwise the
players will not be in position. Of course you can design deep runs.

6.8.11 COPY: This faciltiy allows you to copy the position of the players
for the ball position to another sqaure. For example if you wish to make
the square 2 position the same as the square 5 position, select the Copy
option. You then click on 5 then on 2.

6.8.12 POSITIONS: Before going to the Save option, you must define the
playing position of each player i.e. defence, midfield or forwards. When
you select this option, the pitch will be divided into three sections -
Forward, Midfield and Defence. Place your forwards in the forward section
and so on. Placing them accurately in the position they will play is also
important, i.e. if 7 is a winger and midfielder and tactics is 4-2-4, place
him wide in the midfield area but right on the boundary joining the forward
area. The display you arrange will be used in Team Talk. Study one of the
tactics for an example.

                          6.9 TRANSFERS AND LOANS
                          -----------------------

Transfers and loans options are a very important part of the management.

6.9.0.1 Transfers and loans are accessed in the Player Data for a player.
To get the Player Data of any player, simply click the availability column
of the required player in the Squad in the Manager's office.

The transfer and Loan List closes from week 25. Any players still on the
Transfer or Loan List are removed from the list.

6.9.0.2 Transfer and loan out options are displayed in the green column on
the right.

6.9.1 SELLING A PLAYER: To sell a player, you put the player on the
Transfer list.

6.9.1.1 Click on Transfer and "Tr. Listed" will appear against the option.

6.9.2 RULES.

6.9.2.1 You can only put 2 players on the Transfer List in one week.

6.9.2.2 You can not Transfer List an injured player or a player who has
been loaned out to another club.

6.9.2.3 If a player gets injured after being Transfer Listed a red cross
will appear against his name in the Transfer List.

6.9.2.4 REMOVING A PLAYER FROM LOAN LIST: To remove a Tr. Listed player
from the Transfer List, simply click on the transfer.

6.9.2.5 A player must remain on the Transfer List for one week i.e. you can
not change your mind immediately.

6.9.2.6 You can't Transfer List a player you have bought before he has been
with you for 4 weeks.

6.9.3 Loan Listing A Player: Select Loan Out option. You can loan out a
player for 4 to 7 weeks. Select the period.

6.9.3.1 Removing Player From Loan List: Click on Loan Out to cancel the
instruction.

6.9.4 BID RECEIVED: If your player is on a transfer list, keep a close eye
on the Transfer / Loan column in the squad screen. If a club bids for your
player, a message "Bid Received" or a GREEN TELEPHONE will appear. This
message may appear even if your player is not transfer listed. Your player
has been scouted by another club.

6.9.4.1 To sell this player, click on the Bid Received message and you will
go straight to the Bid Screen.

6.9.5 BID SCREEN: The bid screen is used for both buying and selling a
player.

6.9.5.1 SELLING A PLAYER: If you are selling a player, your selling price
appears at the top. The price bidders are prepared to pay is displayed. A
cursor will flash to give you the opportunity to change the price. The
bidder may bid again with a higher price or go away.

6.9.5.2 If there is more than one bidder, the bidders may compete against
each other until only one bidder is left. All you have to do is press the
Return key to show you are not changing your price.

                           6.10 BUYING A PLAYER
                           --------------------

Select the type of player you wish to buy. A list of players will be
displayed. Select the player you wish to buy.

6.10.1 You can buy or attempt to buy 2 players and look at total of 4
players in one week.

6.10.2 When you select a player from the list, you are looking at the
player. The selling price is displayed. You can enter your bid. Press the
Return key to terminate the input. The seller will respond in one of three
ways.

a) Give a new price.

b) A BLUE cross will appear against the bid to invite you to increase the
bid.

c) A RED cross will appear to terminate the transaction i.e. Go away.

6.10.3 You can, in the case of (a) or (b), enter a new bid. The transaction
is complete when two prices are equal.

When a red cross appears, you have no option but to leave the bid screen as
the seller has gone away.

The sale might be blocked after the price has been agreed by your board if
they feel it will imperil the club finances.

You can save a game so far at any time. If you are playing a Challenge
game, at the end of a successful challenge, you will be asked to save the
game. If your next challenge fails, you can load the saved game and
continue the challenge again. Please take care not to OVERWRITE this
particular slot.

6.11.1 CLICK ON DRAWER. A menu with 20 slots will be displayed. Select the
slot you wish to use. If a game is already atored, it will be overwritten.
Use the keyboard to insert the file name and terminate the input with
Return key.

6.11.2 AMIGA: Before you save a game for the first time, you must have a
blank formatted disc ready. For formatting a disc, refer to your Amiga
manual. This disc can be used to save five games and ten tactics. This will
be called SAVE disc. You can have as many Save discs as you like.

6.11.3 PC: Each SAVE GAME will need 350K space on the hard disc.

                               7.0 THE COACH
                               -------------

After the manager, the coach probably plays the most important part in the
development of the squad. There are five grades of coach. The higher the
grade, the better the coaching.

7.1 THE COACH (Entry : The man near the black board)
----------------------------------------------------

The details of the coaching staff and their specialities is displayed. If
an assistant manager has been appointed, he will be a part of the coaching
staff. The keepers are trained by a specialist keeper coach. The specialist
is appointed in the Pre-Season menu.

7.1.1 The coaching activities are divided into two parts - TEAM PRACTICE
and GROUP COACHING.

During the season, the number of hours assigned for coaching are 20.

7.1.2 The coaching is done on 4 days of the week namely Monday, Tuesday,
Thursday and Friday. Each day session is of 5 hours. The Team Practice is
taken by the whole staff together, while the Group Coaching is done by each
member of the staff individually.

7.1.3 You can only do one activity on any one day. Select an activity for
each day.

7.2 TEAM PRACTICE (Entry: Running Machine)
------------------------------------------

There are eight items for the Team Practice. You can allocate time to each
activity. The more you practice, the more expert you get and the better the
execution.

7.2.1 Four Match Tactics: Usually you use two of the four tactics. You
should become familiar with these two. The other two need occasional
refreshing.

7.2.2 Corners and Free kicks need a lot of practice to make a real
difference. Both are taken automatically on the pitch. The greater the
familiarity, the more you are likely to score. Familiarity is also taken
into account when predicting the result.

7.2.3 Five a Side improves the team's stamina and morale. On heavy pitches,
players need a lot of stamina.

7.2.4 Fitness affects player skills and attributes. A player needs to be
fully fit to produce results.

7.3 GROUP COACHING (Entry: Standing Player)

Each member of the coaching staff can be allocated one skill coaching a
day. The activities are Shooting, Passing, Tackling, Control and Heading.
The squad is split in 3 categories, Defenders, Midfield and Forwards.

7.3.1 The bar display against each player shows their current skill status
for the activity displayed by the header. The marker shows the DIVISIONAL
avergae of the skill. If you coach the player, you will see his skill
improving and the improvement in skill is reflected in his price.

7.3.2 Five icons, one for each skill are displayed at the bottom. To give
the player coaching, first select the staff member and then the day. The
appropriate day column will be highlighted. Select the skill you wish to
coach. An appropriate letter i.e. S for shooting will appear against the
selected staff member. Before you select the staff member, bear the
following in mind.

7.3.3 Suitability of the Coaching Staff: All the staff have a speciality
and therefore will give better coaching in their particular speciality. The
proficiency for each skill against each type is given below:

                Shooting        Passing         Tackling        Control

Defender        BAD             AVERAGE         BEST            OK

Midfield        OK              BEST            AVERAGE         OK

Forward         BEST            AVERAGE         BAD             OK

7.3.4 The optimum number of players that a member of staff can handle for a
skill is his star rating + 1. A bar is displayed against each member of the
coaching staff with a marker. The marker denotes the maximum number of
players he can coach.

7.3.4.1 Select the players for coaching. As you select the players, the bar
will start filling up. The colour of the bar will change from yellow to red
if you exceed the no. of players beyond his capability, denoting that
coaching will be poor.

7.3.4.2 The same player can't be coached on the same day by two different
members of the staff.

7.3.4.3 Select the players to be coached carefully. Do not waste coaching
time e.g. by giving a defender shooting coaching. If you are in doubt,
click on the icon in the bottom left corner. He will indicate by a tick
mark which player needs that particular skill coaching. A cross indicates
NO.

7.3.4.4 CHANGE: The Bar display now shows the change in skill since the
start of the season. Click on the Header to cycle through other skills.

7.3.5 FATIGUE: Young players get tired easily and become prone to injuries.
Look at the fatigue factor and rest good players for unimportant matches to
give other players experience, and keep them away from requesting
transfers. Be very careful how often players are used. Do not burn out a
young player.

7.4 TACTICS (Entry: Board on wall)
----------------------------------

You are allowed to take four tactics to a match. The top listed tactics is
the match START Tactics. You can exchange tactics i.e. make any of the four
tactics a START tactics.

7.4.1 To load a new tactics, discard one of the match tactics. Select the
tactics to be discarded and then click on the trash can.

7.4.2 Select the tactics to be loaded from the directory and then click on
the vacant slot.

7.4.3 Exchange the new tactics with the vacant slot in the match tactics
tables.

7.4.4 Usually the top tactics is used. The second and the third tactics are
reserve tactics, one for all out attack and the other for all out defence.

The fourth tactics is a nursery tactics which is fine tuning of the first
tactics. You train for this tactics and when the players are sufficiently
familiar replace the start tactics with the New tactics. You can then fine
tune the second tactics.

7.5 ASSESSMENT (Entry: Wall Chart)
----------------------------------

The coach gives the assessment of the first team Forwards, Midfield,
Defence and Keepers in the important skillsfor that position. Select the
icon to display his assessment of the first team and the squad e.g. the
first team defenders and all the defenders in the squad.

7.5.1 COMPARISON: The coach also gives the relative assessment of the
overall strengths of all the teams in the division.

7.6 FACT SHEET (Entry: First Drawer)
------------------------------------

The Fact Sheet is an at a glance display and record of important aspects of
the squad performance to date. Against each player name and his playing
position, the following match data is displayed.

7.6.1 Shirt No., Match Performance Points, Goals and cards if any. If the
player was injured, Red Carded, Suspended, On Int. Duty etc., the
infomation will be displayed instead of the shirt no..

7.6.2 You will be able to see if you have played a player in the same
position, match after match and his performance in that position. You can
see whose performance is improving. As a matter of fact, quite a lot can be
read on this sheet.

7.7 TEAM REPORTS (Entry: Second Drawer)
---------------------------------------

Graphical display of effects of coaching on team skills and performance.

7.7.1 SQUAD SKILLS: All five skills for four types of players are
displayed. The graph displays a comparison of each skill against the
divisional average of that skill. If the average of, for example, the
shooting skill of all the forwards in the squad is less than the divisional
average of shooting skills of the forwards, the bar display is in red. If
yellow it is greater. The overall bar in the list compares the average of
all the skills of selected type of players against the divisional average.
The OVERALL bar display compares the average of all the skills of the whole
squad to the divisional average. The display colour is in red, orange or
yellow depending on the squad average being less, equal or greater than the
divisional average.

7.7.2 FIRST TEAM SKILLS: As above for the first team.

7.7.3 SKILL RECORDS: The average of the skills of Keepers, Defenders,
Midfielders and Forwards of the whole squad are plotted over the whole
season.

7.7.4 TEAM PERFORMANCE: This shows the results and the average of match
performance points of Keepers, Defenders, Midfielders and Forwards for
every match in the season.

7.7.5 STAMINA - FIVE A SIDE: The stamina depends on Five A Side training.
The graph displays the average of Team Stamina for the whole season. The
hours spent on Five A Side training are also displayed so that the effect
can be seen directly. The improvement or deterioration are not immediate.

7.7.6 FITNESS - FITNESS TRAINING: The average of squad Fitness (Excluding
injured players) is plotted for the whole season as well as the Fitness
Training given to the squad. Again the effects are not apparent
immediately.

7.8 PLAYER PERFORMANCE
----------------------
(Entry: Select Player Name In Match Facts)

A report on every player in the squad.

7.8.1 CARDS: Shows when the player received yellow and red cards during the
season. His aggression and temperament are also displayed.

7.8.2 The TIME lost by the player through injury until he was fit to play
is displayed for the season. Player's Resilience is also displayed.

7.8.3 FITNESS - FATIGUE: Player's Fitness and Fatigue over the season is
displayed.

7.8.4 PERFORMANCE: Player's performance points are displayed.

7.8.5 OVERALL SKILLS: The average of the relevant skills of the player
compared to the divisional average are plotted for the season.

7.9 COACH MESSAGES (Entry: Third Drawer)
----------------------------------------

The coach is your eyes and ears in the dressing room. Pay heed to his
messages.

                                8.0 PHYSIO
                                ----------

The physio looks after the injured and sick players. There are five grades
of physio. The better the physio, the better the treatment, hence the
shorter the injury time of the player.

8.1 INJURY LIST: (Entry: Chart at the end of Bed)

All the injured players are listed. Against each name the duration of the
recovery from injury is given. The diagnosis is also given. In the first
week of injury, you have the option to select the treatment.

8.2 Recovery time is displayed if you use the club doctor. You have the
option to use Private treatment or engage a specialist. These two options
cost extra but they may reduce the recovery time. Player fitness
deteriorates as the weeks pass. When he has recovered from injury or
illness, the physio takes over.

8.3 Against each player is also listed 3 other periods which will be needed
before the player is fully fit.

8.4 PHYSIO: This is the time the physio needs to get the player to a
certain level of fitness. This time depends on the quality of the physio
and the deterioration in player fitness.

8.5 Physio and Coach work together to get the patient to 90% fitness.

8.6 COACH: This specifies the time required to get fully fit.

                       9.0 FINANCIAL DIRECTOR (F.D)
                       ----------------------------

As you would expect, the Financial Director has overall responsibility for
the club's finances. Managers come and go but the clubs are there forever.
The books in the F.D office are very useful for an overview of the club
finances.

9.1 WAGES
---------

This gives the up-to-date wages of each player. Against each player are
recorded his basic wage to date and the total amount paid to date.

Each player gets a basic wage and appearance money equal to his basic wage
every time he plays on the pitch. If there is a mid week fixture, he can
get appearance money twice. Click on the name to get full details.

9.2 INCOME
----------

This totals all the income to date.

9.3 EXPENDITURE
---------------

This details all the expenditure to date.

9.4 BONUS (Entry: Picture On The Wall):
---------------------------------------

There are two types of bonus that can be given.

9.4.1 WIN BONUS: This is an incentive bonus given to the players making
appearance in the next match. They only get the bonus if they win.

9.4.2 CASH BONUS: Unconditional bonus given to the whole squad as a morale
booster.

9.4.3 To give a bonus, select the type and a cursor will appear. Use the
keyboard to input the amount and terminate the input with Return Key.

9.4.4 Use CANCEL to cancel the bonus. Once you have quit the screen, you
can't cancel the bonus.

9.4.5 The BOARD may block the bonus. A cross will appear and your entry
will be deleted. Enter the new bonus.

9.4.6 The total amount of bonus is displayed.

9.5 STADIUM IMPROVEMENTS
------------------------

You need to improve the capacity of your stadium right from the start.
Bigger capacity will enable you to have larger crowds for cup matches if
you are lucky to draw a premier div. club. You will require big gates to
survive in the higher divisions.

9.6.1 You must provide full cover for the spectators i.e. cover both sides
and ends of the stadium before the club can be promoted to the first
division. Failure to do so will result in loss of promotion even if you
have won the division.

9.6.2 The stadium must have extra floodlighting and undersoil heating
before you can be promoted to the Premier division.

9.6.3 You can order the improvements at any time but will take place after
the season is over and ready at the start of the new season.

9.6 TAKE A BREAK (Entry: Picture On The Wall):
----------------------------------------------

This is a morale booster. There is a choice of location, activities and
duration. When you have made all three choices, the cost will be shown. You
can cancel the choice and make new selection.

9.7.1 Before giving the squad a break, make sure you can afford it.

                              10.0 BOARD ROOM
                              ---------------

The board on the whole is very supportive of the manager. However it keeps
a close eye on the finances and will block your bid for a player if the bid
will endanger the club's finances. It will also stop you from selling a
player too cheaply. The board expects you to produce results in line with
your team rating.

10.1 You can go to the Board Room at any time. You will see the secretary
busy at work. There are 3 books on her table. Each book contains important
infomation.

10.2 BOARD MESSAGES (Entry: Red Book)
-------------------------------------

From time to time, the board sends you messages. They may be warnings or
meessages of encouragement or just comments on your or the team
performance.

10.2.1 Your current Board Rating and the rating over the season is also
displayed. The rating is done on monthly basis and is a measure of Board's
satisfaction with your performance at the club. If it drops below a
certain point, you will be summoned to the Board Room and carpeted. If the
performance continues to deteriorate, you will be sacked.

10.3 RATINGS (Entry: Blue Book)
-------------------------------

The ratings show your performance in that field so far. This infomation is
used to assess the Manager's overall rating. All ratings are done on
monthly basis.

10.3.1 FINANCIAL RATING: Shows how well you have managed club finances.

10.3.2 COACHING: Displays the overall improvement in all aspects of
coaching.

10.4 VITAL INFOAMTION (Entry: Yellow Book)
------------------------------------------

This is perhaps the most useful infomation on which you can assess your
performance so far.

10.4.1 LEAGUE ATTENDANCE: It shows the relationship between performance in
the League and attendance

10.4.2 TEAM RATING: Team Rating and League Position are plotted on the
same graph. The gap between the two shows your ability in the Transfer
market. If your League Position is higher than your Team Rating, you have
done WELL. The bigger the gap, the better you have done. If your Rating is
higher than your league position, the chairman is going to get nervous. If
the gap gets big, he will be after your head on a plate.

10.4.3 RESULTS: This displays HOME and AWAY results of the League matches.
The result displayed for each week is the difference between your and the
opposition goal.

10.5 SUMMONS TO BOARD ROOM:

These are priority messages from the board which the chairman delivers
personally to the manager. The summons come when you are in your office.
The door marked Board Room opens and you are summoned to the Board Room.

                             11.0 PRESS OFFICE
                             -----------------

11.1 International Squad (Entry: Notice Board)
----------------------------------------------

The players selected for England are listed. The second list shows the
foreign players in the league called for international duty by their
countries.

11.2 ANCO TIMES (Entry: News Rack)
----------------------------------

Factaul match reports. One for each manager.

11.3 HOT NEWS (Entry: Television )
----------------------------------

Gossips, scandals, sackings and much more. The news keeps you informed of
what is happening elsewhere and can be useful.

11.4 PROMOTIONS AND RELEGATIONS (Entry: Cup Picture On Wall)
------------------------------------------------------------

This lists last year's promotions and relegations.

11.5 VACANCIES AND APPOINTMENTS (Entry: Fax Machine)
----------------------------------------------------

The league is notified of the new appointments and termination of contracts
either by resignations or sackings of the manager.

If you are interested in a vacancy, click on the vacancy to see the
details.

You will have the opportunity to apply for the vacancy. If the board
agrees, you will be given an answer straight away. You will assume
responsibility at the new club immediately.

11.6 MANAGER AND PLAYER RANKINGS (Entry: Laptop)
------------------------------------------------

The bar at the top displays:

a) Manager, Player, U 21.

b) Month, Year.

c) Prem., 1st, 2nd, 3rd and Club.

One of the options of in each group will be highlighted.

11.6.1 MANAGER OF THE MONTH: Displays Manager Of The Month for each
division and the ranking of each manager in the division.

11.6.2 PLAYER OF THE MONTH: Player of the month and top players of each
division are displayed.

11.6.3 UNDER 21 PLAYER OF THE MONTH: As 11.6.2 for players under 21.

11.6.4 CLUB RANKING: Displays top 16 players of the club from start of the
season.

11.6.5 MANAGER OF THE YEAR: Shows the ranking of the managers so far for
each division and Manager Of The Year for each division.

11.6.6 PLAYER OF THE YEAR: Shows the ranking of the 16 top players in each
division so far for each division.

11.6.7 UNDER 21 PLAYER OF THE YEAR: As above for under 21 player.

11.7 ROLL OF HONOUR (Entry: Book On The Table)
----------------------------------------------

Records of Manager, Player and U 21 Player of the year for each division in
the previous year.

                               12.0 ARCHIVES
                               -------------

This gives you full infomation on all the 64 clubs in the league and lots
more. This infomation can be used to great advantage.

12.1 There are in total five racks labelled as:

The League, Records, Clubs, Champions and Cups

12.2 THE LEAGUE:
----------------

The rack has four shelves, one for each division. Each shelf gives that
division's Fixtures, Results and Tables.

12.3 CLUBS:
-----------

This rack also has four shelves, one for each division. Select the division
to display the names of the clubs in the division.

12.3.1 Select the club to view History, Background, Fixtures and the Squad.

12.3.2 HISTORY: This shows the club's positions in the league, promotions,
relegations and the number of times they won any of the domestic or
European cups.

12.3.3 SQUAD: Gives a list of the player' names, ages, positions, ratings,
rankings, nationalities and international caps.

12.3.4 BACKGROUND: A source of very useful infomation on the club. All you
need to know about the club.

12.3.5 FIXTURES: The club fixture list.

12.4 RECORDS:
-------------

This gives you infomation such as the highest gate, top scorer etc.

12.4.1 HOT SHOTS: Top scorers for each division are listed.

12.4.2 RANKED PLAYERS: Top 20 Keepers, Defenders, Midfielders and Forwards
in the league are listed.

12.4.3 PAST TRANSFERS: Details of 50 past transfers are given. As the new
transfers come in, the old transfers scroll off the top.

                              13.0 BOOT ROOM
                              --------------

This is the final room before you go to the match. Once you have selected
the Boot Toom, you can't go back to any other room in the office complex
until that match has been played.

13.1 MULTIPLE PLAYERS:
----------------------

If more than one player is playing, each player goes to the Boot Room. When
he has done all his tasks, he clicks on the window for Match Day.

13.2 The cursor will change for the next player and he will complete his
tasks and his turn by clicking on the window. When all the players have
taken their turn, clicking on the window will take you to the Match Day of
the first fixture which is independent of the player number.

13.3 PRE MATCH ASSESSMENT:
--------------------------

There is a pre-match assessment by Alan Hansen.

13.4 END OF SEASON:
-------------------

When all your fixtures have been completed, the Boot Room will be closed to
you. You can browse round the office complex and look at archives, accounts
etc. The Boot Room will now change to a Beach Scene. Click on this to end
the season.

                              14.0 MATCH DAY
                              --------------

14.1 The two opposing teams are shown along with the referee. You have the
following choices.

14.1.1 PLAY: (Entry: Football) You can play on the pitch provided you have
selected yourself to play. If you get injured, sent off or substitute
yourself, the game will revert to Watch mode. JOYSTICK is required.

14.1.2 WATCH: (Entry: Binoculars) You can watch the game. You can implement
substitutions and change tactics. Joystick is not required.

14.1.3 PREDICT: (Entry: Crystal Ball) The result is predicted. An animated
scoreboard shows the progress of the match. You can quit the animated
display by pressing right mouse button.

14.1.4 HIGHLIGHTS: (Entry: T.V) Match highlights are shown.

14.1.5 MANAGEMENT SCANNER: (Entry: Pitch) The game is played on the scanner
and is exactly the same as the game in Watch mode except that you can see
the whole pitch and therefore the action. The scanner is the best way to
play your part as a manager.

14.1.6 Selecting one of the options will take you to the next screen.

14.2 PLAY AND WATCH: If you have selected Play or Watch, the next screen
will display the kit colour of both teams. You have the option to play in
FOUR VIEWS.

a) Top Down - Up and Down

b) Top Down - Side to Side

c) Perspective

d) Isometric.

14.2.1 Each view has advantages and disadvantages.

14.2.2 Isometric is the nicest looking. It gives you a good overall view of
the game but is not so amenable for controlling a player.

WARNING: As nearly all the players are visible a lot of the time, the game
is likely to slow down from time to  time.

14.2.3 Top Down Views - Excellent for playing but moves like volley etc.
are not so evident.

Perspective: Is a good compromise between Top Down and Isometric views.

14.2.4 TOSS: Click on the coin for it to flip. If you win the toss, you can
select:

Up or Down pitch for Isometric or Top Down - Up and Down pitches.

Right or Left or vice versa for the other two pitches.

Once the selection has been made, you will go to the match.

WARNING: DO NOT TOUCH THE JOYSTICK AS YOU LEAVE THIS SCREEN AND GO TO THE
PITCH UNTIL KICK OFF. During this time the joystick is being automatically
calibrated.

14.3 MANAGEMENT SCANNER:
------------------------

The scanner displays the pitch. The players are displayed by dots inteam
colours. The game played is exactly same as a Watch game but with many
advantages. Use a keyboard (PC only) or joystick to give instructions.

14.3.1 The Home team is displayed on the left and the visitors on the
right. Under each team the performance of Forwards, Midfield and Defenders
is displayed. At the top of the screen, possession by two teams is shown as
a bar display.

14.3.2 The squad and the two substitutes are displayed for both teams.
Against each name appears the player's shirt no., performance and a marker
to indicate that he has received Team Talk instruction. As the game
proceeds player performance will fluctuate.

14.3.3 MULTI SPEED SCANNER: The scanner has 3 speeds - Normal, 2X and 4X
normal speed. You can change the speed at anytime during the game by
selecting the appropriate box. It also has Step by Step movement. If you
select the step by step mode each selection will do one movement.

14.3.4 Use the Mouse or Joystick to move the pointer when the game is
paused.

14.3.5 SUBSTITUTION: Press F1 for player 12 and F2 for player 14. (F9 and
F10 for team B). When the ball has gone out of play substitutions can be
made. Select the player to be substituted.

14.3.6 Substituting an Injured Player: When one of your players is injured,
select the substitute.

14.3.7 PAUSE: Press the Space Bar to Pause and Unpause the game.

14.3.8 TEAM TALK: You can give each player in the squad one of the
following eight instructions. Select the player and then the instruction.

a) PUSH UP: The player will play 1 square ahead of normal position.

b) DROP BACK: Reverse of above

c) TUCK IN: The player will play 1 square `in' towards the centre.
Instruction usually for Wingers and Full Backs.

d) PLAY WIDE: Reverse of above.

e) LONG BALL: The player will kick the ball up pitch. Instruction for
defenders.

f) TIME WASTE: The players will pass the ball around.

g) SHOOT ON SIGHT: The players will shoot at goal whenever they can.

h) GET TOUGH: The players get aggressive.

i) AS YOU ARE: Cancels instruction given to player.

14.3.9 TACTICS: Click on tacticsto change the tactics.

14.3.10 PLAYERS: You can swap players i.e. move a player from defence to
midfield. Click on the two players to exchange the positions.

14.3.11 STEP BY STEP: Press F.B. for each move.

14.4 AFTER MATCH REPORTS
------------------------

There are various kinds of reports after the match.

14.4.1 EVENT RECORD: Shows the time of goals, injuries, knocks, cards, and
substitution for both teams.

14.4.2 PERFORMANCE RECORD: Shows Performance points, goals, cards, injuries
and substitution for both teams.

14.4.3 HEAD LINES: Head Lines in ANCO TIMES of the matches involving human
players.

14.4.4 FULL MATCH REPORT: Click on the headline to get the full match
report. The headline for the first player is shown. Click on the headline
to see the full match report. The results of the whole division are
displayed below the headline. If one of the other players are in the same
division, the fixture result will be highlighted. To display the headline
for other players, click on the fixture. Click on the turn the page marker
to display other divisional results.

                            15.0 GAME CONTROLS
                            ------------------

JOYSTICK IS REQUIRED TO PLAY ON THE PITCH.

MOVEMENTS: Players move in the eight joystick directions.

    F.B. - Amiga = Fire Button

    F.B. - PC = Button A

15.1 SHOOTING:
--------------

Press F.B. to shoot the ball.

15.2 PASSING:
-------------

You must trap the ball before you can pass. Press F.B. before you touch the
ball. The ball is then trapped. Move the joystick in the direction you wish
to pass and release the F.B.

15.3 CHIP THE BALL:
-------------------

AMIGA   : Reverse the joystick quickly.

PC      : Press Button B

15.4 HEADER:
------------

If the ball is in the air, press fire button to jump. Move the joystick in
the direction you wish to head the ball.

15.5 CROSSING:
--------------

If the ball is in the crossing area (near the byline of the opposition
goal) reverse the joystick (Amiga) or press button B (PC) to cross the ball
into the 18 yards box.

15.6 TACKLING:
--------------

If the opposition has the ball, press F.B. to do a sliding tackle.

15.7 THROW INS:
---------------

Press the F.B. and move the joystick in the direction you wish to throw and
release the fire button. The longer you keep the F.B. presses the longer
the throw.

15.8 CORNERS AND SET PIECE FREE KICKS:
--------------------------------------

These are computer controlled. THE MORE YOU PRACTISE THEM IN TEAM COACHING,
THE BETTER THEY ARE. The corners can be lethal. If practised a lot they can
be real match winners.

15.9 SUBSTITUTION
-----------------

15.9.1 Substituting A Player: Press F1 if you want to bring on player 12 or
F2 for player 14. The message "Substitute warming up" will be displayed.
When the ball goes out of play, one of the player names and his shirt no.
will appear, use the up and down cursor keys to cycle through the squad.
Press Enter key to implement the substitution. The player whose name is in
panel will go off and the substitute will run on to the pitch. Team B uses
F9 and F10 keys.

15.9.2 Substituting an Injured Player: Substitute 12 or 14 name will appear
in the panel. Use up and down cursor keys to cycle through them. Press
Enter key to implement the substitution.

15.10 CHANGING TACTICS:
-----------------------

Pause the Game. Press F5 (F6 for Team B) to display the cureent tactics.
Use up and down cursor keys to cycle through the 4 match tactics.

15.11 TEAM TALK:
----------------

You can give each player one of the 8 individual instructions. Pause the
game and press F4 (F7 for Team B). Use up and down cursor keys to select
the player and left and right cursor keys to cycle through the
instructions. To give Squad instructions, give the instruction to any
player for the whole squad.

                        16.0 CUPS AND COMPETITIONS
                        --------------------------

16.1 LEAGUE:
------------

There is a four division league. Three teams are relegated from the Premier
division. The 1st and 2nd divisions have three teams promoted and three
teams relegated. The 3rd division has three teams promoted.

16.1.1 A win in a league game secures 3 points, a draw - one point and a
loss - no points. If the points are equal, the difference in Goals For and
Goals Against decides this position.

16.2 F.A CUP:
-------------

This is a knock out competition. If there is a draw then a Replay is
ordered.

16.2.1 If at the end of full time, the result is still a draw, extra time
is played. If the result is still a draw then a sudden death penalty shoot
out takes place.

16.3 LEAGUE CUP:
----------------

Rounds 1, 2, 3, quarter finals and finals are played according to rules
described in 16.2.1.

16.3.1 The Semi Final is played over 2 two legs. The winner is decided on
aggregate. However if the aggregate is the same, the result is decided by
extra time and if still unresolved by a penalty shoot out.

16.4 U.E.F.A CUP, CUP WINNERS CUP and EUROPEAN CUP
--------------------------------------------------

If an English team is the holder, the team qualifies automatically, if not
a preliminary round takes place. The preliminary round and the other rounds
excluding the final consist of two legs, one home and one away. Matches are
decided on the aggregate score of the two legs. If the aggregate is the
same it is then decided on away goals. Away goals count as two. If both
sides are still equal then extra time is played followed by a penalty shoot
out if necessary.

                              17.0 CHALLENGE
                              --------------

17.1 This is an individual challenge. There are 20 rounds. At the beginning
of each round, you are set the task of getting a set number of points in a
fixed duration. Different points are awarded for Home wins, Away wins, Away
draws etc. The points are also a function to show the quality of the
opposition.

17.2 At the start of the challenge, you are informed of the number of
points to get and the no. of years allowed. If you are successful, you can
go to the next round. If you fail, you must start the failed round again.
You can see the progress of the challenge at any time by clicking on the
filofax in the manager's office at any time. You can SAVE the game so far
at any time (See 6.11).

17.3 You can't apply for another job.

17.4 On the successful completion of a round, the bonus points are added to
the total points. You are given a financial bonus. The amount will be
greater if you achieve more than the set target.

17.5 After the last match of the season, the state of the Challenge will be
displayed. If the duration is not finished, you can continue as normal by
quitting the menu.

17.5.1 If the duration is finished and you have been successful, you will
be asked to SAVE the game.

17.6 BONUS POINTS: The bonus points can be used in the main game to get the
manager's job at a higher div. club of your choice. Higher the points,
bigger is the choice.

17.6.1 You can select a team using the bonus points at the start of a new
game in Game Setup menu.

17.7 Display: You can see the state of the challenge in the book in the
manager's office.

                              18.0 KNOCK OUT
                              --------------

18.1 This is a 2 to 4 player game. All players start in the same division.

18.2 As long as all the players are in the same division, the game
continues as normal. As soon as one player gets promoted or relegated, the
clock starts. At the end of 2 years, the bottom placed player is knocked
out. The clock is re-set. If all the players are in the same division, the
game continues as normal. If however that is not the case, the clock is
re-started immediately and set for 1 year.

18.3 You can't apply for a new job.

18.4 You can see the state of the competition in the book in the manager's
office.

                         19.0 UNDERSTANDING STATS.
                         -------------------------

19.1 There are two types of stats.

19.1.1 Personality Stats: These are the stats a player is born with and do
not not change very much. The stats are Aggression, Flair and Temperament.

19.1.2 Curving Stats: These stats change with age. The stats are Pace,
Stamina, Resilience, Agility, Adaptability, Acceleration and Vision.

19.1.3 In PM2, there are 50 curves for each of these stats i.e. 50 curves
for pace, 50 for stamina and so on. Each curve is of different shape. As he
ages a player will be on one of these curves for each attribute. During the
ageing period, he will move to different curves depending on the coaching,
type of manager, opportunities, experience etc. i.e. the factors that shape
a career. With a few glaring exceptions, all 16 year olds joining a
professional club as school boys are much the smae. Some make it to the top
while others either languish in the lower divisions or leave professional
football. All depends on the managers, coaches and the breaks they get.

Skills: A player is born with skills. Once again there are 50 curves for
each skill. These skills improve with coaching, experience and a player can
move dramatically from one curve to another.

19.1.4 Some of these curves after a steady rise flatten out as the player
ages. For instance passing skill. Another curve may rise, flatten for a
while then fall. On the other hand it can keep on rising as the player gets
experience.

19.1.5 Once you can appreciate the significance of the changes, you will be
able to get better players for your money - and use your staff more
effectively.

19.1.6 When you are looking for a player, the infomation below may help you
to assess the player. The important stats for each type of player are
listed:

KEEPER			Agility, handling and keeping.

FULL BACK               Pace, passing and tackling - High.

                        Stamina, control, shooting and acceleration - Good.

CENTRE BACK             Passing, tackling and heading - High.

                        Vision, control and stamina - Good.

DEFENDER                Pace, tackling, passing and heading - High.

                        Control and stamina - Good.

                        Vision - Very High if using as a sweeper.

MIDFIELDER              Passing, tackling, shooting - High.

                        Aggression, control, shooting and vision  - Good.

PLAYMAKER               Vision and passing - Very High.

                        Shooting and tackling - High.

                        Pace and control - Above Average.

MIDFIELD GENERAL        Shooting and agression - High.

                        Passing and tackling - Very High.

                        Vision and control - Good.

WINGER                  Pace and passing - Very high.

                        Shooting and Tackling - High.

                        Acceleration and stamina - Good.

CENTRE FORWARD          Shooting and pace - High.

                        Heading, stamina, agility and control - Good.

TARGET MAN              Pace and shooting - High.

                        Heading, agility and control - Above Average.

STRIKER                 Shooting - Very High.

                        Pace, agility and control - High.

                        Heading - Good.


    These are ideal stats and the correct mix will be expensive to buy.

                              HINTS AND TIPS
                              --------------

Game Set Up: Selecting your playing position is important. You are advised
not to select the position of Midfield General as you are liable to
collect red cards more often. Avoid the positions of winger and full back
as the effect on pace can be telling. The suggested positions are centre
forward or a midfielder, preferably a midfielder.

Pre Season: Select the best coach you can afford and a good scout. Make
sure that the coach has a different speciality to yours. A defence
speciality is advised for the coach.

Schoolboys: These players are your lifehood in the lower divisions. Before
the end of the season make sure that your squad is well less then 24. You
are allowed to bid for up to 8 schoolboys. The suggested bid for good
schoolboys is 50K. Train him, coach him and use him sparingly and see the
money rolling in.

Pre Season Coaching: Get the players fit and tuned in. Experiment with all
the players in the squad. Use the pre-season matches to experiment with
players and tactics.

Manager's Office: The most important thing is to select the right squad and
right tactics.

Tactics: To begin with select the tactics to suit the players you have.
Over a period of time get the players to suit your own style of tactics.
The computer managers make wholesale changes depending on their style when
a new manager is appointed to the club. It is therefore an advantage to
keep an eye on incoming and outgoing managers.

Assessment: This is to help you judge every player for yourself. The
computer gives you a rating for each player and the coach gives his own
assessment. You can view the usefulness of a player as you want and take
your tactical requirements into account. As you get experienced you will
find this feature essential.

Secretary: She thrives on gossip.

Scout: A good scout gives good instructions, these produce results. The
secret lies in these instructions. Look at your requirements carefully.

Coaching: Take coaching very seriously. Read the coaching section in the
manual thoroughly, it plays a vital part in the game. Get the best coach
you can afford. Be very selective in who you coach. Don't overload the
staff. Change the coaching schedule at least once a fortnight if not once a
week.

Press Conference: Be careful!

Board Roon: Keep a very close eye on your ratings. The higher your league
position the more the board expects of you. Rightly so. If you are at a big
club, coming second is not good enough. Keep the difference in league
position and Team Rating as low as possible, otherwise you are in trouble.
Pay attention to the messages from the chairman. He pays your wages. He is
the boss and he has a personality.

Personality: Your chairman, referee, computer managers, players and many
others have a personality. How they react to a given situation is half the
fun.

Challenge: Gets you a good team so it is worth the effort.

Skill Levels: Sorts out the men from the boys. Normal skill level is for
men.

Squad: Decide right from the word GO what you are aiming for - Domestic or
European honours. If it is domestic, you can afford to buy foreign players,
but not too many international players otherwise for an important match,
you may be reduced to a skeleton staff.

Money: Keep a very close eye on the club finances. There is no overdraft
from the bank. You take risks and the Financial Director will come down on
you like a ton of bricks.

Saving: You are advised not to save the game more than 6 times in one
season. There is a penalty for doing so.


Copyright 1995 Anco Games.

Published by:
Anco Software Ltd,
7 Millside Industrial Estate,
Lawson Road,
Dartford,
Kent,
DA1 5BH
Tel: (01322) 292513

Illicit/LSD on 23/12/95. Phew! Completed the docs at last! :) Later guyz!