Pools of Darkness ADVENTURER'S JOURNAL
by SSI Strategic Simulations, INC.

				  CREDITS
 _____________________________________________________________________________
 

                   Docs & Pics scanned by ROI PRODUCTIONS.
                Docs transformed into Amiga format by [RYGAR]

 _____________________________________________________________________________

		  Game Creation:  SSI Special Projects
	       Game Development:  Ken Humphries
Animation and Amiga Programmers:  Kerry Bonin
			  Story:  Dave Shelly
			Artists:  Maurine Starkey, Richard Payne, Fred Butts,
				  Jean Xiong, Mike Provenza, Cyrus Harris,
        			  Ed Trillo, Kevin Thompson, Laura Bowen,
				  Mike Nowak, Mark Johnson
	      Encounter Authors:  Chris Carr, Ken Eklund, Lori White, Tom Ono,
				  Gary Shockley, Dave Georgeson, Cynthia Hwang
		    Playtesters:  Phil Alne, John Kirk, Andre Vrignaud, Brian
				  Lowe, Alan Marenco, Glen Cureton
		  Documentation:  Richard Wilson, Rygar
		       Producer:  Victor Penman
	    Programming Manager:  Keith Brors
		    Art Manager:  Tom Wahl
	       Playtest Manager:  Larry Webber
	      Music Produced by:  "The Fat Man" George Alistair Sanger
		     Written by:  Dave Govett
      Art, Graphic Design & DTP:  Louis Saekow Design: Dave Boudreau
		       Printing:  Amercian Lithographers, Inc.

TABEL OF CONTENTS
-------------------------------------
Important features..................1
Introduction........................1
Characters and Parties..............1
    Player Races....................1
    Ability Scores..................2
    Character Classes...............3
    Alignment.......................4
    Other Attributes................5
    Building a Succesful Party......6
Combat..............................6
    Combat Map......................6
    Initiative......................6
    Computer Contol.................6
    Combat Ability..................6
    Attacking.......................7
    Combat Movement.................8
    Combat Strategies...............8
    After Combat....................9
Magic...............................9
    Magic-Users.....................9
    Clerics........................10
    Tips on Magic..................10
Magic Treasures....................10
Creatures of the Forgotten Realms..12
Spell Descriptions.................18
Journal Entries....................25
Tables.............................47

IMPORTANT FEATURES

INTRODUCTION
For ten years your glorious band has fought Evil wherever it has threatened
the Realms. Lord Bane has suffered many defeats at your hands and new peace
washes over the lands. Now your path comes full circle - back to the thriving
city of Phlan.

As your ship arrives, you see the towers of Phlan, where before only ruins
stood. The slums and decay have given way to new growth. Boats bob in the 
harbor under the watchful protection of Sokal Keep. In large measure this 
prosperity and success was born of your defeat of Tyranthraxus so many years 
ago.

As the sails are furled, and the crew prepares to dock, you wonder "Where
could adventure be found amongst such peace...


CHARACTERS AND PARTIES
You need party of adventurer Player Characters (PCs) to play POOLS OF DARKNESS
You must choose the following, for each character: a Race, a Class and an 
Alignment. After you select these, the computer generates a set of Ability 
Scores that define your new character's natural strengths and weaknesses. To
build a party you must make a mix of characters that have the range of skills
needed for success, and then bond them together.

Player Races

There are six races from which you may construct player characters, each with
different talents and limitations. Tables beginning, on page 47 summarize the
racial class limitations and ability score modifiers, The following describes 
each race and tells which classes are open to them.

PAGE 1

Dwarves are a cunning race of sturdy workers and craftsmen.They are especially
resistant to magic and poison. Dwarves are adept at dodging the attacks of 
giant-class creatures. Dwarves can be fighters, thieves and fighter/thieves.

Elves are a tall, long-lived race.  They are nearly immune to Steep and Charm 
spells and are adept at finding hidden objects such as secret doors.  Elves 
also receive bonuses when attacking with swords or bows. They cannot, however,
be raised from the dead. Elves can be fighters, magic-users, thieves, 
fighter/magic-users, fighter/thieves, magic-user/thieves, and fighter/magic-
user/thieves.

Half-Elves are hybrids with many of the virtues of both humans and elves. Like
their elf ancestors, they are resistant to Sleep and charm spells and are
adept at finding hidden objects. Half-elves can be fighters, magic-users,
clerics, thieves, rangers, cleric/fighters, cleric/rangers, cleric/magic-
users, fighter/magic-users, fighter/thieves, magic-user/thieves, cleric/
fighter/magic-users, or fighter/magic-user/thieves.

Gnomes are shorter and slimmer than their dwarf cousins.  Like dwarves, they
are especially resistant to magic and are adept at dodging the attacks of
giant-class creatures. Gnomes can be fighters, thieves and fighter/thieves.

Halfling dre dbout bdlf the size of a human, hence their name. They are
especially resistant to Magic and poison. They can be fighters, thieves and
fighter/thieves.

Humans are the most common player-race in the Forgotten Realms. They suffer
no racial level limitations or ability score modifiers. Humans do have the
disability of shorter life-spans than the other races. This may be a problem
if they are subjected to many Haste spells, which age the hasted character one
year. They can be fighters, magic-users, clerics, thieves, rangers, paladins,
and dual-class characters.

Ability Scores
Every character has six randomly generateed ability scores as described below,
These scores fall within a range determined by the race and class of the 
character The base values range from 3 (low) to 18 (high). There are tables of
limitations, modifiers and bonuses starting on page 47.

Depending on the character class, one or more of these abilities will be a
Prime Requisite. A prime requisite is an ability especially valuable to a
given class. For example, strength is key for fighters and wisdom for clerics.
Most characters receive bonus experience points when their prime requisite
scores are 16 or greater. Non-human characters may have modifiers to the basic
ability scores to reflect differences between the races. Dwarves for instance,
get a +1 constitution bonus and may have a maximum constitution of 19 instead
of 18. All racial modifiers are calculated automatically when a character is
generated.

Strength (STR) is the measure of a character's physical power, muscle mass and
stamind.  Fighter-type characters (fighters, paladins and rangers) may have
exceptional strengths greater than 18 that are indicated by a percent value
(01, 02, 03... 98, 99, 00) following the base strength. High strength
increases a character's combat ability with melee weapons, such as

PAGE 2

swords or maces.  Strength also determines how much a character can carry
without becoming encumbered and slowed in combat.

Intelligence (INT) is the measure of how Well a character can learn.
Intelligence level can determine the maximum level of spells a magic-user can
cast.

Wisdom (WIS) is the measure of a character's ability to understand the ways of
the world and to interact with the world.Clerics receive bonus spells for high
wisdom,and wisdom can determine the maximum level of spells a cleric can cast.

Dexterity (DEX) is the measure of a character's manual dexterity and agility.
Thieves especially benefit from high dexterity. Dexterity affects how well a
character can use ranged weapons (bows, dart, etc.), when he moves in a combat
round, and how difficult he is to hit in combat.

Constitution (CON) is the measure of a character's overall health. Characters
receive one extra hit point if their constitution Is 15, and two points if it
is 16. Fighter-types (fighters, rangers and paladins) receive additional
bonuses for constitutions of 17 or 18. A character's constitution also
determines the maximum number of times that character can be raised from the
dead with Raise Dead spells, and the chance of a resurrection attempt being,
successful. Every time a character is successfully raised, 1 point of
constitution is lost.

Charisma (CHA) is the measure of how others react to a character.

Character Classes
Classes are the characters' professions. A character must be at least one
character class. Non-human characters can be more than one class at the same
time.  These multi-class characters have more playing options, but increase in
level slower because experience is divided evenly among, all classes.

Clerics have spells bestowed on them by their deity and can fight wearing
armor and using crushing (no edged or pointed) weapons. Clerics must memorize
their spells just as magic-users, but they do not use spell books. When
clerics gain a new spell level, they can automatically memoize any of the
available spells for that level. The prime requisite for clerics is wisdom.

Fighters can fight with any armor or weapons, but they cannot cast magic
spells. All fighter-types (fighters, paladins and rangers) gain the ability to
attack more than one time per round when they reach 7th level. The prime
requisite for fighters is strength.

Paladins are a type of fighter and can fight with any armor or weapons. They
are resistant to spells and poison, and can turn undead creatures as if they 
were a cleric two levels below their current level. Paladins are also always
surrounded by the equivalent of a Protection from Evil spell. Paladins may
heal two hit points of damage per level once a day. They may Cure Disease once
a week for every five levels of experience. For example, once a week at
1st-5th levels, twice a week at 6th-1Oth levels, etc. They can use cleric
spells when they reach 9th level, although they can never use clerical
scrolls. They advance in spell-casting ability until 20th level.

PAGE 3

Paladins must be of lawful good alignment, and they will not knowingly 
adventure with any evil characters. They must have ability scores of at least
9 in intellipence and wisdom, at least 12 in strength, at least 13 in wisdom,
and at least 17 in charisma. The prime requisites for paladins are strength
and wisdom.

Rangers are a type of fighter, and can fight with any armor or weapons. They
do additional damage when fighting giant-class creatures, but must be of good
alignment and have ability scores of at least 13 in strength and intelligence,
and at least 14 in wisdom and constitution. Rangers can use druid spells when
they reach 8th level, and magic-user spells when they reach 9th level. Their
spell-casting ability advances until 17th level. The prime requisites for
rangers are strength, intelligence and wisdom.

Magic-Users have powerful spells, but can use no armor and few weapons. They
can only memorize those spells available in their personal spell books.
Magic-users may add entries to their spell books whenever they go up in level
or find scrolls with spells of levels that they are able to scribe. The prime
requisite for magic-users is intelligence.

Thieves have special skills for opening locks and removing traps, but are
limited to leather armor. In combat they do additional damage 'back stabbing,'
which is described in the Combat section. at 10th level, thieves can decipher
some Magical writings, and have a chance of casting, spells from magic-user
scrolls, The prime requisite for thieves is dexterity.

Multi-class characters are non-humans who belong, to two or more classes at
the same time. Multi-Class characters' experience points are divided among
each of the classes, even after they can no longer advance in one or more of
those classes. Their hit points per level are averaged among their classes,
Multi-class characters gain all the benefits of all their classes with regard
to weapons and equipment.

Dual-class characters are humans who had one cross for the first part of their
career, and then changed to a new class for the remainder. These characters
use the HUMAN CHANGE CLASS option on the Training Hall menu to pick a new
class. Once a character changes classes, he cannot advance in his old class.
Dual-class characters do not gain hit points and cannot use the abilities of
the old class while their new class level is less than or equal to the old
class level. Once the character's level in his new class is greater than his
level in his old class, he gains hit points according to his new class and may
use abilities from both classes. Human dual-class magic-users cannot cast
magic-user spells while they are wearing armor, unless they are a ranger/
magic-user dual-class.

Alignment
Alignment is the philosophy a character lives by and can affect how NPCs and
some magic items react to a character. The possibilities range from believing
strongly in society and altruism (lawful good) to being anarchistic and
actively unpleasant (chaotic evil). Alignment is presented in two parts: World
View and Ethics.

World View
Lawful indicates that the character values the structure and rules of society.
Neutral indicates that the character values both the individual and society.

PAGE 4

Chaotic indicates that the character values the individual over society

Ethics
Good indicates that the character tries to act in a moral and upstanding
manner.

Neutral indicates that the character leans towards "Situational ethics,"
evaluating each set of circumstances.

Evil indicates that the character acts without regard to others, or in an
overtly malignant manner.

Other Attributes
Each character also has three important values that change as the game goes
on: Hit Points, Experience Points and Levels.

Hit Points are a measure of the amount of damage the character can take before
he goes unconscious. A character's maximum hit points are based on the hit
dice for the Character's class and level, plus any adjustments for
constitution. A character gains a hit point bonus to each hit die if his
constitution is over 14

Note:
Dice (d) is the term used to describe the range for a randomly generated
number, Dice are referred to by the range they represent. A d6 has a range
from 1 through 6, a d10 has a range from 1 through 1 0. Hit dice refers to
the base range of hit points a character class may have. For example, a 3rd
level fighter has a base of 3 d10 hit dice, or 3-30 hit points.

When a character takes enough damage that his hit points reach 0, he is
unconscious. If the character's hit points drop to anything from -1 to -9, he
will lose 1 hit point per turn from bleeding until he is bandaged or dies. If
a character has -1 0 hit points or less, he is dead. Hit points on the screen
will never be displayed as less than 0.

Experience Points are a measure of what a character has learned while
adventuring Characters receive experience points for actions such as fighting
monsters, finding treasures and successfully completing quests. The computer
keeps track of experience, and when characters earn enough, they may advance
in levels. See the Level Advancement Tables beginning on page 56 for
experience requirements.

New characters start the game with 1,500,001 EXP, which puts most single class
characters at about 14th level.

Levels are a measure of how much a character has advanced in his class, When
they have enough experience points, characters may go to a training hall and
receive the training required to increase in level. Characters may only
advance one level at a time. If a character has gained enough experience to
go up two or more levels since the last time he has trained, he will go up one
level, and lose all experience in excess of one point below the next level.

Example:
An 9th level thief enters a training hall with 375,000 experience points
(enough for 11th level). He will leave as a 10th level thief with 220,000
experience points - one point below 11th level. Characters cannot train for
new levels once they have reached their maximum levels allowed in
POOLS OF DARKNESS.

PAGE 5

Building a Successful Party
Forming a strong and adaptable party is a key to success in Pools of Darkness.
Up to Six Player Characters (PCs) may be in a party - the party with fewer is
less powerful and more likely to be eliminated by opponents.

Include a variety of classes in a party to get a good mix of skills. Here is
one sample party:

Sample Party
------------------
1 Human Magic-user
1 Human Paladin
1 Dwarf Fighter/Thief
1 Human Ranger
2 Human Clerics

This party is balanced for combat, and will advance quickly because most 
character are single class. The magic-user can cast offensive spells and use 
wands. The paladin has the benefit of Protection from Evil in a 1O' radius.
All characters in range of the effect get an AC improvement of two against
evil foes. The dwarf fighter/thief offers the advantages of a thief
(lockpicking and disarming traps) with the better armor and hit points of a
fighter, Rangers do extra damage against giant-type creatures and gain
spellcasting ability. Clerics are absolutely essential for their heating
spells.

Preparation Tips
Once the party has been banded together, encamp at an inn, ready your
equipment, and have all spellcasters memorize spells. Finally save the game
before continuing.

Combat
Adventurers must battle their way through many dangerous foes to complete the
adventure. The following sections offer some more information and tips for
combat.
					RYGAR WOZ'HERE [1991-12-12]
Combat Map
Battle takes place on a tactical combat map that is a detailed view of the 
terrain that the party was in when the combat began. This map is set up with 
an invisible square grid.

Initiative
Each round of combat is divided into l0 segments, and every character and foe 
acts on a specific segment based on a random Initiative number. Initiative is
generated at the start of each combat round, and is modified by dexterity and
random factors such as surprise. Characters can act on their initiative
segment, or use the DELAY command to hold action until the end of the round.
Casting spells may take extra time to perform, so often a spellcaster will
begin a spell on his segment, but it will not go off until a little later.

Computer Control
In combat you control the actions of PCs. The computer controls the actions of
monsters, NPCs and PCs set to computer control with the QUICK command.

Combat Ability
Each character'S ability in combat is defined by AC, THAC0 and Damage

AC
A character's or monster's difficulty to be hit is represented by armor class
(AC).

PAGE 6

The lower the AC, the harder the target is to hit. AC is based on readied
armor and dexterity bonus. Some magic items, such as some bracers, also help
improve AC.

THAC0
The ability to hit enemies in melee or with missile fire is represented by
THAC0. THAC0 stands for To Hit Armor Class 0. This is the number a character
must 'roll' equal to or greater than to do damage on a target with an AC of 0.
The lower the THAC0, the better the chance to hit the target.

Note:
The generation of a random number is often referred to as a 'roll'.  In 
determining the success of an attack, the number generated is from 1 through
20.

An attack is successful if the random number is greater than or equal to the
attacker's THAC0 minus the target's AC. THAC0 may be modified by things like
range, attacking from the rear, Magic weapons, and magic spells.

Example:
A fighter with a THAC0 of 5 attacking a monster with an AC of 3 would
need to roll (THAC0 5) - (AC 3) = 2+

But to hit the monster with an AC of -2 he would need to roll (THAC0 5) -
(AC -2) = 7+

Damage
Damage is the range of hit points loss the attacker inflicts and is based on 
the attacker's strength, weapon type and any magic bonuses the weapon has. The
base damge for each weapon is summarized in the weapons Table on page 50.

Some monsters take only partial or no damage from certain weapon types,
Skeletons, for example, take only half damage from sharp or edged weapons,
while some other monsters only take damage from magical weapons.

Attacking
There dre two basic types Of attack: Melee and Ranged (or Missile), The
following describes each type and other rules governing combat.

Melee Combat
Melee combat is face-to-face fighting with weapons such its swords and maces.  
Only when using melee weapons can characters receive strength bonuses,
Fighters can sometimes overpower several small foes during melee combat, and
thieves have opportunities to back stab.

Ranged Combat
Ranged combat is firing at distant enemies with weapons such as bows or darts.
A character with a missile weapon (bow, sling, etc.) may not attack when
adjacent to an enemy Two arrows or three darts can be fired per turn.

Multiple Attacks (Sweeping)
When fighting small creatures, fighter-types may 'sweep' through several weak
opponents in one combat round. When a character sweeps, he automatically 
attacks all of the available weak opponents.

Back Stabbing
A thief back stabs if he attacks a target from exactly opposite the first 
character to attack

PAGE 7

the target. The thief may not back stab if he has readied armor heavier than
leather A back stab has a better chance of hitting the defender and does
additional damage.

Saving Throws
Attacks such its poison or spells do not automatically have their full effect
on a target. Victims may get a Saving Throw to avoid some or all of the
effect. If the saving throw is successful, generally the target suffers either
no effect or only half-damage. Saving throws improve as characters gain
levels.

Note:
Some monsters have natural magic resistance which decreases the chance
of them being affected by spells.

Combat Movement
The number of squares a character can move is affected by Carried weight, 
character strength and the kind of readied armor. A character's movement range
is displayed on the View Screen and during the character's segment in combat.  
Combat movement is important for both closing quickly with opponents (and
stopping missile fire) and fleeing from battles that are too tough.

Running Away
A character may flee from the battlefield if he moves faster than all enemies,
but not if he moves slower than any enemies. A character has a 50% chance to
move off the battlefield if he moves as fast as the fastest foe. Exception: if
a character can reach the edge of the combat map without any of his opponents
being able to see him, he may then flee successfully even though he is slower
than his opponents.

Returning to the Party
A character that moves off the battlefield returns to the party after the
fight is over. If all active characters flee combat, any dead or unconscious 
characters are lost. Characters that flee a combat receive no experience
points for the battle.

Combat Strategies
To succeed in combat, the skilled player deploys his party well, Casts
effective spells before and during combat, maneuvers his characters into
advantageous positions, and attacks using his most powerful characters and
weapons.

Deploying the Party
When a battle begins, your party is automatically positioned based on the
order list of the Characters. Characters near the top of the order will be in
the front lines and vulnerable to attack. To change the starting deployment,
change the party order from the Alter Menu while encamped. Shift the heavily 
armored fighters up the list and the vulnerable magic-users and thieves
towards the bottom. Party order cannot be changed while in combat, although
characters are free to move.

Your party may be placed in a bad position at the start of a battle. Get an
idea of the situation, and move characters into better deployment. Sometimes
the best strategy is offensive: charging with fighters to close ground and 
stop enemy magic and missile fire. Other times the best strategy is defensive:
moving your characters to anchor their flanks on an obstacle such as a wall or
tree. Setting up behind a doorway that your enemies have to move

PAGE 8

through also makes for a very strong defensive position.  Always keep magic-
users and missile weapons safe behind the front line.

Wounded Characters
Characters who are seriously injured should be cured or moved out of the front
lines if possible. Remember: if you move away from an adjacent enemy, he gets
a free attack at your back and has an improved chance to hit.

Stopping Ranged Attacks
Missile Weapons cannot be fired if there is an adjacent opponent. To stop
enemy missile fire, move someone next to the opponent. If you want to fire
missiles, keep away from the enemy

Exploiting Enemies' Weaknesses
Exploit your opponents' Weaknesses by directing attacks against helpless,
wounded or isolated foes. Concentrate your attacks to eliminate one opponent
rather than injure many (Exception: enemy spellcasters). A foe with one hit
point remaining attacks its powerfully its an uninjured one. If spellcasters
are hit in a round, they loose any spells they are preparing to cast, and
cannot cast for the remainder of that round. Try to keep enemy spellcasters
under attack every round white protecting your own.

After Combat
If one or more characters survive on the battlefield at the end of combat, the
bodies of unconscious or dead party members stay with the party. If the entire
party flees from combat, all unconscious and dead party members are
permanently lost. If all the party members are slain, go back to your last
Saved Game and try again from that point.

MAGIC
Magic is essential to the survival of the party. Magic-users cast many
powerful offensive and defensive spells, Clerics cast healing spells to revive
wounded characters as well as both defensive and offensive spells, A spell can
exist in one of four forms: in a character's memory, in a character's spell
book, on a scroll, or in a wand. Memorized spells are cast with the CAST
command. Spells are memorized during rest while encamped. Spells in scrolls or
wands are cast with the USE command.

Memorizing a spell takes 15 minutes of game time per spell level, plus a 
preparation period based on spell level:

Spell Level:       1-2    3-4    5-6    7-8     9
Preparation Time:  4 hrs  6 hrs  8 hrs  10 hrs  12 hrs

Example:
To memorize two 1st level spells, on 2nd level spell, and one 3rd level spell
would take:

(6 hours preparation) + (2 * 15 min) + (1 * 30 min) + (1 * 45 min) = 7 hours
45 min

Magic-Users
When a magic-user trains for a new level, he selects a new spell to add to his
spell book. A magic-user can also scribe spells from identified scrolls if he
is of high enough level to cast them. A magic-user must cast a Read Magic
spell or have a scroll identified in a shop before he can scribe (or cast)
from it. The scroll disappears after it has been scribed or cast.

PAGE 9


Clerics
Clerical magic requires no spell books. All clerical spells of the appropriate
level are always available to a cleric, the character need only memorize them,
unlike magic-users, clerics can cast spells from scrolls without any
preparation, although clerical scrolls also disappear after being cast.

Tips on Magic
Both clerics and magic-users may cast spells which assist the party in combat.
Preparatory spells, such as Bless or Strength, cast just before a tough battle
can protect or strengthen characters. Combat spells can be cast to damage foes
during combat. Healing spells can be cast either during or after combat to
revive wounded comrades.

Spells should be rememorized as soon as possible after they are used. This is
most likely to happen after combat. When in camp, have your spellcasters
memorize spells and select REST to allow them to imprint the spells for later
use. Selecting REST without choosing new spells has the spellcasters
rememorize the spells they have cast since last resting.

Note:
Before resting, it is a good idea to save your game - especially after tough
combats. Also, keep at least two sepatate saved games at all times and
alternate between them. This will allow you to go back to a save before that
last, fatal battle or to try different strategies at key points.

MAGICAL TREASURES
As you travel about and encounter the monsters and puzzles that stand between
you and finishing your various quests, you will find magical items to help you
on your way. You can find magic items in a treasure by casting a Detect Magic
spell using the DETECT command. To find out specifically what an item is, you
must take it to a shop and have it identified.

Some magic items are in reality cursed and can do great harm. When a character
readies a cursed item, a Remove Curse spell must be cast before the item can
be dropped. Some magic items, such as wands or scrolls, may only be used by
certain classes. Others may not work at all if certain other magic items are
also in use. Here are descriptions of some items that you may find. Remember:
Some items are very rare, and you may not find all of them in your adventure.

Wands generally cast a set number of a given spell (for example, 10 Fireballs
or 15 Magic Missiles). Only experimentation or paying to have them identified
will tell what a wand does. The USF command allows a character to cast spells
with a readied wand.

Potions may heal wounded characters, cause them to become hastened or
invisible, or cause any number of other effects. The USE command allows a
character to drink a readied potion.

Scrolls carry either clerical or magic-user spells. A magic-user may use
SCRIBE to Permanently transfer a scroll into his spell book if the spell is of
a level that he can memorize. Magic-users and clerics can both cast spells
directly from scrolls with the USE command, even if they could not

PAGE 10

otherwise memorize the spells. Scrolls disappear after they have been used or
scribed. Magic-users must cast Read Magic, or have scrolls identified in a
shop before scribing or casting from them. Also, thieves of 10th level or
higher have a chance of casting spells from magic-user scrolls.

Enchanted Armor and Shields are created by skilled craftsmen and then
enchanted with protective spells. The power of the magic on these items varies
a great deal. Enchanted armor has the great advantage of offering improved
protection with less encumbrance than the same type of mundane armor. To use
these items, ready them from the Items Menu.

Enchanted weapons come in many sizes, shapes and potencies. Sometimes a weapon
will add between one and five to your THAC0 and damage. Some weapons may have
other fantastic magical properties including extra bonuses against specific
types of creatures. Once a magic weapon has been readied from the Items Menu,
the character will have it for all combats.

Enchanted Adornments such as bracers, necklaces, periapts, and especially
rings are favorite objects for magical enchantment. These items may have any
number of magical properties. Some items will help your AC, others may fire
Magic Missiles, or offer protection from firebased attacks, Once one of these
items has been readied from the Items Menu, a character automatically gains
all of its effects. The exception to this rule is that certain magical
necklaces require the USE command to work.

Enchanted Clothing can be such commonplace items is gauntlets or cloaks, but
they are imbued with powerful enchantments. A wide variety of these items are
known to exist. To use these items, READY them from the Items Menu.

PAGE 11

CREATURES OF THE FORGOTTEN REALMS
The denizens of these regions are many and varied. Here is a list of monsters
you may encounter in your adventures. Some of these creatures are extremely
rare, and you may never cross paths with them all.

Banshee
These evil spirits' keening wail strikes fear into the hearts of men. They
attack with a chilling touch.

Beholder
Also called Eye Tyrants or Spheres of Many Eyes, they are solitary horrors
of great power. Each of the creatures' eyes has a unique magical power, and
they are armored with tough chitinous skin.

Bulette
Also called landsharks, these are the result of a mad mage's experiment. They
are stupid, irascible and always hungry.

Carrion Crawler
These are giant, segmented creatures whose eight tentacles can attack once
apiece each round. Carrion crawlers paralyze their victims and devour them.

Death Tyrant
These are a rare and dangerous form of undead beholder.  They appear its 
sluggish, wounded beholders, but still possess some of their original magical
powers.

Dracolich
These are powerful undead dragons whose attacks include a breath weapon
and a paralyzing touch.

Dracolisk
These creatures are the hybrid offspring of rogue black dragons and basilisks.
Dracolisks combine a dragon's breath attack with the petrifying gaze of a
basilisk.

PAGE 12

Dragons
These are some of the most powerful and dangerous monsters a party can
encounter. The older and larger a dragon, the more damage it can do and the
harder it is to kill.

Black Dragon
These dragons attack by spitting streams of acid and slashing with razor sharp
claws and fangs.

Blue Dragon
These dragons exhale lightning bolts and attack in melee with claws and fangs.

Green Dragon
These dragons attack with a poisonous breath and are notorious for their
cruelty.

Red Dragon
These dragons are among the most feared of dragonkind. Their attack is a
withering blast of fire.

White Dragon
These are one of the smaller dragon species and attack with freezing cold
breath, fangs and claws.

Elementals
These are strong, but relatively stupid beings conjured up from their normal
habitat on the elemental planes. The strength of any type varies, and the
characteristics of each are different:

Earth Elementals
These are powerful creatures who travel very slowly and can be summoned from
earth or stone.

Fire Elementals
These elementals are terrible to behold and can be fierce opponents. They are
immune to both magical and non-magical fire attacks.

Purple Worm
These are enormous carnivores that burrow straight through solid ground in
search of small (adventurer-sized) morsels.

PAGE 13

Giants
These species vary greatly in power and intelligence. The following are the
types you are likely to encounter:

Cloud Giant
These giants are one of the most powerful races of giantkind. Some cloud
giants can use magic.

Fire Giant
These giants are brutal and ruthless warriors who resemble huge dwarves and
have flaming red or orange hair, and coat black skin. Some fire giants can use
magic.

These evil spirits ply victims with illusion and false civility, but in
reality are cunning fighter/magic-users.

Salamander
These natives of the elemental plane of Fire are immune to all fire-based
attacks. They are dangerous foes because of their evil nature and their
immunity to all but magical weapons.

Umber Hulk
These subterranean carnivores burrow through the ground with powerful claws.

New Monsters
(The following creatures are appearing for the first time in an AD&D computer
fantasy role-playing game.)

Legend:
AC: Armor Class; HD: Hit Dice; Mv: Movement; Int: Intelligence; Align:
Alignment (N = Neutral, CE = Chaotic Evil); THAC0: To hit Armor Class 0; Att:
Number of attacks; MR: Magic Resistance; Dmg: Damage; Spec Att: Special
Attacks; Spec Def: Special Defenses; XP: Experience Points.

Bane Minion, Black
AC: 4 HD: 8 Mv: 15 Int: High Size Align: CE THAC0: 13 Att: 3 Dmg: 1d4/1d4/1d6
Spec Att: Acid breath, magic Spec Def: See below XP: 3000

Bane created three types of servants to serve his lieutenant, Gothmenes. The
black minions can breath a stream of acid identical to a black dragon. They
can see invisible objects and can cast the following spells once per day: cone
of cold, hold monsters, ice storm, bestow curse, slow, and nimble. They are
immune to fear, poison, death effects, and charm.

PAGE 14

Bane Minion, Blue AC:2 HD:10 Mv:24 Int:High Size:L Align:CE THAC0:ll Att:3
Dmg:ld6/ld6/2d6 Spec Att:lightning breath, lightning aura SpecDef:See below
XP:4000.

Like the black bane minions, these creatures were created by Bane to serve
Gothmenes. They can breathe a lightning bolt identical to a blue dragon. They
radiate electricity, so anyone who strikes them takes double the damage in
return. Like black minions, they can see invisible objects and are immune to
fear, poison, death effects, and charm.

Bane Minion, Red
AC: 0 HD: 12 Mv: 30 lnt: High Size: L Align: CE THAC0: 9 Att: 3 Dmg: 1d8/1d8/
3d6 Spec Alt: fire breath, flame touch Spec Def: See below XP: 12000

Like the black minions, these creatures were created by Bane to serve
Gothmenes. They can breathe fire like a red dragon. Each hit by a red minion
will cause an additional 2d6 of fire damage due to the intense heat generated
by their bodies. Like black minions, they can also see invisible objects and
are immune to fear, poison, death effects, and charm.

Giant Cockatrice
AC:3 HD:10 Mv:24 lnt:Animal Size: L Align:N THAC0:ll Att:l Dmg:ld6
Spec Att: petrification attack XP: 2000

These are rare mutated forms of the cockatrice. They stand eight feet tall and
are even more fierce than the cockatrice. Due to their size, their diet
consists of small mammals and large lizards. They are incredibly fast and, due
to their petrification attack, extremely dangerous.

Greater Margoyle
AC: 0 HD: 12 Mv: 15 lnt: Low Size: M Align: CE THAC0: 9 Att: 4
Dmg:ldl0/ldl0/2d8/2d8 SpecDef:immunity to normal weapons XP: 6000.

Greater margoyles are cousins of the margoyle. They both attack with two
claws, horns and a bite, but greater margoyles are stronger and faster. They
can be found in many of the same habitats as the margoyle.

Greater Otyugh
AC: 0 HD: 14 Mv: 6 lnt: Average Size: L Align: N THAC0: 7 Att: 3
Dmg: 2d10/2d10/1d6 Spec Def: immunity to disease XP: 1 0000.

Mages in the Realms have found that Otyughs provide excellent defense while
disposing of useless offal. Since many mages are dissatisfied with what
already

PAGE 15

exists, some have improved on the otyugh, except for their great size and
strength, greater otyughs are identical to the otyugh.

Hill Giant, Shaman
AC:3 HD:lo Mv:12 Int:Average Size:L Align:CE THAC0:ll Att:1 Dmg: 2d8 XP: 2000.

A few hill giant tribes have shamans who can cast spells its a fifth level
cleric.  In all other respects, they dre identical to other hill giants.

Large Iron Golem
AC: 0 HD: 27 Mv: 9 Int: Non Size: L Align: N THAC0: 5 Att: 2
Dmg: 4dl0/4d10 Spec Att: poison breath Spec Def: immunities XP: 27000.

These are larger versions of the iron golem. They are four times the height of
a normal man. Like the smaller iron golems, they are immune to all magic
except electrical attacks (which slow them) and fire based attacks (which heal
them), however, their enormous size and strength make them even more deadly
than the iron golem. Only the most powerful mages can create these
monstrosities.

Pet of Kalistes
AC: -1 HD: 13 Mv: 18 Int: High Size: L Align: CE THAC0: 7 Att: 3 MR: 85%
Dmg: 2d8/2d6/2d6 Spec Att: poisonous bite, magic Spec Def: blink, immunities
XP: 14000.

These are highly intelligent spiders created by the Marilith Kalistes. She
uses them as guards and messengers. Their bite is so poisonous that a target
must save versus poison at -2 or die. They can see invisible objects and can
cast the following spells once per day: Death spell, Disintegrate, Feeblemind,
Fire Touch, Fire Shield and Charm Monsters. They are immune to poison, death
effects and charm.

Cryo Snake
AC: 5 HD: 4 Mv: 15 lnt: Animal Size: L Align: N THAC0: 17 Att: 1 Dmg: id3
Spec Att: cold breath SpecDef: immunity to cold XP:420

These fierce snakes prefer to inhabit glaciers and high peaks. Humans will
rarely confront these beasts unless they move to higher elevations during
exceptionaily cold winters. Their breath is identical to that of a white
dragon.

Pyro Snake
AC: 5 HD: 4 Mv: 15 lnt: Animal Size: L Align: N THAC0: 17 Att: 1 Dmg: id3
Spec Att: fire breath Spec Def: immunity to fire XP: 420.

This breed of snakes prefers to live in desolate deserts or inside volcanoes.
There

PAGE 16

they form loose family associations. Dealing rarely with humans, they consider
people to be another form of prey. Their breath is identical to that of a red
dragon.

Electric Spider
AC: 4 HD: 5 Mv: 12 lnt: Low Size: L Align: CE THAC0: 15 Att: 1 Dmg: 2d4
Spec Att: lightning breath Spec Def: immunity to electricity XP: 650.

Electic spiders can be found throughout Kalistes' dimension. They can breathe
a lightning bolt similar to that of a blue dragon's. They favor narrow
confines where they can bounce their bolt through a victim several times.

Enormous Spider
AC: 1 HD: 9 Mv: 15 lnt: Average Size: LAlign: CE THAC0: 1 1 Att: 1 Dmg: 2d8
Spec Att: poisonous bite XP: 2000.

Some spiders in Katistes' dimension grow very large and have great cunning.
Anyone bitten must save versus poison or die.

Gaze Spider
AC: 4 HD: 5 Mv: 12 lnt: Low Size: L Align: CE THAC0: 15 Att: 1 Dmg: 2d4
Spec Att: paralyzation gaze XP: 420.

A common denizen of Katistes'dimension are the fierce gaze spiders. Any
creature who meets their gaze must save versus paralyzation or become
paralyzed. Mirrors and other reflective surfaces can be used to turn their
gazes against them.

Stone Spider
AC: 4 HD: 5 Mv: 12 lnt: Low Size: L Align: CE THAC0: 15 Att: 1 Dmg: 2d4
Spec Att.  petrifcation attack XP: 650.

Stone spiders are one of the common spiders that exist in the Katistes'
dimension. As large as a Huge spider, these magical arachnids turn their prey
into stone and bring the stoned creatures to their lair for later feeding.

Walking Trees
AC: 0 HD: 12 Mv: 6 lnt: Non Size: L Align: N THAC0: 9 Att: 2 Dmg: 4d6/4d6
Spec Def: immunity to confusion XP: 7000.

The powers of Moander allow its followers to animate some plants. When the
Cult Of Moander joined with the wizard Marcus and the glabrezu Taleton, this
power was extended to many of the trees of the Elven Court. The trees are
unintelligent and mindlessly obey the orders of the cult, They strike with two
large limbs.

PAGE 17

SPELL DESCRIPTIONS
First Level Cleric Spells
Bless improves the THAC0 of friendly characters by 1. Bless cannot affect
characters who are adjacent to monsters when the spell is cast, and the spell
is not cumulative. This is a good spell to cast before going into combat.

Curse reduces the THAC0 of targets by 1. The target cannot be adjacent to a
party character or NPC, and effects are not cumulative.

Cause Light Wounds inflicts 1-8 hit points of damage on a target.

Cure Light Wounds heals 1-8 hit points, up to the target's normal maximum hit
points.

Detect Magic indicates which equipment or treasure items are magical. After
casting the spell, view a character's items or take treasure items, and
equipment or treasure preceded by an '*' is magical. Protection from Evil
improves the AC and saving throws of the target by 2 against attackers of evil
alignment. The effects of the spell are not cumulative.

Protection from Good improves the AC and saving throws of the target by 2
against attackers of good alignment, The effects of the spell are not
cumulative.

Resist Cold halves damage from cold attacks and improves saving throws vs.
cold attacks by 3.

Second Level Cleric Spells
Find Traps indicates the presence of traps in the party's path.

Hold Person may paralyze targets of character types (human, dwarf, etc.). You
may aim a Hold Person spell at up to 3 targets (use the EXIT command to target
fewer).

Resist Fire halves damage from fire attacks and improves saving throws vs,
fire attacks by 3.

Silence 15' Radius magically dampens all sound in the area around the target.
The target character or monster, and all adjacent, cannot cast spells for the
duration of the spell.

Slow Poison revives a poisoned person for the duration of the spell.

Snake Charm paralyzes as many hit points of snakes as the cleric has hit
points.

Spiritual Hammer creates a temporary magic hammer that is automatically
readied. It can be thrown and does normal hammer damage. Spiritual Hammers can
hit monsters that may only be struck by magic weapons.

Third Level Cleric Spells
Bestow Curse reduces the target's THAC0 and saving throws by 4.

Cause Blindness will blind one target.
This can only be cured by a Cure Blindness spell.

Cure Blindness counters the effects of Cause Blindness.

Cause Disease infects the target with a debilitating ailment that saps
strength and hit points.

Cure Disease removes the effects of Disease caused by some monsters or Cause
Disease spells.

PAGE 18

Dispel Magic removes the effects of spells that do not have specific counter
spells. This is the cure spell for any characters that have been held, slowed
or made nauseous.

Prayer improves the THAC0 and saving throws of friendly characters by 1 and
reduces the THAC0 and saving throws of monsters! by 1. This is a good spell to
cast before going into combat, but it is not cumulative.

Remove Curse removes the effects of Bestow Curse spell and allows the target
to unready cursed magic items.

Fourth Level Cleric Spells
Cause Serious Wounds inflicts 3-17 hit points of damage on a target.

Cure Serious Wounds heals 3-17 hit points, up to the target's normal maximum
hit points.

Neutralize Poison revives a poisoned person.

Poison causes the target to save versus poison or die.

Protection from Evil 10' Radius can be cast on a character or a monster and
improves the AC and saving throws of the target and all adjacent friendly
characters by 2 against evil attackers. The effects of this spell are not
cumulative.

Sticks to Snakes causes a distracting mass of snakes to torment the target.
The snakes will make movement and spell casting impossible for the duration of
the spell.

Fifth Level Cleric Spells
Cause Critical Wounds inflicts 6-27 hit points of damage on a target.

Cure Critical Wounds heals 6-27 hit points of damage, up to a target's normal
maximum hit points.

Dispel Evil improves the target's AC by 7 versus summoned evil creatures for
the duration of the spell, or until the target hits a summoned creature. The
creature must make a saving throw when it is hit or be dispelled.

Flame Strike allows the cleric to call a column of fire down from the heavens
onto a target. The spells does 6-48 points of damage to any target that fails
its saving throw.

Raise Dead can bring back to life one non-elf character. The chances for
success are based on the character's constitution and how long the character
has been dead. The raised character will have 1 hit point and will lose 1
point of constitution.

Slay Living is a reversal of the Praise Dead Spell and will kill one target.
If the target makes its saving throw, then it suffers 3-17 hit points of
damage.

Sixth Level Cleric Spells
Blade Barrier creates a whirling circle of razor sharp blades. Any who enter
the circle suffer 8-64 points of damage,

Harm inflicts terrible damage on any living creature - leaving only 1-4 hit
points.

Heat cures all diseases, blindness, feeble-mindedness, and all except 1-4 of
a character's full hit points.

PAGE 19

Seventh Level Cleric Spells
Destruction causes the target of the spell to die instantly without a saving
throw. Creatures with magic resistance may not be affected.

Energy Drain steals life energy away from the target. This is similar to the
attack of undead creatures such as wights.

Resurrection is similar to Raise Dead, except that it also restores all hit
points.

Restoration returns life energy stolen by Energy Drain spells or the attacks
of such undead as wights.

First Level Druid Spells
Detect Magic indicates which equipment or treasure items are magical. After
casting the spell, View a character's items or Take treasure items, and
equipment or treasure preceded by an '*' is magical.

Entangle causes plants to grow and entwine around the feet of any creature in
the area of effect. Be careful not to catch allies in the spell area.

Faerie Fire rings a targeted creature in magical light. This spell will
outline otherwise invisible targets and give a +2 THAC0 bonus to anyone
attacking an affected creature.

Invisibility to Animals will make the target invisible to non-magical, low or
nonintelligent animals. This spell does not offer protection against
intelligent opponents or magical creatures.

Second Level Druid Spells
Barkskin causes the target's skin to become tougher and harder to damage.
The tough skin improves AC by 1. This is a good spell to cast before combat.

Charm Person or Mammal changes the target's allegiance in combat so that an
opponent will fight for the caster's side, It affects character types (human,
dwarf, etc.) and other mammals.

Cure Light Wounds heals 1-8 hit points, up to the target's normal maximum hit
points.

Third Level Druid Spells
Cure Disease removes the effects of diseases caused by some monsters or Cause
Disease spells.

Hold Animal is similar to the cleric spell Hold Person, except that only
normal and giant-sized animals are affected. This spell will not affect other
monsters or NPCS.

Neutralize Poison revives a poisoned person.

Protection from Fire has different effects depending on the recipient. If cast
on the druid, the spell absorbs 12 hit points times the caster's level in fire
damage. The spell dissipates when the damage limit is reached. If cast on
another character, the spell is identical to the clerical Resist Fire spell.

PAGE 20

First Level Magic-User Spells
Burning Hands causes 1 hit point of fire damage per level of the caster. There
is no saving throw.

Charm Person changes the target's allegiance in combat so that an opponent
will fight for the caster's side. It only affects character types (human,
dwarf, etc.).

Detect Magic indicates which equipment or treasure items are magical. After
casting the spell, View a character's items or take treasure items, and
equipment or treasure preceded by an '*' is magical.

Enlarge makes the target larger and stronger. The higher the caster's level,
the greater the spell's effect.

Friends raises the caster's charisma by 2-8 points. It is best cast just
before dealing with NPCs.

Magic Missile does 2-5 hit points per missile with no saving throw. A magic-
user throws 1 missile for every 2 levels (1 at levels 1-2, 2 at levels 3-4,
etc.) This spell damages any single target within its range unless the target
is magic resistant or has magical protection such as a Shield spell. This
spell casts instantaneously.

Protection from Evil improves the AC and saving throws of the target by 2
against attackers of evil alignment.

Read Magic allows a magic-user to ready a scroll and read it. This is
identical to having a scroll identified in a shop. After casting Read Magic, a
magic-user may cast any scroll spells or scribe them, if they are appropriate
for his level.

Shield negates enemy Magic Missile spells, improves the magic-user's saving
throw, and may increase his AC.

Shocking Grasp does 1-8 hit points of electrical damage +1 hit point per level
of caster.

Steep puts 1-16 targets (depending on the size of the targets) to steep with
no saving throw, For example, up to sixteen 1 hit-die targets can be affected,
while only one 4 hit-die target can be affected, Targets of 5 or more hit-dice
are unaffected.

Second Level Magic-User Spells
Detect Invisibility allows the target to spot invisible creatures.

Invisibility makes the target invisible. The THAC0 of melee attacks against
invisible targets is reduced by 4, and it is impossible to aim ranged attacks
at them. Invisibility is dispelled when the target attacks or casts a spell.

Knock opens locks. The spell will affect both magically and non-magically
locked doors, chests, etc.

Mirror Image creates 1-4 illusionary duplicates of the magic-user to draw off
attacks. A duplicate disappears when it is attacked.

Ray of Enfeeblement reduces the target's strength by 25% + 2% per level of the
caster.

Stinking Cloud paralyzes those in its areaof effect for 2-5 rounds. If the
target saves, it is not paralyzed but is nauseous and has
its AC reduced for 2 rounds.

Strength raises the target's strength by 1-8 points depending on the class of
the target.

PAGE 21

Third Level Magic-User Spells
Blink protects the magic-user The magic-user 'blinks out' after he acts each
round. Although the magic-user may be physically attacked before he acts each
round, he may not be attacked after.

Dispel Magic removes the effects of spells that do not have specific counter
spells. This is a recuperation spell for any characters that have been held,
slowed or made nauseous.

Fireball is a magical explosion that does 1-6 hit points of damage per level
of the caster to all targets within its area. If the target makes its saving
throw, damage is halved. Fireball is a slow-casting spell, and the spell's
power demands that you target carefully. Use the CENTER command to determine
who will be in the area of effect - indoors the three squares in each corner
will not be affected by the blast if the spell is targeted in the center of
the screen. Out of doors, the blast area is slightly smaller.

Haste doubles the target's movement and number of melee attacks per round.
Haste has a short duration, so you should wait until a fight is imminent to
cast it. Warning: characters age one year each time a haste spell is cast on
them.

Hold Person may paralyze targets of character types (human, dwarf, etc,). You
may aim a hold person spell at up to 4 targets (use the EXIT command to target
fewer).

Invisibility, 1O' Radius makes all targets adjacent to the caster invisible.
The THAC0 of melee attacks against invisible targets is reduced by 4, and it
is impossible to aim ranged attacks at them. Use this spell to set up a battle
line while your enemies seek you out. Characters lose invisibility if they do
anything but move. Remember: some monsters can see invisible creatures.

Lightning Bolt is a Magical electrical attack that does 1-6 hit points of
damage per level of the caster to each target along its path. Damage is halved
if the targets make their saving throw. A lightning bolt is 8 squares long in
a line away from the caster. For best results, send the bolt down a row of
opponents. Lightning bolts also reflect off walls back toward the spellcaster.
Targets adjacent or close to a wall may be hit twice by the same bolt.

Protection from Evil, 1O' Radius protects the target and all characters
adjacent to the target. The spell improves the AC and saving throws of those
it protects by 2 against attackers of evil alignment.

Protection from Good, 10" Radius protects the target and all characters
adjacent to the target. The spell improves the AC and saving throws of those
it protects by 2 against attackers of good alignment.

Protection from Normal Missiles
Makes the target immune to non-magical missiles.

Slow affects 1 target per level of caster and halves the target's movement and
number of melee attacks per round. Slow can be used to negate a Haste spell
and only affects the side opposing the spellcaster.

PAGE 22

Fourth Level Magic-user Spells.
Charm Monster changes the target's allegiance in combat so it will fight on
the side of the magic-user The spell will work on most living creatures. The
spell affects 2-8 one hit-die targets, 1-4 two hit-die targets, 1-2 three
hit-die targets, or 1 target of four or more hit dice.

Confusion affects 2-16 targets, causing them to make a saving throw each round
or stand confused, become enraged, flee in terror, or go berserk. Confusion is
most effective when used against a large number of enemies.

Dimension Door allows the magic-user to himself to another point on the
battlefield within his line of sight and the range of the spell. Magic-users
can use it for quick escapes. Fighter/magic-users Can use the "Door" to reach
enemy spellcasters or ranged weapons.

Fear causes all within its area to flee in error if they fail their saving
throws.

Fire Shield protects the magic-user so that any creature who hits the caster
in melee does normal damage, but takes twice that damage in return. The shield
may be attuned to heat attacks or cold attacks. The magic-user takes half
damage (no damage if he makes his saving throw) and has his saving throw from
the opposite type of attack improved by 2. He takes double damage from the
type of attack the shield is attuned to.

Fumble causes the target to become clumsy and unable to move or attack. If the
target makes his saving throw, his attacks and movement are halved.

Ice Storm does 3-30 hit points to all targets within its area. There is no
saving throw. This spell will even inflict full damage on opponents protected
by Resist Cold.

Minor Globe of Invulnerability protects the caster from incoming first, second
or third-level spells. The Globe is very effective when used in combination
with Fire Shield.

Remove Curse removes the effects of a Bestow Curse spell and allows the target
to unready cursed magic items.

Fifth Level Magic-user Spells
Cloud Kill is similar to the Stinking Cloud spell, except that its area of
effect is larger and it will kill weaker monsters. More powerful monsters may
be immune to the spell.

Cone of Cold unleashes a withering cone shaped blast of cold. The spell's
range and damage increases With the caster's level.

Feeblemind causes targets who fail their saving throw to drop dramatically in
intelligence and wisdom and become unable to cast spells. A Heat spell must be
cast on the victim to recover from the effect.

Hold Monster is similar to Hold Person, accept that it will affect a wider
variety of creatures.

PAGE 23

Sixth Level Magic-user Spells
Death Spell kills opponents instantly and irrevocably. The spell will slay a
greater number of weak opponents than strong.

Disintegrate destroys one target. Some creatures with an innate magic
resistance may avoid the effects of the spell, however, most must make a
saving throw to survive.

Flesh to Stone causes the target to make a saving throw or be turned into
stone.

Globe of Invulnerability protects against 1st through 4th level spells.

Stone to Flesh counters the effects of such magical creatures as a cockatrice
or Medusa. When this spell is cast on a character, there is a possibility that
the character will not survive the shock of being restored to flesh. System
shock survival is based on a character's constitution.

Seventh Level Magic-user Spells
Delayed Blast Fireball is a more powerful version of the third level Spell and
will go through a Minor Globe of Invulnerability.

Mass Invisibility is identical to the Invisibility spell, except that it will
effect several targets at once. This can be a valuable spell to cast before a
known encounter.

Power Word, Stun will cause one creature to be stunned and unable to think or
act effectively. The weaker the target, the longer it will be stunned.

Eighth Level Magic-User Spells
Mass Charm is similar to the fourth-level spell, except that it affects a much
larger number of targets.

Mind Blank is a powerful protective spell that defends the recipient from all
spells that attack a character's will, such as Charm or Feeblemind.

Otto's Irresistible Dance is an enchantment that cause the target to be
irresistibly compelled to dance a wild and frenzied jig. The target's AC is
reduced by 4 and it will fail all saving throws against magic.

Power Word, Blind will strike a target instantly blind.

Ninth Level Magic-User Spells
Meteor Swarm is a very powerful and spectacular spell, similar to a Fireball.
When cost, four magical spheres fly from the caster's hand towards the target.
Anything in the spell's path receives 10-40 hit points of damage.

Monster Summoning calls forth one or two powerful creatures to fight on the
side of the spell magic-user. The creatures disappear after the battle.

Power Word, Kill will instantly slay one or more creatures within the spell's
range. The spell Will affect approximately 120 hit points worth of targets.

PAGE 24

JOURNAL ENTRIES
-------------------------------------------

JOURNAL ENTRY 1: WHISPER HEARD FROM BEHIND
"Don't go through those magical gates that are showing up around the Realm.
They steal your strength. Too many times through and you'll not be able to
lift your finger, much less a sword."

JOURNAL ENTRY 2: THE SCRYINC ROOM
The temptation is powerful, the flat, smooth surface of the mirror seductive
in its plainness. Slowly slowly color blooms in the depths. A face emerges
from the depths, so clear and close...

"Those foolish drow! How they could have botched matters to this extent -
mortals loose in my Web Land!"

She uncoils an impossible ebony length of smooth, gleaming body. Scales wink
like gems. She slithers past a corpse on the floor - unlucky messenger - and
comes around to the side of her chair. A quick press of fingers against the
arm, and a drawer pops open. She takes a key on a fine silver chain and loops
it around neck.

"I'm going down to the Treasure Room. I am not to be disturbed for any reason.
Leave the spare key where it is, or you'll end up -"a contemptuous nod toward
the body - "like him."

The Mirror darkens and the slave nods, "That's it then. Find the key, go down
to the Treasure Room, and kill her!" He looks odd, fidgety. Finally, he bursts
out, "And die!  She knows you're here, so go down through the kitchen to the
larder at that's best."

JOURNAL ENTRY 3: ELMINSTER'S LIMBO LECTURE
"As ye know, I have opened this path for ye so that when ye travel through the
pools, Bane will not sense thy presence. But this does have its disadvantages.

"For one, I have found that when magical objects travel from here to the outer
dimensions, they do not usually survive the passage. The chaotic winds of
limbo corrupt that which is magic and only the strongest of magics can survive
the passage without perishing.

"I will hold thy items here until ye return to the Realms."

JOURNAL ENTRY 4: THE VESSEL OF MOANDER
The temple's altar is a great bowl of stone suspended in the air alongside the
tower. It currently overflows with a sickly green fluid - the lifejuice of
Moander. Spouts and gutters around the bowl catch some of the oily ichor and
funnel it down to the tower's dark fountains. The rest spills out into the
air, and settles as a foul haze upon the Elven Court far below. The vessel
seems to be moving slightly, but then you realize that it is fixed in the air
It is the tower which sways in the chill breeze.

PAGE 25

JOURNAL ENTRY 5: PRIEST'S MAP
KEY: Door; Archway; Impassable Area; Path

JOURNAL ENTRY 6: TAVERN TALE
"The man, if man he be, came with eyes aflame. Red as the sword he carried, he
cut through our village and left not a soul alive, I saw him riding away after
he'd done his work. I was ahunting and so spared, but what now? I've got me
no home, no family all I've now is a vow, and my bow to carry it through, I'm
for the Dragonspine Mountains now. A sorceress told me I'd find his hole
there.

"What he wanted? I haven't a notion. We've had peace for so long, and now the
evil has descended twicefold."

JOURNAL ENTRY 7: THE GATEWAY INTO DARKNESS
Power thrums through the room. Power crackles in the air, making hair stir,
making skin tingle.

A giant statue of Kalistes herself dominates the center portion. She is huge,
commanding, her tail coiled beneath her, her skin gleaming like jet. Three of
her hands brace an open arch, inside of which swirls a sickly green mist. Her
other arms point toward the far end of the room.

Standing against the wall are three more arches, but instead of the green
mist, these are filled with visions of home: the first shows a forest at
night, with tree trunks like dark towers against an even deeper black. The
impression of a faint, clean, cool breeze washes through the room.

The second doorway shows a small village - or what is left of one. A few
cottages still stand, but many are burned-out ruins. Once again, night reigns.

The third door shows moonlight playing on waves. An ocean shore. The water
still looks clean, untainted by evil. For now.

But Kalistes is pointing to them. A voice seems to ring through the room. "I
want those lands. I want them. Get them for me, my children. Get them for me."

JOURNAL ENTRY 8: THE WOMAN SPEAKS
"I am Shal, a fighting-wizard of New Phlan. Did you know our city is held
here, buried under the black tower! Marcus hopes to subjugate it, but we
resist! Durng one of his sorties I was captured and taken up the Tower, where
I have seen ghastly sights! Bane clerics are dismembering the vast corpus of
the forgotten god Moander. They use its power to make trees walk, and to
animate pieces of the dormant god.

PAGE 26

"I have long studied the Cult of Moander. So they tried to convince me to help
them, but I resisted, They, ah, robbed me of my magic and imprisoned me here,
Friends, we must go up the tower and stop the foul works that will soon march
against helpless Phlan. Take me to face Marcus, and he will fail!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 9: TROLL TOSS TAVERN
"Ways back, a group of trolls and ogres used this building to toss sacks of
grain around. If a body happened by they'd toss em' about as well. Them's
came to be killed, of course, by heroes such as yerself, but we hire on some
ettins to keep the tradition going. It's a lively sport, though a mite
dangerous."

JOURNAL ENTRY 10: THE CHESS BOARD OF MARCUS
You shudder at the host of dark knights, evil bishops, twisted mages and
myriads of grotesque pawns that radiate out from the Elven Court, touching
Mulmaster, Zhentil Keep and Myth Drannor. Tall in the center is the graven
image Of Marcus, dressed as a Banite cleric. And beside him, a proud mage
queen - who looks amazingly like Shal!

JOURNAL ENTRY 11: TORN PAGES FROM A BOOK OF RELIGIOUS RITUALS
After praying, one must touch the essence of the air by inhaling the heady
vapors of the rare incense, taliesen. This allows contact with the first
elemental plane - Air.

The Plane of Water is then contacted by drinking of the waters consecrated to
Tyr himself. Earth and Fire come late in the Tests of Torm and Llmater. The
Vessel of Purity and the Spirit Flame are guarded by eternal guardians. Take
the items of Earth and Air to light the Lamp of Vigilance. The Lamp shall make
a bright and good place in the world even when all else is dark.

JOURNAL ENTRY 12: FIRE GIANT MAGE THANKS YOU
"I must thank you for eliminating that simpering fool of a hill giant. It is
unfortunate that the steading can no longer recruit troops, but my army is
already sufficient to control all of the lands north of Moonsea.

"Thanks to you, my power is now assured.  Even Thorne's dragons will
acknowledge my power.

'However, your usefulness is at an end. Take this reward and leave. If you go
any further into my cave, you will be dealt with harshly"

JOURNAL ENTRY 14: LOCASTE'S ARRIVAL CONTINUED
Locaste gives a great cry, and the party halts before what appears to be an
unbroken wall of tightly-packed gossamer. It shimmers in the pale light.
Locaste's mount rises up on its rear four legs and waves the others, both drow
and spider, about, its face a mask of fear Locaste drives it down with a word.
Even from a distance, her jaw appears set, and her eyes burn fiercely. She
waves brick her escort, many of whom take the opportunity to

PAGE 27

simply turn around and ride away. She holds up both hands, palms out, and
waits.

After a breathless eternity the gossamer wall erupts. Spiders of all shapes
and sizes squeeze their way through, or leap off the top, or pop up through
trap doors and scuttle toward her. Her escort turns and runs, but Locaste
waits. Two Pets appear among the spiders and approach Locaste in a slow,
almost stately sidelong march, tossing aside the unlucky spiders that get in
their way.

They stop in front of Locaste. They sway back and forth, legs waving about,
thousands of eyes glittering, then they turn and disappear back into the wail.
Locaste clenches her raised hands into fists and screams as the rest of the
spiders continue their advance.

JOURNAL ENTRY 15: ELMINSTER'S EXPLANATION
"Ye I have chosen as the mightiest heroes of these regions to lend me aid
'gainst Black Lord Bane. I was fortunate to learn of Bane's plotting by way of
my art. This time he means to do more than his usual meddling - he seeks total
dominion over the very dirt of the realm. He has plotted well, and darkness
now reigns over Moonsea and the plains of Thar. This is great evil, forsooth,
but I fear that if he is not stopped here, he will spread across the land as
forcefully as the tide rises over the shore.

"We are now in the plane of limbo, astral source of absolute chaos ... and so
too is Bane! I followed him here with aims of his undoing, but well is he
hidden in the shifting Madness. Somewhere he has made a crossroad between the
dimensions for the use of his allies. This too, I can do for ye. The way
between pools lies now through limbo. When you enter the pools, I will use my
power to enable thy passage. But know that only my presence here makes this
possible. If I were to leave this place, or perish, the path would be closed,
and Bane would rule here, as well as over Moonsea, Such is my limit, but I
will aid ye as I can.

"I now send ye back to the darkened plains. Find the servants of Bane, for
they are his hands. Destroy them! But beware, for they are great powers. Help
those who ye may - allies can but further us. Go now, and may thy skill
prevail!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 16: THE WATCHER'S STORY
"What am I doing here! I am the Watcher, here by decree of the Council of
Elves!  With me rests the supremeresponsibility of keeping Moander forever
trapped in this dimension.

'Oh, I'll not deny there is mischief afoot. We've all seen the signs. But what
arrogant fools to think you could help! You lack the cleverness and fortitude
to do anything but interfere! Do us both a favor and heed the fate of your
friends. Leave! Now!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 17: ELMINSTER SPEAKES OF KALISTES
"I have met Katistes before, and beware! She is a power to be reckoned. It is
good that ye did destroy her paths into the Prime Material, for it is sure
that she

PAGE 28

meant to send ber children into the Realm. These Night Spawn are her strength,
but know that they are her material weakness too.

"I sense that the powers that have robbed the sun from Moonsea's sky lie
beyond this portal. Kalistes is an agent supreme of Bane, so in all
probability it is she who controls this force. This is but a guess, but 'tis
my best."

JOURNAL ENTRY 18: ARCAM'S PRISONER SPEAKS
"Your power scares Arcam! The great gasbag cannot flee quickly enough! He
wanted me to urge you to go back to Phlan, my home. He hoped you would die
there, or at least give him time to organize his defense. I refused." She
draws a shuddering breath. "Instead, I urge you not to rest until fiendish
Arcam is no more! Then help your allies."

JOURNAL ENTRY 19: HIDING IN FRONT OF THE GATE
Rank after rank of haggard men and women stumble toward the gate. Their eyes
are lost, their faces slack. None are bound or shackled in any fashion.

Suddenly a tall human moans and lurches sideways. A drow guard grabs him and
pulls him roughly about, She raises a needle-fine dagger, its tip glinting
with some ruby liquid, and jabs it into his neck. "That'll quiet you down,"
she sneers.

Another guard laughs.  "Why not just let him fry between the gates!"
"Because -" shoving the now-docile human back into line - "That would be too
nice."

JOURNAL ENTRY 20: BARD'S TALE
The bard sets himself down on a log. He looks at you long and searchingly.

"Fair folk you seem, uncommon in these times. Mayhaps you've an interest in
what I've seen. Audi, that's what I've seen. The Frostmaiden is walking the
lands of men and leaving icy death in her path. The mountains west of Thar,
which are locked in sheets of ice and snow, seem to be her favorite haunt and
it was there I saw her, near Gramble's Climb.

"For all ber evil, she is beautiful still. She left her mark on me in more
ways than one." He opens his shirt to reveal a snowflake tattooed in woad
across his chest. "She is seeking the Red One. Together, they will visit such
destruction on the Realms as has never occurred."

JOURNAL ENTRY 21: SEEN IN THE MAGES' DEVICE
You see a Glabrezu, his dog-like head snarling and his fangs dripping,
standing in a large chamber with red, fleshy walls.

JOURNAL ENTRY 22: INNKEEPER TELLS OF GRAGNAK ULFIM
"Well, you musta heard 'bout the wedding, but you may not know the real story
Truth is, there's more than one here from the old Phlan.

PAGE 29

"A certain Gragnak Ulfim also's here. Some say he's as powerful as Cadorna
hisself, but don't you believe it. He's just a sorry sot what's been had by
that vixen Sasha. But he's done for her one better and she knows her place
right sure now."

JOURNAL ENTRY 23: MAP OF THE LOST MINES
Key: To Gems; Door; Impassable Area

JOURNAL ENTRY 24: THE BANITE'S CHANT
 "Into the Labyrinth! left step,  Right step, step step, left left.
 Into the Labyrinth!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 25: SASHA
"I was once the council clerk here in Phlan, as you may remember, and I am
well versed in dealing with trouble. When Phlan was infested with
corruption, I was intimate with all the details of our city's liberation. When
the Black Circle hounded me in Verdigris, I managed my escape. These are just
a few of the reasons I was chosen as the new council member. I believe I have
done my part in restoring Phlan to its present state.

"I say these things, first, so you will know there is no trouble to be found
here in Phlan, and second, so you will not think you can manufacture your
own.'

JOURNAL ENTRY 26: THE BOOMNG VOICE
'Those of you still squirming will regret every moment I am called away from
my great spell. You will envy those already safe within the icy clasp of Lord
Bane. For I have released my keen-eyed pet into the corridors of the Tower.
Meet the Gelt." The great voice dies away with a chuckle.

JOURNAL ENTRY 27: AEGHWAET
"My name is Aeghwaet. I have lived here for the past 3,500 years, finding the
environment most congenial to my health.

"Recently however, evil spawn have invaded my home. They are taking huge
quantities of Moander's flesh and I do not know why. It is no longer safe to
live here. Not only are there foul creatures constantly about, but Moander's
body is beginning to fight back. Bits of flesh prowl the open wounds, and they
make no distinction between those causing the harm and me.

"I cannot hide much longer, yet if I leave, it will mean the end of my
extracts and my life in a few short years.'

PAGE 30

JOURNAL ENTRY 28: THE MIRROR OF KALISTES
The table is made of black marble. Veins of white quartz run through it,
catching the light and breaking it into coruscations of color, rainbow threads
weaving across its surface.

On the table are two items. The first is a simple porcelain basin, its finish
smooth, depthless. The basin is filled with some sort of heavy liquid, its
surface like quicksilver.

Next to the basin lies a short wand, about the length of a man's forearm. Its
shaft is made from a single quartz crystal. At first the crystal appears gray
and impure, but on closer inspection the gray resolves into separate strands,
as though a web has been spun inside. The crown of the wand is a blood-red
stone. Power throbs within, beckoning.

JOURNAL ENTRY 29: CAPTAIN OF THE CHALLENGE SHIP
"There is an island not far from here. Many adventurers have entered its
confines seeking fortune and glory, but no one has ever returned. A letter
came into my possession not long ago which spoke of a great Mystery I have
become determined to discover what this Mystery is and so I come to you.

"Your reputation precedes you. Many say you are the greatest heroes the Realms
have seen. I say to myself, if anyone can penetrate this Mystery, it will be
you.

"I will not give you false hopes and I do not know what dangers you will face,
only that they will be great, It is said that the island will remain
unconquered for all time, but that is a challenge to try if I ever heard one."

JOURNAL ENTRY 30: SEEN IN THE MAGES'DEVICE
You see a large army moving through a cavern where the wind howls. A
thunderous beating makes the soldiers hold their hands to their ears.

JOURNNAL ENTRY 31: KARDAL SPEAKS
"Sasha sent me here to assess the threat from this quarter. I fear it is
great, but I've learned little. It seems the only way to get close to those in
command is to prove yourself fierce and unflinching in battle. I'm sure you've
noticed the many street brawls.

"All I know for certain is that a massive army has been assembled and is ready
to move, though I've heard rumors of a 'Gathering.' Of what, or for what, I do
not know.

"If you could penetrate the inner steading, perhaps you could discover this.
There is a group of cloud giants in that private room who already have a
deadly reputation. If you defeated them, you would gain instant recognition
and an audience with the hill giant shaman. Alas, my strength is not up to the
task.'

JOURNAL ENTRY 32: VOICE THROUGH THE GATE
"I will not open the gate for you. If you are who you say then you do not wish
to enter. For beyond this gate is the city of Phlan, entombed here by some
mighty

PAGE 31

spell, and besieged by fearsome monsters that sally through this very gate. If
you would aid us, here is a task for you. A high mage was captured from among
us. Her name is Shal, She had made long study of the dark god Moander, and
proved most ingenious in defeating its minions. Find and free her, I urge
you!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 33: VALARDIS TELLS OF HIS CONTRACT
"Yeah. He gave me this dagger and this rock, and told me to meet him at the
altar and he'd signal to me which elf I'm supposed to kill. Then I'm to follow
him into some room - Wait, don't touch the blade - that's deadly. Coated with
a poison the Master Assassin would kill for. And the rock is something I'm
supposed to wear before I follow My target into the last chamber."

"Don't give me those high and mighty tooks. I helped you get in here, didn't
I? We all have to make a living, and Daris has already paid me good money to
do my job. I intend to do it.

"Besides, I'll bet you've left a few bodies lying around yourself."

JOURNAL ENTRY 34: THE KI-RIN SPEAKS
"My horn was the focus of a great magical power with which I was entrusted, a
power that helped hold evil in check. I came to the Dragonspine Mountains
when I sensed the evil growing here, only to find myself too weak to counter
it.

"When Thorne took my horn, he took the magic as well and used it to turn the
skies chaotic. Those storms will no longer plague the Realms, but my horn was
just one of three powers working evil in the Realms. If the Realms are to be
saved, you must turn those powers against the one enemy.

JOURNAL ENTRY 35: STORM'S STORY
"Men the cities disappeared and the world grew dark, we were all frightened,
and clung together for comfort. It was not enough to save us. By ones and twos
and sometimes whole families, we began to disappear - taken as slaves by the
drow.

"My sister was captured. She is a child, just a child. I followed the slave
train, and crept into her pen to try to release her, but I was captured as
well.

"The drow took us to their slave pens, and from there, my sister and I were
taken, along, with many others, toward a hall. Behind me I heard keening
intermingled with shouts of great joy I had heard from a old human woman that
some of us would be culled from the group and killed to make an evil potion. I
cursed such a fate, but I prayed that, for my sister's sake, the end would be
swift.

"Instead, we were led through the temple, and half of us were pushed through a
door, while the rest of us were driven through the dimensional pool into this
world of webs. The drow overseer jeered at us. 'Lucky, lucky luckiest of all,'
he said. 'You will serve the great Kalistes herself. Or be served to her,
depending on what tasty morsels you are!'

"I could not bear this thought. I watched for my opportunity and escaped the
slave

PAGE 32

train, but I was not able to bring my sister with me. Take me with you. I'll
help you fight Katistes, anything to save Arta."

JOURNAL ENTRY 36: MABRIL SPEAKS
'The black elves dragged me from my farm in one of these wagons. They take
everyone down to their dark city. A number of us made a break, and got about
halfway out before a big fight. A wall came down on me and they didn't catch
me. And a little woman, a halfling, escaped too. But she wouldn't get in the
wagon, she still wanted to fight. She's still down there - you should help
her. She can't hold out for long!

"You'll never get in the way the wagons do. But you might want to follow a bad
robe - a cleric - to get in. They have their own paths."

He draws a map of a section of the underground city:
KEY: Wall; Archway; Stairs Up; Rubble; Door; Stairs Down; Passageway

JOURNAL ENTRY 37: THF ALTAR Room
A magnificent altar spans the far wall - a shrine to night and all its spawn.
A giant silver web stretches from the floor to the full height of the vaulted
ceiling. The full moon hangs in the web's center, but it is not the full moon.
It is the belly of a giant spider, pregnant with evil, pulsing with hideous
life. The spider waves its legs wildly about as if casting about blindly for
prey.

Below this apparition stands a young drow. He is naked, his dark skin gleaming
in the light of the obscene moon. He holds a dagger to his lips and stares
upward, transfixed.

Locaste stands next to the drow youth, her hands raised above her head, her
eyes mere slivers of shining white visible through slitted lids, her robes
shimmering in the dark. Balia and Daris flank her, their eyes closed, their
faces ecstatic. Daris carries a crystal wand. Daris, as well as the rest of
the supplicants, is guarded by drow.

JOURNAL ENTRY 38: THE STEWARD OF THE TEMPLE
'Welcome, drow, welcome. Whether you be candidates for a great honor, or
supplicants before our Lady, be welcome. I give you good news. Soon, the Night
Spawn, the invincible children of our Lady Kalistes, will come to the Temple
through the Gateway to Darkness, and we may all have the honor

PAGE 33

of seeing them on their way to do battle for Katistes and Lord Brine. Hurry,
hurry. You will never see the like again,"

JOURNAL ENTRY 39: CHAMBERS OF ARCAM'S CHANCELLOR
In the center of the vaulted room, squads of mercenaries shuffle to attention
before a towering dais. Here, flanked by iron golems, an old man in fine robes
surveys a desk covered with chess pieces. Occasionally he will move a piece,
and bark instructions to a mercenary leader. "Dralbon!  Off to Ironfang Keep!"
Margoyles leap up to ensure the commands are promptly obeyed.

Then you see a great orb moving in the shadowy arches beyond the dais, "Watch
for the white knights," it hisses, chillingly calm. "Deflect their attack."

JOURNAL ENTRY 40: THE SLAVE REVEALED
"Excellent. I couldn't have done it better myself. My master will be most
pleased. You did away with one of his greatest enemies and captured one of his
most desired prizes, all without him needing to sacrifice a single one of his
own.

"Yes, I was carefully chosen, and trained for years before I could even
infiltrate this den of excess. But my stay is over now, as soon as you hand me
that Ring."

His gaze darkens. "You wouldn't be thinking of denying me, would you? I
promise you, my master trained me well. This creature -"  he prods at
Kalistes' still form with a toe - "was a blundering, graceless idiot. No
subtlety. No art. No depth. But I promise you, Tanetal has all this, and he's
gifted me with enough to deal with the likes of you,"

JOURNAL ENTRY 41: ELMINSTER'S EXPLANATION
"Brine must indeed be desperate to entrust his Talisman to one of his
lieutenants - even one as powerful as Tanetal. True, it is a great source of
power - this time used to twist and animate the very plants of the Realm, but
also it is the key that may lead to Brine's defeat.

"It acts as a key to his very own Dark Dimension. I hoped but to weaken him in
Moonsea - to force a balance - but now with the Talisman, I think we may be
able to drive him off entirely. Find the gate to Bane's Realm, and we may
prevail!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 42: DROW PRIESTS SPEAK OF THE GATEWAY
"I just hope Locaste can tell Kalistes to be careful with her children, now
don't misunderstand me, I want the Night Spawn to fight for Kalistes and for
us, but I hear that sometimes they don't just fight the enemy. What if
something were to happen to the Gateway, and the Night Spawn came in, but
couldn't get out!

'Oh, go ahead. Report me for a blasphemer. But hand me the vial of antidote
first, I think that boy got bit and didn't tell anyone.

PAGE 34

JOURNAL ENTRY 43: HUNTSMAN's TALE
"I am Elgin, a hunter, and the last of our village still alive. First dark
elves raided from the north, carrying away any they could capture. Then the
forests came alive around the tower to the east. When the walking trees came,
we were finished. Our people were all crushed or run off to the woods
southwest near Myth Drannor. I do not know what the survivors face there, but
at least they can be assured that a tree will act like a tree!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 44: THE EYES OF KALISTES
"I thank you for the lives of my sisters. My own curse matters little to me
now, knowing that they yet live to fight this evil.

"With their faces in my heart and their strength in my soul, I tell you this.
To enter Kalistes' Parlor and live, you need two things: the Word of Safe
Passage and the Amulets of Stillness. The Ward is carried by the highest Mages
of the drow when granted an audience with Kalistes; her Pets recognize it and
allow the bearer to pass. The amulets hide the wearer from spiders. With these
items, you have a much greater chance of gaining entrance into Katistes'
Parlor. Without them you will die in seconds, instead of minutes.

"You may find these talismans in the Testing Ground. Go there first if you
hope to complete your mission. But, before you leave me, one task is left to
you to aid your mission.  You must kill me."

JOURNAL ENTRY 45: A SOLDIER'S MAP
KEY: One-Way Valve

JOURNAL ENTRY 46: WHAT YOU HEAR
"Into the Labyrinth! Left step; right step; Step step; left left. Into the
Labyrinth!"

The sergeant bawls, "Now, you veeping scalawags, how do you get out?" The
soldiers chant,

"Out of the Labyrinth! Right step; right step; Step step step! Out of the
Labyrinth..."

PAGE 35

JOURNAL ENTRY 47: SAGE'S UTTERANCE
"I offer my congratulations for thy victory over Thorne. With the Horn of Doom
safely out of Bane's grasp, the storms will cease over Moonsea.

"Previously these tempests have prevented our allies past the mountains from
entering these lands. Even now, an army marches from Tilverton, and ships
raise sail in Tantras. Both forces are for, but at least now they may draw
closer. Aid is coming to the region!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 48: BOOK EXCERPT
"Marilith have but one fatal flaw, one chink in their armor - the drive to
preserve their children is greater than to preserve their individual lives, As
a lone Marilith is often the key strategist in a campaign, killing him or her
is often all that is necessary to deal a crushing blow to your enemies.
Therefore, search for the children. Threaten them, and the parent you seek
will come,"

JOURNAL ENTRY 49: KARDAL'S DYING WORDS
"The Gathering," he gasps. "It is of dragons. Unheard of numbers. Ready to
descend on the Realms. Must stop them. Led by Thorne. Terrible..." His voice
trails away with his life.

JOURNAL ENTRY 50: BANE REVEALS HIMSELF
'Kalistes, Thorne, Tanetal, they are pawns! I have sent Death to the Realms, a
rider in red with a sword of flame. None shall stand against him. You waste
your time as the world falls about your ears. So by all means, continue in
your vainglorous deeds."

JOURNAL ENTRY 51: DARIS TRANSFORMS INTO A DRIIDER
"It was as horrible a sight as I'm ever likely to see, and I've seen some
sights in my time. Daris thought he'd get away while we fought the guards, but
after we won past them we made our way, quiet as whispers, after the Mage. We
needed the Ward of Safe Passage to get into Kalistes' Parlor.

"The Chamber was dark. We heard footsteps ahead - you can imagine how upset
Daris, an elf, must have been, for us to hear his footsteps. But they stopped,
and we thought we'd lost him. Then he screamed.

"The whole chamber lit up with the glow of Shest's eyes, and we could see
Daris before us. He was shuddering and wailing, and he dropped the ward to
grab at his dagger. But he was too late.

"The whole lower half of his body ballooned outward, and legs began to sprout,
ripping through his robes and scrabbling on the flagstones, while his arms
flailed in the air. He scuttled back and forth through the chamber, while we
ducked back down the corridor, hiding behind columns, in niches, anywhere we
could. We listened to the scrabbling and moaning for quite a while, then what
he'd turned into rushed past us without a glance.

"Nothing for it but to sneak back into the chamber and find the ward. Too bad
Shest was still there."

PAGE 36

JOURNAL ENTRY 52: HILL GIANT'S JOURNAL
The fire giants have become dangerous and I fear we hill giants will lose our
long time home as well as any claim on new territory. The fire giant mage
thinks she can outwit Thorne. The fool! She will bring Thorne's wrath down on
us all.

I have sent spies to their cave, and am awaiting news. With luck, the fire
giants will soon be drumming a different beat.

JOURNAL ENTRY 53: FiRE GIANT MAGE OFFERS A DEAL
"There have been distressing rumors out of Zhentil Keep lately. I think
Manshoon has designs on the lands as far east as Thar. This does not sit well
with me. Eliminate this annoyance, and I will pay you handsomely"

JOURNAL ENTRY 54: MODTHRYTH SPEAKS
"By order of Thorne, all conflicts between dragons shall be settled by single
combat to preserve their numbers. The victor of these combats is entitted to
any treasure left by the defeated dragon.

"Any who interfere with or assist a combatant will forfeit any and all
treasure,"

Modthryth looks up from the scroll, adding, "I shall also consider the winner
of any combat for transformation into a dracolich."

Modthryth signals the contest to begin.

JOURNAL ENTRY 55: LACOSTE'S COMMAND
"Go now to the antechamber By the Mirror of Katistes you will find my ward
of safe passage to her Parlor. Bring it to the altar room, for I will have
need of it after the ceremonies. Shest told me he senses blasphemers in our
midst, and I must go to Kalistes to ask her aid in hunting them down.

"Would that I might leave now, but Hern is ready and cannot wait. He must try
his will against the Great Spider. Let his fate be swift and just."

JOURNAL ENTRY 56: THE TEMPLE OF TRANSFOPMATION
Beyond the arches, evil groups huddle in rapt contemplation of something to 
the north, This must be what Shal called the Temple of Transformation, where
bits of Moander's body are cleaved away and spill from the Vessel of Moander.
Devotees Of Moander and Bane await their portion. Lost in their worship, no
one seems to notice you.

JOURNAL ENTRY 57: TRAITOR'S GATE
"You might wonder at this gate's odd name, many do. It was named rifter the
last of the Cadornas, Porphrys. The Cadornas owned the great textile house
which made them a very wealthy and influential family.

"Porphrys advanced to rule the council, and many respected and trusted him.
People had forgotten that he was cursed as a child, possessed by the spirit of
fire.
			RYGAR WOZ HERE TOO! [1991-12-27]
"In manhood, he mode pacts with the Zhentdrim and other evils, if you can

PAGE 37

believe it, wanting even more power. But a party of heroes put an end to his
menace. They were quite like yourselves, perhaps you know them!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 58: HERMIT
"I came here to get away from the evils of the world, but there's no escape.
They hound me and hound me. The cultists would kill me if they didn't think I
held the secret to controlling the bits of Moander. I would almost welcome it.

"But you seek to destroy Tanetal, eh! I'd welcome that the more, for then I
would have some peace."

JOURNAL ENTRY 59: MANSHCOON GLOATS OVER HIS CAPTIVES
"You presumed to think that your puny efforts could distract me? Without a
pause my great intellect has folded you into the solution for larger problems.
I wish to gather higher tribute from the drow. In my tomes I have found the
name of a creature who will help me subjugate them - and the dreary fool
Marcus, and that imbecile Arcam, too!

"You will help me welcome my new friend! Here in my conjurer's circle, he
will dine splendidly on your bones."Words spill from his lips as he begins the
incantation.

JOURNAL ENTRY 60: INNKEEPER TALKS OF THE MONUMENTS
"Them monuments they building in the square! Word is they're living tombs for
old master Gothmenes' foes. Eternal prisons filled with treasures and dreams
what can't never be used."

JOURNAL ENTRY 61: GREEN DRAGON SPEAKS
"The vampire's blood was not edgy to come by and I know you need it for
creating the next dracolich. You will remember this when you choose who is to
become that dracolich."

"You have proven yourself twice over,' answers Modthryth, "i will not forget."

JOURNAL ENTRY 62: GRAGNAK ULFIM SPEAKS
"Sasha spurned my love. I offered her everything - a place at my side, power,
Wealth - but she would have none of it. She said my association with the Black
Circle made me repulsive. How was I to know? I was their victim as well; but
she said I was a coward.

"I was so filled with anger and jealousy! Then Cadorna came to me and I hit
upon a plan. If I rescued her from Cadorna, she would think me a hero; she
would be mine. But Cadorna was too strong with Gothmenes aid and again I am
duped by those I hate, and accused by those I love!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 63: VALA EXPLANS
"The Vaasans are using earth and fire elementals to create a massive tunnel
for their armies. With the passes blocked, they have no other way to reach the
Moonsea.

"The elementals are drawn to the power of the Oakroot Staff, the World Stone,
the Crucible of Flame, and the Lindenwood Staff here in the ruins. These
artifacts were created long ago by a wizard from Thar.'

PAGE 38

JOURNAL ENTRY 64: DAVE SPEAKS

"Welcome great heroes. You have overcome the evil of Bane and restored the
Realms. Now you have a simpler task, survival. Wend your way through this
maze and locate the exit. Of course, you may encounter a few challenges along
the way Survive or not, it is up to you."

JOURNAL ENTRY 65: PAGE FROM THE HIGH PRIEST JOURNAL
The Times of Woe are upon us. Darkness has overwhelmed the sun and the
Catacombs below are overrun with shades. We have taken to going about the
temple in groups of three or more. It is unsafe otherwise.

Now, a vision of a long-dead legend haunts our belfry. She won't allow us to
ring the bells to gather our flock. Many tried and have disappeared; even our
most stalwart odests have tried, but all to the same end.

Tomorrow, we leave to gather the common folk in the temple's vicinity and lead
them to safety, I pray for our safe return as well.

JOURNAL ENTRY 66: FIRE GIANT MAGE YELLS AT ASSASSINS
"You did not fulfill your contract, Other more capable hands, did the work for
you and I gave them the money. If you want your money, you will have to talk
to them.

"Do it quickly, though. I shall launch my forces soon, and the sweep through
the countryside will take them as well. Bane will have me to thank for
establishing strongholds. Having his good favor, Thorne will not dare to
interfere."

JOURNAL ENTRY 67: SPEECH TO WHITE DRAGON
"Worshippers will pay great homage to you. They will give you treasure and
make sacrifices to you. Already you are a mighty dragon, but as a dracolich,
none shall stand against you.

"As soon as I gain a potion of invulnerdbility I will be ready to perform the
transformation.

"If you agree, you can be the next and most powerful dracolich."

JOURNAL ENTRY 68: INNKEEPER'S WIFE'S REPORT
"Forgive my intrusion on your quarters. I meant to be done with my cleaning,
but felt the need to rest a moment. My husband and I have been running this
house under severe duress for some time now, and I am weary.

"Evil seems to be on the run, but still we battle on. How much longer either
side can hold, I do not know. What I can say is that dark Mulmaster city seems
to carry on with an invigored desperation,

PAGE 39

'Many of those cursed banite priests have been afoot- They search for 'the
dangerous ones.' On what reasoning, I do not know.

'We dispatch them as we are able, but our position is tenuous, For our safety,
we aid as many as we harm. I fear that for the good, something must happen
soon."

JOURNAL ENTRY 69: SEEN IN THE MAGES' DEVICE
You see a great army of elves engaged in battle with Moander. The elves loose
a tremendous arrow, laced with magic, and it lodges in Moander's heart.

JOURNAL ENTRY 70: DYING DRAGON
"Modthryth abuses the power Thorne gave him. No more is he simply acting as
Thorne's lieutenant. Rather he seeks his own glory and the revival of the Cult
of the Dragon.

'Not willing to settle for any dragon, he fosters bitterness between the
dragons to weed out the less powerful, Thorne will kill him when he discovers
the treachery."

JOURNAL ENTRY 71: LETTER TO DROW CAPTAIN
Sark, Our allegiance with the Zhentarim bears fruit. They have taken live, a
young, silver dragon, It is coming here for the laboratory. It will produce
for us much of the holy Fire of Night. I look forward to welcoming many new
sisters to my web.

I do not believe that the young worm will fit in any of the normal cells. You
must make special arrangements for its brief stay among us.
            - Ahdk Hand of Kalistes

JOURNAL ENTRY 72: RAIZEL SPEAKS
"Before the storms began, I was taken from a prison in Phlan. Even the best of
thieves find themselves in prison once in a while, but to be held as fodder
for the dragons is too much for me. I escaped a few days ago and was looking
to take a few things in payment for my troubles.

"But it hasn't been easy I've never seen the likes of this dragon, Thorne.
'Nasty' isn't the word for him, Plus, I've heard he has the horn of a beast
from beyond this world and that's how he makes the storms. Some say the
creature's spirit haunts the cave, others say the Realms will face certain
doom if the horn is heard three times.

"But I have a plan to exact my revenge. Depriving the dragons of their
treasure will be a far greater revenge than killing them.

"It occurs to me, however, that should we team up against them, we could
liberate even more treasure.

"I show you the ways of this cave and you provide some insurance in case we
run into any of the nasties. The dragons owe me for the past month, so I get
first claim on any treasure. But there'll be enough for all."

PAGE 40

JOURNAL ENTRY 73: SILK'S RESCUE PLEA
"I am the leader of the Swanmays - a band of rogue drow. We were resting in
Zhentil Keep when the evil struck.

"After the storms came, and the sun was covered, drow came up from the sewers
and attacked the city. They took many prisoners, and brought them underground.
We followed them here, but they were expecting us.

"We were ambushed. I slipped away in the confusion, but the drow captured the
rest, They are being held in the dungeons to the east. I need your help to
rescue the prisoners - my Swanmays, and the citizens of Zhentil Keep. If you
do, I'll help you get to Kalistes."

JOURNAL ENTRY 74: MARKED PAGE IN THE BOOK OF LEGENDS
Long ago, when the Datelands were being founded, there was a King of Elves
named Alanor. He had a daughter, Laurellin, who was said to be especially
fair even among the elvenfolk. A human hero, Brimwulf, chanced to catch
Laurellin watering her horse at a forest pond and the two fell in love.

Unfortunately Alanor had made plans to marry Laurellin to an elven noble and
forbade her to ever see the human adventurer again. Laurellin ran weeping to
Brimwulf to tell him of her fate, but the hero persuaded his princess to run
away with him to Hillsfar.

When the city was fully under siege, Brimwulf was visited at night by a spirit
from the hero's patron deity, Tyr. The spirit told Brimwulf to take his bride
and flee by night to preserve his life for Tyr's purposes later, else he would
surely die on the morrow.

Brimwulf could not stomach leaving his men in the High Elf's clutches and
instead made a bargain to serve Tyr after his death. The spirit agreed and
left.

Brimwulf led a sortie against King Alanor the next day and fought valiantly
struggling to the High Elf's standard itself. There he stew Laurellin's
father, but was slain himself. When Laurellin heard of the deaths of both her
father and ber husband, her heart was bereft of all the gentle emotions and
she flung herself from the heights of Hillsfar in despair.

It is said that Brimwulf now waits in his tomb for Tyr's summons and Laurellin
is doomed to walk the land wailing for her dead lover until she finds him
again.

JOURNAL ENTRY 75: LEGEND OF THE FLAMING SWORD
The Flaming Sword was forged in the battle fought between Bane and Tempus, The
battle raged for a year and a day and their ringing blows could be heard
throughout the Realms, but neither could gain the upper hand, Finally, they
clashed together with a tremendous concussion which rocked the firmament, and
from that blow fell a shard of flaming steel. Bane picked up the shard and
fled the field. That shard has become the Flaming Sword and the one who wiel
as it will be invincible.

PAGE 41

JOURNAL ENTRY 76: CADORNA ANNOUNCES HIS WEDDING
'Sasha is the final grace which will make Dark Phlan the jewel of the new
Realms, Gothmenes recognizes this and has offered to preside over my wedding,
I am sure you share my pleasure at being so horrored.

'Shortly, you will see my bride as she tours our fine city give her the
welcome she deserves. Make her feel at home.

"After our certain victory has been made fact, Sasha and I will enjoy our
honeymoon traveling in our new lands and sampling the novel pleasures they
offer

"Let the celebrations begin!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 77: IN THE WINNOWING, ROOM
Freed, the slaves of the drow shake off the effects of spider poison, and
rummage about for weapons. A man tells you, "If you're going to go on, you
have a scary choice ahead. They divided up the slaves here. Most went to the
night. If you want to free them, go that way A few of the most beautiful were
taken to the left. They were never seen again!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 78: THE RAKSHASA SPEAKS
"We have lived here for a long time in quiet obscurity. Many of my brethren
were unhappy and now that Bane's shadow stretches across the Realms, we
thought it best to get involved and help him, How to do that by returning one
of his pets to him, Tyranthraxus.

"The Mahdrajah discovered how to transfer life essence from one body to the
next, and began the process of reanimating him. Since your knights were
conveniently close, we used their bodies. I assure you that you will lose no
more. The work on Tyranthraxus is all but complete."

JOURNAL ENTRY 79: SHAL AND PETRA MEET
The two women circle each other warily. A contest of wills seems to be taking
place. "Join me," one hisses. "I hold the key to the power of a god!" "Join
me," the other whispers. "I hdve the strength to throw down that key!" They
circle each other again.

Suddenly one charges forward, deadly magic forming in her hands. The other
throws down her weapon. They embrace, and suddenly there is one woman, a new
light glancing from her eyes.

"Hurry!" she calls to you. "The overford, Tanetal, is preparing to leave his
lair at Moander's core! He will come here in force! Flee to the Vessel of
Moander!" With a flick of her hand she Vanishes.

JOURNAL ENTRY 80: ARTA' STORY
"I rejoiced when you escaped, Storm. I felt I could face whatever death my
fate decreed. When we reached the Parlor and were told our duties, I prayed
for that death.

"We are nursemaids, Storm, nursemaids for hellspawn. We warm their eggs, we
help them hatch, we provide their sport. We -- " her voice drops as she looks
away - "feed them. From our own ranks. The old and tired provide their
suppers."

Arta catches Storm's arm pleadingly. "Kill them! You must kill the children,
too!"

PAGE 42

JOURNAL ENTRY 81: THE ALTAR ROOM - CONTINUED
Suddenly Dennia stiffens. "There," she whispers, staring intently at an empty
dark corner, "The assassin. Help me, please. You must help." She bursts
forward with a cry as the guards wheel about, Daris rushes forward.

JOURNAL ENTRY 82: ELMINSTER'S ANALYIS
"With this ring, Kalistes robbed the sun of its light, Now that she is lost,
it will shine again.

"This is a bitter blow to Bane. In the eternal night forced by the power of
the Crystal Ring, creatures of darkness were free to wander as they would.
Now, at least, they are confined to nocturnal activity. No longer will
vampires fly at noon!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 83: LETTER ON FIRE KNIFE COMMANDER'S DESK
To Ungleow, Leader of the Fire Giants.

We have succeeded in taking over a wing of the steading. This hill giant
shaman seems a fool, and I don't see much opposition to your plans, He has not
even noticed all the troops you have siphoned off. It is chaos here as usual,
and the countryside is at its weakest. We should move now, or risk Thorne's
intervention. I would remind you of your promises, and, again, pledge my
service to you.

...Javin, Fire Knife Commander

JOURNAL ENTRY 84: SHAL'S CONFESSION
"The woman with Marcus is not my sister. She is me. A part of me. My evil
side. Marcus used his cleaving magics to make me into two beings, one of whom
would agree to do his will. He calls her Petra.

"Do you see why I must be brought to her! Only I can bring her - my -
powers brick to the aid of Phlan. And even if I should die along the way
reunion with her could make me live again!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 85: THE ALTAR ROOM - CONTINUED
Suddenly a female drow bursts into the room, dagger drawn. "Hern! To me!" she
cries as guards wheel about, surprised.

JOURNAL ENTRY 86: HILL- GIANTS OFFEER A PLAN
The hill giants describe their plan in monosyllables, with much fumbling over
the details. As best as you can make out, the giants have rigged a wall of the
fire giant mage's quarters to collapse. The cave-in, they assure you, will
kill the shaman and cause enough confusion to allow you to escape.

JOURNAL ENTRY 87: THE SKULL SPEAKS
"Seek out the Flaming Sword. It's wielder is Bane's vengeance manifest and
grows more powerful with each setback you cause him. With the Flaming Sword
wrested from his control, you will be able to defeat him."

PAGE 43

JOURNAL ENTRY 88: LOCASTE's ARRIVAL
Locaste gives a great cry, and the party halts before what appears to be an
unbroken wall of tightly-packed gossamer It shimmers in the pale light.
Locaste's mount rises up on its rear four legs and waves the others, both drow
and spider, about, its face a mask of fear. Locaste drives it down with a
word. Even from a distance, her jaw appears Set, and her eyes burn fiercely.
She bolds up the Ward and waits.

After a breathless eternity, the gossamer wall erupts. Spiders of all shapes
and sizes squeeze their way through, or leap off the top, or pop up through
trap doors and scuttle toward her. Her escort turns and runs, but Locaste
waits. Two Pets appear among the spiders and approach Locaste in a slow,
almost Stately sidelong march, tossing aside the unlucky spiders that get in
their way.

They stop in front of Locaste. One loops a noose of new, still-wet silk about
the drider's neck, Then both of them turn and lead it forward, up to the wall,
then through it. Locaste is gone.

JOURNAL ENTRY 89: SILK'S RESCUE SPEECH
"I thank you for your help. Now my Swanmays are free to fight against the
scourge of Bane. I will now help you.

"Drow alchemists are draining the life force of good creatures, and using it
to make the evil fluid, Fire of Night, Kalistes uses it to make her pets. They
store it in a fountain on these grounds. Katistes would be greatly hurt if you
destroy this fountain,

"The fountain is guarded by many traps. The first is a series of gates.
Passing through some will harm you. Part of the wall is an illusion. The
second trap is a narrow bridge over a pit of spikes. When you step on the
bridge, there will be a flush of light. Cover your eyes! I know nothing of the
last traps. There is a secret door to Kalistes' temple grounds somewhere
in the fountain chamber."

She hands you a metal amulet with the swan symbol of the Swanmays on it. "Show
this at the west guard post. The sergeant is loyal to my family, and will let
you by. And take these arms, you will need them against the drow."

She leaves and follows the Swanmays back to Zhentil Keep.

JOURNAL ENTRY 90: PHLAN COUNCIL GUARD
"When we left the crater, Council Member Sasha ordered us to continue to
Thar. As the only surviving member of the council, she was the only person
capable of gathering the scattered forces of our army. She pressed on to Thar
to see if Quil and Kimarr really had found Taydome's Keep. With the Keep in
her possession, she could rule the giants as Taydome had ages ago. With ogre
and giant allies, she thought Phlan could resist the evil of Bane's minions.

"We found the Keep, following the mages' map, The place was quiet so we began
to relax. When we were resting, ogres ambushed us and the Captain went down
right away As I escaped, I saw one of those mages just watching the fight. I
am not sure which one was the traitor, Quil or Kimarr, but if you ask me, I
wouldn't trust either of em'.

PAGE 44

"You must rescue the council member. I know she is trying, but without her, we
cannot rally our scattered forces, I would go, but my wounds would only slow
you down,"

JOURNAL ENTRY 91: RUOLN'S STORY
"We encountered citizens in the wilderness, speaking of horrors happening
throughout the land. Council Member Sasha told them she would not detour from
her task, but some joined us to follow the Phlan banner We met many ogres and
giants in Thor, and our party was less than a dozen when we reached Taydome's
Keep. We were ambushed in the Library by the two mages, Quil and Kimarr. They
came out of nowhere. I think they must have found secret passages in the Keep.
We were captured, but I managed to elude my guards. I fear that I cannot
retrace my steps. I am weak, but will give you what aid I can."

JOURNAL ENTRY 92: DENNIA EXPLAINS THE DAGGERS AND AMULET
"These are called Daggers of the Mind. Be careful - the blades are coated with
a deadly poison. The slightest scratch will kill you.

"Each drow who must face Shest is given this weapon. During the final test,
Shest decides if the drow is too weak to become a great magic user. All who
fail become driders, as my daughter did. But it is said that during one
terrible instant, while he yet retains his will and thoughts, a drow can feet
the transformation begin. At this time the drow may use this dagger to end it.
Permanently.

"The amulet is prized among my people. Those who carry it cannot be sensed by
spiders."

JOURNAL ENTRY 93: THE ORACLE SPEAKS
"Guard yourselves. Guard our Lady. Guard the hands that open doors. I sense
among us someone who is not of us and who wishes us harm. Everyone, go now.
Guard our Lady and her hands that open doors."

JOURNAL ENTRY 94: PETRA MOURNS
The woman sees the body of Shal, and utters a long unearthly wail of despair.
Then, with a mad glint in her eyes, she turns on you. "Could you not have
saved me?  Now my will to resist evil is most certainly dead. There is nothing
left but the dark forgetful embrace of Moander - for me and for you." Darting
forward, she snatches up the body, and flees to the north.

JOURNAL ENTRY 95: SERVANT'S JOURNAL
... and it has been made known that my Lord Taydome has agreed to help the
ogres and giants with their concerns, especia...

PAGE 45

... and their war with the Gold Dragons, in return for their servitude. The
debt is to be extended to one thousand generations. I have seen him work this
contract into a spell confined to the walls of the Keep. Not all of the giant
tribes have agreed, for many consider extension of debt to posterity a grave
injustice. But those who have agreed to his treaty..

... has cast the spell several times today each time enslaving more ogres and
giants. My Lord considers it payment for the number of his human servants the
monsters have slain outside the walls of his Keep and hence outside of the
range of his spell. They dare not take his life, for he still has some
usefulness to them, but I fear for mine.

JOURNAL ENTRY 96: SHAL- REDUX
"Yes, I am brick here. You remember I tried to decend the tower. I fell with
wounds that seemed fatal. But Marcus had me healed and imprisoned once
again. Perhaps he is afraid of what Petra might do if I were to die."

JOURNAL ENTRY 97: TRANED
"Traned, my dear fellows, at your service!" The irrepressible halting woman
takes a bow. "Until lately a Tragedian, now I act like a drow female for a
living! And look! It pays well!" She displays her drow armor, weapons and a
silver shield.

"Hey, good to see someone's come to help us folks out, Did you happen to step
on that vile Manshoon on your way in! He's the evil man that's partners with
the drow. Magic or no, I'd like to put an arrow into him. Can I join up with
you?"

JOURNAL ENTRY 98: MAP TO THE RED RIDER'S LAIR
KEY: Secret Door

JOURNAL ENTRY 99: THE OMINOUS TOWER
You see in the distance a tall black slab rising out of the trees of the Elven
Court. Around the base, a stone wall surrounds a wild garden. As you draw
closer, the foul mists that shroud the top of the monolith dissipate for a
moment, and you see the tower rises to meet a small dot suspended high in the
sky.

JOURNAL ENTRY 100: DROW'S TALE
"Deliberately we think, Marcus chose to destroy one of our underground cities
when he entombed Phlan below this tower. He hates the drow! We hear tell
that a woman mage with him is key to his burgeoning power We aim to kill her.
Will you help us! Do you know anything about her?"

PAGE 46

TABLES
---------------------------------------------
Constitution Table

ABILITY            HIT POINT      RESURRECTION
SCORE              ADJUSTMENT     SURVIVAL
---------------------------------------------
   3                  -2              40%
   4                  -1              45%
   5                  -1              50%
   6                  -1              55%
   7                   0              60%
   8                   0              65%
   9                   0              70%
   10                  0              75%
   11                  0              80%
   12                  0              85%
   13                  0              90%
   14                  0              92%
   15                 +1              94%
   16                 +2              96%
   17                 +2 (+3)*        98%
   18                 +2 (+4)*        100%
* Bonus applies only to fighters.

Ability Score Modifiers by Race
---------------------------------------------
 Dwarf               Constitution+l, Charisma-1
 Elf                 Dexterity+l, Constitution 1
 Gnome               None
 Half-elf            None
 Halfling            Dexterity+1, Strength-1
 Human               None

 Dexteiity Table
                    REACTION/
ABlLITY             MISSILE           AC
SCORE               BONUS             BONUS
---------------------------------------------
     3               -3              +4
     4               -2              +3
     5               -1              +2
     6                0              +1
     7                0               0
     8                0               0
     9                0               0
     10               0               0
     11               0               0
     12               0               0
     13               0               0
     14               0               0
     15               0              -1
     16              +1              -2
     17              +2              -3
     18              +3              -4

 Strength Table
                                                          WEIGHT
                                                          ALLOWANCE
ABILITY             THAC0              DAMAGE             (IN GOLD
SCORE               BONUS              ADJUSTMENT         PIECES)
-------------------------------------------------------------------
  3                 -3                   -1                -350
  4-5               -2                   -1                -250
  6-7               -1                    None             -150
  8-9                NorrTial             None              Normal
  10-11              Normal               None              Normal
  12-13              Normal               None             +100
  14-15              Normal               None             +200
  16                 Normal              +1                +350
  17                +1                   +1                +500
  18                +1                   +2                +750
 *18/01-50          +1                   +3                +1,000
 *18/51-75          +2                   +3                +1,250
 *18/76-90          +2                   +4                +1,500
 *18/91-99          +2                   +5                +2,000
 *18/00             +3                   +6                +3,000
* These bonuses only available to fighter classes (Fighter, Paladin, Ranger)

PAGE 47

Maximum Level Limits by Race, Class and Prime Requisite

CLASS       ABILITY   DWARF   ELF   GNOME   HALF-ELF   HALFLING   HUMAN
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cleric      Any       No      No    No      5          No         max
Fighter     STR 16-   7       5     5       6          4          max
            STR 17    8       6     5       7          5          max
            STR 18+   9       7     6       8          6          max
Paladin     Any       No      No    No      No         No         max
Ranger      STR 16-   No      No    No      6          No         max
            STR 17    No      No    No      7          No         max
            STR 18+   No      No    No      8          No         max
Magic-User  INT 16-   No      9     No      6          No         max
            INT 17    No      10    No      7          No         max
            INT 18    No      11    No      8          No         max
Thief       Any       max     max   max     max        max        max

No: Characters of this race cannot be of this class.
Max: Highest Level Available in Pools of Darkness.

Range of Ability Scores by Race

                DWARF        ELF               GNOME             HALF-ELF           HALFLING           HumAN
Ability      (M/F)      (M/F)      (M/F)      (M/F)      (M/F)      (M/F)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Strength
   Min.      8/8        3/3        6/6        3/3        6/6        3/3
   Max*      18(99)/17  18(75)/16  18(50)/15  18(90)/17  17/14   18(00)/18(50)
Intelligence
   Min.      3/3        8/8        7/7        4/4        6/6        3/3
   Max.      18/18      18/18      18/18      18/18      18/18      18/18
Wisdom
   Min.      3/3        3/3        3/3        3/3        3/3        3/3
   Max.      18/18      18/18      18/18      18/18      17/17      18/18
Dexterity
   Min.      3/3        7/7        3/3        6/6        8/8        3/3
   Max.      17/17      9/19       18/18      18/18      18/18      18/18
Constitution
   Min.      12/12      6/6        8/8        6/6        10/10      3/3
   Max.      19/19      18/18      18/18      18/18      19/19      18/18
Charisma
   Min.      3/3        8/8        3/3        3/3        3/3        3/3
   Max.      16/16      18/18      18/18      18/18      18/18      18/18

Exceptional strength bonuses available only to fighter-type characters
(fighters, paladins, and rangers).

PAGE 48

Armor Permitted by Character Class

CLASS         MAX ARMOR        SHEILD
-------------------------------------------
Cleric           Any               Any
Fighter          Any               Any
Paladin          Any               Any
Ranger           Any               Any
Magic-user       Any               Any
Thief            Elfin Chain Mail  None

Multiple Attacks for fighter-Type Characters

CLASS-LEVEL                  ATTACK/ROUND
----------------------------------------------
Fighter 1-6                    1/1
Paladin 1-6                    1/1
Ranger 1-7                     1/1
Fighter 7-12                   3/2
Paladin 7-12                   3/2
Rangers 8-14                   3/2
Fighter 13+                    2/1
Paladin 13+                    2/1
Ranger 15+                     2/1

Armor Table
                         WEIGHT                           MAXIMM
ARMOR TYPE               IN GP.            AC             MOVEMENT (1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
None                       0               10               12 squares
Shield (2)                 50              9                -
Leather                    150             8                12 squares
Padded                     100             8                9 squares
Studded                    200             7                9 squares
Ring Mail                  250             7                9 squares
Scale Mail                 400             6                6 squares
Chain Mail                 300             5                9 squares
Elfin Chain Mall           150             5                12 squares
Banded                     350             4                9 squares
Splint Mail                400             4                6 squares
Plate                      450             3                6 squares

(1) A character carrying many objects, including a large number of coins,
    can be limited in movement to a minimum of 3 squares per turn.
(2) A Shield subtracts 1 AC from any armor it is used with.

PAGE 49

Weapons Table

                       DAMAGE vs.   DAMAGE vs. LARGER    NUMBER
NAME                   MAN SIZED    THAN MAN SIZE        OF HANDS    CLASS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Axe, Battle            1-8              1-8                 1        f
Axe.Hand               1-6              1-4                 1        f
Bow, Composite Long    1-6              1-6                 2        f
Bow, Composite Short   1-6              1-6                 2        f
Bow, Long (1)          1-6              1-6                 2        f
Bow, Short (1)         1-6              1-6                 2        f,th
Club                   1-6              1-3                 1        f,cl,th
Crossbow, Light (2)    1-4              1-4                 2        f
Dagger                 1-4              1-3                 1        f,mu,th
Dart                   1-3              1-2                 1        f.mu,th
Flail                  2-7              2-8                 1        t,cl
Halberd                1-10             2-12                2        f
Hammer                 2-5              1-4                 1        f,cl
Javelin                1-6              1-6                 1        f
Mace                   2-7              1-6                 1        f,cl
Morning Star           2-8              2-7                 1        f
Pick, Military         2-7              2-8                 1        f
Pike, Awl              1-6              1-12                2        f
Scimitar               1-8              1-8                 1        f,th
Sling                  1-4              1-4                 1        f,th,mu
Staff, Sling           1-8              2-8                 2        f, cl
Staff, Quarter         1-6              1-6                 2        f,mu,cl
Sword, Bastard         2-8              2-16                2        f
Sword, Broad           2-8              2-7                 1        f,th
Sword, Long            1-8              1-12                1        f,th
Sword, Short           1-6              1-8                 1        f,th
Sword, 2-Handed        1-10             3-18                2        f
Spear                  1-6              1-8                 1        f
Trident                2-7              3-12                1        f

(1) Must have ready arrows to fire.  Two attacks per round.
(2) Must have ready bolts to fire.  One attack per round.
f=fighter, cl=cleric, th=thief, mu=magic-user

PAGE 50

Spell Parameters List

This is a listing of spells available to player characters as they gain in
level.  Following are abbreviations used in the list:

Cmbt =  Combat only spell      All = All characters in combat  dia = diameter
Camp =  Camp only spell        /lvl = per level of caster      rad = radius
Both =  Camp or Combat spell   targets = aim at each target    t = turns
T = Touch Range                r = combat rounds

First Level Clerical Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                                                                                                     f
Bless                    Both        6         5 dia         6r
Curse                    Cmbt        6         5 dia         6r
Cure Light Wounds        Both        T         1             - 
Cause Lig@t Wounds       Cmbt        T         1             - 
Detect Magic             Both        0         1             1t
Protection from Evil     Both        T         1             3r/lvl
Protection from Good     Both        T         1             3r/lvl
Resist Cold              Both        T         1             1t/lvl

Second Level Clerical Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                                                                                                     f
Find Traps               Camp        3         1             3t
Hold Person              Cmbt        6         1-3           4r+1/lvl
Resist Fire              Both        T         1             1t/lvl
Silence 15'Radius        Cmbt        12        3 dia         2r/lvl
Slow Poison              Both        T         1             1 hour/lvl
Snake Charm              Ombt        3         All           5-8r
Spiritual Hammer         Cmbt        3         1             1r/lvl

Third Level Clerical Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cure Blindness           Both        T         1             -
Cause Blindness          Cmbt        T         1             -
Cure Disease             Camp        T         1             -
Cause Disease            Cmbt        T         1             -
Dispel Magic             Both        6         3x3           -
Prayer                   Both        0         All           1r/lvl
Remove Curse             Both        T         1             -
Bestow Curse             Cmbt        T         1             1t/lvl

PAGE 51

Fourth Level Clerical Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cure Serious Wounds      Both        T         1             -
Cause Serious Wounds     Cmbt        T         1             -
Neutralize Poison        Both        T         1             -
Poison                   Cmbt        T         1             -                       -
Protect on from
  Evil 1O' Radius        Both        T         2 dia         1t/lvl
Sticks to Snakes         Cmbt        3         1             2r/lvl

Fifth Level Clerical Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cure Critical Wounds     Both        T         1             -
Cause Critical Wounds    Cmbt        T         1             -
Dispel Evil              Cmbt        T         1             1r/lvl
Flame Strike             Cmbt        6         1             -
Raise Dead               Camp        3         1             -
Slay Living              Cmbt        3         1             -

Sixth Level Clerical Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Blade Barrier            Cmbt        3         special       3r/lvl
Harm                     Cmbt        T         1             -  
Heal                     Both        T         1             - 

Seventh Level Clerical Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Destruction              Cmbt        T         1             -
Energy Drain             Cmbt        T         1             -
Resurrection             Camp        T         1             -
Restoration              Camp        T         1             -


First Level Druid Spells (For High-Level Rangers)

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Detect Magic             Both        0         1             12r
Entangle                 Cmbt        8         4 dia         1t
Faerie Fire              Cmbt        8         8 dia         4r/lvl
Invisibility to Animals  Both        T         1             1t+1r/lvl

PAGE 52

Second Level Druid Spells (For High-Level Rangers)

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Barkskin                 Both        T         Creature      4r+lr/lvl Charm
Person/Mammal            Cmbt        8         1             special

Third Level Druid Spells (For High-Level Rangers)

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cure Disease             Camp        T         1             -
Hold Animal              Cmbt        8         1-4           2r/Iv
Neutralize Poison        Both        T         1             -
Protection from Fire     Both        T         1             Special

First Level Magic-User Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Burning Hands            Cmbt        T         3 squares     -
Charm Person             Cmbt        12        1             -
Detect Magic             Both        6         1             2r/lvl
Enlarge                  Both       .5/lvl     1             lt/lvl
Reduce                   Both       .5/lvl     1             -
Friends                  Cmbt        0         All           1r/lvl
Magic Missle             Cmbt        6+lvl     1             -
Protection from Evil     Both        T         1             2r/lvl
Protection from Good     Both        T         1             2r/lvl
Read Magic               Camp        0         1             2r/lvl
Shield                   Cmbt        0         1             5r/lvl
Shocking Grasp           Ombt        T         1             -
Sleep                    Cmbt        3+lvl     1-16          5r/lvl

Second Level Magic-User Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Detect Invisibiliy       Both        1/lvl     1             5r/lvl
Invisibility             Both        T         1             special
Kriock                   Camp        6         1/lvl         -
Mirror Image             Both        0         1             2r/lvl
Ray of Enfeeblement      Cmbt        1+.25/lvl 1             lr/lvl
Stinking Cloud           Cmbt        3         2x2           lr/lvl
Strength                 Both        T         1             6t/lvI

PAGE 53


Third Level Magic-User  Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Blink                    Both        0         1             1r/lvl
Dispel Magic             Both        12        3x3           -
Fireball                 Cmbt        10+lvl    7 dia         - 
Haste                    Both        6         4x4           3r+1/lvl
Hold Person              Cmbt        12        1-4           2r/lvl
Invisibility 10' Radius  Both        T         2 dia         special
Lightning Bolt           Cmbt        4+lvl     4,8           - 
Protection from Evil 10' Both        T         2 dia         2r/lvl
Protection from Good 10' Both        T         2 dia         2r/lvl
Protection from 
       Normal Missile    Both        T         1             1t/lvl
Slow                     Cmbt        9+lvl     4x4           3r+1/lvl

Fourth Level Magic-User Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Charm Monster            Cmbt        6         1             special
Confusion                Cmbt        12        2-16          2r+1/lvl
Dimension Door           Cmbt        0         1             -
Fear                     Cmbt        0         6x3 cone      1r/lvl
Fire Shield (2 Types)    Both        0         1             2r+1/lvl
Fumble                   Cmbt        1/lvl     1             1r/lvl
Ice Storm (Dmg only)     Cmbt        1/lvl     4 dia         -
Min Globe of
    Invulnerability      Both        0         1             1r/lvl
Remove Curse             Both        T         1             -
Bestow Curse             Cmbt        T         1             1t/lvl

Fifth Level Magic-User Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cloudkill                Cmbt        1         3x3           1r/lvl
Cone of Cold             Cmbt        0        .5/lvl cone    -
Feeblemind               Cmbt        1/lvl     1             -
Hold Monster             Cmbt       .5/lvl     1-4           1r/lvl

PAGE 54

Sixth Level Magic-user Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Death Spell              Cmbt        1        .5/lvl         -
Disintegrate             Cmbt       .5/Iv      Special       -
Globe of Invulnerability Both        0         1             1r/lvl
Stone to Flesh           Both        1/lvl     1             -
Flesh to Stone           Cmbt        1/lvl     1             -

Seventh Level Magic-User Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Delayed Blast Fire Ball  Cmbt        10+1/lvl  7 dia         Special
Mass Invisibility        Both        1/lvl     Special       Special
Power Word, Stun         Cmbt       .5/lvl     1             Special

Eighth Level Magic-User Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mass Charm               Ombt       .5/lvl     Special       Special
Mind B ank               Both        3         1             1 day
Ottos Irresistible Dance Cmbt        T         1             2-5r
Power Word, Blind        Cmbt       .5/lvl     3 dia         Special

Ninth Level Magic-User Spells

SPELL NAME               WHEN       RNG       AREA        DURATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Meteor Swarm             Cmbt        4+1/lvl   Special       -
Monster Summoning        Cmbt        0         Special       1 battle
Power Word, Kill         Cmbt       .25/lvl    Special       -

PAGE 55

Level Advancement Tables
The following charts show the amount of experience a character must earn
in order to gain a level in his chardcter class. The charts also list
the number of spells that a chardcter can have memorized at one time.
Fighters and Thieves can never memorize spells.

Remember that all experience earned by a non-human, multiple-class
chdracter is divided by the number of classes the character has. The
experience is divided even after the character has reached his
maximum level in a particular class. A Human dual-class character
only earns experience in his second class. The character cannot use the
abilities of his first class untit his level in his second class exceeds
his level in his first class.

Magic-User
                                                   NUMBER OF  MAGIC-USER
                           HIT                     SPELLS  PER  LEVEL
LEVEL EXPERIENCE           DICE   1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
1     0-2,500              1d4    1    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
2     2,501-5,000          2d4    2    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
3     5,001-10,000         3d4    2    1    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
4     10,001-22,500        4d4    3    2    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
5     22,501-40,000        5d4    4    2    1    -    -    -    -    -    -
6     40,001-60,000        6d4    4    2    2    -    -    -    -    -    -
7     60,001-90,000        7d4    4    3    2    1    -    -    -    -    -
8     90,001 135,000       8d4    4    3    3    2    -    -    -    -    -
9     135,001-250,000      9d4    4    3    3    2    1(1) -    -    -    -
10    250,001-375,000      10d4   4    4    3    2    2    -    -    -    -
11    375,001-750,000      11d4   4    4    4    3    3    -    -    -    -
12    750,001-1,125,000    11d4+1 4    4    4    4    4    1(2) -    -    -
13    1,125,001-1,500,000  11d4+2 5    5    5    4    4    2    -    -    -
14    1,500,001-1,875,000  11d4+3 5    5    5    4    4    2    1(3) -    -
15    1,875,001-2,250,000  11d4+4 5    5    5    5    5    2    1    -    -
16    2,250,001-2,625,000  11d4+5 5    5    5    5    5    3    2    1(4) -
17    2,625,001-3,000,000  11d4+6 5    5    5    5    5    3    3    2    -
18    3,000,001-3,375,000  11d4+7 5    5    5    5    5    3    3    2    1(5)

Each level after 18th requires 375,000 experience
points and character gains 1 hit point.

(1)) Usable only with 10+ Intelligence.
(2) Usable only with 12+ Intellegence.
(3) Usable only w th 14+ Intelligence.
(4) Usable only with 16+ Intellegence.
(5) Usable only with 18+ Intelligence.

PAGE 56

Cleric
      HIT                          NUMBER OF CLERIC SPELLS  PER  LEVEL
LEVEL EXPERIENCE           DICE    1     2     3     4     5     6     7
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
1     0-1,500              1db     1     -     -     -     -     -     -
1     1,501-3,000          2d8     2     -     -     -     -     -     -
3     3,001-6000           3db     2     1     -     -     -     -     -
4     6,001-13,000         4d8     3     2     -     -     -     -     -
5     13,001-27,500        5dB     3     3     1     -     -     -     -
6     27,501-55,000        6d8     3     3     2     -     -     -     -
7     55,001-110,000       7d8     3     3     2     1     -     -     -
8     110,001-225,000      8d8     3     3     3     2     -     -     -
9     225,001-450,000      gd8     4     4     3     2     1     -     -
10    450,001-675,000      9d8+2   4     4     3     3     2     -     -
11    675,001-900,000      9d8+4   5     4     4     3     2     l(1)  -
12    900,001- 1,125,000   9d8+6   6     5     5     3     2     2     -
13    1,125,001-1,350,000  gd8+8   6     6     6     4     2     2     -
14    1,350,001-1,575,000  gd8+10  6     6     6     5     3     2     -
15    1,575@001-1,800,000  gd8+12  7     7     7     5     4     2     -
16    1,800,001-2,025,000  9d8+14  7     7     7     6     5     3     1(2)
17    2,025,001-2,250,000  9d8+16  8     8     8     6     5     3     1
18    2,250,001-2,475,000  9d8+18  8     8     8     7     6     4     1

Each level after 18th requires 225,000 experience points
and character gains 2 hit points.
(1) Usable only with 17+ wisdom.
(2) Usable only with 18+ wisdom.

Cleric's Bonus Spells

WISDOM                 1                2               3            4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
9-12                   -                -               -            -
13                    +1                -               -            -
14                    +2                -               -            -
15                    +2               +1               -            -
16                    +2               +2               -            -
17                    +2               +2              +1            -
18                    +2               +2              +1           +1

Note that these bonus spells are only available when the cleric is entitled
to spells ot the applicable level. Thus an 8th-level cleric with a Wisdom
of 18 can memorize the following spells:

                                  NUMBER  OF  SPELLS
                                  1         2         3         4        5
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
8th-Level Cleric with 18 Wisdom   5         5         4         3        -

PAGE 57

Ranger
                                       NUMBER OF SPELLS PER LEVEL
                             HIT       DRUID                   MAGIC-USER
LEVEL  EXPERIENCE            DICE      1     2     3           1     2
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1      0-2,250               2dB       -     -     -           -     -
2      2,251-4,500           3d8       -     -     -           -     -
3      4,501-10@000          4d8       -     -     -           -     -
4      10,001-20,000         5d8       -     -     -           -     -
5      20,001-40,000         5dB       -     -     -           -     -
6      40,001-90,000         7d8       -     -     -           -     -
7      90,001-150,000        8d8       -     -     -           -     -
8      150,001-225,000       9d8       1     -     -           -     -
9      225,001-325,000       10d8      1     -     -           1     -
10     325,001-650,000       11d8      2     -     -           1     -
11     650,001-975,000       11d8+2    2     -     -           2     -
12     975,001-1,300,000     11d8+4    2     1     -           2     1
13     1,300,001-1,625,000   11dB+6    2     1     -           2     1
14     1,625,001-1,950,000   11d8+8    2     2     -           2     1
15     1,950,001-2,275,000   11dB+10   2     2     -           2     2
16     2,275,001-2,600,000   11d8+12   2     2     1           2     2
17     2,600,001-2,925,000   11d8+14   2     2     2           2     2*
18     2,925,001-3,250,000   11d8+16   2     2     2           2     2

Each level after 18th requires 325,000 experience points and character
gains 2 hit points.

* Maximum spell ability

Paladin

                             HIT       NUMBER OF CLERIC SPELLS PER LEVEL
LEVEL  EXPERIENCE            DICE      1     2     3     4
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
1      0-2,750               1d10      -     -     -     -
2      2,751-5,500           2d10      -     -     -     -
3      5,501-12,000          3d10      -     -     -     -
4      12,001-24,000         4d10      -     -     -     -
5      24,001-45,000         5d10      -     -     -     -
6      45,001-95.000         6d10      -     -     -     -
7      95,001-175,000        7d10      -     -     -     -
8      175,001-350,000       8d10      -     -     -     -
9      350,001-700,000       9d10      1     -     -     -
10     700,001-1,050,000     9d10+3    2     -     -     -
11     1,050,001-1,400,000   9d10+6    2     1     -     -

PAGE 58

Paladin continued...
                             HIT       NUMBER OF CLERICAL SPELLS PER LEVEL
LEVEL  EXPERIENCE            DICE      1     2     3     4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
12     1,400,001-1,750,000   9d10+9    2     2     -     -
13     1,750,001-2,100,000   9d10+12   2     2     1     -
14     2,100,001-2,450,000   9d10+15   3     2     1     -
15     2,450,001-2,800,000   9d10+18   3     2     1     1
16     2,800,001-3,150,000   9d10+21   3     3     1     1
17     3,150,001-3,500,000   9d10+24   3     3     2     1
18     3,500,001-3,850,000   9d10+27   3     3     3     1

Each level after 18th requires 350,000 experience
points and character gains 3 hit points.

Fighter                                                                               
LEVEL  EXPERIENCE                                     DICE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
1      0-2,000                                        1d10
2      2,001 4,000                                    2d10
3      4,001-8,000                                    3d10
4      8,001-18,000                                   4d10
5      18,001-35,000                                  5d10
6      35,001-70,000                                  6d10
7      70,001-125,000                                 7d10
8      125,001-250,000                                8d10
9      250,001-500,000                                9d10
10     500,001-750,000                                9d10+3
11     750,001-1,000,000                              9d10+6
12     1,000.001-1,250,000                            9d10+9
13     1,250,001-1,500,000                            9d10+12
14     1,500,001-1,750,000                            9d10+15
15     1,750,001-1,925,000                            9d10+18
16     2,000,001-2,250,000                            9d10+21
17     2,500,001-2,750,000                            9d10+24
18     3,000,001-3,250,000                            9d10+27

Each level after 18th requires 250,000 experience points and
character gains 3 hit points.                                                              Each level ailer 18th requires 220,000 experience points and charac
                                                                                        ter gains  2  hit  points
Thief
                                                      HIT
LEVEL  EXPERIENCE                                     DICE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
1       0-1,250                                       1d6
2       1.251-2,500                                   2d6
3       2,501-5,000                                   3d6
4       5,001-10,000                                  4d6
5       10,001-20,000                                 5d6
6       20,001-42,500                                 6d6
7       42,501-70,000                                 7d6
8       70,001-110,000                                8d6
9       110,001-160,000                               9d6
10      160,001-220,000                               10d6
11      220,001-440,000                               10d6+2
12      440,001-660,000                               10d6+4
13      660,001-880,000                               10d6+6
14      880,001-1,100.000                             10d6+8
15      1,100,001-1,320,000                           10d6+10
16      1,320,001-1,540,000                           10d6+12
17      1,540,001-1,760,000                           10d6+14
18      1,760,001-1,980,000                           10d6+16

Each level after 18th requires 220,000 experience points and
character gains 2 hit points.

PAGE 59

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D and FORGOTTEN REALMS are trademarks owned
by and used under license from TSR, Inc., Lake Cieneva, WI, USA. Copyright
1991 Strategic Simulations, Inc. and Rygar. All Rights Reserved. Copyright
1991 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. These rules, any accompanyings, printed
material, and the computer programs, on floppy disks or cassettes, described
herein, are copyrighted and include proprietary information belonging to
Strategic Simulations, Inc. and TSRygar, Inc. No one is permitted to give or
sell copies of this handbook, any accompanying printed material, and the
computer programs, on floppy disks or cassettes, or listings of the programs
on floppy disks or cassettes to any person or institution except as provided
for by written agreement with Strategic Simulations, Inc. and TSR451, Inc. No
one may copy photocopy, reproduce, transtate, or reduce to machine readable
form this handbook or any other accompanying printed material, in whole or in
part, without the prior written consent of Strategic Simulations, Inc. and
TSR, Inc, Any person/persons reproducing any portion of this program for any
reason, in any media, shall be guilty of copyright violation and subject
to the appropriate civil or criminal legal action at the discretion of the
copyright holder(s). If you think we are kidding, ask Doug Luce or Steve
Merenkov.

 SSI STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS, INC. & THE ALMIGHTY....
       ____ __     ___________      ____
      |  _ \\ \   /    ______ \    |  _ \
      | | \ \\ \_/ /| | ___  \ \   | | \ \
      | | / / \_  / | ||_  |  \ \  | | / /
      | | \ \__/ /  | |__| | __\ \ | | \ \
      |_|  \____/   |______||_____\|_|  \_\
