                         Pool of Radiance Data Card 
              ----------------------------------------------------

 System requirements:
 -------------------

 This game will run on any Amiga computer with a minimum of 1 meg of RAM, a
single floppy drive, anda monitor. The game is compatible with Kickstart
1.2 or higher. You can use either the keyboard or the mouse.

 The game requires approximately 2 megabytes on a hard disk. Because the
game can use up to 800K of RAM at any time we do not recommend playing off
the hard drive unless you have more than 1 megabyte of RAM. Because the
game is 100% memory resident after loading there is little difference
between playingoff the disks and playing off the hard drive.

 Before you begin, make backup copies of your disks following the
instructions that came with your system and put the originals away for
safekeeping. Be sure the identifier for Disk 1 is "Poolgame" and Disk 2 is
"Pooldata". Write protect the copies before you play. You will need to make
a save disk as detailed later.

 Hard Drive Installation:
 -----------------------

 The game requires 2 megabytes of memory on the hard drive. Boot your
system to the workbench. Insert Disk 1 of Pool of Radiance and double click
on the disk icon. Double click on the icon labelled "Pool-to-HD". A screen
will come up that allows you to modify the identifier for the hard drive.

 The default is DH0:. If you wish to change the identifier click on the box
and enter the new identifier. When you are ready to install, click on the
"GO" selector. The game will be installed on the hard drive in a directory
called Pool_of_Radiance. When you have completed the installation, close
the installation window, remove the disk(s) from the disk drive(s) and
reboot your system. The game will be ready to play.

 To Start the Game:
 -----------------

 Turn on your monitor and follow the instructions appropriate to your
system.

  -Floppy Disk:
 
  Insert Disk One into the internal drive and then turn on the computer.
(A1000 users, remember to boot using your Kickstart disk first, then insert
Disk One when prompted for the Workbench disk). The game will begin
automatically.

   -Hard Drive:

   Boot the game to Workbench and open a CLI/Shell window. Change the
directory to the game directory by typing CD Pool_of_Radiance. From there,
type Execute Program to begin the game. Assoon as you have completed the
copy protection question (CRACKED BY SKIDROW!) and the first menu comes you
must set the Save path. To do this choose the Load Save Game option from
the menu. Enter "SAVE/" when the requester appears and press <return>.

   -Workbench/CLI:

   The game is not designed to run from the Workbench or from the CLI.
 
   Note: The game will run from the CLI if it has been installed on the
         Hard Drive as noted above.

  Copy Protection:
  ---------------

    CRACKED BY SKIDROW!!!!

  Getting Started Quickly:
  -----------------------

  Use the pregenerated part of characters saved as saved game A on Disk
One. These characters start at the very beginning of the game, but they
have been equipped and the spellcasters have memorized their spells.

  Loading the Pregenerated Party:
  ------------------------------

  At the first game screen after the copy protection screen (CRACKED BY
SKIDROW!), choose the Load Saved Game option. A requester will appear
asking for the path to the save disk (in order to load the pregenerated
party you must tell the game where the party is located). The default save
path is to the POOLSAVE disk. After the save path requester appears, insert
Disk One into DF0: and type in the path "DF0:SAVE/". Save game "A" will
appear. Load the saved game by typing "A" or clicking on the "A". The game
will automatically load and place you at the entrance to the Slums in the
city of Phlan.

  Because the pregenerated party comes with spells and equipment, you may
enter the Slums immediately.

  Saving Games to Floppy Disk:
  ---------------------------

  Initialize a disk and name it "POOLSAVE" using the "Rename" command on
the Workbench screen.

  When you choose the Save Game option in the game a requester will appear
asking for the path to save the games, the default is "POOLSAVE:" so just
place the "POOLSAVE" disk in DF0: and press <return>. If there is an error
on saving, enter the save path as "POOLSAVE:"

  You may have up to ten saves on a single disk. You also may save over
previously saved games which you do not want to keep. If you run out of
saves, you may begin using another blank, formatted "POOLSAVE" disk.
However, you may onlt use one save game disk for each time you boot the
system. If you use two or more "POOLSAVE" disks during a single game play,
you risk possible system crashes.

  Saving Games to Hard Drive:
  --------------------------

  If you are playing off of a hard drive, and with to save games on the
hard disk you must make a save directory in the Pool_of_Radiance directory.

  To do this, open a SHELL/CLI window and change directories to the
Pool_of_Radiance directory. Type Makedir Save.

  When you shoose the Save Game option in the game a requester will appear
asking for the path to save games. If you set the save path as noted in 'To
Start the Game - Hard Drive' just press <return>. The games will be saved
in the directory called SAVE inside the game directory, so keep in mind
that you are limited to just ten saves.

  Mouse:
  -----

  You may use the mouse at any time except when prompted to answer a
question which requires keyboard input. To give commands with the mouse,
move the pointer over the option you wish to choose and click the Left
Mouse Button. In some menus, you may have to click once on the item to
highlight it and then click on the SELECT command at the bottom of the
screen.

  Keyboard:
  --------

  To select a command using the keyboard, press the highlighted letter of
the desired command.

  Using Menus:
  -----------

  Most options in the game are selected using horizontal or vertical menus.
Horizontal menus generally select actions such as casting spells and
readying items. Vertical menus generally select the item to be acted upon,
such as the spell to be cast or item to be readied.
 
  To access menus with the keyboard, use the up and down cursor controls
for vertical menus and the "Hot Key" letters for horizontal menus. Press
<return> to make selections.

  Moving:
  ------

  The part will move in three modes: 3D/area, Overland, and Combat.
Targeting spells and ranged weapons during combat is similar to moving
characters. to move, select the Move option from the bottom of the screen
and then give the directional commands using the numeric keypad as follows:

  -Keyboard Movement:

                       ^   ^   ^
                        \  |  /
                         7 8 9
                      <--4 5 6-->
                         1 2 3
                        /  |  \
                       v   v   v

  -Mouse Movement:

   To move in the 3D/area mode with a mouse, click the mouse at the edges
of the display window in the direction you want to face. Clock when the
mouse is a forward arrow to move forward.

   To use the mouse in Overland movement, simply click when the mouse
pointer indicates the direction you wish to move.

   To use the mouse in Combat, follow the instructions for the Overland
movement.

  Rules Errata:
  ------------

  Charmed monsters will not join your party but they will fight on your
side for one batle. Evil clerics turn undead, they do not charm them to
join your party. If you find "The Manual of Bodily Health" you can use it
to raise your constitution. To use this go to an Inn. READY and USE the
Manual. Immediately rest for 31 UNINTERRUPTED days. Your CON will increase
by 1.

  Amiga Specific:
  --------------

  The following items are Amiga only and are not in the Rule Book or
Adventurer's Journal.

    Right Mouse Button:

    Acts the same as the EXIT command from the menus.
    In combat, pressing this key will take back a move, but will not erase
    any damage taken during the move.

    ESC:

    Performs the same function as the right mouse button.

    F6:

    Will set the entire party to AUTO, or computer control for combat.

    F8:

    Toggles magic on/off for characters under the AUTO control.

    Space:

    Will return the party to your control from AUTO.

  Preparing Characters For Transfer to Hillsfar:
  ---------------------------------------------

  Your Pool characters can be used in Hillsfar-Amiga but they must be
prepared using the "PtoH" transfer utility on the POOLGAME disk.

  First you should initialize a disk and rename it "Hillsave". Next you
must remove the character(s) you wish to transfer from the party. The
removed characters must be on the "Poolsave" disk (Hard drive users must
copy their Pool_of_radiance/SAVE directory to the Poolsave disk). Once you
have the disks ready, boot your system and open a CLI/SHELL window. Insert
the POOLGAME disk in DF0: and change directories to DF0: by typing CD DF0:.
Prepare the character by typing: "PtoH Poolsave: Hillsave:"

  The utility will ask for the Poolsave disk and will scan for characters
(note that it will display all characters, even those in the party, so make
a note of the one's you wish to transfer before starting the utility). The
utility will list all characters and ask you to enter a character for
transfer. Type in the name of the character (extender not required) and
press <return>. The game will prepare the character and save it out to the
Hillsave disk. This can be repeated for as many characters as you wish to
transfer. When completed, the characters on the Hillsave disk can be
transferred into the Hillsfar-Amiga game using the Transfer Character
option from the Hillsfar Camp Menu.


                      That's all folks!     [-MB-]
              Pool of Radiance Data Card - typed by Master Blaster
===============================================================================
                           POOL OF RADIANCE
 
                          Adventurers Journal
 
                            FREE NEW PHLAN!
 
 The new Phlan City Council is leading the fight to free their captive
city. Heroes are retaking the city block by block from the evil hordes.
 
                            RICHES & FAME!
 
  The council is looking for soldiers and rogues, mages and clerics,
    heroes of all kinds, to come to New Phlan. The wealth and land
   of an ancient city await those willing to reach out and take it.
 
                                GLORY!
 
 Legends will be written about the heroic struggle to free New Phlan!
   Ships to New Phlan depart twice monthly. When you arrive, see the
      New Phlan City Council for the latest news and information.
 
                    MAKE YOUR FORTUNE IN NEW PHLAN!
 
              WHAT IS THE ADVENTURERS JOURNAL ALL ABOUT?
 
     The Adventurers Journal is your guide to POOL OF RADIANCE. It
     includes fliers, maps, and information that your adventurers
       would know before beginning their quest. It also includes
  information that your adventurers will discover during their quest.
 
   The journal is divided into several sections. The cover shows a
recruiting announcement that tempted your adventurers to come to New Phlan.
The next sections are a history of Phlan and a bestiary of the monsters in
and around Phlan. This is information your adventurers should already know,
so read it carefully. The answer to Phlan't current plight may lie in its
history.

   The next three sections of the journal are information that the
adventurers will come across during their adventure. POOL OF RADIANCE
assumes that your characters, being careful and thorough adventurers, keep
a written journal of important items that they find during their quest.
Such items include announcements from the city council (Proclamations),
information collected during an adventure (Journal Entries) and tales
overheard in taverns (Tavern Tales).

   During the game you will be referred to the entries in the Adventurers
Journal for additional information. For example, if you go to the Hall of
the City Council the program will refer to the council's currently listed
Proclamations by number. Look up the specific numbered proclamations and
read them. Ignore the other Proclamations until they are posted. The game
will also reference Journal Entries and Tavern Tales by number. When such a
reference appears, look up the specific numbered entry and read it.

   These items are information the adventurer would copy into his journal.
As items are referenced check them off in the margins so you later know
which items have come up during the game.

   Not every Proclamation, Journal Entry, or Tavern Tale in this journal is
actually true. Many entries are only rumors, dreams, or plain lies. Resist
the temptation to read ahead in the journal; the true items may reveal
information your adventurers couldn't know yet, and the false items will
contain information that can lead them astray. When you've finished the
game you can read through the whole journal and spot the false entries.

   The final sections in the journal include reference material for playing
the game. These appendices are a quick reference for specific game
information you may need during play. Together, all of the sections should
give you everything you need to complete the quest in POOL OF RADIANCE.
 
              A HISTORY OF PHLAN AND THE MOONSEA REACHES
               A Discourse on This Area and its Problems
                             by Jeff Grub
 
   To most inhabitants of the lands of the Inner Sea, the Moonsea and its
cities represent the border between civilization and barbarism. The Moonsea
sits like a great plug straddling the territory between the Mountains of
Vaasa and the Nomad Steppes, protecting the southern territories from the
incursions of savage Northerners. To the south of the Moonsea lie the
civilized lands of Cormyr and Sembia. To the north lay hundreds of square
miles of cold and unforgiving waste. Even when the southern kingdoms are
themselves besieged by orcish hordes, dragons, and fell monsters, they take
comfort in the fact that, "It's worse around the Moonsea."
 
   The Moonsea Reaches are defined by sages as being those lands bordering
on the Moonsea and its major contributing rivers. These major rivers are
the Tesh, flowing past the shadowed battlements of Zhentil Keep; the
Wyrmflow, a cold stream flowing from the east; the Duathamper, also called
the Evenflow, beginning deep in the heart of the Elven Court and flowing
north; and the Barren River which flows out of the Dragonspine Mountains
and into Phlan. The River Lis carries the waters from the Moonsea south to
the Inner Sea.

   The Moonsea itself is an odd combination of abyssal deep spots,
ship-ripping shoals, and rich fresh-water reefs. Despite this, travel
across the Moonsea is generally safer than making the journey on land, so
that most of the major merchant activity is by water.

   This is not to say that the Moonsea is without dangers. While monsters
are more infrequent along the Moonsea, those that exist are generally more
powerful than their landed cousins. Regions of the Moonsea are recorded as
being haunted, and there have been numerous sightings of ghost ships.
 
THE ANCIENT CITY OF PHLAN
 
   Phlan was the first great city of the Moonsea, reaching its peak some
thousand years ago. In those days, the Moonsea was better known as the
Dragon Sea, named for the large numbers of great Wyrms that inhabited that
area and the regions to the north. The Barren River was then called the
Stojanow, a dwarvish word meaning "Trade Route," for it was down this
passage the ore-laden barges floated, bound for the south. Early Phlan was
a trading outpost on the north shore of the Moonsea, set up to facilitate
trade between the Elves of Myth Drannor (the most powerful elven capital of
the time) and the tribes of Thar, Vaasa, and the Ride, as well as the
Dragonspine Dwarves.

   Trade between the powerful elves, the wild humans, and merchant-dwarves
was a great success for all sides. Soon Phlan was the most powerful city on
the Moonsea, outshining its only rival, the Elven Docks of Hillsfar, on the
south coast.

   At this time, the elves planted the Quivering Forest north of the city.
This copse was mildly enchanted, hastening the growing season to produce a
great woods in the span of a human generation. Though the woods have been
felled on a number of occasions, it has always returned to its original
form, becoming a light woods within two years, and a deep shadow-filled
forest by the end of a man's life.

   The elves, the legend says, first discovered the Pool of Radiance. Its
description has varied through the passage of the years. Many wise sages
have declared it a myth and a con-man's gambit. The location of the Pool
changes from tale to tale. Sometimes it is deep in the heart of an eternal
wood, sometimes on an island circled by great wyrms, and sometimes in the
heart of a huge solitary peak that rises above all others in the
Dragonspine Mountains.

   It is said that the pool glows with its own energy. Those that approach
it feel new power within their bones, while an unreal melody holds them in
a rapture. Legends say that the Pool's power created the Quivering Forest
and caused the Sorcerer's Isle to appear.

   The Pool is said to bring great power to the worthy, and death most
horrible to the unworthy. Some tales say that the individual should drink
it, bathe in it, or throw coins into it and wish. There are numerous folk
tales of the wise fool stumbling upon the Pool, and gaining wondrous power
or meeting a gory end. The abilities of the Pool change according to the
needs of the tale-spinner. In any event, a trader or adventurer who
encounters a sudden windfall or great riches is said to have "visited the
Pool."

   Whether the Pool is real or some literary invention, the First City of
Phlan (also called Archaic Phlan) survived in peace for many generations of
men. In the end, outside influences brought about its downfall. Settlers
began to intrude from the lands of Cormyr and Sembia into the south of the
Elven Court. At the same time, the beast-men of Thar, which are today
called ogres, began gathering into large hordes, ravaging the countryside.
 
   Phlan built mighty walls and withstood a decade of constant invasion. In
the end, its fate was sealed by the elves withdrawing within the Court
combined with the dwarves pulling back into western reaches of the
Dragonspine Mountains.

   With its trading lifeline cut, Phlan fell into disrepair. When the Black
Horde finally demolished the city walls in the Year of the Tusk, (112
DaleReckoning,) they found little but an empty husk. The greatness that was
Ancient Phlan had passed.
 
GREATHAMMER AND THE FIRST REBIRTH OF PHLAN
 
   Phlan remained relatively uninhabited for the next 500 years. The city's
position at the mouth of the Stojanow did make it a useful meeting place
for traders. Twice during this period a pirate community grew on the ruins
of Phlan. The first time they were burned out by a navy sailing from
Mulmaster. The second time a group known as the Red Horde, led by a red
dragon of incredible age, leveled the community. Following this attack,
buccaneers never regained their power in the Moonsea (though small bands
still persist).

   With time, the civilizations of man moved further north, the greater
beasts retreated, and many cities were founded on the shores of the
Moonsea. Yet the beasts did not retreat far. Dragons nested in the
Dragonspine Mountains, ogres raided from the Great Grey Land of Thar, and
horrible undead things lingered in the swamps and in the passes through to
Vaasa.

   Hillsfar retained its elven ties and flourished even as Phlan't power
was deteriorating, growing from a small town into a large prosperous city.
The foundations of Zhentil Keep and Mulmaster were laid while Phlan lay in
ruins. Small towns such as Melvaunt, Thentia, and Elmwood were started
during this period. The inland city of Yulash, situated atop a great mount
that dominates the southwestern corner of the lake, rose to the zenith of
its power during this time.

   In 712 DR, the year of the Moon's Tears, Milsor the Valjevo, Founder of
the Valjevo Dynasty, journeyed to Phlan to re-establish the city as a
trading outpost. He was aided in his task, by the Wizard Rimon and the
Priestess Alonius of Tyr.

   Milsor, Rimon, and Alonius gathered together interested adventurers and
cleansed the city of the evil orcs and goblins that had made it their fair.
They cleared the banks of the Stojanow and drove the arch-lich Zanakar from
the Sorcerer's Island in the center of Lake Kuto. In return for his
efforts, Rimon was given the Sorcerer's Island as his home. Alonius, in
turn, was given a wide area in the recovered regions of Phlan as a temple
to Tyr, the god of justice.

   By 750 DR the temple complex has been finished. In its day, it was said
to be the largest temple of good in the entire North. The city as well had
recovered, and large numbers of immigrants arrived. Some were natives of
other Moonsea cities seeking to make or expand their fortunes in the new
lands. But others arrived as well, including men of the Dalelands and
Sembians, as well as farmers and lumbermen, intent on making the region
their home.

   The newcomers built on the ruins of the old city, often not checking
what had lay beneath their foundations. Some curious souls reported great,
twisting passages leading far beneath the earth. Exploring such areas was
first discouraged. It was later outlawed after a party of adventurers freed
an extremely large beholder. The newcomers, led by Valjevo and his heirs,
closed off the passages choosing to ignore the past and seeking only the
future for their city.

   The dalesmen spread up the Stojanow River. They diverted the river's
flow and turned the rocky terrain into a rich landscape of fields and
orchards. The reach of the farmlands extended from Lake Kuto to the city of
Phlan at the mouth of the river. Some say the land was so rich because of
the proximity of the enchanted Quivering Forest. Others ascribe the bounty
to the wizardries of Rimon. Still others credit the series of dikes and
levees that the farmers, aided by magical spells, used to harness the river
itself.

   Whatever the cause, the healthy harvests of the Stojanow River Valley
provided Phlan with a solid trading base. For the next 200 years Phlan was
the center of the trade around the Moonsea. Its grains, fruits, and tubers
filled vaults from Mulmaster to Zhentil Keep. It appeared that
civilization, after a false start, had finally made a major foothold in the
lands north of the Moonsea.

   Such was not to be the case, for the forces of good and evil ebb and
flow like the shores of the Moonsea itself. In the 195th year of Phlan,
(907 DR), the golden age ended in rust. A plant rust, which affected most
of the farmlands around Phlan, destroyed harvests for the next three years.
Suddenly the Moonsea reaches were in the grips of a powerful famine,
relieved at great cost with shipments from the south. There was great
suffering, and other cities, once so enamored of Phlan's gentle power, were
resentful that it had failed.

   The native Phlanars were resentful as well. Their once good rulers had
fallen into a sloth and ease in the centuries since the reestablishment of
the city. The Valjevo blood was said to run thin in the Princes and
Princesses of Phlan. They reacted to the plague infesting the grain by
first ignoring it, then setting up committees, and finally legislating it
out of existence. Only when the magnitude of the problem became clear, did
they act. Even then they failed their people, overracting to the point of
placing a ban on all shipments out of the city, seeking to keep what
supplies were left for the native population.

   The other cities, already angry with Phlan for its rising prices in the
face of the plague, rebelled against this new measure. Fleets from
Mulmaster and Hillsfar began to raid cargos destined for the city.
Smugglers operated out of the Twilight March and Stormy Bay despite
official attempts to enforce the ban on shipments.

   A large land force equipped with siege machinery set out from Zhentil
Keep toward Phlan. The force encamped at Stormy Bar while the ruling heads
of Phlan negotiated to spare the city. In the end, the Keeper force was
turned back through a massive payment to their leaders. These leaders were
the first appearance in Phlan record of the Zhentarim, which would increase
in power over the next 300 years.

   During this activity, Rimon, now old in the ways that only wizards can
be old, disappeared from his rocky abode. What became of Rimon is unknown,
for the rulers of Phlan had not sought his council for a generation. Some
say he became a lich himself, using the methods discovered by Zanakar.
Others say that he sacrificed himself in battle on a far-distant plane in
order to save the lands of Phlan. Still others state that he had found the
Pool of Radiance and became a great and powerful being in some other part
of the Realms. Most likely Rimon merely fell prey to the effects of old age
as all mortals do. Whatever the cause, Rimon was never seen again in the
Realms, and his citadel became a haunted, abandoned ruin within a decade.

   The Famine of the Red Plants passed after three seasons, and an abundant
harvest returned to Phlan. But the harvests were never to be as great as
before, nor the fruit from the orchards as sweet. Whatever magic, true or
imagined, that had reestablished Phlan passed. The city began to become
gray and ordinary, losing power to the Keepers and the men of Mulmaster.
The golden age was over.

   The Valjevo Princes, their blood thin indeed, continued for another
century. The century was filled with petty wars between the various
city-states. No longer the leading city of the Moonsea, Phlan battled with
its rival more often. Piracy, or rather privateering, was on the rise, a
situation that continues to this day among the city-states.

   Phlan was wracked by interior torments as well. The people of the city
were well aware of their loss of power and prestige. Farms north of Phlan
were now being abandoned. Dark shadows lurked between the massive trunks of
the trees in the Quivering Forest. An attempt to clear a path through that
growth in 1023 DR resulted in the death of the last surviving Great Prince
of the Valjevo family.

   The death of the Great Prince resulted in a three-year civil war within
the city, as various factions supported different candidates to take the
mantle of the Great Prince. All candidates' claims upon the royal blood
were questionable and every faction sought to control Phlan's future
through placing their choice on the throne. During this time, the great
temple of Tyr was looted and burned, leaving only a great blackened shell.
Many of the leading merchant families fled to other climes.

   In the end, the last survivor was a young noble supported by a group of
powerful merchants. They created the first Council of Phlan to act as
regents for the youth. The Council spoiled the child, who grew into a
spoiled man who was unable and unwilling to take the reins of power. He
died without issue forty years later, and the Council has ruled ever since.
 
THE FALL OF PHLAN
 
   The last 300 years of Phlan have been a continual retreat from the
greatness that once was. Smaller rural towns were abandoned in the face of
increasing evil to the north. Sorcerer's Isle was said to be inhabited
again by fell powers. The city fell back upon that which it did so well so
long ago: trading. It began to serve again as the middleman between the new
powerful Northern tribes and the established nations of the South. For a
short time, about a hundred years ago, the awful tide of retreat seemed to
be halted and the city was on its way to becoming a prosperous trading town
once more.
 
   Yet dark things continued to lurk on the borders of Phlan. Sorcerer's
Island was said to be inhabited by Yarash, an evil mage who was said to be
seeking Rimon's power, the Arch-Lich's magic, the Pool of Radiance, or all
three. The greatly diminished Dwarven Nations of Dragonspine reported great
hordes of orcs and ogres attacking their citadels, and their barge trade
came to a complete halt. Small towns and hamlets were raided and burned
with increasing regularity, sending refugees to Phlan seeking passage to
safer lands.

   Then disaster struck, Raiders from the north, aided by dragons and other
dangerous creatures, poured down out of the northlands. The Quivering
Forest was burned in a massive fire that dominated the sky for a month.
Monstrous hordes containing every imaginable creature marched with
horrifying precision toward the city.

   The Council debated, argued, and debated again while the hordes drew
nearer, much as the last Valjevo Princes did in their long-ago folly.
Finally, they chose to fight, but were overwhelmed by the forces or orc and
dragon. Phlan burned and fell to the forces of evil, who looted and
pillaged that which remained.

   The last remnants of the Council stood their guard, trying to evacuate
as many citizens as possible. Of the council members, the Last Priest of
Tyr, Ferran Martinez, held the last garrison, Sokal Keep, which stood at
the mouth of the Barren River. It is said that Ferran placed a terrible
curse upon the Keep to prevent anyone from taking it.

   In the end, even the waters of the Stojanow river turned poisonous and
murky, and the river took its present name, the Barren. The rich farmlands
of the Stojanow River Valley were laid waste and became known as the
Scoured Lands.
 
THE REEMERGENCE OF PHLAN
 
   That should have been the end of Phlan's story, but it is not so. Men
remember the tales of Valjevo, who brought the first city of Phlan back
from its ruins. Adventurers, smugglers, and small traders visited the
region and brought back tales of Phlan under control of its evil masters.
Many of the buildings were burned, but many others were spared. The shell
of the temple of Tyr had been rebuilt, dedicated to some darker, more evil
god. Zhentarim spies and agents of dark Vaasan nobles met and planned in
Phlan, and the riches of the ages still survived for those who sought to
look.

   In time, more modest men returned to Phlan to rebuild her. A stockaded
community rose from among the rubble of the past glories. These men
intended to engage in the same profession as those before them, for Phlan
still occupied a prime position for trading on the Moonsea. However, until
the city was cleared, the Barren River made clean, and the competeing
city-states pacified, Phlan was likely to stay in impoverished ruins.

   Two years ago, in the Year of the Worm, two things happened that would
mean a change of Phlan's future. First was the Flight of the Dragons that
surged through the northern regions of the Lands of the Inner Sea. Due to a
cause unknown, great wyrms came down from the far north destroying all in
their path. These are not the rare, opportunistic dragons seeking alliance
with humanoid tribes, but rather huge waves of angry scaled monsters,
bringing destruction where they travel.

   Many of the Moonsea and Daletowns suffered great destruction in the
battles that followed. Yulash was utterly ruined by the attack, and
Hillsfar was greatly damaged. The most telling blow was delivered by the
body of a great dragon that fell into the Hillsfar harbor, blocking that
entrance for a month.

   Much of the Phlan was also smashed into a smoking ruin by these beasts.
Strangely, it worked in the favor of those men who lived there. Most of the
damage was taken in the already-ruined section of the city, where various
evil warlords vied for control and riches. The attack of the dragons broke
their power, creating a vacuum in the control of the city and giving the
men of Phlan a chance to re-establish themselves and their homes.

   Yet this would not occur without leaders, and the reappearance of the
Council of Phlan was the second great thing to occur in the city.
Descendents of the last Council still survived all the turmoil that had
occurred, and many families wished to return to the land. These leaders
were no great mages or wondrous fighters, but traders, merchants, and
clerics. Their leaders, who remain to this day, were the shrewd and
powerful trader Ulrich Eberhard, the retired mercenary captain Werner Von
Urslingen, and the Bishop of Braccio of Tyr. They have been joined by their
junior member, Porphyrys of the ancient House Cadorna.

   Together the council has proposed exactly that which Valjevo
accomplished so long ago, clearing the city by means of recruited
adventurers. The promise of great treasure and the myth of the Pool of
Radiance provided adventurers with an irresistable draw. The Council
published notices and paid traveling bards to make sure that the story of
Phlan's waiting riches was distributed all around the Moonsea and beyond.
 
PHLAN TODAY
 
   The city of Phlan, built on ruins upon ruins, is a city at war. It is
divided between the human forces of the Council, and those evil forces that
hold a great deal of the city under their sway.

   The human territories of Phlan are nestled behind a strong stockade of
stone quarried from the ruins and trees lumbered from the Quivering Forest.
A substantial city-guard patrols the openings in the walls at all hours,
always ready to repel any attacks by the old city's evil inhabitants.

   The buildings of rebuilt Phlan are sturdy and utilitarian, with little
of the splendor of the ancient past. The glories of the past shine through
in an ancient column now used to support a stable's wooden roof or a faded
fresco overlooking an adventurer's taproom. The past is always with the
inhabitants of Phlan, reminding them of what once was and could yet be
again.

   The natives of Phlan are a mixed group, including descendents of the
families of Valjevo's day and returnees who seek to reclaim lands and
treasure lost to the dragon horde fifty years ago. The city is also filled
with adventurers seeking new fortunes and traders hoping to reestablish the
old trading lines.

   Orcs and other generally evil humanoids are viewed with alarm within the
city, though evil humans come and go unmolested with the ships. It is said
that spies from the other cities of the Moonsea make regular calls with the
ships, overseeing the progress of the Council in re-establishing the city.
If the Council is TOO successful, some say, then sabotage may be in order
to prevent Phlan from returning to its former power.

   The lands beyond the civilized stockade are wild ruins controlled by
whatever local faction or tribe holds that piece of land. Control lasts
only as long as the reach of claw or sword. Petty bands of orcs, goblins,
and men vie for power, some led by more sinister monsters.

   Much of Phlan's ruined greatness can be found in the Old City. The main
sights include: the forgotten riches of the wealthy old noble's houses;
Podol Plaza, the center of the old trading district; and the Old Temple,
now dedicated to the dark god Bane. Valjevo Castle has been refortified and
is being used as a headquarters for one faction leader or another.

   Phlan remains now, as it has ever been, a city with the greatest of
potential. In the cycles of its rise and fall, legends have arisen before.
In engineering New Phlan's renaissance, new legends are sure to emerge.
 
                        THE PHLAN AREA BESTIARY
 
   This is a list of some of the monsters found in and around Phlan and the
north shore of the Moonsea. Most monsters can strike fear into the hearts
of men, but some are more powerful than others. The monster's reputation is
reflected in its monster level, listed as a Roman numeral after its name.
Level I monsters are less powerful than a well-equipped beginning fighter.
A Level VIII monster may be more powerful than several heroes.
 
   Anhkeheg (VI): Large burrowing insects with great mandibles. These
creatures have been known to spit a powerful acid.
 
   Basilisk (VII): A giant eight-legged lizard. One of the most dangerous
creatures in the realms because their gaze can turn creatures to stone!
 
   Bugbear (IV): Hideous giant sized goblins who stand over seven feet in
height. Bugbears look clumsy but are strong, quick fighters with great
stealth.
 
   Centaur (IV): These good creatures are half men and half horse. They are
capable fighters and can be valuable allies.
 
   Displacer Beast (VI): These creatures are large, black puma-like
creatures with two tentacles sprouting from their backs. These creatures
can appear several feet from their actual location.
 
   Drider (VI): These creatures resemble a cross between a drow elf and a
giant spider. They are powerful spell casters.
 
   Efretti (VII): These large powerful jinn are from the elemental plane of
fire. They are very arrogant and will only serve a powerful master.
 
   Ettin (VII): These creatures look like giant two-headed orcs. They have
great strength and usually wield two spiked clubs that inflict terrible
damage in combat.
 
   Fire Giant (VIII): These evil giants have flaming red hair and are
immune to all fire. They usually attack with giant two-handed swords.
 
   Giant Frog (III): These are giant carnivorous frogs. They are fast,
dangerous predators who may be poisonous.
 
   Giant Lizard (IV): These are the giant cousins to the common lizard.
 
   Giant Mantis (VII): These are the giant version of the common mantis.
These creatures are fast, strong, and have good armor.
 
   Giant Scorpion (VI): These are the giant version of the common scorpion.
Its poisonous tail can kill a man.
 
   Giant Snake (V): These are giant poisonous snakes.
 
   Ghoul (III): These are evil undead whose touch may paralyze a man in
combat. They feed on corpses and attack all living creatures on sight.
 
   Gnoll (II): These creatures are hyena-headed humanoids who stand over
seven feet tall.
 
   Goblin (I): These are small humanoids common in the Realms.
 
   Hill Giant (VII): These are one of the smaller, more stupid giants, but
they are still tough opponents. They usually carry large clubs.
 
   Hippogriff (III): These magnificent creatures have the forelimbs and
head of an eagle and the body and hind legs of a horse.
 
   Hobgoblin (II): These are human-sized, intelligent relatives of the
goblin.
 
   Kobold (I): These are small, cowardly humanoids who delight in killing
and torture.
 
   Lizardman (III): These are lizard-like humanoids. They are omnivorous
but they have a particular fancy for human flesh.
 
   Medusa (VI): These are hideous women with snakes for hair. They can turn
a man to stone with their gaze.
 
   Minotaur (VI): These are strong bull-headed humanoids. They are cruel
man eaters, commonly found in mazes.
 
   Mummy (VII): These are powerful undead with great strength. The mere
sight of one has been known to paralyze a man in combat. The touch of the
mummy causes a strange rotting disease.
 
   Nymph (V): These are extremely beautiful creatures that appear as
ever-young females. They usually inhabit wild lakes and streams.
 
   Ogre (IV): These are large, foul-tempered, ugly humanoids. They are
strong fighters.
 
   Orc (I): These are evil, pig-faced humanoids.
 
   Phase Spider (VI): These are giant poisonous spiders with the ability to
phase in and out of this dimension. Usually they only 'phase in' to attack,
then 'phase out' again.
 
   Quickling (IV): These are small, fast-moving creatures. Because of their
great speed they are invisible when they move.
 
   Skeleton (I): These are the least of the undead. These animated
skeletons are usually controlled by some evil force.
 
   Spectre (VII): These are one of the most powerful of the undead. Their
touch can drain the life out of men.
 
   Stirge (II): These are small, blood-sucking birds.
 
   Thri-kreen (VI): These are intelligent, carnivorous insect-men who live
in burrows. They have four arms and a poisonous bite that paralyzes their
foes.
 
   Tiger (V): These are noble beasts who are both strong and silent. Though
their normal prey are animals, they have been known to become "man-eaters."
 
   Troll (VI): These are large, strong, ugly humanoids. They know no fear
and can regenerate wounds.
 
   Vampire (VIII): These are one of the most dreaded undead in the Realms.
They can drain life levels, are strong fighters, and are sometimes powerful
magic users.
 
   Wardog (III): These are large, strong dogs, trained to kill. Orcs,
goblins, and other humanoids are known to use them.
 
   Wight (VI): Evil, undead humans whose touch can drain the life out of a
man.
 
   Wild Boar (IV): These creatures are the wild relatives of the pig.
 
   Wraith (VI): These creatures are non-corporeal undead. Their touch can
drain the life out of a man.
 
   Wyvern (VII): These creatures are distant relatives of dragons. They
attack by biting and using the poisonous sting in their tail.
 
   Zombie (IV): Magically animated corpses controlled by an evil force.
Zombies always fight back until destroyed or turned.
 
                 THE PROCLAMATIONS OF THE CITY COUNCIL
                             OF NEW PHLAN
 
   These messages are posted on the wall of the City Hall. They represent
messages that the City Council wants to relate to the citizens and
adventurers in New Phlan. When you go to City Hall the game will refer to
the posted proclamations by number. Each proclamation begins with:
 
   From the City Council of New Phlan to all brave and hearty adventurers:
 
PROCLAMATION LIX
   Be it known that the council is interested in reclaiming the remaining
blocks of the city of New Phlan. To reclaim said blocks they must be first
cleared of monsters, vermin, and other uncivilized inhabitants. To this end
the council is offering a reward to any person or group who is responsible
for clearing any block of the old city.
 
PROCLAMATION LXIV
   Be it known that the council is interested in acquiring information as
to the disposition of various formerly-living entities rumored to be
harassing honest citizens in the vicinity of Valhigen Graveyard. A reward
is offered to any person who shall travel to said graveyard and return an
eye-witness account.
 
PROCLAMATION LXXVII
   Be it known that the council is offering a reward to any person or
persons who can provide information as to the disposition of several
council agents who have been sent to investigate the unseemly happenings in
the vicinity of Valhigen Graveyard.
 
PROCLAMATION CI
   Be it known that the council, knowing that commerce is the life's blood
of New Phlan, has decreed that Sokal Keep is to be cleared of all unlawful
inhabitants. A reward is offered to the person or persons who successfully
carry out this commission. All interested in applying for said commission
shall present themselves to the clerk of the council.
 
PROCLAMATION CIX
   Be it known that the council is offering an inducement to any individual
who shall serve in the rescue force for the mercenary band of
Taimalg-the-Invincible which has disappeared inside Valhigen Graveyard.
 
PROCLAMATION CX
   Be it known that the council is seeking a stalwart band to undertake a
mission of particular sensitivity. Any brave and clever band of adventure
seekers who are not adverse to earning a large reward should present
themselves to the council clerk for a special commission. 

PROCLAMATION CXIV
   Be it known that the council is offering a special reward for the safe
return of the heir to the House of Bivant. Said minor was carried off
during a buccaneer attack on the merchant ship in which he was sailing.
Apply to the council clerk for the council's commission and additional
information as to the abduction.
 
PROCLAMATION CXX
   Be it known that the council has decreed that the threat of the pirates
who plague eastern shipping to New Phlan will be eliminated. The council
offers a generous reward for the exact location of the pirates stronghold
in the Twilight Marsh. An even greater reward is offered for the
elimination of the pirates as a threat to shipping. Apply to the council
clerk for a commission.
 
PROCLAMATION CXXVI
   Be it known that the council is offering a reward for all books and
tomes containing information about the fall of Phlan. The amount of said
reward to be dependent upon the value of the information provided.
 
PROCLAMATION CXXIX
   Be it known that the council has decreed that the foul poisoning of the
river formerly known as Stojanow is to be brought to an end. Accordingly, a
reward is offered to any group which shall travel up the river currently
known as Barren, locate the source of its poisoning, and eliminate said
source. A commission may be obtained from the council clerk.
 
PROCLAMATION CXXXIV
   Be it known that the council has declared those individuals who have
taken up residence in the mansion of the former Koval Family to be traitors
and thieves. Be it further known that a reward has been offered for the
elimination of these outlaws. A commission to rid the city of this blight
may be obtained from the council clerk.
 
PROCLAMATION CLIV
   Be it known that the council has proclaimed a generous bounty for each
undead killed. Be it also known that in addition to said bounty, the
council is willing to provide a special enchanted item, useful in the
destruction of undead, to any group of adventurers which accepts the
commission to cleanse Valhigen Graveyard. Apply to the city clerk for said
commission.
 
PROCLAMATION CLVI
   Be it known that the council is seeking a hearty band to undertake a
mission to rescue the Duchess of Melvaunt. The duchess is supposedly being
held by a band of ogres in a camp to the northeast of Phlan. A generous
reward is offered for the safe return of the duchess. Apply to the council
clerk for commission and additional information concerning the abduction.
 
PROCLAMATION CLXX
   Be it known that the council is interested in obtaining information
concerning bands of insect men known to plague the grassy planes to the
west of New Phlan. Said insect men are a hazard to transportation to and
from Zhentil Keep. A reward is offered to any person or persons who return
with complete information on the location, disposition, and intentions of
the insect men. Apply to the council clerk for a commission.
 
PROCLAMATION CXC
   Be it known that the council is interested in obtaining information
about the disposition of various hobgoblins believed to be gathering in
support of forces bent upon the destruction of our fair city. A generous
reward is offered to any who shall scout out the doings of these foul
creatures and report such to the council. A larger reward is offered if the
marshalling of said hobgoblins can be prevented. A commission may be
obtained from the council clerk.
 
PROCLAMATION CCI
   Be it known that the council is interested in clearing obstacles to
establishing a trade route to the east. Said obstacles currently include an
infestation of lizard men in the swamps to the east. A reward is offered to
any who can locate the source of the infestation and remove the lizard men
as an obstacle to trade. A commission may be obtained from the council
clerk.
 
PROCLAMATION CCIV
   Be it known that the council is interested in obtaining information
about the disposition of various kobolds currently believed to be gathering
in support of forces aimed on the destruction of our fair city. A generous
reward if offered to any who shall scout out the doings of these foul
creatures and report such to the council. A larger reward is offered if the
marshalling of said kobolds can be prevented. A commission may be obtained
from the council clerk.
 
PROCLAMATION CCXIV
   Be it known that the council is interested in obtaining information
about the disposition of a large nomad band currently believed scouting the
approaches to our fair city. A generous reward is offered to any who can
prevent said nomads from joining with the force now gathering to attack New
Phlan. A commission may be obtained from the council clerk.

                         JOURNAL ENTRIES
 
   These entries include items which the adventurers might copy or file in
their journal as they travel. During the game these entries are referred to
by number. When the game refers to a journal entry read the specific entry
and place a checkmark in the margin to keep track of which entries have
come up in the game. Do not read ahead to other journal entries; some
entries are false and may lead your adventurers astray.
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 1:

   A loud voice coming from a magic mouth cast on a stone tablet.

   "I am Yarash the Sorcerer!
   "Be known that for every living giant insect you return to Sorcerer's
Island I will pay a generous bounty, including a weapon empowered by magic.
I will pay for giant insects such as thri-kreen, giant mantis, and anhkheg.
The insects may be bound by magic but dead insects are of no use to me.

   "Bring any bodies to the northern river mouth on Lake Kuto. Call the
name of 'Yarash' loudly three times and I shall come. Do not call unless
you have something for me. I shall be very angry if I am disturbed without
cause!

   "I am Yarash the Sorcerer!"
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 2:

   Told in a painful whisper.

   "I never liked pain. Let me go an I'll tell ya of the kobold treasure
horde. We attacked a gold shipment once -- we took it by surprise. Thirty
times my weight in gold pieces were taken. We knew if we were raided we'd
lose the stuff in the treasure room. So we hid it behind a secret door in
the warrens -- that's where we keep the womenfolk. They tossed me in here
ta die, so it don't do no harm to tell ye. Find it and good riddance."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 3:

   An old leather-bound book, written with a small, firm hand.

   "The hordes came again last night. Their coordination was frightening.
Under the cover of darkness, goblins and kobolds pushed bundles of sticks
to within bow range. These bundles formed a wall that protected the small
ones from our archers. Once the wall was erected orc archers took up safe
positions there and begin pelting the castle walls with arrows.

   "We tried shooting flaming arrows at the wall of sticks to set it afire.
Monsters are normally afraid of fire. But these monsters showed no fear.
They simply scooped dirt on the flames to put them out. Before all the
fires were out they had resumed firing at us. Surely, some unnatural force
must have been at work to weld these quarlsome beasts into an organized
fighting force.

   "I do not know if we can combat the monsters onslaught much longer. We
lost 12 more men last night. The monsters seem to have an unlimited number
of reinforcements. The Last Priest of Tyr, Ferran Martinez, says he has a
way to protect the keep, but he says that it's so terrible that it may only
be used as a last resort. Unless we receive reinforcements shortly, Ferran
Martinez is our only hope."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 4:

   A roughly drawn cloth map.
 
                     Mountains
 
      Target                        Mountains
                     Mountains
 
      Hills                           Hills
                             River
 
      Grass Land       Forest     Sorcerers    Forest
                                    Isle
 
                                        River
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 5:

   A small piece of parchment folded into the spine of a family's holy
book.

   "The family treasures are buried in the tunnels beneath Kuto's Well.
Climb down the well and search for a secret passage. In the passage there
is a dangerous trap. Search the walls until you find the lever to disarm
the trap. Then proceed through the passage into an adjacent chamber. The
treasures are buried in the southwest corner."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 6:

   A quickly scratched note.

   "Show the Boss's Seal to the thri-kreen guards. Be careful, they are
wary of outsiders. Keep your hands away from your weapons no matter what
they do.

   "With the seal you should gain safe passage in to see the Queen. She
will give you the artifacts in exchange for the seal and the treaty. Do not
do anything to get her mad, the bugs would just as soon kill you as look at
you. Once you have the artifacts, get out of the stinking burrow and get
back to the castle."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 7:

   A tightly bound scroll, seemingly immune to the ravages of time.

   "Fountains and pools hold great power that can only be reached by
performing proper ceremonies. Most sure of these is immersion, for in this
way the bather surrenders himself to the spirit of the water. That spirit,
or some portion of it, enters into the bather, whereby he gains great
powers. Woe to the weak willed whose spirits are sure to be consumed by
spirits that put even the strong at great risk. Yurax holds that the Falls
of Ixce are greatest of all these. Morden writes that the Pool of Radiance
is greater still."

   Later in the book.

   "Places of magical power are not necessarily tied to one physical
location. Power often moves from plane to plane along the path of least
resistance. The termination of the path determines the place's location on
this plane. Volatile upheavals between the planes may lead to a change in
the path of least resistance. This can change where the path terminates on
this plane, thus moving the place of power.

   "Some who wield strong supernatural forces can bend the path like an
engineer damming a river. When the path is bent, it can terminate in a new
location, moving the place of power on this plane. If the supernatural
force that bent the path is removed, the path will snap back to its
original form and the place of power will return to its original location.
Such disruption can have violent and unpredictable results.

   "Thus, inter-planar upheavals and directed supernatural forces may hold
the answer to the seemingly ever-changing location of places of power, such
as the Pool of Radiance."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 8:

   A rugged popular account of the northern lands.

   "Ten days ride north of the Varm is a barren and dead country called the
Leewai, land-in-pain or land-of-caused-pain. Further to the south this
place is known as the Tortured Land. It is said to be an evil place,
shunned by the Riders. They speak little of this land. But, yearly, during
Ches, they make a trip into its heart. There they go to praise the spirit
of a glowing spring. This they have done for ages and so shall they do for
years to come."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 9:

   Several pieces of paper with highly organized writing.

   Fact: Joran Alberach is a special envoy, from Zhentil Keep, to the City
Council of New Phlan.

   Strong Rumor: Here to negotiate a military assistance agreement between
Zhentil Keep and New Phlan.

   Rumor: Zhentil Keep wants an ancient powerful artifact in return for
their military cooperation.

   Rumor: The New Phlan City Council has such an artifact that was found in
the ruins of a recently reclaimed building.

   Vague Rumor: Joran Alberach wants the artifacts for himself, not for the
rulers of Zhentil Keep.
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 10:

   A crude map scratched onto an old piece of parchment.
 
                   X = BAD THINGS
 
   -----------------------
   :      :     :   X    :    ---------------
   :      :     :        :    :             :
   --------     ----------    ---------     :
   :                                  :     :
   --------                   ---------     :
   :      :                   :             :------:
   :   X  :       -----       :             :      :
   :      :       :   :       ---------------      :
   :      :       -----                            :
   :      :     ---------     ---------------------:
   :   ----     :       :     :                    :
   :   :        :       :     :   X                :
   -------------------------------------------------
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 11:

   A mangled page of fine paper with entries written in a very find hand.

   "He is livid about the undead coming out of Valhingen Graveyard. Three
times he has sent assault groups, three times none have returned. He dares
not send any of the priests of Bane to clear the graveyard. He assumes that
if a priest could wrest control of the undead from their current master,
that the priest would then become a threat to His power.

   "I suggested that if we could neutralize the power that leads the
undead, that we could then use the undead as a tool.

   He thought on this and then ordered me to find out who or what is in
control in Valhingen Graveyard. Preliminary investigation shows that the
graveyard is controlled by a being of great power, perhaps a vampire or a
demon. I shall expend a few scouts and low level priests to find out more
information."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 12:

   Message scratch into the wall over the pool.

   Beware the power of the pool.
   Death to those unworthy of the gifts of the pool.
   Power to those who will use the gifts of the pool wisely.
   Bathe in the pool if you dare.
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 13:

   A flowery note written on stationary emblazoned with the symbol of the
City Council of New Phlan.

   "With the artifact and agreement in this pouch we have made our final
concessions to your demands. We have given you everything you have asked
for. This should settle our differences and cement our alliance.

   "Now that we have delivered our part of the bargain we will expect you
to uphold your end. Use this protected pouch and our representatives to
deliver your part of the bargain to the city council. Remember to include
all of the magical items we agreed upon.

   "With the buried riches in the reclaimed Phlan, and the might of Zhentil
Keep we will be able to control all of the northern shows of the Moonsea."

   Signed
   Porphyrys Cadorna
   City Council
   New Phlan
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 14:

   Several pieces of paper with highly organized writing.

   Fact: Porphyrys Cadorna is the last known surviving member of the
Cadorna Clan.

   Strong Rumor: rising star in city politics and on the City Council.

   Rumor: very charming, has many admirers, but no known mate.

   Rumor: vindictive, likes to get his own way and remembers when he is (in
his mind) double crossed.

   Fact: has contacted thieves to have them gain him information on the
Pool of Radiance.

   Fact: has hired a number of mercenaries through the thieves (we received
our normal cut).

   Vague Rumor: is using mercenaries to find Pool of Radiance.
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 15:

   A clean map drawn with exact lines.
 
   -------------.------------------------.-----
   :            :--.------      .---------    :
   :            :  :   :--------:          ----
   :            :  :   :    .--   .---------  :
   :--------:---:  :        :------  :     :--:
   :  --:   :   :  :----:---:   .--.-:   --:--:
   :----:   :           :       :          :  :
   :--  :   :--    :    :       :--------     :
   :    :----------:    :                     :
   :               :    :    ----:------      :
   :  ---:   --:   :    :--:     :     :------:
   :     :--:  :   :---    :-----:---  :      :
   :--:     :  :                       :      :
   :  :--:  :--:                       :      :
   :     :     :------------------     :      :
   :--                                 :      :
   :-----------------------------------:------:
 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 16:

   Told in a proud, haughty voice.

   "I am a princess of a tribe of nomads to the northwest. My father is an
old fool. He wanted me to marry King Al Rasid, to cement an alliance. I had
more important things to do, than be tied down to an aging monarch. When I
marry, it shall be to someone who has the same taste of adventure and the
same skill with a sword.

   "Well, Father was insistent and his subjects supported him, so I left to
seek my fortune. Kobolds has been raiding our tents upon occasion, so I
headed this way. If I could end the threat, then I'd have more leverage
with my tribe. However, two nights ago, I was ambushed by these worms --
knocked out and bound up. I finally got myself untied a little while ago
and was working my way out of these caves, when you showed up."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 17:

   A quick note on an often used piece of paper.

   "I must find some hardy allies in case this monster from Phlan sends his
troops to attack my island. I need a small, intelligent party who can move
through the civilized areas without notice, but who have the skill to
traverse the uncivilized areas and the wilderness. I must watch the next
groups to come to the lake and see if any would make proper allies."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 18:

   A ratty piece of parchment with large writing on one side.

   "Hold the Sokal Keep on Thorn Island at all costs. If attacked,
sacrifice your troops as necessary to hold out until relieved.

   "In your deployment set two squads of hobgoblins to patrol Thorn Island
at all times. At least 2 squads of archers are to be deployed on the walls
at all times. Let the pack of wardogs loose to cover the island several
times a day at random intervals. Set pairs of kobolds as observers in
hidden locations around the island.

   If Thorn Island is invaded immediately dispatch a message back to the
castle. We will send over however many reinforcements are necessary to hold
the island."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 19:

   A black bound tome written in a strange halting hand.

   "...and settled foremost in the hall of Minor Courtiers were the lesser
powers: Maram of the Great Spear; Haask, Voice of Hargut; Tyranthraxus the
Flamed One; Borem of the Lake of Boiling Mud; and Camnod the Unseen. These
too fell down and became servants of the great lord Bane."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 20:

   Told in a pained voice.

   "We just got the cut through to the beastie's fair when I injured my
leg. King decided there wasn't much use fer me anymore. Made me a
proposition though. Said if I went into the lair and brought out the
treasure, he'd feed me till I stopped breathin'. Best deal I had, so they
tossed me down here. Not bein' a fool, I lit out for the deepest
hidey-hole. Thankfully the beastie was asleep. I can still move real quiet
when I must.

   "Anyway, if there hasn't been much of an alarm, then drunken Ferd must
be on watch at the rock. He's the king's son, so he ain't here with me --
worthless sot. If he's there, he's got less brains than a fermented rat,
just act officious and he'll take ya ta the king. Wouldn't mind hearin' of
that tyrant's demise. Ya seem just the types ta do it too."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 21:

   A crumbling old book; one of a massive series.

   "At this time there ruling the Twisted Ones was a powerful general named
Tyranthraxus. He strode before his armies cloaked in flame and led the
Riders out of the Waste. At his hand the kingdom of Barze was conquered.
Turning south he led his army to conquer the Horreb and the Vane.
Tyranthraxus was a cruel man and leveled all that he had taken, murdering
the princes of these lands. But the flame that surrounded him consumed him,
destroying his body. Freed of its shell, it flew among the men of his army,
lighting on each and claiming it. It was then when Baron Schodt imprisoned
Tyranthraxus in a vial of water which shone like the light of day. This he
sank in the watery depths of Lake Longreach, defeating the armies
Tyranthraxus had raised."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 22:

   A new folded cloth map drawn in waterproof ink.
 
                     Forest               :  Swamp
                                          :
                                   Cave   :
   ---------:                            :    Hills
            :                            :
   Forest    :                 Forest   :    Swamp
              :                         :
              Target                     :
                                          :
            Water           Water       Water
 
 
   NOTE: Dotted lines are for the river.
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 23:

   Several pieces of paper with highly organized writing.

   Fact: Ulrich Eberhard is old, hard headed in every sense of the word,
leader of the initial expedition to retake Phlan.

   Strong Rumor: unfaithful to his wife, but she knows, though he doesn't
know she knows.

   Rumor: hates monsters, with a passion; would kill every last one before
surrendering.

   Vague Rumor: angry attitude is a cover; he is actually paid by The
'Boss.

   Rumor: opposes rise of Porphyrys Cadorna as a, "Young upstart who
doesn't respect his elders!"
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 24:

   A piece of old, expensive paper written in a dried brown fluid.

   "Cursed is the child Porphyrys. He who was visited by the spirit of fire
in his cradle. He who burned his nursemaid, and he who called the armies of
the night down from the mountains.

   "Possessed is the one called Porphyrys. When the spirit of evil is in
him you can see the fire in his eyes. When he is possessed, the ground
trembles with his power and the nearby plants wither as if exposed to a
great heat.

   "None of the servants will go near the child any more. I think he should
have been drowned at birth. But his mother is blind to his possession. She
guards him like a tigress protecting a kitten. I think he has ensorcered
her.

   "For now we have no choice. We will evacuate the city by ship on the
morrow. And the accursed child shall come along. I swear that he smiles
every time there is an explosion, or anytime you hear a man scream. Saints
preserve us all from this demon child."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 25:

   An official-looking notice.

   "The number of undead creeping out of the Valhingen Graveyard is
increasing. These undead have disrupted training, destroyed property, and
killed many of our troops. Patrols have been sent into the graveyard to
reconnoiter and determine the source of the undead. None have returned.
Under your responsibilities as a priest of Bane in the city, you must help
combat the menace.

   "Lead a group of acolytes into the graveyard with the purpose of
discovering the source and leader of the undead. If your group can engage
and defeat the leader, or destroy the source, do so. If your group is
outmatched, return with your information so that we can form an assault
group with clerics and troops. Upon completion of this mission you will be
in line for promotion to the next higher rank in the hierarchy of the
temple of Bane in Phlan."

   Signed
   The Boss
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 26:

   A small bound book.

   "I have charted this maze as closely as I can. My way is blocked by both
stone and mystic death traps. Yarash must have used his magic to escape
this place. I can find no other way out.

   "Yarash has been breeding creatures for increased ferocity. Most of his
experiments fail. Few live long enough to mature. None that mature have yet
bred true. The bodies of his failures are often used as food for his newer
creations.

   "I do not know when Yarash intends to do when he completes his hideous
experiments. But I must assume that he will turn his abominations loose on
the world. To these creatures Yarash will be their creator, perhaps even
their god! The idea of Yarash as a god to anyone sickens me. I must find a
way to stop him."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 27:

   An impressive announcement.

   "BOUNTY of 10,000 GOLD!

   "I will pay 10,000 gold pieces for a live sahuagin! I will pay 1,000
gold pieces for a recently dead sahuagin in good condition. I need a
specimen of this man-like salt water aquatic creature for my studies.

   "Bring your specimen to the shore of Lake Kuto and build a fire as a
signal. Your specimen will be examined. If it i truly a sahuagin you could
end up with 10,000 gold pieces. But beware, I will know any forgeries, and
I will punish any attempt at deception.

   "So, capture a live sahuagin, bring him to Lake Kuto, and walk away a
rich man!"

   Signed
   Yarash the Sorcerer
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 28:

   A crude map burned into an animal skin.
 
 
                 Hills                      Forest
             p              Swamp
   Target       a                    Hills
                    t          Cave
        Forest          h
 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 29:

   A clean map with exact lines.
 
   ---:---------------------------------:
   :  :   :   --:  :--    :----.--------:
   :  :   :--   :  :    --:-----        :
   :  :---:     :  :           :--------:
   :         :--:  :   :-------:  :  :  :
   :  :------:  :  :---:          :  :  :
   :--:         :  :       :------:  :  :
   :    :--:    :  :       :         :  :
   :  --:  :    :  :       :    :----:  :
   :       :    :       :  :    :       :
   :     --:    :-------:--:    :  :----:
   :----------:-----:      :       :    :
   :          :     :      :-----:---   :
   :          :     :--------    :    : :
   :          :   --:     -------:    :-:
   :          :                         :
   :----------:-------------------------:
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 30:

   Carefully prepared notes.

   Note 1: "Tyranthraxus is definitely a produce of immersion in the Pool
of Radiance. His extraordinary brilliance, vigor, charisma, and power of
command must be a direct result of exposure to the effects of the Pool."

   Note 2: "The Pool of Radiance may grant special magical abilities.
Tyranthraxus exhibits a fiery aura, obviously magical. He also seems to
have extraordinary means of obtaining information. Special magical powers
granted by the pool would explain both the aura and the extra information
gathering capability."

   Note 3. "Tyranthraxus tells stories about moving down from the north.
Though he never mentions the Pool, I gather that it is northwest of the
Dragonspine Mountains. Strangely, he occasionally lets slip that he is
never far from the Pool, but that must be a parenthetical reference."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 31:

   Told in quiet, hissing speech.

   "Thank you for saving my children from the Mutilator Yarash. In return I
will aid you in what way I can, though that may not be great.

   "I have lost much of my following to young Drythh who listens to the
false promises of Tyranthraxus... that if he brings troops to invade Phlan,
he will rule the riverbanks.

   "So, Drythh and his followers have been proving themselves in raids upon
the kobold caves to the southwest and the hobgoblin caves to the south.

   "For some time my followers have been disappearing. But, when you freed
my children from the clutches of the evil Yarash my status was increased.
Drythh kept quiet for a time, but once again the young warriors listen to
him and not to me."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 32:

   An announcement on rugged paper written in large clear symbols.

   "Be it announced that Mace, the former cleric of our lord Bane, is
hereby ejected from the church. His crimes include refusal to follow temple
dictates, unauthorized performance of major miracles, and the great heresy
of placing other gods above our almighty lord Bane.

   "All loyal followers of lord Bane must report Mace's presence on sight.
He is to be captured, brought before a loyal tribunal for fair and just
judgment, and then burned at the stake."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 33:

   An official looking notice.

   Yarash,
   "The time has come for you to add your power to the growing legions of
my followers. Come and supplicant yourself to me and I will reward you as
an important officer in my magical forces. You will serve as the advisor to
the cohort of soldiers to be based at Sorcerer's Island. Resist and you
shall be crushed before my almight power. I expect your positive reply
within the week."

   Signed,
   The Boss
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 34:

   Told in a triumphant tone.

   "You have no understanding of the subtlety of Tyranthraxus and his
allies. Here you have trusted me enough to let your guard down. Now you are
my prisoners.

   "My kobold's friends deserve some reward for their help. Therefore, you
are to be taken to their pit. There, unarmed, you shall fight 'Bersheera,
my pet serpent. He should be hungry now, merchants don't satisfy him for
long."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 35:

   Told in halting speech.

   "Thank you for freeing us: Yarash has been experimenting on our people,
changing them in horrible ways. Every night we carry off another lizard man
with his chest burst open or his head mangled. Yarash say he make us like
Sa-Hag-An. He always say that he make us stronger, better hunters. But all
he make us is dead.

   "We were not allowed to speak when Yarash was around. These marks were
passed down to us and remind us of home. They represent the friend word
used between lizard men of different tribes. If you meet lizard men on the
outside, this word may help you."

   The lizard men carefully scratches marks into the dirt. You recognize
the marks as two runes and a path symbol.
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 36:

   Carefully prepared notes.

   Note 4: "He has fooled me. All this time he has called himself
Tyranthraxus the Flamed One. He exhibited his flame, and spoke of deeds
attributed to Tyranthraxus. But today, while he did not know I was around,
he revealed his true identity. He spoke into the great pool in his lair. I
think he spoke to Lord Bane himself. And he referred to himself as Maram.
Maram, he of the great spear, is also a servant of Bane.

   "Why should my leader use a false name? He hides his identity from the
world, so that they do not research his past and discover his weaknesses.
What if he also hides his identity from his closest advisors, so that they
also cannot know his true abilities and weaknesses. Anyone who attacked
him, thinking to utilize the weaknesses of Tyranthraxus, would be destroyed
by the different powers of Maram of the Great Spear.

   "My research into Tyranthraxus is now useless. I must scour my records
for details concerning Maram of the Great Spear. I have much work to do."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 37:
 
   A massive atlas drawn by the great mathematician Tomarus.
 
   THE MOONSEA
 
 
       THE RIDE                THE GREAT             GLISTER
   (NOMAD STEPPES)             GREY LAND
                                OF THAR
VAASA
DRAGONSPINE MTNS
 
            STOJANOW
THE RIVER        RIVER  PHLAN  MELVAUNT
TESH                                      THENTIA
                      M
      ZHENTIL KEEP        O                                   IRONFANS
                              O   N   S   E   A                   KEEP
YULASH                                             MULMASTER
 
                HILLSFAR    ELVENTREE      ELMWOOD
                                                             THE
                               ELVEN COURT                  WYRMFLOW
 
                            RIVER DUATHAMPER      RIVER LIS
 
    TO CORMYR                            TO SEMBIA 
   AREA NEAR PHLAN
 
 
DRAGONSPINE
   MTNS.
 
 
                    LAKE
                    KUTO    :
                             :
                              :       QUIVERING
                  STOJANOW     :       FOREST
                   RIVER        :
                                 :        THE TWINIGHT
                                  :......     RIVER
                                         :
                                    PHLAN :
 
                        STORMY                         TWILIGHT
                         BAY                            MARSH
                                     MOONSEA
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------- --
   PHLAN
 
             STOJANOW       VALJEVO
             RIVER           CASTLE
 
VALHINGEN
GRAVEYARD                                         KOVEL
                                                  MANSION
 
                STOJANOW              TEMPLE
                  GATE                OF          WEALTHY
                                      BANE
 
 
 
                  PODOL       KUTOS       SLUMS       CIVILIZED
                  PLAZA       WELL
 
 
               CADORNA        MENDORS
               TEXTILE        LIBRARY
                HOUSE                                  BAY OF PHLAN
 
                            SOKOL
                            KEEP     (THORN ISLAND)
 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 38:

   Several pieces of paper with highly organized writing.

   Fact: Werner Von Urslingen is a retired captain turned business man.

   Strong Rumor: mostly interested in the military aspects of the
reconquest of Phlan.

   Rumor: fought in a mercenary unit hired by The Boss early in his career.
   Rumor: hates Zhentarim because he fought in a unit against them several
times.

   Rumor: has strong contacts with other mercenaries and some ruffians in
town; none of our information confirm such contact.

   Vague Rumor: Von Urslingen's unit was wiped out by enemy magic users; he
was the only survivor; he retired and now secretly hates magic users.
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 39:

   A preserved parchment covered with giant script.

   "I am writing to you to describe my further inquiries into the legend of
the Pool of Radiance. It seems the pool has moved several times. Long ago,
at least one wise wizard actually moved the pool into his abode for a
period of time to study it. However, the pool seems to return to its
original location after every move. I am now watching the dry hole that is
the pool's natural location. When it returns I will be ready. I truly
believe that the Pool of Radiance is the key to the secret wisdom that I
seek."

   Yours in wisdom
   Sorassar
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 40:

   A quick note on an often used piece of paper.

   "Both kobolds and hobgoblins exist in large numbers to the east,
Experiments show neither makes good breeding material."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 41:

   A clean map drawn with exact lines.

   TYPIST NOTE: This map intentionally left out by me.
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 42:

   A sketch drawing.

   TYPIST NOTE: Not included due to illustrations.
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 43:

   A loosely wrapped scroll.

   "Armalg-the-Good, paladin and brother of Taimalg-the-Invincible, and
Sarasim of Teshwave, the high priestess of Sune, attacked the denziens of
the Valhingen Graveyard with a holy vengeance. They came in search of
Taimalg and his mercenary band, who assaulted the graveyard and did not
return.

   "Sarasim used her holy power to dissipate and turn the undead that
confronted them. Aramalg wielded his vorpal sword and slew the few that
fought her power.

   "Together, Aramalg and Sarasim penetrated the graveyard to an evil
marble crypt. They found and splintered an empty coffin, blessing the
remains and sprinkling it with holy water. Then they confronted the owner
of the coffin, a creature of great evil and the leader of the undead in
Valhingen, an ancient vampire. The three began a furious melee.

   "The vampire was swayed by Aramalg and Sarasim's power, but would not be
turned. The vampire shouted, 'I have defeated Taimalg and his warriors, I
will defeat the brother of Taimalg as well!'

   "The vampire summoned an army of rats and tried to charm Sarasim to his
side, but to no avail. Sarasim resisted his charm and Aramalg charged
through the massed vermin. The vampire fell before the might blows of
Aramalg's holy sword and Sarasim's enchanted mace.

   "Defeated, the ancient vampire dissolved into gas and fled to his
coffin. Finding the coffin destroyed he returned to solid form and
screamed. Seizing the moment Aramalg grabbed the vampire and held him with
all of his strength. Sarasim ran up and drove an oaken stake through the
vampire's heart.

   "Aramalg and Sarasim performed the proper rituals to banish the vampire
forever. Then, wounded, Aramalg and Sarasim left Valhingen Graveyard. It
was beyond their power to completely cleanse the evil place, but they had
extracted proper vengeance for the death of Tiamalg and his troops."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 44:

   A cleanly written note on standard paper found on the body of a dead
trader.

   Aleram,
   "Hello my good friend. I hope you and your brood are well. I am tired;
tired of trekking through unspeakable swamps and over unclimbable mountains
to take my meager wares to ungrateful customers.

   "Only one event has saved this year's sales. I found a castle full of
happy folk, who were very good customers. They were starved for goods and
news from the outside world. And well they should be, their castle was in
the middle of a small forest, and the forest was in the middle of a swamp!

   "These people seemed to know nothing of recent events. They still spoke
of Phlan as if it were in its full flower. And they paid in old Phlanian
Gold Soverigns, double the weight of the newer gold coins!

   "Though they were out of date, they were very friendly and prosperous. I
saw more than one gem glitter in the sun, and several swords showed a flash
that made me think they were magic. If you are willing to dodge the vermin
of the swamp I would add this castle to your trading route. Speed to your
horse, strength to your arm, and skill to your trading."

   Your Friend,
   Burach
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 45:

   Told in perfect, stylized common.

   "Generations ago, flesh things were fewer and we hard-shelled beings
ruled the shores of Lazara, what flesh things call the Moonsea. We gathered
much gold and platinum, plus many gems for decoration and to appease our
own gods. We are quite adept at finding such trinkets as we make our home
by burrowing with our own mandibles. We know the earth like none other can.

   "When flesh things began to multiply, we did not look on them as
intelligent. They could not decipher our glorious language of sounds and
movement and we could not fathom intelligent communication limited to their
feeble squeaks and grunts.

    As we assumed the flesh creatures were unintelligent we looked on them
as slow, soft, weak, but tasty, prey. But the prey soon came riding swift
beasts, and so were no longer slow. Then they came in metal shells, and so
were no longer soft. And then they came hurling balls of fire and clouds of
stink, and so were no longer weak. Our gods told us that the flesh
creatures would multiply and that our only hope was to retreat.

   "We retreated underground, into caverns by our own mandibles. We only
venture to the surface to guard our lands and to find food less powerful
than yourselves. We have kept the location of our nest secret for many
generations.

   "But now you have come. You have defeated our warriors, evaded our
traps. We admit your power. We have nothing further to gain by combat. If
you will leave us in peace you may take the gold and gems that were sacred
to our gods, we have been abandoned by them. If you will not leave us in
peace then we must fight to the last. What is your decision?"
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 46:

   Told as jaunty, after dinner conversation.

   "This is an old story that I first heard while serving at the Citadel of
The Raven. Dirg was the usual barbarian hero -- the type able to snap five
men's backs with his bare hands, wrestle and tame the cloud horses, pierce
a man with a javelin from many miles away, and other equally preposterous
things.

   "The story goes that Dirg and his band of men found a pool of unfrozen
water while wandering in the snowy wastes. Dirg's little pet lizard Jezma
got too close to the pool and discovered that not only was the water not
frozen, it was boiling hot; so hot that it cooked the skin right off of
Jezma.

   "Dirg was so angered he thrust his spear into the pool and roiled the
waters. The demon of fire that inhabited the pool was disturbed and roared
out of the pool to do battle. The demon leapt from man to man, comsuming
them in a single touch.

   "But the demon of fire could not defeat Dirg. Neither could Dirg find a
weapon strong enough to withstand the creature's fire. After battling for
an entire day, Dirg finally called upon his totem god for aid. With this
magical aid, Dirg was able to trap the flaming demon in a triangle of power
where supposedly he is even to this day."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 47:

   A small wrinkled parchment with roughly scratched notes.

   "Hobgoblins transferred out of Valjevo Castle. Now replaced by giants
and trolls. Sounds very tough.

   "Stojanow Gate guarded by bugbears and ettins. Heard ettins didn't like
light. Must be charmed or controlled. Sounds tough!

   "Some smugglers sneak supplies through Stojanow Gate to The Boss. Must
check it out.

   "Overheard hobgoblins say a dragon scared them into leaving a nice lair
in the mountains out east. Couldn't happen to a nicer bunch of creeps."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 48:

   Several pieces of paper with highly organized writing.

   Strong Rumor: The Boss is a dragon or is a human who can take the form
of a dragon.

   Vague Rumor: The Boss is a metallic dragon. Not considered likely as
metallic dragons are 'good'.

   Fact: The Boss holds audiences in Valjevo Castle. Castle is guarded by
groups of big stupid monsters, with occasional smart human leaders.

   Rumor: The Boss doesn't spend full time at Valjevo Castle.

   Fact: maze inside castle wall; passwords are needed to get past castle
gates.

   Rumor: The Boss has been sending out messengers to the tribes of
monsters in the area to recruit new units.

   Vague Rumor: The Boss is recruiting new units in preparation for an
assault to retake the civilized sections of Phlan."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 49:

   A letter on clean white paper in a strong hand.

   To:
   The Boss
   Valjevo Castle, Phlan

   Sir,
   "I categorically reject your demand that I submit my island and my
powers to your control. I am a free man and I will remain free. No petty
tyrant can order about a true mage.

   "If you or your troops make any move toward Sorcerer's Island I shall
send an army of my unstoppable aquatic creations down the Barren River and
sink your precious castle. Until now you have been beneath my notice. If
you value your empire, let us keep it that way."

   Signed
   Yarash, the Sorcerer

JOURNAL ENTRY 50:

   An official looking notice.

   "Assemble a group of at least 30 of your followers. Meet up with a
hobgoblin assault force at the small docks to the west of town. You and
your group will be under the command of the hobgoblin leader. Follow his
orders. Upon completion of the mission you will be rewarded with food,
treasure, and many slaves."

   Signed,
   The Boss

   Scribbled on the back of these orders is Norris the Gray's unsent reply
to The Boss

   "I will never follow the orders of a hobgoblin. I don't go on missions
until I know exactly what we're supposed to do. And I don't go on missions
for an unknown amount of food, treasure and slaves'. I do go on missions
where I am in command; where I know exactly what the target is; and where I
know exactly how much I'll get paid. Don't send me another order until you
can meet my terms."

   Signed,
   Norris the Gray
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 51:

   Several pieces of paper with highly organized writing.

   Fact: Bishop Braccio is the highest ranking religious leader in Phlan.
Runs small temple in civilized section of city.

   Vague Rumor: Braccio is actually a front-man for a powerful high priest
who never leaves the small temple.

   Strong Rumor: Braccio is under fire to 'do something' about the undead
problem. So long as the undead were causing the monsters more trouble than
the settlers, he had other, more pressing, problems.

   Rumor: Braccio is opposed to the temple tendency to sell clerical
'miracles'; but he understands that the temple needs funds. Braccio would
rather perform such 'miracles' in exchange for good works done in the name
of the church, not just for money or items of power."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 52:

   Delivered in chillingly clear tones.

   "Hear us in our hour of need!" the nomad witchdoctor cries, "This night
we fight a great battle. By the breaking of dawn either our enemies will be
dead or we will have been destroyed.

   "Accept the sacrifice of these outsiders and give us the strength to
defeat the hordes of our enemies. Fill our limbs with your fire, and fill
our minds with your fury. Let us vanquish our enemies just as we vanquish
these invaders who have come among us."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 53:

   A crumpled discarded piece of paper, full of rub outs and scratch overs.

   Priests:         1
   Acolytes:        4
   Ogres:           1
   Hobgoblins:      40
   Orcs:            90
   Goblin Slaves:   20
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 54:

   A page from an unknown diary.

      "They stole my map to the Pool. Somehow they knew when I was coming
and exactly what to look for. They didn't even bother to kill me; they said
I wasn't worth killing. They just crippled my legs, took the map, and rode
away laughing.

   "After the attack and the rigors of my trek all I remember is that the
Pool is in the Dragonspine, north and west of Sorcerer's Island. It shines
just like they said it would. You can feel the power flowing out of it.
Kings and generals have searched for the Pool, and I had a map that led
right to it.

   "If I ever get back the use of my legs I'll go after them. I'll get back
my map. I'll get to the Pool. And this time I'll bathe in its power. Then
I'll teach them. I'll teach them all."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 55:

   Delivered as you sit around the campfire.

   "You must beware of the many dangers in this region. Several days walk
to the west there is the pyramid of evil. It has been long avoided by all
sensible men. To the southeast is a lair of many ferocious hobgoblins. The
areas to the southwest, are inhabited by evil men -- buccaneers, marauders,
and soldiers of an evil empire far to the west. And all good folks avoid
the swamps to the east. Nothing but danger grows in the swamps."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 56:

   An unsent note written on sturdy parchment.

   "An active dragon has made its home in the Dragonspine Mountains to the
northwest. Keep search parties away from the area so as not to catch the
dragon's attention."
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 57:

   A ratty piece of parchment with large writing on one side.

   "Our spies in the city inform us that a party of invaders will travel to
Sokal Keep to free it. To combat these invaders, assemble a force of no
less than three squads. Travel by boat from the small docks at the west of
town to Sokal Keep. Find the adventurers in or around Sokal Keep. Kill them
before they can return to the city council with information about the true
situation at the keep. Return with the invader's heads as proof of
completion of your mission. Upon completion you will be rewarded with food,
treasure, and many slaves."

   Signed,
   The Boss
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 58:

   A tattered piece of parchment.
 
      MOUNTAINS                SORCERER'S    FOREST
                                ISLAND
                FOREST                :
                                       :
      GRASS LAND                        ..        FOREST
                       FOREST             :
                                           :
                                         PHLAN
                                 WATER
 
================================================================================== 
                             TAVERN TALES
 
   The taverns of New Phlan are filled with scoundrels, con-men, and
adventurers - every one a liar and a gossip. The following tavern tales
represent such rumors and lies.
 
   When you are in a tavern, you may be referred to a particular tale by
number. Find and read that tale. If you really think of your adventurers as
rumor mongers, read all the tales.

   Some of these tales are true, some are based on truth, and some have
never been corrupted by a hint of truth. Even when a tavern tale is
referred to by number, it might be false.
 
   TALE 1: Far to the northeast, in the midst of a vast swamp, lie the
uninhabited ruins of a powerful wizard's castle.
 
   TALE 2: A drunk bard sits in a corner of the tavern spinning a seemingly
endless tale, but no one is listening.
 
   TALE 3: Wells throughout the city often provide access to hidden dens
and underground passages.
 
   TALE 4: An anglish lord commandeers one corner of the bar to lecture on
the ultimate range of his adventurers. The crowd ignores him.
 
   TALE 5: To the east of Phlan lies a gleaming castle of gold that shifts
its location from time to time.
 
   TALE 6: A weird looking wizard, dressed all in black, sits alone and
mumbles into his beer, "I'll return next time and show them all!"
 
   TALE 7: Great treasures are to be found on the banks of the Barren River
as one ventures northward.
 
   TALE 8: The graveyard is controlled by a very powerful and clever undead
creature.
 
   TALE 9: A puzzled patron with a limited vocabulary questions everyone he
comes across about how to complete a manuscript dated 1977 GUE.
Unfortunately, no one can help him.
 
   TALE 10: To the west lives a tribe of insect-men who worship normal men
and give valuable gifts to all who visit them.
 
   TALE 11: The Dragonspine Mountains are inhabited by a race of evil
dragons who lure travelers to their lairs and slay them.
 
   TALE 12: A bedraggled adventurer decries, "There was a man called
turtle, walls that aren't there, living daggers; I never did figure out
what was going on!"
 
   TALE 13: A master thief has set up a hidden training ground deep in the
old city, right under the noses of monsters.
 
   TALE 14: Ogres who live to the east of Phlan are holding captive a
princess for whom a huge reward has been offered.
 
   TALE 15: The merchants of Zhentil Keep are setting up a trading base far
to the west of Phlan. They're hiring caravan guards for good wages.
 
   TALE 16: Buccaneers operate a slave auction out of a hidden camp near
Stormy Bay.
 
   TALE 17: An old sage sits in a corner with a dark wizard. "You're
right," laughs the sage, "they'll do anything I tell them to, no matter how
silly or phantastic."
 
   TALE 18: Off to the east of Phlan roams a tribe of marauding nomads.
They have been pillaging villages in the plains with the help of a powerful
artifact they have discovered.
 
   TALE 19: Mighty tribes of wild dwarves, thousands of them, roam the
Dragonspine Mountains, destroying villagers and killing travelers.
 
   TALE 20: "I was totally confused; it was like being lost in the
darkness," sighed the overwrought adventurer. "Rabbits, hats, bowling
balls? Where in the realms was I?"
 
   TALE 21: The monsters in Phlan are led by one of the generals who sacked
the city a generation ago. The general has used great magic to make himself
immortal.
 
   TALE 22: A vast fortress of kobolds dominates the western tip of the
great swamp. These normally weak creatures grow to great size and have
extraordinary powers here.
 
   TALE 23: An ancient Silver Dragon still lives up in the Dragonspine
Mountains. The dragon is not evil and will help travelers who battle evil.
 
 
                              APPENDICES
 
   MONEY CONVERSIONS
 
   COIN TYPE     GOLD EQUIVALENT
   Copper        200 cp = 1 gp
   Silver        20 sp = 1 gp
   Electrum      2 ep = 1 gp
   Gold          1 gp = 1 gp
   Platinum      1/5 pp = 1 gp
 
SPELL LIST
   This is a listing of spells available to player character clerics and
magic-users as they gain in level.
 
   FIRST LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS
   Bless/Curse
   Cure Light Wounds/Cause Light Wounds
   Detect Magic
   Protection from Evil/Protection from Good
 
   SECOND LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS
   Find Traps
   Hold Person
   Resist Fire
   Silence 15' Radius
   Slow Poison
   Snake Charm
   Spiritual Hammer
 
   THIRD LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS
   Animate Dead
   Cure Blindness/Cause Blindness
   Cure Disease/Cause Disease
   Dispel Magic
   Prayer
   Remove Curse/Bestow Curse
 
   FIRST LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS
   Burning Hands
   Charm Person
   Detect Magic
   Enlarge/Reduce
   Friends
   Magic Missile
   Protection from Evil/Protection from Good
   Read Magic
   Shield
   Shocking Grasp
   Sleep
 
   SECOND LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS
   Detect Invisibility
   Invisibility
   Knock
   Mirror Image
   Ray of Enfeeblement
   Stinking Cloud
   Strength
 
   THIRD LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS
   Blink
   Dispel Magic
   Fireball
   Haste
   Hold Person
   Invisibility, 10' Radius
   Lightning Bolt
   Protection from Evil, 10' Radius/Protection from Good, 10' Radius
   Protection from Normal Missiles
   Slow
 
ARMOR LIST
 
                    Weight       Maximum
   Armor Type       in gp.  AC   Movement*
   None             0       0    -
   Shield, Small#   50      9    -
   Leather          150     8    12 squares
   Padded           100     8    9 squares
   Studded          200     7    9 squares
   Ring             250     7    9 squares
   Scale            400     6    6 squares
   Chain            300     5    9 squares
   Splint           400     4    6 squares
   Banded           350     4    9 squares
   Plate            450     3    6 squares
 
   *A character carrying many objects, including lots of coins, can be
further limited in movement to a minimum of 3 squares per turn.

   # A Shield subtracts 1 AC from any armor it's used with.
 
TABLE OF EXPERIENCE PER LEVEL

   The following shows the amount of experience a character must earn to
gain a level in his character class. All experience earned by
multiple-class characters is divided by the number of classes. When a
character has earned a gain in level for one class but not another, the
Show command shows his highest level. Thus, a character who is a
fighter-thief and has earned 1,800 experience points in each class (a total
of 3,600 XP), will be shown to be 2nd level because he has earned that
level as a thief, though not as a fighter. His fighting abilities are still
based on his being a 1st level fighter.
 
   CLERIC:                    Spells*

   Level    Experience        1  2  3
   1        0-1,500           1  -  -
   2        1,501-3,000       2  -  -
   3        3,001-6,000       2  1  -
   4        6,001-13,000      3  2  -
   5        13,001-27,500     3  3  1
   6        27,501-55,000     3  3  2

   *Clerics get additional Spells by Level if they have a Wisdom of 13 or
greater.
 
   FIGHTER:

   Level    Experience
   1        0-2,000
   2        2,001-4,000
   3        4,001-8,000
   4        8,001-18,000
   5        18,001-35,000
   6        35,001-70,000
   7        70,001-125,000
   8        125,001-250,000
 
   MAGIC-USER:                Spells

   Level    Experience        1  2  3
   1        0-2,500           1  -  -
   2        2,501-5,000       2  -  -
   3        5,001-10,000      2  1  -
   4        10,001-22,500     3  2  -
   5        22,501-40,000     4  2  1
   6        40,001-60,000     4  2  2
 
   THIEF:

   Level    Experience
   1        0-1,250
   2        1,251-2,500
   3        2,501-5,000
   4        5,001-10,000
   5        10,001-20,000
   6        20,001-42,500
   7        42,501-70,000
   8        70,001-110,000
   9        110,001-160,000
 
CLERICS vs. UNDEAD

   A good or evil cleric (not a neutral one) has a certain influence on
undead. He extends this influence by using the Turn command in the Combat
Menu. His level determines how many undead and what kind he can influence.
Evil clerics can make undead either neutral or friendly to the party. Good
clerics can drive the undead away and may be able to destroy them if the
cleric is of a high enough level and the undead are of a low-enough level.

   The following is a list of undead in increasing order of power and what
minimum level of cleric a character has to be to have any influence over
them. Low level clerics generally have a chance, not a certainty, of
affecting undead.
 
                      Minimum
   Undead Type       Level of Cleric
 
   Skeleton                1st
   Zombie                  1st
   Ghoul                   1st
   Wight                   1st
   Wraith                  3rd
   Mummy                   4th
   Spectre                 5th
   Vampire                 6th
 
GLOSSARY OF AD&D GAME TERMS AND COMPUTER TERMS
 
   ABILITY SCORES. These are numbers that describe the attributes of the
characters. There are six ability scores: Strength, Intelligence, Wisdom,
Dexterity, Constitution, and Charisma. For the most part, the range of
numbers runs from 3 to 18, the higher the better.
 
   ADVENTURER. This is a term for one of the characters you play in this
game.
 
   ALIGNMENT. This is the basic philosophy of a character. See Alignment in
the What are Characters? section of the rule book.
 
   CHARACTER. This is another name for one of the persons you play in the
game. A party consists of several characters.
 
   COMMAND. A one or two word option in a menu. Activating the command
allows you either to view another menu or have your characters perform an
action.
 
   ENCOUNTER. This is what happens when a party meets a monster. You are
given a menu of choices of how you want to handle the situation.
 
   ENTER. The act of giving a command to the computer. How this is done
varies depending on the computer.
 
   EXPERIENCE POINTS (XP). Every encounter the characters have yields
experience points for every character depending on how successful the
encounter was for the party. A character who gains enough XP can advance a
level if he has enough gold for training.
 
   FACING. In combat, a character faces a certain direction. An attack from
the direction he is not facing has a greater chance of doing damage. A
character will always face an opponent if he has only one opponent.
 
   HIT POINTS (HP). This is a measure of how healthy a character is. Damage
from weapons subtracts hit points from the characters total. When he has
lost all of his hit points, he is unconscious and dying. If his wounds are
bound by another party member, he is simply unconscious.
 
   ICON. This is the small picture of a monster or a character seen in the
initial stages of an encounter and during combat. Character icons can be
altered using the Alter command in the Camp Menu.
 
   INITIATIVE. This is a semi-random determination of which character in a
combat acts first. The characters with higher dexterities have a better
chance for a higher initiative.
 
   LEVEL. This describes the power of a number of different items. The
power of characters, dungeons, monsters, and spells are all described with
levels.
 
   CHARACTER LEVEL. This is a determination of how much experience a
character has. The higher the level, the more experienced and important the
character is. High-level spellcasters can cast high level spells.
 
   DUNGEON LEVEL. This is a measure of how far down in the earth a dungeon
is. For the most part, the further down one is, the more ferocious the
monsters. Thus, a high-level dungeon refers either to how deep it goes or
the relative toughness of the monsters.
 
   MONSTER LEVEL. This is a measure or how powerful monsters are. The
higher the level, the more powerful the monster.
 
   SPELL LEVEL. Spells come in degrees of difficulty. The higher the level
of the spell, the higher the difficulty. Only very experienced magic-users
and clerics can learn high level spells.
 
   MAGIC. This term covers spellcasting, enchanted items, and any other
application of the supernatural.
 
   MELEE COMBAT. This is hand-to-hand combat with weapons such as swords,
spears, and fists.
 
   MISSILE COMBAT. This is ranged combat with weapons such as bows and
arrows, crossbows and quarrels, and slings and slingstones.
 
   MONSTER. This term actually includes human and other player races as
well as such creatures as ogres and dragons. In general, if it isn't part
of your party, it's a monster. Monsters are not necessarily hostile. Some
may be helpful. That's what the Parlay command in the Encounter Menu is
for.
 
   NON-PLAYER CHARACTER (NPC). This is a member of a player character race
who is not controlled by the player. Some NPCs can be brought into a party.
 
   PARTY. The group of adventurers you form to perform the missions you are
given. A party can be reformed for each adventure, and even altered during
the course of an adventure.
 
   PLAYER CHARACTER (PC). This is a member of a player character race who
is controlled by the player. The characters in your adventuring party are
PCs.
 
   SPELL. This is a magic incantation that can alter the nature of reality.
Both magic-users and clerics can cast spells after memorizing them. If the
spell is cast, it is gone from the user's mind and must be re-memorized.
 
   SPELL BOOK. The book a magic-user carries his spells in. If he doesn't
have a magic book, he has no spells to memorize.
 
            ARMOR AND WEAPONS PERMITTED BY CHARACTER CLASS
 
   Class        Armor      Shield      Weapons
 
   Cleric       any        any         club, flail, hammer, mace, staff
   Fighter      any        any         any
   Magic-User   none       none        dagger, dart, staff
   Thief        leather    none        club, dagger, dart, sling, one
                                       handed swords
 
                              WEAPON LIST
 
   Name                                Damage vs.   Number
                       Damage vs.     Larger Than     of
                       Man Sized       Man Sized     Hands        Class

   Axe, Hand              1-6             1-4          1            f
   Bardiche+              2-8             3-12         2            f
   Bastard Sword          2-8             2-16         2            f
   Battleaxe              1-6             1-8          1            f
   Bec de Corbin+         1-6             1-6          2            f
   Bill-Gulsarme+         2-8             1-10         2            f
   Bo Stick               1-6             1-3          2            f
   Broad Sword            2-6             2-7          1          f,th
   Club                   1-6             1-3          1         f,cl,th
   Dagger                 1-4             1-3          1         f,mu,th
   Dart                   1-3             1-2          1         f,mu,th
   Fauchard+              1-6             1-8          2            f
   Fauchard-Fork+         1-8             1-10         2            f
   Flail                  2-7             2-6          1          f,cl
   Fork, Military+        1-6             2-8          2            f
   Glaive+                1-6             1-10         2            f
   Glaive, Guisarme+      2-8             2-12         2            f
   Guisarme+              2-8             1-6          2            f
   Guisarme-Voulge+       2-8             2-8          2            f
   Halberd+               1-10            2-12         2            f
   Lucern Hammer+         2-8             1-6          2            f
   Hammer                 2-5             1-4          1          f,cl
   Javelin                1-6             1-6          1            f
   Jo Stick               1-6             1-4          1            f
   Long Sword             1-8             1-12         1          f,th
   Mace                   2-7             1-6          1          f,cl
   Morning Star           2-8             2-7          1            f
   Partisan+              1-6             2-7          2            f
   Pick, Military         2-5             1-4          1            f
   Pike, Awl+             1-6             2-12         1            f
   Quarterstaff           1-6             1-6          2         f,cl,mu
   Ranseur+               2-8             2-8          2            f
   Scimitar               1-8             1-8          1          f,th
   Short Sword            1-6             1-8          1          f,th
   Spear                  1-6             1-8          1            f
   Spetum+                2-7             2-12         2            f
   Trident                2-7             3-12         1            f
   Two-Handed Sword       1-10            3-18         2            f
   Voulge+                2-8             2-8          2            f
   Composite Long Bow*    1-6             1-6          2            f
   Composite Short Bow*   1-6             1-6          2            f
   Long Bow*              1-6             1-6          2            f
   Heavy Crossbow #       2-5             2-7          2            f
   Light Crossbow #       1-4             1-4          2            f
   Short Bow*             1-6             1-6          2            f
   Sling                  1-4             1-4          1          f,th
 
   + Polearm    * Must have ready arrows to fire
   # Must have ready quarrels to fire.
   f=fighter, cl=cleric, th=thief, mu=magic-user
=============================================================================
                       ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS  

                     P O O L   O F   R A D I A N C E
                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------------------
CHARACTERS AND THE PARTY
------------------------

 WHAT ARE CHARACTERS?

 You create characters to accomplish quests in the Forgotten Realms.
Characters are differentiated by their Race, Ability Scores, and Class.
Several characters are needed to accomplish the missions presented
here. These characters make up a Party. For maximum flexibility, you
should have a balanced party with characters of different classes and
races.

THE SIX PLAYER RACES IN Pool of Radiance
Dwarf. This is a cunning race of sturdy workers and craftsmen. They
have no magic of their own, but are resistant to magic. Dwarves can
advance up to 9th level as fighters, and any level as thieves. They
can be fighters and thieves at the same time. Dwarves can see in the
dark using infravision.

Elf. This is a long-lived race. As tall as humans but slimmer, they can
be fighters, magic-users, thieves, fighter/magic-users, fighter/
thieves, magic-user/thieves, and fighter/magic-user/thieves. They can
advance to 7th level as fighters and 11th level as magic-users, and
any level as thieves. Elves also have a better chance of finding hidden
objects and can see in the dark using infravision.

Gnome. Members of this race are shorter and slimmer than their cousins
the dwarves. They can go up to 6th level as fighters, and any level as
thieves. They can be fighter/thieves.

Half-Elf. These hybrids have many of the virtues of both humans and
elves. Like elves, they can be more than one class at once, though
they can advance only to 8th level as magic-users and 8th level as
fighters. Like humans, half-elves can be clerics, and unlike humans,
combine that class with other classes.

Halfling. These folk are about half the size of a human, hence their
name. They have little ability with magic, but are resistant to its
influences. They can be fighters, thieves, and fighter/thieves. They
are limited to becomming 6th level fighters, but have no limits as
thieves.

Humans. This is the most common player-race in the Forgotten Realms.
They have unlimited progression as fighters, magic-users, clerics, and
thieves.

Ability Scores
 The computer randomly generates the ability scores that every
adventurer has. There are six ability scores; all have some effect on
the play of the character. Ability scores are based on a range from
3(low) to 18(high). Each Character Class(see below) has a Prime
Requisite ability score. A Prime Requisite of 15 or more increases the
amount of Experience (see below) the character gets from adventures.

Strength(Str). This is the measure of how much a character can carry
and how much damage he can do in a fight. The Prime Requisite for
fighters is strength. Fighters with an 18 strength also have a percent
value from 1 to 100 (listed as 01-00), denoting the highest possible
natural character strength.

Intelligence(Int). This is the measure of how much a character can
ultimately memorize. The Prime Requisite for magic-users is
intelligence.

Wisdom(Wis). This is the measure of a character's ability to understand
the ways of the world and interact with it. The Prime Requisite for
clerics is wisdom.

Dexterity(Dex). This is the measure of the manual dexterity and agility
of the character. The Prime Requisite for thieves is dexterity.

Constitution(Con). This is the measure of the overall health of a
character. It influence both Hit Points (see below) and the character's
chance of surviving the effects of a raise-dead spell.

Charisma(Cha). This is the measure of how well the character. It is
sometimes a factor when the character has an encounter with Non-Player
Characters, usually called NPCs.

Each character also have two other important values: Hit Points and
Experience Points.

Hit Points(HP). This characteristic is derived from a character's
constitution (he gains a bonus to his Hit Points per level if his
constitution is over 14) his level, and his character is hit in combat,
he loses HP. A character with many HP can survive far longer in combat
than one with few HP. When a character reaches 0 HP he is Unconscious
and may be Dying or Dead, depending on how much damage he has taken.

Experience Points(XP). As a character has adventures, kills monsters,
and accumulates treasures, he gains Experience Points. When he has
enough XP he can increase in level, becomming more proficient in his
class. The computer keeps track of XP. Every character starts at first
level with 0 XP.

CHARACTER CLASSES
 An adventurer must be at least one of the following character classes.
A human adventurer can only be one class, non-humans can combine
classes. A character with combined classes has more playing options,
but he advances more slowly in his professions because he is doing more
than one thing at a time and his XP are divided up among his classes.

Cleric. The cleric is a holy crusader who fights for the causes of his
religion. Due to religious restrictions, he cannot use a cutting weapon
that draws blood, such as a sword or an arrow, but can use any form of
armour and use crushing weapons, such as a mace. He casts holy spells
that can heal and support his friends and also uses his natural holy
power to drive away undead. Some magic items are actually holy objects
that only a cleric can use. A cleric gains 1-8 HP with every advance in
level to 9th level, plus any constitution bonus. From 10th level on, he
adds 2 HP per level, without constitution bonus.

Fighter. THe fighter can use any form of armor or weapon including
magic ones, but most other magical items, and all magical spells, are
beyond him. A fighter gains 1-10 HP plus constitution bonus with each
advance in level through 9th level. With the 10th level, he gains 3 HP
per level without constitution bonus.

Magic-User. The magic-user is potentially the most powerful character
class, but he starts out weak. Initially, he has very few HP. In
addition, he cannot memorize many spells, and must carefully husband
his few spells until he gains more through advancement in level.

The beginning magic-user is given four first-level spells in his magic
book. He can add one additional spell in his magic book every time he
advances a level. He can also scibe spells into his magic book from
scrolls he finds inthe course of his adventures.
 In this game, magic-users cannot use any form of armor or any weapon
other than a dagger or staff. However, there are many magic items only
a magic-user can use. A magic-user gains 1-4 HP with every advance in
level through 11th level, plus constitution bonus. At 12th level and
beyond the gains only 1 HP per further level.

Thief. This is the thief of the sagas, who uses trickery and
misdirection-instead of brute force-to win his objective. This is the
only profession in which demi-humans may climb as far as any human.
Indeed, halflings and elves are especially adept in this craft. To be a
proficient thief, a character must have a high dexterity.

Thieves must stick to leather-based armor and have a restricted list of
weapons. A thief gains 1-6 HP with every advance in level, plus
constitution bonus, through 10th level. They gain 2 HP, without
constitution bonus, per level thereafter.

Multiple Classes. Non-humen races can sometimes be a combination of
classes. When a character is more than one class, his HP per level are
averaged among the classes involved. However, his experience is split
between the two classes evenwhen he cannot further advance in one of
them. He gains all the benefits of both classes in regard to weapons
and equipment.

Alignments
 Alignment is the philosophy a character lives by. While the actions of
a character are under your control, the character's alignment can
affect how NPCs in the game view him. The computer provides all the
possible all the possible Alignments for a character and you can choose
any of those you wish.

Lawful Good. Followers of this alignment strictly interpret law and
order, but they use these principles to bring all the benefits to the
society.

Lawful Neutral. Followers of this alignment view regulation as
all-important, taking a middle road between good and evil.

Lawful Evil. Followers of this alignment believe in the rulership of
the strong and the enslavement of the weak.

Neutral Good. The follower of this alignment believes there must be
some regulation in combination with freedoms if the  best is to be 
brought to the world.

True Neutral. A follower of this alignment believes that everything
must be kept in balance-law and chaos, and good and evil-to maintain
world harmony.

Neutral Evil. The follower of this alignment considers law and chaos to
be minor considerations as long as evil is brought to the world.

Chaotic Good. Followers of this alignment value randomness and freedom,
but also value life and individual welfare.

Chaotic Evil. The Chaotic Evil character disdains laws and order,
kindness and good deeds. He seeks positions of power, glory, and
prestige in a system ruled by his own whims.

Starting Equipment
 Each character is assumed to have starting equipment including
clothes, boots, backpack, money pouch, food, water, tinderbox, and
flint and steel. The character's on-screen list of items only includes
important items such as weapons, armor and magic items.

----------------
PLAYING THE GAME
----------------

 To play Pool of Radiance you need a party of characters. You can use
the party of characters provided or you can create your own.

Creating A Party Of Characters:
 A party is a group of characters you have generated and saved to the
save game disk for use in missions. You may have up to 6 Player
Characters in your party at a time. You can control up to 8 characters
in a game, but the remaining two slots are left open for NPCs your
characters may hire or meet along the way.

 When starting a game, the first screen you see is one with positions
for the vital information about the characters in the party and a menu
with all the ways putting together an adventuring party. This is the
Party Creation Menu.

Party Creation Menu:

Create New Character
Drop Character
Modify Character
Train Character
View Character
Add Character To Party
Remove Character From Party
Load Saved Game
Save Current Game
Begin Adventuring
Exit To DOS

The following describes the results of using each command.

Create New Character
 This is the opportunity to build an adventurer from scratch. This
leads you through a series of menues to help you define the character.

Pick Race Menu. This gives you the choice of the six races a
player-character can be in the Forgotten Realms.

Pick Gender. After you pick a character's race, you pick their gender.
Gender affects the possible strenght of a character and what sort of
portraits you will have to choose from to represent the character.

The computer then randomly generates the ability scores that every
adventurer has. Once you have seen the ability scores, you may have the
computer roll again and it will randomly generate a different
character. Otherwise, you may accept the rolls, and take the character
as generated.

If you accept the rolls, you still have the opportunity to alter the
character from the AD&D game by using the Modify Character command
described later.

Pick Character Class. This gives you the choice of the class or classes
your character is qualified for based on his race and ability scores.

Pick Alignment. From this menu the computer provides all the possible
Alignments for a character. You can choose the one you wish.

Name Character. Your choice of name for a character is entirely up to
you. You cannot use more than 15 letters in a name.
 The computer displays the complete character screen and gives you a
chance to save the character. If you save the character, it is written
to the save game disk to become one of the regular characters you play.
 At this time the computer genrates a portrait of your character. You
can choose both the head and body of your character's portrait. You
then choose the weapon, head, and colors for your character's combat
icon (the figure that represents the character in combat). Refer to the
Encamp section for instructions on how to alter combat icons.

Exit. From any of these menus this command brings you back to the Party
Creation Menu.

Drop Character
 This command is only used when you never want to play with a
particular character again. It eliminates the character's record from
the save disk and leaves a space in which you can create a new
character to fill.

Modify Character
 You may bring your favorite beginning AD&D character into the Pool of
Radiance. Create a character of the proper race and class and then
modify it to match your non-computer AD&D character. You can adjust the
created character's ability scores and HP. The character must start at
0 XP and with no items beyond those he can buy with his initial gold
allowance.

Train Character
 Use this command when a character has attained enough experience to
advance a level. this is available at the start of an adventure and
when the party travels to the Guild to get training.
 The computer asks who is to train, and checks the current XP of the
character. If he has sufficient points, the computer subtracts the cost
of the training from the character's current money and the character
advances a level. This takes no game time.
 A character can only advance as high as the highest level character
willing to train him. In the Training Hall of Phlan, the maximum limits
are 8th level fighter, 9th level thief, and 6th level cleric and magic-
user.

View Character
 this allows you to View a Character as descriped under that heading
below.

Add Character To Party
 This command allows you to pick party members from previously used
characters that are on a save game disk.

Remove Character From Party
 Since a party may only include 6 player characters, you can use this
command to write a character to the save game disk and then substitute
another with the Add Character To Party command. The Saved character
will replace the previous entry for that character on the save game
disk.

Load Saved Game
 This command brings up a precious adventuring party from the save game
disk.

Save Current Game
 This command puts the group you are currently construction onto the
save game disk for future reference. Then some versions will allow you
to exit the game.

Begin Adventuring
 When your party is ready to go, use this command to return to the
game. Follow the on-screen messages to get back into the game and you
are ready to go with your new party of adventurers.

Non-Player Characters (NPCs):
 In the course of a game, the party can run into many characters
controlled by the computer. They may talk to the party, attack the
party, and even offer to join the party. These are known as Non-Player
Characters, or NPCs.
 There are three kinds of NPCs: those you can hire at the Training Hall
to adventure with your party, filling in the two slots possible in a
party that you cannot fill with player characters; those who volunteer
to join the party for a specific mission or quest; and those who won't
join the party but will give either information or a fight.

What You Can Do With NPCs
 NPCs that want to join you are treated like your player characters,
with a few differences. Remember that you only have room for 2 NPCs if
you have a full party of 6 player characters. During an adventure you
may find NPCs that you want to add to your party. You should seldom
have more than 7 characters in your party so there is room to add the
NPC.
 The computer commands NPCs in battle. They have Morale. If things are
going badly for the party, they may run, even if you don't want them
to.
 You can give NPCs treasure, which may help their morale, but you
cannot trade their items to other characters. If they die, however, you
can use the Trade Items function to take their items.

Loyalty
 NPCs can also be traitors insinuated into your party, depending on the
way the adventure goes. They can spy on you and give information to
your enemies, and even turn on you in battle. NPCs can be a big help,
but don't trust them in every situation.

--------------------
VIEWING A CHARACTER
--------------------

The Character Screen:
 The character screen appears whenever you use the View command. The
character screen displays the character's name, race, and age. It also
displays his alignment, character class, and ability score. The current
wealth of the character is also shown. Initially, the computer
generates a random number between 30 and 180 in gold pieces, which the
character can use in buying his equipment. Later, as the character
accumulates wealth through his adventuring, there are several entries
on the screen showing the copper pieces (cp), silver pieces (sp),
electrum pieces (ep), gold pieces (gp), platinum pieces (pp), gems and
jewelry vary and are found when they are appraised.
 The screen also shows the character's current level, his earned XP,
and his current HP. If the HP are higlighted, the character has taken
damage that has not been healed. The number shown is his current HP,
not his normal Hp. Once the character has healed all the damage, the
number reverts to normal.
 The Armor Class is shown as AC; the lower the AC number, the better
the armor. Then it shows the character's Ready weapon and what armor he
is wearing. This is followed by the character's To Hit AC O (THACO).
 The lower the character's THACO, the better fighter he is. This is
followed by the damage the character does, which depends on his
strength and the wepon he has ready.
 The last entry is the Character Status. This is an indication of the
current health of the character. The Character Status can be:

Ok
 The character has positive HP and can move and fight normally.

Unconscious
 The character has exactly 0 HP. He cannot move or fight, but is in no
danger of dying.

Dying
 The character will die in a short period of time unless the character
is bandaged or healing magic is applied. If the character is bandaged
his status changes to Unconscious. Healing magic will make him OK
again. In the course of a combat, a character who is Dying has a chance
of becoming Dead unless he is bandaged (see Combat). A character who
survives a combat in Dying status is automatically assumed to have his
wounds bandaged after combat and becomes Unconscious.

Dead
 The character has died. He will be brought with the party (assume he
is set down during any combat) and can possibly be resurrected with a
raise dead spell from an NPC cleric. The character's actual chance of
being raised when the spell is used depends on his constitution.

Fled
 The character fled from the previous battie. After a battle is over,
he can rejoin the party as if nothing had happened, and regain his
previous status.

Gone
 The character has been destroyed by dragon flame, a disintegrate
spell, or some other form of total destruction. He cannot be raised
from the Dead.

 View Options:
 To inspect the active character choose the View Command. This brings
up the View Menu.

View Menu:
 View: ITEMS SPELLS TRADE DROP EXIT

Items 
 Using this command allows you to see what items the character is
carrying. The character's items and their combat ready status are
displayed. An item that is not Ready cannot be used. Not all commands
in the Item Menu are always available.

Item Menu:
 READY USE TRADE DROP HALVE JOIN SELL ID EXIT

 Ready. If you want to ready or unready an item, you can use the Ready
command to change the status of the weapon, armor, or other item. A
character has several restrictions on what he can use. Basically, he
cannot use more than two hand-held items at once. Thus, he cannot have
ready a sword, a shield, and a bow at the same time. Arrows are assumed
to be in a quiver and can be Readied at all times, though they cannot
be used unless a bow is Readied as well.

 Use. This command means the character is going to use an item. In
Combat, you will be asked to indicate the target (see Combat for
targeting) and proceed back to the Combat Menu.

 Trade. If you use this command, the screen switches to the Party
Screen and asks which character and the screen switches back to the
Items Screen.
 Indicate which item (you can trade multiple items in one transaction)
is to go to the other character and the item disappears from the
trading character's list and reappears on the item list of the
receiving character. Remember that an NPc does not give up an item once
he has it, unless he is dead.

 Drop. If this command is used on an item, the item is gone. It cannot
be retrieved. Do not use this if you want to give the item to someone
else, that's what the Trade command is for.

 Halve. Multiple items such as arrows are often combined onto one line,
such as 42 Arrows. Halve creates two lines, each with half the number
of items; such as two lines each with 21 Arrows. Only items like
arrows, that are shown as several items on one line, can be halved.

 Join. This is the opposite of Halve. If you have several lines of
arrows or a similar item on the Items screen, you can use this command
on one line and all similar lines are joined with it. The number of
items shown is the total of the numbers in all the former lines. No
more than 250 of an item can be joined on one line. NOTE: The Ready
status (Yes or No) of the item depends on the line that all the others
are joined with.

 Sell. This command is described under the Shop Menu.

 ID. This command is descriped under the Shop Menu.

Spells
 This is a listing of what spells a magic-user or cleric has memorized
and is ready to cast (see Magic Menu).

Trade
 This command is used when you want to transfer money from one
character to another. Indicate which character you are trading with,
and then indicate which coins and how much are to go to the other
character. The coins disappear from the trading character's list and
reappear on the money record of the receiving character.

Drop
 If this command is used on money, the money is gone. It cannot be
retreived.
 After you create your party, you appear in the civilized section of
Phlan. The party is ready to begin adventuring.

Missions:
 Phlan is a very dangerous place. The civilized nations are only now
gaining a foothold. You can either wander around town and run across
dangerous situations, or report to the City Council of Phlan. They will
assign the party missions and give rewards when the missions are
completed. Initial missions are local in nature, later ones are more
ambitious to match both your increased expertise and their opinion of
you. Phlan is split into two sections; the civilized section is
controlled by the settlers and the uncivilized section is controlled by
monsters. After you clear all the monsters from a block, settlers move
in and it becomes civilized.

Points Of View:
 As you move around the town and the wilder ness, there are three
different points of view: 3-D, Area and Wilderness.

3-D
 This appears with the Adventure Menu any time you are in town,
underground, or in any other built-up area. It shows a view of the
surrounding area as seen by the party. It only shows one direction at a
time, so you must rotate the party using the directional controls (see
Adventure Menu) to see in each direction. At the same time, the screen
shows what compass direction the party is facing and the coordinates of
their location in their current block.

Area
 This option is given in the Adventure Menu when the 3-D view is shown
on the screen. This view shows the position of the party and an
overhead view of the surrounding area. It can only be obtained in a 3-D
view, it does not appear in the Wilderness. There is no real detail,
just the position of all major obstructions such as walls, trees,
water, etc. A cursor shows the position of the party.

Wilderness
 This screen shows when the party is traveling in the Wilderness. It
displays an image of the party moving through a map-like wilderness.
It shows the area around the party for 2 moves in each direction. If
there is an encounter in the wilderness, an image of the encountered
monster appears next to the icon showing the location of the party.
You will be given all the usual options for the encounter (see
Encounters).

Blocks
 Most adventures take place in one or more blocks of 16 squares by 16
squares. The party moves from block to block by moving into a long
corridor with a low ceiling. Stairs and caves with low ceilings may
also move the party from one block to another.

Time And The Party
 From the moment the party begins its adventures in Phlan, the clock is
ticking. The longer it takes a party to complete a mission, the harder
it becomes.

Moving Around:
 The first thing a new party must do is equip itself from the Shops.
Then it has to get to the scene of its adventures. There are two ways
of doing this.

Town Travel
 You can walk the party to in-town missions, having encounters along
the way.

Wilderness Travel
 Some missions involve locations away from Phlan. The party travels in
the Wilderness Point of View until they reach the location of the
mission. The computer keeps track of the time traveled.

Civilization:
 The civilized section of Phlan contains a number of locations of
interest to the party. In the civilized section the party can find out
information, train, rest and heal, and buy and sell equipment.

The City Council
 This is where the characters meet the Council and receive missions and
news.

The Docks
 The party may catch a boat at the docks to take them to otherwise
inaccessible blocks and into the wilderness.

The Inns
 These give a safe haven in which to Rest (using the Encamp Menu). Each
stay at an Inn costs monay, but once you begin your stay you can rest
as long as you like.

The Taverns
 These are rowdy places full of gossip, stories, and information.

The Training Hall
 This is where the characters can receive training from NPCs of higher
level and add starting PCs. This displays the Party Creation Menu so
that you can use the Train Character command.

The Shops
 Here the characters can buy their initial equipment and later sell
some of their treasure and upgrade their equipment. When you enter a
shop, you are presented with a Shop Menu.

Shop Menu:
 BUY VIEW TAKE POOL SHARE APPRAISE EXIT

 Buy. If you use this command, the computer displays a list of items
available and their cost. If you try to buy something you do not have
the money for, the computer tells you so. If you try to buy something
that will overload you, the computer tells you that, too.

 View. This is the same screen as shown for this commands in other
menus with the addition of the Appraise command in the VIew Menu, and
the Sell and ID commands in the Items Menu.

 Sell. Use the cursor to highlight any item you want to sell. The Shop
will make an offer and you can either sell or not. If you decide to
sell, the screen asks you one more time to be sure, then the item is
gone.

 The shops in Phlan are very busy; no item sold to a merchant remains
for long. If you sell an item, it won't be there when you go back.

 ID. This command is used to get a magical evaluation of a magic item.
The shop charges you for the service of identifying the magic on an
item.

 Take. If you have left money through the Pool or Drop commands, you
can use this command to pick it up again. Indicate that you want to
take money and who will take it. The computer then displays each type
of coin available and how many of each coin there are. You indicate how
many of thecoins the character take. One character can take all of the
coins if he has the strength to do so, or you can allow each character
to take a share.

 If you try to pick up more than the character can carry, the screen
displays a message saying "The character is overloaded" and will not
let any more coins be put on the character. Remember, carrying lots of
coinage slows a character down in combat.

 Pool. This command makes all the party members drop all of their money
into one pool of money. All purchases made at the shop come out of this
central pool.
Anything left over can be picked up again using the Take Menu.

 Share. This command picks up all the money in the pool, divides it
into shares, and distributes it among the characters.

 Appraise. This is used in Shops to get an appraisal of any gems and
jewelry the character has. The computer asks what gems and jewelry are
to be appraised, and offers a price on the indicated gem or jewelry.
Once you have received a price, you may take it and the item is sold.
The money is immediately put in your money record. If you do not want
to sell immediately (gems and jewelry are a lot easier to carry than
coins), the gems and jewelry become items and go from the money record
on the Character Screen to the items list, and can be sold off of that
lists like any other item.

The Temples
 The temple will cast clerical healing spells for a price. When you
enter the temple, the Temple Menu is presented. Except for Heal, the
commands on the Temple Menu are the same as those on the Shop Menu.

Temple Menu:
 HEAL VIEW TAKE POOL SHARE APPRAISE EXIT

Heal. This command displays a list of the healing spells the clerics
will cast. Indicate the spell you want cast. The computer displays the
cost and asks you to confirm that you still want them to cast the
spell. The cost of a spell may vary depending on the recipient and
circumstances.


ADVENTURE MENU

 The Adventure Menu allows access to all of the main functions in the
Pool of Radiance. This menu shows either the current 3-D picture of the
area in front of the party and the status of the party (if in a town
adventure), or the area around the party (if in the wilderness). If any
party members are injured, their hit point numbers (showing how many
they have now) are highlighted for easy recognition. There are several
commands available to you from this menu.

Adventure Menu:
 MOVE VIEW CAST AREA ENCAMP SEARCH LOOK

Move:
 This is the command to move the party.

 In 3-D travel, the Party can move forward, move backwards, turn right,
or turn left. Normally, each movement forward or back puts the party
into another square and takes one minute of game time. Turning keeps
the party in the same square and takes no game time. If the party has
Search on, moving one square takes 10 minutes.
In the Wilderness, the party can move in any of eight directions.
Moving one square takes a half a day of game time. Search mode has no
effect in the wilderness.

View:
 This displays the Character Screen, as described in Viewing a
Character.

Cast:
 This command sends you to the Cast Menu so your active character can
throw a magic spell. See the section on Magic for a description of how
to cast spells and their effect.

Area:
 This shows an overhead view of the area around the party. If the party
is lost or in unfamiliar territory this command may not be available.

Encamp:
 This command sends you to the Encamp Menu. This is a very important
part of the game, and is described in detail in its own section.

Search:
 A party can move in Search Mode, which takes 10 minutes of game time
per move. This allows the party to carefully search the area they are
passing, but also gives wandering monsters a greater chance to find
them. You only need to hit the Search command once to start the party
moving at Search speed, then hit the command again later to reset them
to normal movement. You do not need to hit Search for every move.
 In Search you are assumed to be checking for secret doors, mapping,
moving as silently as possible, hiding in any available shadows, and
generally being as creful as possible.
 If you never go to Search mode, you will run into fewer wandering
monsters (because you are moving faster) but have much less chance of
finding concealed treasures or traps before they are sprung.

Look:
 This command is used to look at a square more closely, as if your
party moved into the square again. If the party is moving at normal
rate, then a Look command treats that particular square as if the
party moved into it in Search mode.


ENCAMP

 This command is used in several menus to take time off and try to
rebuild characters and the party. It is used to handle day-to-day
functions such as saving the game, resting to heal, or memorize spells
(desribed under Magic Menu), and changing game items such as game speed
or party order.

Encamp Menu:
 Encamp: SAVE VIEW MAGIC REST ALTER EXIT

Save:
 This command saves the characters and game as they are.

View:
 This displays the View Menu, as described under Viewing a Character.
In camp, this does not display the Sell Item or ID commands.

Magic:
 Magic is a very important part of Pool of Radiance and is desribed
later under its own heading. Magical Spells canonly be memorized while
the party is in camp.

Rest:
 One of the most important aspects of the Encamp Menu is the chance to
rest. Characters catch their normal sleep without having to go to camp.
However, to memorize spells or heal naturally, specific rest time is
necessary.
 For every 24 uninterrupted hours of resting in camp, every wounded
character regains one hit point above and beyond any recovery gained
from healing magics.
 The initial resting time is established by anyone who is memorizing
spells. The screen will show the days, hours, and minutes necessary for
the spell-using members of the party to memorize (or pray for) the
spells they want to memorize.
 Memorizing any spells at all takes a minimum of four hours. Third
level spells take a minimum of six hours. See the Magic Menu for
further description of memorizing spells.
 Rest can be interrupted by any random encounter. Only take long rests
in safe places, such as inns, hideouts, or secure buildings.

Rest Menu:
 REST INCREASE DECREASE EXIT

Rest
 Once you have determined the full time you want the party to rest,
this command starts them Resting.

Increase
 This command adds to the time that the party will stay in camp,
usually for resting to regain lost hit points. Every 24 uninterrupted
hours in camp restores 1 HP to every injured member of the group.

Decrease
 This command decreases the time to be spent in camp. This may mean
that characters do not memorize all the spells they want or that
characters may not recover all their hit points, but sometimes time
constraits are part of the adventure, and the party cannot spend all
the time it wants resting.

Alter:
 This command is used to change the basic makeup of both the party and
the characters who are part of it. You are given the following menu:

Alter Menu:
 Alter: ORDER DROP SPEED ICON PICS EXIT

Order
 This command allows you to reorganize your characters for combat. You
can place characters in the first or second rank. The first four
characters are in the first rank, where they will meet enemies hand-to-
hand , the rest are in the second rank, where they can use spells and
missile weapons.
 The computer asks who takes position number 1, etc. and reforms the
group, with position #1 on top, when all the choices are made. Position
of NPCs can be changed with this command.

Drop
 This command allows you to permanently drop a character or NPC from
the party. Once dropped, the character is gone from the party and his
current version will not be saved if you then use the Save command to
save the game.

Speed
 This command controls the speed of messages presented on the screen.
If you are having trouble reading messages before they disappear, use
the Slower command. If messages seem to take forever to get off the
screen, use the Faster command. Note that once you have used this
command, it affects all subsequent messages, and you may have to re-use
the command if later messages are too fast or too slow.

Speed Menu:
 Speed: SLOWER FASTER EXIT

Icon
 When a character is created, he is given a combat icon. When the party
is in Combat, each party members icon dsignates hit position and
general facing on the screen.
 The icon command is used to change the character's Icon. You can
customize this icon to represent the character's favorite weapons,
armor, and colors. You may want to do this when the character picks up
a new weapon.

Icon Menu:
 Icon: PARTS COLOR SIZE EXIT

Parts. You can alter the weapon (which controls the rest of the body
shape) or the head of the icon. You are shown both the Ready icon
character and the character's Action Icon (which shows the character
attacking).
When you are done choosing the weapon and head, you can reject the new
form or accept it. The screen shows you the new and old versions of the
Ready and Action Icons.

Parts Menu:
 Parts: WEAPON HEAD EXIT

Color. You use Color to alter the color of virtually every part of the
Icon, as shown on the screen. Some of the areas you can alter on the
Icons do not correspond to the terms given in the menu. For instance,
changing the shield color for a character with a bow or crossbow
actually changes the color of the arrows or quarrels. Play with the
Icons commands until you get a feel for how these variables work.

Color Menu:
WEAPON BODY CAP HAIR SHIELD ARM LEG EXIT

Size. Large size Icons are usually used for humans, elves, and half-
elves. Small size Icons are usually used for dwarves, gnomes, and
halflings.

Size Menu:
Size: LARGE/SMALL EXIT

Exit. When you are done, use this command. The computer will ask you to
confirm any changes to your icons. Make your choice and the computer
returns to the Alter Menu.

Pics
 This command governs when character band encounter pictures will be
displayed.

Pics Menu:
 Pics: CHARACTERS ON/OFF MONSTERS ON/OFF EXIT

Characters ON/OFF. This command governs the portraits displayed with
the character statistics when you use the View command. Characters On
shows the pictures when you view a character; Characters Off hides the
pictures. Having the characters hidden slightly speeds up the game
since the computer does not have to take the time to load or draw the
portrait each time.

Monsters ON/OFF. This command governs the pictures that appear during
encounters. Monsters On shows the animated picture when the monsters
get to the closest range in an encounter; Monsters Off hides the
animated pictures.


ENCOUNTERS

 When a party comes across NPCs of any knid, there is an encounter. The
computer provides a quick glimpse of who the party has encountered,
then asks whar you want to do.
 The computer determines whether both partless see each other, the NPCs
surprise the party, or the party surprises the NPCs.
 If the party surprised the NPCs, the party can attack immediately,
getting a free round to attack in which the NPcs cannot retaliate. This
opportunity must be taken at once or surprise is lost.
 If hostile NPCs surprise the party, the NPCs can attack immediately
and get a series of attacks in without retaliation by the party.
 If the NPCs do not surprise the party, the computer offers these
commands.

Encounter Menu:
 Encounter: COMBAT WAIT FLEE ADVANCE/PARLAY

Combat:
 The party attacks the NPCs. Who goes first is decided on the basis of
initiative, which is explained in the Combat section.

Wait:
 This command allows the NPCs to decide what to do. They may wait,
combat, flee, advance (if more than a square away) or parlay (if in the
same square).

Flee:
 If you see NPCs you think your party cannot fight successfully, use
this command to run away. If successful, you may flee wildly, risking
getting lost. If unsuccessful (because the NPCs can move faster than
you do) you go to combat.

Advance:
 If the NPCs are far away use this command to approach them. Once the
NPCs are adjacent to the party the Advance command will be replaced
with the Parlay command.

Parlay:
 Use this command to speak with NPCs that are adjacent to the party.
Choose a character to speak for the party. Pick the character who you
think will make the best impression on the NPcs. Then, choose one of
five possible attitudes for dealing with the NPCs.

Parlay Menu:
Parlay: HAUGHTY SLY MEEK NICE ABUSIVE

Haughty
 You try to demostrate your superiority to the inferior creatures you
are dealing with. Some encounters only respect an air of superiority
and are impressed enough to coorporate; this is also a good way to make
them resentful and attack.

Sly
 You try to get information out of the NPCs without them realizing you
are doing so. Some NPCs will realize you are trying to get something
out of them and will become hostile.

Meek
 You are mild and unassuming in hopes that the NPCs will think you are
not worth atacking. Of course, some NPCs attack meek opponents, because
they are easy pickings.

Nice
 You try to be friendly in hopes the NPCs are friendly to you. Some
NPCs do not choose to be friendly to anyone.

Abusive
 You try to browbeat information out of the NPCs. It is best not to do
this unless you have the power to back up your threat.

 The computer assumes you are as effective as possible in the attitude
you call for.


COMBAT

 In many adventures the party will have to fight to defeat the enemy.
In combat the computer determines which characters (both player
characters and NPCs) have initiative (i.e. which goes first) and
depicts that person and his nearby compatriots.
 If the character is a PC then the player will control his actions. If
the character is an NPC, or a PC under computer control using the Quick
command, the computer determines his actions.

Hitting the Target:
 The ability of an attacker to hit a target with a melee weapon (such
as a sword, spear, or fist) or a missile weapon (such as a bow or
crossbow) depends on the chance the attacker has of hitting the Armor
Class of the target. This is represented by a number called the THACO.
The lower the THACO the better the chance to hit.

 A target's defense is his Armor Class, or AC. This is influenced by
the armor worn, plus the dexterity of the target and any benefit
various magic spells may have. (Magic has another method of hitting a
target; see the Magic rules). The lower the Armor Class number, the
better the armor.

 The number needed for an attacker to hit a target is the attacker's
THACO minus the target's Armor Class. The attacker hits if a random
number from 1-20 is greater than or qual to this number. Thus, a person
with a THACO of 18 needs a 14 or more to hit Armor Class 4. Armor
classes can go into negative numbers, so the same character trying to
hit Armor Class -1 would need to get a 19 or better.

 In a combat, the first and second attackers strike at the defender's
front. The third attacker strikes at the defender's rear, unless all
the attackers are adadjacent. The fourth and any additional attackers
strike at the defender's rear. The defender's AC is substantially
reduced against rear attacks.

 A thief forms the only exception to the automatic facing rules. If the
thief attacks from exactly opposite the first attacker, he can
backstab. A backstab has a better chance of hitting the defender, and
does additional damage when it does hit.

Using Missile Weapons:
 A character may not use a missile weapon if he has an opponent next to
him. If he has no opponent next to him, he can fire a missile at anyone
in his line of sight. The Next and Prev commands will only aim at
targets in the attacker's line of sight.

Beginning Combat:
 Each character can be controlled manually or by the computer. At the
beginning of combat each character is controlled the same as he was in
the previous combat. Any character under manual control may be turned
over to the computer using the Quick command. All characters may also
be simultaneously switched to manual control or computer control.

Executing Combat:
 When a combat begins, the screen shows the area around the character
with the highest initiative. The entire party may not be on the screen
at the same time, and one can rarely see all of the monsters at one
time. The computer indicates the active character and lists his name,
current condition, armor class, and current ready weapon.

 Characters and NPCs move according to each character's dexterity and a
random number generated by the computer. This is called an Initiative
Number and changes with every combat round. Usually higher dexterity
characters move before lower dexterity characters.

 You may use the following commands to handle your side of the battle.
If a character cannot use a command (such as Turn for a non-cleric or
Cast for a fighter or thief) it does not appear.

The Combat Menu:
MOVE VIEW AIM USE CAST TURN QUICK DONE

Move
 This is used to move a character and to attack. You attack by moving
into an enemy's square. You can even attack party members, but the
computer gives you a chance to abort such an attack. If you disengage
an enemy, he gets a free attack at your back, as do others you move by.

 Some characters may have multiple attacks in one turn. Bows get two
attacks per turn. High level fighters egt two attacks every other turn.
All of a character's attacks are taken against his first target. If the
first target goes down with the first attack, you may aim the remaining
attack at another enemy.

 Fighters may make a special form of multiple attacks called a sweep. A
sweep may attack several weak targets with a single blow each.

 The number of spaces a character can move is reduced by the weight
carried. A character weighted down with coins or extra armor and
weapons cannot move as fast as he could without the items. Bulky armor
can also reduce movement.

 A character who is faster than any enemy can run away from the fight,
eventually running from the battlefield. A character who is as fast as
the fastest monster, only has a 50% chance of getting away (otherwise
he must remain until the end of the fight). A character who is slower
than any enemy cannot run off the edge of the fighting area. A
character who has run away is no longer part of the fight. He returns
after the fight is over.

View
 This is essentially the same command used any time you wish to see a
character. Using this, you can ready appropriate weapons to meet the
fight in progress. Some options, such as Trade, are not available in
the middle of combat. The Use command shows up under Items to allow
you to use an item, such as a wand, in combat.

Aim
 This command is used to aim an attack using the follwing options.

Aim Menu:
Aim: NEXT PREV MANUAL TARGET EXIT

Next. Use this command to look at all possible targets, starting with
the one closest then going to the next closest. The computer looks at
ALL possible targets, including other party members; don't shoot
without looking. (However, the computer confirms your order first,
before shooting at a teammate.)

Prev. (Previous). This is the opposite of the Next command. Use this
command to look at the possible targets starting with the one farthest
away and working back toward your character. Usually this is a good way
to find a good target without working your way through all of your PCs
first.

Manual. This command lets you aim anywhere on the map. It is especially
useful for finding opposing leaders and targeting spells with area
effects.

Target. Ifyour character has ready ranged weapon, or an item prepared
with the Use commend, this command shoots at the target you selected.

Use
 This command allows the character to use any non-weapon item. The
command brings up the same screen and menu as the items command under
the View Menu.

Cast
 This is only available to magic-users and clerics when they still have
spells available. Using this command brings up the Cast options of the
Magic Menu (see that description of the Magic Rules). If hit recently,
the character's concentration may be broken and you won't be given the
Cast option.

Turn
 Clerics can sometimes destroy undead monsters or turn them away from
the party. This has no effect on any other form of monster. See the
Appendices for a cleric's minimum level to affect various forms of
undead.

Quick
 This command turns over control of the character to the computer. It
is a good way to handle fights against hordes of less powerful
opponents. Once you have establish computer controls him in future
fights until you interrupt it.

 The computer uses ready melee or missile weapons and available spells,
switching between them to the most appropriate in the situation. The
computer plays a very aggresive game.

Done
 This command is used when a character has finished his turn.

Done Menu:
 GUARD DELAY QUIT BANDAGE SPEED EXIT

Guard. The character can adopt this tactic and simply wait to meet any
attacker. This means that he attacks the first foe that moves adjacent
to him before the foe attacks him.

Delay. THis command lets you delay this character's action by reducing
his initiative number by 1. If he is the only one to be at the next
lowest number, it is his actions until all others have had their action
for that round and then he must take an action or lose it.

Quit. You can signify you are finished with this character by using
this Command.

Bandage. This command only appears if a member of the party is dying.
The character for whom the command appears can use this command to
bandage the party member and keep him from dying.

Speed. This command is described under the Alter command of the Encamp
Menu.

If The Party Flees:
 As long as any party member survives to the very end of the combat,
the bodies of unconscious or dead party members are assumed to be with
the party. If the party flees from combat all unconscious and dead
party members are permanently lost.

If The Party Dies:
 If ALL the party members are stain you will have to go back to your
last Saved Game and try again from that point.

After Combat:
 When combat is over, the screen will show some congratulatory message,
then present a menu of commands. If a command does not apply to this
after-combat situation, it will not appear.

Treasure Menu:
 VIEW TAKE POOL SHARE DETECT EXIT

View
 See Inspect a Character. At this time you can use the Drop commands in
both the Items menu and in the Character Screen menu.

Take
 This command is used to pick up treasure.

Take Menu:
 Take: ITEMS MONEY EXIT

Items. Use this command to produce a list of items carried by the
monsters you have overcome. If more than one had a missile weapon, all
of their remaining missiles are lumped into one line (if there are more
than 100, 99 are on one line and the rest on another line). Frequently,
the weapons and armor used by monsters are substandard and not worth
picking up as treasure, so they are not listed.

 If one character tries to pick up too many items, the computer will
say he is overloaded and will not allow the acquisition.

 Money. The computer displays each type of coin available and how many
of each coin there are. You indicate how many of the coins the active
character takes. One character can take all of the coins if he has the
strength to do so, or you can allow each character to take a share.

 If you try to pick up more than the character can carry, the screen
displays a message saying,`The character is overloaded,' and will not
let any more coins be put on the character. Remember, canying lots of
colnage slows a character down in combat.

Pool
 This command makes all the party members drops all of their money info
one pool of money. It becomes part of the treasure and the party
members can use the Take Menu to reapportion their funds.

Share
 This command picks up all the money in the treasure, divides it into
shares, and distributes it among the characters.

Detect
 This command casts a detect magic from the current active character.

Exit
 This command lets you leave the scene of the battle. If there are
still items that can be picked up, the machine will remind you that
there is still treasure left. You can go back to the Treasure Menu or
leave the treasure and go to the Adventure Menu.


MAGIC

 Magic is integral to Pool Of Radiance. Both magic-users and clerics
can use magical spells.

How Magic Works:
 A spell can exist in one of three forms: In Memory, In Spell Book,
and On a Scroll.

In Memory
 A magic-user or cleric who has a spell in Memory is said to have
memorized the spell. He can cast the spell as shown in the Cast command
description.

In Spell Book
 Magic-users write their spells into a Spell Book. They can only write
those spells into the book of which they have the ability to cast. The
books are compendiums of spells among which they choose the ones they
want to memorize. Clerics do not keep a spell book, they simply pray
each day to get their spells.

On A Scroll
 A spell written on an enchanted scroll can be read by a cleric or
magic-user, depending on the kind of spells on the scroll. A magic-user
must cast the spell read magic to understand the spells a scroll
contains. Once he has done that, he can read the spell aloud at any
time to cast it. A cleric does not need a read magic spell to read a
clerical spell on a scroll, but only a cleric can read the spell. Once
any kind of spell has been cast or scribed from a scroll, the spell
disappears.
 A magic-user may scribe the scroll spell into his spell books for
future memorization. This erases the spell from the scroll.
 Spellcasters can get a list od their memorized spells from the Cast
option of the Magic Menu or from the Spells option of the View Menu.
They can get a list of their spells on scrolls from the Scribe option
of the Magic Menu. If all you want is a list of available spells, be
sure to exit before you actually cast or scribe the spell.

The Magic Menu:

CAST MEMORIZE SCRIBE DISPLAY REST EXIT

Cast. Use these commands to cast spells. In combat the spellcaster is
the current character. In camp the spellcaster is the current active
character.

Cast Menu:
 CAST NEXT PREV EXIT

 The Cast Menu appears in both the Magic Menu, and the Combat Menu. It
shows all the spells available to the active character. Find the page
with the spell you want to cast. Select the Cast command. Then select
the spell to cast it. If necessary, indicate the target of the spell.
If you do not find the spell you want, you can Exit. In combat, the
character can take another option. Otherwise the character returns to
the Magic Menu.
 Once cast, a spell is gone until it is memorized again.

Memorize. For a character to learn a spell, use this command, which
only appears in the Encamp Menu. The computer displays a page from the
active character's spell book (or a list of possible clerical spells)
and you are offered the following commands. Remember that if a magic-
user or cleric has the ability to learn more than one spell of a level,
he can learn the same spell more than once.

Memorize Menu:
 MEMORIZE NEXT PREV EXIT

 Find the page with the spell you want to memorize. Select the memorize
command. Then select the spell to memorize it. The 'pages' here are
pages of the magic spell book, rather than just the lsit of already
memorized spells.

 Picking a spell to memorize does not mean that the spell is memorized.
Learning a spell takes 15 minutes (game time) per level of spell, plus
a period of relaxation before starting to memorize one or more spells.
See the Rest command in the Magic Menu.

 Only one spell may be learned at a time, though the spellcaster need
only relax once before learning several spells. The learning time must
be uninterrupted. You have to go to the Rest command and spend the time
to memorize the spell. If you have only been in camp long enough to
memorize some spells, those are learned and the others lost. The spells
are memorized in the order you pick them.

 Example: A magic-user decides to memorize 2 uses of magic missile (a
first level spell) and 1 use of invisibility (a second level spell).
This is a total of 1 hour of time for memorization, plus 4 hours
relaxation time. If the party is attacked before the first 4 hours are
up, no spells are learned. If the party is attacked after 4 hours and
15 minutes in camp, the magic-user has learned 1 magic missile spell.
After 4 hours and 30 minutes he has learned both magic missile spells,
and after 5 hours he has learned the invisibility spell as well.
 Once you have picked all the spells for one character, you Exit the
menu. The computer displays the spells you have chosen and asks you to
confirm the choices. If you confirm the choice, you go back to the
Magic Menu and can select spells for the next character who needs to
memorize them. If you cancel the choice, all the choices are ignored
and you must re-select all the character's spells.

Scribe. Use this command to inscribe spells the character finds on a
scroll into his spell book.

Scribe Menu:
 SCRIBE NEXT PREV EXIT

 The computer displays all the spells on scrolls that the magic-user
has cast read magic on. Find the page with the spell you wish to
scribe. Select the Scribe command. Then select the spell to scribe it
from the scroll into your spellbook. If a spell is of too high a level
for the character to scribe, the computer tells you so. Scribing the
spell erases it from the scroll. Scribing takes the same time as
Memorizing a spell, and is unsuccessful if the total time is not taken.

Display. Use this command to find out what magic spells are currently
working on the party in camp. This serves as a reminder of obvious
spells working on the entire party, such as bless or light, and on
individual members of the party, such as protection from evil or
invisibility. This also reveals subtle curses (though not the nature of
the curse) on the party or individuals in the party.

Rest. To memorize spells, one must Rest. This takes you to the Rest
Menu described in the Encamp Menu description. Spells are not memorized
until the character has rested the necessary time.
 The Exit command in this use of the Rest Menu returns you to the Magic
Menu, not the Encamp Menu.

Spells Available
 A beginning magic-user is given four first-level spells when he leaves
his master to adventure on his own. These are shown in the spell book
for the magic-user. Each time the magic-user gains a level of
experience, he gains one spell, even though the rise in level may give
him the ability to learn more than one new spell at a time. To gain
further spells, he must find scrolls in treasures and copy spells he is
capable of casting into his spell book, using the Scribe command in the
Magic Menu.

Clerical Magic
 Clerical magic is very similar to magic-user magic, but a cleric needs
no spell books. All spells possible to his level are always available
to a cleric, he need only memorize them. Just what spells are available
depend solely on the level of the cleric.
 Therefore, when a cleric finds scrolls with clerical spells on them,
he can simply use them straight off the scroll, since they are not
something he needs to Scribe into a spell book.

Saving Throws
 Magic is a chancy business. Many spells do not necessarily affect
their targets. This is simulated with saving throws. In Pool Of
Radiance the saving throw is the chance that the spell has no effect or
a lesser effect on the character it is cast on. As a character gains
levels, his saving throws improve, and the chance that magic affects
him is decreased. The final results of any spell are shown on the
computer screen.
 Magic-users have better saving throws against cast magic or magic from
items, clerics have better saving throws against death and poison, and
dwarves and halflings have better saving throws versus any form of
magic.

The Spells:
 Some spells are quick and can be cast in combat, and some take an
extra long time to cast. Those that take extra time can only be cast
when using the Magic Menu from the Encamp Menu.

Time And Magic
 The duration of magic spells is important. A spell's duration is
either: instantaneous, as with most damage spells; measured in
rounds, as with most other combat spells; measured in turns, as with
many detection and protective spells; or permanent.
 When planning use of spells to use in movement (such as a find traps),
remember that one round equals one minute of game time and one turn
equals 10 minutes of game time.

The Spell List
 The spells available for characters in the Pool Of Radiance are:

First Level Clerical Spells

Bless. This spell can only be used in camp or combat, and it only
affects those characters not in melee. It gives a bonus of one to their
THACO for six rounds and raises the morale of friendly NPCs by 1. Use
it in camp only if you know you are going into combat immediately
afterward.

Curse. This reversal of bless affects enemies not in melee and modifies
their THACO and their morale by 1. Usable only in combat and lasts 6
rounds.

Cure Light Wounds. This can be used any time. The caster must be next
to the target. It heals 1-8 points of damage.

Cause Light Wounds. This combat-only spell causes 1-8 points of damage
to one adjacent target touched by the caster.

Detect Magic. This is similar to detect evil, but only lasts 1 turn. it
detects the presence of magic in a 1 square by 3 square area, but gives
no details on the type of magic.

Protection From Evil. This spell can be used in combat or in camp when
you expect to go into combat shortly. It adds 2 to the AC of the
character against evil attackers. Any saving throws caused by attacks
of such monsters are at +2. This spell lasts 3 rounds per level. The
caster must touch the target (which can be himself).

Protection From Good. This is essentially the same as protection from
evil, but it protects against the attacks of good creatures.

Resist Cold. This spell protects the recipient against cold, providing
absolute protection against cold up to 0 Fahrenheit and an additional
saving throw against cold-based attacks. The duration is 1 turn per
level of the caster, and the caster must touch the target.

Second Level Clerical Spells

Find Traps. This must be cast in camp. It makes any traps in the
direction the character is facing visible to the character. The spell
lasts for 3 turns.

Hold Person. This combat only spell holds immobile from 1-3 (cleric's
choice) creatures of roughly human shape and size. The duration is 4
rounds plus 1 round per level.

Resist Fire. This is identical to resist cold, but it works against
heat and heat attacks.

Silence 15' Radius. This is a combat spell. It silences any spell
casting or discussion in the radius. If cast on a person, the radius
follows him around for the duration of the spell unless he makes a
saving throw. If cast on an area, the spell affects everything in that
area for the duration of 2 rounds per level of the caster.

Slow Poison. This spell can be used in camp or combat. It revives a
poisoned person for 1 hour per level of the caster. The target of the
spell then dies unless a neutralize poison (a high-level spell only
used by NPCs) is cast on him.

Snake Charm. This spell can be cast in combat only. It influences as
many hit points of snakes as the cleric has hit points. The snakes
cease all activity for 5-8 rounds.

Spiritual Hammer. This is a combat spell which creates a temporary
magic item, automatically Readied. It can strike at range and does
normal hammer damage. It strikes monsters that only magical weapons
can affect. This lasts for 1 round per level of caster.

Third Level Clerical Spells

Animate Dead. This spells can be used in combat or camp. It turns a
dead human person into a zombie to help the spellcaster. In combat,
the zombie fights for the spellcaster, though controlled by the
computer. This spell is permanent until the zombie is destroyed. If
created to work with the party, a zombie becomes an NPC and there must
be room for him in the party (remember, the limet is 8 characters) or
he cannot be taken along.

Cure Blindness. This touch-only spell is used in combat or camp to cure
the blinding effects of the cause blindness spell.

Cause Blindness. This touch-only spell can only be used in combat. The
victim gets a saving throw. The duration is permanent until negated by
cure blindness or dispel magic.

Cure Disease. This spell can be used in camp only. It cures the
diseases caused by mummies and the disease spell.

Cause Disease. This is a combat spell with a touch range. There is a
saving throw. If a character is afflicted with a disease, over time he
loses HP and Strength Points until he is down to 10 percent of his
normal values. This disease is cured by a cure disease or dispel magic
spell.

Dispel Magic. This spell can be used either in combat or camp. In
combat, it affects every magic spell and item in an area. In camp it
affects every person anditem you select. There is a percentage chance
of success with this spell depending on the level of the caster and
level of the originator of the spell to be dispelled. If successful,
the target magic is permanently eradicated.

Prayer. This is a combat spell that lowers all THACOs and saving throws
for friendly combatants by 1 and raises them by 1 for all unfriendly
combatants. It has a 60' radius and lasts 1 round for each level of the
character.

Remove Curse. This can be used in camp or combat and allows the target
to be rid of a curse (as from a curse or bestow curse spell) or put
down a cursed object. The range is touch.

Bestow Curse. This spell has a duration of 1 turn per level and is used
in combat. It has variable effects determined by the computer

First Level Magic-User Spells

Burning Hands. This touch-range combat spell causes fire damage of 1
point per level of the caster. There is no saving throw.

Charm Person. This spell makes a humanoid creature the caster's friend
and ally. Any action of the caster will be seen in the most favorable
light possible. The target gets a saving throw when the spell is thrown
and again days or weeks later, depending on its intelligence. You can
never be sure the effect is permanent. For the moment, the charmed
creature can become an NPC (if there is room in the party roster) under
the command of the caster.

Detect Magic. This spell is the same as the clerical spell; its
duration is 2 rounds per level of caster.

Enlarge. This spell can be used in camp or combat and lasts for 1 turn
per level of the caster. The living target increases in size by 20%
per level of the caster. It makes the humanoid target into an ogre or
giant in size and strength for combat purposes. A target can only be
under the effect of 1 enlarge spell at a time. Unwilling targets get
a saving throw against this effect.

Reduce. This is the opposite of enlarge, and can be used to negate
enlarge. Unwilling targets get a saving throw against its effect. If
the saving throw is unsuccessful, the target is reduced in size and
loses effective strength and movement.

Friends. This combat only spell affects everyone in a sphere that
increases with the level of the magic-user. Everyone within that sphere
failing a saving throw thinks the caster has 2-8 more points of
Charisma. Those who make their saving throw think he has 1-4 less
points of Charisma. The effects last 1 round per level of caster.

Magic Missile. This is a combat spell that does 2-5 points of damage
to the target, no saving throw. For every 2 levels, the magic-user gets
1 missile, so magic-users of the 3rd and 4th levels get 2 missiles, and
those of the 5th levels get 2 missiles, and those of the 5th and 6th
levels get 3 missiles. All must be fired at once.

Protection From Evil. Like the clerical spell of the same name, but
it lasts for 2 rounds per level of caster.

Protection From Good. Like the clerical spell of the same name, but it
lasts for 2 rounds per level of caster.

Read Magic. This is only used in camp and allows the user to read any
magical (not clerical) writing. It lasts for 2 rounds per level of
caster. Once you use this spell to read a scroll you can cast the
spells off of the scroll.

Shield. This spell is a combat spell that improves the targets armor
class and saving throw, and negates the effect of the magic missile.
The spell lasts for 5 rounds per level of caster.

Shocking Grasp. This combat spell does 1-8, +1 point per level of
caster, electrical damage to a target the caster touches.

Sleep. This spell puts up to 16 targets to sleep for 5 rounds per level
of caster. The least powerful targets are affected first, and the
bigger the monster, the fewer of them are affected. Monsters above a
certain power are not affected at all. No saving throw.

Second Level Magic-User Spells

Detect Invisibility. This can be used in camp or combat and lasts for
5 rounds per level of caster. This has a range of 20 feet per level of
caster.

Invisibility. This makes the target (touch range) invisible to normal
and infravision until he ands the effect or attacks someone.

Knock. This spell is used to open locked doors or chests. It can be
used in camp or while moving.

Mirror Image. This combat spell creates 1-4 illusory duplicates of the
magic-user. If a duplicate is attacked, it disappears. The spell lasts
2 rounds per level of caster.

Ray Of Enfeeblement. This combat spell has a saving throw. If the
target does not make the saving throw, he is weakened (he does less
damage for 1 round per level of caster).

Stinking Cloud. This affects a 2 square by 2 square area. Anyone in the
cloud gets a saving throw. If unsuccessful, he is helpless for 2-5
turns. He can move out of the cloud, but he is still helpless. If he
makes the saving throw, he is helpless only as long as he is in the
cloud and for 1 round afterwards. The cloud lasts 1 round per level of
caster.

Strength. This spell is only used in camp. It raises the strength of
the target by a variable amount depending on the class of the target.
The duration is 6 turns per level of caster.

Third Level Nagic-User Spells

Blink. After casting this spell, the caster can seldom be targeted
because he is blinking in and out of the area. The spell lasts for
1 round per level of caster.

Dispel Magic. This is just like the clerical spell of the same name.

Fireball. This area effect spell does 1-6 points of fire damage per
level of caster to each target in the area. A successful saving throw
cuts the damage in half. Outdoors, a fireball has a 2 square radius.
Indoors, in a constrained area, it has a 4 square radius.

Haste. This combat spell affects 1 person per level of caster. Everyone
affected moves twice as far and attacks twice with melee and missile
weapons, but they do not throw any additional spells per round. It
lasts for 3 rounds plus 1 round per level of caster.

Hold Person. This is like invisibility but affects everyone within
10 feet of the caster when it is cast. Everyone affected stays
invisible, and comes out of it normally, but if the caster ends his
invisibility it ends for everyone.

Lightning Bolt. This affects everyone in its path. It does 1-6 damage
points per level of caster, a successful saving throw cuts this damage
in half. A lightning bolt is 4 or 8 squares long in a line away from
the caster. The bolt will rebound off walls to reach its full length.

Protection From Evil, 10' Radius. This is just like protection from
evil, but it affects everyone within 1 square of the target as long as
they stay there.

Protection From Good, 10' Radius. This keeps the target (touch range)
from being harmed by non-magical missiles for 1 turn per level of
caster.

Slow. This combat spell affacts 1 person per level of caster. Unwilling
targets get a saving throw. Targets move at 1/2 their normal distance
each round, and theirnumber of attacks per round is halved. If they
only have 1 attack per every other round. This can be used to negate
haste. Its duration is 3 rounds plus 1 round per level of caster.


             -----  AGAIN ANOTHER 100% POWER-TYPING  ----

                ---  DONE BY THE TWINS OF TRILOGY  ---

                                 and

                 Spread by Midnight Maniac and Mayday
==========================================================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       -=- Pool Of Radiance -=-
                         -=- Tavern Tales -=-
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Taverns of New Phlan are filled with scoundrels, con-men, and
adventurers every one a liar and a gossip. The following tavern tales
represent such rumors and lies.

                         --------------------

When you are in a tavern, you must be referred to a particular tale by
number Find and read that tale. If you really think of your adventures as
rumor mongers, read all the tales.

Some of these tales are true, some are based on truth, and some have never
been corrupted by a hint of truth. Even when a tavern tale is referred to
by number, it might be false.


TALE 1:
-------
Far to the northeast, in the midst of a vast swamp, lie the uninhabited
ruins of a powerful wizard's castle.

TALE 2:
-------
A drunk bard sits in a corner of the tavern spinning a seemingly endless
tale, but no one is listening.

TALE 3:
-------
Wells throughout the city often provide access to hidden dens and
underground passages.

TALE 4:
-------
An anglish lord commandeers one corner of the bar to lecture on the
ultimate range of his adventures. The crowd ignores him.

TALE 5:
-------
To the east of Phlan lies a gleaming castle of gold that shifts its
location from time to time.

TALE 6:
-------
A weird looking wizard, dressed all in black, sits alone and mumbles into
his beer, "I'll return next time and show them all!"

TALE 7:
-------
Great Treasures are to be found on the banks of the Barren River as one
ventures northward.

TALE 8:
-------
The graveyard is controlled by a very powerful and clever undead creature.

TALE 9:
-------
A puzzled patron with a limited vocabulary questions everyone he comes
accross about how to commplete a manuscript dated 1977 GUE. Unfortunately,
no one can help him.

TALE 10:
--------
To the west lives a tribe of insect-men who worship normal men and give
valuable gifts to all who visit them.

TALE 11:
--------
The Dragonspine Mountains are inhabited by a race of evil dragons who lure
travelers to their lairs and slay them.

TALE 12:
--------
A bedraggled adventurer decries, "There was a man called turtle, walls that
aren't there, living daggers; I never did figure out what was going on!"

TALE 13:
--------
A master thief has set up a hidden training ground deep in the old city,
right under the noses of monsters.

TALE 14:
--------
Ogres who live to the east of Phlan are holding captive a princess for whom
a huge reward has been offered.

TALE 15:
--------
The Merchants of Zhentil Keep are setting up a trading base far to the west
of Phlan. They're hiring caravan guards for good wages.

TALE 16:
--------
Buccaneers operate a slave auction out of a hidden camp near Stormy Bay.

TALE 17:
--------
An old sage sits in a corner with a dark wizard. "You're right," laughs the
sage, "they'll do anything I tell them to, no matter how silly or
phantastic."

TALE 18:
--------
Off to the east of Phlan roams a tribe of marauding nomads. They have been
pillaging villages in the plains with the help of a powerful artifact they
have discovered.

TALE 19:
--------
Mighty tribes of wild dwarves, thousands of them, roam the Dragonspine
Mountains, destroying villagers and killing travelers.

TALE 20:
--------
"I was totally confused; it was like being lost in the darkness," sighed
the overwrought adventurer. "Rabbits, hats, bowling balls?" Where in the
realms was I?"

TALE 21:
--------
The monsters in Phlan are led by one of the generals who sacked the city a
generation ago. The general has used great magic to make himslf immortal.

TALE 22:
--------
A vast fortress of kobolds dominates the western tip of the great swamp.
These normally weak creatures grow to great size and have extraordinary
powers here.

TALE 23:
--------
An ancient Silver Dragon still lives up in the Dragonspine Mountains. The
dragon is not evil and will help travelers who battle evil.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Typed By The Skeleton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
==============================================================================
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       -=- Pool Of Radiance -=-
                         -=- Weapon List -=-
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            ARMOUR AND WEAPONS PERMITED BY CHARACTER CLASS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Class      | Armour  | Shield | Weapons
-----------+---------+--------+-----------------------------------------------
Cleric     | Any     | Any    | Club,Flail,Hammer,Mace,Staff
Fighter    | Any     | Any    | Any
Magic-User | None    | None   | Dagger,Dart,Staff
Thief      | Leather | None   | Club,Dagger,Dart,Sling,One Handed Swords
------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                             WEAPON LIST
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      | Damage Vs | Damage Vs   | Number   |
NAME                  | Man Size  | Larger Size | Of Hands | Class
----------------------+-----------+-------------+----------+------------------
Axe, Hand             |    1-6    |    1-4      |    1     | f
Bardiche +            |    2-8    |    3-12     |    2     | f
Bastard Sword         |    2-8    |    2-16     |    2     | f
Battleaxe             |    1-8    |    1-8      |    1     | f
Bec de Corbin +       |    1-8    |    1-6      |    2     | f
Bill-Guisarme +       |    2-8    |    1-10     |    2     | f
Bo Stick              |    1-6	  |    1-3      |    2     | f
Broad Sword           |    2-8	  |    2-7      |    1     | f,th
Club                  |    1-6 	  |    1-3      |    1     | f,cl,th
Dagger                |    1-4 	  |    1-3      |    1     | f,mu,th
Dart                  |    1-3	  |    1-2      |    1     | f,mu,th
Fauchard +            |    1-6	  |    1-8      |    2     | f
Fauchard-Fork +       |    1-8	  |    1-10     |    2     | f
Flail                 |    2-7	  |    2-8      |    1     | f,cl
Fork, Military +      |    1-8	  |    2-8      |    2     | f
Glaive +              |    1-6	  |    1-10     |    2     | f
Glaive, Guisarme +    |    2-8	  |    2-12     |    2     | f
Guisarme +            |    2-8	  |    1-8      |    2     | f
Guisarme-Voulge +     |    2-8    |    2-8      |    2     | f
Halberd +             |    1-10	  |    2-12     |    2     | f
Lucern Hammer +       |    2-8    |    1-6      |    2     | f
Hammer                |    2-5    |    1-4      |    1     | f,cl
Javelin               |    1-6    |    1-6      |    1     | f
Jo Stick              |    1-6    |    1-4      |    1     | f
Long Sword            |    1-8    |    1-12     |    1     | f,th
Mace                  |    2-7    |    1-6      |    1     | f,cl
Morning Star          |    2-8    |    2-7      |    1     | f
Partisan +            |    1-6    |    2-7      |    2     | f
Pick, Millitary       |    2-5    |    1-4      |    1     | f
Pike, Awl +           |    1-6    |    2-12     |    1     | f
Quarterstaff          |    1-6    |    1-6      |    2     | f,cl,mu
Ranseur +             |    2-8    |    2-8      |    2     | f
Scimitar              |    1-8    |    1-8      |    1     | f,th
Short Sword           |    1-6    |    1-8      |    1     | f,th
Spear                 |    1-6    |    1-8      |    1     | f
Spetum +              |    2-7    |    2-12     |    2     | f
Trident               |    2-7    |    3-12     |    1     | f
Two-Handed Sword      |    1-10   |    3-18     |    2     | f
Voulge +              |    2-8    |    2-8      |    2     | f
Composite Long Bow *  |    1-6    |    1-6      |    2     | f
Composite Short Bow * |    1-6    |    1-6      |    2     | f
Long Bow *            |    1-6    |    1-6      |    2     | f
Heavy Crossbow #      |    2-5    |    2-7      |    2     | f
Light Crossbow #      |    1-4    |    1-4      |    2     | f
Short Bow *           |    1-6    |    1-6      |    2     | f
Sling                 |    1-4    |    1-4      |    1     | f,th
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 +  = Polearm
 *  = Must have ready arrows to fire
 #  = Must have ready quarrels to fire
 f  = Fighter
 cl = Cleric
 th = Thief
 mu = Magic User
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Typed By The Skeleton
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|                                                                             |
|                       Pool of Radiance - Monster List                       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|

                           The Phlan Area Bestiary
This is a list of some of the monsters found in and around Phlan and the north s
hore of the Moonsea. Most monsters can strike fear into the hearts of men, but s
ome are more powerful than others. The monster's reputation is reflected in its
monster level, listed as a Roman numeral after its name. Level I monsters are le
ss powerful than a well-equipped beginning fighter. A Level VIII monster may be
more powerful than several heroes.

                     ____________________________________

Anhkeheg (VI): Large burrowing insects with great mandibles. These creatures hav
e been known to spit a powerful acid.

Basilisk (VII): A giant eight-legged lizard. One of the most dangerous creatures
 in the realms because their gaze can turn creatures to stone!

Bugbear (IV): Hideous giant sized goblins who stand over seven feet in height. B
ugbears look clumsy but are strong, quick fighters with great stealth.

Centaur (IV): These good creatures are half men and half horse. They are capable
 fighters and can be valuable allies.

Displacer Beast (VI): These creatures are large, black puma-like creatures with
two tentacles sprouting from their backs. These creatures can appear several fee
t from their actual location.

Drider (VI): These creatures resemble a cross between a drow elf and a giant spi
der. They are powerful spell casters.

Efretti (VII): These large powerful Jinn are from the elemental plane of fire. T
hey are very arrogant and will only serve a powerful master.

Ettin (VII): These creatures look like giant two-headed orcs. They have great st
rength and usually wield two spiked clubs that inflict terrible damage in combat
.

Fire Giant (VIII): These evil giants have flaming red hair and are immune to all
 fire. They usually attack with giant two-handed swords.
Giant Frog (III): These are giant carnivorous frogs. They are fast, dangerous pr
edators who may be poisonous.

Giant Lizard (IV): These are the giant cousins to the common lizard.

Giant Mantis (VII): These are the giant version of the common mantis. These crea
tures are fast, strong, and have good armor.

Giant Scorpion (VI): These are giant version of the common scorpion. Its poisono
us tail can kill a man.

Giant Snake (V): These are giant poisonous snakes.

Ghoul (III): These are evil undead whose touch may paralyze a man in combat. The
y feed on corpses and attack all living creatures on sight.

Gnoll (II): These creatures are hyenaheaded humanoids who stand over seven feet
tall.

Goblin (I): These are small humanoids common in the Realms.

Hill Giant (VII): These are one of the smaller, more stupid giants, but they are
 still tough opponents. They usually carry large clubs.

Hippogriff (III): These magnificent creatures have the forelimbs and head of an
eagle and the body and hind legs of a horse.

Hobgoblin (II): These are human-sized, intelligent relatives of the goblin.

Kobold (I): These are small, cowardly humanoids who delight in killing and tortu
re.

Lizardman (III): These are lizard-like humanoids. They are omnivorous but they h
ave a particular fancy for human flesh.

Medusa (VI): These are hideous women with snakes for hair. They can turn a man t
o stone with their gaze.

Minotaur (VI): These are strong bull-headed humanoids. They are cruel man eaters
, commonly found in mazes.

Mummy (VII): These are powerful undead with great strength. The mere sight of on
e has been known to paralyze a man in combat. The touch of a mommy causes a stra
nge rotting disease.

Nymph (V): These are extremely beautiful creatures that appear as ever-young fem
ales. They usually inhabit wild lakes and streams.,

Ogre (IV): These are large, foul-tempered, ugly humanoids. They are strong fight
ers.

Orc (I): These are evil, pig-faced humanoids.

Phase Spider (VI): These are giant poisonous spiders with the ability to phase i
n and out of this dimension. Usually they only 'phase in' to attack, the 'phase
out' again.

Quickling (IV): These are small, fast-moving creatures. Because of their great s
peed they are invisible when they move.

Skeleton (I): These are the least of the undead. These animated skeletons are us
ually controlled by some evil force.

Spectre (VII): These are one of the most powerful of the undead. Their touch can
 drain the life out of men.

Stirge (II): These are small blood-sucking birds.

Thri-kreen (VI): These are intelligent, carnivorous insect-men who live in burro
ws. They have four arms and a poisonous bite that paralyzes their foes.

Tiger (V): These are noble beasts who are both strong and silent. Though their n
ormal prey are animals, they have been known to become 'man-eaters'.

Troll (VI): These are large, strong, ugly humanoids. They know no fear and can r
egenerate wounds.

Vampire (VIII): These are one of the most dreaded undead in the Realms. They can
 drain life levels, are strong fighters, and are sometimes powerful magic users.


Wardog (III): These are large, strong dogs, trained to kill. Orcs, goblins, and
other evil humanoids are known to use them.

Wight (VI): Evil, undead humans whose touch can drain the life out of a man.

Wild Boar (IV): These creatures are the wild relatives of the pig.

Wraight (VI): These creatures are non-corporeal undead. Their touch can drain th
e life out of a man.

Wyvern (VII): These creatures are distant relatives of dragons. They attack by b
iting and using the poisonous sting in their tail.

Zombie (IV): Magically animated corpses controlled by an evil force. Zombies alw
ays fight back until destroyed or turned.