                            THE STORY OF POP UP!
                            --------------------

    Go on to a bouncing adventure! From the Big Bang to a future area, you
bounce from one age to another (thanks to your extraodinary energy)... This
way you will cross five periods: the Big Bang, Prehistoric and Middle Age,
the 20th century and finally, the future. The journey through time holds a
whole lot of surprises in store for you: good ones and bad ones  like
dangers and obstacles that are waiting for you at each jump...
                                                                  
                                                              
                            THE AIM OF THE GAME!              
                            --------------------             
                                                              
   Each level is made up of many screens. Boucing from one platform to 
another, try to get a maximum of tools and food in order to find the exit 
leading to the next screen and also try to reach the biggest score!
                                                               
                                                             
                           BEGINNING OF THE GAME!           
                           ----------------------            
                                                              
   You can chose the following options when you reach the main menu: From
left to right... 2 players, 1 player, Editor mode, game, Exit. When you are
playing, the indications on the right of the screen are  your score, your
life points...                                
                                                                   
                                                                   
                               THE COMMANDS!
                               -------------                     
                                                                  
   Joystick: Right -- Moving to right                                  
             Left  -- Moving to left                              
             Fire  -- Jump                                        
             Down  -- to break the jump                           

Note: To jump and turn in the air, press the fire button or Space bar and
then move to left or right, when you are at the desired height.         
                                                                
Keys functions: S -- Suicide                                            
                P -- Pause                                           
                D -- Discovery                                   
               Esc-- Returns to option screen                  
                                                                         
                                                                   
                               THE EDITOR!
                               -----------                          
                                                             
   The editor allows you to create your own screens. With this editor, the
games combinations are nearly infinte. Don't forget to prepare a blank and
formatted disk to save your screens. All objects from the game are 
available in the editor.

-Manipulations:                                                        

Take an item: Position the cursor (cross) om the item using the cursor 
keys and then confirm your choice by pressing the space bar.

Set an item: You still have to use the cursor keys t position them. Also
use the space bar to confirm your choice.

Erase / Replace: Press ESC to come back to the items' area.

Screen selection: position the cross on the arrows, and press the space
bar until the number of desired screen appears.

Warning! When you have selected a screen and if you come back to the game,
you will play the chosen screen.          
                                                              
That's all folks!                                         
Cya! FOXY in 1991!