Popeye 2			


Popeye to the Rescue!


The characters 

POPEYE,BRUTUS,OLIVE,OYL,SWEE'PEA,WIMPY,EUGENE THE JEEP AND GOONS.

The dangers

Bombs, unsafe rigging,rotten rope bridges,fireballs,blowlamps,
coconut throwing monkeys,bouncing springs,falling anvils,
collapsing masonry and falling weights.

Features

Spinach,hamburgers,muscle power meter,bounus points feature,
"beat em up" sequences,cartoon style animations,music

Locations

The ShipYard,The Jungle,The Biff Spinach Factory and The Building Site

The GamePlay

Popeye must free Olive Oyl who has been captured by Brutus in a 
desperate bid to win her affection.  Armed with muscle and courage,
fortified with spinach, Popeye must persue Brutus through many
hazardous locations, battling with numerous foes and dangers.  On
his way people will meet several of his friends who will help him
or hinder him.

WIMPY.....Will stop Popeye.  He has lost his hamburgers, Can Popeye
          help him collect them all?.
SWEE'PEA..Is crawling dangerously close to the edge of girders,
          platforms etc, unaware of the drop below.  Popeye must stop
          him quickly.(eeek that was close)
EUGENE....Will help popeye with extra points when popeye passes him.
BOMBS.....Popeye must defuse these nasties, otherwise there will be an
          almighty explosion!
GOONS.....Watch out! They are spoiling for a fight, dont let them
          knock out Popeyes lights.  Help Popeye catch the cans of
          spinach in order to get past.
BRUTUS....When Popeye catches Olive Oyl he will have to fight Brutus
          He will need all the spinach he can get.  Be warned, Brutus
          is a tough cookie and does not fight fair, he also carries
          a dirty great big club!

Scoring and Lives etc

Points are scored for defusing bombs,collecting hamburgers,collecting
Spinach and rescueing Olive.
On the score panel at the bottom of the screen, the lives are displayed
as three hearts.  The beating heart will gradually decrease in size until 
it disappears, indicating the loss of one life.  Also shown on the 
score panel is a box containing an arm.  This will increase in size to
a real `He-Man' muscular arm when Popeye is full of strength, and 
gradually shrink down to weedy proportions.

Hints & Tips
------------

When Popeye is knocked down, he will become invicible for a few 
seconds after he has recovered.  This is shown by popeye flickering.

Loading
-------

Amiga: Switch on the computer and wait for the disc prompt 
       before inserting the disk.

   ST: Insert the disk and switch on the computer.

   ONCE LOADED, PRESS FIRE TO PLAY.

Controls
--------

Joystick:   UP     Climb up
            DOWN   Climb down
            LEFT   Walk left
            RIGHT  Walk right
            FIRE   Jump

    Keys:   P      Pause
            ESC    Abort
            F10    Music on/off
            F9     50hz / 60 hz display (ST Only)