                * POPULOUS II COMMAND SUMMARY CARD *
                 **********************************

              TYPED BY CYBORG / END OF CENTURY 1999 U.K
              -----------------------------------------


GETTING STARTED
---------------
To play Populous II, you will need an Amiga with a minimum 1MB of
memory.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS - FLOPPY DISK USERS
----------------------------------------
Before loading, make a copy of your disk. You'll need a blank,
formatted floppy disk. If you want to save games, you'll need an
additional blank, formatted disk.

TO MAKE A COPY OF YOUR POPULOUS II DISKS
----------------------------------------
1.Turn on your Amiga. (Amiga 1000 owners, insert kickstart 1.2 or
1.3).

2.Insert workbench into drive DF0:

3.If you have a single drive system, remove workbench and insert your
  original disk 1. If you have two drives, simply insert your original
  disk into the other drive.

4.Place the mouse pointer on the POPULOUS II floppy disk icon and
left-
  click to highlight it.

5.Pull down the workbench menu from the menu bar. Drag the highlighted
  bar down to DUPLICATE and release.

6.You may have to swap disks from time to time. Follow the onscreen
  instructions.

7.Copy your disk and play from that. Be sure to leave it write
  protected.

TO LOAD POPULOUS II
-------------------
1.If you have only 1MB of memory, remove any memory-hungry
peripherals.

2.If you Amiga is on, turn it off.

3.Insert your copy of POPULOUS II into drive DF0:

4.Switch on your computer.

5.Double click on the POPULOUS II disk icon. A window should appear.

6.Double click on the POPULOUS II game icon. The game should load in a
  few moments.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS - HARD DISK USERS
--------------------------------------
The install program creates a POPULOUS II directory for you and copies
all of the game files onto it.

TO INSTALL POPULOUS II ON A HARD DISK
-------------------------------------
1.Boot your Amiga as you normally would.

2.Insert your disk into drive df0:

3.Double-click on the POPULOUS II floppy disk icon.

4.Double-click on the install icon.

5.Follow the onscreen instructions.

TO LOAD POPULOUS II
-------------------
1.Double-click on the drawer in which you installed POPULOUS II.

2.Double-click on the POPULOUS II icon. The game loads and the main
menu
  appears.

COPY PROTECTION
---------------
After starting your first game, you're asked to enter the number of
statues made in the likeness of a certain head. Open your POPULOUS II
manual. Look for the statue's head called for onscreen. Left-click on
the arrows above and below the digits to scroll through the numbers.
Enter the correct number of statues built in the likeness of this
head, then left-click on OK.

SAVING & LOADING GAMES - FLOPPY USERS
-------------------------------------
To save a game, you'll need one blank, formatted disk.

TO SAVE A GAME TO A FLOPPY DISK
-------------------------------
1.Left-click on the game requester icon. The game requester screen
  appears.

2.Users with one disk drive : Remove your copy of POPULOUS II from
DF0:
  and insert a blank, formatted write enabled disk.

3.Left-click on SAVE GAME. After a moment, the save requester appears.

  Users with more that one disk drive : Insert a blank, formatted,
write
  enabled disk into another drive, left-click on DRAWER and type the
  name of that drive (e.g. DF1:)

4.Left-click on FILE. Type a name for your saved world and press
RETURN.

5.Left-click on SAVE.

6.Users with one disk drive : Once the game is saved, re-insert your
  copy of the POPULOUS II disk. You're automatically returned to the
  game requester.

  Users with more than one disk drive : Once the game is saved, you're
  automatically returned to the game menu.

TO LOAD A PREVIOUSLY SAVED GAME
-------------------------------
1.Left-click on the game requester icon. The game requester screen
  appears.

2.Users with one disk drive : Remove your copy of POPULOUS II from
DF0:
  and insert your saved game disk.

3.Select LOAD GAME from the game menu. After a moment, the load game
  requester appears.

  Users with more than one disk drive : Insert a blank, formatted,
write
  enabled disk into another drive, left-click on DRAWER and type the
  name of that drive (e.g. DF1:).

4.Left-click on FILE. Type the name of your saved world and press
  RETURN. Alternately, you can simply click on the file you want to
  load, and then click LOAD.

5.Users with one disk drive : Once the game is loaded, insert your
copy
  of POPULOUS II. You're automatically returned to the game menu.

  Users with more than one disk drive : Once the game is loaded,
you're
  automatically returned to the game menu.

SAVING & LOADING GAMES - HARD DISK USERS
----------------------------------------
TO SAVE A GAME TO A HARD DISK
-----------------------------
1.Return to the game requester screen.

2.Left-click on SAVE GAME from the game requester. After a moment, the
  save game requester appears.

3.If you want to save the game to the directory POPULOUS II is in,
  proceed to step 4. If you have to save the game to a different
  directory, click on DRAWER. Type the name of your hard disk and
press
  RETURN. For example, if your hard disk was named DH0:, you'd type
DH0:
  and then press RETURN.

4.Left-click on FILE. Type a name for your saved world and press
RETURN.
  You're automatically returned to the game requester.

TO LOAD A PREVIOUSLY SAVED GAME FROM YOUR HARD DISK
---------------------------------------------------
1.Left-click on the game requester icon to get to the game requester
  screen.

2.Select LOAD GAME at the game requester screen from the game menu.
  After a moment, the load game requester appears.

3.Left-click on FILE. Type the name of your saved world and press
  RETURN. Alternately, you can click on the file you want to load, and
  then click LOAD. You're automatically returned to the game screen.

TO SAVE A GAME TO FLOPPY DISK AFTER BOOTING FROM YOUR HARD DRIVE
----------------------------------------------------------------
1.Left-click on the game requester icon.

2.Left-click on SAVE GAME at the game requester screen. After a
moment,
  the save game requester appears.

3.Click on drawer. Type a name for your saved world and press RETURN.
  You're automatically returned to the game.

4.Left-click on FILE. Type a name for your saved world and press
RETURN.
  You're automatically returned to the game.

TO LOAD A GAME FROM FLOPPY DISK AFTER BOOTING FROM YOUR HARD DRIVE
------------------------------------------------------------------
1.Left-click on the game requester icon to get to the game requester
  screen or on the LOAD GAME option at the game menu screen.

2.After a moment, the load game requester appears.

3.Left-click on DRAWER. Type the name of your disk drive (e.g. DF0:)
and
  press RETURN.

4.Left-click on file and then press RETURN. Type a name for your saved
  world and press RETURN. Altenately, you can simply click on the file
  you want to load, and then click load. You're automatically returned
  to the game.

CANCELLING A LOAD OR SAVE
-------------------------
Once you're in the load game or save game requester, you can cancel
the load or save by left-clicking on the CANCEL option.
=============================================================================
                                 =======
                                  || ||
                             P O P U L O U S
                                  || ||
                                 =======


                        Trials of the Olympian Gods.
  

                                CONTENTS
                                --------

  WELCOME TO POPULOUS II...............................................10
  IN THE BEGINNING.....................................................12
  GAME MENU............................................................21
  CONQUERING WORLDS....................................................27
  COLOSSEUM............................................................27
  CLOSE-UP MAP.........................................................29
  WORLD MAP............................................................31
  RAISING AND LOWERING LAND............................................31
  SETTLEMENTS AND SPROGING.............................................32
  MANA.................................................................33
  MANA GUAGE...........................................................33
  PAPAL MAGNETS........................................................33
  INFLUENCING BEHAVIOUR................................................34
  WORSHIPPERS AND WALKERS..............................................34
  SOUNDS...............................................................34
  QUITTING A WORLD.....................................................35
  COMMANDS.............................................................36
  BASIC COMMANDS.......................................................36
  DEVINE INTERVENTION COMMANDS.........................................43
  WINNING..............................................................53
  EXPERIENCE POINTS....................................................53
  GAME SUMMARY SCREEN..................................................54
  SAVING A GAME........................................................54
  STRATEGIES AND TECHNIQUES............................................55
  KEYBOARD EQUIVALENTS.................................................56
  PLAYING BY SERIAL LINK...............................................57


Page 9
------


W E L C O M E   T O   P O P U L O U S   ] [


note: Pages 1-8 were skipped since they were only art work & a short
      cartoon.  Page numbers are at the bottom of each page and reflect
      the manual page, so that the table of contents are of use.  To
      print out, you'll have to reformat each page to conform to your
      printer.  The pages are of varying length, just as the text was
      of varing length on each manual page.



O V E R V I E W

As one of the many sons of Zeus the All-Father, you demand your rightful
place among the gods on Mount Olympus.  But Zeus isn't about to give
you your inheritance just for the asking.  You must prove your worthiness
by defeating the 32 devine opponents who rule the 1000 worlds of
Populous II.


C R E A T E   Y O U R   D E I T Y

Your first task is to create the kind of diety that you want to be.  You
choose the eyes, mouth and head piece that indicate weither you're
benevolent and wise, fierce and war-like, brutish and cruel, or some
bizarre combination of these characteristics.

Your god's personality affects how opponents react to you.  For example, if
your diety looks aggressive, your opponent wages war harder.  If your
deity looks like a scholar, the combat is more subtle and clever.


C O N Q U E S T   G A M E S   A R E   P A R T   O F  A   S E R I E S

There are two ways to play Populous II: Conquest games and Custom
games.  In conquest mode, you must conquer a series of worlds.  Each
world gets progressively harder as you face tougher terrrains, stronger
gods and more potent devine powers (known as Devine Intervention
Effects).

Page 10
-------

E A C H   C O N Q U E S T   E A R N S   Y O U   E X P E R I E N C E

If you played a Comquest Game well, you're awarded experience.  After
each conquest, you can exchange your experiance for greater power in
the six forces of nature.  You can decide to concentrate on a particular
elelment -- becoming, say, a fire god -- or you can spread your
experiance over all the forces.


T H E   U L T I M A T E   G O A L   --   D E F E A T   Z E U S

The final battle in the conguest series is against your father and supreme
master, Zeus, Defeat Zeus and you can take your seat among the gods.

Page 11
-------

C U S T O M   G A M E S   L E T   Y O U   C A L L   T H E  S H O T S

In Custom mode, play a random land with all the effects you have earned
in your Conquest games.  For example, if you've played three Conguest
gmaes and see a variety of effects, in Custom mode you'll be able to play a
game with all those effects combined.


C O N Q U E S T   P R O G R E S S   A F F E C T S   C U S T O M   G A M E S

In a custom game. the Divine Intervention Effects you can do are limited 
by your progress in the Conquest series -- you can't do effects you
haven't already used in a conquest game.  This is the only limitiation to
the kind of Custom Game you make.


I N   T H E   B E G I N N I N G . . .

This section will help you get started by showing the thechniques and
concepts you'll need to conquer the first world in the Conquest series.


C R E A T E   A   G O D

From the Game Menu,left-click on Create Your Deity. The Create Screen
appears:
              Click Proceed to return to the Game Menu

You'll start the game with five lightning bolts of experience. Apply
them to one of the six elements. You can spread your experience around by
clicking once on five different icons, or you can build up your strength
in one by clicking five times on one element.

After the end of each battle, you can earn more lightning bolts of
experience to build up your experience in the other elements even further.

Page 12
-------

C H O O S E   A   C O N Q U E S T   G A M E 

Left-click on Conquest Game at the game menu. The Next Conquest screen
appears: 

The Next Conquest screen shows you which Divine Intervention Effects
and special rules apply to the world your're about to conquer. In the
first world you can only do five Effects: Raise And Lower Land, Place
Papal Magnet, Ordain Perseus, Armageddon, and Columm Of Fire.

 A tick ^   (        /   )
            ( ^ =  \/    )
indicates that a special rule applies to you in this world- For example,
the tick next to "water Is Fatal" indicates that people always drown
if they fall in water.

There are 1000 worlds in the Conquest series. Each world has a number and
a name. The number for the first world in the series is 0; it's name is
DOEGAC.  Each time you conquer a world, ZEUS will give you the name of
the next world he wants you to battle on.  Always write down the name
of any world Zeus gives you.  If you quit populous II, you'll need this name
to continue the Conquest series where you left off.

Click proceed to begin the game.


P A U S I N G   T H E   G A M E 

Once the battle starts, you'll want to pause the game from time to time so
you can follow the tutorial.  To pause the game, press the F10 key.  To
resume the game, press F10 again.

Page 13
-------

T H E   B A T T L E   B E G I N S 

When the game begins, you're looking down at your worshippers.

THE WORLD MAP is a view of the entire world you're currently on.  Good and
Bad populations inhabit the world, usually on opposite sides of the map.

THE CLOSEUP-UP MAP is a magnified view os a point on the World Map.  All
devine activies are carried out here.

WALKERS represent a number of people wandering the land as a tribe
seeking to establishing well-populated settlements.  Walkers need shelter
against the climate and they'll settle on any piece of flat land that can
support them.  When they settle they create dwellings.

DIVINE INTERVENTION EFFECTS are an arsenal of awesome powers and potent
disasters.  There are six categories or elements, each with five individual
effects.  The Effects you can do depend on the world you're fighting on.

THE MANA GUAGE measures your Mana.  Mana is a reservoir of power you
can use to do Effects.  Mana comes from the pious worship of your
followers -- the more worshipers you have, the greater your Mana.  The
red line at the base of the Mana Guage indicates your total Mana.  The
pointer indicates which effects you can currently do.

Right now you only have enough Mana to raise and lower land.
Occasionaklly you'll use up your mana and won't be able to raise or lower
land, but don't worry.  As you gelp your prople multiply, your Mana will
increase.

Page 14
-------

THE BASIC COMMANDS let you influence the general behaviour of your
followers, get information on populations and settlements, and bring up
the Game Requester.

THE COLOSSEUM is a population indicator for both Good and Bad
worshippers.  As populations change, the Colloseum fills and empties to
reflect the fluctuating numbers of dwellers.  Good populations appear in
blue -- Bad populations appear in red.  The Colloseum can also be used to
track walkers and settlements and get information on their strength and
inventions.


C H A N G I N G  Y O U R   V I E W

Changing your view is fundemental to playing Populous.  There are
several ways to change your view.  The easiest is to scroll with the CURSOR
KEYS or the NUMERIC KEYPAD.

The World Map can also be used to change your view.  The area you're
viewing is marked with a black diamond:

Point to the World Map and click a mouse button.  A right-click jumps
your view to the spot you're pointing to.  A left-click moves your view one
increment in that direction.

You can also scroll your view by clicking on the directional arrows
around the World Map.  The longer you hold down the mouse button, the 
more the map scrolls.

Page 15
-------

F L A T T E N   L A N D

Your followers need flat lands to farm and settle on, so the first thing you
should do is flatten the landscape around their settlements.  The lay of the
land is on a grid of squares, so you'll raise and lower land square by
square.  Note: on some worlds you won't be able to raise and/or lower on
your enemies land.

To raise a square of land, move the diamond cursor to the centre of the
square and left-click.

To lower a square of land. move the diamond cursor to the centre of the
square and right-click


C R E A T E   L A R G E   S E T T L E M E N T S 

Creating new settlements is fundamental to winning a world.  Settlements
grow according to the amount of farmland around them -- the more
farmland, the bigger the settlement.

The biggest settlements are castles.  Castles increase your population the
fastest, so initially they're the most valuable.  Castles are also the most
technologiclly advanced, and better weapons means your people will be
more effective fighters.  To create a castle, flatten the land widely around
any dwelling.

Page 16
-------

S P R O G   E A R L Y ,   S P R O G   O F T E N

As a settlemtn fills with people, it's flag rises.  When it's flag reaches the
top, the settlement is full.  At this point, a walker will automaticlly leave
and go in search of a new place to settle.

In the early parts of a battle, you don't want to wait for you settlements
to fill up before releasing walkers.  The more large settlements you have,
the faster your population will rise.  This is where the technique of
sprogging comes in.  When you sprog, you're commanding a settlement to 
send a portion of it's population out into the world in search of a new
home.

To sprog a walker from a dwelling, point to the centre of a dwelling and
click the right mouse button.  The diamond cursor must be on the exact
centre of the dwelling.


C O M P A R E   P O P U L A T I O N S

As you play, use the Colloseum to compare your population with the 
enemie's.  The Good population appears as blue dots -- bad appears as red.

Page 17
-------

U S E   D I V I N E   I N T E R V E N T I O N   E F F E C T S

Once you've increased your Mana, you can use some of the five Effects
available on DOEGAC.  To switch between People Effects and Fire Effects,
click on the appropriate icon.


F I R E   E F F E C T S

The one Fire Effect available on DOEGAC is Fire Collumn, which starts a
huge cloumn of fire that moves across the land.  To do a Fire Collumn,
left-click on the Fire Collumn icon.

A small column on the pointer indicates that the column is now read to
be set down.

Move the cursor up the Close-Up Map and left-click to set the column
down  -- it will appear in a somewhat random location.  As dwellings burn,
enemy worshippers perish.  Any land that the collumn moves across will
turn orange, indicating that it's scorched and ruined. The enemy will
have to raise or lower the ruined land in order to make it arable farmland
again.

Page 18
-------

P E O P L E   E F F E C T S

There are five People Effects available on DEOGAC.

° RAISE AND LOWER LAND: You know this one already.  This lets you
  flatten landscape into farmland by raising and lowering land.

° PLACE PAPAL MAGNET:  This lets you place your Papal Magnet anywhere
  on the the Close-Up Map.  Left-Click on this button, and then move your
  cursor to the Close-Up Map and Left-Click again.  You can not place your
  Papal Magnet unless you have a leader.

° ORDAIN PERSEUS: This changes your current leader into the hero Perseus,
  who marches through your opponent's land and ddestroys any settlements
  or people he encounters. Simply left-click on this icon to call the hero.

° ARMAGEDDON: This forces Good and Bad to fight until only one population
  survives. Only use the Effect when your population is significantly 
  greater than the enemy's.

P A P A L   M A G N E T S

The papal magnets are icons of worship for Good and Bad. You can move
your magnet to Bad territory, then influence your worshippers to go to it
and invade Bad settlements. The first of your walkers to encounter your magnet
becomes your LEADER. Convert strong leaders into special walkers called
HEROES with your papal magnet. You cannot place your papal magnet unless you
have a leader.


Page 19
-------

U S E   I N F L U E C E   B E H A V I O R   C O M M A N D S  TO  MOVE PEOPLE

Use the Influence Behavior commands to influence the behaviour of your
followers. The Influence Behavior commands are available on every world and
can be used without cost to Mana.

° GO TO PAPAL MAGNET: Influence your people to find their ordained leader
  and follow him to the Papal Magnet. You can always find the leader by
  right-clicking on this option. Use this option to draw your leader and
  worshippers together, then turn your leader into a hero. If you like.

° SETTLE: Influence your walkers to build new dwellings and your people to
  reproduce. To encourage faster settling, sprog worshippers from their
  dwellings by right-clicking on any house.

° FIGHT: Encourage walkers to attack Bad settlements and worshippers. Fight
  also encourages your people to settle and produce more walkers for battle.

° GATHER TOGETHER: Encourage your walkers to walk toward each other and
  combine into one stronger walker. Note that each walker represents a group
  of people, so when your walkers are gathering together, tribes are actually
  combining to make a larger troop. Use this behavior when you want to build
  and strengthen walkers. This option also influences your people to settle as
  they come together.

Page 20
-------

G A M E   M E N U

° Create Your Diety

° Conquest Game

° Custom Game

° Load Game

° Quit to DOS


C R E A T E   Y O U R   D I E T Y

Lets your create and name your deity and assign any experience you've
earned to one of the six elements.

N A M I N G   Y O U R   D E I T Y

TO NAME YOUR DEITY:

1. Left-click on the name bar. A flashing dot appears.

2. Type the name of your deity and press RETURN.


C R E A T I N G   Y O U R   D E I T Y 

Create your deity's looks carefully because they'll effect the way your
opponent god battles you. Choose a scholor's hat and wise eyes for clever
combat, or a warriors helmet and angry eyes for a ruthless battle experience.

TO CREATE YOUR DEITY:

1. Left-click on a selection arrow next to the feature you want to change.
   Keep clicking to cycle through the various features.

2. If you need to back up, click the selection arrow opposite the one 
   you're using.

Choose your eyes, headpeice, and face carefully- your appearance actually
affects your opponent's reactions.

A S S I G N I N G   E X P E R I E N C E

TO ASSIGN ANY EXPERIENCE YOU'VE EARNED:

1. Point to one of the six elements and left-click once for each lightning
   bolt you want to assign.
   The right half of the element icon turns gold one increment for each
   lightning bolt you assign. When the right half is full, the left half
   turns gold one increment and the right half goes dark again.

2. WRITE DOWN YOUR PASSWORD. You can re-enter this password in the same
   slot next time you want to restart this game.


C O N Q U E S T   G A M E

Choose from the CONQUEST GAME to play all the worlds in progression of 
difficulty. As you progress and gain experience, opponents get stronger 
and more crafty, landscapes get more harsh, options are restricted, and
available Effects change.

There are 1000 worlds in Populous II, but you dont have to complete each
one in order to face Zeus in the final combat. If you demonstrate sufficient
skill, you can skip worlds- for example, you could go from world 0 to 18,
and from there go to world 26, and so on.

Page 22
-------

N E X T   C O N Q U E S T   S C R E E N

The Next Conquest screen shows you which Divine Intervention Effects and
special parameters apply to the world you're about to conquer. A tick 
indicates that a special rule appllies to both you and your opponent in 
this world- for example, the tick next to "Water Is Fatal" indicates that
people will always drown if they fall in water. And X indicates that a rule
does not apply.

THE FOLLOWING RULES MAY BE IN EFFECT ON CERTAIN WORLDS:

 R A I S E  /  L O W E R   A N Y W H E R E   O N   M A P

 ^ You can raise and lower land regardless of whether a settlement is
   in view on the Close-Up Map.
 
 X You can only raise and lower land when a settlement is in view on the
   Close-Up Map.


 R A I S E  /  L O W E R   A N Y W H E R E   A T   S E A   L E V E L

 ^ You can only raise and lower land at sea level.

 X You can not raise and lower land at sea level view on the Close-Up
   Map.


 C A N ' T   R A I S E  /  L O W E R   O P P O N E N T ' S   L A N D

 ^ You cannot raise or lower your opponent's land.

 X You can raise and lower your opponent's land.

Page 23
-------

 C A N ' T   R A I S E   L A N D

 ^ You cannot raise land.

 X You can raise land.


 C A N ' T   L O W E R   L A N D

 ^ You cannot lower land.

 X You can lower land.


 W A T E R   I S   F A T A L

 ^ Your people automatically drown in water.

 X Your people can be saved if they're dropped in water.


 O P P O N E N T ' S   D O T S   N O T   S H O W N   O N   M A P

 ^ You can see opponents on the World Map.

 X  You cannot see opponents on the World Map.


 N O   S P R O G   W I T H   R I G H T   M O U S E   B U T T O N

 ^ Right-clicking lowers land no matter where the cursor is on the map.

 X Right-clicking on the centre of a dwelling sprogs a walker.


 D I S A S T E R   D O T S   N O T   S H O W N   O N   M A P

 ^ You cannot see disaster effects on the World Map.

 X You can see disaster effects on the World Map.


 S W A M P S   A R E   S H A L L O W

 ^ When a person from this side falls in a swamp, the swamp is "filled"
   and disappears.

 X No matter how many people from this side fall in a swamp, it will never
   be filled.


S H O W   O P P O N E N T   D E I T Y:

Left-click on the green button to read a description of your current opponent.


P R O C E E D

Left-click on Proceed to begin conquest.


C A N C E L

Left-click on Cancel to return to the Game Menu.

Page 24
-------

N A M E S

Each time you start a world, you receive the name of the next world you are
to conquer. ALWAYS WRITE DOWN THIS NAME. If you quit Populous II, this is 
the only way you can resume the Conquest series where you left off.

TO RESUME THE CONQUEST SERIES WHERE YOU LEFT OFF:

1. Select CONQUEST GAME from the Game Menu. The Next Conquest game appears.

2. Click on the BATTLE AT bar. A flashing dot appears.

3. Type the name of the next world for you to conquer and press RETURN.


C U S T O M   G A M E

Through playing a few conquest games, you experience different combinations
of Divine Intervention Effects and earn new ones. Choose Custom Game to play
a random landscape using all the effects you've earned so far in your Conquest
games. CUSTOM GAMES WON'T ADVANCE YOU TOWARD FINAL VICTORY AGAINST ZEUS.

A D J U S T I N G   G A M E P L A Y

Custom Game start out very hard, so to adjust it to your level:

 1. Left-click on the Game Requester icon to bring up the Game Requester.

 2. Left-click on Game Option to bring up the Game Options Requester.

 3. Left-click on any of the options to change any of the special parameters
    for Good (you).

Page 25
-------

 4. Left-click on the green button next to For Good to change it to For
    Bad. Now left-click on any of the options to change any of the special
    parameters for your opponent. Initially your opponent can create and
    destroy land very fast, so you may want to alter Bad's abilities to
    raise and lower land and slow you opponents down with the COMPUTER
    SPEED bar.

 5. Left-click on OK to return to the game.


P A I N T   M A P   M O D E

The Paint Map mode lets you customise games further by letting you:

° Change maps and landscapes

° Adjust Mana levels for both sides

° Set down walkers, trees, rocks on the map

For details on the different Paint Map options, see Game Requester under
Basic Commands.


L O A D   G A M E

Load a saved game. See your Command Summary Card included in your package
for instructions about how to load a saved game.

Q U I T   T O   D O S

Exit to DOS.

Page 26
-------

C O N Q U E R I N G   W O R L D S

 C O L O S S E U M

 The colosseum reflects population and level of technology of the world, a
 settlement, or a walker.

 WORLD POPULATION

 Use the colosseum to check up on the world's population from time to time.
 As the Good (blue) and Bad (red) populations grow, representatives of both
 sides enter the colosseum. Good worshippers dressed in blue sit on the left,
 Bad worshippers dressed in red sit on the right. The blue and red 
 representatives of the general population never leave. They are always
 showing and always represent only the total population of the world.

Page 27
-------

 SETTLEMENT POPULATION

 You can check on the population of a settlement at any time. Query any
 settlement and you'll see the level of technology from a fist (very 
 primitive) to a sword (very advanced), and population count in the form
 of eight flags moving up and down flagpoles around the back of the
 colosseum. It appears in decimal order:

        left to right - hundred millions
                        ten millions
                        millions
                        hundred thousands
                        ten thousands
                        thousands
                        hundreds
                        tens

  TO CHECK THE POPULATION OF A SETTLEMENT:

  1. Left-click on the Query icon.

  2. Move your cursor to a settlement on the close-up mao

  3. Left-click on the dwelling to attach the query icon to it. The
     settlement appears in the center of the colosseum and a question
     mark appears on tp of the dwelling.

  In the middle of the colosseum , you'll see a picure of the settlement.
  The flags on the colosseum flagpoles reflect the amount of the population.

  If you sprog a walker from a queried settlemt, the first walker out of the
  settlement takes the query mark with them.

Page 28
-------

 WALKER POPULATION

 Walkers represent a certain number of people in a tribe. When you query a
 walker, he or she appears in motion in the middle of the colosseum. Their
 tribes total population is displayed on the eight flagpoles behind the
 colosseum (see Settlement Population above for an illustration of how to
 read flagpoles.) When a queried walker settles, joins another walker, or
 another household the query is transferred to the new walker or dwelling.
 
 The Level of Technology of a walker appears in the form of weapons in the 
 lower left corner of the colosseum. A fist indicates the lowest form of
 technology a sword the highest.

  TO CHECK A WALKERS POPULATION:

  1. Left-click on the Query icon

  2. Move your cursor to the person or settlement you want to query.

  3. Left-click again.

  A question mark appears on top of a queried walker.


C L O S E - U P   M A P

The close-up map is where you carry out all divine commands and effects.
View settlements, watch battles, lay wast to enemy land, build your land.

The close-up map reflects the section of land that is covered by the black
cursor on the world map.

Page 29
-------

You can move around the Close-Up Map in several ways.

The cursor keys will scroll in their respective directions. Also, the outer 
number keys on the numeric keypad will scroll in their respective directions.

YOU CAN ALSO USE THE BROWN DIRECTIONAL ARROWS AROUND THE EDGE OF THE WORLD 
MAP:

1. Move your cursor to a directional arrow.

2. Left-click to move one increment in that direction.

Page 30
-------

W O R L D   M A P

The world map shows the landsxape of the world you're currently on.

° Blinking white dots are Good settlements

° Blinking yellow dots are Bad settlements

° Blue dots are Good walkers (your followers)

° Red dots are Bad walkers (but do not wear orthepedic shoes)

° The small black diamond is the section of the world that is currently
  on the Close-up Map

° Grey dots are plauged houses

TO MOVE AROUND THE WORLD MAP:

Put your cursor on the place you'd like to go, then:

° Right-click to jump directly to that point

° Left-click to move towards that point one section.  Keep clicking to
  move further

To scroll around the World Map, Hold down the right mouse button
and move the mouse any direction on the map.

R A I S I N G   A N D   L O W E R I N G   L A N D

Left mouse button raises land, Right mouse button lowers land.
		
Page 31
-------

Flattening out farm land is vital for our population to spread out and
grow.  Raise land from the ocean's waters to extend peninsulas or flatten 
mountains into rich soiled acreage.  To raise land out of the water, just
move your cursor out into the body of water and left-click.

During a Custom game, you can define special rules about raising and
lowering land for you Custom game.


TO LOWER LAND:

1. Choose the Raise/Lower icon from the influence behaviour bar

2. Move the main point of the cursor (the black diamond) to the tip of a
   pyramid of land on the close-up map

3. press the right mouse button to lower it

TO RAISE LAND

1. Choose the Raise/Lower icon from the Influence behaviour bar

2. Move the main point of the cursor (the black diamond) to the low
   point you'd like to raise on the close up map

3. Press the left mouse button to raise it


S E T T L M E N T S   A N D   S P R O G G I N G

Creating many big settlements is vital to the growth of your population
and your power.  Initially your settlements are small tents and huts, so
spread out flat farmland around them to transform them into powerful
castles.  New settlements automaticly occur as old ones fill up and 
walkers move out in search of more farmland to build on.

Sprogging is the most important technique to practice for spreading your
population.  Command well-populated settlements to release a walker to
create new settlements and build the population.  Well-populated
settlements are recognisable yu their high'flying flags:  the further a flag
is up the flagpole, the higher the number of people at that dwelling.


TO SPROG A WALKER FROM A DWELLING:

1. move the main point of the cursor to the centre point of a dwelling

2. Right-click

Page 32
-------

M A N A

Mana is the substance from which you draw power.  You earn mana from
your populations divine offerings, so increase your population as quickly
as you can by sprogging dwellings to create new worshippers and
dwellings.  In order to use higher-level Divine Intevention Effects, you
must have enough mana, but keep in mind that when you perform an effect, 
you use mana up.  Different effects cost different amounts,so use
your mana gauge to budget your power. 

M A N A   G A U G E

The mana gauge increases every time you earn mana.  Likewise, it
decreases every time you use mana to perform a Divine Intervention
Effect.

The red line just below the Divine Intervention effects desplays your total
mana.  The pointer just next to that shows what effects you have enough 
mana to perform (you can perform all effects at the pointer and below).

P A P A L   M A G N E T S

The papal magnets are icons of worship for Good and Bad.  You can move
your magnet to Bad territory, then influence your worshippers to go to it
and inbade Bad settlements.  The first of your walkers to encounter your
magnet becomes your leader.  Convert strong leaders into special walkers
called Heroes with your papal magnet.  You can't place your papal magnet
unless you have a leader.

 (Papal magnets: Good is a whirling golden jack with orbiting balls, 
                 Bad is a silver Medusa's head)

Page 33
-------

I N F L U E N C I N G   B E H A V I O U R

Manipulate your way to victory by influencing your populations
behaviour with the influence behaviour Commands.  These commands
are always available whether your strong or weak. For information
about how to use these commands see "influencing behaviour
commands" under COMMANDS.


W O R S H I P P E R S   A N D   W A L K E R S 

Worshippers is a term for your entire population.  Walkers are the
members of your population walking across the land.  All worshippers
have a level of intelligence according ot the level of technology of the
dwelling they emerge from.


SPECIAL WALKERS

Some walkers have special attributes.

LEADERS

Both Good and Bad populations can have a leader of the people,
recognisable the the miniature papal magnets of thier heads.  when
you select the Go to Papal Magnet icon, your people will first go to
thier leader, then follow him to the papal magnet.  Leaders are the 
only members of your population you can transform into Heroes, and 
when you do, you'll need to create a new one by selecting Go To Papal
Magnet.

HEROES

There are six heroes, one from each category of effects.  when you
have enough mana, turn your leader into a hero for greater destruction.
Heroes tend to be immune to the effects of powers from within thier own
category.


S O U N D S

Sounds are an important part of Populous II.  If you hear the sound of fire
burning, and earthquake, or other disasters, check your territory -
somewhere your opponent has just done some creative landscaping to your 
settlements.


HEARTBEAT

Throughout the game, you'll hear a steady heartbeat - your heartbeat.
The slower it pounds, the more healthy you are.

Page 34
-------

DINGS

You'll hear a few metalic dings during play of Populous II which mean
several different things:  possibly a hero has been created or a papal
magnet has been moved.  Pay attention to events and sounds to be able to
identify which sound means what.


EFFECTS

You'll hear sounds of many different Divine Intervention effects.  the
effects you cause are only audible when the are showing on the close-up
map, but any effects used by your opponent on your land are audible as they
happen.


Q U I T T I N G   A   W O R L D
 
TO QUIT A WORLD:

1. Left-click on the Game Requester icon (the planet at the top of the bar)

2. Select SAVE GAME to save game, or QUIT MAP to quit the world.  For more
   information about saving a game see your Command Summary Card

Page 35  
-------

B A S I C   C O M M A N D S

The Basic Commands let you influence the general behaviour of your
followers, get information on populations and settlements, and bring up
the Game Reqester. Starting from the bottom of Behaviour Influence bar
the icons are described as follows:  
           Go To Papal Magnet  --  your papal magnet
           Settle  --  an arrow pointing to a flag  
           Fight  --  an arrow pointing to two opposing swords.  
           Gather Together  --  an arrow pointing to a worshipper
           Query  --  a question mark  Game 
           Requester  --  a planet.
           To use one of these commands, left-click on its icon.


GO TO PAPAL MAGNET

Place your papal magnet in a strategic area then influence your people to
walk to it.  If you don't have a leader, use this command to get a walker
there faster (he'll turn into your leader as soon as he touches the magnet).
Remember, you can't place your papal magnet if you don't have a leader.


SETTLE

Influence your people to build and settle on the land you flatten for them.


GATHER TOGETHER

When two walkers randomly run into each other, they become one stronger
walker, but influence your walkers to come together into fewer, stronger
walkers with this Gather Together command.  your walkers tend to
settle during this behaviour, so you'll be building strong settlements as 
well as people.


FIGHT

Influence your walkers to walk toward Bad settlements and fight for your
cause.  your walkers also settle and produce fighters while influenced to 
fight.

Page 36 
-------

QUERY COMMAND

Left click on the query command for information about various people
and settlements.

TO GET INFORMATION:

1. Left-click on the Query icon

2. Move your cursor to a target dwelling or walker on the close-up map

3. Left-click again to attach the query mark to them
   Any dwelling or walker with the query nark on themappears in the
   centre of the colosseum.  Only one dwelling or walker can be queried
   at a time.  th colosseum reflects the population and technological
   intelligence of the walker or dwelling.  For mor information, see The
   Colosseum under "CONQUERING WORLDS".


GAME REQUESTER COMMAND

Left-click on the world icon to bring up the Game Requester.
The Game Requester lets you save and load games, quit or restart the
world, and set various game options.  

There are two kinds of buttons:  green, and gold.  The green buttons let you
choose between two different things or bring up a defferent requester.  The
gold buttons let you turn an option on or off.  When the gold button is  
pressed in, the opion is on; when the button is out, the option is off.

There are also ticks (^) and X's next to some options.  A tick means the 
option is active, the X means it's inactive.
	


Page 37
-------

I AM GOOD/BAD

You're good by default.  In custom games, however, you have the 
option of being a Bad god.  Left-click on this option to change your
morality from Good to Bad or vise versa.


COMPUTER ASSIT ON/OFF

When this option is turned Off, you have to raise and lower land and sprog
settlements yourself.  When On, the computer takes over some of these
tasks so you can concentrate on destroying the enemy.


COMPUTER V HUMAN/COMPUTER

In Computer V Human mode, you play against the computer.  In
Computer V Computer mode, you can watch the computer play both
sides, then join in when you like.


LOAD GAME

The Load Game option lets you load previously saved games.  For detailed
loading instructions, see Loading Saved Games on your Command
Summary Card.


SAVE GAME

The Save Game option lets you save games to disk.  For precise saving
instructions, see the Saving Games on you Command Summary Card.


RESTART MAP

The Restart Map option lets you restart your conquest of the current
world.


QUIT MAP

The Quit Map option lest you quit the current world and return to the
Game Menu.


CONQUEST GAME

a tick(^) means that you're currently playing a Conquest Game -- an X
means that you're not.


CUSTOM GAME

a tick (^) means that you're currently playing a Custom Game -- an X
means that you're not.

Page 38
-------

SERIAL GAME

The Serial Game option lets you establish a data link between computers
connected via modem or serial cable.  For moew details, see Playing By
Serial Link.


P A I N T   M A P

The Paint Map option lets you change the features on a Custom Game
Map.  This optoin can only be selected for Custom Games.  Left-Click on
the gold button to activate the Paint Map feature, and then click OK.
When you return to the map, the Paint Map option appears in the upper
right corner:


P A I N T   M A P   O P T I O N S

BLUE MAN -- To add good walkers to the landscape, left-click on the
Blue Man button, move the mouse to the map, and click the left mouse
button for each walker you want to put down.

RED MAN -- To add Bad walkers to the landscape, left-click on the
Red Man buttton, move the mouse to the map, and click the left mouse
button for each walker you want to put down.

TREE -- To add trees to the landscape, left-click on the Tree button,
move the mouse to the map, and click the left mouse button for each
trr you want to put down.

ROCK -- To add rocks to the landscape, left-click on the Rock button,
move the mouse to the map, and click the left mouse button for each
rock you want to put down.

Page 39
-------

MY MANA -- to raise you mana, left-click on the up arrow.  To
lower your mana, left-click on the down arrow.

HIS MANA -- To raise your oppenents mana, left-click on the Up
arrow.  Tp lower his mana, left-click on the Down arrow.

LANDSCAPE -- Left-click on the up arrow to scroll through the
different landscapes: Fertil, Snow, Desert, and Sludge.

NEW MAP -- Left-Click on the New Map button to select a different
map to conquer.


G A M E   O P T I O N S

Left-click on the Game Options button to bring up the Game Options
requester:

The Game Options let you determin how certain features on the 
landscape work.  You can only adjust these options for a Custom Game.
Any changes  you make to the settins affect only the side current
displayed (for Good or for Bad).

Left-click on the green button to choose wether you're setting the game
options for Good or for Bad, and then left-click on the ticks (^) and X's to
turn the option on or off.

Page 40
-------

G A M E   O P T I O N S

FOR GOOD/BAD

Lets you choose which side (Good or Bad) you're currently setting
options for.


RAISE/LOWER ANYWHERE ON MAP

^ You can raise and lower land regardless or wether a settlement is
  in view on the Close-Up Map.

X You can only raise or lower land when a settlement is in view on
  the Close-Up Map.


RAISE/LOWER ANYWHERE AT SEA LEVEL

^ You can only raise and lower land at sea level.

X You can not raise and lower land at sea level.


CAN'T RAISE/LOWER OPPONENT'S LAND

^ You cannot raise or lower your opponent's land.

X You can raise or lower your opponent's land.

 
CAN'T RAISE LAND

^ You cannot raise land.

X You can raise land.

 
CAN'T LOWER LAND
 
^ You cannot lower land.

X You can lower land.


WATER IS FATAL

^ Your people automaticly drown in water.

X Your people can be saved if they're dropped in water.


OPPONENT'S DOTS NOT SHOWN ON MAP

^ You cannot see opponents on the World Map.

X You can see opponents on the World Map.


NO SPROG WITH RIGHT MOUSE BUTTON

^ Right-clicking lowers land no matter where the cursor is on the map.

X Right-clicking on the centre of a dwelling sprogs a walker.

Page 41
-------

DISASTER DOTS NOT SHOWN ON MAP

^ You cannot see disaster effects on the World Map

X You can see disaster effects on the World Map


SWAMPS ARE SHALLOW

^ When a person falls into a swamp, the swamp is "filled" and disappears.

X No matter how many people fall in a swamp, it will never be filled.


COMPUTER SPEED

If you have a computer with an advanced processor, you might want
to slow down its reactions to make the game more fair.  Lift-click
anywhere on the black bar to move the setting.


SPECIAL CODES

Many codes to enter in this slot will be relesed in forthcoming publications
but we'll start you off with one.  Left-click
in the slot, then type Music, and play Populous II to deluxe mood music.


ABOUT

Who designed, create, concieved and programmed Populous II.

Page 42
-------

D I V I N E   I N T E R V E N T I O N   C O M M A N D S

30 Divine Intervention Effects are your weapons against your opponent
and your only means for helping your population.  Effects use up your
mana; great effects like tidal waves and earthquakes are expensive. a
lesser effect like lowering and raising land costs little.  you can strenghten
any effect by applying earned experience points to its category at the Deity
Creation screen.


P E O P L E   E F F E C T S

These commands allow you to afect your population


RAISE/LOWER LAND

Flattening out farm land is vital for your population to spread out and
grow.  Raise land fron the ocean's waters to extend penninsulas or flatten
mountains into rich soiled acreage.  Tor raise land out of the water,
just move your cursor out into the body of water and left-click.

TO LOWER LAND:

1. Choose the Raise/Lower icon from the influence behaviour bar (Opposing
   arrows)

2. Move the main point of the cursor (the black diamond) to the tip of a
   pyramid of land on the close-up map

3. Press the right mouse button to lower it

TO RAISE LAND

1. Choose the Raise/Lower icon from the Influence behaviour bar

2. Move the main point of the cursor (the black diamond) to the low
   point you'd like to raise on the close up map

3. Press the left mouse button to raise it


PLACE PAPAL MAGNET

YOU MUST HAVE A LEADER BEFORE YOU CAN PLACE THE PAPAL MAGNET.  Clicking on
this icon lets you place your papal magnet.  Putting it in the right place 
at the right time offers great strategic advantage.  Place it protectively 
inside castle walls and influence your walkers to gather there, combining
for strength.  Place it deep in the heart of enemy territory and influence 
your walkers to walk to it; they'll destroy all that comes in the path of 
thier holy pilgramage.

The first walker to arrive at the papal magnet is your leader.  When your 
leader is at the magnet, he is surrounded by a blue flame of holy fire and
is invincable.

Page 43
-------

TO PLACE THE PAPAL MAGNET

1. Left-click on the Place Papal Magnet icon (Papal Magnet)

2. Move your cursor to the point on the close-up map you'd like to place
   the magnet

3. Left-click

Right click on the Place Papal Magnet icon to jump directly ot the current
papal magnet location on the close-up map.


PERSEUS

Change your leader int the hero Perseus by clicking on this icon.  Perseus
is the most intelligent of the greek heroes, and makes a strong and skillful
soldier driven to destroy Bad settlements.  Turn as many leaders as you want
into Perseus, but remember, each time you turn your leader into a hero, 
you'll need to establish a new leader by selecting the Go To Papal Magnet 
command.

To turn your leader into Perseus, left-click on the Perseus icon. (Helmet)


LAY PLAGUE

Lay plague on an enemy walker or settlement.  When a walker has the plague
they'll spread the illness to all dwellings and people they touch.  Plagues
can only be stopped by destroying the infected people and settlements.
Plagued people don't give you any mana, and if Armageddon is declared, they
instantly disintegrate leaving only your healthy population to fight for 
your cause.

Identify a plagued person or house by the vulture circling in the air above 
the infected person or dwelling.  If you hear the tell-tale "caw-caw" of
the plague vulture and you don't see one onscreen, check your settlements.
Your opponent has infected your population.

TO LAY PLAGUE:

1. Left-click on the plague icon (Skull)

2. Move your cursor to the dwelling or person you want to infect

3. Left-click
   Repeat all steps for each new dwelling or person you want to infect
   Be carefull, Plague spreads fast!

Page 44
-------

DELCARE ARMAGEDDON
 
When you have enough mana and your population is larger and stronger then 
your opponent's, declare Armageddon to get the forces of Good and Bad to
march to the centre of the world and fight to the death.

To declare armageddon, left-click on the Armageddon icon.


V E G E T A T I O N

Control the vegatation of the world with Vegatation effects.


GROW FOREST
Earn poularity points by planting trees around your settlements.

TO PLANT TREES:

1. Left-click on this icon (tree)

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3. Left-click again to plant the trees.


RENEW LAND

Renew damaged land with greenery and flowers.  After a volcano, planting
greenery is the only way to make the land liveable for your people.  People
are happy on a beautiful landscape, so increase your popularity points by
planting this greenery around your settlements.  This greenery spreads if 
planted in the right patterns, cluster plantings together and give them 
plenty of room to spread.

TO PLANT:

1. Left-click on the greenery icon (flowers)

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3. Left-click again to plant


SWAMP

Lay a swamp on enemy land to swallow Bad walkers

TO SWAMP ENEMY LAND:

1. Left-click on the swamp icon

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3. Left-click again to lay the swamp.
   For a bigger swamp, repeat all the steps a few tims in one area

Page 45
-------

PLANT FUNGUS

Plant deadly fungus around enemy settlements and watch it spread to cover
their territory.  For the most damaging spread and growth pattern, plant 
fungus in straight rows of thre or five, but be careful with it.  If it 
creeps into your territory, it could finish off your settlements as well.

TO PLANT FUNGUS:

1. Left-click on the fungus icon

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3. Left-click again on the pieecs of land where you want it planted


ADONIS

Turn your leader into ADONIS, the hero of vegetation recognisable by his
head of leaves.  He divides after combat, multiplying your number of 
hero's roaming the world for your cause.  Turn as many leaders as you want 
into Adonis, but remember that each time you turn your leader into a hero, 
you'll need to establish a new leader by selecting the Go To Papal Magnet
Command.

TO TURN YOUR LEADER INTO ADONIS, left click on the Adonis icon.


E A R T H

Earth effects give you control of earthly disasters and benefits.


ROADS

Build roads on flat ground and low slopes for your people to walk on and
make their travel faster, or use them to block the spread of fungus.  
Roads are laid down one square at a time.

TO BUILD A ROAD:

1. Left-click on the road icon

2. Move your cursor to the area you want to begin building on the close-up
   map

3. Left-click and move the mouse in row to lay down the squares of a road, 
   right-click to remove a square.

Page 46
-------

CITY WALLS

Build city walls on flat ground around your settlments to protect your 
worshippers.  Neither you nor your opponent can alter the land a city 
wall is built on.  You can't build on enemy land

After you build your first wall, all other city walls must be connected
to it.  For example, if you build a city wall around one settlement, the next
piece of all you lay down must stem from the original wall and extend
out to the next settlement you want to surround.  The only way to have 
two separate walled settlements is if your opponent somehow destroys the
connector between the two.

TO BUILD A CITY WALL:

1. Left-click on thr City walls icon

2. Move your cursor next to the settlement you want to surround on the
   close-up map

3. Left-click in a circle around the settlement to lay the wall


EARTHQUAKE

Cause a rumbling earthquake to split the enemy territory wide open and leave
behind a rift that swallows your opponent's population.  Earthquakes are
special in that you aim them in a general direction with the pointer that
orbits your cursor.

TO CAUSE A EARTHQUAKE:

1. Left-click on the earthquake icon ('sound' waves).  A pointer slowly
   orbits your cursor

2. Move your cursor to the close-up mao next to where you want to start
   the earthquake

3. When the pointer is aiming the right direction, left click again

Page 47
-------

BATHOLITH

A batholith is an underground movement of rock which causes the land to rise,
and forces numerous boulders to surface.  Create a batholith on enemy 
territory to destroy their farmland.

TO LAY A BATHOLITH:

1. Left-click on the Batholith icon

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3. Left-click and hold to cause the batholith.  Hold down the mouse
   button for larger batholiths


HERACLES

To turn your leader in the hero Heracles to double his strength and
send him crusading into enemy territory.  Turn as many leaders as you
want into Heracles, but remember that each time you turn your leader 
into a hero, you'll need to establish a new leader by selecting the
Go To Papal Magnet Command.

TO TURN YOUR LEADER INTO HERACLES, Left-click on the Heracles icon


A I R

Wepaons such as rain, lightning, and gale force winds are at your 
command when you select elements from the Air category.


LIGHTNING

Electrocute enemy walkers and destroy and destroy enemy settlements and
farmland by striking with lightning bolts.  You won't be able to aim
the lightning bolts exactly, so just strike on or near the target area.

TO STRIKE WITH LIGHTENING:

1. Left-click on the lightning icon

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map.  Notice the storm
   cloud following your cursor -- it's waiting for your command to
   strike

3.  Left-click and hold to strike.  The longer you hold down the mouse
    button, the more damage done

Page 48
-------

WHIRLWIND

Start a whirlwind spinning through enemy settlements for maximum
devistation.  When a whirlwind goes off land, it creates a land-eating
whirlpool in the water.  If an armed worshipper gets sucked up by a
whirlwind, all his weapons are flung out of his hands, and he is reduced
to low intelligence.  Anyone sucked into a whirlwind gets flung to the 
ground when the wind stops.

TO CREATE A WHIRLWIND:

1. Left-click on the whirlwind icon

2. Move your cursor to a target on the close-up map

3. Left-click again to start the whirlwind.
   For each new Whirlwind, repeat all steps.


STORM

Create a rainstorm over enemy territory and destroy your opponents land
with lightening and heavy rain.  There is no way to stop a storm.

TO CREATE A STORM:

1. Left-click on the storm icon

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3. Left-click again to start a storm


HURRICANE WIND

Create a gale-force wind to sweep the landscape and devastate enemy land.

TO CALL A HURRICANE:

1. Left-click on the hurricane icon. A pointer orbits your cursor.

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3.  When the orbiting pointer is facing the direction you want the gale to
    blow, left-click again.


ODYSSEUS

Change your leader into Odysseus, fastest of the heros, and send him 
crusading into enemy territory,  Turn as many leaders as you want into
Odysseus, but remember that each time you turn your leader into a hero, 
you'll need to establish a new leader with the Go To Papal Magent Command.

TO TURN YOUR LEADER INTO ODYSSEUS,  left-click on the Odysseus icon.

Page 49
-------

F I R E

The fire elements are doubly potent because they burn up enemy
settlements and worshippers, and ruin all farmland they come in contact
with.


FIRE COLUMN

Start a towering colum of flame randomly burning across an are with this
effect.  Fire columns tend to move uphill hover around the top, So they
damage more land when lit on flat ground.

TO LIGHT A COLUMN OF FIRE:

1. Left -click on the column of Fire icon

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3. Left-click again.
   Repeat all steps for each new column


RAIN OF FIRE

Start a devastating rain of fire over enemy territory.

TO START A RAIN OF FIRE:

1. Left-click on the Fire Rain icon

2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3. Left-click again.


VOLCANO

Erupt a valcano on enmey land and send lava flowing out to the sea to 
become a basalt peninsula in the water.  Land beneath the Volcano is
almost permanently destroyed.  The size of the Volcano you cause depends
on your experiance points invested in Earth effects at the Diety Creation
screen.

If a volcano erupts on your land, cap it as soon as you can by building
land on top of it, then flatten it out.  The only way to make the land
useable again is by planting greenery on the damaged area.  Protect your
settlements from burning lava with a low hill.

TO CAUSE A VOLCANO:

1. Left-click on the volcano icon

2. move to an area on the close-up map

3. left-click again.

Page 50
-------

ACHILLES

Change your leader into Achilles, a fast runner with a head of flames
 who burns everything n his path.  Turn as many leaders as you want into
Achilles, but remember that each time you turn your leader into a hero, 
you'll need to establish a new leader with the Go To Papal Magent Command.

TO TURN YOUR LEADER INTO ACHILLES< left-click on the Achilles icon.


W A T E R

Create tidal waves, whirlpools and baptismal fonts with the effects in
this category.


BASALT

Create bridges of basalt across water by causing minor volcanic activity
with this effect.  Arrest enemy sand expansion by laying basalt in the
water around enemy coastline.

TO CREATE A BASALT BRIDGE:

1. Left-click on the Basalt icon.  An orbiting pointer rotates around your
   cursor

2. Move your cursor to where you want the starting pont of the basalt
   bridge 

3. When the orbiting pointer points in the direction you'd like the bridge
   to lay, left-click again


WHIRLPOOL

Lay land eating whirlpools in the water off the coast of enemy territory.
Whirlpools multiply wuickly and there's no way to stop them, so plant them
far away from your land.

TO CAUSE A WHIRLPOOL

1. Left-click on the whirlpool icon

2. Move to the target on the close-up map

3. Left-click again to start the whirlpool


Page 51
-------

BAPTISMAL FONTS

Baptismal fonts create pools of holy water in the ground.  When a walker 
falls into one, he or she changes to the opposite faith (Good walkers turn
Bad, Bad walkers turn Good).  Create fonts on enemy territory to create 
walkers faithful to your cause in the heart of your opponents settlements.

This effect is tricky because occasionally two fonts appear next to each 
other, and when a walker falls in and changes, he'll immediately fall into
the adjacent font and return to his original loyalties.

TO CREATE BAPTISMAL FONTS

1. Left-click on the Baptismal Fonts icon
 
2. Move your cursor to an area on the close-up map

3. Left-click again to create the fonts


TIDAL WAVE

Set Tidal Waves far out in the oceans off your enemy's coastline to wreak
devastation to his territory.  A Tidal Wave affects the entire world, so
settle your people on high land before you start one.  If your enemy lays 
a Tidal Wave, rise a high wall of land around your coastline to keep water
out.

TO CAUSE A TIDAL WAVE

1. Left-click on the Tidal Wave icon

2. Move your cursor into the oceans far off enemy coastline on the close-
   up map.  The further out you begin your tidal wave, the more momentum
   it can build up on its way inland


HELEN OF TROY

Turn your leader into Helen of Troy, a woman of legendary beauty and grace
who has led many a man to his doom.  She marches into enemy territory and 
leads your opponent's worshippers to a watery grave in the seas.  Turn as
many leaders into Helen of Troy as you want, but remember (all together 
now) each time you transform a leader, you'll need to establish a new one
by selecting the Go To The Papal Magnet Command.

If your enemy creates Helen try destroying her with fire, or lightning.
She's very wise and can sense when your targeting her, so she'll attempt
to escape your gaze by switching directions often, so be prepared to act
fast when you see her on the close-up map.

TO TURN YOUR LEADER INTO HELEN OF TROY, 
Left-click on the Helen of Troy icon.

Page 52
-------

                            W I N N I N G


There are several different ways to win Populous II.  You can win worlds,
win experience points (even if you lose a world), or you can reach the 
ultimate goal, defeating Zeus.


E A R N I N G   E X P E R I E N C E   P O I N T S
 
As you earn experience ponts, apply them to one of the six categories of
effects at the Deity Creation screen.  As you invest experience points
in a category (population, fire, water, etc.) the power of any effect you
use from that category increases.  For example, say you earn five lightning
bolts of experience after a battle and apply them all to the fire category.
The next time you use any effect from the fire category, it's stronger.
Fire columns last longer as do Rains of fire.  Achilles is stronger and 
faster, and your volcanoes are much more damaging and permanant.

To apply a lightning bolt of experince to a category, left-click once on
a category icon.

Page 53
-------

G A M E   S U M M A R Y   S C R E E N

At the end of every world, you'll be seated across the table from your
opponent god and given lightning bolts of experience for your battle.
Your opponent deity gives you lightning bolts as a reward for your strategy
and speed, which you can exchange for experience at the Deity Creation 
screen.


S A V I N G   A   G A M E

See your Command Summary Card included in your package for information 
about how to save a game.

Page 54
-------

          S T R A T E G I E S   A N D   T E C H N I Q U E S


SPROG FOR POPULATION

Right-click on the very centre of a dwelling to get walkers to leave and
settle.  This is the most effective way for you to increase your manna
Quickly.  (When the No-Sprog light is lit, place a small hill just off
centre of a settlement until a walker emerges, then remove the hill)


SINK ROCKS

Lower the land around any rock to the water and the rock sinks forever.
Build new healthy farmland over the area where the rock once was.


REPAIR DAMAGED LAND

To repair fire or quake damaged land, lower or raise it, then flatten it
again.  The land instantly becomes farmland again.


LAY FONTS AROUND ENEMY PAPAL MAGNET

When your enemy's worshippers are walking to thier papal magnet, lay
baptismal fonts around it.  The ensuing fight is a vision to behold.


LEAD YOUR ENEMIES INTO A SWAMP

Create roads across enemy territory.  Bad worshippers will tend to walk on
the roads, so create a swamp at the end of one. Watch bad worshippers drown
in the mud.


LAY WHIRLPOOLS IN ENEMY TERRITORY

Lower land into the water until you create a lake in the middle of enemy
territory, then plant whirlpools in the lake. The whirlpools are 
indestructable and eat away at the enemy's land.


CREATE HILLS AGAINST TIDAL WAVES

Build populations on high land or build a wall of land around your 
coastline before you cause a tidal wave. If you don't, your likely to
wipe out a large chunk of your population.(Tidal waves are an equal 
oportunity destroyer.)


CREATE HILLS AGAINST LAVA

Lava always flows in a straight line, so is some is heading toward your
settlements, raise a section of land in front of the flow to stop it.


CREATE A LINE OF HILLS AGAINST THE RANDOM EARTH ELEMENTAL

When you hear the earth elemental, locate him quickly, then start where
he began to crack your territory, hold the cursor arrow in the direction
he is going and left-click fast and furious to your other coastline.  Later,
when the elemental has disappeared into the sea, repeat the process with the
right button to remove the hill line.


QUICK EXPANSION AND HIGH AGGRESSION KEYS TO SUCCESS

Nice gods finish last.  


Page 55
-------

                K E Y B O A R D   E Q U I V A L E N T S

Pause................. F10

Zoom in............... - (Minus) key on keypad

Zoom out.............. + (Plus) key on keypad

Full screen........... ENTER on keypad

People Effects........ F1 key

Vegetation Effects.... F2 key

Earth Effects......... F3 key

Air Effects........... F4 key

Fire Effects.......... F5 key

Water Effects......... F6 key

Take a Snapshot....... F7 key

Scroll Up............. Up arrow cursor key

Scroll Down........... Down arrow cursor key

Scroll Right.......... Right arrow cursor key

Scroll Left........... Left arrow cursor key


Page 56
-------

P L A Y I N G   B Y   S E R I A L   L I N K

There are two ways to play Populous II against a human opponent:  using
a modem to connect to a remote player, or by using a null modem cable to
connect the serial ports of two computers (this is datalink mode).

To play a serial game, both players need original copies (hehe, not!)
of Populous II.


F I R S T   T H I N G


TALK TO THE OTHER PLAYER!

DECIDE:

° Who is going to play as the Good god and who plays the Bad.

° Who will send and who will recieve (remember, the one who sends is
  paying the phone bill).

° Times for game pauses, when one player pauses, the other gets 
  automatically paused.


C O N N E C T I N G   I N   D A T A L I N K   M O D E

1.  Get a null modem cable.  You can probably find one in your local
    computer store.

2.  Make sure power to both machines is OFF.

3.  Connect the cable between the serial ports of the two computers.

4.  Turn both machines ON.

5.  Boot the game on both machines and start the game in Custom mode
    by left-clicking on CUSTOM at the Game Menu.

6.  Next choose who is going to be the Good god and who will be the Bad god.
 
7.  Left-click on the Game Requester icon.

8.  When the Game Requester screen appears, left-click on SERIAL GAME

9.  When the Link Requester screen appears, adjust your baud rate by
    left-clicking on the arrows on either side of the BAUD RATE number.
    Baud rates of the two modems MUST be the same.

10. Left-click on CONNECT.
    You'll get a message box that tells you the modem's trying to connect
    and what number its on.  It will stop as soon as you're connected.

Page 57
-------

C O N N E C T I N G   M O D E M S

1.  Ensure both the computer and your modem are turned off

2.  Connect the modem's serial cable to the computer, then connect the
    modem to the phone line.

3.  Turn on the modem and your computer.

4.  Boot Populous II on both computers.

5.  Both players must choose the same world; either choose Custom mode
    with the befinning five effects available, or choose Conquest mode
    and both type in the name of the world with the effects you want, and 
    go back to Custom mode with those effects.  Alternatively, you both
    could use an identical saved game.

6.  Left-click on the Game Requester Screen, then left-click Good god
    or Bad god, whichever you've agreed to with your opponent.

7.  Left-click on the Serial Game option, then left-click on OK.

8.  When the Link Requester screen appears, adjust your baud rate by
    left-clicking on the arrows on either side of the BAUD RATE number.
    Both players must have and select the same baud rate.

9.  The Modem Message line on your Link Requester screen is where you can
    type commands to your modem.
    See your modem's manual for the exact commands your modem can
    recieve.  To send a command, left-click in the Modem Message line, type
    your command, then press RETURN.  Your command appears on the line
    beneath.  If you type a second command, you need to delete the old 
    message first

10. As a general guide to connecting, do the following:
    The dialing plater should type ATD and the receivers phone number
    (no spaces), then press RETURN
    The receiving player, once he has heard his modem answer, should type
    ATA, followed by RETURN.

11. If you have successfulluy established a connection, both players
    should see a string of question marks (????) appear in the box below 
    the Modem Message line.  Both players should nwo left-click on CONNECT.
    Both machines will soad the selected world and play can begin.

Note:  There are many reasons why you may have difficulty in connecting with
modems.  If you are experiencing difficulty, try connecting to your friend's
computer with a modem terminal package, or something similar before
loading Populous II.  Consult your modem manual for any commands you may
need to know to configure your modem correctly.


P A U S I N G   T H E   G A M E

If you pause the game with F10 or by bringing up the Game Requester,
your opponent gets paused too, so schedule pauses before you link up.

Page 58
-------

The end!
