                             Medway Boys & Ikari

                                 - Present -

                                 POWER DRIFT      

                      118 Lines (5313 Bytes Decrunched)

                      Docs by Phantom Lord (MEDWAY BOYS)


It's fast.....it's furious.....it's POWER DRIFT!
Choose from twelve wacky drivers, like Jason the Skinhead or Jeronimo the
Mohican and rev your way through 27 stomach churning circuits!
Watch the dust fly and the wheels spin as you screech over a 'roller
coaster' track and wave goodbye to your opponents! Roar over mounds of mud,
drive through the desert, slip 'n' slide on snow covered tarmac and race
your way through the night to face the final lap!

                               COMMODORE AMIGA
                               ---------------

To load the program, insert disk A into drive DF0: and reset the computer
by pressing the CTRL key and the 2 Amiga keys. (A1000 owners will need to
load Kickstart first). The game will start to load and after a short while
will announce itself. If you have 1 megabyte of RAM or more, then the game
will ask for disk B so that it can load in the course data to shorten disk
accesses.

                             OTHER DISK ACCESSES
			     -------------------

The game will make disk accesses when a new course and stage are started.
Whenever the game cannot find the disk in drive DF0: (because there is no
disk present, or the wrong disk is inserted) it will indicate this and
prompt the user to insert the correct disk.

                                MENU OPTIONS
				------------

The following options are available from the game menu:
1) Sensitivity Adjust
		In joystick/keyboard control mode, this causes a cycling of
		the three sensitivities (speed with which the car turns
		from side to side). In mouse control mode, this enables the
		user to define the required scaling for the mouse and a
		seperate screen is displayed.
2) Control Adjust
		This toggles between mouse and joystick/keyboard control.
		Control selected at startup is mouse.
To start the game, click either the mouse button if mouse control mode is
selected, otherwise press the joystick fire button or either SHIFT key.
The course selection screen will then be entered. This is used to select
the course which you wish to play. Use left and right to select the course
you wish. Press the gear change control when the driver arrow points to the
driver that you want to select. Alternatively, press SPACE instead to
select, without game music. After this, the course will be loaded off disk
and the game will begin.

                                GAME CONTROL
				------------

In joystick control mode, the following controls apply:
		Turn Left	Joystick Left
		Turn Right	Joystick Right
		Accelerate	Joystick Forward
		Brake		Joystick Back
		Gear change	Joystick Fire Button.
The keyboard can also be used at the same time as the joystick. The
following keys are used:
		Turn Left	, (; on French Keyboard)
		Turn Right	. (: on French Keyboard)
		Accelerate	CTRL
		Brake		Space Bar
		Gear change	either SHIFT
In mouse control mode, the following controls apply:
		Turn Left---+---The turn is determined by the mouse
		Turn Right--+   horizontal position
		Accelerate	Mouse Left Button
		Brake		SPACE bar, Keypad Enter, or any joystick
				position
		Gear change	Mouse Right Button
In joystick control mode, if it is possible for the user's joystick to
register both left and right together (or if the left and right on the
keyboard are held down together), then the car will keep its current turn
position.
The gear change control is used to toggle the current gear between high 'H'
and low 'L'.
The game may be paused at any stage by pressing the HELP key. It may be
resumed by pressing the RETURN key, or abandoned by pressing the ESC key.
To enter a high score into the table, use left and right movement of the
selected control device to choose the desired character. This character can
then be selected by pressing the gear change control. Characters can be
deleted using the BACKSPACE or DELETE keys on the keyboard. The fourth
character cannot be deleted as it is the final one.

                               IMPORTANT NOTES
			       ---------------

If you boot the Workbench or CLI and insert the disk into one of your disk
drives, the system willsay that the disk is bad. Do not worry, because the
disk is not bad, it's just that the Amiga can't understand the format used
to store the game.
Due to the upsurge in Amiga 'Viruses', the following should be noted:
The game uses its own custom 'Boot Block' to load and so some Virus
detectors will warn you that the game disks are infected with a virus. Do
not worry because they are not infected. Be very careful never to allow the
game disks to become infected because the game will not load if they are.
If you do not unfortunately infect disk A, a spare copy of the boot block
is stored in sectors 2 and 3 on track 0, side 0 of the disk. These should
be copied to sectors 0 and 1 on track 0, side 1 of the disk to remove the
virus and repair the disk. Most disk sector editors should allow you to do
this although you may have trouble getting some to accept the disk because
of its non-standard format.

                               T H E   E N D .
