                    H E L L F I R E     P R E S E N T S
                  =======================================

FULL DOCUMENTATION TO PREMIER MULTI-EDIT SYSTEM
===============================================


TYPED UP BY IGGY/HELLFIRE

WHY MULTI EDIT?

The Premier Manager 3 multi edit system gives the user the power to create
unique leagues, teams and grounds. This allows the PM3 player to keep his/
her game up to date and as close to the real thing as possible. Using the 
editor you can create save games containing the information you want, you
can keep up with the latest transfers, relegations orbuild a fantasy league.
Once you created you`ve created a save game using the editor you simply load
that save game into PM3. Even if you make an error in the gameplay, setting
the players stats to high for example would give you unrealistic gameplay,you
can go back and re-edit the game to suit your taste of play. While bumpin up
stats and giving yourself 69000000 may be fun in the short while its hardly
the answer to the quest of pure management skills that PM3 offers. Using the
multi-edit system you can keep on the ball and need never buy another 
management sim again.

LOADING AND USING PM3 MULTIEDIT SYSTEM ON AN AMIGA 500/600/1200. PLAYING
FROM FLOPPY. BEFORE YOU DO ANYTHING PLEASE READ THE INSTRUCTIONS BELOW.

1. Insert the multi-edit in your disk drive and switch on your computer and 
monitor.
2. Once you have entered the number from your PM3 protection wheel, click on
the load and save icon.
3. When you have the load and save screen on your monitor remove the multi-
edit disk from your floppy drive.
4. Place your PM3 disk 1 into the floppy drive, ensuring that you have set
the disk from write-protect to write enable.
5. Select the update disk icon from the load and save screen. The computer
will then ask you if you are sure, press y for yes. The computer will then
ask which version:NORMAL/AGA, press N if you have the 500/600 version of PM3
or press A if you have the 1200 version.
6. Your PM3 disk 1 will now be updated so that any games you create using the
multi-edit system will work properly. If you do not update disk 1 some of the
changes you make using the editor will not be implemented. You must update
disk 1 before you use any of the features in the multi-edit system. You 
should only update disk 1 once. Once you have updated disk 1 ensure that you
write-protect the disk again so that it can`t be written to again by error.
7. Now you are ready to update/create unique saved games that can be used 
with PM3. The multi-edit system does not change the data on the PM3 disk, it
only changes the data in the save games, so if you make a mistake your 
original game will not be ruined.

INSTALLING TO YOUR AMIGA HARD DRIVE
PM3 Editor Install Notes
1. Insert your PM3-Editor disk into the disk drive. Note you must have PM3
installed to install the editor.
2. Click on the PM3-Editor disk icon.
3. A window will open with a install-editor icon. Double click on this icon.
4. The install program will now start. Follow all the on-scren instructions.

Running the PM3 editor
1. Switch on your machine
2. Go to the drawer in which your copy of PM3 is installed.
3. In your PM3 drawer you will now find that the Multi-Edit system has been 
installed. Click on the Multi-Edit system icon to execute the program.
4. Select the Update Disk icon from the load and save screen. The computer
will ask you if you are sure, press Y for yes. The computer will then ask
you WHICH VERSION:NORMAL/AGA, press N if you have the 500/600 version of PM3
or press A if you have the 1200 version.
5. PM3 will now be updated so that any games you create using the Multi-Edit 
system will work properly. If you do not update, some of the changes you make
using the editor will not be implemented. You must update PM3 before you use
any of the features in the Multi-Edit system. You should only update PM3 
once.
6. Now you are ready to update/create unique save games that can be used with
PM3.

MAIN MENU ICONS (GOING FROM RIGHT TO LEFT ON THE OPTIONS SCREEN)
1. edit managers icon
2. edit player data icon
3. swap players icon
4. edit club data
5. select a team icon
6. league tables icon
7. edit countries and cup final stadiums
8. edit skill/injuries/points icon
9. loading and saving icon.

EDIT MANAGERS

Click on this icon to change your managers name, photo, the division and the
club and the length of your contract with the club. You can choose any
division and any club within that division to play, so you can start in the
Premier Division with Blackburn if you desire or choose the team you support.
To change the managers name click on the text and enter a new name. Note:
the photo option is only available on the AGA/PC version of PM3.
Click on the division text to toggle through all the available choises, once
you have chosen the correct division click on the Club name text to toggle
through all the clubs in that division. To change the length of your contract
click on the text and enter a new figure, the longest contract available is
5 years.
To create a one player game click on the second managers text and then press
return and all the options will automatically toggle to NONE.
If you are playing a two player game, player 2 should amke his/her choises
as described above using the manager 2 player slot. If you are editing a
previously saved game you can change from a one player game in a 2 player
game and vice versa.

EDIT PLAYER DATA

this screen allows you to edit the player data of every player in each
individual team. To toggle through all the teams click on the TEAM: text at
the bottom of the screen, this will take you through all the team in
alphabetical order. Once you`ve selected a team you can edit each individual
players data.
To edit individual names and stats use the left mouse button to select the
name or stat, enter the change and press return to confirm the change. To
change a players name and all his stats select the player with the right 
mouse button, this will allow you to go through all the players inforemation
starting with thr players name, once you`ve changed the players name and
pressed return you will automatically move onto the next stat until you`ve 
completed the full line of stats. To change a players foot stat click on the
text to toggle through the available choices of left, right and both.
Press ESC to return to the original player data before you press return to
confirm the change.
Obviously you need to use a little self control when editing the data, while
it may be fun to edit all the stats to 99% and beat every team in the league,
it makes for poor game play.

SWAP PLAYERS

This feature allows you to swap players from one team to another. Click on
the clubs name at the top of the screen to toggle through the clubs in
alphabetical order. When you have the two teams on screen that you wish to
swap players to and from, select a player from one team by clicking on his
name using the lmb then select a player from the other team you wish to swap
him using the rmb. The two players will now swap places. You can swap players
from one team with a blank slot from another team if you wish. The maximum
players in one team at any time is 24 and the minimum is 14.

EDIT CLUB DATA

Choose this icon to edit a clubs data and their home and away strips. Select
the information you want to change by clicking on the text and then enter the
updated information you wish to be included and press return to enter the 
change. You can change as much of this information as you want. For example:
you could pump up your teams bank account and relieve Arsenal of all the 
money from their bank account and drop their safety rating as well for good
measure.

To change the colour of the strip.
To change the clubs strips (essential if you`re a Manchester United fan??!!!)
(HO BLOODY HO THATS ABOUT AS FUNNY AS THE MANUALS POOR PUNCTUATION!) click on
the strip to change the shirt design, continue to click until you`ve seen all
the available designs. The four sets of three figures at the side of each 
strip are for changing the colour of the stripe(s), the colour of the shorts
and the last set are for changing the colour of the socks (in order from top
to bottom). The three numbers on each line represent the colours Red, Green
and Blue.

If you enter 15 0 0 on the first line this will make the shirt red, if you
enter 0 15 0 on the second line the colour of the strip (if selected in the 
design) on the shirt would be green The third line changes the colour of the
shorts and the fourth changes the colour of the socks. The highest single
figure you can enter is 15. Entering different figures gives you different 
mixes of the colours Red, Green and Blue, with a little experimenting you
can mix and match any colours you like.

To edit another clubs data use the select A Team icon.

SELECT A TEAM

Click on this icon to select a team at a glance, all the teams are displayed
in alphabetical order. Continue to click on the icon to toggle through all
the available clubs. Select a team from the left using the lmb to select Team
Two. This makes it easier and quicker to edit the clubs data using the Edit
Club Data icon and the Swap Players icon.

LEAGUE TABLES

This allows you to completely rebuild each Division, click on the Divisions
text at the top of the left colomn to toggle through all the divisions. This
feature can be used to update all the divisions at the end of the seasons as
clubs get promoted or relegated or you can build your own unique divisions by
adding European clubs. To replace a club in any of the divisions, select the
club with the lmb and select the club you wish to replace it with from the 
right column of clubs using the rmb. All the clubs in the right column are
listed in alphabetical order, click on the NEXT PAGE and PREV. PAGE text to
toggle through all the available clubs.

EDIT COUNTRIES & CUP FINAL STADIUMS

On this screen you can change the countries and stadiums at which the 
European and Cup Final matches are played.

EDIT SKILLS/INJURIES/POINTS

Player Ratings

This screen allows you to change the player ratings systems used by PM3, to
change the name of a rating click on the text and enter the new rating name
and press enter to confirm. It`s wise to use some kind of secondary rating
system after the name of a rating otherwise it will become a little confusing
You will be familiar with the star system used by PM3, use something that is
instantly recognisable or you may end up buying a player that is actually 
worse than the ones you already have.

Injuries
Tired of your players getting bruised ribs? Well, you can now change the name
of the injuries to what you want, you can stick to factual injuries or go for
more colourful injuries like "Too much beer the night before" or "Cantona`d
from the terrace". (well what comedians.. how about "Take English lessons to
improve your English language because we here at Gremlin are so thick
we can`t even put full stops after our sentences".) You can set the length of
the injury and whether the injury will incur a random added injury value
within the game, for example:
INJURY TYPE     WK     RND
Broken Leg      23     3
Any player who gets a broken leg will be out of play for 23 weeks plus the
random number for broken legs is set 3, so the player could be out of action
for a maximum of 26 weeks in total but the minimum would be 23 weeks.

Points
You can even change the point system, you can set the points system so you
get 5 points for a loss, 5 points for a draw and 0 points for a win - not 
very factual but just in case the points system ever changed we thought we`d
include it.

LOADING AND SAVING

Load Game
To load a previously saved game into the Multi-Edit system, the saved game
must be Monday week one of the season and no matches should have been played 
including friendly matches. Click on the Load Game icon and select the game
from the available slots. Slot 1 and 2 are used for games saved to floppy
disks. If you have a hard disk installed you can use all 8 slots to save to
the hard disk.

Format Disk
Format PM3: uses a special formatting method to save all the matc data to 
floppy disk. You must use this to format your floppy disk before you can save
a game to a floppy. Insert a blank disk into the drive before you choose this
option, DO NOT FORMAT ANY OF YOUR GAME DISKS. Click on the icon and follow
any on screen instructions.

Save Game
To save a game click on the Save Game icon (you can use the first two slots
for floppy disks and all eight for hard disk drives) and follow the on screen
instructions. Do not use your PM3 or Multi-Edit disks to save games to. If a 
previously saved game already exist in a slot you are saving to it will be
overwritten by a new game.

Update Disk
This is used to update your PM3 disk 1, you should only update your disk once
updating more than once will be of no benefit and may damage your disk 
through continual wear.

Note:
At the top of the screen you`ll see the text DIRECTORY OF DF0:, this is a 
default save directory for floppy disk users. To change to another directory,
click on the DIRECTORY OF DF0: text to toggle through all the available
directories. This applies only to Amiga users only. (poor grammar again)

You must have PM3 installed on your hard disk before you can install the
editor to your hard disk.

If you have swapped a European team with and English team, after you`ve saved
the game it will have the English clubs name when loading in, but when you
load the game into PM3 it will of course be the European team. This method
enables you to save two games to a floppy instead of one.

ANY PROBLEMS?

If you have problems loading Premier Multi-Edit System, then return it to 
your retailer, or to Gremlin Limited at the address on the packaging. If you
have any questions relating to the game, then Gremlin Interactive Limited
Helpline is available between the hours of 9.30 am and 5.30 pm U.K. time
Monday to Friday, on 01142753423
(c) Gremlin Interactive Limited 1995



***** little note******
This manual was littered with grammar, punctuation and spelling errors. I 
must have noted about 15 errors. It continues the tradition of the Premier
Manager manuals.



TYPED AND CORRECTED BY IGGY/WORLD LEADER OF HELLFIRE!