PREMIER MANAGER 3 DOCS Released 13/11/94
Supplied by Rattie/Independant Typed by Talon/Delight

AMIGA 1200/600/500 USERS ONLY
Playing Premier Manager from floppy.

   1. Insert the Premier Manager 3 game disk into the default disk drive.
   2. Plug your mouse into port number 1.
   3. Turn on your computer and monitor. Follow any on screen loading instructions.

Installing Premier Manager 3 onto an Amiga hard drive.

   1. Turn on the computer and monitor.
   2. Insert the Premier Manager 3 game disk 1 at the Workbench Screen.
   3. Double click on the "Install PM3" Icon
   4. Follow the on screen instructions.

Playing from hard drive.

After installing Premier Manager onto your Hard Drive you can place your floppy disks in a safe place and play from the Hard Drive.

   1. Go to the Workbench Screen.
   2. Double click on the hard drive partition where you have installed Premier Manager 3.
   3. Double click on the Premier Manager 3 icon.

If you experience any loading or printing problems then please read the readme icon on disk. All you need to do is double click on that icon and you will be presented with a text file.
PREMIER MANAGER 3

It's there! A hat-trick of scorchers! A superb solo run from deep inside their own half and Gremlin have completed the finest 1-2-3 of the decade.

Premier Manager 1, a weaving run down the left hand side, perfect cross and diving header from the penalty spot! 1-0

Premier Manager 2, an over head volley into the top left hand corner! 2-0

And now Premier Manager 3, the pick of the bunch and a blistering team effort the length of the pitch. The competition really have got no chance now! It's 3-0 to Gremlin!

Gremlin's Premier Manager 3 manages to combine some absolutely stunning new features with it's immensely popular and by now reassuringly familiar control interface.

There are completely new options for setting up training and tactics, and Assistant Manager to help with the day to day running of the club and a new transfer system that adds realism and excitement.

We've also included the most advanced interface so far for the actual match play. This exciting new feature means that you can actually watch a representation of the game on screen enabling you to assess the strengths and weaknesses of your tactics and players.

Premier Manger 3 is without a doubt the most comprehensive football management game within its genre, others have tried to copy its style, it's interface and and its addictive gameplay but there's only one football management game that's stayed in the charts since it was first released and that game is Premier Manager.

Premier Manager 3 is "the business", so get ready to kick off the new season with the reigning champions and this years favourite for the title.
SIGNING ON THE DOTTED LINE AND CHOOSING A TEAM

Select one of the panels by clicking on it with the left mouse button A dotted line will appear in the panel, type your name and press return. A photograph box and the name of a Conference League team will now appear in the panel. You can select a different photograph or team by clicking on the arrows on the left and right of these features to automatically toggle through all the photographs (we've added a couple of blanks in here so you don't have to be represented in the game by something that would frighten old ladies and could possibly model for gargoyles at weekends) and all the Conference teams. Please note that the photograph option mentioned above is not available on the Amiga 500/600 version of this game.

Two Players can play Premier Manager 3 simultaneously. After player 1 has finished entering his/her name, choosing a photo and team, player 2 clicks on the unused panel and enters their name and chooses a photo and team. Once you've started the game use the spacebar to toggle between players.

When you are satisfied with your settings press the spacebar or click on Start Game at the bottom of this screen.
PRE-SEASON FRIENDLIES

After selecting your team you will be given the opportunity to play up to four friendly games. At this point in the game you are two weeks away from the start of the season, the Number icons 1 to 4 at the bottom left of the screen represent dates for the optional matches you can play before the season starts. If you click on the Number 1 icon, you will see that the first friendly is for Monday - week one of 1994, of you click on 2 you will see that the date for that friendly is Wednesday - week one, 3 and 4 represent two further matches matches in the second week before the season starts.

If you wish to play only one friendly, select a number icon and then a team from the list to play against by clicking ono the team with mouse icon and then click on the on/off at the bottom right of the screen. If you want to play more than one friendly, select your friendly as described above then click on another Number icon and select another team to play against. Continue clicking on the icons 1 to 4 to toggle you through all the available pages of teams Once you've decided how many friendlies you wish to play click on the on/off switch to take you back to the Main Menu.

Friendlies can be useful, they allow you to check out your squad before the season starts. You can then spot any adjustments and fine tuning that may need making before the start of the season. The down side to all this is that you won't make any money from playing friendlies away from home and you run the risk of injuries as well as players being sent off before the season even starts.

Before you click on the Play Match Icon on the Main Menu, we strongly recommend that you read the rest of this manual and follow the advice given. Click on the on/off to go to the Main Menu.

The icons at the bottom of the screen, from left to right are:

1 - 4 - Friendlies Icons. Click on these icons to set-up friendly matches. Fixture Icon. Click on this to check out your timetable for your team. View Current Team Icon. Click here to check out your team and their rating.
RESULT REPORTS AND RESULTS MONITOR
Results Reports.

If you have this feature turned on in the Game Options you will be able to see the result of every match being played, you can if you wish just choose to see the Result Reports from the League your playing in. On this screen you will be given the results of the matches, who scored, the crowd attendance, the weather, the referees name, who was injured and who was booked. To view all the available pages click on Next at the bottom of the screen. To start the match click Exit.
Results Monitor.

If you have the Results Monitor turned on in the Game Options it will appear after you've played a match. Here you can see the results of every match. Just click on the division buttons to see the results and use the up and down buttons on the left of the on/off switch to scroll the results screen up and down. Click on the On/Off button to return to the Main Menu.
Note.

If you haven't chosen to play all four friendlies and you have match reports for Friendlies switched on you must click on Match at the bottom of the screen so that PM3 can calculate the results. PM3 works in real time fixtures and as such each match must be played so the league positions etc. can be worked out.
Pre-Match Screen.

After you've clicked on the Play Match icon on the Main Menu you will be presented with the Pre-Match Screen. Here you will be told which divisions are playing, who you are playing against. Click on Match at the bottom of the screen to play your match. This screen will also tell you if you have an invalid team selected. If the division you are playing in isn't playing and you have the Result Reports turned on you will be taken to that screen, if you don't have any of the reports turned on you will be returned to the Main Menu.
MAIN OPTION SCREEN

The icons on the Main Menu, from left to right starting from the top are:

Save/Load Game, Game Options, Transfer Market, Ground Improvements, Sponsorship, Team Icon, Managers History, Business Case, Telephone, League Tables, The Cups, Fax Machine, Club Finances, Play Match.

This screen is made up of all the major icons you'll need to get your squad to the top of the Premier League. Some of the icons you'll use more than others and you can use them in any order you wish. The following pages will give you a full break down of what each icon does and what it can be used for.
TEAM SELECTION

Select the team icon to check out your squad, see Squad Analysis and Selection for more Details on making major changes to your team. Your team is divided into five sections, each of which has a distinctive colour. The colours are as follows:

GOALKEEPERS - DARK GREEN
DEFENCE - LIGHT GREEN
MIDFIELD - YELLOW
ATTACKERS - ORANGE
RESERVES - RED

You will also notice that each player has an initial before their surname, this isn't the initial of the players Christian name (if it was, it would suggest that their parents had a somewhat limited vocabulary) it's the position he plays. For example, G Owens doesn't mean the players name is George Owens, it means that Owens highest skill is that of a goalkeeper. You can if you wish play anyone in any position you like but playing a goalkeeper as an attacker is not a wise move, although the goalie will play in this position he will be out classed and would have very little to offer.
TEAM ANALYSIS AND SELECTION SCREEN

This screen provides you with all the information you'll need to put together a killer squad (or just squeeze the best out of a would-be weekend pub team). To leave any of the following screens, click on the on/off switch at the bottom right of the screen.

The Team Selection Screen lists all the players with a full break down of all their attributes:

HN = Handling
TK = Tackling
PS = Passing
SH = Shooting
HD = Heading
CR = Control

The numbers below these headings represent your players ability at that particular skill, the figures are scaled between 1 and 99. So if one of your Attackers has a score of 90 under TK it means he's one of the best tacklers in the world. If he has a score of 10 under TK it basically means he couldn't get a ball off a five year old.

Players, teams and members of staff are also graded in bands. This enables you to get a good overview of abilities, strengths and weaknesses of both individuals and the team. The grades are as follows:

   1. Fair
   2. Good
   3. Very Good
   4. Superb
   5. Outstanding
   6. World Class
   7. Exceptional
   8. The Ultimate

The first three of these bands are also graded with a star system, so a team or player rated as Fair * would be totally hopeless. Each of the first three can have up to five * after their rating so a team rated as Very Good followed by ***** would just be under the banding of Superb.
Attributes.

The first four attributes mentioned earlier are basically self-explanatory but the attributes Control and Fitness need explaining a little more in depth.
Control.

This refers to your players ability to bring the ball under control, dribble the ball and ride tackles. Players with greater control will be more successful in these areas.
Fitness.

Players who are at peak fitness will have a number listed in the high nineties, the lower this number is the less fit the player is and the more likely they are to pick up an injury. You should monitor each players fitness level closely, pushing a player too hard in both matches and training can prove fatal, as can putting a player back in the team just after an injury.
Players And Their Statistics - Team Selection.

Select a player by clicking on them with the left mouse button, this will give you a list of the players personal stats on the right side of the screen. This provides you with the vital information you need to fine tune each player as well as a full break down of their training schedule, age, wages, number of goals scored (or conceded for your goalkeeper), whether they are insured they are insured, contract details (see the Telephone for more information on this point) and any disciplinary points conceded.
Moving Players Around.

To move a player, highlight the player you want to move by clicking on him with the left mouse button, once selected move to the slot you want to move him to and press the right mouse button. The two players will now switch places. Below your you will see a set of blank spaces, if at any point you are unable to field a full team due to injuries or some other circumstances then one of these blank lines can be placed into your Subs. This allows you to field a team that does not have a full complement of players.

At the bottom of the Team Selection screen you will be given an overall rating for the whole of your team, keep a close eye on this rating as you buy, sell and substitute players further into the game as it gives a good indication of your teams capabilities as a whole unit.

At the bottom of the screen there are 8 icons, each one provides you with different information and playing capabilities. The following is a break down of what is possible after clicking on each icon.

   1. Main Team Selection Icon. This takes you back to the Main Menu Selection screen from any other screen in this section.
   2. Player Tactics Icon. This allows you to change your teams formation and the individual playing tactics of each individual player.

Individual Player Performance Briefing.

This is where you instruct each individual player. Select a player for the list by clicking on him with the left mouse button, now move to the personal list on the right of the screen. There are three options here, Attacking, Passing and Defensive. Under each of these titles you can instruct each player to perform as you wish.
Attacking.

Under this title you can alter the passing and running percentage of the player as well as the shooting distance. If you wish to increase the passing percentage of a player place the mouse pointer on the percentage number and press the left mouse button to increase his passing percentage. You should note that Passing and Running are inter-linked, if you increase the Running percentage the Passing percentage will decrease and vise versa. If you click on Shooting it will toggle through all the available options.
Passing.

Here you can change each players passing abilities. Use the left or right mouse button to toggle through the available options on Distance, Pitch Area and Height.
Defensive.

Click on Tackling to toggle either soft, medium or hard, Marking, select zonal or man to man.

If you click on the pitch map using the right mouse button on any one of the fifteen squared areas this will show you the position of all your players when the ball is in the highlighted area. This should enable you to hone your team to near perfection and maximise their abilities and perhaps cover their short falls.
Team Tactics Icon.

This allows you to move the positions of your main eleven and decide who will be the Captain or Vice Captain. To change your Captain or Vice Captain put the mouse pointer on the Captain or Vice Captain text and use the left or right mouse button to toggle through your players. You can also decide who will take corners, kick offs, penalties and which players will be involved in the passing and shooting of free kicks. To change the players involved click on the numbers with left or right mouse button to toggle through the players numbers.

To change the tactical formation of your team to one of eight pre-set formations, click on the Tactic title with the left mouse button to toggle through all the available options. You can if you wish change and save your own favoured tactical set ups. To change the formation of your players highlight a player by clicking on his name in the list with the left mouse button. Once the player is highlighted in the list, move to the pitch, you can either drag the player to position you;d like him to play by holding down the left mouse button and releasing the button at the desired position or you can simply click on the player number with the left mouse button once. When the player is selected use the mouse pointer to move around the pitch and click on the left mouse button again to place the player at the desired position.

Pay close attention to the individual players stats here, put left footers on the left and right footers on the right for maximum effectiveness.
Players Match Data Icon.

All your chosen eleven's personal performance is displayed on this screen. For example:

PLAYER     RATE     SHOTS     G     TACKLES     PASSES     SV
Nostra     93%      12:5      3     14:3        10:6       0

A break down of this would be that the player Nostra's playing percentage is 93% out of a possible 100, he's had 12 shots at the goal of which 5 have been off target. He's scored 3 goals, made fourteen tackles - 3 of which he's won. He's made 10 passes, 6 of those have been unsuccessful. SV only applies to the goalkeeper. It lists the number of saves your goalkeepers made. At the bottom of this screen is a total of your teams collective data, here you'll be given the amount of time your teams had possession of the ball, plus the number of shots, goals, tackles, passes and saves.
Fixture Icon.

Click on this icon to view the pending match details, here you'll find the ratings of your team and the team you're going to play next. You'll be able to compare goalkeepers, defence, midfield, attack and an all over team rating against the team you're about to play. The band and star system is used on this screen to give you a good idea how each section of your team compares, used wisely this screen can be used to finely tune your team to exploit the oppositions weaknesses. At the bottom of the screen you will also see a full break down of both teams previous matches played against each other. If this is the first time the teams have played each other the list will contain only noughts.
First Aid & Physio Icon.

This screen reveals your teams injuries, if there are any, and whether they are being treated.

This is where you decide how you'll treat your injured players. Your Physio's can treat some of the injuries your player will incur. The better your Physio, the more capable he will be to treat the more serious injuries. The average Physio can only treat four players at any one time (some of the better Physios can treat up to eight players but the really poor ones can only treat two players) and the treatment he can offer is cheaper than the Hospital or the private hospital Lillishall but it is nowhere as effective. Your Physio can treat any injuries, injuries between seven and ten can be treated in the hospital. Treatment of over ten weeks can be treated at Lillishall. Treatment in the Hospital or Lillishall may be costly but it is a guaranteed method to ensure your player makes a speedy recovery.
Timetable Icon.

This gives you a list of previous played matches, the type of match (Conference match, F.A. Cup match etc.), the team you played and the score.
Pencil Icon.

Are you sick of the top scorer in your team being called Giggs, is your goalkeeper so bad you think he should be named something more appropriate than Wilmott? Well here's your chance, click on this icon and then click on the players name you want to change. Type in the players new name and press return, the re-named player will now appear in your teams listing.

Once you've sorted out your team, click on the on/off switch to return to the Main Menu.
THE BUSINESS
Job Centre Icon.

Click on this icon to view the available members of staff you can hire to join your work force. All the staff available are rated using the banded and star system exactly the same as the players, the higher their rating the higher their wages are but you can rest assured that they'll be more effective than someone with a lower rating. To hire an individual simply click on their name using the left or right mouse button and their name will appear in the list of your employees.

It's worth your while to keep checking the Job Centre from time to time throughout the game to check for better qualified members of staff. if you wish to fire a member of staff who is performing badly, select their name from the list by clicking on it, the computer will ask you if you're sure you want to sack the individual, if you're sure you want to sack them type Y for yes or N for no. The employees name will now disappear from your employees list. To replace existing staff with better qualified staff you must first fire your existing member of staff. For example if your head coach is graded as Fair** and you want to set a head coach on with a grading of Good*, you must first fire the head coach with the grading as Fair** before you can set the better coach on.

If you choose to sack the employee he will disappear from your employees list, care should be taken when doing this because when you hire or fire staff you will have to pay them roughly two months wages.

From time to time you may also apply for the managers job with another team. You'll find this information on the Fax Machine (see Fax Machine for further details). At the bottom of the Job Centre screen the name of the club and the division they play in will appear as below:

TEAM               DIVISION                  A
Chesterfield       Division 2                N

To apply for the job, click on the letter N to change it to the letter Y. If you are successful in in your application for the new position you will be offered a contract by the club. If you are unsuccessful you will receive a fax informing you to that effect. You should use a certain amount of caution when applying for other jobs because if you are constantly turned down for every job your directors will begin to loose confidence in you. You may find that it's your job that's up for grabs. While you're at the Job Centre you should at the very least hire an assistant manager, a head coach, a physio and a scout. This will become more relevant as you use the other icons on this screen.
Assistant Directors Icon.

This is where you find out how well you are doing with your football managerial skills. You'll see your ratings for your managerial skill plus the directors and supporters confidence.

You can also apply for money from your directors. Click on Apply For Money and type in the amount you require and press return, you will be told if your application has been accepted or declined. This is a good way to get some fast cash for "that player" you've been after or to build new facilities but don't be surprised if you get turned down if you apply for vast amounts if the directors confidence in you is low.

if your club is so poor or you wish to spare yourself the embarrassment of coming bottom of the league again you can hand in your resignation, click on Hand In Resignation and confirm this by pressing either Y or N. If you resign you'll have to start from scratch.
Insurance Case Icon.

An important factor when managing a team, you can insure your player against any injuries obtained on or off the field. There are three groups of insurance available.

Group one - The cheapest but ensures that the players will get their wages paid by the insurance company when they are injured.

Group two - As above but with the added bonus of paying for their treatment as well.

Group three - Includes all the benefits of group 2 but you will receive a cash limp sum as compensation for any player who is injured. You'll also get compensation if the player retires due to injury.
Youth Team Icon.

Your youth team coach will look for suitable prospects from his team to promote. Click on any mouse button on the Type Of Player Required text to toggle through all the skill available. The list at the bottom of the screen will list the attributes the Youth Coach can search for. For example if Handling isn't available don't waste time asking him to find a player with that attribute.
Training Icon.

This is where you decide how you are going to train each individual player, each player is listed along with his stats - this is to aid you with your training techniques. You decide which attribute and how hard you're going to train each player. If the player is a striker and is training low on handling, not recommended for strikers, and you want to train him hard on shots, click on handling under the TRAIN title till the text toggles to shots then click on low under the INTENSE title to toggle it hard. You can change a players training anytime you wish but be careful about training players too hard for too long, they may receive injuries while training, which will waste all your previous training sessions with the player.

For training to be successful it is wise to hire specialised coaches from the Job Centre. This type of coach can boost your teams ability at a particular skill, if a coach has the letters PS in brackets after his job title it means that the coaches special training skill is passing. Hiring coaches with special training skills can greatly improve your players ability at that skill.
Scout Icons.

You can have up to four Scouts working for you at any one time, that's if you can afford the wages. Under the Scout Report Title you'll find a set of instructions you can issue to your Scout, to change the instructions click on the text to toggle through the instructions. Your scout(s) can be instructed to perform the following tasks:

Spy On Opponents Tactics: This is an excellent feature, it enables you to see your next opponents tactic, stats of all their players and each players position when the ball is in any of the fifteen areas on the pitch. Click on any of the areas on the pitch to view the opponents position, use this to check out their formations in attack and defence. Utilise this information when you set your team tactics up.

Report On Club And Players: Select a Division and Club and your scout will do the rest, he'll check out the club and give you a comprehensive break down of each player within the club you've selected. To select a division and club simply click on the text to toggle through the divisions and clubs, the number of divisions your scout can search depends on his rating.

Search For Type And Rating: Set the skill, Rating and Foot by clicking on the text, then select the division and the scout will search for the attributes you've outlined.

Negotiate Free Transfers: Select this for your scout to check the selected club for free transfers to save you money, the scout will search the whole division.
TELEPHONE AND FAX MACHINE
TELEPHONE

Here you can call every player n your team as well as calling every club in England to loan or buy any player.

To call a player from your team simply click on his name, this will provide you with a full break down of of the players attributes, abilities, training schedule as well as his contractual status and state of mind. If a players Morale is low you can offer him a bonus to boost his Morale level, this is useful if your team has been losing quite a lot lately. You can also sack a player from this screen if you wish but don't do anything you may regret later. To sack a player click on the Sack The Player text, the computer will ask you if you're sure, enter Y for yes or N for no. The number before each players name indicates the length of his contract with your club, you should check this before you play your first match and at the beginning of every new season. If a player has a nought before his name it means he has no contract with your club (e.g. 0: Nostra 881178), you should call this player and offer him a new contract if you wish to keep him. A player may turn down a contract if it's not to his liking. Offer the player a new wage, contract and signing fee, how much you give him is up to you, click on the text and enter what you are willing to offer and press enter after entering each of the required categories. Don't always give the player what he's asking for, being a "soft touch" won't help you one bit, always haggle for the best deal. If you don't keep an eye on the length of your players contracts you could find yourself without your star striker or cat-like goalkeeper after a couple of matches into a new season.

Use the leaf tab on the right hand side of the pad to toggle through all the [ages in your phone book. If you wish to call a club click on their name or use the touch pad on the phone by clicking on the numbers to call the club. A full list of the clubs players will be listed, the players strongest attribute will be list, the players strongest attribute will be listed before their name (e.g. TK: Nostra). If you wish to loan or buy any player in the club you've called click on their name, the computer will ask you if you want to Loan or Buy the player, enter L for loan or B for buy. If you choose Loan the computer will ask you the number of weeks you wish to loan the player and press return. If you are successful the player will be loaned for the number of weeks you have requested but don't be surprised if you're in the Conference League and Giggs refuses to be loaned out to you. You can only loan two players at any one time. If you select to buy the player you will either be told that the player is not for sale or to make a bid for the player. Enter the club fee, player fee, wage and length of contract and press return., the player will if any or none of your offers have been accepted. You can re-bid if you wish but it could prove to be an expensive way to buy players.
FAX MACHINE

Click on this icon to view news updates and information concerning grants, fines, injuries, transfers, offers and tax bills. If someone wishes to contact you they will leave a Fax for you. The words FAX IN will appear on the fax every time a new fax has come in.

the fax machine also gives information on forthcoming fixtures as well as the results from the last round of league matches as well as a break down of your last match. You will also get faxes from other managers wanting to speak to you and from players who have been injured while training.

Click on the buttons to view Match, News, Fixtures or Results. To leave the fax machine click the on/off switch on the bottom right of the Fax Machine.
SPONSORSHIP

Clicking on Sponsorship icon on the Main Menu will take you to your ground. At the bottom left of the screen you see sponsor boards under which you'll find details of the sponsor. To toggle through all the available sponsors click on the left and right arrows at the side of the sponsors boards. The information under each board is important, it tell you where the advertiser wants to put their board (pitch or covering), the number of boards they want to place, how much they're willing to pay and how many weeks they want to advertise. Some of the sponsors will be offering a one-off lump sum whilst others will want to pay weekly. If you need a quick injection of cash, take the one-off payments. Weekly payments offer more over all and will give you a steady cash flow.

To fill your advertising boards, click on the sponsor board and if there's enough available space the boards will be placed. To scroll round the ground use the stadium icon on the right of the screen, the numbers on this icon represent the numbers of free boards you have at that end of the ground. At the side of the stadium you see a text information box, this will tell you whether the free boards are for pitch or covering.

Your advertising boards can be increased by building covering on your stadium (see Grand Improvement), this enables advertisers to place their boards on the eves of the covering. It's worth noting that the ends of the ground that face your home supporters are the most desirable and the easiest to fill. If you are just starting out it is unlikely you'll have enough sponsors to fill all your available spaces but as you become more successful you'll find that competition for space increasing.

To exit this screen, click on the red arrow on the bottom right of the screen.
GROUND IMPROVEMENTS

Ground improvements are now a necessity rather than a luxury, this screen allows you to improve your ground and enjoy the full benefits of a fully modernised ground. Caution should be used here, can you afford to build the covering? Or would the money be better spent by putting in seating on the terracing or that "must have defender"? The choice is yours.

Use the pointer to click on the picture of your stadium, once you have selected an area of your ground to improve, you'll know that its selected because the red arrow will be pointing towards it. You can decide if you're going to increase the capacity, build covering, add seating or facilities.

Once the part of the ground is selected, click on the ground information box on the bottom left of the screen, to toggle through all the available choices. All the information you'll need will be supplied in this box, how much the improvement will cost, how long it will take to build and how much it will increase your crowd capacity by. If you want to build an improved terrace, big car park or supports club click on on the trowel and work will begin on your selected improvement. When work like building covering, new terraces or fitting new seating is under taken the capacity of that area of the ground will be reduced to 12% of the normal capacity until the improvements have been completed.

The following is a small break down of each improvement you can make:
Terracing And Seating.

The better they are the more likely they are to be full with your fans, a covered terrace with seating and good facilities is more appealing than a windy concrete terrace with food a dog would turn its nose up at. If you add seating to any area you can charge a little more for it ad if you're feeling flush you can also improve the seating from wooden to plastic.
Covering.

Even the most basic covering is more likely to entice more fans than and open area and it has the added bonus of increasing your advertising boards thus increasing your revenue.
Facilities.

This will increase then amount of miscellaneous sales you make at each game, hats, scarves, inflatables etc.
Supporters Club.

There's nothing worse for a hard-core supporter than having to wait in the rain with those who only come to matches once every blue moon. Building a Supporters Club will ensure that your hard-core fans will come and watch every match regardless of the weather or how bad you're playing.
Under-Soil Heating.

This will stop those winter games from being postponed, this will leave the end of the season less congested.
Floodlights/Scoreboard.

These are general improvements to the overall quality of your ground.
Car Park.

Expensive and not much to look at but it will make your ground more accessible to a larger amount of people and will increase the attendance.
Safety.

This will improve the safety rating of your ground. the FA are incredibly strict with regard to the safety of every ground, they are also keen on fining those who ignore it. A visit from their inspectors occurs at least once a season and they can prove costly, you've been warned.
Changing Your Ground Name.

To change the name of your ground, click on the existing ground name and then enter a new name on the dotted line and press return. You can also change the four area names of the ground by clicking on them with the right mouse button.
CLUB FINANCES

Everything you'll need to know about your clubs finance and a few things you wish you hadn't (like the debt for that midfield player and the interest on your last loan). This is where you'll find out if your teams glory is matched by your money management.

The icons at the bottom of the screen will give you access to the following information. From left to right:

   1. Daily Bank Statement Icon. This icon will give you a full break down of your daily bank statement.
   2. Yearly Icon. Click on this icon to view a yearly bank statement, you can then assess how successful you are as a financial manager by comparing your income and spending.
   3. Loan Icon. Bank Loan Information, how much you have in your account, a yearly balance and the interest rate you are being charged for any outstanding loans. It also shows you how much you've loaned and when it's due back.
   4. Apply For Loan Icon. Click on this to apply for a loan. Type in the length of time you wish to borrow the money for, then press Return and enter the amount you wish to borrow and press return again. You'll then be told if your application was successful or not. It's important that you know now when the interest loan expires, you will be expected to make the repayment in full plus the interest. This is where learning to budget comes into its own, borrowing money has never been cheap.
   5. Club Wages Icon. View all your players and staffs wages at a glance, are you over paying anyone? This is where you'll find out if you are paying for a striker who hasn't scored for years too much or a coach who is nothing more than a vat of lard.
   6. Club Tickets Icon. Here you can change the price of the tickets for league and cup matches on both the terraces and the stands. Click on the -/+ buttons to change the price up or down. You can also see which is the most popular, the seating or the terraces with the flow charts at the bottom of the screen as well as a season average.
   7. Pitch Board Icon. A full break down of the advertisers who use boards at your ground, how much they're paying how many weeks they've booked for. Click on this again to toggle through North, East, South and West. Click on any of the other icons to leave this screen.
   8. Ground Info Icon. This lets you known the full details of your ground. The improvements that are being made and how long they will take to complete as well as the current status of your ground. You will also see an overall rating as a percentage. The better your ground the higher your rating.

To return to the main menu click on the on/off button on the bottom right of the screen.
THE TRANSFER MARKET

This is where the main transfer action takes place. Here you can off load the dead wood and sign up new player to strengthen your team. As the season progresses you'll find that the number of players decreases towards the middle of the season. So you have a choice of buying early or strengthening your team towards the end of the season, there are players available mid-season but good ones tend to be few and far between.
Scroll Icon.

This allows you to scroll the screen up and down if there are more player for sale that the screen can show at any one time.
Stats Icon.

This sorts the players into their categories, click on this to toggle through all the categories (i.e. passing, shooting, handling), this saves you time when you're looking for a player with a certain attribute. To view a players personal and his club details select him by clicking on his name with the mouse pointer and his details will appear at the top of the screen. These details are important if you want to buy a player and they fore-arm you with the details you'll need to make a bid.

To select a player you just highlight him by clicking on his name and then click on the buy icon.
Transfer Buy Icon.

Once your player is selected an you're sure you want to buy the player player click on this icon and let the bidding commence. The players details will still be at the top of the screen and these will give you a good idea of what you should be offering. Before you make a bid you should check how much your directors have allowed you to bid, this information is displayed in the bottom left of the screen. If the Directors think you're making an unwise move the allowance will be a big fat zero, even if they do give you some money it may not be enough to actually buy the player. Care should be taken here, because if you open the bidding for a player you can bet your bottom dollar that other clubs will take an interest and if you don't have enough of the folding stuff to out bid them the player will be bought by someone else. It's like cutting off your nose to spite your face.

If you do have enough to bid with, then enter the amounts you think will interest the player and press return after each entry. The bidding details will now be displayed in the centre of the screen, your bid will be highlighted. if your bid is top of the list you can if you wish stick with your first bid, to do this simply press return at the enter point and your offer will stay the same. If you're bottom of the list and you still want the player you simply enter a new figure at each entry point in the hope of out bidding other clubs. Don't be surprised if some clubs raise the stake at the very last bid, this is what happens in real life so you need your wits about you if you are going to buy some top class players. You get the chance to bid for the player for times, at the end of the bidding you see a table with your bid highlighted plus information on who's bid was accepted.
Sell Player Icon.

If you wish to off load players with two left feet or need to make some quick cash by selling your star player click on this icon. A full list of your players will be displayed, select the player you want by clicking on him. You must have at least fifteen players before you can sell any players and you cannot sell players who are on loan or players you've bought recently. Once you've selected a player you'll see the bidding for that player displayed in the top centre of the screen. If there is more than one offer on the screen choose one from the list by clicking on it. To accept the offer click on the TICK icon at the bottom of the screen once you've highlighted it, click on the cross icon to turn down all the offers. The player may also turn down the offer if he wishes (poor wages, lower division club are just two of the reasons he may turn down an offer) and you may have to sack him if you want to get rid of him that bad. There is also the chance that no-one will bid for him as well.
MANAGER'S HISTORY

This is where you get a break down of your career and the clubs, plus a full history of League and Cup tables. From left to right:
Manager Icon.

This gives you your personal history as a club manager and your teams performance stats.
League Icon.

Your clubs history, the position, wins, losses, draws and points are all listed here.
English Cup Icon.

A history of the F.A. Cup, League Cup and the Charity Shield.
European Cup Icon.

Click on this icon to reveal the truth about your quest for the cups....Sad isn't it.
Previous Div Champs Icon.

Click on this icon to view the previous champion of each division, continue to click on this icon to toggle through all the available screens.
Previous Cup Finals Icon.

As above but all the previous Cup Finals.
Prev. Matches Icon.

A full history of previous matches played is displayed when you click this icon. Continue to click on this icon to view all your clubs previous results. All the clubs you've played against will be highlighted.
LEAGUE TABLES

This is where you get to see the hard facts about your team, your ground and the referees! These screens give you a whole range of statistics for your team and ground, will you be basking in the radius of your glowing monitor or will you be making excuses.

Clicking on the following icons will give you access to the following information on the highlighted team. From left to right:
League Table Icon.

This shows the league your playing in and your position and the number of points you have or maybe don't. (Press F1 to F5 to select the division).
Home Away Icon.

This shows then league split into home and away results, this makes it easier to assess any team's form. (Press F1 to F5 to select the division).
Form Chart Icon.

The graph charts your performance throughout the year and gives you a colour coded comparison with the team in the division. Yellow=Win, Green=A Draw and Red=A defeat. (Press F1 to F5 to select the division).
Position Icon.

This graph indicates on the highlighted teams league position match by match.
Ground Icon.

This gives you information on your ground and information on your current highlighted team.
Team Timetable Icon.

A full timetable of all the games the highlighted team has got to play, once you've played a few matches the results will be stored here. Click on this icon to toggle through all the pages available.
Top Scorers Icon.

A list of all the top scorers in the division you are playing in, this is useful for head-hunting a star striker. (Press F1 to F5 to select the division).
Referees Icon.

A run down of all the referees in the division plus stats for age, red and yellow cards, matches refereed and the total disciplinary points. This information should help you to decide whether to go for leg-breaking tackles in the next match and if you'll get away with it or not. The only thing you don't get info on is if the ref needs glasses.
THE CUPS

This is where you'll find all the information of the upcoming Cup matches. Each competition has it's own icon and to view all the available pages of information click on the chosen icon to toggle through all the available pages of information. If your team is playing in any competition the fixture will be highlighted.

All the competitions use the World competitions rules. For example, the Champions Cup is played on a league basis after the first round. The icons from left to right are:

1. The FA Cup

2. The League Cup

3. The European Cup

4. The Cup Winners Cup

5. The UEFA Cup

6. The Charity Shield
PLAYING A MATCH

Click on the whistle on the Main Menu to start the end to end action

You've hired the staff, sorted the finances, studied your players stats and hopefully picked your best eleven and a few subs just in case. This is where you see your hard work come to fruition. If your team is invalid (this can happen if one of your chosen eleven has left because he didn't have a contract either you or a player is injured) you'll be taken to the team selection screen to reorganise your team.

Once your team is valid you'll be taken to the match screen. There are four icons here.

1. Player Display Icon. Click on this to toggle though the player representation choices.

2. Ball Icon. Click on this icon to toggle the ball on or off,

3. Tactic Icon. Click on this icon to change tactics, view player tactics and compare stats with the team you are playing. The action pauses when you click on this icon.

4. Match Speed Icon. Choose the speed of the match by clicking on the following icons, >> to speed the game up in units of ten or click on > icon to increase in single units. Clicking << or < will decrease the speed. To pause the game click on || to pause, click on this icon again to continue to play, or press P on the keyboard to pause.

You'll also see your top eleven listed and your oppositions top eleven. In the bottom left hand corner there is a text commentary of the game. When a player is in possession of the ball his name will be highlighted, keeping a close eye on this and the commentary will give you a good idea of a players abilities.

Just above the text commentary is the match clock, after 45 min you'll be taken to the Half Time Tactic screen.
HALF - TIME SCREEN

Here you can make substitutions, change tactics and view present match data. You will also be taken to this screen if any of your players are injured during a match to make the necessary substu\itution.

The first five icons in the list below function exactly the same as their counter-parts mentioned in Team Selection. From left to right:

1. Main Team Selection Icon. This takes you back to the Main Team Selection screen from any other screen in this section.

2. Player Tactics Icon. This allows you to change your teams formation and the individual playing tactics of each individual player.

3. Team Tactics Icon. Change the tactic Formation of your team.

4. Players Match Data Icon. All your chosen eleven's personal performance is displayed on this screen.

5. Fixture Icon. Click on this icon to view the pending match details, here you'll find the ratings of your team and the team you are playing. Plus a weather report and details on the referee.

6. Visiting Team Match Data Icon. All the opponents chosen eleven's personal performance is displayed on this screen.

Once you've made all the changes you want and purchased your pie and Bovril, click on the on/off switch to play the second half of the match.
END OF THE SEASON

At the end of each season you'll receive full report screens on who has been promoted and relegated. Who won the Cups and the runners up, plus the manager of the year, the League Manager of the year and the Golden Studs Award for the best player.

Just before you start a new season you also see an end of season manager report, this give you all the stats on your performance.
HIRING AND FIRING: NEW CONTRACTS

If your current team hasn't performed particularly well, or you've run up a large overdraft, then there's every likelihood that your current team will sack you. However, if you've performed well there is a strong likelihood that other teams will offer you a position in their club.

At the bottom right of this screen there may be a list of other clubs you can choose to sign as well as your own club, to view what the clubs are offering click on the club name. Take note of the contract length and the signing bonus, if there's a zero on the contract length it means you can enter the length of the contract yourself (between one and five years), click on the contract length text and enter a figure. Once you've decided which offer, if there's more one, your going to take click on OK to continue the game.
HINTS AND TIPS

Change your teams formations to counter your opponents tactics and take advantage of their weaknesses. Don't play the same formation week in week out.

Buy players who are out of contract by telephone. Note that you can only buy players who are not in the teams first fourteen.

If you are promoted to the next division always increase your safety rating by at least one star.

Try your directors for money before applying for a costly bank loan.

Try and get all your young players to sign a contract for the maximum five years.

Don't apply for a job with other clubs unless your management rating is quite high, if you do your directors confidence will decrease making it harder to get money from them as well as the possibility of you getting the sack.

Keep a watchful eye on how many players and members of staff you have on the payroll, excess baggage is costly.

Save your game before an important match, this will give you a chance to re-think your tactics if you get a good thrashing.
GAME OPTIONS
Pitch Icon.

Select this icon to set up your game options, here you can decide how many League Reports and Cup Reports you want to receive. You can also set which View Screens you want to view plus the graphics for the in game matches. To change any of the settings click on the options to toggle them on or off. This is where real statistics junkies can see reports for every single game. If this is the first time you've played Premier Manager it's a good idea to just receive the reports that concern the league you are in, you can always turn all the report back on as you become more familiar with the game. Any match reports you have turned on will appear before you play your match.
Music Note Icon.

This option screen allows you to change the colour of the background screen and the highlight bar you use within the game. To change the colour value click on one of the colour coders (R,G or B) and enter a number (0 to 255, enter any number between these values) and press return, once you've entered all three figures the colour will change accordingly. To change the Highlight Bare click on it to toggle through the available choices. You can also change the mouse pointer and turn the sound effects on or off by clicking on the text to toggle through the available options.

To return to the Main Menu screen click on the on/off switch on the bottom right of the screen.
SAVING A GAME AND TACTICS
Amiga Version Only.

This screen allows you to save a game or your tactics and load these from floppy or hard disk. Please ensure that you insert a floppy disk into your disk drive before you select this option from the Main Menu. If you are playing on an Amiga 500/600, click on the icon from the Main Menu, at the save screen put your save disk in the drive and click on the DIRECTORY OF DF0 text at the top of the screen using the right mouse button.

Format: PM3 uses a special formatting method to save all the match data to floppy disk. You must use this to format your floppy disk before you can before you can save a game or tactics to floppy. As mentioned above, insert a blank disk into the drive before you choose this option, DO NOT FORMAT ANY OF YOUR GAME DISKS. Click on the icon and follow any on screen instructions.

To save a game click on the Save Icon (you can use the first two slots for floppy disks and all eight for hard disk drives) and follow the on screen instructions. To load a game click on the Load Icon and select a game to load from one of the slots and follow the on screen instructions.

To save a set of tactics click on the Save Tactics icon, to load tactics click on the Load Icon and select a game to load from one of the slots and follow the on screen instructions.The same rules apply to tactics as mentioned above in saving and loading games. At the top of this screen you'll see the text DIRECTORY OF DF0, this is the default save directory for floppy disk users. To change to another directory click on the DIRECTORY OF DF0 text to toggle through all the available directories.