                      PRIME TIME  -- TV NETWORK GAME

Tired of watching bad TV?   Well,  now you can do something about...you can 
make  it  worse!   Yes,  you can be the one who  makes  those  marvellously 
intelligent  decisions,  killing  those great shows with  bad  ratings  and 
elevating those bad shows with great ratings to heights unknown!

Can you give your network those high ratings it demands?  Can you keep your 
programming budget in the black?   Well,  you better...Network  programmers 
can  be  canceled as easily as network turkeys!   And if you  survive  this 
media jungle (and it is a jungle out there!),  then you should send in your 
resume to your nearest television network...you may be able to get them  to 
Prime Time heaven.

TURNING ON THE TUBE...

Starting  the  game  is the easy part.   Load the  game  according  to  the 
instructions  included  on  the Player Reference  Card.   After  the  title 
screen,  you'll note the selection screen.   Up to 3 people may play  Prime 
Time.   If  there  are less than 3 available (or  willing!),  the  computer 
program  has  culled  the  infinite  wisdom  of  the  inimitable  King   of 
Programmers, Fred Silverfish, who will pick up the slack.

Each  player  will represent one major TV network and players will  have  a 
chance to rename their network during the selection screen.

Finally,  clicking the START button will get the affair going.   (Note  the 
button marked RESTORE will allow you to resume a previously saved game.)

TEST PATTERNS...

In the crazy world of Prime Time Television,  there are 3 major networks... 
usually  known  as  the American national  Television  network  (ANT),  the 
National Broadcasting System (NBS),  and the Superior Broadcasting  Company 
(SBC).

One dark and dreary night,  the presidents of the 3 networks were at a posh 
pub  watching  cable  TV  and  conspiring  to  fire  all  the   programming 
executives.   After the programmers put their schedules "to bed", they were 
pink-slipped and put to pasture.   This, of course, is why the networks had 
to hire new programming execs.

So  here  you are...working with the schedule,  getting ready for  the  new 
season and hoping for the best come next year.   Your objective is  simple: 
get  the best ratings for your network.   When the preliminary schedule  is 
completed, the final "numbers" will appear.  After the preliminary schedule 
is set,  each network is given $100,000 per ratings point which is added to 
the final budget.  The player with the highest final budget is the winner!

PLAYING WITH THE DIALS...

In Prime Time,  before play begins, the set schedules you've inherited will 
be shown on the screen as pages of the TV WISE-GUIDE.   Type "N" to turn to 
the next page,  "L" for the last page, or hit the ESCAPE key when finished.  
Typing "P" will print the whole on-air schedule.  See the Players Reference 
Card for further details.

Following the final page of the TV WISE-GUIDE, you'll see the front page of 
the monthly trader paper,  Variety.  Make sure you check out the headlines, 
these trends may have something to do with how your shows are rated.

                                   - 1 -

When  you are done looking at the Variety page,  hit or click  ESCAPE,  and 
you'll  find  the  entire list of on-air shows ranked  according  to  their 
ratings.   This  Ratings List will also show you how the  various  programs 
were rated for the past month.

Finally,  the Network Scoreboard will pop up.   Here you'll see the monthly 
run-down  of  who had the highest average monthly ratings,  how  much  each 
network  has in its programming budget coffers,  and a running  average  of 
network ratings.

Prime Time is played from month to month.   For example,  begin in  August, 
planning the September schedule.   In September, you'll work on the October 
schedule, and so forth until June, when you'll work on the July schedule --
the final "sked" of the network season.

Each player gets his or her turn each month to work their programming magic 
--they get 5 whole minutes to do so!

A player's turn ends in 1 of 2 ways.

     1.   The player puts the schedule to bed by clicking the EXIT door  on 
the Desktop screen, or
     2.  The player clicks on the telephone and decides to DO LUNCH.

At the end of the third player's turn, the monthly Auction for Specials  is 
held,  then the whole thing is repeated until the month before when players 
do  their programming for the final month.   Note that since the  rich  get 
richer  and the poor get poorer (ain't we got fun?),  the player  with  the 
biggest budget gets to go first during each monthly turn.

HOW YOU RATE...

In the TV biz,  it has been said that "You can live with poor ratings.  But 
not well, and not for long."  And how true that is...TV networks make their 
advertisers.   The  rates are based on how well a show fares in  the  ever-
powerful  ratings.    In  Prime  Time,  the  nation's  viewing  habits  are 
documented by the D.C.  Nelson Company, and their say, of course, is final!  
Poorly  rated shows get "numbers" around 5.0 or less.   Highly rated  shows 
will fly above 28.0.

The  nelson  ratings  represent  relative numbers  of  viewers  watching  a 
specific show at a specific time.   The higher the ratings,  therefore  the 
bigger the audience.   And the bigger the audience,  the more the  networks 
can charge their advertisers for that show.   As a rule of thumb,  for each 
rating point,  the network earns around $19,000 per 1/2 hour episode.   For 
example,  "Murder-1"  the hour long detective series may achieve  a  Nelson 
rating of 30.0.   This means, in one month, "Murder-1" generates $1,140,000 
for its network ($19,000 X 30.0 X 2<-four 2 half-hours - $1,140,000).

The  ratings are calculated through a series of complex  routines.   Target 
audiences are looked at;  if it has been predetermined that "family  shows" 
are  "in" during a certain month,  those programs geared towards  all  ages 
will  do  well.   Age  groups,  time slots,  show lengths  and  many  other 
demographics  are  figured  in.   One of these  factors  is  the  so-called 
"fickle-factor".  Audiences are truly  a fickle group.  One month they want 
this,  next month they want that.  And to make matters worse, you can never 
really plan for this fickleness due to this inherent transient nature.   so 
don't  be  surprised  if  during a  particular  month,  the  ratings  of  a 
particular  show (or shows) either soars or drops for no  apparent  reason.  
So,  how can one prepare for such events?   To be honest,  you can't!   You 
just  have to hope you've targeted the right audience and then  cross  your 
fingers.
                                   - 2 -

All programming life, however, is not so dismal.  There are some guidelines 
to follow in the never-ending quest to interpret the ratings.   Learn  from 
success.   Look at the highly rated programs and try to determine why  they 
are  up  at such rare air levels.   Is it because of  its  time-slot?   Its 
genre?  Shows just before or after it?  If you can figure out what makes it 
succeed,  and you have a similar time-slot then you can add the program  of 
your choice.  In a similar vein, if a show is a failure, it behooves you to 
find  out  what makes it tick so poorly...you don't want to make  the  same 
mistake twice!

TRENDS AND THE TRADES...

You  can  get a feel for what the public is hankering for (or  against)  by 
reading  the "Trades" -- the trade paper of the  television  industry.   In 
Prime Time, the trade paper all good programmers read is Variety, and prior 
to the start of each programming month, you'll get to see the front page.

Three headlines will be featured each month.   The headlines may or may not 
reflect  a change in the game (network budgets, show  ratings,  etc.).   If 
there  is an indication of a trend you best pay close  attention  ("Country 
Craves Comedies...Sit-Com Ratings Ha-Ha-High!") --these trends may last for 
several months.

SPECIAL SPECIALS...

There  are  15 "big event" specials in Prime Time which are  available  for 
purchase  by  any of the networks.   These shows are  expensive,  but  very 
frequently  produce great ratings.   The specials may only be aired  during 
specific months,  and are auctioned to the highest bidder prior to the  air 
date.  More later...

HOW SWEEP IT IS...

There  are 2 months during the programming season which are more  important 
than any other month.  These are the months that comprise "The Sweeps".

During  these months,  the networks pull out all the stops to bring in  the 
highest  ratings possible.   Why?   Well...it all comes down to  money  (of 
course!).   Advertising rates for the months that follow (up until the next 
sweeps month) are set during the sweeps, you'll get more per ratings points 
than the other networks.   The rich get richer,  and the poor get poorer... 
Who said life in the TV business is fair?

PLAY TV...

Here's how Prime Time is played.

The game begins in one month with you programming for the next month.   You 
have  "inherited"  a  schedule of shows which has already  been  rated  and 
ranked by the D.C.  Nelson Company.   So first, you'll want to flip through 
the pages of the TV WISE-GUIDE (its a good idea to print this out;  a  hard 
copy can help you make better decisions earlier), the Variety page, and the 
list of Ratings and Rankings.

Don't  expect  a  particularly balanced  schedule  --or  particularly  good 
ratings...remember you are taking over for a fired programmer!

NON-BASIC PROGRAMMING...

There are 3 distinct phases in each Month (or round) of Prime Time.  First, 
the  DISPLAY  PHASE where you are shown the  TV  WISE-GUIDE  listings,  the 

                                   - 3 -

Variety page,  the Network Standings,  and the Ratings and Rankings.  Next, 
you  go  into the PROGRAMMING PHASE where you get to bid  on  one-of-a-kind 
shows.

Generally speaking, when you are in the PROGRAMMING PHASE, any time a list, 
of sorts,  of shows is displayed, you may obtain detailed information about 
a  show by pointing to its name and either clicking the RIGHT mouse  button 
or  pressing  the space bar.   Please see the PLAYERS  REFERENCE  CARD  for 
details.

YOUR BUDGET...

All networks begin with $15 million.  This amount is readjusted, as needed, 
by Variety headlines, so your opening budget may be slightly different.

Here's how the budget itself is calculated:

The cost on any ON-AIR production is multiplied by 4 (4 weeks to a month  = 
4  episodes  per month).   This number is subtracted from  the  advertising 
revenues  from  that  show.   The AD Revenues are  figured  by  taking  the 
program's  Ratings  and multiplying it  by  $18,000,  $19,000,  or  $20,000 
(depending on the network's standing in the last sweeps).

Finally,  this total is multiplied by the number of half-hours of the show.  
For  example,  "Nice Work" is a successful 1/2-hour sitcom costing  $65,000 
per show and drawing a monthly rating of 25.2.   This show is on the  third 
place network.

             ad      # of        episode  4 weeks
   rating    rates   years       cost     per month
     |        |       |            |         |
   (25.2  X  18.00) X 1     -    (65,000  X  4)        =

This then, is the basic budget calculation.  Other factors will affect your 
budget  including,  the cost of SPECIALS,  and various events that will  be 
discussed later.

SHELF LINERS...

Before we go any further, lets describe what the NETWORK SHELF is.

The  shelf  is...well...a  shelf!   It's  a  place  where  you  put  things 
temporarily.  It is found in the PROGRAMMING ROOM and can hold a maximum of 
FIVE  programs.   programs "on the shelf" are not on the air,  merely  held 
aside to be used (or cancelled) if needed.   The network is charged $10,000 
a month for each show on the shelf.   If the "Shelf Show" is one  currently 
in  development  (see "DEVELOP A SHOW") the cost is upped to  $30,000  per 
month.

PRAY TV...

Buy the antacids -- You're in charge!

Each  network  exec  is  given 5 minutes to set  their  schedules  for  the 
upcoming month.   The network with the most money gets to go first.  You'll 
do your work from your executive office suite...the DESKTOP SCREEN.

On your desk you'll see a folder,  on the LEFT,  reading NETWORK REVIEW,  a 
TELEPHONE CARD FILE and a TELEPHONE.

                                   - 4 -

On  the wall is a digital clock (that counts down from 5  minutes),  and  a 
calendar (telling you which month you are programming for).   An EXIT  door 
is on the LEFT and a door to the PROGRAMMING DEPARTMENT is on the RIGHT.

You'll also notice your current budget listed at the bottom of the screen.

While in your office,  you may do several things.   Just move the arrow  to 
the  appropriate  icon and press the mouse button  (See  PLAYERS  REFERENCE 
CARD).

When you are all finished buying, adjusting, whatever, you end your turn by 
either  pointing to and selecting the "EXIT" door or hitting and  selecting 
the TELEPHONE:  Put the Schedule to "Bed" or "Lets do Lunch"  respectively.  
You must select one of these.  Remember, the clock ticks away and for every 
second over 5 minutes, you'll lose $10,000!  Time is money.

Let's  go  over in detail what each selection will do.   NOTE:  TO  MAKE  A 
SELECTION, SEE PLAYER'S REFERENCE CARD.

VIEW AND REVIEW...

Selecting the NETWORK REVIEW icon from the DESKTOP SCREEN,  opens a  folder 
containing 5 items.

On  the  LEFT  hand side of the folder,  selecting  "Network  Review"  will 
redisplay the most recent "Who's on First" screen,  showing you the average 
network ratings and budgets.

"Show  Board" will display the list of on-air programs,  their ratings  and 
rankings,  and  their competition on a day-by-day basis.   (With the  "Show 
Board"  screen,   as  with  any  screen  that  list  PROGRAM  NAMES,   show 
demographics may be requested; - more later).

"Profit and Loss" will display the number of shows you own that are  on-air 
shows,  their product cost and ad revenues.   You'll also be provided  with 
the costs involved with "on-the-shelf" shows,  shows in  development,  and 
the cost of "pushing" shows.

The little pink memo page,  when selected,  recaps the latest front page of 
Variety.

Finally,  the "Ratings & Rankings" sheet will produce a list of your on-air 
shows,  their  rank amongst All on-air shows,  and their  current  ratings.  
From this screen,  you may elect to PUSH a show.   This,  of course, is the 
end  result  of a managerial decision.   An effort is made  to  increase  a 
show's ratings by extensively advertising and promoting that show.  PUSHING 
does  not  always work,  but when it does,  the results  can  be  dramatic.  
Speaking of dramatic, the cost to PUSH a show for one month equals the cost 
of one episode of a show.

To PUSH a show,  place the arrow by the show's name and hit the button.   A 
show is PUSHED when its name is highlighted.  Remember, a show stays PUSHED 
until it is UNPUSHED (again, point to the show and press the button).

Only 7 shows may be PUSHED at one time.

Pressing the ESC key or moving the pointer to DONE and pressing the button, 
gets you out of any screen.  Pointing to EXIT and hitting the button closes 
the NETWORK REVIEW folder and puts you back to the Desktop.

                                   - 5 -

LET YOUR FINGERS DO THE WALKING...

There are 5 studios in Prime Time with which you do business.   All the  TV 
shows are produced by 1 of the 5.  All studios have a selection of programs 
that you may produce.  They are various lengths, various genres, and target 
audiences.

When  a  show is purchased,  the studio places it "On  Your  Shelf".   From 
there, you may do whatever you want with it.

To GO SERIES SHOPPING,  select the PHONE INDEX FILE from your desktop.  The 
file will open showing the names of the 5 studios.   Move the arrow to  the 
studio  you wish to deal with and press the button.   That selected  studio 
will then provide you with a list of shows it has for sale.  you'll see the 
SHOW  NAME,  Length,  and COST PER EPISODE.   To get some more  information 
about  a particular show follow the instructions on your  PLAYER  REFERENCE 
CARD,  and a window will open telling you the GENRE (the type of show), the 
TARGET AUDIENCE (preteen, teen, adult, all ages) and the amount of VIOLENCE 
and SEX (1-3 "V's" or "S's").

If  you  think a certain program is your cup of tea (or glass  of  scotch), 
then point to the NAME and press the button.   You'll be asked if you  wish 
to purchase that show.  YES puts it on your shelf.

While at any studio,  you also have the opportunity to DEVELOP A SHOW.   By 
selecting  DEVELOP  from  any studio,  you get a chance  to  exercise  your 
creativity as well as your juggling prowess.   If you really want an  hour-
long  sitcom  and none are available,  or you don't like  the  demographics 
(target audience,  violence,  sex,  etc.),  here's your chance to roll your 
own.

HOW TO DEVELOP A SHOW...

It  takes time and money to develop a show,  and if you're running  low  on 
both, you better look for other things to do.

You'll also need an empty space on your shelf.

After selecting the DEVELOP option, you'll need to name your show.  Type in 
any  name  that  suits your fancy.   Then select a genre from  one  of  the 
following:

     Comedy
     Action/Adventure
     Drama
     Movie
     Game Show
     Sports Program
     News/Documentary
     Variety Show

Next,  select a length from 30 minutes to 2 hours.  You'll then be asked to 
select  the  targets  and  demographics;  and  finally,  type  in  a  short 
description of the show (the "blurb").

The RETURN (or ENTER) key will enter all information.  Finally, select SAVE 
to  actually CREATE the show;  RESTORE erases what you've just entered  and 
you  can  start all over;  ESC puts you back into the studio screen  as  if 
nothing had happened.

                                   - 6 -

Once  a show is in development (checking the INFO will say so) it will  sit 
on your shelf and cost you $30,000 per month.   Development time varies and 
may entail several months.   But once a show is "ready" the on-shelf  costs 
drop to $10,000 per month.

So is it really worth it to develop your own shows?  After all, development 
can cost you from $30,000 to $210,000.   Well it does have its  advantages.  
First off,  you can create the type of show you want.  If lots of sex seems 
to be "selling" and Variety tells you that Game Shows are  popular...here's 
your chance...create a sexy game show!   You'll also find that "home grown" 
TV  series  are a bit cheaper per episode than "canned"  studio  purchases; 
after all, there was no middleman.

COLLUDING CLUES...

A  headline may pop-up on the Variety page suggesting that a studio  and  a 
network may be colluding.   If the network is your network, you'll be asked 
if you do,  indeed,  wish to collude with a certain studio.   If you answer 
YES all shows purchased by you from that studio will be 15-25% less.

If Another Player wishes to shop at that studio you have the option to  say 
NO and lock the player out, or CHARGE that player a certain amount of money 
EXTRA per show.

OFF THE RACKS -- ON THE SHELF...

From your desktop,  you can enter the PROGRAMMING DEPARTMENT by pointing to 
the PROGRAMMING DOOR and pushing the button.

In  the Programming Room,  you'll see 2 rows of film CANs,  and  the  SHELF 
(upper  left  of the screen).   The CANS contain the on-air shows  and  the 
thicker  (wider) the can,  the longer the show.   The CANS are arranged  in 
order according to the days they are aired.

There  are  several things you can do in the  Programming  Room.   You  can 
CANCEL  a  show by placing the HAND over the file CAN (check info  to  make 
sure it's the right show!),  press the button to pick it up,  then move the 
CAN over to the trash can in the bottom right.  Press the button again, and 
your show is destroyed.   Once a show is cancelled,  it is gone forever (at 
least from the current game!).

A  little less drastic is to place a show ON THE SHELF.   Just  follow  the 
above  instructions  but  place the can on the shelf--not  the  trash  can.  
Remember, there is a charge of $10,000 per show per month for shows sitting 
on the shelf.

Likewise,  you can move a show from the shelf on the air.  To PUT A SHOW ON 
THE  AIR,  simply follow the above instructions.   You can only put a  show 
into the schedule if there is room.  If, for instance, you just cancelled a 
1/2 hour show and there is only a one hour show on the shelf,  you'll  have 
to either MOVE SHOWS AROUND or leave the Programming Room,  go to a studio, 
buy a 1/2 hour show, go back to programming and place it on the air.

There is a temporary slot to the LEFT of the trash can.   When MOVING SHOWS 
AROUND,  you may temporarily place them there.   NOTE:  this is NOT a shelf 
space.   Nay  show  left  there  when you leave  the  Programming  Room  is 
automatically CANCELLED!

Before you leave the Programming Room,  be sure there are no HOLES IN  YOUR 
SCHEDULE.   You  will  not  be permitted to end your turn if  there  is  an 
unscheduled  block  in  your  on-air  schedule.    At  the  bottom  of  the 

                                   - 7 -

Programming  Room  screen,  you'll  see 2 boxes  labelled  EXIT  and  UNDO.  
Placing the hand on UNDO and pushing the button resets the schedule to  how 
it was before you began.  EXIT returns you to your desk.

NIGHTY NIGH!...

As  mentioned  earlier,  when  you're  finished  juggling  your  shows,  or 
shopping, or creating, you END your turn by either PUTTING YOUR SCHEDULE TO 
BED or DOING LUNCH.

If you point to the EXIT door and press the button,  you have just PUT YOUR 
SCHEDULE  TO  BED.   That's it.   You're done for this month and  the  next 
programmer goes to work.

Pointing  to the TELEPHONE and pushing the button says that you want to  DO 
LUNCH.   Lets DO LUNCH also ends your turn and puts the schedule to  bed... 
but there is more.  You get to gamble a bit, taking a "Power Lunch" with an 
important person.   Half of the time, nothing happens (except having a good 
lunch!).  The other half of the time, however, you'll either make thousands 
extra or lose thousands of dollars.

THE AUCTION...

When all 3 networks have PUT THEIR SCHEDULES TO BED, the specials that will 
air in the upcoming month are auctioned off to the highest bidder.

The  AUCTION SCREEN will show you the name of the SPECIAL to be  auctioned, 
and  a TIME LINE.   When the LINE first disappears the AUCTION begins  (the 
first  line  gives players a change to grab  their  respective  controllers 
assigned at the beginning of the game).

Look at the PLAYER'S REFERENCE CARD to see how to increase or decrease your 
bid.  The numbers listed on the screen are in THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS.

Players may bid with ALL of their programming budget.   When the TIME  LINE 
vanishes a second time,  the bids are set and the special is awarded to the 
highest bidder.

FOR YOU, A LOAN...

It can happen.   You may run out of money.   But in TV land, there's always 
someone who'll give you an extra $15 million smackers.  You may only borrow 
money when you've lost it all.   The amount you borrowed will be subtracted 
fROm your final score.

OFF THE AIR...

When you've set the schedules and all the ratings are in, the game ENDS.

The  player  with the HIGHEST AVERAGE RATINGS scores $300,000  per  ratings 
point.  This total is added to the final budget figure.  $200,000 per point
goes to network number two; and the third network gets $100,000 per point.

The winner of Prime Time is the player with the HIGHEST ADJUSTED BUDGET.

                                   - 8 -

FINE TUNING...

So  that's about it.   That is how Prime Time is played.   Here are  a  few 
suggestions to close with:

- Play the game a few times just to get used to accessing the various menus 
and routines.   Get a feel for moving from one screen to the next, and back 
again.  Remember, time is money.  Knowing what you want to do before you do 
it  will keep you from going over the 5 minute limit and losing  $10,000  a 
second.  Use the hard-copy print-out feature sparingly, as this may take up 
some valuable time.   Use the "TV WISE GUIDE" frequently as a way to  learn 
about the programs both unsold on the air (or shelf).

- Don't hold on to too many shows.   There may be 5 spots available on  the 
network  shelf,  but  remember the cost involved of shelving a  series  (as 
opposed to simply cancelling the show).

- Developing a show may be a good idea--but try not to do it too late  into 
the game; it may not be "ready" in time and all it did was cost you $30,000 
a month.   On the other hand,  if you notice a trend developing in  viewing 
habits,  don't  waste time to jump on the preverbial bandwagon...it may  be 
too late!

-  After playing Prime Time a few times,  you'll start to get a "feel"  for 
what succeeds when and some programming decisions will be easier.

- Trust your intuition.  OK--it may not be scientific, but gut feelings can 
mean  the difference between success and failure.   When Kovner cracks  SBC 
and ANT programmer Fred Silverman was once asked to describe his ability to 
select  and  program so many hit shows,  he commented that  "he's  just  an 
'average' guy with an average family.   I trusted my instincts.   Being  an 
average guy, what I like, the country likes."

                          HOLLYWOOD 'N' GRAPEVINE

All the latest inside dope from TV's biggest dope.  By Roan Embarrass.

DATELINE HOLLYWOOD...

We've had lots and lots of breakfast cereals, in the past, based on cartoon 
characters.   Look  for  BRAND N foods' to produce new snacks  named  after 
behind-the-scenes TV folk.   First up will be the Brand N' POP TARTIKOFF... 
Tom  Silly  may  be lured away from television  and  into  dinner  theater.  
Insiders  tell me he's already inked a deal to star with  Burt  Wrap,  Hank 
Hogan,  and  Arnold Schwartzenfinkleneigerstein in  "Little  Women"...Power 
struggles  on the set of DILLAS?   The new show about a big  pickle-farming 
family may have to be canned for a while.   Seems start Patrick Toughie was 
upset when he found out his character BILLY BOB FLYWING was killed-off then 
reincarnated as a shower.   That didn't bother him as much as the fact that 
the  shower  is  located in the BATE'S MOTEL...In  an  effort  to  increase 
ratings, ANT recently hired special effects whiz Mel Hartenclamp to jazz up 
its nightly new broadcast.   What's that thing going out of Peter  Danton's 
head?

                                   - 9 -

HOW I'VE HEARD EVERYTHING DEPARTMENT...

Could  famous tennis start John Makearow and his wife,  Couch  Patatum,  be 
flipping their preverbial wigs.   Marinara (a very reliable sauce)  reports 
that  jaunty  John plans to build a resort spa on  Venus.   "He  originally 
wanted to build near Austria," report Marinara.   "But he had a run-in with 
the  Rhine judge"...Are "jiggle shows" on the way back?   Reports  have  it 
that there will be a new variety series featuring warms dancing in vats  of 
Jell-O...After  months  of  speculation,  it seems  that  band  leader  Doc 
Servingsome will be severing ties on the late night "GOODNIGHT" show.   I'm 
told he was always at odds with Johnny Guresome, the show's perennial host, 
and never really cared for Johnny's sidekick, "that fat dog-food head".

AND FINALLY...

Just  in is a rumor that public TV may be going out of business next  year.  
PTV prez,  Frag Gimlunk,  has been quoted as saying, "We might not have any 
alternative.  We're quickly running out of people to bore."

                            RUSSIAN TELEVISION
                      YOU BETTER LIKE IT ... OR ELSE!

                             by Phesty Noglitz

If  you have a satellite dish and you happen to twiddle your knobs in  just 
the right fashion,  you'll be able to pick up television transmissions from 
Moscow.    And  what  fun  they  are!    Much  more  fun  than   automobile 
transmissions.   After  sitting  through  more than 2  weeks  of  scheduled 
broadcast, I've put together a small list of the best of the big Red Eye.

Note  first off that the American series "The Untouchables" was  originally 
scheduled  to  be seen.   But the President yanked it at the  last  minute.  
They didn't want the general public to see all those flashy new cars.

Sunday night means variety shows on Soviet TV.  Most non-bloodshot eyes are 
peeled to the RED SULLIVANICH SHOW.   Here viewers can watch all the latest 
opera  acts,  baggybabushka  comics,  and  be treated to  teams  of  Soviet 
tractor-tire changers.

Monday night is devoted to heavy-hitting dramas about professional  people: 
doctors, lawyers, teachers and barnacle scrapers.

You'll find  sit-coms on Tuesdays and Thursday (there are no  broadcast  on 
Wednesdays.  They blame it on the CIA).  The most popular sit-com is called 
NINTY-SEVEN'S  COMPANY,  about  a  funny Russian Family in  97  all  living 
together in an eight-by-ten apartment.   Also popular is the comedy about a 
grandmother leading the Russian Revolution.  HANNAH AND HER RESISTERS stars 
MOSCOVITE film star Ali "Qickdraw" McGrawski.

If you like dramas and soaps, then tune in Friday night.  Chernobyl is very 
popular.   Larryavich  Hagamamich plays a power hungry power  magnate.   He 
wheels and deals with nuclear power after lunch  and with gas after dinner.  
KAY OF THE KGB is a fabulous detective show about a super sleuth who solves 
all crimes and drinks Vodka by the case.  The show has a scheduled run of 2 
months  (the  producers don't expect the star's liver to last  longer  than 
that).

                                  - 10 -

Saturday  night  is perhaps Russia's most popular TV night.   This  is  the 
night  of the game show.   IVAN'S GOT A SECRET is the most  watched.   Also 
well received are THE MARCH GAME and FAMILY FEUDSKI.

All in all, Russian television bodes well for all Soviet couch cabbages (as 
they are called).  next year promises to be even more exciting when BOLSHOI 
BLOOPERS premieres.

REVIEW by Cincinnati Armory

                               "PRIME TIME"

I think this must be a first, a television comedy based on a computer game.  
The  game  of  PRIME  TIME  was  absolutely  brilliant.    Clever,   witty, 
hysterically  funny,  and  generally nifty.   It was easy to see  why  some 
enterprising programming exec would want to adapt it to the little  screen.  
Something went wrong with the translation, however.

I  would suspect that Fred Silverfish,  the producer is only  playing  with 
forty-seven (he's a pinochle addict).   First off,  he hired a Latvian  ex-
convict  with migraine headaches and acne to write the  series.   The  lead 
roles  are  played  by such hams,  their collar buttons  are  cloves.   The 
script has so many holes, you might think you were on the freeway.

Conie Von Nent was hired to do the show's music.  The Mayor should give him 
the  off-key to the city.   I've heard better music coming from  a  leaking 
tire.

The series is directed by Silverfish's fifth ex-wife,  Daisy Rotilla.   She 
captains the show with the light subtle touch of a nervous surgeon  with  a 
dull, rusty scalpel.

Long live PRIME TIME!  But "Prime Time's gotta go!

                                  - 11 -

               PLAYER REFERENCE CARD       ATARI 520/1040 ST

LOADING THE GAMES

Turn  off the computer,  insert the disk into drive A.   Turn the  computer 
back on and "Prime Time" will load automatically.

GENERAL SELECTRIC....

After the title sequence,  the selection screen appears.   Using the mouse, 
highlight a choice with the LEFT button.  Press the RIGHT button to set the 
selection.

Remember,  there  are always 3 networks in the "Prime Time".   This  screen 
will allow you to select the device you'll use during the SPECIAL  AUCTION.  
Look at the blocks marked JOYSTICK,  MOUSE,  and KEYBOARD.  Point and click 
the  LEFT  then RIGHT mouse buttons to toggle the words  HUMAN/COMPUTER  to 
decide  which  networks you'd like the computer to play  (or  which  device 
you'd like to use).

To label each network:  ANT, NBS, and SBC, or whatever initials you choose, 
clicking  within a block will put a cursor on the network letters  allowing 
you to type in any 3 letters you choose.

Point  the  mouse  on START,  click the LEFT button  to  select  the  START 
feature, then press the RIGHT button to start "Prime Time".

"THREE BEES"...   "Prime Time" is essentially divided into 3 parts:

1)  THE DISPLAY SCREEN - where you see the:
     
     -> TV WISE GUIDE
     -> Ratings and Rankings
     -> Variety Page

To  operate,  use  the mouse to point and the LEFT button to click  on  the 
"NEXT/LAST/PRINT/DONE" menu at the bottom of the screen.

2)  THE DESKTOP SCREEN - where you do all your work:

To operate,  use the LEFT button to select,  grab and move objects  around.  
The  RIGHT button opens the "demographic" window that gives  you  necessary 
data each show's audience.   When you point and click on the digital  clock 
you'll be offered several options;  just point and click to activate any of 
these following options:

     -> "PAUSE GAME" - stops all play temporarily until you click "resume".

     -> "SAVE/LOAD GAME" - to "SAVE" any current position on any  formatted 
disk  (make  sure you have a formatted disk!).   You may "SAVE"  up  to  10 
positions  per disk.   Just point and click one of the numbered buttons  on 
the window.   To "LOAD" a saved game the button with "SAVED POSITIONS" will 
be highlighted.

3)  THE AUCTION SCREEN - where you will do your bidding.

To operate,  move the "Red Countdown Line" 2 times for each auctioned show.  
The first time is really to "get ready",  where each player gets a hold  of 
their  appropriate  bidding device.   The KEYBOARD PLAYER should  push  the 
stick  UP to increase and DOWN to decrease bids.   The MOUSE PLAYER  should 
push the RIGHT button to increase and the LEFT button to decrease the bids.

                                  - 12 -                              rmh

