My name is Goor, Father of the Galactic Federation bidding you welcome to a
world unlike you own - mysterious, deadly - where only the brave survive,
where the weak perish, where iron nerves and ruthless skills are your
only friends.

Come with me first and listen to my story, then close your eyes and teleport
yourself through imagination into my world and begin the adventure that has
no turning back - no surrender - only escape from ...


                                  PRISON


CAPTURE
=======
   Far into the future, beyond the 22nd century came the time of darkness
and death, where hope was destroyed by fear, evil had consumed good and
the passion to kill was the new god.
   The rule of law became a myth of distant past and only upheld by the
few.
   Jag Edwards was one such man working undercover in the open sewers
they still called cities. It was his job to bust a powerful drug ring which
used a bakery as a front to manufacture pure white heroin making more
dough than any baker ever dreamed.
   Jag had been stalking the gang for weeks amidst the now daily routine
of riots at fuel stations and clothing factories. So far, each day, a
different member of the gang came and went carrying large brown parcels but
never at the same time of day or night.
   Then the word came.
   "Make your move, Jag" said the Commissioner over his wrist transmitter,
"its tonight or never. We got the word they're moving tonight - the whole
gang is there."
   "Yes sir," said Jag.
   Here came the end of months of waiting and watching.
   Jag entered the building, and acting on the Termination Five Objective
wiped out the entire gang in a furious shoot-out, wrecking the hide-out and
leaving nothing but heroin covered bodies.
   But, he was set up! The security forces mysteriously arrived immediately
afterwards to arrest this madman for shooting ten innocent flour covered
bakers.
   The Star-Judge looked sternly over his eyeglasses directly at Jag who
stood in chains on a plinth, showered in a bright force-field light.
   "The crime to which you have been found guilty," shouted the Star-Judge,
"demands more than the death sentence can offer in retribution. Before I
pass sentence have you anything to say?"
   Jag, head bowed, stood silent. He could not believe this was happening.
His police record, his decorations in the army, his recent bid for
enrollment into the "Starchaser Inter-Galactic Peace Army", all now stood
for nothing.
   He slowly lifted his head and stared at the Star-Judge i total defiance.
The sinews in each arm rippled, his face became tort with vehemence, beads
of sweat glistened in his straw-like hair.

                                    1 

   "I am innocent of these charges which I consider to be false and which
cannot possibly be believed by the court."
   The small audience in morbid attendance stirred realizing the futility
of his plea. The Star-Judge took off his glasses and with a sweeping
gesture closed the 'Galactic Community Rule Book' and placed in on one
side.
   "Very well," he sighed with almost a hiss, breathing out slowly with
exasperation. "You show no contrition for your heinous crime. Yours is a
position of trust, which to the communities detriment has turned you into a
savage killer. The greater the power given, the greater the responsibility
it demands. I sentence you to life abandonment on Altrax, and may your god
have mercy on your soul. Take him away!"
   Jag again bowed his head. Why hadn't his superiors saved him? They were
deliberately framing him to get him out of the way. Now his thoughts, as he
was led from the court to a waiting "Sprinter", turned to his fateful
destination - Altrax!

ALTRAX
======
   Altrax sits alone in quadrant seven of the Galactic Federation Territory
set apart from orbiting moons, space colonies and warship ports, totally
isolated from ordinary human existence.
   Once sought after for its mineral and plutonium deposits by
"Interplanetary Development Corporation", it has long since been abandoned
and is now solely used as a penal dumping ground for mass murderers and
enemies of the Federation for which capital punishment has not been a
deterrent. Inmates are never seen again.
   All awaits Jag Edwards.
   During his confinement Jag listened to the vile rumors of Altrax from
the mocking security guards.
   "Ha, if the street gangs don't rip you to bits the lone runners will
kill you for your clothes." Jag watches the guard light a cigarette. The
light dies quickly as the air becomes thinner as they come closer to the
planet.
   "Yeah, the only time anyone is seen again is when they find your body
floating in low orbit ... ahh .. ha," roared the other guard revealing
black teeth under black whiskers and the lunatic grin of the possessed.
   Time passes at an accelerated rate on Altrax with shorter nights than
days. Darkness offers even more danger with increased gang activity and the
added difficulty of moving about in the dark through treacherous streets.

                                     2

   Gangs of separate alien races battle for control of the city spawning
tough violent leaders ready to confront any threat to their territory. A
rat-like alien race of stooges move freely through gang land offering their
service to the highest bidder.
   Pools of toxic waste and bottomless trenches matrix the planet with pits
of metal spikes making many paths treacherous, and only able to be avoided
with the help of stooges. Proximity mines and snare explosives are
scattered in various areas detonating in chain reactions to devastating
effects.
   Jag could only begin to guess how much of this was true. For years he
had been hearing stories of inter-gang massacres and explosives that
destroyed parts of the planet, but people neither cared or wanted to get
involved. Neither had he, but now irony dictated that he would witness first
hand whatever the planet had to offer.
   Suddenly, it was time. A metallic voice echoed across the chamber
declaring that the craft was at tele-matt proximity. Jag was pushed from
the craft across a black expanse towards a pool of red light before he
could regain his balance, a beam of pure nuclear-ray energy tore Jag's
atoms apart.
   As the agony of crude teleportation subsided, Jag fell to his knees on
barren silver soil, yielding only an image of death lurking around every
corner, its smell on every whisper of wind. Yet throughout the trial, and
now, something whispered in the depth of his memory; a story he had heard
in some sleazy neon pleasure ship some time ago.
   Two years ago an unfortunate pleasure craft had ignored the Altrax
warning beacons and strayed into the security force-field net smashing its
control center and finally crashing onto the planets surface. The craft was
wrecked, but scans found no trace of the tiny one-man escape pod attached
to the craft.
   Jag thought about the rumor that rival gangs are still fighting each
other to be the first to find the pod, and make the first escape from the
prison that had claimed so many lives.
   If the rumors are true, Jag Edwards must find the objects needed to
survive, and escape when he finds the pod. Then the wrongs will be put to
right.
   Just then, a shout goes out into the darkness and running can be heard.
Jag, hands still chained, scrambled to his feet in an automatic survival
response which in days to come will help save his life.
                                             Finuala Kavanaugh

                                     3

INSTRUCTIONS
============
Menu Window.......Complex interaction is performed by means of selecting
                  options from the menu window.
                  To activate the menu press fire and up simultaneously.
                  Options are selected using up and down. To activate
                  press Fire.

Message Tube......Information is passed to the player via the Message
                  Tube. This includes results of actions and communications
                  with other characters.

Example...........Look at the menu window, it is displaying CONTROL ON
                  STANDBY, now press fire and push joystick up
                  simultaneously.
                  The menu window is now displaying MENU OPERATIONAL SELECT
                  OPTION.
                  Pull the joystick down. The menu window is now displaying
                  SEARCH THIS LOCATION. Press fire to activate this command.
                  The prisoner will search the location. If nothing is found
                  the message tube will display the message YOUR SEARCH
                  REVEALS NOTHING. If an object is located the MESSAGE TUBE
                  will tell you what the object is and by interacting with
                  the MENU WINDOW as described above, objects can be picked
                  up and used.

Pockets 1 & 2.....These two windows act as the holding area displaying the
                  objects which the player has discovered.
                  The player can only carry two objects at any one time,
                  but by interacting with the menu window new objects can
                  be exchanged.
                  Any item which the player drops will be displayed in the
                  room where the exchange took place. These objects can be
                  retrieved and used at any point in the game.

                                     4

Lives/Energy......The player begins the game with three lives. Each life
                  consists of a pyramid of energy which is reduced by time
                  and injury. Eating food replaces energy.

Escape Craft......As the six pieces of the escape craft are collected they
Status            are assembled and displayed.

Time..............Many actions are dependent upon time at which they are
                  performed (nightfall brings many dangers). It is vital to
                  find some means of accurately tracking time.

Score.............Progression and action increase the players score.

Aliens............Each section of the city is inhabited by a different tribe
                  of convicts. All encounters will result in physical
                  violence. Defend yourself as best you can!

Hazards...........The city contains many dangers which may bring sudden death
                  or painful injury. Beware of hidden mines, acid pools,
                  gaping trenches and other dangers.

Fighting..........When you are attacked you can retaliate with a volley of
                  punches and kicks. Rapidly moving the joystick from left
                  to right will release you from a strangle hold.

Stooges...........Amongst the many violent inhabitants of planet there are a
                  few who may help you in your quest.
                  Stooges are treated as outcasts though they can move freely
                  around the city.
                  You will have to trade goods for their dubious help or
                  perform tasks to gain their support.

                  Treat Stooges with suspicion!

                                     5


That's it!

Docs provided by The Next Generation and The Corsair.
Courtesy of World of Wonders.

