                PROJECT-X     -     FROM TEAM 17
                      THE COMPLETE DOCS


 PROJECT-X BACKGROUND:

  It`s the same old story, someone else`s mistake has become
  your problem.... The fools, the mad fools.. the scientists
  did it fr fun, they must have done, no one wanted massive
  mutated insect-like droids, the by-products of early
  bio-mechanical experiments with powerful x-rays, not me
  and you. Dumped on the planet Ryxx and presumably left to
  degenerate, stagnate and fade out - the sickening
  mutations not only survived but thrived, their
  intelligence circuits warped by the past and left seeking
  revenge. Fears of a possible all-out attack has forced the
  Federation into action! Your mission is simple: fly to
  Ryxx, into the heart of the station the evil has made it`s
  lair and blow the whole thing sky high.


 LOADING INSTRUCTIONS:

  Reset your Amiga and insert disk one. when the title
  screen appears, press the joystick button to access the
  menu. Further disk changes will be prompted during play.
  Project-X will make use of whatever extra memory or drives
  are connected to your machine.


 VIRUS WARNING:

  To avoid possible virus infection ALWAYS keep your
  Project-X gamedisks write protected & turn the power
  supply off for ten seconds before playing.


 SAVING HIGHSCORES TO DISK:

  At the request of many people we`ve included an optional
  feature to save your high-scores to disk. It`s not
  possible to save the scores to the Project-X disks so you
  will need another for this purpose. There is no need to
  format the disk, simply follow on-screen prompts.
  REMEMBER: DO NEVER SAVE YOUR SCORES TO THE GAMEDISKS!


 PLAYING THE GAME:

  The format of the game needs little introduction and can
  be picked up within a short period of time. Control your
  space-ship with the joystick and collect power-ups for
  bonus weapon systems. Expect many varied traps and
  surprises from your evil adversaries. Auto-fire is
  provided but a faster firing rate can be achieved manually
  with rapid trigger action.


 SELECTING YOUR SPACE-CRAFT:

  A selection of three space-craft are availiable for
  selection during play, each having it`s own strengths and
  weaknesses.


 POWER-UPS:

  As you collect credits you are able to select strnger,
  more powerful weapons or enhance your current ones. when
  you lose a life, most weapons degenerate to a certain
  degree. To select a weapon or power-up, you can press
  either of the following: the space bar, the button on
  another connected joystick, the second button on a sega
  compatible joystick or you can "waggle" the joystick
  left-right quickly. Your ship will become heavy and
  sluggish if you try and add too much on, so think before
  you select!

  Speed Up  :    Boosts your ships handling speed, a couple
                 are useful, essential even.. but too many
                 could be a hindrance.

  Gun       :    The standard gun on your ship is pitifully
                 weak, but you can upgrade it quickly to a
                 more powerful force.

  Build Up  :    If you hold down your button, a powerful
                 energy bolt will be unleashed.. however you
                 will forfeit any other means of action in
                 the progress.. but that`s the price of
                 power! Not availiable if using Auto-Fire!

  Sideshots  :   These nifty bits of kit enable you to fire
                 in both directions at once.. availiable in
                 many power-ups.

  Plasma     :   These energy bolts are just the thing to
                 wipe away oncoming evils.. availiable in
                 many power-ups.

  Missiles   :   These awesome homing missiles track onto
                 enemies and wreak havoc upon them.. a
                 maximum of four can be used at once
                 although stronger weapons limit use to two
                 because of the energy needed.

  Lazer      :   A super-powerful cutting lazer, availiable
                 in powerful, very powerful and incredibly
                 powerful! The Lazer requires huge bolts of
                 energy, certain other weapons will be
                 redundant when the lazer is in use.

  Magma      :   This weapon fires a bolt of flame at the
                 enemy, hot stuff indeed! Requires a lot of
                 energy, other weaponry is weakened.

  Stealth    :   Valuable for those knife-edge situations,
                 this shield saves many lives when the going
                 get`s tough. The selection bar will turn
                 GREY when your current weapon is at full
                 power, the current ready-for-selection
                 option is always highlighted when you are
                 in credit.


 OTHER KEYS:

  P.... Pause Game
  TAB.. Toggle status bar on/off
  ESC.. Quit Current Game


 ONE OR TWO PLAYERS:

  Project-X can be played by one or two players although
  not at the same time. Both players use the same joystick,
  plugged in Gameport two. In two player mode, the game will
  not load a new level until both players have completed the
  current one - this is to save any unnecessary disk access.
  In the event of one player completing the current level,
  the other player will carry on until all lives are lost or
  the level is completed, in which case the next level would
  be loaded and the game continued.


 ABOUT TEAM 17....

  Based in Wakefield, West Yorkshire, England - we use only
  the best quality programmers, artists and musicians to
  bring you the ultimate in Amiga arcade action - like
  you`ve never seen before. We were also responsible for the
  budget game hit "Full Contact" and the highly succesful
  "Alien Breed".


 WHY DO PROJECT-X ?

  We looked at similar games on the Amiga, asked players
  what they wanted and what they would like to see - and
  came up with this, our solution. The Amiga s an extremely
  powerful machine and we felt that the ultimate "classic"
  shoot`em-up had yet to be written, there had been plenty
  of good attempts but we reckoned we could do much better.
  Have we? Well, that`s for you to decide.


 TECHNICAL STUFF:

  For those interested, who haven`t nodded off yet..
  Project-X was written using ASM-ONE assembler on an A3000.
  It uses a full Pal overscan display in 32 colours (we
  think this is a first for this type of game) scrolling
  most objects/backgroungs at 50 Frames/Sec. It contains
  2megs of 32 colour gfx, 200K of music (synth/samples),
  400K of speech/sound-fx, parallax bonus section running at
  50 Frames, extra sprite routines using the new Fat Agnus
  chip, Copper routines (giving unlimited colours on-screen
  from a possible 4.096) - some parallax. Everything was
  designed and produced entirely on the Amiga.


 CREDITS:

  Programming/Design: Andreas "Bloody Swede" Tadic

  Graphics/Design   : Rico "Beanbag" Holmes

  Music/Sound Fx    : Allister "Sheep`n`Shoes" Brimble

  Speech Samples    : Chris "Newkie Brown" Brimble

  Disk Format/Coding: Rob, Northern Software

  Additional Help   : Stefan "BBS" Boberg

  Packaging/Design  : EIS Design, Dewsbury

  Additional Music  : DENS Design (By Bjorn "Awesome" Lynne)

  Project Manager   : Martyn "Spadge" Brown

End............
