		Projectyle dox typed by Flux of Mirage UK


LAY DOWN THE TRUTH ABOUT TRIBAL GAMES
-------------------------------------

 "Sweet!", a voice spoke from the darkness. "Get this ?"

 A tungsten light shone accross the cold orbital rock, a mass of small
almost indistinguishable shapes huddled in the beam.

 "Uncle, you are out of your tree, they ain't nothing but a bunch of
rocklife waitin' for the skip'town to come back."

 "Fool, not them; look over beyond that Jello tip, past the edge of the
skip'town blast-wall. Get those three! What in Jiva's name are they about?"

 Uncle M. Troid the third, was first caught by the Tribal bug at a lone
Skipped town shuttle outpost on Jupiter's second moon. He found a wild
bunch of lost throwout gangs from Earth's satellite cities, fighting a
violent and furious game through the strange pattern of the shuttles
blast-walls. Uncle, never one to miss the passion and sprit of such a event
exploited and dominated the creation of the sport now known as Tribal.
 Tribal, a game of three halves, a systematic sport, a media extravaganza
and Uncle's weekend job. Since the birth of Tribal in the blast-walls of
mans outposts, the sport has grown and grown. The teams have now evolved
into tribes of physical and mental beings born to boost the projectyle. The
blast-walls have been replaced by dedicated pitches, designated home to
each tribe.

THE PLAYERS
-----------

 The Eldritch Cats	   The Podium, Mersey Docks, Liverpool, England
 The Uzteks		   Barnsley Megadome, Grimethorpe, S. Yorkshire
			   England
 Sledge Hammers		   Estadio Deporte, L'Estartit, Catalonia, Espana
 Manic Moose		   Foster City Ice Rink, Bay Area Landfill
			   San Mateo, CA, USA
 Vectors		   Battlezone, An arcade somewhere in time and
			   space
 Jovian Jello Juggernauts  Cell Block Park, 2001 Ramsey Street, Melbourne
			   Jupiter
 Devils			   Its hell down there
 Terminators		   Kwikitilla Complex, Checkout point, Wossissan
			   Bahkoad Rheeda

UNCLE'S CONTROL METHODS
-----------------------

 When starting a game of Tribal, hit fire on either a regular or parallel
joystick or the keyboard, when your team is flashing, to select your
controler.

KEYBOARD
--------

 These are the keyboard equivelents to the joystick control.
(all numbers are for the numeric keypad only)

	LEFT	Q   E   T   U   O   7   9
	
	RIGHT	W   R   Y   I   P   8   -

	UP	A   S   D   F   G   H   J   K   L   4   5   6

	DOWN    Z   X   C   V   B   N   M   1   2   3 [ENTER]

	FIRE    0   [SPACE]   [ALT]   [AMIGA KEY]


OTHER KEYS
----------

	Pause				[HELP]
	Unpause				[DEL]
	Low Pass Filter ON/OFF  	[F1]
	Game Music			[F2]
	Abort Game			[F10]
	Abort Menu option		[ESC]

UNCLE'S QUICK GUIDE TO DOING THE TRIBAL THING
---------------------------------------------

 Once the game has loaded, press the fire button -from here on is known as
Hit Fire. You and your tribe will be the Eldritch Cats. Hitting fire
selects your control device.
 At the GET READY screen, you will be shown the pitch layout. Your tribe's
starting position is shown here (see THE PITCH). You will have two goals to
defend, one in your defence zone, and one in the frantic zone. You score by
boosti and one in the frantic zone. You score by
ou will have r tribthe projectyle into any of the other tribes goal mouths. When
prompted Hit Fire to begin game.
 You will begin in the central zone. The central zone has four gates
leading to the attack1, attack2, defend, and frantic zones. The attack and
defend zones have coloured markers above them to indicate whose zones they
are. A countdown will commence in the top left corner of the screen. As
soon as the countdown reaches zero, play starts. Move your player around
the central zone. Hit Fire to boost your player towards the projectyle.
Boost and bounce the projectyle through your opponents gates and into your
opponents zones.
 Stay sweet, take time out to get the feel of play. As with many sports,
the aim is to score goals against your opponents, and to prevent them
scoring against your tribe.
 Various shapes and letters will appear on the pitch these are special
bonus objects. (see BONUS OBJECTS)
 After a goal has been scored, a REPLAY box will appear on the screen. Hit
Fire to skip the replay; it will automatically play upto twice if you do
nothing. If you score an own goal, the goal is credited to the last
opposing player to touch the ball.
 Tribal is a game of three halves, each half is actually called a set, the
time remaining in the current set is reflected by the horizontal bars on
the right of the screen. Each set is split into 64 time units. As the end
of a set approaches, a countdown will start in the bottom right hand corner
of the screen.
 At the bottom right of the screen are two displays. One indicates which is
the current zone, the other tracks the positions of the players and
projectyle in the current zone.
 At the start of a new set, the position of your tribe is rotated clockwise
on the pitch, and your new position is shown on the pitch layout.

MENU SCREEN
-----------

DISK SCREEN

Allows you to load or save a League or Sudden Death.
To save you will need a blank disk. The program will format this
automatically, and save out your current standings in the League or Sudden
Death. The save disk can only contain one each of League and Sudden Death;
any second game will be overwritten.

TOP GOAL SCORERS

Tracks the top six goal scorers for any game type.

CREDITS

Take a look, these guys have worked hard!!!

MUSIC

Hits the vibes. Hit Fire on here again to select a driffrent tune, there
are eight in all.

GO!

Starts the game.

OPTIONS SCREEN

The status of all the options will be recorded when a game is saved -
Projectyle will set these automatically depending on your memory and drive
configuration. Use the joystick to select options.

Faces shown when a goal is scored - After a goal a picture of the player is
displayed if this is set to YES. The elapsed game time is also displayed
with the scorer.

Player positions displayed at start of game - The pitch layout is displayed
to show new positions for the next set.

Computer intelligent during solo matches - This allows you to practise
without the computer getting in the way.

Watch matches that have no human players involved - Turn this on to watch
three computer tribes battle it out.

Sound effects enabled - toggles all sound on or off.

Music (M) or Extended Sound Effects (FX) - Toggles between music or sound
fx in the game. Each team has its own anthem played at thier home pitch.

League updated if the match is aborted - The scores for the league will be
calculated and teams positions updated.

See position tables at end of match - This will display the league position
at the end of each match.

Goal replays - This toggles on/off the slow motion replays.

Set skill level - Low, Medium, or High. The higher the skill level the
better the computer tribes will play.

Deploy/train players in between matches - This allows you to train and
redeploy the players in your tribe before each match. It also means that
your players are open to injury.

Drive for saving and loading games - as it says

Ball/player player/player sound effects - This toggles all sound resulting
between players and the ball and players and other palyers.

Buffer sound effects - This toggles the sound fx from collisions with the
buffers at the corner of the pitch.

Wall sound effects - This toggles the sound fx from collision with walls.

Parallel port joystick in use - a parallel port adaptor allows you to use a
third joystick.

Weeks in league - This option allows you to change the number of weeks that
are to be played in the league. The number of weeks can't be changed for a
Sudden Death game.

Exit - returns to Projectyle menu.

League Table

This shows the placings and overall performance of all the tribes partaking
in a League or Sudden Death.

   League and Sudden Death scoring:


	8 points		for a win
	4 points		for a second place
	0 points		for a lose
	6 points 		for a winning draw
	4 points		for a three way draw
	2 points 		for a losing draw

Game Type

LEAGUE        -	Allows you to play a league of between 6 and 21 weeks with
		all 8 teams.

SUDDEN DEATH  - Six preliminary games will decide which six teams will
		proceed to the semi-finals. The winners of the two
		semi-finals, plus the best runner-up will enter the final
		to decide the Sudden Death Champion. If at the end of a
		semi-final or the final there is no single victor then the
		game will enter extra time until a tribe is sole victor.

SOLO	      - Is a single match for one, two, or three players.

On selecting a game type, you will be asked to select the number of
players. Use the joystick to move up and down and Hit Fire to select a
tribe for each player. On completion you will be returned to the Projectyle
menu screen.

Disk Extras

For future expansion. Not used in the standard game.

THE PITCH
---------
				      G	
				-------------
				|	    |
				|	    |		
				|  DEFEND   |		G = GOAL    |   ZONE    |
				|	    |
				|	    |
		 		-------------
				    |   |	
		-------------	-------------	-------------
		|	    |	|	    |	|	    |
		|  ATTACK   |---|  CENTRAL  |---|  ATTACK   |
	       G|  ZONE 1   |	|   ZONE    |	|  ZONE 2   |G
		|	    |---|	    |---|	    |
		|	    |	|           |	|	    |
		-------------	-------------	-------------
				    |   |
				-------------
				|	    |
				|  FRANTIC  |
			       G|    ZONE   |G
				|	    |
				|	    |
				-------------
				      G


Each tribe plays best on there home pitch. The game starts with the home
team defending the top zone. The attack and defence zones rotate clockwise
after each set.

DEPLOY YOUR PLAYERS

Your tribe has eight players, each with particular attributes. Use your
joystick to select a zone and Hit Fire. Move left and right to select a
player and Hit Fire to deploy that player in the chosen zone.

You may then exit or train your tribe.

TRAIN YOUR TRIBE

You may alter the following attributes of any member by spending your DOSH.
Values are relative to other teams, rather then absolute. The attributes
have maximum and minimum values which can't be exceded.

RATE	is your maximum speed. The faster the better.
POWER	is your ability to accelerate, for boosting towards and colliding
	r the better.
POWh the projectyle.
SLIDE	is your ability to decelerate. The higher the slide value, the
	slower your rate of deceleration.
BOING	is your bounce factor. This is important on collisions.
MASS	is your physical mass. Useful in collisions.
NOUS	shows the intelligence of computer players. No effect for human
	players.

 Hit Fire on SELECT and move left and right to choose a player. Hit Fire to
pick a player and move the joystick up or down through the various
attributes. The fire button toggles between increasing or decreasing an
attribute. To buy an attribute, move the joystick to the right so that BUY
is highlighted and Hit Fire. Naturally, you can only buy when you can
afford, so watch your CREDITS REMAINING. Collect the DOSH bonus objects to
increase the size of your wad. (credit balance)
 When you have trained one player, move the joystick down to SELECT and
repeat the process with any other players you wish to train.
 On compleation of training, click on DEPLOY to return to the DEPLOY YOUR
PLAYERS screen, and click on EXIT if you are ready to play.

INJURY
------

When you have selected the Deploy/train players option in between matches
your players will be susceptible to injury. This will effect an indivduials
playing attributes. It is advisible to monitor injuries in the TRAIN YOUR
PLAYERS screen, you may heal injured players or replace them on the DEPLOY
YOUR PLAYERS screen.

BONUS OBJECTS

Bonuses last for 9 seconds and will end if the projectyle leaves the zone
the bonus was collected in. Only pitch effects continue when switching
zones.

PLAYER EFFECTS(triangle)   SPECIAL EFFECTS(circle)   PITCH EFFECTS(square)

   B+   Boing plus		X   seal exits		S+   Slide plus
   B-	Boing minus		T   teleport		S-   Slide minus
   P+	Power plus		F   free kick		B+   Boing plus
   P-	Power minus		L   loney ball		B-   Boing minus
   S+	Slide plus		C   chip shot
   S-	Slide minus		@   about face
			     DOSH   dosh
			     -|--   stamina up

Teleport 	transports all players to the frantic zone.
Chip Shot	when hit, the projectyle jumps in the air and cannot be hit
		again until it lands.
About Face	the collector will boost away from the ball when hitting
		fire.
Dosh		25 credits for use in training your team.
Stamina		during the game your power will decrease, picking this up
		will maintain your power.
Loony Ball	the projectyle will act unpredictably for the collector.


				CREDITS


	Programming   		Marc Dawson and Steve Wetherill
	Associate Producer	Kevin Shrapnell
	Product Manager		Simon Jeffery
	Cover Art design	Planet X 

		(cover art was very nice - FLUX)

Imported by Midnight Maniac & Mayday of Paradox !!