                               P A R A D O X !!
                                   presents

                        Prophecy 1 - The Viking Child
                                complete docs!

                              typed by MERKWooD
  
Welcome to Odin's world. A land full of good and evil, within which you must
become Brian, The Viking Child, whose heroics have been foretold by the
prophets and recorded in the oracle of the gods.

But there's trouble in the land that you live in... Your family and friends
are being held on the astral plane, imprisoned by the forces of darkness in
an effort to foil the prophecy and install chaos throughout the land.

As Brian, your adventure will take you through many beautiful but dangerous
places, where you will encounter great adversaries. Amongst these will be the
eight apprentices of evil, slaves to the Dark Lord Loki, who will force you
to fight or question your purpose under threat of punishment or penalty.
Friendly shopkeepers will sell you items of worth, that will aid you on your
quest. However, these magical fashion accessories alone cannot defeat your
enemies. You must use all your skill to leap through the sixteen magical lands
that lie before you in order to save your loved ones.

Finally, as your great quest comes to a close you must confront Loki himself
and vanquish the evil son of Odin forever... Succeed and the gods will reward
you; Fail and you will never see your family again!

INSTRUCTIONS:

It's Bound to Boot on your Amiga if you-

1) Ensure that your computer is fully turned off.
2) Insert Disk A in Drive.
3) Switch on your computer.
4) Prophecy 1 - The Viking Child will now boot automatically.

Jostle your Joystick like this-

1) Plug your joystick into Port 2.
2) Control of Brian is achieved mainly by joystick
        Right - Moves Right
        Left  - Moves Left
        Up    - Jumps
        Down  - Fires Selected Special Weapon

   However you will also need to use the keyboard for some funtions.

       SPACE  - Select Special Weapon
       RETURN - Enter Door
       F1     - Enable Music
       F2     - Enable SOund FX
       F3     - Mute
       F9     - Quit
       F10    - 50hz/60hz Toggle
       P      - Pause Game

Work your Weapons like this-

BOMBS - The cheapest of the five special weapons. When used they are thrown up
into the air above Brian. As with all the weapons these can be thrown whilst
Brian is in mid leap. For the best effect, these should be used on flying
creatures overhead.

BOLAS - The Bolas are thrown left or right by Brian depending on which way he
is facing at the time. For the best effect these should be used in rapid
succession on adversaries travelling horizontally.

FIRESPRITES - This is a most effective weapon when battling against more than
one adversary, or an enemy who is tricky to catch. These can be released
anytime or when an unfriendly creature is near and homes into its evil aura.

STUNS - One of the most expensive weapons, the magical stun hits all of the
creatures on the screen at once thus depleting their energy and making them
easier to bash. These are best used against many small enemies.

POTIONS - The most powerful and deadly of all the magical weapons, the potion
bottle once broken will destroy all of the enemies on the screen. However, do
not expect it to be so strong against the apprentices of evil or the Dark Lord
himself.

Easily Accessible Accessories-

SPEED - When Brian wears these boots he will whizz around the land at twice
the normal speed. However, he's got to be careful as their magic only lasts
for a limited time. The Boots of Speed are most useful on levels where Brian's
enemies move faster than him.

CLOAK - The cloak of invincibilty allows Brian to walk right through his many
adversaries. Whilst the magic lasts he will not be harmed by any of the
creatures that may attack him.

GLIDE - When Brian dons these magical fashion acessories he will be able to
leap with nearly no limit. The Winged Boots add distance to his bounds, but
their magic will not last forever.

Ace Armoury for Better Battling-

SWORDS - Brian starts out his quest with a small dagger, but this can be
exchanged along with money for greater and longer swords to help you in the 
many battles that you will have.

SHIELDS - Brian can also buy different shields to protect him from missiles
that his evil adversaries may throw at him. However, Brian better be careful
as the shield doesn't stop his enemies from getting him themselves.

Important Items of Interest-

SINGLE HEART - Singel hearts can be purchased from shops to aid recovery.

HEART STACK - Buying the Heart Stack will fully replenish Brian's energy.

EXTRA LIFE - Buy another Brian to help you get through the levels!

MONEY - Get the magical moola to buy your weapons, accessories, and other
purchasable items. There are two types of coin, one is worth fifteen credits
and the other gives twenty.

GEM - Pick up the gems for extra points! Both the diamond and the ruby gives
Brian one hundred and fifty points.

Try These Teaching Tips-

1) Try to remember where all the secret bonuses are within the level. These
   are very handy for increasing Brian's score and money!
2) Use all your special weapons sparingly. You never know when you might
   really need them!
3) Always enter every shop, otherwise you may miss something!
4) Remember that the platforms are puzzles and they always try to trick!
5) If at first you don't succeed, we won't need to tell you to try again!