-------------PUFFY'S SAGA - AMIGA - DOCS--------------------

                    by Anne Bonny
       (with the assistance of The Hellion)


Loading Instructions:  Works on Amiga 500, 1000, 2000.  If you only have 512K
turn off you computer and disconnect any peripherals like mouse, printer,
second disk drive.

For two players plug 2nd joystick into port 1.  Amiga 1000 owners will need to
boot system with Kickstart 1.2 or 1.3 first.

Press joystick button to go through each screen. On character selection screen
press joystick to activate a box (it will turn from red to green), move
joystick up to select Puffy or down for Puffyn and click joystick again.
When your chacter dies press fire button immediately to get to first level
without showing the Game Over or High Score pages.

If you die and see the screen showing the dragon information, move joystick
right or left to see other screens about other monsters.

Keyboard Controls:

Esc exits game
P pauses game; press spacebar to continue
Left shift/right shift - abandon current game and start over

Magic Gom Controls:

Once you have a magic gom (blue orb)you can do a variety of important actions.
The magic gom is probably the most important object for you to obtain.
When you have gotten the most goms you can pick up you will be unable to pick
up any more.  At that point use the F9 function key to give yourself 100 extra
life points and pick up the next gom.

Function key F1 for a player in port 1 and F6 for a player in port 2 plus
a gom -- Lets you change sex from Puffy to Puffyn or vice versa
(see later comments).

Function F2/F7 - gives you the fire power for several seconds - extremely
important for destroying red ghosts.

Function F3/F8 - gives you extra speed for several seconds - important for
getting through Stun tiles.

Funtion F4/F9 - 100 extra life points.

Function F5/F10 - Lets the player observe a large section of a level for a few
seconds (map).  Once you press this key a countdown of 5 will appear on the
screen. Moves your joystick immediately toward the part of the screen you want
to observe.  While in this mode your character will be protected by the
Insensible and Invisible modes.

Loading and saving a game (apparently will not work correctly on current 
pirate cracks).  At the end of a level when you see the screen that says Level
X and Press Fire to Continue - press DEL and game will be saved to disk. 
You can only save one game per disk.

To load, when you first boot and see "Level 1 press fire to continue" press
HELP to load previously saved game.

To enter your name next to score moves joystick until you see the letter you
want and press fire.  (I don't believe you can save scores permanently on 
pirate crack).

ICON SUMMARY

Magic Item                   Time                  Effect

Extra speed            limited               lets you move quicker
Fire Power             limited               exhale fire/scare enemies
Super Shots (6-8)      unlimited             kill groups of enemies
Repellency             limited               scare/repel enemies
Invisibility           unlimited             makes you invisible
Transportability       unlimited on 1        jump over objects; pick up
                       level                      certain items
Insensibility          unlimited on level    protects you from all enemies


ENEMIES              WHAT TO DO             EFFECTIVE MAGIC ITEMS

Red Ghosts           shoot several shots    Fire, Repellency, Invisibility
                     use Fire
Acid Puddle          Dies only when it      Fire, Repellency, Invisibility
                     touches you; avoid
Flying Dragons       avoid flames             none
Dragons              avoid flames             none
Dinosaurs            avoid flames             none
Snakes               avoid heads              none
Eyes                 shoot to immobilize      Fire, Repellency, Invisibility
Grr                  shoot several shots      Repellency, Invisibility
Hurricanes           Dies only when it        Invisibility
                     touches you; imprison it by luring it to closed area

You can run into other icons; it is up to you to avoid them or investigate
 them - be careful.


OBJECT OF THE GAME

As Puffy or Puffyn your goal is to advance from one level to the next.  To
finish a level you must collect all the PAD GOMS (brown power dots) scattered
around a level.  How many levels are there - we'll let you find that out for
yourself (20 levels are rumored - I've made it to 7 so far).

THE CHARACTERS

You can choose from Puffy or PUffyn. Puffy (male) is more robust and his shots
are more powerful. When he touches most monsters or flames he will be hurt 
less (use joystick to see various monster screens at end of game for more 
detail on Puffy/Puffyn differences).  Puffyn (female) keeps the objects she 
picks up longer (such as the Fire Power), and seems to be a slight bit faster.

The differences are important depending on the level;certain levels are easier
to get through with Puffy while others are easier with Puffyn. You can switch
between the two during a level with the Magic Gom. Note Puffy is hit for only
500 health points while Puffyn is hit for 700 by each hurricanes,so if you 
know you cannot escape a hurricane you may be better off to use 1 Magic Gom 
and switch to Puffy. On the other hand, while facing many Ghosts and using the
Fire Power or Goms to get Fire Power you are better off with Puffyn, since her
Fire Power globes last longer (such as on Levels 2 and 3).


STAYING ALIVE

Energy (life points) diminish when you are attacked by an enemy and by time.
There are objects around to help you repel or kill enemies.And you can pick 
up joints of lamb (drumbsticks) or dead Ghosts to eat. You can find these in
chests which are opened by keys.  Your character has an unlimited number of
"normal" shots which are effective against some enemies. To survive you'll 
need to pick up and use the bonus items you find and you may also want to 
avoid certain areas.


ENEMIES

THE GHOSTS can best be killed with Fire Power, you can also kill them with
normal shots, but you will have to shoot several times.  The Red Ghosts are
immobilized for about a second with the first shot, the rest will kill them.
Each time you kill a Ghost you get two life points when you eat them.
Each time it touches you Puffy loses 30 life points and Puffy loses 40.
Avoid ghots with Fire, Repellency, or Invisibility.
Tip - Ghosts will run away from the Fire
Option, try herding them into a corner to destroy them.
Keep a magic gom around to provide Fire when you need it
 (important entering Level 2 and on Level 3).

ACID PUDDLES (blue globs) - They can't be destoryed, normal fire won't affect
them and Fire Power only immobilizes them for a few seconds. If an Acid Puddle
touches you it takes 70 energy points from PUffy and 90 from Puffyn, even if 
it has been immobilized.  Sometimes you can outrun them. They are hampered by
certain obstacles like Ghost corpses and Stun tiles. You can use Fire,
Repellency, or Invisibility to help avoid them.

DRAGONS - they only fire if they see you; only their flames are dangerous,
their bodies are harmless.  The flames can cross walls and burn you.
They always stay in the same place, so don't provoke them, just seek another
passageway or try to outrun them.
Hint - you can run under them or touch their bodies - just avoid flames.

Note Flying Dragons go in the same direction. Position yourself under them and
they won't detect you and advance in the same direction they are going.
Hint - in some rooms you will see spinning dragons who won't notice you if you
pass under them (Level 5) - in some instances their flying pattern may be
altered after they notice you providing danger or an opportunity to pass
(Level 5).

SNAKES - Green snakes are found in groups.  No weapon can harm them or
immobilize them. Only the head of the snake is dangerous, you can step on 
their tails without any problem.  A snake will bite you even if you possess
Invisibility and Repellency. Hint - snakes move in waves, just pick the right
moment to pass.

EYES = Once an eye spots you he wont leave you alone.  They cannot be killed,
but you can immobilize them for 1 or 2 seconds by shooting them.  Eyes won't
attack if you possess Fire, Invisibility or Repellency.  Eye touch costs Puffy
10 life points and PUffyn 15.  Tip - fire on a moving eye, move one square,
shoot it again before it wakes up and move again etc. until it can no longer
see you.

THE GRRS - These are truly fearsome enemies  because they move around while
they're invisible.  When they get close enough to you they will start firing.
There are 2 kinds of Grrs - male and female.  When the male spots Puffy (male)
he travels without hesitation towards Puffy and shoots flames.  The female Grr
is a bit calmer, she shoots here, there, and everywhere without aiming at
anything in particular.

BEWARE - DONT FIRE AT THE REPELLENCY BONUS - IT WILL TRANSFORM INTO A GRR.

Tip - Lure Grrs into a coridor one square wide and they will be confused and
stay in the corridor where you can fire at them.  They are vulnerable when you
possess the Super Shot option - fire when you spot the white wisp of smoke
indicating their arrival.  Repellencdy and Invisibility will scatter the Grr.

THE HURRICANES are extremely dangerous fire tornados. Avoid at all costs. They
take 500 life points off Puffy and 700 off Puffyn.  They will die once they've
touched you.  Watch out - one Hurricane could be hiding behind another.
Sometimes several will be together (Level 5). Once a Hurricane detects you the
chase is on, they won't stop until they've touched you or util they've been
imprisoned again.  Tip - to imprison a Hurricane lure it into a place it won't
be able to get out of (there usually will be such a place but if not
construction one by digging a tunnel in a series of chests).
Also use Invisibility to disperse them.

BEWARE - SHOOTING A FIRE POWER ICON WILL TURN IT INTO A HURRICANE.


BONUS ITEMS:

EXTRA SPEED - lasts for a limited time.

FIRE POWER - lets you exhale fire for a few seconds which frightens some
enemies.  If you accidentally shoot a fire power you create a Hurricane.
Fire Power has a short time limit.

SUPER SHOT - is more powerful than regular shots and can destroy an entire
formation of Red Ghotsts, chests, etc. Each Super shot gives Puffy 6 shots and
Puffyn 8 shots.  You can carry several Super shot bonuses at the same time and
there is no time limit for using six super shots.

REPELLENCY lets you frighten all enemies except Flying Dragons and Hurricans.
Firing at a Repellency turns it into a GRR.  When you pick up Invisibility the
Repellency no longer works except agains the Grr.  It lasts for a limited time
after you pick it up.

INVISIBILITY makes you invisible to almost all enemies.  Although you are
invisible you are not portected from damage; if an enemy touches you you are
still affected.  When you take a shot you become visible. Option lasts through
the entire level.

TRANSPORTABILITY - lets you pass through certain walls.  If you pass through a
wall that is 2 squares wide the second square will be destroyed. Also lets you
open chests, doors, secret walls without a key.  Once you possess
Transportability it is more difficult to take another.  You will jump over
certain objects as well as walls. There is a trick to picking up certain items
while you are carrying Transportability - we'll leave you to discover it. This
bonus is lost once you pick up the Insensibility option.  Transportability has
no time limit; you keep it for a whole level.

INSENSIBILITY: This is the most powerful of all bonuses, makes you untouchable
to all enemies.  There is no time limit on Insensibility, lasts for an entire
level.

MAGIC GOM: These blue dots are very useful. See previous list of Function Keys
to hit to provide Fire, 100 extra life, Speed Bonus, change sex, or map
function.

BEWARE IF YOU FIRE AT A MAGIC GOM WITH NORMAL FIRING OR SUPER SHOT YOU WILL
CHANGE SEX.

PAD GOMS (brown power dots).  You must collect to finish a level. Sometimes a
Pad Gom will, appear under a chest or a destructible wall, you still have to
pick it up in order to finish the level.

DRUMSTICKS:  Eat to get life points.  BEWARE if you fire at a roast lamb
drumstick it will be replaced by a Red Ghost.

KEYS: Let you open doors (blue guard rails) or chests. You can carry a maximum
of 12 keys. Economize them, certain levels need them all for you to finsih. If
you have 12 keys and you try to pick up more, the key you try to pick up will
be destroyed.  Don't pick up keys if you already have 12, you will be losing
keys you may need later (Important on level 3 - don't pick up more than 12
keys at a time, use them to open chests and then pick up 12 more).

CHESTS: Use a key to open. Sometimes 2 and even 3 keys will be used up to open
chests. I've found that generally if you see three chests and have 3 keys you
can open all, but if you are carrying 4 keys one of the chests may use up 2
keys.  The Transportability bonus also opens certain chests.

DOORS:  Can be opened with keys or Transportability.  If you wait long enough
(or often TOO long),all the doors of a level will open up simultaneously. This
can be dangerous if the doors are keeping some enemies imprisioned.

TRAP DOORS/SECRET DOORS. Trap doors open certain doors, secret passageways and
invisible walls.  Often a mark on the floor or on a wall will reveal the
presence of a secret door.  Some areas contain hidden food/goodies. Note flat
greenery area immediately after exiting Level 2 has hidden food.  Firing at
blank walls may be helpful. Watch out for some walls which have enemies behind
them (Level 2 -oddly colored hedge -if you fire at it it will dissolve letting
in hordes of bad guys).

STUN (SLOW DOWN) TILES.  They will immobilize you for a few seconds and then
disappear after you've passed through them.  Take the Extra Speed option to
avoid being slowed down.  Ghosts are not hampered by Stun tiles.'


TIPS -

Don't despair if a level seems difficult; there's always a solution to finish 
it without losing a lot of life points.

You don't have to kill certain enemies to escape them - some caqn be tricked,
they can be led into a corner and they will stay there or they can be outrun,
shot while in a corridor, or herded and flamed (the ghosts).

Observe certain passageways carefully before entering them. Note Grrs some-
times hide in Drumsticks.

Don't be tempted by bait that is too enticing. You can get too much of a good
thing.  Some areas may be traps.

Certain passageways may at first appear impossible to enter, look carefully to
see if there is an item nearby which might enable you to pass without any
problems or see if there is a hidden passageway.

Don't forget which weapons you are carrying.  A super shot will destroy
everytghing in your path -= that is not always a good thing, if you hit a
drumstick you will get a ghost,if you hit a Fire Orb you will get a hurricane!

Some options can be dangerous if you pick them up at the wrong time. If 2 or 3
grrs are imprisoned by a small wall near you and you pick up the Invisibility
bonus the Grrs will escape their prison; once the bonus is used up they will
come straight towards you.

Beware of trap doors that look too enticing - they often open up walls
imprisoning Grrs, hurricanes or a huge group of ghosts.

HINTS FOR LEVELS 1-6

Level 1 - I go past the snakes (figure out their timing and avoid the heads so
you don't lose points) and get the large pile of food and 3 blue Goms. I don't
go by the hurricane to exit (it takes 1000 life points), instead I forgo the 3
keys and either exit via the middle corridor (going as fast as possible to
avoid the Grrs) or heading back past the snakes and through the area near the
2 Dragons (catching the drumsticks) and use the power shot to open the hidden
passage and bypass the ghosts and acids.  Running like hell often it helpful.

NOTE:  I feel there are certain areas in the game you are best off avoiding.
You don't need to enter every area or open every chest. Some areas are so 
heavywith Grrs and hurricanes it is not worth it to enter them.

HINT:  Apparently only a maximum of 9999 health points can be accumulated.
Level 2 - Always get the hidden store of food/goodies found under the large
clump of hedges immediately in front of you as you enter this level.  I go
straight ahead and destroy 2 groups of Ghosts using blue Magic Goms (using the
F7 Fire Power).  I avoid shooting at the hedge on the right at the end of the
corridor and getting into that mess of Ghosts/Grrs/Hurricanes. I don't bother
with the rest of the areas on this level which are dangerous and provide
little in the way of food/chests. Note as you exit the area (the 6 brown Pad
Goms near the eye) there are hidden items in the bordering hedge. If I have 
enough Magic Orbs I do as F7 Fire and shoot the hedge, take the 3 items and
depart (avoiding the Eye).

Level 3 - I try to avoid the ghosts and go immediately to the chest area. I
come equipped with at least 2 Magic Orbs if possible. In the Stun area ahead
of the blue door there are 2 Grrs, I try to shoot them there while I have
Invisibility. Once inside the door I try to kill and flame the ghosts with the
F7 Fire Option. Once my Magic Orbs run out I grab keys and open chests and get
more Orbs. Don't take more than 12 keys at once - you will lose any extras you
grab. Try to outrun Acids, or trick them to following you to back areas. Grab
all food and open chests, using all keys (or save a few for the next level).

Level 4 - Note important hidden doors which conceal items. Avoid dragons by
careful moves.  The main dragon area has 1 concealed area marked with a slight
mark on the floor. Watch out if you are holding the super shot -it will be too
powerful in some areas.  If you fire down into some food areas you will hit
Drumsticks and create ghosts.  I don't bother getting the 4 Drumsticks just
before the main Grr corridor, don't hit that release, instead hit the 2nd
release so the grrs won't catch you in that long corridor.  Once you have
reached the other side, grab the 4 food, 2 super shots,and keys immediately to
avoid Grr's breath. I use Puffyn to this point and switch to Puffy to lower hit
points from the hurricane which comes out of one corridor when you open it.
Watch out if you have the super shot -if you shoot down the corridor with food
and 1 grr the Fire Power turns into a hurricane. Carefully use up your extra
supershots and fire once at the door, move back and kill Grr. Then go down and
pick up Fire.  Don't use it to destroy the door or you will destroy the food.
Use it up on a blank wall and then go back for the food. The final room (after
the 3 dragons flying in 2 formations) is a trap. Don't bother with it once you
have Transportability, there are 4 hurricanes plus Grrs and you won't even be
able to pick up all the items. Just carefully walk along the side (don't break
the blue door release) and use transportability to jump over to the last brown
Pad Gom and exit.

Level 5 - There are several ways to exit from this area.  If you release a
hurricane try outrunning it and hopefully it will get caught up in another area
of walls.  Some (or most) of the hurricanes actually are 2 or more hurricanes
and very dangerous. You will need several thousand health points if you want to
run past them. I take up the power stick immediately upon entering (the other
direction with the blue release will release a double hurricane) and use it to
enter the secret passageway near the spinning dragons.  The spinning dragons
won't fire, go through them. Use up your Power Shots before exiting secret area
or you will accidently shoot a Fire Power Orb and create a Hurricane.  I use
Fire Power Orb (and F7/Magic Orb created Fire Power) to destroy Ghosts and get
to keys.  I also use F8/Speed to go by the Snakes and get to another area of
Drumsticks guarded by Ghosts.  Herd them into the back and flame them and get
what is left of the food.  Then I open chests, but keep 12 keys!  Carefully go
down long corridor with keys (by chests)and you will note a secret door on wall
to left near 2 drumsticks.  Use Normal Shot and open doors to get drumsticks
safely without being fired on by Grrs.  Pick up and use up Fire Power you find
here (note if you use Fire Power to open those secret doors you will flame and
destroy 2 Drumsticks).  Carefully go to end of corridor and use 12 keys to open
12 blue doors.  Run as fast as you can and open blue release which opens secret
corridor on left.  Don't attempt to grab Repellent Rings and other goodies in
this room.  Apparently you can't, secret/invisible doors suddenly appear and
block you.  There may be some way around this, but those Grrs are nasty and may
destroy you while you are exploring this room.  I just run down the corridor.
You can try to snatch Drumsticks from Dinosaurs, but they may flame you. With
Fire Power found in front of area with Dragons you can flame open a secret door
and reveal hidden food and/or brown Pad Goms.  If you flame both sides Dragons
will change their pattern of flight and you will be able to get half of the
food safely. You may not want to even chance this area though, because you may
accidentally get flamed if you are not careful. Watch dragon movements closely
(they will gradually shift and become easier to chart) if you go for this food.
Exit this level with the brown Pad Goms at the corner of the corridor.  This
level has at least 3 different ways to go to get to those same final Pad Goms,
and there may be better ways than the one described.  Beware of hurricanes.
This is a level where you probably should not expend all your health points
exploring all rooms.  You will need health points for the next level.

Level 6 - I immediately grab keys and 1 power stick and fire my way out of room
through purple wall.  I rush through next room (usually not even attempting to
get food/chests in next room), and head carefully through snake corridor.  At
the end you can turn and face any following Ghosts with your F7/Fire Power from
your Magic Goms.  Be careful because while you will need the Fire Power to best
destroy the Ghosts, there are loose Grrs around who require normal or power
shots to be killed.  Firing at the middle wall of the electrical areas will
reveal a secret corridor filled with goodies, enabling you to get past the
electrical area without being zapped.  You will have to release the blue
releases around the Grrs to open a secret wall to get you out of this level.
The walls around the Grrs can be fired at and generally conceal a brown Pad Gom
or food/Magic Gom.  I carefully shoot 1 wall of 1 Grr and then kill the Grr
before he can come out (if possible).  Be careful because if you aim the wrong
way you may accidentally destroy another of the small walls and release a 2nd
Grr.  Grab food and avoid getting too close to lurking grrs. The next area has
food but also lots of Ghosts and Grrs.  If you have enough health points and
Magic Goms left you can try to herd and kill off most Ghosts and shoot and kill
loose Grrs and get food. If not,try to make a run for the final brown Pad Goms
behind 2 blue doors (make sure you have a couple of keys from the previous
room), off sort of to the top right. There may be more to this level, but I was
lucky to get through it at all.

Level 7 - You better have a couple of thousand health points at the end of 
Level 6 to make it through. I don't know more since I died here last time I
played.

All in all, Puffy's Saga is extremely enjoyable.  It is a game of strategy as
well as luck and shooting/moving skill. Some areas should be missed or explored
in certain ways.  Some rooms should be visited before other rooms.  Some items
should be ignored or used up.  Secret doors and passageways as well as hidden
food/goodies are important for staying alive.

          Anne Bonny