				PUPPY LOVE

	!==========================================================!
	! "All the   !                                !  Weather   !
	!   News     !       DOG POUND DAILY          !   Today    !
	! That's Fit !        Dog Show Edition        ! Mild Sunny !
	! to Fetch"  ! Volume 1             Number 1  !  Saturday  !
	!            !                                !   Windy    !
	!==========================================================!

                 	   CONGRATULATIONS !

      		And Welcome To The World of Puppy Love
                           ====================

You are now the owner of a one-of-a-kind puppy. On this disk you will find
Midnight, a completely maintenance-free dog. When you copy Midnight and
rename him, you will have a puppy - or a whole bunch of puppies - of your
very own. You don;t have to get up on cold wintry mornings to walk him. You
don;t have to worry about leash laws, flea collars, pooper scoopers, or
what brand of dog food to buy. Apartment dwellers will be especially happy
to nore that this puppy even comes with a spacious front yard to play in.

You have just rescued your puppy from a lonely and dreary life in the
junkyard, which is a dream come true in itself. But now he is dreaming
about winning ribbons and trophies at THE NATIONAL DOG SHOW. He's a smart
and talented dog, but he needs lots of patience and careful training that
only you can provide. Your puppy's success at the Dog Show depends on your
ability to work as a team. You train him to do tricks at your command, and
your responses will encourage him to do new tricks. Once your puppy has
learned a variety of tricks, you can choreograph fantastic routines for him
to use in competition. Training your puppy is easy and exciting, and he
will constantly amaze you with his abilities. And while you are busy
training your puppy, you will actually be learning some of the fundamental
concepts of computer programming, and you won't even notice it! So, good
luck at the Dog Show! Your puppy may even teach you some new tricks.

				CONTENTS

Congratulations......................................1
The World of Puppy Love..............................2
Getting Started......................................3
Training Your Puppy..................................4
Choreography.........................................6
Advanced Dance......................................10
Competing at the Dog Show...........................11
Ask Goldie..........................................13
Quick Reference.....................................15
Editorial...........................................16

			THE WORLD OF PUPPY LOVE

THE JUNKYARD - Before you came along, your puppy lived among the rubble of
the junkyard. He spent his days dreaming about the Dog Show and wishing for
a happy home.

HOME - When you rescue your puppy form the junkyard, you bring him to your
home, where he has a spacious yard to romp in. This is where your puppy
will play, learn tricks, and practice for the Dog Show.

THE DOG SHOW - At the Barker Fairgrounds, Saturday at 2 p.m. This is where
your puppy competes for various awards, including the prestigious Golden
Top Dog Award.

THE TROPHY ROOM - Your puppy hopes to fill his doghouse trophy room with
prizes from the National Dog Show.

THE JOURNAL -  As your puppy learns new tricks, their names will appear in
the journal automatically. next to the name of each trick is a space for
notes. This is a very helpful feature since it's sometimes difficult to
remember details of all the different tricks (even though your puppy will
have no trouble keeping them straight).

THE CHOREOGRAPHY CLIPBOARD - Once your puppy has learned some super-duper
tricks, you can choreography those tricks into fantasmagorical routines and
dances to perform at the Dog Show, or just for fun. you choreography a
routine by typing it onto the Choreography Clipboard in ordinary sentences,
as if you were talking to your neighbor. Your puppy will understand what
you're saying and follow your instructions. The best way to learn about
choreographing is to experiment and see what happens.

	    		   GETTING STARTED

                         Loading Puppy Love

To run the Amiga version of Puppy Love, all you need is a copy of the Amiga
Kickstart program, and your Puppy Love disk. Turn on your Amiga 512K
computer and insert your Kickstart disk into the internal disk drive until
it clicks. When the computer prompts you for the Workbench disk, eject
Kickstart and insert the Puppy Love disk. When the program is ready, you
will see a menu screen that lists Midnight as an untrained dog. If you are
playing for the first time, you need to make a copy of Midnight and give
him (or her) a new name. Click Midnight with the Selection (left-hand)
button on the mouse, and click Copy. In the Copy screen, type a name for
your new puppy in the File box and click Save.

To start the program and begin training your puppy, click on the name of
your puppy, then click Run. The game will load and the credits will roll
by, followed by the puppy's story. (You can skip this section by clicking
the Selection button.) After you rescue your puppy, he will appear in the
yard of your home, where you can begin training him.

Each time you want to create a new puppy, you should copy Midnight in this
way. This will ensure that you can make future copies of an untrained dog.
You can make as many copies of Midnight as you want. However, you should
not have more than fifteen or so puppies saved to the Puppy Love program
disk. You can copy puppies to other disks, but you will always need the
Puppy Love master to run the program. With Puppy Love, everyone in your
family can have a puppy to train.

 		    Saving Puppies on Other Disks

From the opening menu screen, click on Midnight and then click Copy. Insert
a formatted disk into the external disk drive. In the copy screen, type in
a name for the new puppy in the File box, and the name of the external disk
in the Drawer box, followed by a colon (:) (or "DF1": if you don't remember
the name of the disk). Click Save, and the puppy will be saved to the
external disk.

			  TRAINING YOUR PUPPY 

Now that you've rescued your puppy from the junkyard, it's time to start
training. Watch your puppy as he romps around his yard. He may surprise you
by doing tricks like rolling over or offering his paw. Let your puppy know
what you think of his tricks. Praise him when he does something you lick by
clicking the bone icon on your puppy, or in the bone box.  The bone will
flash when your puppy understands your message. If the bone doesn't flash,
you're not clicking it close enough to the puppy. Your puppy thrives on
praise, and rewards encourage him to do different tricks. Don't worry if
the entire icon box flashes when you click. As long as the cursor is a
bone, you will be praising your puppy.

                            Naming Tricks

The next step in getting ready for the Dog Show is traching your puppy to
perform tricks at your command. When your puppy performs an action that
you'd like to name, press the Spacebar immediately. This tells him to sit
and wait for you to name the trick. If he doesn't stop immediately, it's
because he wants to finish the trick before sitting down.

Once your puppy is sitting, simply type in a name for the trick that he has
just performed. The name will appear in the command box as you type it.
(You are limited to 15 characters for the name, but it does not have to be
one word.) Now press Return to tell your puppy to perform the trick. You
will hear the name spoken by the computer's voice synthesizer. Watch your
puppy to see if he does what you wanted. If he performs the correct trick,
reward him by clicking the bone on him or in the bone box. If he doesn't
perform the correct trick, tell him so by selecting the No icon and
clicking on him or in the No box. As with the bone, the No icon will flash
when your puppy understands the command.

You can check whether your puppy has learned a new trick by repeating the
command. Type in the name and press Return. If your puppy has learned the
trick, the lightbulb in the command box will "light" and he will perform
the trick. You can also check the Journal by pulling down the Go To menu
using the Menu (right-hand) button on the mouse. Command names are added to
the Journal only after your puppy has successfully learned them.

			Things To Keep In Mind

The Spacebar will not stop your puppy when there is text in the command
box. If you are typing in a command, you can clear the command box quickly
and tell your puppy to stop what he is doing by pressing the Delete key.

You CANNOT break a trick into two parts. For example, if you puppy does a
back flip followed by a sit, you cannot turn the sit or the back flip into
separate tricks. You have to wait for your puppy to perform each trick by
itself. Pressing the Spacebar when your puppy is in the middle of
performing a trick won't work.

Clicking on NO after your puppy has performed a trick that you requested
tells him to FORGET the trick. He will no longer recognize the command, and
it will be deleted from the Journal.

Your puppy is very picky about SPELLING and SPACING - he won't recognize
"sitty" and "sittie" as the same command. Be careful to type command names
exactly the same way each time you want your puppy to perform the trick.
You can always check the original spelling by looking in the journal.

			    The Journal

After you have successfully taught your puppy a trick, its name is
automatically entered in the Journal. This ensures that your original
spelling is recorded. The names are listed in alphabetical order in the
left-hand column.

You can write notes about the different tricks by clicking on the line you
would like to fill in.  A box will appear in which to type your
description. You can also change your notes by editing within the box.

TO TURN THE PAGE IN THE JOURNAL, click the folded corner on the upper
right-hand side. You can turn to the next page only if it has something on
it. TO TURN BACK TO THE PREVIOUS PAGE, click he unfolded right-hand corner.
TO TURN DIRECTLY TO AN ALPHABETIZED PAGE, hold down the Tab key and press
the desired letter. TO HEAR THE COMMANDS AND NOTES SPOKEN BY THE VOICE
SYNTHESIZER, select Read from the Journal menu (or type Right Amiga key-R).
The voice will read only the text in the box. TO LEAVE THE JOURNAL, use the
GoTo menu to select another location.

The names of all of the choreography routines you have created will also be
listed at the end of the Journal. TO GET TO THE CHOREOGRAPHY LISTING
QUICKLY, press Tab Spacebar.

		          CHOREOGRAPHY

               Designing Routines for the Dog Show

Once your puppy has learned a few tricks, you can choreograph routines for
him to perform in the Dog Show's Top Dogging Competition. Choreography
involves many of the general concepts of computer programming. You'll be
coding, writing routines and subroutines, and using conditional statements
and boolean logic. If you've never programmed before, don't worry --
choreographing routines for your  puppy is easy because you can use your
own words. You simply write the routines as if you were giving directions
to a friend.

This section provides all you need to know about choreographing your
puppy's routines. Included are step-by-step directions, sample routines and
a quick reference sheet. A good way to find out how choreography works is
to experiment and watch your puppy respond.

                   Writing Your First Routines

Open the Choreography Clipboard by selecting Choreography on the Go To menu
(or type Right Amiga-A).

Think of a name for the routine you want to choreograph. Names must be in
quotation marks and be placed in the first line of the routine, followed by
the names of tricks that will be part of the routine. For example: A
"workout" is a sit-up and a back flip.

Now describe the combination of tricks that you want your puppy to do, and
in the order you would like them to be performed. For example: A "workout"
is a sit-up and a back flip. Then do a flipwalk, a rock 'n roll, and a leg
wiggle. Only include tricks that you have already taught him.

Be sure to spell the names of the tricks exactly as they are spelled in the
Journal. You can always open the Journal to check the original spelling.

You can have your puppy REPEAT TRICKS by using numbers. Numbers can go
before or after command names, as in 4 back flips, or back flip 4 times.
When numbers are placed after commands, they must be followed by the word
TIMES. Numbers must be in numeric form. For example: A "workout" is 3
sit-ups, and 2 back flips. However, you can use twice instead of 2, as in
back flip twice.

You can use OR to give your puppy a CHOICE of actions. For example: Do a
sit-up or a rollover. Your puppy will decide for himself which one to
perform.

To HEAR your routines read by the computer's voice synthesizer, select READ
from the Choreograph menu.

              Running Through Routines With Your Puppy

After you have choreographed a routine, go back home and try it out with
your puppy. You'll want to make sure it's perfect before you take it to the
Dog Show.

Type the routine name in the command box and press Return. You do not need
to type the quotation marks. The voice synthesizer will announce the
routine name. As the program gets to each individual trick name in the
routine, the names will appear in order in the command box, but only the
routine name is spoken.

Watch your puppy perform the routine. To STOP your puppy in the middle of a
routine, click the Selection button on the mouse.

If you want to change the routine, return to the choreography screen and
eidt the text using normal editing commands. Play around with your routines
to see how changes affect your puppy's actions. This will help you learn
how to use the choreography feature to direct your puppy to do exactly what
you want.

                 Managing Your Choreography Files

SAVING ROUTINES - If you want to save the routines you have created, select
File from the Choreograph menu (or type Right Amiga -F). Click in the File
box and type in a name for all of the routines on your clipboard. Click
Save and they'll be saved as one file. Choreography files appear only in
the File screen. Each time you start the program, you will need to open the
screen and file in order for your puppy to remember the routines.

OPENING CHOREOGRAPHY FILES - Each time you start Puppy Love, the
Choreography Clipboard will be blank (even if there are tricks in the
Journal). If you'd like to work on a previous file, select File on the
Choreograph menu (or Right Amiga-F). You will see a list of all of your
choreography files. Select the one you would like to work on and click
Load. if you try to run a routine without opening the choreography file
that contains it, your puppy will not know what to do.

DELETING YOUR CHOREOGRAPHY FILES - You can delete your choreography files
by selecting File on the Choreography menu (or type Right Amiga-F). Select
the file that you want to delete by clicking on it with the Selection
button, and then click on Delete.

		  Keeping Your Puppy Center Stage

Your puppy starts routines wherever he happens to be when you give him a
command, and so may end up doing some or most of the tricks off the screen.
This makes it hard for you to tell how well the routine works. It's also
important to remember that the Dog Show judges don't think very highly of
offstage performances.

In order to keep your puppy in full view, you must give him a starting
position, and perhaps reposition him for some of the commands within the
routine. The screen is divided in three equal parts - Left Side, Center,
Right Side - and two edges - Left Edge, Right Edge. You can have your puppy
start in different positions on the screen by typing either WALK TO or GO
TO, plus one of those commands. For example: An "entrance" is WALK TO
CENTER and do a howdy. To "exit" do back flips until you reach the RIGHT
EDGE.

		      Giving Your Puppy Choices

Your puppy's world is constantly changing - lights go on and off in the
windows of the house, the door opens and closes, a squirrel runs on and off
the screen, the mailbox opens and sometimes contains a letter, etc. You can
write routines that allow your puppy to choose his actions in response to
these changing conditions using one or more of the following commands:
WHILE, UNTIL, IF, and IF...OTHERWISE. For example: If a light is on do a
workout.

You can also use negations liek NOT or ISN'T to direct your puppy to base
his decisions on the ABSENCE of conditions in his environment. For example:
Play dead if a light is not on and it isn't windy. Your puppy can make
decisions based on all the following conditions:

			Position on Screen

Left Edge, Left Side, Center, Right Side, Right Edge

			 Physical Condition

Your puppy is tired - he knows when he's feeling tired, thought it may not
be obvious to you.

			Environmental Conditions

SQUIRREL VISIT - Boolio the squirrel occasionally drops by to say hello. 

LIGHT ON/NOT ON in the house - Lights in different rooms go on and off.

SEE/DON'T SEE NORMAN - Norman likes to open the front door to watch your
puppy at play.

WINDY/NOT WINDY - When it's windy, the flag on top of the Dog Show tent
stands up.

MAILBOX - open, closed, containing a letter. Your puppy looks forward to
letters from his old friend High Noon.

		    How to Use WHILE and UNTIL

It is sometimes difficult to decide the exact number of times to tell your
puppy to do different tricks. If you tell your puppy to do too many, he may
end up performing off the screen, or it might just look silly. But, you can
use WHILE and UNTIL to give your puppy the responsibility of deciding for
himself how many repetitions to do. WHILE and UNTIL can be used with all
the changing conditions in your puppy's world.

While tells your puppy to repeat an action as long as a stated condition is
true. For example: While you are on the left side, do backsits. Before dong
a backsit, your puppy checks to see if he's on the left side. If he finds
this condition to be true, he'll do a backsit, and then he'll check again
to see if he's still on the left side to determine whether to do another
backsit. This loop will continue until the condition is false - he will
stop if he finds himself in the center, right side, or off the screen.

Similar to while, UNTIL directs your puppy to repeat an action UNTIL a
stated condition is true. For example: Until a light is on, do rollovers.
Your puppy first checks to see if the light is on, and if this is true,
then he does NOT do a rollover. But if the condition is FALSE (a light
isn't on), then your puppy does rollovers UNTIL the condition is TRUE (a
light is on).

Whether WHILE and UNTIL are placed before or after the command will affect
how your puppy responds. For example: While you're on the left side, do
backsits is different from Do backsits while you're on the left side. When
WHILE is placed BEFORE the command, your puppy will first check the
condition, and will perform the trick (backsit) only if the condition is
true (he's on the left side of the screen). If WHILE is placed AFTER the
command, he will perform the trick once before he checks to see if the
condition is true. Placing WHILE or UNTIL AFTER the command guarantees that
your puppy will do at least one of the actions.

			     The Big IF

IF tells your puppy to perform an action only if a condition is true. For
example: If you see Norman, do a sitty and 2 backjumps.

If can be placed before or after a command without affecting your puppy's
performance. For example, your puppy's reactions to If you are tired, then
play dead and Play dead if you are tired will be the same in both cases; he
will play dead only if he's tired.

IF...OTHERWISE allows you to give your puppy an alternative command. Your
puppy will do the alternative trick when the IF condition is NOT met. For
example, If you are at the left edge, do 4 back flips. OTHERWISE, do 2 sit
ups. When your puppy is not at the left edge, he will do 2 sit ups.

			How to Use AND and OR

You should use AND only when you want your puppy to perform an action when
two or more conditions are true. For example, Do sit-ups if the light is on
and the mailbox is open. Your puppy will do sit-ups only if BOTH the light
is on AND the mailbox is open. If only the light is on, your puppy will not
do any sit-ups.

You can use OR when you want your puppy to do an action when ANY ONE of
several conditions is true. For example, do sit ups if the light is on or
the mailbox is open. Your puppy will do sit ups if EITHER the light is on
or the mailbox is open. AND and OR can also be used with more than two
conditions. For example: 

Do sit-ups if a light isn't on and the mailbox is open and it's windy.

Do sit-ups if you're not tired or you see Norman or the squirrel.

Do sit-ups if the light is on or the mailbox is open and it's windy.

In the last example, your puppy will look at pairs of conditions starting
at the end of the sentence. he will do sit-ups if the mailbox is open AND
it's windy. He will also do them if the light is on.

			  ADVANCED DANCE

As you get more comfortable with choreographing routines for your puppy to
perform, you will wnat to write longer and more complicated routines.
However, a long clump of commands and conditional statements can be hard to
understand, and even harder to correct if it doesn't work the way you
expected. The best way to choreograph complex routines is to write many
short routines (called "subroutines" in programming lingo) which become
building blocks for longer routines. For example:

To "enter", walk to the center of the yard and offer your paw. To "exit",
do flips until you reach the right edge.

Once the routine name has been defined (in quotes), you can use it in
another routine just like any other command name.

To "show off", enter and flip walk until you reach the left edge or you see
the squirrel. Next do a leg wiggle and a sit up.

An "encore" is show off while you see Norman or the light is on. If it's
not windy, do 2 rollovers and and exit. Otherwise, bow and exit.

Only routine names that you have previously defined can be used in others
as subroutines. In other words, any routine name used as a command must
have been defined within quotes in routines listed BEFORE the one you are
writing.

		      Choreography That Doesn't Work

			  Fixing Your Routines

* Make sure the choreography file that contains the routine is open.

* If you have a problem with a complex routine, check each part (small
  routine) to see if it works correctly.

* Check the spelling and spacing. Command names must be consistent with
  their original spelling.

* Routine names must be in quotation marks and in the first line.

* You can only use trick and routine names that you have already taught
  your puppy.

* Numbers must be in numeric form, except for TWICE.

Be sure to read "Ask Goldie" for more help in troubleshooting your
routines.

			Debugging Your Routines

The Debug feature is designed to help you find misspelled or improperly
used command names. It checks words in your routine with the reserved
choreography words and the commands in your Journal.

To use this feature, place the cursor at the beginning of the word or
routine you want to debug. Then select Debug on the Choreograph menu (or
type Right Amiga-B). The cursor will highlight reserved words like UNTIL
and will flash on your trick names. Click the Selection button to move from
word to word. The cursor will not highlight commands if they are spelled
incorrectly or are not found in your Journal. This is where you will need
to edit your routine. To stop debugging, select Debug again, or start
typing.

		     COMPETING AT THE DOG SHOW

	Letter from the Coordinators of the National Dog Show

Dear Puppy Love Owner,

	We are happy to accept your competition entry for The National Dog
Show. We're always looking for new talent, and your puppy sounds like star
material.
	Thousands of prize dogs from across the nation come to compete for
the Golden Top Dog Award. But only the rare few who succeed at all ten
challenging events will be able to win this prestigious award.
	In the first three Hot Dogging events, your dog will be judged on
his ability to do specific tricks. in the next six Top Dogging events, your
dog performs choreographed routines in competition with other top dogs.
Only if your puppy wins all nine events can he compete in the most
challenging level for the Golden Top Dog Award.
	Your puppy has been entered in the first Hot Dogging event. You can
take as much time as you want to prepare him. When you're ready, select
Show from the Go To menu. If you don't win the first time, don't worry. You
can always try again. We want to make sure that you and your puppy are
prepared.

					Good Luck!
					Mac and Mary Barker

            		The Hot Dogging Events

Prepare your puppy for the Hot Dogging events by teaching him specific
tricks that are posted on the Trick List menu. You can check off the tricks
as your puppy learns them by selecting the trick name. The first Trick List
that appears shows the tricks your puppy needs to know for the first Hot
Dogging event. Each time your puppy completes a Dog Show event, the Trick
List will change.

In each of the three Hot Dogging events, your puppy will be asked to
perform five tricks. For example, Mac Barker, the M.C., might say, "Please
tell your puppy to roll over." You type in your command for roll over and
press Return. Your puppy must perform the trick within the time limit (30
seconds). You can go to the Journal without losing any time (the timer will
be reset when you return). However, you cannot go to the other locations
without losing your turn at the Dog Show.

Your puppy's performance of each trick will be given a score from 0 to 2
(zero for the wrong trick, 1 for a good try but it could be better, and 2
for exactly what the judges asked for). To win a ribbon, your puppy must
score 8 or more points. If your puppy wins, he can move on to the next
event. If he doesn't win, you should return home, practice some more and
try again.

			The Top Dogging Events

Once your puppy has won the three Hot Dogging ribbons, he can start
competing in the seven Top Dogging events. In these events, your puppy
performs routines of increatsing complexity competing against other top
puppies. In order to win, he must beat the current best score (which is
posted on the scoreboard). He will receive ribbons for winning winning Top
Dogging events 1-3, trophies for events 4-6, and the Golden Top Dog Award
for the final event.

At the Dog Show you will be instructed to tell your puppy to do a routine.
Each of the three judges scores the routine from 0 to 9.9. Your puppy's
final score is the average of the three. if your puppy gets the highest
score, he wins the prize. However, if he does not beat the top score, you
will receive feedback on how to improve the routine. You can always enter
again with a new or revised routine.

		Choreographing For the Top Dogging Events

Your puppy relies on you to choreograph winning routines. Each of the seven
levels of the Top Dogging competition asks you to design a new routine. The
Trick List will tell you which tricks to include in each routine. The
tricks get more difficult as you get closer to winning the final event.

The more advanced levels also require you to write routines in which your
puppy makes choices about his actions. For example, you may be asked to
write a routine that directs your puppy to stop when he sees the squirrel.
All the conditions found in your front yard (such as lights and mailbox)
are also present at the Dog Show. The light goes on in the ticket booth,
Norman opens the refreshment stand door, the squirrel drows by, etc.
                         
                      =========================
			     ASK GOLDIE
	              =========================

The renowned dog trainer, Goldie Retriever, answers your training
questions.

Dear Goldie:

	My puppy just walks back and forth on the screen. Once in a while
he'll roll over or something. How can I get him to do new tricks?
Desperately Seeking new Tricks

Dear Desperate:

	Have you been rewarding your puppy for the little tricks he does?
He needs lots of encouragement and bones. If you have him practice the
tricks he already knows, he will soon copy up with some new ones. Just be
patient and keep a careful watch.

Dear Goldie:

	There's no stopping my puppy, Jiminy. I press the Spacebar and he
keeps performing. Does he have fleas? Stop in the Name of Love

Dear Stop:

	Are you suggestion that there are bugs in this program? Seriously,
Jiminy will stop only when the command box is empty. If he is already
performing a trick you requested, he will ignore the Spacebar. To stop him
and empty the command box, press, Delete.

Dear Goldie:

	My puppy, Bob, has learned a bunch of new tricks and I spent time
choreographing a great routine, but he performs most of it off the screen.
Does Bob have stage fright? Out of Bounds

Dear Out:

	Bob is not shy. He needs to be told where to perform on the screen.
You have to specify a location in the routine, or he will start wherever he
happens to be. See "Keeping Your Puppy Center Stage." If he goes a little
off screen when you are training, remember you can reward him by clicking
in the box as well as on your puppy.

Dear Goldie:

	I clicked the bone to praise my puppy in the middle of routine and
he stopped cold. Doesn't he like to be praised? Wounded Pride

Dear Wounded:

	Your puppy loves praise. However, clicking the bone in the middle
of a choreography routine tells him to stop. Wait until after he finishes
the routine to praise him. (This is different from training when you can
praise your puppy at any time.)

Dear Goldie:

	I choreographed a great routine for my puppy Foo Foo, but when I
asked her to perform it, she skipped a bunch of tricks. Am I mixed up, or
is she? Crazy in Love

Dear Crazy:

	I'm afraid it's you who is mixed up. Check your routine to make
sure you have spelled the trick names exactly as they are spelled in the
journal. If you don't find any misspellings, see if you and Foo Foo are
interpreting the routine differently. If that doesn't help, try the Debug
feature.

Dear Goldie:

	While doing his "Jane Fonda" routine, my puppy Deerborn repeats his
"copter flippo" trick too many times. How can I squelch his enthusiasm just
a tad? Too Much, Too Soon

Dear Too:

	You might try adding some conditionals to Deerborn's routine uring
while or until. You can also decrease repetitions by changing ands between
multiple conditions to ors. And get to know the environment. Some things
may change more frequently than others. Statements that involve position on
the screen are also helpful for decreasing repetitions.

Dear Goldie:

	Help! Deja Vu won't stop doing his "Celtics Appreciation Dance." It
looks as if he'll be doing it till the end of the season! Game of Love

Dear Game:

	Click the mouse button to stop Deja Vu in the middle of his dance.
Then check the routine for and endless loop - a conditional statement that
has no ending. For example, if you tell your puppy to tiptoe until he
reaches the left edge, he may never get there if he tiptoes from left to
right. Your puppy does some tricks from left to right, and vice versa. Keep
track of the direction of his tricks to avoid creating endless loops.

Goldie can answer your questions, too. If you're having problems training
your puppy, send a letter and a self-addressed, stamped envelope to:
Goldie, c/o Consumer Software Support, Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., Inc.,
Reading MA, 01867. No phone calls, please. Goldie doesn't have a phone.

			GENERAL REFERENCE

TO REWARD YOUR PUPPY, click the bone on or near him, or in the box. It will
flash if the praise was effective.

TO SAY "NO", click the NO icon on or near your puppy or in the box. It will
flash if the command was effective.

TO STOP YOUR PUPPY AFTER HE DOES A NEW TRICK THAT YOU'D LIKE TO NAME, press
the Spacebar.

TO QUICKLY CLEAR THE COMMAND BOX AND TELL YOUR PUPPY TO STOP, press the
Delete key.

TO TELL YOUR PUPPY TO DO A TRICK OR ROUTINE, type the name in the command
box and press Return.

TO CHANGE LOCATIONS, select the location on the GO TO menu, or press the
RIGHT AMIGA key and the letter of the location listed in the menu (Home,
Dog Show, Trophy Room, etc). Choreography is RIGHT AMIGA-A.

TO QUIT, select Quit from the Go To menu or type RIGHT AMIGA-Q.

NOTE: It is not a good idea to use the reserved choreography words, such as
while or mailbox, to name your puppy's tricks.

			CHOREOGRAPHY REFERENCE

 		      Rules for Writing Routines

Each routine must have a name. The name must be in quotation marks and
placed in the first line of the routine.

Numbers must be in numeric form, except for TWICE.

You can use only the names of tricks in your routines that you have already
taught your puppy.

You can use only the names of routines listed above the one you are
writing.

The spelling of trick and routine names must be consistent with their
original spelling.

For conditional statements, you can use any combinations of:

COMMANDS: until, while, if, if...otherwise, and, or, mpt.

CONDITIONS: puppy is tired, the squirrel visits, a light is on/not on in
the house, you see/don't see Norman at the door, it's windy/not windy (flag
stands out), the mailbox is open/closed, the mailbox contains a letter,
screen position (left edge, left side, center, right side, right edge).

		   =========================

                            EDITORIAL

HOT DIGGITY, the famous gold trophy winner, gives you advice on preparing
for the Dog Show.

		    --------------------------

Dear Trainer:

	First, I'd like to welcome you to a very special new group: the
proud owners of Puppy Love.
	You will find that Puppy Love is a unique program, the likes of
which have never been see before. You and your new puppy (or your litter of
puppies) will quickly become great friends. As with any new pet, you will
find that your puppy has his or her own special personality. As you work
together, you will learn how to bring out the best in him, and he will do
the same for you. And remember to think up a terrific name for your puppy.
A positive identity is always important.
	In my years of experience, I've found that the key to training is
the 2 P's--Praise and Practice. Training is hard work, and your puppy needs
positive rewards to keep going. Give your puppy lots of bones and you're
sure to see results. Your praise will not only whip your puppy into top
shape, but it will also encourage him to do new tricks. Rewards let your
puppy know that you like his tricks and encourage him to do other ones.
	And, of course, practice! Practice! Practice! Your puppy's got to
work up a sweat. The more practice he has, the better he'll be at
performing his tricks. However, if you give him commands all the time, he
won't have the change to come up with any new moves. So make sure you
maintain a balance between giving him commands and watching him play.
	Above all else, Puppy Love has been designed to be enjoyable, and
I'm sure it will provide you with hours of fun. However, don't forget to
eat and sleep, and to give your family and friends (and your real puppy, if
you have one) some attention once in a while. And while you are having all
this fun, remember that you are also learning about programming. You will
be writing routines and subroutines, debugging, creating loops, and all
that other cool computer stuff. And the best part is that you won't even
notice that it's happening.
	So practice, train, win lots of ribbons and trophies. I`m sure
you'll be a great success. And feel free to let me know what you think of
Puppy Love. Just write to Hot Diggity, c/o Consumer Software Support,
Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Reading, Massachusetts, 01867.

==========================================================================
Puppy Love docs brought to you by The Southern Star for M.A.A.D.
