                             O N S L A U G H T

                                  Hints

FOOTMEN: These aren't that difficult to deal with and a good thump with
the mace should sort them out good and proper.  Try to attack them when
you are in the 'duck' position, to avoid a good kicking and a dented head.

WIZARDS: They are the rotters who lob power bolts in your direction.  Now,
doubtless another wizard or mage would simply say "Pah. Feeble magic." and
bung back an even bigger power bolt that wouldn't look out of place in a
Spielburg movie.  You aren't such a wizard, so unless you have picked up a
Demon Shield or Magic Demon weapon to chuck at him, the best thing to do
is run away.

SPEARMEN: They are the chaps who come strolling onto the screen, whizz a
huge spear in your direction and then, with nothing else to do, probably
wander off to pick their nose or count their toes or something.  The best
thing to do, you won't be suprised to hear, is either duck, climb a ladder
or jump to another ledge to avoid the spear.  Also be careful not to jump
into the path of a spear, as it glides across the whole length of the
screen with ease.

MINES: Not much to do in the old tactical department here.  I mean, it's
not as if you could take a mine on in unarmed combat, duff it up and
stroll off while it begs for mercy in a corner.  The best thing to do is
simply avoid them, picking a different route wherever possible.  If you
are getting a severe kicking, however it might be worth leaping onto one
although your energy level will plummet, all your assailants will be
blasted into a thousand chicken McNuggets - serves 'em jolly well right
too.

CANNONS/BLASTERS: Very similar in action and effect, these two.  Cannons
bung balls at your legs while Blasters aim for the head.  The best way to
take them out of action is to charge and hit them with your mace.  Once
out of commission, the crew stand around like so much mace fodder, so it's
happy slapping time again with your mace flying everywhere.  Once a level
has been cleared of cannons and blasters, you can leap around the nearby
ledges, creeping up behind the other enemy posts and knocking them out one
by one.  Don't use the Magic Demon spell, though, because there's every
chance that a falling cannon could fall on you.

RIDERS: Riders all share the same characteristics in that they charge at
you and attempt to squash you.  They include Boat Riders, Carpet Riders
and Cavalry.  If you can use a Demon Shield or Magic Demon spell on them,
save yourself a lot of bother and do so, keeping as far away as possible.
Carpet Riders and Cavalry can be knocked off from a distance by arrows or
Naptha bombs but once the transporter has been trashed, you then have to
give the occupants a good bashing.  Towers are big and require two or
three well placed arrow shots or mace hits before they are ripped apart.