                          --- Operation Wolf ---
                         ************************

Pause the game with F1 and aim your gun while paused, then unpause.

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS:

The enemy will be coming at you from NEAR, MEDIUM and FAR ranges and from
both sides of the screen.

If you see a hostage run across the screen, shoot the guy with the knife
behind the hostage for extra points and to save the hostage (ugh!).

You will basically be shooting at all enemy, but be alert to the civilians
that will cross your way.  You will lose energy for shooting them (guilt, I
guess).  The enemy are reasonably easy to recognize and are varied.  The
commandos usually stay in the background and throw knives at you, or
bazookas and grenades.  You can deflect these weapons by firing at them.
The guy with the crew cut and vest can only be killed by hitting him in the
head.  Also be watchful for the snipers who crawl up towards you on the
ground.  The final bad guy (you'll notice him, he will have a hostage with
him) will have to be shot several times before he goes down.  

SUPPLIES:

Wreaking all this havoc requires ammunition, and you don't start with much
(six magazines of bullets and six grenades), but there are two ways to gain
ammunition.  1.  Look for ammunition on the ground in the form of clips and
grenades.  By shooting at these they are added to your supply.  2.  Shoot
the animals (boy, watch out for the animal activists) and they will also
give you ammunition.  If you see a bottle (red), shoot them and you will
receive healing and get back some of your ever decreasing energy. 

Oh, by the way, shoot the coconuts off the tree and some will have
ammunition, also (as if you have time!).

CHOPPERS/TANKS:

These must be taken out with grenades, if you can wait a little, more than
one will appear and when you hit one, the others will blow up also.

Level 1:  Communications  

You want to cut the enemy off and stop them from calling in more
reinforcements.

Focus on shooting the grenades before they hit you and eliminate soldiers
before they take aim.  Don't shoot the nurses!  They appear half the way
down the left hand side.  Try and keep the grenade use to four. 

Level 2:  Jungle

Your mission is to get information from the enemy regarding the location of
the concentration camp.  You don't need to use grenades on this easy level.
Shoot the parachutists first, then go for the others.  Don't forget to
shoot the break dancers and animals.  Watch for the boy who will run from
left to your right.

Level 3:  Village  

Shoot everyone except civilians and nurses.  Hitting them takes energy 
away from you.  Save grenades for helicopters.  You will be restored to
full fighting ability when you finish this level.

Level 4:  Ammo Dump

Finish this level and you will begin to release some hostages.  Go for the
helicopters first and you can only shoot the "butch" guys with the big guns
in the head.  Your ammo will be restocked at the end of this level.

Level 5:  Concentration Camp

Release the hostages.  Don't shoot the dynamite while a hostage is on the
screen, it will kill him.  Hostages will be running from your right to left
at the center of the screen.

Level 6:  Airport

Rescue the hostages in the airplane and get away.  Get all the P bottles
and grenades you can get.  The hostages will be running from your right to
left.   

Strategy:  Note that the enemy comes at you in three distinct levels. Close
- Near - Far.  Take out the vehicles whenever possible.

Don't waste grenades. You only get five or six to start with.

Uzi fire will knock out vehicles also with repeated fire.

Everything in this game does the same amount of damage to you, but at
different rates.  Go for the parachutists first.  If two machines appear
then use a grenade to blow them both up.

When you see rocket launchers, grenades or knife throwers, pick them up.
they do the most damage.

When you see the first helicopter, keep shooting till it eventually
explodes.