OVERLANDER:

JUST A FEW TIPS - When cruising the highway don't stop shooting, and
always choose the highest paid mission.  Buy fuel carefully, only
enough fuel for that level, after level 1 you must buy a leanburner.
Try to stay in the middle of the road and travel fast, travelling
slowly only burns more fuel.  Fire bombs are more useful than smart
bombs when you learn how to use them.  Bulletproofing is necessary
after level 2.  When travelling through the barriers the best speed is
90-120mph.

 LEVEL 1:
 1. Select counterfeit money.
 2. Fuel up to 14 notches on the fuel guage.
 3. Get turbo, 4 battering rams and two flare bombs.
 4. After the first bikes slow down or the gunners will kill you.
 5. Destroy trucks from as far away as possible.
 6. Slow to 100-150 mph to negotioate barriers.
 7. If you stay in the middle lane when you come to the wrecks you wont die

 LEVEL 2:
 1. Select kidnapped official.
 2. Fuel up to half full.
 3. Buy leanburner, a few bullet proofs, rams, and flare bombs.
 4. After first bikes there's a nasty surprise in the valley below.

 LEVEL 3: DARKLANDS
 1. Select plutonium.
 2. Fuel up to half full (if you have leanburner - if you don't then fill
    up to the max.
 3. Buy rams, bullet proofing, flare bombs and lives if you need them.
 4. The toughest part of the course is early on, so don't be afraid to let
    loose with the flare bombs.

 LEVEL 4: THE GUTTER RUN
 1. Select illegal chemicals. Fill up to max level.
 2. Buy maximum rams, bullet proofs and as many lives as you can afford
    and flare and smart bomb depending on your bank balance.
 3. The barriers are every where onthis level and you will need to be at
    90 - 100 mph to avoid them all. Try to save your rams for later in the
    level.
 4. So you didn't like the "gunshot alleys" in 1,2 and 3? The alleys in 4
    are real mean. Smartbombs and bullet proofing are your best chances of
    survival.

 LEVEL 5: GRAVEYARD
 1. Choose the President. Fill up to maximum fuel.
 2. Buy everything $40,000 up front plus whatever you had from the last
    level should be enough, lives should be on the top of your shopping
    list followed by rams, proofing, brakes, armour and weapons - don't
    bother with the wheelblades!
 3. Do the same as for the last level. Because your car's at maximum
    everything, this level shouldn't proove too difficult.