ABANDONED PLACES 2:

Cheat:

This cheat will increase your character's experience significantly.
Attack and kill any single monster (or group of monsters).  When it
(or they) begin to visibly fade away, cast any {HOLD MONSTER} spell
that you have such as {DREAM} or {HOLD EVERYTHING}.  The creature
will cease dimming and just sit there.  Now you can attack with
your fighters or cast attack spells (including {FIRE AREA}).  To
rake in experience points with no worry of the monster going
anywhere until the spell wears off. This can be verified by
watching the experience line in the character sheet grow while you
are attacking the faded creature.  If you are quick enough, you can
refreeze the monster, otherwise just go and find another one to
repeat your trick on.


Solution:

Dungeon 00

Stand in the alcove in the room with the two pillars (in the northeast section of the dungeon) to make the south wall disappear. Walk through the wall to find the stairs and through the wall again to find a key. Place some items on the pressure pad, then walk through the wall again.
Dungeon 01

There're two keys, which are carried by monsters. The key is behind the north wall in the large room to the southeast. Use the switches to remove the wall. Head north from the crossed paths in the corridor that spins your character around. Press the switch on the wall to open the door and walk through the south wall to collect the key. Open the doors to get the Elixir and take this to where you first started.
Dungeon 02: Dwarven Mines

Use levitate spells to go through the two doors with the pressure plates in front of them. Press the hidden switch and travel counter-clockwise around the room with the chest in it, which will remove a pillar in front of the stairs.
Dungeon 03: Dwarven Mines

Go to the very large room and find the switch, which opens the wall to the south. Kill a monster to find the key. Return to the start and open the right hand door. The stairs to the next level are in this room.
Dungeon 04: Dwarven Mines
Find four keys to open the doors. There're two exits from this dungeon. One's in the south of the dungeon, the other's to the northwest.

Dungeon 05: Dwarven Mines

Collect two keys and four long swords. Make your way to the southeast section of the dungeon and open the door. Place the four long swords on the pressure pads. Place one each on the first line of pads and the last on the third right of the middle row. This opens the wall to the exit.
Dungeon 06: Dwarven Mines

Go straight to the south end of the dungeon and walk through the wall to find a door. Open the door, press the switch and open the second door. Go back out and walk east around the wall until your character comes to another illusionary wall. Go through this to find a key to the exit door in the middle of the dungeon.
Dungeon 07: Dwarven Mines

Find a key in the southwest section of the dungeon and another in the east. Use the key to find a magic stone in a chest and use the magic stone to open the door to the exit.
Dungeon 08: Dwarven Mines

When you get to a place, where there are three switches in a row (in the north section of the dungeon). Use only the far right and the far left switches (i.e. leave the middle switch alone!), otherwise you won't be able to complete the level.
Dungeon 09: Dwarven Mines
Make sure that you have a torch for this level. You'll need one to open the exit. Throw it into the fire in the west of the dungeon.

Dungeon 10: Dwarven Mines
Once your character has the shield, travel all the way back up through the dungeons to the outside world and find the entrance to the tower to the northwest.

Dungeon 11: Tower Level 1
From the start, walk through the pillars to the south and through the south door. This takes your character to Dungeon 15, which you'll need to complete before you can finish Dungeon 11.

Dungeon 12: Tower Level 2
Before you start this level you need to have four magic Sapphires to complete it.

Dungeon 13: Tower Level 3
Save your game. Find a key and walk through the wall to the north. Follow the passage around, continuously using a levitate spell until coming before a door.

Dungeon 14: Tower Level 4
Levitate over the switches. Cast a spell down the corridor to remove a pillar. The key to the door is in the fire in the middle of the large room.
Dungeon 15: Tower Level 5

To open the door in front of the fire, weigh down a hidden pressure pad in the fire. The key to the chest on Tower Level 1 and the magic sapphires on Tower Level 2 are beyond this room.
Dungeon 16

Use all the teleports at the start and a switch in the north, to find a key in the northeast room behind the pillars. Continually use a true seeing spell to find all the hidden switches.
Dungeon 17

Head to the fire in the southeast of the dungeon. Hit a switch and get the key. Go down into the pit to get another key. Go through the doors and head northwest toward the pit, which leads to Dungeon 18. Use a rope to go down into the pit and a levitate spell, or you'll fall all the way down to Dungeon 19.
Dungeon 18

Travel west, south, east, north, and east again. Open the door and walk to the end of the room, which'll teleport you to the east of the dungeon. Use the switches until you can get to the south end of the room. Get a key, go up the passage, and use the teleport. Open the door and go up the stairs to Dungeon 17 where, by using a true seeing spell, you'll find a key. Return to the pit, where your character started, and go down.
Dungeon 19
Open the door with the key from Dungeon 17. Head south towards a door and the exit.
Dungeon 20

There's a key in the room with all the fire and water (in the northern section of the dungeon) behind an illusionary wall. Use it to open the door in the north northeast area of the dungeon. Behind the door is a teleport, which'll take you to the exit room where you can use the stairs or the pit to get to Dungeon 21.
Dungeon 21

When your character drops into the fire room, press the switch in the middle of the pillars in the southern section of the room. Face north, step once north, then once east, go north eight paces, east one pace, then south to the wall. This should reveal a hidden passageway, which you'll have to run down thirty three paces until you come to an illusionary wall to the west.
Dungeon 22
You'll find six switches in a very large room, which'll reveal a passageway to the northwest.
Dungeon 23: The Final Confrontation

Go downstairs. Use a levitate and a true seeing spell to reveal a switch. Press it to open the door. Go through the door in the first room to the left. Kill a monster to get a sword. Go back to the beginning where a wall will have opened and you'll find two keys.

You can only use spells in the large room in the southeast section of the dungeon. Use a true seeing spell between the pillars to reveal the chest rooms. Get the goodies from the chest, then go and kill the monster who's in the northwestern area of the dungeon. Get the key, which it drops, then use a true seeing spell in the chest rooms. Use the scroll to finish the game.