                    Shadow Sorcerer Clue Book
                        A COMPLETE SOLVE
                  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                          Introduction

     Shadow Sorcerer is a graphic action/strategy game.  It
features a unique command structure, allowing you to control four
heroes in a real time environment.  You can have the computer
control some or all of the heroes for you, and you can give them
default actions to take (such as attack, flee, etc.).

                       Winning and Losing

     Success in the game is judged in three ways:  by the number of
monsters you defeat, the obstacles you overcome, and by the number
of refugees you have kept alive by the end of the game.  The
refugees are the crucial factor:  you can never let them get into
trouble, because their survival provides you the lion's share of
the experience points at the end of the game.  If the number of
refugees ever goes below 100, you automatically lose. 

     As the Heroes of the Lance, you must:
-      Scout ahead to find temporary safe havens for the refugees.
-      Keep them supplied with food.
     - Keep them moving in the right direction
-      Defeat or avoid any obstacles in your path.
-      Fight off or escape the draconians, who will soon follow you 
         in hot pursuit.
-      Locate the fabled land of Thorbardin, in the hopes that the 
         refugees will find a new home there.
     How to do that is what this Clue DOX is all about.

                    Travelling the Wilderness

     The initial map of the Wilderness doesn't show anything except
the location of the mountains and the next hex south of you.  As
you explore, more and more of the map will become visible.

     There are two types of mountains:  passable and impassable.  
Impassable mountains have one large peak;  passable mountains have
two smaller peaks.  The presence of a passable mountain can be a
tip-off about the location of something special there:  food for
the refugees, or a specific encounter.  At the bottom of the map,
you can find Thorbardin by looking for the passable mountain along
the bottom row.

     The game allows you to click on any visible hex and have you
characters move there in the straightest path.  This makes some
movement relatively hands-free.  For instance, once you've found
the key ring which shows you where the keys are, you can click on
one of the shown hexes (even if the intervening hexes are still
gray) and your party will explore the unknown hexes as they move to
the target hex.  They'll only stop their movement if you give them
another order (by clicking on a different hex), or if they have an
encounter of some kind.

     Don't take the refugees over mountains or through the marsh. 
It will slow them down too much.  It's best if you can keep them on
the roads, but that, of course, isn't always possible. 

     Some specific encounters are marked with symbols on the map:
buildings, campfires, or shops.  They're there to remind you of
where things are, but you might want to make additional notes
yourself.  

                       The Wilderness Map

     The Wilderness map (in PCX format, under the filenames
WILDMAP1.PCX, WILDMAP2.PCX, and WILDMAP3.PCX, all overlapping for
greater detail) shows you specific locaitons detailed throughout
this doc.  

     The numbering system is by row of hexes and the number of the
hex as counted from the leftmost column in that row.  The top row
of hexes (the one which is completely filled by impassible
mountains) is row zero.  You begin the game in row one.

                     Scanning the Wilderness

     You can scan ahead of you without actually entering a hex by
doubleclicking the right mouse button on a hex.  You will see the
tactical view of the hex, complete with monsters and treasures
which may be present.  Click once on the right mouse button to
return to the wilderness view. 
     The distance you can scan depends on your elevation: you can
see further from mountains than from hills.  You can see the
farthest from the Tower (hex 2-8).

                       The Passage of Time

     Time is of great concern in Shadow Sorcerer.  The draconians
will be on the march looking for their escaped slaves, and they
don't stop for much (see "Time and the Draconians" later in this
file).
                     Time in the Wilderness

     Time passes no matter where you are in the wilderness map. 
Each hex travelled takes a varying length of time, depending on the
terrain:  road travel is fastest, followed by plains, rivers,
hills, forests, marshes, and finally mountains.

               You party of heroes can travel day and night.  The refugees
however, travel only in the daytime.  From 8:00 PM to 8:00 AM they
camp.  This means you'll rapidly leave them behind if you aren't
careful. Use the night-times to explore dungeons.  This way, when
you come out of the dungeon to find that it's dawn already, you
will still be near the refugees.

                  Time in the Tactical Display

     In the tactical display, you may notice that time doesn't
appear to change.  This is because we assume you are too busy to
stop and calculate the passage of time (your characters don't have
watches, remember).  When you leave the tactical display for the
wilderness map, time will abruptly adjust itself to the current
time.  This includes any time you spent memorizing spells.  You
will notice this effect the most when you enter a dungeon.  When
you leave the dungeon, you will suddenly find out how much time you
spent underground!  You should explore dungeons at night, when your
refugees (and hopefully the draconians) aren't moving.

                     Time and the Draconians

     The Draconian army breaks out of Pax Tharkas to the north
after 48 hours of game time.  This gives you a couple days to begin
to learn your way around.  For every half hour you spend in
tactical mode, the draconians get one turn of movement.  This means
they could be killing the refugees when you  take time to explore,
memorize spells, and heal.  Draconians move at night as well as by
day, but each half-hour after 8:00 PM each group of Draconians has
a 25% chance of camping.  Once camped, they remain so until
morning.  Use this time wisely!  It may be the only thing that
keeps you ahead of the draconians.  Exploring dungeons is best
reserved for evening and night time for this reason.

                         Time and Magic

     When you memorize spells in tactical mode it takes time.  You
will see just how much time because at the top of the spell list is
a copy of the clock.  The time line will show you how long it is
taking you to memorize a spell.  This time is not taken off the
main clock until you exit the tactical mode into the wilderness
mode, however.  The only spell which lasts longer than one combat
is resist fire.  The spell lasts 70 minutes.  This means that you
can enter the tactical display, cast resist fire on everyone int he
party, and then exit the tactical display (uses 30 minutes), move
one hex in the wilderness (uses 30 minutes) and enter the tactical
display again to do combat (the spell has 10 minutes left, and will
wear off when you leave the tactical display again).  This is a
recommended tactic if you plan on fighting Ember, the red dragon
(seldom a wise move).  It is also a atactic to use against the lich
Fitstandantilus, since he casts fireball spells.

                   Using the Tactical Display

                                     Encounters


     In addition to the specific encounters discussed later in this
book, you will have random encounters.  Encounters can be a number
of things: discussions with interesting people, combat situations,
or discoveries of interesting items.  If you have discovered items,
pick them up, but watch your encumbrance limit!  Here and there you
will find bows, swords and quivers of arrows.  Note that your
characters do not come equipped with arrows readied, but in the
first few hexes after you start the game you have the opportunity
to pick up some.  By using items you can see how they affect you. 
Examine your View Character Window before and after using an item
like the bracers, a quiver, or a sword.  You'll immediately see the
effects an item has on your character.  Note:  There are no "evil"
or "chaotic" items in Shadow Sorcerer, so you're safe in trying
things on.  When you encounter a lone figure, prudence dictates
that you wait to see if he has something to say.   If he starts
hitting you, he's obviously hostile.  Most encounters will be
obviously hostile, and   you can fight or run as you like.

                       Changeable Terrain

     Some types of terrain can be changed, as you've no doubt
discovered.  Fireball spells are quite decimating: they destroy
small plants and reduce trees to stumps.  You can remove some
impassable plants (the one that resembles a fern) with a fireball. 
In addition, there is one rock which reduces to rubble (the pointed
gray rock with the green moss on it) when hit with a fireball.  One
terrain type which is passable but not changeable is the
stalagmite.  Each of these terrain features is found in various
dungeons.

                             Combat

     Combat is fast and furious, even that the slow setting.  All
of your characters come with pre-set combat options which they will
follow when you turn on their "auto-combat" command.  Review these
settings immediately, however, because you may not want your
characters to do some things, especially flee in the midst of
combat.  One preferred setting is to turn off all combat actions
for the magic users and clerics, and leave combat on for the
fighters.  This way, you can hit F5 to get both fighters going, and
then choose for yourself when to cast the spells.  Although it may
look like you're hitting or being hit every moment of the combat,
you're actually doing a lot of swinging and only some hitting.  The
same goes for ranged attacks and spell casting.  You'll see a lot
of motion for only one or two attacks.  Don't worry, though,
because the monsters do the same thing.

                    Automatic Combat Settings

     Auto combat settings are there to make it easier to control
your characters in combat.  Basically, you are telling them to
engage in melee, fire missiles, cast spells, or run under certain
conditions. Those conditions are:


- Melee : close in on the nearest foe and attack.  Characters have
some ability to find their way around objects, but occasionally
they'll need your help: tell them to move to a specific tile which
is in the direct line of sight from a monster, then place them back
in auto-combat.

- Ranged: fire missiles again anyone more than two squares away. 
Within two squares, the character will either stand still or engage
in melee (if the combat option is also active).

- Cast: cast offensive spells again anyone more than two squares
away.  Magic users will never cast their fireball spells in auto
combat.  This is a self-defense measure which, after some
reflection, will make sense.  If it still doesn't make sense, cast
a fireball on the square next to you and examine your hit points.

- Flee: run off the tactical map i you have less than 1/4 of your
hit points remaining.

     If you give a character a move order, it toggles auto combat
off.  This is so you can pull the character out of particular
combat actions if you feel the need to do so.  An example: if Sturm
starts attacking a webbed foe while a non-webbed fe is attacking
Goldmoon, you can tell Sturm to walk over to Goldmoon, then turn
his auto-combat back on.  He will attack the active foe, leaving
the webbed foe for later.  If you give the party move order, it
toggles everyone's auto-combat off.  This allows you to pull out of
a fight if it seems overwhelming.  It is a recommended tactic if
Ember ever catches you and you're not prepared.  Auto combat
toggles on automatically if any character gets hit for damage. 
This may be because of a spell or melee.  Note that a fireball
exploding nearby will toggle everyone int he area of effect into
auto combat mode.  So if a dragon casts a fireball at you, and you
want to run, party Move will toggle auto combat off.  In effect,
you're telling your characters, "I know you want to kill it, but
not now!"  Tasselhoff can yell at his opponents, which causes them
to attack him.  This is a special feature of the Kender race, and
is useful for saving spellcasters and clerics from attack if they
have nowhere to run.  Having anyone else yell during combat has no
effect (except possibly to aid your psyche).

                   Tips for Exploring Dungeons

     There are a few things which can make dungeon exploration go
a little faster.

- Mouse Keyboard Use : Use the F1-F4 keys liberally, especially
when you want to cast spells in combat.  For instance, if Raistlin
is the top left character, hit F1 followed immediately by S and
you're in the cast spells menu and the game is frozen!  Use the
mouse when you want to walk your active character around but not
the party.  You can click and hold the left mouse button around,
and the character will continuously adjust his/her path as
different squares are highlighted.  Experiment some and you will
soon develop your own shortcuts.

- Regroup Command : You only have to get one of your characters
through a door in order to regroup everyone into the next room. 
This does not work, however, if you haven't killed all the foes in
the room you're in!  The command also works if you're outdoors and
want to return to the wilderness mode, but simply hitting zero of
the right mouse button is faster.


                           Encounters

                       Specific Encounters

     Throughout the game there are some specific encounters which
will help you with information about the game or with special items
you will want to use later.  IN addition to being presented here,
the special items are also listed later in the doc for your
reference.  In this section, all specific encounters will refer to
a numbered hex on the wilderness map (wildmap1.pcx and
wildmap2.pcx, the two halves of the map).  The numbers refer to the
row and the number of hexes in that row counted from the left.  For
example, 4-16 means the fourth row from the top, the 16th hex
counting from the left.  The encounters are presented here in
alphabetical order:

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
List of Encounters
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Row   Hex#   Encounter
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
1     2      Bee Cave
1     12     Beginning Hex
2     8      Secret Tower
2     11     Spider Cave
3     5      Village of the Neidar Dwarves
4     16     Food in the woods/Safe Haven
5     13     Fork in Road
6     16     Battlefield
7     15     Eye of Elar
8     5      Outpost Mines (west entrance)
8     6      Outpost Mines (east entrance)
9     2      Fixban
9     19     Shipwreck
10    19     Hobgoblin Pirates
12    6      Food in the Woods/Safe Haven
14    6      Food in the Woods/Safe Haven
15    6      Snow Ruins
15    14     Key Ring Battle
18    18     Hidden City
20    10     Marsh Spires
21    4      Troll Cave
21    13     Marsh Sprites
22    7      Temple of the lizard men
22    14     Marsh Sprites
26    10     Green Dragon
27    16     Ogre's Camp
30    7      Food Cache
33    ?      Skullcap


               Bee Cave (see BEECAVE.PCX for map)

Encounter Descriptions 

     Battlefield - The battlefield (6-16) provides some interesting
items:  a bow and quiver, a sword, and bracers of defense.

     The Bee Cave -  The bee cave (1-2) is a small dungeon.  When
you find the cave, you will read that you hear a loud buzzing;  the
giant bees will attack you before you even enter the cave (room 0!) 
Once you've dispatched them, you'll find a sword lying where a
previous hapless adventurer dropped it as he died.  The first room
underground (room 1) contains more bees, a potion of healing, and
a quiver of arrows.  Room 2 has a few more bees.  Room 3 is filled
with bees, which attack immediately!  Here you will find the Royal
Jelly (make sure you take it) and a pile of food.  You can't move
the food.  Just get the Jelly back to the Neidar Kind and he'll
make sure that food gets to your refugees.

     Beginning Hex - You begin the game in hex 1-12.  You can't go 
north, because that would be back into Pax Tharkas!

     The Draconian Army - The draconian army has no specific
location: they can hit you just about anywhere on the map.  The
draconians will break out of  Pax Tharkas and follow you along the
road you first took when you started the game.  From there, they'll
fan out in search of your tracks.  They break out of Pax Tharkas 48
hours after you start the game.  The best strategy to use when you
see the message "The draconians are upon you!" is to flee, and keep
running.  Use Party Move to get off the map as quickly as possible. 
Because the draconians rarely achieve surprise on you, they will
usually wait a few seconds before casting a volley of magic
missiles on you.  This is your chance to get moving and keep 
moving.  You might be tempted to "duke it out".  Don't.  Each squad
of draconians you meet is only a fraction of the number of
draconians in your hex, and defeating one group will use most of
your spells, leaving you vulnerable to the next attack.  Just keep
running, and eventually they'll lose track of you, and you'll re-
enter the wilderness map in the next adjacent hex.  Then get out of
there!

     Ember, the Red Dragon - Ember isn't looking for you
specifically, but if he finds you he will do his best to make your
day miserable.  Ember moves about the map managing his army of
draconians, so if you don't get in his way, he probably won't find
you.  If you do encounter him, beware!  He uses his breath weapons
and fireball spells, which means you could receive as many as four
shots in a row, each doing as much as 66 points of damage!  IF
you're looking for trouble, cast resist fire on your party first.

     The Eye of Elar - The Eye of Elar (7-15) is a small tower
located along the main road south.  It is guarded by some rather
wimpy guards.  Go there in the afternoon, because when you've
reached the inner staircase you'll have to wait until dusk to use
the viewing device.  You don't want to waste any more time than you
have to, after all!  The view you'll get is of the southernmost
part of the map, and you'll see the location of Skullcap, the
entrance to Thorbardin.

     Fizban - Fizban (9-2) is a strange fellow.  He might be a
wizard, or he might be a  madman.  You'll want to speak with him
(use the speak icon), though, because he is the only one who can
get you through the last door inside Skullcap.  When you speak to
him, he will throw snowballs at you.  This will start your slide
down the glacier with Fizban in tow.  He won't involve himself in
combat, but rest assured that when you'll need him he'll show up in
a short cinematic sequence (see Skullcap).  He is protected by
invisible walls, and will simply laugh at you if you try to harm
him.  After you slide down the mountain you end up outside the Snow
Ruins. 

     Fork in the Road - At the fork (5-13) you will find a bow and
quiver left by some previous adventuring party.  Going west takes
you towards the Outpost Mines, going south takes you on the main
road toward the Eye of Elar.

         Hidden Dwarven City (See DWARFCTY.PCX for map)

Encounter descriptions:

     The Green Dragon - The green dragon (26-10_ guards the road to
the southern lands.  There are two ways to get past him.  You can
try to defeat him in order to get the refugees past.  He has a most
fearsome breath weapon, however, and will be very difficult to
defeat.  The easier way is to put the ring of protection (which you
can find in the Temple of the Lizard Men) in your backpack.  So
equipped, the green dragon won't attack you at all!

     Hidden Dwarven City - This cave (18-18) is the beginning of 
a medium length dungeon.  Room 0 is the cave entrance, where some
hobgoblins have come home to discover that giant bees have settled
in and trapped their brethren further inside.  If you approach the
cave hex during the night, you will discover the entire band of
hobgoblins, whereas if you go there during the daytime, only a
guard contingent of two will be present (the rest are out on a
hunt.).  Room 1 contains a number of giant bees.  The bees have set
up a hive in this outer chamber, much to the dismay of the
inhabitants further in.  Room 2 is the base camp of the hobgoblin
clan.  Ever since the bees moved in to block the cavern behind
them, the hobgoblins and sligs have been using this room as their
base from which to launch attacks against the dwarves.  They hope
to find a way out through the dwarven caverns, but so far the
dwarves have managed to hold them off.  Room 3 is a cavern filled
with rubble and stalagmites.  In the northwest corner is the
beginning of a dwarven stronghold, but first you'll have to fend
off the sligs and hobgoblins which are at war with the dwarves.  To
get into the dwarven stronghold, you can simply walk though the
stalagmite at the back the of the cave (since they don't take up
the entire space they're located in, you can simply walk through
them).  There are two dwarven guards who will try to stop you from
entering.  There's no way to make them friendly.  Room 4 is the
first passage across the dwarven cisterns, where a huge fresh water
lake was built under the hills and mountains ages ago.  The dwarves
consider this place to be sacred, and they will fight to keep you
out.  The dwarf soldiers attack you from the nooks along the
walkway.  Room 5 is the dwarven smithy.  Out of sight inside the
furnace is a  sword.  It is magical (+2) but you have to defeat the
smith and his apprentices first.  Room 6 is the Hall of Audiences. 
In  addition to continuing west, this room contains the statue of
an aged dwarven king built up out of the water.  You can't reach or
destroy  the statue, but if you speak to it you will be told that
Skullcap blocks the entrance to Thorbardin.  If Flint is present
and speaks to the statue, his armor class will become zero!  Room
7 is the living chambers of the dwarves.  Only two doors work, the
open ones.  The rest go to dwarven living quarters, and there is no
way to open them.  Room 8 is a partially-destroyed cavern.  The
dwarves and the hobgoblins fought bitterly in this room, which was
once part of the dwarven city.  The hobgoblins and sligs are afraid
to fight the giant bees in room 1, so they are trying to attack the
dwarves in this room, which used to be a dwarven common.  Kill the
dwarves hand to hand, then use your fireball spell to blast the
rocks out of the way.  If you do it right, you  might also kill a
couple of hobgoblins as well!

     The Hobgoblin Pirates-  The hobgoblin pirates (10-19) guard a
sword+3.  It is a difficult battle, and will probably require
considerable use of spells.

     The Key Ring Battle - The battle for the key ring takes place
in hex 15-14.  Numerous undead creatures guard the ring.  You will
be set upon immediately!  Defeat the creatures, then put the key
ring in a character's backpack.  When     you leave the tactical
display for the wilderness mode you'll see the locations of other
keys (unless you've already found them already).  Don't forget to
pick up the key lying on the ground here.

     The Marsh Sprites - You can find the marshsprites in any of
three places: 20-10, 21-13, or 21-14 (the three entrances to the
swamp).  Once you find them, you won't find them anywhere else. 
But beware!  There are some draconians there to fight first- you
must kill the draconians to receive the sprite's message.  The
sprites tell you that the marsh warden has been taken by the lizard
men and must be rescues (see Temple of the Lizard men later in the
doc) before the refugees can pass through the swamp safely.


     Neidar Village - The village of the Neidar Dwarves (3-4) is
one of the first places to go.  It isn't a dungeon;  when you go to
the entrance, a menu appears.  If you select "Offer to do something
for them" you will be given a quest to get the Royal Jelly from the
Bee Cave, and when you return it the food you found will be given
automatically to the refugees.  You can also find the first hint to
of where Thorbardin is by selecting that option.

     The Ogres' Camp - The ogres (27-16) guard the red key.  You've
stumbled right into their camp, and they surround you.  Judicious
use of web spells should allow you to fight one or two ogres at a
time.  When you've defeated them, take the key with you.

                The Outpost Mines (Aghar Dwarves)
                    (see OUTPOST.PCX for map)

     The Aghar dwarves (8-6) are a rag-tag group of dwarves who
think they're more important than they really are.  Still their
mines are one of the largest dungeons int he game, and it's quite
confusing.  If you've gotten lost here, the map OUTPOST.PCX should
show why.  It doesn't really do you much good to beat up on the
Aghar (except psychologically).  The idea here is to get the brass
rod and leave without wasting too much time.  Room OW is the west
entrance which leads to hex 8-5 on the wilderness map.  Avoid the
trolls -- defeating them will only waste your time.  Room OE is the
east entrance.  Room 1 is empty.  Room 2 contains a number of
trolls which have somehow wandered into the mines and become lost. 
Room 3 contains a dwarf who has been sent there to work a new vein
of ore, but he would much rather follow you around.  Room 4
contains the Aghar Royal Ante-Chamber.  A dwarf will approach to
determine who you are, and invite you to speak to the king through
the south door.  Approaching the door will allow you to perform a
number of options.  Although these options resemble the Neidar
King's options, they could result in different information being
given.  Room 5 is the east exit, and contains an abandoned quiver
of arrows.  Room 6 is a trap.  As you enter, you'll see a dwarf
leaving through the east exit.  If you follow him, you'll end up in
room 7.  Room 7 is a BAD place to be.  You will found yourself
surrounded by various species of draconians!  Apparently some of
the aghar are not as nice as they seem.  It if very likely that you
will lose one of your party at first, unless you have very quick
reflexes.  Room 8 is the second room in from the east exit.  Room
9 contains a storehouse of food, which is guarded by three knight
haunts.  It is a fierce battle which you needn't fight.  The food
isn't fit for the refugees, as you'll find out when you inspect the
room.  The closed doors can't be opened, but they smell just as bad
as the food in the room.  Room 10 contains a number of aghar
dwarves who don't like your presence.  They'll attack you right
away.  Room 11 contains the statue of a dragon and a number of
dwarves.  They are the servants of the Aghar Priest, and they're
upset that you have disturbed their worship.  At the dragon's feet
is a brass rod, which you will use later inside Skullcap.  Room 12
is a dead end.


     Secret Tower - The Secret Tower (2-8) is hidden by a secret 
door.  Cast detect invisible to open the door.  From the tower you
can see further than you could normally.  There is no other benefit
from using the tower, however.  

     The Shipwreck - Near the coast (9-19) lies a treasure chest,
half buried.  When you try to examine it, you will set off a trap. 
If you use the detect traps spell, you won't take any damage from
the trap.  In either case eight skeletons will materialize and
attack you.  These are the ghosts of the pirates who never got to
use the treasure:  a mage scroll of a fireball spell, a silver key,
a quiver of arrows, and a Healing Potion.  You'll need the key
later in Skullcap.  Of course, only a mage can use the fireball
scroll.  Place it on his portrait to prepare the spell.  Once
prepared, it must be the next spell you cast, but that's okay,
because if you haven't found the hobgoblins in hex 10-19 yet,
that's a good place to use it.

               Skullcap (See SKULLCAP.PCX for Map)

     Skullcap (located somewhere along the bottom of the map --
it's different each game, but always in row 33) is the final
dungeon to conquer.  Entering Skullcap is not as easy as it sounds. 
You can only enter the dungeon at 8:00 pm, when the sun illuminates
the doorway.  Detect invisible and detect magic spells won't work
to open this door.  Skullcap is a series of rooms, each with it's
own unique problems:  Room 0 is the outside entrance to the final
dungeon.  If you detect magic, you will see the door's location,
but you can't get in until 8:00 PM.  The hex this screen appears in
is a safe haven, so if you get the refugees here they'll be safe
while you explore the dungeon.  Room 1 contains the machinery of
the huge jaw gates.  Two wights have found a home in the swampy
north corner of the room.  Room 2 is a tribute to the state of
disrepair the castle is in.  Spiders have taken over this entrance. 
The room contains a treasure chest.  It's trapped, of course. 
Opening it yields a healing potion and a magical sword.  Room 3 is
occupied by five ghosts, and contains a statue of a dragon just
like the o ne in the Outpost Mines.  If you use the brass rod you
got in the Outpost Mines, the dragon will animate and inform you
that it will kill Ember.  This will slow down the draconain army,
allowing more refugees to remain alive when you complete the quest. 
Behind the dragon's statue is the entrance to room 3a.  Room 3a is
a secret room accessible if you animate the dragon in Room 3.
(there is a longer route you can follow as well, backtracking from
room 5).  After you defeat the death knights and skeletons, there,
you'll find on e f the five vital keys (the brown key) and a set of
bracers of defense.  There is a door in the west wall of this room
which leads to room 5.  Room 4 is a maze which is inhabited by
ghosts and zombies.  A quiver of arrows lies on the floor near the
west wall.  The best way through this room is to avoid the ghosts. 
Try to lure the zombies into positions which block the ghosts'
movement, then have your cleric turn them.  With a little planning
and some luck, you won't have to fight more than one or two
creatures in this room.  Room 5 is the first crystal maze. The maze
will reveal itself if you use detect invisible.  Wandering about
the maze are a number of zombies, which can be readily dispatched
by a cleric's turn undead ability.  The cleric should, therefore,
lead the way through the room.  Room 6 is the first parapet, which
is guarded by two golems.  Room 7 is the second parapet, also
guarded by two golems.  Room 8 is the second of the crystal mazes. 
It is guarded by spectres, and is quite confusing if you don't cast
detect invisible to reveal the pattern.  Spectres are rarely turned
by the clerics you have available to you, so wise use of your
spells is necessary to clear this room of monsters.  Room 9
features a battle with two three-headed hydrae.  A well placed
fireball spell or two can usually bring the beasts' hit points down
to a reasonable level, then your fighters should be able to kill
them.  There's a door int he west wall leading to room 5.  Room 10
is the beginning of the gates.  After you negotiate the crystal
maze (detect invisible) you'll need two keys to pass.  If you don't
have the white and yellow keys, a rune will explode and the weapons
you are carrying in your hands will crumble into dust!  If you
don't have the proper keys, swap weapons before going through the
door so that your best weapons are in your backpack.  That way the
lesser weapons you have in your hands will turn to dust, and you
can re-equip your good weapons in the next room.  Room 11 is the
second gate.  The zombies will approach you one at a time.  Have
the cleric turn them to avoid wasting you spells.  At the door, if
you don't have the red and green keys, a rune will cause your whole
party to be reduced to 1 hit point each.  There's no way to prevent
this except to have the keys.  You can, however, make the going a
bit easier.  Have one of your characters go through alone first. 
Before regrouping or following, heal everyone in your party using
the Options - Heal menu.  Then regroup to get to the next room. 
Room 12 contains the third gate.  The two ghosts and the spectre
are tough foes, so heed the advice given in room 11.  After the
battle, remember to heal your party back to full hit points.  At
this gate, the brown key prevents you from forgetting all your
spells and losing your magic items.  In addition to the key, you'll
have to have Fizban with you.  Only he can open the door (the brown
key preserves your spells, fizban's key opens the door).  If you
met Fizban earlier, he will appear here in a short cinematic
sequence, allowing you to access the last room.  If not you'll be
told that he has the last key, and you'll have to go out and find
him.  This means you'll probably lose the game, because the
draconians will be all over you by the time you get back to the
beginning of Skullcap.  Before you go through this door, however,
be sure to cast the resist fire spell on everyone in your party,
because the lich will fireball you moments after you enter his
room.  Room 13 contains the lich Fistandantilus and an assortment
of undead creatures .  He will immediately "soften you up" with a
fireball, so you'd be wise to have the resist fire spell cast on
everyone.  There are a number of ways to combat the lich and his
minions.  Here is where using the keyboard commands makes things go
easier for you.  Use the F# key and the S key to select your cleric
to cast a hold person spell, and anticipate the lich's movement
when targeting a square.  It will only work for a second or two, if
at all.  Then hit F5 to put your fighters into motion.  Now use F#
and S to have your mage cast a fireball spell at the lich.  An
alternate approach is to cast a hurried fireball at the lich while
moving your party out of the path of his fireball.  Set up your
party so that your fighters are in the back rank -- that way,
they'll be able to fight the knight haunts, leaving the magic user
and cleric free to  escape the incoming fireball.  After that wind
your way around the maze and find a good way to close in on the
lich before he can cast another fireball at you where it can do you
damage.  If you can engage him in hand to hand combat, you should
be able to cast spells at him without risking fireballs in return. 
Once you have defeated everything in this room, go through the east
door to finish the game. 

     Snow Ruins - The Snow Ruins (15-6) are the remnants of a house
in the mountains.  The inhabitants froze to death inside, locked in
by an avalanche many years past.  They now haunt the house in the
form of four spectres.  You find nothing else of interest there.

     Spider Cave - This small cavern (2-11) is just off the main
road in the north, and is included as an introduction to combat. 
The spiders are easy to kill and provide no treasure.


                    Temple of the Lizard Men
                    (see LIZARD.PCX for Map)

     You have stumbled upon the altar of the Lizard Men (22-7). 
The priest and his adepts don't like you disturbing their place of
sacrifice, and they will try to kill you.  The altar is located at
the base of a cliff, and there is an opening into the underground
chambers.  Room 0 is the above ground alter you begin at.  Room 1
is the first subterranean chamber.  There are a couple guards to
slow you down here, but not much else.  Room 2 is the first test. 
Use your fireball spell to break down the plants and rocks which
bar your path.  You'll find a treasure chest in the center of the
room which yields its treasure to you after a trap is set off or
averted (it contains a bow, quiver, and the ring of protection). 
Only the pointed gray rocks with moss on the edges will be
destroyed by your fireballs, and the plants with the big leaves
don't require blasting, but they do block your vision.  The ring of
protection should be placed in your backpack unless you have
already killed the green dragon.  Room 3 is the Jarak Sinn
barracks.  When you enter here you'll discover that you've
disturbed a host of lizard men in their quarters.  They'll attack
you from behind the walls, so the best thing to do is run back out
as quickly as possible.  Room 4 contains a path to the east door,
and a cave opening to the north.  You'll have to cross the river at
the northeast end to get to the cave opening.  There are two groups
of three lizard men each in here.  Room 5, the sergeants barracks,
is guarded by two golems and a number of surprised lizard men.  It
is worth fighting your way thought, however, because there is a
door located on the north wall leading to room 9.  You can use it
to avoid rooms 6, 7 and 8.  Room 6 contains two hydrae and an
invisible maze in the swamp.  Fortunately, the beasts can't both
reach you at the same time: the invisible wall blocks the first one
for a few squares, and the plants in the back of the room keep the
other at bay.  You'll have to use that fireball spell to cut
through the underbrush to get to the door, and this will loose the
second hydra.  Make sure the first one is dead before you let the
second one loose!  Room 7 is the hall of remembrance, and the
spectres coming out of the statues aren't likely to let you forget. 
Room 8 is overgrown with plants and scrub.  On the path you meet
three trolls returning from moving a rock (which you'll encounter
in room 9).  They're in a bad mood, as trolls usually are.  There
is no reason to explore the rest of the room.  Room 9 is divided by
a river.  The rock in the middle was just rolled into place by the
trolls you met in room 8.  On the right bank are four Aurak
draconians, but of course they're invisible.  If you're not paying
attention to the monster hit point bars at the bottom of the
screen, this room actually looks easy.  When you blast the rock out
of the way, however, you'll allow the auraks to attack you.  Cast
the fireball spell just to the south of the rock, and you'll hit
one of the Auraks, kill most of them, and destroy the rock!  Room
10 has a lot of options:  you can follow the maze as you like, or
you can blow new openings with your fireball spell. Be careful!  In
addition to the foes you can see, there are two more invisible
Auraks in here.  One is most likely to be encountered by the door
opposite where you came in.  Cast a detect invisible spell before
they surprise you.  Room 11 is the final chamber of the Jarak Sinn. 
In here, a group of lizard men are torturing the Marsh Warden.  Two
of the Jarak Sinnn are priests, as evidenced by their greatly
exaggerated hit points.  They don't cast spells, however.  Their
gods are false gods, and they don't get clerical spells.  If you
kill them, the Marsh Warden will reward you with a scroll which
shows you the way through the swamp so that your refugees don't get
lost and bogged down.  You will also be taken automatically back to
the beginning of the dungeon -- above ground, where the altar is. 

     Troll Cave - Inside the troll cave (21-4) you'll find a troll
who has found a treasure chest and is trying to find a way to open
it.  Once you dispatch him, and either spring the trap or disarm
it, you'll find the green key (see Skullcap) and a magical sword.


                      Handling the Refugees

     The refugees are represented by one or more identical icons --
at the beginning of the game you are located in the same hex as
they are, so you can't see their icon.  You can reveal them by
ordering the heroes to move one hex.  Each refugee icon represents
a number of refugees travelling together.  AT the beginning of the
game they are all together, but they can divide into smaller groups
if they aren't looked after carefully.

                         Refugee Status

     Check the status of a refugee group before giving them orders
to move.  You can do this anytime during the game, as long as the
heroes occupy the same hex as the group of refugees you're giving
orders to.  Click on the refugees heading on the Menu Bar, and
select Status.  This tells you how many refugees are in that group,
how much food they have, how many wagons, and who their leader is
(if they haven't moved away from the main group).  

                      Ordering Them to Move

     If they have no food, they will almost never follow your
orders.  The main task facing you is to find food.  Locate a cache
of food somewhere, then get back to the refugees and order them to
move it.  Food is the one factor which weighs more heavily then all
the rest on their decision to continue.

              Interaction with the Refugee Council

     Read carefully the explanations of the refugee leaders and how
they interact.  Always check which leader you are addressing before
you decide how to approach him:

-      Elistan, the cleric, is a logical man of even temperament,
who admires Goldmoon enormously, and with whom Laurana also has a
close friendship.  He responds best if you plead for loyalty or
convince him with logic.  He disdains threats or violence.

-      Briar,  a Plainsman like Riverwind and Goldmoon, is a man of
plain talk and simple motivation who has fallen under the influence
of Locar.  You can achieve the best results with Briar if you use
logical argument or violence, but this is a risky tactic, because
it could also yield the exact opposite result.  The safest way to
approach Briar is to plead for loyalty.

-      Locar is himself the third leader, a former priest of the
false religion of the Seekers, who works actively against Elistan.
Locar will most often do as he is told when threatened.  Violence
may also work, whereas, logic and pleas for loyalty are seldom
effective.

-      Eben Shatterstone is a friendly and approachable man who
played an important part in the escape from Pax Tharkas.  His moods
are like the wind, and there is no sure way to convince him to
follow you.

-      Brookland is the leader of the Woodfolk, a friend to the
Elves, and a solid leader of his people who cannot be pushed into
a decision.  He responds well to those who can humble themselves
and still retain leadership status, so begging is the best way to
sway him to action.  Violence is  a sure way to alienate him.
                                        Food

     The refugees need food.  After years of slavery, they don't
just want to taken out into the wilderness to starve, and they'll
become very contrary if you do.  Therefore, you must find them
food.  You can find food in a number of places, and it is important
that you lead the refugees from food supply to food supply.  Each
cache can supply 800 refugees for two to four days, so you have to
keep them moving or they'll begin to starve.  More specifically,
each refugee eats one unit of food each day, at 8:00 PM.  By
dividing the total supply of food they have by the number of
refugees, you can determine how many days they can go without
getting hungry.


Locations of Food Caches                Amount Present
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
The forest at 3-4                           4250 units*
The Outpost Mines (8-6)                     2400 units
The Safe Haven at 12-6                      4250 units*
The Safe Haven at 14-6                      4250 units*
The Mountain Cache at 30-7                  2000 units

* = Only available from one of those locations, after that, no
food...

     Taking the refugees through woods slows them down, but up
north that's also where most of the food is.  Don't lead them
through the woods without knowing where you want them to go.  Find
the food first, then lead them into the woods.  The path by which
you can lead them can vary, so pick the best order to keep them
comfortably supplied with food, and remember your timetable.  Food
is also the single most important factor in dealing with the
refugee council.  If you have found food, go back to the refugees
and order them to move to the food, there is no chance of them
disobeying you, even if you pick and undesirable manner to approach
them (threatening Elista, for instance).  They need food, so even
if your approach is inappropriate they'll obey until they get the
food.
                           Safe Havens

     Places with food and the hex containing the Skullcap entrance
are safe havens: locations where the draconians will not attack the
refugees.  While at first they might seem like good places to leave 
the refugees indefinitely, if you leave them for too long the
refugees will start wandering around trying to find you again.  To
make matters worse, the draconians will eventually trail the
refugees to the haven, and wait nearby ready to pounce as soon as
the refugees begin moving again.  As a temporary shelter however,
they are quite effective.


            Character Weapons: Notes and Restrictions

               Some characters, because of their special abilities or
preferred fighting styles, will refuse to swap weapons.  Only the
characters which are restricted in their weapon use are listed
here.  All other characters can use any other weapon used in the
game.

-      Tanis - Tanis begins the game with Wyrmslayer, a magical
longsword.  It is a sword+3, and has added damage and a higher
chance to hit when fighting dragons and their ilk.  He will trade
it if you want him to, and if you are going through Skullcap
without the proper keys, you should heed the advice about swapping
it for a lesser weapon before going through the gate.

-      Raistlin - As a mage, he is not allowed to wear armor or use
swords.  He carries with him the Staff of Magius, which gives him
an improved armor class (-3).  It also offers him +2 to hit, which
is quite respectable for a wooden staff.

-      Flint Fireforge - Flint uses hand axes, a favored weapon of 
the dwarves.  Axes are heavier, which causes sufficient damage, and
they're shorter, making them less unwieldy for shorter races.  
Flint disdains swords, and won't swap weapons.

-      Tasselhoff Burrfoot - Tass's hoopack is a specialty of the
Kender race, and he can use it for melee or ranged attacks. 
Therefore he has no reason to swap the weapon for any other.

-      Sturm Brightblade - Contrary to the picture shown in the
manual, Sturm is no longer carrying a shield and longsword. 
Somewhere since the artist drew that portrait, Sturm picked up a
two handed sword and has grown accustomed to its heft.  Therefore,
he has no hands free for bows or shields.

-      Goldmoon and Elistan - Neither of the clerics are allowed to
use sharp-edged weapons, and that includes bows and arrows.  They
carry staves in case they ar required to enter into melee.


                Monsters : How to Deal With Them

     Draconians - Dealing with the draconian armies is simple: run,
and keep running.  Since one hex actually contains a number of
tactical displays, entering a hex with a draconian icon will result
in multiple successive encounters, with no chance to memorize
spells inbetween.  Thus, while you might win the first battle, the
next two or three are bound to take their toll on your party.  Keep
running, and eventually you'll outrun them.  If encountered in
small numbers, draconians can be handled with some degree of
difficulty.  In general, charm spell won't work against them, and
hold person and web have varying effects.

     Aurak - The Aurak are spellcasters, but the only spell that
they cast is invisibility on themselves.  Once in melee, you will
see their spell fizzle off and on, giving away their positions. 
They cannot be charmed or held, so only web is effective against
them.  They are eight hit dice monsters, so they are very difficult
to defeat.

     Baaz - Baaz are run of the mill draconians, and they are
pretty easy to defeat.  They have only two hit dice, but their
magic resistance gives them some protection from spells.

     Bozak - Because of their spellcasting abilities, the Bozak are
tough to handle.  They throw magic missiles, and each Bozak has
three spells.  IN a group they will cast a volley of magic missiles
to soften you up before they can get you into melee grange.  They
are 4 hit dice monsters, so they are relatively easy to defeat hand
to hand.  Outrunning the Bozak may be difficult, because when they
cast magic missile at you, your characters will enter auto combat
and want to fight. Just keep using Party Move to get them off the
map.

     Kapak - The Kapak are 3 hit dice creatures and they're also
magic resistant.

     Sivak - The Sivak are the most difficult draconians to melee,
with 8 hit dice.  Their armor gives them an armor class of 0.  But
the main danger is the 13 dice of damage they do with their magical
l weapons!  Combined with Aurak, these creatures are a deadly
adversary!  Web spells work better than hold person spells against
the Sivak.

     Dragons - The only red dragon in Shadow Sorcerer is Ember.
You'll notice him moving around in the wilderness managing his army
of draconians.  Ember is never surprised, so dealing with him is
difficult at best.  The best way to handle Ember is to stay out of
his way until you have freed the brass dragon, which will kill
Ember for you.  Ember has three breath weapons and two fireball
spells each day, and since he can do as much as 66 points of
damage, most parties won't survive the second attack.  Of course,
hold person, charm, an web spells are ineffective.  Fireball spells
won't hurt Ember, but will hurt the Green dragon.  A prayer spell
combined with heavy assault by three fighters with heavy hit points
and resist fire spell cast on them is about the only way to
actually kill Ember.  It's much easier to just free the bronze
dragon.  It can be freed from its prison in Skullcap by the brass
rod, which must be stolen from the Aghar dwarves in the Outpost
Mines.  Bronze dragons are of good alignment.  The green dragon
guards the road through the marsh.  This will be a difficult
battle, but a few well-placed fireballs should do it in.  Its
breath weapon is a cloud of chlorine gas which burns a noticeable
pattern into the grass and stones and causes frightful damage. 
This fight can be safely avoided if you carry (not wear) the ring
of protection.  After you pass the dragon's hex, you can put the
ring on and receive the benefit of a better armor class.

     Dwarves - Compared to the fiends of the wilderness, dwarves
pose no difficulties.  The Neidar will help you, and even the
treacherous Aghar will speak to you unless you enter their temple
(in the Outpost Mines) or refuse to talk to their kind,the
Highbulp.  The dwarves in the Hidden City are xenophobic, and are
always hostile to you.  They don't cast spells, however, and they
don't have very many hit points.  In numbers they can wear you
down, and beware of the trap in the Outpost Mines.  Charm, hold,
and web spells are quite effective against dwarves.

     Giant Wasps - Except in numbers, the bees are little more than
a nuisance, and are only found in specific caves.  A web spell will
keep them held until you're ready to deliver a coup de grace.

     Hobgoblins - Hobgoblins are a minor menace, and can hurt you
only in numbers.  In the battle near the coast, they surround you
suddenly, which can make things tense.  Charm is quite effective
against them.

     Lizard Men - Lizard Men, also known as Jarak Sinn, aren't
exceptionally large, but they are very strong and can do quite a
bit of damage each time they hit.  Keep your spellcasters protected
and use hold person spells liberally.  They only appear in swamps
or along rivers.

     Ogres - Another nuisance, but when they surprise you at their
camp they can be deadly.  Since they're larger than man size, charm
and hold person spells are ineffective.

     Sligs - Sligs are distant relatives of hobgoblins, and that
means they do more damage when they hit, and have the same immunity
to charm and hold person spells.

     Spiders - Giant spiders are a nuisance, but only pose a threat
in numbers.  You shouldn't need to cast too many spells to help in
the battle, provided you have two fighters up front.  Need we
remind you that web spells won't do much good here?

     Trolls - Trolls are difficult to kill, even with magical
weapons.  The best way to handle them is to engage them in melee
until their hit points are virtually zero, then use magic missile
(or fireball, if you're extravagant) to finish them off. 
Otherwise, they'll regenerate so quickly that they'll be virtually
impossible to kill.  Because of their strength, they can break out
of webs quite quickly, and hold person is only marginally more
effective.  If you encounter a large group of trolls as a random
encounter, run.  It's not worth the fight.


                             Undead

     Charm has no effect on the undead.

     Death Knights - The strength of the evil in these creatures
means they can't even be turned, even by the seventh level cleric
you have available.  Sorry.  Web spells are quite useful to
entangle their haunted armor.

     Ghosts - Seventh level clerics can't turn ghosts, but because
the spirit of the ghost associates itself so strongly with the
corporeal world, hold person spells will affect them for a few
seconds.  Web spells are useless.

     Ghouls - Ghouls may be turned, but not dispelled.  When 
turned, they will simply freeze in place.  It won't take long for
one of your characters to destroy them from there.  Hold person has
limited effect, but web is a good idea.

     Lich - Fistanantilus is the only lich in the game, and he's
enough.  See Skullcap room 13 for ideas of how to kill him.

     Knight Haunts - These fearsome creatures cannot be turned or
dispelled, and hold person has no effect.  Use the web spell to
immobilize the armor.

     Skeletons - The least dangerous of the undead, they are easily
turned, and almost as easily killed.  Use of spells is typically
not needed, and even clerics and mages can melee against these
creatures without sustaining too much damage.

     Wights - Wights can be turned.  Hold person and web spells
slow them down also.

     Zombies - Treat zombies just like wights.


                              Items

     Everyone can carry items by placing them in their backpack. 
All items are measured against your maximum carrying capacity per
character.  

      Encumbrance Figures (adjusted for Armor and Weapons)

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Character                              Max Carrying Capacity
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Tanis                                  50
Rasitlin                                                                                           30
Caramon                                                                                                 100
Goldmoon                                                                                           40
Sturm                                                                                                             50
Tass                                   35
Riverwind                              105
Flint                                  60
Gilthanas                              25
Laurana                                25
Eben                                   28
Tika                                   45
Elistan                                15 
Brookland                              22
Briar                                  35
Locar                                  35


=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Item                                   Encumbrance Value
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Axe                                    8
Bow                                    8
Bracers                                8
Brass Rod                              8
Chest                                  150
Key                                    1
Key Ring                               2
Potions                                4
Quiver                                 4
Ring                                   1
Royal Jelly                            8
Scroll                                 4
Shortsword, dagger                     4
Spear                                  8
Sword, Two-Handed                      12
Sword, Longsword                       8



                     Where to Find the Items

Weapons

Item                      Encounter/Room            Hex Location
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Sword,Vorpal(invisible)...Skullcap Room 4..................33-??
Sword+3...................Hobgoblin Pirates................10-19
Sword+2...................Bee Cave Room 1..................1-2
Sword+2...................Hidden City Room 4...............18-18
Sword+2...................Troll Cave.......................21-4
Sword+1...................Skullcap Room 2..................33-??
Sword+0...................Battlefield......................7-16

Magical Items

Item                      Encounter/Room            Hex Location
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Bracers of Defense (AC2)..Battlefield......................7-16   
Bracers of Defense (AC2)..Skullcap Room 3a.................33-??
Brass Rod.................Outpost Mines Room 11............8-6
Mage Scroll(fireball).....Shipwreck........................9-19
Ring of Protection........Lizard Men's Temple..............22-7

Healing Potions

Item                     Encounter/Room             Hex Location
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-= 
Cure Light Wounds........Shipwreck.........................9-19
Cure Light Wounds........Skullcap Room 2...................33-??
Cure Light Wounds........Bee Cave Room 2..................1-2
Other Items

Item                     Encounter/Room             Hex Location
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Bow......................Fork in Road......................5-13
Bow......................Battlefield.......................7-16
Bow......................Lizard Man's Temple...............22-7
Bow......................Skullcap Room 3...................33-??
Food for Refugees........See table in food section.............
Key, Brown...............Skullcap Room 3a..................33-??
Key,Final................See Fizban Encounter..............9-2
Key,Green................Troll Cave........................21-4
Key,Red..................Ogres' Camp.......................27-16
Key,Silver...............Shipwreck.........................9-19
Key,Yellow...............Key Ring Battle...................15-14
Key Ring.................Key Ring Battle...................15-14
Quiver of Arrows.........Fork in Road......................5-13
Quiver of Arrows.........Lizard Men's Temple...............22-7
Quiver of Arrows.........Outpost Mines Room 5..............8-6
Quiver of Arrows.........Shipwreck.........................9-19
Royal Jelly(Honey Jar)...Bee Cave Room 3...................1-2

End..........