Shadow Of The Beast III


 CHEAT MODE:

 On the title/credits screen, slowly type in 'DADDY DRAW THIS FOR ME'
 and press the [Return] key. The shuriken in the bottom right corner
 of the screen will then turn into a smiley face with the programers
 initials 'PJH' under it. Now during play pressing the right cursor key
 makes you invincibile and the left cursor key returns you to normal.


WALK-THROUGH:
               
LEVEL ONE:
FOREST OF ZEAKROS

Run right, shoot the circular plants in the trees while avoiding the purple
blobs that are fired at you. Jump on the elevator. then flip the switch
once. Wait for the lift to reach the top, then run right, collect the gold,
and shoot the goblins that are running towards you. Continue right, level
out the two platforms by shooting the first wheel a couple of times, then
collect the grenade.

Change to the grenade from your inventory by pressing F1, then shoot the
lasers on the moving platforms. Collect the key from the fourth platform,
then go back to the first. Wait for it to go down, then use the key on the
door and collect the gold. Go back up on to the platforms, then run right
towards the village.

Shoot the goblins, then go down the ladder and run right while shooting the
other goblins. Shoot at the meat which is cooking on the fire, and push it
just under the spikes. Collect the key, then go back and use it on the
monster`s cage. Jump on the ladder, then follow the monster until it gets
killed by the spikes. Collect the gold, then jump on to the jet platform.
Move the platform to the left, then level it out so that the rock is
carried with you on the way up.

Carry on until you get to the top, then push the rock to the left until it
falls over the edge. Jump to the left so that you land on the platform,
then run up to the metallic spiky things on the left. Wait until the first
spikes disappear, then run through them. Do the same thing for the second
set of spikes. Fall down the broken cliff, then repeatedly jump and shoot
at the guardian until he dies. Collect the skull.

LEVEL TWO:
FORT DOURMOOR

Go right and hit the switch, then run left with the wheel. Fix the
battering ram, and run right with it. Destroy the door, run over the
bridge, and duck down. Destroy the platform that the balls are bouncing
off, then run right and kill all the wasps before collecting the gold. Go
left to fall down the hole, and shoot the gold lock on the right.

Go right and fall down the tunnel, then move the table left until it`s just
underneath the porthole by the door. Jump on to the table, kneel down, and
shoot the lever on the left. The table will move upwards. Shoot the lever
on the right, then wait until you go back down. Go right, collect the gold
and go up the ladder. Push the table into the water and kill the monster.

Jump right over the gap, then push the box to the left until it falls. Jump
left over the gap, then walk right until you fall. You will now find
yourself standing on the box, so walk off to the left and quickly push
right so that you fall on to the table. Shoot the box until it explodes
into splinters, then go right until you see a barrel. Now you must quickly
jump over the hole, shoot the monster, then jump back over the hole again.
Do this repeatedly until you kill the monster, but remember to keep on the
move, or the crane will get you. Now go back and push the barrel to the
very end of the floor, near the hole.

Go down the ladder, then close the left shutter (but don`t kill the green
monster yet). Go to the top of the ladder, then go left. Jump over the
swinging mace, then collect the gold. Go right, and kill the beheaded
monster by shooting his neck.

Go down to the place where you killed the man, and fiddle around with the
lift controls. Pick up the barrel and put it near the ladder on the
conveyor belt.

Get in the barrel, but don`t close the lid. Shoot the belt switch, then
close the lid. Fall down the hole, and a monster should drag you along and
drop you in some water. Jump on the land when you reach it, and go left.

LEVEL THREE:
CAVES OF BIDHUR

Run right until you are past the two creatures on the bridge, then jump up
and shoot them from behind. Continue right and jump on to the first branch.
Stand as far right as possible, face left, then jump up the branches and
shoot the nest and four birds at the top. Run right and jump off the edge.

Keep going until you see a table, then shoot the left leg. Jump to the
other side of the table, and shoot the right leg. This leaves a pivoted
plank. Shoot the head in the rocks from behind, so that it falls on to the
left of the plank. Push it as far as possible to the left, then climb the
ladder and run off the ledge to the right. You will catapult the head up so
that it hits the bird cage.

Stand in front of the bird, and press fire. Once you are on the bird, stand
diagonally up and right until you see a column of metal balls. You will
also notice a set of adjustable runners. Adjust them so that they will
direct the balls into the top cave, then release the first three balls by
shooting the switch at the top. Now adjust the runners so that they lead to
the next cave down, then release the remaining balls. Fly down to the shaft
below until one of them drops a hammer - pick that up then fly back up to
the top cave.

Dismount the bird, then go right through the gap - dodge left when the slab
falls. Change your weapon to the hammer, then push a metal ball to the edge
of the shallow pit. Shoot the slab a few times to move it on to the metal
ball, then keep moving the balls from the back of the slab to the front -
keeping the slab moving. Once the block reaches the right of the shallow
pit, keep throwing the hammers until it won`t move.

Change your weapon back to the throwing stars, then use the slab as a step
to reach the higher platform. Go right and kill the monster by shooting it
repeatedly in the eye. When it`s dead, go right and collect the empty glass
flask from the lab. Go back to the bird, get on it, then fly to the next
cave below the one you`ve just been in. Fly past the bouncing balls to the
edge of the red lake, dismount, then select the flask as the current
object. Jump into the middle of the red lake, then press fire to fill the
flask.

LEVEL FOUR:
NOSTHOMAK

Run right, and duck the flames while shooting the flame-thrower. After it`s
destoyed, continue past the steel ball the go downstairs. Shoot the left
leg off the table, then push it as far right as it will go - don`t fall off
the ledge yourself. Shoot the bats to reduce the harm that they do to you.
Push the bookcase left until it`s just before the library sign, then climb
the ladder and jump on top of the bookcase. Jump and collect the hammer.

Climb up the ladder, and go back up the stairs to the large steel ball.
Shoot the ball twice with your throwing stars, then switch to the hammer
and start rapidly shooting at the ball until it`s at full swing. Jump on to
the ball as it`s coming towards you, and let it carry you up to the high
platform on the right. Jump off the ball, then switch back to your throwing
stars and shoot the ball when it`s at the highest point of swing. The ball
should now detach itself from the chain and roll down the stairs.

Continue right, past the sliding puzzle - it`s not necessary to complete
the puzzle - then go down the ladder into the crane booth. Pick up the fish
at the bottom of the top-left tank, and feed it to the top fish in tank
three. Pick up the latter when it has eaten the small fish, then feed it to
the fish in tank one. Take the fish from tank three, and feed it to the
small shark in tank two. The small shark is the only fish that will not
harm you. Move to the exit box and press fire.

Climb the ladder, then run through the tanks. Go down the ladder after tank
three, and fall down the drop to the right. Jump over the ball, then climb
down the ladder. Run right, jump the small pit, jump on the ledge, then
shoot the switch to turn the furnace on. Stand next to the furnace, select
the hammers and keep shooting the furnace until it won`t move any further.
You will see some spikes hanging from the ceiling from a chain slightly to
the right. Switch your weapon to the throwing stars, then jump up and shoot
the spikes twice and a small crack appears in the chain.

Switch your weapons to hammers, then repeatedly jump up and shoot the
spikes until they are at full swing. Quickly change back to the throwing
stars, and shoot the spikes when they`re at the highest point of their
swing to the left. The spikes will then detach from the chain and plug the
shallow pit on the floor.

Go left, and climb the ladder. Jump over the large ball, and push it to the
right until it falls into the furnace. Run right, and jump on the small
platform next to the furnace switch. Wait for the ice to start melting,
then when the top is just below your platform jump on to it and then
immediately to the ledge on the right. Hit the switch on the wall which
will turn off the force field below you. Wait for the molten metal on the
floor to cool, then drop down from the platform. Collect the crystal on the
floor, and walk right until you`re directly beneath the other crystal which
is embedded in the ice. Keep shooting the ice with the throwing stars until
it shatters, and you will then catch the second crystal.

THE FINAL CONFRONTATION:
DEFEATING MALETOTH

Run and jump on to the platforms, then repeatedly fire at Maletoths`s head.
Change platforms every times he goes past you, and try to destroy him ASAP.