Simpsons, The - Bart vs. The Space Mutants


 CHEAT MODE:

 On the title screen, the one where the family are watching the TV,
 type 'COWABUNGA' and when you start the game you'll have infinite
 lives. Also try typing 'EAT MY SHORTS' on the title screen to enable
 the number keys to skip levels.
 Also to skip levels, type 'SHEEP IN A GROUP WEARING HATS' during play.


 PLAYING TIPS:

 There are a few hidden extras to find throughout the level, such as
 exra lives and more money. There are usually hidden in bins and bushes.
 To find them, just jump onto them. However, you need to be careful,
 since some bushes contain bees which have a lethal sting!
 You can get extra help by defeating end-of-level gurdians via the
 disgused aliens throughout the levels. To spot them, put on your X-ray
 specs. If a person seems to have a wibbly head with tentacles sprouting
 out of it, jump on top of them and they will drop a ball. Pick up the
 ball and get a letter, if you manage to spell out the name of a family
 member, that person will then appear at the end of the level to help you
 beat the guardiant. For eg: If Maggie appears she throws rocks above your
 head which you can deflect towards the bady along with your nomal shots.
 If you miss one or two of the targets, don't panic! If you notice the
 sign near the cinema, this should give you a clue. Watch out for the
 timer and go to the cinema when it reaches 400 and 200. At these time a
 person will come out of the doors. Just spray them to knock your target
 counter down.


                Bart Simpsom vs The Space Mutants solution                 
               --------------------------------------------  

Begin by facing Bart to the right and do a big spring jump off the bin to 
collect the Krust bonus. Walk on by the cinema (get the timimg right past
the creatures) until you get to Moe's. Jump up onto the ledge off the first
window and up to the next ledge. Do a long jump left to collect the sray
can, but watch you don't hit the mutants in front of the poster!

    Go to the right of the poster and face left to spray it until it
changes colour. Carry on to the left and spray the bin, then head right. Go
past Moe's until you reach the phone booth. Jump up on the booth and right
onto the washing line. Walk along the line so that the washing falls onto
the purple object below. 

    Jump across onto the wondow and collect the sray can. Drop down and
spray the bin, then head left and jump over the nasty under the washing
line to get another Krusty bonus. Head back to the right and jump over the
three nasties past the bin you just sprayed. Carry on and enter Tool World.
Buy a keyand a wrench, then leave the shop walk behind the Fire Hydrant and
use the wrench so that the water washes the paint off the awning, then
spray the hydrant. Jump onto the window ledge, then onto the door and
finally jump up to spray the flowers - you have to spray them while you are
jumping.

    Carry onto the right and enter Mel's Novelty Hut. Buy one cherry bomb
and spend all but two of your coins on rocket, then leave the shop. Jump
onto the sill, then onto the door and then jump up to spray the flowers (it
takes a bit of pacience). Continue right, under the monster and collect the
extra life.

    Go right, into Toys `N' Stuff and buy a whistle and a magnet. Jump onto
the edge and onto the door before leaping up to spray the flowers. Go
right, jump over the alien and collect the spray can.

    Walk right until you get to the bin (if you want you can knock the ball
up in the air to hit the paint can, but it's a bit tricky). Spray the bin
then jump onto it to get the top windows. Jump across to the paint pot so
that it spills, then carefully make your way past the nasty. Slowly drop
off the left-hand side so that you fall onto the canopy above the door,
then jump up and spray the flowers.

    Go to the right until you reach the pet shop, jump up onto the window
ledge, onto the door and back across the gap to sray the pot. Postion
yourself in the top left corner of the window and drop your cherry bomb, if
you are in the right potion, the bomb should hit the bird cage and free the
bird. Watch out for the dog that appears!

    Walk up and jump on to the grass to make a puple policeman appear.
Spray him blue and then quickly run away. Next up walk along the statue and
fire a rocket to make the bird fly away.

    Jump over the barrier onto the skateboard and immediately slow down to
halt. Push up diagonally while pressing fire to get to the top of the
path and then accelerate. Jump over the dogs and the blue alien, then wham
along to the end, but watch out for the Skate Punk!

    Leap over the barrier to get back on foot and carry on walking right.
Dodge the nasties and spray the fountain as you pass. Go under the aliens
in front of the Bowling Hall and fire a rocket at the sign.

    Continue to the right, spray the fountain and dodge the alien, then
carry on to the retirement home. When you see a purple window, fire a
rocket at it to make the purple blind lift up. Carry onto the main
enterance and watch out for the nasties as you fire a rocket at the next
purple window. Now check your rocket supply.If you've still got some left
you're all right. If you need more on the other hand, you'll have to go
back to Mel's Novelty Hut. To do this, stand in front of the retirement
home and use the key. This should transport you back to the housenear Moe's
Tavern. Go to Mel's, get some rockets and use the key at the home to get
back to the retirement home. Go to the right and fire a rocket at the next
purple window. If you've done everything right, this should be you last
target and you will be given a message telling you to go right to the
guardian.

    To beat the big baddy, keep firing at him and jump the bombs that he
throws. With a bit of luck you'll be able to duff him and reach the second
level.