SLEEPING GODS LIE.
==================

   KINGDOM ONE: CAILA and TAIRA.

  When you get to the hut, pick up the pebbles and the bowl, and head through
the north door. Shoot a bandit if you are attacked and head north to meet the
old man. Read the message; then if you want, you can shoot at the old man.
But if you shoot at him twice then he won't give you any more help, which will
cause problems later.
  Look around for any ammunition. You can also eat the red berries from some of
the trees. Go to the eastern exit and enter eastern Caila. Inspect the
signposts for the old road and the blocked pass to the east.
  Head south, you will pass a molehill which contains your back door key. On 
the southern boundary you will see two closely spaced trees. They won't let 
you pass if you don't give them water. Go to the west exit to southern Caila.
There you will find a pool (on the map), and you can fill your bowl with water
there. Go back to eastern Caila and give the water to the trees in the south.
You will now be able to go to northern Taira. In the north-east of northern 
Taira you will find the bandit leader. Shoot him and collect the map that the
old man is looking for.
  Go to the east exit of northern Taira, and you will arrive in western Caila.
In the peasant's hut you will find some mouldy cheese. If you give this to the
mousy creatures, they will stop shooting at you and let you through the exits
they are guarding. By now, you should have picked up some more weaponry and
ammunition, and you should possess a staff sling. This can be used to kill the
two-headed creature at the north of western Caila (or the east of northern
Caila). When you kill the creature it will drop a circlet of concentration.
Visit the old man again, and he will give you a potion which reveals a narrow
pass (two closely spaced stones) in the south east corner of northern Taira.
The pass lets you through into southern Taira, where, if you approach the 
magic tree at the centre, you will be transported to the next kingdom.


   KINGDOM TWO: SYLVAR.

  In the first landscape you will meet Prince Gregor, who will follow you about
the kingdom. Either travel east or south to one of the next landscapes (by 
going through one of the closely spaced trees at the east or south boundary),
and you will find the entrance to the dwarven caves at the southern boundary of
both these levels. In order to climb down, you will need a lantern, which will
be dropped by a dwarf which you need to shoot near the cave entrance.
  Go down into the caverns and head south. In the second cave, you will find 
the spider's lair. Pick up a rope with which you can climb out of the caves. 
Just outside the next large cave south you will find the throne room of the 
dwarf king. If you shoot him you will find the prince's crown. You can now go 
back and give the crown to the prince, who will be waiting for you in the 
vicinity (make sure you take the correct exit otherwise you will end up in the
area either to the east of the caves entrance or west of where you intended!).
The prince will give you some gold.
  Go back through the caves to their southern exit. There you will find a
molehill where you will find a belt. Strap this on and you will get increased
lung capacity. This combined with the poisoned darts which you will have picked
up, will make the blowpipe a very useful weapon. Go south and you will get to 
the fountain in southern Sylvar, which will transport you to the next kingdom.


    KINGDOM THREE: DELANDA.

  There are five islands on Delanda - and you have an advantage that you can 
see them in the distance across the sea. Note that every time you shoot a 
seagull it will drop two gold coins. Initially you will need to approach the
ferryman, who transpotrts you to a nearby island in return for some gold. Take
the ferry to the south island (island two); kill one of the druids, pick up his
golden sickle and take it to the mistletoe tree at the centre of the island.
Collect some mistletoe and find the dying peasant on the ground, see what he 
has to say.
  Go to the west through the two stones (island three). Both stones require 
mistletoe for transport. Go to the ferryman at the southern end to get 
transport to island four.
  Meet the princess, who will give you a ring which will prove very useful 
later on in the game. You will also find sandals which will make you walk on 
water. This allows you to get to any island you want.
  Next, go east to island five, where you will be transported through the well.
But before you do so, you will need to pick up the pail, and travel to island
two. Take the pail to the peasant, and he will fill it with his blood. Go back
to the well, and you will be transported.


    KINGDOM FOUR: THE SIMALA HILLS.

  The Simala Hills are populated by vicious ice demons, which you must be very
wary of. Enter the southernmost level of the kingdom. Go northwards and you 
will find a molehill, from which you can gather the 'pouch of renewal'. This 
will ensure that if you use your crossbow, your ammunition will never run out.
However, at this stage you may still prefer to use your remaining blowpipe 
darts, which are quite effective. At the northwest corner, you will see some 
warning signs. Be brave and you will get to an ice pass. Fight your way through
(it is inhabited by ice demons), and you will arrive to level two. 
  To the northwest corner of level two there is an ice cave. Here you will 
meet the Hermit of Calia, who will give you a tinderbox. He tells you however,
that to start a fire you will have to find a place which is less windy. Leave
the cave and head east. At the eastern boundary you will find two boulders 
which mark the entrance to another ice tunnel. Through this tunnel is level 
three. At the eastern edge of the ice cave you will find some clothing. Now 
find the boulders at the northern boundary, and you will find another ice 
tunnel, which takes you to level four. At the centre of this level you will 
find the witches, who will give some hints, before igniting in a ball of fire,
leaving behind a pile of wood. Go through the ice tunnel to the south of level
four, and you will return to level two. Then go through the eastern ice tunnel
to get back to level three. The ice cave there is not as windy as the others,
so you will be able to light a fire. Then go to the next kingdom.


    KINGDOM FIVE: MORAV.

  You find yourself transported to a level with a palace to the north and a 
temple to the south. Meeting the travellers by the campfire at the centre 
means you will get some information. Go south to the temple, and here you 
will meet the Archmage and his helper Hyrakis. The Archmage disappears, and
you will have to dispose of Hyrakis. He leaves behind a robe, and you must 
wear this as a disguise to get into the palace.
  Go north to the palace, and the guard will let you in. Once inside, go north
to the door at the end of the passage. Turn right and take the first door on 
your right. Inside is the picture gallery, you will find a clue concerning how
to get in the door in the south west. Go in and dispose of the two guards.
You will collect a chain-mail shirt to wear, and the guards will leave behind
some musical instruments.
  Take the trumpet with you, go back to the corridor, then take the northwest
exit, leading to the northwards facing corridor. Go to the north exit, and 
turn east. In the middle of the north edge of this corridor there is another
door which leads to the entrance of the throne room.
  As you approach the throne, you will be transported to the next kingdom.


    KINGDOM SIX: SUNDERABAD.

  You start in the rocky part of the desert. To the north you will see the
Archmage standing with the princess Lucia. Try speaking to her, as she will
know that you will have met her sister on the island levels. She will give you
some help.
  Go into the cave at the eastern side and find 'the glasses of ultimate 
cool'. These will help block the worst of the sun's glare. Go through the 
northern boundary of this level, and you will get to the northern rocky part 
of the desert. Here you will meet the Great Scarab. She will tell you that 
you should meet her to the north of the Great Pyramid some time later. You 
can now go to the north of the Great Pyramid in level five (the eastern sandy
part of the desert) and if you wish, go via the water pools in level four in 
the sandy part of the desert. Note that the daggers which some of the demons
drop can be used to get moisture from some of the cacti which dot the 
landscape. Once you've met the Scarab outside the Great Pyramid, you may go.
  The Scarab will tell you it's arcane secrets of the pyramid. She tells you
find the yellow door, and to use the colour pads. The inside of the pyramid
forms a maze. To get through the yellow door, you must have the colours red
and green activated. It's easy. Find the location of the yellow door, and make
sure that you enter the room with the yellow door once both colours are in
operation. Once inside the room beyond the yellow door you will meet the
Archmage, and he will vanish, revealing a box. You will then be transported to
the next level.


    KINGDOM SEVEN: THE CATACOMBS OF ESTAMANE.

  There are twenty rooms and passages in the catacombs, so it is easy to get
lost! By disposing of the sorceror in the first room you will get the fireball
wand. Go south, and you will come to the Candle Room. Pick up the flickering 
candle and head east. In the Room of the Headless Woman pick up the amulet,
then head east once more. Now turn north and you will come to the Room of the
Emperor's Ghost. He will ask you to bring him his daughter who is at the north
west corner of the catacombs. Retrace your steps, and you will find that 
princess Eloise will follow you in search of her father. Go back to the 
Emperor's room, and the two will meet at last, then evaporate!
  They will leave behind a bottle which you must take to the fountain to the
north of this room. The fountain disappears, and you will need to go to the
large room at the centre of the catacombs. Here, you will find the disgruntled
peasants rushing towards the fountain. Once they have gone, the three witches 
who you met in Morav will reappear. They will give you some instructions.
You must follow these in order to find the Archmage. Once you find him, he 
will yet again disappear, leaving behind a scroll with runic script. You will
now be transpoted to kingdom eight.


    KINGDOM EIGHT: CORITANIA.

  Exit from the first cave, and slay the dragon which is waiting for you
outside. Go into the dragon's lair and pick up the spear. Exit and you will 
find yourself outside Coritania.
  Beware the fire demons, because they are powerful. You will probably have to
use all your available heavy weaponry in order to subdue them. Go through the
south exit and in level two go straight through to the west exit, level three.
Find the hermit, who will tell you to find the ring in the Plain of Ash. You
now have to exit from level three by the east exit, past the dying peasants.
Keep your eyes peeled, because the ring is difficult to find. Go quickly,
otherwise you will catch the plague. The hermit will give you a potion which
will heal plague and take you to the molehill at the west of level three.
  A cave entrance will appear. Go inside and pick up a suit of armour and a
shield. The Kobbolds will then reveal the secrets of Tessera. When they have
finished, leave the cave and follow the hermit to the molehill in level two.
An exit will now appear to the south. Follow it. You will again meet the three
sisters and they will take the ring and convert it into the Ring of 
Annihilation. This is the only weapon which will kill the Archmage. Head north
to level four. Activate the ring - you must be close up for it to work. The 
Archmage will disappear, but he has not been killed. You must now go back to 
the cave in level one, where you will find him again. Make sure that you have
at least two charges in your ring.
  Now is your chance to kill him, so do so.


   THAT'S ALL FOLKS.....