            Complete Solve for Mad Professor Mariarti FINAL!    
             completed by and typed in by Mekkannik/FUSION

This is my first released SOLVE for a game so bear with  my unconventional
writing style!!!

(This is the solve of the INTERNATIONAL FINAL RELEASE version by SKid Row.)

     First off, play the game in Trainer mode.. It's very tough to
stay alive without it, and near impossible to complete without.  the game
wasn't too tough to figure out, although, it had it's tough parts. To
begin the solve, here's a little about the story in the game.  the game
is about a little Professor who's lab is going nuts.  He must find all
the objects, use them in the right places and shut the rooms off.  There
are five rooms and I'll go in order of how I solved them, with the toughest
room last.  

NOTE ***  Remember that when turning off some switches, you must hit them
twice.  Just once will not turn them off. (some of them, that is).

ROOM #1: the SpaceRocket Lab.
You enter this room by going through the bottom-Right door.

	First in this room, find all the tokens you can.. you can use these
tokens to get better weapons (tools).  the first object you need to get is
the MILK BOTTLE.  It is to the far right of the screen.  While you are 
getting this object, you must flip a switch.  It turns off some electric
shockers that you will get to later in the game.  The switch is at the top
of the rocket, to the right.  Climb the ladder on the left of the huge rocket,
go over the rocket on the beams connecting the ladders, and down the right 
side of the rocket.  you will see the MILK BOTTLE at the bottom near the 
rocket engines.  Grab it and go back to the right.  the next object you will 
need, is the CEREAL.  The CEREAL is on the level just above the Rocket/Tool
vendor machine.  Get the CEREAL and move to the ROCKET CONTROL UNIT.  It is
to the left of the place you got the CEREAL, and up one more level.  Here,
you will seea small BATTERY.  Get this, and move on.  Go down, one level, 
and pay close attention: You will see a sliding floor with 2 radar dishes
on it.  Just to the left of these is a MICROWAVE OVEN.  You need to move
your pointer on your control panel to point to CEREAL.  When you jump up,
the CEREAL should go inside the microwave.  Now select the MILK BOTTLE.  
Jump up again, and the Microwave should start working.  Out will come a 
bowl of HOT CEREAL.  Get this and go up.  If you keep going to the left, 
and up you should come out on a moon-like surface.  When you are up here, 
you select the Hot Cereal, and you will be able to move around freely. 
Otherwise, your professor will start shivvering.  Okay, avoid the space
invader-like guys, and head to the right.  You will see a ladder in the
ground.  Go down it.  Then you should see a small robot.  Select the 
BATTERY and walk onto the robot.  He will start moving, and eventually
come back with a 4 STAR FUELCAN.  With the 4 STAR FUELCAN selected, head
back up that ladder onto the moon-like surface again.  Go Left and when you
are all the way to the left again, you will see a small sattellite frozen
in mid-air.  Select the 4 STAR FUELCAN, and jump over onto the sattellite.
it should fire it's engines and move upward.  Go up using the different 
levels, and when you are at the top, use the Sattellite to jump over to the
level that was previously out-of reach.  Walk along these levels, until you
come to a section that begins to slant upward.  Walk off the edge and
you will drop near or onto a ledge holding a square green object.  this is
the PHONE CARD.  you need to take this and go back down the leftmost ladder,
down 3 levels, past the microwave, down the ladder, to the blue POLICE BOX.
Select the PHONE CARD, and walk onto the POLICE BOX.  The police box will
flash, and the screen should say "Who's is this Police Box? Well Done!
Screen Shut down!!"
                       You have completed room #1!!

ROOM #2: Computer Laboratory

     The first thing you should do, is go up one level and shut off the 
SWITCH. It will be on the right of you when you come up the ladder.  Then
Climb back down the ladder, to level one.  Proceed to the right, towards
your first object, a BUCKET OF SAND.  It will be found if you stay on 
level 1 and continue far right until you hit 2 electrical barricades. then
you must go back to the left, to the first ladder you see.  Climb up to 
level 2, where you will see chips (or something) pouring out of a spout, 
and travelling along a conveyor.  Go to the very tip top of the ladder,
and you will be able to leap onto the platform to the right.  Continue
jumping up platforms, and jump to the right over the furnace. Continue
on this level to the right, until you see 2 conveyor belts both directing
towards a funnel.  It will be on top of an open area.  This funnel is the
raw materials funnel.  Put the BUCKET OF SAND into this opening.  A spark
will appear, and a chip will be formed inside the open chamber. This is
the MICRO CHIP.  In order to go inside the pressure chamber, you need the
DIVER'S BELL.  Now, work your way down, back to level 1, go all the way 
to the left again, and go up to where you saw the switch.  Now, instead
of moving from the ladder to the switch, move left to what looks like a 
computer terminal/tv set.  There is a ledge on the TV set, and it's 
difficult to see. so get in front of the tv set, and jump up a couple
of times.  You should be on top of the TV set.  now begin jumping to the
right, on top of the Switch Box, and work your way over it to the right.
When you have gone all the way to the right, on this level, go up the
ladder you will see at the top of the screen.  At the top of this ladder,
go left until you see the DIVER'S BELL on top of a few ledges, it should
be easy to get, and then go back the way you came in there. Now, work your
way back to the Pressure chamber, and get the MICRO CHIP.  It will be inside,
with another creature bothering you.  Don't forget to wear the DIVER'S BELL
in the chamber!  Now, when you have the Micro Chip, go back to the area 
you found the DIVER'S BELL.  When you reach the place you found the DIVER'S
BELL, go all the way to the left, jump up all the levels, and head to the
right.  Now, continue all the way right, and you will reach The ELECTRONIC
CONVEYOR BELT.  Select the MICRO CHIP and walk onto the ELECTRONIC CONVEYOR
BELT, it should start up and begin moving.  Now, You use the speed of the 
conveyor along with running, to jump over the electric beam at the end of 
the conveyor.  You will fall down, and land on a small ledge.  When you landed
you picked up the FLUFFY MUFFS.  Go all the way down, to level 1 again, 
using the ladder near the big pressure chamber, and head to the right. 
you should see the Computer SOUND TESTING room.  Select your FLUFFY MUFFS,
and walk right by the 2000 Watt speaker, and hit the switch.  The room will
shut down, and you have completed ROOM #2 !!!

ROOM #3: Chemical Research Department. 

     The first thing you should do in this room, is head all the way to the
left, and turn off the switch. (hit twice, remember) Next, go back the way you
came, to a ladder that is above a pool of bubbling acid. Go up here. You 
should see a ladder that is retracted that says "Auto Ladder".  Go to the 
left past this, and make your way up the slanted row of platforms.  When you
reach the top, go up the first ladder you see.  At the top of this ladder, 
head to the left.  The message line on your console should read "Phew! A
Strong Aroma".  You are in the right place.  just before you reach the 3
giant test tubes to the left, jump up and get the POWER ACTION, a beaker
filled with orange liquid.  Then head back down the ladder. Now att the
bottom of that ladder, go to the left this time, head down the first
ladder you reach, and drop off of the right side of the conveyor belt.  
You should fall back to level 1 and land on a STEEL WRENCH. Take the wrench,
and head to the right, go up the ladder (over the acid) and get to the 
"Auto Ladder". Select the STEEL WRENCH, and it should insert into the
side of the Auto Ladder.  You crank it up by jumping up and down in front
of it.  Once it's to the top, go up, walk right, and up that ladder.  You
should be in a small room with the Tool Vendor, and to the left, will be
a small bottle.  Get the STRAWB JAM JAR and go back down the ladder.  From
the Auto Ladder, continue to the right.  Keep going until you enter a small
room that contains a wierd electrical device in the upper right corner, and 
a small bottle in the upper left corner.  Get the BLACKC. JAM JAR and head
back to the left. Go down the Ladder to the right of the Auto Ladder, and 
then head left.  Go down the leftmost ladder on the screen, and you will
ride down some conveyors to the ground. Go all the way right from here. 
Just before you reach the DOOR (as far right as possible) you will see
2 bubbling beakers.  If yyou select the BLACKC. JAM JAR, jump onto the
right beaker.  (THis is what I did, and I assume the opposite is also true,
such as STRAWB. JAM JAR for left beaker.)  The Professor will appear to
be looking at you through binoculars, and the door code (at the top of the
screen above the DOOR) will become visible.  You can now go through the door.
Now, enter that room, go into the upper right corner, and get the HEAVY 
MALLET.  Go back all the way to the left, and use the HEAVY MALLET to perform
the TEST YOUR STRENGTH test.  When you hit the bell, you will be awarded
with a prize.  It's a CHEAP OIL CAN.  Take this CHEAP OIL CAN all the way
up past the Auto Ladder, past the "Phew! A Strong Aroma" room, go to the VERY
top level, and head all the way to the right.  You should see, at the right-
most part of the screen, a pipe with a small valve.  the valve is stuck,
so select the CHEAP OIL CAN and walk onto the valve. The water should shoot
you up to a switch, and the room will be shut down. CONGRATULATIONS! you 
completed ROOM #3.

ROOM #4: Biological Observations.

       The first thing you need to do on this level, is collect 3 flies.  
FLY #1 is found by going left.  it will be found on a platform in the middle
of the screen.  From here, Fly #2 is found by jumping off of the left side
of this platform.  You will fall and land on a Vine-ladder.  Go left from 
here to get FLY #2.  Now from FLY #2, run to the right, up the slanted 
platforms, and go down the first VINE-ladder you see.  At the bottom of
this ladder, you should see the Tool Vendor.  Ignore it as usual, and 
go left past it.  Go down that first ladder, and before you reach the
bottom of it, jump to the left onto the ledge.  The FLY #3 should be right
there.  Now that you have all three FLIES, jump back onto that ladder you
came down on, and go up to the top.  From here, select the FLIES and go
to the left.  Walk onto the venus flytraps one by one, and they will each
eat one FLY.  At the top of a nearby ledge will be the MESHED HAT.  It will
allow you to walk through the Bees unharmed.  Get the MESHED HAT, and go back
to the Vine-ladder.  Go down it again, and half way down, get off and go
left.  Avoid the Snapping Traps, and jump into the pit with the spinning 
things, and you will fall a couple levels, and land on the LIQUID WEEDIT. 
Take the LIQUID WEEDIT and go up that ladder to the right.  At the top,
pass by the 3 singing daisies, and go up that vine to the left.  At the top,
Go past the Tool Vendor, and go up that vine.  At the top, go left and jump
off of that platform where you found the first FLY. you should again, land
on a vine-ladder.  From this vine, go down, and right. Select the LIQUID
WEEDIT and jump onto the platform in front of 
the small flytrap and other various plants.  The WEEDIT should begin spraying
and killing off the plants.  When they are dead, walk to the right, past
the plants, and get the BAKED BEANS.  Take the Baked beans, Go up the vine,
back to the right, down that vine, past the Tool Vendor again, and down yet
another vine.  Jump back across past the 3 singing daisies and down that vine.
At the bottom of that vine, run over the small hill, select the MESHED HAT
and jump past all the bees.  Then select the BAKED BEANS and continue right
until you see an empty pot. Walking onto this should make the beans grow a 
huge vine.  Climb the vine, go up yet another vine in the above room, avoid
the flying mosquitos and get A PIECE OF WOOD. Go back down, down the big 
vine, past the bees, up that first vine, and back past the 3 singing
daisies.  Now, pass that vine on the right, and go along the conveyor belt.
At the end will be a croodile.  Select A PIECE OF WOOD and walk on by.  The
Wood wil stick in his mouth, and you will shut off the Switch.  You have
completed ROOM #4!!!

ROOM #5: CENTRAL POWER CONTROL

     To get the first object (the easiest object) follow these exact 
directions. Go right. Continue right until you are forced to jump up.
get on that first ladder, and go up. At the top of this ladder, will
ba another ladder. Go up this one as well. At the top, walk along the
ground to the right. a section of the floor will dissolve and you will 
fall through.  You will land on a ledge.  On this ledge is the MIRROR.
Get it and then find your way back to where you started the game. (the
bottom left corner.)  And go up.  Keep going up, while staying to the left.
You will reach a level with a small gear rolling on the platform.  Walk
to the right end of this platform and fall off.  You will land on a pair
of BOUNCY SHOES. After you get the BOUNCY SHOES, go to the right in that
room, up the ladder, and shut off the SWITCH. Now, from here, go back 
down to your original point, and start going up again.  When you get to 
the rolling gear again, jump over the place where you fell last time, jump 
on the little platforms to get over the spinning drills, and go right. 
When you reach the many ladders to the right, jump from ladder to ladder,
until you get onto a ladder at the rightmost side of the screen. Go up.  
This part was kinda tough. On the screen, you will see two creatures, and 
at the top right a small object. it's the TV. You must get it. When you DO get
it (and it ain't easy) come back down, and jump ladder to ladder to the left 
this time. Make your way back past all the drill bits, and go up the ladder 
to the left of the spinning drills. when you go up, you will be on a bunch 
of slanted platforms heading up to the right. Go all the way up these, and 
get the BOTTLE OF PORT. Head back down, continuing down and left, until
you are at your original starting place again.  From the starting place,
you simply, head right, until you can't go right any further, head up the
steps, go up that ladder, go up the next ladder, at the top, head all the
way to the right, and go down the right most ladder. Continue your way
down until you get to the ground. At the ground, on the rightmost side, 
there will be a flashing box.  It's a TELE-PORT!.  Select the TELEVISION
and jump in front of the TELE-PORT!.  You will be transported to the 
upper left part of the room. Here you are halfway done.  From the TELE-PORT,
go up the steps, At the top of the steps, go to the left. Go up the platforms,
kill the guy with the glasses and big nose, and go up that ladder. At the top
of this ladder, go left, and select the BOUNCY SHOES.  Keep jumping on
the springs until you fly to the top level.  Go up the ladder. At the top,
jump across the electricity beams, from platform to platform, and go right.
Go down that ladder.  You should now be on a conveyor belt.  Now, this can
be tricky.  Kill off whatever guy is on the conveyor with you, and run to the
right.  Just before you touch the little triangle, jump. you will land in
between the triangles.  Now, don't automatically jump again, here, you must
again, run until you are right up close, and THEN jump. It's the only way
to clear them. Now, do the same thing on the conveyor beneath this one.  When
you get to the end (left side) of that conveyor, fall off that side.  You will
land on the RADIATION helmet.  NOW the fun part happens.  Fall off that
platform with the helmet (remember to pick up the helmet) and land on the
steps.  Continue up the steps and at the top, go right.  You will see a crazy 
beaker running back and forth in front of a computer-type thing. You must
work your way OVER this computer thingy, and jump the blue crystals on the
way.  Once you get all the way to the right, put on your radiation helmet,
and climb up that FINAL ladder.  Whew!  You are inside the reactor.  NOW..
select the Mirror (remember the first object) and walk towards the mutant
dude.  He will see himself and run away.  Now, you simply walk over to the 
MASTER SWITCH called "A VERY BIG USEFUL SWITCH" and hit it.  The Reactor
Rods will cool themselves, and the room will shut down.  YOU HAVE WON
THE GAME!!! NOW you will wait a few hours while the game racks up your score,
and finally see the final animation sequence.