Monty Python's Flying Circus


 CHEAT MODE:

 Enter 'SEMPRINI' into the high score table. A couple of new options
 will then appear on the main options page. The first will allow you
 to select and start on any level up to the highest one you reached,
 and the second option will allow you to show/hide the hidden bonuses.

 Also enter your name in as 'POOKY'. Now when you next view the high
 scores it will change to 'NO IT ISN'T!'. I think this is a joke from
 the programer who was also responsible for the Rick Dangerous games.

SOME TITILLATING TIPS

So you want the Maximum Score, eh.  Well don't waste time, 'cos Every
Second Counts towards the time bonusat the end of every level.  At the
start of a level, the bonus timer counts down 10 minutes of time spent
controlling Gumby (not time spent watching cartoons or arguing).  Ten
points are awarded for every second of time remaining when the level is
completed.  That is a potential bonus of 6,000 points per level.  Ignore
the bush at the start of level one, as it's nothing more than a time-
wasting device.
Try to destroy every block of cheese you see, including the ones in the
manual.  Apart from being worth one point apiece during play, an extra 10
points for every one is awarded at the end of the level.  Should you manage
to clear the level of cheesy comestibles, a bonus of 9,000,000 points is
given, so it's definately worth the effort.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT
Collecting 16 tins of Spam from each level is your main objective, but
collect every other item of food you see, too.  Even if you already have
the 16 tins of Spam, collect any others you find as they not only top up
you're vitality but are worth bonus points at the end of the level.
Collecting 16 tins of Spam award you a vital piece of brain at the end of a
level, which also counts as a bonus of 9,000,000 points.
Extra lives are awarded every time the top digit of your score changes
(every 10,000,000 points), so to guarantee an extra life at the end of each
level, collect 16 tins of Spam and destroy all the cheeses

SPAM:  Worth 400 points at the end of a level and six points of vitality
replenished.
EGG:  Worth 200 points at the end of a level and eight points of vitality
replenished.
BEANS:  Worth 200 points at the end of a level and eight points of vitality
replenished.
SAUSAGE:  Worth 200 points at the end of a level and and eight points of
vitality replenished.
LUPINS:  Worth 200 points upon collection.  It also destroys all visible
enemies, turning them into food bonuses.

BOUNCY BONUSES
Work out a method for each Gumby-spring bonus room - it's always possible
to collect all the bonuses and destroy all the cheese.  Also, on later
levels, there isn't always one entrance to these screens from the main
level.

HOW TO SPOT DIFFERENT TYPES OF ENEMY FROM QUITE A LONG WAY AWAY

LEVEL 1
Always try to kill enemies as you meet them.  If you simply rush past you
may find that you miss an exit to a bonus screen, or some cheese to destroy
or hidden food or Spam bonuses.  Explore every exit and remember the
locations of bonus (Gumby-spring) screens.

Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition.  But should you come up against
Cardinal Ximinez and his Cohorts, here's what's to do.  Position yourself
underneath the arc of the flying cushions and open fire with your fish
(there is a safe spot).  If you want a maxi-maximum score you can also
knock out the pillows - they take six hits and are worth 400 points each.
SCORE  1000     HITS 15

DEAD PARROTS: these don't do much.  They are dead, after all.  But they can
still give Gumby grief if he's not careful.  Please note they appear from
the top if you are in the bottom half of the screen, and from the bottom if
you are in the top half of the screen.
SCORE  10       HITS 1

FEET:  They move in a very predictable pattern and don't fire bullets.
Just find a safe place to sit, and come up every now and again to shoot
them.
SCORE  100      HITS 1

HAMSTERS: these are easily shot down, but it's often necessary to fly past
them instead.  This is not easy as they fire up or down depending on your
relative position.  Note that they always fire bullets at the same point
across the screen, which means you can get past them with a careful bit of
timing.
SCORE  200      HITS 1

PIGGY BANKS: these travel from right to left and are predictable in their
movements.  However, they are prone to fire up or down depending on your
position and, unlike the Hamsters, the point at which they fire is
unpredictable.
SCORE  100      HITS 2

KEEP LEFT SIGNS: these travel vertically, firing bullets that are easy
enough to dodge but a nuisance when you want to find that elusive Spam tin.
The Signs appear in a gang of three.  It's best to destroy each whole group
before progressing.
SCORE  200      HITS 2

Thankfully there's only one 17th Century European Monarch to deal with, but
it has to be killed quickly.  Move ahead of his anti-clockwise path around
the screen (thus drawing his fire) and, when you see the chance, turn and
get a few shots in.  In this way it's quite possible to destroy him without
getting hurt.  Patience and anticipation is the key.