S.D.I. - Now The Odds Are Even
Typed by Belgarath


Introduction

SDI - Strategy and Arcade action at its best!

This classic Sega arcade hit, in the true Ronald Reagan Strategic Defense Initiative style,
tests your skills in both offensive and defensive warfare to the limit. It's all out nuclear war
and your mission is to defend your country from enemy nuclear space weapons and save
the planet from imminent catastrophe.


Special Features

. Single or multi-player modes
. Offensive and defensive levels at each stage
. 1040 loads in one go!
. Seven main tunes
. Over 300 different sprites - animated deadly enemies which will collide with one
  another.


Loading Instructions

Set up your Computer System as detailed in the instruction booklets that accompany your
Computer, and connect to your TV or monitor. Ensure that any cartridges or peripherals
(such as disk drives, printers, etc.) are disconnected from your computer.
Failure to do so may cause loading difficulties.


Commodore Amiga

1. Switch on your Amiga and insert the disk at the Workbench prompt
2. After a short while the loading screen will be displayed and the music will play. 
   The main game will load automatically.

Atari ST

1. Insert disk 1 and switch on monitor and computer.
2. After a short while the loading screen will be displayed and the music will play. After the
   music stops the main game will load automatically. (Pressing SPACE while the music
   plays will skip the rest of the music.) You will be prompted to insert disk 2.
3. If you are using a 520 ST the levels will be loaded from disk on completion of each level.
   If using a 1040 ST all twelve levels will load into memory.


Commodore Amiga & Atari ST

Control Options

From the title screen press SPACE to return to option screen.

Press F1   1 Player game (or 2 player team game)
      F2   2 Player game
      F3   Redefine keys

Mouse controls

Moving the mouse normally will move the cursor. Holding down the left hand mouse button
will enable movement of the satellite.
Press right hand button to fire lasers to current position.

Mouse and Joystick Controls
Use the joystick in Port 2 (Amiga) or Port 1 (Atari ST) to move the satellite. Mouse in Port 1 (Amiga)
or Port 0 (Atari ST) will move cursor - right hand button to fire lasers.

Game Details

Press BACKSPACE  Pause On/Off
      ESC        Restart game
      F10        Music On/Off

The screen displays both players scores and lives remaining - in a two player game the
relevant "1-Up" or "2-Up" will flash to show which player's turn.

The damage bar at the bottom of the screen relates to damage to your space station. If the
bar fills up completely the game will end.

There are 12 levels in S.D.I. during which you will face waves of enemy and enemy base
missiles, satellites and fighters. If at any time during an offensive half you allow any enemy
craft to penetrate your defences you must play a defensive half. At the end of each
offensive half you will receive a report on the results of that half: a perfect score will be
rewarded with 20,000 points (and a dancing duck!).

During play you will also come across satellites bearing bonus pods:

BLUE     - Extra speed when moving Satellite.
RED      - Multiple cursors (up to 3).
YELLOW   - Extra fire power (bigger explosions).

To collect the bonus pods shoot at them to release them, then steer your satellite into the
pod before it leaves the screen.

The Disk should be left in the disk drive in order to save the high score table.


Typed by Belgarath