Saint Dragon
Typed by Belgarath


On a far distant planet you must prepare to fight the final battle!

An evil force of monster machines has risen to conquer the Galaxy. 
One by one the peaceful races of the Galaxy have been attacked and enslaved by the Cyborg Monsters.
None has the strength to stand against the power of the Cyborgs, until one lone rebel rises
from within the ranks of the mechanised monsters.

Part dragon, part machine, the Cyborg Warrior fights back against it's tyrant masters.
The Galaxy has a Hero. Hope returns to the hearts of the people at the rise of the Armoured Champion
they call, "SAINT DRAGON".

In this reverse of the Saint George legend you must fly the Armoured Dragonship through five
levels of non stop destruction. Choose between fireballs, bouncing bombs, ring lasers and
turret weapons to blast your way through the armoured pumas, mechanical cobras, giant cyborg bull
and a host of other mutant machines. But remember fire power isn't everything!
Your ship has an armoured tail. Use it well and you may just survive.


Loading instructions & controls

ST/Amiga

Insert the disc in drive and turn on your machine. The game will load and run.

Controls - Plug joystick in port 1 (Atari ST) or port 2 (Amiga).
Press fire on the joystick or keyboard to start.

Joystick - Move joystick to control Dragon. Fire button to shoot.

Keyboard - Cursor keys to control Dragon. Shift, Alt or CTRL keys to shoot.

Additional controls

M - Toggles music on/off
S - Toggles sound on/off
P - Pause/Unpause game
A - Autofire (for one handed play)
ESC - Abort game


Playing the game

It's a shoot-em-up so shoot-em! You must blast your way through five enemy packed levels, each complete
with its own giant end of level alien in order to rescue the giant dragon.
In addition to your weapons you have an armoured tail that will protect your vulnerable head
from small bullets and aliens. You will need to use it well to survive.

Firepower - You start with a standard plasma bolt weapon and small fireball.
You can enhance your weapons by picking up the following tokens.

N - Adds one more set of pulse torpedos (maximum of 5)
L - Change to laser
F - Change to fireball
B - Change to bouncing ball
T - Change to turret
S - Speed up
P - Power up your extra weapon
H - Hyper (invulnerability plus maximum firepower for limited time)


Credits
Programmed by The Sales Curve Ltd
Package design by Artistix
Manual by Dan Marchant
Text Manual typed by Belgarath
Licensed from (C) 1989 Jaleco Ltd
(C) 1990 The Sales Curve Ltd - Unit 17, 50 Lombard Road, London SW11 3SU.
Tel: 071 - 585 3308.