			Savage

Fired by rage, Savage plunges into an orgy of violence, wielding his
trusty battle axe in a manic fighting frenzy, dispatching all who stand in
his way.

Ahead of him awaits a labyrinth of dank and gloomy dungeons concealing
a myriad of demons and ghouls, all ready to put a bloody end to his attempt
to escape.

The battle-crazed Savage will have to use all his skill and experience,
as a master of hand-to-hand combat overcome this, the ultimate challenge.

From the beginning, Savage will be assailed by a number of deadly
mutant monsters. Once dispatched, they will each yield a piece of weaponry
that will enable Savage to carry on his fight.

The task awaiting him in the infested Labyrinth is to fight the
inhabitants of the Castle and deep dungeons. Savage is able to collect items
of great wealth and power that will increase his strenght as well as his 
horde of treasure, but the conflict will sap his strength and strain each 
muscle of his body to its limit.

3D vision allows Savage to view the surrounding area and plan his path
forward. He can also see where to place his shots against the attacking 
Ghost and lurking skulls.
	
The attacks become faster and faster, and Savage must be on guard at
all times from sneak attacks and against the half-ghost half-monster that
appears before him.

Halfway through the attack, Savage discovers that his `escape` from the
Castle was a trick to keep his Maiden love imprisoned for ever.

At this point Savage makes the decision to return to the Castle to
reclaim his magical powers and rescue his Maiden from the clutches of the 
Dark Guardians.

However, the path he chooses to the Castle brings him to a different
and locked entrance.
	
Unable to enter, Savage has to call upon his trusty eagle to fly
through the Labyrinth to rescue his Maiden and his special powers.

The eagle will fly into the Labyrinth through the corridors and the
secret dungeons collecting energy and battling the last of the demons and
monsters that now fight for the final victory inside the Castle.

The Ghost and the demons will do all in their power to stop the eagle
from collecting the special powers, taken from the dead spirits, and to stop
the search for the cell that holds Savage`s Maiden.

It is up to the supreme strength and powers of Savage to control the
eagle`s course and enable it to attack and defend itself from the waves of 
the attacking demons, and avoid the traps that befall all who enter the 
castle.

Savage, the supreme fighting machine, is able to battle an overwhelming
enemy and above all withstand all attempts to break the union between himself
and his Maiden.

		Key Controls :-
	Q	:	Leap/Up/Fly
	A	:	Crouch/Down
	O	:	Run Left/Fly Left
	P	:	Run Right/fly Right
	SPACE	:	Fire
	   OR JOYSTICK CONTROLS.

The game Savage is in three parts;parts two and three only allow one
life unless you have completed the previous level. Upon the completion of
levels one and two you will be given the codeword to type in at the start of
the next level which will then give you the full three lives.

		NB - Manual says RAM Expansion may inhibit game. !!!!


			@ 31/05/89 The Phantom Lord.