                     SCHELOBER'S QUEST FOR A BABE

Schelober's Quest for a Babe!

        Not too long ago, in a place called Loberland, there was a Lober
called Sche.  Most of his friends, and enemies, called him Schelober.  
Due to the lack of something else in his life, he set out on a quest.
Ancient - Lober scrolls referred to a means of life - long joy.  This,
the scrolls said, was accomplished through finding a mate for life.  Using
the extensive cross reference system included in the ancient - Lober
scrolls, Schelober quickly located the reference referring to attracting
the ultimate female - Lober.  The passage outlined the five (5) parts 
required for the strengthy mating call belch.

This is where Schelober's quest begins....

GRAB THE JOYSTICK AND GO!

Playing the game:

The game is played entirely from the joystick in port 2.  No mouse or
keyboard is required to play.

To move Schelober, push the joystick in the direction you wish him to go.

The fire button is used to open chests, read clues, and press hidden
switches.  By pressing and holding the fire button down the Schelober
game sub-menu is activated.

When prompted by a question, move the joystick right or left to highlight
your response.  Then press and release your fire button.  (The response
must still be highlighted.)

THE SUB-MENU:

Use Item: Select this option and you may choose an item to use from 
Schelober's inventory, via the highlighted box.  (note: DYNAMITE may not
be used from this menu.)

Drop Item: This feature allows Schelober to drop any item in his inventory
on most unused spaces.  When Schelober returns to the spot, the item
should still be there.

Swap Item: Use this to rearrange the items in Schelober's inventory.

Load Game: This function allows the player to load a previously saved
game from disk.

Save Game: You may save up to ten separate games by picking this option
and using the joystick to scroll to a saved game number.  Press the fire
button to save the game.  To abort, push the joystick up or down.

Exit Menu: Select this to resume game play.

THINGS SCHELOBER MIGHT FIND:

Flasks: These items are accumulated in Schelober's inventory to be used
when needed.  Flasks will generally give health.

Food: In order for Schelober to eat food, he must step on it.  (Yummy.)

Keys: Collect keys to pass through color-coded doors and to open locked
chests.

Bucks and Chunks: These are Loberland's forms of currency.

TOYS:

Mass Spectrometer: This gives you information on a selected toy in
Schelober's inventory.

Mystic Doorknob: When in use, secret doors are visible.

Magic Brick: When in use, all traps are disarmed.

Amulet of Morph: It causes monster confusion.

Spectacles: This item makes invisible posts visible.

Blocker: This item generates a square no monster can trod upon.

Tree Stump: Schelober levitates. 

Schelober Utilities Program (located on disk #4 (SQB3))

Creating a save game disk, (floppy users only)
   To create a save game disk, format a disk with the name of "SQBSAVE"
   (minus the " marks) 
 
   Then select the Schelober Utilities program located on the disk
   titled "SQB3".  From there you are prompted to either;
   (A) create a save game disk
       or
   (B) hard drive install the game.

   Select A to prepare your save game disk.

Installing Schelober on your hard drive (hard drive users only)
   Run the Schelober utilities program. (on disk named "SQB3")

   Select the B prompt to install the game.  You are prompted for a 
   device:path name.  This is where the game will be installed on your
   hard drive.
                 Example: DH0:GAMES

   The installer will create a directory in the specified path called
   Schelober with all necessary files and directories.  (This includes
   a save game directory)

   The installer will prompt you for the disks it requires.

   To exit Schelober Utilities, press Return at the main prompt.

Addendum:

Schelober runs from Workbench only.

Also: to bypass loading the intro animation, press and hold the fire
button until the second loading screen appears.

Floppy Disk Users: Do not change disks until the game asks for another
disk to be inserted.  Save game disks included.

Screen Blankers: If your screen blanks during game play, turn off your
screen blanker.