                             SCRAMBLE SPIRITS
                             ----------------

               Typed by NEC and supplied by, erm....... NEC!

Scramble Spirits
----------------
Loading

NOTE FOR AMIGA OWNERS.

To avoid the risk of Virus infection, turn off your computer for at least 30
seconds before loading a new game.

AMIGA: Insert disk into internal drive and reset.  The game should now load.


Playing the Game
----------------

At the beginning of the 21st Centuary, the human race had commited a collosal
error.

Thereafter, some third worls countries were rehabilitated.

Then one day, the earth was subjected to a surprise attack by a mysterious
enemy.

EMERGENCY situation.  Scramble immediately!!


The Game
--------

Scramble Spirits is a game for one or two players.  You control an attack plane
and must shoot and bomb your way through six missions to destroy the alien
command ship.  You start each game with five lives.  If you lose all your
lives, you can continue the game with any remaining credits( You start the
game with five credits ).  Press fire to start or continue a game.  Player two
may join the game at any time ( providing credits are remaining ) by pressing
FIRE.


Shoot helicopters and bi-planes, bomb tanks and ground installations.  If you
destroy a helicopter, a small friendly bi-plane appears, which will fly in
formation with you when picked up.  This bi-plane fires when you do and will
smart-bomb the enemy if you hold the FIRE button down.  Don't smart-bomb
too often, or you will lose the bi-plane.  You can fly with up to two bi-
planes at once.  The bi-plane will drop and strafe the ground if you press the
formation change key.


Watch out for enemy fire, which wil destroy your plane, except at the start of
a life when the plane is flashing.

Controls
--------

AMIGA AND ST

Use a joystick or the keys Z, X, T and F, to control the plane.  Press the
space bar to fire, or use the joystick FIRE button.  To toggle pause, press
P.  The Q key will quit the game.  S toggles between the music and the sound
effects.  To change formation, press F1 for player one, and F10 for player
two.