SEASTALKER 

In SEASTALKER, you are a famous young scientist and inventor. As the story opens, you are working in 
your private lab when the commander of the Aquadome calls you for help. The Aquadome is being
attacked by a huge mysterious sea monster!

It's time for action! To get to the Aquadome, you'll have to travel through Frobton Bay to the ocean in 
your latest invention: a two-person submarine called the Scimitar. It's equipped with many features 
useful for research, including a searchlight, grasping extensor claws, sonarscope, depth control, and
automatic pilot. But it has no weapons, so you'll need help to make it ready to deal with a monster.
Fortunately, your good friend "Tip" will keep you company and assist you on your rescue mission. Soon,
though, you'll find yourself in a real pickle: while the sea monster attacks the Aquadome from the
outside, a traitor may be sabotaging it from the inside! You'll have to be clever and quick to save the
Aquadome from this double danger.

The object of the game is to save the Aquadome from danger. You'll have to navigate your sub, the
Scimitar, to the Aquadome, and then start solving the mystery with the help of the people that work there.

Some clues to help you get started.
1. Answer the videophone
2. Turn on the microphone
3. Ask Bly about the problem

Your sub moves at three speeds: SLOW, MEDIUM, and FAST. To set or change your speed,
just type SET THROTTLE TO SLOW (or MEDIUM or FAST) and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.
If you want to DIVE TO 5 METERS, just type it in. (Your sub dives in multiples of five meters: 5, 10,
15, 20, etc.) If you want your sub to SURFACE, just type it in.

Special Commands for Seastalker

ADJUST     EMPTY     LISTEN    SHOW
AIM        ENTER     LOOK      STOP
ANSWER     EXAMINE   MOVE      SURFACE
ARREST     EXIT      OPEN      TAKE
ASK        FILL      POINT     TELL
ATTACK     FIND      PULL      TEST
BRING      FIX       PUMP      THANK
CLIMB      FOLLOW    PUT       TIE
CLOSE      GIVE      RAISE     TURN
CUT        KICK      READ      UNLOCK
DESTROY    KILL      SCREW     UNTIE
DIVE       KISS      SEARCH    WAIT
DOCK       KNOCK     SET       WALK
DROP       LAUNCH    SHOOT    YELL

Use the following only when indicated by Seastalker. 

Infocard #1
1) Look inside that"                                                     ." 
2) Tell me about the                                                     in the Scimitar. 
3) Put the black box on the sonar equipment. Then send
                    to check the sonar system. See if he reports the 
black box.

Infocard #2
l)                                  is in his dormitory locker. 
2) Ask                          to fix the Scimitar. 
3) Look at the                                 that Tip brought along. 

Infocard #3
1) Check the                                    
2) Has the                                       been sabotaged? 
3) A do it.                                       must be inserted in the reactor. Sharon was supposed to 

Infocard #4
1) Who removed the                                                           while you were in the docking tank? 
2) Get behind                                                           and shoot hit power pod. 
3) Tip says, "We know what was causing it-but                    
doesn't know that we know.

Infocard #5
1) Check the                                                 under your seat. 
2) The gate won't respond to remote control signal without                     
3) Don't forget the                            

Infocard #6
1)                                                       has a Universal Tool that fits anything. 
2) The                                                was last seen to the southeast. 
3) If you shot the Snark with the                                                            it will be intact for 
scientific study.

Infocard #7
1) Try the                                               it can probably dent anything. 
2) "Doc" may be able to make a Snark                                 
3) Fit the prospecting bazooka to the Scimitar's                    

Infocard #8
1) The Aguadone needs help! Take the                               there at once. 
2. Turn on the                                                    
3. There's no response because there's no

About the Authors

Stu Galley was a student of physics and journalism when he discovered computers,
which at the time were mostly just big number-crunchers. At first he thought computers
were too much fun to be taken seriously, until he decided that physics was too little fun
to be taken seriously. At MIT he discovered computer games and Lisp-like languages
and met the other founders of Infocom. He began writing interactive fiction in 1982 and
has authored The WITNESS and SEASTALKER, both for Infocom. His son enjoys
interactive fiction more than his wife does.

Jim Lawrence has written fiction extensively for both children and adults in a variety of
media: books, magazine articles, film and radio scripts, and comic strips, including
"decision" strips. He estimates that he has written some sixty books of fiction, many of
them under pen names, for series like Tom Swift Jr. and Nancy Drew. His radio credits
include weekly scripts for Sergeant Preston of the Yukon, The Green Hornet, and Sky
King. He has written for, and in some cases created and illustrated, the comic strips
Dallas, Joe Palooka, Captain Easy, Friday Foster, and Buck Rogers. SEASTALKER is
his first published work of interactive fiction.


The White House, 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20501 

Dear Friend,

Congratulations on your election into the Discovery Squad! I knew that one day you
would join the ranks of this elite group of inventors. Everyone here in Washington is
happy for you. But I'm wondering, how are you going to make the acceptance
ceremony next week if you're right in the middle of testing your new sub, the
Scimitar? Awards on Monday, submarine launch on Tuesday--you must not get much
rest!

In any case, I'm not going to be able to fly in for the Scimitar's christening because I
have to be in China for some diplomatic business. But, after you've finished

your first mission, heaven knows what it might be, my wife and I would like you to
come to the White House for a visit. She's never met anyone from the Discovery
Squad before, and she's really looking forward to entertaining a true American hero.

Once again,
Congratulations, 

The President