SensibleMassacre2 3/95



                   S E N S I B L E   M A S S A C R E  2

                                   B Y

                           J A M E S   H A L L

                                 1 9 9 5

Important note:

This disk MUST be in the internal drive and write-enabled when playing or
you may have loading problems.


Background:

The date is 1st September 2014, exactly 20 years after the awful `Netherland
Massacre`.  The man responsible for the slaughter of 14.2 million innocent
dutch footballers is about to meet his maker at the point of a needle.

The doctor applying the lethal injection pulled back the murders shirt
sleeve and tested the needle, a spray of black poison fizzed and bubbled
on the cold metalic floor of the death chamber.  The executer shakily
felt the killers arm for a suitable point to puncture and raised the
syringe...

Suddenly, the prisoner leapt up breaking the bindings holding him and
pushed the medic backwards onto the trolley of sharp surgery utensils
puncturing the unfortunate doctors body in several interesting places.

Before the prison warders could arrive at the scene, the killer opened a
nearby cupboard to reveal a shiny new bulldozer and drove through the
chambers walls to the recreation ground and football pitch, it looked like
the massacre was going to start all over again....


Instructions:

The aim of the game is simply to kill everyone by either running them over
or throwing football shaped grenades and blowing them up.

You control a bulldozer with the mouse by moving the pointer around the
screen and pressing the left mouse button, the further the bulldozer is from
the pointer, the faster it moves.

To drive into the enemy, just point the `dozer in the right direction and
accelerate.  Each time you hit someone you gain points but lose energy.

To blow up the enemy, position the pointer over the selected victim and
press the right mouse button - a football will fly over and explode when it
hits the ground.

You have a limited amount of energy and footballs, these are displayed at
the bottom of the screen by two bars, the grey one shows the amount of balls
left, the red one is your energy.  At the start you have 10 balls and full
energy.

When an enemy is killed, an icon appears on the screen, this can be one of
six and has different effects when coming in contact with your `dozer:

Stick of dynamite - Explodes and wastes energy.
Big white football - Increases your football bar.
Big red football - Increases your energy bar.
Big purple football - Makes your energy bar equal your football bar (useful
                      if you have low energy but many footballs).
Big blue football - Makes your football bar equal your energy bar (useful if
                    you have few balls but lots of energy).
Big gold football - Kills everyone on screen.

There are three types of enemy:  runners, bikers and parachuters, all three
can be killed with footballs but only runners and bikers can be run over.

SensiM2 is level based, and at the end of each stage a `door` appears on the
screen, when you drive over it, your score is totalled up and displayed.
After every five levels you get a bonus of either a full energy bar or
football bar, just click on the relevant flashing icon to make your choice.

Hiscore:

If you get the highest recorded score, you are asked to enter your name,
when you have done so, press return and this will be saved. Before every
game, the highest score is displayed so you have something to aim for.

Options screen:

When the prog has loaded, an options screen will load.  To choose an option,
move the mouse up or down until the selected item is highlighted and press
the left mouse button.


Shareware notice:

SensiM2 is SHAREWARE, this means it can be freely copied and passed around, 
but if you have enjoyed playing it and intend to use it in the future, then
how about showing your appreciation by sending some money to the author.
This will go towards writing bigger and better stuff in the future and a
well earned holiday in Ibiza after my exams.

Send anything you can afford, but if it amounts to five quid or more then
I`ll reply with the best of my past stuff and the AMOS code to this game if
you want it.  The address is:

                               James Hall
                            1 Chequers Close
                              Buntingford
                                 Herts
                                SG9 9TB

I would also appreciate any comments/possible improvements on this game too.


PS. To any important software people that happen to be reading this:

I am available for easy but well paid work!