                  SENSIBLE SOCCER 1992/93 SEASON EDITION

                          NEW FEATURES AND RULES

                         Written By Ozzy/2OOO A.D.

The main additions to the original Sensible Soccer rule book are as follows:

                                   RULES

1. Back Pass Rule.
As in reall football, the goalkeeper can no longer handle the ball when you
pass or kick it back to him. In this situation the goalkeeper turns into a
normal player and you can move him around the pitch with the ball and kick
the ball in a similar way to all other outfield players. The goalkeeper
will still pick up the ball if thrown or headed back to him or if it comes
back to him as a result of your tackling another player, or if it last 
touched a member of the other team.

2. Red And Yellow Cards.
Sometimes a player will be issued with a yellow card if he commits a foul.
If the same player is issued two yellow cards in a match then he will be
dismissed from the field of play and be shown a red card. The player may
also be dismissed from play with the issuing of a red card following a 
professional foul giving the opposing team a free kick. A player will not
be dismissed for a professional foul if the foul takes place inside the 
penalty area.

3. Suspensions.
In all leagues, Cups and Specials players recieving red and yellow cards can
be banned from taking part in the next 1-3 tournament. The bans are as follows
1 yellow card                                      no ban
2 yellow cards                                     1 match ban
3 yellow cards                                     2 match ban
1 red card (Professional foul)                     2 match ban
1 yellow card and 1 red card (Professional foul)   3 match ban
As soon as a player's ban is lifted he can play on as normal, but you will
have to put him back in the starting line-up yourself before you go onto the
field.

                                 FEATURES

1. World Cup Qualifiers.
To select the gruop you want, just to load National Teams, select specials
and then move up to the 'World Cup Qualifiers' option before you press fire.
To select, move the joystick to the left or right to cycle through the gruops.
Ther are six gruops in all. In each gruop the first two teams qualify and 
each gruop is played as a straightforward league with each team playing twice
, 2 points for a win.

2. Starter's Custom Special.
Two new additions to Sensible Soccer are the Booby League and Turkey 
Tournament, found in the Custom Team Specials. Designed espicially for 
newcomers to the game, theese options consist of the most lightweight of
opposition on the offer. The booby League is a straight league of eight teams
who all play each other once. The Turkey Tournament is a sixteen-team 
tournament consisting of a two-legged first round knockout and the winners
go into two groups of four teams who all play each other once. The winners
of the two groups then play a one-legged final.

3. European Cup.

The European Cup special in Club teams now goes into two groups of four teams
after the second round matches have been completed. The teams play each other
twice in the groups in the groups and the winner of the twp groups then play
each other in a legged final.

                              HINTS AND TIPS
 
1. Players out of position are now more noticeably out of sorts. Try to only
   play defenders in defence, midfielders in midfield and forwards up front 
   and only put your goalie out on the pitch if you are really desperate.
2. Enjoy the game and don't forget to buy the next instalment of the 
   enthralling Sensible Soccer saga.