     THE SETTLERS - INSTRUCTIONS MANUAL             TYPED BY SHARD
     ==================================

Table Of Contents
-----------------

PREFACE

ON THE RIGHT PATH
 Computer Specifications
 The Settlers - Presentation
 Configuration
 Hard Disk Installation
 The Status Screen

TO GET STARTED
 Copy Protection
 The Main Menu
 The Game - The Commands
 The Map
 The Castle
 Constructing Buildings
 Constructing Roads
 The First Settlers
 Demolition
 Saving And Ending The Game

TRAINING
 Game 1 - Rural Property
 Game 2 - Construction Materials
 Game 3 - Food
 Game 4 - The Riches Of The Earth And There Exploitation
 Game 5 - Fabrication Of Tools And Weapons
 Game 6 - Attack

THE ECONOMY
 The Economic System
 Your First Colony (Village, City)
 About Statistics
    The First Statistics
    The Statistics Curves
    The Supply Statistics
 The Warehouses
 Information About The Buildings And The Flags
 The Distribution Menus

RULES OF COMBAT
 The Knight Returns

TO CONTINUE
 The Other Menus
 Messages And Preferences
 Renewable Games
 Demonstration And Team Mode
 The Options
 Special Functions For The Map

HINTS
 The Most Important Rules: Be Observant
 The Behaviours Of The Opponents
 Hints And Tips: Professions
 Need Help?
 The End Of The Game

ANNEXES
 If You Have A Problem


PREFACE
-------

Dear  Blue  Byte  client.  What you have in your hands is not simply a game
manual.   It  is  an adventure guide that will become an epic and that will
probably  lastingly  change your life in the coming months, along with your
attitude towards entertainment.

"The Settlers" is a program that you can play as often as you like and that
will teach you new things.

After playing for a few hours, you will agree with us when we say that this
game has no equal in terms of style or graphics.

For  the  first time, users can enter a world so complex, so detailed, that
they  will  literally  want  to  plunge themselves into the game.  With The
Settlers,  we  have  achieved  the  goal  that  programmers  have  set  for
themselves since the beginnings of video games:  create a new world for the
player,  where  the adventure never finishes and can continue, based on the
desires  of the players, to grow for years to come.  The text in the box is
very  clear:   if  you  have had enough of daily life and you would like to
forget  about it for a while, you no longer have to save up to buy yourself
a new State.  The Settlers will allow you to construct your own refuge, one
that you can modify and enlarge as you like.  We will be pleased if you can
find  the  peace  and  calm  in  your realm that is missing from your daily
existence.   In  fact,  we  are  sure  that vou will.  This manual has been
written to help you achieve this freedom; it will:
 
1.  allow you to install The Settlers on your computer.

2. familiarize you with the basic principals that ... (see 3)

3. you can apply and try for the first time

4. give you general information.

5. allow you to understand how the game functions.

6. teach you new things if necessary.

7. help you understand any areas that are not clear.

8. address  itself  to  users who want to know everything about the game,
   right down to the last detail.

At  the  end of this manual, we have included a troubleshooting guide along
with  an  index that will be extremely useful.  Don`t be intimidated by the
bulk  of information.  We have designed this manual to be cleat.  You don't
need  to  be  a  student  in  economics in order to understand it.  You can
always  find  the  information  you  need  The Settlers is a game that will
provide you with an enormous amount of pleasure and entertainment.

The Blue Byte team. October 1993.

ON THE RIGHT PATH
----------------- 

Computer specifications 

The  Settlers  requires  an  Amiga  or  an  IBM  PC will or compatible (386
minimum)  with  a hard disk.  As this program will exploit each computer to
the  best  of  its  capabllities,  you  do  not  have  to  worry about your
configuration,  especiaily if you are using a PC.  Based on your computer`s
memory  capacity, the program will automatically use this memory as needed.
If  you  have more than enough memory, the game will be even more enjoyable
to  play  because  you can play with the sound effects, music and other new
possibilities of the game.

The Settlers Presentation

Congratulations!   By  purchasing  The  Settlers, you have just acquired an
extraordinary  program  that  will  fully  exploit the capabilities of your
Amiga or PC.  This is true whether you are using an Amiga 500 with 1 MB, an
Amiga  4000  with  10  MB  and  a  hard drive, or a PC 386 or DX2 486.  The
Settlers  is  an "intelligent" program that thinks for you and a game where
you are not required to take care of everything yourself.

The  Settlers  is a "linear timing" program:  no matter what you do or what
calculations  are  made  by  the computer, the settlers will always work or
fight  at  the  same  speed.  This is a new feature that does not exist for
programs  as  complex  as  this  one.   You will decide where you want your
settlers  to  construct  buildings,  how  the  roads will be made, where to
search  for  raw  materials, and where they will attack the enemy.  You can
also  modify  numerous  parameters,  that will affect the behaviour of your
settlers.

The  computer  will  handle the execution of your decisions and it commands
your numerous settlers.  The men will build houses, cut down trees, work in
the  mines, construct weapons and tools, dispatch construction materials in
the places where they are needed, defend their castles against enemy knight
attacks, provide the miners with food, and many other things!

The Settlers will allow you to play in several ways:  alone, in teams or in
training mode.  Alone or in a team against the computer, alone or in a team
against opponents controlled by the computer that you have chosen yourself,
in  2 player mode and against opponents controlled by the computer, or just
with  players controlled by the computer in order to watch the world evolve
without you having to intervene.

The  goal  of the game is to build a prosperous and well organized city and
to  gain  control of the enemy cities.  This might initially seem simple to
do, but in reality it is much more complex.  If you consider all the game's
problems  inversely,  that  is  from  the  end  of  the game first you will
understand better.

In order to conquer the enemy castles, you will need many knights.  To keep
their  moral up, you will need gold, and for the weapons you will need iron
and  coal.   These  raw  materials  are  found in mines.  The mines must be
provided with food and the raw materials must be melted in a foundry

The  food supply is insured by the fishermen and the farmers, but they need
tools,  as do all other workers.  These tools are made by smiths.  To build
huts, houses, castles you will need construction materials and workers...
 
But  don't  worry.   you  won't have to remember all this for the moment;
everything  will  be  explained along the way.  We hope that you will enjoy
this game.

The Blue Byte team

Configuration

This paragraph concerns the Amiga version only.

The  program  will  try  to  use  all  the capabilities of your computer We
recommend  that  you  read the following paragraphs carefully to insure its
proper  functioning.   If you are not familiar with computers and the words
"Chipram" and "Fastram" don't mean anything to you do not read chapters 1.3
and 1.5.

a) General remarks about the configuration

Do  not  forget  that  any program already loaded when the game is launched
will  take  up  memory  space;  memory  space  that  might be needed by the
Settlers  game in order to run properly.  We recommend, therefore, that you
do  not  load  other programs into memory if you are going to use the game.
If  several  programs  are automatically loaded when the computer boots up,
use another startup sequence for The Settlers.

b) Configuration for 512 KB of Chipram or 1 MB of total memory only.

If  you have 1 MB of Chipram and at least 1.5 MB of RAM total, you can skip
this  paragraph.   The  program  uses  Chipram  memory for the screens, the
animation,  the  sound  effects  and the music.  If you have only 512 KB of
Chipram,  you  will have to sacrifice something; you will hear only part of
the  sound erects, and no music at all.  The sound effects are loaded based
on the available memory.  You can increase the available memory by:

disconnecting unnecessary disk drives

not activating the hard disk (if it contains Chipram)

avoiding to launch other programs

The  rest  of the available memory is used by the program for the data, the
scenery, and the graphics.  In order to use the scenarios with only 1 MB of
memory, we recommend that you reread the points mentioned above.

Hard disk installation

If you want to use the game from floppy disks, you can skip this paragraph.

PC:

WARNING!!!   Before  using  the original floppy disks,we recommend that you
make a backup copy of them.

1) Turn your computer on as usual

2) When  the system is operational, insert the first game disk into one of
   the drives

3) Enter the letter of this drive followed by a colon (;) and press the
   Return  key.   For the internal drive, for example, enter the letter a:.
   If you have a second drive, this is usually designated by the letter b:.

4) Enter the installation program's name (INSTALL), then press the
   RETURN key.

5) When  the  program has been launched, you will have to specify the path
   for  the  installation.   If you want to change the path proposed by the
   program  by  default,  enter  the  new  path and confirm by pressing the
   RETURN  key.   The  installation of the program will begin.  To quit the
   installation program before the end of the installation procedure, press
   the ESCAPE key.

6) When  the  installation program is finished, enter (SETTLERS) to launch
   the game.

AMIGA:

WARNING!!!   Before  using the original floppy disks, we recommend that you
make a backup copy of them.

1)  Start  up  your  AMIGA  as usual from the hard disk, When the Workbench
    screen  appears,  insert the first disk (with the installation program)
    into one of the drives.

2)  Open  the  disk  by  double  clicking  on its icon.  A window will open
    containing  other icons.  One of these icons, "Install", represents the
    installation program for Blue Byte games.

3)  Launch the installation program by double clicking on its icon.

4)  In  the installation program's window, you will see two dialogue boxes.
    Enter  the  name of the drive where the installation program is located
    in  the  upper  dialogue box.  This will normally be the internal drive
    "DF0"  and  this  is the drive indicated by the program by default.  If
    the  installation  floppy  disk is located on the external drive, enter
    the corresponding letter (DF1-DF3).  Confirm by pressing the RETURN key.

The  lower  dialogue  box  is only used for the target drive.  As this disk
normally  carries  the name "DHO:3", it is the drive selected by default If
you  want  to  install  the  program  in  another directory, enter the path
corresponding  to  your  configuration.   As  you  have  probably created a
special  folder for your games, you can also specify the directory in which
you want to install the game, for example:

dhO:games /bluebyte/

If the specified directory does not exist, it will be created automatically
by the installation program.

Status screen

As  the  PC  version  differs  in  terms  of the utilisation of the systems
capabilities,  PC  users can skip this chapter as the status screen will be
of  no  use  for  them.   When you launch the program, the status screen is
displayed.   It  will  tell you how the program is using your computer.  It
displays the following information:

1. Workbench
 
Indicates whether the workbench has been deactivated (which allows the user
to  free up memory), if the workbench has not been deactivated, if start up
programs have been loaded, or if the workbench has not been opened.

2. Program

Indicates  if  the  program is stored in Fastram.  If this is the case, the
program is much faster because it can work in tandem with the Blitter.

3. Data

Indicates,  as  for  the program, if the data is stored in Fastram (thereby
further increasing the speed of the program).

4. Sounds

Indicates  if  the  sound  effects  (none or a part) are loaded or not into
memory (based on the size of the Chipram memory available)

5. Music

If you have 1 MB of memory, the music must be loaded into memory.

6. The game worlds

The  number  indicates  the  maximum  size  of the game's world.  This will
depend  on  the  size  of  the  available  memory and can be limited by the
storage  device  (see  9)  or  the  processor  (see 8).  You will find more
precise information in the table at the end of this chapter.

7. Missions

You can undertake missions beginning with a size three world

8. Processor

Indicates the type of processor(s) installed in your Amiga.

9. Storage device

The  games are saved on hard disk or floppy disk, The size of a games world
is  limited  to  5  for floppy disks (size 7 represents 1.6 MB) Moreover, a
size 5 world is already immense.

If you play on a PC, do not worry about all this information.  As indicated
above,  your computer will load all necessary data into its memory based on
your system's configuration.

TO GET STARTED
--------------

Copy protection 

When  the  program  is launched, the computer will ask you to enter a code.
You  will  be  presented  with  16  different symbols.  For example, if the
program  asks  you which combination of symbols is found at the top of page
18,  look  on  the  page  in  question  and  click  with  the  mouse on the
corresponding  symbols  in  the correct order.  If you click on the correct
symbols, the program will continue.

The main menu

This  is  where  all  the  preliminary  parameters are displayed before the
launching  of  the game.  A maximum of 4 groups of settlers can participate
in  the  game.   A  group  of  settlers  is controlled by the player by the
computer or by two players working as a team.

To  choose a game mode, click on the second icon from the left.  The icon's
graphic and the text will indicate the game mode chosen among the following
modes:

Mission:   Orders fixed opponents controlled by the computer (1 player), or
2 players in a team, with blue settlers

Training:  Orders fixed for new players (1 or 2 players in a team with blue
settlers).

1  player:  Opponents that can be modified at will and game for 1 player or
2 players in a team with blue settlers.

2  players:   Opponents that can be modified at will and game for 2 players
against  each  other.  One of the players plays with the blue settlers, the
other with the red settlers.

Demo mode:  Here you are only an observer.  You watch the computer colonize
itself.

In  the lower half of the screen, you see the participants of the game.  In
the  left  part  of  the screen, you will see an image.  On this image, you
will  see  a friendly settlement (if this is the group of settlers that you
control) or a less friendly adversary (the computer).  If you do not see an
image,  this  group  of settlers does not exist in the game.  The different
opponents  controlled by the computer have their own personalities, and can
be  aggressive or reserved, ready to take risks or preoccupied by their own
security.   You will find further on indications concerning the personality
of  these  opponents.   On  the right side of the image, you will see three
bars having the colours of blue, green and red.  These indications are very
important.   The blue bar indicates the state of the stocks of a settlement
(city)  at  the  beginning  of  the  game.   A large stock allows for rapid
expansion  and procures ceriain advantages.  A small stock creates problems
when  the  city  begins to expand.  If you are a novice, make sure that the
blue  bar  is  always  above  the  50%  level.  The green bar indicates the
intelligence  level  of the players controlled by the computer.  This level
affects  the rapidity of their actions and reactions.  For the players, the
green  bar is always at its maximum (we assume that you are extraordinarily
intelligent....) and has no other signification.

The  red bar represents the growth rate.  The higher it is, the faster your
settlements  will  reproduce,  and the faster you can expand Novices should
try to keep this bar above the 50% level.

According to the game mode chosen, you can modify certain other parameters.
To start off, we recommend that you try the training game No1.

Mission:   You  will  see,  in  the middle of the screen, the current level
(beginning  1),  the  password  (at  the beginning "START") and two arrows.
When  you  accomplish a mission, the program will display the password that
allows  you  to  restart the game at the same level.  Click on the password
and  enter  the  new  password.   Do  not forget to press the Return key to
confirm.   If  the  password  is  incorrect,  the  message  "FALSE" will be
displayed.  If the password is correct, you will see the level to which you
will have access.

With  the  arrows displayed to the right of the password, you can return to
the  levels  already  completed.   You  can  also activate the team mode by
clicking  with  the  mouse  in  the left frame.  You will see two mice.  We
recommend that you do not try the mission orders right away.

Training game:  there is no password for training.  You can directly select
each available training game by using the arrows.  As for the missions, you
can activate the team mode by clicking with the mouse.

1  player, 2 players and demo mode:  You can modify numerous parameters for
these  game  modes.   The size of the world is displayed in the centre.  To
modify it, click on the small or the large planet.  Novices should probably
not  play  with  worlds with a size greater than 3, as they will be quickly
submerged  by  the train of events...  You can modify all data concerning a
group of settlers:

the blue bar for the state of the stocks

the  green  bar  for the intelligence (when the opponents are controlled by
the computer).

the red bar for the growth rate

the  button  to  activate  or  deactivate  the  opponents controlled by the
computer

the image of the adversary controlled by the computer, to choose another.

The  initial  data  is  chosen randomly.  If you are a novice, we recommend
that  you  change  the  parameters  to your advantage, especially where the
stocks are concerned, because a large stock is very important.  If you want
to  see  the  game in demo mode, you can increase the intelligence level of
the  players  controlled  by  the  computer,  but  reduce their stock.  The
combination  of  numbers displayed to the right is a randomly chosen number
for  the  creation  of  a  world.  This number decides the location for the
mountains,  lakes,  deserts,  forests,  etc.   in  this  world.   The  same
combination  of numbers will produce, therefore, the same world.  To change
worlds,  click  on  the icon to the left with the question mark and another
combination  of  numbers will immediately be chosen.  The icon remaining in
the  middle  of  the  screen  and  the  turning star, that you have perhaps
already noticed, will be explained in the following section.

In  1  player,  2  player, or demo mode, you will want to set the values of
each  participant  at  the  same  level.  In the middle of the frame to the
right,  you will see a small arrow.  Click on the icon and the data for the
player  (or  the adversary controlled by the computer), which is located to
the far right, will be the same for all the other participants.  The player
situated  furthermost to the right is always used, because the only players
that  have  modifiable  levels  of intelligence are those controlled by the
computer.

To  launch  the  game,  click on the "START" icon.  The screen will fade to
black  and  the  computer  will calculate the game's world.  A red bar will
inform you of the progression of the calculations.

To reload a previously saved game, select the "LOAD" option.  A few seconds
later  a  window  will  appear with a list of files saved on disk or floppy
disk.  If you want to change floppy disks, insert the new disk and click on
the  change  disk  icon.   Click  on the name of the saved game and then on
"load"  to load the game, or on "Exit" to cancel.  When a game is loaded, a
message  appears  on  the  screen to tell you if the loading procedure went
well  or  if  there  were any errors encountered.  Click on "Exit".  If the
game  was  correctly loaded a new screen will be displayed and you will see
all the opponents and all the values of the beginning of the game.  This is
important  if  you do not remember against whom you played, or the strength
of  your  opponents.  With the exception of the title, only the "Start" and
"Cancel"  icons  remain activated.  The "Start" icon allows you to continue
the  game, the "Cancel" icon to return to the main menu.  To quit the game,
click on the EXIT icon in the upper left corner of the screen.

The additional options icon is discussed in paragraph 6.5

The game - The commands

You can play alone or with two players, with all functions being identical.
The  only  differences  are  that in 2 player mode the screen is divided in
two,  the  image of the world is smaller and the icons are closer together.
As  no  additional explanation is generally required for the 2 player mode,
it  will  only  be  rarely discussed in the information that follow.  After
launching  the  game,  you  will  see  a  part  of the world on the screen:
perhaps  some  grass  with some trees or a lake.  To simplify explanaiions.
this  part  of  the  world will be called the "screen" from now on.  At the
bottom  of  the  screen  are  5  different  round icons that have different
functions.  They will be called the "Menu" from now on.

As  we  have  already mentioned, you will only see a part of a world on the
screen.   According  to the size of the screen, the world can range from 10
to 1200 times this size for giant worlds.  To move around in a world, press
the  right  mouse  button  and  drag it in the desired direction.  When you
arrive  at  the desired destination, release the mouse button.  Look at the
scenery for a moment.  You will see deserts, lakes, forests, mountains, and
many other things.

Perhaps  you  have noticed your pointer in the middle of the image when you
launched  the  game.   It  is  made  of  a central symbol and 6 surrounding
points.   You  position  this pointer where you want to activate one of the
game  options.   If,  for  example, you want to construct a house or a road
somewhere,  you  must  first place your pointer on this area.  To place the
pointer  on  the desired area, just click on the screen with the left mouse
button.   The  pointer's central icon, which is also displayed in the lower
left  of  the  menu,  will  probably  change.   We will discuss this in the
following paragraphs.

SPECIAL  CLICK:   further  on  in  this  manual, we will often use the term
"Special  Click".  This means that you do not click only on the left button
as  usual  but  you must additionally press the right button.  Therefore, a
click  on,  the  left  button  while  pressing the right button is called a
"special  click".   Why?   Certain functions in the game are very powerful!
For  exanmple,  an accidental click on the mouse could destroy an important
building.   This  special  click  is  more  over  often used for additional
functions.

The map

In  the  middle of the menu, you will see a "map" icon.  Click on this icon
with  the mouse.  A new window will appear above the games world.  You will
see  a  geographic map with different icons.  On this map, the prairies are
indicated  in  green,  the  deserts  in  yellow,  the lakes in blue and the
mountains  (according  to  their  height) in brown and white.  If you click
somewhere  on  the map, your screen will move to the corresponding area and
the  world and map will disappear.  Try clicking on a lake or a desert:  it
will  immediately appear on the screen.  You can similarly select a faraway
area  very quickly by scrolling through the world until you reach the area,
as explained in chapter 6

A  world  is  "endless"  which is to say that if you continue moving to the
left you will eventually return to your point of departure.  The world does
not  have,  therefore, any "edges".  You will understand this better if you
select  the  map again and click on the icon located next to the magnifying
glass  in  the lower right area.  You will see slanted and horizontal lines
that  define the size of the world.  For example if you have selected, size
3, you will notice that the world is represented 4 times on the map, and 16
times for a size 1 world.

The  different  sections  are  connected  to each other and this is why the
game's  terrain  has no limits.  The size 5 world will fit perfectly in the
map  section.   The size 8 world is enormous.  You will only see one eighth
of  the world on the map!  With size 3 and larger worlds, you can move both
the  map  and  the  screen:   press  the right mouse button and drag in the
desired  direction.   Do  not forget that this movement is not possible for
smaller worlds (as they adapt themselves to the section of the map),

With  the  magnifying  glass  icon,  you can zoom in on the map.  The other
icons  displayed  at  the  bottom  of  the  map are discussed further on in
paragraph  3,  because  it  is  first  of all necessary to have constructed
something to see their utility.

The castle

At  the beginning of the game, you begin by constructing your castle, which
will  serve  as  headquarters.   The area where you place this castle is of
utmost  importance  for  the rest of the game.  If you are a novice and you
have a large amount of stocks, you will not run into any immediate problems
and  the  location of the headquarters does not have an extreme importance.
However,  if  you  have  limited  stocks, a poorly placed castle can entail
fatal  consequences  if you should lack certain materials when the enemy is
already constructing weapons.  To illustrate the most important aspects, we
have   established  a  list  of  conditions  that  are  favourable  to  the
construction of your castle:

avoid narrow valleys in the mountains.  Look for a relatively flat area.

choose  an  area  with  raw  materiais that are close to the castle for the
construction of new houses (trees and grey granite)

choose a terrain that has a large amount of underground riches

The  first two points can easily be verified on the screen.  If there are a
few trees and some granite, and if the environment is not too inhospitable,
these  conditions  will be fulfilled.  The underground riches are also very
important.   The  underground  riches  are:  gold, iron.  coal and granite.
They  are  found only in the mountains.  To see how much underground riches
are in the zone displayed on the screen, you can ask the geologist who will
give  you  an  overall estimation of the area's riches.  The second icon to
the  left  on  the  menu  represents  the geologist.  Click on this icon to
obtain  the desired information.  You will know what riches are present and
where they are located, from top to bottom:  gold, iron, coal and granite.

All  the  values  do  not need to be at a maximum, but if there is no coal,
iron  or gold or only small quantities of the three, look for another area.
Click  on  the  Exit  icon  to  back  up  a  step.   The  importance of the
underground riches also depends on your strategy.  You will understand this
as you read this manual.  Often with the size 1 worlds, it is possible that
certain  riches  do  not  exist at all, or that there are no mountains (and
therefore  no  riches).   In this case, do not look desperately for another
area  and  forget  about the riches.  With the friendly geologist, you only
have  an  estimation of the riches in the area, but you do not know exactly
in  which mountains they are to be found, or if you are going to find them.
Your settlers will have to find them for themselves, later in the game.

You  have  at last found a good place to construct your castle.  The castle
is  a  large  structure that must be placed on a relatively flat and grassy
area.   To do this, click anywhere on the screen with the left mouse button
and  the  pointer  will be placed on this area.  if a castle appears in the
centre  of the pointer the choice of area has been good.  In the lower left
of  the menu you will see the "Construct a Castle" icon.  If, after several
tries,  you  have  not  found  an  area  to  construct your castle, use the
"Construction help" icon:  special click on the left menu icon (it does not
matter  what  is  displayed)  the  construction  help  function will become
active.   All  areas where a castle can be constructed will be indicated on
the  screen.   By  clicking  on  one  of  these  areas,  you will cause the
"Construct a castle" icon to be displayed in the lower left.  Click on this
symbol  and  your castle will be constructed in a few seconds.  A flag with
the  players  colour will be flown in front of the castle.  The castle will
be  the  only  building  that will be "freely" given to you.  All the other
houses  will  be  built  by  your settlers.  At a certain distance from the
castle  you will see a barrier of black and white poles, or of red posts in
the  water.  They indicate the limits of your property and, therefore where
you have the right to build other buildings.

The  geologist's help will be available to you only at the beginning of the
game.  Once your castle is built, you will have to manage by yourself.

Constructing buildings

You  have taken the first step.  Your castle has been constructed.  You can
now  have your settlers build other houses.  If you place your pointer some
where  within the limits around your castle, the central icon will tell you
the type of buildings that you can construt:

Two arrows:  you cannot construct here

Flag:  you can only place a flag here

Hut:   you  can  construct  any  of  the  different  types  of  huts (small
buildings)

Castle:  you have enough space for all the buildings

Mine:  you can build a mine (only in the mountains)

How  do  you decide which type of building can be built and where it can be
placed?

First  of  all, all buildings must be built on your land and there must not
be  trees  or  boulders  on the area.  All houses, huts and castles must be
built  on  a  green surface and the mines only in the mountains (but not in
the  snow).   The  type of building that can be constructed also depends on
the  slope  of  the  terrain.   For the large buildings, the ground must be
level:   their  construction  is  impossible  on  steep slopes.  If you are
looking  for  an  area  that  is  well  adapted  for  a large building, the
"Construction  help"  option will help you to avoid clicking all around the
screen  to  find  a good location, as we explained for the castle.  Special
click  on the left menu icon.  You will immediately see the areas where you
can  construct  a  building on the screen.  You can now choose an area.  To
deactivate  the  construction  help,  special  click again on the left menu
icon.
 
Depending  on  which  icon is in the centre of the pointer, you will also
see  other icons in the lower left of the menu:  "Place a flag", "Construct
a Hut", or "Construct a large building".  When you click on these options a
star  appears  above  the construction symbol in the menu, along with a new
window with a choice of buildings.  To construct a large building, you have
a  choice  among 20 buildings.  As they do not all fit into one window, you
can  scroll  through  them  by clicking on the "change page" icon.  All the
buildings  are discussed in more detail further on in this manual.  For the
moment,  chose  one of them and click on it to give the order to construct.
The  window disappears and you will see the first stone of the construction
or a cross on the screen.  The first stone means that a house will be built
in  this  place.   The  cross  has the same meaning, but the ground must be
levelled  first  so  that  it  can provide a solid foundation for the large
building that you have chosen.

If  you decide not to construct a building on the chosen area, click on the
turning  star  and quit the construction mode.  To transform a construction
site into a finished building, you must construct a road between the castle
and the site.  We will discuss this in the following paragraph.

Constructing Roads

The  settlers  need  roads  so  that they can access the different areas of
their city.  These roads always run from one flag to another.  Your network
of  roads  is very important.  A good network ensures the rapid transfer of
goods  and,  when there are problems with the transportation, allows you to
more  readily  find  other solutions.  The flags serve as intersections.  6
roads  can  begin  at each flag to lead to other flags.  There is a flag in
front of each one of your buildings.

In  the  beginning,  you  must construct a road when you want to build your
first  house.   You  will see a flag in front of the construction just like
the  flag in the front of your castle.  Click on one of the two flags and a
symbol  for the construction of roads will appear in the pointer and in the
lower  left of the menu.  Select the icon in the lower left of the menu.  A
turning star will appear and the pointer will contain two new symbols.  You
are now in "Road construction" mode.

The different symbols around the pointer have the following significations:

zone  hatched  in  red  and  yellow:   you  cannot  construct roads in this
direction

different  slope  symbols  that  range  from  red  (very  steep ascents and
descents)  to  green  (flat)  and passing by the yellow:  you can construct
roads in this direction.

Undo

If  you click on this icon, you destroy the last part of the road made.  If
you  click  on  one  of the slope icons and a part of the road appears, the
pointer  contains  new symbols.  Repeat this operation until the road meets
the  other  flag.   The  star  in the lower left disappears and the pointer
takes  its  initial  form.   The  road is constructed and you will quit the
construction mode.  The first settlers will begin to leave your castle.  Do
not worry about them for the moment.  We will discuss them in the following
paragraph.   The meaning of the different slope icons is very simple:  when
you  look  from left to right, the icon indicates the slope of the terrain:
a  rapid  ascent will be indicated for example, by a slope on the icon that
climbs  from  left  to right.  The colour is an additional help.  It allows
you  to  see at a glance the slope of a road.  Red indicates a steep slope,
yellow a moderate slope and green a flat terrain.  The flatter the terrain,
the  faster  the  merchandise can be distributed, because the settlers will
tire  much  more  quickly  on  slopes  than  on  flat  ground.  It is often
preferable  to  make  a small detour if you can avoid a red, or very steep,
slope.   Novices  will  not  have  to  worry too much about slopes.  If you
construct  a  road and then decide that you no longer want it, click on the
turning star.  You will quit the "road construction" mode and the road will
be erased.

If  you  want to branch off from an already existing road, you must place a
flag  on the road, Click on the desired area.  If it is possible to place a
flag  there, a flag will appear in the pointer and in the left of the menu.
If  it  is  not possible to place a flag there, use the "construction help"
function.  It is possible that placing another flag in a road is impossible
because there is already a flag on this road that is very short, right next
to  the  chosen  spot, or because there are trees in this spot.  If you can
create  a new intersection, you will see the "Place flag" icon in the menu.
Click on this icon to construct the new intersection.  You also can prolong
an  existing  road  or  complete  the  road  with  a  special click and, if
possible, a flag will be placed simultaneously.

You  can  also  construct  water ways.  Two flags must be on the banks of a
lake  for  a  water  way to be built, Construct a Water way between the two
flags  in  the usual fashion.  Do not forget to connect this water way with
your  network  of roads.  The water way serves as a guide for the navigator
who  will  use it later to transport merchandise It is clear that the other
settlers  cannot use a water way.  This is why the water ways are used only
for  the  transport  of merchandise and are not very important for novices.
When  constructing your roads, make sure that a road runs on the land OR on
the water, but not both at the same time!

The first settlers

When  the  road  leading to the first construction site is built, the first
settlers will begin to leave your castle.  This paragraph will explain what
they are doing.

The  first  settler  who  leaves the castle is a transporter.  He takes 100
steps  on the new road and looks and sees if there is some merchandise that
needs  to  be  transported.   As soon as he sees merchandise on the road to
transport, he will take it to the next flag.

At  the  beginning  of  the  game, you will have 20 settlers.  Some of them
already have jobs, others are waiting for jobs.

If you want to build a large building, a settler with a orange helmet and a
shovel (the leveler) will arrive and begin walking towards the construction
site.   Once  there,  he  will  begin  to  level  the  ground.  When he has
finished, the cross on the site will become the first stone and the settler
will return to the castle.

If  you  want  to  build  a  small building, a settler with a yellow helmet
(construction  worker) will arrive looking for his work area.  He will ihen
wait  for  the construction material to arrive so he can begin building the
house.

Another  settler  will distribute the construction material from the castle
to the construction site:  this will always be wood and, eventually, stones
(according  to what type of building is being built).  The transporter will
take   the  merchandise  and  carry  it  to  the  construction  site.   The
construction  worker  will  immediately begin working and soon you will see
scaffolding  and,  eventually, the building itself.  The small huts will be
built very quickly; a castle takes longer.

A  worker  returns  to the castle as soon as he finishes his job.  A worker
will  then arrive to start working in the new house.  The occupation of the
worker  who  moves  in depends on the type of house that you built for him.
The functions of each worker and of each building are explained further on.

If  you  construct a water way, a settler with a boat will leave the castle
and walk towards the new water way and wait for merchandise

You  do  not have to wait for the construction of your house to be finished
before  doing  other things.  You can give orders to construct other things
(houses, roads, etc.).

Your settlers will go about their tasks automatically, which is to say that
they  will  do  their  best  to  do  the  work with what they have at their
disposal.   This is true not only for the transporters and the construction
workers  that  we  just  saw, but also for all the people that you will see
later  on  in  the  game,  such as the forest rangers, the lumberjacks, the
carpenters,  the quarrymen, the miners, the fishermen, the farmers, the pig
farmers,  the millers, the bakers, the butchers, the different knights, the
casters, the locksmiths, the blacksmiths and the armorers.

Demolition

You  may  want  to  demolish  a  building, a road or a flag for a number of
reasons.   This  operation  is  discussed  in  this  paragraph.   To  avoid
demolishing  something  by inadveriently pressing a mouse button, a special
click is required when demolishing something.

Demolishing  buildings:   Click  on  the desired building.  The second menu
icon  from the left will transform into a ruin.  Special click on this ruin
to  set  the  building on fire and burn it down.  If a settler is living in
the building, he will return to the castle and wait for a new job.

Demolishing  roads:   Click anywhere on a road and the "demolish road" icon
will  appear  in  the menu.  Special click on this icon to remove the road.
The  transporters  that  worked  on this road will return to the castle and
wait  for a new work.  The other settlers on this road will run towards the
next flag and continue on their way.

Demolishing flags:  You can demolish a flag only if it does not belong to a
building  and if it is not yet connected to something else by a road, or if
there  are  exactly two roads leading to the flag.  The reasons are simple;
if one road leads to the flag, it would lead suddenly into nothing, whereas
three  or  more roads can intersect without needing a flag.  When there are
two  flags,  the  flag  can  be removed and the two roads will merge into a
single  road.   Click  on  the flag that you want to remove and a ruin will
appear in the menu (if the flag's demolition is possible).

New  construction:  If you want to Construct a new building in the place of
another,  you do not have to demolish the old building, wait for it to burn
down  and  then give the order to construct.  You can directly give the new
order  to  construct  in the desired location by placing the pointer on the
old  building  and  selecting  the  construction  function  as  usual.  For
security reasons, you will have to choose the building with a special click
to  avoid  accidentally destroying an important building.  The old building
will be burned down and you can order the construction of a new building.

Saving and ending the game

In  2  plaver mode these options can only be activated by the player on the
left.  Click on the right menu icon and new options will be displayed.  For
now do not pay attention to the upper icons, but only to the "SAVE" options
and "END" at the bottom of screen.

To  quit the current game, click on the "End" option.  The program will ask
you  to  confirm.   If you have been playing for more than one minute or if
you  have  not saved the game for more than one minute the program will ask
you to confirm a second time.  You will then return to the main menu.

The  "SAVE"  option  allows you to access the saved file menu.  The list of
saved  files will be displayed on the screen.  If you want to change floppy
disks,  insert the new and click NEXT on the "Change Disk" option.  To save
the  current  game, click on one of the 10 areas and then on the "New name"
option  to enter a new name.  You can also enter the date when the game was
saved  to  avoid  any  confusion.  If you want to save a game with the same
name  as  a  game  already  saved,  you don`t have to enter a new name.  Be
careful!   The game already saved will be erased by the new game.  Click on
the  SAVE  option  to  save the current game.  Always read the floppy disks
message  to  see  if  the  game has been correctly saved.  If you save onto
floppy disk, we recommend that you format several floppy disks and that you
put  labels  on  them before beginning to play.  We also recommend that you
save  the game onto two different floppy disks for additional security.  If
one of the floppy disks is defective, you will have only lost an hour or so
of the game.

If  you  want to load (save) from a floppy disk, insert the new floppy disk
and  click  on  the  change floppy disk icon.  The list of files on the new
floppy disk will be displayed.

Training
--------

You  now  know  the  game's  basic  principals and can begin with the first
training  games.   Each  building  will be explained to you and the program
will  tell  you  where  you should be careful.  Each training game contains
orders  that  will be specified in the instructions.  You can then play and
follow  the  game's  progression on the screen.  The paragraphs contain the
corresponding  explanations  and you will quickly learn how to play and the
game will become more interesting.

In  the  training  games,  you have a large stock that allows you to obtain
tools, food, construction materials and large quantities of settlers.

Do  not  hesitate to save training (or other) games from time to time.  If,
in the instructions for advanced players, you find some useful information,
you  can use the saved games (which already contain many buildings) to test
this  information.   When  certain  important  events  occur,  you  will be
directly  informed.   You  will  hear a noise and a small blinking piece of
paper  will  appear  in  the bottom left of the menu.  The different events
about  which  you  will  be  informed  will  be discussed in detail in this
manual.  If you click on the piece of paper, a message will be displayed on
the  screen  and  the  computer will move the screen to the place where the
event is taking place.  If you click on the hook in the window, the message
will disappear.

Game 1 - Rural Property

Guard huts, watch towers, castles and the geographic map.

Orders:   have  your  settlers  construct  a guard hut, a watch tower and a
castle.

Explanations:  After the beginning of a game, you will choose a location to
build  your castle.  You dont need to worry about the fertility of the soil
or  the  trees.   Give  the order to construct the 3 required buildings and
wait  (use  the  help  functions for construction if you cannot find a good
location  right  away).  For the watch tower and the castle, a leveler will
begin  by  levelling  the  ground.   You will have to have the construction
materials  transported.   While  the hut requires only one delivery of wood
and  stones the castle will require at least 10.  A second transporter will
leave the castle to help his colleague.  As soon as the guard hut is built,
a  knight  will  leave  your  castle in order to occupy it.  When the first
knight  arrives  in  a  guard  hut,  a  watch  tower or a castle your rural
property  will  grow.   Look and you will see its limits move.  So that you
will  be  informed  of  this  growih  (if you were looking elsewhere in the
world), you will hear a noise telling you that you have received a message.
Click  on  the  piece of paper and you will learn that another building has
been occupied by a knight.  Next, some gold will be brought to the hut, but
we  will  look at this a little later.  A white flag will be flown in front
of  the  guard hut.  Later, flags will also be flown on the watch tower and
on the castle towers.  These flags have the following significations:

The  flags  height  indicate  the  building's  occupation  rate.  A hut can
contain 3 knights, a watch tower 6 knights and a castle 12 knights.

-  the  icon  on  the  flag indicates the enemy's distance.  The white flag
signifies  that  there is no enemy colony and that you will not be attacked
in  the immediate future.  If, later, you play against opponents controlled
by the computer or another player, you will see other symbols.

When  the  enemy is closing in, a black stripe will appear on the flag and,
when  the  enemy approaches, the stripe changes to a black cross.  When the
enemy is right outside your door, the flag has a very thick black cross, In
the latter case, you will have to prepare for an attack.  Your settlers are
probably  still  in  the  process  of  constructing the watch tower and the
castle,  This  is  a  good time to familiarize yourself with the geographic
map.   Click  on  the  map icon and the map will be displayed.  Outside the
scenery,  you  will see several blue dots where your buildings (finished or
still  under  construction)  are  located.   To  better see the size of the
world,  click on the right icon under the map.  The left icon activates the
presentation mode in one of the 3 following modes:

scenery 
scenery + property 
property

Click  on this icon.  After the first click, the map's image changes just a
little.   Around the blue dots (your buildings), you will now see a surface
with  dots  that indicate the size of your property.  If you click again on
this  icon  the scenery disappears completely.  Only your property is still
displayed  in blue, and the buildings are represented by little white dots.
If  you  click  a third time on this icon, you will return to the mode that
you  started with.  If you are playing against other players or against the
computer,  their  property  will  be  hatched in their colour.  Return once
again  into  "Property"  mode  (in  which we no longer see the scenery) and
click on the second icon from the left.

You  will see your network of roads on the map.  It is not important to see
a  road  in  great  detail, but only to have a glimpse of it.  If you click
again on this icon, the roads will disappear

The  third  icon  from  the  right allows you to activate or deactivate the
buildings  on  the map.  Quit the map by clicking on the turning star.  The
map  allows  you to access two other special functions that we will discuss
further on.

Let's  see what your settlers are doing.  When the buildings are completed,
a  window will appear to let you know that the order was executed.  You can
now decide to continue your experiments or to move on to the next exercise.

Game 2 - Construction Materials

Forest House, a lumberjacks hut, a saw mill and a quarry

Order:   Fabricaie new construction materials, At least 5 units of wood and
5 units of stone.

Explanation:   This  time, you will have to watch the scenery very closely.
Choose  an  area  with  trees  and (especially) a few slabs of granite (the
large grey boulders) and place your headquarters next to it.

You  must  obtain  stones  and wood.  These materials are necessary for the
construction  of buildings and are generally the first things that you must
take  care  of  in  a  new  settlenment.  The stones come from the slabs of
granite that a worker will look for in a quarry.  The wood is a little more
complicated.   You  need  a lumberjack to cut down trees and a carpenter to
transform  the  trunks into boards.  The wood can then be used.  The forest
ranger  is  described  in this chapter because he is the one who plants the
new trees.

Place  a  lumberjack's  hut  near  the trees, preferably in the middle of a
snmall forest, and a quarry somewhere near the slabs of granite.
 
Look  for  an  appropriate  location  for  the saw mill (which is a large
building)  and  place  the forest house where there are not too many trees.
Connect  the  buildings with roads.  If you have done everything correctly,
your work is finished.  The rest will be done by your settlers!

They  will progressively build huts, level the ground for the saw mill, and
the workers will arrive after the construction.

The lumberjack will go to his hut and leave it a little while later to find
a  tree  to  cut down.  After cutting it down, he will lop off the branches
and bring the trunk to his hut.  He will then rest a while before returning
to  work.   A transporter will see the trunk and will come and take it.  As
your  sawmill  is  probably  still  under  construction  the  trunk will be
temporarily stored in the castle.

The  quarryman  will  climb  on  a  slab  of granite and hammer it with his
pickaxe  until  he extracts a few stones.  He will put them in front of his
hut  where, as for the lumberjack, a transporter will come and take them to
the castle (if the stones are not needed on a construction site)

The  forest  ranger  is  constantly  in  the process of planting new trees.
After  a  while,  the trees will grow and can then be cut down.  If you cut
the  trees  down  without planting new ones, you will quickly find yourself
confronted with a shortage of wood.  You can directly place a forest ranger
next  to  a lumberjack.  The two complement each other very well.  If there
is  no  lumberjack  next  to  the  forest  ranger, you will soon have a new
forest.

The  saw  mill will certainly be the last building to be completed as it is
the  largest  of  the four.  The carpenter will go to the saw mill and wait
for  the  tree trunks.  They will be brought from the castle or directly by
the  lumberjack.   He  will  cut them up and put the boards in front of the
mill.  These boards will be stored in the castle until they are used.

You would like to know how you can have regular supply of granite?  You can
plant  new  trees, but this does not work for stones However, even when you
have  used  all  the  slabs of granite there will still be some deposits of
these  extremely  hard  stones under the ground.  We will discuss the mines
later, in another scenario...

As  soon  as  you  have  fabricated  the materials asked for, you will have
accomplished your mission.

Scenario 3 - Food

Fisherman's  hut, farm, windmill, bakery, farm, butchers shop and pipes for
the construction of houses and roads.

Objective:   Fabricate  5 units of each of the following foods:  fish, meat
and bread

Explanation:   This  time,  you will need a lake for your fisherman that is
located close to the castle.  You will also need a large area for the farm,
so  that  the  farmer  can grow his wheat.  On the other hand, you will not
need any underground riches or other raw materials.

To allow your settlers to work during the following explanations, construct
the 6 required buildings:

the  farm  (a  large  building) preferably with a lot of free space, as the
farmer needs land to plant the wheat.

the fishermans hut, as close as possible to the lake.

the pigsty, the bakery, the butchers shop and the windmill in the locations
of your choice.

If  you  connect the buildings with roads, be careful not to build roads on
the  banks  of the lake because the fisherman will not stay on the roads as
he  does  not want to hinder the transportation of merchandise.  While your
settlers start to work, we will give you some details on the food.

You have 3 possibilities to make the foods:

the  simplest  method is by fishing.  A fisherman goes fishing and his fish
can  be  used  directly  as  food.  One drawback:  you need a lake and when
there  are  too  many fishermen on a little lake, it is quickly devoided of
fish.   As  long as there are fish, they will reproduce.  It is recommended
not to "over fish" if you want to continue fishing for a long time.

the  second method is by making bread.  The farmer grows the wheat When the
wheat is mature, it will be harvested and a transporter will take it to the
miller,  who  will  transform  it  into flour.  The sacks of flour are then
taken  to  the  baker  who will use them to make bread.  You will note that
this  method  requires much more patience, but its return is better and all
you will need is some farmland.

The  third  method  takes as much time as the previous method, but requires
less  space.   The  farmer will also provide the pig farmer with wheat, who
will then use it to feed his pigs.  When the pigs reproduce the farmer will
remove  a  pig from his farm.  It will be taken to the Butcher who will use
it to make meat.

But  what  is all this food for?  It is used in other places, the mines For
example,  to feed the miners who work in the mountains, They will strike if
they  don't  have  anything  to eat and will stop extracting raw materials.
The  miners  eat  fish, bread or meat.  You will therefore provide the food
that is easiest for you to fabricate.  Looking at the game once again, your
fisherman  is  already  in  action  and the other Buildings are still under
construction.   Be  patient:  cultivating wheat and raising pigs takes some
time.   Let's  use  this  occasion  to  look  at  some  useful  information
concerning  road construction.  This is not very important for your current
settlement, but it will be when you will have built 20 or more houses.

Take  a  look  at  your settlement.  There is often a lot of circulation in
front  of  the  castle.   Later  on,  when  you  have  constructed  several
buildings,  you  will have to place them strategically and build roads in a
practical  manner.   For  example,  the  transportation  of wheat on a road
between  the  farm  and  the  mill  that passes in front of the castle will
likely   slow  down  the  transportation  of  construction  materials.   We
recommend  that  you  group  all  related buildings together and to build a
system  of roadways that does not pass in front of the castle.  You can put
a  sawnmill  near a lumberjack's hut, for example, As you did not know this
when  you were building your city, the screen will show you what you should
not do.  It is also very important to have a good network of roads.

To  accomplish  this,  you  need to take several factors into account.  The
construction  of  an  additional  small  connecting  road  can considerably
improve  the  transportation  of  merchandise.  It is difficult to give you
precise  advice  about  this  because  each  method  has its advantages and
disadvantages.  The experience that you will acquire after a few games will
help you.  But we will nonetheless give you a few tips:

Avoid  dark  or  light red (steep slope) sections of road:  it is better to
make  a  detour  by  using two other road sections because:  the speed with
which  the  merchandise  is  transported  on  a  road always depends on the
SLOWEST section of the road.

Do  not clog up a flag's 6 possible branches with a road (that for example,
goes  only  halfway  around the flag).  You will otherwise have a hard time
enlarging  your  network  of  roads.   In  this  case  try  to  construct a
straighter road.

It  is  possibie to construct two parallel roads between two flags When one
of  the  roads  is  crowded,  the  other  one will be used to transport the
merchandise.  This solution is not necessary if you construct several cross
over  roads,  but  it is very imporiant to have a good network.  If certain
lanes  of transport are crowded and the merchandise begins to pile up, your
settlers  will  be  intelligent  enough  to  transport  the  merchandise on
another,  less  crowded,  road - as long as it exists.  The least efficient
type  of network is the one in the shape of a star beginning at the castle.
In  this  case,  all  merchandise  will be transported on one of the star's
branches  and  will  have to pass in front of the castie in order to access
another branch.  An efficient network is a "grided" network that looks like
a  piece  of  graph  paper.   There  are  many ways to go from one point to
another.   To  simplify  things:  construct several connections between the
buildings  and  your  city will grow more quickly and with less effort.  If
you  display  the roads on the map in "Property" mode, you will clearly see
the places where the "cross over" connections are missing.

Let's look at our game again and the men at work:
 
The  fisherman  sits on the bank of the lake and begins fishing Depending
on  the  number  of  fish  living  in  the  lake, he will fish more or less
rapidly.   He  might  not  catch  anything.  The fish are then taken to the
castle and stored (before the construction of a mine) to feed the miners.

the  farmer  spreads  his wheat seeds, lets them grow and then harvests the
wheat which is then taken to the windmill or to the pig farmer.

As  soon as the wheat is received, the miller will grind it and deliver the
flour in sacks to the baker.

The  baker kneads the dough and makes bread, A thick smoke pours out of his
chimney.

The  pig  farmer uses the farmer's wheat to feed his pigs, and he will soon
be able to sell some of the pigs to the butcher.

The butcher cuts up the meat and hangs it up for storage.

As  you  have  seen, the farmer provides the pig farmer and the miller with
wheat.   His  production  might at times be insufficient and he will not be
able to deliver his wheat to both of them, even though they are continually
awaiting  a new delivery.  In this case, demolish the farm or the windmill,
after  ensurtng  that  the  quantity  asked for will have been produced and
used.  Wait for all the foods to be fabricated before moving on to the next
game.

Scenario 4 - The riches of the earth and their exploitation

Gold mine, coal mine, iron mine, granite mine, gold foundry, iron foundry

Objective:   Search for the underground riches and find at least 5 units of
gold and of iron.

Explanation:   the  underground  riches are extracted from the mines in the
mountains.   Gold  and  raw  ores will be transported from the mines to the
foundries.   You  will then have iron and unrefined gold.  Iron is the most
important  raw  material because it will allow you to forge new weapons and
tools.   Gold  is  also  very  important because it raises the moral of the
knights.  When the knight think about their future fortune, they will fight
with  more vigour, Coal is also very important.  You will need coal for the
foundries  and to extract the gold and iron.  The blacksmith will also need
coal to forge the weapons.

Granite is the least important raw material.  However, if there are no more
slabs  of  granite on the surface, the situation could change and a granite
mine might become extremely important.  You will always need stones for all
the  large buildings.  As we have already explained the riches are found in
the  mountains.   Put  your headquarters in a mountainous region and do not
forget to ask for the geologists help.  Place your castle close to the area
where  you will find coal, iron AND gold.  Immediately construct guard huts
in  the  area  in  order to expand your rural property and prospect in more
mountains  to  find  underground  riches.   We can now move on to the first
geological prospections.  You must place a flag somewhere in the mountains.
Connect  this  flag  to the rest of the network and special click on it.  A
window with a few symbols will be displayed.  Disregard them all except for
the geologist's head, at the bottom.

Click  on  the  geologist  and  he  will  tell you that he has received his
mission  orders.   He  will  then leave the castle and head off towards the
mountains.   Once there, he will examine the ground and take a few samples.
If he finds any riches, he will jump for joy and plant a sign in the ground
to indicate what he has found.  This sign shows a small circle if there are
small  quantities  of  underground  riches  and  a  large  circle if he had
detected  a large quantity of underground riches.  The circle can be one of
several  colours:  yellow for gold, red for iron, black for coal, and light
grey for granite.  If the geologist does not find anything, he will plant a
blank  sign.  When he finds underground riches for the first time, you will
recieve a message, because you will not always be there to watch him work.

You  can send the geologist towards any flag (as long as it is connected to
the  network  of  roads)  and even towards the flags in front of buildings.
The geologist will examine the area and return home if he does not find any
mountains.   To accomplish the goal of your training mission, you must find
coal,  gold  and iron.  Do not hesitate to send several geologists into the
mountains  and  to  expand  your  property  by  constructing  guard huts if
underground riches are not nearby.  You have certainly noticed already that
the  guard  huts  cannot be constructed in the mountains.  You will have to
"surround"  the  large  mountains  with  guard  huts  if you want to find a
maximum of underground riches.

Begin  constructing a mine as soon as you have found a likely location.  As
soon  as  the mine is connected to the network of roads a mason will arrive
and go to work.

If  you  have  given  the  order  to  construct  at  least one mine for the
exploitation  of  gold,  one  for iron and one for coal, you must now begin
thinking  about building some foundries.  Select a location near the castle
and have your settlers construct the gold and iron foundries.

Your  settlers  will construct the mines and the foundries while the miners
are  looking  for  the  necessary  raw  materials.  They will be fed by the
castle.   the  raw  materials  that you find will be taken to the foundries
where  the  unrefined  gold  will be transformed into gold and the iron ore
into  iron.  As you don't need either of these raw materials for your city,
they  will  be  stored  in  the  castle.   We will give you some additional
information while the game progresses.

If  your  network  of roads has been poorly constructed, you will see it in
this  training scenario.  The mines will produce too many raw materials and
if  you  have  set up only one road (which will also be steep!) between the
mines and the foundries, you will have trouble with the merchandise.

Build  other roads if your settlers cannot transport these raw materials on
such  a  steep road.  You will see that the new roads will be used and that
the merchandise will get to its destination much more quickly.  Underground
riches  are,  naturally,  not unlimited.  When a deposit starts to run low,
the miner will find fewer raw materials.  The mine will become unproductive
because:   the  miners  that  work  in  the  mountains must be fed from the
valley.   You will receive a message as soon as a mine has been devoided of
raw  materials.   If  your  food stocks are also low, demolish the mine.  A
miner  who  doesn't receive food will strike and begin marching in front of
the mine to show his anger.

The  geologist's  signs will progressively disappear.  You can, however ask
for a prospection at any time to see if there are any remaining underground
riches in the areas surrounding a mine.

If  you  are  not  in  a hurry to build the mines, wait until the geologist
plants  several signs so that you can be sure to find a profitable deposit.
On  the  other  hand,  if  you are playing against other players or against
opponents  controlled  by  the  computer, you should construct the mines as
soon  as  you  think  a  deposit  might  exist  because each minute counts.
Naturally,  the  chances  of barking up the wrong tree are greater, and you
will  have  fewer  geologists and workers at your disposal.  If the program
denies  your  request  for  a geologist this means that you do not have any
more  workers  or  tools available.  You must, moreover, wait for 2 seconds
before  asking  for  another geologist.  We will discuss this topic further
on.   To  conclude,  here  is  a  tip  to  better  place  your flags in the
mountains.   When  you place a flag for a geologist, it is because you plan
to  construct  a  mine in this location later on.  If there are underground
riches,  click  on  the construction help function and choose a location to
build  your  mine  Next  place the flag next to this location, in the lower
right.   Later you will construct a mine next to the flag, and you will not
need  a  new  road  or  a  new  transporter and the mine will be built more
rapidly.

Scenario 5 - Making tools and weapons

Blacksmith, iron worker, Ship maker and warehouses

Objective:  Make at least 1O weapons, 1O tools and 5 boats.

Explanation  :   This game will allow you to see 5 new buildings.  You will
learn  how  to fabricate objects with the materials that you have extracted
in  the preceding chapter.  The blacksmith will fabricate weapons with iron
but  he  will also need coal.  The iron worker will make diverse tools from
wood and iron that will be used by the other settlers.  The ship maker only
needs  wood  to  construct his boats.  He is the least useful worker and is
generally  needed  only  in worlds containing large expanses of water.  The
warehouse  is the last building discussed in this chapter.  It will be used
to  store merchandise.  It is also the place where the workers wait for new
work  (as  at  the castle).  This is why the warehouse is, with the castle,
the most important building.

This time, you can choose a location without worrying about the richness of
the  ground because you already have the necessary materials stored in your
castle  at  the  beginning  of the game.  Choose any location that provides
enough space for several large buildings.

Construct  a  forge,  a  shop  for  the iron worker, a naval shipyard and a
warehouse.   While  the  men  are  working  we  will  give  you some useful
information.

The  shipmaker will receive wood and deliver the first boats shortly after.
The  workers  will  then  take  these  boats  to  the banks of the lake and
transport   their   merchandise   on   this  water  way.   This  method  of
transportation is often quicker than the land routes.

The  blacksmith  will  be supplied with coal and iron, He will forge swords
and  shields  that you will need for the knights that guard your castle and
attack  the  enemy.  The weapons will be delivered to the castle where each
new knight will be able to take what he needs.

The  iron  worker  will  receive  wood  and iron to make 9 different tools:
hammer,  saw,  hatchet,  shovel,  scythe,  pick,  fishing  pole  pliers and
butcher's  knife.   These tools will be delivered to the castle and used by
the  workers.   According  to  their  professions, they will need different
tools.  Some will not need any tools and others will need two:

the  leveler :  shovel 
the fisherman - fishing pole 
the butcher - butcher's knife 
the Farmer - scythe 
the lumberjack - hatchet 
the woodworker - saw 
the miner  -  pickaxe  
the quarryman - pickaxe 
construction worker - hammer 
the ship maker - hammer 
the geologist - hammer 
the iron worker - hammer and saw
the blacksmith - hammer and pliers

You  might  wonder  why  you  must  make  the  tools  when the workers will
automatically  leave the castle with their tools in hand.  It is because at
the  beginning  of  the  game,  you  have  a  certain stock of construction
materials,  food  and  tools.   For  the training scenarios you will have a
large  stock  to  start  off  with and will therefore not have to fabricate
tools or merchandise.  We will explain this in detail later on.

The  warehouse  is,  along  with  your  castle, the most important building
because  in  a  relatively  large  city,  the castle will quickly reach its
capacity  without  an  additional  warehouse.   As soon as the warehouse is
built,  a  settler will leave the castle and go to the warehouse.  You will
thereby  have  a  sort  of  "second castle".  If the expansion of your city
continues,  it will be difficult to control if you only have a castle.  The
workers  will  need too much time to go from the castle to the construction
site,  or  they will produce so much merchandise that it will start to pile
up on the road to the castle and the transporters will no longer be able to
do  their  job.   Evenly  distribute the warehouses to avoid all this.  The
warehouse offers practically all the same benefits as your castle:

When  you  receive  new men, they will be divided up between the castle and
the warehouse,

Useless  nmerchandise  was brought to the castle up until now.  It will now
be taken to the nearest warehouse thereby cutting down on return trips.

merchandise  (on  a construction site for example) will be ordered from the
nearest  warehouse having the required materials.  The distance to the site
will thereby be reduced.

A worker will no longer return to the castle after his work is finished but
will  go  to the nearest warehouse and wait for his next job.  The trip for
your workers to their worksite will therefore be reduced

If  a building requires the presence of a new worker, he will be hired from
the nearest warehouse.  His trip will thereby be shorter

These various points demonstrate that an even distribution of warehouses is
essential,  As  soon  as your warehouse is built you will receive a message
displaying the new warehouse.

Scenario 6 - Attack

objective:  The conquest of several enemy buildings

Explanation:  The objective of this scenario consists of conquering certain
buildings  with  your knights.  Click on the geographic map and examine the
locations  of  the  enemy's  buildings.   Choose your location close to the
enemy  so  that  you will not have to travel very far to attack.  Construct
several castles, watchtowers and guard huts around your castle.  While your
settlers are working (the castle is the largest building and needs the most
time to build), we will take a look at the knights.

There are 5 kinds of knights in the game, and they are all different and of
differing  strength.   When  you receive a new knight, he will start at the
lowest level.  He can, however, receive training in the castle (or later in
a  warehouse)  and  change levels.  A knight can also recieve training in a
guard  tower or in the castles, but he will progress very slowly as he will
have  to  work at the same time.  However, during his service (when he goes
onto duty in a castle or another building, for example) he will not improve
his  skills  if  he  sits  down  and  does  nothing  in the guard hut.  The
advantages  and  disadvantages  are clear:  if you leave the knights in the
castle, they will be well trained but your city will be poorly guarded.  If
you  send  your knights outside your buildings will be well guarded but the
enemy  will perhaps have more powerful knights that could pose problems for
you.   As  you have built several castles and guard huts, your knights will
rapidly go to them.  In this training scenario, however, your opponents are
still defenseless.  Don't worry though...

You  will  only attack castles, guard towers or guard huts belonging to the
enemy.  A knight must not attack a farmer or a fisherman.  When you attack,
your  knights  will leave their castles etc...  and march towards the enemy
buildings  where  they  will prepare for battle.  A knight will come out of
the enemy building and the combat will begin One of the two knights will be
victorious, After a while, either the attackers or the defending knights in
the  enemy building will be eliminated.  If there are no longer any knights
in  the  enemy building the attacker is victorious and will take control of
the  building.   The  frontiers of your city will be consequently modified.
The  eneny  will burn any other building that it can.  Such a defeat can be
devastating  for  a city, If, for example, your only coal mine or warehouse
is in flames, you will have problems.

When  you  have built your first huts and they are occupied by knights, you
will  see  flags  with a thick cross.  All guard huts that are located near
the  enemy's  territory  and  that can be targeted for attack are marked by
this  cross.   Special  click on any enemy building having a thick Cross on
its  flag.   A  new  window will appear allowing you to enter the number of
knights  that  will  attack  it.   The 4 numbers in the middle indicate the
number  of  available knights:  in the surrounding areas, far away, or very
far  away.   The  distance  is not an essential factor but the knights will
need more time to reach the enemy.  If all the numbers are zeros, there are
not enough knights in your buildings.  You should know that all the knights
that enter a castle cannot be sent into battle because some of them will be
needed to defend the castle should it be attacked by enemies.  Later on, we
will  explain  how you can influence the outcome of the combats.  Hold on a
little  and  launch  a new attack.  The two arrows will allow you to modify
the  number of knights that will attack the enemy.  Watch the battle to see
the eventual outcome.

If  you have sent all your available knights into combat, you cannot launch
other attacks.  You will see, however, other knights immediately leave your
castle  to replace those who have left for battle.  When you seize an enemy
building,  you  will  receive a message.  A little later, your victory over
the enemy will most likely be definitive

If  in  the course of a game, an enemy counter attacks and the knights meet
at  a  specific  place  you  can expect a furious combat because each enemy
knight  will be attacked.  We will see later how to send a troop of knights
off  to  intercept the enemy and how to efficiently defend a guard hut with
only  3  knights.  Lastly, a final point that does not directly concern the
knights,  but  rather  your  rural  property:   do  not construct buildings
(especially  large  ones,  because  of  the  long  delays)  near  the enemy
frontier.   For  example,  if  the enemy constructs a guard hut at the same
time  as  you near the frontier and he finishes before you do, the frontier
will  be  modified  and  you  will  have to burn down your construction.  A
castle  situated  near  the  frontier will be of no help to you because its
construction  will  take  much too long.  You can construct a guard hut and
try  to  finish  it  before  the  enemy  or place your buildings in a safer
location.   You  can naturally do the same thing to your enemy if he or she
had  the  bad  idea  of constructing a warehouse too close to the frontier.
This chapter, consecrated to the training scenarios, is now finished.

You  now know the basic principles of the game the different buildings, the
various  professions  and  merchandise,  you  know  how to prospect for the
underground  riches  and  attack the enemy.  We hope that you have begun to
enjoy  the  game  and  we  guarantee that it will provide you with hours of
entertainment  to come and that you will continually find new ways of doing
things  and  new  strategies.  The following chapters address themselves to
more experienced players who already know the game well.

Have Fun!

The Economy
-----------

The Economic System

From now on we will no longer give you precise instructions on how to solve
certain  levels,  just  explanations,  advise  and  many, many tips and new
ideas.   It  is  essential to know the economic context of each building to
rapidly ascertain its needs and its production.  Here is a brief summary:

The food chain:

.  production of fish, meat and bread to feed the miners.

The  fisherman  fishes  for  fish  that  can be eaten directly.  The farmer
plants  and  harvests  wheat  that is taken to the pig farmer who feeds his
pigs  with it, or ground by the miller in his windmill and transformed into
flour.   The  pigs reproduce and can be slaughtered.  The baker makes bread
with the flour.  In both cases, you will have food at your disposal.

Merchandise:

.  fabrication of tools, weapons, boats, gold and construction of buildings

The  tools weapons and boats will be stored in the warehouses The gold will
be  guarded  in  the  castle, the watchtowers and the guard huts.  The tool
maker  needs wood and iron.  The wood comes from the sawmill where the tree
trunks  furnished by the lumberjack are cut up.  The iron will be worked on
in  a  foundry.   The  caster  needs ore and coal for the forge.  These two
materials  are  extracted  from  the  miners.   To  fabricate  weapons, the
blacksmith  needs  iron and coal.  The ship maker needs wood for his boats.
For the construction of your buildings , you will need (in most cases) wood
and  granite.   The use of iron, coal and wood for the fabrication of tools
has already been discussed.  The granite is found either above ground, in a
quarry  or  in  a  mine.  The gold is refined by a goldsmith from unrefined
gold.   The  unrefined  gold  is extracted from the mines.  Did you get all
that?   What  follows  will  allow  you  to  better understand the numerous
factors that affect the game.

During  the  first  training scenarios you udubtedly thought that you could
possess  an  unlimited  number of settlements and merchandise, and that you
could  influence  the  games  progression All the parameters are defined so
that  you  will  have  no  difficulty in completeing the required missions.
More  experienced players will want to influence the games progression more
directly  and  know  everything  about  the  game, from the stocks at their
disposal to the production capacities.  All these aspects will be discussed
in the manual.

Your first large city

You  now  know  about all the buildings.  You should be able to find a good
location  for each building and choose the right time to build it.  A large
stock  will  allow you to build the little buildings first as you will have
enough  materials  to  expand  later  on.  If you have a small stock at the
beginning oF the game, however, be very cautious right from the beginning.

It  is  essential to build an "active" city.  To do this, you will need all
the  buildings  (except  for  rare  occasions).  Your stocks will not be as
important  as  in  the tratning scenarios.  You will be responsible for the
exploitation  of  the  necessary  raw  materials and buildings.  Choose the
first scenario.  You will play against a player controlled by the computer.
You  will  experience an exciting adventure.  Your level of intelllgence is
rather  low  and you do not have large stocks.  You will have to be careful
right  from  the  start  of  the  game.   We  will  tell you how to build a
functioning  city in the rest of this chapter.  Or you could try to build a
city all by yourself.

The  first thing to do is to find a good location for your castle.  We have
already  discussed  this  in  detail.   Try  to  expand your rural property
because  if  you  see  that  you  don`t  have  enough  space  when  you are
cultivating  your  land,  you  will  have to wait before annexing new land.
Place 2 or 4 guard huts near the frontier.  The construction of watchtowers
and  castles  requires  more  time and will slow down your expansion.  Take
everything  you  can  without having to go into combat.  Make sure that you
have  a  good  stock  of  construction  materials because you will have big
problems  if you cannot build the necessary buildings.  Place a lumberjack,
a sawmill and a quarrymans hut in appropriate locations.

After  comnpleting  these  three  tasks, the game will become more complex.
Depending  on  the  layout  of your land, you can do certain things that we
will  discuss  in  general terms.  As soon as possible, send the geologists
into  the  mountains.   Based  on  their  findings,  construct mines in the
appropriate  locations.   Construct  a  gold  or  iron  f a forge or a tool
factory  (based  on  the  underground  riches  found).   If you can rapidly
fabricate  weapons, you will have the advantage during combats.  As soon as
the  geologists start prospecting in the mountains, think about how you are
going  to  feed  the mine workers.  If there is a lake in the area, build a
fisherman's  hut.  The fish he catches can be stored before the first mines
are  built.   Meat  production and the fabrication of bread take some time.
When the castles wheat reserves (for the pigs and the windmill) run low you
will have to wait for a farmer to plant and harvest more wheat.  If no lake
is  in  the area build a farm as quickly as possible.  You will prefer meat
or bread depending on the situation.  If the enemies are still far away and
you  possess  a  lot of land, choose the bread.  Place windmills and bakers
close  to  the  farmlands.   The bread is the most productive food.  If you
dont have enough space, we recommend pig farming.  You will need one farmer
to  supply  the  pig  farmers with wheat.  Dont forget that the lumberjacks
will  cut down all the trees and that you might realize this too late.  Try
to plant trees as soon as possible by using the forest rangers.

If  the  region  contains  large  lakes, take advantage of the speed of the
waterways.  You will eventually need a shipmaker if you are short on boats.

Above  all,  do  not  forget  to  build  warehouses.   They  will alleviate
congestion on the roads and you will progress more rapidly.

The  guard towers and castles will be used essentially to protect important
buildings,  especially the warehouses.  Depending of the progression of the
game,  a  mine  or a tool maker could also be very important (especially if
you  only  have one of them!).  Place your castles in these areas and don`t
let the enemy destroy your economic system because of a small victory!

Watch  the  enemy closely!  Find a free moment in your schedule to see what
your  adversary  is doing.  Is he already in the process of making weapons?
How Far away is he?  Which lands should you occupy before the enemy annexes
them?   Which  locations  are  poorly  protected  where  an attack could be
successful?

Your  first  attempt  to  construct  a city with several huts and different
houses  will  perhaps  not be entirely satisfactory.  Don't be discouraged.
The  next  time,  you  will better plan your city and you will not make the
same  mistakes.  Experience will help you to resolve many problems Read the
following chapters while playing at the same time.

You will learn many new things in this way.

About statistics

The first statistics

The  statistics about a person, buildings and warehouses.  In this chapter,
we will look at these first statistics.  They will allow you to quickly get
an  idea  about  all  important  areas.   At the beginning of the game, the
statistics will not be very interesting:  you will, however have to look at
them  regularly  during the course of the game to see for example, when you
will be short on wood or food.  We will first of all look at the statistics
concerning people, buildings and warehouses.

To  see  the  statistics  click  on the second icon menu from the right.  8
other   icons  will  be  displayed.   Each  icon  corresponds  to  specific
statistics.   By  activating  one  icon  you can move from one statistic to
another and from one menu to another.  If you click on the middle icon, the
buildings'  statistics will be displayed.  They will indicate the number of
buildings  that  you  have  at  your disposal.  All the buildings cannot be
displayed  on one page and the bottom icon allows you to scroll through the
pages and see the other types of buildings.  If the number is followed by a
+  and another number, these buildings are still under construction.  2 + 1
means  therefore:   two  buildings  completed  and  one under construction.
These  statistics  will also allow you to foresee certain difficulties:  if
you  have, for example, 10 lumberjacks, they will cut down a large quantity
of  trees  and one sawmill will not be enough to cut all the wood.  To quit
the statistics and return to the 8 icons, click on "Exit."

Click  on  the  right  icon, in the centre.  You will see various heads and
numbers.   The  statistics  concern  your settlers.  Each head represents a
profession,  with  the  number  of persons practising this profession.  You
will  not  recognize  all  the  heads at the beginning but you will quickly
understand  their  signification.   The  head  with a question mark (in the
lower right) indicates the number of settlers that do not have a profession
yet.   A  good player will try (if the game's progression allows for it) to
have  a  minimum of unemployed settlers in order to increase production and
yield.   The  last  number in the lower right indicates the total number of
your  settlers.   To  quit  these statistics, click anywhere in the window.
Then click on the left icon in the centre.  These statistics represent your
stocks.   You will recognize the different types of merchandise more easiiy
than  the heads corresponding to the diverse professions.  These statistics
indicate  the  type  and quantity of merchandise stored in your warehouses.
The  merchandise  stored  in  the warehouses are not immediately important.
But  a  large stock of wood and stones is a good sign because you will have
enough  materials  for  your constructions projects.  On the other hand, if
you  have  a lot of iron ore in your warehouses, this means that you do not
have  an  iron  foundry or no coal, in your city.  You must always stay one
step ahead.

The statistic curves

The statistics of comparison and of production

These statistics will show you different values over a long period.

In  the  selection  of  statistics, click on the bottom icon in the centre.
You  will  see  the  comparison statistics, Above, the colour of the curves
corresponds  to  the  different players.  Your colour will be sky blue, the
same  as  your  settlers.  The scale to the right contains percentages that
range  from  0 to 100%, the scale at the bottom represents time.  The curve
changes  over time, from left to right.  The unit used is the hour (.5 hour
=  30 minutes).  You can choose the ditsplay mode for the statistics in the
lower  left of the screen:  upper left = overall comparison:  upper right =
comparison  of rural properties:  lower left = comparison of the buildings:
and  lower  right  =  combat power.  The comparison of the rural properties
will  only  indicate  the  size  of  your  land  compared  to  that of your
opponents.   The  buildings  will  be evaluated according to their size and
type,  and  not just according to their quantity.  The combat power depends
on the number, type, and motivation of your knights.  The overall omparison
allows  you  to obtain average curves based on these three values.  This is
not  all  however!   In  the  lower  right, you will see 4 other icons that
correspond  to  the time.  The 4 positions correspond to .5 hours, 2 hours,
10  hours and 50 (!) hours.  You will see that a large and energetic combat
between  different  groups  of  settlers  can  become  a  long and exciting
adventure...

These  statistics are the only way to obtain precise information about your
adversary.   You  will  know who has the most powerful army and who possess
the  most  land.   If  the curves rise very quickly at the beginning of the
game,  do not worry.  It is not an error, because the player who places his
castle  first  will  be  momentarily  the only person to possess land and a
building  (100%).   This has no imporiance for the progression of the game.
An  icon  will  moreover  allow  you  to  see the statistics concerning the
opponents  in  the  game.   To  see the production statistics, click on the
lower  left  icon.  They will indicate the type and quantity of merchandise
produced  by  your  settlers.   The  scale  to the right corresponds to the
quantity,  in  units.   The horizontal scale represents the time.  In these
statistics,  the  time  counted is around 2 hours.  At the beginning of the
game,  these  statistics  will  be  at zero (you have not produced anything
yet).   Later  on  however,  you can choose at the bottom of the screen the
merchantise that your settlers produce.  From trees to tools, you will find
all the different types of merchantise.  If you have, for example, selected
the  trees at the bottom and the red surface of the vertical scale stays at
1, this means that your lumberjacks will cut down around 1 tree per minute.
This  might seem rather uninteresting, but you will progressively learn how
to  better  interpret  these  statistics.   For  example, if the tree curve
descends,  there will soon be no more trees to cut down.  As this statistic
is  very  important,  look  at it from time to time.  It will save you from
being   unpleasantly  surprised.   These  production  curves  are  moreover
"smoothed" to be clear and more readable.

The supply statistics

The food chain, the merchandise, the statistics about the professions.

In  these  3  statistics,  small  pointers  will indicate the state of your
supply.   The  food  chain  and  the  merchantise  are  the  most important
statistics if your city is relatively large.

Lets  begin  with the statistics about the professions.  Click on the upper
right  icon.  As with the statistics for the settlers all the heads will be
displayed,  but  with  pointers.   The pointers will indicate the number of
settlers  that  you  can  use for the corrsponding profession.  If none are
available,  the  pointer will stay in the red.  It will be in the centre if
you  have  3  settlers,  and  to the right if you have 20 or more settlers.
Before  building a forge, look at the statistics.  If the pointer is in the
red  part  and  you need a blacksmith, no settler is available.  Perhaps no
worker  is  available  or  the tooIs that he needs are not available in the
warehouses.  The number in the lower right indicates the number of settlers
who  are  waiting  for  work.   If  this  number  is  10  or greater, and a
profession  pointer  is in the red, this means that you lack tools for this
profession.  We will explain how to better control the fabrication of tools
later  on.   Certain  professions  do  not pose any problems as they do not
require the use of any tools (bakers or transporters).

Let's look the food chain.  You will see a diagram with heads, merchandise,
pointers  and  arrows.  Each head represents a profession.  The merchandise
is  delivered  by one profession to another profession, in the direction of
the  arrow.  The diagram is presented as follows:  the farmer (in the upper
right)  delivers  the  wheat  to the miller and the pig farmer.  The miller
delivers  the  flour to the baker who, in turn delivers the bread.  The pig
farmer  delivers  pigs to the butcher who delivers the meat.  The fisherman
(in  the lower left) delivers the fish.  The bread, meat and fish are the 3
foods  that  will  be  delivered to the 4 types of mines.  The pointers are
special in this diagram.  There are two types:

The supply pointer (for the Farmer or the miners for example)

The  dial is, from left to right:  red (no supply) yellow (good supply) and
green   (excellent   supply).   This  dial  indicates  the  supply  of  the
professions:   the  more merchandise they receive, the better off they are.
The pig farmer prefers having a lot of wheat to feed his pigs rather than a
meagre, or non existent, supply.

The activity pointer (for the miller or butcher for example)

This dial is, from left to right:  red (no work), green (a lot of work) and
yellow (too much work).  This means that the ideal situation for the person
receiving  the  merchandise  is to receive neither too much nor too little.
If  the  miller does not receive enough wheat, he will have no work and his
windmiil  will  be  useless.  If he receives a normal delivery, his mill is
active  and  he  will  be busy.  If he receives too much wheat, however, he
will  not be able to keep up with the work.  The mill will turn constantly,
but  the  wheat will arrive too quickly and will begin to pile up.  After a
while,  you  will  have  to  put this surplus in a warehouse.  if you build
another  windmill, you can produce more flour.  Later when you will have 10
millers  you  will  be  able  to  see the average activity rate for all the
windmills.   These  statistics  will  indicate  potential  problems and the
buildings  that  need  to  be  built  along  with  the  buildings  that are
functionally  normal.   you will see if the mines are well supplied, and if
the  pig  farmer  is recieveing enough wheat to feed his pigs.  Chapter 6.1
will  explain  how you can influence the delivery of merchandise.  Don`t be
surprised  if  you  dont see a pointer at the beginning of the game, as the
food supply for a mine cannot be indicated if it does not exist.

Merchandise

These  statistics  are  identical  to  those  for  food,  except  that they
represent  all merchandise except for food.  The suppliers of raw materiaIs
are  indicated  to  the left (miners, lumberjacks and quarry workers).  The
intermediate  professions  are  in the centre (workers at the Forge and the
mill).   The  users  are  to the right (knights, blacksmiths, iron workers,
ship  makers  and  masons).   The  arrows  indicate  the  direction  of the
delivery,  as  explained  above.  The other function as for the food chain.
The only difference is that certain professions (casters, blacksmiths, iron
workers  and  masons)  cannot  do  anything if there is iron but no coal...
These statistics will also help you to foresee any difficulties.

The Warehouses

You  already  know how to build a warehouse.  But there are also other ways
of recieving information about the warehouses and of giving orders.  If you
special  click  on  a  warehouse (if there are none use a castle), a window
will  appear  indicating  the  state  of  the  stock in this warehouse.  By
changing  the  page  with  the arrow, you will see the settlers that are in
this warehouse.  The third page contains two having different symbols.  The
upper  icon  concerns the merchandise, the lower icon concerns the settlers
located  in this warehouse.  The hook can be located in three places.  Look
at  the  merchandise  first  in  the beginning the hook is at the top.  The
merchandise  will  be  stored  in  this warehouse.  When the hook is in the
middle, no more merchandise can be stored in the warehouse:  it can only be
delivered.  When the hook is at the bottom the warehouse will be emptied of
its merchandise and nothing else can be stored there.  For the settlers the
signification  is  practically  the same:  when the hook is at the top they
must  go  to  the  warehouse  after  work.  If it is in the middle no other
settler  will  be  accepted.   If it is at the bottom all the settlers must
leave the warehouse.  You can determine the state of the warehouse.  With a
special  click  you  can  activate  the  two lower options.  What are these
options  for?  If the enemy approaches your warehouse and you can no longer
defend  your  position,  you  will lose all your merchandise in the ensuing
fire.   Only  certain settlers will be able to escape.  You will have to be
able to retreat and fight if you want to minimize your losses.  Dont forget
that  you will need time to empty a warehouse or evacuate the settlers.  If
you fight back too late when retreating, you will save only a few settlers.
The  warehouses  are, moreover crucial for your economy.  If a warehouse no
longer accepts merchandise or settlers the others will be overstocked.  The
evacuation  of  the  merchandise  and settlers will have a negative effect.
Think  before  deciding if it is better to retreat and fight.  Do not build
your warehouses too close to the enemy, or protect them with casties.  If a
warehouse appears not to be safe, stop the reception of merchandise in time
so  that you dont accumulate it for no reason, and to be able to save it in
time.

You  will  sometimes  have problems when the unemployed settlers are in the
warehouse and the weapons and tools are stored elsewhere In this case, your
settlers  will  automatically go to a warehouse where tools are stocked and
wait  there  for  work.  You will have similar problems with the tools when
the  pliers  are  in a warehouse and the hammers in another.  No blacksmith
can  set  up  shop,  as  he needs both tools.  This holds true for the iron
worker  (saw  and  hammer) and for the knights (sword and shield).  In this
situation,  the  tools and weapons will automatically be taken to the other
warehouse.

Information concerning the buildings and the flags

The  statistics  will  give you an overview of your total development.  You
might,  at  certain  times, want to know specific things about the state of
the  stock  in  a  particular  building  etc...  You will see the available
information for the buildings.  This information is always activated with a
special click.
  
If  you  special click on a construction site, you will see the building
that  you  are in the process of building, questions like "Where am I going
to  place  my  windmill?"  Or  "I don't remember where I built the farm....
become extraneous because they don't carry much importance at the beginning
of  the  construction  phase,  and  you can therefore forget about what you
wanted  to  construct  and where.  Special click on one of your mines.  You
will  immediately  see  the  mine's yield.  The calculation will be made in
function  of  the  number  of  trips  the  miners  made into the mine (with
merchandise).   Remember  that it will require several trips into the mines
before  you  can  use  this  information.   It is useful essentially in the
future  demolition of these mines, because if a mine no longer has a yield,
the  miner  will  eat  the  food  (which  can become rare, depending on the
progression of the game) that will be needed in other mines.  You will also
see  the  food  stock  that  a mine has at its disposal.  As the miner will
accept  fish  as  well  as bread or meat, this quantity is indicated by the
meat  icon,  If nothing is indicated, there is no food in this mine and the
miner  will strike.  If you special click on the castle, a guard tower or a
guard hut, you can see the position of your knights.  Most importantly, you
will see the strength of the castle to be defended.

As  for the mines, you will also see the state of the stocks, but this time
it  concerns  the gold.  The guard huts receive a maximum of two units, the
guard  towers  can  receive  a  maximum  of  four units and the castles can
receive a maximum of eight units.

You will see the state of the stock for all of the following buildings:

Naval shipyard   (wood)
Sawmill          (tree trunks)
Farm land        (wheat)
Butcher's shop   (pigs)
Mill             (wheat)
Baker            (flour)
Iron foundry     (iron ore and coal)
Gold foundry     (unrefined gold and coal)
Forge            (iron and coal)
Iron worker      (iron and wood)

You  will  not have to learn all that by heart.  It just means that all the
buildings  need  merchandise.   The woodcutter huts, the forest houses, the
fishermen  huts,  the huts for the quarrymen and farmers do not provide the
same  information  because  they deliver merchandise, they don't require or
store  any.   You  will  also  know  if  a  settler is already working in a
building.   To  conclude,  special  click  on  any  intersection.  You have
already  seen  the geologist's window.  In the upper section you will see a
flag.   In each direction, when a road branches out from the flag, you will
see  a  hook  or a line.  If everything is normal, you will see a hook.  If
you  click on a flag where large quantities of merchandise to distribute in
this  direction,  but  the settlers cannot get by, and the traffic jam will
disappear  after they have distributed all the merchandise that is blocking
the  road.   You  are not required to immediate alleviate a traffic jam but
you  can  find  other  solutions  so  that  the settlers can distribute the
merchandise  by  making a detour.  In locations that are often busy, take a
close  look  at  the  network  of  roads and think about constructing a new
warehouse.   Do  not  wait  until  several  flags  are  blocked  up  by the
merchandise.

Furthermore,  you can construct a road that passes directly in front of the
flag with a special function.  An extra icon will be available when this is
possible.

This  chapter  covered  how to obtain a multitude of information about your
city.   You  learned  how  to access to the various informative statistics.
Foresee  eventual  problems,  or  simply  to  watch  the  evolution of your
kingdom.   In  this game, observing and learning are two important factors.
If  you expand and construct without understanding what is happening around
you, you will not achieve your objectives.

The distribution menus

In  the  next 3 chapters, we will discuss the menus in detail.  These menus
allow  you  to  modify various parameters and to influence the life of your
city.   To  activate  the  menus,  click  on  the  lower icon.  As with the
statistics,  you  may  activate  several  menus  and  return  to  the  main
selection.

In  each menu, a Default button allows you to reset all the parameters back
to zero.

The  first  3  menus  are  distribution  menus  for merchandise.  There are
several  types of merchandise (food, wood, iron, coal and wheat) which will
be  delivered  to  the different professions.  The tree trunks will only be
delivered  to  the  sawmills, but iron will be delivered to the blacksmiths
and ironworkers.  Your iron stock will sometimes be low.  and you will want
to  fabrtcate  weapons  rather  than tools, and vice versa.  You can modify
these parameters in the distribution menus.

Click  on the top left icon.  You will see the different foods displayed at
the  top  of  the  scrcen,  with the mine below, each with a "supply bar",.
These  bars show the food supply received by each mine.  If you have a very
small stock of food and you want to supply the iron and coal mines in order
to  continue  fabricating weapons, lower the supply bar for the other mines
to  zero (Left), and raise the supply bar of the iron and coal mines to the
maximum (right).

The  second menu allows you to organize the wood and iron deliveries.  Wood
is used for construction sites, tools and boats.  If you have a ship maker,
stop  delivering  wood  to  him  if  you  don`t  want  him to construct any
unnecessary  boats.  You will need more wood for the two other professions.
The  iron  will be delivered to the blacksmith and iron worker.  If you are
short  of iron, priorities will be established according to your evaluation
of the situation and the condition of your stocks.
 
The  third  distribution  menu  concerns  coal and wheat.  The coal will be
delivered   to   the   foundries  and  the  blacksmiths.   There  too,  the
distribution will depend on the situation of the game.  If you are short of
coal, decrease deliveries to the gold foundry.  The wheat will be delivered
to the pigsties and the farms.  Your preferences will depend upon your city
and your plan of distribution.

If  you  set  one  of the parameters at zero, the type of building selected
will  not  receive  any  merchandise.   If  a  bar is two times longer then
another  one, it means that the building receives twice as much merchandise
as  the  other one.  But your settlers are also thinking a lot too.  If the
merchandise  is  very rare, they will only deliver it to the most important
building  concerned.   If the stock is somewhat higher, they will deliver a
small amount of merchandise to the other buildings.  If your stock is large
enough, they will also deliver to the less important buildings.

Rules of Combat
---------------

The Knight Menus

Two menus allow you to modify various parameters for the knights.  Click on
the  lower  left  icon  in  the menu, A new window will be displayed with 4
icons on the left, and 2 texts relating to each icon.  The left image shows
the castles in various positions based on their distance from the frontier:

-  on  the  front  line:   your castles, watchtowers and guard huts located
right  on  the frontier with the enemy are indicated by a thick black cross
on their flag.

-  on  second  line:   The  castles,  etc...   located behind the front are
indicated by a normal black cross on their flag.

-  on  third  line:  The castles, etc...  located far from the frontier are
not treatened directly.  Their flag bears a black stroke.

-  in  the  hinterland:   The enemy is not visible, and the castles flag is
white.

In  each  case,  you will have to decide how many knights will be placed in
these  buildings  (castles,  watchtowers  and  guard  huts).   The  optimal
occupation  rate  will  be  indicated  next to the 4 images.  The buildings
located  on  the  front  line  should  be full, the ones on the second line
should  be  well  occupied, the ones on the third line moderately full, and
the  Castles in the hinterland should be rather empty.  Your buildings will
thus be better protected, and you will avoid a situation where most of your
knights  are  located  in  the hinterlands, while there is only one in your
castle  located  on  the front line.  The second word indicates the maximum
acceptable drop of the occupation rate of the building should you decide to
use  knights to attack the enemy:  "good" for the front liner "average" for
behind  the  front,  "weak"  for  the  third  line  and  "minimum"  for the
hinterland.

Here  are  some  examples:   if  you  read "Full/good", this means that all
buildings  must  be  occupied  to  the  maximum.  If your troops attack the
enemy,  you will only send out a few knights, keeping enough of them inside
to  maintain  a  "good"  occupation  rate.  If you choose "full/ Full", the
knights  will occupy the buildings equally, and none of them will leave for
this  attack.   Your front line will thus be protected to the maximum.  But
in this case, the knights remaining in remote buildings will need more time
to  get  to  the  front  line,  as  the  road  to  travel  is longer.  With
"full/minimum", settings, all knights will leave the building to attack the
enemy, except one.  Of course, this means that your building will be poorly
guarded.   You  can  use  such  settings  for  the buildings located in the
hinterland if you have many knights available.  This will allow you to have
more  knights  available  in the event of an attack.  But don't forget that
your knights will be better trained if, they, stay inside the building...

Do  not  use settings that could be too straining.  If you dont have enough
knights,  your  guard  huts, etc...  will be too empty sooner or later.  To
change  these  settings,  click  on  the  + and - signs.  The upper setting
(ideal  number  of  knights) logically cannot be smaller than the following
one  (number  of remaining knights), Change the second setting.  It is very
imporiant  to  IMMEDIATELY  change  these  paranmeters.   If you change the
occupation rate setting from "full" to "minimum." in the castles located on
the  front line, all your knights will leave, except one.  Think first, and
click  later.  When your knights leave the castle to attack the enemy, they
will  immediately be replaced by new knights coming from the warehouses, as
long as there are knights waiting for a job there.

The  second  knight menu will allow you to change several other parameters.
Click  on  the lower central icon.  The "knights rate" will be displayed in
the  upper  left corner of the screen.  The default rate is 30% and you can
modify  it  as you like.  This rate shows the number of settlers that could
become  knights,  provided that you have enough swords and shields.  If you
choose  a  medium  setting  (bar in the middle), half of your settlers will
become  knights.   If you set the bar to the left, you will not receive any
knights.

The  lower  icons  allow you to directly recruit unemployed workers to form
new  knights.  The number of settlers available for recruiting is displayed
to  the  right.   This  number  depends  mostly  on  the  number of weapons
available in your warehouses, But you also need enough unemployed settlers,
of  course.   Another icon allows you to choose the knights who will attack
the  enemy.   With the default settings, the weaker knights will attack the
enemy, while the stronger ones will stay in defence.  But you can also send
the  stronger  ones  on  attack  and  keep  the  weak  ones  to defend your
buildings.   Both options have advantages and drawbacks.  But it is usually
better  to send the weaker knights in combat and to maintain a good defence
in  your castles.  You will decide which strategy is the best.  An icon, to
the  right,  allows you to organize your knights relief.  When you click on
this  icon,  one  or  more  knights will leave your castles, etc...  if the
occupation  rate  is  high enough (as explained earlier) and will go to the
closest  warehouses.  New knights will replace them.  The advantage of this
is  that  the weakest knighs will go back to the warehouses to receive some
more training, while the stronger ones will take their place.  When you use
this option you must consider the following factors:

If  you  fear  an attack in the upcoming minutes, wait.  You will prevent a
sudden drop in the occupation rate of your buildings during a short moment.

Make sure you have enough well trained knights in your warehouses.  If not,
changing the settings is not useful.

Your knights' strength depends not only on their training level but also on
the amount of gold stored in their city.  Your knights strength will always
be the same when they are defending, but it will depend on their motivation
during combats.  They will be very motivated if your city shelters a lot of
gold.   At  the  beginning  of the game, it is extremely difficult to win a
battle.  You did not extract any gold yet, and your knights are not trained
enough.  If you want to stand a chance to win, the ratio must be 4:1.  Your
loses will of course be higher than your opponent's, and you must carefully
choose  the place of the attack.  If your attack allows you to take control
over  an  enemy  gold mine or his (or her) only food producing building, it
can be profitable even if you suffer heavy losses, because:

The ememy will suffer heavy damage

The  enemy  knights  will be weak at the beginning of the game, and it will
also be very hard for them to recapture their lost territory.

As  soon  as  you have enough gold, your knights will be stronger, and they
will  be  better  in  attack  than  in  defence.  You can then consider the
complete  destruction  of your enemies.  But be careful if you play against
several opponents.

You  can know the motivation level of the enemy knights in the attack menu.
Each gold unit stocked in a castler a watchtower or a guard hut will have a
positive  effect.   While  transported, the gold is not considered as being
stored somewhere.

You  have  probably  already noticed that the attack menu displays not only
the  combat  strength, but also the total number of goId units owned by the
player.   The  number  of  knights defending the castle is displayed at the
bottom  of  the  screen.   You  can  change  this number by clicking on the
arrows.  If you think that your situation is hopeless, you can click on the
white flag to quit the game.
 
You  can  also attack an enemy castle.  But don't forget that the enemy may
have  left  more  knights  than  usual  in  his castle.  If you conquer the
castle,  it  will be burned down, just like the warehouses, the winner will
strike a decisive blow on his opponent, causing him to lose the merchandise
and  settlers that were in the castle.  Futhermore, your knights moral will
strengthen,  while the enemy knights are really down.  If you think you can
easily  conquer  a  castle,  launch  an attack.  But if you loose a castle,
don't  give  up.  If enough well trained knights are available, you can win
the battle, but it will not be a piece of cake!

The  attack  menu  allows you to specify the number of knights remaining in
the  castle  to  defend  it.  Don't forget that the castle is important not
only  for  your  troops'  moral,  but also because it is the only warehouse
directly  protected by knights, and thus much safer than the warehouses you
constructed later in the game.

To Continue
-----------

The Other Menus

Tool fabrication, merchandise priorities and evacuation menu 

In the menu, click on the central left icon.  The 9 different tools will be
displayed  with  a  bar  showing  the  number of tools manufactured by your
workers.   The  default  settings are as follows:  high rate of hammers and
picks,  low  rate  for scythes and pliers.  Masons, geologists, blacksmiths
and  iron  workers need hammers but scythes are only needed by the farmers.
You  can modify the tool fabrication rate during the game.  For example, if
you  urgently  need  a  specific tool (you may have enough hammers, but you
need  pliers for a new blacksmith), you can speed up the manufacturing rate
for  the pliers while reducing that rate for the other tools.  Don't forget
to  change  these  settings  later  on in the game.  The length of the bars
shows the number of manufactured tools.  If the hammer bar is twice as long
as  the  saw  bar this means that your workers will manufacture two hammers
for each saw.  But as long as you don't have a blacksmith, this menu is not
useful.   If  you  want  to  avoid  having to set priorities for the tools,
manufacture  as  many  tools as possible and as soon as you can.  This will
allow to more easily control the warehouse statistics.

Click  on  the  central  icon to open the merchandise priorities menu.  You
will  see  a list of merchandise and icons.  This menu allows you to define
priorities  for  merchandise:  some of them will be transported in priority
by  your  transporters.   The  wood  is  the  first priority in the default
settings,  because  it is very important for construction works and must be
delivered  as  soon  as  possible  to the sawmills.  Gold, inversely, has a
lower  priority  level:   even  if  it  strengthens  your troops moral, its
transporiation is less urgent; and this will have no negative effect on the
game.   But  you may also have your very own idea, and you can change these
priority  settings.   Click  on  the desired merchandise.  The small arrows
allow  you to lower or raise the priority level, the large one to place the
merchandise  directly at the top or bottom of the priority list.  The upper
left  icon  allows  you  to  return  to  the  initial settings.  If you are
fighting  against  the  enemy,  weapons  should generally be transported in
priority,  before  construction materials.  The choice of the best strategy
is up to you.

The  most  important  menu  allows  you  to  evacuate  merchandise,  and is
activated by the central right icon:  If the enemy gets too close to one of
your  warehouses  and you decide to evacuate it, it would be a pity to save
more  wheat  than  gold.   In  this  menu,  you  will decide the evacuation
priority   of  the  merchandise.   This  option  works  like  the  delivery
priorities menu.

Messages and preferences

During  the  game,  you will always know what the important events are with
the messages displayed by the program.  But you can also use these messages
for playing the game.  This chapter is related to the various messages sent
during the game.

You will receive a message for the following events:

A  new guard building is occupied for the first time by a knight.  You will
thus annex new territories and will be able to plan your city's expansion.

A new warehouse has been constructed.

A geologist discovered new underground riches.

A  mine  yields  no more ore and must be demolished as it consumes food for
nothing

You are attacked.

You conquered an enemy guard building and gained new territories.

One of your buildings has been taken over by the enemy.

The enemy placed a hut near your territory, and you lost some land.

Same as above, but you lost land and one or more buildings.

The  construction  materials stock in your castle is too low.  An emergency
program  is  started,  and the only construction works to recieve materiais
will be the woodcutter huts, the sawmills and the quarries.

The  emergency  program  is stopped, the construction works mentioned above
have been provided with materials, and their delivery has been carried on.

You don't need to read all the messages when they arrive.  The program will
memorize  more than 50 of them for you, so you wil have time to finish what
you are currency doing, if for example you are creating new routes, To view
a  message,  click  on  the  hook  in the window.  If the message displayed
doesn't  interest  you  and there are some more, click on the sheet to view
the  next  message.   An arrow also allows you to come back to the previous
message.

"THE  SETTLERS"  also  includes  other  options.  For example, you can send
yourself  a  message.   How?   The message will be delayed for several good
reasons,  This  option  is in fact a "recall" option, and you can use it in
two ways:

a) It allows you to be called to a certain place after a specific length of
time.

b)  It  allows  you to be called in a menu or a warehouse after a spacified
length  of  time.  The different watches allow you to specify the length of
time  with  brackets  of  5,  10, 20, 30 or 60 minutes.  When this time has
expired,  you will receive a message and you will be automatically recalled
to  the  desired pIace or menu.  Here are a few examples on how to use this
option:

You  urgently  need  a  certain  type  of  tool and you decide to halt tthe
manufacture  of other tools with the production menu.  But if you forget to
change   the   production   settings  later  on,  no  other  tool  will  be
manufactured,  and  you  can  easily  foresee the consequences.  Click on a
watch  in  the tools menu.  After the specified length of time, you will be
informed that you still have something to do in this menu.

Your mine workers are on strike and you urgently need food.  You can modify
the  delivery priorities for the merchandise.  Fish, meat and bread will be
delivered  in  priority,  before  the  construction materials, But when the
problem  is  resolved,  the  recall  option  will  allow  you to change the
settings again and set new priorities.

You  want  to build new huts for fishermen in a certain place, but you have
not  yet annexed the land, and the guard huts are still under construction.
Specify the desired length of time after which you will be recalled to this
place.  The situation may be different later on,

You  realize  that the enemy is suddenly constructing many castles, and you
want  to  keep  an eye on him.  You just have to precise the length of time
after  which  you  will  be  recalled  to  a  certain  place to see how the
situation evolved.

It  is  sometimes useful to use the recall option if you want to change the
merchandisc all and/or settlers settings again later on in the game,

You  must also consider this:  if you play in team mode with another player
(blue  settlers),  the  right player on the screen may not use the watches,
and all the messages also arrive to the left player.  But you're playing in
team, right?

Renewable games

Back to the main menu.  In 1 & 2 player mode and in demo mode, an icon will
be  displayed  in  the  centre of the screen.  We did not discuss this icon
earlier  in  this manual.  As you already know, the 16 digit number affects
the  world's  appearance.   Thus,  the same number always produces the same
world.   If  you  click on this icon, the same combination will be used for
your  opponents.   The  turning  star at the bottom of the screen indicates
that  the world AND your opponents are derived from the same combination of
digits.

What  is  the  real  advantage  of  this?   For example, say you choose the
6355174823325876  combination  and a size 4 world.  At the end of the game,
if  you consider that it was interesting and challenging, you can give that
combination  and  the  world size to a friend.  He will be able to play the
same  game  using  the  arrow icon, because the world AND opponents data is
always based on the digits combination and the world's size.

The  16  digits (between 1 and 8) allow about 270,000 billion combinations,
but some are not interesting.  Examine carefully your opponent's abilities,
and  decide  if  you  want to accept this game or not.  If you want to play
another  game,  click  on  the arrow to obtain a new combination, and click
again  on the bottom arrow.  You can do this as many times as you want.  If
another  player gave you a combination, click on the dialogue box and enter
the  combination,  which  must include 16 digits.  Don't forget to note the
world  size  and  the  combination  if you want to pass the game to another
player

If you find a fantastic combination, please feel free to send it to us here
at Blue Byte, we also like to colonize, when we have some rare free time.

Demo and team mode

In  demo  mode, you can watch a game entirely controlled by the computerer.
Even  if  you  only  watch the game, "THE SETTLERS", is an entertaining and
interesting  game, In demo mode, the statistics, the menus, the map and the
usual  buildings  information are available like in a normal game.  You may
change  some  menus  and  statistics  options,  but  you  cannot change the
settings or construct buildings or roads.

Relax and watch the opponents fight for the control of the land,

The  team  mode  has  been  developed  to  allow 2 players to play together
against  computer  controlled  opponents.  As both players control the same
settlers group (the blue ones), the scenarios are identical.  Team play has
an  adyantage:   you  will haye more time to think and decide, But there is
also a drawback:  you might experience some coordination problems from time
to  time...   In  team  mode, the game is slightly different.  Both players
CANNOT   activate   the   menus,   the  attack  option  and  the  geologist
simultaneously.   But  this  is  not  a real constraint, as the players are
supposed to inform each other of any change in the settings.

The Options

Experienced  players  want  to  rapidly activate the options and avoid long
mouse  controls.  "THE SETTLERS" allows you to define several extra options
for  each player.  These options are activated when clicking on the icon on
the main menu or the play menu.

You  can  toggle  the music on or off with the corresponding icon.  You can
also  assign  the  sound  effects to 2 different channels when playing in 2
player  mode.   The  left  player  will hear sound on the left channel, the
right  player  on  the  right  channel.   In  that  case,  no music will be
available in the game.

Messages: the game includes 4 different message display modes

3) All messages are displayed.

2)  All  messages  are  displayed,  except  the  messages  concerning newly
constructed buildings and geologists.

1)  Only  important  messages  are  displayed (attacks, victories, defeats,
building losses and emergency program).

0) No message displayed.

Scrolling  when  building  roads:  if you get close to the edge of the play
screen  while  building a road, the world will scroll automatically and you
will hear a sound,

Fast construction click:  If you click twice on the pointer, this will have
the  same  result than clicking on the construction icon.  Click twice on a
flag to build a road, or on an empty place to construct a building.

Fast map click:  Double click on the right mouse button to display the map.
Double  click  again to close it.  If your right mouse button does not work
properly,  do  not  use  this  function, you could activate the map display
while trying to scroll the playscreen.

Special functions for the map

The  map  includes  a special option:  display the map and special click on
the  buildings  icon.  A new window with buildings will be displayed.  This
window is identical to the statistics window,

The  change  page  icon  allows  you  to  see  the other buildings Choose a
building and click on it.  The buildings will disappear and the map will be
displayed

A  new  icon  is  displayed at the bottom of the screen.  The map will only
display the selected building.  This option allows you to quickly see where
your  warehouses, etc...  are located.  In very large worlds this option is
very  useful.   The  buildings  currently  under  construction will also be
displayed  for  your convenience, allowing a better planning.  For example,
if you look for the right spot to place a new baker, you can see where your
windmills  are  located.   When  you  close  the  map,  the option is still
activated,  and  the  selected buildings will still be displayed on the map
when reactivated.

To  return to normal mode, click "normally" on the icon.  To select another
type of building, special click again.

You  can also use the flag to select the type of buildings displayed on the
map.   Click on the flag.  A new icon will be displayed below the map.  But
all  flags  will  not  be  displayed, only the ones where all roads are not
used.  This allows you to see where your network is jammed by the transport
of merchandise.  Also, when a road is not used, there might be two reasons:

No  worker has arrived on this road.  Or you just built it, and you have to
wait a while.  Or you do not have enough workers.

There  has  been  a  traffic  jam at this crossroad (read the corresponding
chapter  in  this manual).  With this option, you can immediately see where
the transportation of merchandise is posing problems.

Another  special  option  will soon be essential for playing the game:  the
magnifying glass icon, next to the map icon, which allows you to zoom in on
the game map,

Hints
-----

The most important rules: be observant

You  have  already  understood that "THE SETTLERS", is a very special game.
As  soon as you change one of the settings.  your settlers (small groups or
hundreds  of  them)  will  act  differently  in  order  to  follow your new
instructions.   A  small  change may have profound effects.  It is wiser to
carefully  plan  your  construction  schedule and your strategy, instead of
building  things  haphazardly  and  constantly attacking your enemies.  You
should  examine  the  situation  carefully  and  analyze it before making a
decision.   The winner of the game is not the one who clicks quicker on the
icons,  it's the one who develops the best tactics and strategies.  In this
chapterr we will give you some more hints to play the game.

Look  at  your  statistics  from  time  to  time,  analyze your development
mistakes  or  the  negative  results  of  an  operation,  and find the best
solution.    You  can  solve  a  problem  in  many  ways.   Let's  take  an
example:your  construction  works  are  halted  because your wood supply is
exhausted.   Your  analysis  could  be  as  follows:   first  you take into
consideration  the  number  of  woodcutters  chopping  down trees, then you
construct a new sawmill if enough carpenters are available.

In  case  of  a  grave  crisis,  demolish a few roads to reduce merchandise
deliveries  to certain areas in your city.  Some workers are using the wood
needed  for  your construction works?  Reduce deliveries to the ship makers
or iron workers wood until the crisis is over.  Do you have enough tools to
allow  this, or do you have more urgent problem to solve in this area?  Bow
will  you  do  to  have a sufficient stock of wood rapidly enough?  Did you
train  enough  forest  rangers?   Will you be able to solve the crisis more
rapidly  by  cutting the trees down in a new forest?  If there is no forest
around,  a new guard hut will allow you to annex new lands if you need one.
Several  factors  play  an  important role in the game, and you will always
find new tasks in "THE SETTLERS", because each game is different.

Carefully  examine  your  opponent's  territory  to  determine  what  he is
preparing and his leyel of strength.  Determine his weak points so that you
will  be  able  to attack him.  Bas he built only one iron mine, which will
allow  you  to  deprive him of his raw materials?  Is one of his warehouses
easy  to take, or lacking food, and can you interrupt the production of the
enemy?   The  problems  posed  by  a  city are the same for your opponents.
There are several ways to freeze up his economy.

Depending  on  the  size of the world, the number of settlers is limited to
the following number (sizes 1-8):

500/1000/2000/4000/8000/16000/32000/64000.

4  players,  for  example,  face  off  in  a size 5 world will each recieve
additional settlers, fairly distributed.  The birth rate does not influence
the  total  number  of  settlers controlled by each player, but only on the
frequency at which new settlers arrive.

The behaviours of your opponents

Adversaries  have  very different behaviours, as you will notice during the
various  events.   Here  is a brief presentation of the principal character
types:

1) Lady Amalie
An inoffensive lady, reserved, who goes about her work peacefully,

2) Kumnpy Onefinger
A very hostile character, who loves gold above all else.

3) Balduin, a former monk
A  very discrete character, who worries chiefly about the protection of his
lands and his important buildings.

4) Frollin
His  unpredictable  behaviour  will  always  take  you by surprise, He will
"pilfer" away lands that are not occupied.

5) Kallina 
She  is  a  fighter  who attempts to block the enemy`s food supply by using
strategic tactics,

6) Rasparuk the druid 
His  tactics  consist  in  amassing  large  stocks  of raw materials But he
attacks slyly.

7) Count Aldaba
Protect  your  warehouses  well, because he is aggressive and knows exactly
where he must attack.

8) The King Rolph VII
He  is  a  prudent  ruler  without any particular weakness.  He will try to
check the supply of construction materials of his adversaries.

9) Homen Doublehorn
He is the most aggressive enemy.  Watch your buildings carefully, otherwise
he might take you by surprise.

10) Sollok the Joker
A  sly  and  repugnant  adversary,  he  will  try to stop the supply of raw
materials of his enemies right from the beginning of the game.

Hints and tips: professions

This  chapter  contains  other  tips  concerning the choice of location for
buildings.

Demolition:   when  you  demolish  a  road,  you interrupt the transport of
merchandise  passing  in this direction.  Try to figure out a way to always
leave  a  road.   and  do  not  destroy the only important connecting road.
Merchandise  has  to wait for the arrival of a new transporter before being
transported  on  a  new road.  Any modification of your network affects the
transportation  of merchandise.  Construct therefore, right from the start,
a well organized network.

Castle:   you  already  know how to choose a good location for your castle,
but  observe  also  the  positions of your opponents castles.  Do not place
yourself  too  close  to a powerful adversary.  The opponents controlled bv
the   computer   can   fight  among  themselves  and  consequently  destroy
themselves.

Large buildings:  the land for the construction of large buildings is rare,
and consequently, expensive.  Do not construct huts and small roads on land
where you could construct a larger building.

Ship  maker:  For the large lakes, a short cut by using a water way is very
efficient to quickly transport merchandise.

Fishermen:   A  lake  that is as big as the game screen will contain enough
fish  for 3 or 4 fishermen.  Make sure that the fishermen are spread out on
the  lake.   If they all fish in the same spot they will finish by catching
nothing.

Farmer:   he needs unoccupied lands in order to transform them into fields.
The  roads  cannot be considered as unoccupied lands.  Do not construct too
many  roads  around  a farm.  To avoid the farmer losing time travelling to
losing time travelling to his fields, do not have him use steep roads.

Miller  and  baker:  One miller and one baker are enough for several farms.
But  make  sure  that the roads used for transporting their merchandise are
not too long.

Butcher:   he  works quickly and in spite of his deliveries to the farmers,
he generally does not have any problems with his work.

Lumberjack  and  forest ranger:  they complement each other perfectly.  The
forest  ranger  can  replace  the  trees  cut down after the passing of the
lumberjack.  Wood is the raw material with the highest demand.  Use several
lumberjacks  and  forest rangers.  The forest rangers cannot plant trees on
the  roads.   Do  not place them, therefore, in the general vicinity of the
castle   or  near  the  warehouses  that  require  several  roads  for  the
transportation  of  merchandise.   Place  them  a  little way away, even in
places  that  are  not  perfectly  flat  and  that cannot be used for other
things.

Miller:   One  miller  is sufficient for several lumberjacks.  But you will
have to quickly construct several sawmills.

Ship maker:  Make sure that the ship maker does not use up all your wood to
build  a  fleet of boats.  As soon as he has finished his work, do not give
him any more wood.

Miner:   If  he can no longer find anything, burn the mine down so you will
not  have to feed him.  In the mountains, construct a network of roads with
numerous  branches  to  facilitate  the  transport  of raw materials to the
valley.

Caster:   The  cast takes a little while and the caster cannot cast the ore
of  several  mines fast enough without falling behind.  But he will be able
to  catch up as soon as the deliveries slow down.  Depending on the size of
his backlog, you can hold back on new constructions.

Geologist:   When the geologists return home after their prospections, they
will  stay  in  the  warehouses without anything to do.  From time to time,
send  them  back  in the mountains to look for new underground riches.  You
might discover a new vein of gold that you had missed before.

How  do the settlers choose the road on which to transport the merchandise?
It  is  a  rather complicated procedure.  It is important to know where the
merchandise  is  needed.   A  mill  can  be very close and contains a of of
wheat,  even  though the stock of another mill that is further away will be
dried  up.   Moreover,  certain merchandise is distributed according to the
menu  parameters.   When  a destination has been found for the merchandise,
the  settlers  take the shorter route.  The essential element is the number
of  roads  that  the  merchandise  will  have to pass by:  a very long road
between  two  flags  is  faster  than a shorter voyage with an intermediate
flag.   The  player  has,  therefore,  a  great  advantage,  because he can
influence  the  choice  of  road chosen for the transportation.  Here is an
example:

You have placed a flag on each side of a warehouse and a road to connect it
to  your  network.  All merchandise that must transit through the warehouse
is already keeping the crossroad very busy, and the merchandise transported
from  one  flag  to  the other, and in both directions, blocks traffic even
more.   On  the  other hand, if you create a new connection between the two
flags  (even  if  it  makes  an  apparent detour around the wanehouse), the
traffic  will no longer pass in front of the warehouse, but by the new road
that  allows  you  to  avoid  it.   This  principle allows you to construct
complex  networks  around  important warehouses or castles, which, in turn,
allows  you  to transport merchandise more rapidly.  Do not forget that any
construction,  demolition and transformation of road initially has negative
effects on the transportation of merchandise.  It is only when the settlers
will be adapted to the new situation that the transporiation of merchandise
will  proceed  normally.   Your workers will often have to cross over enemy
land  to  cut  downtrees  or  harvest  wheat.   In  the mines, you can take
advantage of this situation and steal underground riches from the enemy.

Other loading options

If  you  know  the  CLI  for  the  Amiga,  you  can launch the program with
different options:

-f: Save/Load to Floppy

The  files  will be loaded and saved from the floppy disk drive.  If you do
not   use   the  -f  parameter,  the  files  will  be  saved  in  the  "THE
SETTLERS\save\", directory.

-s: Single player

The  game is limited to one player.  This option is useful if you only have
512 KB of RAM.  If you play alone and if you want to use the memory for the
sound  effects.   The game for 2 players in a team is not available if this
option is activated.

-mx: Force mapsize x

X  is  a number between 1 and 8.  It indicates the size of the games world.
The  program  has  a  size  3 world by default, because this is the size of
world used for the training scenarios.

-n: Force NTSC

If  your  system  is  in the PAL standard, the screen will be in NTSC mode.
You  will  thereby  save memory (the screen is smaller) and the program can
load more sound effects if you haye more than 512 KB of RAM.

-q: quickgrafix disabled

The  rapid  graphics  (that are reserved tor computers having 1 MB or more)
take  the  priority  over  the  music.   This option allows you to give the
priority  to  the music.  If there is any space remaining, the program will
use the rapid graphics.

Need Help?

During  the  game,  you  can  sometimes  find  yourself  in  a "no way out"
situation.   For  example,  if  you  have lumberjacks but no more wood, the
construction  of a lumberjack's hut can pose a serious problem.  All is not
yet  lost,  however,  because you can always send your knights into combat.
If  you  do not have any stocks at the beginning of the game, you might end
up quickly lacking materials.  If you do not watch your production closely,
you  will  see  that you lack one unit of wood for the sawmill too late....
and you will have to restart at zero.

To  avoid  this,  an  "emergency program" is placed at the beginning of the
game.   This  program  is,  in  fact, a reserve of 2 units of granite and 7
units of wood that allow you to construct a lumberjack's hut, a sawmill and
a quarryman`s hut.

If  you  need  materials,  these  construction  sites  will receive them in
priority  order to ensure the minimal supply, because these three buildings
will open all the doors.  You can also find yourself in a dead end with the
tool  maker:  if you don't have a tool maker, and all the hammers have been
distributed  to  the construction workers and to the geologists, you can no
longer  send  an  iron  worker to work and the fabrication of tools becomes
impossible.   It  is  for  this  reason  that at the beginning of the game,
certain settlers take the necessary tools.  Early in the game, you will not
have  too many problems.  Everything has been foreseen.  But, later on, you
will  be  the  sole  person  responsible  for  your mistakes.  You now know
everything  about  the program, and your knowledge is sufficient to be able
to confront the computer or to challenge another player.

The end of the game

The  game  finishes  when  there  is  only one city remaining in the game's
world.  You can quit a game when playing by clicking on the white flag.  If
the  adversary  controlled  by the computer decides to quit, you can decide
whether or not to continue the game.  There might be instances when several
cities  remain  in  the game.  In this case, the game will be a draw.  This
situation  can  happen when no city has enough knights and all the deposits
of  ore  and coal are dried up, prohibiting the fabrication of weapons.  In
this case, there is no winner.

Annexes
-------

If you have a problem.....

Configuration problems concerning the Amiga version:

Less than 20% of the sound effects were loaded!

Cause:   You  do  not  have  enough  memory.   Before  launching  the game,
deactivate the resident programs or unplug unused floppy disk drives.  They
use memory that is needed by The Settlers.

The  music was not loaded, even though have 1 MB of Chipram and more than 1
MB of memory!

Cause: See above.

The  program or a part of the data does not go into Fastram as I would have
liked.

Cause:   Verify  the  size  of  the  available Fastram.  Your extension has
perhaps,  a  memory  capacity  of  C000000.   These  extensions  have  been
integrated  in the Amiga 2000, and can be obtained in several versions (512
KB,  1.7 MB) for the internal drive of the Amiga 500.  These extensions are
not  REAL  Fastram.   But  do not be discouraged:  this only means that the
program will function a little more slowly.

Only a part of the data is in the Fastram, even though the list says "yes".

Cause:  a part of the Fastram is probably being used by other programs.

The size of the world indicated in the list has not been reached!

Cause:   a  part of the Fastram or Chipram is being used by other programs.
You  will  find  a  complete  list  of possible configurations and of their
effects on "The Settlers" on the following page.

Configuration examples:  This list allows you to see the different possible
configurations and the performances of the program on the machine:

Your Computer         Sound       Size         Fastram       Missions
Chipram Fastram   Effects Music (in Screens) Program Data
512 kb   512 kb    ca.25%   no    1-3 (37)     Yes    Yes      Yes
512 kb    1 MB     ca.25%   no    1-5 (150)    Yes    Yes      Yes
512 kb    2 MB     ca.25%   no    1-6 (600)    Yes    Yes      Yes
512 kb    4 MB     ca.25%   no    1-8 (1200)   Yes    Yes      Yes
1 MB      none     ca.25%   no    1-3 (37)      No     No      Yes
1 MB      1 MB     all     yes    1-5 (150)    Yes    Yes      Yes
1 MB      2 MB     all     yes    1-6 (600)    Yes    Yes      Yes
1 MB      4 MB     all     yes    1-8 (1200)   Yes    Yes      Yes
2 MB      none     all     yes    1-5 (300)     No     No      Yes
2 MB      1 MB     all     yes    1-7 (600)    Yes   some      Yes
2 MB      2 MB     all     yes    1-7 (600)    Yes   some      Yes
2 MB      4 MB     all     yes    1-8 (1200)   Yes    Yes      Yes



+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++-END-++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

 
                HAVE FUN GUYS AND REMEMBER ITS ALL FOR FUN 
                         aLL DoCs DoNE By SHaRD/N&B