                                SEVERED HEADS

Your Severed Heads package should include the following items:

 o Severed Heads Disk #1
 o Severed Heads Disk #2
 o Manual

First, before you start using the program, you should make a backup copy
of both disks.  This program is not copy protected; so you may use the
standard AmigaDOS copy procedures (see your Amiga System manual for
details).  Put the originals away in a safe place and only use the copies.
If something happens to the copy then recopy your original diskettes.
You are free to make as many copies as you need for archival purposes.

Hardware Requirements

Severed Heads requires an Amiga 500/2000/3000 with at least 1 megabyte of
memory and one disk drive running Kickstart 1.2 or higher (Yes, it will
even work with Version 2.0).

Loading Instructions

To load Severed Heads, insert Disk#1 into drive DF0: and reboot system.
Program will boot automatically.

Playing Instructions

Moving The Character

To move in a particular direction, simply type the direction.  For example:
to move North, just type NORTH, or press N and return.  You may move in
all of the standard directions: North, South, East, West, SouthEast, 
SouthWest, Up, and Down.

Sentence Structure

Severed Heads has a parser of only 500 words.  Thus, it is important that
the sentences remain simple.  For example, when accessing the elevators
for the first time, you must:

PLACE LEFT HAND ON PANEL

then to move to another floor, type:

PRESS 4

If you keep within this structure, you will find that many of your normal
english words will work.  As a hint, be inquisitive.

Function Keys

[F1] Toggles between the current graphics screen and the text.

[F2] Turns the graphics requestor ON/OFF.  This allows you to load other
screens during play.  Note: Turning the requestor OFF by clicking on
the gadget will turn Graphics Mode OFF.

[F3] Turns the Exits Window ON/OFF.

To Load and Save a Game

To load a previously saved game, move the pointer to the menu bar and
select LOAD from the ADVENTURE menu.  Select the correct device, move
the pointer to the filename and click.  Select OK and the adventure will
load.

To save a game, go to the menu bar and select SAVE from the ADVENTURE
menu.  Select the device and insert disk.  Enter the filename and
select OK.  Your adventure is now saved.

Speech 

To activate speech, select speech option from the menu bar.

Hints

When Veronica Lake offers to give you a hand, take it.  "I've heard
of cutting a rug, but a sheet?"

END....
