      7 CITIES OF GOLD
      ****************
                         IN EUROPE
                         ---------

THE  COURT  -  Not  every visit to the palace will thrill ya
with  the  same exultation as the first.  Nevertheless, here
you must return for recognition of your accomplishments, for
the  glory  and  power  of  titles,  perhaps  for  more gold
desperately needed to continue your search.

HOME  -  Here  in private you may look at your successes and
failures and study the maps you've created on your journeys.
Here  you  can  also judge the progress you're making toward
your  goals  -  how  much  land  and  how many rivers you've
explored,  how  many  natives you've enountered and how many
special landmarks (great lakes, lush jungles, etc...) You've
found.   You  may learn how many missions you've established
and how much gold you've found more than you've spent.

The  highest  rank,  viceroy,  is reserved for those who can
achieve  an overall rating of at least 50% by 1540.  (Losing
an  expedition  completely  - dying - costs you the maps and
discoveries made since the last time you stopped at the pub.
It  also  costs you the opportunity to get future credit and
you lose a year and half of your valuable time.)

THE  OUTFITTERS  -  It's here that you'll spend your gold to
equip  and provision your expeditions.  Tip - food is bought
and  bartered  for  in relation to the number of men in your
expedition.   Decide  on  the  number of men you want first,
then on how many weeks worth of food you'll need.

THE  PUB  - Wise conquistadors will stop by here after every
trip to record their maps and discoveries.

                       THE EXPEDITION
                       --------------

THE  VOYAGE - when you leave port, mark well the indications
of  your  voyage  and  how  they  constantly change.  On the
screen,  n=top, w=left.  At the top of the screen you'll see
the  month  and  year  and  number  of vessels still in your
expedition.   To  the  left is the size of your army and the
number  of  weeks  you  can  feed them.  To the right is the
ledger  of your cargo goods and gold.  At the bottom is your
speed and direction.

The  ship's  cartographer can help you a lot in your search.
Choose  the 'view map' option to learn your latitude and and
pay  attention to passage of time.  There are many perils in
the  waters  beyond  Spain.  Men die of scurvy or of storms.
Those same storms can blow you far off course and cost vital
time.   Your food supply dwindles as you ply your way across
the  ocean.  Wander too long in search of land, and you will
surely bite the dust.

Discovery  and  exploration:   Bring  your  ships  into safe
mooring  carefully  and  learn  from  your  costly mistakes.
Don't  lose your ships the same way you did before:  running
aground,  storms,  etc..   Remember  also  if you leave your
ships  unattended  while  you  set off on long journeys, the
sailors  (who  aren't  included  in  your roster count) just
might  sail  away  before  you  return.   The  church  has a
powerful  ally  in  your  need  for food and someone to help
carry it.  Unless you find and learn to deal with some local
inhabitants, you're not going to get very far in your quest.

TIPS:
(1).  Your  own  progress  depends  on  your use of rivers a
      moderate  pace  on  a  river  moves  you  as fast as a
      reckless pace on land.

(2).  Your  computer will build maps for you as you go.  Use
      them often.  You want to be able to find your way back
      to useful places and avoid the dangerous ones.

                        THE NATIVES
                        -----------

Making  contact  with the natives:  In any region, where the
natives  live  will notbe visible unless you look for signs.
When  you  enter  a  village,  think of how you want to act.
Reckless agression?  Open-handed generosity?  Etc.There will
be  a  variety  in  the natives you encounter.  Some will be
more  populous,  some more credulous, some hostile, and some
more complex combinations of those attributes.

Trade  or  conquest:   Both  are available to you.  Both, is
successful,  bring  valuable  bearers  as well as goods.  To
trade,  as  the  natives will be quick to tell (if your gait
and  perhaps  your  generosity seem suitable), you must deal
directly  with the chief.  He always stands in the center of
the  village  until an agressive threat causes him to vanish
or yield in despair.  Conquest is quick, but consumes lives.
Trading  is  safer,  but  it's also slower and requires many
goods.

Establishing  forts & missions:  Both trade and conquest can
bring  you  the  opportunity  to  establish a mission on the
site.   How many men you must leave to establish more than a
thinly  manned  fort, and how few to avoid an overgarrisoned
armory,  will depend on the size of the native population at
the site and let experience tell you how eager the conquered
are willingto revolt during your absence.

Playing tips:

(1).   Pay  attention  to  the  time  of  year  and  to your
       latitude.   Toward  the  north  and  far  south,  the
       effects of climate become visible in the fall, winter
       and  spring.  And, since how much food you'll find in
       a  village  depends  on  when  the  last harvest was,
       you'll   find   paying   attention   to  the  seasons
       important.

(2).   Don't under estimate native communications.  Some can
       spread  word of your activities to cities you haven't
       visited  yet.   And bearers can show you the location
       of other settlements - and of treasures, if you pause
       long enough to listen to them.

(3).   A  mission  can  supply  nearby  ships  and cause the
       sailors  to  wait  patiently  for  the  return of the
       landing party, provided care has been taken to inform
       the mission inhabitants of the location of the ships.

                      1540 AND BEYOND:
                      ----------------
You  may  continue  your explorations after 150 if you wish,
but  you'll  receive  no more titles from the court or other
recognition for your efforts.

                       ADVANCED PLAY
                       -------------

Notes on the world maker:

The  new  continent generator will conform to built into the
program.   for  example:  moutain ranges are generated where
the  plates  bump  into  one  another.  and secondary ranges
(like  the  allegheny  mts.)  may  be  created as well.  the
program also consults a cultural dissemination for its work.
the influences of major civilizations are presumed to spread
outward.   consequently,  pueblo  dwellers genreally will be
found between city-states and primitive agriculturists.  the
model  will  allow  for varying levels of this influence and
thus produce occasional continent arrangements which have no
incan  level  civilizations.  it can also make very rich and
powerful  arrangements,  such as the 16th-century japan, are
highly civilized from coast to coast.

                       CIVILIZATIONS
                       -------------

dark brown hut   = tribal, poor hunters  and gatherers.
dark brown huts  = tribal, rich hunter and gatherers.
light brown huts = tribal, primitive agriculture.

green structure  = chiefdom, agriculture.
pink structure   = city-state confederation, agriculture.
light blue       = empire/nation, advanced agriculture.

