Seymour Goes To Hollywood
by Domgrief <fytyxt@echidna.stu.cowan.edu.au>.


LOADING on COMMODORE AMIGA

Choose the disc with the game you wish to play printed on it.
For A500 users switch ON computer and insert disc immediately.

For A1000 users LOAD kikstart 1.2/1.3 as normal then insert disk on
workbench prompt.

A screen with the game will be displayed next to a number.  Simply
press the key for the game you wish to play.


LOADING on ATARI ST

Choose the disc with the game you wish to play printed on it.
Switch on machine and insert disc immediately.
A screen with the game will be displayed next to a number.
Simply press the key for the game you wish to play.
IMPORTANT - Look after your discs carefully
KEEP it in your original box and in a cool dry place (not in direct
sunlight or rain).

NEVER switch the computer ON or OFF with the disc in the drive.

KEEP your disc write-protected and SWITCH OFF your computer for 30
seconds before loading a new game. (To avoid a Virus from other discs)

DON'T put the disc near any magnetic field (eg. on top of TV, near
Stereo speakers.)


Seymour Goes To Hollywood

Join super star Seymour in his Hollywood debut.  Make it in the
movies.  Meet frightening Frankenstein, evil Ding the Merciless,
bash the big King Bong, and find Rick Bracy's true love.


Seymour's Big Break

Seymour has got his first big break: he is to star in the latest
block busting movie.  He turns up to work on the first day to find
the studio in pandemonium!  The stupid director Dirk Findelmeyer II
has left for a holiday in Miami leaving all the scripts locked away
in the safe.  Seymour thinks there is something decidedly sinister
going on when he discovers Tarzan with a speech impediment, a body
in the study, and the lifts don't work either!!


Controls

Move Left		z		Left
Move Right		x		Right
Jump			Space		Jump
Pick up/Use Object	Enter		Fire

Help Seymour get his movie to the box office.  The film has been
sabotaged the scripts have been locked away in a safe, Tarzan cant
speak a word of English and the security guard wont let you in.

Move Seymour around the various parts of the map by walking left
and right and jumping.  Collect the objects and solve the puzzles.  A
puzzle is solved by standing next to it and using or giving a correct
object.


Hints and Tips

* Avoid jumping into fans.
* Pippa the secretary can help you.
* Try opening all the doors.
* Draw a map of the Studio to stop yourself getting lost.

If you enjoyed this game look out for more great Seymour Film
Adventures.


Credits

Game Design	  Big Red Software
Coding		  Optimus Software and
		  Shane O' Brien
Graphics	  Brian Hartley
Project Director  Paul Ranson
Production	  Stewart Regan and Pat Stanley
Art Manager	  Shan Savage