                              SHADOW SORCERER

                       An Animated Fantasy Adventure

                    Data Card For Amiga 500, 1000, 2000




HARDWARE SPECIFICATIONS
-----------------------

In order to play Shadow Sorcerer, you must have the following:

Operating System: Kickstart 1.3
Memory: 1 Meg of memory or higher



COPYING THE GAME TO HARD DISK
-----------------------------

Shadow Sorcerer can be installed on a harddrive by copying the contents
of both disks to a drawer of your choice. We recommend the following
sequence.

1. Copy the Empty Drawer Icon on the desktop by selecting it and then 
DUPLICATE from the menu to make a new drawer.

2. Select this new drawer and then RENAME from the menu. You will then
be able to rename this drawer to a name of your choice, but for this
installation we will assume you will call it "Shadow".

3. Open up a CLI window by double clicking on the CLI or SHELL icon.

4. Insert the "GAME DISK" into drive DF0:

5. Type the following command COPY DF0: TO SHADOW ALL. This will copy the
contents of the disk into the Shadow drawer.

6. When all the files have been copied and the floppy disk light has gone
out, remove the "Game Disk" and insert the "Data Disk" into drive DF0:

7. Type the following command COPY DF0: TO SHADOW ALL. This will copy the
contents of this disk into the Shadow drawer.

8. Type ENDCLI to remove CLI window

NOTE: SHADOW SORCERER Requires 1350k of space on your hard disk.




STARTING THE GAME
-----------------

If playing from floppy disks, insert the "Game Disk" into DF0: then turn
on the machine. If playing on a hard disk using CLI, change the directory
to the Shadow drawer and type SHADOW.
If you are playing from workbench, double click the Shadow Sorcerer icon
from the DESK TOP. If the game is in the Shadow drawer, double click the
Shadow drawer first, then the Shadow Sorcerer icon.






KEYBOARD AND MOUSE COMMANDS
---------------------------


MOUSE:


Left Mouse Button: Selects items, opens windows, etc.

Right Mouse Button: Closes active window, takes you out of tactical mode
into the wilderness mode.


KEYBOARD:


F1: Make top left character the current character

F2: Make top right character the current character

F3: Make bottom left character the current character

F4: Make bottom right character the current character

F5: Switch automatic combat ON/OFF for all characters

0: Toggle between tactical and wilderness views

SPACEBAR: Pauses game

MINUS: Works like the left mouse button

PLUS: Works like the right mouse button

ESC: closes screen, just like the right mouse button

A: Switch automatic combat ON/OFF for current characters only

C: Communicate (talk)

G: Give something from current character's backpack

H: Use hand to hand (melee) weapon

I: Inspect (look)

M: Memorize spells

P: Party mode

R: Use ranged weapon

S: Cast spell

T: Take item from floor

V: Toggle sound ON/OFF


TACTICAL COMBAT ONLY:

1: View top left character

2: View top right character

3: View bottum left character

4: View bottum right character

**** SOME KEYBOARD COMMANDS REQUIRE MOUSE INPUT I.E., IF YOU TYPE "S" TO 
CST A SPELL, YOU MUST USE TEH MOUSE POINTER TO SELECT WHICH SPELL TO CAST.






NOTES AND ERRATA
----------------

1. NEVER save the game if one of your party members is off the screen (ie,
in a diffrebt room of a dungeon than the rest). REGROUP before saving,
otherwise when you LOAD that particular game again, the game will 
eventually crash, requiring you to re-boot and re-install the game, 
destroing your saved games.

2. Party characters will permanently lose a portion of thier maximum hit
poiints each time their current hit points go to ZERO.

3. You cannot play the gane from an external floppy drive.

4. You must reboot your machine to QUIT the game.

5. Tracy Hickman's name was misprinted in the Rule Book. Sincere 
apologies, Tracey.   NOT FROM FCC BAHAHAH!!!

THE END.....
=======

============================================================================
                      Shadow Sorcerer from S.S.I
                     ---------------------------- 
 
                 Shadow Sorcerer Key Commands + Journal 
 
 Mouse   
-------- 
Left Mouse button: Selects Items, opens windows, etc. 
 
Right Mouse button: Closes active windows, takes you out of tactical mode 
                    into the wilderness mode. 
 
 
Numeric Keypad 
-------------- 
(Minus): Works like the left mouse button. 
 
(Plus): Works like the right mouse button  
 
(ESC): Closes Screen 
 
 
Keyboard 
-------- 
 F1: Makes top left character the current character 
 F2: Makes top right character the current character 
 F3: Make bottom left character the current character 
 F4: Makes bottom right character the current character 
 F5: Switch automatic combat ON/OFF for all characters 
 F9: Speed up play 
F10: Slow down Play 
  0: Toggles between tactical and wilderness views 
Space Bar: Pauses Game 
 
Alt+O: Opens Option menu 
Alt+P: Opens Party Menu 
Alt+R: Opens Refugees menu 
 
A: switches automatic combat ON/OFF for current character 
C: communitive (TALK) 
G: give something from current character's backpack 
H: hand to hand (melee) Weapon 
I: Inspect 
J: Calibrate Joystick 
M: Memorize Spells 
P: Party Move 
R: Use range weapon 
S: cast spell 
T: take item from floor 
V: Toggle sound ON/OFF 
 
 
Tactical View Only 
__________________  
 
1: View top left character 
2: View top right character 
3: View Bottom left character 
4: View Bottom right character 
 
                        -=Journal Entries=- 
                        Shadow Sorceror SSI 
 
 
                         Journal Entry #1 
                The brooding hordes of the draconians have completely  
conquered Pax Tharkas, enslaving the human inhabitants of the once peaceful 
realm. The Companions of the Lance have freed the slaves, and led them 
through the mountain gates to search of a new home out of the reaches of  
Verminaard and his draconian armies, 
                During the escape, the companions sealed the gates behind  
them, trapping the draconians in there own fortress. But it is only a matter   
time before they break out. And, when they do they will demand a terrible  
price from the companions and the refugees.... 
 
 
                         Journal Entry #2 
                 Pax Tharkas was once the boundry between the Elves of  
Kith Kanan to the north, and the dwarves of the kingdom of Thorbardin to 
the south. This is common knowledge. The elves withdrew to Qualinesti, 
While the armies of the great mage, Fistandantilus, are said to have thrown 
back the dwarves. Now Qualinesti is the lair of Verminaard and his red 
Dragon Ember, and there fortress. Pax Tharkas  is the cage that holds the 
armies of the draconians in check. The Refugees who follow you were once 
Slaves in the minesof Pax Tharkas. Now you must lead them far from its 
Grim walls, before death flows like a tide to sweep them away.... 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #3 
                This old piece of parchment seems to refer to the operation  
of a magical device called Eye of ElarWhen the Road of Kith Kanan was a major 
highway between the Dwarves and the Elves, The eye was a way-station for 
travellers. At dusk, The wardens of the eye would operate its lens to reveal 
there destination -The Dwarfgate leading to Thorbardin... 
                Using the eye will show you the location of the gates to  
Thorbardin. The gates are now guarded by skullcap, the remenent of the huge  
fortress which the wizard Fisandantilus destoyed in the last great war. 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #4 
                The Road-Side columns speak of the road of Kith Kanan, which  
linked the kingdom of thorbardin with the realm of the elves. Thorbarin! If 
the Legendary Dwarven Kingdom is somewhere in these southern lands, surely 
they could be no safer refuge than with the mountain dwarves... 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #5 
                Since there escape from Pax Tharkis the refugee has formed 
a council to rule there  own actions. The five leaders are now meeting to  
deliberate. 
                You have been invited to address the, to make a case for  
your plans.You sense that there are diferences among the council memebrs, 
some are unsure that you can find a safe haven in these uncharted lands. 
Locar is most openly hostile, but he is to cowardly to contradict you  
openly, and saves his spite for any comment offered by Elistan. Briar seems  
to follow him though he also accepts the counsel of Goldmoon and Riverwind 
he wants a simple immediate solution. Brookland too, has no time for  
complicated plans, his people are anxious and want a place of safety. Elistan 
listens quietly as always. He trusts you more than any others. Eben also  
seems to hang  on your every word. He has been your comrad in arm, but he is 
Caution..... 
                You must pursuade them to have faith in your plan. What  
message will you use to get your point across. 
Option #1 Entreat: You can try to convince them that they must continue or 
face  the wrath of Verminarad. 
 
Option #2 Plea for Loyalty: You can state your case as the person who  
rescued them from slavery. they followed you then, therfore they should trust  
your judgement now. 
 
Option #3 Reason: Logic dictates that returning to Pax Tharkas is a bad idea 
and standing still will only result in the death of many refugees at the hand 
of the draconians.The only  thing to do is move. 
 
Option #4 Threaten: Images of torture and death often work wonders to convince 
people that here is not a good place to be. Yet some leaders see beyond 
the rhetoric. 
 
Option #5 Be Agressive: Sometimes the threat of violence will get people  
moving but it only works on the troubled and the stubborn. 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #6 
                The neider village is well suitedand stoutly defended.When 
they tell you they have lived here through all the trouble which has plagued  
this land, You can well believe it. After a short delay, you are shown into the  
presence of the Neidor King. He explains alittle of the history of the lands. 
Finally he offers what help he can. " I cant let you stay here". Your refugees 
could not be accomidated in our simple village. and there precense would bring  
the wrath of the draconians to us. But I wish you well on finding a place of 
safety. If there is anything I can do ,then you have but ask. 
 
        What will you do? 
#1 Rest: the neider will let you stay until the following dawn and will tend 
your wounds as best they are. 
#2 Ask for food: the neiders are known for there kindness and the quality of  
there cuisine. 
#3 ask about the location of thorbardin. They may have knowledge which could 
lead you to the right directions. 
#4 Offer to do something for them. 
#5 Leave 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #7 
        Compared to the other proud dwarves race, the aghar are sad and comicial 
race. The throne room of the magnificance the Highbulb is extremly threadbare 
and the roayal robes are three sizes too big. But they do ther best to look 
impossing and impresive, and the  highbulp proudly asserts that thee is the  
only remaining outpost of the dwarves race north of thorbardin. After much 
bluster you get the idea that the aghar  might be prepared to help you. But 
How? What could they have that could be of use to you? 
 -=Choose your appropriate  choice=- 
#1 Rest: The aghar will let you stay until the following dawn and will tend  
your wounds as best as they are able. 
#2 ask for food: The aghar are known for thhere cooking prowess, but a free   
meal is a free meal. 
#3 Ask about the loaction of thorbardin. They might have knowledge which could  
lead you in the right direction. 
#4 Ask for other information. 
#5 Leave. 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #8 
        The robed man had constucted a snow fort, and is busily stocking it 
with snowballs as you approach. He doesnt seem to notice you for a moment, 
then jerks upright. "HALT" he screams, and you freeze at once as his call  
shakes loose the snow in the above threatening an avalanche.  
"My name is Fizban," he announces i'm a greeat wizard! If you hadnt caught  
me unaware  I might have fried you with a lightning bolt. Still its those 
draconians who have got it coming. I am to destroy there army right here! 
the old wizard looks several coppers short of a gold piece, but as you  
prepare to leave you catch sight of a draconian patrol entering the valley  
below. Fizban smiles, hefting a snowball. As the draconians approach unaware 
you steel youselves for the battle ahead. But Fizban ruins your chance to  
suprise them. rising above the parapet, he yells, attack!! and begins hurling  
snoballs at the patrol. For a moment there as shocked as you are. Then a wall 
cascades down the mountain, burying the draconians. That'll teach them!! 
Fizban smiles. seems to me you could have been alittle faster off the mark 
there. Perhaps I had better come with you, just to keep you safe. from this 
moment on, you are stick with this slightly odd travelling companion, who 
always seems to be there just after a fight is over. just who Fizban thinks 
he is seems impossible to say..... 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #9 
        As you prepare to leave the neider village, the chieften gives you 
some last addvice. Though this land was once all part of the land of  
Thorbardin  there are many others living here now. the trolls in there caves 
the lizard men in the marshs. If there is a way to the southern mountains it 
would be very difficult to find. always look carefully for the way that is  
hidden in the shadowsat dawn may be easily revealed by the setting sun. 
Watch the location of secret doors and the way the sunlight must hit them 
to be visible. South of here are old dwarven mine workings. The Aghar lived 
there. be prepare d for there diceptions if you adventure into there cave. 
They are a irresponsible and a untrustworthy lot. Fnally I must worn you of 
the danger of the marsh land and of skull mountain. the guardain of the  
marshes is rullered to be the most dangerous indeed. seek out the marsh  
warden. He knows the safe path through the marshes. your wagons wont make 
it through the swamps. As for skullcap, you must know that it is the tomb 
of the wizard Fistandantilus who made war against the dwarves and built a  
great tower with which to breech the dwarf gates, but he was defeated and  
caused the tower to explode, destroying the armies of friend and fo alike. 
the shattered stump of the tower is that mountain we call SkullCap. If you  
venture near that terrible place take great care, for the legends of our 
people say that fistandantilus was not consummed in his own fire but lives 
on.  
 
 
                        Journal Entry #10 
        Now the Aghar seemed to be embarrassed by your presence. The   
Highbulp leader of the aghar dwarves is  over joyed when you announce that it 
is time to be on your way. give our regards to our brother dwarves in 
Thorbardin.Tell them we promised to make good the back taxes. Oh and if you  
find anything of ours  in Skullcap remeber to send it back to us. Skullcap? 
The mension of the grim tomb of the wizard . Fistandantilus provokes  your 
curiousity. why would you want to go there? Why of couse he explains, your 
quite right. no one would want to go there. its just that the wizard was 
seeking a way to break into Thorbardin himself. It possible that whatever he 
managed to find was buried with him inside skullcap.  
 
 
                        Journal Entry #11 
        Nothing on the outside could have prepard you for what you find on 
the inside. the jaws of the skull are actually movable. and huge chains extend 
through the floor to some control room below. It seems that the entire  
fortress could be closed of provided that the mahinery is still in working  
order after all these years. Once closed nothing would be able to pass through  
those terrible jaws. if you could bring the refugees here Skullcap might act 
as a temporary santuary from the forces of evil outside. Of course that means  
locking the refugees inside with whatever is already in there...... 
 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #12 
        The yellowing parchment you have discovered is  a greater prize then 
all the treasures in krynn. Though its ancient lettering its faint, you can  
see at once that ot shows the exact root to the northern drawf gate of  
Thorbarden. Your goal is in sight at last. 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #13 
        You now belive you have the answer to your problems. A messenger is 
Dispatched to bring the suurviving refugees within the confines of Skullcap. 
When all is ready you prepare to seal the fortress off  from the  draconians 
outside. By working together at the huge machanism you are finally able to  
pull the might lever and the mildewed chains rattle and crack through the  
slots in the floor. From somewhere  high above you comes the grinding roar of 
rock as the fortress is sealed tight. fistandantulis destroyed this place 
once before while trying to invade  Thorbardin. Within the tunnels and mazes 
deep within the mountains you hope to find a way through out of sight of 
Verminaards ragging leugeans above.  Once safetly away from his vengeance 
you can search for the mountani drawers once more. 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #14 
        Experimenting with the ring. you find the green key slips on to it 
by some strange means. The ring also buzzes with a strange energy which  
draws the key back to the ring when you take them apart. By further  
experimentation you realize that the ring is also  tuned to other keys which 
are scattered acorss the land. Although you have no idea what these keys are 
for or how many there might be, the rings magic gives you a clear idea about 
where  some of these are hidden. 
                         
                         
                        Journal Entry #15 
        The map shows the far southern reaches of the land and the impassible 
peaks between you and the dwarven kingdom of Thorbardin. The passes you are 
told are sealed with great gates which make those at Pax Tharkis seems  
insignifigant. there appears to be no obvious way through the mountains. 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #16 
        The king leans forward and beckons you near. In a cave nothwest from 
here lives a swarm of giant bee's. there are quite deadly and many of our  
bravest warriors have perished seeking the treasures which ly within those  
caves. The bee's produce a sweet necture a royal jelly. It heals the sick 
and provides vitality to the aging. We need that necture for our old our 
sick and our infants. If you bring it  to us I promise that whatever food  
we can spare and all the food that the bee's have stored will be given to the 
refugees who follow you.  
 
 
                        Journal Entry #17 
        Aghar food is hardly appetising. They eat what other subtarian  
dwellers eat. There main staples are worms, grubs,and grim fungy. certinly  
not the standard fair of a race of powerful dwarves. Whatever you decide  
yourfirst meal at the aghar convinces you that the refugees could never live 
in this place. 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #18 
        The evildragons are darkening the sky  once more! The king cries out. 
We are frightened by the big dragon but we know that there are good dragons 
as well as bad. he looks bravely at you and continues we have a rod of 
great magic which summons dragons. We keep it in the temple and we are  
trying to use it to make our dragon return  to life. But we do not unnderstand 
the words written on it. Can you help us? You explain that you will have to  
see the rod and ask where the templ is, but he becomes suspicious. No you will 
take the rods from us and make other dragons come to be your slave he cries. 
This is no good to us, we dont want your help at all.  
 
 
                        Journal Entry #19 
        The Gully dwarf crawls out from behind a rottinmg tree and gleems a 
toothy grin. I am very glad you came along I thought I was at the end of 
my road, no mistake!  So the least I can do is point you in the right  
direction heh. Take this back.  I hope it does you some services. I have 
marked the path through the swamp. Beyond that lies the mountains and 
there I cannot help you. see here he continues suddenly there are many  
enemies in the swamp. Along the main track lives a vile wyrm a green dragon. 
The toll he  charges for all to pass is the same your lives!!! only the 
Jarak Sinn seem able to pass freely. He interupts himself to ecplain that the 
Jarak Sinn are the lizard men who enhabit the swamps.  
 
 
                        Journal Entry #20 
        As you ponder the heavy barred door a voice suddenly comes from  
behind you. A small old man with stragly white hair and a bent green hat 
pushes his way between you and approaches the door. I thought you needed my  
help again. A promise is a promise and I said I would help you and I will.  
Explains Fizban. Obvious he is speaking much to loudly in such a confined 
space. Rubbaging in his pack he passes out a old assortments of magic  
components and worthless junk. always with an accompanying mumble. Hold 
this a second, one of the things he passes out is a purple key which you  
recongnize as your final key to your quest. Fizban of course fails to notice 
you placing the key in the lock and continuing on your way. 
 
 
                        Journal Entry #21 
        The rod tingles then lights up the room with a sparkling glow. The 
stone fakade encapsulating the dragon cracks and from beneath the stones 
a bronze dragon breaks free. Wiping itself of the grey dust it looks t you 
and speaks. Thank you for releasing me. My imprisonment has been long and  
hard. I am blaze a good dragon. I was turned to stone here when Fitandantalis 
attacked on Thorbardin went awry. You tell the dragon of cuurrent events and 
Avermanaards red dragon emberg. A red smiles Blaze? Ddont worry, from now on 
you can leave emberg to me. He tells you as he flapps his mighty wings in  
anticipation. 
 
 
        
              Okay towards the end I was getting very tired of typing so 
I think there are alot of typos. Alot of it didnt make sense but Its not me.  
Okay well hope this helps out.... Later  
=============================================================================
       SHADOW SORCERER - DRAGONLANCE ROLE PLAYING ADVENTURE Vol 1
         Strategic Simualtions Inc
         US Gold
         An Official AD&D Computer Product  
         1991 TSR Inc
         
         

         TABLE OF CONTENTS
         -----------------
         Background................................................. 1
         Introduction............................................... 3
         Winning the Game........................................... 3
         Selecting Your Characters.................................. 4
         Exploring the Wilderness................................... 4
         The Refugees............................................... 5
         Terrain.................................................... 6
         The Player Character (PC) Party............................ 6
         Controlling the Companions................................. 7
         Encounters................................................. 8
         Combat.....................................................10
         Equipment & Other Goodies..................................11
         Magic........................... ...... ...................11
         Spells.......................... :    : ...................13
         The Refugees.................... :....: ...................13
         Time............................ :   :. ...................14
         Miscellany...................... :    : ...................14
         The Companions.................. :    : ...................15
         Krynn - The Dragonlance World..............................20
         AD&D Game Heroes...........................................21
         Bestiary...................................................22
         Glossary...................................................24



                                   -1-
 
         BACKGROUND
         ----------

         As the celebrations continued, it was Tanis Half-Elven whose keen 
eye noticed Raistlin slipquietly from the tent. He followed, stepping out 
into the chill of the night. The mage had stepped far from the welcoming 
light of the tent, and the many fires dotted on the hill-side where the 
refugees had pitched camp. He was gazing up into the heavens, a grim smile
playing on his lips.
'Raistlin, are you well?'
The mage made no reply, but pulled his red cloak tighter about his shoulders
as Tanis came closer.

'These celebrations are premature, Tanis,'the mage whispered, his voice 
almost lost amidst the sounds of laughter coming from the camp. 'The forces
of evil are not yet defeated, the Dark Queen still rules in the heavens. 
These people think they are safe-'he swept his arm back towards the Refugees,
seemingly dismissing them for their ignorance '-but they are not.'

'Don't be so hard on them, Raistlin. Until a few days ago they were slaves 
of the draconians, back there in Pax Tharkas. Now we have freed them - you, 
me, Caramon and all the other companions....We freed them, and closed the 
gates of Pax Tharkas so that the draconians will never get through. They can
start a new life down here, or head for the coast and take ship to-'

'You are not so naive, Tanis, after all your adventures, to think that 
Verminaard and all his draconian hordes will be kept captive by those gates
forever. They will break out of Pax Tharkas, and they will come looking for 
us and for their former slaves. Their lives - and ours - were never in such
danger as they are in now.'

Tanis rubbed his hand through his beard, feeling the grime of battle. Had 
they really come through so much, and not yet saved themselves?
'You're right, Raistlin, we can't stay here. Sooner or later Verminaard will
come looking for us again, and the refugees will be helpless. But i don't 
know what else to suggest....'

                                -2-

'Perhaps i do.' The gruff, rumbling old voice caught both men by surprise,
though they recognised it at once. Flint, the dwarf, was sitting on a fallen
trunk, whittling away at a hollow stick, almost hidden in the shadows. He 
must have left the party before either of them....

'These are Dwarven lands,'he continued,'or were once. The Hill Dwarves lived
here, kin to the Gully Dwarves we saw in Pax Tharkas and to the Mountain 
Dwarves of legend. They ruled the lands between Pax Tharkas and the
mountains to the south, but retreated when times were bad. According to what
i've heard, they found their way to Thorbardin, the Kingdom of the Mountain
Dwarves. Perhaps that is where we should head.'

'What welcome could we expect there?' snorted Raistlin. 'The Mountain Dwarves
have ever kept themselves to themselves. I don't see how we can turn up with
wagon-loads of Refugees and expect them to provide shelter.'

'Maybe not,'nodded Flint, holding up his carved stick to the light,'but have
you a better idea.....?'

'I don't think there's any point arguing about it,'Tanis interjected.'We 
can't stay here - we have to move on. Either we find a ship at the coast, or
we find someplace else we can safely settle these people. Either way, we 
don't have much time.'

'We should go ahead,'Flint added.'The Refugees move slowly, and they don't 
have the craft to look for sign. We should scout ahead of them and...'

'And leave them to Verminaard when he breaks loose of Pax Tharkas,'laughed
Raistlin, derisively.'You know what the Refugees are like, they'll argue
amongst themselves, they'll stop to look for food they can't hope to find...
we have to stay with them, just to keep them moving.'

Tanis broke in before the argument could truly start. 'You're both right. We
have to stay with the Refugees, for their own protection. We have to find
them food and shelter. But we must also scout ahead andfind somewhere 
permanent for them to settle, or we'll just be dragging them across country
to perish somewhere.'

'I propose we send four of the companions ahead as scouts. Their job will be
to see what hope this land offers us. When they find shelter, they'll let 
us know. Then, the rest of us can bring the Refugees along.'

Raistlin and Flint found themselves unable to disagree. The Dwarf gave an
experimental peep on his whistle.

'Fine plan, Tanis. Now....have you considered just who these four scouts are
going to be?'

                                 -3-

INTRODUCTION
------------

Welcome to Shadow Sorcerer, an official Advanced Dungeons & Dragons action
role-play adventure computer game. Shadow Sorcerer is based on the rules for
the AD&D roleplaying game by TSR inc, and features part of the epic 
DRAGONLANCE story.

In this game, you control the destinies of the companions of the lance, the
characters featured throughout the DRAGONLANCE cycle, and follow an episode
from the original DRAGONLANCE adventure. The DRAGONLANCE companions have just
rescued 500 Refugees from the city of Pax Tharkas, inthe face of the 
determined, deadly Draconians, under the command of Verminaard, the evil
Dragonlord. Now, you must find a safe place for the Refugees, far away from
the murderous Draconians. But where?

That is something only you can decide as you play this game. Your goal, as
the guiding force of the DRAGONLANCE Companions, is to steer the Refugees to
safety, defeating any obstacles placed in your path. The choices you make, 
and your skill in combat, will determine success.

Your success depends on your ability to deal with several conflicting
requirements. You must:

* Scout ahead to find a safe haven for the Refugees.
* Keep them supplied with food.
* Keep them moving in the right direction.
* Defeat the many obstacles in your path.
* Fight off the Draconians once they break out of Pax Tharkas.

If you think that you are capable of meeting this challenge, then get ready 
to play...


WINNING THE GAME
----------------
Shadow Sorcerer is a mouse/keyboard driven game, played in a real-time 
enviroment. Make sure you are locked away in a sound proof room or time-
stasis field, and you'll be fine. If unavoidable interruptions do occur, you
can save the game to disk. However, repetitive saving is not encouraged - 
take your losses like a man....you can always start again from the beggining
if things go really wrong...

Success is judged by two criteria. First, the number of Monsters you defeat 
and the obstacles you overcome. Second, the number of Refugees you have kept
alive by the end of the game.

How will you know when you have finished? Suffice it to say that you will
know when you are close to the finish, and what you have to do to complete
the game. At the end, a screen will give you a success rating - that can be
your target to beat when you play the game again.

Shadow Sorcerer features a unique Command structure, allowing you to control
four heroes in a real-time enviroment. You can have the computer control
some or all of these heroes, leaving you free to make important decisions
on behalf of a smaller number. Your role in this game is to make those timely
decisions in split seconds which are the difference between life and death...

                                   -4-

SELECTING YOUR CHARACTERS
-------------------------
After the main title screens have cleared, you are presented with a map of
part of Krynn - the world of the DRAGONLANCE adventures. This map has little
detail; only the main mountain ranges are shown. You will reveal more of the
map as you explore.

You begin the game near the top of the map. The Companions are represented 
by an icon of a sword-wielding adventurer. The hex that icon occupies and 
those immediately adjacent are presented in greater detail, showing the 
terrain type. As you move the Companions, more of the map is revealed.

You control four of the DRAGONLANCE Companions, who are referred to 
throughout this manual as the PC's (Player Characters)or as the PC Party. You
may end up playing with a PC Party of less than four heroes, but it isn't
recommended. Things are dangerous enough, without you making life impossible
...By reuniting the PC Party with the Refugees you can replace characters who
have been disabled durong play.

At the beginning of the game, the four PC's are Tanis, Caramon, Goldmoon and 
Raistlin. You can chage this line-up using the Menu Bar option PARTY. When
you click on this option, a menu pops down with the names of all the
available characters. Click on any two names to swap their positions; the top
four names make up the PC Party. Not all of the characters listed are actual
DRAGONLANCE Companions, and you ought to be very close to defeat before you 
use some of those listed. Details of the characters can be found in the
heroes section.

The option to change the party during the game can only be taken when the PC
Party and the Refugees are in the same hex.

EXPLORING THE WILDERNESS
------------------------

A great deal of your planning and game-play takes place on the Wilderness 
Map. As you have already discovered, this starts off largely blank at the 
beginning of the game, except for a few hexes around the PC Party.

The rest of the Map is revealed as the PC's move around. To order the PCs to
move, simply click on any revealed part of the Map; the PC Party will move
towards that hex. Initially, of course, this has to be an adjacent hex,
since most of the Map is blank, but you can order longer moves later on. If
you order a Move towards a new target hex before they have reached the last
one, the PCs will change course.

To scout a hex before you move the PC Party, click the RIGHT mouse button 
when the cursor is over the desired hex. The time it takes to survey a hex
relates to the number of clicks required before a view is revealed. Each
click advances the game clock by 1/2 an hour.

The PCs move as soon as you have clicked on the target hex. The game-time it
takes them to actually reach their destination is determined by the terrain
through which they pass - basically, moving through Mountain hexes takes up
more game-time

                               -5-

than moving through Open country. The length of time it takes to make a move
plays an important part in the game; you can watch the passage of time on the
Time bar at the top right of your screen.

Movement can be interrupted at any time by an Encounter, after which you have
to give them fresh movement orders - they can't remember every little thing
you tell them when they are up to their necks in Draconians. Encounters can 
be of many different types - but most of them will lead to combat, as covered 
later.

THE REFUGEES
------------
In SHADOW SORCERER, your quest centres on finding a safe haven for the 
Refugees away from the vengeance of Verminaard. This means that, in addition
to moving the PC Party, you need to get the Refugees away from Pax Tharkas
and to a place of safety.

The Refugees are represented by one or more icons, which start the game in 
the same hex as the PC Party. At the start of the game, the Refugees are all
together, but they can divide into smaller groups if they aren't looked 
after carefully. Different factions are shown by different coloured icons.

In normal circumstances, the Refugees are happy enough to follow the PCs (at
a slower speed) wherever they lead. However, you might think it better to 
send them somewhere less hazardous to wait while you explore a little.

You can check the status of a Refugee group, and give them orders to move, 
whenever your PC Party occupies the same hex as that group (including at the
start of the game). Click on the Refugees heading on the Menu Bar, and select
STATUS - this tells you how many Refugees are in that group, how much Food 
they have, how many wagons, and who their leader is (if they have moved away
from the main group).
Alternatively, click on MOVE, and then select any revealed hex on the map; 
the Refugees then set out towards that hex and wait there for fresh orders
when they arrive.

Or, at least, they might do. Unfortunately, the Refugees are an argumentative
bunch, and don't do anything until their leaders' council has had a meeting 
to discuss the pros and cons. When you give them a Move order, they have to
be convinced of the merits of your decision. There are more details about 
this in the section on the Refugees.

TERRAIN
-------
On the Wilderness map, every hex is classified as one of 6 types (along with
2 special sub-types), namely Lake, Open, Marsh, Forest, Hills or Mountains.
Additionally, amy of the latter six may also be Road or River hexes - that 
is, have a Road or River running through them.
Lakes cannot be entered.

THE PLAYER CHARACTER
(PC) PARTY
--------------------
As outlined above, the four members of the PC Party are selected from a 
larger list of Companions, and can be changed round whenever the PC Party and
the main Refugee group are in the same hex. You may think it's a good time to
swap the PC Party around when the first four volunteers have been thoroughly
roughed up. However, this option should not be over-used, because it uses up
time. The Heroes you don't select are assumed to be travelling with the
Refugees, unless they are lost or detained somewhere else.

You have a free choice as to which companions make up the PC Party, and which
stay with the Refugees. However, there are hidden modifiers to the game which
make certain line-ups more desirable than others. As guidelines, you might
want to bear the following in mind:

Only Goldmoon and Elistan have Healing powers.

Only Raistlin and Gilthanas have non-clerical magic.

Tasslehoff has a special ability called 'Kender Yell', the ability to divert
monster attacks from others onto himself. Goldmoon and Riverwind are an item,
and pine without each other. The same is true of Caramon and Tika. It may
even be true of Tanis and Laurana, only this is complicated by the fact, that
neither of them is sure about it and Gilthanas, Laurana's brother, is very 
protective of her and no fan of Tanis.
Sturm and Raistlin have opposing philosophies, and will not co-operate.
Elistan, Eben, Locar, Briar and Brooklands are not actually DRAGONLANCE
Companions; they are just the foremost members of the Refugee Council.
Only Elistan has any special abilities, and they should be employed when 
everyone else is injured.

Read through the Companions Section for more details.

There is no additional penalty for getting all four PCs trapped. You've
suffered enough. In such a terrible circumstance, the game continues with a 
new PC Party

                                 -7-

formed from the next four names on the Party list, which starts from the hex
occupied by the main Refugee group. It might be worth setting up your reserve
PC Party on the list for just such an eventuality....

CONTROLLING THE
COMPANIONS
---------------
To see the PCs in individual detail, place the mouse cursor over the PC Party
icon, and click the left button. This brings up the Tactical View; the same
view that is used for all encounters, Dungeon Explorations, etc.

In Tactical, the centre of the screen shows the four PCs in a part of the hex
they occupy on the main map. Any interesting features in that hex are also 
visible.
There are portraits of the PCs in each of the four corners of the screen,
along with a health bar and two other icons. To view a PC in detail, click on
the portrait; the view is replaced by the Character View, detailing the 
attributes of that PC.

Attribute Ratings (Strength, Intelligance, Wisdom, Dexterity, Constitution 
and Charisma)
Hit Points
Armour Class
Hand Weapon
Ranged Weapon
Memorise (Spell-casters only)
Default Orders

If you are familiar with the Advabced Dungeon & Dragons roleplaying game, 
most of this will be familiar to you. If not, you may wish to turn to the
Heroes Section.

The main character attributes - Strength, Intelligance, Wisdom, Dexterity,
Constitution and Charisma - are fixed. Each attribute is shown as a bar
rating between the minimum (3) and maximum (18) for a Hero.

Hit Points measure the health and endurance of that character; they are
expressed as a pair of numbers seperated by a slash. The first number is the
Hero's current state of health; the second is his/her maximum rating. Heroes
can recover from wounds and other losses of Hit Points by resting, or through
healing spells (see spells).

Armour Class (AC) is a measure of the protection Heroes enjoy, and is 
affected by the armour they wear and their Dexterity. Poor protection is 
shown by a high number (10 is the worst); AC can be expressed as a negative
number (which is very good protection indeed!).
Certain magic items and armour which your Heroes may find also improve their
AC. Experiment with stuff that you find - if the Hero's AC improves, it's 
worth keeping, but if it gets worse, make sure you swap the armour back!

                                -8-

Next are shown the Companion's Melee (close combat) and Ranged Weapons.
These are shown by an icon showing the weapon type. In some cases, a 
Companion may not have a Ranged Weapon (the space will be empty) or will use
the same weapon at long and close range (such as with Tass' sling-staff). If
the picture is followed by a 'plus number', it is magical, and provides
extra hitting potential and power. Magical weapons are very important; always
check to see if you have discovered a magical weapon when you find treasure.
Bow users also have a separate icon showing the number and type of arrows 
they carry.

Under these pictures is a set of Commands - these are Default Commands, used
when the computer controls that Hero in combat. More of that later.

You can leave the Character View by clicking on the right mouse button.

Looking again at the main view, each Character also has a Backpack, a Health
Bar and a Control Button. The Health Bar is a measure of the Companion's 
remaining Hit Points, as discussed earlier. If this is full, the PC is
completely healthy. If it has fallen at all, the Companion could do with some
help. If the remaining bar turns red, the Hero is very near to collapse -
provide some assistance immediately!

The Control Button is used to place a Companion under Computer Control during
Combat. We get to that in a moment.

The backpack is used to store the Companion's equipment. See Equipment.

You can also give orders to a Companion by clicking on the sprite which
represents them in the centre of the screen. This bring up a window with up 
to nine options. These options are covered in the section on Encounters.

To exit from the Tactical View, click the right mouse button. Note that this
will not work if you are up to your neck in monsters; you'll have to either
defeat them or run away. Nor will it work in a Dungeon. In all other 
circumstances, however, when you leave the Tactical View, you return to the
same hex on the Wilderness Map you were in at the start of the Encounter.

ENCOUNTERS
----------
Whenever the PC Party moves into a hex, previously visited or otherwise, 
there may be an Encounter. Encounters take many forms. You may meet friendly
creatures or hostile ones. There may be treasure, or useful equipment. There
may be any permulation of all the above.

When an Encounter occurs, play is automatically switched to the Tactical View
In the Wilderness, this is a portion of the hex the PCs occupy; in a Dungeon,
the view is a room or a corridor.

Encounters are triggered by:
The presence of hostile - 
or friendly - creatures;
The presence of treasure;
The presence of some interesting artefact.
These are not mutually exclusive.

During an encounter, or at any time when play is in the Tactical View, you 
can give individual commands to a PC by clicking on that PC. This opens a
window with up

                                  -9-

to nine icons. By selecting an icon with the left mouse button, you order the
Hero to behave in a particular manner. The nine icons are:

MELEE - The PC move towards and attacks the nearest opponent, using his melee
weapon.

RANGED - The PC fires his ranged weapon; a pointer appears to allow you to 
select the target.

CAST - The PC can select a Magic Spell to Cast. A window appears with the 
complete list of the spells that character knows: click on the spell name you
wish to employ. See the Spells. Naturally, only spell-casters have this 
option.

LOOK - The PC inspects his or her immediate surroundings. This can provide
useful information. If you are standing close to some equipment, this will
identify it for you.

GET - If a PC is adjacent to some equipment or an artefact which the Party 
has discovered, this command is used to pick it up. A window appears 
containing a picture of the object: use the left mouse button to drag the
item to the PCs backpack.

TALK - Not all creatures are hostile! If you use this command before Combat
takes place, a neutral creature can be prevented from attacking you - it 
might also have vital information to give you. If you command Tasslehoff to
talk while in combat, you will activate his 'Kender Yell'.

MOVE - Once you have clicked on this icon, a pointer appears. Use this to 
select a target square; once you click on this, the PC starts moving towards
that spot. You can leave an encounter by clicking off the edge of the 
Tactical View. Underground, this only applies if you click on the space
immediately behind a door. Once you have given this command, you can continue
to select new target squares for the PC to move to - this helps steer round
obstacles.

                                    -10-

GROUP MOVE - As Move, only all four PCs will head for the target square.

CONTROL BUTTON - This works in exactly the same manner as the Control Button
beside each PC portrait. Click on to toggle computer control on/off for that
PC in Combat.

At certain points, animated graphics sequences appear. Hold down the LEFT
MOUSE BUTTON until the screen returns to Tactical View.

COMBAT
------
The presence of other creatures in a hex often - but not always - leads to a
fight! Combat is fast and furious in Shadow Sorcerer, and demands quick
decisions; remember, everything happens on a real-time basis.

You can take complete control of all or some of the Companions in the PC 
party. Others can be set to switch to Computer (Default) Control 
automatically at the beginning of a combat. Beforehand though, you must give 
these characters Default Commands, which define their tactics. Because PCs
with Default Commands go directly to Computer Control once a Combat begins, 
it is wise to have set the Defaults before you start having Encounters, such
as at the beginning of the game.
In the Tactical View (remember, you can reach this by putting the cursor on 
the PC Party and clicking the left mouse button), click on a Companions 
portrait to bring up their Character View.

At the bottom of the window, there is a heading - Default - and a number of 
options with 'buttons'. These options include Attack, Ranged, Flee and Cast.
The latter only appears for spell-casting characters, along with a non-
Default option (Memorise). More about Magic later.

By clicking on the relevant button, you can order a Companion to adopt 
agressive or cowardly tactics while under computer control. You can switch on
as many Defaults as you desire. These are the normal effects each Default 
action:

ATTACK - The character moves towards and attacks the nearest opponent, using
his melee weapon.

RANGED - The character fires his ranged weapon at a random opponent.

CAST - The character casts combat spells.

                                  -11-

Naturally, only spell-casters have this option.

FLEE - The character attempts to withdraw from combat if his/her hit points
fall below 25% of their starting value.

Remember, you can toggle a character between personal and computer control
during a combat using their Control Button.

The more PCs you have under Computer Control, the easier the game is to play,
but you are restricting your tactics in a fight. In particular, spell-casting
characters might not operate as you would wish them to. Clocking on a
character under computer control switches them back to manual and also makes
them leader of the party. So take care where you click the LEFT MOUSE BUTTON,
as you could steer the character into all sorts of trouble.

During Combat, the boxes at the bottom of the screen will contain hit point
bars for each of your opponents, providing you with a rough guide to their
strength.

EQUIPMENT AND
OTHER GOODIES
-------------
As you explore, you will discover various pieces of Equipment, Treasure,
Artefacts etc. Naturally, the PCs begin with armour and weapons, a limited
supply of food and a few other useful items.

PCs carry most of their gear in backpacks, which can be accessed through the
backpack icon beside each PCs portrait. Click on the icon, and a window
appears which you use to view the items that PC carries. The arrow buttons on
the bottom edge of the window can be used to scroll through the items (they
turn blue when you reach the end of the list).

Each PC can also carry one Melee weapon and one Ranged weapon ready for use.
These are shown on the main Character View.

Moving equipment around is very simple. When the item you wish to move is in
the window, click on and drag it to the target location - this can be another
PCs backpack (for storage) or any PCs portrait (which makes that piece of 
Equipment Active), or you can discard that item by placing it on the floor.

ACTIVE ITEMS

When an Equipment item is dropped into a PCs portrait, it becomes Active. 
This means it will be used by that Companion in the appropriate manner; 
Potions will be drunk, Armour will be put on, Food will be consumed.

In the case of Melee or Ranged weapons, these will be swapped for the 
previously active weapon (which will go into the backpack).

Some weapons have magical power built in, whcih is most commonly expressed as
a 'plus' - a bonus to the wielders chance of hitting and doing damage. The
'plus' of the magic weapon is revealed through the Character View; the
greater the plus value, the better the weapon.

MAGIC
-----
Goldmoon, Elistan, Raistlin and Gilthanas - and several monsters - can cast
spells from on of two disciplines, Clerical or Magic. Goldmoon and Elistan 
are Clerics; Raistlin and Gilthanas can cast Mage Spells. 
All spellcasters have to memorise spells from their Spell Books before they 
can cast them. Their capacity to memorise spells depends on their level (how
advanced they are as Clerics or Mages).

Memorising spells is handled through the Character View. Click on the 
Memorise button, and a menu of spells appears.

Spells are ranked by their level; these are shown in parentheses before the
spell name. A spellcaster can only memorise a certain number of spells at
each level - it is easier to learn simple spells than more difficult (and
potent!) ones. The numbers on the left show how many of each Spell are
currently memorised.

To Memorise additional Spells, left click on the name of the Spell you
require. If the PC has the capacity to learn that Spell, it is added to their
memory. You can also discard already-memorised Spells using the right-mouse
button.

Above the spell list, there is a graphic showing the hours of the day (see
Time). Memorising spells can take up a lot of time, and is best done at 
Night, when you don't have other things to worry about....Naturally, you 
can't Memorise spells in the middle of a Combat.

You cast Spells in the Tactical View. Click on the PC, and then the Cast icon
The spell list appears, and you can select the name of the Spell you wish to 
Cast. Some Spells may require you to select a target.

Read Spells for the effects of different Spells when Cast.

                                  -13-

SPELLS
------
The following spells are available to your spell-casters:

CLERICS:

CURE LIGHT WOUNDS - restores 1-8 lost Hit Points to a wounded PC. After
selecting the spell, click on the portrait of the PC you wish to treat.
PROTECTION FROM EVIL - inhibits the attacks of evil creatures.
TURN UNDEAD - can repel skeletons, mummies and spectres.
BLESS - improves the attacking abilities of the PC Party.
DETECT MAGIC - reveals the presence of magic.
FIND TRAPS - reveals the presence of mechanical traps, making them easier to
disarm.
HOLD PERSON - freezes a humanoid in its tracks.
RESIST FIRE - gives limited protection against all fire-based attacks. Lasts
for 70 minutes (game time).
PRAYER - is a more substantial version of Bless.
DISPEL MAGIC - can destroy the effects of enemy magic.
CURE SERIOUS WOUNDS - is a more powerful version of Cure Light Wounds.

MAGES:

SLEEP - causes weak creatures to keel over.
MAGIC MISSILE - fires a burst of magical energy at the enemy. After slecting
this spell, use the pointer to select the target.
CHARM - makes an enemy less hostile. 
BURNING HANDS - transforms a feeble wizard into a fighting machine.
WEB - creates a sticky barrier which is hard to break through; use the 
pointer to select a target square.
DETECT INVISIBLE - reveals secret doors or hidden items.
FIREBALL - fires a ball of plasma which explodes violently; make sure you are
out of the range of this one!
DETECT MAGIC - reveals the presence of magical traps.

THE REFUGEES
------------
As you will discover, the Refugees are difficult people to keep alive. They 
may follow your orders implicitly. They may not. They may trail after the PCs
they may sit still (usually a sign when they have ran out of food). They may
split into smaller groups. They may even decide that life in Pax Tharkas
wasn't so bad, and start back-tracking towards a touching reunion with
Verminaard.

No matter how irritating they become, it is your job to keep them healthy. 
That means steering them away from unfortunate encounters until you can find
your goal. In particular, it means moving them far and fast enough away from
Pax Tharkas to keep them out of reach of the Draconians once they break out.

If they have food and their morale is OK, the Refugees will follow whatever
path the PCs take. However, they might not always do what you want them to do
It is possible to give them alternative orders - which is when you run into 
the full majesty of the Refugees Council.

Since their escape, the Refugees have organised themselves. The Council
consists of five leaders, who represent the different factions with the 
Refugees. Elistan, the cleric, is one such leader, a logical man of even
temperament, who admires Goldmoon enormously, and with whom Laurana also has 
a close friendship; another is Briar, a plainsman like Riverwind and Goldmoom
a man of plain talking and simple motivation who has fallen under the 
influence of Locar; Locar is himself the third leader, a former priest of the
false religion of the Seekers, who works actively against Elistan; the
fourth is Eben Shatterstone, a friendly and approachable man who played an
important part in the escape from Pax Tharkas; the last is Brookland, leader
of 

                                     -14-

the Woodfolk, a friend to the Elves, and a solid leader of his people who
cannot be pushed into a decision.

Each night at eight o'clock, or at any time when you attempt to give them a 
Movement order, the Council will convene to consider matters. If the PCs are 
present in the same hex, you are given the opportunity to address them. Your 
advice will be weighed carefully, but it is as much how you say it as what 
you say which will sway their decision. It also matters who is doing the 
speaking; the composition of the PC Party at this time will influence the
result of the Council meeting.

The five leaders have their own view as to how things should proceed. You can
try reasoning with them, threatening them or get down on your knees and beg;
each leader will react in a different way to each approach. Get used to the
character of the five leaders - the right approach will be vital to keeping
the Refugees as a united group.

TIME
----
Shadow Sorcerer's real-time enviroment places the emphasis on quick thinking
and astute planning. In the top right of the screen, a graphic shows the
passing of time through each day - the advances from left to right, returning
to the extreme left at midnight. The darker areas represent the hours of 
night.

Many functions of the game are controlled by the passage of game-time. The
most important of these is the escape of the dragonarmies from Pax Tharkas.
Almost every action you undertake eats up your lead time, and planning has to
take account of this. To give two examples, you have to avoid crossing the 
mountains whenever you can, and you should be careful with your spellcasters, 
who take time to re-memorise their magicks.
You can't halt the passage of time, but you might want to tweak it a little,
particularly the first time you play. If you press the +(plus)key on your
keyboard, game time pauses relatively more quickly - all functions of the 
game are speeded up. Alternatively, press the -(minus)key to allow you more
time to think.

MISCELLANY
----------
You can save and restart games through the Options Menu. Click on save, and
follow the on-screen instructions to save. Similarly, clicking on Load will
restart a previously-saved game.

There are two other options on this Menu. Heal provides a fast-track method
of restoring all the lost hit points of your PC Party. Your Cleric spell-
casters continue to heal wounded characters and re-memorising healing spells
until everyone is fixed up.

Regroup allows you to reform th PC Party if it splits up fro any reason, such
as when a character flees off the edge of the Tactical View during Combat.

                                  -15-

THE COMPANIONS
--------------

TANIS    7th Level Half-Elf Fighter

Str 16   Wis 13   Con 12   Int 12   Dex 16
Chr 15   AL NG    Hp 55
AC 4

Armour: Leather Armour +2 and Shield
Weapons: Longsword (Wyrmslayer), Long Bow & Arrows 

Tanis is torn between the human and elven parts of his heritage. Though he 
was brought up by the Elves, he was always aware of many differences that
marked him seperate. So, as a young man, he left the Elven homelands and 
became a wandering adventurer.
Tanis is the natural leader of the Dragonlance Companions. He is a 
formidable fighter, but also a sensible negotiator. His magical sword -
WYRMSLAYER - is a recent aquisition. Its power against draconians (and maybe
even dragons themselves)is potent, but unproven.
Laurana has loved Tanis for many years, but the Half-Elf is torn between her
and the half-sister of Caramon and Raistlin, Kitiara. Her whereabouts are
unknown.

RAISTLIN     5th Level Human Magic-User

Str 10   Wis 14   Con 10   Int 17   Dex 16
Chr 10   AL N     Hp 15
AC 5

Armour: Robes Only
Weapons: Staff of Magius

Caramon's twin, Raistlin has grown to be very different to his brother. 
Having once seen a simple Illusionist, he proved able to copy those tricks. 
His half-sister , Kitiara, encouraged him to develop his talents and he
astounded his tutors at Magic School by his prowess and the depth of his
ambition.
Raistlin left to seek a greater tutor. In the Tower of Sorcery, he was put to
terrible tests which wrecked his health, turned his skin a golden hue, and 
gave him eyes that could only see death.
Raistlin is surly and unpredictable. Even his attachment to his brother is
ill-balanced. He has great power, however, and may yet prove to be the most
influential of the Companions.

CARAMON     8th Level Human Fighter

Str 18/63   Wis 10   Con 17   Int 12   Dex 11
Chr 15      AL LG    Hp 52

Armour: Ring Mail and Shield
Weapons: Longsword, Spear

Caramon is Raistlin's twin and has a strong sense of loyalty towards his more
sickly brother. Being extremely strong and robust himself, he protects 
Raistlin from physical harm whenever he can, even though he recognises that
his twin is not easily understood.

                              -16-

Always cheerful, Caramon is also close to Tika Waylan, and is deeply loyal to
all the other Companions. Above all, Caramon is decent, dependable and a 
stout fighting man.

GOLDMOON     7th Level Human Cleric

Str 12   Wis 16   Con 12   Int 12   Dex 14
Chr 17   AL LG    Hp 29
AC 8

Armour: Leather
Weapons: Sling +1

Goldmoon, a princess of a plainsfolk tribe, has become a true Cleric 
following the discovery of a magical crystal staff. Exiled for both 
proclaiming this, and for her love for Riverwind, the son of a poor man,
Goldmoon found a new home amongst the Dragonlance Companions.
Goldmoon is pure-hearted, brave, dutiful and deeply devoted to Mishakal,the
Goddess of Healing. Her Clerical skills are vital to the success of the PCs 
quest, as are her qualities of trustworthiness and loyalty.

STURM BRIGHTBLADE     8th Level Human Fighter

Str 17   Wis 11   Con 16   Int 14   Dex 12
Chr 12   AL LG    Hp 47
AC 5

Armour: Chain Mail
Weapons: Two-handed sword +3

Sturm is the son of a Solamnic Knight, and adheres to their strict code, even
though he has not been knighted himself. In fact, throughout his many long 
journeys, Sturm has never found a trace of the Order, only bitter memories
of their fall from grace. Sturm carries his father's sword and follows the
Solamnic creed "Obedience Unto Death". He is dignified, fearless and humane.
In Sturm, the Companions exhibit their greatest concern for the victims of
the perils which face Krynn.

TASSLEHOFF BURRFOOT     6th Level Kender Thief

Str 13   Wis 12   Con 14   Int 9   Dex 16  
Chr 11   AL N     Hp 24
AC 5

Armour: Studded Leather
Weapons: Hoopak

Tass is a victim to the habitual wanderlust of the Kender race. Novelty 
excites a Kender like no other, and Tass' curiosity comes in full measure. He
collects old maps, and is forever seeking ways to add new knowledge to them.
The other characteristic of the Kender that Tas has inherited in full is 
their concept of "handling". Tass always seems to have possessions which he 
is keeping for someone else. He first met Flint after removing his armband
for safe-keeping. Full of fun and utterly fearless, Tass has brightened the
lives of the Companions, even if he sometimes exasperates them. In

                                  -17-

particular, they value his skill with languages, and his ability to disarm
traps and open doors.

RIVERWIND     7th Level Human Ranger

Str 18/35   Wis 14   Con 13   Int 13   Dex 16
Chr 13      AL LG    Hp 42
AC 5

Armour: Studded Leather
Weapons: Longsword +2, Short Bow, Arrows

Once a simple hunter, Riverwind's fate has been determined by his love for 
the princess, Goldmoon. It was the quest he undertook to prove his love for
her that found the Crystal Staff, and that made her a Cleric of the True Gods
Goldmoon and Riverwind are the only survivors of their people, who were 
massacred by the draconians. Riverwind is strong, but extremely reserved. He 
believes in plain words and decisive action. The people of the other plain 
tribes respect him, and their acceptance of the guidance of the Companions is
in no small part because of him. Riverwind and Goldmoon together are a 
formidable team.

FLINT FIREFORGE     6th Level Dwarf Fighter

Str 16   Wis 12   Con 18   Int 7   Dex 10
Chr 13   AL NG    Hp 60
AC 6

Armour: Studded Leather
Weapons: 2 Hand Axes

Flint is a Hill Dwarf, on of those left behind when the Mountain Dwarves
retreated into Thorbardin. This, tehn, is a very personal quest for him. 
Brave, but very cynical, Flint is old, even by Dwarven standards. He remains
with the Companions because of a deep personal bond to Tanis, and his 
grudging affection for Tass, with whom he squabbles all the time. Flint has a
very strong sense of mission, and an equally strong sense of tradition. He 
has little trust for other Dwarven cultures, and his quick temper makes him 
an unlikely candidate as a diplomat.....

GILTHANAS     5th Level Elf Fighter/4th Level Magic-User

Str 12   Wis 10   Con 12   Int 14   Dex 16
Chr 13   AL CG    Hp 19
AC 2

Armour: Chain Mail
Weapons: Longsword +1, Longbow and Arrows

Gilthanas is the son of the Speaker of Suns, a major leader of the Elven 
people. He is nimble, optimistic and quietly confident in his many skills. He
has chosen to ally himself with the Companions, partly because he can see
that they represent the heart of the struggle with the draconians, partly
because he is concerned for his sister, Laurana, and her imperfect 
relationship with Tanis.

                                  -18-

LAURANA     4th Level Elf Fighter

Str 13   Wis 12   Con 14   Int 15   Dex 17  
Chr 16   AL CG    Hp 24
AC 2

Armour: Chaim Mail +1
Weapons: Short sword

Laurana, as the daughter of the Speaker of Suns, has enjoyed greta privelege.
She grew used to getting her own way, but she is charming enough, and has the
good sense not to be undiplomatic.
She was pledged to Tanis while still almost a child, and loves him still. Her
inner strength and optimism have carried her through the dissapointment of 
his seeming indifference. She has chosen to prove herself through her service
to the Cleric, Elistan.
Laurana is a warrior, a leader and a woman of great nobility of mind. She has
a great future ahead of her.

EBEN SHATTERSTONE     5th Level Elf Fighter

Str 14   Wis 7   Con 8   Int 15   Dex 13
Chr 15   AL CN   Hp 28
AC5

Armour: Chain Mail
Weapons: Longsword

Eben is a proud man, fighting to restore the wealth and prestige of his 
family name. Though both handsome and charming, Eben has a tendency to want 
to be in control of everything, even though he rarely shows himself to be a
wise leader. As the foremost among one of the factions of the Refugees, Eben 
has an unsettling influence on the quest, often expressing his philosophy as
"Lets Live To Fight Another Day".

TIKA WAYLAN     5th Level Human Fighter

Str 14   Wis 12   Con 13   Int 9   Dex 16
Chr 14   AL NG    Hp 30
AC 6

Armour: Leather
Weapon: Shortsword

Tika's father was a Thief, and she learned much of his trade. In fact, other
than Tass, only Tika has the skill to find and disarm traps and open locked
doors. Since the destruction of the only real home she knew, she has
possessed a deep hatred of the draconians. Acquiring scraps of armour
wherever she could find it, Tika has fought as hard as any of the others. Her
fast-thinking and toughness are her greatest assets. She also admires Caramon
deeply, while also being fascinated by anything magical.

                                  -19-

ELISTAN     7th Level Human Cleric

Str 13   Wis 17   Con 12   Int 14   Dex 12 
Chr 13   AL NG    Hp 40
AC 5

Armour: Chain Mail
Weapon: War Hammer

Elistan leads one of the Refugee factions, but his importance goes far beyond
that. Having been a Seeker, servant to the False Gods, Elistan is now a true
Cleric. 
Goldmoon managed to show him what had happened to her, and the same change
was wrought in him. With Laurana's assistance, he ministers to the needs of 
the Refugees during the quest. Elistan is devoted to peace and the welfare of
the Refugees. He does not, however, shrink from doing whatever must be done 
to escape the wrath fo Verminaard's legions. He does, after all, have first-
hand knowledge of the evil the dragonarmies can do.

BROOKLAND     5th Level Human Fighter

Str 12   Wis 9   Con 15   Int 10   Dex 10
Chr 6    AL NG   hp 27
AC 8

Armour: Leather
Weapon: Longsword

Brookland is the leader of the Woodfolk, a human faction among the Refugees
friendly to Elves. He shares the simplicity and the good-heartedness of his
people, but also has a stubborn streak. Brookland cannot be rushed or pushed
into a decision. His prime concern is the safety of the Woodfolk, but he is
as confused as any about how this can be best achieved. Laurana seems to 
have his ear.

BRIAR     5th Level Human Fighter

Str 14   Wis 10   Con 15   Int 13   Dex 15
Chr 11   AL LN    Hp 28
AC 7

Armour: Leather
Weapons: Longsword

Not unlike Riverwind, Briar is a suspicious and cautious Plainsman, and leads
the faction among the Refugees which centres on his tribe. He prefers to make
decisions based on simple criteria, and it is easy to overwhelm Briar with 
clever talk, so that he just rebels for the sake of it. He has a working
understanding with Locar.

LOCAR     5th Level Human Fighter

Str 14   Wis 16   Con 10   Int 9   Dex 10
Chr 14   AL LN    Hp 19

Armour: Leather
Weapons: Longsword

Locar leads the rump of humans who still follow the Seekers, despite the
success Elistan has had in enticing followers away from them. Locar hates
Elistan and everything he stands for, and will be obstructive to any
suggestion which Elistan agrees with. He is, fortunately, a coward, and can 
be easily rough-handled into line.

                                    -20-

KRYNN
THE DRAGONLANCE WORLD
---------------------
The events of Shadow Sorcerer take place on Krynn, the imaginary ADVANCED
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS world. This section is for those players unfamiliar with
AD&D roleplaying, or with the particular circumstances of the DRAGONLANCE
epic.

For almost 1000 years, Krynn prospered during the Age of Might.
Virtually all the kingdoms on the main continent - Ansalon - were united in 
the Empire of Istar. The High Kingpriest was the most powerful ruler ever
known, and sought to complete the glory of his reign by summoning the gods to
do his bidding. From that moment, the story of Krynn takes a downward turn.

Angered, the gods threw down a firey mountain, which destroyed the Capital-
City of Istar, and caused convulsion and cataclysm across the whole world.
The survivors, shocked and dismayed, hardly knew what to make of it. They
turned from the deities who had turned on them, and started to worship false
gods. They turned their anger inward also; many blamed the Knights of 
Solamnia, who had once been their protectors. The Dwarves blamed anyone but
themselves, and sought to shut off the mountain Kingdom of Thorbardin. They
were challenged by the wizard Fistandantilus, who led an alliance of humans 
and hill dwarves against them. When he failed, he caused a mighty explosion
which destroyed both armies, and left only Skullcap as a testimony to his 
fury. Thorbardin was shut off once and for all.

For the other races, only poverty and misery remained. Without the power of
true clerics, many suffered and died unnecessarily. And then, finally, there
came the terrible news that an army was gathering to the north, and embarking
on a terrible campaign of enslavement. The draconians were on the march - and
their Highlords had forged an awesome alliance with the evil dragons!

Dragons were scorned as myths, beasts of fantasy. But before the Age of Might
there had been three great wars against the evildragons, before the great 
hero Huma, riding a silver dragon and weilding the dragonlance, had defeated
them and the evil Queen of Darkness, Takhisis. Following the banishment of
the evil dragons, the good dragons had withdrawn also, to maintain the 
balance of the world.

Now, that balance is threatened, more completely than ever before. The
draconian Highlords, including the all-conquering Verminaard, have swept 
aside all resistance with the aid of their dragon allies. How can they be
defeated?

                                    -21-

AD&D GAME HEROES
----------------
The Heroes of this DRAGONLANCE epic are based on the heroic archtypes of the
ADVANCED DUNGEON & DRAGONS roleplaying game. They come in many shapes and
sizes, but all are delineated by their race, abilities and character class.

Among the DRAGONLANCE Companions, there are five races. Dwarves, like Flint, 
belong to a race of sturdy craftsmen-warriors. They are exceptionally 
resistant to magic, and can see in the dark with their infravision. Elves are
tall, charismatic creatures, with some immunity to certain types of magic,
infravision and natural proficiences with many weapons. Gilthanas and Laurana
are Elves.

Tanis is a Half-Elf, sharing some of the characteristics of the Human race,
including Infravision. The ever curious Kender, like Tass, are curious, 
nimble and skilled with their hands. This talent is most often expressed
through their ability to look after other people's goods without them knowing
about it! Finally, there are the many Human cultures. Humans have no special 
talents, but they are the most adaptable race of all.

The abilities of all characters are expressed by six attributes, each rated
from 3 (awful) to 18 (excellent). Strength (STR) is the measure of brute
power. It determines how much a character can carry, and is an important
factor in combat. Fighters and Rangers can have exceptional strength, which
measures above 18 (such as 18/63; the 63 being a "percentage" rating above
18).
Intelligance (INT) is the measure of learning power - it is particularly
important to Mages. Wisdom (WIS) measures a characters ability to understand
the ways of the world; Clerics require high Wisdom scores. Dexterity (DEX)
meaures manual skills and agility. Constitution (CON) rates the characters
robustness. Charisma (CHR) quantifies a character's ability to interact with
others.
The third defining factor for all characters is their Character Class. This 
is a broadly-defined career or profession. The warriors include Fighters, 
such as Caramon, Flint and Sturm and Rangers like Riverwind, Clerics, like
Goldmoon and Elistan, have spells bestowed on them by their deities, while
Magic-Users memorise their magics from Spell Books and accumulated practice.
Thieves, such as Tass, live by their wits, dexterity and through specialised
skills such as lock-picking, trap-disarming and moving silently. Some 
characters can change class - as did Tika, who was once a Thief and is now 
a Fighter. Others progress through more than one class at a time, as does
Gilthanas.

Characters progress through their Character Classes in levels. As they
improve their level, they improve the skills relevant to their career. They
also gain more Hit-Points, which measure the character's ability to survive
in combat.

A character's broad outlook on life is summarised by their Alignment. 
Alignment is categorised along two axes. The Law-Chaos axis measures how the
character responds to authority; the Good-Evil axis expresses their general
morality. On either axis, it is also possible to be Neutral. So, Lawful Good
Goldmoon believes in rules and hierarchy for the good of all, while Lawful
Evil Verminaard would prefer to see power used for enslavement. Other
combinations place different emphases on character behaviour.

                                   -22-

BESTIARY
--------
These are the more common Monsters among those you will meet in Shadow 
Sorcerer:

DRACONIANS: The draconians are the soldiers and mages if the evil
Dragonarmies. Their invasion from the north sparked the crisis that has led
to this adventure, and their advance was irresistable until they were bottled
up in Pax Tharkas.

The majority are BAAZ; simple fighters, savage, but not too dangerous except
in numbers.

The BOZAK can glide on their leathery wings, but their greatest danger lies 
in their ability to cast simple magical spells.

The KAPAK are tough fighters, who place venom on their weapons.

The SIVAK are more dangerous still, being fast and capable fighting machines.

Finally, the dreaded AURAK can cast powerful magics - they are the cruellest
of a savage race.

SPIDERS: Giant Spiders plague parts of Krynn. They are a nuisance, but only
pose a threat to weak parties or if they attack in numbers.

HOBGOBLINS: Compared to the Draconians, the brutal Hobgoblins are a minor 
menace, but they have raided the villages of Krynn for centuries, and are
flourishing in the chaotic times that have come to the world now.

SLIG: The Slig are distantly related to Hobgoblins, and are slightly larger,
but even less intelligant. They hate any sign of weakness, and despise all
those who show mercy. Their encampments are usualy studded with traps.

SKELETONS: The weakest of the Undead. Skeletons have no mind of their own, 
and attack with no purpose except to kill or be killed.

TROLLS: The hills and mountains shelter a few of these dread beasts, who live
in caves and come out only to hunt. The greatest danger they pose is that 
they are starving - and would find a caravan of Refugees extremely appetising
Trolls are very difficult to kill, since their flesh regenerates from most
wounds extremely quickly.

HAUNT: In times like these, it is hardly surprising that so many Undead have
returned. Haunt return to inhabit places they were associated with before. 
They are not always dangerous, but can be provoked to defend their "homes".

                                    -23-

ZOMBIES: Foul, Undead creatures, reeking of decay and disease. They are not 
too tough, but wise men shun them.

WIGHTS: Creatures of the night, these evil spirits wish only to slay those
fortunate enough to still be living....

GHOULS: Ghouls are moderately tough opponents, though they are possessed of
a grim cunning lost to their simpler cousins, such as Zombies.

GHOSTS: These are among the most feared Undead of all; spirits of humans so 
evil in life that they remain bound to the world, seeking out the essence of
the living to fuel their continued existence.

GIANT WASPS: Even though they have grown in fantastic size, these creatures
pose no threat individually. Their nests, however, are bound to be heavily
guarded. It is rumoured that the Royal Jelly stored within has great healing
power.

OGRES: Huge, ugly humanoids, these creatures skulk away from settled lands, 
living by raids and ambushes. They are brutish and cowardly, but their size
lends them tremendous power.

DEATH KNIGHT: The Knights of Solamnia were once the protectors of Krynn, but 
their "failure" in the aftermath of the destruction of Istar brought them to
ruin. Some Knights failed to live up to the high code of honor the Knights
had sworn to abide by.....these have been bound to the world as Death Knights
They are unspeakably evil, corrupted by the darkest forces, but their fierce
pride means they can never find rest.

LIZARD MEN: The marsh-dwelling Lizard Men have always been shunned by the 
other races, since they are vile and cruel, and indulge in unspeakable rites
in their secret shrines.

DWARVES: This part of Krynn was once, of course, ruled over by the Mountain
Dwarves. Though it has been many centuries since they withdrew into the
mountains, they left behind other Dwarven races, some of whom may be friendly
others of whom will be hostile. Most notoriously, the Aghar are well-known
for being stupid, quick-tempered and cruel.

DRAGONS: The greatest threat of all. Now that the evil dragons have returned 
to Krynn, how can mere mortals stand against them? In the distant past, great
wars were fought between the Dragons of Good and Evil, but the last such war
seemed to end with the triumph of good.

                                  -24-

How can the Dragons have returned, and what ties them to the Draconians? The
answer may never be known, but the sight of the Dragon Highlord, Verminaard,
atop Ember, his red dragon steed, is to be greatly feared. If only the good 
dragons would return....

GLOSSARY
--------
ABILITY SCORES: These scores rate a PC's Strength, Intelligance, Wisdom,
Dexterity, Constitution and Charisma on a scale of 3-18.

ALIGNMENT: This is a simple assessment of a PC or Monster's core outlook on 
life.

ARMOUR CLASS: This is a rating assessing the defensive capabilities of a PC 
or Monster. The lower the score, the harder to hit they are.

CHARACTER CLASS: The occupation a PC follows.

ENCOUNTER: Any meeting between the PC's and a Monster or friendly Character,
entering a significant place or discovering treasure is an encounter.

EXPERIENCE POINTS: These are awarded during the game for victories in Combat,
and count towards your Victory Score. In AD&D games, they also measure your
progress through the different levels of your Character Class.

HIT POINTS: A measure of a PC or Monster's ability to survive being hit in
Combat.

ICON: In the Wilderness, there are icons - pictures - to show the whereabouts 
of the PC Party, the Refugee group(s) and the draconian forces.

LEVEL: PC's have Levels; they show how far that PC has progressed through 
their Character Class. Spells also have Levels, showing how difficult they 
are to master.

MAGIC: Many characters can cast spells. Many pieces of equipment can be
enchanted. In AD&D games, all manner of things can be made possible through
magic.

MELEE: Any combat at close quarters.

MONSTER: A catch-all term to describe the PC's opponents.

PARTY: A group name for the 4 PC's.

PLAYER CHARACTERS (PC's): The four Dragonlance Companions under your control.
Any of the other Heroes can be substituted for them.

RACE: Characters can be Humans, Dwarves, Elves, Half-Elves or Kenders.

SPELL: An incantation that causes a magical effect to occur.