                            Shanghai

                         PLAYER'S GUIDE

                For Amiga and Atari ST Computers

                            CONTENTS

The Game.............................................2

The History..........................................2

The Set-Up...........................................2

The Tiles............................................3

The Dragon...........................................7

The Object...........................................8

The Rules............................................9

Strategy.............................................9

The Four Ways to Play................................9

The Menu Bar........................................10

Appendix............................................16


THE GAME

Your are about to enter the realm of Shanghai - one of the most absorbing
computer experiences you'll every encounter

This Player's Guide, along with the on-screen information available in the
game itself, will help get you started.  Together, they outline the rules,
describe game variations and strategy, even supply a bit of history.

But there's one thing that neither this guide nor the on-line instructions
can help you with.  And it's probably the most difficult part of the
game...

Quitting.

THE HISTORY

Shanghai is based on the ancient Chinese game called Mah-Jongg, the origins
of which are as mysterious as the game itself.  Some historians date it as
far back as the time of Confucius, over 25 centuries ago.

It's believed that Mah-Jongg was first played by sailors and fishermen as a
diversion from the monotony of long ocean voyages.  Although it began as a
card game, the cards eventually gave way to bone and bamboo tiles, which
were less likely to fly off the decks.

In the 1920's, during Prohibition, Mah-Jongg took the United States by
storm, turning many unsuspecting gamesters into ivory tile addicts.

Now Activision brings you an all-new version of this former obsession of
sailors, scoundrels, flappers, and moonlighters.  As Shanghai.

THE SET-UP

Amiga Computers

Connect a mouse to mouse port 1; if you have a second mouse, you may
connect it to mouse port 2 for Challenge play - see "The Four Ways to
Play."

(If your computer system is equipped with more than 512K RAM and

                                2

two disk drives, it's possible to have Shanghai loaded at the same time as
another program and to switch between the two.  See the Appendix to this
guide.)

1.	Turn on your computer system and insert your Kickstart disk.

2.	When you're prompted to insert the Workbench disk, insert the
	Shanghai disk in your drive.

3.	When the busy light on the drive goes out, click the mouse or
	press any key on your keyboard.

Atari ST Computers

Connect a mouse to your computer.

1.	Boot your computer system and be sure that it's set to Low 
	resolution.

2.	Insert the Shanghai disk in your disk drive.

3.	From the desktop, select the correct disk drive, then select
	SHANGHAI.PRG.

Shanghai will load automatically - the title screen will appear, and then
the tiles will appear in the Dragon formation.

THE TILES

There are 144 Shanghai tiles in all: 108 suit tiles, 12 Dragon tiles, 16
Winds, 4 Seasons, and 4 Flowers. (Depending on which computer system you
have, some tiles may appear slightly different from the illustrations that
follow.

                                3

THE SUIT OF DOTS

This suit dates back to the orginal sailor's game.  With its resemblance to
coins in other ancient games, it probably respresnts that root of all evil,
money.


THE SUIT OF BAM

Bam stands for bamboo.  Because bamboo was often used in the ancient Orient
to make deadly spears, it is thought that this suit represents victory or
power.

                                4

THE SUIT OF CRAK

Also called characters or actors, Craks may represent actual people or
simply the characters that make us the Chinese alphabet.

THE DRAGONS

In ancient Mah-Jongg, each of the three suits was associated with a Dragon.

White Dragons - associated with Dots.
Red Dragons - associated with Craks.
Green Dragons - associated with Bams.

                                5

THE WINDS

There's nothing hidden in the symbolism of these four tiles.  They
represent just what you'd think: the Four Winds of the World.

THE SEASONS

Another straightforward representation, added to the game by river
gamblers: the Four Seasons of the Year.

THE FLOWERS

The four flowers - Orchid, Plum, Mum, and Bamboo - were introduced by a
medieval princess to add an element of beauty and romance to the game.

                                6

THE DRAGON

The 144 tiles are laid out in the Dragon formation.  The position of every
tile is always random, making each Dragon unique.  You'll soon find that
some are more formidable than others.  But they're all equally engrossing.

The Dragon is built by mixing the tiles and placing them in stacks from one
to five tiles high.  The stacks get taller toward the center of the Dragon.

On the screen your view of the Dragon is from directly above it.  You can
see only the top tile on each stack, but you can tell how high a stack is
by looking at the color or thickness of its border.

From the top, the Dragon looks like this:

             X X X X X X X X X X X X 
                 X X X X X X X X
               X X X X X X X X X X
             X X X X X X X X X X X X
           X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
               X X X X X X X X X X 
                 X X X X X X X X 
             X X X X X X X X X X X X

From the left and right, the Dragon looks like this:

                     X
                    X X
                  X X X X
                X X X X X X
              X X X X X X X X

                                7
THE OBJECT

The object of the game is to remove as many tiles as possible from the
screen by matching pairs.

THR RULES

The rules are simple.  You can only remove "free" tiles, two tiles at a
time.

To remove pairs of tiles:

* Point to and click on each tile - they'll be highlighted - then
  click on Remove or double-click on one of the two highlighted
  tiles.
                           OR

* Point to and click on the first tile, then double-click on the
  second tile.  This method is especially convenient in timed
  versions of the game, when every second counts.

To undo a tile selection:

* Click on the selected tile (which will be highlighted); the 
  highlighting will disappear.

"Free" Tiles.  Any tile is considered "free" if there's nothing on top of
it and if it can slide out to the left or right.  If the tiles on both
sides of it are stacked to the same height, that tile is not freed.

A free tile will be highlighted when you click on it.  If a tile is not
free, it will be highlighted only for a moment, then return to normal, and
you'll see a message telling you the tile isn't free.

Matching Pairs.  You can remove a pair of tiles only if they're identical.

That is, an East Wind can only be paired with another EAst Wind, a Three of
Dots can only be paired with another Three of Dots, and so on.

If the tiles are not identical, your computer will not allow yout to choose
them and will tell you that they don't match.

But there are exceptions...

                                8

The Exceptions.  There are two sets of four tiles that need not match. 
These are the Seasons and the Flowers.

Any two Seasons may be removed as a pair, and any two Flowers may be
removed as a pair.  For example, Winter matches Autumn, and Orchid matches
Plum.  Seasons and Flowers do not match.  You can identify the Seasons and
Flowers easily by the three or four letters on them (for example, ORC for
Orchid).

STRATEGY

* Concentrate on the four tiles that are blocking the most moves;
  the two at far right center and the one at far left center, and th
  one on the very top of the Dragon (in the center of the screen). 
  Try to remove these tiles first.

* Always check for triples.  If you've found a pair to remove, look
  for a third (and fourth) free tile that also matches.  If you take
  two out of three matching tiles, make sure the one you leave is
  blocking the fewest important tiles.  If your're not sure what to
  do with a triple, leave it and make another move instead.

* If you do see all four times of one kind free at once, remove
  them so they're out of your way.

* Look ahead for as many moves as you can.

THE FOUR WAYS TO PLAY

Shanghai gives you four ways to play: Solitaire, Team Effort, Tournament,
and Challenge.

For detailed instructions on each of the four versions of Shanghai, see
"Start a New Game" in this guide or select the rules menu item on the
screen.

SOLITAIRE

This game is for one player only - with no time limitations.  Solitaire
games may be saved sot hat you can resume or replay them at a later time.

                                9

TEAM EFFORT

Any number of players can take turns removing pairs of tiles from the same
dragon.  Team Effort games can also be saved mid-game.

TOURNAMENT PLAY

Any number can participate in Tournament play.  The top five scores are
automatically recorded on the Shanghai disk.  In a Tournament each player
plays by himself or herself, but each player removes tiles from an
identical dragon formation.  The player who removes the most tiles is the
winner.

Tournaments can be timed or untimed.

CHALLENGE GAMES

As in Team Effort games, two players take turns removing tiles from the
same Dragon formation.  But there's a time limit on finding a move.

A player's turn is over when:

* He or she removes two tiles.

or

* Time runs out.

Whoever has removed the most tiles at the end of the game wins.

THE MENU BAR

The menu bar at the top of the screen allows you to access various game
options.  Amiga users: Press and hold down the right moust button to access
the menu bar.  To access a menu, point to it and hold the mouse button down
(Amiga users: continue holding down the right button).  Without releasing
the button, drag the mouse toward you to select a menu item.  When the item
you want is highlighted, release the mouse button.

                               10

The following sections give an overview of every option and item available
through the menu bar:

FILE MENU

Use the File menu to save games, to open saved games, or to quit.

Amiga users: Do not double-click the mouse while your system is accessing a
file in Shanghai; otherwise, you may have to restart your compute.

To open a game file, select the Open menu item from the File Mneu.  Then
click on the name of the game that you want and click again on Open.

The Shanghai disk contains 18 pre-saved Solitaire games, chosen because
it's known that they can be played to the very end - that is, until all the
tiles have been removed.  However, they're certainly not the only games
that can be played to zero.

To save a game, you can use the Shanghai disk or your own formatted disk.

First, select the Save menu item from the File Menu.  Type in the name you
want to give your game and click on the Save button.

To give a previously saved game a new name, choose the Save As menu item,
then follow the steps described above.

START NEW GAME/GAME

Use this menu to start a new game or to select the type of game you wish to
play (see "Four Ways to Play").  Atari ST users: You also use this menu to
change certain settings for Shanghai - see "Settings Menu."

You can choose Solitaire, Team Effort, Tournament, or Challenge.  Here's
how you play each one:

                               11

Solitaire Shanghai

Solitaire is the single-player Shanghai.  It follows the rules described in
"The Rules" section of this guide and under How to Play in the Help menu. 
To win a game fair and square, you should refrain from using Back up a
Move, Start Game Over, or Show All Moves in the Help menu - although these
options exist if you realy get stuck.

Team Effort

This variation of the game is like Solitaire, except that any number of
players cooperate to win the game.  Play rotates from one player to
another, with each player making one move at a time.  Players should not
point out moves to each other.  The test of a good team is whether each
player can see which moves are important and cooperate with the others to
make those moves.

If you don't win the game, it's over when, on any player's turn, that
player cannot see another move.  You can verify that there really are no
more moves by choosing Show All Moves from the Help menu.

Tournament Shanghai

In Tournament play a single game is set up, with an optional time limit of
5, 10, or 20 minutes.  The player who starts a new tournament sets the time
limit.  Then any number of players can play the same game.  The top five
players' names and scores are recorded for each tournament.

To begin any tournament game, you must first choose Tournament from the
Start New Game/Game menu.

On the Atari ST, you'll immediately see the top five scores displayed.  You
can choose to enter your name and try the tournament yourself (by clicking
on Play), or start a new tournament (by clicking on New).

On the Amiga, you'll see an Open Tournament screen, with a list of all the
tournaments currently stored on the disk.  Use the up and down arrows next
to the list, if necessary, to scroll through the list.  Use the mouse to
select the tournament you want; it's name will appear in the File bar.  To
play the tournament shown in the File bar, first click on OPEN, enter your
name if you like, then click on PLAY.  To start a new

				12

tournament, use the mouse to place the cursor in the File bar and delete
the name currently shown there.  Then type in a name for your new
tournament and click on NEW.

When you choose to play a new tournament, you're given a choice of four
time limits for the new tournament: no limit, 20 minutes, 10 minutes, and 5
minutes.  Everyone who plays in a tournament plays with the same time
limit.  Clicking on Setup sets the time limit and starts the new
tournament, erasing the old one.  If you decide not to set up a new
tournament, you can click on Cancel instead, and the current tournament, if
any, will remain intact.

While you're playing a tournament, a clock at the bottom right of the
screen displays the time you have left.  A beep sounds once a minute to
help you keep track of time.

If you don't want the beeps, choose No Beeps from the Settings (Amiga) or
Game (Atari ST) menu.  During Tournament play, the available help is
limited - many of the menu items do not function.

When you're finished playing a tournament, on the Amiga choose Quit
Tournament from the File menu.  On the Atari ST, select Tournament from the
Game menu, then click on the Quit button.

Challenge Shanghai

In Challenge Shanghai, two players compete to see who can find the most
moves in a game.  Both players have a time limit within which to find a
move.  Each player earns one point by making a move while it's his or her
turn.

When you choose Challenge from the Start New Game/Game menu, you're given
four choices of time limits: 60 seconds, 30 seconds, 20 seconds, and 10
seconds.  (Amiga users: You're also asked if you want to play with one
mouse or two.)  Set the time limit you want and type in your name, along
with your opponent's name.  When you click on Play, the new game appears,
along with both players' names and scores.  When it's your turn, your name
and score are black, and the clock appears under your name; the other
player's name and score are dimmed.

To warn you when your turn is nearly up, three beeps sound as your time
runs out.  If you don't want the beeps, choose No Beeps from the

				13

Settings (Amiga) or Game (Atari ST) menu.  As in Tournament play, many of
the menu items do not function during Challenge Shanghai.

When both players agree that they're finished, on the Amiga choose Quit
Challenge from the File menu.  On the Atari ST, select Challenge from the
Game menu, then click on the Quit button.  If both players miss two turns
in a row, the game ends automatically - you'll see a scoreboard with the
winner's score.

When a Challenge match is over, you can choose Peek from the Help menu if
you want to peek under the remaining tiles.

HELP MENU

This menu gives you several options and a wealth of valuable information
about the game of Shanghai.

Back up a Move.  There may be times when you wish to undo your last move
and make another.  In fact, you can back up all the way to the beginning of
a game by repeatedly selecting this item.

Start Game Over.  To play the same game over again, select this item.

Show All Moves.  In Solitaire and Team Effort Shanghai, the game is over
when a player can no longer find any moves.  This item can be used to
verify that all possible moves have indeed been made.

Peek.  If you're so curious to find out what lies beneath a given tile that
you're willing to forfeit the game, use Peek.

How to Play.  This is an on-screen instruction guide.  You can refer to it
any time during a game.  If you use it during timed games, you'll lose
precious seconds.

Strategy.  Select this item to fine-tune your playing abilities.

Guide to Tiles.  Select this to learn about the Shanghai tiles and their
names.

RULES MENU

This menu gives you the rules for the four different game variations.

				14

(For more information onthe four games, also see "Four Ways to Play", page
9 or "Start New Game/Game", page 11.)

SETTINGS MENU

On the Amiga version, this menu lets you modify two elements of the game,
Messages and Beeps.  On the Atari ST version, you control these elements
through the Game menu.

Messages/No Messages.  Message prompts like Click on a tile or That tile is
not free. Choose Another will appear on the right side of the screen.  If
you wish to go it alone - without these helpful prompts - select No
Messages.

Beeps/No Beeps.  In timed games, you'll hear warning beeps.  If you'd
rather not hear the beeps, select No Beeps.

				15

APPENDIX

If your Amiga computer system is equipped with more than 512K RAM and two
disk drives, it's possible to have Shanghai loaded at the same time as
another program and to switch between the two.  Here's how:

1. After turning on your computer and inserting the Kickstart disk, insert
   the Workbench disk in drive 0 and Shanghai disk in drive 1.

2. Open the Workbench, then the System Folder, and finally the CLI utility.

3. Type assign fonts:shanghai: fonts and press Enter.

4. Close the Workbench.

5. Open Shanghai, then click on the Shanghai icon.

6. When Shanghai has finished loading, you may return to the Workbench by
   pressing the left Amiga key and the N key at the same time.

7. You may now eject the Workbench disk and load another program of your
   choice from drive 0.  After doing so, you may return to Shanghai by
   pressing the left Amiga key and the M key at the same time.

To go back and forth between Shanghai and your other program, use the left
Amiga key in combination with the N and M keys.

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================