Sharkey's Moll Docs
-------------------

  The Brief

  Downtown Chicago 1926 - a festering pit of vice and corruption. The kinda
place where hanging around on street corners involves lengths of rope, angry
mobs and a boy scout ability with knots.
  It takes a special kinda law enforcement officer to even think about
stepping out onta the streets, and even then only with a hearty breakfast
and a patented bullet proof vest. An' that kinda guy just so happens to be
you, Lt.Sharkey - Champion of Justice 'n' the American way.
  It was a cold day in the Windy City. Lt.Sharkey left his office downtown,
to force a meet with Rubbers Malone, the local gangland boss. He knew it
wouldn't be easy - Hell, life was never easy these days!!
  The city was going downhill - fast. Where else would arson be regarded as
major urban renewal? Nope Chicago sure ain't for the faint of heart.
  So with a freshly oiled Gatling, and the wisecrack from some punk about
the Untouchables not having washed for three years still ringing in his
ears, the "G Man" set out ready for some action.

  Gamesplay

  Lt.Sharkey is controlled by a MOUSE connected to the relevant port on your
16-Bit machine. Moving the mouse allows the line of fire to be targeted at a
particular gangster on the screen.

  Left Hand Mouse Button - Gatling Gun
  Right Hand Mouse Button - Molotov Cocktail

  The ammunition that Sharkey has at his disposal is shown at the bottom of
the screen. The number of Molotovs he has remaining is shown on the right
hand side of the playing area. The gangsters have had a tip off, and direct
hits with their bullets, knifes and molotovs are registered above Sharkey's
ammunition
  However, shooting snipers on the screen that appear in windows and behind
boxes gives Sharkey the following:

  First Aid Box - patches up Sharkey's wounds and increases his fighting
energy.

  Ammunition Clips - refills his Gatling Gun with extra rounds.

  Bottles - replenishes Lt.Sharkey's store of devastating Molotovs.

  The Shoot-Outs take place over the following locations



  13TH MADISON and CLYNE

  RUBBER MALONE'S HOOCH FACTORY

  CHICAGO CITY HALL BUILDING SITE

  1st AVENUE and MAIN

  THE DOCKS MALONE'S WAREHOUSE

  Lt.Sharkey is out to equal the score, and bring back his Moll!!

End..........
