                     SHOOT EM UP CONSTRUCTION KIT
                  ------------------------------------

     A) GETTING STARTED..(THE QUICK AND DIRTY GUIDE).

     Here`s our ~quick and dirty ~ guide to help you get a feel for
     the way SEUCK works, we`re going to walk you through each
     function to give  you an idea of what you need to produce a
     game.
     The process is quite simple to follow, and all you need is the 
     SEUCK Data disk. Okay, here we go;

     1) To start with the best idea is to load one of the three sample
     games to tinker with-you can examine all the component parts                   and see how they bolt together. Also it means you can try out a 
     game or two so you can see what`s really possible. To load a
     sample game select-LOAD EVERTHING from the LOAD DATA option on                the STORAGE menu. When the list of the games comes up click on the
     file called slap`n`tickle.all, and it will load at once. For
     the purposes of this quick little demo we wont actually draw
     anything, merely tinker a little with the examples just to show
     what`s possible.

     2) Select edit sprite from the EDIT SPRITE menu. A sprite is a
     frame of animation to be used in an object. Each one has a number
     and the first one you see is number 0. Click the + and - buttons
     on the Sprite Number indicator to step through the sprites and
     see how they are drawn. You can make sprites by choosing colours
     from the palette and painting them into the grid. Press the exit
     button to go back to the Main Menu.

     3) Select Edit Object from the EDIT OBJECT menu. Sprites are
     combined to make animated `objects`. The objects are the things 
     that you actually move around the screen. The current object is
     displayed on screen, as a series of frames of animation or sprites.
     under the animating picture window at the bottom right of the 
     screen is a button marked DIRECT or ANIMATE, depending on the mode.
     DIRECTional animation is related to the motion of the joystick
     which you should have in PORT 2. if you have a joystick connected
     then kmove it to test the animation in the small preview window
     in the bottom right of the screen.(try different objects by click-
     ing on the + and - buttons to change the object number.) this
     changes the animation display to show you 18 possible frames of
     animation. Test the effect by clicking the last frame indicator up
     to a higher figure. When you`ve seen enough, click it back to DIRECT
     and click on EXIT.

     4) Click on Edit Enemy Bits on the EDIT OBJECT menu. this shows you
     the strenght and ammo ect. available to each different enemy object
     Dont alter any of the setting`s. just click on EXIT to get back.

     5) The map over which you can play is actually a long strip of
     square graphics called BLOCKS. Click on Edit Block in the EDIT
     BACKGROUND menu. click through the variuos graphic blocks using the
     Block Number indicator + and - buttons. When you`ve seen all of them,
     click the EXIT button to escape back to the main menu.

     6) Select Edit Map. This shows you the map for the level you`re
     currently working on, and an unusual cursor. This is the block cursor
     and to stamp the current block (the number in green)onto the map,
     you position it and click your mouse pointer on the number.Pressing
     + and - signs changes the block number so you get a different graphic.
     the arrows fast forward you to another part of the map. To escape
     press the right mouse button.

     7) Next select the EDIT IFF Sound effects option. Click the + and -
     buttons, and look at the sound numbers at the top of the screen and
     you can see all the sound names assigned to each number. IFF samples 
     can be loaded from any source, even one`s you`ve made yourself, but
     to save you the hassle there are 72 high quality samples in the games 
     disk included in this package.

     8) Click on the PLAYER LIMITATIONS menu and select Player 1. Now
     you can see all the attributes for your player, including the area of
     the screen it can occupy. Notice the players can be switched in or out
     for choosing to design two or one player games. You have to be careful
     not to select a NO player game, however.

     9) Okay enough noodling around. Test the game! try it in cheat mode
     first, just so you can see the whole game without getting waxed 
     yourself.(by all means take a few potshots yourself) See if you can
     spot all the sprites and blocks you saw in the editing windows,
     and how they`re put together.

     10) Now go back and change a few things willy nilly, Go ahead, enjoy
     yourself. you can`t break anything by changing any of the setting`s
     and who know`s you might be able to work out how some of the
     functions work. But set the write protect tabs! in case you try to
     save it by mistake!.

     right then here we go on the SEUCK!!!!!

     THE MENUS...(a. EDIT SPRITE)

     This is where you create the basic graphics which you will later
     animate into `games~ objects. The options on this menu selection are
     EDIT SPRITE,EDIT COLORS and ERASE SPRITE.
     
     EDIT SPRITES; Presents you with the sprite editor window. The 24 X
     24 grid on the left represents a blank piece of screen on which you
     can draw your sprite characters.The small square to the top left
     contains an actual size representation of the sprite you are drawing
     The current sprite on the screen will have a number,shown in the 
     sprite number indicator. clicking the + or - buttons changes the
     sprite. You can select any sprite in memory by just clicking until
     its number appears in this window. Simply click the colour you want
     on the palette down the centre of the screen,and then click the square
     on the grid you want to colour.(the current colour is shown in the
     PEN window) You can hold the button down and move the mouse or 
     joystick to fill more than one square with the selected colour.

     The MIRROR buttons flip the sprite in the direction of the arrow. its
     probaly easier for you to try this rather than attempt to explain
     it.

     The SLIDE buttons are for moving the image around in the grid.
     clicking on any of the buttons moves the image one pixel in that
     direction.

     The UNDO button does just that. undoes the last click. if you make        
     a mistake, then hold everything until you click the undo to go
     back to how it was before you goofed. if you`ve done more than one
     click since the mistake then you`ll have to correct it by hand.

     The FLOOD buttons flood-fills the grid with the selected colour,
     erasing all that was there, There is no FILL option, so if you want
     a large block of colour,its best to flood the screen with the colour
     you want and chip away at it to get the shape you want.

     The COPY button lets you copy one sprite`s graphics into another 
     sprite. Just set the destination number to another number and click
     the copy button. Now that sprite will contain the same graphics as 
     the current one. Handy if two sprites are to be similar but with small
     differences.

     Edit Colours; This is very similar to the edit Sprite window, but
     includes + and - gadgets for RED.GREEN.BLUE(RGB)going from 0-15.
     although you can only have eight(8) colours from the amiga`s palette
     of 4096. Simply click on a colour to select it,then use the + and -
     to adjust the selected colour to your taste. Basically your mixing
     the colours, adding or subtracting amounts of RED,GREEN,BLUE,to the
     colour, and 15 is a of it.

     ERASE SPRITES; Does just that, flushes the current sprite graphic
     from memory,leaving you with a clean slate.

     EXIT; Takes you back to the main menu.

     (b. EDIT SPRITES)
     Once you have drawn all your sprites you must combine them as 
     `objects` for continous or directional animation during the game. The
     options open to you here are EDIT OBJECT, COPY OBJECT, and EDIT ENEMY
     ATTRIBUTES.

     EDIT OBJECT; Displays the object editing window. Now you can`t 
     actually alter any graphics here,but you can combine them to make an  
     animated object for use as a player,enemy,bullet or explosion.
     Clicking on the + and - buttons marked object number will let you
     examine the currently stored objects(if any have been loaded or drawn)
     Notice the names of the objects, like player 1, player 2, enemy 
     explosion ect...are typed at the top of the screen as each object is
     selected. These objects always perform the same function in every
     game. But the shape and animation is up to you. Make sure that you
     place the right graphics in the right objects. You would`nt want to
     end up firing enemy ships at little bullets, now would you?
     To place sprites in the object,just select a sprite graphic with the
     + and - buttons on sprite number, then click the mouse pointer on
     one of the object frames and the sprite will appear there with its
     number underneath, In ANIMATE mode, the frames will be in rows, and in 
     DIRECT mode the frames will be grouped in two`s at all eight (8)
     joystick directions.

     The DIRECT button with the little picture over it is a window for
     testing animation. In DIRECT mode the object in the window reacts to
     movement from the joystick. Notice that the graphics are arranged with
     down,centre,up-left,up-right,down-left,down-right. The reason there
     are two graphics at this point is that they animate between the two
     when the joystic is in that position. In the preset example the 
     two graphics at each point are the same, so they stay still. try moving
     the joystick(in port 2) and check out the directional movement in the
     little window.
   
     Clicking on the DIRECT button alters it to ANIMATE.(and vice versa)
     and in ANIMATE mode you can do up to an 18 frame animation within the
     object squares. Step up the LAST FRAME + and - buttons to set the     
     amount of frames you want to animate,bearing in mind the first the 
     first frame is 0. Once again, in ANIMATE mode, you can preview the
     animation in the little window. The DELAY button sets the pause between
     sprites, less pause means the animation moves faster.

     The NO HOLD button is another toggle button like ANIMATE/DIRECT. This
     control sets, when you push an object in a direction, wether it stays
     pointing in that direction or resets to pointing forwards when you 
     release the joystick.

     COPY OBJECT; You can paste one object`s graphics from the current
     number to any of the other numbers from 0-55. BUT...only if the object
     is of the same type, ie Bullet,Enemy,ect...This can save a lot of
     redrawing if some of the objects are going to be fairly similar. The
     NO HOLD and ANIMATE buttons wont work in this mode, by the way.

     EDIT ENEMY BITS; This is the same as `PLAYER ATTRIBUTES` menu, with 
     special switches to set amount of hits the enemy can take, and 
     various other personality traits like how many bullets it can have on'
     screen at one time,rate of fire,direction of fire,and so forth.

     The speed option sets the speed of the enemy object along its path,
     on a range from 0-10. Setting the speed to 0 means the object is
     stationery.

     Points sets the amount of points scored by the player when he blows
     this enemy up. the range is 0-10000.

     Hits to Kill is obviously the amount of times the player has to shoot
     and hit the enemy to blow it up. in a range from 1-10

     Fire Direction describes the directions that the enemy fires in,and
     clicking on the box (no firing)it goes to four way(up,down,left,right)
     firing, four way diagonal firing,firing up only,down only, left only,
     right only,up-left,up-right,down-left,down right only,plus R for
     random firing and D for directional. In RANDOM the fire direction
     is randomly generated from all ofthe above. The enemy only fires in
     the direction of movement.

     Fire Rate; is the period between shots; 100 is equal to not much firing
     and 0 is very rapid firing, almost too fast.

     Bullet Speed; is the rate at which the bullets travel once released
     from the enemy. 0 is stationery, and 15 is fast.

     Use both these options to select a rate and speed suitable for your
     enemies.

     In the same way you can assign graphics to each bullet and explosion,
     you can also assign sound FX. The Explosion FX and Bullet FX do this
     for you. All you have to do is select from the sound effects 0-49
     which you`d like to represent the sounds of the enemy blowing up or
     the enemy firing, and these will be stored ready for the game.
     
     The EXPLOSION OBJECT and BULLET OBJECT buttons let you select which
     bullet graphics and explosion graphics you want to assign to the
     current object. The eight (8) bullet objects lie between object 6 and
     object 13 and the eight(8) enemy explosions lie between 14 and 21.

     Collision detection for this enemy is handled on the remaining Enemy
     to Ship and Enemy to Bullet Buttons. ENEMY TO SHIP tells the computer
     if you hit an enemy with your ship, wether the enemy will blow up, you
     blow up or you both blow up, If you want the enemy to blow up, Click
     the ENEMY DIE box to yes, If you want your ship to blow up, Click the
     SHIP to DIE box to yes, If you want both to be blown up, Click them
     both to yes. Obviously if you want them both to be intact after 
     collision, Click them both to no.

     Similarly, If you want the enemy to die on collision with a bullet,
     click the ENEMY DIE box in ENEMY to Bullet to yes, If you want the 
     bullet to blow up too, Then click Bullet to die too. If you`d like the
     enemy to be invulnerable, However(and why not?), then click the Enemy
     to Die box to no. If the same goes for your bullet, then click Bullet
     die to no too.

     EXIT; Yep the same again,sending you back to the main menu.
    (c.EDIT BACKGROUND)
     This menu deals with the background map of your game. You can create
     the graphic `Blocks` which make up your `MAP` and place them in a long
     strip ready for your game graphics to dance over.
     The options here are SELECT BLOCK,EDIT COLOURS,and EDIT MAP.

     SELECT BLOCK : In this mode you have access to all the blocks you`ve
     drawn so far.    This is a handy function when you know what graphic
     you want and you know and you know what it looks like,but you cant
     recall what number it is.
     Finding it is easy. Just plonk the big cursor over the block you want
     and click on the green number.  The block is then stored in memory
     and the number appears in the green numbers.  You can then go to
     EDIT BLOCK and alter it ,or you can place it on your map with EDIT
     MAP.  The + and - signs on the cursor scan you back and forth sideways
     through four or five lines made up of all your currently designed 
     blocks laid in a line from left to right.    
     
     EDIT BLOCK :  This window is very similar to the EDIT SPRITE window
     , except the grid is bigger at 32 x 32 dots.   You are still limited
     to eight colours in the construction of your block,but fortunately
     it`s another eight colours rather than the same palette as your 
     sprites. Phew!

     EDIT COLOURS :  The Edit Colours setup is the same as the Edit Block
     screen,  except you have the colour palette on screen, and the RGB
     buttons for you to mix the colours with.  As before 15 is a lot of
     colour and 0 is none of it.

     EDIT MAP :  This is where you plonk your blocks to make up the map.
     (what a plonker)   
     The position on the map is always displayed on the centre of the
     Screen.
     To stamp the currently selected block (the number in green) onto
     the map, you position the large square cursor where you want to place
     a graphic and click your mouse pointer on the green number itself.
     Pressing the button on the + and - signs changes the block number
     up and down so you can select a different graphic.  The arrows fast
     forward you up and down to another part of the map.  To escape from
     map area just press the right mouse button.
     EXIT :  Takes you back to the main menu.

                           d. EDIT IFF SOUND.
     This menu allows you to load in and use IFF sound sample files to
     produce sound effects in your game.  There are a total of three
     directories full of samples supplied with SEUCK.   If this isn`t
     enough you can load your own disk of samples that you have created
     and work on effects with these.  The options in this menu are EDIT
     IFF SOUND, New IFF Sound Directory,Load IFF Sound Files and Clear IFF 
     Sound Files.
     
     EDIT IFF SOUND EFFECTS :  This is the screen where you can take IFF
     sound samples,loaded into the SEUCK from data disk or other disks
     of your own samples, and manipulate them into effects (FX) for the 
     sounds in your game.

     First you select the Sound Effect number at the top of the screen
     These can range from 0-49. Thats 50 different sounds for your game.

     The twin Replay Rate counters always show the same number, but
     increment in different amounts - notice the x100 and x1 lables for
     coarse or fine adjustment.  Using these counters you can play any
     sound back at a different speed, totally altering the effect. Once
     selected the effect stays assigned to the sound effect number untill
     changed.  This is the tricky bit (I knew it!) You can assingn as
     many different replay rates (speeds) to your sound as you like,
     so you get a lot of different effects from the same sample!
     Fiendishly clever,eh ?

     Effect Volume changes the loudness of the effect in relation to
     the other sounds.  The range is from 0 - 64, and clearly 0 means
     the sound cannot be heard,and 64 means it blows your hat off.

     Clicking on the EFFECT button plays the current sound being edited
     .  Different sounds can be called up from memory by clicking on the
     box next to the Sample Name.  The names come up in the box,and to
     them as an effect you must assign the one in the box to the current
     sound number, simply by clicking the USE button.   Now you can
     twiddle its replay rate around and hear the effect by pressing
     the EFFECT button.

     The displays next to the SAMPLE button can`t be altered, but are
     the original settings for the sound, should you get lost and want
     to hear the original settings.
     The Free Sound RAM refers to how much memory is left for samples.
     Of coarse,Exit takes you back to the main menu.

     NEW IFF SOUND DIRECTORY :  This option is purely to allow you to
     change directory to have access to other samples, but it doesn`t
     actually load it in: select the next option to do that. The
     default directory is always`sound 1`, but`sound 2` and `sound 3`
     are also supplied with SEUCK. If you have your own disk of samples
     put it in the drive and type in the name of the relevent directory
     , eg. DF0:seasounds.

     LOAD IFF SOUND FILES :  This assumes the directory is `sound 1`
     unless changed (as above). All the files in the directory are
     listed on screen.  Select the one you require with the cursor and
     load by clicking the left button. NB: You may only display up to 24
     filenames in any directory. Adding another file to a full directory
     will result in your new file or an old file in the directory being
     lost.

     CLEAR IFF SOUND :  Flushes the sound data from memory,leaving you
     with a clean slate. It asks you to confirm Yes or No, just in case
     you selected this option by mistake.
     EXIT :  Takes you back to the main menu.

                           e. PLAYER LIMITATIONS.

     In this menu you can edit the abilities and limitations of your
     player(s).  Within the Player 1 and Player 2 menus are indicators
     to allow you to edit everything to do with the players. The option
     on the first menu are Player 1,Player 2 and Exit. On both Player 1
     and 2 there are identical sub-menus of Edit Parameters. Edit Play
     Area and Edit Start Position.

     EDIT PARAMETERS :  This is where you edit the attributes of your 
     player as you did in the Edit Enemy Attributes screen. The settings
     are essentially the same as that menu, except that you can select
     Player Enable,Lives and Ship Speed.
     Player Enable allows you to switch the player in or out. This only
     really applies to player 2, because if both players are disabled
     you won`t have much of a game! If your ship doesn`t appear on screen
     , then you may have switched both players out! (silly plonker!    
     Lives is how many times you can get killed before the game ends,
     and this goes from 1 to 10.
     Ship Speed refers to the speed of your ship, that is to say how
     fast you can move back and forth and side to side. (The speed of
     the scrolling of the background under your ship is controlled in
     the LEVEL EDIT menu.)

     EDIT PLAY AREA :  Like the level selections, the player areas are
     selected and edited using the joystick. Edit Play Area lets you 
     select the area your player can inhabit on screen. To move the top
     or bottom markers, push them up or down. To move the side markers
     in or out, push the joystick left or right, press and hold the
     button, and move them left and right.

     EDIT START POSITION :  Lets you position a cross where you want
     your player to appear after each level or after a crash. Contrary
     to popular belief it`s much better to appear on the side of the
     screen and about a third of the way up. If you appear at the
     bottom and dead centre you`re a sitting duck! (you tit!)
     There is a built-in 3 second period of invunerability to help the 
     player (or wally!).
     Make sure your start position is inside the play area.

    EXIT :  Takes you back (yes you`ve guessed it,a quick learner eh!)
    to the main menu.
    PLAYER 2 :  These are almost exactly the same menu options as
    Player 1`s menu,except that it`s labelled Player 2. Mind you don`t
    get confused by this (yes your only human ?) and check which one
    you`re on. By the way,Player 2 does`nt appear on screen until he
    presses the fire button.(you have a joystick,dont you?)

                         f. EDIT ATTACK WAVES.

    The Attack Waves menu lets you place enemies on the map,and create
    their attack paths using the joystick. (oh,you bought one!good.)
    The options are insert Enemy,Join Enemies,Delete Enemies,and
    Flush Enemy List.
    INSERT ENEMY :  In this option you place the current enemy object
    on the map. You will see the graphic of the object, like the Edit
    Object screen.  You select the object you want to place with the
    Object Number buttons,then click the PLACE button.

    First you coarsely adjust its position with the joystick,making
    sure you stop just before the part of the map you want.
    Then you click the joystick button,and you are asked to `fine
    place`the map position on the screen. ( WARNING: you can only
    push the map up at this stage, hence the bit about stopping before
    the section you want the enemy to be on. Dont worry about this too
    much. You`ll suss (twig)the situation as soon as you use it.)
    Then you click the joystick (hope its a good one!)button again.
    You now see the object you want to place on the screen.
    Place it on it`s starting position,and click the joystick button
    again.  Now you can input the path the ST. oops Enemy will take,
    using the old joystick to move it along that path.
    If you press fire on the joystick the enemy will pause at that spot
    in the game. Easy,huh?...(bloody brilliant!)
    Then click (no not the camera) the right mouse button to finish.
    Then you`ll be asked (who said that?) to store the path you just
    created by pushing the stick left,or rejecting it by pushing the
    stick right. The screen will confirm your selection.
    NOTE : If you place an atari,oops I mean an enemy and make him walk
    up the screen he might not appear,(good) as he will be walking at the 
    same speed as the scrolling screen. You could walk him in from the
    side of the screen,but avoid ipward movement unless you`ve gone 
    down first.
    JOIN ENEMIES :  This is a very interesting feature in the SEUCK,
    and thet is being able to join two or more enemy objects together
    to make either formations of enemies or big enemies. The only
    drawback (naughty) with making big enemies is that when you shoot
    one bit of them,only that bit will explode,so each bit of the big
    enemy must be independent or it will look a bit funny.

    To join enemies,select the option,select your object using the
    object number button,then click on the PLACE button.
    You`ll be asked to place the enemy coarsely by using the joystick,
    just like the last option. Press fire. Then you`ll be promted to
    select a fine position using the joystick,again as before.
    Press fire. Now a big cross with arrows on the points will appear,
    and the prompt to `Join to which enemy?`. Use the joystick to
    place the cross on the one (good mag)you want the new object to
    follow. Click the joystick button.  The object will now appear
    on the screen and follow the selected other object.

    WARNING : If you have joined set of aliens and you delete the
    lead object,all the objects joined to it will become stationary.

    DELETE ENEMY :  This will delete the currently selected enemy`s
    position and movements from the game. You can now replace it
    if you wish.

    FLUSH ENEMY LIST :  This clears all the enemy movement and
    positions out of the game,allowing you to place them all afresh.
    The computer prompts you to confirm yes or no,in case you select
    this position accidentally!(or cocked it up!)

    The Enemy units and Path Units free give you a running total of how
    much memory you have left to play with.
    EXIT; oh dear do we really have to tell you again?
     
                          g. EDIT LEVELS
    Here is where you edit the areas of the map that your levels occupy
    and how each section behaves in play. There is also a small section
    devoted to your players starting position and the amount of the screen
    it can move around in. The options here are Edit Level Parameters,
    Edit Current Level Map and Player Limitations. oh yes, and exit again.

    EDIT LEVEL PARAMETERS; The level editor is surprisingly small and
    efficient ,considering what it must do. its here that you adjust the
    level number, scrolling speed (if any) the duration of the level,level
    type and what happens at the end of the level.

    Level;is the level number, and pushing the buttons selects the current
    level to work on, from 1-22.

    Speed; refers to the speed the background scrolls, if any scrolling is
    being done. This is short range from 1-4, but sticking to 1 or 2 is best
    for most things, unless you really want to be mean.
    Duration: selects the duration of the level, if you want it to be time
    limited, that is, if you want no limit on the time, and want to give to
    give the level time to play out to the end, select the duration to 255.
    (NB; clicking the - sign from 1 gets you 255,in case you were about to
    click it 255 times!)

    Level Type: toggles between scrolling,push scroll and still. still means
    its a one screen level, and doesn`t scroll. Scrolling means it does 
    scroll, and at the speed set by speed before. Push scroll means the
    screen only scrolls when the player pushes against the top edge of his
    movement area on screen.(see PLAYER LIMITATIONS).

    End of level: refers to what happens when your player reaches the end of
    the level. Again this box toggles through various options, continue,
    loop and redraw. Redraw means that when the level is finished the first
    screen of the next level will automatically appear. Continue means that
    the next level will scroll down, Continue means that the next level will
    scroll down Loop will return the player to the beginning of level one.

    EDIT CURRENT LEVEL MAP; Having selected the level type and speed, you
    can then select the area of the map that makes up the level, Pushing the
    joystick up takes you to the finish of level marker, pushing down takes
    you to the start of level marker. Pushing and holding the joystick
    button allows you to move the level markers up or down the map, so they
    cover the areas of the map you want. As soon as you`ve placed the
    markers , you can exit from this option by pressing the right mouse
    button.
    EXIT; oh yes you know what I mean!
               
                         h. TEST GAME
   You can now test the game. The options are for a proper game or a cheat
   mode.

   PROPER TEST; This gives you your first glimpse of your game as it will
   look to someone who plays it. all the movements, sounds and graphics
   you designed will be combined. After you`ve basked in your wonderfulness
   enough, you can press both mouse buttons to return.

   CHEAT MODE; The same as a proper test, except you have infinite lives
   try the cheat mode first, so you can see how the game is put together
   without getting waxed before you reach the end, If the game does`nt work
   for some reason, then you can go back and fix it, then test the game
   again, before you save it as a finished game. When you select the
   cheat mode, The game will begin at the currently selected level in EDIT
   LEVEL PARAMETERS.
 
   The FREE MEMORY COUNTER on this menu will tell you how much chip memory
   you have got left in your computer. Obviously this will be a larger
   amount on a 1 meg amiga.
   EXIT; Aw come on!
  
                             i. DISK STORAGE

   To save your work (effort) or load bits you`ve worked on before,you
   must use one of these options,Load Data,Save Data,Erase Data,and of
   course eveyones favourite option,Exit.

   LOAD DATA :  This brings up a sub menu asking if you want to Load
   BACKGROUND,SPRITES,OBJECTS,ATTACK WAVES,LEVELS,SOUND EFFECTS,or 
   EVERYTHING. SAVE EVERYTHING is the option that will allow you to
   make a stand-alone game (see chapter 5)The EVERYTHING file is an
   entire game,and will wipe any data you already have in memory
   The EVERYTHING file is what you operate on to make a bootable
   finished game.

   SAVE DATA :  Selecting this option brings up an identical menu to
   Load, but with Save Background,Sprites,Objects etc.

   ERASE DATA :  This option allows you to free up space by junking
   files from your data disk. The computer prompts you with `Confirm
   Erase` yes or no,so you can get out of it if you select it
   by mistake.

   NEW DRIVE :  This option allows you to change the default disk
   drive eg, DF0,DF1,DH0 etc.
   EXIT : you must know what this is by now?

                         j.EXIT SEUCK.
   And whoever said there was no way out?.....Yes this is the way out
   of SEUCK,and you are given the option to Go Ahead And Quit,or Cancel
   . This is just in case you selected this option by accident.

                    MAKING A FINISHED GAME FROM SEUCK

   In order to make a finished game from one of your pathetic efforts
   you must make a data disk or SEUCK Game Disk. This will be the disk
   you use for storing the crap you just done,oh well practice makes
   perfection,pitty Jeff Minter didn`t practice enough,sheep shagger.
   plus it will contain everything you need to boot your game from
   scratch,or allow it to be started from an icon on workbench.

   MAKING a GAME DISK.
   Load your workbech disk,(cant find it?) and format a new disk,
   After the disk is formatted select Rename from wokbench menu bar
   and rename it SEUCK Games Disk at the promt.

   Now insert the master games disk into your drive and open it up.
   Double click the Make Games disk icon with the left mouse button
   .Follow the on screen prompts until all relevant files for making
   the stand alone game are in the computers ram.

   You will then be prompted to insert the blank formatted disk you have
   named SEUCK Games Disk and all the files will be transferred to this 
   disk.This is a good time to make several spare copies of the SEUCK
   games disk.It can be copied with workbench and will save you going
   through the preparation stages each time you need a new disk but be
   sure to rename each copy SEUCK games disk.

                                DEFAULT GAME   
   To make a stand alone game you will have by now created players and 
   objects with sound effects,on screen start position and movement paths
   etc. As you create each part, save out the file to your SEUCK games 
   disk using the same name for all the different types of data.
   When you are happy with your design work,ensure all separate parts are 
   in memory (check that it works by selecting test game).Now you can save
   out all this separate data as one file; so that with your SEUCK Games 
   disk inserted, select Save Everything and use the name you have chosen 
   to give your game.

   Boot up your workbench and then insert your SEUCK games disk.You can
   prepare your loading screen by using any utility that saves to IFF
   format.Make sure you save to the EDIT_FILES directory.This will 
   automatically be included as part of the game when you click the icon
   .If you have not included a loading screen there will be a message
   indicating that this file has not been loaded and the name of the game
   will be displayed instead

                                   Autobooting
   In order to autoboot your game when you insert the disk at an inssert 
   workbench prompt,you must use the notepad facility in your utilities 
   drawer on workbench to alter a file called startup-sequence in the S
   directory on your master games disk.
   (Startup sequence is a text file which the Amigas operating system
   looks at when it starts up. It then executes any commands which are 
   that file.See your Amiga manual for details of startup sequence).
   You can replace LOADWB command with the name of your game.
                                      
