                  SIERRA SOCCER WORLD CHALLENGE EDITION
                  =====================================
                                                  
CREDITS
-------

Design Programming, Art Design and Sound Effects by Steven Dunn
Artwork by Thomas Van Velkinburgh & Steven Dunn
Intro & Winning Animation by Thomas Van Velkinburgh

UK product coordination by Mark Howman

Product Management by Philippe Evrard / Norm Nelson

Music by Charles Callet

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
-------------------

World Challenge Edition will work on any Amiga with 1 Mb or more of memory.

Disconnect mouse before loading.  Ensure a joystick is connected.

STARTING THE GAME
-----------------

There  are 2 disks in Sierra Soccer :  the presentation of the game and the
game itself

To show the presentation

1. Insert the disk «PRESENTATION» into drive df0:

2. Turn on or reboot your system

3. Click  any  joystick  to exit the presentation and be prompted for the
   game disk.

To play the game

1. Insert the disk «GAME» into drive df0:

2. Turn on or reboot your system

THE MAIN MENU
-------------

When the game has loaded, you will be presented with the Language Selection
screen  Move  the joystick to your required language and press Fire.  After
you  correctly identify some flags, the main menu screen will appear Moving
the joystick up or down changes which option you are editing, pressing Fire
changes the entry.  The options available are:

How Many Players
You can choose up to eight human players to play in the Challenge Cup.  You
can  play  against  a  friend,  a  computer, or play two computerised teams
against each other in the Friendly option

Game Duration
The  length  of each game can be altered using this option.  You can choose
between 2, 4, 6, 10 and 20 minute games

Challenge Draw / Random Draw
Challenge  Draw  places  the  24  teams  into  six groups based on official
qualifying  teams  Random Draw will place the top six seeded teams into six
groups and then randomly select three teams from the remaining 18.

Friendly/Practice Penalties/Practice Free Kicks/Load Saved Game/Challenge
You can choose to play a friendly match or enter the challenge competition.
You  can  also  just  practice  your penalty shooting or practice your free
kicks.   If you have previously saved a competition, you can load this from
disk

Play
This option takes you forward to your chosen game or competition.

PRACTISING / FRIENDLY
---------------------

FRIENDLY
Select  the  Friendly option, select your game duration, and then click the
joystick on PLAY.  You will be presented with an option screen for Player 1
and  then  Player 2.  Choose either Joystick 1, Joystick 2, or Computer for
each  player  by  pressing  the  F1 key.  Once you have done this, move the
joystick to select your country.  Once both players have been selected, the
game  will  begin.   If the game ends in a draw after full time, extra time
will  be played If the game is still a draw after extra time, the game will
go to penalties.

PRACTICE PENALTIES
Select  Practice  Penalties  from  the  main menu screen and then click the
joystick  on  PLAY  From  the Practice Penalty screen, move the joystick to
Player  1  and  Player  2 and press Fire to select either computer or human
opposition.   Five penalties are taken by each side.  If the score is equal
after five penalties, the penalties will continue until one side scores and
the  other  does  not.   Pressing  the  ESC key at any time will cancel the
practice session.

PRACTlCE FREE KICKS
Select  Practice  Free  Kicks  from the main menu screen and then click the
joystick on PLAY Random free kicks will be awarded on the pitch.  The score
for  Player  1  will reflect how many goals have been scored.  Pressing the
ESC key at any time will cancel the practice session.

LOAD SAVED GAME
Select  Load  Saved  Game  from  the  main  menu  screen and then click the
joystick  on PLAY You will then be prompted for the disk on which you saved
the game.  Select the correct disk using the joystick.

THE CHALLENGE COMPETITION
-------------------------

TOURNAMENT OVERVIEW

24 World-Class teams have been drawn into six mini leagues of four teams in
each  league.   Each  team  will  play  the other respective teams in their
league.  A result is not required from any match:  games can be drawn three
points are awarded for a win.  One point for a draw

Once  all  the matches are complete, the top two teams from each group plus
the  four  best  3rd  placed  teams,  go  forward  to  the 2nd round of the
competition  (a  total  of  16 teams) The higher you finish, the easier the
team  you  will play against in the next round.  Most 1st placed sides will
play  against  3rd  placed sides whereas 2nd placed sides will play against
other 2nd placed sides.

The  teams  are  drawn  into  eight matches for the second round each match
requiring  a  result.  If the teams are drawn at full time, extra time will
be played.  The game will go to penalties if it is still a draw after extra
time  Five  penalties  are taken by each side.  If the teams are still tied
then  they  play  sudden  death  penalties.   The  first to score, with the
opposing team missing goes through to the Quarter Finals.

The  last  eight  teams  play each other, with the winning four teams going
through to the Semi- Final stage.  The winners of each Semi-Final will play
in  the  Final,  and  the  losers  play in the 3rd/4th Place Play Off.  The
winners  of  the  Final are crowned WORLD CHALLENGE CHAMPIONS and presented
the CHALLENGE CUP

TEAMS SELECTION

When  entering the competition, each player must first choose which country
they  wish  to  play  as.  Each has a choice of the 24 qualified countries,
plus  a French and English squad.  You may also create your own squad of 22
players  by  choosing  the  New  Team  flag.   Once a team is chosen by one
player,  that team cannot be chosen by another player.  The exception being
the  New  Team  option.   If France or England are chosen, once all players
have  chosen  their  country.  the lowest rated non chosen European country
will  be dropped in favour of France / England.  If a new team is chosen by
any  of the players, then the lowest rated non chosen country is dropped in
favour of the new team.

Before  choosing  which country you wish to play as, you have the option of
saving penalties yourself or letting the computer save any penalties taken.
Use  the  F2 key to toggle this option.  You may also select which joystick
port  you'd  like  the  computer to choose (port 1 is the mouse port).  The
game  will  always give you your chosen port, except when two human players
have  both  thosen  the  same  port  and  play each other.  One person will
randomly  be  chosen  to use the other spare port under these circumstances
(use F1 to choose your joystick port priority).

RANDOM DRAW SCREEN

If  this  option  has been chosen, the 24 teams are drawn randomly into the
six  groups.   The  draw  can be sped up by pressing the Fire button of any
plugged in joystick.  Human controlled Countries are highlighted in yellow;
computer  countries  in  white.   Press the Fire button on your joystick to
exit the Random Draw Screen.

GROUP POSITIONS SCREEN

Each player will find their team drawn into one of the six groups, with the
human  teams high lighted in yellow.  All group tables are displayed.  Each
team  will  play  the  other three teams in their group once.  Pressing the
Fire  button on any joystick displays the NEXT GAMES to be played, with the
human player`s games highlighted.

NEXT GAMES SCREENS

The  first  screen  displays  all  teams  which  are playing in this round.
Select  PLAY  to  continue  with  the competition.  Select SAVE to save the
current competition (See Loading/Saving)

Select  EXIT  to  abandon  the competition.  If you choose to continue, the
next  screen displays the next game that human competitors will participate
in.   Displayed  are  the  teams  playing, the joystick allocation for each
team,  and  the  strengths of each team.  The strengths are split into each
team's  average  goalkeeper  strengths  and  average  defence, midfield and
attack strengths.  Click on the joystick to enter the Team Selection screen
to make any changes to your team before starting the game.

MATCH RESULTS

Once  the  game  is over, this screen displays the final scores, as well as
the scorers and timings for each goal.  Press Fire to exit.  Once all human
games  have  been  completed,  the results for all matches in the round are
shown After each round, the updated GROUP POSITIONS screen is shown.

CHALLENGE PROGRESS

Once the first round matches have been played, you will enter a new screen.
From  here  on in, it's a knockout competition, with each match requiring a
result.   The  progress  of  all teams in the competition is displayed here
(Human  teams  in  Yellow).   Select PLAY to continue with the competition.
Select SAVE to save the current competition.  (See Loading/Saving).  Select
EXIT to abandon the competition
 
LOADING/SAVING

You  can  save  your  current competition by selecting the SAVE option from
either  the  NEXT GAMES or the CHALLENGE PROGRESS screens.  Select the disk
to which you wish to save the game.  You can save the game to any formatted
Amiga disk including the game disk.

NEW TEAM
--------

If  any  player chooses the New Team option, they can choose to load a team
from disk, or create a team from new (Remember to save your created team so
you  may  use  them in another competition).  Select the new team flag from
the   Team   selection   screens   in  either  the  Friendly  or  Challenge
environments.

TYPE OF PLAYER

The  New  Team Screen will display a blank team sheet.  To edit any player,
move  the joystick to any player number.  You can edit the player`s name by
pressing  Fire  on the Name field and typing in a name.  Click the joystick
or  press  Enter once you have entered the name.  You can edit the player's
position  by  toggling  the joystick on the position field.  Players 1, 12,
and  13  will  always be goalkeepers, the other 19 players will be outfield
players.   (Sweepers,  Defenders, Midfielders and Attackers).  You can also
change the players hair and skin colour.

PLAYER ABILITIES

Each  player  has a Player Bank where you may take points from the bank and
add  to  a  player's  abilities.   To  create player's abilities, click the
joystick  on any ability; eg, Pace.  To add points to the ability, hold the
Fire  button  down  and  move  the  joystick  right.   To reduce a player's
ability,  hold  the  Fire button down and move the joystick left.  Allocate
points  based  on  the  player's  position; eg, a defender should have good
tackling  ability  and  an attacker should have good shooting ability.  You
can  allocate  up to 20 points for an ability or until the player bank runs
out.
 
If you have emptied the PLAYER BANK, you may also take points from the TEAM
BANK  to  create  a really good player.  You may only access this bank when
the  player's  individual  bank is empty.  To allocate points from the team
bank,  select  the  ability you wish to change.  Hold down the Fire button,
and  move  the  joystick  up.   Press  Fire  and  move the joystick down to
subtract from a player's abilities and place points back in the Team bank.

To  clear  all  the abilities of the current player, highlight CLEAR PLAYER
and  press  Fire.   To access a different player, highlight EDIT NEW PLAYER
and press Fire.

TEAM DETAILS

To  CLEAR  the team`s abilities, highlight this option and press Fire.  You
will be asked to confirm this if you have made changes

To  SAVE  a  team,  highlight this option and press Fire.  You will then be
asked  which  disk  you  wish  to save to.  Any formatted Amiga disk can be
used,  including  the  game  disk.   Simply  select  a  slot  and click the
joystick.  You can save up to 40 teams on any one disk.

To  LOAD  a  team, highlight this option and press Fire.  Select which disk
you  wish  to  load  from  by  pressing  Fire.   Select the team to load by
pressing Fire on the joystick on the appropriate slot

If  you  wish  to change the team name or kit colours.  Highlight EDIT TEAM
NAME AND COLOURS and press Fire.  The Screen will change.  To edit any part
of the KITS, highlight which part of the kit you'd like to change by moving
the  joystick  up  or  down.   To  change  the  colour of the kit, move the
joystick left or right.  You may change the SHIRT colour SHORTS colour, and
the  TRIM  of  the  kits.   The  second  kit is used when two teams playing
against each other have similar kits.  To edit the team name, highlight the
current  name,  press  Fire  and type in the name of team you require Press
Enter  or  Exit when you have finished editing the name.  When you are done
editing  team  details,  save  your teams.  Then click on EXIT to exit this
screen.

TEAM SELECTION SCREEN
---------------------

Your  full  squad  of 22 players will be displayed here.  Before your first
game,  the  squad  will be at full strength.  Further into the competition.
you will find injuries and suspensions limiting your choice of players.  On
the  left  of  the  screen  are  your  first  11  players consisting of one
goalkeeper  and  10  outfield players.  Below these are your two substitute
goalkeepers  and nine substitute outfield players.  To the top right of the
screen is your team's two KIT colours.  Your second kit will be used in the
game  if the opposing side has similar KIT colours.  Also on screen is your
team's  name, and a graphical on pitch view of your team`s formation.  Your
formation  is  made  up  of the first 10 outfield players:  for example, if
your  have  a  sweeper,  three defenders, four midfield, and two attackers,
your  formation  would  be  4 4 2.  If any players are injured or suspended
they will not be counted in your formation.

Each  player  has  a  playing position (GK = goalkeeper, SW = sweeper, DF =
defender,  MD  =  midfielder  and  AT  =  attacker),  a  name  of  up to 11
characters,  and  six  defined abilities.  For goalkeepers these are; Pace,
Stamina,  Handling,  Kicking,  Reactions and Pounce.  For outfield players,
the  six  abilities  are;  Pace,  Stamina,  Tackling,  Passing, Heading and
Shooting.   (Please  note  that  on  the team selection screen the initials
denoting  the attributes apply to the outfield players and that the figures
for the goalkeeper apply to the categories below).

GOALKEEPER

Pace 
How fast the goalkeeper can move around the pitch (0 = slow, 20 = fast)

Stamina 
How  long  the  goalkeeper can move around at best pace (0 = not long, 20 =
full game)

Handling 
When  saving the ball, this statistic defines if the goalkeeper can hold on
to the ball (0 = bad grip, 20 = good grip)

Kicking
When  kicking  the  ball  outfield, this defines how far the goalkeeper can
kick the ball (0 = short goal kicks, 20 = long goal kicks)

Reactions 
How  accurately  the  goalkeeper  will  calculate the path of a shot coming
towards him (0 = bad timing, 20 = accurate timing)

Pounce 
How  far the goalkeeper can dive, when required to dive a great distance (0
= weak diver, 20 = strong diver)

OUTFIELD PLAYERS

Pace
How fast the player can run (0 = slow, 20 = very fast)

Stamina 
How long the player can keep running at their best pace (0 = not long, 20 =
full game)

Tackling
How  accurately  the  player  can  tackle  an opposing team player (0 = bad
tackler, 20 - accurate tackler)

Passing 
How accurately a player can pass (0 = bad passer, 20 = accurate passer)

Heading 
How  accurately  the player controls and heads the ball to a team mate (0 =
bad at heading, 20 = very accurate at heading)

Shooting 
The  quality  of  the  player's  shooting  (0  = bad shooter, 20 = accurate
shooter)

To  exchange  players,  move  the  joystick  up  or  down; left or right to
highlight a player.  When over the chosen player, press Fire, then move the
highlighted  box  to  the  player to swap with Once over the second player,
press Fire again, and the two players will be exchanged.  (Please note; you
can  only  exchange goalkeepers with goalkeepers, and outfield players with
other  outfield  players).   By  exchanging  players, you are affecting the
formation  and strengths of your team.  The strength of your squad is shown
to  the  centre-right  of  the  screen.   The  outfield  positions DEFENCE,
MIDFIELD  and  ATTACK are calculated and displayed, showing the averages of
each  ability  and  position When you are happy with your team choice, move
the  highlighter  over  the  EXIT,  and press Fire.  If two human teams are
playing against each other, then the second player will now be able to edit
their squad.

PLAYING THE GAME
----------------

KICK OFF

Both  teams  will  run  out onto the pitch towards the centre of the pitch.
They will then split and run to their respective playing positions.  If you
are  kicking off, two of your players will run forward to the centre of the
pitch  When  the  Referee  blows his whistle, by pressing Fire, the ball is
passed to your team mate

PLAYER CONTROL

During  the  game,  you  will  control the nearest player to the ball.  All
others  in  your team will either attack or defend to their abilities.  The
player  you  control is highlighted with an arrow above his head.  When the
ball  is  free, if the player you control moves close to the ball, he takes
control of the ball.

DRIBBLING

Once  in  control  of the ball, you need to keep control.  To do this, keep
moving  in  a  direction If you stop, the ball will roll away from you.  To
turn,  move  the joystick smoothly from the direction you were moving.  For
example,  if you are moving the joystick upwards and your player is running
up  the  screen, then by moving the joystick upwards and right, your player
changes  direction  to  upwards  and right If you move the joystick harshly
though; e.g., from <<Up>> to <<down and left>> you will lose control of the
ball.

PASSING

To  pass the ball, press the Fire button on the joystick.  Depending on the
direction  the  player  is facing, the ball will travel towards the nearest
player in your team.

SHOOTING

If  you  are  facing the opponent`s goal when you attempt to pass, and then
tap  the  Fire button briefly, a shot is attempted.  The computer works out
your  best  shot,  taking  into  account the player's shooting ability, and
thrusts  the  ball in that direttion.  If timed correctly, a good open shot
should fly past a stranded goalkeeper.

AFTER TOUCH

When  passing  the  ball or shooting at the goal, you have extra control of
the ball once it has been kicked.  By careful movement of the joystick, you
can bend and lift the ball

Redirection table based on player running up the pitch
------------------------------------------------------

UP                 NO CHANGE
DOWN               LIFT
LEFT               LEFT HARD BEND
RIGHT              RIGHT HARD BEND
DIAG. DOWN LEFT    LIFT WITH LEFT BEND 
DIAG. DOWN RIGHT   LIFT WITH RIGHT BEND
DIAG. UP LEFT      LEFT BEND
DIAG. UP RIGHT     RIGHT BEND

Redirection table based on player running to the left
-----------------------------------------------------

UP                 RIGHT HARD BEND
DOWN               LEFT HARD BEND
LEFT               NO CHANGE
RIGHT              LIFT
DIAG. DOWN LEFT    LEFT BEND
DIAG. DOWN RIGHT   LIFT WITH LEFT BEND
DIAG. UP LEFT      RIGHT BEND 
DIAG. UP RIGHT     LIFT WITH RIGHT BEND


TACKLING
  
When  your  team  does  not  have  control  of the ball, you need to either
intercept a pass from the opposing team or tackle the player with the ball.
To  tackle  just press the Fire button and the player will begin sliding in
the  direction  the player was running.  If timed properly, the player will
slide  into  the path of the opposing player if directed properly, the ball
will  roll away from the opposing player, leaving the ball free to control,
but if timed incorrectly, a foul on that player takes place.  You have more
chance of fouling a player if you tackle the player from behind.

HEADING

To  head  the  ball, press the Fire button when the ball is in the air, and
near the player in your control.  Your player will begin diving towards the
ball; you do not need to direct him.  To deflect the ball in any directIon,
move  the joystick to the required angle before the ball makes contact with
the  player under your control.  Based on the player's heading ability, the
ball  will  be  re-directed in the direction you have chosen.  Re-directing
the  ball  is useful to either push the ball towards a team mate, or take a
diving heading shot on goal.  If the ball is low, you'll chest the ball and
take control of it

THROW-INS

When the ball rolls off either side of the pitch, and your opponent touches
the  ball last a throw in is in effect.  You control the player the ball is
to  be thrown to.  To change players tap the Fire button.  Holding down the
Fire  button  throws  the  ball  to  the player under your control.  If the
player  you  are  controlling is standing still, the ball will be thrown to
him,  but  if  the player is running, then the throw is directed beyond the
player, allowing you to run to the ball.

GOAL KICKS

If  the  goalkeeper  has possession of the ball, or a goal kick is awarded,
then  the  goalkeeper will run forward to kick the ball.  Once the ball has
been kicked, you have limited control of the ball, only being able to apply
AFTER TOUCH to the ball.

FREE KICKS

When you are awarded a free kick, the player with the best SHOOTlNG ability
will  step  forward  to  take the free kick.  Once he is close, a line will
project from the ball, which you can direct and adjust


JOYSTICK MOVEMENT                ADJUSTMENT

UP                               INCREASE POWER OF SHOT
DOWN                             DECREASE POWER OF SHOT
LEFT/RIGHT                       ADJUST ANGLE OF SHOT
FIRE + UP                        INCREASE HEIGHT OF SHOT
FIRE + DOWN                      DECREASE HEIGHT OF SHOT
FIRE + LEFT/RIGHT                CHANGE STYLE OF SHOT (FROM LOB TO STRIKE)


Once  you  are  happy  with the direction and set up of the projected line,
just press the FIRE button, and the kick is taken by your player

Remember,  all shots are based on a player's abilities.  So a player with a
20  rating  for SHOOTING will shoot almost exactly how you have defined the
shot,  whereas  a  low rated player may shoot wildly, and only sometimes be
exact

DEFENDING FREE KICKS

When the opposing team is awarded a free kick a wall is created between the
ball  and  your  goal.   There  will  be  up  to  four players in the wall,
depending  on how close the free kick is to your goal.  If the free kick is
too  far  from  your  goal,  then  no wall will be created.  The wall won't
always  be  where  you'd  like  it,  so you may move the wall by moving the
joystick  left  or right.  The men standing in the wall will move around to
the new position

CORNERS

Corners  are  played in a similar way to the FREE KICK, the only difference
being that you have limited control of the angle you may kick the ball

PENALTIES

To  take  a  penalty,  wait until the white mark begins to sweep across the
penalty area.  To kick the ball, just press the Fire button.  The ball will
shoot towards the goal at the angle of the mark.

SAVING PENALTIES

To  save a penalty, you need to move the joystick in the direction you want
to dive.  You may do this at any time before the shot is attempted, as long
as you are still holding the joystick in the direction you require when the
ball  is kicked.  If the joystick is centred, the goalkeeper will stand his
ground, but you may still move the joystick in any direction after the ball
has been kicked.  You do not need to use the Fire button.

Diving Table
------------

UP                 STAND
DOWN               STAND
LEFT               LEFT DIVE
RIGHT              RIGHT DIVE
DIAG. DOWN LEFT    SHORT LEFT DIVE
DIAG. DOWN RIGHT   SHORT RIGHT DIVE
DIAG. UP LEFT      LONG LEFT DIVE
DIAG. UP RIGHT     LONG RIGHT DIVE

 
END GAME

When  each  game  is  over,  and  the  referee blows the final whistle, all
players  will  run  off  the  pitch.   As they do so, information about the
present ganme will be printed on-screen

Information  shown  includes  how many goals scored for each team, how many
shots,  shots  on  goal,  corners, free kicks, bookings, and injuries.  The
percentage of possession time of the ball for each team is also shown.

FORMATION CHANGES AND SUBSTITUTIONS
-----------------------------------

To change your team's formation or substitute a player, the on pitch action
must  have  stopped.   This  occurs  when  there  is a throw in, free kick,
corner,  or  goal  kick.   If  you are using joystick port (the mouse port)
during  this  game,  press  the  AMIGA  key to the left of the SPACE BAR to
access  this option.  If you are using joystick port 2, press the AMIGA key
to  the right of the SPACE BAR.  A mini screen will appear, displaying your
substitutes  on  the  left  and  your  current formation on the right.  The
current  player  you  are  examining  will  be high lighted in red.  At the
bottom  of  the  mini screen, info will be shown on the player's abilities,
along with a statement saying how the player is looking.

You  may  select  another player by pushing the joystick left or right.  To
change the player's playing position, press up or down.  If you are playing
up  screen,  and  you  are examining a defender, pressing upwards moves the
player  up  into  a  midfield position.  Pressing up again moves the player
into an attacking position

You cannot change a goalkeeper's position.  To exit, press the same key you
used  to  enter this option.  To substitute a player, press the Fire button
on  the  joystick.   You  may  now cycle up and down through the substitute
names.   You  can  only exchange goalkeepers with goalkeepers, and outfield
players  with  other  outfield  players.   You  cannot  choose  injured  or
suspended players (these will be highlighted in red)

The  players  you  can  choose are highlighted in black.  Pressing the Fire
button when a substituted player is highlighted will exchange the players.

When  an injured player is stretchered off, this screen automatically comes
up enabling you to select a substitute for the injured player

ACTION REPLAY
-------------

When  a  move  you have created or a goal you have scored is so spectacular
that  you  wish to view it again, by pressing any of the F1 to F5 keys, the
game pauses and you are taken into the ACTION REPLAY feature, accessing the
last  six  seconds  of play.  To PLAY the replay press the F3 key, to PAUSE
press  F2,  to REWIND press F1, to FAST FORWARD press F4, and to EXIT press
F5.   You  may  also  fine  tune  the viewing of the replay by using either
joystick.   When  PAUSED  (F2)  moving the joystick right will speed up the
replay  towards  normal  playing  speed, allowing you to view the action in
SLOW-MOTION.   By  moving  the joystick left, the motion will slow until it
begins to go backwards.  Pressing Fire exits from the ACTION REPLAY.

IN-GAME KEYS
------------

LEFT AMIGA   =  Formation and substitute changes for Joystick 1

RIGHT AMIGA  =  Formation and substitute changes for Joystick 2

F1           =  Action Replay REWIND

F2           =  Action Replay PAUSE

F3           =  Action Replay PLAY

F4           =  Action Replay FAST FORWARD

F5           =  Action Replay EXIT

Space Bar    =  Pause/Unpause Game (use joystick to scan when paused)

ESC          =  Exit Current Game (a human team will lose 5-0 if used)

S            =  Display game statistics

C            =  Turn crowd on/off

