                          SimCity 2000 From Maxis

                                Quick Docs


                              The Terrain Toolbar
                              --- ------- -------
                                    _____
                                   |_____| <-- Make a Coast
                                   |_____| <-- Make a River
                                   | | | |
                                   | | | | <-- Slider
                                   |_|_|_|
                                   |_____| <-- Generate New Landscape
                 Raise Terrain --> |__|__| <-- Lower the Terrain
           Stretch the Terrain --> |__|__| <-- Stretch the Terrain
               Raise Sea Level --> |__|__| <-- Lower Sea Level
                   Place Water --> |__|__| <-- Place Stream
                    Place Tree --> |__|__| <-- Place Forest
                      Zoom Out --> |__|__| <-- Zoom In
      Rotate Counter Clockwise --> |__|__| <-- Rotate Clockwise
                        Center --> |__|__| <-- Help
                                   |_____| <-- Leave Terrain Mode and Goto
                                               City Mode

                               The City Toolbar
                               --- ---- -------
                                   __ __ __
    1) Bulldozer 2) Landscape --> |__|__|__| <-- Emergency
            1) Power 2) Water --> |__|__|__| <-- Rewards
            1) Roads 2) Rails --> |__|__|__| <-- Parks
 1) Residential 2) Commercial --> |__|__|__| <-- Industrial Zones
1) Education 2) City Services --> |__|__|__| <-- Recreation
                        Signs -->   |__|__|  <-- Query
     Rotate Counter Clockwise -->  _|__|__|  <-- Rotate ClockWise
       1) Zoom in 2) Zoom Out --> |__|__|__| <-- Center
                  Map Windows --> |__|__| G  <-- Graphs Window
            Population Window --> |__|__| R  <-- Industry Window
             Neighbors Window --> |__|__| A  <-- Budget Window
               Show Buildings --> |__|__| P  <-- Show Signs
          Show Infrastructure --> |__|__| H  <-- Show Zones
                  Underground --> |__|__| S  <-- Help

Graphs are Indicators are of wether or not you have to much or not enough
of residential, industry, and commercial. If it is positive, That means that
more is needed, negative means you have too much for now. If there is no
graph, that means you have the right amount.

1) Is the 1st Icon in that line(The one furthest left)
2) is the 2nd Icon in that line(The one in the center)

The Cursor Keys scroll the terrain in the City Window
Home = Zoom in Tool
End = Zoom out tool
Del = rotates the screen counter-clockwise
Page Down = rotates the screen clockwise
Shift click = Help
Shift click anywhere in your city = activate the query function and bring up
                                    little information Windows
Press the shift before you release the mouse button = cancel the placement of
                                             roads, rail, subways, zones etc
Click the Right Mouse Button = Temporarily Activate the center tool, and press
the Control Key to bulldoze.

- CHESSKiNG/RAZoR 1911
========================================================================================
                          SimCity 2000 From Maxis

                               Complete Docs

                                
Contents:

INTRODUCTION..............................1
	ABOUT THIS MANUAL.................3
	FROM SIMCITY TO SIMCITY 2000......4
	GETTING STARTED...................4

TUTORIALS.................................5                                        
	BEFORE YOU BEGIN..................7
	TUTORIAL 1-THE BASICS............10
	TUTORIAL 2-LANDSCAPE ENGINEERING.25
	TUTORIAL 3-ADVANCED FEATURES.....33

REFERENCE................................45
	THE BASICS.......................46
	MENUS............................50
	   File Menu.....................50
	   Options Menu..................51
	   Disasters Menu................52
	   Windows Menu..................53
	   Newspaper Menu................54
	WINDOWS..........................55      
	  City Window....................55      
	  Map Window.....................78       
	  Budget Window..................81       
	  Transportation.................82      
	  Ordinance Window...............89      
	  Population Window..............92      
	  Industries Window..............93
	  Graphs Window..................94
	  Neighbors Window...............96
	INSIDE THE SIMULATION............97
	STRATEGIES......................119


Page i  SimCity 2000             


INTRODUCTION

   Welcome to SimCity 2000.        
	
   When you play SimCity 2000, you become the planner, designer
   and mayor of an unlimited number of cities. You can take over and       
   run any of the included scenario cities, or build your own from the     
   ground up.
	
   You're in charge. You can choose to build small, rural towns, or        
   huge bustling megalopolises. As you design and build your cities,       
   simulated citizens, known as Sims, move in and build their homes,
   stores and workplaces, raise their families and invite their friends.   
   If your city is a nice place to live, your population will increase. If 
   it's not, your Sims will leave town. And be assured that they'll let    
   you know what they think about you and your policies.   
      
   One of the toughest challenges of SimCity 2000 is to maintain a 
   huge city without sacrificing your Sims' quality of life, without
   going broke maintaining the infrastructure, and without raising 
   taxes so high that businesses relocate. SimCity 2000 lets you face      
   the same dilemmas that mayors all over the world are facing.    
   We've all said at one time or another that we could do a better job
   than our elected officials-here's your chance to prove it.      
	
   SimCity 2000 is primarily a "building" game, where you create and       
   try to increase the size of your cities-but you also have plenty of
   opportunities to destroy. From bulldozers to earthquakes to air
   crashes, the implements of destruction are only a mouse-click
   away. But remember, it's a lot more challenging to build than to
   destroy, and the lives, hopes and dreams of millions of Sims are
   in your hands.

Page 2  SimCity 2000 - Introduction

ABOUT THIS MANUAL

   This manual is divided into four main sections: 

   The Introduction welcomes you to SimCity 2000, explains a little 
   about the manual in general, helps you get the game up and
   running on your computer and sends you on your way to play.

   The Tutorials are small guided tours through different aspects of
   city-building with SimCity 2000.

   The Reference section describes in detail all the windows, but-
   tons, features and functions of SimCity 2000, and explains much
   the behind-the-scenes simulation action.

   The Gallery section consists of contributions from a number of
   people to give you varying views, feelings, interpretations and
   predictions about real cities in words and pictures. Some of these
   Individual pieces are located at the back of the manual in the
   "official" Gallery section. Others are spread throughout the rest of
   the manual.

   And for those who are familiar with an earlier version of SimCity,
   there is an Appendix that lists SimCity 2000's new features and
   differences from the earlier versions.

   In addition, the SimCity 2000 package includes a machine-specific
   Addendum to cover installation, startup, and any special features
   and functions on your computer.

Page 3  SimCity 2000 - Introduction

FROM SIMCITY TO SIMCITY 2000

   If you're already familiar with an earlier version of SimCity, then
   you should have no trouble moving into SimCity 2000.  If you
   haven't played SimCity before, then skip the rest of this section.
   You will not be quizzed on this material.

   A few major features have changed and some tools have moved
   since the earlier versions of the game, so you may have just a little          
   trouble finding things. A summary of all the changes and differ-
   ences between the programs can be found in the Appendix. But to
   help you get started, here are the three most-asked questions by
   SimCity users when we sat them down in front of SimCity 2000:

     Where the heck are the power plants?
   They're in a submenu under the power icon. Select Power Plant
   from the submenu and you'll have a choice of from three to nine
   different power sources, depending on the city's date.

     I click and click-why won't the durn thing set down zones?
   Instead of the fixed-size zones that you plop down, SimCity 2000
   lets you make any size square or rectangular zone by clicking and
   dragging the mouse where you want to zone. You can zone over
   roads and rails, and place roads and rails in zones. By the way,
   airports and seaports are placed the same way as zones. 

     What's the deal with the water system?    
   We've added a water system to the game, including pumps, pipes,
   treatment plants, water towers and desalinization plants.  You
   don't need to worry about water to start a city. But you will need
   a water system before the population can grow very dense.

GETTING STARTED

   SimCity 2000 must be installed toahard disk before it can be run.
   Please look in the machin&specific Addendum for complete in- 
   structions on installing SimCity 2000 to your hard disk and on
   starting the program.

   Once you're up and running, feel free to jump right in and play, or
   if you want some guidance and a quick introduction to the main
   features and functions of the game, check out the tutorials.

Page 4  SimCity 2000 - Introduction

Tutorials

   Congratulations! By the virtue of owning SimCity 2000 you are
   hereby proclaimed Mayor of a million cities and ruler of a billion
   simulated lives (your Sims).  It's a tough game, but somebody's
   gotta play it.  

   These tutorials are designed to help you adjust to your new office
   with as little transition time as possible.            
	
   There are three tutorials, each designed to be finished in one
   short sitting so you can get them out of the way and get on with
   the important business of building and running your cities. The
   first one is a general overview of the basic features of SimCity
   2000 enough so you can start a new city, and get going on your
   own. The second one focuses on creating, editing and modifying
   your city's terrain, both before and after you've begun building
   your city. The third one goes into detail on a few of the advanced
   features.
   
   We suggest that you whip through the first tutorial, then go play
   on your own for a while. You may figure everything else out on
   your own, and never need the other tutorials, but they're here if   
   and when you want them.      

Page 6  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

BEFORE YOU BEGIN
  Mouse And Keyboard Stuff

   Before jumping into the tutorials, take a moment to look over the
   following skills and conventions that will make your stay in
   SimCity 2000 a pleasant one. 

   SimCity 2000 requires a mouse. To play, you must know how to    
   use a mouse for the following actions:

      Click-point the cursor to an object and briefly press the
      left (or only) mouse button.

      Doubleclick-point the cursor to an object and briefly
      press the left (or only) mouse button twice quickly.

      Click and drag-point the cursor to an object, then press
      and hold the left (or only) mouse button, then move the
      mouse to drag the object. Release the mouse button to
      release the object.

   Unless otherwise specified, whenever this manual refers to click-
   ing, doubleclicking or clicking and dragging, use the left (or only)
   mouse button.

   When you see the term "Shift-click," it means to hold down either
   Shift key on the keyboard and click the mouse button.

   When you see the term 'Option/Control-click," it means:

      On a Macintosh you should hold down the Option key on
      the keyboard while you click; or

      On a DOS or Windows-based computer you should hold
      down the Control key on the keyboard while you click.

Page 7  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

INSTRUCTIONS AND EXPLANATIONS


   To prepare you for building your city in the rest of this tutorial
   here is a basic explanation of exactly what is city in SimCity 2000
   is made of.
	
   While SimCity has many layers of complexity and lots and lots of
   features and all sorts of stuff to put in your city, it's fairly easy to
   get a small city started. All you need is:
   
        A place for the Sims to live: a residential zone

        A place for the Sims to work: an industrial zone

        A place for the Sims to shop and conduct business: a commercial zone

        A source of power: a power plant

        A way to get the power from the power plant to the zones: power lines

        A way for Sims to travel between work, home or shops: roads

   That's all you need to build, and Sims with that pioneering spirit    
   will move into your city and build their own houses, factories and
   offices. They'll drive their cars and carry on business and com-
   plain about taxes. If you build it, they will simulate.

Page 8  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


Once your city has begun to grow, you can add:

        More zones with different density levels

        Multiple above and below-ground means of transportation       

        A complete water system

        Custom landscaping

        Airports and seaports
	
        Police and fire stations

        Educational and recreational facilities

        A whole lot more

Enough talk ... time for a simulating experience.


Page 9  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


TUTORIAL 1 - THE BASICS

   If you haven't already, take a look at your machine-specific   
   Addendum, and install SimCity 2000 to your hard drive.   

   Start SimCity 2000.     

   See your Addendum for instructions.    
	
   Either the first time you play the game or during installation, you     
   will be asked to enter your name to personalize your copy of
   SimCity 2000. Be sure to type your full name - and be polite
   because the name that you type in will appear a number of times
   and places in the game.

   Soon a list of four choices will appear; it's time for your first real 
   decision. Here you can load a city that you've already saved, start   
   a brand-new city, edit a new map (we'll be doing this in Tutorial 2),
   or play one of the pre-built scenarios. For this tutorial, we'll want  
   to start a new city.

   Click on Start New City.        

   In mere moments you'll see a dialog box that asks you to make 
   three decisions: how hard or easy you want your game to be, what    
   year the game should start, and what your new city should be
   named. The defaults are Easy and 1900, which will be just fine, so
   all we need to do is type in the name.

   Make sure the City Name is highlighted and type in: Tutorial 1 City.    

   Click on Done.
       Note: On the Macintosh or other computers that
       allow long file names, the city name you type here
       will also be your file name. On computers that
       run DOS or Windows, where file names must be
       shorter, you'll get to type in a file name when you
       save the city to disk.

Page 10  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial 

   Soon the founding of your city will be announced in the 
   newspaper. The newspaper is your tool for staying in touch   
   with your adoring SimConstituents.   

   Click on the headline. Read the story that zooms out. Click again.

   Open and eead the other stories if you like, by clicking on them.

   Click In the Close box In the upper-left comer of the Newspaper
   to send It to the recycling bin.

   You are now looking at the City window, where you will spend  
   most of your time as you build, run and rule your city. 

   At the top of the window is the Title bar. It contains the current city
   date, the city name, and the amount of money you have in your
   city treasury.

   Over on the left side of the screen is the City toolbar. It has lots of
   buttons-your tools for creating and running your city.

       Note: Every January, the Budget window will pop
       up. For now, just click on its Done button to make
       it go away. We'll worry about the budget later. If
       the Newspaper pops up, click on its close box.

Page 11  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial
   
   In the window itself you see the site of your city-to-be. A pristine
   wilderness: bare land, some forest areas and some flowing water.     
   And the land isn't flat-there are hills and valleys, peaks and
   canyons. The terrain is divided into tiny squares. Each of these       
   squares is called a "tile." Each tile is approximately one acre, or a
   200 x 200 foot square.

   We'll explore your new domain in a moment, but first, we need to
   take a detour and go straight to the top ... of your screen.    

   At the top of your screen is, of course, the Menu bar. These menus    
   are well-behaved and work just like the menus in your other     
   programs. Click and hold on the menu name to open the menu,
   slide the cursor to the menu item you want to activate, then    
   release the mouse button.

   Take a moment and open each of the menus, revealing their hidden
   glory. 
	
   Once you've looked them over: 
   
   Open the Options menu.
   Select Auto-Budget.     

   This option makes the simulation repeat the same budget until   
   you tell it otherwise and stops that pesky Budget window from   
   popping up and spoiling your view.     

   Open the Disasters menu.        
   Select No Disasters.  

   This setting keeps random disasters from occurring. (Those
   disasters really mess up a tutorial.)  

Page 12  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

   And speaking of views, behold the vistas and valleys of your city-
   to-be. How'd you like another angle on the place?               

   Click on the Rotate CounterClockwise bullon in the City toolbar.

   Do It again.

   Click on the Rotate Clockwise button until you find the angle that
   pleases you.

   As you can see, you can rotate the city and view it from all sides.
   This'll come in very handy later, when you're building your city.
   What's that? You want a closer view? No problem.

   Click once on the Zoom In button in the City toolbar.

   How's that? Closer?

   Click again on the Zoom In button.

   That's as close as you get. (Notice that the Zoom In button is
   ghosted and unavailable.) Now that you're here, how do you get
   around? Let's zoom out for a wider view, then do some travelin'.

   Click once on the Zoom Out button.

   Click on the Center button.

   Click anywhere on the landscape.

   The landscape will redraw in the City window, centered on the
   spot where you clicked. You can also use the Scroll bars to move
   around the landscape, but the Center button gives you more
   precise control.


Page 13  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


MAKE YOURSELF AT HOME

   Time to pick a spot to found your city. Since each landscape 
   generated by SimCity 2000 is different, the landscape on your   
   screen, and therefore the city that you build, won't look exactly
   like the one in this manual-but it should be close. Kinda. Sorta.
   Maybe. 
	
   Click on the Zoom Out button until you are as far out as you can get.

   Look for a nice, flat spot.

   If there is water nearby, or even running through your spot, all the
   better, but not necessary. If there is no spot in your city that you
   are willing to call home, then open the File menu, and select New
   City. You'll be asked if you want to save the old one - click No.
   Then a new landscape will be generated, and you'll get to name
   your city and all that other stuff you did a few pages ago. You can
   repeat this until you find a home.

   Once you're satisfied, then it's time to zone out.

   As mentioned in What Makes a (Sim)City above, we'll need three 
   kinds of zones in our city: residential, where the Sims live,   
   commercial, for offices and stores, and industrial, for factories.
   
   Survey your chosen territory and pick a spot to zone residential. If 
   there is water nearby, include some waterfront in your zone.
   
   Click on the Residential Zone button.
		
   Click and drag on the landscape to form a rectangle where you want to 
   make a residential zone.
   
   You can zone right over hills and trees.

Page 14  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial 

   Now find a spot for the industrial zone. It is in your Sims' best
   interest to leave a bit of a buffer zone between residential and
   industrial zones.

   Click on the Industrial Zone button.

   Click and drag on the landscape to form a rectangle where you want
   to make an Industrial zone.

   Now find a spot for a commercial zone. Close to residential is
   handy. Some waterfront is nice, but not necessary.

   Click on the Commerelal Zone button.

   Click and drag on the landscape to form a rectangle where you want
   to make a commercial zone.

Page 15  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


POWER TO THE PEOPLE

   The Sims that live in SimCities may have that pioneering spirit, but   
   they won't move in until you supply electric power. After all, they     
   are electronic life-forms.     

   To supply power, you need a power plant of some sort and power  
   lines to get the power to where you want it. Both of these things       
   are available from the Power button in the City toolbar.

   Click and hold on the Power button in the City toolbar. 
		      
   Move the cursor to highlight Power Plant... and release the mouse
   button. 

   An assortment of power plants will appear, with pictures of, 
   prices for and outputs from each plant. There is also an INFO  
   button for each power plant that brings up even more fascinating  
   facts. Power plants are not available to you until the city year   
   reaches the time when that technology is available. 
   words, you can't have nuclear fusion in 1901.
			
   Click on the Coal Power Plant.
			
   The power plant assortment will disappear, and a grey 4 x 4 tile 
   shadow will follow the cursor. This is the size of the base of the
   power plant. Find a plac~preferably near your industrial zone   
   and far from your residential zon~to place the power plant. It
   must be placed on flat ground. 
		      
   Click on the terraIn to place your power plant.

Page 16  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

I'VE GOT A LINE ON YOU

   Now we need to power up the zones. We'll need power lines to get   
   the power from the power plant to each zone. Power won't travel
   from zone to zone without power lines, even if they're touching.       
   Within zones, the building-to-building power lines are built by the
   Sims when they build their buildings. (But that's a private sector
   problem-you only have to power up each zone.)

   Placing power lines can be a bit tricky, so it's best to zoom in as
   close as you can get.

   Click on the Center button.

   Click on your power plant.

   Click on the Zoom In button until you are as close as you can get.

   Click and hold on the Power button in the City toolbar.

   Move the cursor to highlight Power Lines and release the mouse
   button.

   You're ready to lay some power lines.

   Click or click and drag to place power lines that connect the power
   plant to each of your zones.

   If you place power lines that aren't connected to power, they'll
   blink to indicate that they aren't hooked up yet. If your power lines
   flash, then you've missed a connection. You may have to rotate
   the terrain to get a good look at your power plant from all sides.

       Note:   Laying power lines in hilly areas can be
       tricky. You may have to rotate the landscape and
       zoom in for a good close look. Try to stay on flat
       land for this tutorial

Page 17  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


THE DRIVE TO THRIVE

   Now all we need is a transportation system, and your town should     
   be ready for some Sims to move in.  


   Click on the Road bulton in the Cily toolbar.   out.

   Click and drag through and around your zones to set up a network of  
   roads.
	       
   By the time you get your roads down, some Sims should be  
   moving into your town.  
	
   Power cannot travel through roads without wires, so place power 
   lines across the roads to make sure each section of every zone has
   power. 
		
   Click and hold on the Power button and select Power Lines again. 
   
   Place power lines across the roads to connect all parts of each zone.   

   Now sit patiently for a few minutes as your city slowly begins to     
   grow.  
	  
       Note: If nobody moves into your city, then it's    
       either because the zones aren't powered up, or      
       the residential and industrial zones are too far     
       apart. Sims like to drive their cars, but they hate
       to commute very far.

YOUR JUST DESSERTS        

   Your city should be growing now. Go ahead and add some more   
   zones, or play with roads to get in some practice. Fairly soon a     
   newspaper will announce to the world that your little town has  
   reached the lofty population of 2000, and as a reward, you may
   build yourself a house.

       Note:   if you don't get this message after 5 or 7
       minutes, then you may not have made your zones
       large enough.

Page 18  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

   This is but the first of many rewards that you will reap as mayor
   of SimCity. Rewards are based on population, and include your
   own house, a city hall, a statue in your honor and ... well, you'll find
   out.

   Rewards show up under the Reward button in the City toolbar,
   which is ghosted and unavailable most of the time. Once you
   reach the population of 2000, then the Reward button will no
   longer be ghosted.

   Click and hold on the Reward button, slide the cursor to Mayor's
   House and release the mouse button.

   Place your house In a prestigious spot, preferably with a good view.

   Connect your house to the rest of the town with roads and power lines.

   Congratulations. You've successfully taken a hunk of barren dirt and 
   built a small city. But this is no time to rest on your laurels. For 
   now, save your city to disk, then we'll move on.

   Open the file menu.

   Select Save City.

   Depending on your computer, it will either go ahead and save
   without asking you any questions, or prompt you for a location
   and file name. See your machin&specific Addendum for details on
   saving files and file names.

Page 19  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

BELLY ON UP TO THE [TOOL]BAR
	
   Let's take a quick look at the City toolbar. If it ever gets in your way        The bull
   you can move it around the screen by clicking and dragging the  
   bar at the top. 

   An important-and useful-thing to remember is the built-in     
   help. Aust hold down either Shift key, and click on any button in the
   toolbar for a complete explanation of what the button does.     
					
   All of the buttons in the top five rows activate submenus that give the 
   button more power and flexibility. You've already seen that with the
   Power button.
   
   Click and hold on all the buttons in the top five  
   rows, one by one, to see all their submenus.
	
   Two of the buttons will not do anything: the Reward button and the 
   Emergency button. The Emergency button, which lets you dispatch
   police and fire departments to the scene of an emergency, only works 
   during an emergency. And as you already know, the Reward button      
   only lights up as you reach certain population levels.

   Seeing all those submenus should assure you that there's a lot more to 
   mastering SimCity 2000 than building a town of 2000 people. Many of these 
   features will be covered in Tutorial 3, but there are a few items that 
   will prove useful to you right away: the bulldozer, landscaping and 
   building bridges.

Page 20  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

DOIN' SOME DOZIN'

   The bulldozer has a number of uses, but for now we'll concentrate
   its Demolish/Clear function.

   Click and hold on the Bulldozer button.

   Highlight Demolish/Clear.

   Now go on a rampage through your city. Bulldoze any extra      
   sections of road, abandoned factories or anything else you'd care               
   to eliminate. (Don't worry, the city has been saved to disk, you can     
   undo any damage you do by loading it back in.)        

   The first time you 'doze something, it turns it to rubble (with quite
   a jolly explosion). 'Doze it again to clear the rubble.

   The Landscape button lets you add trees or water to the land-  
   scape. Click and hold on the Landscape button.  

   Highlight Trees and release the mouse button.

   Click or click and drag across the land to add trees.  

   Trees add value to land as well as an aesthetic touch to your
   creation. Now for water.

   Click and hold on the Landscape button. 
   HighlIght Water and release the mouse button.
   Click or click and drag across the land to make a small lake - but keep
   it small, adding water is expensive.

   Water also adds value to land, and has recreational value, too.

Page 21  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

A LITTLE BRIDGEWORK
   
   And speaking of water, how do you make your roads cross it?

   Locate and center the screen on a lake or river that has flat land  
   surrounding it.

   Click on the Road button.

   Click and drag the cursor so it crosses the lake or river.      

   Just by laying a road over water, the SimConstruction crew knows
   that you need a bridge. So they pop up this dialog box to let you 
   decide what kind of bridge you want and tell you how much it'll 
   cost. There is also an Info button you can press for more informa-     
   tion on each type of bridge. Depending on the year in your city,
   and the width of the water, you will be shown a choice of one, two
   or three different bridges you can build. For now, go ahead and 
   build a causeway bridge.   

   Click on the Causeway bullon to build the bridge.      
   
   The causeway is only one of the three types of bridges that you 
   can have in SimCity 2000. Let's build another one, or two if they are
   all available.

   Click and drag across the water next to the causeway. 

   When given the choice of bridges, build a raising bridge, if it is
   available.  

   Now build a suspension bridge if it is available.

Page 22  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

   A handy-dandy feature of SimCity 2000 is the ability to add signs to 
   buildings or spots of interest in your city.

   Click on the Sign button.

   Click on one of the bridges you just built.

   Type "Orthodontist's Dream" into the dialog box. 
   
   Click the Done button.


   At the bottom of the City toolbar are six buttons. The one with the    
   question mark brings up a reminder that you can get help on each
   button of the toolbar by holding down the Shift key and clicking on
   the button.     

   To the left of the help button is the Underground button. Clicking   
   on it reveals SimCity's soft white underbelly, where you can build
   an underground transportation system and run water to all your
   city's buildings. Clicking on it again takes you back up to the
   surface.

   The four buttons above Help and Underground are Show Buildings,
   Show Signs, Show Infrastructure and Show Zones. Each of these
   buttons toggles on and off different parts of the city. The parts
   aren't destroyed, theyjust turn invisible until you want to see them
   again.

   Zoom out, center on the built-up part of your city and play with the four
   Show buttons, the Underground button and the Help button forawhile.

   Hang in there. We're almost done with Tutorial 1!

Page 23  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

YOU'RE IN DEMAND        

   Now take a look at the City toolbar and pick out the and Indicator. This 
   lets you know what type of zones are in demand in your city. The bars 
   stick up to show demand and down to show oversupply for Residential,     
   commercial and Industrial zones.        

WHAT A PANE   
   
   To the left of the Demand Indicator are six buttons. Each of these      
   buttons opens small information windows that sit on top of the 
   City window. The information in these windows helps you under   
   stand what's going on in your city, and helps you keep things  
   running smoothly. Some of them will be covered in Tutorial 3. All      
   of them are explained in detail in the Reference section.    

   Most of these buttons (all but the one with the money sign) work  
   in two ways:   

   1. Click and hold on them to see a small pop-up information
      display that disappears when you let go of the mouse button. 

   2. Click and drag them away from the toolbar to open a window that stays 
      until you tell it to go away.

   One at a time, click and hold on each of the six buttons, take a quick
   look at what comes up, then release the mouse button. (Note that the
   Budget window stays there unless you click the Done button.)

   One at a time, click and drag each of the six buttons to open all the
   windows.

   Close all the windows.

   Well, that's it for Tutorial 1. When you're ready for more, check out
   the next two tutorials. And the Reference section is always there
   when you need it for details on every window, toolbar and button.
   Now go play.

   Play.
   
   Have fun.

   Have more fun.

Page 24  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

   Welcome back. In this tutorial, we'll be modifying and customizing   
   the landforms that you build your cities on.

   In the last tutorial we touched on adding trees and water with the
   Landscape button, and looked at the submenu under the Bull-
   dozer button. These are powerful tools for molding, shaping and 
   beautifying the land. But if you make drastic changes, it can drain
   your city's treasury.

   All the time you spent in Tutorial 1 was in "City-Building mode." As
   an alternative, SimCity 2000 has a "Terrain-Editing mode" that
   allows you to make all the modifications to the land you want - at
   no charge - before you actually start your city. When you've
   created the perfect locale for a new town, you can switch to City
   mode and start building. But you can't switch back. Sorry, them's
   the rules.

   Enough gabbing. Put on your work boots and grab your hard
   hat-we've got mountains to move.

Page 24  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


TUTORIAL 2 - LANDSCAPE ENGINEERING

   Welcome back. In this tutorial, we'll be modifying and customizing   
   the landforms that you build your cities on.

   In the last tutorial we touched on adding trees and water with the
   Landscape button, and looked at the submenu under the Bull-
   dozer button. These are powerful tools for molding, shaping and 
   beautifying the land. But if you make drastic changes, it can drain
   your city's treasury.

   All the time you spent in Tutorial 1 was in "City-Building mode." As
   an alternative, SimCity 2000 has a "Terrain-Editing mode" that
   allows you to make all the modifications to the land you want - at
   no charge - before you actually start your city. When you've
   created the perfect locale for a new town, you can switch to City
   mode and start building. But you can't switch back. Sorry, them's
   the rules.

   Enough gabbing. Put on your work boots and grab your hard
   hat - we've got mountains to move.


Page 25  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


IN THE MODE

   First, we'll get into Terrain-Editing mode.

   If SimCity 2000 isn't running now, start it up. You'll soon see this
   dialog box:    
   
   Click Edit New Map.   
	
   If SimCity 2000 is already running, and you've been playing for a   
   while, save whatever you're working on (if you wish) and: 

   Click on the Zoom Out button until you are all the way out.  

   Open the File menu.     
   
   Select Edit New Map.  

   This is the same old City window as in Tutorial 1, but  
   with a big difference - this time we're in Terrain mode, 
   and the City toolbar has been replaced by the Terrain  
   tool bar.      

   Near the bottom of the toolbar are six buttons that you are already 
   familiar with. The Zoom In, Zoom Out, Rotate, Center and Help buttons 
   work here exactly as they do in the City toolbar.                  
			
   And, of course, if you ever need a reminder of what a button does, hold 
   down either Shift key and click on the button.


Page 26  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

MY GENERATION

   The top section of the Terrain toolbar gives you a good head start  
   on reaching that perfect landform by letting you select some
   general characteristics that you want, then generating the land to
   your specifications. Once generated, you can customize it to your
   heart's content.

   The Coast button lets you choose to (or not to) have an ocean
   coastline along one side of your city.

   The River button lets you choose whether or not a river runs
   through it.

   The three slider bars let you set how much of the land you want
   to be covered by mountains, water and trees. To set the slider
   bars, you can either click and drag them or just click at your
   desired setting. The higher the bar, the more mountain, water and
   tree coverage.

   When you've finished with the Coast and River buttons and the
   sliders, clicking on the Make button generates the new landform.

   To test it out, try generating landforms with each of theses settings:

   Set the buttons and sliders to match example one, to the right
   
   Click on the Make button.
   
   Look over the landscape.  

   Repeat for the other two examples.   

   With the two buttons and three sliders you can create an almost
   unlimited number of Iandforms. Play around with generating
   landforms for a while if you wish, then generate the landform from
   example 3.


Page 27  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


DID THE EARTH MOVE FOR YOU, TOO?

   You should be looking at something approximately like this:

      ( INSERT K3WL PICTURE HERE!!  - D.L. )

       Note: As you go through the rest of this tutorial, feel free to zoom 
       in for a closer look and rotate to get a different angle on your 
       creation. You already know how to do it, so I won't bore you with 
       the details.

   Look over the terrain and pick a nice, big, flat, boring spot. We'll
   use the Raise Terrain tool to give it a lift.

   Click on the Ralse Terrain button.

   Click and drag on a flat spot of land to build a huge mountaln.

MAKING MOLEHILLS OUT OF MOUNTAINS   
   
   Well, maybe that mountain is a bit too high for this flat, prairie-like 
   wilderness. Let's bring it down with the Lower Terrain tool.
   
   Click on the Lower Terrain button.

   Trim the mountaln down to size, but not too small.

Page 28  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


ON THE LEVEL

   Sometimes you need to flatten out the top of a mountain and form 
   terraces to make some usable, level space. That's where the Level
   Terrain tool comes in.

       Note: If you don 't have enough of your mountain left after lowering it, 
       use the Raise Terrain tool to build it back up again.

   Click on the Level Terrain button.

   Click and hold somewhere on your mountaln near - but not at - the top.

   Drag the cursor across the top of the mountaln to chop it off.

   You probably noticed that the Level Terrain tool raises land to
   your chosen level as well as lowers it. Now make some terraces on
   your mountain.

   When you do a lot of terrain modifications, you will sometimes see
   grey triangular areas. These are actually cement supports to keep
   the land from shifting or caving in. SimConstruction engineers are
   trained professionals who know how to do their jobs.


Page 29  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


A BIT OF A STRETCH

   The Stretch Terrain tool lets you grab a section of land and  
   stretch it up into a mountain or pull it down to a mesa or canyon.

   Locate a flat, empty section of land.

   Click on the Stretch Terrain tool.
   
   Click and hold on the land, drag it upwards to create a pyramid-like  
   mountain, and release the mouse button.
	
   Click on the top of the mountaln and drag it down to flatten it into a
   mesa.
	
   Click and hold on the side of the mountaln and drag the cursor down 
   to carve out a canyon.

Page 30  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial  


WATER YOU THINKIN' ABOUT?

   Enough of this dealing with dirt-let's get wet. There are a few 
   water tools in the Terrain toolbar. One works just like the Water 
   setting on the Landscape button in the City toolbar. The other is    
   a little more powerful-and little more unpredictable. It lets you
   place flowing streams.

   Find or build a small hill somewhere In the terrain.

   Click on the Water button.

   Click and drag on the flat terrain at the foot of the hill.

   Click on the Place Stream button.      
   
   Click at the top of the hill to send a stream running down into the lake.
   
   Click a few more times In the same area to produce a cascading
   waterfall.

   There are also buttons that let you raise and lower sea level.
   
   Click on the Zoom Out button until you are all the way out.
   
   Click once on the Raise Sea Level button.

   Click twice on the Lower Sea Level button.

   Click again on the Ralse Sea Level button.

   These buttons let you turn mountains into a chain of islands, turn
   wet grassland into a desert, or create swampland if you know any
   rich suckers.

Page 31  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial  


OUT IN THE WOODS
   SimCity 2000 lets you add trees and forests to your landscape, 
   with (of all things) the Tree and Forest buttons.      
	
   Find a spot in the terrain that is sadly lacking trees.       
   
   Click on the Tree button.

   Click and drag across the barren plaln to plant some trees. 
   
   Click on the Forest button.    

   Click and drag across the plain to plant a lot of trees.

CITY A LA MODE

   You are now the master of land, sea and forest, able to shape them   
   to suit your whims. If you wish, take some time and play around
   with the landscape. When you're ready to get a city going, then 
   head for the Done button at the bottom of the Terrain toolbar. It    
   sends you into City mode, changes the toolbar, and starts time in
   the city.      
			
   Click Done and start building a city.
   
   You'll find the Raise Terrain, Lower Terrain and Level Terrain
   functions in the submenu under the Bulldozer button. But remem-
   ber: in City mode, you'll be charged for each tile you raise, lower   
   or level.
			
   If and when you feel like it, Tutorial 3 is just around the corner,             type of £
   filled with useful advanced city-building techniques.         


Page 32  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial


TUTORIAL 3 - ADVANCED FEATURES

   If you're here then you must already be an experienced mayor 
   with complete mastery of all the tools and techniques in Tutorials
   1 and 2. Either that or you're so excited about the advanced
   features of SimCity 2000 that you just couldn't wait.

   In any event, in this tutorial, you will:     
  
         Load in your old city from Tutorial 1.
   
         Take a look around with the Query tool.
   
         Add police and fire protection.
       
         Take a quick look at all the smaller windows and get an idea
	 of what they do.

         Play with the Budget window and city finance.
      
         Make a couple political deals in the Council window.

         Deal with an emergency.

A NEW BEGINING   
   
   If SimCity 2000 isn't running now, start it up. You'll soon see this 
   dialog box:
     
   Click Load Saved City.

   Load your city from the end of Tutorial 1.   

   If SimCity 2000 is already running, and you've been playing for a  
   while, save whatever you're working on (if you wish) and:

   Open the File menu.
   
   Select Load City.
   
   Load your city from the end of Tutorial 1.

       Note: Loading cities is a little different for each type of computer. 
       See your machine-specific Addendum for details.

Page 33  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

   Within seconds, you will be looking over the familiar landscape of  
   Tutorial 1 City. Before moving on, let's do a couple things: turn on  
   and hold on the City Services button in the City toolbar.     

   Select Police from the submenu. 
	
   Place the police station somewhere in your city.   

   Click and hold on the City Services button again.  
   
   Select Fire Station from the submenu.     Notice the Rer

   Place a fire station somewhere in your city, possibly near  
   police station.

   Make sure the stations have power and access to roads.

THE QUERY THEORY

   Inquiring mayors want and need to know what's going on in their
   towns. And whether you need to research important city issues or
   are just curious, the Query tool gives you the low-down on your
   city.

   Click on the Query button in the City toolbar.

   Click on a house in your residential zone.


   An information box has popped up with all the vital stats the simulator 
   has about the spot where you clicked.

Page 34  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial 
   
   Click on the Information box to close it.
   
   Click on your police station.   
   
   Once again an information box has opened, but this time with different 
   information - information that is important in judging the effectiveness
   of a police station. Whenever you query a place in your city, you will 
   see the most useful information for that place. Pay attention to the 
   numbers of officers, crimes and arrests in this box, and scribble them 
   down on a piece of paper if you have one handy. Later on we'll see what 
   cutting the police budget does to these numbers.

   Notice the Rename button. SimCity 2000 allows you to personalize
   your city by renaming many of the buildings and locations.

   Click on the Rename button.
   
   Type In your own name for your police department, something like,
   "Tutorial Enforcement Unit," or "Sims In Blue."
   
   Click the Done button.

Page 35  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial 


THE WHIRLWIND[OW]

   Other than a brief glimpse at the other windows in Tutorial 1,
   we've spent almost the whole time in the City window. The City  
   window is the mainstay of SimCity 2000. It stays active even when  
   other windows are open on top of it. Clicking on the City window       
   won't bring it to the front, covering any of the other, smaller 
   windows on the screen. When you place the other windows, try  
   not to cover the City window's Scroll bars.     

   After the City window, the Map window is the most-used and most
   versatile.     

   Click and drag the Map window button in the City toolbar away from  
   the toolbar to open the Map window.    

   Click In the Grow box in the upper right corner to enlarge the Map     
   window.

   Welcome to the Map window. It shows a number of different map displays 
   that give you location-based information about your city. You can open it 
   either through the Windows menu  or with the Map window button in the  
   City toolbar.
   
   Somewhere on the map is a white rectangle. The rectangle shows the area 
   of the map that is currently visible in the City window. When you click      
   on the map, you move the rectangle, and the city window redraws to show 
   the new area in the rectangle.     

   Click on the map a few times to move the rectangle, and see how the City 
   window changes.   

   Click on the map, over the middle of your city.

   The buttons along the left side of the Map window let you choose
   different map displays. Some of the buttons have submenus for
   even more displays. Let's take a quick look at all the map displays.


Page 36  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial 

       Note: In map displays that show density or coverage, the darker the 
       greyscale, the higher the density.

   Click and hold on the top Map window button.

   Select the first Item In the submenu and release the mouse button. Take
   a look at the map.

   Repeat for every item of every submenu of every Map window
   button - except the very last button. (Don't worry, it won't take very
   long; some of the buttons don't have submenus.)

   The last Map window button doesn't change the view in the Map
   window-it turns the City window into a super-duper-extra-large
   map. (This is the City window's Map mode.) Clicking the button
   again returns the City window to its normal state. Sometimes you
   need a huge, detailed map to see all the finer details of your city.

   Click on the last Map window button.

   Take a look, then click on it agaln.

   Click in the Close box to close the Map window.

   The Graphs window shows time-based information about the people, places 
   and problems in your city. Use it for identifying and tracking trends and 
   changes in things like pollution, land value, and levels of health and 
   education. You can open it from the Windows menu or by clicking and 
   dragging the Graphs window button in the City toolbar.

   Click and drag the Graphs window button on the City toolbar to open the 
   Graphs window.

   Spend 2 minutes and 37 seconds turning on and off each of
   the graphs, and changing the scale Irom 1 to 10 to 100 years.

   Close the Graphs window.

Page 37  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial 

   The Population window gives you information about the people    
   in your city, and their levels of health and education. You can open   
   the Population window in the usual ways.       
  
   Click and drag the Population window button on the City toolbar. 

   Click on each of the three buttons at the bottom of the window and
   look at each of the three displays.    

   Close the Population window.   

   The Industries window shows the ratio of the different types of industries 
   in your city. It also shows which industries' products are in demand 
   nationally, and allow you to set different tax rates for each industry to 
   encourage, discourage, or drain dry those industries like, don't like or 
   just want to exploit. You can open the Industries window by... you know 
   the rotine by now.                
   
   Click and drag the Industries window button in the City toolbar.                         monthly
	
   Look over the current (Population) display. 

   Click on the Tax Rates button.


Page 38  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

   Pick an industry you want to encourage, and lower its tax rate by
   clicking and dragging its bar toward the left.

   Pick an industry you want to discourage, and raise its tax rate by
   clicking and dragging its bar toward the right.

   Click on the Demand button and look over the Demand display.

   Close the Industries window.

   The Neighbors window shows your city surrounded by its neigh-
   boring cities, and gives the populations for each city, and for
   SimNation as a whole. I bet you can figure out how the Neighbors
   window is opened.

   Open the Windows menu and select Neighbors (unless you really
   really want to use the Neighbors window button).

   Take a look and close the window.      

   The Budget window is where you control all the finances of your
   city. The  Budget window is so important that it deserves its own           
   clever headline in this tutorial, so here goes:

THE BUCK STARTS HERE

   Click on the Budget window button in the City toolbar.  

   Along the left side of the Budget window is a list of all the revenues
   and expenses that you face as a mayor in SimCity 2000. For each
   revenue or expense, there is:

         Year-to-Date Column - a number (in blue) that shows the actual 
	 cash amount you have made or spent so far this year.

         Estimated Column - a number (in red) that shows what the 
	 end-of-year expense or revenue will be at the current Budget 
	 window settings.

         Books - a button to push to see a detailed monthly report on the 
	 revenue or expense.

         Advisors - a button to push when you want a little advice.

Page 39  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

         Percentages - most (but not all) of the revenues and expenses have 
	 a percentage setting so you can set the amounts of funding or 
	 taxation.     
	
   Help is available by holding down either Shift key and clicking on 
   any word, number, column or button in the Budget window.        

   The very first revenue is your main source of income: property     
   taxes. To the right of the words "Property Taxes" is the current tax
   rate given as a percentage (currently 7%). You can set the property tax 
   rate to anything between 0 and 20% by clicking on the up and down arrows 
   to the right of the percentage number. Give your Sims a break and lower 
   their taxes.

   Click twice on the down-arrow to the right of Property Taxes and lower    
   the rate to 5%.

   If your computer is equipped to play sound effects, you'll hear the       
   cheers of the populace.        

   Click once on the up-arrow to the right of Property Taxes and raise the   
   rate to 6%.

   Once again, if your computer can play sound effects, you'll hear     
   the reaction of the masses. How soon they forget.   
	
   Skip down to Bond Payment. This is the amount of interest you  
   pay on bond issues. Part of financing your city is issuing bonds,
   which is basically borrowing money from your citizens. The     
   interest rate the city pays varies according to the simulated
   market and the difficulty level of the game. Everything you need  
   to deal with bonds is in the Bond Payment books.       

Page 40  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

   Click on the Book button for Bond Payment.

   The bond Payment books give you a month-by-month breakdown of the number 
   of outstanding bonds, their interest rate, the monetary amount of 
   interest  you pay and a total of interest paid. Blue numbers show actual 
   year-to-date amounts, red numbers are projections for the rest of the 
   year.
   
   At the bottom of the window are buttons for dealing with bond issues.

   Click on the Show Bonds button.
	
   You are shown a pop-up box with your city's credit rating, and general 
   status on bonds and interest rates.

   Click on the pop-up box to close it.

   Click on the Issue Bond button.

   You are given the current bond interest rate and asked if you want to
   issue the bond.  Go ahead. 

   Click Yes to issue the bond.  
   
   Click on the Show Bonds button to see that it has been issued.

   Click to close the Show Bonds box.

   Later, when you have the money, you can come back here and repay the bond,    
   but for now, let's move on.

   Click the Done button to close the Bond Payment books and return to
   the budget window.

   Look at the line just below Bond Payment. This is the financial 
   information for your Police Departments. To the right of the words 
   "Police Department" is a percentage number set to 100, and to the right 
   of that are up- and down-arrows that let you change the level of funding.

Page 41  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

   Click on the down-arrow to change the Police Department funding to
   50%.
	
   Click on the Police Department Book button.     

   Look it over, then click to close the Police books.     
	
   We'll check out the effect of lowering the police budget a little later. 
   There are no other buttons or adjustments in the Police books.

   Let's look at another set of books.     
	
   Click on the Transit Authority Book button.                   
   
   Not only do the Transit Authority books give you a monthly breakdown of 
   transit expenses, but they let you individually set the funding levels 
   for different transportation systems. Since the bridges we built in
   Tuto lI 1 aren't hooked up to anything  there's no point in funding them. 
   And just to see what happens, we'll remove funding from a couple other 
   systems.     
   
   Click on the down-arrow for Bridge funding until it goes to 0%.
	
   Set funding levels for Subway and Tunnel to 0%.           

   Click Done to close the Transit Authority books and return to the Budget 
   window.

   Notice that the percentage setting next to Transit Authority changed.
   When you change settings in the books, they are reflected here.
	
   One more set of books to inspect: City Ordinance (just under Property 
   Taxes).      

Page 42  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

   Click on the City Ordinance Book button.


   These are various programs, bills and ordinances that you can enact as 
   mayor. Each program contributes in some way to the quality of life in
   your city, but each also has a drawback, usually its cost. Politics is a 
   rough business, filled with hard decisions.

   That's it for the Budget window - except for one detail. Let's clear out 
   all this budget stuff then see how our funding change affected the police 
   department.

   Click Done to close the Community Program dialog.

   Click Done to close the Budget window.

   Click on the Query button in the City toolbar.

   Click on the Police Department.

   When you compare it with your last query, you should have about half 
   as many officers. Depending on the size of your city, crime may be running 
   rampant, or it may be under control.  In a very small town, you don't 
   necessarily need full police or fire department funding.
   
   And speaking of fire departments...

A HOT TIME IN OLD TOWN   
   
   From time to time, or when you feel like it, you will have the solemn    
   duty (or distinct pleasure, depending on your personality) of dealing 
   with disasters. Of course, the best way to deal with a disaster is to 
   prevent it. The better fire coverage you have, the less fires will occur. 
   But sometimes, no matter how prepared you are, disaster strikes. 
   Especially when you choose them from a menu.

Page 43  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial
   
   Open the Disasters menu.        

   Select Fire.

   Once you select Fire, two things will happen: a fire will break out
   somewhere in the city limits and the Emergency button will become 
   available. The Emergency tool lets you dispatch your police and fire 
   departments to the scene of the emergency.

   Click and hold on the Emergency button in the City toolbar.

   Select Dispatch Fire.

   Click near the fire.

   Click and hold on the Emergency button.

   Select Dispatch Police.

   Click near the fire.

       Note: If the fire went out before you had a chance
       to dispatch your troops, start another one.

   You can't place your fire fighters directly on fires, but you can use
   them to block the path of the fire, and even chase it down. You can
   place one police or fire icon for every station you have. If you have
   three of four stations, it makes it easier to surround a fire and
   block its path. 

GRADUATION
   
   You have completed an extensive tutorial in city design and
   management. You are now an expert in everything from planning
   to landscaping to politics.

   When you're ready for even more advanced features, check out
   the Reference section for tips on adding a water system to you
   city, and improving and expanding your transportation system
   with highways, onramps, tunnels, rails, subways, and bus lines.

   Go forth and play SimCity 2000.

Page 44  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

	      This page of the manual shows a cool silhouette of a 
			  city and this cheezy poem:

     Slums may well be breeding-grounds of crime, but middle-class suburbs
     are incubators of apathy and delirium.
     The Unquiet Grave
					Cyril Connolly (1903-1974)


		       (Stay tuned for more poetry reading! - D.L.)

Page 45  SimCity 2000 - Tutorial

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++[<*| REFERENCE |*>]++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

   This Reference section is an in-depth explanation of (just about)
   every window, button, feature and function of SimCity 2000 on a
   number of different computers. This section will make a lot more  
   sense to you if you play through Tutorial 1 first.    

THE BASICS

   Here are a few basic points that should clarify your place in the
   SimCity 2000 universe and prepare you for the rest of the Reference 
   section.

WHERE ARE YOU AND WHAT ARE YOU DOING?

   In SimCity 2000 you are the planner and mayor of an unlimited number of 
   cities. These cities can be as small as you want or as large as you can 
   make them.
   
   Your cities don't live in a vacuum. Their growth and decline are
   affected by surrounding cities. These surrounding cities are both
   a market for selling your manufactured goods and competitors,
   vying for population and businesses.    
			
   In your role as mayor, you are directly responsible for:        
      
         Planning - zoning, long- and short-range strategies

         City infrastructure - water, power, transportation       

         Government services - fire, police, hospitals, prisons  
      
         Education - schools, colleges, libraries, museums       

         Recreation and open spaces - parks, zoos, stadiums, marinas
      
         City budget and taxes
      
         Major and minor land manipulation

         The health, wealth and happiness of the Sims that live in your city


   You are not directly responsible for building houses, stores, factories 
   or other buildings (the Sims take care of them).

Page 46  SimCity 2000 - Reference
   
SCENARIOS AND CITIES   

   There are a number of scenarios built into to SimCity 2000. Each
   scenario provides you with different challenges at different levels
   of difficulty.

   Each scenario has a "win" condition. If you meet this condition within
   a specific time, you'll receive the key to the city and be allowed to 
   continue your job as mayor. If you don't meet the condition, you'll be
   run out of town - until you're ready to try again.

   When you start your own city, there are no time limits to beat and
   no conditions to meet. There is no winning or losing. You are the
   judge, passing judgment upon yourself. The only two criteria
   in this judgment are your own enjoyment and the quality of life of
   your Sims.

SIMCITY 2000 ON DIFFERENT COMPUTERS

   Each computer platform has its own rules and conventions for
   terminology, menu use, keyboard use, mouse use, file loading and
   saving, and windowing. We have kept SimCity 2000 as consistent  
   from computer to computer as we could while staying true to each
   computer's interface. In those few places where things differ
   greatly from computer to computer, you will be referred to the
   machine-specific Addendum.

   The graphics for this manual were taken from the Macintosh
   version of SimCity 2000. If there are any differences between the
   graphics in the manual and the graphics on your screen, see the
   machine-specific Addendum.

Page 47  SimCity 2000 - Reference

MOUSE AND KEYBOARD CONVENTIONS

   In general, all instructions that refer to clicking, doubleclicking or
   clicking and dragging refer to the left mouse button (if you have more 
   than one). 

   Things that are done on the Mac by holding down the Option key while 
   clicking, are done on DOS- and Windows-based computers by holding down 
   the Control key and clicking.  

GETTING HELP

   Help is available in most places in SimCity 2000. lf you see a button    
   with a question mark on it, click on it for help.       

   If you have a mouse with more than one button, clicking with the
   right button on any button or icon will invoke a help message  
   explaining that button or icon. If you have a mouse with one    
   button, hold down either Shift key on your keyboard and click on any 
   button or icon for help.

   Terrain in SimCity 2000 has 32 levels of altitude, with mountains,
   valleys, lakes, rivers, streams, and waterfalls. You can customize   
   and modify the landform, both at the beginning of a game and during 
   actual city-building.    
	
   When you start a brand-new city with the Edit New Map command from the 
   File menu, you can mold and shape the terrain for your city as much as 
   you want, without any charge. Once you start playing a game and begin 
   building a city, it will cost you to modify the terrain.  

   The land is divided up into "tiles." A tile is the smallest piece of
   land that can be raised, lowered or covered with water. It is 
   approximately 200 by 200 feet square, or about one acre.  

   The total city limits are equivalent to approximately 5 miles by 5 
   miles square. Buildings, objects, roads, etc., are also divided up into 
   tiles. One section of road is one tile. Some of the larger buildings are 
   made of many tiles.

Page 48  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   The entire city limits is yours for city expansion, for parks and
   open spaces, or to leave wild. A city in SimCity 2000 can be tiny,
   or fill the entire rectangular city limits.

   You can build multiple separate communities or small cities but the 
   simulation will treat them as one city. All the statistics and 
   information in the Graphs, Population, industry and other windows 
   collectively covers everything within the entire city limits.

THE CITY WINDOW AND THE REST OF 'EM

   The City window is your main view of your city. It is always open
   as long as SimCity 2000 is running. The game is easiest to control
   with the City window as large as possible, but you can resize it on
   some computers.

   Most of the other, smaller windows, such as the Map and Population 
   windows, open either by selecting them in the Windows menu, or by 
   clicking on their button on the toolbar.

   If you just want to take a quick look at one of the smaller windows
   (momentary view), click and hold on their buttons in the toolbar.
   The window will be visible until you release the mouse button. If,
   while holding down the button, you drag the window away from the
   toolbar then release the mouse button, then the window will remain
   on the screen until you close it (tear-off view).

   There are two oter important points to remember about the small 
   windows:

      1. Some of them have extra buttons or controls that appear in tear-off,
	 but not in momentary view.

      2. As long as small windows are open, they will remain on top of the 
	 City window. When you click on the City window to modify the city,
	 it will not cover the small windows - place them carefully so they 
	 don't block your access to the City window scroll bars.

Page 49  SimCity 2000 - Reference

MENUS

   These are all the menus and menu items in SimCity 2000. There
   may be a few slight differences on different computers.

FILE MENU
   
   This menu has the commands for file management, starting new games and 
   scenarios and quitting SimCity 2000.  

   ABOUT SIMClTY 2000
    Brings up exciting and thrilling information about the game and its
    makers. If your computer has a special menu, like the Macintosh "Apple" 
    menu, this item will be there and not in the File menu. 
   
   LOAD CITY
    Opens a file-loading dialog box allowing you to load in and play a
    previously saved SimCity 2000 city. This command can also be used to 
    import a city from SimCity or SimCity Classic.  
   
   NEW CITY
    First asks if you want to save your existing city, then generates a
    new, empty terrain, prompts you for the city's name and game level, then 
    begins the game.
   
   EDIT NEW MAP
    First asks you if you want to save your existing city, then removes
    all buildings and infrastructure and delivers the bare terrain into
    Terrain-Editing mode. In Terrain-Editing mode, you have access
    to tools to customize and/or regenerate the terrain to your heart's
    content - without being charged. 
   
   LOAD SCENARIO
    Opens a dialog box that allows you to view all the different scenarios, 
    then select one.
   
   SAVE CITY      
    Saves the current city to disk under the same name and in the same place 
    where it was last saved. If it hasn't been saved the Save City As... 
    dialog box will open, allowing you to rename the city and choose the 
    destination disk and directory or folder.

Page 50  SimCity 2000 - Reference
	
   SAVE CITY AS...
    Opens a dialog box that allows you to name/rename a city and choose the 
    disk and directory or folder where you want to save it.

   QUIT
    Rips SimCity from your computer's memory and makes it go away until you're 
    ready to resume your mayoral responsibilities. It will first ask if you    
    want to save your existing city.

   SPEED MENU
    This menu has the commands for setting the simulation to different speeds,   
    including pause. The currently set speed will be marked by a check mark. 
    Actual speeds will vary, depending on your computer, its microprocessor 
    and its clock speed.

   PAUSE
    Stops time in the simulation.

   TURTLE
    Sets the simulation to run slower than molasses on a cold day.

   LLAMA
    Sets the simulation to run at a medium speed.

   CHEETAH
    Sets the simulation to run as fast as your computer will go.

OPTIONS MENU

    This menu controls a number of simulation and sound options so you can
    tailor the game to your style of play. Options that are active have a 
    check mark next to them.

   AUTO-BUDGET
    When selected, Auto-Budget stops the Budget window from opening at the   
    end of each year, and automatically repeats the previous budget.

Page 51  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   AUTO-GOTO       
    When active, Auto-Goto automatically centers the City window over an 
    important occurrence, such as a disaster. When inactive you will still 
    receive messages to notify you of important goings-on on in your city.

   SOUND EFFECTS                                                        
    Toggles sound effects on and off. The audio quality of the sound effects 
    will vary greatly depending on the sound capabilities of your computer.
   
   MUSIC
    Toggles the musical soundtrack on and off. The audio quality of the music 
    will vary greatly depending on the sound capabilities of your computer.  

DISASTERS MENU                          
	
   This menu lets you activate various disasters, or disable them entirely.
   For more information on disasters, see Dealing with Disasters in the 
   Strategies section below.

   FIRE
    Causes a fire to break out somewhere within the city limits.

   FLOOD
    Causes a wave of raised water to come in off the coast or down a river, 
    washing away anything that isn't tied down.  

   AIR CRASH
    Causes an airplane to crash somewhere within the city limits. 
   
   TORNADO
    Sets a tornado loose to wreak havoc across the city limits.
   
   EARTHQUAKE
    Sets the earth to quakin' and the ground to shakin'. 

   MONSTER
    Releases the terror of the year 2000.


Page 52  SimCity 2000 - Reference


   NO DISASTERS
    Prevents disasters from occurring. No Disasters will not prevent the
    "official" scenario disasters, or stop disasters already in progress.
    No Disasters also prevents the City Council from voting in ordinances
    without your approval.

       Note:All power plants have a 50-year life span, and then they blow 
       up. They don 't cause fires or spread radiation - they just stop 
       working and collapse. Watch your newspapers for warnings that power
       plants are getting old.  If you have No Disasters active, when power 
       plants reach the end of their lives, they are automatically rebuilt
       and you are automatically charged. If you don't have enough cash in   
       your city funds to pay for the power plant replacement, it goes boom.

WINDOWS MENU

   This menu lets you access the various windows in SimCity 2000.  

   MAP
    Opens the Map window for various displays of your entire city.

   BUDGET
    Opens the window for fiddling with your city's finances.

   ORDINANCES
    Opens the Ordinance window for setting and inspecting various bonds, 
    bills and ordinances.

   POPULATION
    Opens the Population window to see a demographic breakdown of the
    Sims in your city.

   INDUSTRY
    Opens the Industry window to see the different types of industries
    currently operating in your city, and to set individual tax rates for
    different industries.

Page 53  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   GRAPHS
    Opens the Graphs window to see graphical displays of city data and
    statistics over time.     

   NEIGHBORS
    Opens the Neighbors window to see how you compare with your   
    surrounding neighbor cities. 

NEWSPAPER MENU
	
   This menu lets you set your newspaper delivery rate and read various
   local papers. Even with both delivery options below turned off,  
   newspapers announcing disasters will be delivered.      
		
   SUBSCRIPTION    
   
   When active, a newspaper will be delivered (popped up on the screen) 
   twice a year.   
			
   EXTRA!!!
   When active, only newspapers that report important occurrences - 
   inventions and major steps in city growth - will be delivered
			
   THE NEWSPAPERS        
   Opens and/or activates the various local newspapers. There will
   be from none (at the start of a city) to six (in a very large city)     
   different local newspapers. The newspaper that is marked with a   
   circle to the left of its name is the paper that will be delivered.     
   Opening a newspaper manually changes it to the one that will be     
   delivered. 
	
Page 54  SimCity 2000 - Reference


WINDOWS

   This section describes in detail each of the windows in SimCity 2000.  

CITY WINDOW
   
   IN GENERAL 
   The City window is your main work area for molding, shaping and growing
   your city and the land under it. It is always open while SimCity2000 is 
   running (on most computers).
   
   At the top of the window is the Title bar, containing the simulation
   date, the name of the city and your current funds. On the right end
   of the Title bar is some sort of box or button (depending on your 
   computer) for quickly resizing the window. 
         On the Macintosh and on DOS-based computers, it is the Zoom box, 
	 which toggles the window between full-screen size and the last 
	 previously set window size.
      
         On a Windows-based computer, there will be two buttons. The Maximize
	 button toggles the window between full-screen size and the last
	 previously set window size. The Minimize button shrinks the window
	 to an icon.

   You can resize the City window by clicking and dragging the Resize box.
   The Scroll Bars and scroll Arrows let you move the city around in the
   City window.

   The toolbar provides all the tools you'll need to zone, build and run 
   your city. It appears differently, depending on the mode you are in.
   And speaking of modes...

Page 55  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   MODES
   The City window has three modes: City-Building, Terrain-Editing, and  
   Map.

   City-Building is the main, most-used mode. It lets you build and grow 
   your city. You can also edit the terrain, but there are physical and 
   financial limitations.      

   In Terrain-Editing mode, you can make all the changes and modifications 
   you could ever desire to the new, empty landscape without being charged. 
   Once you leave Terrain-Editing mode and enter City-Building mode to start 
   your city, you can never return that same landscape to Terrain-Editing 
   mode. 

   Map mode turns the entire City window into a giant, scalable display that 
   mirrors the information in the Map window. The City window's Map mode is 
   toggled on and off from the Map window.
   
   THE VlEW
   The view in the City window is an isometric, simulated 3-D landscape. It 
   can be viewed in three different sizes, allowing you to see more or less 
   of your city at once, at various levels of detail. 

Page 56  SimCity 2000 - Reference
	
   THE LANDSCAPE
   Each time you start a new city in SimCity 2000, a new landscape is 
   generated. You can regenerate the landscape as many times as you like. 
   You can modify the land scape as much as you like.

   When the City window is in terrain-editing mode, you can make changes to 
   the land at no cost to the city. You can raise or level mountains, dig
   streams, raise or lower the sea level, and place individual trees or 
   forests.

   Once the City window is in city-building mode, you can still make changes 
   to the landscape, but you'll have to pay for the work out of the city's
   funds.

   There are three basic elements to the landscape: land, water and trees.

   The land in SimCity 2000 is divided into small squares, called tiles. 
   Tiles can be raised or lowered to provide 32 levels of altitude. Land 
   that is below sea level will be under water.

   Water in SimCity 2000 flows downhill, as all good water should. When you 
   generate a new landscape in terrain-editing mode, you can choose whether      
   or not you want a river running through the landscape, and you can, if 
   you want, have one edge of your city be a coastline. Your landscape can 
   also have streams, ponds and lakes. And you can raise or lower sea level, 
   to make your city a desert or a chain of islands.

   Trees in SimCity 2000, as in the real world, are big plants that provide
   shade and homes for wildlife. They add an aesthetic touch to cities, and 
   improve land value.

Page 57  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   THE CITY TOOLBAR

   When the City window is in city-building mode, it has the City toolbar - 
   your main control center for building, modifying and running your city. 
   It can be moved around your screen by clicking and dragging the bar at 
   the top.

   For ease of use, especially for newcomers to SimCity 2000, you can simply 
   click on any button, then use the default setting of the tool. When you're 
   ready for more power,  more features and more flexibility, you can make 
   use of the submenus that are hidden below many of the buttons. If you 
   click and hold on a button with a submenu, the submenu will pop up,      
   allowing you to access many more choices and options. The submenus, and 
   their available options, change over the years, reflecting the available                
   technology
   
   The City toolbar contains tools that let you:         

         Modify the landscape  
      
         Zoom in and out for close-up and far-out views
      
         Center on different areas of the City window       
      
         Rotate the city in the City window
      
         Zone residential, commercial and industrial areas  
      
         Build the city infrastructure 
      
         Add special-purpos buildings 
      
         Closely inspect city areas
      
         Add signs or markers          
      
         Turn on and off the display of various objects and layers in the
	 City window
      
         Open various information windows

   It also has a Demand Indicator for various zones.

Page 58  SimCity 2000 - Reference
   
   Any time you need a reminder of what each of the buttons does,
   hold down either Shift key and click on a button. A friendly help
   message will pop up and set you straight.

   These are the tools in the City toolbar:

   BULLDOZER
    The bulldozer is a multi-function multi-level tool, with a default
    setting and a submenu to choose between four additional actions.
    Click and hold in the Bulldozer button to open the submenu. When
    bulldozer is active, the cursor will appear as a bulldozer.

    To operate the bulldozer, choose the function you want, then
    click or click and drag where you want to do your 'dozin'.

    Demolish/Clear (the default) destroys and removes trees, rubble,
    and man-made (Sim-made?) objects without affecting the terrain
    or zoning status. Just click on anything to destroy it.
    Cost: $1 per tile
    
    Level Terrain lets you choose an altitude level and slice off hills
    and mountains at your chosen height. Level also clears, removing all
    trees, roads, power lines and buildings.
    Cost: $25 per tile per altitude change.

    Raise Terrain lets you make mountains out of molehills.
    Cost: $25 per til per altitude change.

    Lower Terrain lets you lower mountains and dig canyons. (If you
    lower the terrain below sea level, it will fill with water.)
    Cost: $25 per til per altitude change.

    De-zone lets you change undeveloped residential, commercial or
    industrial zones to unzoned land.
    Cost: $1 per tile

    Raising, lowering and leveling terrain can be very expensive, so do
    sparingly. If you want to make a lot of changes to the landscape,
    do it in terrain-editing mode before you start your city, or save up
    a lot of cash.

Page 59  SimCity 2000 - Reference
	
   LANDSCAPE TOOL  
    The Landscape tool lets you add trees and water to your city. When 
    active, the cursor will appear as a tree. Clicking and holding on the 
    button opens a submenu that allows you to choose between 
    trees and water.      

    Tree tool lets you place trees onto the landscape. Each click will    
    place either one or two trees. You can click repeatedly on a single tile
    to create dense thickets, and click and drag across many tiles to
    create forests.
    Cost: $3 per click.     

    The Water tool lets you create lakes and streams by clicking where you 
    want your water to appear.    
    Cost: $100 per tile.

   EMERGENCY               
    The Emergency tool lets you dispatch police and/or fire departments
    to the scene of a disaster. This tool will be ghosted and unavailable 
    unless a disaster is occurring.  When active, the cursor will appear
    as an emergency beacon. Clicking and holding on the tool opens a submenu 
    that allows you to choose between dispatching police and fire.        

    Once you activate the tool and choose the department you want
    to dispatch, click on the area of the city where you want your city's
    finest to go. An icon representing either your dispatched fire or
    police troops will be placed where you click. You can place one
    icon for each station you have. After you have placed then all,


Page 60  SimCity 2000 - Reference  I

    Clicking again will move the first one you placed to the last place
    clicked, enabling you to block, surround and contain a fire or riot.
    There is no cost for dispatching police or firesims.

   POWER
    Power is a multi-use tool. Clicking and holding on it opens a
    submenu that allows you to choose between two functions: laying
    power lines and placing power plants. When this tool is active, the
    cursor appears as a lightning bolt.

    Power Lines (the default setting) lets you "paint" your power lines
    onto the land by clicking in the place where you want the line to
    start, dragging the cursor to the place where you want the line to
    stop, and releasing the mouse button. If you start laying a power
    line and change your mind, you can cancel the operation by holding 
    down the Shift key before you release the mouse button.

    Power lines blink warning lights to let you know if they're not
    hooked to a power source. Power lines can only be run in straight 
    lines and 90-degree angles. They can cross roads or rails but not on 
    curved sections or straight sections that run at 45 degrees. Laying
    power lines across water is a little more expensive.  If you lay power
    lines across water, a dialog box will open and let you know how much it 
    will cost.   
    $2 per tile across land, $10 per tile across water.

    Power Plant... lets you choose power sources for your city.  Depending 
    on the year and the technology level of your city, there may be from 
    three to nine types of power plants available. Click on the power source 
    you want, then click on the terrain where you want it to go.  There is
    an info button for each power plant that tells you the advantages, 
    disadvantages and costs for each type of power plant.


Page 61  SimCity 2000 - Reference  I

   WATER SYSTEM            
    The Water System tool is a multi-use tool. Clicking and holding on
    it opens a submenu that allows you to choose between five different 
    water-related functions: laying water pipes, installing water pumps, 
    buying storage tanks, and  building treatment and desalinization plants. 
    When this tool is active, the cursor appears as a water faucet.

    Depending on the year and technology level I your city, you may only 
    have access to pumps and water towers. As time passes and inventions 
    are invented, the other options become availible. A city can exist 
    without a water system, but population density will be limited. When 
    the Sims build, they install the underground water pipes for their 
    buildings. You're only responsibility is to hook the buildings up to 
    the water system.                   
    
    Pipes (the default setting) lets you "paint" your water pipes onto the 
    landscape by clicking in the place where you want the pipes to stop, and 
    releasing the mouse button. If you start laying a water pipe and change 
    your mind, you can cancel the operation by holding down the Shift key 
    before you release the mouse button. Water pipes are always laid 
    underground. Activating Pipes automatically turns on the underground
    view so you can see your pipes.
    Cost: $3 per tile.               
    
    Water Pumps when placed on land act as wells, a good source of water.
    water. Water pumps need to be hooked to the power grid to function. 
    When pumps are placed right next to a lake or river, they supply twice 
    as much water as a well. A pump placed next to a coastline (salt water) 
    only produces as much water as a well.
    Cost: $100 per pump. 

    Water Towers lets you store precious water so you won't have summer 
    shortages in arid climates.
    Cost: $250 per tower.

Page 62  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    Treatment  plants clean and recycle your city's water, lessening
    seaonal shortages.
    Cost: $500 per treatment plant.

    Desalinization plants remove the salt from sea water. They are expensive,
    but sometimes necessary in beach communities with little or no other 
    source of water. Desalinization plants, which need power to function, 
    have internal pumps, and don't require extra water pumps. They produce 
    approximately twice as much as a water pump next to a river.
    Cost: $1,000 per desalinization plant.

   REWARDS
    This button is like a surprise package. It will be ghosted and 
    unavailable until you deserve a reward. Rewards are based on your city's 
    population, and consist of special buildings and monuts to your mayoral 
    prowess. When this tool is active, the cursor appears as a mayor tipping
    his hat.

    The rewards you can strive to gain are... no, I won't tell you. You'll
    just have to wait and see for yourself.

   ROADS
    Roads is a multi-use tool. Clicking and holding on it opens a submenu that 
    allows you to choose between five different road-related functions:   
    placing roads and highways, and building tunnels, onramps and bus depots. 
    When this tool is active, the cursor appears a a piece of paved road.

    Depending on the year and technology level of your city, you may only have 
    access to roads and tunnels. As time passes, the other options become 
    available.

Page 63  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    Road (the default setting) lets you "paint" your roads onto the land by 
    clicking in the place where you want the road to start, dragging the 
    cursor to the place you want the road to stop, and releasing the mouse 
    button. If you start laying a road and change your mind, you can cancel 
    the operation by holding down the Shift key before you release the mouse 
    button.        

    Roads can run in straight lines, 90-degree angles and 45-degree angles. 
    When roads cross, they form an intersection. If you lay a road across 
    water and it is possible to build a bridge, you will be told how much it 
    will cost. If a bridge can't be built, you will be notified.
    Cost: $10 per road tile.  

    Highways are high-capacity roads that are raised above the ground on 
    pylons. They can handle four times as many cars as regular roads. They 
    are placed the same way as roads. You will need to place onramps to allow 
    cars to get on and off highways. When highways cross, they form 
    cloverleafs. if you lay a highway across water and it is possible to 
    build a bridge, you will be told how much it will cost. If a bridge can't 
    be built, you will be notified.
    Cost:   $100 per highway section (4 tiles).

    Tunnel lets you make pathways for roads through hills and mountains.
    Tunnels cannot curve, and you cannot cross tunnels even at different 
    altitudes. To place a tunnel, click on the tile that you want as your 
    entrance point. The entrance point must be a sloped tile. Your highway 
    engineers won't try to build a tunnel where it's impossible to build, or 
    where it is unsafe, due to unstable terrain. If you pick a good spot, an 
    engineer's report will tell you how much the tunnel will cost and ask if 
    you want to go ahead or not. 
    Cost: $150 per tile of tunnel.

Page 64  SimCity 2000 - Reference
	
    Onramps allow cars and buses to travel back and forth between roads
    and highways.  Place them as junctions between roads and highways. 
    For best results, put onramps on both sides of a highway
    Cost: $25 per tile.

    Bus Depots allow commuters to take the bus to work and help alleviate
    traffic. They must be placed on level ground. You will need at least 
    two bus depots since buses travel between them.  Passengers can get on
    and off between depots.
    Cost: $250 per depot.

   RAILS
    Rails is a multi-use tool.  Clicking and holding on it opens a submenu
    that allows you to choose between four different rail-related
    functions: placing rails, placing subways (underground rails), building 
    rail depots and building subway stations. When this tool is active, the 
    cursor appears as a length of track.
    
    Depending on the year and technology level of your city, you may only
    have access to rails and rail depots. As time passes, the other options
    become available.

    Rail (the default setting) lets you "paint" your tracks onto the land
    by clicking in the place where you want the rail to start, dragging
    the cursor to the place where you want it to stop, and releasing the
    mouse button. If you start laying a rail and change your mind, you
    can cancel the operation by holding down the Shift key before you
    release the mouse button. Rails are useless without rail depots.
    Cost: $25 per tile.

Page 65  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    Subways are an underground rail system.  They are places in the
    same way are rails, but while looking at the underground view.
    Subways are useless without subway stations.   
    Cost: $100 per tile.    
    
    Rail Depots allow commuters to get on and off trains. Without depots,
    rails are useless. They must be placed on level ground and adjacent to 
    tracks.  
    Cost: $500 per depot.    

    Subway Stations allow passengers access to access subway trains. Subway
    trains only stop at stations. They must lie placed on level ground, 
    adjacent to a subway line. It's usually easiest to place subway stations 
    while looking at the underground level.
    Cost:   $250 per depot.

    Subway to Rail Junctions allow you to hook up your subways and 
    above-ground rails for a continuous transit system. They must be placed
    adjacent to a rail tile.                 
    Cost $250 per tile.

Page 66  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   PORTS
    Ports is a dual-purpose tool that allows you to place both airports
    and seaports. Click and hold on the Ports button to open a menu
    choose the type of port you want to place. When this tool is
    active, the cursor will appear as an anchor and radar dish.

    Ports are placed by clicking and dragging to form a square or rectangle, 
    then releasing the mouse button. If you start placing a port and change 
    your mind, you can cancel the operation by holding down the Shift key 
    before you release the mouse button. Ports must be powered be before they 
    will develop. Seaports must be on a shoreline to be of any use.
    Cost: $150 per seaport tile, $250 per airport tile.
	  
   RESIDENTIAL ZONES     
    The Residential Zone tool lets you, as mayor, designate areas of
    your city as places where people live. Clicking and holding on
    Residential Zones opens a submenu that lets you choose whether the
    zones will be low-density (light) or high-density (dense). When
    this tool is active, the cursor will appear as a little house.
	
    To zone an area as residential, click and hold on the terrain, drag
    the mouse, creating a rectangle, then release the mouse button. If
    you start laying down a zone line and change your mind, you can
    cancel the operation by holding down the Shift key before you release
    the mouse button. If you zone residential over an area that includes
    some tiles that are already the same density residential, you will not 
    be chaged for zoning those tiles. If you zone over an undeveloped area
    that is already commercial industrial or a different density residential, 
    it will be rezoned and you will e charged. You cannot rezone an area that 
    is already developed.
    Cost: Light Residential $5 per tile, Dense Residential $10 per tile.    

Page 67  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   COMMERCIAL ZONES        
    The Commercial Zone tool lets you, as mayor, designate areas of your 
    city as places where people build stores, offices and other places 
    of commerce. Clicking and holding on Commercial Zones opens a submenu 
    that lets you choose whether the zones will be low-density (light) or 
    high-density (dense). When this tool is active, the cursor will 
    appear as a little office building.             
	
    To zone an area as commercial, click and hold on the terrain, then 
    drag the mouse, creating a rectangle, then release the mouse            
    button. If you start laying down a zone line and change your mind
    you can cancel the operation by holding down the Shift key before          
    you release the mouse button. If you zone commercial over area that 
    includes some tiles that are already the same density commercial, you 
    will not be charged for rezoning those tiles. If you zone commercial 
    over an undeveloped area that is already residential, industrial or a 
    different density commercial, it will be rezoned and you will be 
    charged. You cannot rezone an area that is already developed.
    Cost: Light Commercial $5 per tile, Dense Commercial $10 per                             

   INDUSTRIAL ZONES                 
    The Industrial Zone tool lets you, as mayor, designate areas of your 
    city as places where people build factories. Clicking and holding on 
    Industrial Zones opens a submenu that lets you choose whether the 
    zones will be low-density (light) or high-density (dense). When this 
    tool is active, the cursor will appear as a little factory.
	
    To zone an area as industrial, click and hold on the terrain, then 
    drag the mouse, creating a rectangle, then release the mouse button. 
    If you start placing a zone and change  your mind, you can cancel the 
    operation by holding down the Shift key before you release the mouse 
    button. If you zone industrial over an area that includes some tiles 
    that are already the same density industrial, you will not be charged 
    for rezoning those tiles.  If you zone industrial over an undeveloped 
    area that is already commercial, residential or a different density

Page 68  SimCitv 2000 - Reference
	
    industrial, it will be rezoned and you will be charged. You cannot rezone 
    an area that is already developed.
    Light Industrial $5 per tile, Dense Industrial $10 per tile.

   EDUCATION
    Education is a multi-function tool that lets you provide your citizens 
    with everything they need to improve their minds. Click and hold on the 
    Education button to open a submenu with the following smart choices: 
    School, College, Library and Museum. When this tool is active, the cursor 
    will appear as a mortarboard.
    Cost: $250 per school, $1,000 per college, $500 per library, $1,000 per
    museum.

   CITY SERVICES        
    City Services is a multi-function tool that lets you provide your city
    with those nesessities of life that we all wish weren't necessary. Click 
    and hold on the City Services button to open a submenu with the following 
    unpleasant choices: Police, Fire Station, Hospital, and Prison. When this
    tool is active, the cursor will appear as a badge.
    $500 per police station, $500 per fire station, $500 per hospital, 
    $3,000 per prison.

Page 69  SimCitv 2000 - Reference                                


   RECREATION
    Recreation is a multi-function tool that lets you provide your
    citizens with places to have a little rest, relaxation and plain old
    fun. Click and hold on the Recreation button to open a submenu
    with the following exciting choices: Small Park, Big Park, Zoo,
    Stadium, Marina. When this tool is active, the cursor will appear
    as a bunch of balloons!
    Cost: $20 per small park, $150 per big park, $3,000 per zoo, $5,000
    per stadium, $1,000 per marina. 


   SIGNS                                               
    The Sign tool lets you label streets, buildings and points of interest 
    in your city. When this tool is active, the cursor will appear as a 
    little sign. To make a sign, activate the Sign tool and click on the 
    place where you want it to appear. When the dialog box opens, type in 
    the words you want the sign to say, then click DONE. There is no cost 
    for placing signs.                                         

    The display of your signs can be turned on and off with the Display
    Signs button.                                               

Page 70  SimCity 2000 - Reference
   
   QUERY
    Query is a tool for closely inspecting different parts of your city.
    When this tool is active, the cursor appears as a magnifying glass.
    To get information, activate the tool, then click anywhere. A dialog
    box will open, and display fascinating facts about the spot
    where you clicked.

    Once you have viewed the dialog box, you can usually just click anywhere 
    to make it go away. Sometimes the Query dialog box allows you to rename 
    buildings (like stadiums). In these cases, you will have to click on the 
    DONE button to close the box. Click on RENAME if you want to change the 
    name of the queried building. There is no cost to use the Query tool.

    There is a keyboard shortcut for the Query tool - just hold down the Shift 
    key and click anywhere in the terrain.

   ROTATE COUNTER-CLOCKWISE
    Click on this button to rotate the entire city limits 90 degrees
    counter-clockwise. There is no cost for rotating.

   ROTATE CLOCKWISE
    Click on this button to rotate the entire city limits 90 degrees 
    clockwise. There is no cost for rotating.

   ZOOM OUT
    Click here to zoom out for a smaller, fartherout view in the City window. 
    There are three zoom levels. If you are currently zoomed all the way out, 
    this button will be ghosted and unavailable. There is no cost for zooming.

   ZOOM IN
    Click here to zoom in for an enlarged, closer view in the City window. 
    There are three zoom levels. If you are currently zoomed all the way in, 
    this button will be ghosted and unavailable. There Is no cost for zooming.

Page 71  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   CENTER
    The Center tool lets you pick a place in your city to be centered in
    the City window. Just activate the tool and click anywhere in the city. 
    When Center is active, the cursor will appear as a target sight. There is 
    a keyboard shortcut for activating the center tool - hold down the Option 
    key if you have one, or the Control key if you don't. There is no cost 
    for centering.          

   MAP WINDOW BUTTON                                    
    The Map Window button can open the Map window in two modes: momentary 
    and stationary. Click and hold the button to momentarily pop pop up a 
    small map of the entire city limits. A rectangle somewhere in the map 
    will outline the area of the city that is visible in the City window. 
    The map will disappear when you release the button.

    If you click the button and drag it away from the toolbar, the Map window 
    will open (and stay there), complete with its own toolbar for different 
    map displays. Complete information on the Map window can be found later 
    in this section of the manual.       
    
   GRAPHS WINDOW BUTTON
    The Graphs Window button can open the Graphs window in two modes: 
    momentary and stationary. Click and hold the button to momentarily pop 
    up a graph of city data. The graph will dissappear when you release the 
    button.

    If you click the button and drag it away from the toolbar, the
    Graphs window will open (and stay there), complete with it's own
    toolbar for different graph displays. Complete information on the
    Graphs window can be found later in this section of the manual.
	
   POPULATION WINDOW BUTTON
    The Population Window button can open the Population window in two modes: 
    momentary and stationary. Click and hold the button to momentarily pop 
    up a population graph. The graph will disappear when you release the 
    button.

Page 72 SimCity 2000 - Reference

    If you click the button and drag it away from the toolbar, the population 
    window will open (and stay there), complete with three buttons for 
    different population displays. Complete information the Population window 
    can be found later in this section of the manual.


   CITY INDUSTRY WINDOW BUTTON
    The City Industry Window button can open the City Industry window in two 
    modes: momentary and stationary. Click and hold the button to momentarily 
    pop up an industry graph. The graph will disappear when you release the 
    button.

    If you click the button and drag it away from the toolbar, the City
    Industry window will open (and stay there), complete with three buttons 
    for different industrial displays. Complete information on the City 
    Industry window can be found later in this section of the manual.

   NEIGHBORS WINDOW BUTTON
    The neighbors window button can open the Neighbors window in two modes: 
    momentary and stationary. Click and hold the button to momentarily pop up 
    a display of your city and its neighboring cities, with their individual 
    and collective populations. The display will disappear when you release 
    the button.

    If you click the button and drag it away from the toolbar, the Neighbors
    window will open (and stay there). Complete information on the Neighbors
    window can be found later in this section of the manual.

    BUDGET WINDOW BUTTON
    Click here to open the Budget window. (There is no momentary view.)
    Complete information on the Budget window can be found later in this 
    section of the manual.

Page 73 SimCity 2000 - Reference

      
   SHOW BUILDINGS                                               
    Click here to toggle on and off the display of all buildings in the City    
    window. The buildings won't really go away - they'll just be invisible 
    until you turn them back on.  

   SHOW SIGNS      
    Click here to toggle on and off the display of all signs in the City
    window. The signs will be invisible until you turn them back on.

   SHOW INFRASTRUCTURE  
    Click here to toggle on and off the display of all miscellaneous city
    infrastructure items in the City window (roads, rails, subway lines, 
    power lines, water pumps and subway stations).        
	
   SHOW ZONES                      
    This button works differently depending on whether you're looking at the 
    normal or underground view. In the normal view, clicking here toggles on 
    and off the display of all buildings in zones. It doesn't affect city
    owned buildings like police and fire stations, educational facilities, 
    depots or power plants, but does include ports and military bases. In 
    underground view, it toggles on and off a color display that lets you 
    know where your zones are without jumping back upstairs.
	
   SHOW UNDERGROUND                                     
    Click here to toggle between the surface and the underground displays.
   
   HELP
    Click here for a friendly reminder that you can get help on each of
    these buttons by holding down the Shift key and clicking on the button 
    in question.                     
	
   DEMAND INDICATOR
    The Demand Indicator gives you a constant readout of what of zones the 
    Sims in your city need. Depending on the size of your city, the indicator 
    can take up to a few minutes to respond to your changes, so be patient.                 

Page 74  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   THE TERRAIN TOOLBAR
    When the City window is in terrainediting mode, it has the Terrain 
    toolbar - your control center for modifying and customizing landscapes. 
    It can be moved around your screen by clicking and dragging the bar at 
    the top. There is no charge for any terrain modifications in 
    terrain-editing mode. All the tools in the Terrain toolbar are explained 
    below.

   COAST   
    The Coast button, when depressed, creates a coastline along one side of 
    the next landscape that is generated. 

   RIVER   
    The River button, when depressed, creates a river through the next 
    landscape that is generated.   

   MOUNTAIN, WATER AND TREE SLIDERS
    These sliders let you adjust the amount of the surface of your city that 
    is covered by mountains, water and trees. Click and drag the slider bars 
    to the levels you want. The higher the sliders, the more mountains, water 
    or trees you get. The lower the sliders, the less you get.                 

   MAKE
    Click here to generate a new landscape based on the Coast button, the 
    River button and the three sliders.

   RAISE TERRAIN
    Click on the Raise Terrain button, then click or click and drag on the 
    terrain to raise the land. Clicking on water will eventually raise the 
    waterbed above sea level and turn it into dry land. When Raise Terrain 
    is active, the cursor appears as three upward-pointing arrows.

   LOWER TERRAIN
    Click on the Lower Terrain button, then click or click and drag on the 
    terrain to lower the land. Clicking on dry land will eventually lower it 
    below sea level and turn it into a lake or stream. When

Page 75  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    Lower Terrain is active, the cursor will appear as three downward-
    pointing arrows.   
    
   STRETCH TERRAIN 
    The Stretch Terrain button lets you grab the land and stretch it up
    or down. Just click and hold on the terrain, then drag it either up
    or down. When Stretch Terrain is active, the cursor will appear as       
    an up-and-down-pointing arrow.   
	
   LEVEL TERRAIN    
    The Level Terrain button lets you pick an altitude and quickly
    bring the land around it either up or down to match your chosen
    level. Just click and hold at the altitude you want, then drag the      
    cursor around the area you want leveled. When Level Terrain is  
    active, the cursor will appear as a flat, four-way arrow.       

   RAISE SEA LEVEL           
    Click here to raise the sea level in the terrain by one tile.          
	
   LOWER SEA LEVEL 
    Click here to lower the sea level in the terrain by one tile.         
	
   PLACE WATER
    The Place Water tool lets you create lakes and streams by clicking 
    where you want your water to appear. When this tool is active, the      
    cursor appears as a water droplet.      
   
   PLACE STREAM
    The Place Stream tool lets you send streams flowing down slopes        
    into the valleys below. Click where you want the stream to begin.
    When this tool is active, the cursor appears as a babbling brook.
		
   PLACE TREE              
    The Place Tree tool lets you add trees to the landscape. When
    active, the cursor will appear as a tree. Each click will place either
    one or two trees. Click repeatedly on a single tile to create dense 
    thickets, and click and drag across many tiles to create forest      
    Hold down the Shift key while using Place Tree to remove trees.

Page 76  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   PLACE FOREST
    The Place Forest tool works like Place Tree, except it places trees on a 
    number of tiles with each click. When active, the cursor will appear as a 
    tiny little forest. Hold down the Shift key while using Place Forest to 
    remove forests.

   ZOOM OUT
    Click here to zoom out for a smaller, farther-out view in the City window. 
    There are three zoom levels. If you are currently zoomed all the way out, 
    this button will be ghosted and unavailable.

   ZOOM IN
    Click here to zoom in for an enlarged, closer view in the City
    window. There are three zoom levels. If you are currently zoomed
    all the way in, this button will be ghosted and unavailable.

   ROTATE COUNTER-CLOCKWISE
    Click here to rotate the entire city limits 90 degrees counter-clockwise.

   ROTATE CLOCKWISE
    Click here to rotate the entire city limits 90 degrees clockwise.

   CENTER
    The Center tool lets you pick a place in your city to be centered in the 
    City window. Just activate the tool and click anywhere in the city. There 
    is a keyboard shortcut for activating the Center tool - hold down the 
    Option key if you have one, or the Control key if you don't. When Center 
    is active, the cursor appears as a target sight.

   HELP
    Click here for a friendly reminder that you can get help on each of these 
    buttons by holding down the Shift key and clicking on the button in 
    question.

   DONE
    Click here when you are done editing the terrain and are ready to
    switch over to city-building mode.

Page 77  SimCity 2000 - Reference

MAP WINDOW
   
IN GENERAL
   The Map window shows your complete city limits at once with
   vital information in a number of different map displays. It can be
   opened by selecting Map from the Windows menu. It can also be
   opened-in two ways-with the Map button on the City toolbar.
	
   If you click and hold on the Map button, the map (just the map - no Title 
   bar or frame) will pop up, and then go away when you release the button. 
   If you click and drag the button, the full Map window will appear.

   The Map window can be moved around the screen by clicking and dragging 
   the Title bar.  It can be closed by clicking the Close box.

   The Map window has two sizes. Click the Zoom box to toggle between the 
   two sizes. This may vary on different computers; check your machine-
   specific Addendum.

   All map displays include the terrain. Trees and forests are green, water 
   is blue and the land is different shades of brown-the higher the 
   altitude, the lighter the shade.

   Somewhere in the map is a rectangle that outlines the area of the city 
   that currently shows in the City window. Clicking on the map moves the 
   rectangle to the place where you clicked, then redraws the City window 
   to show the rectangle's new contents.

THE MAP TOOLBAR
   The Map toolbar has a number of buttons that let you see a number of 
   different map displays. The pop-up map, which has no toolbar, always shows 
   the last-selected display. Some of the buttons on the toolbar have submenus 
   for even more displays. In maps that display information in shades of grey, 
   the darker the grey, the higher, heavier or denser the item being mapped.

Page 78  SimCity 2000 - Reference


   CITY FORM
    The City Form button controls two map displays. Click and hold on it to 
    open a submenu that lets you choose between displaying structures and 
    zones.

    Structures shows buildings and city infrastructure, including roads, 
    rails, etc. Zones shows the areas that have been zoned. Residential zones 
    are shown green, commercial zones are blue and industrial zones are 
    yellow.

   ROADS
    The Roads button controls three map displays. Click and hold on it to 
    open a submenu that lets you choose between displaying roads, rails and 
    traffic density.

    Roads and Rails show the transportation pathways in your city. Traffic 
    density shows the relative amount of traffic in different parts of the 
    city in shades of grey.

   POWER GRID
    The Power Grid button activates a display of the power grid in your city. 
    Powered zones are shown in yellow, zones that have lost power are shown 
    in red, and power lines are shown in white.

   WATER SYSTEM
    The Water System button activates a display of the water grid in your 
    city. Zones that are hooked to the water supply are shown in yellow, 
    zones that have no water are shown in red, and water pipes are shown in 
    white.

   POPULATION
    The Population button controls two map displays. Click and hold on it to 
    open a submenu that lets you choose between displaying population density 
    and the rate of population growth.

Page 79  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    Population Density shows the relative number of Sims in each part of your 
    city in shades of grey. Rate of Growth shows Where in the city the 
    population is increasing in shades of blue, and where it is decreasing in 
    shades of red. The darker the blue or red the more drastic the population 
    change.

   CRIME
    The Crime button controls three map displays. Click and hold on it to 
    open a submenu that lets you choose between displaying crime rate, police 
    power, and police department location.

    Crime Rate shows the relative amount of crime in each area of your city 
    in shades of grey. Police Power shows the relative amount of police 
    coverage in different areas of the city, also in shades of grey. Police 
    Departments shows each of your stations as a white square.

   POLLUTION
    The Pollution button activates a display of the relative amounts of
    pollution in your city. This is a reading of all types of pollution 
    combined, and is shown in shades of grey.

   LAND VALUE
    The Land Value button activates a display of the relative property values 
    in the city, shown in shades of grey.

   CITY SERVICES
    The City Services button controls four map displays. Click and hold on it 
    to open a submenu that lets you choose between displaying fire department 
    power, fire department location schools and colleges.

    Fire Power shows the relative fire coverage of different parts of your 
    city in shades of grey. Fire Departments, Schools and Colleges show the 
    locations of these buildings as white squares.

Page 80  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   MAP MODE BUTFON
    This button toggles the City window between its current mode and Map 
    mode. In Map mode the terrain in the City window displays the same 
    information as the Map window. You can return the City window to its 
    previous mode by either clicking the Map Mode button again or closing 
    the Map window.

BUDGET WINDOW

   The Budget window reports and lets you adjust your city's budget. It 
   automatically opens every January, unless Auto-Budget (in the Options 
   menu) is on. It can also be opened manually by selecting Budget in the 
   Windows menu, or by clicking on the Budget window button in the City 
   toolbar.

   The Budget window closes automatically all by itself after about two 
   minutes. The two-minute timer is reset whenever you click on the window.
   You can close it any time you want by clicking on the Done button.

   The upper-left corner of the Budget window displays your city's name, the
   current year and month, and the timer. 

   Click the Help button for a friendly reminder that you can get help on 
   each area, item and button in this window by holding down the Shift key 
   and clicking.

THE NUMBERS
   The Budget window has eight rows of figures that cover all the city's 
   revenues and expenses. Below those figures is a summary of the current 
   financial situation and an estimate of what your finances will be at the 
   end of the year.

   Each revenue or expense has:
         The name of the revenue or expense. Shift-click on the name to bring 
	 up a helpful explanation of what it is and what it does.

Page 81  SimCity 2000 - Reference

         A percentage setting (in most cases) where you set either the tax 
	 rate you are charging or the amount of funding you are allotting.

         A year-to-date figure showing the up-to-the-moment amount
	 that you've spent or made.

         An annual estimate of what you will have spent or made at the
	 end of the year at the current budget settings.

         Detailed books showing a monthly breakdown of the revenue or expense. 
	 In some cases the book dialog just shows information, but some of 
	 the books also allow access to other, more detailed budgeting 
	 functions.

         An advisor who reports current status and/or gives suggestions about 
	 what you should do.

       Note:   When the Budget window opens automatically at the 
	       beginning of a new year, the Year-to-Date column
	       shows the total for the year that just ended and 
	       the Annual Estimate column shows estimated costs 
	       for the year that is just beginning.

   Below is a detailed explanation of each budget item.

   PROPERTY TAXES
    Property taxes are your main source of cash for maintaining and
    expanding your city. You can set the overall tax rate for all zones
    by clicking on the up- and down-arrows. The minimum tax is 0%,
    the maximum is 20%. Any taxes you set here will be equally
    applied to all zones. You can independently set the tax rates for
    residential, commercial and industrial zones in the Property
    Taxes Books.

    Clicking on the Books icon displays a detailed report of the year's
    past and projected tax income. For each month, the following
    information is given:
       
          The residential zone tax rate and tax amount

          The commercial zone tax rate and tax amount

Page 82  SimCity 2000 - Reference

          The industrial zone tax rate and tax amount
       
          A running total of the taxes that will come due at the end of the 
	  year

    At the bottom of the dialog box, you can set individual tax
    rates for the three types of zones. If you change the tax
    rates here, the overall rate as shown in the Budget window
    will display the average of the three rates.

    Click on Done to close the Property Taxes Books.

   CITY ORDINANCES
    This line item is a summary of the costs and revenues of all combined 
    city ordinances. These range from education drives to sales taxes to 
    neighborhood watch to an annual carnival.

    Usually, you, as mayor, must approve and establish these programs, but if 
    your city is doing very well, the City Council may take it upon itself to 
    enact some programs that benefit the city. These programs are viewed and 
    established in the Ordinance window, which can opened from the Budget 
    window by clicking on the Community Programs Book icon. The Ordinance 
    window will be described in detail below.

    Click Done to return to the Budget window.

   BOND PAYMENTS
    This is the interest you pay on bond issues.

    If you need cash above and beyond the money you make from property taxes, 
    you can issue municipal bonds, which is basically a loan from your 
    citizens. All bonds are issued for $10,000. The interest you pay on 
    outstanding bonds is prime rate plus 1%, plus an additional percentage 
    based on your city's current value and loan rating.

Page 82  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    Clicking on the Interest book icon opens a dialog box with detailed 
    information and buttons for extra financial transactions.

    For each month of the year, the following information is given: (actual 
    amounts are shown in blue, projected amounts are shown in red.)

          The bonds you have outstanding
	
          The average interest rate you pay on the bonds

          The monthly amount of interest you pay on the bonds

          The accumulated total interest paid

    Show Bonds displays:
       
          Your city's current loan rating

          The total number of bonds you have outstanding

          The current interest rate the bank is paying on your account

          The interest rate you will pay on a bond if you issue it now

          The current value of your city (the infrastructure)

    Loan ratings range from AAA to F. Your rating is based on your city value. 
    The higher your rating, the more bonds you can issue and the lower the 
    interest rate you pay on them.

    Issue Bond opens a dialog that tells you the current interest rate for 
    bonds and asks you if you want to issue one. All bonds are $10,000. If 
    you need or want more than $10,000, then you can issue two bonds. If you 
    need or want less, too bad-take the $ 10,000 and keep what you don't 
    spend in the bank. If your loan rating or city value is too low, you 
    won't be allowed to issue any more bonds.

    Repay Bond opens a dialog that tells you the interest rate on the oldest 
    outstanding bond, and asks if you want to repay it. Bonds are always 
    repaid from the oldest to the newest. During the life of the bond, 
    interest accrues monthly, and is paid out at the end of

Page 84  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    each year from your city funds. You will pay the interest every year until 
    you repay the bond, so once you're flush with cash, pay them off and get 
    out of debt.

    Clicking on Done closes the book.

   POLICE DEPARTMENT
    This is the cost and funding level for police departments in your city. 
    You can set the percentage of funding for your departments by clicking on 
    the up- and down-arrows. In general, try to keep police funding as high 
    as possible to prevent rampant crime. Any funding you set will be equally 
    distributed to all police departments. Complete funding for a police 
    station is $100 per year.

    Clicking on the Books icon displays a detailed report of the
    year's past and projected police funding costs. For each
    month, the following information is given:       

          The number of police stations in the city

          The funding level you have set

          The actual monthly cost to fund your stations

          A running total of the yearly cost

    There are no additional buttons or functions here, so just
    click anywhere to close the books.

   FIRE DEPARTMENT
    This is the cost and funding level for fire departments in your city.
    You can set the percentage of funding for your departments by clicking on 
    the up- and down-arrows. In general, try to keep fire funding as high as 
    possible for both preventing fires and responding to emergencies. Any 
    funding you set will be equally distributed to all fire departments. A 
    fully funded fire station costs $100 per year.

Page 85  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    Clicking on the Books icon displays a detailed report of the year's past 
    and projected fire funding costs. For each month, the following 
    information is given:

          The number of fire stations in the city

          The funding level you have set
 
          The actual monthly cost to fund your stations

          A running total of the yearly cost

    There are no additional buttons or functions here, so just click anywhere 
    to close the books.

   HEALTH & WELFARE
    This is the cost and funding level for medical services in your city.
    You can set the percentage of funding for your hospitals by clicking on 
    the up- and down-arrows. In general, try to keep funding as high as 
    possible to keep your Sims healthy. If you keep your funding at 100% for 
    several decades, the average life expectancy in your city will increase. 
    Any funding you set will be equally distributed to all hospitals. 
    Complete funding for a hospital is $75 per year.

    Clicking on the Books icon displays a detailed report of the year's past 
    and projected medical funding costs. For each month, the following 
    information is given:

          The number of hospitals in the city

          The funding level you have set

          The actual monthly cost to fund your hospitals

    A running total of the yearly cost

    There are no additional buttons or functions here, so just click anywhere 
    to close the books.

Page 86  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   EDUCATION
    This is the cost and funding level for education in your city. This
    funding supports both schools for the children and colleges for higher 
    learning. Without schools, education in your city will be entirely based 
    on verbal lore, and you will be unable to support high-technology 
    industries.

    You can set the percentage of funding for education by clicking on the 
    up- and down-arrows. Any funding you set here will be equally distributed 
    to all schools and colleges. You can independently set the funding rates 
    for schools and colleges in the Education books. Complete funding for a 
    school costs $25 per year, and a college costs $100 per year.

    Clicking on the Books icon displays a detailed report of the year's past 
    and projected education funding. For each month, the following 
    information is given:

          The number of schools in the city

          The funding level for schools

          The monthly cost to fund schools      

          The number of colleges in the city

          The funding level for colleges

          The monthly cost to fund colleges

          A running total of the yearly cost

    At the bottom of the dialog box, you can set individual funding levels 
    for schools and colleges. If you change the funding levels here, the 
    overall level as shown in the Budget window will display the average of 
    school and college funding levels.

    Click on Done to close the Education books.

Page 87  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   TRANSIT AUTHORITY
    This is the cost and funding level for maintaining the transportation 
    system in your city. This funding maintains roads, rails, highways, 
    subways, bridges and tunnels. Without proper funding, your transit 
    systems will deteriorate and commuting and commerce in your city will 
    fall to pieces.

    You can set the overall percentage of funding for your transportation 
    systems by clicking on the up- and down-arrows. Any funding you set here 
    will be equally distributed to all types of transportation. You can 
    independently set the funding rates for roads, rails, highways, subways, 
    bridges and tunnels in the Transit Authority Books. Complete transit 
    authority funding per year is: Roads $1 per 10 tiles; Rails $1 per 5 
    tiles; Highways $1 per section (4 tiles); Subways $2 per 5 tiles; Bridges 
    $2 per 5 tiles; Tunnels $2 per 5 tiles.

    Clicking on the Books icon displays a detailed report of the year's past 
    and projected transit authority funding. For each month, the following 
    information is given:

          The cost of road maintenance

          The cost of rail maintenance

          The cost of highway maintenance

          The cost of subway maintenance

          The cost of bridge maintenance

          The cost of tunnel maintenance

          A running total of all transit costs

    At the bottom of the dialog box, you can set individual funding levels 
    for roads, rails, highways, subways, bridges and tunnels. If you change 
    the funding levels here, the overall level as shown in the Budget window 
    will display the average of all these funding levels.

    Click on Done to close the Transit Authority Books.

Page 88  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   THE TOTALS
    The bottom of the Budget window shows the totals for:
          Year-to-Date Cash Flow

          Estimated Annual Cash Flow

          Current Funds

          (Estimated) End of Year Funds

ORDINANCE WINDOW

    The Ordinance window is where community programs and city ordinances are 
    established and inspected. This window can be opened either by selecting 
    Ordinance from the Windows menu or by clicking on the City Ordinance Book 
    icon in the Budget window.

    There are five categories of programs and ordinances: finance, health and 
    safety, education, promotional and other. Click on the names of each 
    program or ordinance for an explanation of what they do as well as their 
    pros and cons.

    To enact a program, click in the checkbox to the right of the program's 
    name. The cost or projected revenue will appear to the right of the 
    check. These amounts will vary with the size and development of your 
    city. The Estimated Annual Costs for all programs is provided in the 
    lower-right corner of the window.

    Click Done to close the Ordinance window.

   FINANCE PROGRAMS

    1% Sales Tax will add cash to your coffers, but may also inhibit local 
    commerce.

    1% Income Tax is a source of city revenues, but may discourage residential 
    growth, and even cause some tax-haters to move away.

Page 89  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    Legalized Gambling can provide extra money that can be put to good use, 
    but brings with it an increase in crime.

    Parking Fines are a small, steady source of the green, but tend to hinder 
    commercial growth a little.

   SAFETY & HEALTH PROGRAMS
    A Volunteer Fire Department can be an economical way to fight fires in 
    small communities, but can't replace the professionals in a big city or 
    during a forest fire.

    A Public Smoking Ban can increase the overall health level in your city 
    and eventually increase the average life expectancy, but will cost a 
    small fee to administer.

    Free Clinics increase the overall health level in the city, but free
    clinics aren't free - at least not to you.

    Junior Sports increases the overall health level of the youth of your 
    city.

   EDUCATION PROGRAMS
    A Pro-Reading Campaign will increase the overall education level in your 
    city, preparing it for an influx of new, high-tech industries.

    An Anti-Drug Campaign can help reduce crime.

    Providing CPR Training as a service to your Sims increases the overall 
    level of health in your city.

    Neighborhood Watch helps reduce crime in residential areas, but at a 
    price.

   PROMOTIONAL PROGRAMS
    Tourism Advertising may or may not pay off in bringing visitors
    with their loose dollars to your fair city. If you do advertise for

Page 90  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    tourists, make sure you have the right attractions, like marinas, 
    stadiums, parks, zoos, rivers, etc.

    Business Advertising can bring new industry into town, but make sure you 
    can support the businesses with ample water, power, transportation, and 
    enough residential and commercial space to hold the influx of new 
    citizens. And low taxes won't hurt, either.

    City Beautification increases residential desirability and land value.

    An Annual Carnival can increase tourist trade and local commerce, and 
    show your Sims a darn good time. The size, cost and benefit of the 
    carnival varies with your city size.

   OTHER PROGRAMS
    Energy Conservation establishes an educational drive to conserve 
    electricity by, among other things, adding insulation to homes and water 
    heaters. This program takes a few years to ramp up to full effect, but 
    will eventually allow your power plants to power up to 15% more buildings.

    Declaring your city a Nuclear Free Zone costs nothing, but can make some 
    of your citizens feel safer, and may even attract new citizens to your 
    fair town. It's a small plus for residential desirability and a small 
    minus for industry. A Nuclear Free Zone will not stop the military from 
    building missile silos or basing nuclear weapons near your city if you 
    give them permission to build a base.

    Homeless Shelters are expensive, but decrease the number of homeless 
    people and increase the number of residents, increasing the labor pool 
    for commerce and industry and marginally increasing land value.

Page 91  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    Pollution Controls slightly lower the amount of industrial pollution in 
    your city, but also make the city slightly less desirable to industry.

   ESTIMATED ANNUAL COST
    This section of the Ordinance window summarizes the cost or income from 
    each category, and gives both year-to-date and full-year estimated totals.

POPULATION WINDOW

   The Population window displays graphs of statistics about your city's 
   population. It can be opened by selecting Population from the Windows 
   menu. It can also be opened - in two ways - with the Population button on 
   the City toolbar.

   If you click and hold on the Population button, the population graph 
   (just the graph - no Title bar or frame) will pop up, and then go away 
   when you release the button. If you click and drag the button, the full 
   Population window will appear, complete with buttons for additional 
   displays.
   
   The Population window can be moved around the screen by clicking and 
   dragging the Title bar. It can be closed by the Close box. The three 
   buttons on the bottom of the window let you choose between three 
   different population-related graphic displays:

    Population shows the age distribution of your population, and
    gives the percentage of the population that is your potential work
    force.

    Health shows the Life Expectancy (LE) of your population, by age,
    and summarizes the LE of your work force.

    Education shows the average education level of your citizens at
    various ages, expressed in their Education Quotient (EQ). A high
    EQ attracts high-tech industry to your city. EQ is affected by the
    presence of schools, colleges, libraries and museums.

Page 92  SimCity 2000 - Reference

INDUSTRIES WINDOW    

   The Industries window displays graphs of statistics about your city's 
   industry. lt can be opened by selecting Industry from the Windows menu. 
   It can also be opened - in two ways - with the Industry button on the 
   City toolbar.

   If you click and hold on the Industry button, the industry graph (just 
   the graph - no Title bar or frame) will pop up, and then go away when you 
   release the button. if you click and drag the button, the full Industries 
   window will appear, complete with buttons for additional displays.

   The Industries window can be moved around the screen clicking and 
   dragging the Title bar. It can be closed by clicking the Close box. The 
   three buttons on the bottom of the window let you choose between three 
   different industry-related graphic displays:

   Ratios shows the distribution of various types of industries in
   your city.

   Tax Rates shows the rate at which various industries are taxed. This is 
   the property tax for industry as set in the Budget window. You can change 
   the rate for individual industries by dragging the blue bar to the right 
   (increase tax) or left (decrease tax). You may want to lower taxes on an 
   industry to encourage its growth within your city. You may want to 
   increase taxes to discourage an industry, or to fine it for causing 
   excess pollution.

   Demand shows a graph of which industries' products are in demand 
   nationally.

Page 93  SimCity 2000 - Reference

GRAPHS WINDOW

   The Graphs window displays statistical graphs about many elements of your 
   city. It can be opened by selecting Graphs from the Windows menu. It can 
   also be opened - in two ways - with the Graphs button on the City toolbar.

   If you click and hold on the Graphs button, the graph (just the graph -
   no Title bar or frame) will pop up, and then go away when you release the 
   button. If you click and drag the button, the full Graphs window will 
   appear, complete with buttons for controlling the graphs displayed. The 
   Graphs window can be moved around the screen by clicking and dragging the 
   Title bar. It can be closed by clicking the Close box. The many buttons on 
   the bottom of the window let you toggle on and off various graphic 
   displays. Click on the 1 year, 10 year or 100 year button to set the time 
   scale for the graphs.

   Each graph:

         Is shown in a different color

         Has a "marker" letter or symbol at its right end to help you
	 identify it

         Is followed by a number that gives its current value

   City Size, marked with an "S," is the total city population.

   Residents, marked with an "R," shows the population that isn't part of the 
   job market, including children, elderly and spouses not employed outside 
   of the home.

   Commerce, marked with a "C," shows the number of people employed in 
   commercial jobs.

   Industry, marked with an "I," shows the number of people employed in 
   industrial jobs.

   Traffic, marked with a "T," shows the average density of your road network 
   including buses, but not trains or subways. For this graph, traffic is 
   considered road congestion, not the total amount of travel.

Page 94  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Pollution, marked with a "P," shows the growth or decline in the general 
   level of pollution in the city.

   Value, marked with a "V," shows the fluctuations of the average land value 
   in the city by graphing the median home price.

   Crime, marked with an "X," shows the changing crime rate in your city.

   Power%, marked with a "p," shows the remaining capacity of your power 
   plant(s). When you get to 0 you'll start to have brownouts.

   Water%, marked with a "w," shows the remaining capacity of your water 
   system. When you get to 0 you'll need more wells and pumps.

   Health, marked with an "h," shows the growth or decline of the overall 
   health level of the citizens of your city.

   Education, marked with an "e," shows the ever-changing average level of 
   education that the citizens of your city have reached.

   Unemployment (Unemp.), marked with a "u,"shows the changing number of 
   people that are out of work in your city.

   Gross National Product (GNP), marked with a "g," shows the total value of 
   goods and services produced by the residents of SimNation. This affects 
   the market for industrial goods produced in your city.

   National Population (Nat'l Pop), marked with an "n," shows the
   changes in SimNation's total population.

   Fed rate, marked with "%," is the prime interest rate as set by
   SimNation's Federal Reserve Board.

Page 95  SimCity 2000 - Reference

NEIGHBORS WINDOW 

   The Neighbors window displays your city's population along with the 
   population of its neighboring cities and the total population of 
   SimNation. Use this window to compare your city with the cities that you 
   compete with for people and other resources, and to see just how big a 
   part of the whole nation you are (or aren't).

   The neighbors window can be opened by selecting Neighbors from the Windows 
   menu. It can also be opened - in two ways - with the Neighbors button on 
   the City toolbar.

   If you click and hold on the Neighbors button, the window, with no Title 
   bar or frame, will pop up, and then go away when you release the button. 
   If you click and drag the button, the full Neighbors window will appear, 
   and stay until you make it go away by clicking in the Close box.

   You can move the window around on the screen by clicking and dragging the 
   Title bar.

Page 96  SimCity 2000 - Reference

INSIDE THE SIMULATION
 EASY MEDIUM AND HARD GAMES

   Whenever you start a new city, you have the choice of three difficulty 
   levels, easy, medium and hard. The differences between the levels are:

    The amount of money you start with. In an easy game, you start with 
    $20,000. A medium game gives you $10,000. In a hard game, you start 
    $10,000 in debt, with a bond issue to pay back when you can and interest 
    to pay every year.

    The national financial model. Your city is located somewhere in SimNation. 
    The growth of your city depends on its surroundings - rich, financially 
    healthy neighbors are good customers for your industrial products and, 
    bring their money with them when they visit your tourist attractions. In 
    easy games, SimNation is in a boom cycle. In medium games, the national 
    economy is stable. For hard games, SimNation is in a recession.

    The external industrial product demand. The easier the game, the more 
    demand for the products that your city's industries can produce.

    The propensity for disaster. The harder the game, the more likely is it 
    that your city will be host to a disaster. Choosing No Disasters in the 
    Disasters menu prevents disasters at all difficulty levels.

THE EFFECT OF TIME   

   When you start a new city, you can choose between 1900, 1950,
   2000 and 2050 for its founding year. And as time goes by, things
   change, including:

    The avallable technology. The technology levels in SimCity 2000
    roughly follow reality, give or take a few years. (Except for the
    future stuff, which is just guessing, so don't come to us in 2050 and
    complain that we don't have fusion power yet.) Inventions that
    give you access to new technology are announced in newspaper
    headlines.

Page 97  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    The national financial model. Since the national and world population is 
    larger now than it was in 1900, there are more potential citizens and 
    more potential customers. External demand increases with time. It is 
    easier to build a bigger city in 2000 than it is in 1900.

    The per capita (per zone) power consumption. In 1900 there aren't many 
    ways for the average citizen to squander energy. Then, starting around 
    1930, with the advent of muscle cars and electric-powered everything and 
    lots of electronic toys, power consumption zooms, peaking around 1970. 
    From 1970 to 2000, because of both conservation practices and more 
    efficient gadgetry, per capita power use sinks and levels off. This 
    energy effect in SimCity 2000 is subtle, but can be affected by passing 
    the energy conservation ordinance in the Ordinance window.

SCENARIOS   
   
   SimCity 2000 scenarios are special cities with problems, included both to 
   provide a number of gaming challenges and to help you better design your 
   own cities by seeing the mistakes and problems other cities have faced.

   Scenario cities are all in separate files, and are read into the game
   when you load them. Additional scenarios can be added later.

   Each Scenario includes:

         A pre-built city

         A problem to solve or disaster to face

         A goal to reach
	 
         A time limit to reach the goal

   If you reach the goal within the time limit, you win the scenario, you're 
   given the key to the city, and you can continue to rule the city. If you 
   don't reach the goal within the time limit, you're kicked out of town.

Page 98  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Typical goals include:
         Reaching a population level
         Reaching a financial goal
         Rebuilding your industry
         Reducing crime, pollution or traffic

ZONES

   One of your primary functions as city planner is zoning-deciding what 
   types of buildings go where. Good zoning allows all city functions to be 
   accessed by all citizens, and sets the feel and flow of life in the city. 
   All zones in SimCity 2000 can be decreed to be either light-density (low 
   population) or dense (high population).

   As you zone areas, the empty zones are shown in colors so you can easily 
   keep track of them. You can turn on and off the display of empty zones in 
   the underground view with the Show Zones button in the City toolbar.

   There are three basic zones in SimCity 2000: residential, commercial and 
   industrial.

         Residential zones, shown in green, are places where Sims live.
	 They include everything from luxury homes to slums.

         Commercial zones, shown in blue, are the shops, stores and offices 
	 of the city.

         Industrial zones, shown in yellow, are the factories and 
	 manufacturing centers of the city.

   Zones can be almost any shape or size that can be made out of squares or 
   rectangles. If you zone over an area that is already zoned, you will be 
   charged for rezoning only if you change the type of zone or the density. 
   You won't be charged for zoning light residential over an existing light 
   residential area, but you will be charged if you zone dense residential 
   (or light or dense industrial or commercial) over light residential.

   To remove zoning from an area without rezoning, use the D&zone
   function of the Bulldozer tool in the City toolbar.

Page 99  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Sims only build in zoned areas. You, as mayor, can build elements of the 
   city infrastructure (roads, rails, power lines, power plants, etc.), city 
   services (police and fire stations, etc.) and other public places (parks, 
   zoos, museums, libraries, schools, etc.) either in zoned or unzoned areas.

   Zones grow and decay as Sims move in and out of individual buildings, 
   zones or the city. Depending on the times, the economy and your design 
   skills, booming, bustling zones may be abandoned, or empty zones may 
   suddenly become prime real estate and suddenly grow into a city center.

SPECIALIZED ZONES

   Seaports and airports are actually special-purpose zones. They are placed 
   and sized like the basic (residential, commercial and industrial) zones 
   and they needn't be placed in existing zones. Military bases are also 
   specialized zones, but they are automatically placed by the simulation.

NON-ZONES

   Roads, rails, stations, depots, and cityowned buildings like power plants 
   and police stations don't need to be placed in zones. In fact, when you 
   place them in a zone, they de-zone that land. For example, if you place a 
   road across a zone, then remove it with a bulldozer, the newly exposed 
   land will be unzoned. You can save a lot of zoning money by leaving spaces 
   between them for roads and rails and keeping your power plants, stations, 
   depots and departments out of zoned areas.

COMMERCE

   Commerce is primarily trade within your city. It is slow in a small city, 
   since your internal market is small. Commerce remains a much less 
   important aspect of a city until it reaches a population of about 100,000, 
   where income from commerce catches up with industry. As your population 
   grows beyond that, your city may become primarily a commercial center. It 
   will become more and more independent, relying less and less on the 
   external market, but you'll always need at least some industry for a 
   well-balanced city.

Page 100  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Commercial zones develop better and faster near the city center. Airports 
   provide a big boost to your city's commerce once your city reaches a 
   population of at least 20,000.

INDUSTRY

   Industry is the manufacture of goods and services to sell. You can sell 
   both to the internal market (within your city) and the external market 
   (outside your city).

   Industry is the lifeblood of a small city, and is much more important 
   than commerce while your population is small. When a city is small, there 
   aren't enough customers in it to support itself. You have to manufacture 
   things to sell to the external market and bring in more cash and people. 
   In fact, industry can be thought of as the reason to start a new city.

   Industry is a primary source of employment in your city. It is also the 
   primary source of pollution. Industrial areas tend towards low land value 
   and high crime.

   The Industry window is an important tool if you want to control the 
   direction of industry in your city. It gives you a readout of the current 
   distribution of industries in your city, as well as the external demand 
   for the products of the various industries. It also lets you set different 
   tax levels for different industries to encourage the ones you want and 
   discourage those you don't. You may want to discourage an industry that 
   causes a lot of pollution. You may want to encourage a small industry 
   that you think may be about to boom.

   When you create an industrial zone, the Sims tend to build the industries 
   that are in highest demand. The demand for different industries is related 
   to the era. For example, in 1960, the electronics industry isn't nearly as 
   important, or in as much demand as in 1990.

Page 101  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   A forward-thinking mayor in 1930 just may believe that there is a big 
   future in that upstart, tiny electronics industry. Since it is in low 
   demand, the Sims won't invest in it - unless their mayor gives them a tax 
   incentive. So the mayor lowers the tax on the electronics industry and it 
   begins to grow. Thirty years later it begins to bloom, then boom. That's 
   when the mayor raises the taxes and makes a fortune for the city - while 
   securing lots of jobs in a high-tech, still-growing industry.

   Another forward-thinking mayor whose city is almost entirely supported by 
   one industry, say automotive, may want to diversify before the market 
   crashes and the city becomes a ghost town.

   And yet another forward-thinking mayor may realize that the new high-tech 
   industries won't thrive without an educated population, and will make sure 
   to provide schools, colleges and other educational institutions.

   Many aspects of city design affect industry. The presence of hospitals can 
   give a boost to the petrochemical industry (pharmaceuticals). The presence 
   or lack of seaports can help or hinder heavy manufacturing like steel, 
   mining, and automotive. The presence or lack of a good highway and/or rail 
   system can also affect heavy industry's development. City ordinances can 
   also hinder or help various industries.

POWER

   Yes, cities existed before electricity, but not in SimCity 2000. Sims are 
   electronic life-forms and can't exist without it.

   All zones need power to develop - except for military bases. Power lines 
   transfer power between power plants and zones and between non-adjacent 
   zones. Power isn't transferred through adjacent zones or through roads or 
   rails that divide zones without power lines.

   Tiles with power lines consume power. If you place too many power lines 
   you waste a lot of power.

Page 102  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   The types of power sources available are timedependent. You can't build a 
   nuclear power plant in 1900. As new technology becomes available, it will 
   be announced in the newspapers. All power plants are introduced when they 
   become coefficient - no early, flaky experimental models in this game. 
   Some of SimCity 2000's power sources do not yet exist in the real world. 
   We've made some rough predictions as to when they'll be available and put 
   them into the game. If our predictions are off, sorry - we specialize in 
   simulation, not real stuff. You can mix and match the types of power 
   plants in a single city.

   All power plants have a 50-year life span, after which they collapse. When 
   they collapse, they don't cause fires or leak radiation, they just stop 
   working, and you have to rebuild them (and pay for them all over again). 
   You'll receive warnings about aging power plants in the newspapers, and 
   the Query tool will give your plants' exact ages.

   If you have the No Disasters setting activated (in the Disasters menu), 
   then plants won't collapse. They'll be automatically rebuilt and you'll 
   be charged. If you don't have the cash to rebuild them, then they'll 
   collapse and you'll be out of power and out of luck. So save up cash for 
   power plant replacement or be ready to issue a bond.

   Power is measured in megawatts (Mw). Developed areas require on the 
   average one Mw for three occupied tiles. The exact power consumption 
   varies with time, population density and an occasional city ordinance. 
   Connecting too many buildings to a power source results in brownouts.

Page 103  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Here is a table comparing the different power plants. The years are +/- 
   10 years.

		 Type           Year   Mw      Cost    Cost
				Avail                 per Mw
		 Coal           1900   200    $4,000    $20
		 Hydroelectric  1900    20      $400    $20
		 Oil            1900   220    $6,600    $30
		 Gas            1950    50    $2,000    $40
		 Nuclear        1955   500   $15,000    $30
		 Wind           1980     4      $100    $25
		 Solar          1990    50    $1,300    $26
		 Microwave      2020  1600   $28,000  $17.5
		 Fusion         2050  2500   $40,000    $16

   Coal power is always available, even in 1900, and is fairly efficient,
   but is the worst polluter.

   Hydroelectric power is always available, even in 1900, is fairly 
   efficient, and doesn't pollute. Hydroelectric dams can only be placed on 
   falling water.

   Oil power is always available, even in 1900, and pollutes about half as 
   much as coal.

   Gas power pollutes even less than oil, but is very inefficient.

   Nuclear power is expensive to build and not too efficient, but it puts 
   out a lot of power. There is also the risk of a meltdown disaster. 
   Nuclear power plants are unavailable if you declare your city a nuclear-
   free zone.

   Wind power is fairly efficient and very clean, but puts out very little 
   power, so you'll need a lot of wind generators to produce serious wattage. 
   Wind power is also subject to the whims of the weather. There is more 
   wind at higher altitudes.

Page 104  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Solar power is non-polluting and fairly efficient, but has a low output 
   and is unreliable - very little power is produced when it's cloudy or 
   foggy. A combination of solar and wind power plants can produce a stable 
   energy flow since one generally thrives while the other snoozes.

   Microwave power is actually solar power collected by an orbiting satellite 
   and beamed down to a microwave collector disk. It is very efficient and 
   produces a massive amount of power, but is very expensive to "get off the 
   ground," and once in a while the energy beam from the satellite misses the 
   dish. Oops.

   Fusion power is very clean and reliable. It is the most efficient power 
   source and produces enough power to run a city half the size of your 
   entire city limits. It is very safe, with no radiation leakage or 
   meltdowns. But it costs a whole heck of a lot of money.

TRANSPORTATION

   People gotta move. Sims gotta move. Products, delivery trucks, 
   construction materials and all kinds of things need to be moved around 
   the city. Transportation is the city's circulation system. Sims won't 
   start developing a zone or building any buildings until there is access 
   to some sort of transportation system.

   It not only costs money to build your transportation system, but there is 
   a yearly maintenance fee, found in the Budget window. By examining the 
   Transit Authority books, you can set separate funding levels for roads, 
   highways, rails, subways, bridges and tunnels.

   The most basic transpoftation system consists of roads. Sims won't build 
   buildings that are more than three tiles from a road (or other 
   transportation system), so if you're after density, the largest area that 
   will fully develop is a 6 x 6 square surrounded by road. If you're more 
   interested in aesthetics, then you can make larger squares or rectangles 
   and put parks or forests in the undeveloped center.

Page 105  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Tunnels allow roads to run through mountains instead of going around them. 
   They can be a real convenience, but they can also be expensive. They cost 
   more to build than roads, and their yearly maintenance is higher. Tunnels 
   can't cross each other, even at different altitudes.

   When roads carry up to 44 cars per minute, it is considered to be
   "no traffic." From 44 to 88 cars per minute is light traffic, and above
   that is heavy traffic. Watch the newspapers for traffic-related
   stories and check the traffic map in the Map window to find
   trouble spots. In addition to causing traffic, roads or the cars on
   them are a major source of pollution in your city.

   Once your roads are overloaded, you have a number of options, depending 
   on the year in your city. In 1900 your only transportation options are 
   roads, tunnels, rails and rail depots. Other options become available as 
   new technologies develop. Watch the newspapers for inventions that give 
   you access to new forms of transportation.                           

   These are the years, +/-1 0 years, when different forms of transportation 
   become available:

       1910    Subways and subway stations
       1920    Buses and bus depots
       1930    Highways and onramps

   Buses allow roads to carry more people than roads alone without generating 
   problem traffic. To start a bus line, you need at least one bus depot. 
   Buses leave the depot and let passengers on and off all along the way. 
   There are no animated buses, so the visible effect of a bus depot is a 
   lowering of traffic near the depot. Bus depots must be adjacent to roads. 
   If they are adjacent to onramps or highways but, not a road, they won't be 
   effective. Buses are a more efficient use of gasoline than cars, so they 
   produce much less pollution per passenger. Pollution levels are slightly 
   but noticeably lower around effective bus depots.

Page 106  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Highways are basically two roads, one in each direction, so they are 
   capable of carrying twice as many cars as a road. In addition, because 
   they can travel at a higher speed on a highway, Sims will commute farther 
   on a highway than on a road-up to three times as far. You must provide 
   onramps everywhere you want to let Sims enter or exit the highway. Sims 
   can't travel back and forth between zones and onramps without roads. A 
   highway system is an extension of a road system, not a replacement.

   Rails are the paths your trains follow. Sims can only get on or off 
   trains at rail depots. Depots must be adjacent to rails, and you need at 
   least two for a working rail line. Rails can carry many more commuters 
   than roads, plus they are a big boost to heavy industry, allowing 
   shipping of goods and raw materials around the city. Since trains go 
   faster than cars on city streets, Sims will commute farther by train than 
   by car. Compared with cars, trains produce almost no pollution.

   Subways are underground rail systems, but are primarily for passengers, 
   and less for the shipping of goods and raw materials. They can be 
   connected directly to rail lines for a continuous flow of train cars. 
   Passengers can only get on and off subways at subway stations. The 
   advantage of subways over other transportation systems is that they are 
   mostly underground. They don't take up valuable real estate. And if you 
   want to add rails to an already developed city, you'll have to tear down 
   a lot of buildings for the rails themselves as well as the large depots. 
   Subways only require small (1 tile) access ways above ground, so they can 
   be added to a city without calling in the wrecking crew. The disadvan-
   tage of a subway system is that its very expensive to build and maintain. 
   Subways produce almost no pollution.

   When simulating traffic, SimCity 2000 doesn't really simulate every Sim 
   in your city going to work and back and to the store and back and to 
   school and back and to the pub and back and everywhere else they go. With 
   thousands or millions of citizens this would take forever to simulate. 
   The way the traffic model works is a process called "trip generation" and

Page 107  SimCity 2000 - Reference
   
   works on a building-by-building basis. It also works on the assumption 
   that most trips will be from one type of zone to another.

   For each building in each zone, the simulator generates trips to both of 
   the other types of zones. If the starting building is a house in a 
   residential zone, the simulation will search out a path to a commercial 
   zone and back, and to an industrial zone and back. It tries to avoid 
   heavy traffic areas, and if it bumps into mass transit, there is a 50/50 
   chance it will take it.

   There is a time limit for each trip, and if the time runs out before 
   reaching a zone, then the trip is a failure. The time limit is stable, 
   but the allowable distance to the destination depends on the mode of 
   transport. Since highways, rails and subways travel faster than cars on 
   regular roads, the simulation can go up to three times as far while 
   looking for a destination zone.

   If a failed trip involves mass transit, then the next time that same
   building is checked, it won't even try that same type of mass transit.

   So the amount of traffic alleviated by mass transit depends on two
   things:
      
      1.      The whims of the Sims - that 50/50 chance.
      2.      Your city's design - if the bus or train won't get the Sims
	      where they want to go, they'll drive.

   A bad mass transit system is worse than none at all, because it
   won't get used. To promote the use of mass transit as much as
   possible:
   
   1.      Put bus or rail depots or subway stations near busy intersec-
	   tions.
   2.      Make sure that mass transit lines travel through different
	   types of zones. A bus line that stays in a residential zone won't
	   have much business.

Page 108  SimCity 2000 - Reference

PORTS

   Airports and seaports are specialized zones. Placing them in areas that 
   are already zoned is a waste of your funds. An airport's  primary effect 
   is to boost commerce. Seaports boost industry. Neither type of port is 
   necessary (or affordable) in a very small city.

   Once your city starts to grow, your citiSims will let you know when they 
   want ports. The bigger the city, the bigger the ports it will require. 
   Since you can make ports any size you want, and they're very expensive, 
   start small - but leave open space for later expansion. When the city 
   outgrows your small ports, the Sims will let you know when it's time to 
   expand. But if you notice your commercial or industrial zones' growth 
   rate slowing down, you may want to add ports before your Sims ask for 
   them.

   Both types of ports produce pollution, but airports pollute more.

TREES

   Trees and forests add beauty to your city and its surroundings, and 
   improve property values. They are flammable and can help fires spread.

WATER

   Lakes, rivers and oceans are sources of drinking water for your city. 
   They also provide recreational areas and tourist attractions, and improve 
   land value.

   You can add as much water to your city as you want in Terrain-Editing 
   mode, but once you start a city, it is very expensive, so plan ahead.

   Seaports must be on a river or the ocean to be effective, and marinas in 
   the desert are no fun at all.

Page 109  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   You can build a city without any water system at all, but the population 
   won't grow very dense. A basic water system consists of pumps and pipes. 
   When Sims build buildings, they put in the underground plumbing. All you 
   have to do is add the water mains to connect the buildings to the system 
   and supply the water.

   Parts of the water system that are properly supplied with water are 
   animated in light and dark blue. Areas that aren't animated either aren't 
   hooked up or your water source is too small for the population.

   Water pumps, when placed away from fresh water act as wells. The amount
   of water they provide depends on your city's water table and the season. 
   Water pumps placed right next to fresh water (lakes or streams) produce 
   about three times as much as a well on dry land. A pump placed next to 
   salt water (coastline) acts just like a well away from water. To get 
   drinking water from a coastline you need a desalinization plant, which is 
   expensive, but sometimes necessary. Desalinization plants produce twice as
   much water as a water pump near a river.

   Since the amount of water varies with the season, you may end up with 
   shortages during the dry months. Water tanks store water during the wet 
   season so you don't run low in dry times. Another way to prevent droughts 
   is to build a treatment plant to clean and recycle your water.

RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AND OPEN SPACES   
   
   Open spaces, whether they are undeveloped greenbelts or manicured 
   recreational facilities, are important to a city, both aesthetically and 
   psychologically. Besides adding land value, trees, forests and open space 
   give a city a better feel, an openness that makes citizens feel 
   comfortable and encourages new residents.

   As your population rises, your Sims will start demanding recreational 
   facilities. The developed recreation facilities that are available in 
   SimCity 2000 are small parks, big parks, zoos, stadiums and marinas.

Page 110  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Recreational facilities are primarily for your city's residents, 
   increasing land value and promoting residential zone growth, but they 
   also influence tourism. Small parks increase land value about the same 
   amount as trees, and big parks increase it twice as much. Marinas, zoos 
   and stadiums are a big boost for residential growth.

THE CLIMATE

   Even though you don't see the seasons change or the rains fall, and you 
   don't feel the wind blow (other than an occasional tornado or hurricane), 
   there is a climate model in SimCity 2000 that affects your city. Weather 
   reports are available in the newspapers.

   Weather trends are generated on a monthly basis, when the simulation 
   looks at the current trend and the season and throws in a certain 
   weighted random element and decides the next trend. The different trends 
   are: cold, clear, hot, foggy, chilly, overcast, snowy, rainy, windy, 
   blizzard, hurricane and tornado. Blizzard, hurricane and tornado are the 
   least likely to occur.

   Each trend has a temperature, a wind and a humidity element. In general, 
   temperature affects the water supply, the availability of solar power, 
   and the likelihood of fires and riots; wind affects the availability of 
   wind power, and humidity affects the water supply. These effects combine 
   in various ways in the various trends.

Page 111  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Pollution as shown in the maps and graphs is a general overall level 
   combining air, water and noise pollution. The biggest polluters in your 
   city are automobiles, then industry and some types of power plants.

   The main things you can do to keep pollution down in your city are to 
   provide good mass transit, opt for low- or non-polluting power sources, 
   and promote low- and non-polluting industries through tax incentives.

Page 111  SimCity 2000 - Reference

REWARDS
   
   So you're a great mayor. So you build a great city with the power of your 
   mind and the sweat of your mouse-finger. So your citiSims love you. So 
   what? Where are the perks?

   That's where the rewards come in. For the most part the rewards are more 
   for the city than for you personally. Some say that the art and the 
   artist are one, so a reward for your city - your creation - is a reward 
   for you. Others say, "Give me the cash." In any event, there are at least 
   a couple rewards that should give your ego a boost.

   Rewards are based on population. As you reach various population levels, 
   you will be notified that a reward is available in a newspaper article 
   and the offering will appear in the submenu under the Rewards button in 
   the City toolbar.

   At population:  You get:

	2,000      A mayor's house

       10,000      City Hall

       30,000      Something cool that will boost your ego


   When your population reaches 60,000, the military asks you if you want a 
   military base in your city. The pros and cons of military bases are 
   covered later in this manual.

   As your city grows, there will be other things that you'll just have to 
   find out for yourself, because I won't tell you. Well, OK. I'll tell you 
   one more: Arcologies at a population of 120,000.

   Arcologies are huge, tall, dense cities-in-a-building. They are like a 
   very dense combination residential, commercial and industrial zone. 
   Arcologies are a way to help your population zoom from mere hundreds of 
   thousands to millions, expanding your tax base. There are four different 
   arcologies, designed in 2000, 2050, 2100 and 2150. Even if you have a 
   huge population, you can't build an arcology until it's ready.

Page 112  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Arcologies also spur the growth of nearby residential, commercial and 
   industrial zones. Even though they are theoretically totally contained 
   cities, people who live inside will come out to shop and see the sights, 
   and may even work outside. Others may live outside and work inside.

   They look cool too. Unfortunately, arcologies have all the problems of an 
   extremely dense city: lots of crime, pollution and traffic. Technically, 
   arcologies have their own internal police force and traffic system, but 
   there is always an overspill of criminals, travelers and fun-seekers. 
   Make sure you have police coverage near arcologies and that there is 
   ample public transportation surrounding them.

MILITARY BASES   
   
   When your population reaches 60,000, the government will ask if you will 
   grant land for a military base. Depending on the base and your plans for 
   your city, this can be a good thing or a bad thing.

   When you grant land to the military, you don't choose what type of base 
   you get or where it goes-the government does. The types of bases are: 
   army, navy, air force, and missile silos. If your city is on the coast, 
   the odds are that you will get a naval base. If you don't get a naval 
   base, then if your city is fairly flat, you'll most likely get an air 
   force base, and if it is fairly hilly, you'll get an army base. If it's 
   very hilly, you'll probably get missile silos.

   The good parts about a military base are that it gives a boost to your 
   local commerce both by bringing in extra customers for the stores and 
   services in your city, and by supplying civilian jobs. The presence of 
   a military base (other than missile silos) also has a deterrent effect on 
   the monster, and may encourage it to leave sooner. During an emergency, 
   you may also be able to deploy military troops to aid your fire and 
   police departments with the Emergency button.

Page 113  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   The bad parts of a military base are a possible increase in crime (wild 
   times on shore leave and civilian crooks preying on soldiers) and traffic 
   congestion.

   Missile silos are the least desirable base, since they don't have a big 
   enough staff to have an effect on your economy and they're useless 
   against monsters - these missiles would do more damage to your city than 
   to the monster. Even if your city is a nuclear-free zone, you risk getting 
   missile silos if you agree to a military base.

EDUCATION

   Education in SimCity 2000 is expressed as an Educational Quotient, or EQ. 
   The higher the EQ, the more educated your population is. You can see a 
   readout of your citiSims' EQ in the population window. EQs range from 
   zero (brain dead) to 150. The equivalent of a high school education is an 
   EQ of 90. A four-year college degree is an EQ of about 140. The 
   SimNational average EQ is 100.

   A high EQ is a source of pride to your citizens. It makes your city a 
   more attractive place to raise their children. It also attracts high-tech 
   industry. A low EQ is a source of embarrassment and causes insulting 
   stories to appear in your local (and unread) newspaper. A city with a low 
   EQ has a higher likelihood of both unemployment and rioting.

   When you start a new city, the Sims who move in and start their new lives 
   are at least somewhat educated, so you don't have to build schools right 
   away. But don't wait too long, or your settlers' children will be 
   ignorant.

   If you have no schools or colleges, then education consists solely of 
   verbal lore passed down from generation to generation, and children will 
   only achieve about 20% of their parents' EQ.

   Schools each service a population up to about 15,000, depending on the 
   age distribution of your citizens. Enough schools with full funding can 
   increase your city's EQ up to 90 over a period of years.

Page 114  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Colleges each service a population of up to 50,000, and can eventually 
   increase your city's EQ to as much as 140, but only if you have enough 
   well-funded schools to prepare students for college.

   After Sims graduate high school or college, their EQ will slowly erode. 
   The presence of libraries and museums stops this erosion.

   All educational facilities raise the local land value, and require yearly 
   funding in the Budget window to remain effective.

CITY SERVICES

   City services consist of police and fire protection, hospitals and 
   prisons. All city services require yearly funding in the Budget window to 
   be fully effective. The locations and effective areas of city services 
   can be seen in the Map window.

   Police stations lower the crime rate and raise the land value in a radius 
   around each station. They have the most effect right near the station, 
   and less as distance from the station increases. The locations of police 
   stations, their coverage and the crime rate can be seen in the Map window 
   by using the submenu under the Crime button.

   Each police station has a small jail where prisoners are kept. As a city 
   grows and if crime runs rampant, the small jails will be so full and the 
   police will be spending so much time taking care of the prisoners that 
   their efficiency and area of coverage will go down. At this point you can 
   either build a lot more police stations or build a prison. In SimCity 
   2000, prisons raise the efficiency and effectiveness of your police 
   departments-but only if there is a lot of crime. Prisons are no help to 
   cities with low crime or small populations. If and when your prison gets 
   too full, the newspaper will let you know.

   The presence of fire stations makes fires go out sooner, helps prevent 
   fires from occurring in the first place, and raises land value. They have 
   the most effect near the station. The locations of fire stations and 

Page 115  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   their coverage can be seen in the Map window by using the submenu under 
   the City Services button.

   Hospitals keep your Sims healthy, fix them when they're broken, and raise 
   their Life Expectancy (LE). A fully funded hbspital can serve a population 
   of 25,000 Sims. You can see the effect of hospitals on your population's 
   LE in the population window. If you don't have a hospital, your city's LE 
   will slowly decline to about 35. If you have enough fully funded 
   hospitals the LE will slowly climb to 85. There are also city ordinances 
   (in the Ordinance window) that can have a positive effect on your city's 
   LE.

NEWSPAPERS

   Your city's newspapers are your link to your citizens. Reading them keeps 
   you informed, not only of current events, new inventions, city-
   development announcements and other important or disastrous occurrences, 
   but also of public-opinion polls. Watch your papers closely to see what is 
   important to your Sims.

   The newspapers change every month, so reading them all can be time 
   consuming - but useful. If you activate Subscription in the Newspaper 
   menu, your paper will be delivered twice a year. If you activate Extra!!! 
   in the Newspaper menu, then papers announcing important events-inventions 
   and rewards for city growth-will appear. Otherwise, you will have to open 
   the Newspaper menu and select the paper you want to read. Newspapers 
   announcing disasters will always appear.

   The different papers (once your city is big enough to have more than one) 
   will have different angles on stories, so you may want to read through 
   more than one.

INVENTIONS

   As time passes, things are invented. These inventions give you access to 
   new technologies that you can incorporate into your city. As the 
   technologies become available, new tools will appear in the submenus 
   under the buttons in the City toolbar. Inventions are announced in 
   newspaper Extra!!! editions.

Page 116  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Here are the inventions and their approximate discovery dates, 
   +1-10 years.

	Subway systems          1910
	Buses and bus depots    1920
	Highways                1930
	Water treatment plants  1935
	Gas power plants        1950
	Nuclear power plants    1955
	Wind power plants       1980
	Solar power plants      1990
	Desalinization plants   1990
	Arcologies              2000, 2050, 2100, 2150
	Microwave power plants  2020
	Fusion power plants     2050


   SimCity 2000 is a very complex simulation. It is also in 256 colors. Both 
   these facts require a lot of computer power. The actual time it takes for 
   a year to pass in your city depends on a number of things, including:

         The type of microprocessor in your computer. SimCity 2000
	 runs on a wide variety of computers. The more powerful your
	 microprocessor, the faster time will pass.

         The microprocessor's clock speed. The faster the processor,
	 the faster the simulation will run.

         The resolution of your screen and the size of your monitor.
	 Depending on your computer, you may be running SimCity 2000 
	 in as low as 512 x 384 pixel resolution or as high as 1280
	 x 1024 or more. The higher the resolution, the more dots
	 SimCity 2000 has to draw on your screen, and the slower it will
	 go. Of course the speed of your computer and your graphics
	 card may make up for lost time.

         The size of your city. The simulation model spends a lot more
	 time and does a lot more calculations on tiles that are
	 developed than on bare land tiles. In a busy city that fills the
	 whole city limits, time will pass much, much slower than in a
	 tiny town. 

Page 117  SimCity 2000 - Reference
	 
   Ways to make the simulation go faster include:

         Setting the speed to Cheetah in the Speed menu.
      
         Keeping the City window small.

         Keeping as few windows as possible open at a time.

         Turning off both Subscription and Extra!!! in the Newspaper
	 menu.

         Turning off Music and Sound Effects (in the Options menu)
	 helps a little.

   But then again, sometimes you don't want time to pass too fast,
   especially when disasters are sweeping through your city or when
   you are trying to keep your city center from decaying. In these
   times of need, you can always open the Speed menu and slow
   things down - or even stop them entirely.

Page 118  SimCity 2000 - Reference

STRATEGIES
 IN GENERAL

   The first thing to do is decide what kind of city you want to build. Once 
   you know what your long-term goals are, you can best plan your strategy.

   If you want to grow your population as large as possible, then zone 
   densely, keep control of crime, and watch the newspapers for public 
   opinion and important inventions. If you want to make a lot of money, 
   then tax your subjects until they scream and keep your spending to a 
   minimum. If you want to create a city that you'd like to live in, then 
   keep your eye on the newspapers for public opinion, and mentally put 
   yourself in your Sims' places.

   Once you start to build, stay small and go easy on the infrastructure. 
   Keep your costs down. You want to get out of the red and into the black 
   as soon as possible. Show a little patience and build up a good reserve 
   of funds.

   As you build, try not to make large, densely concentrated areas. The 
   denser the population of an area, the more pollution and the more crime 
   you have. Try to find a happy medium between suburban sprawl and 
   super-dense city.

   Remember that not only does it cost to build city infrastructure, but it 
   costs to maintain it.

   If you need to skimp on city services, go ahead, but keep your police 
   well-funded. If your town is small or you have a lot of police stations, 
   you may not need to keep them fully-funded, but be careful. Use the Query 
   tool in the City toolbar to see your police stations' effectiveness. If 
   the arrests are equal to the crimes, you can try lowering the funding for 
   a while. Once the arrests fall behind the crimes, add more funding or 
   more police stations. High crime destroys land value, chasing out some of 
   your population and lowering your tax income.

   Skimping on fire department funding is a little less drastic, but can be 
   dangerous. Do so at your Sims' risk. You can turn off disasters in the 
   Disasters menu-if you're a wimp.

Page 119  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   Try to maintain high land values to keep those property taxes coming in. 
   But be sure to zone for some lowcost housing, since all your Sims can't 
   afford to buy luxury homes on waterfront property.

   Remember that you have to replace your power plants every 50 years. 
   Buying the big expensive power plants is more efficient as far as cost 
   per megawatt, but only if your city is large enough to need all that 
   power.

   You need a good balance of the three basic zones, with the number of 
   tiles zoned residential approximately equal to the total tiles zoned 
   commercial and industrial. In a small city, you'll need more industrial 
   than commercial. You'll need equal numbers of each at a population of 
   about 100,000. Above that, lean more towards commercial. The Demand 
   Indicator in the City toolbar lets you know which zones you should be 
   adding.

   Try to work with the land instead of using brute force to overpower it. 
   You'll not only end up with a much more "organic" looking and feeling 
   city, but it'll save you a lot of money. Best yet, pick - or build - a 
   beautiful site for your city before you start to build.

   As for the actual layout of your city, maps of cities from all over the
   world are easily available. Start with your favorite city and improve on 
   it.

   Try the modular approach. First try to design a small, compact 
   "neighborhood," complete with all the zones, transportation and city 
   services you need, that runs very efficiently, or better yet, at a 
   profit. Then copy the pattern of that neighborhood all over the place. 
   Place them strategically so they can share the high-cost city items like 
   schools, colleges, museums and power plants.

   Above all, use your imagination.

Page 120  SimCity 2000 - Reference

DEALING WITH DISASTERS

   Unless you have No Disasters set in the Disasters menu, disasters just 
   happen. The disasters that are connected with a scenario happen even when 
   you have disasters turned off. So there. If you're the adventurous type 
   (or just plain mean) you can set off your own disasters from the 
   Disasters menu and test your preparedness, your quick thinking and the 
   robustness of your city's design. Not all disasters are available in the 
   Disasters menu.

   Certain conditions in your city attract or discourage disasters, and 
   certain city events can even cause them. So, to a certain extent, you can 
   prepare for and even lessen the likelihood of disasters.

   In the event of a disaster, the first thing to do is stop any fires that
   you can. Next, rebuild the utilities, then the transportation system. Be 
   ready to jump on that Emergency button in the City toolbar. It will let 
   you deploy your fire, police and sometimes the military to areas of need, 
   but be careful where you put them. In general, firemen are good at 
   fighting fires, but can be wiped out by rioters; police are good at 
   controlling riots, but can get burnt up in a fire. Both fire and police 
   can handle the manual labor of building dams to help fight floods. If you 
   have a military base, you may have access to troops during an emergency. 
   Military troops are capable of anything police or firemen can do, just 
   not quite as specialized or effective.

   Where a disaster causes destruction in a zone, you must manually bulldoze 
   the rubble in Demolish/Clear mode before the zone will begin to rebuild.

   FIRES
    Fires are most likely to occur when the weather is hot and you don't 
    have good fire department coverage. Fires are also the byproducts of 
    other disasters including air crashes, riots and tornadoes. You can 
    fight fires by using the Emergency button in the City tool bar and 
    blocking their path with the Emergency Fire icons.  As tiles burn up,

Page 121  SimCity 2000 - Reference

    move in and surround the fires. Dispatching your police to the scene of 
    the fire can help keep cars and crowds away and let the firemen do their 
    jobs, but police can't fight fire. If you have the right kind of military 
    base, the Emergency button may give you access to military troops to help 
    fight fires.

   FLOODS
    Floods occur in the wet season, and can be the byproducts of hurricanes, 
    tidal waves or tornadoes. They are most likely to occur on the coastline, 
    but occasionally a river will flood. There's not much you can do once a 
    flood begins, but you can prepare for the worst. Floods only destroy 
    things at sea level. Your buildings that are even one tile up will 
    weather the storm. Since seaports must be at sea level, they are prime 
    targets for flood damage. If you have a river, try building your 
    seaports upriver, away from the coast. You can also use the Raise 
    Terrain mode of the Bulldozer tool to build protective dikes in areas 
    that you think might flood. You can try deploying your police and fire 
    departments with the Emergency tool to help build dams to hold back 
    floods. You might lose a few civil servants, but it should slow the 
    advance of the flood.

   RIOTS
    The main causes of riots are heat, high crime and unemployment. Riots 
    can also occur if your city has a long blackout. A good economy and a 
    low crime rate are the best ways to prevent riots. And keep your power 
    going. You can fight riots with the Emergency button and your police 
    departments the same way you'd fight a fire with your fire departments. 
    Fires are byproducts of riots.

   AIR CRASHES
    Sometimes planes or helicopters crash. Other than a smashed building 
    here and there, the main danger from an air crash is fire. Put out the 
    fire as quickly as you can, then hold an investigation and call it pilot 
    error. If a plane crashed at the airport, fire the air traffic 
    controller.

Page 122  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   TORNADOES AND HURRICANES
    Tornadoes and hurricanes occur because of climatic conditions, and 
    cannot be prevented. Keep an eye on the weather reports of high winds in 
    the newspaper and you might receive enough warning to reinforce your 
    police and fire departments in time. While they are very different in 
    the real world, as far as their effect in SimCity 2000 goes, they are 
    pretty much the same, except that tornadoes cause a narrow path of 
    destruction and hurricanes can really mess up the place.

   EARTHQUAKES
    Once again, there's nothing you can do to prevent them. All you can do 
    is treat the symptoms - and those are many. Earthquakes not only shake 
    down buildings and damage your city's infrastructure (roads, rails, 
    power lines, etc.), but cause fires, looting and riots. All you gotta 
    do is put out the fires, restore power and transport, control the mobs 
    and rebuild your city.

   NUCLEAR MELTDOWN
    If you have a nuclear power plant, there is a slight chance that it will 
    melt down. If it does, your city is in real trouble. There will be a big 
    explosion, fires will break out, and radiation will spread and 
    contaminate the surrounding land and water. The radiation lasts many 
    generations. Neither you nor your Sims can build on contaminated ground.

    Don't confuse the end of your power plants' workable life span with a 
    disaster. Even though your nuclear plants will stop working and blow up 
    after 50 years, there is no danger, other than from blackouts or 
    brownouts. This is just the plant wearing out, not blowing up, melting 
    down or leaking.

    Fusion plants don't melt down and don't leak radiation, only
    fission (standard nuclear) plants.

Page 123  SimCity 2000 - Reference

   OOPS
    The microwave power plant has its accidents, too. On occasion, the beam 
    of energy from the satellite misses the collector dish and causes some 
    inconvenient death and destruction. There's nothing you can do to 
    prevent it, but put the fires out as soon as you can. Play it safe and 
    build microwave power plants out in the boonies.

   THE MONSTER
    The monster is an intelligent creature from outer space. But then again, 
    it might just be a Hollywood movie special effect run amok. Since we 
    seem incapable of communicating with it, we don't know if it is really 
    out to destroy our cities or if it just doesn't understand that we find 
    it unpleasant to be smashed, set on fire or whisked away to another 
    planet. The presence of certain military bases may deter the monster or 
    rush it on its way. Maybe if you could make it understand that its 
    behavior is antisocial, it will stop. But then again, maybe not.

   OTHERS
    There are a number of other disasters that will pop up from time to time 
    in SimCity 2000, but you'll find out all about them in your own good 
    time.

Page 124  SimCity 2000 - Reference

			  
			-| RaZoR D0X DiViSioN SeZ |-

	       -| Support The Programmers!  Buy This Software! |-