                                THE SIMPSONS
                         BART vs THE SPACE MUTANTS


   A Word From Bart Simpson.
   -------------------------

 Hello, fellow Humans! Bartholomew J. Simpson here, with a very important
secret: SPACE MUTANTS ARE INVADING SPRINGFIELD! That's right, man! A buncha
slimy, horrible, totally gross and putrid monsters are taking over the bodies
of the people who live here and they wanna build a weapon that's gonna take
over the entire planet! Pretty cool, huh? Anyway, yours truly is the only 
one who can see em `cause of my X-ray glasses - so it`s up to me to stop em!
I've gotta spray paint things, get radical on my skateboard, use my trusty
sling shot, and in general, behave like a nuisance, man. Plus, with evil 
dudes like Nelson the bully and Sideshow Bob getting in my way, it`s a good
thing I`ve got the rest of the Simpsons to help me out! So if your a decent
person, a patriot and somebody who cares about the planet, you'll do the
right thing. Save the earth! PLAY THIS GAME! Thanks, man.


   Loading
   -------

 Insert the disk A into the drive and turn on the computer; the program will
automatically load and run. 
 You will be presented with animated introduction to Bart VS The Space 
Mutants. Pressing FIRE during the sequence will load the game.


   Controls
   --------

 This is a one player game controlled by the joystick only. To move Bart,
push the joystick left or right in the appropriate direction.
 To jump-push the joystick UP
 To jump higher--keep pushing the joystick up
 For a super long jump-Press FIRE and UP together.
 To walk faster-move left or right whilest pushing UP on the joystick.
 To shoot weapons or spraypaint-Press FIRE.
 While on the skateboard hold down FIRE and press UP or DOWN to move the 
skateboards position.
 To scroll through the inventory hold down the joystick and press fire.
Release joystick when item required appears in the window.
 To use an infentory item pull down on the joystick and then release it.
 To pause-select PAUSE in the inventory and press FIRE.

   The Status Screen
   -----------------

 The status screen displays Number of hits in current life, invenory items, 
Simpsons family member name as alien proofs are collected, score, lives,
time left to complete level, weapon meter (how much ammo is left) and goals
remaining to be collected on each level.

   Getting the Family To Help
   --------------------------

 If he tried hard enough, Bart could probably save the world alone, of
course. But it'd sure be easier if Homer, Marge, Lisa and Maggie could help
him. The problem is, Bart doesn't exactly have the best reputation for 
telling the truth, so he first has to convince his family he's not making
this story up.
 How does he do it? By jumping on the heads of the people whose bodies have
been taken over by Mutants. This forces the Mutants out of the bodies they've
been controlling. they then leave behind proof of their existence that Bart
must pick up before it disappears. Each time he gets one, a letter in the
name of one of the Simpsons appears under their picture in the Status Screen.
When their name is completely spelled out, that family member helps Bart
battle the Arch-Enemy waiting for him at the end of the level.
 IMPORTANT NOTE: Don't let Bart jump on the head of someone who isn't taken
over by a Mutant! To learn who is and isn't a Mutant, use the X-Ray specs.

   X-Ray Specs
   -----------

 Make sure the X-Ray specs have been selected from the inventory. then pull 
down on the joystick and Bart will look through the glasses and be able to 
tell which people have been taken over by the Mutants. Be careful; if he hops
on the head of someone who hasn't been taken over he'll be penalised one hit.

   Goals
   -----

 These are the ingredients the Mutants need to build their Ultimate Weapon,
which they'll use to conquer the world. To save the Earth, Bart must collect,
destroy, hide, change, and otherwise ruin these objects so the aliens can't
gather them up. He must collectthe amount of items shown on the Status 
Screen, fight off and avoid a bunch of enemies along the way and then do 
battle with some evil familiar foes at the end of each level. if Bart manages
to complete an entire level, the Mutants modify their machine so it can use
some other ingredient.

     LEVEL 1: The Streets of Springfield
     
     PURPLE-COLOURED OBJECTS
 Purple objects are the first ingredients the Mutants need for their Ultimate
Weapon. Be on the lookout for anything coloured purple . Bart will be able to
use spraypaint in this level, but he won't be able to spray everything. Try 
2 be creative and figure out other ways he can get rid of the purple objects.

     LEVEL 2: The Springfield Shopping Mall
     
     HATS
 Hats are the Mutants' second choice for building their weapon. Collect as 
many as you can, but if you come across people who are wearing hats. Bart 
must first knock the hat off their head before he can collect it.

     LEVEL 3: Krustyland Amusement Park

     BALLOONS
 Balloons are the next ingredients the Mutants will be after. Bart can find
them at Krustyland Amusement Park. He can grab the balloons or shoot them 
with his slingshot (which is easier) but first he has got to find his 
slingshot. Bart can also play games of skill & chance at Krustyland. Here's
how: Push up on the joystick when he is standing in front of a game. Then 
you will see instructions on what to do next. If he has to shoot or throw,
press the FIRE  button. If he has to place a bet, move the coin and press
fire to start spinning the wheel. make sure you have enough coins to play,
and also remember that Bart might sometimes have to jump to hit a target.

     LEVEL 4: Springfield Museum of Natural History

     EXIT SIGNS
 The next ingredient is exit signs, which the Mutants have snuck into the
museum after hours to steal. Bart can touch these signs to collect them, but
some of them are pretty high up. If he can't reach them, use the dart guns,
which you can pick up along the way. Watch out for the Laser alarms and just
about everything else here - some things take on a life of their own past
closing time.

     LEVEL 5: Springfield Nuclear Power Plant

     POWER RODS
 Nuclear power rods are the final ingredient the Mutants can use to build 
their Machine. Bart must make his way around the Power Plant where Homer 
works, collecting all the rods he can find. then he has to hightail it to the
basement and put them back in the reactor. The maximum amount of rods he can
carry at one time is 4 and they're displayed on the Status Screen where the
Simpsons faces were. The reason the faces aren't shown there anymore is
because they're all at the plant helping Bart!

     THE ELEVATOR AND STAIRS
 Bart can't move around the plant unless he uses the elevators or the stairs.
To move Bart into the elevator he has to be standing right in front of it.
Press the FIRE button and the elevator will arrive at his floor and the door
will open. Push UP on the joystick and he'll enter. Push LEFT or RIGHT to 
pick the destination floor, and then press the FIRE button again. When he 
gets to that floor, push DOWN on the joystick to exit. Note: Some elevators
stop at all floors, some are express.

     BART ENTERING A STAIRWAY
 If you want Bart to use the stairs, push UP on the joystick and he'll go in
the door. When he's in, hold down the FIRE button while pressing UP or DOWN 
on the joystick to pick the destination floor. Release the FIRE button and
push DOWN on the joystick to exit the stairway. Bart can only travel to one
floor at a time.

   Weapons
   -------

 Bart is only allowed to shoot at goals and anything else that's firing or
throwing something at him. The way to get weapons is to pick them up as you 
go along, so keep your eyes peeled. Bart can only use these weapons in the 
level he finds them in, and pressing the FIRE button fires them. After Bart's
collected a weapon, he carries it with him at all times until the ammo's used
up. Then he loses that weapon and has to find a new one to do more damage 
with. Bart can pick up and carry as many weapons as he can find. But each 
time he uses one, his ammo supply goes down (paint darts, slingshot rocks). 
The Status Screen shows how much ammo he has left.

     SPRAYPAINT
 You can find these cans on the streets of Springfield. Bart will need them 
to change the colour of some of the purple objects, so don't waste paint!

     SLINGSHOT
 There are plenty of these around at the Krustyland Amusement Park. You get
12 shots with each one.

     DART GUN
 Find these on display at the Natural History Museum. Each one's got 12 
shots.

     OTHER USEFUL ITEMS
 Bart starts out the game with 10 coins, but he'll need a lot more. Coins are
necessary to buy things and play games: and for every 15 he collects, he gets
an extra life. When he gets that extra life though, 10 coins are subtracted
from inventory. There are other useful objects that will come in handy in the
heat of the battle. Try to figure out what they are and how and where to use
them. One thing to keep in mind though you usually can't use something unless
you've bought it.

     HOW TO BUY
 Bart can buy items in most of the Springfield stores. If he's standing by a
store entrance, push UP on the joystick and he'll go right in. The owner will
ask him what he wants. Push LEFT or RIGHT on the joystick to choose an item.
Then the FIRE button for each one you want to buy. The item will go into
inventory. To get Bart out of the store, push DOWN on the joystick. Remember,
these items cost money, so make sure Bart has enough coins. And here's a
little tip about the rockets: If you want Bart to fire one, hurry up and make
him light it. Those sparklers don't last forever.

   Lives
   -----

 Bart gets a total of 3 lives. For each life he uses, Bart can sustain two
hits. The second time Bart is hit, he loses that life. The only times Bart 
can lose one full life immediately is when he falls into a pit, wet cement,
quicksand etc. Bart gets extra lives (sometimes one, sometimes more than one)
when he finds the Krusty faces, and one extra life for every 15 coins he
collects. Each of those lives consists of two hits.

   The Simpsons
   ------------

 Remember, theother Simpsons will only help Bart in Levels 1-4 if he can get
enough alien proofs to make them believe him. If he makes it to Level 5, the
Power Plant, the whole family will be there for him.

     MARGE
 Bart's loving mum will be at the mall if he needs her, and at the Power 
Plant to ease his burden.

     LISA
 Bart's brainy sister can help out at Krustyland, and the two can make a
winning combination at the Power Plant.

     MAGGIE
 Bart's baby sister who is too young to talk, but not too young to help.

     HOMER
 Bart's dad will watch out for him at the museum, and at the plant too, but
only if Bart finds him some boxes of donuts.

   Bart's Friends
   --------------

     KRUSTY THE CLOWN
 TV show host and Bart's comedy hero. Look for him to get extra lives.

     JEBEDIAH SPRINGFIELD
 The beloved founder of Springfield who can give Bart the power of
invincibility.

        Bart's Foes
        -----------

 The chief Mutants have sent these soldiers to carry out their plan:

     ZEBLOID
 These hairy aliens hop up and down and back and forth.

     GLONDIP
 They mostly crawl around the ground, but some of them hop up and down.

     KILLER KLOWN
 They can be found all around Krustyland, trying to help the Mutants wipe 
Bart out.


 This next bunch is totally evil: Bart's fought them all before. Now they 
want revenge - even if it means selling out the Earth to the Mutants!


     NELSON
 Springfield Elementary's biggest bully. his weapons of choice are water
balloons at 20 paces.

     Ms. BOTZ
 The notorious babysitter bandit, a fugitive on the loose, and one of 
America's most armed and dangerous. She stashes what she steals in suitcases
and maybe Bart can use that against her.

     SIDESHOW BOB
 Once he was Krusty the Clown's faithful friend, then he became a traitor.
Now he's out on parole, and his feet are as big as ever.

     Dr. MARVIN MONROE
 Local family counsellor, radio call-in show host, quack. He likes using 
shock therapy, but lately he's gone soft in the head.

     ADIL
 Albanian superspy, explosives expert and former foreign exchange student.

     JIMBO
 The absolute worst kid in school, a skateboard freak and the only teenager 
in fifth grade.

   Scoring
   -------

 You can earn points for defeating enemies and accomplishing certain tasks.
Here's what they're worth:

   ITEM            POINTS

END OF LEVEL ENEMIES         1000
MAJOR ENEMIES WITHIN                    500
REMOVING ALIEN FROM HUMAN               200
KRUSTY THE KLOWN FACE (EXTRA LIVES)     100
PROOF                                   100
GOAL                                    100
JEBEDIAH HEAD (INVINCIBILITY)           50
COIN                                    50
COMPLETE LEVEL TIME REMAINING ON CLOCK x10

   Hints And Tips
   --------------

1) Always check the clock and keep track of time.
2) Try jumping on things, around things, and on top of things. You never know
what will turn up.
3) In Springfield try to discover what ledges Bart can stand on.
4) There are lots of ways to get rid of purple-coloured objects. Be creative
and experiment!
5) At the mall, Bart can't jump on a lollipop if its stick is pointed 
straight up or down.
6) Collect plenty of Krusty faces, weapons and coins.
7) There are warp zones, so try to discover them. Keep in mind that Bart can
only warp to another place in the same level.


THE SIMPSONS (TM) BART vs. THE SPACE MUTANTS.
It's program code and graphic representation are the copyright of Ocean
Software Limited and may not be reproduced, stored, hired or broadcast in any
form whatsoever without written permission of Ocean Software limited. All
rights reserved worldwide.

This software product has been carefully developed and manufactured to the
highest quality standards. Please read carefully the instructions for loading

If for any reason you have difficulty in running the program you may contact
our technical department direct by telephoning +44-626-332-533. however if 
you believe that the product is defective, please return it direct to: 
Mr. Yates, Ocean Software Limited, 6 Central Street, Manchester M2 5NS, UK.
 Our quality control department will test the product and supply an immediate
replacement if we find a fault. However if we find it to be a Crystal crack,
we will shove it up your bottom with the greatest of pleasure you pirating
bastard.
Please note that this does not affect your statutory rights unless your a
stinking dog's pizzle of a pirate in which case we're gonna sue your ass off,
shitface.


 Docs typed and subtly modified by /-\ction /X\an of Crystal.

  Please note that if the Company are correct in saying we can't crack 
MFM games then you will have to crack the second disk of this game yourself!