                    BART VS THE WORLD From ACCLAIM

                      Typed By -* CRAIG/CRYSTAL *-
                   Supplied By -* CRAIG/CRYSTAL *-
                    Cracked By -* I.B.M/CRYSTAL *-


The world-wide Krusty Treasure Hunt works in two ways.  Bart's 
primary goal is to collect the numerous cheap Krusty items that
are scattered throughout the countries he visits.

The second part of the Treasure Hunt concerns the rare one of a
kind Krusty licensed products.  One of these items is hidden in
each level of a country.

Sound simple?  If only it were that easy.

You see, the art contest was actualy a phoney set up by its sponsor
and judge, Mr Montgomery Burns, Springfield's shady nuclear power
plant owner.  Sure, the whole scheme cost him a small fortune, but
in the end, it'll be worth it.  Because if all goes well, the 
simpsons won't be coming back - ever.

Burns has been losing millions of dollars for years, ever since 
Simpson was hired to work at the plant.  Once Burns' loyal yes-man,
Smithers, reminded him of this fact, Burns' course of action became
clear ; in order to save his fortune, the Simpsons had to be whiped
off the face of the Earth!  And since he naturally needs to keep
his hands clean of such matters, Burns has enlisted his ruthless
relatives around the world to help get the job done.

* GETTING STARTED

AMIGA/ST:  Turn on the computer and immediately insert disk.  The 
           game will load and run automatically.

* THE CONTROLS

JoYsTiCk          CLIMB/JUMP
                     /|\
                      |
  MOVE LEFT  <--------O-------->  MOVE RIGHT
                      |
                     \|/
                    DUCK!

  Press button        -  shoot/jump
  Up                  -  fly whilst Bartman
  P on keyboard       -  pause
  P then ESC          -  quit

* ARE WE THERE YET?

To begin a game, press the BUTTON when the title screen appears and
the introduction screens will appear.  The BUTTON will move quickly
through these screens.  Press the SPACEBAR to bypass the introduction
screens and go directly to the first Map Screen.

ThE MaP ScReEnS

Each country the Simpsons visit consists of a combination of gameplay
levels and Single-screen games.  These levels and games are represented
by icons on the Map Screens that introduce each world.

To move the hand-pointer, use the Joystick.

To enter a level or game, press the button once the hand-pointer is on
the desired icon.

To exit a Single-Screen game at any time (even if you haven't finished
playing it) press ESCAPE, which returns you to that country's Map
Screen.

NOTE: Each country's levels have a fixed order.  You won't be able to
enter a level until you've completed the level that precedes it.

In order to complete a country, you must finish all the gameplay
levels.  You may play the Single-Screen games as often as you wish
until you've won.

IMPORTANT: To exit a gameplay level, look for the "MAP" sign located
somewhere within the level.

When a level or a game has been completed, it will fade on the Map
Screen and you won't be able to return to it.  When you've finished
all of a country's levels and have returned to the Map Screen, move
the hand-pointer to the exit icon, which is now highlighted.  Then
prepare to meet the Burns boss.

NOTE: Until a country's gameplay levels are completed, the Exit icon
will be faded and will not work.

* THE STATUS AREA

The Status Area you updated on Bart's lives, the number of shots he
has remaining and his energy.

NOTE: Bart's current of lives can be viewed at any time during gameplay
by pausing (pressing P).

* WEAPONS

Thanks to his trusty firecracker balls, Bart can shoot at almost
everything: enemies, objects being thrown at him, or obstacles 
blocking his way.

* CHEAP KRUSTY COLLECTIBLES

They're mass-produced and all over the place.  Collect as many as
you can.  Some are hidden, some are out in the open and some require
action on Bart's part to reveal them.  So look everywhere.

You'll also receive these cheap Krusty's as a reward for winning a
Single-Screen game.  Amounts vary from game to game.

ONE OF A KIND KRUSTY MERCHANDISE

These items are the real treasures of this trip.  They're rare and
unique and there's only one in each level of a country.  Bart's too
busy trying to stay alive, so look to the other Simpsons to help him 
find this stuff.

* LIVES ON THE ROAD

Bart starts out with 3 lives.  He can sustain 5 hits per life.  The
fifth time Bart is hit, he loses a life.

Bart will lose one full life any time he falls into any body of water
or liquid, or if he plunges into a bottomless pit.

Grape Squishees, Bart's favourite Kwik-E-Mart drink, add extra power
to his power meter.

* THE HEAD OF JEBEDIAH SPRINGFIELD

If Bart touches the head of Springfield's founding father, he'll
flash and become invincible for a short period of time.  Keep in
mind though, that falls into bottomless pits and bodies of water
can still take away a life.

* BARTMAN

There's a Krusty collectible just out of reach.  You need to get
somewhere in a hurry.  This looks like a job for Bartman!

All Bart needs to do transform into his super-heroic alterego is
to find the Bartman hood + cape icon.  He'll have the power of
flight with the help of the joystick and the button.

* SINGLE SCREEN GAMES

You'll find them in every world.  Play them as often as you like 
until you win.  They pay off in cheap Krusty collectibles.

SLOT MACHINE

Line up 3 of the same Simpsons characters to hit the jackpot.
Press the button to stop each spinning window and land the 
character of your choice.  All it takes is a one-finger press
to deafeat this one-armed bandit.

MOE'S

Moe's gone west!  Keep Bart hopping with the button to avoid Moe's
sliding obstacles and to collect the cheap Krusty items as they go
by.  Use the joystick to move Bart, but he can only collide one
time before you have to try again, partner.

FIND THE BATS

If Bart opens the coffins in the correct order, he'll find the bats
and win 3 Krusty collectibles.  Move Bart over to a coffin and press
the button to open it.  Guess wrong and Bart'll be sorry.

NOTE: Pressing ESCAPE will quit from Single Screen Game back to Map
      screen.
******************

TYPED BY : CRAIG/CRYSTAL!