                                  Simulcra


The objective of Simulcra is to dismantle the Force field that encircles your
Base.(well its not so much a base, more like a large platform really, but 
with the interest rates being what they are you have to take what you can get.)
To dismantle the force field you must shoot out the revolving generators and
the non revolving pylons which are littered around the platforms.

As well as pylons and generators there are lots of Aliens. Shooting these 
aliens not only turns them into Cosmic Rubble but also releases Pluspods
which, when bumped into, provide you with bonus rockets and fuel.
Occasionaly you come across a barn like building. Shooting this reveals a
small version of your craft, run into it for a bonus life.

Every now and again you come across gaps which you need to cross. Fortunately
you have wings (neat eh!). These wings can be opened for flying and retracted
when you have landed safely. If you don't retract them you are likely to have
them shot off. Possibly leaving you stranded on an Isolated platform, In which
case you will have to trade in your armour for a new set of wings, leaving you
about as safe as a Hedgehog crossing a motorway.


                                 Controls


Joystick left .... Turn left
Joystick right ... Turn right
Joystick Forward ... Accelerate forward (or move down if flying)
Joystick Back ... Move backwards (if wings in)
              ... Take off (if wings out and forward speed is sufficient)
              ... Fly up (if flying)
Press Fire Button ... Fire lazer 
Hold Down Fire Button ... Fire missile (if you have any)



                                 Keys


F1 ... Local map (if you have picked up RAD Pluspod)
F2 ... Overall map
F3 ... Electronic counter measure (if you have picked up ECM Pluspod)
F4 ... Wings in/out
F5 ... Take off (or if wings destroyed, trade in shields for wings)
HELP.. Pause game


                                 Pluspods


Pluspods often flash up their initials to show you what they contain, but 
beware they don't last long.

SU  ... Speed up 
RAD ... Radar (activates local map)
FFG ... Fire and forget missiles (hold down fire button to launch)
TAD ... Target and display (a red lock on sight for use with your FFG's)
BAT ... Batteries (replenishes your shields)
ECM ... Electronic counter measure (Screw's up enemy missile guidance)
SFB ... Solid fuel booster (without solid fuel you can only glide not fly)

 

The Docs to this game were typed out by John Panic The Modem Man.
Have fun guys !!!
