SINK OR SWIM

SCENARIO

The SS Lucifer, complete with a cargo of Dim Passengers, has been
badly holed by an Iceberg off the east coast of Greenland. Hearing
the news on his small isolated Sea Rescue Station just north of
Iceland, Rork Storm springs into action and climbs into his Explorer
Class Submersible equipped for a daring rescue mission.

As the red glow of the emergency lighting bathes the ship in an eerie
glow Rork knows he has got problems - in fact a whole shipload of
them! 
Dim Passengers are invading the engine room, fleeing the numerous
fires raging throughout the ship. Pistons in the Engine Room have
gone haywire and pipes have burst, sending torrents of scalding
steam everywhere...and, oh yes, the small matter of 70,000 gallons
of ice cold sea water pouring into the hull faster than the pumps can
handle. 
Of course Rork could run for it - but he isn't that sort of hero...  


CODED LEVEL ENTRY

Once Sink or Swim has loaded, current High Scores and credits are
displayed.  If higher levels of the game have been reached at
previous attempts, earlier levels can be skipped by pressing the
"SPACE" bar and entering the playing Code Word as given on
successful completion of a level.

Use the keyboard to enter the Code Word and press ENTER to gain
acceptance.  
LEVEL PAUSE AND EXIT

The following keys are used within Amiga Sink or Swim to Pause
and Quit the present playing level:

"ESCAPE" - Loose one life and begin the level from the start  "P" -
Pause Level

"Q" - Quits Level


INFORMATIONAL PANEL

Once the game has been started by pressing Fire on the High Score
and credits screen, the main playing level is displayed. At the bottom
of this screen, the informational panel is displayed which is used
throughout the rescue to provide Rork Storm with essential
information.

RORK STORM'S LIVES
RS begins the game with Three Lives, and this meter indicates the
Number of Lives Remaining.

AIR SUPPLY
Rork has a compressed air supply held in tanks on his back. This
allows him a certain amount of time to swim under water to
complete essential tasks. The figures indicate remaining supply
levels.

BOMB FUSE INDICATOR
The bombs used to blast their way through the SS Lucifer have
variable length fuses. Pressing and holding Fire when dropping a
bomb increases the length of the fuse as indicated on this panel.

SCORE
Current score based on Dim Passengers rescued and their method of
escape.  
TARGET RESCUE
The number of Dim Passengers required to open Rork Storm's
escape hatch is given at the start of the level, and counts down as
Passengers reach the Level Exit. 

HEAD COUNT METER
This meter gives the current numbers of Dim Passengers still present
in this portion of the SS Lucifer.

SAFE PASSENGERS
This figure gives the exact number of Dim Passengers rescued from
the level by Rork Storm.


RESCUE THOSE DIM PASSENGERS!

The Cargo of Dim Passengers are released into the sealed
compartments of the SS Lucifer via Escape Chutes. Although the
Passengers are in a blind panic because of the frightening rise in
water levels, they have a strong safety instinct and will attempt to
climb away from the water at every available opportunity. 
Rork Storm must quickly assess the situation existing in this section
of the hold, and use all of his considerable abilities to help the
Passengers reach their Escape Hatch. 

DIM PASSENGERS' ESCAPE HATCH

Once the target number of Passengers have escaped from the
present Ship Compartment, an escape hatch opens for Rork Storm to
leave the level. Alternatively, he may stay on the screen in an
attempt to rescue more Passengers for Bonus Points. 

LIFE AND DEATH

Dim Passengers that fall from platforms into the freezing water filling
the hold become "Drowners". It is essential that they are rescued
before they succumb to the cold and are transformed into "Angels"
and depart from this Earthy Plane.  Dim Passengers are unable to
rescue themselves, so Rork has to put into action two major
"Drowner" rescue alternatives:


JET PACKS

Conveniently placed throughout the SS Lucifer in case of
emergencies such as this, the Packs are retrieved by smashing the
glass whilst pulling down on the Joystick and pressing Fire. The Jet
Packs then fall into the water through the action of gravity and are
picked up by the "Drowners" who blast off the level to safety.


RESCUE DINGHY

When the level goes horribly wrong, the Rescue Dinghy can be
launched to save all of the "Drowners" currently in the water. The
Dinghy is activated by pressing the "SPACE" bar (R-PC) and only
one is available to Rork on every level. 
If close enough to the "Drowners" they climb aboard the Dinghy and
jump out at the first sight of any dry land. Although not as definite a
rescue as the Jet Packs, the Dinghy gives the Dim Passengers
another opportunity to escape the transformation to "Angels". 

BURST STEAM PIPES

The Dim Passengers are blundering everywhere in a state of total
panic, and these burst pipes hold steam at over 2,000 oF! That's
enough to vaporise a Dim Passenger, or even Rork Storm, in their
tracks!

RS is able to plaster over these cracks by climbing up and along the
pipework pressing Fire to seal off the blasting jets of steam.


CRUSHERS

Crushers are to be avoided at all cost - they make pancakes out of
everything without showing any signs of remorse.


CONVEYOR BELTS

These moving platforms can be used to contain Passengers, or
transport them to different sections of the ship. The belts move to
the left and to the right via switches found on the ship's walls.
Pressing Fire whilst next to these switches reverses the direction of
the moving platform.

Beware - some switches are inactive and have no effect on the
Conveyor Belt's movements.


BOMBS

Rork Storm is equipped with a number of bombs that are activated
by pulling down on the Joystick and pressing Fire. The longer the
Fire button is held down, the longer the fuse used for timed
detonations. The length of fuse is indicated on the score panel at the
bottom of the screen.

Bombs are ideal for blasting difficult items such as Crates and
Bulkheads into oblivion, and revealing what lies behind some of
these large obstacles. 

BULKHEADS

The Bulkheads placed within the SS Lucifer can withstand pressures
of up to 20,000 pounds per square inch. However, they do become
difficult obstacles when the water is around the Dim Passengers'
ankles and they are stuck behind one! 
A carefully placed bomb however can soon eradicate the problem for
good.  
CARGO

Cargo is unique in Sink or Swim as it can be used to both aid and
hinder the rescue progress. Bombs can blast the Cargo out of the
path of escaping Passengers, or be moved by mechanical devices to
form bridges or platforms. 

MAGNETIC HOIST

Magnetic Hoists are found in cargo storage areas of the ship, and
can be used to manoeuvre Cargo boxes. The Magnetic Hoist has its
own control station, marked with a diagonal switch.

To operate the hoist, Rork Storm should be positioned beside the
diagonal switch and the fire button pressed and held down. The
hoist can then be raised and lowered as well as moved left and right
via the Joystick. 

POWER FAILURES

Not so much a hazard, more an irritation. With water, ice and fire
getting everywhere, there are certain to be short circuits and
blackouts replaced by the red glow of emergency lights.

If the number of Dim Passengers required to complete the level falls
below the number not yet converted to "Angels", the lighting dims
on the level indicating that a successful rescue is no longer possible.


SWINGING CHAINS

Inaccessible ledges and previously impossible sections of the ship
can be reached with a couple of Tarzan-like swings. It isn't easy
though, so be careful to avoid any unexpected obstacles!


HYDRAULIC BRIDGES

Hydraulic Bridges were originally used to seal off sections of the SS
Lucifer's Hold. They cover gaps whilst activated by wall switches.


CREW LIFTS

Crew Lifts can be utilised by Rork Storm to raise Dim Passengers to
different ship levels on their way to the escape hatch. Whilst the
switch is in the Off position, the Lift beds make useful platforms to
bridge areas of the ship. When switched On, the lifts are activated
by body pressure raising the Lift bed to higher levels. 

ELECTRIC FIELDS

Faulty Earths and water logged generators have caused Electric
Fields to arise around certain pieces of electric equipment and
powered doors. These are deadly to both Rork Storm and the Dim
Passengers.


ADDITIONAL NOTES

Rork Storm has periods of invincibility which are indicated by circling
stars around his body.

Passwords are given at the end of every level which should be noted
on successful rescue of the Dim Passengers. These Passwords can
be entered by pressing "Space" on the opening screen, thus
avoiding the need to play the earlier levels every time the game is
loaded.

Care should be taken around fires, RS has no protective garments
that shield him from the flames.

Ice sections on the ship are very slippery and make walkways
treacherous to traverse. 
If a particular rescue approach just isn't working, go back to the
Drawing Board and think again - it may be easier than you think!



Program: Andrew Drake & Ian Copeland
Graphics: Anthony Gallop & David Taylor
Graphic Design: Steven Wannell
Level Design: Andrew Drake, Anthony Gallop, Steven Wannell and
Robert Tucker Sound FX: Alex Aldroyd & Neil Crossley
Made in UK