                          SKI OR DIE!!!  
                          --- -- ------  
  
                        Documentation by:  
                         The Gate Keeper  
                 SysOp : Prince Of Darknsess BBS  
  
  
Introduction  
------------  
  
This document was typed up by me [The Gate Keeper] in hopes that  
others will benifit from it.  The doc is probably not perfectly  
complete, but since I have played "Skate or Die" beore, most  
commands are based on the same system.  In this document, I will go  
over the commands and the object of each event.  
  
  
Rodney's Shop  
-------- ----  
  
  
In Rodney's shop, you will see him standing behind the counter.   
Frme there, you can do many things.  Just use the arrow keys (or  
joystick) on a part of the screen, then some text will come up,  
showing you your options.  From here, you can either sign up and  
compete, or practice.  I suggest you practice the events first.  
  
  
Halfpipe  
--------  
  
In the halfpipe, part of the object is to weave in and out of the  
gates (flags).  The main object though, is to pull of tricks while  
in the halfpipe.  For keyboard, use the right keypad.  To start ANY  
event, you must hit the ENTER key.  Use the Left and Right arrow  
keys to move back and forth in the tunnel.  While you are moving up  
on the side, you can hit enter to perform tricks.  Another way to  
do tricks, is to hit ENTER while you are going forward in the pipe.   
If you time it right, and hit enter, and a direction key while  
going over a mogul (bump), you will pull-off GREAT point scoring  
  
tricks!  
  
  
Tubbing  
-------  
  
This is a harder event.  In this event the object is to collect  
(run over) the items along the way.  All you have to use, are the  
arrow keys and the ENTER key.  Whne you see bumps ahead,  hit enter  
to go up and down.  Make sure at some poitns you stay towards the  
middle, or else you will fall of the side.  I nother parts, you cna  
bounce of the sides, and gains speed!  
  
Aierals  
-------  
  
This is by FAR the MOST fun event.  IF you have ever watched ESPN,  
NOW you can compete in these wild stunts.  You start off at the top  
of the runway.  Pres the enter key to start, and press it multiple  
time to gain maximum speed.  After you hit the top, the screen will  
  
scroll.  After you get off the tip, then it is TRICK TIME!!  You  
are judged on your jump performance.  The best moves to do are  
combinations.  You must hit ENTER+XXX where XXX=a direction key,  
and here are the codes...  
  
ENTER + 1 ..... Front Tuck Flip  
ENTER + 2 ..... Back Scratcher  
ENTER + 3 ..... Back Flip with 360 Twist  
ENTER + 4 ..... Daffy  
ENTER + 5 ..... Nothing  
ENTER + 6 ..... Daffy  
ENTER + 7 ..... Knee Touch Front Flip  
ENTER + 8 ..... Wide Eagle Spread  
ENTER + 9 ..... Twist Flip  
  
Addenum to Flips..  
------------------  
  
Some flips in the aerials can be done without enter, here are some of  
the codes I stumbled on to..  
  

KEYPAD8 ..... Front Pike Flip  
KEYPAD7 ..... Front Arch Flip  
KEYPAD2 ..... Front Arch Flip  
  
These moves are some that will win big.  
  
Some of the best moves, are multiple flips with twists.  I have  
found these combinations to be high-scoring...  
  
ENTER +..  
9,4,2  
7,4,8  
2,9,4  
4,7,8  
  
  
Downhill  
--------  
  
  
The downhill is a fun but tough event.  The main object is to beat  
the clock.  To start skiing, hit ENTER.  Then press DOWN to go  
forward, LEFT to go left, RIGHT to go right, and UP to stop.  Also  
a big part of hit, is the tricks you do.  When you see a cliff,  
that is appropriate for jumping, you have to press ENTER, (hold it  
down), and also hold down the DOWN arrow key.  Hold it for as long  
as neccesary.  In some cases you have to hold it until you can't  
any longer (computer automatically lets go), or let go in time to  
land safely.  When you get to the mogul area, hit a direction key  
(any will perfor different tricks), and ENTER.  
  
  
Snowball Blast  
--------------  
  
This is a self-explanitroy event.  HIT THE KIDS!  Press the left  
and right arrow keys to move the crss-hairs back and forth.  Press  
ENTER to beam the little suckers!  To move screens, hit left or  
right and the SHIFT key (I think).  The object is to hit all the  
kids in the alloted time.  
  
 
  
Thanks for downloading the document.  I hope all of you find it  
usefull.  
  
                         The Gate Keeper  
                         --- ---- ------ 