                                  SkyChase

MAIN MENU OPTIONS

Game Seletions

Two Player (Human vs Human):
     Two joysticks are required.

One Player (Human vs Computer):
     The computer assumes the right player's role. The options can be set
     for the computer player with the Computer Skill setting. The right
     player settings will apply to the computer in this mode.

     Options that can be set independently for the computer player include
     the following:

     Jet Selection
     Fuel Selection
     Ammunition
     Missile Store
     Missile Lock Threshold
     Bullet Hit Threshold
     G-Force Blackout Threshold

     The computer will always use "Pitch and Roll Combined" for his
     "joystick".

One Player (With no right window):
     This option is the same as the other one player mode with the exception
     that the computer's screen is blanked out. This provides more challeng-
     ing competition, since you won't be able to see what the computer is
     doing in advance. In addition, you will notice that your jet performance
     is substantially improved.

Zero Player (Computer vs Computer):
     This is a demonstration mode you can show your friends. When this mode
     is selected, the menus can be used to set parameters for both computer
     players. When "Run Demo" is selected on the main menu, preset parameters
     will be used.

Left and Right Player Selections:
     Each player can choose his or her own setting preferences. This allows
     one player to handicap the other in order to even out the play.

Jet Select:
Take some time to review the aircraft fleet up close while you're making
your jet selection; once combat begins, chances are things will be happening
too fast and at too great a "distance" to appreciate their distinctive
features.

Throttle and rotation limits are different for each jet.

A) Each jet's maximum velocity is set.
B) Each jet's maximum roll rate is limited to a specific value.
C) The maximum rate of change for each jet's pitch is similarly limited. The
   limit when going into a climb is the same as the jet's roll rate limit.
   The limit when going into a dive is approximately one half.

                                                   Maximum        Maximum
                                                   upward         downward
                          Max Speed    Maximum   pitch change   pitch change
              Throttle    for level   roll rate     rate            rate
    Jet        limit       flight    degrees/sec  degrees/sec    degrees/sec
   -----     ----------  ----------- ----------- ------------   ------------
    F18          11         1234          50          50              25
    F14          13         1462          45          45              25
    F15          12         1348          45          45              25
    F16          12         1348          50          50              25
    M31          15         1691          35          35              20
    M27          14         1577          40          40              20
     PA          15         1691          50          50              25

Fuel Select:
Each 550 gallon increment lasts approximately 3-7 minutes depending on the
amount of power required for flight. With 8800 gallons, or the maximum amount
of fuel, combat can last for up to one hour. Firing a missile uses a small
amount of your fuel. Getting hit uses a lot of your fuel. Hitting your
opponent adds the same amount of fuel back to your tank.

Ammunition:
Each player can select the number of bullets to be carried on board. Press 1
for no bullets, 9 for unlimited bullets and 2-8 for selecting a specific
number of bullet rounds.

The number of bullets fired per minute increases as the overall game speed
increases. If you are using the 8x8 grid for example, which increaes game
speed, you will want to add more bullets.

Bullets are not very effective in close range because, unlike actual jet
combat where targets remain the same size regardless of distance, Sky Chase
jets literally grow as they get closer and shrink with distance. As a result,
striking the exact center of your target (see Bullet Hit Threshold) with the
tiny bullets because proportionately more difficult in relation to increased
jet size. The distance to the target cannot be to great, because the target
will be out of bullet range.

Missile Store:
Each player may select the number of missiles to be carried on board.
Missiles are effective at close range when using the HUD (Heads Up Display)
missile lock feature.

HUD Display:
When the jets are close enough to deploy the missiles, the HUD for missile
locking will appear in the center of the screen. The crosshairs show the
direction that your craft is pointing. A box will also appear in front of
the opponent's jet to indicate where the missile should be fired to hit the
jet. There is a line drawn between the crosshairs and the box. The idea is
to position the box as close as possible to the crosshairs, by making the
line as small as possible. The distance that the crosshairs need to be from
the box to get missile lock can be selected with the missile lock threshold
setting.

The HUD has auditory cues for the player. The beeping tone indicates that
missile lock is near. The steady tone indicates that missile lock has been
achieved.

When the HUD has been succussfully activated, the "missile lock" indicator
will flash green. If the opponent's HUD is locked onto your jet, the "enemy
missile lock" indicator will turn red. If both players have each other in
missile lock, both indicators will light up. Under these conditions, fired
missiles will automatically hit the opponents jet.

Missile Lock Threshold:
Missile lock threshold represents the spacial interval within which missiles
will automatically adjust directions to strike their targets. That interval
is measured in pixels between the crosshairs and the box, (a pixel equals the
space of one dot on the computer screen), and players may select thresholds
ranging from 1-40 pixels. A choice of 1 pixel, for example, would mean that
the center crosshairs and the HUD box would need to overlap exactly to
achieve a hit; with 40 pixels, a line of that length connecting the center
crosshairs and the HUD box would represent the range in which a fired missile
would achieve a hit.

The HUD only becomes active when an opponent is within missile range. Missile
lock is achieved when the HUD is positioned over the crosshairs within the
missile lock threshold range. The larger the number, the easier it is to get
missile lock on your opponent. Double clicking the joystick button fires a
missile when an opponent is within range.

Bullet Hit Threshold:
The Bullet Hit Threshold setting determines the size of the area within which
you can score a hit with the jet's machine guns. The selections are small,
medium and large. Small represents a one pixel dot on the center of the jet
that must be hit by a bullet to register a kill. Medium represents a 9 pixel
area and large represents a 25 pixel area. Collision detection for bullets
is two dimensional, making it easier to hit a jet that is far away because it
is smaller, and thus, more likely to fall within the hit area.

Trigger Timing:
Holding the joystick button down causes continuous machine gun fire. When the
HUD is displayed the missile can be fired by pressing the joystick button
twice, quickly, in succession. The missile trigger is distinguished from the
bullet trigger by the length of the interval between the 2 clicks of the
joystick button. This delay can be set for Fast, Medium or Slow.

G-Force Effect:
Gravity forces affect the pilot by affecting blood flow to the brain. There
are 2 kinds of G-forces: negative G's, which accrue when a plane descends and
forces blood into the head, and positive G's, which accrue when a plane
ascends or turns sharply, forcing blood out of the head.

Your body and plane can tolerate many more positive than negative G's.
Excessive negative G's cause the blood vessels in your eyes to rupture, or
Redout. Blackout occurs if the effect of positive G's are too strong,
causing you to lose control of the jet. Sky Chase's G-froce limit is 9 G's
for both positive and negative G-forces. When you blackout, the G-force
meter will flash and the "autopilot" will take over a jet and return it to
a straight and level course. Once the jet is flying straight and level, the
blackout will terminate and, within two seconds, the pilot will regain
control. To reach 9 G's you must roll to 90 degrees or change pitch at the
maximum limit.

The amount of time required at 9 G's to blackout can be adjusted for each
player. The amount of time to blackout can be set to low, medium, high or
unlimited.

Grid Select:
Sky Chase displays a grid on the ground. The number of cells in the grid
effects the overall speed of the game. Game speed increases with fewer cells
and decreases with more cells. The fastest game is achieved by selecting the
8x8 grid and the slowest, the 64x64 grid. The grid is projected on the
ground to supply perspective.

The combat takes place over the grid. The outside perimeter is a small
distance from the outside of the grid.

Computer Skill:
The computer can be adjusted to different levels of difficulty. Players can
choose from one of four levels-Easy, Average, Difficult and Ace-which
correspond to increasing levels of maneuverability. The computer skill option
is only applicable to single player or computer vs computer modes.

Flyby Control:
The flyby mechanism which initiates all jet combat is automatically
activated at the beginning of each round. Players can also select flyby as
a means of resuming combat following any kill, or can bypass flyby and merely
resume combat from jet positions at the time of the kill.

Sound Control:
The game sounds can be turned off if desired.

Music Control:
The game music is only played when the option menus are being displayed; it
too may be disconnected.

COCKPIT INSTRUMENTATION

Radar (bottom center of screen):
The radar provides an overview of the combat zone, allowing the player to
determine an opponent's position. The arrows on the radar screen represent
the jets; the red arrow is the left jet and the white arrow is the right
jet. The borders are colored to remind you which is which. The arrows can
appear in 16 different positions to represent the heading of each jet. When
the arrows overlap, the arrow on the top is the higher jet. The relative
altitudes of the jets are better represented with the altimeter.

Altimeter:
There are 2 bars on the Altimeter. The green bar reflects the pilot's
altitude and the red bar, the opponent's altitude. This gauge allows you to
determine if your opponent is above or below you. Exceeding the ceiling of
50,000 feet will cause a crash. The 50,000 ft. indicator will flash to warn
you that the ceiling is near.

Score:
The score is displayed with the guage.

Thrust:
The thrust is a constant force that represents the force of the jet engine.
The thrust value will increase as the throttle is increased and decrease
when the throttle is decreased. The jet's rate of turn will decrease as it's
speed increases and the rate of turn will increase as it's speed decreases.

Heading (Top side box):
Indicates the direction the aircraft is pointing in from side to side, i.e.
north, east, south or west. This indicator shows the top view of the jet. The
heading guage matches the direction of the arrow on the radar.

Pitch (Middle side box):
Indicates the angle the aircraft is pointing in from nose to tail, i.e.
climbing or diving positions. This indicator shows the side view of the jet.

Roll (Bottom side box):
Indicates the angle the aircraft is pointing in from wing to wing, i.e.
turning or banking. This indicator shows the rear view of the jet.

Speed:
The speed represents the air speed in MPH.

Missile Lock Indicators (Center of screen below flight view):
One flashes green when your missile lock indicator is on; the other flashes
red when the opponents indicator is locking on you.

G-Force Indicator (Bottom right corner):
The indicator shows the current G factor. Pilots will black out at 9 G's.
The indicator turns red at 9 G's and flashes bright red while you are
blacked out.

Perimeter Indicator (Next to Altimeter):
Lights up to warn that your aircraft is in danger of colliding with the
perimeter of the cubed-shaped combat arena. If you hit the perimeter your
jet will blow up.

Bullets Remaining:
Represents the number of bullets left.

Missiles Remaining:
Represents the number of missiles left.

Screen Outline:
The screen outlines are color coded red and white to correspond with the
arrows on the radar screen for easier recognition of players' jets.

AIR COMBAT

Flyby:
The flyby is a fair way of starting an aerial combat and is initiated
automatically. Pilot controls are suspended until the jets approach and
pass each other head on. After the flyby, combat begins with all pilot
controls activated.

WEAPONS

Machine Guns:
Holding the joystick button down cause continuous machine gun fire. The
Bullet Hit Threshold area determines the hit area within which you can score
a hit. The hit area is 2-dimensional making it easier to hit a jet that is
farther away because it is smaller, and thus, more likely to fall within
pixel range. Bullets are not very effective in close range, because it's
harder to hit the small target area on such a large wire frame jet image.

Smart Missiles:
Double clicking the joystick button fires a missile when the oppenent is
within range. The missile can be activated when the jets are within range,
with the crosshairs appearing on the center of the screen. The missile will
actually turn toward the opponent as it is flying. The missile lock range is
set by the missile threshold. When you fire a missile, you see it rushing
away from the nose of your aircraft. Your opponent will see the same missile,
if he is facing it.

Using Sound:
The jet soundgets higher pitched as the jets approach and lower as they move
farther away. This "doppler effect", the change in the pitch of sound in
relation to speed and proximity, provides players with an audio clue about
the relative positions of the jets.

The missile, missile lock, bullet and explosion sounds are in stereo, with
the right and left channels reflecting the sounds of the right and left
players.

Computer Pilot:
The computer pilot, which is always the right player, will follow an
invariable series of strategies:

*If the opponent is out of missile range but within machine gun range, the
 computer will fire the guns.
*The computer will resort to machine guns within missile range when it runs
 out of missiles.
*The computer pilot will always attempt to fly directly towards the calculat-
 ed missile lock coordinates.
*The computer will always fire when it has the opponent in missile lock.
*If you fly in a large circle by staying in a rolled position, the computer
 will follow you exactly.
*The computer, even in Ace mode, can be considered handicapped in that its
 pitch is limited to a maximum of 60 degrees. In the easy and medium modes
 the pitch and roll limits are restricted even more.

Novices may wish to disarm the right computer player to even out your odds
and train more effectively.

Goals:
The game continues until the jet's fuel is exhausted. The player with the
most points wins.

Points:
Points are given for the following:
 1-Opponent fires missile
10-Destruction of opponent with machine guns or missiles
10-Opponent crashes on ground, ceiling or perimeter
10-Mid-Air collision (both players get 10 points)

Combat Zone:
The perimeter of the cube, or combat zone, is just outside of the grid area.
The radar screen will display a solid black square within a green field and
flash the perimeter warning light to let you know that you are approaching a
wall. The perimeter includes the ceiling as well as the 4 walls and ground.

Pausing:
Pressing upper or lower case "P" during play will cause the game to pause.
Just press the joystick trigger button or any key to resume play.

Quitting:
Press upper or lower case "Q" to quit the game during play. You will then
return to the copyright screen; press any key to get to the main menu. To
return to other software applications turn your computer off and reboot.

FLYING

Turning, Climbing and Diving:
When the aircaraft is turned in any horizontal direction, i.e. north, south,
east or west, you are adjusting its heading. Heading direction is displayed
in the heading indicator box and the radar screen.

When the nose of the aircraft is raised or lowered, you are adjusting its
pitch, causing it to move up or down. The degree of pitch is shown in the
pitch indicator box.

When the aircraft is rolled, or rotated to one side, the combination of air
pressure and velocity will force the plane into a banking turn. The degree
of roll is reflected in the roll indicator box.

                                  Dive
                         Dive/     |     Dive/
                       Bank Left\  |  /Bank Right
                                  \|/
                   Bank Left-------+-------Bank Right
                                  /|\
                        Climb/  /  |  \  Climb
                      Bank Left    |   Bank Right
                                 Climb

Use the joystick to manipulate pitch and roll.
(your heading will be affected by these 2 factors in combination):

      Top position = Nose Down (Dive)
    Right position = Banking turn to the right
     Left position = Banking turn to the left
   Bottom position = Nose Up (Climb)

Joystick Select:
The four diagonal positions can be set in one of two ways:

Option 1: The high speed roll. This is a banked turn, or roll, occuring at
such a high speed of rotation that the jet will actually proceed in a
straight line until released from it; upon release from the high speed roll,
the aircraft will continue to bank at the angle it is released from. This
ability to make faster, sharper turns makes the high speed roll an excellent
offensive tool.

Option 2: Pitch and roll combined. This combines the pitch and roll of the
two positions adjacent to the diagonal; for example, the bottom right corner
would produce a roll which climbs to the right. The pitch and roll combina-
tion produces a kind of corkscrew motion and, because it makes it very
difficult for an opponent to follow, it is an excellent defensive tool.

Throttle:
The throttle controls the thrust, or jet engine force, of the aircraft. The
throttle of each player's jet can be set during flight. The throttle will
always be set in the middle during the flyby but will conform to the player's
preferences following the activation of pilot control. Remebere that higher
throttle settings consume fuel faster.

The jet's rate of turn will decrease as it's speed increases. Likewise, the
jet's rate of turn will increase as it's speed decreases. This accurately
reflects the actual performance of a jet, just as a car turns more sharply
when it is going slow than at high speeds. To turn at the fastest rate,
therefore, slow down before turning.

  Amiga Throttle commands:
        Left Shift Key = increase in left players throttle
        Left "ALT" key = decrease in left players throttle
     "." key on keypad = increase in right players throttle
   Enter key on keypad = decrease in right players throttle

Jet Speed and Performance:
Two variables control the overall speed and performance of the combat;
throttle settings and grid size. For the slowest game, choose the 64x64 grid
with a low thrust setting; for the fastest game, choose the 8x8 grid with
the highest thrust. You can use a high throttle setting to offset low speeds
in a grid with many squares, or use a low throttle setting to compensate for
higher speeds in a grid with few squares. Selection of the paper airplane
will also increase the overall game speed.


A HISTORY OF DOGFIGHTS IN JET COMBAT

The history of the dogfight, head-to-head air combat issuing in the
destruction of one of the participants, is nearly as long as the history of
airplanes themselves. Dogfights have been around since WWI; but in fact,
most strategists of that time felt sure that dogfights would never outlast
the Great War. Leading military strategists, at almost every stage of air-
craft development, have felt that the new high speed technologies-whether it
be the propeller drive of the WWII Spitfire, or the supersonic power of the
Vietnam era's F4 Phantom jet-would render the dogfight impractical and
obsolete.

Dogfights, of course, have survived to the present day as one of the most
perilous, and strategically critical, parts of our national defense. Yet, if
dogfights are no less hazardous now than they were during the WWI era, that
is perhaps the only feature which has remained unchanged. A WWI flying ace
would have closed in on his opponent from the cockpit of a two- or even
three-winged plane providing maximum lift, since engineers and strategists
felt that maneuverability, more than speed, was crucial to combat success.

By the 1930's, bitter experience had taught air combat designers that great
maneuverability was all but useless against a higher speed aircraft that
could overtake a plane before it had time to execute a defensive maneuver.
This realization permanently changed the course of air combat design; now
the premium was on sheer speed and power. The first breakthrough in flight
speed came with propeller driven planes like the Spitfire, which can be
credited with the Allied victory in WWII's pivotal Battle of Britain.

The development of jet flight, and later, supersonic speeds seemed to lend
credence to the idea that dogfights were destined to become a relic of
"conventional" air combat. After all, how could two jets engage in head-to-
head combat at velocities faster than the speed of sound? Engineers of the F4
Phantom, in 1953, were so confident that dogfights were history that they
left guns out of the design completely, relying on missiles alone instead.

Supersonic speed brought unquestioned technical superiority, but it brought
a host of new challenges as well. High speed flights subjected pilots to
dangerous "G" forces, up to 9 times the force of gravity, which caused loss
of consciousness through oxygen deprivation. Along with immediately physical
hazards were mental ones; controlling the new, sophisticated jets required
that additional levels of expertise and attention be lavished on proliferat-
ing numbers of gauges and dials, diverting pilots dangerously away from the
combat at hand.

Today, jet fighter pilots must undergo extensive training and study to ensure
that they remain the masters, and not the victims, of the specialized
machines they fly. At Top Gun, the U.S. Navy Flight School, and at Red Flag,
the Flight School of the U.S. Air Force, would-be jet pilots train with jet
simulation tools much like Sky Chase; in fact, Sky Chase is modeled directly
on Flight School combat jet training maneuvers.

JET DETAILS

               McDonnell Douglas F-18 Hornet

The Hornet is a lightweight multi-mission aircraft produced in several
versions: 1) the carrier-based multi-role fighter; 2) the twin seat trainer;
and 3) the land-based attack fighter. It first flew in 1978. The aircraft
uses a single 20mm gun, and has a toal of nine external weapons stations,
allowing a wide range of air-to-air and air-to-ground weapons to be fitted.

  Engine: Twin GE F404-400 augmented turbofans; 16,000 lb thrust each
  Length: 56 ft
  Wingspan: 37 ft 6 in (w/out missiles); 40 ft 4.75 in (w/2 missiles)
  Height: 15 ft 3.5 in
  Weights: Empty 20,583 lb; loaded (air-air) 33,642 lb; loaded (ground
           attack) 48,253 lb; max load (catapult limit 50,064 lb)
  Max Speed: Mach 1.8 (1,190 mph), air-to-air loaded, at altitude
  Service Ceiling: Over 49,000 ft

               Grumman F-14 Tomcat

A variable geometry (swing wing) two seater carrier-based fighter, the Tomcat
first flew in 1970. It carries a 20mm gun, and can house four AIM-54 Phoenix,
AIM-7 Sparrow or AIM-120 Amraam air-to-air missiles on fuselage pallets.
Additional four air-to-air missiles (including Sidewinders) can be fitted on
wing pylons.

  Engines: Two 20,900 lb Pratt & Whitney TF3-412A
  Length: 62 ft 8 in
  Wingspan: 38 ft 2 in (68 degree sweep); 64 ft 1.5 in (20 degree sweep)
  Height: 16 ft
  Weights: Empty 37,500 lb; loaded (air-air) 55,000 lb; max load 72,000 lb
  Max Speed: Mach 2.34 (1,564 mph) at altitude; Mach 1.2 (910 mph) sea level
  Service Ceiling: Over 56,000 ft

               McDonnell Douglas F-15A Eagle

The eagle was selected as the US Air Force's response to the MIG 25 in 1969,
with the first prototype flying in 1972. It was developed almost solely as
a superiority fighter, although ground attack capabilities were explored
from the mid-70's. It has a single 20mm gun, and would typically be armed
with four AIM-7 Sparrow missiles, and has provision for four AIM-9 Sidewinder
missiles. Other armament includes conventional and smart bombs, stand off
General Electric Gepod multi-barrel 30 mm cannon and a range of ground
attack missiles.

  Engines: Twin 23,930 lb Pratt & Whitney F100-100 after burning turbofans
  Length: 63 ft 9 in
  Wingspan: 42 ft 9.75 in
  Height: 18 ft 7.5 in
  Weights: Empty 28,000 lb; loaded (air-air) 41,500 lb; max load 56,500 lb
  Max Speed: Mach 2.5 (1,653 mph), over 36,000 ft, AIM-7 armament only

               General Dynamics F-16A Fighting Falcon

The F-16A is a lightweight multi-role combat aircraft designed for both air-
to-air combat and ground attack. First prototypes flew in 1976. The aircraft
carries a 20mm gun, and can have a wide range of air-to-ground and air-to-air
weaponry fitted in stand-off position. In air combat mode it would typically
be equipped with Sidewinder heat seeking missiles.

  Engine: One 23,830 lb Pratt & Whitney F100-PW-200 augmented turbofan
  Length: 47 ft 7.7 in
  Wingspan: 31 ft (w/out missiles); 32 ft 10 in (w/missiles)
  Height: 16 ft 8.5 in
  Weights: Empty 15,137 lb; loaded (air-air) 23,357; max load 35,400 lb
  Max Speed: Mach 2.05 (1,350 mph) at 40,000 ft; Mach 1.2 (915 mph) sea level
  Service Ceiling: Over 50,000 ft

               Mikoyan/Gurevich MiG 27

The MIG 27 is the ground attack version of the MIG 23 and, like the 23, has
variable geometry. Basic armament is a 23mm multi-barrel gun, with a mix of
air-to-air and air-to-ground missiles and conventional bombs carried in
stand-off positions. First prototypes flew in 1970.

  Engine: One 25,353 ob Tumanksii R-29 series augmented turbofan
  Length: 53 ft 5 in
  Wingspan: 46 ft 9 in (16 degree sweep); 26 ft 9.5 in (72 degree sweep)
  Height: 14 ft 4 in
  Weights: Empty 22,000 lb; loaded (w/out external weapons) 34,170 lb;
           max load 44,310 lb
  Max Speed: Mach 1.6 (1,050) high alt; Mach 1.1 (762 mph) sea level
  Service Ceiling: 50,000 ft

               Mikoyan/Gurevich MiG-31 'Foxhound-A'

Faced with the requirement for a new long-range interceptor able to detect,
track and destroy low-visibility B-1 bombers carrying out their attacks at
low levels, the Soviet Union appears to be developing the fast, heavily
armed but short-legged MiG-25. Looking at the likely shape of the require-
ment and the potential of the original design, however, it seems that a much
altered MiG-25, with more efficient engines, new missiles, an improved radar
and control system, and with large external fuel tanks for increased range,
could form the basis for the worlds most powerful interceptor. First flown
in 1974-75, the Foxhound sports two 32,000 lb thrust turbojet engines that
allow it to reach speeds in excess of Mach 2.4 and attain a service ceiling
of 75,000 ft.

  Engine: Two 32,000 lb thrust turbojets
  Length: 75 ft 8 in
  Wingspan: 46 ft
  Max Speed: Maxh 2.4 
  Service Ceiling: 75,000 ft

               Maxis Paper Airplane

  ****************     
  *  TOP SECRET  *
  ****************

AIR COMBAT MANEUVERS

The maneuvers which follow are those which are actually employed by fighter
pilots in combat situations. To perfect your technique, you may wish to
practice these maneuvers initially at low speeds.

Break:
Aircraft A, under attack from the rear, turns hard, forcing aircraft B to
overshoot. Aircraft A is then able to turn back onto the tail of aircraft B.
The success of the break is dependent on the relative turn rates of the two
aircraft, as a high turn rate aircraft like the F16 or F18 could successfully
break from a MiG 27, but the latter would have difficulty returning the break
maneuver.

Scissors:
The scissors is basically a series of breaks, each aircraft in turn forcing
an overshoot by its enemy. It can continue until one or the other aircraft
initiates an alternative maneuver.

High G Yo-Yo:
Reacting to a break maneuver by aircraft A, aircraft B executes a shallower
turn than A, but at the same time climbs. The combination of the shallower
turn and climb is intended to leave B on A's tail after A executes a sharper
turn. Our MiG 27 facing an F16 would do well to consider this option.

Low G Yo-Yo:
A poorer performance aircraft can use this diving alternative of the High G
Yo-Yo. As A turns sharp B executes a shallower turn and dives, bringing its
nose up behind A's tail.

Flip Yo-Yo:
This time B rolls as it enters the low G Yo-Yo dive. This means it pulls
fewer negative G's, and allows it to pick up speed faster as it comes back
into a climb. If A pulls up sharp it is however possible for B to overshoot
because of excessive speed buildup.

Lag Pursuit:
As A attempts a Break, B positions itself behind and below its target, turn-
ing at the same rate, and keeping speed down by moving into a slight climb
every now and then.

Split S:
Attacker B has moved in too close to A during a Break. A rolls over and pulls
into a dive before B can respond. Rolling first means that the G's pulled are
positive, allowing A to accelerate better. Note that this maneuver, success-
fully executed, allows combat to be broken off.

Head On:
First class gunnery wins in this confrontation, but if neither hits as the
aircraft close, the "winner" of the maneuver is the aircraft with the tight-
est turning circle.

Vertical Loop:
By pulling up into a loop you can return the aircraft to the same flight
path, behind a pursuer, provided the pursuer does not react at all. More
typically it can be used to confuse the opponent prior to executing a
second manuever.

Immelmann:
The classic Immelmann is a combination half loop and roll, leaving the
aircraft flying in the opposite direction from the one it started in, and
at a higher altitude. In its tightest execution it is commenced by a vertical
climb and simultaneous rool, followed by a roll back onto the level at the
top of the climb. Less powerful aircraft will have to execute it in easier
stages.

Dive Loop:
As the aircraft is put into a dive it executes a half roll, pulling positive
G's and allowing a tighter turn; then it pulls onto the level at the bottom
of the dive. It is related to the Immelmann, but performed "in reverse".

AMIGA SYSTEM CARD (Reference Card)

At least one joystick is required. 2 joysticks are required to use the 2
player option.

Left player - Joystick port #2
Right Player- Joystick port #1

The mouse is not used in Sky Chase

Throttle Key Commands:

       Left Shift Key = increase left players throttle
       Left "ALT" Key = decrease left players throttle
    "." key on keypad = increase right players throttle
  ENTER key on keypad = decrease right players throttle

Complete docs to Sky Chase provided by MERKWooD of MAAD!