SLAMTILT
Typed out by DeCreator

THE MENU SYSTEM AND HOW TO USE IT

After you have seen the introduction sequence you will be presented with the main menu. From here you can access any part of the game (most of the selections will take you to other separate menus). Use the following controls to make your selections:

Key           Action
Cursor Down   move down through a menu
Cursor Up     move up through a menu
Return        select a menu item

In all menus, the currently selected option will be highlighted so as to stand out from the other options listed. N.B. Please note that the option to define keys allows you to assign game controls to a joystick or mouse as well as the standard keyboard.
GAME CONTROLS

Use the following controls to play the game:

Key(s)              Action
F1-F8             - select the number of players
Return            - launch a ball
LeftAlt           - flip any left flipper
RightAlt          - flip any right flipper
RightAmiga        - nudge the table to the right
LeftAmiga         - nudge the table to the left
Space Bar         - nudge the table upwards
Left Shift        - activate the Magnasaver on the Pirate table 
                    or the Lanechanger on the Ace of Space table
Right Shift       - activate the Magnasaver on the Ace of Space table
Left and RightAlt - quick-release a ball from a ball-trap

STARTING A TABLE

Once you have selected a table it will go into 'attract mode, where it scrolls up and down the screen waiting for you to start playing. To get a game underway, simply select the number of players (F1 for a 1 player game, F8 for an 8 player game, etc) and once a ball has been loaded into the chute, press the Return key and get flipping.
HIGH SCORES

At the end of a game, if you are lucky enough to have racked up a hiscore you will be asked to enter your name. Simply type in your name when prompted (up to 3 characters are allowed) and press Return. Your score will then be entered into the hiscore table and saved to disk for future reference.
THE TABLES AND HOW TO PLAY THEM

When reading the following instructions you will often come across numbers in brackets, e.g. (1 5). These numbers should be cross referenced with the table diagrams supplied as they indicate the areas and parts of the tables you'll need to access to enable the game's wide variety of bonuses, special features and modes.
MEAN MACHINES
SKILL SHOTS

Once a ball has been loaded into the chute, you will see a choice of two skill shot bonuses in the scorepanel - one will be a bonus score and the other will be an award, e.g. an extra ball. Select the bonus of your choice with the right flipper key.

Once you have shot the ball into the table you should aim to shoot the skull ramp (8) straight away (a skill shot) to collect your selected bonus. If you selected the score bonus you will collect 20,000,000 points and advance the next skill shot by 10,000,000 points.
MULTI-BONUSES

Bonus points are awarded for hitting most of the targets and bumpers in the table and your bonus score can be increased by enabling a bonus multiplier. To do this shoot the three gear lamps (15) to shift up a gear and collect the next bonus multiplier in the sequence. Bonus multipliers range from x2 to x5. If you manage to get to fifth gear you will enable an extra ball. The gear lamps can be cycled with the flipper keys.
KICKBACK

To enable the kickback (3) in the left sidelane, you have to spell "kick" by lighting up the four red lamps (0).
LANESAVER FEATURE

The lanesaver is a metal fence in the right sidelane (1 8) that forces the ball from the sidelane (where it would be lost) and into the insane, where you can continue to play with it.
THE GOAL FEATURE

During normal gameplay you can shoot the lap ball-trap (4) to gain a lap in the Formula 1 race - your lap status is shown on the checkerboard (1 3). Each time you complete a five lap race (classed as a 14 goal") you will enable a prize in the speed ball-trap (7), as follows: Goal Prize

1 LaneSaver feature
2 Sidelane Extra Ball feature
3 Extra Ball The extra ball can be collected by shooting the speed ball-trap (7).
SIDELANE EXTRA BALL FEATURE

In both the left and right sidelanes there is a red "XB" lamp (2). Only one of the two lamps can be lit at any one time - use the flipper keys to switch between the lamps. If a ball rolls over one of the lamps when it is lit, you will be awarded with an extra ball.
EXTRA BALL FEATURE

You are simply awarded an extra ball!
THE MILLION SKULL

Shooting the skull ramp (8) will flash the Skull Million lamp for 8 seconds. If you manage to shoot the ramp again while the skull lamp is flashing you will collect the Skull Million bonus (initially 5,000,000 points) and advance it by a further 5,000,000 points.
MODES

There are five modes, "Chicken Race(mode 1), "Monster Truck" (mode 2), "Liquid Rally Race" (mode 3), 'Formula 1 Race (mode 4) and "OffRoad Race', (mode 5) and they are indicated by the blue lamps on the mode board (16). When a mode lamp is flashing it ode has been selected and is ready to be enabled. If a mode lamp is lit indicates that the mode has been played. To cycle through the mode lamps, shoot the ball at the jet bumpers. Each hit will light the next available mode lamp. To  ball-trap (7) and then shoot the trap again to start the enable a mode shoot the speed pressing the Return key - locking a mode selected mode. It is possible to "lock" a mode by . The feature will work until you either start will simply stop other modes from being selected the locked mode or lose your ball.
CHICKEN RACE MODE

Prove yourself worthy in this head-on racing challenge. You have to drive three Chicken Races and in each race you will be shown (in the scorepanel) racing directly towards your opponent. Your aim is to shoot the lap ball-trap (4) in time to swerve and avoid a head-on collision. You will notice a decreasing timer in the top-left hand corner of the score panel - this shows you how long you've got before the collision occurs. The longer you wait (i.e. the less time is shown) the bigger bonus you'll collect after the races, but don't leave it too long or else the only thing you'll be collecting is a repair bill!
MONSTER CAR MODE

Use your Monster Car to crush as many smaller cars as possible. A timer will start and all six car lamps will start to flash. You should should aim to shoot the ramps and ball-traps that the car lamps indicate to crush a small car with your Monster Car. Each successful car lamp shot will award one car crush, 5,000,000 points and advance the next car crush value by a further 5,000,000 points. If you manage to crush all six cars within the time limit you will collect the Super Jackpot bonus.
RALLY RACE MODE

Ifs the last round of the great Liquid Rally - win here to claim the Liquid Championship and the grand prize. A timer will start and your map reader will indicate the direction of your next turn in the scorepanel. At the same time, a car lamp will be flashing somewhere on the table. Your aim is to shoot the ramp indicated by the flashing car lamp to make a correct turn on the rally course - making a correct turn will award 1 5,000,000 points and add a few more seconds to the timer. If you shoot any ramp other than the one indicated by the flashing car lamp you will make a wrong turn and crash. If you manage to make all the right turns and finish the rally you will collect a Super Jackpot bonus.
FORMULA 1 RACE MODE

Keep your cool and stay on the track for victory. This is a scorepanel video mode where you have to guide your speeding car around a winding track with the flipper keys. You will be awarded with 20,000,000 points for each successful lap of the track that you make, and if you manage to stay on the track for the full six laps you will collect an extra ball for your brilliant driving! Watch out for your energy level though - if you hit too many curbs you will drain your energy and your car will stop, ending the race!
OFFROAD RACE MODE

Race against the best offroad racers deep in the middle of the Sahara desert. This is a 3ball multiball mode. The car lamps will begin to flash all over the table and you should shoot them to overtake a rival buggy and collect a 15,000,000 point bonus. Each time you shoot a car lamp it will disable until you shoot another lamp. The mode will last as long as you can keep more than one ball in the table.
SHORT MODES

These modes are enabled during normal gameplay. You will see a red, yellow and green lamp at the entrances of the skull ramp (8) and the left ramp (5). Each time you shoot either of these ramps you will advance through their respective red, yellow and green lamps in that order. Once you have advanced to the green lamp on either r@mp you will enable two short modes, as follows:

Ramp              Short modes enabled

Skull ramp       Stock Car mode and Drag Race mode
Left ramp        Kick Start mode and Cliff Jumper mode

If you shoot the skull ramp (8) or the left ramp (5) while they are showing a flashing green lamp you will disable the modes that they previously enabled but you will collect a "speed" letter (see "Speed mode" below for further details).
CLIFF JUMPER MODE

A test to see it you really are a dare-devil driver! To start Cliff Jumper mode, shoot the left ramp (5) when the jump lamp is flashing. Try to jump your JetCar from one cliff to another by pressing the flipper or Return keys when the rev counter shown in the score panel is indicating maximum revs (it helps to listen to the engine tone). Your car will then attempt the jump and if it is successful you will collect a 30,000,000 point Jackpot bonus and advance the next jump Jackpot by 15,000,000 points.
KICKSTART MODE

Kickstart your bike and try for the longest wheelie. To start Kickstart mode, shoot the centre ramp (6) when the kick lamp is flashing. This mode uses a magnet underneath the table. Once you've shot the centre ramp (6) the magnet (17) will activate and grab the ball. A timer will count down in the score panel and when it reaches zero the ball will be released and you should try to flip it into the engine lane (11) to perform a wheelie and collect a 25,000,000 point Jackpot bonus. When the ball exits the engine lane (11) try to shoot it back through the lane to collect 1 0,000,000 points - if you are skilled enough you can make this shot time after time to collect the bonus, or you light the wheel and puncture a tyre on your car. If you manage to puncture all four of your tyres you will start the Pit Stop mode. A timer will start and your aim is to repair your punctured tyres. To repair a type simply shoot one of the ramps showing a lit wheel lamp. If you can fix all four tyres you will be awarded with a Jackpot bonus.
OVERHEAT MODE

The Overheat mode can be started even if there is another mode active. If you look at the inlanes and sidelanes you will notice some yellow lamps (1). These lamps will light up when the ball rolls over them and once you have lit at least one or two lamps, you can cycle them by pressing the flipper keys. When all five lamps have been lit the Overheat mode will start. In the scorepanel you will see a massive 75,000,000 point bonus start to decrease you should now aim to shoot the blue target (1 9) as quickly as possible to collect the bonus shown in the panel.
PIRATES
	
SKILL SHOTS

Once you have shot the ball into the table you should aim to shoot the left ramp (3) straight away (a 99 skill shot") to collect 10,000,000 points.
MULTI-BONUSES

Bonus points are awarded for hitting most of the targets and bumpers in the table. Your bonus score can be increased by enabling a bonus multiplier - to do this shoot the Skull ramp (1) to light the skull lamps (for some of the higher multi-bonuses you will have to light the skulls more than once). You should now shoot the bail into the right ball-trap (7) to collect the next multi-bonus in the sequence. Bonus multipliers range from x2 to x12.
KICKBACK

To enable the kickback (12) in the right sidelane, light up the three Mermaid lamps (9).
SKILL SHOTS

Once you have shot the ball into the table you should aim to shoot the left ramp (3) straight away (a 99 skill shot") to collect 10,000,000 points.
MULTI-BONUSES

Bonus points are awarded for hitting most of the targets and bumpers in the table. Your bonus score can be increased by enabling a bonus multiplier - to do this shoot the Skull ramp (1) to light the skull lamps (for some of the higher multi-bonuses you will have to light the skulls more than once). You should now shoot the bail into the right ball-trap (7) to collect the next multi-bonus in the sequence. Bonus multipliers range from x2 to x12.
KICKBACK

To enable the kickback (12) in the right sidelane, light up the three Mermaid lamps (9).
RAMP COMBOS

Each time you shoot ramps quickly in succession you will collect a combo bonus. The bonus starts at 1,000,000 points but each time you shoot a combo you add another 1,000,000 points to it. Collecting 25 combos will enable an extra ball in the right ball-trap (7).
PIRANHA POPS

Hit both the Piranha targets (18) repeatedly to collect Piranha pops. For every ten Piranha pops that you collect, the jet bumper value will advance to 2,000,000 points per hit, up to a maximum of ten hits.
THE MERMAID BALL-TRAP

Shooting the Mermaid ball-trap (8) at any time will award you with the Mermaid bonus. The Mermaid bonus starts at 1,000,000 points but can be advanced through a special award from the Magnatable feature.
MAGNASAVER

The Magnasaver (1 0) is enabled by shooting the two small grey targets (1 4) and then the right ball-trap (7). To use it, simply press the left special (shift) key.
THE CAVE BALL-TRAP

If you shoot the Cave ball-trap (2) you will lock your ball away and enable a feature or mode. Different features or modes are enabled depending on how many balls you lock, as follows:

No. of balls    Feature/Mode

1               MagnaTable feature
2               Crocodile Multiball mode
3               Storm Multiball mode
4               Battle Multiball mode
5               Mutiny Multiball mode

If you have enabled a multiball mode and during it you manage to lock a ball in the Cave ball-trap, you will simply advance the Jackpot value for that particular multiball mode. N.B. If you enable the MagnaTable feature you will also have to shoot the left flipper lane where the yellow lamp will be lit before the MagnaTable will activate.
THE MAGNATABLE

The MagnaTable (15) is a magnetic playfield where the ball can be repelled by the two magnets placed underneath the red lamps. Once the MagnaTable is enabled be quick to access it by shooting the top ball-trap (5). The magnets are controlled by the flipper keys. Your objective is to get the ball locked between the magnets and collect a randomly chosen award.
THE ADVENTURES

The Adventures are game modes and are indicated by the mode lamps (1 7). When a mode lamp is flashing it indicates that the mode has been selected and is ready to be enabled. If a mode lamp is lit constantly it indicates that the mode has been played. To cycle through the mode lamps, shoot the ball at the jet bumpers. Each hit lights the next available mode lamp. To enable a mode shoot the right ramp (6), and to start it shoot the top-left ramp (4).
WALK THE PLANK MODE

Try to break free from the ropes before the pirates force you into the sea! Every ramp on the table will show a lit lamp. Shoot the ramps to turn oft the lamps and snap the ropes which bind you - you will snap one rope for each ramp shot. If you manage to snap all of the ropes shoot the top ball-trap (5) to collect the Super Jackpot bonus.
SWORDFIGHT MODE

Swing that sword! Shoot any lit ramp or ball-trap to collect a Jackpot bonus. Each time you shoot a ball-trap, bumper or drop-target you will advance the value of the Jackpot.
TREASURE DIVE MODE

Dive to the bottom of the sea to find the sunken treasure. Shoot any lit ramp or ball-trap to dive deeper into the sea. Your descent rate can be advanced by shooting any ball-traps, bumpers or drop-targets. If you manage to get to the bottom you will find the treasure and be awarded with the Super Jackpot bonus.
MONKEY BUSINESS MODE

A very annoying monkey has stolen your treasure map and you want it back. Each time you shoot at a flashing lamp you will get one piece of the map back. If you manage to get the whole map you will be awarded with a Super Jackpot bonus.
SHARK ATTACK MODE

An angry shark is intent on eating you for lunch so you'd better try to escape from his jaws by swimming faster! Shoot any ramps, ball-traps or targets to swim faster and put seconds between you and the shark. If you can put 34 seconds between you and him you will escape and be awarded with a Super Jackpot bonus.
KNIFE THROWING MODE

This is a video mode where the game is played in the score panel. In this mode you have to throw knives at your enemies who have come alongside in their ship, while trying to avoid their cannon fire. Use the flipper keys to move left and right, and the Return key to throw a knife (knives will be automatically thrown at your enemies if you prefer to play an easier left/right dodging game). If you manage to kill all of your enemies you will be awarded with an Extra Ball,
MULTIBALL MODES

If you have enabled a multiball mode by shooting the Cave ball-trap (2), you can prime the mode by shooting the ball into the top ball-trap (5). You will then see an enemy ship in the score panel with a gun-sight sweeping across it - your aim is to hit the ship by pressing a flipper key when the sight is directly over the ship. If you are successful the ball will be shot from the cannon (1 3), starting the multiball mode. If you miss the ship you will lose one of your enabled Cave locks shown at the entrance to the Cave ball-trap (2). The compass (1 6) indicates which multiball modes you have played.
CROCODILE MULTIBALL MODE

The hungry crocodiles are hunting you down and you must throw bombs at them to escape their gnashing teeth! This is a 2-ball multiball mode. To blow up a crocodile and collect a Jackpot bonus, shoot any flashing Jackpot lamp. You can advance the value of the Jackpot bonus by shooting the Cave ball-trap (2).
STORM MULTIBALL MODE

Save your ship from the raging rainstorm. This is a 3-ball multiball mode. To collect a Jackpot bonus, shoot any flashing Jackpot lamps. You can advance the value of the Jackpot bonus by shooting the Cave ball-trap (2).
BATTLE MULTIBALL MODE

Sink the enemy ships that have just sailed into your territory. This is a 3-ball multiball mode. To shoot a ship and collect a Jackpot bonus, shoot any flashing Jackpot lamps. You can advance the value of the Jackpot bonus by shooting the Cave ball-trap (2).
MUTINY MULTIBALL MODE

Some of your men have started a mutiny and you need regain control by taking them on with your bare hands. This is a 4-ball multiball mode. To defeat a crewman and collect a Jackpot bonus, shoot any flashing Jackpot lamps. You can advance the value of the Jackpot bonus by shooting the Cave ball-trap (2).
FINAL MODE - TREASURE ISLAND MODE

You and your men have finally found the legendary treasure Island - now all you have to do to try and find its treasure is get digging. This is a 4-ball multiball mode. To dig a hole, find some treasure and collect a Jackpot bonus, simply shoot any flashing Jackpot lamps. To advance the value of the Jackpot bonus shoot the Cave ball-trap (2). Once you collected any number of Jackpots the Super Jackpot bonus will be enabled in the top ball-trap (5).
ACE OF SPACE
SKILL SHOTS

Shoot the ball into the table, & aim to shoot the right ramp (1 1) straight away (a "skill shot") to collect 1 0,000,000 points and advance the skill shot value by 5,000,000 points.
MULTI-BONUSES

Bonus points are awarded for hitting most of the targets and bumpers in the table and your bonus score can be increased by enabling a bonus multiplier. To do this shoot the three weapon lamps (1 7) to collect a better weapon and the next bonus multiplier in the sequence. Bonus multipliers range from x2 to x10. Weapon lamps are cycled with the flipper keys.
KICKBACK

To enable the kickback (1) in the left sidelane, light up the four grey lamps (4).
RAMP COMBOS

Each time you shoot ramps in quick succession you will collect a combo bonus. The bonus starts at 1,000,000 points & each time you shoot a combo you add another 1,000,000 points to it. Collecting 20 combos will enable a combo extra ball in the top ball-trap (7). Each time you collect a combo extra ball, the number of combos you have to shoot to collect the next one will double. NB: Ramp combos are not effective during modes.
MAGNASAVER

The Magnasaver (1 5) is enabled by lighting all three weapon lamps (1 7). To use it, simply press the right special (shift) key.
SHIP SPEED

The faster your ship can travel, the bigger speed bonus you'll be able to collect. To increase the speed of your ship, shoot the lit right inlane (3) and then shoot the loop (8) within six seconds. If you increase your speed and then do not manage to increase it further within fifteen seconds, you will lose your current speed and slow down to the next grade. Each time you increase your speed you will be awarded with a speed bonus, which will be indicated on the speed board (14). These are the available bonuses:

Speed grade   Speed bonus

Cruise speed  4,000,000
Light speed   6,000,000
Warp speed    8,000,000
Lunatic speed 10,000,000

If you manage to get to Lunatic speed, shooting the loop (8) will award you with 20,000,000 points and your speed will be reset for another speed attempt.
LANECHANGER

You can use the left special (shift) key to change the ball's direction when it travels through the spaceship in the loop (8).The current direction is shown by the ship' s lights (16).
MULTIBALL MODE

To enable the 3-ball multiball mode, shoot and lock three balls in the top ball-trap (7). Once you've done this, quickly shoot the ball into the airlock ball-trap (1 0) while the "m-ball" lamp is flashing to start the mode. Each time you start the multiball mode, the number of balls that you have to lock in the top ball-trap (7) to enable the mode again increases by one. During the mode, shoot any ramp showing a flashing lamp to enable the Jackpot bonus. The Jackpot bonus will double if you shoot two ramps and triple if you manage to shoot 3 ramps. Once you've enabled the Jackpot, collect it by shooting the top ball-trap (7).
THE MISSION MODES

There are four missions to complete, "Asteroid Field", "Space Race", "Hack the Net" and "Blam". To enable a mission mode, shoot the space station ball-trap (5) - this will light a random orange mission lamp at the entrance to one of the ramps (6), (8), (1 1) or (1 2). You can enable as many of the four missions as you want at any one time. To start a mission mode simply shoot the ramp bearing the mission you want to play, but bear in mind that once you've started a mission, any other mission modes that you may have enabled will be disabled. After you have played all four missions you will enable a Super Jackpot bonus in the space station ball-trap (5).
ASTEROID FIELD MISSION MODE

Your mission is to destroy the asteroid belt ahead of your ship. To destroy an asteroid and collect 5,000,000 points, shoot either the space station ball-trap (5), the top ball-trap (7), the mode ball-trap (9) or the airlock bail-trap (1 0). Each time you destroy an asteroid you will advance the bonus value of the next asteroid by 500,000 points.
SPACE RACE MISSION MODE

Your mission is simple - win the Space Race. Shoot any lit ramp or ball-trap to gain a position in the race. If you can shoot the top ball-trap (7) you will 11 jump directly to first position. Once you have moved to the position of your choice, shoot the loop (8) to enter the goal - depending on which position you have reached you will receive a bonus (5,000,000 points per position, starting at position five). Any position below 5 awards you with nothing.
HACK THE NET MISSION MODE

Your mission is to hack into the heavily protected CyberNet & you have to try ' several different passwords to break the code. To try a password, shoot any flashing ramp. If you are successful, you will collect a massive 75,000,000 point bonus.
BLAM! MISSION MODE

Your mission is to destroy several different alien targets with your plasma-gun. To take a shot at a target and collect 1 0,000,000 points, shoot any flashing ramp. If you manage to destroy all the targets you will be challenged with a final target - shoot the top-ball trap (7) to fire at the final target and collect 30,000,000 points!
MODES

The five modes are indicated by the mode lamps (18). When a mode lamp is flashing it indicates that the mode has been selected and is ready to be enabled. If a mode lamp is lit constantly it indicates that the mode has been played. To cycle through the mode lamps , shoot the ball at the let bumpers. Each hit will light the next available mode lamp. To enable a mode shoot the Blam! ramp (1 2), and to start it shoot the mode ball-trap (9).
ALIEN ATTACK MODE

This is a 3-ball multiball mode. Your objective is to kill as many aliens as possible with your flame-thrower before you lose your multiballs. To kill an alien and collect 1 0,000,000 points, shoot any lit ramp. If you manage to kill all of the aliens, i.e. shoot ail of the ramps you will enable a Super Jackpot bonus of 30,000,000 points in the top ball-trap (7)
LIGHT SABRE MODE

In this mode you have to fight against and try to defeat your worst enemy with your trusty light sabre. When the mode starts you will see your enemy's power rating in the top right corner of the scorepanel. To defeat him you have to shoot any of the ramps, jet bumpers or targets until his power rating drops to one unit. When you've achieved this, shoot the top ball-trap (7) to finish him off and collect the Super Jackpot bonus.
DEATH PLANET MODE

Death Planet is a video mode where all the action takes place in the score panel. In the mode you have to fly your ship through six levels of the inner tunnels of the Death Planet to try and reach to it's centre, where your aim is to destroy the PowerCore and explode the whole planet. Steer your ship left and right with the flipper keys. For each level of tunnels you fly through you will be awarded with a multi-million bonus and if you manage to get to the centre and then destroy the planet you will be awarded with an extra ball.
WALKER MODE

This is a 2-ball multiball mode. Your objective is to destroy as many Walkers as possible. At the start of the mode a gun-sight will appear in the score panel and start to travel from right to left. Use the Return key and your skill and judgement to shoot down the Walker. The second ball will then be shot into play and you should try to shoot the mode ball-trap (9) to lock the ball and re-display the gun-sight in the panel so that you get a chance to destroy another Walker. Play continues in this fashion until the mode ends. You will collect 15,000,000 points for each Walker you manage to destroy,
SPEED BIKES MODE

In this mode you are trying to catch and destroy another of your worst enemies on your flying speed bike. You will see your enemy dodging left and right in the score panel. Your aim is to take pot-shots at him by shooting the left ramp (6) when he is on the left side of the score panel and to shoot the Blam! ramp (12) when he is on the right hand side. You will collect 30,000,000 points for each direct hit.
FINAL MODE

The Big Blam - Destroy the whole universe!

When you have played through every mode, the final mode will be enabled in the mode ball-trap (g). This mode is a 4-ball multiball mode. Simply shoot any ramp to explode a planet and collect a Jackpot bonus!
NIGHT OF DEMONS
MULTI-BONUSES

Bonus points are awarded for hitting most of the targets and bumpers in the table. Your bonus score can be increased by enabling a bonus multiplier - to do this light the three "6" lamps (11). Bonus multipliers range from x2 to x8. The "6" lamps can be cycled via the flipper keys.
KICKBACK

To enable the kickback (1) in the left sidelane, light up the three " skull" lamps (10).
THE CLOCK TOWER

Hit all five of the right-hand targets (1 3) to light the five lamps and enable a random award in the Clock Tower bail-trap (3)
CLOCK TOWER MULTIBALL

Shoot the ClockTower ball-trap (3) three times to light the three green clock lamps and start the Clock Tower multiball mode. This is a 3-ball multiball mode. Your aim is to shoot the flashing ramps to enable the Jackpot and then collect it by locking balls in the Clock Tower ball-trap (3), top ball-trap (7) or Wolf ball-trap (8). The Jackpot will be multiplied by the number of balls you manage to lock away. After you've collected a Jackpot bonus, restart the mode by shooting the flashing ramps again, although you will have to shoot a few more ramps than before to enable the Jackpot (the scorepanel will indicate how many ramps you need to shoot).
MODES

There are two different types of modes available in this table, "Wolf" modes and "Spirit" modes. The "Wolf" modes are shown on the lamps at the bottom of the table (2), and the "Spirit" modes are shown by the spirit lamps half-way up the table (1 5). When a mode lamp is flashing it means that the mode has been selected and is ready to be enabled. If a mode lamp is lit constantly it indicates that the mode has been played. To cycle through both sets of mode lamps, shoot either the left ramp (4), centre left ramp (5) or centre right ramp (6).
SPIRIT MODES

There are four Spirit modes available in the table, "Zombie Zone "Witchcraft", "Twice-Pain and "Exterminate Vampires' . To enable a Spirit mode, shoot the top ball. Once the next spirit lamp in the sequence is lit (15) shoot the ball up the right ramp (9) to start the lit mode.
ZOMBIE ZONE MODE

Defend yourself with your axe from the evil zombies!

To kill a zombie shoot at any ramp showing a flashing yellow lamp. You will be awarded with 5,000,000 points for every zombie you kill. To raise the zombie value by 1,000,000 points shoot the bail into the Tower ball-trap (3), top ball-trap (7) or the Wolf ball-trap (8). You can also raise the zombie value by shooting the moon targets (12), the right-hand targets (1 3) or the jet and kicker bumpers.
WITCHCRAFT MODE

Battle with evil witchcraft to destroy the she-devil. During this mode a magnet is enabled in the middle of the table (14) which will have strange effects on your ball while you try to collect the bonuses on the ramps (2,000,000 points) and ball-trap (5,000,000 points). if your ball fails down a sidelane the mode will end but the ball saver will rescue the ball from failing right out of the table and propel it back into normal play.
TWICE-PAIN MODE

Swing your sword to defeat the vicious twin-headed monster. Twice-Pain is a 2-ball multiball mode. You have a limited time to try and chop oft the monsters heads by shooting the ball into the Tower (3) or Wolf (8) ball-traps. If you are successful you will collect 15,000,000 points for each head you chop oft. Also during this mode, shoot the top ball-trap (7) & you will collect a double bonus, and shooting any ramp or ball-trap will award 1,000,000 points.
EXTERMINATE VAMPIRES MODE

Use the stakes to kill the vampires before they can rise at dusk! Shoot any ramp which shows a flashing yellow lamp to kill a vampire. You will collect 10,000,000 points for each vampire that you kill, and the fourth and final vampire is worth a massive 30,000,000 points.
WOLF MODES

There are three Wolf modes available in the table, "Escape from the Mega Mutant Meatball", "Grave Digger" and "Bat Butcher". To enable these modes, shoot the: i) Centre right ramp (6) for "Escape from the Mega Mutant Meatball" ii) Centre left ramp (5) for "Grave Digger" ill) Left ramp (4) for "Bat Butcher" Once a mode is enabled, shoot the Wolf ball-trap (8) to start it.
ESCAPE FROM THE MEGA MUTANT MEATBALL MODE

Try to escape from a Swedish Mega Mutant Meatball before he catches up with you and devours you for breakfast. Shoot any targets, ramps or ball-traps to run faster from the clutches of the Meatball. The faster you run the more seconds you will put between you and the Meatball and if you run fast enough to put 33 seconds between you and him you will escape and collect 50,000,000 points.
GRAVE DIGGER MODE

Search the coffins for the treasure of the dead......
Shoot the ball up any ramps showing a flashing yellow lamp to open a coffin and hopefully find the treasure. Each and every time you open a coffin with no treasure inside, the treasure value (points bonus) will decrease,
BAT BUTCHER MODE

Shoot the flying bat from the sky with your shotgun. The bat will flit around in the scorepanel and at the same time the yellow lamps at the entrances to the ramps will indicate the bat's current position. If you are lucky enough to shoot a ramp when its lamp is lit you will shoot down the bat and collect 25,000,000 points.
VIDEO MODES

There are two video modes to be played in this table, "Werewolf" and "No brain no pain". TO enable a video mode, hit all four moon targets (12).
WEREWOLF VIDEO MODE

To start this mode shoot the bail into the Wolf ball-trap (8). Now repeatedly press the flipper keys as fast as you can to shoot at the werewolf and stop him from attacking you. You will be awarded 5,000,000 points for killing the first werewolf and every subsequent werewolf killed will advance the award by a further 5,000,000 points.
NO BRAIN NO PAIN VIDEO MODE

To start this mode shoot the ball into the top ball-trap (7). When the mode starts you have to try and keep track of where the brain is going while the skulls are rotated. Once the skulls stop moving you have to select the skull that you think the brain is in (use the flipper keys to select a skull and then press Return). Choose correctly to collect 50,000,000 points.
FINAL MODE

Once you have completed all of the Spirit and Wolf modes, a 4-ball multiba@i mode ("Demon's Night") will start. During this mode you should try to shoot the ball up the ramps and into the ball-traps as many times as you can as each time you do you will collect the Jackpot. The size of the Jackpot depends on how many balls you have in play - the more balls, the bigger the Jackpot value:

No. of balls Jackpot

2 balls      7,000,000 points
3 balls      8,500,000 points
4 balls      10,000,000 points

Each fifth Jackpot you collect will shoot another ball into play, up to a maximum of 4 balls at any one time. If you manage to get 4 balls back into play you will be awarded 35,000,00 points!