                                 SlipStream
                              complete docs by
                               MERKWooD/MAAD

As you sit strapped firmly into the seat of your Emerald Fighter, the
darkness of the nothership's launch bay hovers around you. Above you,
projected onto the glass ceiling of your cockpit, gleams a long range scan
of the stream, from which you try to memorize the pattern of the ground
defenses. You know deep down however, that only by instinct will you survive.

The launch countdown starts on the monitor in front of you, T minus 60,...
T minus 59... Calmly, you go through the system startup checks. System
computer funtioning...Check. Long range scanner functioning...Check. Turbo
thrust functioning...Check. Tracto beam powered up...Check. T minus 5...4...
3...2...1

Suddenly you find yourself crushed into the back of your seat by the G-Force
of your fighter pulling away from the mothership. Many thoughts shoot through
your head, but only one remains...

"I must destroy the Crystal, I must destroy the Crystal, I must..."

                                The Game

The 9 streams of the Slip Stream have been overtaken by an alien race who
have populated them with various defense crafts. Thes craft are powered by
a crystal at the end of each stream. It is your mission to fly through each
stream, destroying the power crystal at the end to deactivate the defense
craft, and liberate the 9 streams of the Slip Stream.

You will be dropped into each stream by your mothership. Destroy as much of
the landscape and as many of the defense craft as possible, but, above all
you must destroy the power crystal at the end of each stream. Failure to do
so means you waste one of your three chances to complete the mission.

As you work through the missions, you will find many different types of
ground installations including; Pyramids, Sqyramids, Tunnels, Walls that need
to be blasted through, stalactites and stalagmites, and you may even find
yourself flying underground!

REMEMBER, you can only fly within the stream...not outside it!

                                Controls

Use a joystick in port 2 to maneuver your fighter. In 2 player mode each
player takes turns using the same joystick. From the title screen, press the
FIRE button to bring up the options screen. These options are available:

  F1 - Selects one or two player game.
  F2 - Selects calm or stormy weather conditions.
  F3 - Selects sound effects on or off.
  F4 - Selects random or normal missions. Normal missions require winning
       each stream in sequence. Random missions lets you attempt the missions
       in random order.
  ESC- Quits a game in progress.
  P  - Pauses the game. Press "P" again or move the joystick to unpause.
  FB - (Fire Button) Starts the game.

NOTE: Each time you crash, your next fighter will be launched from the
mothership. To skip the mothership launch sequence just press the fire button

                                Scoring

You score points by destroying enemy craft and the ground installations.
Player 1's score is displayed at the top left of the screen during play and
player 2's score is at the top right. The number of fighters remaining for
each player is shown top center.

  Points
    Small Pyramids            10 points
    Tall Pyramids             50 points
    Sqyramids                 100 points
    Spaceships                200-500 points
    Power Crystal             1000 points

                             High-Score Table

If your score is high enough you will get to enter your name in the High-
score table. To do this move the joystick Up or Down to alter the current
letter in your name, and Left or Right to move to a different letter. When
finished press the fire button.