			SOLITAIRE ROYALE DOCS

			      CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION.........................................................4
HISTORY..............................................................4
LOADING INSTRUCTIONS.................................................5
GENERAL RULES FOR GAME PLAY..........................................5
COMMON TERMS.........................................................6
THE GAMES OF SOLITAIRE ROYALE........................................9
SCORING.............................................................26
TOUR(AUNT ANNE'S GAME)..............................................26
TOURNAMENT PLAY.....................................................27
CHILDREN'S GAMES....................................................29
ADDITIONAL READING..................................................48


			    INTRODUCTION

Welcome to the world of Solitaire Royale. Each of the eleven card games
included is uniquely challenging,and successful play will depend on a skillful
mastery of card stategy and,of course,a bit of luck!

Names like Pyramid,Golf,Klondike,Canfield,Corners,Calculation,Thee Shuffles and
a Draw,and Reno will soon take on new meaning as you become immersed in one of
the most entertaining and addicting collections of computer games ever created!

Playing the Tour of all the different games will allow you to compete with
yourself or others. As you improve your play in the Tour,you'll see your scores
increase. A leader board will keep track of the highest scores.

In Tournament Play,you can directly challenge an opponent(more than one,if you
like)to achieve the highest score. Any of the eight games comprising the Tour
may be chosen for the competition,or if you prefer,use the whole collection for
a complete challenge. Any number of players can enter the competition,with the
top five scores at any time being recorded. Solitaire Royale will lay out the
deal of each game exactly the same for all players.

In addition to the eight games that make up the Tour,there are three other
formats designed for young children. Most of us have probably played these
games at an early age. The Children's Games are fun ways to learn basic
solitaire techniques,and are excellent learning tools for the development of
visual recognition and memory skills. Let the kids play them over and over. Who
knows. They may challenge you to a game of Klondike before long!

			      HISTORY

Although there is no precise historical record of where or when solitaire was
actually created,historians agree that the game was introduced to northern
Europe sometime in the fourteenth century. Even so,it was not until the 1800's
that someone recorded rules for a solitaire game. In the beginning,it was a
game played primarily by invalids,but the general populace soon became enamored
of these "games of patience" consisting of beautifully illustrated cards
adorned with images of royalty. The names of these games were listed almost
always in French:La Bell Lucie,Les Quatre Coins,L'Horloge,La Nivernaise,La Loi
Salique,Le Carre Napoleon,etc. Many retain their French title today.

				4

By the beginning of the 1900's,there was no shortage of books written for the
game of solitaire. The inspiration for these books can be traced back to the
old titles "Patience" by Cheney and "Amusements for Invalids" by Henshaw. A
list of modern titles at the end of this guid will provide additional reading
on the rules and strategy surrounding solitaire games.

			LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Turn on the computer. (Amiga 1000 owners must use Kickstart.) When prompted for
the Workbench disk, place the Solitaie Royale disk into the drive. The game
will "auto boot."

If your computer is already running the Workbench,place the Solitaire Royale
disk in the drive. Double-click on the disk icon,and then double-click on the
Solitaire Royale icon.

If your running CLI,place the Solitaire Royale disk in the drive,and log onto
the drive. Then type solit and press RETURN.

		     GENERAL RULES FOR GAME PLAY

Your mouse has two buttons. Hold down the RIGHT button to display the menu bar.
Move the pointer beneath the title you want,and then "pull down" the menu. Drag
the pointer to highlight the item you want,and release the mouse button.

Use the LEFT button to select(and de-select)cards.

Several of the menu items may be selected from the keyboard. (See the section
beginning on page 36.)Hold down the AMIGA* key(located to the right of the
spacebar)and the appropriate letter key simultaneously.

Use your mouse to point the hand cursor at any card(or column)you wish to
select.

Click the mouse button to select the desired care(or column). The card will
highlist when it is selected.(Clicking the button again will deselect the
card.)

*This key has a hollow letter "A" on it. The key on the left side of the
spacebar,possibly with a solid "A" on it,is the "Commodore key." If the key on
the left has a "Commodore" symbol on it,the key on the right is solid.

				5

Use your mouse to move the cursor to the location where you want the selected
card to be played,and click the mouse button again.

If the move is not valid,the card will not move.

			 COMMON TERMS

There are ten unique and attractive card decks that are available for use in
Solitaire Royale. However,certain standard characteristics of playing cards in
general(related to appearance)stay the same in each game. For example,the cards
are organized according to suit and color. The suits are Hearts,Diamonds,Clubs,
and Spades. The Hearts and Diamonds are "red" while the Clubs and Spades are
"black." Each suit has thirteen cards in it with "face values" ranging from the
Ace,2,3,4,etc.,all the way up to Jack(11),Queen(12),and King(13).

All of the Solitaire Royale games have two basic goals in common:

Move all cards to the foundation;or

Remove the cards from the screen completely.

With these goals in mind,the following terms are used in each game:

The foundation is a pile(or piles)where cards are laid in a specific order
during the course of a game. Some games will not have a foundation,as the
objective may be to completely remove the cards from the screen. The foundation
receives cards from the tableau,holding pile,stock,and waste pile.

The tableau is the general layout of cards,upon which other cards are played
prior to moving them to either the foundation or the waste pile. Cards placed
on the tableau after the opening layout may come from either the holding pile,
stock,or waste pile.

				6

The stock is the remainder from a standard deck of 52 playing cards not yet
displayed on the screen. The player turns(exposes)cards from the stock,either 1
or 3 cards at a time,as the game is being played.

The waste pile is made up of cards turned from the stock that cannot be played
as yet to the tableau or foundation. In most game situations,the top card is
available for play onto the tableau or foundation. As each top card is played,
the one below it becomes available. In some games the waste pile can be turned
over and replayed after the last stock card has been "turned" to it.

The holding pile consists of cards that are placed face down on the screen,to
be turned up 1 at a time for play on the tableau or foundation according to the
rules of the specific game. As each top card is played,the card below it
becomes available for play.

The score is the number of cards that have either been removed from the screen
or moved to the foundation after all possible plays have been made. The highest
score wins in any Solitaire Royale game,and 52 is the highest possible score
per game.

				7

			THIS PAGE IS BLANK

				8

		    THE GAMES OF SOLITAIRE ROYALE

				9

			    PYRAMID

			(SHOWS DECK OF CARDS)

				10

The objective of PYRAMID is to clear the screen of all cards(tableau,stock and
waste pile).

Twenty-eight cards have been dealt into a pyramid-shaped tableau,where the rows
of 1 to 7 cards are overlapping. Only the fully exposed cards are "available"
to be played(with one exception,noted below).

The cards are removed from the screen in pairs that total 13 points,with the
card "point value" equal to its face value. Since the King has a value of 13,it
is the only card that's removed by itself. The Queen(12)is removed with the
Ace,the Jack(11) with the 2,the 10 with the 3,the 9 with the 4,the 8 with the
5,and the 6 with the 7. Removal of cards is done without regard to suit or
color.

Cards are removed by first selecting one "available" card(it will light up)and
then selecting its "available" pair. If the two cards selected total 13 points,
they will disappear from the screen.

An exception to the "available card" rule on the tableau is if a card is
covered only by its pair,then both cards can be removed by selecting the fully
exposed card first.

Begin play be removing all the pairs(or Kings)that can be played from the
tableau. Then,turn the cards from the stock one at a time,pairing the stock
card with either an available card from the tableau or the top card of the
waster pile.(The top cards from the stock and waste pile,and available cards
from the tableau,are all playable.)If the stock card cannot be played,it is
placed on the waste pile.

The game is over when no more "pairs" can be removed. To "win" you must remove
all the cards from the screen(stock,waste pile and tableau).

				11

				GOLF

			(SHOWS DECK OF CARDS)

				12

The object of GOLF is to move all the cards to the foundation(one pile,in this
case).

The tableau has been dealt thirty-five cards(7 accorss and 5 down,overlapping).
Only fully exposed cards in the tableau and the top card of the stock are
available to play on the foundation.

Cards are moved from the tableau to the foundation in either ascending or
descending order(regardless of suit)according to the top card on the
foundation. Aces are considered "low" and Kings are the "high" cards.(Therefore
once an Ace is played to the foundation,only a 2 and not a King can be played
on it.)

Play begins from the top card of the foundation. For example,if the top card of
the foundation is a 4,then a 5 or a 3 can be played from the tableau to the
foundation.(Merely selecting a card will move it to the foundation.) If a 5 is
moved to the foundation,then a 4 or 6 may be played from the tableau. Play
continues in this way until none of the fully exposed cards can be played.(In
the illustration on the facing page,a 10 is the top foundation card,so the 9 in
the sixth column is the only play possible from the tableau.)

At this point,the top card from the stock is played to the foundation,and play
from the tableau is resumed. Whenever a King is played,tableau play stops and
the next card must be selected from the stock before play can be resumed from
the tableau.

The game is over when there are no more cards in the stock and none can be
removed from the tableau. To "win" you must remove all cards from the tableau.

				13

			    KLONDIKE

			(SHOWS DECK OF CARDS)

KLONDIKE is the most well-known of solitaire games.(Many still think it is the
only form of solitaire.) The objective is to move all the cards to the
foundation.

Twenty-eight cards are dealt into a tableau of 7 columns,with the first column
on the left containing 1 card,the second column 2 cards,and continuing to the
seventh column which contains 7 cards. When the game begins,all cards in the
tableau are face down,except for the "fully exposed" top card in each column
which is face up. Only fully exposed cards in the tableau are "available" to be
played on.

The stock is "turned" 3 cards at a time onto a waste pile. Merely selecting the
stock pile will "turn" the cards. If the top card of the waste pile can be
played on either the tableau or foundation,the next waste pile card becomes
available for play,and so forth. When the entire stock has been turned onto the
waste pile,it is available to be turned again by selecting the white box where
the stock would normally be located. This process can be repeated until no
available cards from the stock and waste pile can be played.

Cards are played on each other within the tableau in descending order(K,Q,J,10,
9,etc.),alternating red(Hearts or Diamonds)and black(Clubs or Spades). As long
as this pattern is maintained in each column,cards can be played on the tableau
from the top card of the waste pil,or by "available" cards from the other
columns in the tableau.

Cards are available in the tableau to play on other columns if they are the
first face up card in the column. If this card has others played on it already,
all cards move as a unit to the new location.(For example,a red 5 might have a
black 4 and a red 3 laying on top of it. Electing to play the red 5 on a black
6 will move the 4 and 3 also.) Kings can also be played to vacant columns
emptied by the movement of cards to the foundation or to other columns.

The underlying face down cards in a particular column are freed up by the
movement of the face up card(s)to either the foundation or other columns.

The foundation is built up from the Ace in ascending order(according to suit)in
the spaces available above the tableau. Cards may be played to the foundation
from the tableau or the waste pile.

The game ends when no more plays are possible from the tableau or the waste
pile. To "win" you must move all cards from the tableau and waste pile to the
foundation,building each suit in order from Ace to King,one card at a time.

				15

			    CANFIELD

			(SHOWS A DECK OF CARDS)

				16

The objective of CANFIELD is to move all the cards to the foundation. CANFIELD
and RENO are similar because they both contain a holding pile.

The cards are dealt into a tableau of 4 columns,with each column containing 1
card. When the game begins,all 4 cards in the tableau are face up,and there is
a holding pile to the left of and slightly below the tableau. The holding pile
contains 13 cards,with the top card face up and available.

The stock is "turned" 3 cards at a time onto the waste pile. If the top card of
the waste pil can be played on either the tableau or foundation,the next card
becomes available to be played,etc. When the entire stock has been turned onto
the waste pile,it is available to be turned again by selecting the white box
where the stock would normally be located. 

Cards are played on the tableau in descending order(K,Q,J,10,9,etc.),
alternating red(Hearts or Diamonds)and black(Clubs or Sades). As long as this
pattern is maintained in each column,plays can be made to the tableau from the
waste pile and holding pile,or from "available" cards in other columns in the
tableau. When the holding pile is depleted,any "available" King from the waste
pil can be used to fill an empty column.

A card is "available" in the tableau to be played on other colums if it is the
topmost card in its respective column. If this card has others played on it
already,all cards move as a unit to the new location.

The foundation is built up from the Ace in ascending order,according to suit,in
the spaces available above the tableau. Cards may be played on the foundation
from the waste pile,tableau,or holding pile.

The game ends when no more plays are possible from the tableau,waste pile,or
holding pile. To "win" you must move all cards from these locations to the
foundation,building each suit in order from Ace to King,one card at a time.

				17

				CORNERS

			(SHOWS DECK OF CARDS)

				18

The objective of CORNERS is to move al the cards to the foundation. 

The cards have been dealt into a tableau of 5 cards in the pattern of a "cross"
or a box with the "corners" missing. Also,the fist card of the foundation has
been dealt onto the top left "corner" of the box. The foundation piles are the
four corners of the box. Each initial foundation pile card played into the
remaining corners must have the same face value as the original foundation card
dealt onto the top left corner.(For example,in the illustration on the facing
page,the King of Diamonds was dealt onto the top left foundation pile at the
start of the game. Theefoe,the remaining foundation piles have to be originated
with Kings from the other suits.) When completed,each foundation pile will
contain all 13 cards of a suit.

The stock is "turned" 1 card at a time onto the waste pile,from which the top
card is available to be played on the tableau or the foundation. In CORNERS,the
waste pile cannot be turned over and replayed as stock a second time. The only
way to play from the waste pile is with the current topmost card. When the
entire stock has been turned once and no moe cards can be played(from either
the waste pile or tableau),the game is over.

Cards are played onto the tableau(cross)in descending order regardless of suit.
For instance,a Jack may be placed onto any Queen in the tableau. As long as
this pattern is maintained in each stack,cards can be played onto the tableau
from the top card of the stock,"available" cards from tableau stacks,or the top
card of the waste pile.(Note:Aligning cards within the tableau according to
suit is a definite advantage.)

Cards are available in the tableau to be played on other tableau stacks if they
are the topmost card in a stack. Only playable cards are moved to tableau
stacks or foundation piles.

The foundation is built up(from the first card dealt to the foundation)in
ascending order and according to suit. Cards may be played to the foundation
from the tableau,stock,or top card of the waste pile.

(Note:In CORNERS,Aces and Kings are neither high nor low,but merely part of a
cycle whose direction depends on whether play is on the tableau or the
foundation.)

The game ends when no more plays are possible from the tableau,and/or the stock
and waste pile a are exhausted. To "win" you must move all cards from the
tableau,stock and waste pile to the foundation,building up each suit in order
from the originally dealt foundation cards,one card at a time.

				19

			     CALCULATION

			(SHOWS DECK OF CARDS)

				20

The objective of CALCULATION is to move all the cards to the foundation.

The game begins with a tableau of 4 potential columns,with each column
containing no cards at the outset. The foundation has been dealt with 1
starting card for each of the 4 piles. The foundation piles are built up
(regardless of suit)by 1's in the first pile(Ace,2,3,etc.),2's in the second
pile(2,4,6,etc.),3's in the third pile(3,6,9,Queen,etc.),and 4's in the fourth
pile(4,8,Queen,3,etc.). The name of this game comes from the necessity of
"calculating" which cad to play next on each of the piles. Build up the
foundation piles as follows:

			A,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,J,O,K
			2,4,6,8,10,Q,A,3,5,7,9,J,K
			3,6,9,Q,2,5,8,J,A,4,7,10,K
			4,8,Q,3,7,J,2,6,10,A,5,9,K

The stock is "turned" 1 card at a time onto the screen,and then played either
on the foundation or in any of the four tableau columns(where the cards are
"held" until they can be played to the foundation).

Much of your success with CALCULATION will depend on an ability to "stage" the
cards in the tableau,and plan well in advance  for play to the foundation.

Once a card is placed in one of the tableau columns,that card can only be moved
to a foundation pile,and only the fully exposed card in each column is
"available" to be played.

The game ends when no more plays are possible from the tableau,and the stock is
exhausted. To "win" you must move all cards from the tableau and stock to the
foundation,building each pile according to the "calculation" rules stated
above.

				21

			THREE SHUFFLES AND A DRAW

			(SHOWS A DECK OF CARDS)

				22

The objective of THREE SHUFFLES AND A DRAW is to move all the cards to the
foundation.

The cards are dealt into a tableau with 16 stacks of 3 cards each. When the
game begins,all 48 cards in the tableau are face up,and the Aces are in place
as the beginning of each foundation pile.

Cards are played from stacks in the tableau onto other stacks there,in
descending order and according to suit. To reach your objective,you need to
"free up" cards so they are playable onto the foundation row(in ascending order
and according to suit).

Only the topmost available card in any tableau stack can be played on other
stacks or the foundation piles.

There is an option to "reshuffle" the cards in the tableau twice after the
original layout is dealt,to be taken when no additional cards can be played to
the foundation. The foundation cards remain on the screen during the
reshuffles. In addition,the player gets 1 "draw" to pick an "unavailable" card
from behind another card(or group of cards)that is blocking it in a tableau
stack. It is usually good strategy to wait until after the final shuffle to
take the draw.

Select "Help" from the menu bar. You will be shown whether any reshuffles or
the draw remain to be made. Select the option you wish to use(if it is
available). If "Draw a Card Once" is selected,you will be prompted to "Select a
Pile to Draw from." Move the cursor over the desired tableau stack and click
the mouse. The cards in the stack will will reappear in another selection box.
Move the cursor to the card you want,and click the mouse button. You will be
returned to the main screen,where the selected card will appear highlighted at
the bottom. Move the cursor to the tableau stack or foundation pile where you
wish to play it. If you change your mind and decide to return the drawn card to
its original location,merely deselet the card while it is highlighted at the
bottom of the screen.

The game is over when all shuffles and the draw have been taken and there are
no further plays available. The "win" comes when all cards are moved to the
foundation.

				23

			       RENO

			(SHOWS DECK OF CARDS)

				24

The objective of RENO is to move all the cards to the foundation. Of all the
games in Solitaire Royale,it is the most difficult to win.

The cards are dealt into a tableau of 4 columns,with each column containing 1
card. When the game begins,all 4 cards in the tableau are face up and there is
a holding pile to the left of and slightly below the tableau(similar to
CANFIELD). The holding pile contains 13 cards,with the top card face up and
available.

The stock is "turned" 1 card at a time onto the screen. This card can be played
on the tableau,foundation,or laid onto its adjacent waste pile. After playing
the turned card in any manner,the next card becomes available to be played,etc.
Unlike CANFIELD,however,the waste pile cards cannot be turned a second time.
The only way to play from the waste pile is with the current topmost card. When
the entire stock has been turned and no more cards can be played from the waste
pile,tableau,or holding pile,the game is over.

Cards are played onto the tableau in descending order(K,Q,J,10,9,etc.),while
alternating red(Hearts or Diamonds)and black(Clubs or Spades). As long as this
pattern is maintained in each column,cards can be played on the tableau from
the stock,waste pile,holding pile,or "available" cards in other columns of the
tableau. The cards in the holding pile can also be played to empty columns in
the tableau. When the holding pile is depleted,any "available" King from the
stock or waste pile can be used to fill an empty column.

A card is "available" in the tableau to be played on other columns if it is the
topmost card in its respective column. If this card has others played on it
already,all cards move as a unit to the new location.

The foundation is built up from the Ace in ascending order(according to suit)in
the spaces available above the tableau. Cards may be played to the foundation
from the stock,waste pile,tableau,or holding pile.

The game ends when no more plays are possible from the stock,waste pile,tableau,
or holding pile. To "win" you must move all cards to the foundation,building
each suit in order from Ace to King,one card at a time.

This game is scorded as a "betting" format. The deck "costs" $52 and the player
is "paid" $5 for every card moved to the foundation. When 11 cards have been
moved,the player has $55 and has "recovered" the cost of the game. The most
that can be won is $260,when all cards have been moved to the foundation.

When playing the "tour" version of Solitaire Royale,RENO scores like the other
games,and gives 1 point for each card moved to the foundation.

				25

			     SCORING

The score for each game is dependent upon the game's objective. If the goal is
to build the foundation,the number of cards in the foundation wil be your
score. Likewise,if the goal is to remove the cards from the screen,the number
of cards removed is you score.

When playing the "tour" version of Solitire Royale,RENO scoes like the other
games,and gives 1 point for each card moved to the foundation.

The score for each individual game is displayed on the left side of the screen.
A player's tour score can be viewed by selecting the Show Score option in the
Tour menu.

			TOUR(AUNT ANNE'S GAME)

This approach to solitaire -- playing a number of different games consecutively
while trying to score the highest total of points -- was taught to one of the
Solitaire Royale game designers by his Aunt Anne,who used the format as a way
to enhance play of the many solitaire games she enjoyed.

The objective of the TOUR is to play all eight of the "adult" solitaire games
consecutively and accumulate the highest possible score. There is a separate
scoreboard for each tour that keeps track of each game played therein and the
total for that specific tour,as well as a "high scores" board that records the
top 5 scores to disk.

In addition,TOUR is included as part of the Tournament menu,making it possible
for more than one person to play the same tour,and have the top 5 scores for
that specific tour saved to disk as well. This allows a newcomer to challenge
previous game collections at any time.

To begin a tour,select TOUR(Aunt Anne's Game)from the Start a New Game menu.
The games are played in the order that they appear on the menu: PYRAMID,GOLF,
KLONDIKE,CANFIELD,CORNERS,CALCULATION,THREE SHUFFLES AND A DRAW,and RENO.

Play the PYRAMID game,and when it's completed,go to the menu bar and select
Continue to the Next Game from the Tour menu. A tour scoreboard will appear,
showing the score for your PYRAMID. Moving the arrow cursor to "OK",and
clicking the mouse button will cause the next game to appear,in this instance
GOLF. Continue in this manner until the tour is completed. Before each game

				26

begins,the tour scoreboard will reappear,showing the scores for all the games
completed to that point.

			TOURNAMENT PLAY

TOURNAMENT PLAY is an option whereby any number of players can compete with the
same "shuffle." You can choose any or all of the games listed in the tour. In
this manner,players can challenge each other to see who can score the highest
on any of the games.

You have the option of going to a new "shuffle" by either selecting another
tournament game or leaving the Tournament menu entirely by selecting End
Tournament Play. You can then select Tournament Play again from the Start a New
Game menu. 

There are "Tournament High Scores" records kept for each competition,and any
tournament may be stored to disk for replaying over and over again. See the
Tournament menu section of the manual for more information on Tournament Play.

				27

			THIS PAGE IS BLANK

				28

			CHILDREN'S GAMES

				29

			  CONCENTRATION

			(SHOWS DECK OF CARDS)

				30

The objective of CONCENTRATION is to "match" cards of the same face value.
After the game is selected,a choice can be made between one-player and two-
player(competitive)operation.

At the start of the game,twenty-four cards are face down on the screen. Select
any card and it will turn face up. Then select a second card to try and make a
match. If the two cards match,both will disappear from the screen.(Cards are
matched according to number,or "face value";in other words,3 of Hearts to 3 of
Spades,Jack to Jack,etc.) If there is no match,both cards will turn face down
again,and the process is repeated until all cards have been paired and removed.
It's important to remember what cards you have seen and their position for
future matching,thus the name "concentration."

In one-player mode,you can keep track of the total number of "moves" on the
left side of the screen. Any time a card is turned face up counts as a move.
When playing alone,your goal is to match all the pairs in the fewest amount of
moves.

In two-player mode,points are tallied on the left side of the screen for each
player. Every time a player removes a pair of cards,that player scores 2
points. When a card other than the matching pair is selected,that player loses
his or her turn. The objective in the two-player game is to match the most
pairs.

				31

			      PAIRS

				32

This is a simple pairs matching game,where you match sixteen pairs of cards
according to "face value."

Thirty-two cards are used,with 16 cards dealt face up into the tableau pattern
shown,and the final 16 in a holding pile in the center of the screen. Turn a
card over from the holding pile by selecting the pile itself.

Start play by matching this available card with one from the tableau. (Cards
are matched according to number,or "face value";in other words,9 of Hearts to 9
of Spades,Jack to Jack,etc.) As you match the two cards,they will disappear
from the screen.

When a card has been removed from the tableau,it is automatically replaced by
the top card of the holding pile. Continue play by selecting the holding pile
again to turn the top card face up,and make it available to play.

Until the holding pile has been eliminated,pairs selected must include the face
up cad on the holding pile and one card from the tableau. After the holding
pile is gone,any two "like" cards can be matched from the tableau.

There is an exception to this rule:For one time,and one time only,if no match
is available using the holding pile,two cards from the tableau can be matched.
After this one time,cards from the tableau cannot be matched together until the
holding pile is gone.

Play continues until all the cards are gone or no more matches can be made.

				33

			     THE WISH

				34

Legend has it that this game was first used by lovers to determine if they were
being loved in return(much like the use of a daisy:"She loves me...she loves me
not..."). The game was played with a lover min mind...,and if won,love would be
returned.

It has evolved into a children's game,where it is said that a wish made will
come true to the winner.

In The Wish,the player must again match "like" cards. (As with CONCENTRATION
and PAIRS,cards are matched according to number,or "face value";in other words,
10 of Clubs to 10 of Spades,Jack to Jack,etc.)

Thirty-two cards are dealt into 8 piles of 4 cards each,with the top cards face
up in each of the piles. As cards are matched,they will be removed from the
screen and the next card will turn face up. Play continues until all of the
cards are gone,or no more matches can be made.

Since there are four cards of each type,both luck and sill are involved in
winning the game and getting "the wish." If you can match all the cards,the
game is won and you can make another "wish".

				35

			    THE MENU BAR

			(SHOWS ALL THE MENU BARS)

				36

			     FILE MENU

OPEN

Select this menu item to open games that have been saved on the disk. The
condition of the game will be exactly as it was when the game was saved. If
there was a tour or tournament in progress at the time,all the scoreboard data
will be restored.

The save/open feature of Solitaire Royale allows you to hold competitions over
long periods of time,as the top five scores of a tournament will be retained in
the file along with the unique card layouts.

SAVE
SAVE AS...

Games or tournaments in progress can be saved to disk for play at a later time.
When you select either Save or Save As from the File Menu,a dialog box will
appear. You have the opportunity to save the game under a new or previously
used file name,or to cancel the operation.

QUIT

Select this menu item to leave Solitaire Royale. Hurry back!

				37

			   TOUR HIGH SCORES

1				LORENZO			227
2				LARRY			173
3				GEORGE			155
4				BLACK BART		134
5 				FRANK			101

				OK

START A NEW TOUR

This option allows you to begin a new Tour from within the Tour menu at any
time.(You don't have to wait until the current tour is over to start a new
one.)

EXIT TOUR SEQUENCE

Select this option to leave the current Tour and/or the Tour Menu.

TOURNAMENT MENU

When you select Tournament Play from the Start a New Game menu,Tournament
eplaces Start a New Game in the menu bar with items specific to Tournament
play. You can view the menu at any time by selecting it from the menu bar.

				40

To play a game,choose it from the menu in the same way you choose from the
"Start a New Game" menu. Choose Tour(Aunt Anne's Game)to include all the games
in the tournament.

If you select a single game,have the first competitor play the game. When the
game is finished,select the same game from the Tournament Menu a second time. A
"Tournament High Scores" board will appear and prompt the player to enter a
name on the scoreboard. After the name is typed in,press the RETURN key or
click "OK",and the same game screen with the identical card layout will appear
again,for the next player to try.

TOURNAMENT HIGH SCOES			PYRAMID
--------------------------------------------------------
1	SMITTY				27
2	LARRY				25
3	CAPTAIN GARY			25
4	BORIS				23
5 	CHILE				 9

CURRENT GAME:				 0

			OK

If you select the tour,the first player completes the series of games before
other competitors have a chance. Otherwise,the tournament proceeds just like
the "single game" format,except the scoreboard compares each player's
individual game tally and total tour score to the highest total tournament
score and the individual scores that make it up.

SOLITAIRE ROYALE TOUR SCOREBOARD
----------------------------------------------------------
					YOUR	HIGH
PYRAMID					33	33
GOLF					37	37
KLONDIKE				 5	 8
CANFIELD				13	13
CORNERS					 1	21
CALCULATION				 0	22
3 SHUFFLES				 0	52
RENO					 0	 7
-----------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL SCORE:				89     192

			OK

				41

Any number of players can participate in the tournament,with the top five
scores being shown at any time. Use the "Save a Game" feature to save a
tournament in progress to disk. If you wish to select another game or tour for
a tournament,simply make a selection from the Tournament Menu. The previous
tournament data will be discarded and a new competition can begin.

SHOW HIGH SCORES

Displays the top five scores for te tournament,along with the current player's
score in progress.

	TOURNAMENT HIGH SCORES		PYRAMID
	----------------------------------------
	1	SMITTY			27
	2	LARRY			25
	3	CAPTAIN GARY		25
	4	BORIS			23
	5	CHILE			 9

	CURRENT GAME:			 0

			OK

END TOURNAMENT PLAY

Ends the current tournament and returns you to the Start a New Game menu.

(Note:If you wish to keep a permanent file for a particular tournament so it
can be recalled for a future challenge,make sure you save the file to disk. We
discuss this procedure in the section describing the File menu.)

				42

CHILDREN'S MENU

When you select this item,Children's Games replaces Start a New Game in the
menu bar,with selection items specific to Children's Games. Simply highlight
the game you wish to play and select it.

EXIT CHILDREN'S MENU

Select this option to leave the Children's Games Menu,and return Stat a New
Game to the menu bar.

				HELP MENU

START THIS GAME OVER

Select this option if you want to restart the current Game from the beginning.
The game can be restarted at any time,even if it has already been "won." This
option is disabled during tour or tournament tour mode. You will be prompted to
verify that you want to start over.

BACKUP A MOVE

Allows you to "undo" the previous move. This is very helpful if you are trying
out different strategies or make a mistake.

Note:The "Backup a Move" option is disabled during the tour and tournament
play.

				43

PEEK INTO A PILE

Use this feature to examine stacks and piles that have cards lying face down
and/or hidden beneath other cards. You will be prompted to "click on a pile to
peek into." Move the cursor to the particular stack or pile just like you would
when selecting a card during normal play and click the mouse button. All the
cards in that location will then be revealed. After you have examined the
cards,click on another pile to check the other piles or click the close box to
return to the normal game screen. If the "Peek into a Pile" window is covering
up the pile you want to select,you may drag the window to another location on
the screen.

Note:Except for Three Shuffles and a Draw,the "Peek into a Pile" option is
disabled during the tour and tournament play.

HELP ABOUT A PILE

Selecting this option provides a reminder as to what a particular pile of cards
represents in the game you are currently playing. You will be prompted to
"click on a pile for more help." Move the cursor to the particular stack or
pile just like you would when selecting a card during normal play and click the
mouse button. After reading the description,click on another pile or click the
close box to return to the game screen.

INTRODUCTION TO SOLITAIRE

Explains the basic Solitaire Royale conventions(waste pile,stock,etc.)also
described in the common terms section of the manual. Click the close box to
return to the game screen.

HOW TO PLAY SOLITAIRE

Gives an overview of the general rules to follow in playing solitaire royale on
your computer,such as how to use the arrow keys or a mouse to select items or
access the menu bar. Click the close box to return to the game screen.

				44

HOW TO PLAY MENU

The How to Play menu offers onscreen rules and instructions for all the games
and tournament options in Solitaire Royale. These descriptions are nearly
identical to those in this manual beginning on page 9,allowing you to study the
game rules without having the manual close by. Simply highlight the item you
wish to have explained,and select it from the menu. These descriptions can be
accessed at any time from any game format.

			SETTINGS MENU

MESSAGES

This toggles the command for showing messages on the screen pertaining to
errors during game play. The default setting is to "show messages."

				45

FAST DEAL

Toggle command to speed up or slow down the deal of the cards. The faster speed
enables the layout to appear almost immediately(unless sound is also turned
on). The slower deal permits the player to see the cards laid out in sequence,
which you may find more pleasing. The default is slow deal.

LEFT HANDED

Allows the selection of a left-handed cursor or the return to the default right
handed cursor.

DRAG CARDS

If selected,allows the player to move cards by dragging them from one pile to
another. If the move is not valid,the card you're dragging will slip back to
its original position.

SOUND EFFECTS

Toggles game sounds.

SELECT A DECK

There are ten different card backs available,and five "faces." Each face style
comes with two of the backs.

BACK						FACE

VINTAGE AUTO 
STYLIZED PEACOCKS			DECORATIVE OLDE ENGLISH

TROPICAL SUNSET
SOUTHWEST DESERT SCENE			       STYLIZED

TRADITIONAL BACK
BASEBALL BATTER				       TRADITIONAL

GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE
STATUE OF LIBERTY				  CROWNS

JAPANESE WATER COLOR
STILL LIFE OF VASE & FLOWERS		    JAPANESE COSTUMES

CHANGE BACKGROUND

This item allows you to choose the background color. You will see a control
panel with three sliding buttons to alter the red(R),green(G),and blue(B)
components of the background color. Click on the buttons and drag until the
color pleases you. (Note:There are 4,096 possible combinations.)

				46

CLEAR SCORES

Select this command to erase the "Tour High Scores" leader board from the
Solitaire Royale program disk. Make sure the disk in the default disk drive
before you execute the operation.

DESKTOP BOARD
WHITE BOARD
GRAY BOARD
INVERSE BOARD

These control the background display of the game. Select the board that you
prefer. The default is Desktop Board.

				47