           SOLIUS THE SORCERER [FROM MERGING MINDS] *ENGLISH* DOX

-><- THE STORY ... -><-

Sorcerer Solius was living in the peacful land Dasia and protected the people
from the evil magican Anisis. This one was living in the dark 'ghost-forests'
of the land Worda and always tried to get the control over Dasia. Till now
he failed because of his magic forces where below the ones from Solius.

But one day it happend that Anisis found the magican book of the dead ruler
of Worda. In it he noticed the magic spells that where of a higher standart
than the ones from Solus. But under all of this spells there was only a single
one that could harm the hole force of Solius... a one that transformed him into
a rabit. After a short time Anisis was able to get the hole force over Dasis.
Solius had a sad live as rabit. After he tried for weeks to get a potion to
disable the spell that transformed him into a rabit he finaly discovered
a protection potion in a old chest. Right after he found his old shotgun
and wanted to go on the quest for the mushrooms and the herbals for the potion
he got hidden by a green flash and lost his consciousness.

After he woke up again and found himself inside a big volcano.
Anisis got noticed of what Solius wanted to do so he banished him into the
worst and darkest volcano of hole Dasia. But this solution came too late.
Solius was 100 percent sure that he will find the way out of the volcano
and can get through to Worda. There he could defeat Dasia finaly with the
help of his magic-potion. And he will get a human again ...

-><- YOU QUEST ... -><-

You job is now to get Solius through all 3 world : Volcano, Dasia and Worda.
Each of this 3 worlds consists of 2 levels. After finished one world you will
get a Password so you don't have to start from the beginning again if you
die...

Inside each level you will have to collect a special number of mushrooms and
herbals. If you collected all the stuff needed and defeated the level
final enemy. you will get to the next level. In every level there are puzzles
you will have to find a solution to, aswell. At some places of the level
you will need to fly. You are able to fly after you collected
one of the carrots. In the last level you will have to make the potion and
defeat Anisis with it!

-><- SCREEN AND GAMEPLAY -><-

You use a joystick in port to to walk with the rabit.

Press the fire button to shot.

Left to right:

-Energy

-Flytime
 
 If you take a carrot you can fly for a special time till the bar is down.

-Number of Mushrooms/Herbals
 This is the number of items you will have to find during each level to
 get to the end enemy of the level.

-Number of lives.
 You can find extra-lives during the game.

-Item you use in the moment (weapons,...)
 A item (unlike the weapons) got only use on 1 or 2 places in the level
 to activate the item just press the fire button at the right place.
 For exaple to give the item to another person in the game just walk near
 the person and press the fire button.
 Collect all items to get to the end enemy.

- Points
  If you got a highscore you can sign in the highscore table.

-><- KEY TO USE IN THE GAME -><-

"RETURN" = CHOISE DIFFERENT ITEMS.

"SPACE" = CHOISE BETWEEN WALK AND FLY (ONLY POSSIBLE WITH THE CARROTS).

"P" = PAUSE GAME.

"ESC" = GET BACK TO THE MENU. 

HAVE FUN!