HYPER TYPED BY    THE SPEED DEMON    IN 1991


                             SORCERY PLUS

   Let this arcade adventure transport you back to a land of breath-taking
beauty, where treachery and evil dominate.

   * SORCERY PLUS is a disc-based, enhanced version of the best selling
     game SORCERY. It allows you to access 75 atmospheric locations.

   * Carefully detailed graphics and animation combine with great music and
     sound effects in this action-packed game!

SORCERY PLUS takes you deep into the Dark Ages. The Evil Forces of the
Necromancer are creeping to every last corner of the ancient land that was
once the powerful domain of the Great Sorcerers.

In Chapter One you must work to free your fellow Sorcerers, who have been
entrapped throughout the land. When you have been successful in this you
will enter Chapter Two and finally confront the Necromancer face to face.

You must use all your resources to defeat his malevolence once and for all!

You must work quickly, travelling every corner of the kingdom, searching out
your fellow sorcerers. Only when they are released can you combine your
forces and overthrow the Necromancer. The many parts of the land you visit
hold certain objects which may or may not be of some use. Some will help and
some will deceive, some possess strange qualities. The scenery is not at all
as it appears in places and careful searching may reveal secret passages.

The freed sorcerers will unite in the Sanctuary where they will wait for the
golden day when you make your way to join them in your exalted place.

Once you have completed this you must then seek the Necromancer himself and
confront him in person.

   GAMEPLAYING

   To start, press the FIRE button. You are now in control of the Sorcerer
as he starts his quest.

                            SORCERER RISES

                                  up
         LEFT              left        right       SORCERER TRAVELS RIGHT
                                 down

                        Note! SORCERER DESCENDS
                               BY HIMSELF

As you move from room to room you will encounter various objects, some
useful, some essential and some deadly!

OBJECTS
To pick up an object you must position the Sorcerer over it and press the
FIRE button. To use a weapon i.e. killing an evil demon or shooting your
magic spells press the FIRE button again.

You may swap objects but you can never drop objects on their own. You will
find out by experience that you need certain objects to allow you to set in
action chains of events that allow you passage on your journey.

SCREEN DISPLAY
The bottom panel shows the room you are in, what you are carrying and your
enerygy level. The time remaining to complete your task is illustrated and
your current score displayed.

TIME
In Chapter One you have a set time in which to free all trapped Sorcerers
and again in Chapter Two you are up against a time limit in which to defeat
the Necromancer.

SCREENS
There are 47 screens in Chapter One and 28 in Chapter Two.

It will not be easy and you will need to use strategy and cunning to unlock
some of the doors of darkness.

STARTING THE GAME
You will start the game randomly from any one of five locations.

PAUSING THE GAME
Game Pause can be stopped and restarted by pressing the SPACE BAR.