                   Space Crusade the Voyage Beyond 
                <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>



Loading space crusade: the voyage beyond:



 1. please ignore the instructions given to load expansions

missions in the orignal space crusade manual. instead,switch

on your computer and moniter as usual, and then first insert

your space crusade expansion disk.



 2. follow on-screen instructions.





space crusade,the voyge beyond:

 

  the floolowing enchancements have been made to the space crusade

mission disks in order to improve the game play.



mission points:

 

 missions 1-5 = 100 points

 missions 6-10 = 150 points



new enemies:



 1. space ogres, these replace the grectchins. they have an amour

value of two, can only move four squares, to fire they use one

heavy weapon and one light weapon dice and in hand to hand combat

two heavy weapon dices.

points for kill: 10 points



 2. new dreadnought, the dreadnought mkvii has replace the old

dreadnought. the new dreadnought has the same weapons as the 

orignal, plus a top mounted granade launcher which can fire up to

four granades at the same or seprate targets, the granades use two

light weapons dice. it can also move to six squares.

ponits for kill origanl dreadnought ponits plus ten extra points



 3. vilous parasites, they appear from the holes in the floor

(marines cant step on to a hole) and will catch any marine on 

an ajecent square and suck him into the hole unless it is hit by

a weapon of two or above b4 the next turn. if this happens, the 

parasite will retreat with him and his sketeton will b spat out

of another hole somewhere. these parasites cant be killed.



 4. soulsucker queen, aka the mothersucker. this is a previously

unseen alien which spits venom. this venom has the same effect

as a heavy bolter, and can fire in any direction. this creature

also has a tail which can be used to attack marines behind her.

hand to hand rules apply, with the tail using two heavy weapon

dice. the mothersucker also ahs claws which can be used in 

hand to hand combat using two light weapon dice but which only

attacks on squares that are in front of her. she does not move.

points for a kill: 30 points



new ranks: players can load in their commanders from the first 

set of missions and therefore may be at a rank where all 

equipment and orders can be used. however  there are three new

ranks in the expansion missions. to reach each of these new 

ranks a commander must win three missions b4 moving up a rank.

the first new rank will allow that commander to reinforcement

marine to join a mission whenever of his origanl marines has

been killed. the reinforcement marine will start from the

docking claw and will have the same weapons as the marine just

killed. the next rank above will allow tow reinforcement marines

to jointhe mission but only if two of the orignal marines have

died. the rank allows three maries reinforcements, but only

if three of the orignal maries have died.



note: new ranks cant be loaded into the origanl space cursade

missions



the new ranks are:



 1. rear admiral

 2. admiral

 3. fleet admiral





 new weapons



 new commander weapon

 the weapons available to a commander will have a chain sword and

power glove which replaces the power sword and the power golve. it

has the same dice roll as the power sword and power glove. this

weapon can only cut through weakend holes in the walls, similar to

the powersword and glove, and can be used diagonally.



 new marine weapon



the assault cannon has benn replace with a flamer. the flamer has

a short range but has a wide arc of fire ( when the fire icon is

selected a maltese cross pattern appear which is the weapons

firing range). two heavy weapon dice are rolled and any aliens or

marines within the cone shape of squares will hit with the total

of the two dice.



 mission directive 2384/4



the aliens have learnd from our last stories to their ships and

have devloped a caoting for any inportant objects that are on

thier ships.this cloaks the location of the objects, and

consequently they will not appear on our maps. any objects to be

located must now be scanned for, which will cause them to appear

as a blip. obviously, visual contact must be established in order

to determine their identification.





the missions:



 1. primary mission: mission 654/01 locate and retrive.



 enter alien ship 333 and retrive a soulsucker egg for the imperial

military laboratories. if two or more teams are deployed then the

first team to return to the docking claw with an egg is awarded the

primary mission. if the marine carring the egg is killed the egg is

also distroyed. (n.b only one egg is on the ship)



 2. primary mission: mission 654/02 relocate and activate.



 relocate a detonator left by an unsuccessful marine team who were

orded to blow up alien ship 773. carry the detonator to the

explosives store and drop the detonator. your team then have fifteen

turns to evacuate the ship b4 it explodes. if two or more teams are

deployed then the team to reach explovsies store with the detonator

and return to the docking claw will be awarded the primary mission.

(n.b if the marine carring the detonator is killed then the detonator

will be left behind)



 3.primary mission: mission 654/03 locate and launch.



 the aliens have found a lifeboat of a marine admiral who is in a

cryogenic freeze.reach the launch bay of the alien ship, stand on

the square pad containing the launch button and launch the lifeboat

so it can be picked up by an imperial rescue craft, and then return to

the docking claw. the first team to launh the lifeboat will be awarded

the primary mission.

 warining: there are reports that the ship have been infested with the

vilous parasite. this parasite is known is known to be a dongrous trap

any being ajecent to it and then slowley digest its victim. if any of

your team members are caught then they must either be rescued or

abandoned. the parasite can be forced to relase its victim if shot with

a weapon hit of two or above.



 4. priamary mission: mission 654/04 sabotage.



 the aliens have overridden the navagation safety system which noermally

prevents a ship being targeted at a planet and have a collision course for

colony planet apex 7. there are five navagation terminals in different

areas of the ship, send a marine to destory each one. the primary mission

will be awarded mission will be awarded to the frist marine team to destory

each of the terminals. if more than one team are deployed on this mission

then the team who distroy the most terminals will be awarded the primary

mission.



 5. primary mission: mission 654/04 recover and return.



 a group of four chaos marines thieves have escaped into their vessel, one

of them carries the priceless astral gem belonging to the prince of traygar

9. seek out and destory the chaos marine carring the gem and return the gem

to the docking claw. if two or more team are deployed then the team who

returns the gem to the docking claw is awarded the primary mission.



 6. primary mission mission 654/06 hunt and disable.



 locate and destory a m.s.d. a mobile surveillance driod, which has been

sent on a spying mission by the aliens and just returned from our command

ship. it has obtained vital information regarding ship weapons and defence

systems of the fleet which must not get into alien hands. it is heaing for a

terminal on the alien ship where it will then be down loaded all of its

gatherd information in to the aliens ships computer. it can move up to three

squares per turn. a marine team must catch up with it and destroy it b4 it

reaches the computer terminal. it requires a weapon hit of three to destory

it. the first marine team to destroy it will be awarded the primary mission.



 7. primary mission: mission 654/07 retrive and return.



 a damaged alien vessel is leaking at a constant rate, retrive some vital

medical supplies urgently needed by the planet kronag 15 whose popilation

are dying by the million due to a plague. return with the medical supplies

to the docking claw beforeyour team is trapped or killed by the vacuum.

there are teleporters are located on the ship which will accept one marine

per time. if a marine is standing on a teleporter which connects to another

teleporter that has already has marine standing on it then the teleportation

cannot take place. the team to return to the docking claw with the medical

supplies will be awarded the primary mission.



 8. primary mission: mission 654/08 seek and destory.



 imperial spies have intercepted an alien transmission that gives the

location of a new deadlier dreadnought called dreadnought mkvii. seek and

destory this dreadnought. the first team to destory the dreadnought is

awarded the primary mission.



 9 primary mission: mission 654/09 exterminate.



 there are reports that alien on the alien ship 488 have sealed off a room

containing the soulsucker queen, nick named mother sucker, so that she can

lay her eggs safely.using the powersaw and power glove waepon which cuts

through weakened walls, enter the room and destory the soulsucker mother. a

score of three is required to cut through a weakened wall. the first marine

to kill the soulsucker queen will be awarded the primary mission.

 warning: the soulsucker queen spits deadly venom that can eat through body

amour and will kill on cantact with the skin, she also has sharp claws and a

tail which can kill. she can use all three at once.



10 primary mission:mission 654/10 assassinate.



 imperial spies have recived information that five main chaos clans are

holding a war council on an alien ship 5552. if these chaos commanders are

allowed to plan their tacticsand organise their troops then their massed

troops would be a formidable force. the primary mission will be awarded to

the tham that assassinates all the chaos commanders. if more that one team

are deployed then the team that assassinates the most commanders will be

awarded the primary mission.



                             the end!