                       Space Ace II:  Borf's Revenge
                      (C) 1991 ReadySoft Incorporated


Introduction

	Ace looked at Kimberly, the baby Borf cradled in her arms and he
thought back to all that had happened.  It began when the evil adult Borf
constructed his ultimate weapon - the Infanto Ray.  It could transform
anyone into a harmless infact with a single blast and with it, Borf had
the power to vanquish the nations of Earth.

	In a desperate fight with Borf to save the unwary populace of
Earth, Ace was zapped by the weapon and transformed into a childlike alter
ego named Dexter.  Drained of his strength, Dexter's only help came from a
special wrist-watch which, from time-to-time, provided him with enough
power to energize into his former self, the mighty Space Ace.  To make
matters worse, Borf kidnapped Ace's beloved Kimberly and took her to his
orbiting space station.

	Enraged, Dexter started a furious race against time and deadly
enemies to save Kimberly and the Earth.  He battled lethal machines, vile
monsters and evil robots until finally meeting Borf in a last, desperate
struggle.  Space Ace was almost defeated, but he outsmarted Borf and shot
the villain with his own Infanto Ray.

	Now Borf was nestled in Kimberly's caring arms, who had taken a
liking to the adoring baby.  She wanted to raise him in an attempt to keep
Borf from becoming the villain he once was.  Although Borf now seemed only
an infant, the same evil persona lay hidden beneath that adorable blue face
and he yearned to be restored to his former power.

	Sitting not far from Ace and Kimberly, Borf's vicious little Goons
planned their revenge.  All they had to do was get the baby Borf back and
use the Infanto Ray's reverse setting to restore him.  THeir plan was set
and the Goons attacked giving Ace barely enough time to react as he saw the
angry mob running towards him...


To load Space Ace II:  Borf's Revenge

	For A-1000 owners, at the prompt you should insert KICKSTART 1.2 or
greater.  For all Amiga models, when prompted for the WORKBENCH disk, you
should insert the Space Ace II: Borf's Revenge Disk 1 into the internal
disk drive.


Starting The Game

	After the game has loaded, the demo will automatically begin.  The
demo runs through a scene from the first disk and then returns to the title
screen.  To start playing the game simply press zero (0) on the keypad at
anytime.  You will know the game has started when the player score screen
appears.  This screen shows your score and the number of lives you have
remaining.  The first scene will then load automatically.


Playing Space Ace II:  Borf's Revenge

	You do not directly control all of Ace's actions, rather you
control his reactions to the events that happen around him.  As you watch
the animation, you must decide in which direction Ace should move on the
screen and when.  To finish a scene successfully you must make a move or
press the fire button (zero (0) on the numeric keypad) when Ace is in
danger.  Timing is very critical and often you may make the correct move
but at the wrong time.  Also, many scenes require more than one move.  If
you are having trouble, watch the animation carefully and move Ace in the
safest direction or if no direction is safe press the fire button to use
Ace's laser gun.

	If you're sure you have the correct move, try varying the time when
you make the move, a little sooner or a littler later.  Don't be surprised
if Ace doesn't move immediately after you have made a move; you must wait
for the animation to finish and if you made the correct move(s) you will
continue onto the next scene.

	You have three lives and the game will end if you lose all of your
lives or when you have completed all of the scenes on all of the disks.

	From time to time it will be necessary to change the disk in the
drive.  After you have finished all the animations on a disk you will be
asked to insert the next disk so that the game can continue.  NEVER eject
one of the game disks while you are playing, unless you are prompted, or
you may damage the disk!


Controls

	There are two ways of controlling Ace, either by using the joystick,
if that option is available on your computer, or else by using the numeric
keypad on your keyboard.  The directions you will need while using your
numeric keypad are UP(8), DOWN(2), LEFT(4), and RIGHT(6).  To use Ace's
weapon press the FIRE BUTTON on the joystick or the "0" on the keypad.


Ending The Game

	The game will come to an end after you have lost three lives.  To
stop playing the game simply reset your computer.


Saving Your Position

	To save your position press the "S" key during a scene and after
you have successfully completed the scene you will be prompted for a save
disk.  Remove the game disk from the internal drive and insert the save
disk.  Your position will be saved and you will be prompted again for the
current game disk.


Loading a Saved Game

	To load a save game press the "L" key during a scene and you will
be prompted for your save disk.  Remove the game disk from the internal
drive and replace it with the save disk.  The last saved position will be
loaded and you will be prompted for the appropriate game disk.


Pausing the Game

	You can pause the game at any time by pressing the "P" key on the
keyboard.


Turning the Audio Off/On

	You can toggle the audio off and on by pressing the "A" key on the
keyboard.