     SEGA  Space Harrier Docs
     
     
     Blast incredibly evil, alien invaders into oblivion.  Dodge deadly
     obstacles.  And restore peace to the beautiful Land of Dragons.
     
     		A SPACEWAR NIGHTMARE
     
     You are Space Harrier-one of the most experienced astral exterminators
     in the galaxy.
     
     But even for someone with your skill and cunning, this is one
     treacherous assignment.  Because this one-peaceful land has been
     invaded by an army of the most ghastly creatures ever to pollute the
     galaxy.
     
     If looks alone could kill, they would.
     There's Ida, the eerie stone mask.  Tomos, the animated nuclear being. 
     Dom, the fearless robot.  Nukadense, part helicopter, part insect. 
     And scads more.
     
     Like Squilla, Godarni, and a host of other hideous super-monsters. 
     Blast them all into oblivion.  Dodging deadly obstacles as you go.
     
     Each stage is more intense than the one before it.  So clutch your
     laser blaster.  The keep your finger on the trigger at all times.
     
     'Cause there's no time for day-dreaming in this futuristic,
     fast-moving video nightmare.
     
     			IN THE LAND OF DRAGONS
     
     Each stage in the Land of Dragons is breathtakingly beautiful.  Each
     devastatingly dangerous.
     
     You've booted your system.  You're ready to go.  The first image you
     see is the title screen.  Then press the fire button to start.  (You
     can use either mouse or joystick-determined by which your press.)
     
     But before you rush right out there and get yourself in trouble, why
     not familiarize yourself with what's on the screen?
     
     The highest score so far, top left.  Your current score, top right of
     screen.  Space Harrier figure.  Number of lives, lower left.  The
     stage you're on-lower right corner.
     
     At the end of each stage, you must fend off the final leader-a hideous
     giant of a creature-before you can proceed to the next stage.
     
     Once you've successfully eliminated the enemy, peace will once again
     be returned to the Land of Dragons.
     			
     				TAKING CONTROL
     
     O.K.  Ready?  Then press the fire button and begin the battle.  
     
     Here's how to maneuver, once you're engaged in space combat:
     
     TO FLY LEFT:  Press joystick, or slide mouse left.
     TO FLY RIGHT:  Press joystick, or slide mouse right.
     TO FLY UP:  Press joystick or slide mouse forward.
     TO FLY DOWN:  Pull joystick or slide mouse back.
     TO FLY DIAGONALLY:  Press the joystick or slide the mouse in the
     desired direction.
     
     TO FIRE LASER BLASTER:  Press the joystick button or either mouse
     button.
     TO PAUSE:  Press the space bar.  Press again to continue.
     TO RESET:  Press the ESC key.
     
     
     			BONUS STAGES
     
     When you reach these stages (5 and 12), you will ride on the back of
     the brave and friendly dragon Euria.
     
     Through his magic, you will be able to destroy everything on land,
     simply by touching it.  These include trees, poles, and towers.  And
     you'll receive extra points for each one you touch and destroy.
     
     			YOUR NAME IN LIGHTS
     
     At the end of each game, the "NAME ENTRY" screen will appear.  If you
     have gained enough points to rank within the seven existing scores,
     your score will be listed in order.  When this happens, you'll be able
     to enter your initials next to your score.
     
     To place your initials on the screen, move the joystick right or left
     to place the box around each letter.  Press the fire button to make
     your selection.  When you're finished entering your name or initials,
     place the box around ED and press the fire button again.
     
     					WINNING TIPS
     
     1)  Study the patterns of each enemy to figure out the best times to
     attack them.
     
     2)  Take advantage of the bonus stages (when available) by destroying
     as many land obstacles as possible.
     
     3)  To adjust the joystick or mouse response, use the + or - keys.
     
     					POWER UP
     
     For Amiga:  1.  Set up your computer as shown in Amiga owner's
     			manuel.
     		  2.  Plug in your joystick or mouse as shown in the
     			owner's manuel.
     		  3.  Insert the SPACE HARRIER diskette into the disk
     			drive, label side up.
     		  4.  Turn on the computer.  NOTE:  Amiga 1000 requires a
     			Kickstart 1.2 or higher version diskette.