QUICK KEY REFERENCE CARD FOR SPACE GUN
BY MIKE OF SKID ROW

This is a one or two player game controlled by mouse,joystick or a trojan light phazer. During the titles press SPACE bar to bring up an options screen.

Press RETURN to highlight the next menu item and press SPACE bar to cycle through the highlighted item's possible options.

Use the menu to set the controller attached to each game port and whether to have music or sound effects during the game.

It is important that a controller of the correct type is connected to the appropriate port otherwise the game may not function correctly. Note that a trojan light phazer can only be connected to port 2 on an amiga or the serial port on an atari st.

To start the game press SPACE bar while the START GAME menu item is highlighted or press FIRE on one of the two controllers.

If a trojan light phazer has been selected as one of the controllers it must be calibrated by shooting at the targets displayed on a calibration screen which will appear before the game starts.

If this screen appears and a light phazer is not connected press any key to revert to the options screen.

Player 1 appears as the blue player on the left of the screen and uses the controller plugged into port 1.
Player 2 appears as the red player on the right of the screen and uses the controller plugged into port 2.

Either player may join in the game at any time by pressing the firing button an their controller. If this appears not to work it may be because the wrong controller is connected to the port.

During the game a mouse or joystick will move the gunsight and a left mouse button or a joystick fire button will fire.

If a trojan light phazer is used it should simply be aimed at the screen and will fire when the trigger is pulled.

Note that the trigger must be released before the gun can be aimed again. A mouse right button or one of the following keys will select a weapon from the available arsenal:

player 1: LEFT ALT KEY
player 2: RIGHT ALT KEY

During the game HELP to pause the game.press either RETURN to resume play ESC to return to the titles page.