Speedboat Assassins
Typed by Belgarath


Loading

Insert disc in drive A: Program will load and run.


Controls

Configure game on the options screen then use the
joystick to play:

Left/Right  steers the speedboat left/right
Up          speed up
Down        slow down
Fire        to fire current armament


In The Navy...

War is fought on many fronts, but the front you're
about to be involved in is very wet. Four famous
harbours have been seized by enemy forces and
Central Command has decided something must be
done, and done fast. You receive the urgent orders on
your wristfax.

Pausing only to kiss loved ones goodbye (yeuchh!, but
even crack marine commandos have to endure
occasional slushy scenarios), with one mighty bound
you are at the controls of an Assassin Class assault
speedboat. With Kevin your hunky commando chum
as co-pilot, you wait to be airlifted into action.

A hurried phone call to the helicopter pilot soon has
him scurrying to the base, and within mere hours of
receiving orders from central Command you embark
on the mission.

The objective is simple: gain access to harbours under
enemy occupation, destroy four telecommunications
towers that control the automated defence craft
patrolling each harbour and then make good
your escape.


Storming Ports

Assassin Class assault boats were designed to work in
parallel with helicopters. Your boat is airlifted into the
action, supported by the chopper during battle and
airlifted out after a battle has been successfully
concluded.

As each mission begins, a counter starts ticking down.
It takes a few seconds for the chopper to lower the boat
into the water - just long enough for a clutch of mines
to bob up to the surface. Yes, those unsporting enemy
hordes have surrounded the entrance to each and
every harbour with a minefield. Slow and easy driving
makes navigating minefields fairly easy, but rough,
tough speedboat commandos out for maximum points
will put their foot to the floor and try to get through the
minefield as fast as possible - there's a one thousand
point bonus for every second left on the clock when
you hit the calm waters of the inner harbour.

Once inside the harbour itself, the first problem crops
up - the speedboat is unarmed. Wait for the friendly
supply helicopter to make its descent and line the boat
up under it to collect a weapon system.

Throughout a battle, the chopper descends every
thirty seconds or so, starting from a random point in
the sky. Each time you dock with the helicopter, either
the weapon system on the boat is upgraded or
additional speed and manoeuvrability is collected from
your airborne buddies. The single-shot missile
launcher can be upgraded to a double-shot launcher,
which can in turn be exchanged for a pair of smart
bombs. Only two smart bombs are delivered at a time,
however, and after they have been used it's back to the
single-shot cannon until you dock with the chopper
again.

Each harbour contains zillions of mines, single-and
double-hulled enemy surface craft (one or two hits to
destroy respectively) and four telecommunications
towers that control the enemy defences. In order to
make the zone non-hostile, the four red comms towers
have to be blown out of the water. Watch out though -
when a tower is toppled, mines are released around its
base on the seabed, and they soon float up to the
surface.

Take out all four towers and it is time to leave the
current harbour, make a rendezvous with the chopper
and get yourself airlifted to the next troublespot in line
for the Assassin treatment. Trouble is, the enemy have
planted an absolutely huge destroyed at the harbour
exit, and you ain't goin' nowhere until it's well and
truly sunk. Ten, fifteen or even twenty hits are needed
to deal with the destroyer, so get that trigger finger itchy!


Programmed by Binary Design
Typed by Belgarath