Spitting Image
Typed by Belgarath


Save The World!

Within the next seven years a world war will take place.
A war so great that even the Swiss will get involved this time.
A war so terrible the Italians have already surrendered.
One leader will emerge from this war to rule the world.

It is your task to stop this leader and SAVE THE WORLD.


Playing Spitting Image

First Bits

After the game has loaded there is a brief
introduction before it gets down to the business
of presenting the player with the humungous
task of saving the world. Press fire if you want
to skip the introduction.


Map Bits

Next comes the map screen which is central to
the quest of destroying the credibility of the
world leaders. Using the joystick, select the 
leader you would like to rule even less than all
the other leaders you wouldn't like to lead
either. This will be the leader you are about to
beat up. Next choose the leader who you
would like to do the beating up. This will be the
leader you control.

From there you will be flown instantly to the
home territory of the target leader. To comply
with the new 1992 EEC regulations, there will
be no duty free goods during the instant flight.


Ouch Bits

To defeat your opponent you must win a 'best
of five' series of fights. If you lose then you are a
humiliating failure. The kid down the street did
better than you and he's only been playing
compute games a week and probably his mum
could even beat your score and get to write her
name above yours which would be really
embarrassing if your friend saw it and you'd have
to keep making excuses if they came round to 
your house and wanted to play the game
because you'd have to say something like "Oh
it's broken" and they'd say "it doesn't look very
broken to me" and switch it on and see your
friend's mum's name above yours and you'd
have to pretend it was a joke but they wouldn't
believe you and they'd go round telling
everyone what a lousy score you got and your
parents would be so ashamed they'd pretend to
be dead just to get you put in an orphanage
where they wouldn't have to see you. And if
you take our advice, then you'd throw the game
away and pretend you'd never played it.


Incredible Bits

If however you win the series then the target
leader will have lost all credibility. You will then
be sped back to the map screen where a skull
will be sitting in place of the leader you have just
beaten. From there you must once again pick
two more leaders, and providing you keep
winning then the show goes on! You may be
wondering what happens when you are left with
one leader. Well we are not going to tell you.


Two Player Game

If you wish to have a bash with a friend 
then move the pointer on the map screen
to the '2' icon and press fire. You can then
choose which leaders each will use. The
fight works as the usual best of five -
however you cannot save the world.


Loading Instructions

Amiga/Atari ST 

Reset machine and insert disk.


Fighting

This is the most confusing bit. Ronnie got completely lost here and even Maggie took 5 seconds to
Understand it.


Joystick Moves

No fire button pressed

                              Jump up
        Jump and move back  _   /|\   _  Jump and move forward
                           |\    |    /|
                             \       /
                Back off  <--         -->   Move forward
                                 |   
                                \|/     
                               Duck


Fire button pressed continuously


                              Hit at head
                                /|\  
                                 |                                          
            Special move  <--         -->   Hit at body
                                 |   
                                \|/     
                             Hit at feet

All this assumes your chosen leader is facing to the right. If he/she is facing to the left, 
the moves are mirrored so, "Hit at head" stays the same, but "Hit at body" goes to the left.
Got it? Told you it would be confusing, but it's not that difficult to master.


Special Moves

Each leader has their own special move. No clues here - it's up to you to find out.


Sidekick

Sometimes it gets all too much fighting out there all on their own, so each leader has a 
sidekick to help out. During any fight, press Space Bar and see who appears.
They can come back time after time.....


Gorbachev has great fun "getting on down man".
Favourite hobbies included dressing up in the latest in flared jeans and kipper ties.
Watch out though, because Gorbie has turned John Travolta's dance moves into a deadly
martial art that he uses to violent effect. Keep an eye out for wife Raisa while
fighting this radically hip world leader.

Thatcher is a particularly vicious leader. Armed with her boxing gloves she'll biff
her way through the toughest opponents. Dennis pops in to lend a hand so keep your eyes
out for her low flying gin bottles. But contrary to popular belief Maggie is not invincible.
Nevertheless, definitely not an opponent for the faint hearted.

The Pope is quite jolly as usual. He really isn't intending to hurt anyone, its just that
with all the frantic banjo playing he can get a little clumsy. He has a few Cardinals
in the band so watch out! Remember to get 'tuned up' before giving JP a hard time.

Ronald Regan has had to stand down from being President of the US. His new job?
Promoting the latest hamburger chain 'Ronnies's'. Dressed up in his clown outfit, Ronnie is
back pulling the punches and inviting you all to large fries and a milk shake.
A real Ronnie's Hamburger* is around to make your life a real misery. Please call again.
*100% anything except beef.

Ayatollah Khomeini "A busy day can take its toll, so when I get home I let my beard down.
Messing around with glove puppets is great fun, unless of course you have been caught
for shoplifting a couple of times. All in all, I get great job satisfaction - I'd hate to
be stuck on a prayer mat all day."

President Botha is a very nice man.*

*Report compiled under the South African Reporting Restrictions.


Typed by Belgarath