                                STAR WARS

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD


INSTRUCTIONS
This is the official home computer version of the famous Atari Star Wars
coin-op. It is an interactive action game for one player.

GAME STRUCTURE
You take the place of Luke Skywalker, steering your X-fighter space ship
from one attack wave to another, in order to eliminate the Death Star.

Each wave consists of three sequences;

SEQUENCE 1 - DOGFIGHT IN DEEP SPACE
Approaching the death star, you must shoot down the defending Empire's Tie-
Fighters, while avoiding their deadly lissiles.

SEQUENCE 2 - THROUGH THE TOWERS
After reaching the Death Star's surface, you have to survive the attack of
the various laser towers, which grow up from the ground.

SEQUENCE 3 - DOWN THE TRENCH
At last, you dive into the trench searching for your final aim; the exhaust
port. Hitting this causes the Death Star to explode, and your mission will
end successfully.

At the beginning, you start out with a number of shield points. Each enemy
hit or collision will decrement the shield strength by one point. At the
end of each attack wave, you will get extra shield points, and bonus points
points for each remaining shield.
If you lose all your shield points, your X-fighter explodes, and the game
is over.

SCORING
Hitting the various targets increments your score during play. Here is a
list of the differant values:

Missile            33 Points
Tie-fighter      1000 Points
Laser tower       200 Points
Trench turret     100 Points
Exhaust Port    25000 Points

The 10 best players are recorded in the highscore table.

LEVELS OF DIFFICULTY
At the beginning of each gamy, you may select between starting wave 1, 3,
or 5, each giving a starting score of 0, 400,000 or 800,000 points. To
choose, point your cursor at the appropriate icon and press the fire
button.

CONTROL
Your space ship will be steered by moving the joystick, and the lasers are
activated by pressing fire. All keyboard commands are displayed on screen.

End.