Star Goose!
Typed by Belgarath


Even above the driving wash or the latest Tokyo Bay cyber-disco hits, you could hear
the clump of Star Fighter Scouser-Gitt's wooden leg as he entered the bar of the
Tribal Elders. It sounded like the drum-synth machine was out of sync. Scouser-Gitt
banged on the counter and bellowed his order.

"Gissa triple spradj, and none of the fruit floating in it."

He was on about his fifth spradj when he realised someone else was picking up the
tab. He looked around. It was one of the Tribal Elders in person, wearing a large blue hat.

"What do I owe the pleasure of the booze to, friend?" asked Scouser-Gitt.

"I've got a mission" said the Elder. He laughed a bit. "Its for you."

"Fugerrit, pal. I'm grounded. I'm feared throughout the Federation. I'm wanted on 12
planets and I've got parking tickets on another 20."

"Tell me something new, Mr Scouser-Gitt. Like- you're on spradjes. So what's really
bothering you?"

"Yeah well. Its the missions. They cost me a leg, you know. And they're so boring. If
you've scrolled over one planet blasting away at god-knows-who, you've scrolled 'em
all. It's Straight City, man, everywhere is Straight City. Apart from the StarRay watch at
Gorbaxa, I havn't had a decent mission since the Ringworlds of Triton."

The Tribal Elder laughed again and picked his teeth a bit. "You ever heard of Nom?"

"No."

"Interesting beings, the Nommans. They've always got their Eyes on yer- whacking great
eyeballs carved out of stone. I'm interested in their jewels. I want to get me mits on 'em.
There's six on each of the Supply Rings of Nom. Heavily fortified places, they are. That's
where you come in."

"Oh, yeah? I told yer already, I'm grounded."

"I can assure you Nom is no way Straight City. Cop a load of these surveillance
holo-shots."

Scouser-Gitt looked. Maybe it was the booze, maybe the bounty, but he was interested.
"I'll need a new Fighter. The one I've got now is knackered. It's a real turkey."

"No problem" said the Tribal Elder, "we'll give you a Goose."


Loading

Atari ST and Amiga

1. Turn off the computer and disconnect all unnecessary peripherals.
2. Place the disk in drive A and switch on.
3. Star Goose! will now autoboot and enter introductory sequence, then demo mode.

Note; if you leave the write-protect tab open, Star Goose! will save your high scores.


Control Guide

Press FIRE to start game.

Star Goose Controls

Atari ST and Amiga

Control is by joystick, Mouse or keyboard. Keyboard control is as follows:

left/right-    alternate keys on bottom row (zxcv...)
accelerate-    top row (qwerty...)
deccelerate-   middle row (asd...)
FIRE-          Space Bar

Missiles

Missiles are launched in 2 stages, from the same key- first, prime missile, second, launch missile.

          Left Missile                 Right Missile
ST        Alternate                    Caps lock
Amiga     Left Alt or right Amiga key  Left Amiga key or right Alt

Special Functions

Function         ST    Amiga
Abort            ESC   ESC
Music on/off     F9    F9
Sound FX on/off  F10   F1
Pause            Help  Help
Continue         Undo  Del


Gameplay

Status Display

All status display is on-screen.
As FUEL, AMMO and SHIELD are deplenished, the appropriate words are progressively shaded.

Star Geese heads indicated remaining lives.
Undeployed Missiles are indicated on the left of the display. The 6 crystals are indicated on
the left of the display, and are shaded dark when collected.

Objectives

You must battle through the 8 levels of Nom, collecting the 6 crystals on each level.

To replenish FUEL, AMMO and SHIELD, enter the appropriate supply tunnels and fly into the Eyes.
Launching a missile in the tunnels will collect all Eyes in range.

COLLECT the 6 crystals on each level before you can move to the next one. The next level is
entered through a face-up gate. Bonuses are collected from the Eyes in these Connector Tunnels.

To collect MISSILES, fly through the Missile Gates.

A new Star Goose is awarded every 100 000 points.

The next game will begin on the level you reached on the last game, unless the game has just been loaded.


Hints

-always have missiles primed.
-go slowly unless you are under fire from a ground installation.
-the most efficient way to clear a level is in 3 sweeps. First time, to survey the layout and take out
ground installations. Second, collect crystals. Third, maximise your supplies before entering the
Connector Tunnel.


Typed by Belgarath