               STAR TREK: The Game   by: Tobias Richter @89

                               INSTRUCTIONS

               Translation of German docs by: Falk Mittmann
               Rewritten by:  Daniel Berg and by Mike Kelly

            STAR TREK @ is brought to you through AMICOM SOFTWARE
          (Mike Kelly & Mike Primorac) & the BRAMPTON USER's GROUP
          (Daniel Berg & Peter McAvoy - BUG Amiga Librarians 1990)


Introduction:

  STAR TREK : The Game is based on the adventures of the Starship
"U.S.S. Enterprise". The version you're using here is NCC-1701-A, which
was seen in the movies "StarTrek IV : The Voyage Home" and "StarTrek V
: The Final Frontier"

Object of the game: STAR TREK

  The object of the game is to stay alive, healthy, and maintain the
Enterprise in good condition. As Captain of the ship, you must go on
missions where you show your common sense and level headedness. An
overly cautious Captain will loose his ship as well as a careless or
irrational Captain. Good Luck!!

The Game:

  The first screen to come up after the initial start-up gives you a
view of the bridge from the Captain's chair. (his best advantage
point.) In the middle of the screen are four bars, or indicators. The
first indicates the IMPULSE SPEED, the second WARP SPEED, third
represents your ship's ENERGY level, and finally the fourth is for
DAMAGE to the hull of the ship. The centre console displays your "Star
date" and current "condition". (condition indicator changes colours for
different levels of safety, IE: red for enemy alert.) On either side of
the console are Chekov and Sulu, your Helmsman and Navigator
(respectively). Around the sides of the viewscreen are several boxes
that allow you to perform the necessary functions of a Starship.
Clicking on one of these boxes will bring up another window for you to
work from. At the bottom of the screen are more gadgets. Due to the
fact that this program is a PAL program, these will be hard to read.
They are as follows: Quit/Save, Helmsman, Turbolift, Bridge, Navigator, 
and finally Pause. By clicking on each of these boxes around the
screen, you access different menus and areas of the ship. The boxes and
their associated menus are listed below.
  Oh by the way, that big blue ball on the viewscreen is the planet
Earth!

Engineering:

  Repairs are done by sliding the slide controls to the desired amount
of repair. Then click the word describing the section or area for the
desired repair. Note, you must have enough energy when doing these
repairs to your ship.  Also you will notice controls for SPEED. When in
Warp drive, you must be at WARP 1 in order to use IMPULSE SPEED. The
middle of this screen also shows the shield configuration and any
damages to the ship.

Communications:

  Instructions or Orders from Star Fleet come through here. The orders
that are sent are not stored, so all missions must be viewed as soon as
possible. The CONDITION box allows you to change the ships status. You
can call up a "condition YELLOW", or "RED", or "GREEN". There is also a
"own message" area which allows you view the messages you wish to  send
to other ships or the FEDERATION HEADQUARTERS, etc.

Battle Stations:

  When you're in BATTLE STATIONS, you can fire the phasers or photon
torpedos. This station and the HELMSMAN station are used for aiming at
the TARGETS. Press the "set" button, position, then press the "fire"
button. In the middle of the console you will find a "activate" and
"deactivate" button for your ship's shields. These are controlled with
slide bars for the strength of each shield. When the shields are
"activated", ENERGY is used from the system and diverted or returned
back when they are "deactivated". Your shields will only protect you
from the enemy space ships.

  From the Captain's chair you can click onto BRIDGE #2, which is an
overhead view of the ship's bridge. From here you can QUIT/SAVE the
game. Another feature is that you can also RESTART the game by loading
in a previously saved file from a game you had before. One very
important thing to remember, is to not rename any files. This action
will only lead to the program not working correctly.

Helmsman: (represented by an '^' arrow)

  The Helmsman is on the left-hand side of the screen. Weapons can be
operated from the HELMSMAN's chair as well as the BATTLE STATIONS. You
must set your aim on your target before you fire your phasers or photon
torpedos. The shields are activated only from BATTLE STATIONS, but from
here, you can call up your TACTICAL screen.
                  ------------------------------------
                  |                                  |
                  |                                  |
                  |                                  |
                  |   []           o                 |
                  |                                  |
                  |                                  |
                  |=====                          == |
                  |                                  |
                  |=======      =======      ======= |
                  |             =======              |
                  |__________________________________|

 A small screen appears displaying the distance and identity of the
enemy craft(s). To the left of the screen is your ENERGY scale. The
four bars across the bottom of the screen represent your SHIELDS. To
the right side is a small red box which is only visible when the
SHIELDS are "activated". When you're aiming at the enemy, you first
select the type of weapon, then click on "set". If your weapon is a
PHASER, then a small square will appear, which you will place on the
target. If you're aiming a PHOTON TORPEDO, then you use a large
rectangle for aiming. Once you have this placed where you want, then
click on the "fire" button to fire at the enemy. To the right of these
controls is a manual steering control. This is used for steering,
docking and or orbiting the Enterprise. To the right of the steering
controls is the IMPULSE speed control.
 (When in battle, most manuvering is done in IMPULSE speed only. All of
your DOCKING or ORBITING procedures are done in IMPULSE speed only as
well.)

TurboLift:

  The TurboLift button allows you to leave the BRIDGE and head to other
parts of  the ship. You have access to the Officers Quarters,
Transporter Room, Medical Bay, Shuttle Craft, Hanger, etc.

Navigator: (represented by an "^" arrow)

  The Navigator is on the right hand side of the screen. From here you
have access to IMPULSE power as well as WARP power, depending upon what
you're doing. There is a CHANGE TARGET button, which alows you to
change the destination of the Enterprise. Buy moving the mouse around
on the navigation screen, the pointer travels from star to star,
identifying each star it crosses on the far left of the screen. Space
stations will also be identified. The Enterprise is identified by a RED
CROSS. The cross-hair for the mouse is GREEN, which you move to a GREEN
SQUARE (target destination). Click the button, then move the cross-hair
to a YELLOW SQUARE (delivery destination). Any BLUE SQUARES on the
screen are other Federation ships. These ships can call for help, or
you may be asked to escort them, etc. A RED SQUARE is where you'll find
the enemy. If you are called to assist an area, you must go thare as
soon as possible, PRIORITY ONE!! Once a course has been set, use your
IMPULSE speed first, then your WARP drive. Failure to do so results in
damage to your ship's engines. A good cruising speed is "Warp 8" or
"Warp 9". Top speed of your craft is "Warp 12".

Pause:

  The PAUSE button is on the right hand side of the screen and does
just that, pause. This allows you to stretch, or go get a coffee, etc.
Click on PAUSE again to resume play.


Repairs & Maintenance:

  All repairs can be performed while the ship is in motion or
stationary. All repairs consume ENERGY, and may have an effect upon
your crew (fatigue). You can perform repairs on the HULL, WARP DRIVE,
or IMPULSE DRIVE through selecting the area to be repaired and the
amount of repair to be done. (maximum 100%) Then just click on the box
representing the area you want to repair.

Science & Computer:

  This is Mr Spock's workplace. From here you can receive expert data
on planets, other space ships, the enemy, etc. With the SUGGESTION box,
sometimes the best course of action can be initiated (by using the
computer). STATUS tells you the condition of the ship, speed travelling
is displayed (if travelling), course direction, etc.

              Using the TURBOLIFT button will take you to MAINSCREEN II

  On MAINSCREEN II you see a cut-away view of the Enterprise. The small
windows down the extreme left hand side show the STATUS of each of the
levels.
  The BRIDGE button will take you back to the bridge.
  The OFFICERS button takes you to your quarters where you can review
the "present mission" or any "previous mission(s)" by STARDATE.
 You can be informed about your crew's attitude towards you, but watch
yourself, as you could be fired for doing a poor job as Captain.
  The TRANSPORTER ROOM is where you can "beam-up" or "beam-down"
materials, etc.  This room needs ENERGY to operate. If not enough, then
it won't work. If that's the case, then you'll have to take the shuttle
or wait. STATUS indicates the ENERGY level of the unit. READY indicates
"ready to operate". GREEN to DARK GREEN indicates the level of ENERGY
in reserve. To select something, click on the button and a window
appears. From here you can select what you want and then "click" on
whether to "beam-up" or "beam-down".
  In the MEDICAL DEPT you can find out the general condition of all the
crew as well as yourself. THe reduction of crew members, makes handling
of the ship a problem. Watch your men and women! Dr.McCoy's box
("bones"), is on the right hand side and he always gives you good
advice.
  ENGINEERING, click on this button to find out the condition of your
SHIELDS, ENGINES, etc.
  CARGO BAY is where your items are kept. These items can be something
you "beamed-up" from a planet, or fuel for the Enterprise. Click on the
indicator to view the list and status of your cargo.
  The HANGAR is where the shuttles are kept. There are four shuttles to
select from, but they must be READY in order for you to use them. READY
for service is indicated by a GREEN rectangle. Shuttles are used to
transport materials and or people to and from the Enterprise. The
steering buttons in the shuttle allow for movement forward, left,
right, and up or down. The object is to "fly-out" of the BAY and make a
soft landing on the planet. A crash in the BAY renders the craft
useless, and for the next mission, a new shuttle must be selected. Each
shuttle can be adjusted for speed, gravity, and accelleration. These
sensitivities may be adjusted with a "slider adjustment." Slide to the
right for high sensitivity and to the left for low sensitivity.
  CREDITS is where you can control the frequency of events, and
missions for the Enterprise. Sound may be turned off or you can even
RESET the game to it's initial start-up point. You will also find some
text in this area from the game's author TOBIAS RICHTER. Remember, this
is a SHAREWARE game, so support the author.
       Thankyou...


              Here Are Some General Tips From TOBIAS RICHTER

1)  When entering the orbit of a planet, keep the hair-line cross
between the     red circle and the planet. Failure to do so results in
damage to the ship, and loss of your credibility.
2)  When using the shuttle from the planet to the Enterprise, aim the
shuttle   correctly and the TRACTOR BEAM will pull you in. Aimed
incorrectly and the landing atempt will be aborted.
3)  With the transporters or shuttles out of service, you have two
choices. Either wait for repairs or head for the closest SPACE DOCK.
Here, all repairs are done immediately. Repairs are done quickly so
that you may leave as soon as possible and continue on your mission(s).
4)  When approached by the enemy, try bluffing. This action saves
ENERGY, and boosts the moral of the crew.
5)  Spock's advice may seem stupid, but don't worry, Vulcans NEVER lie!
6)  Don't use WARP speed when in battle, not unless you're in real bad
shape.
7)  As you become more experienced, the more difficult the missions
will be. THe pay-off here is, that your scores will be higher too.

    Good Luck, and keep on TREKKING!!!

            STAR TREK @ is brought to you through AMICOM SOFTWARE
          (Mike Kelly & Mike Primorac) & the BRAMPTON USER's GROUP
          (Daniel Berg & Peter McAvoy - BUG Amiga Librarians 1990)