                                   STARRAY

          Vaporisers Store,indicating how many are left The Score.

WHAT YOU MUST DO

Your mission is always to protect the Installations on the ground.  When
these have gone,the game is over.  Installations are different on each level
- energy cells,forest robots,antigravity generators etc.  The most common
aliens are the Landers,which not only fly around,they shoot at you as
well,and land on the installations which they prevert.  For example,in the
jungles of Sirion,Landers turn the installations into Gun Emplacements.
Perverted installations should be attacked.  Some Landers leave a BONUS BALL
when you shoot them.  These should be collected (touch them).  The StarRay
fighter is enhanced according to the letter on the ball.

A:IMPROVED ACCELERATION
V:MAXIMUM SPEED IS INCREASED
T:YOU CAN FIRE MORE RAPIDLY
P:YOUR LASER GETS GREATER PENETRATING POWER
C:CONTINUOUS FIRE FOR 100 SHOTS
I:INVULNERABILITY FOR 10 SECONDS
B:BONUS POINTS

If you hange around doing little,the vicious Blue Hunters will come for you.
If you are good,you get bonus AIR BUSES.  Shoot them down and collect the
bonus objects.  On your first mission at Gorbaxa,you'll encounter Krellian
mother ships.  These seem harmless,but when shot they break up into many
small UFOs,which chase behind you in your exhaust stream.  There are 7
missions all in all,increasing in difficulty.  Look forward to the living
crystals,radar interference satellites,the silicon worms,collapsing cave
passages,bloddthirsty plants,deadly guided missiles,etc etc...

THE OPTIONS SCREEN

This is activated by pressing any key on the keyboard.  This offers you;
RESUME GAME,from exactly where you left it

VIEW GAME SCREEN,enabling screen photos and position analysis

SOUND ON/OFF,Without sound StarRay is 1.8% faster and 23% more difficult

RESTART AT LEVEL,This enables you to start on any of the first 4 levels,but
only on level 1 is your energy maximised.

LAST GAME OPTION,Tests have shown that StarRay gives pleasure to certain
persons.  For these there is the following problem:Those who have to get out
of bed early in the morning,must actually stop playing at some time-but
how,when their fingers are itching for the High Score?  For these we have
invented this option.  Activate

LAST GAME OPTION,lose,and nothing works anymore.  To continue playing,one
must load again-and thus there is time enough to glance at the clock and jump
disgusted into bed.

BE SENSIBLE
Please fill in the Registration Card,and handle your disks with care - keep
them away from all hazard such as heat cold.

TECHNICAL REMARKS
Keep the Bootdisk write-protected(hole open)but the Datadisk
write-enabled(hole shut),so your high scores can be stored.  Write enabled
disks are open to the Virus.  Unless you are using a Virus Checker,always
turn the Amiga completely off before commencing loading StarRay.  One FIRE
button on the joystick is pretty mean.  To prevent wear and tear to your
mouse,we suggest the following:  2 joystick buttons-the second(right)one is
connected just like the right mouse button,thus between Pin 8(earth)and Pin 9
of the joystick connector.  For reasons of cost,a super joystick is not
enclosed,but you could of course build yourself one and vaporise with it.  We
will try to support this with new games.

TROUBLE SHOOTING
Loading problems?
tray again,exactly according to the instructions
read your Amiga manual about loading Workbench
remove strange extra-hardware and try again
if it still doesn't work,see below
DISK ERROR appears
try again several times
remove disks,switch off the Amiga and try again
ask your dealer for help,and try your StarRay on his Amiga
if the StarRay seems genuinely at fault,exchange it with the dealer or send
disk with Registration Card(if not already sent)to Logotron.
StarRay is too difficult
Watch the radar screen. Listen out for the warning noises. Build a 2 button
joystick. Collect bonus balls. Watch the aliens.
Practice diligently.
StarRay is too easy
join the Air Force

We have been working on StarRay for about 10 months.  The next game will be
quicker we are now working on the Amiga version of XOR.  We hope you enjoy
StarRay!

StarRay has been conceived and coded by HIDDEN TREASURES,which comprises Erik
von Hesse,Thorsten Meyer,Andreas Voist,Arno Seiler and Nirto K Fischer Music
by N K Fischer,full song N K Fischer 1988 Artwork by Junior Tomlin
Documentation by Thorsten Meyer

			STARRAY    INSTRUCTIONS

THE STORY SO FAR.....

Since the first time you saw a Star Warrior on some TV space opera,battling
valiantly against the evil Citron and Tauran empires,you have nutured a
dream..  to become a StarRay pilot!  Now,you've sailed past the acceptance
tests,you've survived the trainer-sims,you've done the dummy runs on the ice
planet Charon - at last,you've made it!

The first mission is on the planet Gorbaxa.  It's a place where the used
Kryptium - Energy Cells from the mammoth Star Cruisers are stored.  Since one
of the surviving robotships from the Kryx Wars dumped unused Kryptium Cells
there 2 years ago,the place has needed a 24 hour guard - the cells are
priceless and dangerous.  The Watch at Gorbaxa is just your kind of mission.

A few months later,you'll be on your way to Sirion.  It's a holiday planet
where dense impenetrable jungle is growing at such a frenzied rate,it could
overgrow the hi-speed rail tracks within hours.  Here,your mission is to
protect the forest exterminator robots against the vicious wildlife.

If you're still alive after that,the next mission is Sharlon,were the ozone
layer requires your protection.  And then.....

			STARRAY INSTRUCTION FOR THE AMIGA

LOADING

0.Disconnect any unnecessary peripherals.

1.Switch on your Amiga,or reset(CTRL-Amiga-Amiga),so that the Hand holding
the Workbench disk appears.

2.Place the StarRay Bootdisk in your drive(df0).  Loading will commence,and
you should now see the Logotron turtle on the screen.  Soon comes the StarRay
song,and the StarRay titlescreen.

3.After approximately 30 seconds of titlescreen,the disk drive light should
go off.  You may now either

(i)Press the left mouse button to continue

(ii)Press the right mouse button to check out a few screens from Quadralien,
another amazing Logotron game,before continuing with a left mouse button
press.

4.When the screen says "INSERT DATA DISK IN DRIVE 0 AND CLICK LEFT MOUSE
BUTTON",please remove the Bootdisk from the drive and execute these
instructions.

5.StarRay will complete its loading automatically now and move into Demo
Mode.

THE GAME
To commence game,press FIRE on your joystick,or either mouse button.

MOVEMENT is by either mouse or joystick

LASERFIRE is by either the joystick's FIRE button or the left mouse button.

VAPORISERS are activated with the right mousebutton.  Vaporisers will destroy
everthing except the StarRay fighter and the installations.

SCREEN LAYOUT
Below the play area,you will find the Radar Scan.  You are the white dot near
the centre,the installations you are protecting are the off-white dots on the
bottom.  When these are perverted by the alien Landers,they become red.  Any
other objects on the radar are active and hostile.