 *** STARDUST ***
                              


 LOADING INSTRUCTIONS :

 insert stardust disk 1 into the internal diskdrive and
 switch the computer on. insert disk 2 into any drive when
 prompted. when you are playing Stardust, be sure that there
 are no other disks than those of Stardust in any disk drives.


 CONTROLLING YOUR SHIP :

 plug the joystick into port 2

 Joystick      Main game       3D Section      Special Mission

 UP            Accelerate      Move up         Accelerate
 LEFT          Turn left       Move left       Turn left
 RIGHT         Turn right      Move right      Turn right
 DOWN          Shield          Move down       Shield
 FIRE          Fire            Fire            Brake
 SPACE         Weapon menu


 if you hold down FIRE,your ship will fire continuously
 press "P" from keyboard to toggle pause on/off.


 CHOOSING YOUR WEAPON :

 During the game,pressing SPACE brings up a menu where you can
 change your current weapon,switch your missiles on/off,activate
 special weapons or choose the weapon you wish to boost when you
 collect a gun power up.

 THE MAIN GAME :

 Your mission is to clear all the five worlds of the alien ships
 and meteors. Move your ship on the map-screen on top of the
 level you wish to clear,and press fire.

 First,the meteors.
 The amount of hits they can take depends on their colour.
 
 They come in 4 different colours:
 the golden meteor takes the most hits before it's destroyed
 the purple meteor is the second hardest piece of rock to get rid of
 the blue meteor is a bit on the easy side
 the grey meteor is kids stuff

 when shot,the meteors divide into smaller ones until you shoot
 the last little pieces which sometimes turn into helpful tokens.
 The tokens can provide you extra weaponry like gun power ups,
 missiles,smart bombs etc. The letters in the tokens describe
 What you get from collecting one. If you leave the token alone,
 the letter will change and the token will finally disappear.
 
   X    - Extra life
 HEART  - Full energy
   B    - Mega bomb
   G    - Gun power up
   *    - Smart bomb
   E    - Control improvement
   S    - Shields
   P    - Points
   
   
 Next,the time limit.
 If you fail to clear a level in the required time,an alien mothership
 will arrive and deploy a horde of little fighters all out to get you.
 Your ship's energy and shield.
 Your ship can withstand a couple of hits before it explodes.
 The amount of energy loss depends on the speed of the collision.
 The damage meter is shown on the lower right corner of the screen.
 The ship is equipped with a shield (the shield meter is located
 next to the energy meter) which can be activated by simply pushing
 DOWN on the joystick.
 
 THE WARP SECTION :

 All the five worlds in the game are connected by hyperspace tunnels.
 Once you have cleared all the levels on a world, a "W"-icon will
 appear on the map-screen.Move your ship on the top of it and press fire
 to enter the tunnel. Fly your ship to the end of the tunnel and evade or
 destroy the incoming rocks, mines or aliens. You can also collect some
 tokens in the tunnel.
 
 Your energy meter is located in the lower right corner of the screen.
 Should your ship only graze a meteor, your energy will be slightly
 decreased, but a jackpot collision will destroy your ship immediately.
 The mines are a greater threat than the meteors, as even the slightest
 hit from a mine can be a deadly one.
 
 THE SPECIAL MISSION :

 After some of the worlds have been cleared, a special mission
 icon "SM" will appear on the map-screen. Move your ship on top
 of it and press fire to enter the special mission level. The
 purpose of the special mission is to collect as many extra lives
 as you can. Your ship has a limited amount of fuel, but you can
 get extra fuel by collecting an "F" token. To get out of this
 level you have to find the teleport by following the arrows.
 
 
                          DONE BY BeLFaST / SKiD RoW .