                             STARGLIDER  II
      16 AUG 1988              KEYGUIDE                  By UNISTAR

                             Control Devices
                             """""""""""""""
   The  Icarus  can  be  controlled  by either the mouse or a joystick, and
additional  keys  are  used  for  features  such as weapons selection, view
selection,and  utility  functions.   The  mouse  should be connected to the
first port, and the joystick to the second port.

Mouse control:
   The  mouse  controls  the Icarus in the most direct and responsive way -
moving  the  mouse  left and right makes the Icarus roll - you can roll the
craft  all  the  way  round  by 360 degrees, or simply fly upside down (but
remember to take your InvertoGrav headache tablets first).

   Move  the  mouse  forwards  to  make  the nose of the Icarus dip and fly
downwards,  and  pull  back  on  the  mouse to raise the nose, and make the
Icarus pull up.

   To fire the currently selected weapon, press the left mouse button.

   The  right  button  is  the  Icarus'  speed control - when pressed down,
pushing  the  mouse  forwards  makes the craft accelerate, and pulling back
makes it decelerate.

Joystick control:
   Operation  of  the  joystick  follows  the same principles as the mouse,
except  that since it is centrally sprung, fine control of the craft is not
as affortless as with a mouse.

   Pushing  the  joystick  left  and  right  causes the Icarus to roll, and
pushing forwards and backwards causes it to accelerate and decelerate.

   To fire the currently selected weapon, pressing the fire button.

   As  there  is  no  second  joystick  button,  speed  control is slightly
different  when  using  a  joystick.   STARGLIDER 2 uses a joystick control
system known as One Hand Mode, and this basically makes the one fire button
double  as  both  mouse buttons.  To accelerate and decelerate, simply hold
down the fire button and push the joystick forwards or backwards.

   Alternatively,  One Hand Mode can be switched off from the Options Menu,
and  weapons  can be fired by pressing the Space Bar on the keyboard - this
will stop unwanted firing of weapons when altering the Icarus' speed.

                                   KEYS
                                 """"""""

   STARGLIDER  2  utilises  a number of keys, some of which need to be used
frequently,  and  others  only  once during a game, or possibly not at all.
They are as follows:-

Game control keys:
  Select weapon .............................. SHIFT
  Fire weapon ................................ SPACE or mouse/joystick button
  Stardrive ON/OFF ........................... D
  Identify object under cross-hair ........... I
  Audio analysis of nearest object ........... A
  Status Report .............................. R
  Rotate the tractor beamed object left/right. < and >
  Move tractor beamed object towards craft ... M
  Collect tractor beamed object .............. C

  Toggle Fixed/Floating cross-hair sights .... F
  Toggle the patchwork landscape ON/OFF ...... P
  Toggle the projected shadows ON/OFF ........ S

  Abort game ................................. ESC
  Pause game ................................. BACKSPACE

Keys operative when game is paused:
  Inventory mode ............................. I
  Give object (to co-operative depots) ....... G
  Exit Inventory mode ........................ E
  Jettison object ............................ J
  Continue game .............................. <Any other key>

View keys:
   These  keys  allow  you  to select the position from which the Icarus is
displayed  and  viewed.   The  craft  can  either  be  seen from inside the
cockpit,  or as an outside view - it is best to experiment with the various
options.  Keys prefixed with the letter 'n' denote the numeric keypad:

  Cockpit view .................................. 1
  Cockpit view - Icarus locked to Z-axis ........ 2
  Cockpit view - Icarus locked to X-axis ........ 3
  Cockpit view - Icarus locked to Z and X axes .. 4
  Outside view .................................. 5
  Outside view - Icarus locked to Z-axis ........ 6
  Outside view - Icarus locked to X-axis ........ 7
  Outside view - Icarus locked to Z and X axes .. 8

  Toggle the Cockpit/Outside view of the Icarus.  ENTER

  The  numeric  keys  select  different  positions  for both the inside and
outside  view.   For outside views, most of the options are disabled whilst
inside a tunnel network.

  Left rear view ............................... n1
  Rear view .................................... n2
  Right rear view .............................. n3
  Left view .................................... n4
  Down view .................................... n5
  Right view ................................... n6
  Left front view .............................. n7
  Front view ................................... n8
  Right front view ............................. n9

  By  using  the following keys, you can define a completely custom viewing
position.

  Rotate view left ............................. Cursor Left
  Rotate view right ............................ Cursor Right
  Rotate view up ............................... Cursor Up
  Rotate view down ............................. Cursor Down

  Move viewpoint further from Icarus ........... -
  Move viewpoint closer to Icarus .............. + or 0

Utility functions:
  The following function keys perform utility tasks.

   Sound effects ON/OFF ........................ F1
   Save game position to disk .................. F10

  To save a game position, you will need a blank disk.  STARGLIDER 2 uses
its own custom format, so do not read or write to this disk using the
normal filing system.


                                Options Menu
                                """"""""""""
  Press  the  Space  Bar while the title screen is being displayed to reach
the  Options  Menu.   This  allows you to define or select a number of user
options, as follows:-

   0 -------> Select joystick ....................... ON/OFF
   1 -------> Select one-hand-mode .................. ON/OFF
   2 -------> Select Fixed cross-hair sight ......... ON/OFF
   3 -------> Cross-hair autocentre ................. X, Y, XY, OFF
   4 -------> Change mouse scaling
   5 -------> Load a saved game
   6 -------> Load the hi-score table
   7 -------> Display the hi-score table
   8 -------> Painting with Rolf
   9 -------> Restart an interrupted game

   All  the  above  are self-explanatory, except option 8.  As a bonus, you
are able to examine all the shapes in STARGLIDER 2, rotating them, changing
their  size,  and  painting  with  them,  with  fine control over the cycle
sequence of animated shapes.

   Use  the  mouse  to move the shape around the screen.  To make the shape
larger and smaller, hold down the right button and move the mouse backwards
and forwards.  The various feature keys are as follows:-

   Rotate shape forwards and backwards in X-axis ........ X and S
   Rotate shape forwards and backwards in Y-axis ........ Y and T
   Rotate shape forwards and backwards in Z-axis ........ Z and A
   Stop shape rotating .................................. P
   Reset shape to start position ........................ R
   Cycle through the shapes ............................. < and >
   Start animation, cycling forwards .................... Cursor Up
   Start animation, cycling backwards ................... Cursor Down
   Single step animation one frame forwards ............. Cursor Right
   Single step animation one frame backwards ............ Cursor Left
   End animation sequence ............................... E
   Draw with a shape/clear screen toggle ................ D
   Alter scale of objects ............................... n0 to n8
   Return to Options Menu ............................... ESC

   17 Aug. 1988                  PlayGuide               By UNISTAR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                STARGLIDER 2

                          Mission Briefing Dossier
                          ------------------------
BY HAND:
""""""""
Jaysan, Katra, and Agro - I have compiled the following dossier in order to
assist you on this, a most hazardous and dangerous of assignments.

I  cannot  emphasise  strongly enough the severity of this mission - if you
succeed,  the  advance of the evil forces in our galaxy will be set back by
many  years,  and  the  people  of the Solice System will be freed of Egron
occupation.

However,  if  you  fail,  the  planet of Novenia will be destroyed, and the
might  of  the Egron military machine will march on, devouring planet after
planet,  solar  system  after  solar  system,  its greed for domination and
destruction knowing no limits.

The  final  shakedown testing of the Icarus is now complete - the stardrive
has  been fitted and the craft has been stripped of all unnecessary weight.
We  have  sent  sub-etha  messages  to all the Service Depots in the Solice
System, and we can only hope that they have received them.

As  long  as  our  spy  satellites  remain  undetected, we shall attempt to
transmit  updated  intelligence  reports  concerning Egron movements in the
system.

We are now certain that the Egrons are building powerful beam projectors on
each of the seven moons of Millway, and are going to use these to protect a
vast  space station during its construction.  It is this space station that
will be turned against Novenia, unless it can be destroyed first.

I look forward to greeting you on your return.

Axle Handrel
Chairman of the Novenian Council.
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

                             THE SOLICE SYSTEM
                             """""""""""""""""
  A  brief  outline  by  Ramnic  Yathnuc  -  Chief Astronomer on the planet
Candour

The  closest  star  system  to  that  of  Novenia,  Solice consists of five
planets,  some  of which are orbited by one or more moons.  There is also a
large and perilous methane asteroid belt situated between the outer planets
of Apogee and Millway.

I  have  provided  a  brief  description  of each of the planets, and their
respective  moons,  in order of their proximity to Solice.  The information
concerning   Egron   presence   is   based   upon  data  relayed  from  our
reconnaissance  satellites hidden within the asteroid field - but I believe
that  up-to-date intelligence reports are to be transmitted directly to the
Icarus on a frequent basis.

It  is  worthy of note that the satellites have picked up frequent activity
of an erratic nature between many of the planets and moons.  It is believed
that  a  large  number of cargo-laden space pirates and bounty hunters have
infiltrated  the  area, hoping to find rich pickings in the remnants of the
Apogean  civilization,  as  well as minerals and equipment within the mines
and  factories on the other planets.  These marauders bear alleigance to no
flag,  and  it  is  likely that they will attack and destroy any spacecraft
that  seems particularly inquisitive within 'their' operating areas - or at
least  use  their  highly unstable TeleTrac teleport tractor beams to empty
your cargo hold of its contents.

                                 DANTE
                                 """""
Colour:                      Red
Gravity:                     Very low
Diameter:                    262,144 spacials
Distance from Solice:        3,102,000 spacials
Egron presence:              Low key occupation force

The   nearest  planet  to  Solice  is  Dante  -  a  naturally  radioactive,
inhospitable   burnt-out   rock,   plastered  with  perilous  lava-belching
volcanoes and searing geoplasmic gas emissions.

The  denizens  of  Dante  are  an  oddball  collection of creatures, mostly
mutated  horribly  into  gross  parodies  of  normally  evolved  lifeforms.
Combined  with  small  clusters  of  Egron  occupation  squadrons  - mainly
consisting of the heavily-armed walkers and stompers - this makes Dante one
of  the  most  undesirable  ports  of call to all but the most desperate or
inquisitive of ships.

                                 VISTA
                                 """""
Colour:                      Blue
Gravity:                     Low
Diameter:                    248,690 spacials
Distance from Solice:        4,084,500 spacials
Egron presence:              Minimal

Second  out  from Solice is the cool, serene planet of Vista.  Covered with
endless  swamps  and  cloudless  blue  skies,  life  on  Vista bears little
resemblance  to  the turmoil to be found on Dante.  However, Vista is still
close  enough  to  the sun for a variety of strange and wonderful beings to
live in a fair state of extreme mutation.

A  key  point  of  interest  are  the  powerlines left behind by a previous
scientific  expedition  from Broadway - one of the moons of Millway.  These
are  similar  to  those  found  on  the  planet  Apogee, although these may
malfunction due to their age.

                                 APOGEE
                                 """"""
Colour:                      Grey
Moons:                       Enos and Castron
Gravity:                     Average
Diameter:                    524,288 spacials
Distance from Solice:        815,700 spacials
Egron presence:              Complete domination

Next  out  from  the  sun  is  Apogee  - the principal planet of the Solice
system.

Once  a  thriving independent planet, Apogee is now the major political and
economic base for the Egron occupation force in the solar system (note that
the major military strength lies on Aldos, the outermost planet).

Apogee is now a barren wasteland - a textbook example of Egron excesses and
indulgence.   Pollution  and  radiation  have  destroyed  all  the  natural
lifeforms  on  Apogee,  leaving  a  land  of smouldering rocks and pools of
industrial waste.

Of  great  interest  is  the network of tunnels which were bored throughout
Apogee  to provide fast, economic and ecologically acceptable transport for
the population of Apogee.


The twin moons of Apogee:
                                ENOS
                                """"
Colour:                      Light grey
Gravity:                     Very low
Diameter:                    131,072 spacials
Distance from Apogee:        495,677 spacials
Egron presence:              Heavy

The  first  moon  of Apogee, Enos is perhaps even more ravaged by the Egron
fleet  than  its  parent  planet.   Largely  similar  to Apogee in terms of
environment,  Enos  has  little  to  offer  any  visitor, unless they are a
licensed  Egron  scrap collector, or a suicidal starpilot looking to lose a
fight with a big piece of Egron machinery.

Although  Enos  is  now devoid of intelligent lifeforms, it was once almost
entirely  covered  by  a  dense  petrified  forest,  the  remnants of which
permeate  the  moon's scarred surface.  The number of trees remaining is on
the  decline,  as entrepreneurs and bounty hunters raid the forests to sell
arborial examples to tree collectors throughout the galaxy.


                                 CASTRON
                                 """""""
Colour:                      Dark grey
Gravity:                     Very low
Diameter:                    147,456 spacials
Distance from Apogee:        698,305 spacials
Egron presence:              Heavy

The  second  moon  of  Apogee, Castron is one of the most peculiar lumps of
rock ever to be formed by the Big Bang - instead of a molten or solid core,
it is made almost entirely of compacted sugar crystals.

Castron  was once the home of the most popular item of confectionery in the
known  universe  -  the Castrobar.  The Egron-blasted wastelands of Castron
once  gloried  in  the  prosperity  of massive galaxy-wide Castrobar sales,
rivalled  only  by  the products of the distant planet of Mars in the Milky
Way galaxy.

Before  the  Egron  occupation  the  career  options  for school-leavers on
Castron  were  quite  simple  -  they  either went to work in the Castrobar
factories, or they became dentists.

Castron has a modern set of super-efficient Egron powerlines that should be
very  well  suited  to  the  inductive refuelling facility provided by most
Novenian-designed  spacecraft,  as  well as an extensive underground tunnel
network.


                               MILLWAY
                               """""""
Colour:                      Deep red
Gravity:                     Very high
Diameter:                    1,048,576 spacials
Distance from Solice:        12,209,168 spacials
Egron presence:              Very heavy level of high-altitude patrols

Millway  is  the fourth planet out from Solice and is the only gas giant in
the  system, and noted for its seven almost indentical moons.  The deep red
colour  of  the surface is the result of the swirling methane, hydrogen and
ammonia in the atmosphere.

Although  landing  on  Millway is not possible - it has no surface as such,
and  flying  too  close  to the layers of gas may prove to be fatal - Space
Whales  and  other weird and wonderful creatures can be found drifting high
in the upper atmosphere.


The seven moons of Millway:

       BROADWAY, APEX, ESPRIT, QUESTA, WESTMERE, SYNAPSE, & WACKFUNK
       """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Colour:                      Deep red
Gravity:                     Very high
Diameter:                    65,530 spacials (approximation).
Distance from Millway:       987,654 spacials
Egron presence:              Very heavy

Millway's  seven  moons  are  of  particular  importance - they all possess
unusually odd magnetic properties, and it is this peculiarity that seems to
have  attracted  the  Egron  fleet  to the Solice system.  All are cold and
lifeless  wastelands  of  methane  slush,  populated  mostly  by scientific
research teams whose favourite pastime is to hijack the fast Egron "Emma 2"
jetcars  and  drive  them  recklessly  all over the moon whilst waiting for
their  experiments  to  finish.  This pastime has been somewhat hampered by
the recent arrival of several million tons of Egron construction equipment,
along with several million badly paid Egron workers.

The  Egron  presence  is particularly bad news for Professor Halsen Taymar,
the eminent nuclear munitions expert, who was leading a pioneering research
team on Broadway at the time.

Recent  intelligence  reports  indicate that there is now even more intense
activity  on  all  of the moons, and Egron space trains seem to be ferrying
large quantities of refined materials to each moon on a regular basis.


                                 ALDOS
                                 """""
Colour:                      Light-mid blue
Gravity:                     Extremely low
Diameter:                    147,456 spacials
Distance from Solice:        16,225,190 spacials
Egron presence:              Very heavy

Fifth,  and furthest out from the sun, Aldos is cold and miserable.  Due to
it  being  nearest  to where we estimate the construction site of the Egron
space station to be, it has the heaviest Egron military presence of all the
planets.

The  Egron's  approach  to  ecology and rural preservation is as caring and
thoughful as always - almost all accessible parts of the planet are covered
in  nuclear  waste  and  pollution.  The only remaining visible evidence of
terrestrial  life  on  Aldos  are  the  strange  parallel  lines which were
probably  carved into the planet surface many millions of years ago to mark
the position of the sun at particular times of the year.

The lone moon of Aldos:

                                Q-BETA
                                """"""
Colour:                      Pale blue
Gravity:                     Extremely low
Diameter:                    131,072 spacials
Distance from Aldos:         298,440 spacials
Egron presence:              Absolute

Q-Beta  (Queer Beast, as it is known on Apogee) is as cold and nasty as its
mother  planet,  Aldos.  Unusually for a moon, recent neutro-probe readings
indicate   a   strange   yellow   moon  to  be  orbiting  Q-Beta,  although
radio-telescope  probes deny its existence.  These strange readings require
further investigation, but take great care.

                  TUNNEL NETWORKS IN THE SOLICE SYSTEM
                  """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Many  of the moons and planets that make up the Solice system are home to a
large  network  of  Apogean  designed  tunnels.   The principal network is,
unsurprisingly,  situated  on  Apogee  itself.  A similar tunnel system was
also  constructed  under the moon Castron, as well as a number on the moons
of the planet Millway.

These  tunnel  networks  were designed to provide fast, safe, efficient and
pollution-free transport, and until the Egron occupation, they were used by
millions of citizens every day.

The  networks  were  designed  for  computer-controlled transport vehicles,
which  travelled  deep  below  the  surface,  following a pre-defined route
amongst  the  huge  matrix  of  junctions and interchanges.  Flying a craft
through  these networks without the aid of the Tunnel Navigation System may
prove  to  be rather difficult, as all the tunnel sections tend to look the
same,  and  you  may  come across defensive energy barriers and Iris doors.
Another  problem  is  the  huge  magnetic  coil  which was used to keep the
transport  craft central within the tunnels - its discharge will limit your
power considerably.

There  are  only  three  tunnel  sections which differ from the large steel
cylinders, and they are as follows:-

1 -> Junctions and Interchanges
Junctions  are  the  points where a choice of two directions is available -
either  a right or a left fork.  As a number of the tunnel networks consist
of  concentric  rings, it is important to make a note of your location, and
try  not  to  double-back  on  your  previous route.  However, you may make
u-turns at any point in the tunnels.

2 -> Tunnel Exits
Exits  can  be  easily  recognised  by their large coloured markings.  When
entering  a  tunnel it is worth noting your coordinates in case you wish to
leave by the same exit.

When  exiting  a  tunnel  network,  be  sure  to  limit  your speed, as the
expulsion  force  of  the  tunnel  may well throw your craft into the upper
atmosphere, or even into space.

3 -> Service Depots
Most  of  the tunnel network sections contain Service Depots - large square
grey  hangars  which  were  constructed  to  provide maintenance and repair
facilities  for  vehicles  travelling through the tunnels.  Since the Egron
occupation,  the tunnel networks and their inhabitants have become the sole
surviving populations, and many depots have formed small resistence groups,
sabotaging the Egron war machine wherever possible.

The  tunnel  depot technicians have become very skilled in the construction
of  weapons,  including  particle  beam  lasers,  and incendiary devices of
varying  destructive  force,  and  they may be able to repair any damage to
your craft.

It  is  in  some  of  these depots that you will be able to trade goods for
services, if the depot inhabitants are unwilling to give their services for
free.

                         THE ICARUS PATROLCRAFT
                         """"""""""""""""""""""
Introduction by Karl Draggon
Five  years  before the Egron invasion of Novenia, Draggon Industries began
work  on a massive research and development project to design and construct
a successor to its popular Police patrolcraft - the Medusa IV.  Rather than
modify  the  design  of the Medusa even further, we decided to start with a
clean  sheet and develop a new breed of patrol craft, incorporating all the
latest technological advances in weapons and navigation control.

The  craft  was  only  four  months away from flight testing when the Egron
attack  fleet  struck  -  razing our test laboratories - along with most of
urban Novenia - to the ground.

Fortunately,  many  of the development team survived the invasion, holed up
in  underground  bunkers,  and  once  the  Egrons  had been repelled by the
Novenian  resistance,  work continued on the project, and three months ago,
the  first flight of the Interplanetary Combat and Reconnaissance Universal
Scout  -  abbreviated  to  the Icarus, took place in the vast desert on the
southside of the planet.

                     Icarus Technical Specification
                     """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Plasma Engines and Stardrive:
The  Icarus  is powered by the latest generation of high performance Plasma
Drive  power  unit whose computer controlled management system ensures that
energy used is directly proportional to thrust.

    Maximum speed on a planet:        24,000 spacials per second (estimate)
    Maximum speed in space:           200,000 spacials per second (estimate)
    Both these values are given for an unladen craft.

Draggon   Industries   have   further  developed  the  plasma  engine  with
co-operation  from  engineers  on  the  planet  Cosworth,  to incorporate a
revolutionary sixteen chamber neutrino-fuelled semi-automatic latent energy
drive booster, known as the 'Stardrive'.

The  Stardrive,  quite  simply,  allows the Icarus to travel at up to eight
times  its normal maximum terrestrial speed whilst operating outside of the
confines  of  planetary  gravitational pull, and without the energy-wasting
side effects of afterburn.

To  utilise  the Stardrive, take the Icarus up to maximum speed, and select
Stardrive  mode.   The  plasma drive charges up for a few seconds, and then
activates  the  Stardrive  -  the  obvious  effect when this happens is the
blurring of the space dust as it shoots past the craft.

Please note that if the Icarus reduces speed sufficiently, or collides with
an  object  (such  as  another craft, or an asteroid) the Stardrive will be
automatically deactivated.

Energy Absorption Shields:
Being  a  police  patrolcraft, Icarus has been designed to withstand random
pot-shots  from  aggressive life-forms who may be involved in acts of civil
unrest,  and  the inclusion of the latest model of the Valium Dynamics Inc.
energy  absorption  hull  shield  with its advanced and reliable Hi-Lev(TM)
cell  renewal  system  will ensure that the Icarus is safe from all but the
most determined and well-armed of troublemakers.

The shields are excellent protection against enemy lasers and other low and
medium-power  weapons,  and  will  even  withstand  a direct collision with
another  craft,  although  this will probably severely deplete the shield's
energy reserve.

Interface Bus and Weapons Systems:
Probably the most important new feature in the Icarus is the inclusion of a
galaxy-wide standard expansion bus (PicoChannel) which allows a whole range
of  weapon and control system enhancement modules to be easily attached and
operated.   The  Icarus supports up to five PicoChannel-compatible weapons,
and these are available from Depots on a wide variety of different worlds.

1 -> Gas Plasma Lasers
PicoChannel  port  number one comes fitted with standard gas plasma lasers.
These  dual-beam  lasers  are  of the hi-intensity armour piercing variety,
suitable  for attack against most lightly armoured or low-shielded targets.
A  fully  functioning  laser  cell will allow approximately 250 bolts to be
fired before it requires recharging.

2 -> Projected Time-Warp Cuboids
Port  number  two  is  reserved  for time-warp energy cubes.  These amazing
devices  are small computers housed in a compact cube.  Put as simply as is
possible,  the  computer  controls an electromagnetic chamber which has the
ability  to  store a slice of projected time.  When the seal to the chamber
is  opened,  or  destroyed,  anything within close proximity to the cube is
trapped  in time, and then projected backwards an arbitrary amount, say one
second  -  which has the effect of making moving objects collide with their
time-warped clones.

This  remarkable  device  was  developed  by  Professor  Halsen Taymar as a
practical  project  for his PhD, and its use was subsequently banned by all
members  of  the Free Worlds Federation after Taymar demonstrated its power
by trapping the entire cast of his least favourite soap opera in a one week
infinite  time-warp  cycle.   This  feat had a number of knock-on effects -
Professor  Taymar  was  given  a  job  at  the  head of an advanced weapons
research  team  on the moon of Broadway, and the plot of the soap opera was
altered  by  the  time-warp cubes to such an extent that the lead character
found  out that she was actually her own grandmother.  The audience ratings
soared  sky-high, and nobody noticed that every new episode was the same as
the  previous  one.   Some  may  argue  that  this was the case beforehand,
anyway.

If  Professor Taymar's research team can be located, they should be able to
provide  you  with the cuboid launcher - a device which interfaces directly
with  the laser cell, allowing you to use the cubes in addition to your gas
plasma lasers (although they use around twice as much energy).

3 -> Fire and Flee Missiles
The   third   PicoChannel  port  is  designated  for  a  visual  targetting
intelligent computer guided homing missile tube, known as the Fire and Flee
(F&F) missile system.  These missiles are extremely potent, and are able to
destroy almost anything except objects protected by Neutron shielding (such
as tunnel entrances).

When  activated,  the  F&F computer system enters Target Identify Mode, and
scans  all  objects within range that pass under the cross-hair sights.  If
an  object  is identified, the secondary targetting sight is activated, and
it  tracks  the  target as long as it is within visual range of the Icarus.
If the primary cross-hair locates a more obvious target, it will switch the
secondary sight accordingly.

The targetting system is just that - an aid to locating a target.  It is up
to  the  pilot to launch the missile by pressing the fire button.  Once the
missile  is  airborne, its homing circuitry will attempt to guide it to its
predefined destination, taking the optimum route.

F&F  missiles  can  be  obtained  in  some of the more technically advanced
Service  Depots,  and  the  Icarus  is capable of carrying the launch tube,
targetting hardware, and up to four F&F missiles at a time.

4 -> Bouncing Bombs
Port four on the PicoChannel bus is reserved for the "Humbug" bouncing bomb
-  an  extraordinary device which is launched from the topside or underside
of  the  Icarus,  and  spins  backwards so that when it hits the ground, it
bounces  up  again,  travelling  along  until  it comes into contact with a
target,  or  its outer casing is destroyed, when it is detonated.  However,
if launched in space it will simply fall away into the void.

Humbugs  are  extremely  powerful,  its  inner  casing  containing a highly
compressed  contact  explosive  MMF  - the most powerful non-nuclear charge
ever  devised.   They  can  penetrate  all shielding and defences, with the
except  of  a  multi-sourced  beam  projector  field  (such  as those being
constructed to protect the Egron Space Station) - although they are able to
destroy the beam projector itself.

The Icarus' bomb bay can accomodate a maximum of four Humbugs, and they are
available at the highest technical level Service Depots.

5 -> Neutron Bomb
The  fifth  and  final  PicoChannel  port has been assigned to the ultimate
weapon - the Neutron bomb.  With the intensity of a hundred suns, it is the
only  weapon  in  existence  with  enough  force to destroy the Egron Space
Station, and safeguard the future of Novenia.

The only man in the galaxy with the technical expertise to design and build
the  Neutron  bomb  is  Professor Taymar, the eminent nuclear physicist and
designer of the famous Projected Time-Warp Cuboids.

The Icarus has been specially modified to accommodate the bomb - and it has
been installed with a Forslook proximity-lock field to allow the bomb to be
lowered from the bomb bay and slung beneath the craft until it is fired.

The Forslook will hold the bomb a small distance from the Icarus to prevent
accidental  detonation,  and will alter the distance as the craft banks and
turns.   It  also  incorporates  a  dedicated  version  of  the F&F missile
guidance  system,  with our reconaissance blueprints of the space station's
MagnaFlux focussing coil imprinted upon its imaging circuitry.

Please  note  that the Neutron bomb can destroy ANYTHING upon impact, so be
sure  to  have  your  target well within range before releasing it, and get
away  from  the  blast  area as soon as the bomb has been released.  If you
wish to check that it has hit its target, select the rear view option.  And
remember - use the Forslook.

Tractor Beams:
Much  of  the development time put into Icarus has been spent on the design
and testing of the revolutionary identify-and-lock Tractor Beams, which are
controlled by Imperial Business Machine's latest Piers-2 computer system.

Quite  simply, this system allows you to point the cross-hair at an object,
for  instance,  a  cargo  crate, and select the tractor beam.  The computer
will  analyse and attempt to identify the 'target' and, if successful, will
project a tractor beam at the object.

The  beam's energy field envelopes the object and, once under your control,
allows  you  to  rotate  it.   in  order to examine the object (useful with
incendiary devices).  You may then draw the beam closer towards the Icarus,
bringing   the   object  with  it,  and  finally  teleport  it  aboard,  or
alternatively press the Tractor Beam key and switch the lock off.

The  Tractor  Beam  does have a number of obvious limitations - firstly, it
can  only  manipulate objects which are not fixed to the ground by means of
building  foundations and, secondly, it cannot contain objects which are of
a greater mass that the Icarus itself.

Cargo Bay:
Although  not  primarily  designed  to  carry  copious quantities of cargo,
Icarus  has  nevertheless  been  designed  to  accomodate  three  items  of
non-military hardware (as well as a range of PicoChannel compatible weapons
reserves).

Objects  that  have  been  successfully captured using the Tractor Beam are
stored  in  the  cargo  bay.  You may check your inventory, give objects to
Depot Managers, or jettison cargo in space if it is not desired.

Visual Analysis System:
An  obvious  by-product  from the development of the Piers-2 identification
computer  incorporated  in  the  Tractor  Beam  hardware  is the ability to
analyse and identify objects.

Once  an  object  has  been located with the cross-hair sight, the computer
will  attempt  to  match its videoprint with those stored in its databanks.
If the object is successfully identified, its name will be displayed on the
microscreen,  otherwise  you  will  be  informed  that no records have been
found.

Audio Analysis System:
As well as visual analysis of objects, the Icarus' resident computer system
incorporates  an  audial spectrum analyser which will sample incoming sound
waves and try to match them with sound patterns stored in its data library.

The  computer system lays dormant unless it recognises a sound close to the
Icarus, at which point its analysis option can be selected.

Status Report Processor:
Throughout  the  mission,  the  Icarus  will  receive  updated intelligence
reports  from  our  spy  satellites  located deep within the asteroid belt.
These  communications will information concerning the current status of the
beam  projectors,  the  space station, as well as intelligence reports from
our  passive  spies  secreted  within  the  Egron construction force (Egron
construction  crews  as  so  badly paid that we are able to buy information
from some of the less loyal workers).

The  latest  intelligence  report can be recalled at any time by calling up
the Status Report processor.

                        Refuelling the Icarus
                        """""""""""""""""""""
The  Icarus  is  an extremely versatile craft, and this flexibility is true
for  all  aspects  of  the  craft's  operation,  not least when it comes to
refuelling  the  plasma  drives and recharging its energy shields and laser
cells.  The energy induction system has been designed to utilise almost any
source of natural or artificial power.

The  craft  can  replenish  itself  using  a  number  of tested procedures,
although  there  are many untested possible energy absorption techniques to
be  found  throughout  the  galaxy.   Only these five have been known to be
worthwhile to some degree:-

1 -> Powerline Induction Refuelling
The  standard  form of induction refuelling, as pioneered with the modified
AGAV craft during the Novenian invasion.  This process has now been refined
quite  considerably,  to  take  advantage  of  the  new breed of tesla beam
powerlines that can be found thoughout the Solice system.

To refuel your plasma drive, energy shields and laser cells, fly the Icarus
into the tesla beams that spark between the pylons of the powerlines.  Keep
as  close  to  the  beams  as possible, without colliding with the pylons -
skilled  pilots  can fly all the way along the powerlines upside-down, thus
avoiding the pylons altogether.

The  rate of induction is directly proportional to your velocity, so fly as
quickly as possible.

2 -> Geoplasmic Emission Refuelling
The  planet  Dante,  despite  being  a hellish and nasty place, does have a
little  to  offer the more daring explorer.  For example - if you are lucky
enough  to catch one right up close to your ship, a geoplasmic gas emission
can  give  a  fair  increase to your plasma drive, energy shields and laser
cells.

3 -> Volcanic Emission Refuelling
Perhaps  a  little  more lucrative than this, although only for the skilled
pilot,  is  in-flight  refuelling  above an active volcano.  The perilously
high,  narrow  apertures  at the top of the volcanoes pour out a continuous
stream  of molten rocks and blasting hot gases.  Refuelling can be achieved
by  sitting  in  the  wake of these gases, and these are at their strongest
just above the lip of the crater.

However, be sure to avoid the stream of rocks, as they will quickly destroy
your ship if you hover at too low an altitude.  The safest (!) method is to
sit  a  little  way  up  above the crater, although this naturally makes it
harder  to  align your ship with the stream of gases.  Plasma drive, energy
shields and laser cells are all replenished using this method.

4 -> Asteroid Methane Fragmentation Refuelling
Although  the  asteroid  belt  situated  between  the planets of Apogee and
Millway  is  a  perilous  place  to  take even the most well-shielded space
craft,  navigating  the  asteroids  does  have  advantages  other  than the
collection of minerals.

If you can catch an asteroid in your Tractor Beam, it will become unstable,
and  ultimately  explode.   However,  quantities of fragemented methane are
released,  and  these  are  trawled  by  the  Icarus'  power inductors, and
converted  into  fuel for the plasma drive, energy shields and laser cells.
The  quantity  of methane caught by this method is dependent upon the speed
of rotation of the asteroid within the tractor beam.

5 -> Solar Energy Refuelling
Perhaps  the  most  hazardous  method  of  refuelling the Icarus, but still
available  to  the  desperate  pilot,  is solar refuelling - converting the
discharged corona energy of the sun directly into fuel.

The  method  itself  is quite simple - fly as close to the sun as possible,
and  scoop up the free energy.  However, even the composite construction of
the  Icarus  will  not be able to withstand the intense heat generated by a
burning  star.  Keep an eye on your microscreen for temperature warnings at
all times.


                           THE CONTROL PANEL
                           """""""""""""""""
The  Icarus'  control panel is both one of the most advanced, and simple to
operate  of all interplanetary combat and patrol vehicles.  It incorporates
a  number  of  radical  departures from normal cockpit design, the main two
being its head-up and holographic instrument displays.

The  following diagram depicts all the major control panel instruments, and
they are each described below.

--->  Look  in  the  Starglider II sub-directory to find a IFF picture file
that shows where they are.  On UNISTAR DOCS #1 -disk.

A -> Grid Co-ordinates
This  instrument  shows  the  current  location  of the Icarus while flying
across  a  planet or moon.  It is displayed as four numbers - a two-digit X
position, and a two digit Y-position.

B -> Digital Clock
The  clock displays the amount of elapsed time since the mission began.  It
uses  Galactic  Standard  Time  (GST) - a decimal system comprising of 9999
minutes in each day.

C -> Score
This  display shows the number of points accrued since the beginning of the
mission.

D -> Cross-hair Sight
This  head-up  display is used for targetting weapons, and locating objects
for identification or Tractor Beaming.

E -> Refuelling Indicator
Whenever  the  inductive  refuelling  system  is operative these indicators
pulsate.

F -> Local Area Scanner
An  advanced  radar,  the  Scanner  shows  all  objects within range of the
Icarus.

G -> Compass
A  standard  360  degree compass, showing your direction using North, East,
South and West notation.

H ->Currently Selected Weapon Indicator
This animated holographic instrument shows which PicoChannel weapons system
is currently selected.

I -> Bouncing Bomb Indicator
This  instrument  show  how many "Humbug" bouncing bombs are present in the
bomb bay.

J -> Fire and Flee Missile Indicator
This  instrument  shows  how  many  F&F  homing missiles are present in the
missile tubes.

K -> Laser Cell Status 
This instrument shows the current status of the gas plasma laser cells.

L -> Energy Shield Status
This  instrument  shows  the  current status of the Valium Dynamics' shield
cells.

M -> Fuel Indicator
This instrument shows the current status of the Plasma Drive fuel cells.

N -> Artificial Horizon
A standard tri-axial artificial horizon, which shows the orientation of the
Icarus at all times when flying across a planet or moon.

O -> Velocity Indicator
This  instrument  shows  the  current speed or velocity of the Icarus (note
that  Stardrive  speeds  are not displayed, as they are out of range of the
indicator!).

P -> Altimeter
This instrument shows the current altitude of the Icarus when flying across
a planet or moon.  It is inactive when in space.

Q -> Microscreen
This  screen  is  used to display incoming intelligence reports, and Icarus
status  information,  as  well  as feedback from the various navigation and
weapons systems.
                               THE   END

           Typed in by  -=*> U N I S T A R <*=-  August 1988
==============================================================================
                               STARGLIDER II
    15 AUG 1988                 CODES  V1.0                  By UNISTAR

This code list will be updated soon as I find more codes from the game.
There is a problem with the codes that are in the game. So far I found TWO
codes that are not valid, and they will be marked with an asterisk (*).

    Page    Paragraph    Word                 Word-Name
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    5          2          1                   HEADS
    5          7          1                   HE
    5          9          5                   PLUNGERS
    6          4          2                   IMPERIAL
    6          4         13                   THROAT
    6          6          3                   TV
    6          7          9                   COLOSSAL
    6         12         12                   GROPED
    7          3         13                   BED
    7         10         13                   SHRIVELLED
    8          1          7                   CUNNING
    8          4          8                   LIFEFORMS
    8          7          4                   SPREAD
    9          1          1                   CONTRACTORS
    9          3          7                   PRESSING
    9          6          8                   BULLNECK
    9          9         14                   BALL
   10          1          2                   ENTRY
   10          4          3                   DROGUE
   10          4          6                   PLUCKED
   10          6          1                   SHE
   10          6         15                   KNOT
   11          5          8                   HELMET
   11          6          1                   A
   11          7          3                   STOOD
   12          2          3                   APOGEAN
   12          4          5                   SAVAGELY
   12          7          3                   PAINED
   12          8         10                   HANDS
   12          9         10                   DEVASTATING
   12         10         11                   GARRISON
   13          1          2                   TRANSPORT
   13         10          9                   HARD
   13         11          5                   PROBES
   14          1          1                   NO
   14          3          5                   PICTURES
   14          6          5                   PRICKLE
   14          7          4                   MAGNETS
   14          7          6                   QUEER
   15          3          7                   MOUTH
   15          6         17                   LOONEY
   16          1          9                   BLOW
   16          2         13                   MEMBER
   16          4         15                   FIST
   16          5         12                   CHAIRMAN
   17          3         18                   HARD
   17          4         14                   COMING
   17          6          6                   PUSHED
   17          6          8                   GIRL
   17         14         14                   FINGERED
   18          2          2                   DRAGGON
   18          5         11                   FINGERING
   18          6          4                   PLEASURE
   19          4          4                   SKILL
   20          4         13                   HAMMERHEAD
   20          7          4                   TRIP
   21          2          3                   TWENTY
   21          5          2                   PIG
   21          7          6                   INTIMIDATE
   22          1          1                   ONE
   22          2          6                   HARDCOPY
   22          9          8                   RIPPED
   23          2          2                   MINUTES
   23          3          2                   SOUVENIR
   23          5         13                   WHINED
   23         10         17                   THUMBED
   24          1          1                   SIR
   24          5         10                   IMPERIAL
   24         10          1                   MOVEMENTS
   24         11          4                   AND
   24         15          2                   EASED
   25          3          1                   SYSTEM
   25          4          6                   DIVE
   25          5          3                   POPULATED
   25          7          7                   SENSATIONS
   26          1          5                   BURST
   26          2          2                   SLOWLY
   26          6          2                   POWER
   26          7          5                   PADS
   27          3          1                   MINERALS
   27          9          1                   DANTE
   27         10          6                   YANKING
*  27         11         12                   GRINNED
   28          2          6                   BUGGY
   28          4          2                   AUTHORITY
   28          6          9                   LOVE
   29          1          1                   WOOD
   29          3          1                   FOR
   29         12          7                   STUNT
   29         12         15                   BANKING
   30          1          2                   CHUCKLED
   30          2          2                   NEXT
   31          1          2                   SOUVENIR
   31          5          3                   SLUGGISHLY
   31          5          6                   CLOYING
   31          9          2                   PEELED
   32          1          2                   FROWNED
   32          2          3                   A
   32          3          3                   SEVEN
   32          6          3                   BOUNCING
   33          3          2                   UP
   33          5          3                   DOWN
   34          2          2                   SPUR
   34          3         14                   IN
   34          5          2                   HERE
   35          2          1                   THEY
   35          7          2                   THOUSAND
*  35         12          6                   HOLED
   36          1          5                   BIG
   36          3          3                   EGRON
   36          4          1                   WOW
   36          5         10                   TACKLE
   36         16          5                   HARDENED
   37          1          4                   CRUMB
   37          4          3                   PLASMA
   37         15         13                   ASSETS
   38          4          1                   WITH
   38          5          7                   ORGANIC
   38          7          2                   SHAKEN
   38          9          9                   SMILE
   39          2          2                   DOUBT

   Thats the end of this list for now. Rainbird put AMIGA and Atari ST on the
same <--- Disk. Nice protection, but I can still backup (copy) my original
Starglider II  with a copy program, without breaking the protection.
Note: Not easy to copy the original STARGLIDER II.