STEG THE SLUG DOCS 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

LOADING
-------

For A500 + A500 plus users switch ON computer and insert disk.

For A1000 users LOAD kickstart 1.2/1.3 as normal then insert disk on
workbench prompt.

A screen with the game will be displayed next to a number.  Simply
press the key for the game you wish to play.


STEG
----

Steg's a slug.  A slippy slimey sloppy slug and a one parent family
to boot.  The boring fact of life is that the nippers always need 
feeding.  Nosh Nosh Nosh!

Grubs are the main food stuff of Steg's t'yungunz.  They snack on
them by the tonne.  Poor old Steg, without arms and legs he's just
a bit hopeless at catching the darn things.

But this is where his Acme Bitz `n' pieces catalogue came in....

Acem Bionic Steg Legs, Nitrous Oxide Speed Up Pills, the Super Genie
Rocket Pack (patent pending) and a rather nifty scuba diving set.  Just
the sort of kit your average slug needs to keep the family going!

Now Steg can blast up shafts with his Rocket Pack, Tip Toe across glass
with his Acme Steg Legs, take a dip with his Scuba Diving Kit and whiz
around the level with his Nitrous Oxide Speed Up Pills.

All this from one catalogue - I never knew there was so much in them!

Steg has to look after his family of T'yungunz.  To do this he must
feed them.

You control Steg by making him slither around the walls.  He can go up
and around.  He can even stick upside down to a wall.

Steg can also blow bubbles.  It is by doing this that he captures the
grubs which he needs to feed his family.  To catch a grub, Steg must
blow a bubble such that it envelopes a grub.  The bubble then drifts 
up and this is when the problems occur.

The bubbles are very fragile and must be guided by nudging them slighty
or giving them a quick blow.  Be careful as the bubbles will burst on
contact with any sharp object.  Avoid spikes, glass and fire.

Littered around the caves are bellows and blowing devices.  When 
activated these will push the bubbles away from them.  Work out the
activation and deactivation switches and use them to help you.

Steg will find parts from Acme Bionic Bitz Catalogue knocking around
the level.  Pick these up to use their super abilities.

CONTROLS
--------

All Times

Blow bubble about   Press space and release   Fire
Creat Bubble        Press and hold space      presss and hold

M to toggle between Music and SFX

H to pause

Return to lose addon

F10 Toggles between 50 and 60 hz

Escape quits to title page

Little Enter to kill any T'yungunz that are not asleep

DROP BIONIC BITZ PRESS RETURN

Slither Mode (With no Bionic Bitz)

Slither Up            Q       Up
Slither Down          A       Down
Slither Left          O       Left
Slither Right         P       Right

Flying Mode (With Genie Rocket Pack)

Fly Up                Q       Up
Fly Down              A       Down
Fly Left              O       Left
Fly Right             P       Right

Steg Leg Mode (with Bionic Legs)

Walk Left             O       Left
Walk Right            P       Right
Jump                  Q       Up
Duck                  A       Down

HINTS & TIPS
------------

*Keep an eye on the status of T'yungunz.

*Be careful not to incinerate the grubs with the rocket pack

*Remember you can slither up and down walls.

*Slither around pipes.

End....................
