	        	STELLAR CRUSADE
         
			AMIGA DATA CARD


LOADING THE GAME (AMIGA 500,1000,2000):
1. Set up your computer as shown in the Amiga user's manual.
2. Turn on your computer.
3. If you do not have Kickstart 1.2 or greater in ROM, then insert your
   Kickstart disk in drive DF0: (this applies to 1000 owners).
4. When requested to enter your Workbench disk, please insert your STELLAR
   CRUSADE game disk icon.
5. Double-click on the disk icon.
6. Now double-click on the CRUSADE icon.

TO INSTALL STELLAR CRUSADE ON A HARD DRIVE:
1. Create a new directory on your hard drive (name it anything you want),
   and open this directory.
2. Insert the game disk and double-click on the disk icon. 
3. Move everything from the disk to the newly created directory by simply
   clicking and dragging the icons from the disk window to the new
   directory window. 
4. Repeat steps 2 & 3 for the scenario disk. 
5. To run the game, simply double-click on the CRUSADE icon in the newly
   created directory.
=========================================================================== 
                            
                               STELLAR CRUSADE  
                                 
                                    by SSI 
 
                          From the collection of DR.J 
 
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
       1.0  Introduction ........................................  1 
       2.0  Playing Stellar Crusade .............................  2 
       3.0  Movement and Combat .................................  7 
       4.0  Exploration and Colonization ........................ 16 
       5.0  Economics ........................................... 18 
       6.0  Scenarios ........................................... 23 
       7.0  Solitaire vs Two Player Mode ........................ 26 
       8.0  Designer's Notes .................................... 26 
       9.0  Appendices: 
        
            A - The System Report ............................... 28 
            B - The Task Force Display .......................... 29 
            C - History of the Kiffryn's Cats Star Cluster ...... 30 
            D - Glossary ........................................ 31 
            E - Tables .......................................... 33 
 
 
 
 
                             1.0  INTRODUCTION 
 
The  broadcast  was  a  Mandatory;  failure to  watch  was  an  imprisonable  
misdemeanor.   Consequently,  nearly  every  citizen of  the  People's  Holy  
Republic  was dutifully attendant when First Elder Gresham stood before  the  
Council in the Central Committee Hall on Progress and raised his seamed face  
toward Heaven, lifting his hands above his head... 
 
"The  hour  has  come  Comrades.   No more can  we  tolerate  the  insidious  
machinations  of this 'Corporate' League.   In two years,  the Terran  Navy,  
cowed by their revisionist government, will eave us to our fate.  We will be  
alone. 
 
"Our  test is at hand!   The Communing God has put a task before us  and  we  
shall not falter.   We must drive the sickness of capitalism from our  home.   
We  must  burn  out the evil of this League of Devils with the  fury  of  an  
exploding sun! 
 
"Join me in this most holy of quests.   Swear with me by The Blood of  Saint  
Mao  that none shall rest until this holy war is prosecuted to its just  and  
righteous ending.  Join me in this Stellar Crusade!" 
 
Sixteen  days after his declaration of war,  First Elder Gresham died of  an  
apparent  stroke,  after which his driver,  Vasily,  disappeared  without  a  
trace.   The  resulting struggle for his place on the council lasted  nearly  
six  years.   Six  years  of  desperately needed  time  for  the  League  to  
prepare.... 
 
 
                        2.0  PLAYING STELLAR CRUSADE 
 
Stellar  Crusade  is a two player game of exploitation and  conquest  on  an  
interstellar scale.  Two factions, The League and The People's Holy Republic  
compete over the span of decades for control of a small, but richly endowed,  
star cluster in a remote arm of the galaxy.  The League is always controlled  
by  a  human  player  while the P.H.R.  may  be  either  human  or  computer  
controlled. 
 
INSTALLATION AND SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 
 
Stellar  Crusade  needs most of 512K to run properly.   If you have  a  512K  
machine, try to minimize the number of desk accessories on your system disk.   
If you have more than 512K,  be sure to leave at least that much for  system  
and program use.   The game should work with most desk accessories,  but  if  
you're  not certain,  boot your computer with the Stellar Crusade Game  Disk  
(disk A). 
 
If you plan to use a hard disk or double sided 3.5" disk,  copy the complete  
contents  of  both  the  Game and Scenario disks  into  the  same  directory  
(folder).   There's no restriction on the "path" from which the game can  be  
loaded. 
 
If you use two separate disks, the scenario disk must be inserted into drive  
B (if available) or whichever drive the program asks for. 
 
STARTING UP 
 
Make a copy of your disks for playing the game.  Don't use the masters. 
 
Put  the  Stellar Crusade Game Disk (disk A) in drive A and  power  up  your  
computer.   If you have only one disk drive,  the program will automatically  
prompt you to insert the Scenario Disk (disk B) at the appropriate time.  If  
you have a two drive system, put the Scenario Disk in drive B. 
 
Make  sure that your computer is in Low Resolution  Mode.   Stellar  Crusade  
won't  run if it's not.   If there's no open window for drive  A,  open  the  
drive  A  icon.   Double click the icon titled CRUSADE.PRG  and  follow  the  
prompts as they occur.  Once the program tells you to insert your save disk,  
the  game is entirely memory resident.   You can put your game and  scenario  
disks away. 
 
LOADING A SAVED GAME 
 
Once  the  program  has  started,  you'll be asked if you  want  to  load  a  
previously saved game.   If you do,  you'll be presented with a standard GEM  
file  dialog  box listing all the save files on drive  A.   You  can  change  
drives by clicking the button above the list of files.  Clicking cancel will  
start the default game (The Long Campaign). 
 
     - Notes on the GEM file selector box: 
 
Files  are  selected by clicking the mouse on a filename.   If you  want  to  
search another drive or directory, move the text cursor (a vertical line) up  
to  the  current  path definition and make any changes  you  need  with  the  
keyboard.   In order to search the new path for saved game files,  move  the  
cursor  over to the vertical (scroll) bar to the right of the  file  display  
and press the left mouse button. 
 
DOCUMENTATION CHECK 
 
After you select a scenario or saved game, the computer will ask you to do a  
documentation check before it will allow you to start the game.   This  will  
take the form of a question about some section of the rules. 
 
     Example:  Please type the  first word of section: 2.0, 
               subsection: Prompts, and press enter. 
 
The  correct response would be "sometimes" (without the quotes).   You  have  
three chances to get the right response. 
 
GAME MODES 
 
If you're starting a new game, the program will display a menu for selecting  
the scenario, reality levels and difficulty.  Reality levels are either "on"  
or "off" while difficulty ranges from "Pushover" to "Hideous" (see section 6  
for  specific effects).   If you choose "Random",  the computer will pick  a  
difficulty without informing you of the result. 
 
     - Maintenance and Training 
 
When selected,  this reality level requires you to manage the maintenance of  
your ships and military units.   This means you'll have to supply spares  to  
the Fleet and rations to Army.  See "Maintenance" in section 5 for details. 
 
     - Command Control and Fog of War 
 
This  enables  hidden  movement and covert operations.   If Fog  of  War  is  
switched off,  all fleet movements are visible to either player and  certain  
menu  options related to Special Ops (see Special Ops in section 5) will  be  
disabled.   The  Commanders  selection  in  the Assign  menu  will  also  be  
disabled. 
 
If you're not familiar with the game, it's a good idea to keep both of these  
reality levels turned off.  They add significant complexity to the game. 
 
TALKING TO THE COMPUTER 
 
With the exception of naming ship classes and save game files, everything in  
Stellar Crusade is done with the mouse.   Selections are always made with  a  
single  click of the left button.   Whenever the menu bar is visible at  the  
top of the screen,  moving the cursor over the name of a menu will reveal  a  
list  of  selections.   If you don't want to choose any  of  the  selections  
listed,  simply  click anywhere on the screen that's NOT part of  the  menu.   
The menu will disappear. 
 
THE MAP 
 
The  map  is an isometric view of the space surrounding the  Kiffryn's  Cats  
Cluster.   The  XY  plane  is  the Equatorial Plane of  the  Galaxy  with  X  
increasing spinward and Y increasing outward.  The Z axis indicates distance  
"above" (toward galactic north) or "below" the Equatorial Plane. 
 
The XY plane is marked off in 5 light year squares.   Black squares indicate  
the  approximate  location  of  star systems as they would  be  seen  by  an  
observer positioned north of the Equatorial Plane.   This makes it easier to  
correlate the isometric map with the Route Map. 
 
Distances  north (above) or south of (below) the Equatorial Plane are  shown  
with color coded elevation dots.  Gray dots are north of the plane and green  
dots are south.  The dots are spaced at 2 light year intervals. 
 
Systems  are shown as large dots with small rectangles  nearby.   Unexplored  
systems  are white,  League systems are gold and Republic systems  are  red.   
When League ships are in a system,  the rectangle will be shown in gold  and  
contain a dark task force marker.  A Republican presence in a system will be  
shown with a red rectangle.  If the system contains both League and Republic  
ships, the box will contain a white 'X' on a blue background. 
 
THE QUICK SYSTEM DISPLAY 
 
You  can  get  an  overview  of  the  condition  of  a  star  system  during  
your Movement or Economics Phase simply by selecting it. 
 
Select the system by pointing to it and clicking the left mouse button.  The  
Quick System Display will appear below the map and will disappear as soon as  
you move the mouse. 
 
SYSTEM HABITABILITY AND FARM DEPLOYMENT 
 
     - Slice 1 - number of farms deployed +99  [green] 
 
This  gives an idea of how the system's food output compares to  an  "ideal"  
production  rate.   The  bigger  the slice,  the more  food  the  system  is  
producing. 
 
     - Slice 2  (system habitability - farms) +99  [black] 
 
This  slice shows you how much room there is to expand  agriculturally.   If  
the  farms  +99 slice is small and this slice is large,  the  system  hasn't  
really been exploited agriculturally. 
 
The remaining slice is simply the "non-habitable" fraction of the system. 
 
SYSTEM ORGANICS AND REFINERY DEPLOYMENT 
 
     - Slice 1 - number of refineries +99  [red] 
 
This  slice  shows  how the refinery output of the system  compares  to  the  
ideal. 
 
     - Slice 2  (system organics rating - refineries) +99  [black] 
 
This is an indication of the untapped organic resources in the  system.   If  
this slice is large and the refineries +99  slice is small,  then the system  
has unrealized potential. 
 
SYSTEM METALS AND MINE DEPLOYMENT 
 
     - Slice 1 - number of mines +99  [gray] 
 
Like its farming and organics counterparts,  this slice gives an  indication  
of how this system's mining output compares to the ideal. 
 
     - Slice 2  (system metals rating - mines) +99  [black] 
 
This slice shows the unused mining potential of the system. 
 
SYSTEM INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT 
 
     - Slice 1 - number of factories +99  [blue] 
 
This  slice  gives  an  indication of how  the  system's  industrial  output  
compares to the ideal. 
 
     - Slice 2  (99 - factories) +99  [black] 
 
This is the unused industrial potential of the system. 
 
NOTE:   A "+" symbol in a pie chart indicates additional resource production  
due to the some special characteristic of the system.  This is a good thing.   
A "*" symbol indicates the presence of Spiders in the system.  This isn't. 
 
The right half of the Quick System Display is occupied by three boxes: 
 
     ->  The Population Box - shows the number of earthlike,  protected  and 
belt colonies in the system as well as the total system population.  For the  
colonies,  each  "man"  symbol equals one colony of that  type.   For  total  
population,  each  "man"  symbol represents 1000 people.   Lines  under  the  
symbols represent powers of 10.   For example,  one double underlined symbol  
followed  by seven underlined symbols next to "KPop" would indicate a  total  
population in the system of (1 x 102 + 7 x 101) x 1000 = 170,000 people. 
 
     ->  The  Army Box - will contain a number of smaller  boxes.   Each  of  
these is a deployment site that can contain one military unit.  Any military  
units deployed in the system will appear in these squares. 
 
     ->  The  Navy  Box - will show one symbol (similar to  the  task  force  
markers  used on the map) for each friendly ship in the system.   The  ships  
aren't differentiated as to size or condition and no more than 90 ships  can  
be  shown.   If this box is completely full,  you've got most of your  fleet  
here and probably don't need to count ship symbols anyway. 
 
Above  the  Population Box is a row of small flag symbols.   The  number  of  
flags here indicates the loyalty of the system to the owning player. 
 
NOTE:   Just like the map,  the accuracy of this display is only as good  as  
your last contact.  Unless you own the system, if you haven't had ships here  
lately, don't take this information too literally. 
 
PROMPTS 
 
Sometimes  the program will pause (to give you a chance to read  a  message,  
etc.) and wait for you to give it the OK to continue. 
 
The computer will beep and display a mouse icon at the far right of the Main  
Dialog Box.  Press the left mouse button to continue. 
 
THE TURN SEQUENCE 
 
Each  game  turn represents three months (one quarter) and is  divided  into  
three  phases  with the People's Holy Republic going first in  each  of  the  
first  two  phases.   The  Resolutions Phase is  simultaneous  and  executed  
entirely by the computer. 
 
The order of events in a game turn is: 
 
     -> Game Save 
     -> P.H.R. Economics Phase 
     -> League Economics Phase 
     -> P.H.R. Movement Phase 
     -> League Movement Phase 
     -> Resolutions Phase 
 
THE ECONOMICS PHASE 
 
This is where you'll do all your economic planning,  expansion of industrial  
facilities,  production  of ships and military  units,  etc.   Although  the  
actual work in this phase gets done  by way of the Econ menu,  bear in  mind  
that a great deal of useful information can be gleaned from the other menus,  
particularly the Assign menu. 
 
THE MOVEMENT PHASE 
 
During  the movement phase,  you'll issue orders for any covert  operations,  
move ships,  passengers and cargo between systems,  organize task forces and  
transfer  ships  between  commands.   If  you're playing  one  of  the  long  
scenarios, the act of movement into a system occupied by your opponent isn't  
necessarily  an invitation to open war.  check the scenario descriptions for  
details. 
 
THE RESOLUTIONS PHASE 
 
All  command  level  combat,  ship-to-ship  combat,  assaults,  exploration,  
production, maintenance, covert operations and calendar functions take place  
during the Resolutions Phase.   The computer will also calculate and display  
current victory levels. 
 
If  Command  Level combat occurred during the  quarter,  the  computer  will  
display  a report of "tonnage hit" for both sides.   The  numbers  displayed  
represent the number of cargo and assault systems damaged. 
 
In the long scenarios,  there will be a chance in this phase that  unplanned  
war will break out after the fourth quarter of 2330. 
 
SAVING A GAME 
 
At the beginning of each turn,  you'll have the opportunity to save the game  
in progress. 
 
Select the appropriate button in the dialog box,  when it appears,  with the  
left mouse button.   If you choose to save the game,  a standard file dialog  
box will appear.  The computer will automatically create a new save filename  
based on the current game time.   For example,  if you save the game in  the  
3rd quarter of 2337,  the default save filename will be "SC032337.DAT".  You  
can change this name if you like. 
 
ENDING A GAME 
 
The  game will automatically end after the number of turns specified in  the  
scenario  you're playing or if certain scenario specific condition are  met.   
The  computer will total victory levels for both sides and enter  a  limited  
two-player  mode  so that both sides' systems and remaining  forces  can  be  
examined. 
 
You can select End Game from the General Menu at any time during your  turn.   
The computer will allow you to end the game with current victory levels. 
 
 
 
                          3.0  MOVEMENT AND COMBAT 
 
"In space there are no battle lines,  no convenient bits of terrain to  help  
delineate  the  edges  of contested territory.   There are  only  skill  and  
technology.   Fall behind in either one and you lose.   Lag in both and  you  
lose  without knowing why."      - Raspian Bez (codename  "R.E.Lee"),  Fleet  
Admiral Ret. 
 
TASK FORCES 
 
Task forces are the basic unit around which your fleet is  organized.   Each  
side  has up to 36 task forces at its disposal with three (33,  35  and  36)  
normally reserved as holding forces for ships under repair.   Read  "Command  
Autonomy" in section 3, for more information on the repair task forces. 
 
Although it's possible for ships assigned to the Escort and Raiding Commands  
(see  "Commands")  to engage in limited combat,  the real action is  in  the  
Fleet.  Only ships assigned to task forces may engage in ship-to-ship combat  
or launch assaults on enemy held systems. 
 
MISSIONS 
 
There  are  three types of missions available to  task  forces:   Transport,  
Attack and Reserve.  Although their names are more or less self explanatory,  
each mission has unique features. 
 
Task forces on Attack missions will attempt to engage any opposing ships  in  
the system they occupy if hostilities have broken out. 
 
Task  forces on Transport Missions will not engage in any aggressive  action  
unless  they're  in an enemy held system and they're carrying  one  or  more  
military units.   If they are,  they will attempt a space to ground  assault  
(see "Space to Ground Assaults"). 
 
Task forces with reserve missions will not attempt to engage opposing ships,  
even during open war.   They will,  however,  defend themselves if attacked.   
This  means that only side needs to be on an attack mission in a system  for  
combat to break out. 
 
TRANSFERS VS REASSIGNMENT 
 
When  two  active  friendly task forces occupy the  same  system,  they  may  
exchange  ships freely with no delay.   This is a transfer.   You  may  also  
transfer  ships into an inactive task force (effectively splitting one  task  
force into two smaller ones).  If the receiving task force isn't in the same  
system, it will be moved. 
 
Reassignment  of a ship can occur in two ways.   First,  if you send a  ship  
from one task force to a force in a different system,  that's a reassignment  
and  the  ship  will spend 1 - 4 turns in transit  before  arriving  at  its  
destination.   Second,  any  movement  of a ship to or from a command  is  a  
reassignment and suffers the same delay. 
 
CARGO 
 
Any  ship equipped with either cargo capacity or assault capacity can  carry  
cargo.   A ship can load any moveable unit (These are listed in the Moveable  
Units section of the System Report) whose size is less than or equal to  its  
remaining current capacity.   You may load any combination of moveable units  
as long as the ship's capacity isn't exceeded.   You may not split cargo  or  
passengers between ships. 
 
Damage  due to combat or normal wear and tear may reduce the capacity  of  a  
ship  below  the combined sizes of items it's  already  carrying.   If  this  
happens,  the ship will still be able to continue transporting them, but may  
be  unable  to reload any units it unloads.   This happens  frequently  with  
Exploration Teams since their large size takes up every cubic centimeter  of  
cargo  space in the the biggest freighters and damage to even one  of  their  
transport's cargo modules will strand them until repairs can be made. 
 
Assault  capacity is identical to cargo capacity with the added  ability  to  
launch  military  units in assaults.   All military  units,  except  Special  
Forces,  must be launched into combat from assault rather than cargo  boxes.   
Special Forces may be launched from any cargo carrier. 
 
THE TRANSPORT POOL 
 
The Transport Pool is essentially your Merchant Marine.   The computer  will  
automatically total all undamaged cargo/assault capacity in the pool and use  
it to distribute surplus raw materials among your systems. 
 
Ships in the Transport Pool,  don't require maintenance,  but are subject to  
attack by ships in the enemy's Raiding Command once hostilities  begin.   If  
Command Autonomy is enabled, any damaged ships will be automatically sent to  
Task  Force  33 for repairs.   Once they're  fully  functional,  they'll  be  
reassigned to the Transport Pool. 
 
COMMANDS 
 
There are four major commands in Stellar Crusade:   Training Command, Escort  
Command,  Raiding  Command and Special Support Command,  each with  its  own  
specific mission. 
 
TRAINING COMMAND 
 
This  is where new ships and repaired ships not automatically reassigned  to  
one of the other commands are sent.  Ships in Training Command don't require  
maintenance and can never be attacked.   They are, in effect, your strategic  
reserve. 
 
ESCORT COMMAND 
 
Ships  assigned  to Escort Command are tasked with the  protection  of  your  
Transport Pool.   Any ships in the enemy Raiding Command will be attacked by  
your escorts during Command Level Combat in the Resolutions Phase,  assuming  
hostilities   have  broken  out.    Ships  in  Escort  Command  require   no  
maintenance, but can be damaged in combat.  If Command  Autonomy is enabled,  
damaged ships will be automatically sent to Task Force 35 for repair. 
 
It's  a  good  idea to install a larger than  normal  proportion  of  Anti-i  
weapons  on  escorts,  since the majority of raiders will be  i-Space  drive  
equipped. 
 
RAIDING COMMAND 
 
Ships  in  Raiding Command spend their time trying to  disrupt  the  enemy's  
shipping  with  hit-and-run attacks on his Transport  Pool.   Like  escorts,  
raiders require no maintenance, but are subject to attack.  Damaged ships in  
Raiding  Command  will  be  sent to Task Force 36  if  Command  Autonomy  is  
enabled. 
 
Because of the nature of convoy raiding,  ships equipped with i-Space drives  
perform particularly well here,  but don't forget that most of your  enemy's  
escort's will have Anti-i weapons. 
 
SPECIAL SUPPORT COMMAND 
 
One  support  ship  must  be  available per  Specials  Ops  point  spent  on  
reconnaissance of enemy systems.  Ships in the Special Support Command don't  
require maintenance,  but do suffer a 2% attrition rate each turn.  In other  
words, although they can't be damaged, they do have a 2% chance each turn of  
being lost altogether.  Use old and/or inexpensive ships for this duty. 
 
COMMAND AUTONOMY 
 
When  command  autonomy is enabled,  damaged ships in  the  Transport  Pool,  
Escort Command and Raiding Command will automatically be reassigned to  task  
forces 33,  35 and 36, respectively, for repairs.  As soon as ships in these  
task forces are fully functional, they will be reassigned to duty. 
 
Normally,  command  autonomy should be kept "on",  since it frees  you  from  
having  to  constantly check the condition of ships in  your  commands.   On  
occasion,  however,  you  may  want  to  specifically  control  your  repair  
schedule.  If you do, disable command autonomy. 
 
TRANSIT 
 
When  you reassign a ship,  there will be a delay of 1 - 4 turns  while  the  
paperwork clears,  new crews are trained and assigned, the ship is moved and  
the wheels of bureaucracy grind steadily along.   During that time, the ship  
will be "in transit" to its new post. 
 
You can check the destinations and planned arrival dates of ships in transit  
by  selecting  Ships in Transit from the Assign menu  during  your  movement  
phase. 
 
GROUND FORCES 
 
There are four types of military units in Stellar Crusade;  Security Forces,  
Light Regulars, Heavy Regulars and Special Forces. 
 
Security  Forces are lightly equipped units composed mainly  of  reservists,  
local militia and other irregulars.   Because of this,  Security Forces  are  
best applied in a defensive posture. 
 
Regulars are the backbone of your ground forces.  Well equipped and trained,  
they perform well both offensively and defensively.   The difference between  
Light and Heavy Regulars is essentially one of equipment. 
 
Special Forces are small,  elite units trained in independent operation.  As  
such,  they  require little in the way of fleet support in an assault  on  a  
system and may be launched from any ship that can carry cargo. 
 
MOVING A TASK FORCE 
 
During  your movement phase you'll have the opportunity to move any of  your  
active task forces between systems,  subject to the limitations of range and  
the task force's condition.   The movement range of a task force is equal to  
that  of its slowest ship and only ready task forces can move.   If  a  task  
force  isn't in a friendly system,  there's a chance it will fail to  become  
ready.   Should  this happen,  you'll have to reassign its ships to  another  
task force to get them out. 
 
When you select Move Task Force from the Move menu, the computer will prompt  
you  to select a system of origin.   Choose the system in the same  way  you  
would select a system to examine.   Starting with the lowest numbered  ready  
task  force  in the system,  the computer will show you task  force  number,  
size,  commander,  mission  and total cargo in the large dialog box  at  the  
bottom of the screen.  You'll have the option to skip each task force. 
 
If you want to move the task force,  simply select a destination system.  If  
it's within range,  the computer will ask you to confirm the move (once  the  
task force is in i-Space, you can't rescind the order).  Moving a task force  
to its current location is not a move. 
 
You can only move a task force once in a game turn,  but you can initiate  a  
movement dialog as many times as you like.   As long as you don't confirm  a  
move, you can change your mind indefinitely. 
 
COMBAT 
 
There are two levels of conflict in the game.  If limited hostilities are in  
effect,   only  Command  Level  combat  will  occur.   This  is  essentially  
skirmishing and interdiction aimed at hampering the enemy's economy. 
 
Once open hostilities have broken out, any task force with an attack mission  
in a system occupied by enemy ships will automatically engage.   This  means  
war. 
 
Note:   Once war breaks out,  a "crossed swords" symbol  will appear at  the  
far right of the map display. 
 
WEAPONS 
 
There are four types of weapons used in the game:  short range Anti-r,  long  
range Anti-r,  short range Anti-i and long range Anti-i.   The specifics  of  
each type are detailed in section 5, Ship Systems and Classes, but it should  
be  mentioned  here  that ships in i-Space can only be  attacked  by  Anti-i  
weapons.   Also,  long  range  weapons (both offensive  and  defensive)  are  
expendable,  that  is,  each long range weapon becomes "damaged"  when  it's  
fired. 
 
COMMAND LEVEL COMBAT 
 
Command  level  combat  consists  of hit-and-run  raider  strikes  on  enemy  
shipping with the intent of damaging their Transport Pool enough to  prevent  
complete distribution of surplus raw materials. 
 
Ships assigned to your Raiding Command will each attempt to locate a ship in  
the enemy Transport Pool.  Each raider has a 5% chance of finding each enemy  
transport and will attack the first ship it finds. 
 
Raiders  equipped  with i-Space drives will automatically inflict  1  to  10  
points of damage for each short range Anti-r weapon they mount.  If a raider  
is  not equipped with i-Space drives,  it has a 10% x current  effectiveness  
chance  to  score a hit with each short range Anti-r weapon and  each weapon  
will  do only 1 point of damage.   Note that  raiders never use  long  range  
weapons.   If you design a ship purely as a raider,  don't mount long  range  
weapons on it. 
 
After  all your raiders have attacked,  ships in the enemy's Escort  Command  
will attempt to track them down and retaliate.   Each escort has a 4% chance  
to locate each raider and will attack the first one it finds. 
 
In an escort is attacking a target with a functional i-Space drive,  it will  
fire  its  Anti-i  weapons.    Each  Anti-i  weapon  has  a  10%  x  current  
effectiveness chance to hit.   Long range weapons do 3 points of damage  and  
short range weapons do 1 point. 
 
If an escort is attacking a raider operating in real space,  it will use its  
Anti-r weapons with the same probability of hit.   Short range weapons  will  
do 1 point of damage.   Long range weapons will do 5 to 15 points of damage,  
but,  if the target is equipped with point defense systems,  there's a 7%  x  
number  of  point defense systems chance that each long range  weapon  which  
achieves a lock on will be shot down before impact. 
 
Command  Level  Combat is mutual,  that is your raiders  will  attack  enemy  
shipping and his raiders will attack yours. 
 
SHIP TO SHIP COMBAT 
 
At the end of a Movement Phase (after hostilities have begun),  the computer  
will check for opposing task forces occupying the same system.   If any task  
force in a contested system has an attack mission,  combat will occur.  Each  
battle is resolved separately and you'll have the opportunity to control the  
large  scale actions of engaged forces at the beginning of each  hour  after  
the first. 
 
MISSIONS AND FORMATIONS 
 
During the battle,  the forces of both sides will be displayed in formations  
appropriate  to their missions.   The individual task force commanders  will  
decide  what  formation to use,  but,  generally,  task forces  with  attack  
missions will be deployed in wedge shaped formations.  Transport forces will  
be deployed in linear formations and reserves will usually be disorganized. 
 
As  long as both sides have task forces with attack missions in the  battle,  
only  those  forces will actually be engaged.   This allows  you  to  screen  
transport  and reserve forces during an engagement.   If all of your  attack  
forces have been eliminated,  any of your other forces can be engaged.   You  
can't change the missions of your task forces during combat. 
 
LONG RANGE COMBAT 
 
Combat always begins at long range and will continue at long range until all  
long range weapons on both sides are exhausted.   Not all of a task  force's  
long range weapons will be fired at once.   The actual number depends on the  
commander's  attack rating,  the total number of available targets  and  the  
number of long range weapons remaining in the task force. 
 
Each long rang weapon has a (10 x firing ship effectiveness + 10 x number of  
scanners) x 1% chance to lock on to an enemy ship.  A long range weapon that  
manages  to hit will inflict 10 to 15 points of damage.   This is enough  to  
transform  even the largest cruisers into rapidly expanding spheres of  high  
energy particles. 
 
Once  the computer has determined how many long range weapons were  able  to  
lock on,  the opposing ships' long range defenses will attempt to  intercept  
inbound  weapons.   Each long range defensive weapon has a 3% x firing  ship  
effectiveness  x force commander's defensive rating chance to  intercept  an  
incoming weapon.  Intercepted weapons are destroyed.  Notice that long range  
defenses  have the advantage of being able to protect all friendly ships  in  
the engagement. 
 
Any long range weapons that survive interception will hit their target ships  
unless stopped by point defenses.  A ship can only use point defense systems  
to protect itself.   The probability that a ship's point defenses will  stop  
an  incoming long range weapon is 14% x number of functioning point  defense  
systems (maximum 70%). 
 
SHORT RANGE COMBAT 
 
When  the  engaged task forces  have exhausted their supply  of  long  range  
weapons, the battle shifts to short range.  Short range combat will continue  
until the end of a round in which no ship receives a hit.   This means  that  
battles can end with surviving ships on both sides. 
 
Up to 5 short range weapons per ship will fire at the enemy per round with a  
10% x firing ship effectiveness chance to hit.   Each hit will do 1 point of  
damage to a randomly selected target ship. 
 
DAMAGE 
 
Each  point of damage inflicted on a ship incapacitates one of its  systems.   
If  a  ship  suffers more damage than the total of  its  remaining  operable  
systems, it's destroyed. 
 
If all of the command modules in a task force are destroyed,  the task force  
commander is assumed to have perished in the line of duty and the task force  
will  be  placed  under Central Command's control.   A  new  (and  unproven)  
commander will be promoted to take his place. 
 
Damaged ships can only be repaired by reassigning them to a task force in  a  
system where spares are available.   If the "Maintenance and Supply" reality  
level  is  enabled,  you'll  have to build spares  to  support  your  repair  
activities.   Otherwise,  spares are assumed to be universally available  in  
systems you control. 
 
AGGRESSIVENESS 
 
At  the  beginning  of  each hour after  the  first,  you'll  be  given  the  
opportunity to order your commands to engage aggressively.   If you do,  the  
probability of achieving hits/lock ons on both sides increases significantly  
giving the superior force a slight edge. 
 
DISENGAGEMENT 
 
At  the beginning of each hour after the first,  you'll have the  chance  to  
order  your forces to disengage.   In a two player game,  the computer  will  
also ask which force wants to break off. 
 
Disengagement  is  never  automatic.    The  probability  of  a   successful  
disengagement  is  based on the relative  quality of  the  opposing  forces'  
commanders.   All things being equal,  the attempt has about a 60% chance of  
being successful. 
 
If disengagement succeeds, all task forces in the system, on the disengaging  
side, will be given a reserve mission and combat will end.  Any assault that  
may have been planned will be aborted. 
 
If  you  disengage from combat and then fail to move your ships out  of  the  
contested  system,  the enemy will be able to attack them again  next  turn.   
Don't forget to move them. 
 
CAUTION:   If your task force loses,  it may not be able to move next  turn.   
That  is,  it will show as having already moved.   The only way to save  the  
remnants  of such a beleaguered force is to use  reassignment.   Reassigning  
ships  in this way will immediately remove them form the  embattled  system,  
but  will  also  take them out of action for the usual 1  -  4  turns.   See  
"Transfers vs Reassignment" in section 3. 
 
SPACE TO GROUND ASSAULTS 
 
Holding the space around a system is only half the battle.  Even in the 24th  
Century, to own a system you still have to own the dirt. 
 
LAUNCHING AN ASSAULT 
 
If you have ships with a transport mission in an enemy system after ship  to  
ship combat is resolved, the computer will check for military units in their  
holds.   Only special forces units may be launched from normal cargo  holds.   
All other units must be launched from assault holds.   If a ship's cargo  or  
assault capacity has been reduced due to damage, it can still participate in  
the assault, but it may need repair before it can load troops again. 
 
If  there are military units eligible to assault the  system,  the  computer  
will  automatically  launch  them from their  transports  according  to  the  
following priorities: 
 
     1.  Task forces unload, in ascending order. 
      
     2.  Transports  unload in  the same order in which they're listed  when  
     you examine their task force. 
 
     3.  Units  will  unload in  the same order in which they're  listed  in  
     their transport's Cargo Available for Unloading box. 
           
Units  will be launched until each deployment site is filled or you run  out  
of units. 
 
GROUND COMBAT 
 
Once troops have landed,  ground combat begins.  Each day, the computer will  
display  the  current state of the battle for the system and  calculate  the  
each  side's probability of destroying an opposing unit.   This is  done  by  
adding  the  combat  strength  of  each friendly  unit  in  the  system  and  
multiplying  the  result  by 1% for each point of  the  assault  commander's  
Assault Rating (for attacking units) or System Defensibility (for  defending  
units).   The  combat strength of a unit is equal to strength x  capability.   
The  commander of the highest numbered task force in the system will be  the  
assault commander. 
 
At  the  end  of every day  of  fighting,  system  habitability,  farms  and  
population will be reduced by 1 each.   If the battle continues long enough,  
it's possible to completely devastate a system. 
 
Eventually, one of two things will happen.  Either all military units in the  
system  will be destroyed or only one player will have units left.   If  the  
only  player  to have units remaining in the system  is  the  attacker,  the  
system will change ownership with the following effects: 
 
     ->  Loyalty is set to 1. 
      
     ->  Half of  all local spares and rations will be captured.   The  rest  
     will be lost. 
      
     ->  All  build  points  accumulated  in  local  shipyards  and  training  
     centers will be lost. 
 
     ->  All local shipyards and training centers will be reduced in size by  
     1 to 20 points. 
      
     ->  All local intelligence centers will be destroyed. 
      
COMMANDERS 
 
As  supreme commander of your government,  you have a large  pool of willing  
leadership  at  your disposal.   Some of your  commanders  are  good.   Some  
aren't.   Some are specialists.  The only way you'll know is to test them in  
battle.  Until then, the only thing you can be sure of is their age. 
 
During the Movement Phase,  you can look at a summary of your commanders  by  
choosing Commanders from the Assign menu.   Each commander is rated for ship  
to  ship attack,  ship to ship defense and space to ground  assault.   Their  
ratings will range from 1 (incompetent) to 5 (brilliant). 
 
For  security  purposes,  none  of your commanders'  real  names  are  used.   
Instead,  each  one  has been assigned a codename.   League  commanders  use  
codenames  borrowed  from  the  great  military  leaders  of  Terra's  past.   
Republic commanders prefer names stolen from Old Earth biblical literature. 
 
Task  forces without commanders are assigned to Central Command.   All  task  
forces  under  Central Command authority operate with  attack,  defense  and  
assault ratings of 2. 
 
SPECIAL OPS 
 
Special  Operations  are  used to disrupt your enemy's  economy  and  gather  
information in places the Fleet can't reach.  Although you can allocate more  
than  10 build points to your intelligence centers,  you may only invest  10  
total  operations options in fomenting rebellion and system  reconnaissance.   
Any  additional points spent on intelligence centers will  go  automatically  
into internal security. 
 
     - Forment Rebellion 
 
By  encouraging  popular  unrest in enemy  systems,  you  can  reduce  their  
loyalty.   You'll need a support ship from Special Support Command for  each  
option  you  allocate toward this activity.   Well  garrisoned  systems  are  
virtually immune to this kind of activity. 
 
     - System Reconnaissance 
 
Sometimes  it's not practical to send ships into enemy territory  to  update  
your  files  on a system.   This activity allows you to  gather  information  
covertly.   One support ship must be available for each option you  allocate  
toward System Reconnaissance. 
 
     - Internal Security 
 
This counterintelligence activity makes it more difficult for enemy  special  
operations to succeed.   Any unallocated options are automatically  assigned  
to this activity. 
 
COMBAT SCENARIOS 
 
                                   STOP! 
 
You've  read  enough  rules for a  while.   The  two  combat-only  scenarios  
"Operation Gold River" and "Plan Jericho" are described in section 6.   Play  
one (or both) of them to get a feel for the mechanics of managing your fleet  
before  you  move  on  to the additional  complexities  of  exploration  and  
economics. 
 
 
                     4.0  EXPLORATION AND COLONIZATION 
 
"...so reach for Icarus!   Reach for the stars!!  Phase II homesites from 10  
square kilometers are still available!!!  Call before midnight and you could  
win a trip for two to..." 
 
EXPLORING A SYSTEM 
 
If  you  have a loaded exploration team in an unexplored system  during  the  
Resolutions Phase,  it will be automatically unloaded and the system claimed  
in your name if the carrying ship is on a transport mission.   The team will  
report  statistics for habitability,  metals,  organics,  deployment  sites,  
defensibility  and  special  characteristics.   The  loyalty  of  the  newly  
acquired system is always 10. 
 
Only  the owner will know what a newly claimed system is like.   Use  System  
Reconnaissance  to check on your opponent's systems.   If both sides try  to  
explore a system at the same time, each side has an equal chance to succeed,  
but  there's  a 20% chance that neither will.   Only one or the  other  will  
actually be able to explore the system. 
 
SPECIAL SYSTEM CHARACTERISTICS 
 
There  is a possibility that a newly explored system will have some  unusual  
distinguishing   feature.    Only   the  game  effects  of   these   special  
characteristics are discussed here.   Read the glossary for a more  complete  
description. 
 
     - Gasworlders 
 
The  system  will add 3 extra units of organics to your surplus  goods  pool  
each turn for as long as you hold it. 
 
     - Oort People 
 
The  system will add 3 extra units of metals to your surplus goods pool  per  
turn while you control it. 
 
     - Aborigines 
 
The  system  will add 3 extra units of food to your surplus goods  pool  per  
turn while you own it. 
 
     - Paleotechnology 
 
They  system will add 2 points per turn (instead of 1) to your research pool  
as long as it's under your control. 
 
     - Spiders 
 
Normally,  the population of a world will grow spontaneously,  but a  system  
infested  with  spiders  will  be  unable to  grow  until  the  spiders  are  
eliminated.   Each  military  unit  deployed in the  system  increases  your  
chances of eradicating a spider infestation.  You can still add to the local  
population by importing colonies. 
 
COLONIZING A SYSTEM 
 
As  the population grows on your home worlds,  larger and larger numbers  of  
people will seek the opportunities offered by the frontier and colonies will  
be come available for transport to new worlds.  Essentially, colonization is  
nothing more than transporting people to newly explored systems.   The trick  
is to turn an isolated group of a few thousand struggling colonists stranded  
in an undeveloped system into a productive industrial concern.  Read section  
8, "Designer's Notes" for hints on building successful colonies. 
 
Once a system is colonized,  two things will happen  automatically.   First,  
unless  the system is infested with spiders,  the population will  begin  to  
grow by itself.   Second,  the system's habitability will begin to gradually  
increase as people begin altering the environment to suit themselves. 
 
EARTHLIKE COLONIES 
 
The  teeming  masses  are a fertile source  of  willing,  if  ill  prepared,  
prospective  colonists.   Earthlike  colonies are  easy  to  transport,  but  
require a habitability of at least 65 to deploy. 
 
PROTECTED COLONIES 
 
Protected  colonies  are usually financed by private  corporations  or  well  
organized  co-ops.   They're well equipped and able to withstand the  rigors  
of less favorable worlds.   The minimum habitability for protected  colonies  
is 35. 
 
BELT COLONIES 
 
Equipped  for environments up to and including total vacuum,  belt  colonies  
are  expensive  to  field and difficult  to  transport.   They  can  survive  
anywhere. 
 
KITS 
 
Kits are prefabricated,  pre-packaged processing facilities that can be used  
to  get new colonies started on the road to  industrialization.   There  are  
four  kinds of kit:  farm,  mine,  refinery and  factory.   Each  kit,  when  
deployed, converts to one point of capacity of the appropriate type. 
 
When  you  unload a kit from a  transport,  it  automatically  deploys.   Be  
careful not to unload a kit accidentally.   They're expensive to replace and  
vital to the expansion of your new colonies. 
 
Note:  Kits provide you with a method for extending the resource capacity of  
a system beyond its original level.   If a system is fully  exploited,  that  
is,   its  deployed  farm,  refinery  and  mine  values  are  equal  to  its  
habitability,  organics and refinery ratings,  you can still produce more of  
these  raw  materials by deploying kits in the system.   This  is  expensive  
(extremely),  but  it does allow you to force the output of a system  beyond  
the norm. 
 
EXPLORATION SCENARIOS 
 
                                   STOP! 
 
At this point you know enough to play the Exploration scenario.  It's a good  
idea to try your hand at this one before moving on to the campaign games. 
 
 
 
                               5.0  ECONOMICS 
 
"A leader's greatest fear is not that he will make errors in fiscal  policy,  
but that his enemies will notice them." 
     First  Comrade  Thrender Grone to the Committee on  Internal  Security,  
      Brotherhood, 2297 
 
 
ALLOCATIONS 
 
Each turn,  you'll have the opportunity to direct the growth of your economy  
and military by "spending" build points.   The process is broken into  three  
steps for each system you control:  Build Point Production, Build Production  
Facilities, Allocate Build Points. 
 
The computer will take you through each step in order, displaying a separate  
page for each.   Once you commit points in each step,  you won't be able  to  
take them back, but, at the end of the Allocate Build Points step, you'll be  
able to cancel the entire allocation for the system and start  again.   Once  
you commit the allocations for a system, you can't redo them later. 
 
Selection  of  systems can be done manually,  or you can  let  the  computer  
choose systems for you.   This is a good idea when you have several  systems  
that  need attention and you don't want to forget one.   If you try to  exit  
the  Economics Phase without doing any allocations,  the computer will  warn  
you and prevent you from going on. 
 
RAW MATERIALS 
 
There are three basic types of raw material:   food, metals and organics.  A  
system  will  produce these based on the capacity of its  farms,  mines  and  
refineries,  within limits set by system loyalty.  A system will produce 10%  
of its maximum output of the three types of raw materials for each point  of  
loyalty, so a loyalty of 10 translates to full production. 
 
Raw materials will be automatically used by any factories in the system.  If  
the  system's  factories  aren't able to consume all of  the  available  raw  
materials,  any  remainder will be put into the Surplus Goods Pool  for  use  
next turn, if you have sufficient capacity in your Transport Pool. 
 
BUILD POINTS 
 
Each factory in a system is capable of producing one build point.  To do so,  
the factor uses one point each of the three basic raw materials.   Factories  
will  automatically use locally available raw materials until  they're  idle  
factories, you can draw from the Surplus Goods Pool to supply them. 
 
Functionally,  this means that you can have a heavily industrialized  system  
that's low on raw materials produce build points with goods imported by your  
Transport Pool.   Because it's important not to neglect your Transport Pool,  
it's a good idea to check the suggestions provided with the Economic  Report  
to see if you have enough transport to move your surplus goods. 
 
BUILDING PRODUCTION FACILITIES 
 
When you look at a System Report,  you'll see current sizes and build  costs  
for  every  type  of  production facility  in  the  system.   This  includes  
shipyards,  training centers, intelligence centers, farms, mines, refineries  
and factories. 
 
If you look closely,  you'll notice that the cost of building  farms,  mines  
and  refineries depends on the system's habitability,  metals  and  organics  
ratings.   The  higher the rating,  the lower the cost of the  corresponding  
facility.   This means that some systems are valuable as specialized sources  
of  raw  materials.   Other production facilities carry a fixed cost  of  10  
points. 
 
Building  or  expanding  a  production facility requires  a  point  of  idle  
population for each facility built or point of increased capacity which will  
then  become  employed  (not  idle).   if a system  doesn't  have  any  idle  
population, it won't be able to expand its industrial capacity. 
 
ALLOCATING BUILD POINTS 
 
Each  turn,  your systems' factories will produce a number of  build  points  
which you can then allocate for expansion,  spares, rations, ships, military  
units and industrial kits. 
 
A shipyard can be set to produce any one of the 20 classes available to  you  
or  it can produce spares which are necessary to maintain your  fleet.   You  
can  change  the class produced by a shipyard at any  time,  but  any  build  
points already accumulated will be lost. 
 
Training  centers produce military units or rations.   Rations are  used  to  
maintain military units.   Like shipyards, training centers can produce only  
one type of unit at a time. 
 
Both shipyards and training centers will go through a partial refit when you  
change the type of their product.  The first unit or ship produced will cost  
somewhere between 2 and 4 times norm. 
 
SPECIAL  NOTE:   If  a  system can't acquire  enough  food  (either  through  
production of local farms or via transport pool), there's a chance that food  
riots will break out.   The system's loyalty will drop by one point for each  
quarter that the rioting continues. 
 
Once the rioting starts, you have two choices: let the rioting go on or feed  
the population.  Of course, you don't have to give them food, rubber bullets  
or tear-gas work almost as well.  Deployed troops can stop rioting. 
 
THE ECONOMIC REPORT 
 
The  Economic Report is a planning aid for resource  allocation.   When  you  
select Report from the Econ menu,  the computer will present you with a  set  
of  overlayed  line  graphs  depicting the output  (over  time)  of  various  
critical economic factors.   It will also suggest steps to take in order  to  
maximize your industrial output. 
 
You can look at one graph at a time by selecting Options,  Cleoar Graph  and  
then  the line you want to see.   You can use the same technique to look  at  
the  relationships  of specific economic factors by clearing the  graph  and  
then overlaying two or more lines. 
 
It's  also  possible  to  get an overview of  your  economics  situation  by  
choosing Current Data.   The bar graph displayed by this option can help you  
see large scale imbalances at a glance. 
 
SHIP CLASSES 
 
Although both sides begin the game with several "standard" ship classes, you  
have ample room to design new classes to suit your own style of  play.   You  
may modify a class whenever you like, and the revised design will be used on  
all subsequent builds of that class with no effect on older ships.  However,  
any  ships of the revised class which are still under construction  will  be  
scrapped and all build points invested in them lost. 
 
NOTE:   the  computer identifies classes by number,  not name.   If you  use  
duplicate  class  names,  you  won't be able to tell  them  apart,  but  the  
computer will. 
 
SHIP SYSTEMS 
 
There  are  12 types of ship systems available,  each with unique  uses  and  
limitations: 
 
     - Long Range Anti-r Weapon 
 
These  weapons  are  the most devastating in the  game.   Any  ship  can  be  
destroyed  by  a  single  hit  from  a  long  range  Anti-r  weapon.   Their  
disadvantage is their expendability.   Once fired, they become "damaged" and  
must be replenished during repair. 
 
Restrictions:  Only effective against ships in real space.  Firing ship must  
have at least one r-Scan system operational. 
 
     - Long Range Anti-i Weapon 
 
Like their real space counterparts, these weapons can severely damage a ship  
and are expendable. 
 
Restrictions:   Only effective against ships in i-Space.   Firing ship  must  
have at least one i-Scan system operational. 
 
     - Short Range Anti-r Weapon 
 
Not as destructive as a long range weapon, but able to fire indefinitely. 
 
Restrictions:   Only  effective against ships in real space.   May not  fire  
until all long range combat is complete. 
 
     - Short Range Anti-i Weapon 
 
Similar to short range Anti-r weapons. 
 
Restrictions:   Only effective against ships in i-Space.  May not fire until  
all long range combat is complete. 
 
     - Long Range Defense 
 
These  systems  can  intercept  and  destroy  incoming  long  range  weapons  
regardless of target. 
 
Restrictions:  Like all long range weapons, these are expendable and must be  
replenished in repair. 
 
     - Point Defense 
 
Last  ditch  defensive systems used to destroy incoming long  range  weapons  
targeted at the firing ship. 
 
Restrictions:  May only fire at weapons about to hit the firing ship. 
 
     - R-Scan 
 
Required  equipment  for  any ship that mounts Long  Range  Anti-r  weapons.   
Having more than one scanner increases the probability of a lock on. 
 
     - i-Scan 
 
Acquires  targets  in i-Space for Long  Range  Anti-i  weapons.   Additional  
scanners increase the chance of achieving a lock on. 
 
     - Command Module 
 
This is the C3I center for a task force.   As long as one ship  in the  task  
force has a command module,  it may have a commander.  When the last command  
module in a task force is destroyed,  the commander is assumed to be  killed  
and a replacement is promoted back at Central Command.   The replacement  is  
not assigned to the force. 
 
Restrictions:   Task  forces  without a command module  equipped  ship  will  
always be under the control of Central Command. 
 
     - i-Space Drive 
 
This variant of the standard interstellar drive,  while bulky and expensive,  
allows  a  ship  to "slip under" real space into  i-Space.   This  makes  it  
difficult  to detect by normal means.   As a result,  the vast  majority  of  
convoy raiders are i-Space equipped. 
 
Restrictions:  Ships in i-Space can only be attacked  by Anti-i weapons.  i- 
Space Drives are extremely bulky. 
 
     - Cargo Capacity 
 
One  point of cargo capacity allows a ship to carry one size point worth  of  
cargo. 
 
Restrictions:  It's not possible to split a large cargo among several ships,  
so only the largest of transports can carry units like exploration teams. 
 
     - Assault Capacity 
 
This is cargo capacity with the additional ability to launch military  units  
into combat. 
 
The largest ship current technology can produce will contain 15 systems form  
the  list  above.   With  the exception of i-Space  Drives  and  long  range  
weapons,  all systems take up the same amount of space.  Ships equipped with  
i-Space  Drives may only mount two other systems.   Long range  weapons  and  
defensive systems take up two "spaces". 
 
PRODUCTION 
 
After build point allocation, the computer will resolve production according  
to the following rules: 
 
     - Shipyards 
 
Each  shipyard  will  accumulate the number of build  points  you  specified  
toward production of a ship of the class (or spares) built there.  If enough  
build  points  have accumulated,  a new ship will be placed  in  transit  to  
Training Command.   If the shipyard is producing spares,  one spare will  be  
added to the system's Spares Pool for each build point. 
 
     - Training Centers 
 
Each  training center will accumulate build points toward the type  of  unit  
produced  and  there's  an  empty  site  available,  it  will  be  deployed.   
Otherwise,  it will be held in reserve.   Training centers producing rations  
will add one ration point to the system's Rations Pool for each build point. 
 
     - Intelligence Centers 
 
Each  center  will  generate  one operations option  for  each  build  point  
allocated. 
 
MAINTENANCE 
 
If  the "Maintenance and Training" reality level is  enabled,  the  computer  
will check all ships assigned to task forces for wear and tear.   Every ship  
system has roughly a 10% chance of failing each turn. 
 
After  checking for wear,  the computer will attempt to repair  all  damaged  
ships  in  friendly systems that have spares available.   Task  forces  with  
attack  missions get highest priority and reserve missions wait until  last.   
Lower numbered task forces are repaired first.  Each repaired system expends  
one spare. 
 
Military units lose one capability point each turn.   If a unit is  deployed  
in  a system where rations are available,  two points of capability will  be  
added and one ration will be expended. 
 
Units  aboard  ships can't receive rations.   If you leave troops  on  their  
transports long enough, they'll deteriorate into uselessness. 
 
 
                               6.0  SCENARIOS 
 
STANDARD VICTORY POINTS 
 
The  following  standard  victory point schedule is used  in  all  scenarios  
except the first two: 
 
     ->  For each friendly system:  (population + colonies) x loyalty + 100 
      
     ->  50 x (current effectiveness - 4) 
      
     ->  50  points  per turn  that a player occupies  his  opponent's  home  
     system.   The League home system is Alger.  The Republic home system is  
     Progress. 
 
     -> Research Pool / 10 
      
The first player to reach 750 wins immediately.  If either player's total is  
reduced to 20 or less,  the other player wins immediately.   In the unlikely  
event of a simultaneous tie at 750, the P.H.R. wins. 
 
OPERATION GOLD RIVER 
 
"The conflict lasted far longer than anyone expected.  Although the fighting  
was largely limited to the Brotherhood - Ramage C - Kiffryn's Star corridor,  
destruction was extensive in the affected systems.  By the time it was over,  
Brotherhood had changed hands four times."  - The Midas War,  Fractal Press,  
2349. 
 
This  scenario  picks  up the action as the League is  preparing  to  launch  
"Operation Gold River",  the assault on Brotherhood.  Play begins in 03/2345  
and continues until 04/2347 (10 turns). 
 
Victory  Conditions:   Whoever controls Brotherhood at the end of  the  game  
wins. 
 
Special:   There are no Economics Phases in this scenario.   Actions will be  
restricted to movement and combat. 
 
PLAN JERICHO 
 
"Each side faced the conflict with its own expectations.  The P.H.R.'s 'Plan  
Jericho' depended on the success of the feint at the Ramage Triad  and,  had  
it succeeded,  could have sounded the death knell for an unprepared League."  
- The Doomed Jihad, Strategic Studies Institute, 2352. 
 
The  Republic assault on the League borders comes in two prongs.   The  main  
advance is directed at Glance's Star while a smaller force is preparing  for  
action in the Ramage Triad.  Play begins in 04/2340 and ends in 04/2342. 
 
Victory Conditions:  One victory point is awarded at the end of the game for  
control of each of the  following:   Delta Felis,  Epsilon  Felis,  Glance's  
Star, Bennett's Star, Kiffryn's Star, Ramage B, Ramage C and Brotherhood.  A  
tie results in a marginal Republic victory. 
 
Special:   There are no Economics Phases in this scenario.   Actions will be  
restricted to movement and combat. 
 
EXPLORATION 
 
"The  first  heady  rush of expansion lasted only five  years,  but  it  was  
exhilerating  while it lasted.   The border systems were  rough,  dirty  and  
usually hungry.   Law was something that came with the Navy...and left  with  
it.   Fortunes  were  made (and frequently stolen) on the frontier."  -  The  
First Wave, Botham & Walmer, 2348. 
 
This scenario is set in the chaos of the early twenties.   Expansion is  the  
word of the hour.  Game play begins in 04/2320 and ends in 04/2324. 
 
Victory  Conditions:   In addition to the standard victory  point  schedule,  
players will receive the following points: 
 
     ->  For each friendly system other than Progress,  Brotherhood,  Unity,  
     Alger or Laird's Star:   (population exclusive of colonies) x loyalty /  
     10. 
      
     ->  Cargo capacity of the Transport Pool / 10. 
      
Special:  This scenario doesn't include an Economics Phase, but does include  
pre-programmed production to support colonial expansion. 
 
THE WAR (HISTORICAL) 
 
The League was far more successful in its early attempts at colonization  of  
the  cluster than the Republic.   Not willing to admit that ideology  didn't  
cut much ice on the frontier,  the Holy Bureau of Elders approved a campaign  
against League shipping.   Of course,  the League responded in kind.  It was  
only a matter of time before the real shooting started. 
 
The  scenario  begins in 04/2334 with the Republic's  raiding  campaign  and  
continues  until the standard victory conditions are met (usually  about  45  
turns).  Open warfare usually erupts somewhere between turns 6 and 18. 
 
Victory Conditions:  Standard 
 
Special:   At difficulty levels above "challenging",  initial  P.H.R.  farm,  
mine and refinery  deployment levels will be increased by about 3 points per  
level. 
 
THE WAR (ALTERNATE) 
 
When  the  Terran  Navy  pulled  out  in  2330,   nearly  everyone  expected  
hostilities  to  break out overnight.   That unhappy eventuality  was  fore-  
stalled by the internal power struggle that continued to cripple the P.H.R..   
Here's what might have happened... 
 
The scenario begins in 04/2331 with limited hostilities and continues  until  
the  standard  victory conditions are met (usually about  55  turns).   Open  
warfare will normally break out in 6 to 18 turns. 
 
Victory Conditions:  Standard 
 
Special:   The same special conditions specified in the historical war apply  
here. 
 
THE SHORT CAMPAIGN 
 
After the chaos of the twenties,  the economies of the League and P.H.R. had  
both stabilized.  Territorial gains were well integrated and both sides felt  
relatively secure.   Of course, no government is really satisfied when fresh  
territory is waiting to be claimed... 
 
The  Short  Campaign  begins in 04/2330 and  continues  until  the  standard  
victory  conditions  are  met (normally about 75  turns).   The  cluster  is  
currently  at peace and you have a few years before friction will drive  the  
League and the Republic into war. 
 
Victory Conditions:  Standard 
 
Special:  Initial P.H.R. naval forces will be increased by about 5 ships per  
difficulty  level  above "moderate".   The additional ships  will  be  small  
transport and warships.   Initial P.H.R.  factory,  farm,  mine and refinery  
deployment will be increased by about 3 each at levels above "challenging". 
 
THE LONG CAMPAIGN 
 
The 20's were marked by rapid expansion on both sides of the cluster coupled  
with  growing friction over territorial  rights.   Fortunately,  the  Terran  
Navy's strict enforcement of the peace kept things quiet... until they left. 
 
This is the big one.   The starting conditions of both sides are jumbled and  
will require careful planning to reach stable productivity.   Play begins in  
04/2320  and ends when the standard victory conditions are met  (around  100  
turns). 
 
Victory Conditions:  Standard 
 
Special:   The same special conditions specified in The Short Campaign apply  
here. 
 
                     7.0  SOLITAIRE VS TWO PLAYER MODE 
 
In the two player mode,  the computer will warn you with an alert box before  
proceeding to the next player's phase.   This allows you to exchange  places  
at the computer without worrying about seeing things you shouldn't. 
 
Any game can be restarted in the two player mode,  but only solitaire  games  
may  be  restarted in solitaire mode.   The computer isn't smart  enough  to  
handle the bizarre setups you might inflict on it. 
 
 
                           8.0  DESIGNER'S NOTES 
 
A  typical  long  campaign  of Stellar Crusade can  be  divided  into  three  
distinct  phases.   First,  players will explore as many stars as  they  can  
reach, while trying to consolidate their starting industrial base. 
 
Effective   exploration  will  require  careful   planning.    The   typical  
exploration  task force should include at least on transport in addition  to  
the  ship carrying the exploration team.   Additional transports  should  be  
loaded with spares.   Once the exploration transport is damaged by "wear and  
tear",  it will not be able to reload the exploration team until it has been  
repaired.   It  will  probably be necessary to set up a  bucket  brigade  of  
transports  to  keep the exploration forces in spares.   The  People's  Holy  
Republic  player  should  build a class of maximum size  (15  cargo  system)  
transports  as  quickly  as possible in order to  explore  and  exploit  his  
neighborhood. 
 
Neither  player  has  a large supply of exploration  teams  to  leave  lying  
around.   While the computer will produce new exploration teams, the rate of  
production  is quite slow (one percent per quarter at any system with  local  
population of 250 thousand or more). 
 
Next,  the players will expand into the cluster.  Only a very unlucky player  
will  fail to find a "nearly perfect" system near enough to his home  system  
for easy colonization.   Generally, it will be a good idea to concentrate on  
building up this system.   Each player must identify the materials needed by  
his society,  and colonize systems where production of these materials  will  
be inexpensive. 
 
The most effective way of setting up a colony is to produce ten factory kits  
for placement in a new system.  Let your transport pool carry the  necessary  
goods  to  run  colonial  factories until they  become  self  supporting  by  
producing local farms, mines and refineries. 
 
If  you  know that you are going to be setting up a colony in a  system  but  
don't  have the resources yet,  be sure to move at least one colony  to  the  
system  in order to begin building up the local habitability  rating.   Your  
transports  can  move earthlike and protected colonies around a  lot  faster  
then belt colonies. 
 
Concentrate on one colony system at a time to begin with.  You will not have  
the resources to do a good job on more than this. 
 
It may be necessary to allow some slack in production at your original  star  
systems  in  order  to free up raw materials for use  in  starting  up  your  
colonies.   Be sure to ship out enough population to support the buildup  of  
colonial industry.   No facilities may be built if no idle population exists  
locally to man them.   Build the local colonial population up to around  100  
thousand as quickly as possible. 
 
If your planning is good,  the colony should be self supporting in at  least  
one  category of raw materials production by this time,  and you  can  begin  
building the next one if necessary.   Be sure to build up your raw materials  
production before building up factories, shipyards, etc., or you will end up  
with a lot of idle production facilities. 
 
Keep an eye on what the other player is producing at his  shipyards.   While  
the  ability  to  view  the other player's current ship  classes  is  not  a  
particularly reliable way to count current force strengths, it can be useful  
in avoiding nasty surprises. 
 
Depending on the distribution of resources in the cluster,  the players will  
probably end up fighting over some star system eventually.   Campaigns  must  
be planned.   Players should try to create a mix of large and small  warship  
types.  Large (100+) pools of spares must be accumulated at the star systems  
near the points of conflict. 
 
Warships should be kept in Training, Escort, and Raiding Commands until they  
are needed in task forces.  Once warships are pulled out of the commands and  
placed in active task forces,  the players will have to maintain them.  This  
will be expensive. 
 
Active  task  forces  should contain a few small warships  as  well  as  the  
larger,  more powerful varieties.  This will limit the cost effectiveness of  
enemy  long range weapons since these weapons will select their  targets  at  
random.  On the other hand, if you make nothing but small warships, you will  
soon bump against the 120 ship limit. 
 
When you plan an assault on an enemy system,  separate your forces into  two  
or more task forces with different missions.   This will force any defending  
forces to engage your attack task forces first,  limiting the number of long  
range weapons your transport task forces will have to dodge. 
 
Pay  attention  to  the  order  in which  military  units  are  loaded  onto  
transports.   If you bring along a few extra units for occupation duty after  
a  space  to  ground assault (a good idea if the other  player  maintains  a  
reaction force), load them after any units you want involved in the assault. 
 
If a naval battle is going poorly, don't be afraid to disengage your forces.   
There  is  no penalty for a disengagement attempt and any forces  saved  may  
live to fight another day. 
 
Find  out  how good your younger commanders are.   A 25  year  old  military  
genius  is a very valuable asset.   Command has a significant effect on  the  
game. 
 
Remember that once you begin hostilities, they can't be stopped.  The League  
player should take advantage of his superior starting exploration  position.   
An  aggressive League player should be able to explore much of  the  cluster  
before the P.H.R. exploration program really gets rolling. 
 
Both  players  would  do  well (in early games)  to  pay  attention  to  the  
suggestions  offered by the program during economics reports.   The  initial  
industrial  growth  potential  of the P.H.R.  should  be  exploited  by  the  
Republican player. 
 
One  last note:   If you feel that you don't have enough resources to  do  a  
proper job of everything that needs to be done, you're right!  Just remember  
that the other player is in no better shape. 
 
 
                              9.0  APPENDICES 
 
A - THE SYSTEM REPORT 
 
Any  time  you select "Examine System" from a menu,  you'll be  prompted  to  
select  a  system in the normal manner (read "The Quick System  Display"  in  
section 2,  if you aren't sure how selection works).  The computer will then  
provide  you  with a detailed display of all known  information  about  that  
system.   data  on  friendly systems is always up to date.   Data  on  other  
systems  is  updated only at the end of a turn in which you  either  have  a  
physical  presence  there,  after all combat,  or you  successfully  perform  
covert reconnaissance.   You can always tell how current your information is  
by looking at the report date in the upper right portion of the display. 
 
System Characteristics (top section): 
------------------------------------ 
 
     -  Loyalty - ranges from 1 (simmering rebellion) to 10 (utterly  loyal)  
and will affect your industrial output.  Each point of loyalty translates to  
an additional 10% output from the system's farms,  refineries and mines.  If  
a system shows a loyalty of 9,  it will produce 90% of its maximum output of  
raw materials. 
 
     -  Special - characteristics of a system will generally have  either  a  
positive or negative influence on the system's  production.   These  include  
Gasworlders,  Oort People,  Aborigines,  Paleotechnology and Spiders and are  
described in the Glossary. 
 
     -  Population  - is shown in thousands of people and will grow  as  the  
system is colonized to a maximum of about 5.5 million in with a habitability  
of 100. 
 
     - Habitability,  Metals,  and Organics - ratings are generated when the  
system  is  first  explored and range from  5  to  100.   Habitability  will  
increase with time once a colony is established. 
 
     -  Deployment  Sites  - ranges from 3 to 8 and  indicates  the  maximum  
number of military units that can be deployed in the system. 
 
     - Defensibility - directly influences the outcome of any ground  combat  
in the system and ranges from 1 (poor) to 3 (good). 
 
Movable Units (center section): 
------------------------------ 
 
     - Colony, Protected Colony and Belt Colony - all refer to units of 1000  
people ready and equipped for movement to new star systems. 
 
     -  Exploration  - is the number of Exploration Teams available  in  the  
system.   These  teams are required to explore new  star  systems.   Without  
them, your ships are just passing through. 
 
     -  Ships  -  gives the number of ships in active  task  forces  in  the  
system.  This doesn't include ships under construction. 
 
     -  Military  - will show a list of the military units deployed  in  the  
system.  Each unit has its own unique designation. 
 
     -  Farm  Kits,  Mine  Kits,  Refinery Kits,  and  Factory  Kits  -  are  
prefabricated industrial facilities awaiting transport.   You'll need  these  
to start an industrial base in newly colonized systems. 
 
Production Centers (bottom section): 
----------------------------------- 
 
     -  Shipyards - may accumulate up to Size build points per  turn  toward  
the  production  of whatever Type Produced is currently being built  by  the  
facility. 
 
     -  Training Centers - work in exactly the same way  as  shipyards,  but  
produce military units. 
 
     -  Intelligence  Centers - may generate up to  Size  covert  operations  
points  per  turn.   Covert operations points are used  to  perform  Special  
Operations. 
 
     -  Farms,  Mines,  Refineries,  and  Factories - are  basic  industrial  
facilities.  This is where the system's production comes from. 
 
     -  Spares and Rations - are used to maintain naval and  military  units  
respectively.   If  the Maintenance and Training reality level  is  enabled,  
these will become vital. 
 
B - THE TASKS FORCE DISPLAY 
 
If  you  choose  the Task Forces selection from the  Move  menu,  you'll  be  
presented with a comprehensive report on all 36 of your task  forces.   Each  
task force will be shown with the following information: 
 
     -  Location 
 
Name of the system where the task force is currently operating. 
 
     - Size 
 
The number of ships in the task force. 
 
     - Status 
 
This  line  is  left blank for inactive task forces  (those  with  no  ships  
currently assigned).  Active task forces will be have a status of "Ready" or  
"Moved",  and  a  mission suffix of "A" (Attack),  "T"  (Transport)  or  "R"  
(Reserve). 
 
One of the task force names will be shown in red.  This is the selected task  
force.  You may select another one by clicking its number. 
You can look at the selected task force by choosing "Examine or modify  task  
force".   This  will  present  you  with a  more  detailed  report  and  the  
opportunity  to  change  its mission,  load/unload  cargo  and  transfer  or  
reassign ships. 
 
You can exit the Task Force Display by choosing "Exit to Map/Menu". 
 
C - HISTORY OF THE KIFFRYN'S CATS STAR CLUSTER 
 
By  the beginning of the 24th century,  humans had been a space faring  race  
for  more  than 200 years.   Early colonization efforts,  because  of  their  
expense,  were funded by  governments in much the same way that the kings of  
Europe  financed the exploration of the New World in the 16th  through  19th  
centuries on Old Earth.  Of course, private concerns became involved as soon  
as it was economically feasible. 
 
The  majority  of  private colonies were established  on  government  opened  
worlds, but many, for religious, political or other reasons, sought to break  
away  on their own.   Any group that could raise the necessary  funds  could  
perform its own utopian experiment on the frontier. 
 
Interestingly,  a sort of "fanaticism gradient" developed as the human  race  
spread  outward from Terra.   Because of the expense and danger involved  in  
independent opening of new worlds,  only those with the greatest need tended  
to move to the outermost fringe of human space.   Of course, one could never  
tell what one of these radical groups might stumble onto. 
 
The  famous  explorer  Pyotr Kiffryn  surveyed  a  remote,  but  potentially  
valuable,  cluster of stars during his Second Grand Touor that, according to  
his astrogator wife,  looked just like two of the ship's cats at play.   The  
five stars of the primary cluster were named Alpha through Epsilon Felis  in  
honor of the feline genus and the cluster was logged as the "Kiffryn's Cats"  
Cluster.  By 2280, two groups were settled in the region. 
 
The  People's  Holy  Republic was founded  by  Neo-Christian  Communists  of  
Northern  and Central America in the latter part of the 23rd  century  after  
the  collapse  of  The People's Holy Marxist  Union  of  Northwest  American  
States.  With the Reformed Worker's Bible as their guide, the P.H.R. set out  
to  construct  the  ultimate  worker's  paradise.    What  they  made   was,  
predictably, a rigidly bureaucratized oligarchy that used its state mandated  
religion as a brutally effective form of mind control. 
 
The League began as a private consortium of businessmen who sought to escape  
the  increasingly restrictive trade policies of Terra and her near  colonies  
(called the Central Systems).   Originally called the Corporate  League,  it  
quickly  developed  into  a loose federation  of  trading  communities  with  
virtually no political axes to grind.  Within 15 years, the Corporate League  
had become simply "the League". 
 
Because  they  were well financed and  cooperative,  the  P.H.R.  originally  
welcomed the founders of the League into the region.  The honeymoon lasted a  
little over 28 years.   When the League began rapidly expanding,  developing  
newly   explored  systems  as  quickly  as  it  surveyed   them,   a   vocal  
fundamentalist faction within the Holy Council of Elders began objecting  to  
the presence of "unrepentant capitalists" so close to their garden of  eden.   
The  extremists succeeded in cutting all economic ties with the  League  and  
obtained an old surplus Centaurian cruiser which the rearmed. 
 
Because the League represented a significant quantity of capital and because  
it  was  something  of an embarrassment of Terra and  the  Central  Systems,  
clandestine aid began to flow into P.H.R. coffers.  The struggle for control  
of the Kiffryn's Cats cluster had begun. 
 
Ironically,  it  was the same Terran government that was seeding money  into  
the  P.H.R.  that  openly displayed its military strength to  "maintain  the  
peace" when friction with the League threatened to turn into a shooting war.   
During  the  early years of the 24th century,  Terra  maintained,  at  great  
expense,  a peacekeeping fleet in the region.   It worked.   Although sabre- 
rattling became commonplace, no major armed confrontations occurred. 
 
By the beginning of the 20's,  however,  pressure was growing in the Central  
Systems  to reduce military spending.   Playing "big brother" to  dozens  of  
fringe colonies was no longer a popular game and in 2320 Terra declared a 10  
year  countdown  to  the withdrawal  of  their  military  presence.   Almost  
instantly,  a  thriving black market in surplus military goods developed  on  
both sides of the cluster. 
 
Then,  in 2328,  First Elder Gresham declared the League an "abomination  in  
the  face of the Communing god".   He called for a holy war,  a  crusade  to  
stamp the presence of capitalism from the region.  Only the premature demise  
of  First  Elder Gresham,  and the subsequent struggle for  control  of  the  
Council,  prevented  an immediate outbreak,  but the battle lines  had  been  
drawn... 
 
D - GLOSSARY 
 
     - Aborigines 
While no technologically advanced races (other than humanity) had been found  
by the 24th century, several promising pre-technological species were known.   
These being were useful as workers and,  sometimes,  as trade  partners.   A  
thorough search was always conducted for aborigines by exploration teams. 
 
     - Build Unit 
Also called Build Points.   Build Units are the basic element of  industrial  
production.   They are used to construct ships,  military units, etc.  Build  
Units are produced from raw materials at factories. 
 
     - Colonies 
Colonies are privately organized groups of self financed volunteers ready to  
settle  new  systems  as soon as the local  government  provides  transport.   
Protected  and  Belt  colonies aren't just  better  equipped,  they're  also  
generally  organized  by  wealthier groups.   Even if  they're  going  to  a  
perfectly earthlike world,  they still tend to carry a great deal of baggage  
with them. 
 
     - Commanders 
Individual  military commanders and their staffs.   Given the time scale  of  
the game, commanders will come and go.  Both sides used code names for their  
commanders for security purposes. 
 
     - Effectiveness 
The technological levels of the societies represented in Stellar Crusade can  
change   if  the  players  invest  in  research.    Anything  left   unspent  
automatically  goes  into research.   Any class of ship you design  will  be  
given your current effectiveness level.   Effectiveness has direct influence  
on combat and movement. 
 
     - Exploration 
Initial  exploration of an entire star system is a major endeavor.   It's  a  
sobering thing to realize that, as of 1988, we still aren't sure we've found  
all the planets in our own solar system.  It seems reasonable to assume that  
just about any system will have some economically useful features.  The game  
assumes  that  some personnel remain behind in each star  system  and  begin  
exploiting its resources.   This is why a player gains some benefit from  an  
explored  system,  regardless  of  whether it's  ever  developed.   It  also  
explains why the exploring player has to send in a massive team,  while  his  
opponent gets all that valuable information for free.   By the time he  gets  
there, the system is crawling with prospectors, salesmen, etc. who are happy  
to talk all about their new home. 
 
     - Gasworlders 
These  are  intelligent  creatures who inhabit the upper  layers  of  jovian  
worlds.  While none of th gasworlders in the game are technological, they do  
trade exotic organics for certain manufactured goods. 
 
     - i-Space 
This  is  really a convenience of expression,  since only a  few  physicists  
really understand this "imaginary space" where massive objects travel faster  
than  light.   Most ships are equipped with drives that "dip" into  i-Space,  
allowing them to move in short jumps.   There are, however, more specialized  
and  vastly  larger  drive  systems that allow ships  to  "stay  under"  for  
protracted  periods.   While in i-Space,  ships are extremely  difficult  to  
detect. 
 
     - Oort People 
Oort  people are an intelligent (?) life form of vacuum  dwelling  migratory  
organisms  that  feed on solar radiation.   They've been known  to  exchange  
exotic  isotopes for original musical compositions broadcast in the 1  to  6  
gigahertz band. 
 
     - Operations Options 
These  are the basic resources that you can allocate to convert  activities.   
They're produced at intelligence centers and can be used to stir up  trouble  
in the opposition's systems or help maintain security in your own. 
 
     - Paleotechnology 
There  were  several  star faring civilizations that preceded  us  into  the  
galaxy  and  their  artifacts  are a tantalizing  source  of  discovery  and  
frustration.  Sometimes, these forerunner artifacts can trigger a scientific  
breakthrough. 
 
     - Spiders 
The debate concerning the origin of these vicious, arachnid predators  still  
rages,  but  the smart money seems to be in favor of an interstellar  "hive"  
race that collapsed for unknown reasons.   Regardless of their origin, these  
ubiquitous terrors are a real threat in systems where local conditions favor  
them. 
 
     - Military Units. 
These  are  units of about battalion strength that operate in  star  systems  
rather than deep space.   There are four types of military units:   Security  
Forces, Light Regulars, Heavy Regulars and Special Forces. 
 
 
                            APPENDIX E:  TABLES 
 
THE WAR - ORDERS OF BATTLE 
 
LEAGUE 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
*Task Force       Location       Ships 
 01               Alger          Working Girl x2 
 02               Alger          Explorer x3 
 03               Alger          Mordecai Fae x7 
 04               Alpha Felis    Working Girl x1, Wasp x1 
 
*Command          Ships 
 Training         Explorer x5, Lion x5, Spiderbird x6, Wolverine x14 
 Escort           Wasp x12, Firebat x16, Wolverine x2 
 Raiding          Snake x8 
 Transport        Working Girl x9, Explorer x1 
 Transit          Wolverine x4, Firebat x1, Snake x1 
 
*System           Military Units 
 Laird's Star     01Sy, 02Sy 
 Alger            07Hy, 11Hy, 13Lt, 16Hy, 17Hy, 19Lt, 21Lt, 22Hy 
 Bennett's Star   05Hy, 06Hy, 15Lt, 18Hy 
 Kiffryn's Star   08Hy, 09Hy, 10Hy,12Lt, 14Hy, 20Hy 
 Epsilon Felis    03Sy, 04Sy 
 
P.H.R. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
*Task Force       Location       Ships 
 01               Alpha Felis    John Calvin x1, Goliath x1 
 02               Progress       Martin Luther x1, Goliath x3 
 03               Brotherhood    John Calvin x1 
 04               Progress       Martin Luther x1 
 05               Progress       Martin Luther x2 
 06               Progress       Martin Luther x2 
 
*Command          Ships 
 Training         Crossbow x28, Chariot x2 
 Escort           Charles Martel x22 
 Raiding          Wrath of God x2, Charles Martel x1, Raider x8 
 Transport        Martin Luther x7, Goliath x4, Trinity x1, John Calvin x1 
 Transit          Crossbow x3, Chariot x3, Charles Martel x3 
 
*System           Military Units 
 Progress         14Hy, 16Hy, 17Hy, 18Hy, 19Lt, 20Hy 
 Glance's Star    03Sy, 05Sy, 02Sy, 07Sy, 09Sy 
 Alpha Felis      06Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy, 13Hy 
 Brotherhood      08Lt, 12Hy, 15Lt 
 Unity            01Sy, 04Sy 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
THE ALTERNATE WAR - ORDERS OF BATTLE 
 
LEAGUE 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
*Task Force       Location       Ships 
 02               Alger          Explorer x4 
 
*Command          Ships 
 Training         Mordecai Fae x6, Explorer x4, Lion x5, Lion II x5, Snake x1 
 Escort           Wasp x15, Lion x3, Nimblebee x1 
 Raiding          Snake x3 
 Transport        Working Girl x10 
 Transit          Nimblebee x3, Lion II x1 
 
*System           Military Units 
 Gamma Felis      01Sy, 02Sy 
 Kiffryn's Star   03Lt, 05Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy 
 Alger            04Hy, 09Hy, 12Hy, 14Hy, 15Hy, 16Hy 
 Bennett's Star   06Lt, 07Hy, 08Lt, 13Hy 
 
 
P.H.R. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
*Task Force       Location       Ships 
 01               Progress       John Calvin x1, Goliath x1 
 02               Glance's Star  Martin Luther x1, Goliath x1 
 03               Brotherhood    John Calvin x1 
 04               Progress       Martin Luther x1 
 05               Glance's Star  Martin Luther x2 
 06               Unity          Martin Luther x2 
 
*Command          Ships 
 Training         Crossbow x18, Chariot x1, Charles Martel x1 
 Escort           Charles Martel x5 
 Raiding          Wrath of God x4, Charles Martel x4, Raider x6 
 Transport        Martin Luther x7, Goliath x4, Trinity x1 
 Transit          Crossbow x1, Raider x1, Charles Martel x1, John Calvin x1 
 
*System           Military Units 
 Units            01Sy, 02Sy, 04Sy, 05Sy 
 Brotherhood      03Sy, 08Lt, 12Hy 
 Glance's Star    06Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy 
 Progress         07Sy, 09Sy, 13Hy 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
GOLD RIVER - ORDERS OF BATTLE 
 
LEAGUE 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
*Task Force       Location       Ships 
 01               Alger          Working Girl x1, Mordecai Fae x6 
 03               Ramage C       Explorer x3 
 10               Ramage C       Wolverine x4, Tiger x1, Hawk II x2, Eagle x4, 
                                    Hornet x2, Lion II x3 
 11               Ramage C       Wolverine x1, Hawk II x3, Tiger x4, Lion II x2, 
                                    Hornet x4, Eagle x2 
 12               Ramage C       Wolverine x2, Hawk II x3, Tiger x1, Lion II x3, 
                                    Eagle x4, Hornet x3 
 20               Ramage C       Mordecai Fae x2, Spiderbird x4 
 36               Laird's Star   Snake x2 
 
*Command          Ships 
 Training         Spiderbird x4, Mordecai Fae x6, Hornet x1, Eagle x1, Lion II x1 
 Escort 
 Raiding 
 Transport 
 Transit          Lion II x4, Hornet x3, Eagle x2, Working Girl x1, Snake x3 
 
*System           Military Units 
 Laird's Star     01Sy, 02Sy 
 Epsilon Felis    03Sy, 04Sy 
 Bennett's Star   05Hy, 06Hy, 15Lt 
 Ramage C         07Lt, 13Lt, 16Lt, 17Lt, 19Lt, 21Lt, 23Hy 
 Alger            08Hy, 09Lt, 10Hy, 11Hy, 22Hy 
 Kiffryn's Star   12Lt, 20Hy 
 TF 20            24Lt 
 
P.H.R. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
*Task Force       Location       Ships 
 01               Progress       John Calvin x1, Goliath x1 
 02               Alpha Felis    Martin Luther x1, Goliath x3 
 04               Progress       Martin Luther x1 
 05               Glance's Star  Martin Luther x2 
 06               Unity          Martin Luther x2 
 07               Progress       John Calvin x3 
 08               Brotherhood    John Calvin x2 
 14               Progress       Crossbow x1 
 15               Brotherhood    Crossbow x2 
 17               Brotherhood    Crossbow x5 
 22               Brotherhood    Crossbow x16 
 23               Brotherhood    Crossbow x11, Charles Martel x1 
 31               Brotherhood    Chariot x3 
 32               Progress       Chariot x1 
 36               Progress       Wrath of God x1, Raider x1 
 
GOLD RIVER continues... 
 
*Command          Ships 
 Training         Crossbow x2, John Calvin x1 
 Escort 
 Raiding 
 Transport 
 Transit          Raider x3, Crossbow x3, John Calvin x3, Goliath x1, Chariot x1 
 
*System           Military Units 
 Unity            01Sy, 04Sy 
 Glance's Star    02Sy, 03Sy, 05Sy, 07Sy, 09Sy 
 Alpha Felis      06Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy, 13Hy 
 Brotherhood      08Hy, 15Hy, 16Hy 
 Progress         19Hy, 20Hy, 21Hy, 22Hy, 23Hy 
 TF 31            14Hy, 17Hy, 18Hy 
 TF 32            12Hy 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
 
JERICHO - ORDERS OF BATTLE 
 
LEAGUE 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
*Task Force       Location       Ships 
 02               Kiffryn's Star Explorer x2 
 03               Bennett's Star Mordecai Fae x5 
 04               Gamma Felis    Wasps x1 
 10               Delta Felis    Lion x1, Wolverine x6, Hawk II x1, Bear x3, 
                                    Hornet x1 
 11               Delta Felis    Lion x2, Wolverine x5, Bear x2, Hornet x1 
 12               Kiffryn's Star Wolverine x7, Firebat x1, Hawk II x1, Bear x3, 
                                    Hornet x1 
 20               Bennett's Star Spiderbird x4, Hornet x1, Mordecai Fae x1 
 33               Laird's Star   Explorer x1 
 35               Laird's Star   Firebat x1 
 36               Laird's Star   Snake x1 
 
*Command          Ships 
 Training         Explorer x3, Spiderbird x3, Wolverine x2, Hornet x3, 
                     Hawk II x1, Bear x4 
 Escort 
 Raiding 
 Transport 
 Transit          Bear x1, Explorer x1, Snake x1 
 
*System           Military Units 
 Laird's Star     01Sy, 02Sy, 18Sy 
 Epsilon Felis    03Sy, 04Sy 
 Bennett's Star   05Hy, 06Hy, 15Lt 
 Delta Felis      07Hy, 11Hy, 13Lt, 16Hy 
 Kiffryn's Star   08Hy, 09Hy, 12Lt, 14Hy, 20Hy 
 Alger            17Lt, 19Lt, 21Lt, 22Lt, 23Lt, 24Lt 
P.H.R. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
*Task Force       Location       Ships 
 01               Alpha Felis    John Calvin x1, Goliath x1 
 02               Progress       Martin Luther x1, Goliath x3 
 03               Brotherhood    John Calvin x1 
 04               Progress       Martin Luther x1 
 05               Progress       Martin Luther x2 
 06               Progress       Martin Luther x2 
 07               Progress       John Calvin x1 
 08               Glance's Star  John Calvin x3 
 18               Brotherhood    Charles Martel x1 
 19               Brotherhood    crossbow x1 
 20               Baker's Star   Crossbow x1 
 22               Glance's Star  Crossbow x14 
 23               Glance's Star  Crossbow x9, Charles Martel x2 
 30               Brotherhood    Chariot x1, Charles Martel x3, Crossbow x3 
 31               Glance's Star  Chariot x3 
 32               Progress       Chariot x1 
 
*Command          Ships 
 Training 
 Escort 
 Raiding 
 Transport 
 Transit          Goliath x1, Wrath of God x2, Charles Martel x4, Crossbow x5, 
                     John Calvin x5, Raider x1, Chariot x1 
 
*System           Military Units 
 Unity            01Sy, 04Sy 
 Glance's Star    02Sy, 03Sy, 05Sy, 07Sy, 09Sy 
 Alpha Felis      06Hy, 10Hy, 11Hy, 13Hy 
 Brotherhood      08Hy, 12Hy, 15Lt 
 Progress         19Lt, 20Hy, 21Hy, 22Hy, 23Hy, 24Hy, 25Hy, 26Hy 
 TF 30            17Hy 
 TF 31            14Hy, 16Hy, 18Hy 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
MILITARY UNIT TABLE 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Type                  Strength     Capability     Transport Size     Cost 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Security Forces           2           1 - 4             3              4 
Light Regulars          2 - 4         1 - 8             6             10 
Heavy Regulars          3 - 5         1 - 8             8             12 
Special Forces            1           1 - 10            2             10 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------