STREET CAT

Every move Counts

	As a street feline, it's your business to make the right moves at the
right times. Use the following joystick moves for all events (unless
otherwise specified).

Move Forward	push joystick handle right

Move Backward	push left

Jump up		Push up

Jump diagonally	Push up diagonally

Crawl		pull joystick handle down (only works when needed)

Somersault	push up and press fire button


The City Park

	This is no leisurely Sunday stroll. This is do-or-die competition at a
frantic inner-city pace.

	Your goal is to get from one side of the park to the other. Jump
over obstacles, trampolines, and finally a motorcycle ride.

Water Jumps	you gotta jump over them

Garden Walls	you can jump over them or from wall to wall

Circus Ball	Jump onto it from a wall. Keep your balance by moving
			joystick left and right. If you stay on long enough you
			will automatically jump off and get bonus points.

Train Trestle	Crawl under it

Trampoline	Jump on the trampoline to catapult your way to high
			places. Land in the middle of the trampoline for higher
			bounces. For the highest bounce, push the joystick handle
			up just before you land.

Jungle Gym	Jump to the first crossbar. Then use left/right moves to
			swing your way through.

Swing		Press the fire button to jump onto the swing. Use
			left/right moves to get it going. At your highest point,
			push right and press the button to leap off the swing and
			grab the key that's dangling from the streetlight.

Motorcycle	Jump onto a wall, then jump diagonally onto the
			trampoline, push the joystick handle right, and press the
			fire button. These moves should somersault you onto the
			waiting motorcycle.

Inner City Interlude

	After each event, you've got to dash across town on your
motorcycle to get to the next event. Look for the flashing red light and
make a beeline for it. Watch out for cops though. Avoid bulldozers, they
waste time. Collect as many rotating disks (by running over them) as you
can. They are worth valuable bonus points.

	As soon as you reach the red light, press the fire button. You'll be
whisked off to the next event.

The Swimming Pool

Shapes		The shape you need to knock off is shown on the big
			screen just above the pool. Hexagons can be knocked off
			at any time.

High Jumps	Crouch before you jump by pulling back, then press the
			fire button. While in midair, adjust your position by
			moving the joystick handle to the left or right. Once
			you're high enough and in position, quickly press the fire
			button to knock a shape off the high board.

Somersaults	Do a high-jump. While inmidair, push to the upper left or
			upper right and press the fire button. Somersaulting twice
			in a row earns bonus points.

The Underground Sewer

Avoid falling debris, grimy rats, and other creepy creatures. And all the
while your biggest challenge will be staying out of the slimy water
running right below you!

Lights		To turn on the light, move to the left of the switch.
			Then press the button and move right.

Barrels		Jump onto a barrel, then keep your balance by moving
			left and right.

Rats			Fortunately, you can get rid of these pesky pests. Press
			the fire button, then push right to punch high, to the left
			to punch low, and down to kick.

Bottom Pipes	Easy does it! To crawl, pull down and move left and right.
			Press the fire button while crawling to back up.

Overhead Pipes	Jump to grab the first pipe. Then use fast left/right
			moves with the joystick handle to swing across.

Ladders		To climb, press the button and push up. To descend, press
			the button and pull down.

Mad Dog		Escape him by moving the joystick handle rapidly left and
			right -- the faster the better.

The Bowling Pub

	This event is a bowling match. It's not that big of a deal except
that you and your opponent use each other for bowling pins. Whoever
gets hit with a bowling ball has to go up to the bar and drink a big
milkshake. After a few glasses, you start to get so full that you can't
move quickly. The event is over as soon as one of you drinks six shakes
or your time runs out.

Bowling	Push left to pick up your ball. Then push right to bowl down
		the lane. To change lanes, move up or down.

Drinking	Walk up to the bar by pushing up. Then press teh button to
		drink.

Timing and Scoring

	Your goal is to get through each event as fast as possible. by giving
glowing performances in each event, you can also collect bonus points.

Your Time

	Each event has its own time limit, shown at the lower right of the
screen. The top number is your time completing the event. The bottom
number is the time remaining. When the event ends, you go on to the
next event.

Your Score

	For every successful maneuver you perform you receive bonus balls.
At the end of each event, if you finish on time, the bonus balls are
converted into points.

Bonus balls in an event		100 points each
Bonus balls in an interlude	200 points each
Time left after event		Number of seconds times 10 in points
