			Strikes - N - Spares Pro

			   Supplemental Manual

	          Copyright 1995 Beyond Entertainment



GETTING STARTED


The "BE" disk is now bootable, so it is no longer necessary to run the 
"Make boot disk" script.

To install on your hard drive, follow the steps outlined in the Strikes-
N-Spares manual. If you've alreaady installed Strikes-N-Spares on your 
hard drive, it wont be necessary to run the "Install Fonts" Script. 
Although, it wont hurt anything to run it again if you are not sure.

For users with only 512k chip memory, you'll probably have to run Strikes-
N-Spares Pro from floppy. It may be possible to run it from your hard drive;
but you will need around 400k of chip ram to do so.



CHANGES


Computer Bowlers

You may now choose from three different computer bowlers.

	Easy	-Usually averages under 100.

	Medium	-Bowls in the area of 150.

	Hard	-Almost always bowls over 200.


SETTINGS


You may notice three new buttons while bowling. These buttons are simply
labeled one, two and three. These buttons are your settings buttons. This
allows you to set up three diffferents balls whose information will be 
stored on disk. Each time you run Strikes-N-Spares Pro, you will have the 
same ball settings as the last time you played.


PLAY AGAIN


After playing one full game, you will be prompted to play again or return
to the main menu. Selecting play again will result in playing a new set
of games with the same players.


SETUP MENU


Selecting the setup button from the main menu will prompt you with three
choices: Roster, Prefs and Exit.


ROSTER


When you enter the player info screen, you'll notice a few new items. 
There is now a graph of your last twenty scores. There are also three
buttons: one, two and three. They correspond to the identical buttons
that are in the game itself. Clicking on these buttons changes the color
of the balls.


PREFS


	Markers on/off		-Turns on and off the lane markers.
	Pin Setter on/off	-Turns the pin setter on and off.
	Sound none/some/all	-Selects between no sound, only bowling
				 sounds and all sounds.