                                 SKID ROW

                                 presents           

                             Strip Poker Three

                               For the Amiga

Strip Poker Three is provided on two AmigaDOS formatted diskettes.  Disk
1 contains the program, one opponent and yourself, the libraries, and
the installation scripts.  Disk 2 contains two additional opponents.

REQUIREMENTS: Strip Poker Three requires AmigaDOS 1.2, 1.3, or 2.0, and
at least one megabyte of memory.  Two floppy drives or a hard drive, and
a display enhancer are optional, but recommended.  We suggest that you
make backup copies of your original disks.  There is no copy protection
on the program - if you like the program, please spread the word, not
the disks, we trust you.

HARD DISK INSTALLATION: Strip Poker Three is hard disk installable, and
the easiest way to install the program and its' support files is to use
the Workbench and HD_Install program found on Disk 1.  But if you are
comfortable with the CLI or the Shell, you can also do it that way.
It's not complicated at all.

From the Workbench: You should first create a drawer and call it
something, such as Poker.  With Workbench 1.2 or 1.3, click on the
"Empty" drawer icon and select "Duplicate" under the "Workbench" menu.
Next, select the "copy of Empty" and select "Rename" under the 
"Workbench" menu, then rename it.  If you are using Workbench 2.0, click
into the window that you want to store the program into and select 
"New Drawer" under the "Window" menu.  You will be prompted to
give your new drawer a name, type in the name that you want to put 
Strip Poker Three into.  Now you can just press and hold the shift
key down while you click once on the HD_Install icon on the Strip3 
disk, and then click twice on the icon of the drawer that you have 
just created.  If you just click twice on the HD_Install icon, the
usage of how to use the HD_Install program will be displayed.

From the CLI or Shell: CD to the drive that you want to install the
program on, then Execute HD_Install <destination-directory>.  Your
command should look something like this:

     CD Games:
     Execute Strip3:HD_Install Poker

     or

     CD DH1:Games
     Execute Strip3:HD_Install Poker

Where "Poker" in the above example is the directory that you want
created and have the files stored.

For Both: It will take a couple of minutes to copy all the files 
necessary.  Please be patient!  After the installation is complete,
eject the disks from the drives and put them in a safe place.  After
the program has been installed on your hard disk, you need to add an
assign to either your Startup-Sequence or User-Startup file.  The
HD_Install script will tell you the best one to put it in.  If you
are a workbench user, you can double click on the "Strip3 Assign" Icon
that is located in the drawer in which you installed the program.
This will make the assignment for you until you turn the power off.
This needs to be done before you can run the program.  The assign will 
look similar to:

      Assign Strip3: Games:Poker

               for the first example above or
 
      Assign Strip3: DH1:Games/Poker

The installation program will tell you what you need to make the
assignment to.  If you miss it or didn't write it down, you can do
a "More" on the Strip3 Assign" file in your installation directory.

IMPORTANT FILES: If you are intending to run this program from the CLI 
or Workbench, you may need to copy a couple of files onto the disk you
boot from.  The following commands are required, and they are also
in a script file, INSTALL_SYS, on the Strip Poker Three boot disk in the
s: directory.

        copy strip3:libs sys:libs all

You can CD to Strip3:s and type INSTALL_SYS.

STARTING THE PROGRAM: There are three ways of starting Strip Poker Three
and are in order of increasing complexity:

1. At the "Insert Workbench" screen, put Strip Poker Three Disk 1 in
   DF0: and Disk 2 in DF1:; or press CTRL-RIGHT AMIGA-LEFT AMIGA keys to
   reboot.  Strip Poker Three will automatically load and run.

2. From the Workbench, place either disk in DF0: and the other in DF1:,
   double click on the "Strip3" disk icon, and double click on the 
   "StripPokerThree" icon.

3. From the CLI, place the Strip Poker Three boot disk in any drive,
   CD to that drive, and place the other disk in the other drive.
   Type "StripPokerThree"; quotes are NOT required, press return.

SELECTING YOUR OPPONENTS: After the title screen, you will see pictures
of your opponents.  The program will look at all your devices for any
optional Strip Poker Three Data Disks, and will display them also.

You can select from one to three opponents by placing the mouse pointer
over the picture and pressing the left button.  Your opponent's will be
displayed in the box on the lower right hand corner.  If you change
your mind, place the mouse pointer over the players name in the lower 
right hand corner and press the left mouse button, all selections in the 
game can be made in this manner.

After you have selected all the opponents you want to play against,
press the "Done" button in the middle of the screen to begin the
game.  If you have purchased additional Data Disks, you can put these
into one of your floppy drives and press the "Find Players" button,
this will re-scan all of your devices and display any additional
players.

If you have purchased all available Data Disks and have the program
installed on your hard drive, you will have two additional buttons to
flip between the screens that display the opponents.

THE GAME SCREEN: This screen is set up into four sections, the top two-
thirds of the display are your opponents and possibly yourself,
depending on how many opponents you've chosen.  This what to expect
based upon the number of players:

One opponent - The big picture is your opponent and there is a view of
yourself in the upper right hand corner.  You cannot swap the picture
of yourself and your opponent in this game.  More about swapping 
opponents is in the next paragraph.

Two opponents - Your opponents are in the big picture and in the upper
right hand corner, with yourself pictured in the middle right hand
corner.  You can swap the pictures of your opponents.

Three opponents - All your opponents are in the upper part of the screen,
with yourself in the status box in the lower right of the screen.
All opponents can be swapped with each other.  Swapping refers to being
able to put an opponent that is in a smaller display, into the larger
display on the left side of the screen.  This is done by simply clicking
on the opponent on the right hand side that you want in the big
picture.  Remember that you cannot put yourself in the big picture.

The status box is located in the lower right hand corner.  This is
where you can keep track of what the other players have done so far
in the game, and how much money you have to put in the pot if you call
or raise.  In the three-player mode, the picture of "You" is displayed
here.  It also acts as a button in this mode to get the additional
status information on the game.  You can either select it with the
mouse, use the RIGHT-AMIGA-T combination or select the "Toggle Status
Box" menu under the "Options" menu.

The status line is located above the cards and will display messages
about what an opponent is doing, and present you with additional
buttons to get your responses through out the game.  This is where you
will select whether you want to bet or raise, drop, stay or call,
and the amount of your bet or raise.

Your cards are located in the lower left of the display.  You are dealt
five cards.  You will be prompted to select your discards after the
first round of betting.  To select your discards, place the mouse
pointer over the card that you want to discard and press the left mouse
button, this will display the back of the card.  If you change your
mind, just select the card again to flip the card back.  When you
are finished selecting the cards, press the "Discard Done" button
in the Status Line.  If you have the sound off, the word "Discard Done"
in the Status Line is the indication that you are to discard.

                        THE STRIP POKER THREE MENUS

GAME MENU:

   SAVE GAME: The save game function will save the current game in
progress.  You can save a game any time during play with the exception
of while you are selecting your opponents.  You are allowed to only save
one game, and it will be saved in STRIP3:saved_games directory.

   LOAD GAME: You are allowed to load a saved game and continue playing
where you had left off.  This option is only active during the selection
of the opponents of the game.  If you saved the game in the middle
of a hand, the game will continue as if that hand had not been played.

   SET PASSWORD: This option will allow you to add personal password
protection to Strip Poker Three to keep unauthorized persons from playing
the game.  You can select this option from either the keyboard with the
LEFT-AMIGA-P, or from the menu.  If you don't have a password saved
already, a requester will be presented to enter your password.  After
you type in your password, just press return or click on the "Okay"
button.  Your password has now been saved.

The next time you run the program, you will be required to type in the
password in order to run the game.  You will have three opportunities
to get it right.  If you fail in typing it in after three attempts,
the program will quit.

If you want to change your password, select the "Set Password" menu
option and type in your old password when prompted, and another
requester will pop up asking for your new password.  If you want to
remove the password totally, select the "Set Password" menu option and
type in your old password when prompted, and another requester will pop
up asking for your new password, instead of typing the new one in,
either press return or "Okay".  If you forget your password,
you can use the CLI or with Workbench 2.0, delete the s:spsetup file.

   ABOUT: This will give you some information on the Strip Poker Three
Program.  If you have to call Artworx with a problem, you need to know
the version of the program which can be found here.

   EXIT GAME: Like it says... it will exit the game.  But first it will
ask if you really want to quit.

PLAY OPTIONS MENU:

   SOUND: This will toggle the sounds on and off.  You can either use
the LEFT-AMIGA-S keyboard combination or the menu to toggle this option.
Not having the sound on will make the game run faster.  This will be
saved if you save the game.

   SET GAME SPEED: This will bring up a sliding gadget requester to
allow you to set the game speed from SLOW to FAST.  This will be saved
if you save the game.

   TOGGLE STATUS BOX: This option will only be enabled in the three
player mode, to allow you to switch between the view of you and the
game status.  There are three ways to activate the status box, with
the menu selection, clicking on the status box with the mouse pointer,
and the LEFT-AMIGA-T key combination.

   VIEW LAST HAND: This will allow you to review the players hands who
stayed in the last hand.  This can only be done when the "Click to
continue" box is displayed in the Status Line.  We promise, the game
does not cheat in any way!  The opponents may bluff though.

QUICK THE KIDS ARE COMING!!!  WHAT DO I DO???  That's an easy one...
press the space bar.  This will put the game into "Modesty" mode and
will blank the screen.  A big button will appear in the center of the
screen, just click on it to continue the game.  Whew!  That was close.

MULTI-TASKING: The program is designed to multi-task.  To bring another
program to the front, use the RIGHT-AMIGA-M / RIGHT-AMIGA-N keys to
switch screens as mentioned in your Workbench manual.

THE GAME: You and your opponents will be playing draw poker.  There are
no jokers or wild cards.  You can open the betting with any kind of 
hand.  The value of the hands (in order) are as follows:

Royal flush, straight flush, four of a kind, full house, flush,
straight, three of a kind, two pair, one pair, and high card.

Note that an ace can only be used as the high card in filling a 
straight.  If all players have similar hands, then the highest 
numerical value wins.

Each opponent employes a particular playing strategy and a unique set of
comments; you will get to learn each player's "personality" the more you
play.  Additional Data Disks are available for Strip Poker Three.  These
disks provide you with different female and male opponents to play 
against.  Note that because of the graphics mode employed in Strip Poker
Three, earlier disks for Strip Poker and Strip Poker II will not be
compatible with this program.  You must obtain Data Disks which were
created specifically for Strip Poker Three.

GAME PLAY: You and your opponents start with $100 each.  Your opponents'
current holdings are displayed below their pictures; your holdings
are shown in the Status Box in the lower right (and below your picture
if there are less than three opponents).  During play you will be 
selecting betting choices (Stay/Call, Bet/Raise, or Drop), the amount
of the bet/raise ($1 to $25 depending on the number of opponents) and
which cards to discard.  Use the mouse to point to a selection and press
and release the left mouse button to register the selection.

ANTE: At the beginning of each hand, all players must ante ($1, $2,
or $5, depending on the number of opponents).  This is done 
automatically for you.

BETTING: When it is your turn to bet, select from the following options:

Stay: If you stay, it means that you are electing to do nothing for now
and are waiting to see what your opponents are going to do.  If all
players stay during the first round, the hand is re-dealt and another
ante is added to the pot.  You cannot stay if an opponent has bet or 
raised.

Drop: This means that you concede the hand and the money in the pot.

Bet: This means that you want to put some money into the pot in the hopes
that your opponents will do the same so that you can win it all.

Raise: If you and your opponents have bet and you believe that you have
the better hand (or you wish to scare an opponent into dropping), you
can raise the amount of money in the pot.  Select the amount to bet.
There is a maximum of two bets or raises per player per round of betting.

Call: You can only call if an opponent has bet or raised.  Call means 
that you are willing to equal the amount that your opponents have 
to put into the pot, but you do not want to raise any higher for now.
During betting, the program will inform you of the total bet to you 
by displaying this amount by the pot information.

DRAWING CARDS: If a player completes the betting by calling, you may
then draw new cards.  You can draw up to five cards.  Use the mouse to
point to a card to discard; click the left button to register the
selection (click the button again if you change your mind).  When you 
are done discarding, point and click to the word "Done" in the Status
Line.  You will be informed about the number of cards that your 
opponents are taking when it's their turn to discard.

A new round of betting occurs after the draw.  You are then shown your
opponents' hand, and are informed as to who won the hand and what they
won with.

WINNING THE GAME: Any time that a player uses up all the available
money, $100 must be borrowed against an article of clothing.  This will
be noted by the computer.  If the player betting clothing wins, the
article of clothing is not lost and the debt is cancelled.  But if a 
player loses, that article of clothing must be given up!  Clothing is won
back at any time winnings go over $100.  When this happens, the clothing
is returned and $100 is subtracted from the winnings.

The game ends when you are the last remaining player in the game or when 
you have lost all your clothes and dignity!  You can end the game early
by selecting "Quit Game" from the "Game" menu.  At the end of the game,
you will be asked if you want to play again or quit.  Make your
selection with the mouse as usual.

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW
