                             STRIKER MANAGER

Typed by PARASITE of LSD.
NOTE: This game got only 18% in a recent magazine review.


INTRODUCTION
Striker Manager is a two player management game.  It is your job not only
to manage the team, but to play in it as well, trying to obtain the
highest honours for your club and country.

INSTRUCTIONS
This game requires at least one joystick or mouse.

PROTECTION
Dongle protection should be removed!

GENERAL
All keyboard entries should be followed by pressing the <RETURN> key,
except when usint the function keys.  All other selections should be made
by either joystick or mouse.

MAIN MENU
To select either player, press the function keys 1 or 2.

ABBREVIATIONS
  P - Current playing position of the player
 GK - Goalkeeper
 DF - Defender
 MF - Midfielder
 AT - Attacker
 FT - Fitness
 PL - Games played this season
 SC - Goals scored this season
  W - Win
  L - Lose
  D - Draw
  X - Scoredraw
  A - Away
  H - Home
  C - Contract
 WK - Weeks
 IC - International Commitments
 DP - Disciplenitary commitments
CNT - County
  D - Division
 LP - League position
CAP - Capacity
AVG - Average Gate
LGE - League cup round
NAT - Nationallity
  R - Result
AMT - Amount
 PS - Position
  P - Played
  W - Won
  D - Dawn
  L - Lost
 GD - Goal differance
PTS - Points STYLE - Current formation
FORM - Last few matches both you and your next opponent have played
UEFA - EUFA cup
SCRD - Scored
PLYD - Played
LMTG - League matches to go
YEARLY SCORE - Yearly score
TOTAL SCORE - Total score

SQUAD:

SWAPPING PLAYERS
When swapping two players over click the mouse or joystick on the two
desired players.  You must have a full side of 13 players to be allowed
to play the next match, no injured or suspended players are allowed.

NEW FORMATION
When setting a new formation, input 13 numbers totalling 10, ie 532,
enter them all together as one input.

EDITING NAMES
When editing a name, click on the desired player.  Then enter his new
name.  Clicking on the capacity icon will increase the ground capacity
for a set free, which is displayed on the statement page.  The government
will take take a percentage of any player transfer fees.

DURING THE MATCH
When shooting at the goal, during the arcade highlights, click when the
indicator points at the goal.  There is a black bar over the player you
control.  To substitute press the space bar.

RESULTS SERVICE
During the results, clicking on the buttons on the television will slow
the results down.

EMPLOYEES PAGE
When searching for a player, input either G.D.M. or A for your desired
player.  Then enter the current skill in that position you require, i.e.
33.  Your scout, depending on how good he is, will then list the teams
where a player of this skill may be found.
To qualify for the European Cup you must first finish top of the first
division.  second and third places qualify for the EUFA cup.

LOAD A SAVED GAME
Press the "Directory" icon, this will display all the saved games on the
disk.  Click on the saved game you require to load.  This is then
displayed in the "Current file name" icon.  Click on the "Load a file"
icon to load a saved game.  Any errors are reported in the "Disk message
Box".

SAVE A GAME
To save a game for the first time, make sure you have formatted a saved
game disk using the "Format" option.  Press the "Directory" icon, this
will display all the saved games on the disk.  Click on the "Current file
name" icon, enter the name you wish to call the file followed by the
return key.  Click on the "Save a file" icon, any errors are reported in
the "Disk message box".

FORMAT A DISK
You should use this option before saving and loading old games.  Insert a
blank disk into the drive and click on the "Format disk" icon.  Any
errors are reported in the "Disk message box"

DELETE A GAME
Click on the "Directory" icon to display all the files on the disk.
Click on the file you wish to delete.  This is then displayed in the
"Current File name" icon.  Click on the "delete file" icon to delete a
file.

End.
