 ::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
 ::::: S T R I K E R :::::  By TIM-DOG of CRYSTAL,AFL,I.N.C.
 :::::     D O X     :::::  Game By RAGE SOFTWARE Liverpool
 :::::::::::::::::::::::::

 GAMEPLAY
 --------

 Select the team of your choice from one of the sixty four international
 sides provided, each of which has it's own unique set of strengths, and
 abilities, skill levels based on their real life counterparts.
 Choose a two player game or enter the cup competition where you face six
 rounds of ferocious football culminating in the ultimate challenge - the
 final of the WORLD TOURNAMENT.
 When playing in the competition the computer will automatically arrange
 your fixtures and decide the results of the other matches.  If the teams
 are level at the end of the game you can play extra time, go straight
 for a penalty shoot-out or even have a re-match.

 LOADING
 -------

 Insert the disk into the first drive and switch on or reboot the AMIGA
 The game will load autmatically.

 INSTRUCTIONS
 ------------

 This is a one or two player game controlled by use of a joystick.
 To move the highlighted player push the joystick in the required direction
 Changing between players is done automatically by the computer depending
 upon how close a player is to the ball.

 Press fire once   -   Kick the ball in the direction the joystick is
                       being pushed.

 Press fire twice  -   Slide tackle.

 To power kick     -   Keep the fire button pressed down and push forwards

 After touch       -   Keep the fire button pressed down and push the 
                       joystick in a direction to affect the flight of the 
                       ball.

 Free kicks        -   Move the trajectory line left and right using the 
                       joystick.  Push forwards to get more power and a
                       lower ball trajectory.  After-touch can be applied
                       as for a normal kick.

 Goal kicks        -   See free kicks

 Penalties         -   The arrow shows the direction the ball will travel
                       in.  Holding the fire button down for longer after
                       the ball has been kicked changes the height.  A
                       longer press gives a higher ball trajectory.

 Additional keyboard controls are as follows:-

 F1           -  Change formation (Player 1)
 SPACEBAR     -  Pitch markings on/off.
 1            -  Game statistics.
 P            -  Pause.
 Cursor Keys  -  Move pitch around.
 F2           -  Change formation (Player 2)
 R            -  Action replay (manual)
 M            -  Radar.
 S            -  Slow motion.
 Q            -  Quit.

 VIDEO CONTROLS
 --------------

 During an action reply you have total control over the playback by using
 the function keys as described below.

 F1 - Play.
 F2 - Pause.
 F3 - Rewind.
 F4 - Fast forward.
 F5 - Fast rewind.
 F6 - Slow forward.
 F7 - Slow rewind.
 F8 - Advance one frame.
 F9 - Regress on frame.
 F0 - Exit from the video.

 HINTS & TIPS
 ------------

 1) Atack down the wings and cross the ball near the byline.
 2) Use the after touch to increase power on the kicks.
 3) Shoot from the angles.
 4) Use cursor keys to scan area before free kicks.
 5) Play aggressively against the strongest sides.
 6) Tackling players from the front results in fewer fouls.

 SCOREBOARD
 ----------

 The on-screen scoreboard displays the following:-
 Team names. Score. Clock. General info. (ie. Penaly, Free kick etc.)
 Current player information including red and yellow cards, player
 number and injury level.

 MENUS
 -----

 *Game Selection Menu*

 This is the main menu that you will see of first starting the game, it
 contains the following options.

 Play friendly - Go to friendly menu.
 Play tournament - Go to tournament menu.
 Seedings - View team strengths.
 Watch demo - The computer plays a game against itself.

 *Friendly Menu*

 To choose your team move the cursor by use of the joystick and press fire
 when the side you rwuire is highlighted, now repeat the process to select
 the opposing team.  Once this is done you will be able to access icons at
 the bottom of the screen which will perform the following functions.
 Positioning the cursor over the team names and pressing fire will allow 
 you to change that team.
 To change between one player, two player or computer only control, move
 the cursor over the joystick or chip icon and press fire to change it.
 The PLAY icon will start the game with default information, pitch and
 game settings.
 The OPTIONS icon takes you to the fixtures screen.
 The QUIT icon returns you to the main menu.

 *Tournament Menu*

 Select your team exactly as for the friendly menu, the cursor will then
 move to the icons at the bottom of the screen which allow you to do the
 following:-

 Moving the cursor over the PLAYER 1 icon allows you to change the team.
 The FIXTURES icon takes you to the fixtures screen.
 The QUIT icon returns you to the main menu.
                                                    
 *Fixtures Screen*

 This displays the matches that are to be played in the coming round.
 Three icons are also displayed at the bottom of the screen which perform
 the following instructions.

 The PLAY icon will start the game with default formation, pitch and game
 settings.
 The FORMATIONS icon take you to the settings and pitch conditions menu.
 The QUIT icon returns you to the main menu.

 *Formation Designer*

 This screen allows you to change the team formation to anyone of eight
 pre-defined patterns and alter the substitutes preffered playing position
 The icons you may select on this screen are given below.

 The PLAY icon will start the game with default information, pitch and
 game settings.
 The SETTINGS icon takes you to the settings and pitch condition menu.
 The QUIT icon will take you to main menu.

 *Settings and Pitch Conditions*

 The screen will allow you to alter the weather and pitch conditions and
 also change change the game parameters.  Once the required settings have
 been decided upon, press fire button to allow access to the two icons at 
 the bottom of the screen.  These icons can be selected as normal and are
 described below.

 The PLAY icon wil start the game with default info, pitch and game
 settings.
 The QUIT icon returns you to main menu.

 *Results Screen*

 On completion of a tournament round this screen will be displayed showing
 all the scores of the matches that were played.  If you lost the previous
 match then exiting from this screen takes you back to the main menu.  If
 the match has been won then you have the option of going to the next
 round via the FIXTURES icon or ending the tournament completely by using 
 the QUIT icon.

 >>>>>>>>>>> More TIM-DOG documentations coming soon! <<<<<<<<<<<