                D E F J A M - G E N E S I S - A N G E L S

                          P R E S E N T :

                         DOC TO STRIDER II
                       ---------------------
                     BY : MR.THOMPSON / DEFJAM

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
LOADING INSTRUCTION
-------------------
Insert disk and turn on computer. The game will load and run
automatically. Follow on-screen prompts.

SCENARIO
--------
The Warrior returns from his conquest in the Soviet block to find his
services and required on another WORLD! The female leader of the planet
Magenta has been kidnapped by alien terrorists who are now holding her
world to ransom. In return for his aid, the Magentans have given the
warrior a devastating high-velocity Gyro laser and a matter converter
that, when sufficiently charged, will cybernetically mutate him into an
Elite Mechanical Combat Unit. In this form, he should be able to defeat
anything the terrorists can throw at him....or so the Magentans have
told him.

GAME PLAY
---------
LEVEL 1 : Begin your mission in the forest area outside the terrorists'
          stronghold. Automated sentry robots patrol this area and are
          programmed to destroy any alien organism that they encounter.
          Beware, enemy air support is on the way.
LEVEL 2 : Upon leaving the forest, you enter the ruins of a city
          decimated by repeated rescue attempts by the Magentans.
          Terrorist artillery stalks the rubble, ever ready for a new
          attack. Destroy as many of these are you can while avoiding
          energy discharges from power generators.
LEVEL 3 : Moving underground to avoid the full force of a terrorist,
          attack, you find yourself confronted with evil alien
          hatchlings. Carve a way through these horrible creatures. If
          you think these nasties are bad...wait until you meet their
          mother!
LEVEL 4 : Back into the open again for a roof-top battle where your
          agilety, speed and skill are critical. Avoid falling into
          oblivion while fighting energy discharging skulls and other
          suprises as you get closer to your goal!
LEVEL 5 : Now you have breached all of their defences, enter and search
          the prison ship. Locate and free the world leader but watch
          out, they are not going to let you get to her without a fight!

CONTROLS
--------
Human mode:                  Robot mode:
                 /|\
                  |
                  |
            <----------->       Walk left <-----------> Walk right
                  |
                  |
                 \|/

FIRE/SPACE - Use sword
Pressing FIRE/SPACE while standing still will activate the laser.
You will transform into a robot for the final battle on each level if
you have collected enough energy icons.

SPACE/FIRE - activate laser.

K : Select keyboard control      J : Select joystick control
M : Music on/off                 F : Sounds effects on/off
H : Pause on/off