                                  S T R Y X


By the year 3106 A.D. the techno-wars had left planet Earth devastated, its
charred and wasted surface giving off poisonous fumes fatal to man and
machine alike.  But at last peace had broken out.  At last the four
governments who waged this destructive war had come to their senses.  At
last they had started to co-operate for the greater good of mankind.

Their greatest achievement has been the construction of the Dome
Cities, where life can go on in an environment ucontaminated by the
pollution that has ravaged the outside world.  Each of the four domes is
linked by a travel-tube network to the hub of the system, Central Dome
City.  The journey only takes a few minutes by speedbike.  Each dome
consists of a huge number of platform sections, accessed by lifts and
tunnels.  Deep beneath the Domes is the Hive, where energy crystals are
mined to keep the dome civilization going.

Of course, someone's had to do a lot of work to build and maintain
all of this.  You guessed - it was those lovable, docile Cyborg robots. 
But the governing Dome Committee's report into the causes of the Great War
discovered a horrible truth: it was robotic and computer malfunction that
sparked off the conflict that destroyed civilization as we knew it.

Terrified by the consequences of another robot revolt, the
Committee imposed a mandatory 3-year life span on robotic systems and a
5-year life span on computer installations.  Under no circumstances could
any exceptions be made.

This termination system, known as the Lifeforce, is controlled by
four separate keys, each one held by a different member of the Committee. 
If activated, the Lifeforce would destroy all robotic and computer
systems...


DATELINE 05: 09: 4516 AD

The unthinkable has happened.  The Cyborg slave robots have risen against
their masters, claiming the same rights to life as the humans.  The keys to
the Lifeforce have been stolen and, crazed by their newly-discovered power,
the Cyborgs have assassinated the four Dome Committee members in the most
horrible way.

Knowing that their ex-masters can no longer destroy them at the
flick of a button, the Cyborgs are determined to wipe out the human
population.  A special extermination patrol of Cyborg assassins roams the
Dome Cities, seeking out human life and ruthlessly destroying it.

In a secret high-security cell deep within the Central Dome a group
of high-ranking citizens meets to combat the menace.  Naturally, the keys
must be recovered.  But who can do the job?  Only the implementation of
Project Alpha Secure can save the day.

Stryx - half-man, half-robot - is the result of this great
scientific effort.  Brave, strong, resourceful, super-intelligent, Stryx is
the Dome's last chance in the fight to the death against the Cyborg
rebels...


...YOU are Stryx.  Your mission - and you have no choice but to accept it 
is to:

 seek out and destroy the Cyborg assassins before they kill all human life

 recover the keys to the Lifeforce and decode the machine to destroy all
  rebel Cyborgs.



PLAYING THE GAME


As Stryx you are endowed with extraordinary physical and combat powers. 
You will also be able to find and use a jet pack and jet bike.  Your mental
powers are just as your physical ones - finding the keys and cracking the
Lifeforce code will not be easy tasks.  Time is strictly limited.  The
future of the human race depends on you.  Good luck on your mission; you'll
need it.


EXPLORING THE DOME CITIES

The Domes

There are four dome cities linked to the central large dome.  Each dome
city is divided into two parts.  The upper section (the dome itself) is
constructed of platforms and stairways on a number of levels.  Here you
will also find keys, passes, and other objects which will be essential for
completion of the game.  As well as collecting these you will also have to
tackle the robot guards that patrol the platforms.

The Hive

Within each dome is an entrance to the hive.  The hive is a mining complex
which contains many energy crystals.  Energy crystals, when collected, can
be used to replenish the energy levels of your weaponry, speeder bike, and
the mining craft.  Use the mining craft to explore the hive, but beware each
mine is swarming with deadly androids and other creations.

The Travel Tubes

Each dome is linked to the central dome via a travel tube.  You must use
the Speeder Bike to traverse the length of the tube.  Destroy any enemies
you encounter within the tube.

Deactivating the Cyborgs

Before the cyborgs can be deactivated you must work out how to use the
color coded terminals to the main computer.  These are located within the
central dome city.  This must be done within a time limit or the
deactivation will fail.



CONTROLLING STRYX

Stryx may be controlled with the joystick as shown below:


    without fire button                   with fire button (no weapon)

    UP/JUMP/ENTER DOOR                               JUMP
              ^                                        ^
JUMP LEFT  -  |  -  JUMP RIGHT           KICK LEFT  -  |  -  KICK RIGHT
            \ | /                                    \ | /
    LEFT  <--   -->  RIGHT              PUNCH LEFT <--   --> PUNCH RIGHT
              |                                        |
              |                                        |
         DOWN/CROUCH                                 CROUCH


If you are carrying a weapon pressing fire will fire the weapon.  While the
fire button is depressed you can aim the weapon with the joystick.


The first four function keys have the following uses:

F1   PICK UP/DROP OBJECT

F2   TOGGLE BETWEEN WALKING AND RUNNING

F3   FETCH/RETRACT OBJECT FROM/TO INVENTORY WINDOW

F4   ARM BOMB/USE DOOR PASS


Use the cursor keys to scroll through the items in the inventory window at
the bottom of the screen.

When you are in the travel tube the joystick controls the movements of your
Speeder Bike.  Pressing fire will fire ahead of you.  When you reach the
lift at the end of the tunnel press FIRE to exit.


When you are in the Hive the joystick controls your mining craft as below:

                                    THRUST
                                      ^
                                      |
                      ROTATE LEFT <--   --> ROTATE RIGHT
                                      |
                                      |
                                REVERSE THRUST

Pressing fire will fire ahead of you.  To exit the hive move to the
platform at the top of the hive and press FIRE.


Pressing Escape (ESC) will pause the game.  When the game is paused, press
F10 to restart.


The Puzzle

The puzzle consists of a number of color coded wheels.  Adjacent to the
wheels are + and - keys which can be used to rotate the wheels.  Moving the
joystick without the fire button pressed will move between keys.  Once you
have selected the right key press and hold fire.  Now moving the joystick
will rotate the wheels.  To select another key release fire.  You must
match up the colors on the wheels to deactivate the cyborgs.


            Spread by Midnight Maniac and Mayday of Trilogy