                         -* SuBuRBan CoMManDo *-
                      (C) BY ALterNatiVe SOftWare 
                      SUPPllied bY -* SuPaCyCle *-



                   * Game InStructions *


1.) Aproaching The Mothership

Battle your Way Across the Universers in Your SpaceShip, Fighting the
Enemy Spips and Collecting Power Ups, Extra speed , Extra Lives and 
some Fanatic Weaponry.
Pickups Include.... 3 Way shot Outriders Riddle Laser Homing Missles 
Speed up pods shields Rear Shots.  
Take Care - You will need all the power you can get to fight your way
through the next stage. your skill at Destroying the General`s Bases will
eFFect the Difficulty of the Next stage!

2.)  inside the mothership

shep now puts on his body amour which gives  him some limited Protection
from the weapons of the mothership`s guards. He also has a set of jet 
powered boots but but unfortunately has to depend on any fuel he can find
scatteed around the ship. You must plant a Number of bombs at strategic
places around General Suitor`s Massive mothership. As you Explore the 
Gigant Ship, indicators will show you where you have to place the bombs to
do most damage. The Locations are random and will depend on how well you
did on the prevous stage.
Dotted around the ship are many devices designed to both help and hinder
you. these include bouncy platforms that help you to jump higher, no jump
zones where Shep`s feet will stick to the Floor, security Robots and 
dangerous tiles that can cause serious damage.
In Combat mode Shep can punch and leg sweep his enemies leaving them stunned
Hit them Hard Enough and he`ll knock them from the Plattform. But watch out
the guards are armed and dangerous.
Avoid the guards, the Robot defence system and the cunning traps left to
kill any foolish trspassers. Once all the Bombs have been set you must 
get out as fast as possible before the ship is destroyed. your only way out 
is to Earth but first you must meet the challenge of...

3.) one-on-one Combat Against Suitor`s Champion...

See Details on One-on-One combat below. Before you can esCape from the 
Mothership you must get past the Supreme champion of Suitor`s forces..
He Will do Everything he can to stop you from leaving the ship and 
getting to Earth and into....

4.) The City Section...

You Crash land in the suburbs of Los Angeles. not the safest place at
the best of times but for a Commando like you it`s simple asking for
trouble. And trouble you get! Somewhere, Hidden in the city, are spare 
for your ship that you must find you are ever to get off this planet. 
But trying to stop you getting your handle on it, are roving gangs of
Street pnks and underworld hoods and, of course the General`s hired
hands - the Bounty hunters. watch out for the danger the fairground,
the perils of the underground car park and the slippery slopes of the
sewers. If you Survive all these you move on to the ....
 
5.)   One-on-One Combat With The Street Punk...
                                                       
You Come AcRoss the Leader of the Street Punks Who Isn`t Going to Back
down To you... If you survive This Meeting of Muscle You Will climb onto


6.)  The SkyScraper....

You have discovered that the power Crystals are to be found in a partially
constructed Skyscraper. Collect all of the Crystals you need and Prepare
for an epic Battle with the General. You Need all your strength and skills
to Survive. In This Stage Your Jet Powered Boots become invaluable so make
careful use of innocent bystanders (and some not so innocent Bystanders)
avaid the bad guys and make your way to the final room where you will 
meet the General himself.

7.) The final Conflict ...

At last You Come Against the Evi of General Suitor in a one-on-one fight
to the finish. But take care, the General is not all he seems...

                  One-on-one COMBAT

The third, fifth and seventh stages of the game give you the chance to 
use your Wrestling skills as you are pitted against some of the Generals
top men (and the General Himself on the last stage) in a great beat em
up challenge. Punches , kicks and throuws are just some of the moves you 
need to use to defeat your opponent. watch the red bars at the bottom of 
the screen. each time you or your opponent is hit the relevant bar will
go down. when one bar has completely gone that player has lost the match.

                   Hints and tips !
 
to aID your enjoyment of games playing we recommend the following
 
      . Avaid playing games when tired
      . avaid playing games when drunk or stoned (trsi always Drunk!)
      . sit well away from the Screen
      . use a as small a screen as possible
      . play games in well lit areas
      . reduce the brightness of the screen to darken the contrast

        Are this serious hints? think so .....

      pps: Special thanxx for hacking the passwords to * AFL *


        This Game was brought to ya by the ImMortal people in
 
               --* TrisTar and Red SEctor *- 1 9 9 3!

 
          always remeber a game worth playing is worth buying 
          so the Amiga will never die .... solong dudes.....