                             - SUMMER CHALLENGE DOX -

                           TYPED 4 U BY THE ENGLISH MAN
                           ----------------------------

GAME OPTIONS:

1. After you load the game, type in the name of the first player, and press
   RETURN.  As many as six people can play the game.
2. The Flag Screen will appear giving you the opportunity to select the
   country you would like the player to represent.  Use the joystick to
   position the cursor over the desired country; press the joystick fire
   button to select the flag.
3. Repeat steps 1 & 2 for each player.  After you have entered all the
   players' names and countries, press RETURN.  The Events Screen will appear

SELECTING EVENTS:

1. To select events, position the cursor over the mini-television screens for
   each event and press the fire button.  If the event is animated, that
   event is selected.  To de-select an event position the cursor over the
   event and press the fire button again.
2. When you are ready to play the games, move the cursor over the button at
   the bottom of the screen.  When the button says START GAMES, press the
   fire button.

THE EVENTS:

After you have completed an event, you will be given the opportunity to replay
it by typing either Y or N However, any medals you have won will be lost
should you choose to replay an event.

SKEET SHOOTING

In this event, you shoot clay pigeons fired from the blinds.  There are seven
stations to complete, each at a different position on the shooting range.
You may only have to shoot one pigeon(singles) at a time, or you may be
required to shoot two pigeons(doubles) fired at the same time.

You may use either a joystick or a mouse for this event.

JOYSTICK - Press the fire button to start a station.  Move the joystick up to
fire a pigeon.  Then position the cursor by moving the joystic.  Press the
joystick fire button to fire the gun.

MOUSE - Press the left mouse button to start a station.  Press the left mouse
button again to fire a pigeon.  Move the mouse to aim the target, and then
press the right mouse button to fire you gun.

Position the gunsight just in front of the pigeon, keeping in mind that there
is a delay between the time you fire the gun and actually hit the clay pigeon.
Your score is based on the number of pigeons you have successfully shot.  Each
round is played at a different station.  You don't have unlimited ammuntion,
so aim carefully!

FENCING

This is the gentlemanly way to fight; it takes a sharp eye to foil you enemy.
Block perries and jabs while you try to push your opponent back into his
territory and gain the upper hand.  Try to get the most direct hits in the
time available to be the winner.

You use a joystick for this event.

Joystick:   UP    - MOVE FORWARD
            DOWN  - MOVE BACKWARD
            LEFT  - PARRY
            RIGHT - RIPOSTE
            FIRE  - LUNGE

Move the joystick forward to push your opponent into his territory.  Pull the
joystick back to retreat.  Press the fire button to lunge towards your
opponent.  Use the Parry and Riposte maneuvers to block your opponent's moves.
You must score 3 direct hits in 60 seconds during the first round, 4 direct
hits in 75 seconds during the second round, and 5 direct hits in 90 seconds
during the third round.

DIVING

Not even the circus high-dive clown can do these moves.  As you approach the
edge of the diving platform, prepare a mental image of the perfect dive:
flawless pike, effortless spins and tucks, and a smooth entry.  It takes
control and expert training to please these judges.

You use a joystick for this event.

Joystick    UP    - TUCK
            DOWN  - UNTUCK
            RIGHT - ROTATION CLOCKWISE
            LEFT  - ROTATION COUNTER-CLOCKWISE
            FIRE  - PIKE