                             SUPERMAN
    		          --------------
Once loaded press FIRE to pass through Opening Screens.
OPTION SCREEN: At the start of each game is a Comic Book Page - you may read
	       the captions then use the Joystick to continue to Game Screen.

Each game has an Icon Bank from which you can select Superman's strengths and
fightning powers. Icons available are: Flight, Heat Vision, Super Punch,
Telescopic Vision, Super Breath

Selection of Icon is done with Space Bar. Highlightning the Icon you want to
use, at any stage of game.
The Flight Icon is automatically selected for each game when Superman is
activated into flight by the Joystick.

All powers can exhaust Superman's energy levels. To replenish these levels
will require a short waiting time. During this waiting time other icons can
be selected and used.

In all games Superman has three chances to complete the mission. Other 
Bonuses can be gained by fighting, beating or destroyinf various objects and 
hazards within a period of time or over a measured distance.

			        THE GAME
			     --------------

Superman has been directed by Perry White to meet Professor at S.T.A.R.
Laboraties urgently. Flying from Metropolis, Superman encounters Darkseid's
evil Para-Demons born out of The Boom Tube. Darkseid has equipped some of the
Para-Demons with Concussion Cannons. These Cannons fire deathly Concussion
Clouds, which Superman must steer clear of at all costs to avoid a 
substantial drain on his energy levels.
Icons available: Flight, Heat Vision, Super Breath and Super Punch

After battling trougth the Para-Demons on the way to meet the Professor,
Superman get a call from Perry White to go immediately to "The Atlantis"
anchored outside Metropolis Harbour. On board The Atlantis Governor Lee
and Lois Lane are being held hostage by fanatical terrorists.
Superman's job is to defeat the terrorists and free lois and the Govenor.
Icons available: Flight, Super Punch, Super Kick, Super Breath 
		 and Heat Vision

After leaving The Atlantis Superman reaches the S.T.A.R. Laboratories, where
he meets the Professor who tells him uncharacteristic seismic activity has 
been monitored by his scientists. The Professor must board the Shuttle on
route tothe Star Lab Satellite where he must gather further valuable data 
on the natural disaster imperilling the Planet. Professo Corwin asks Superman
to escor the Shuttle trough the violent ateroid and Krytonite storms which
could riddle the space shuttle and possibly threaten the Proffesor's lefe
unless Superman is able to protect the Shuttle on it's journey.
Icons available: Glight, Heat Vision, Super Punch and Super Breath
Krytonite and Asteroids can both damage the Shuttle but only Krytonite can
hurt Superman.






Having reached the Star Lab Space Satellite Superman must enter via the
airlock and proceed to fly or run the corridors to the Command Room. Once
there, he must use his Heat Vison to met the Defence Control Panel to halt
the satellite's out of control Robot Defenders. The system recognises
Superman but it incorrectly identifies him as an enemy intruder who must be
stopped, by the numerous mutant robots. Superman can be zapped by the Robots
into a flexible bubble that he can only destroy by kicking rather than
using Heat Vision.
Icons available: Flight, Heat Vision, Punch, Kick and Super Breath

Some Robots can be defeated easier by punching or blowing rather than using
up your Heat Vision energy. Once the Defence Control Panel has been destroyed
and the Robots made harmless - Professor Corwin sets to work analysing his
data to discover where the problem is emanating from. But as he starts, he
sees out of a window a massive asteroid storm heading towards the satellite
which has already been damaged from a previous storm. Superman must fly 
oustside and protect the satellite from the storm whilst the Professor sets
about fixing the Satellite's shields and colleiting data.
Icons available: Flight, Heat Vision, Super Punch and Super Breath

Now that the Satellite has been made stable, Professor Corwin has been able
to trace the geophysical disturbances to an unidentified Satellite Station
that is sending out disruptive signals through the Com-Sat earth station
receivers. The Professor gives Superman the co-ordinates of the malevolent
Satellite and he must fly there and knock it off the air.
Leaving the Professor, Superman encounters Darkseid's Mini Robots. These
Robots mutate from a Mother Robot, controlled by darkseid, to try and stop
Superman reaching the Lexcorp Station.
Icons available: Flight, Super Punch, Super Breath and Heat Vision

On reaching the station markes "The Lexcorp", Superman is confronted by
gunfire and heat seeking shells. He has to defeat the Station, destroy the
shell ports and the gun turrets then using his telescopic vision search the
ship for the devices that control the Station's defence shields and other
sections to totally disable the craft and render it harmless.
Icons available: Flight, Heat Vision, Super Breath and Telescopic Vison.
Bonuses can be achievedby destroying various parts of the ship.

Having rendered the Ship harmless Superman flies inside the Satellite Station
to be confronted by scores of fighting Lexcorp Robot Commandos. The Robots,
now very annoyed after Superman's external attack of their defences, do their
best to stop him flying down the central corridor to the Station's core
where the geo-distruptor is located. The destruction of this is Superman's
final battle for the day - everyone can now sleep easy as once again
Superman saves the day.
Icons available: Flight, Super Punch, Heat Vision, Super Breath 
                 and Super Kick.

At the end of the game your score, if high enough, will be displayed and may
be saved to go forward to "The High Score Scoreboard".