		       Super Scramble Simulator

		Scenario

Take on the ultimate challenge of motorbike scrambling. This real life
simulator take you over 15 gruelling terrains, featuring 1:2 gradient
hills, streams, water obstacles, logs, cars and lorries. Control your
accelaerating, braking and gear changing (avoid stalling it!) as you race
against the clock.

		Gameplay

The game has fifteen courses divided into five sets of three. There are two
sets of mud courses, two sets of obstacle cources and one set of grass
courses. Within a set, the courses can be played in any order, but the
whole set must be completed before progressing to the next set. Failure to
complete a course within the time limit ends the game.

Each course must be completed in the fastest possible time for a maaximum
score. Time penalties are incurred for failing to negociate an obstacle
correctly or for straying off the course, crashing and stalling the bike.
Bonus points are given at the end of each course for time remaining.

On the first two sets of courses, you get three attempts at each obstacle,
after which you are placed further down the course and suffer a large time
penalty. On the third and fourth sets you get four attempts. On the last
set you must try seven times.

		Screen Layout


TOP SCREEN	-	A detailed side view of the bike on the course and
			the obstacles being negotiated.


MIDDLE SCREEN	-	A plan view showing the players poition on the
			course and a short distance aheah. Used for
			steering the bike through obstacles, also displays
			the penalty messages.

BOTTOM SCREEN	-	(from left to right)
	1.  Timer.
	2.  Dashboard - The left dial is the speedometer. the central
	    lights are gear indicators (all green - neutral, bottom red - 
	    first, middle red - second, top red - third). The dial on the
	    right is the rev counter.
	3.  Your score.

		Controls

All controls and options selections are joystick controlled except for :

	Pause	     -	Space Bar
	Reset Game   -  Escape Key.

		Joystick

Without FIRE button depressed :

	Joystick Up		-		Turn Left.
	Joystick Left		-		Brake (Front wheel up
						whilst in the air).
	Joystick Right		-		Accelerate (Front wheel
						down whilst in the air).
	Joystick Down		-		Turn Right.

With FIRE button depressed :

	Joystick Up		-		Change Up a Gear.
	Joystick Left		-		Left rear Wheel.
	Joystick Right		-		Wheelie
	Joystick Dwon		-		Change Down a Gear.

	FIRE button depressed with joystick centred - Duck.


			@ 08/07/89  The Phantom Lord.