                 -- --- -->  sUPER tENNIS cHAMPS  <-- --- --

                               -->  DOCS!  <--


Super Tennis Champs offers a fresh and exciting tennis arena where sixteen
very individual characters battle for the honours.  You can play exhibition
matches and leagues in singles tournaments, or compete for the gruelling
grand slam to decide the super tennis champion.


Main Menu
---------

Exhibition - Play singles or doubles with any players on any surface in a
match of 1,3 or 5 sets.

League (singles) - Complete in a league for either 4 or 8 players, any
number of whom can be human-controlled.

League (doubles) - Complete in a league for either 8 or 16 players (4 or 8
pairs), any number of whom can be human-controlled provided you have a
suitable four-player parallel port adaptor.  If not, then only one pair, or
one player out of each pair can be human-controlled - otherwise when two
human-controlled pairs meet you`d have a problem!.

Singles Tournament - Challenge for the one of the big four tournaments.
Choose from Paris, New York, London or Melbourne. Up to sixteen human players

Grand Slam - participate in the grand slam which combines all of the major
singles tournaments and takes you all around the world. Up to ten human
players can take part.

Options - Allows you to turn certain features on or off, view the player
profiles or create a save game disk.



Playing a Singles or Doubles Exhibition Match
---------------------------------------------

Firstly, select the type of match and the number of humans players (two hum-
an players can play on same side or on opposite sides). Move the cursor to a
player and press fire to select. Then move the joystick left or right and
press fire to select a grass, clay or indoor court and the number of sets.

Do not choose three or four players unless you have a suitable
parallel-port joystick adaptor.



Setting up a Singles League
---------------------------

A league can have 4 or 8 participants, any number of which can be human
players.  Now set the match length and how many times each player will
face each opponent.  The next step is to choose the characters who will
play - move the cursor to a player push fire to select.  Do this for
each of the spaces in the league. Once each space has been filled move
the cursor up and down the list and push joystick left or right to
change the control of any player from computer to human. NB: no
character can enter a league more then once.



Setting up a doubles League
---------------------------

First decide how many pairs will play (4 or 8), then decide the match
length and how many times each pair will meet.  Next choose the pairings
- move the cursor to a player and push fire to select, then choose his
partner.  Do this for each of the pairs in the league.

Once each space has been filled you can select which players are to be
human controlled (remember - if you don`t have a four-player adaptor
then only one pair, or one player in each pair can be human-controlled).
Move the cursor up or down to the pairs to change, then move the
joystick left and right to cycle throught the control options.  NB: if a
pair comprises one human-controlled player and one computer-controlled
player, then the human-controlled player must be the first player.



Playing a Singles Tournament
----------------------------

All 16 characters play in a tournament.  As each first round match is
played you can choose which players are human-controlled - select a
player and push up or down on the joystick.  You cannot change the
control selections once the first round matches have been played.



Challenging for the Grand Slam
------------------------------

To complete the grand slam you must wil all four tournaments.  As in a
singles tournament you only change between human and computer control in
the first round, in this case the first round of the paris open.  Since
the grand slam is ultimate challenge, the top six players cannot be
human-controlled.



Saving
------

Before loading the, make sure that you have at lease one blank formatted
disk to use as a save disk.  Before you can use this it must be
initialised using the relevant selectino on the options screen.  Follow
the instructions on the screen.
Games can saved in between matches during a league or the grand slam.
Move the cursor to the SAVE option, press fire and then follow on-screen
instructions.  NB: A save disk can only hold one saved league and one
grand slam.



Loading a Saved Game
--------------------

The option to LOAD a saved game appears at the start of a singles or
doubles league and also if you choose the grand slam.  Select LOAD and
follow the on-screen instrctions.



The Courts
----------

Three surfaces are included in the super tennis champs, and each one has
a different effect on play.  The ball bounce on a hard court is fast and
high; on grass it is fast and low; on clay it is slow and high.  To win
the grand slam will require expertise on each surface.



The Players
-----------

Each character provided with the game has a distinct personality that is
reflected in their play.  You will soon come to recognise all players
strengths and weaknesses and be able to play th these accordingly.
However, to provide some initial help here are laest super tennis champs
rankings.

You will also find it useful to read the short profile of each player
(accessed from the options menu).



KEYS
----

ESC          - Quit match or return to main menu (in front end)
SPACE        - Display match stats
Right AMIGA  - Pause
R            - Replay (Up on the joystick = freeze frame,
                       Down = slow motion, Left = rewind, Fire = Exit)


     ------------------------------------------------------------------


Typed by DEMoNLoRD - Copyright 1995 - Dated 25 Nov 1995  22:20:32