              Presents the full Documentation to Super Loopz * AGA *

    Typed up by iGGY on 01/02/96

                                    SUPER LOOPZ

    (c) 1995 Audiogenic Software Limited

    INTRODUCTION

    Super Loopz is a highly addictive puzzle game for one or  two  players
    with  many  different  options.  However  the  basic principle is very
    simple: you place pieces on the  playfield  (one  by  one)  to  create
    continuous loops - or loopz.

    There  is  a  limited  time  for  you  to place each piece - on higher
    difficulty levels there is less time. If you fail  to  place  a  piece
    within the time allowed then you lose a life.

    GETTING STARTED

    To load the game place the disk in the drive and reset the machine.

    You  can  play the game using a standard joystick, a joystick with two
    independant fire buttons (such as  a  Megadrive  controller),  a  CD32
    controller,  or  a mouse. Select the control method you want to use in
    the options menu.

    Note: you cannot use a mouse in the options menu; use the  arrow  keys
    instead.  Also  you won`t be able to enter your name in the high score
    table - sorry ( I just thought I would put  a  little  note  in  here:
    Audiogenic  seem  to  just make money by rehashing old games.. remeber
    impact 95 claiming to have extra levels when it was 100% identicle  to
    the  original  -  this version just has the graphix updated to AGA but
    the code remains exactly the same and so there is a high  score  table
    which does not work... L A M E!)

    GAME OPTIONS

    When  you  press  the  fire  button an option screen appears. The word
    ARCADE, STANDARD, CHALLENGE (two player only) and PUZZLE  (one  player
    only).

    The  ARCADE and STANDARD games can be played by one or two players. If
    you choose to play either of these games select either a one player or
    a two player game.

    The  STANDARD  and  CHALLENGE games allow you to choose the difficulty
    level. If two are playing, then each player  can  select  his  or  her
    difficulty  level independently. Highlight the DIFFICULTY option, then
    adjust the timer bar -the shorter the bar the less time you`ll have to
    place each piece.

    The ARCADE and PUZZLE games are divided into levels. Each level in the
    PUZZLE game has passwords which are displayed when you  complete  each
    level. In ARCADE game a password is given every three levels.

    To  enter  a  password  highlight the PASSWORD option, then use Up and
    Down to step through the alphabet. Press right to  move  to  the  next
    letter,  or  left  to move to the previous letter. Press fire when you
    have entered your password, or if you have  selected  this  option  by
    mistake.

    Use  the  joystick  or  other  controller  to  change  the  options as
    necesary, then press fire to start the game.

    HOW TO PLAY
    Let`s suppose you have chosen to play the STANDARD game which  is  the
    simplest,  and  also  the  easiest  to  play.  The game is played on a
    playfield divided into squares, rather like a checker  board.  At  the
    beginning  of  the  game the playfield is empty - but when the `player
    one - Get Ready` message dissapears your first piece will appear.

    Pieces come  in  different  shapes  and  sizes.  Using  a  two  button
    controller,  or  a mouse, one button allows you to rotate a piece, and
    the other allows you to place it in position.

    Using a 1 button joystick, hold down the fire button and  press  Right
    to rotate, or Left to place the piece.

    If the piece that appears won`t fit in the loop you`re making, you can
    start a new loop. In fact you can start a new loop  at  any  time,  so
    long as there is free space on the playfield.

    Once  you  have put a piece down it is held in place - so make sure it
    is in the right place BEFORE you put it down! But don`t spend too much
    time  thinking  about  it, otherwsie you`ll run out of time and lose a
    life.

    Note: you cannot put a piece down on top of another piece, and it must
    be  fully  within  the playfield, not hanging over the edge. Also, you
    are not allowed to place a piece so that it is  at  the  edge  of  the
    playfield  and pointing off the edge (because you could never complete
    the loop).

    If you fail to place a piece before the timer runs out, even if  there
    is  no space large enough on the playfield, then you will lose a life.
    At the start of the GAME (one or two players) The arcade game  has  21
    standard  levels, and 21 challenge levels, divided into sets of three.
    The challenge levels are similar to the standard levels,  but  with  a
    new  set  of  pieces  (you`ll be surprised how much you need to change
    your style of play).

    After every three levels a password is displayed  -  don`t  forget  to
    write it down!

    To  progress  from one level to next you must complete ten loopz (in a
    two player game the loopz completed by both players are  counted).  At
    the  end  of  each level the playfield is cleared of incomplete loopz,
    and you start the next level with a blank playfield - except that some
    of  your playfields have blocks that get in your way. You will have to
    change your strategy slightly for each different level.

    As you progress through the levels the  time  allowed  to  place  each
    piece gradually reduces.

    There are three bonus games to play if you are clever enough. To enter
    Bonus Game 1 you must totally clear the playing area. The bonus  score
    you  can  acheive  by  playing  this  bonus  game depends on the bonus
    multiplier - it ranges from x1 to x10. For example, if the  multiplier
    is  x4 any points you score in the bonus game are multiplied by 4! The
    Bonus Multiplier increases as the playfield fills up - after all,  its
    going to be more difficult to clear the screen.

    Bonus  Game 2 is only played in a One player game. To reach this bonus
    game for the first time you must make a loop with at least 14 corners;
    the  second time there must be at least 15 corners in the loop, and so
    on.

    To play Bonus Game 3 the first time there must be more than  50  tiles
    left  on  the screen when you complete the loop which takes you to the
    next level. To reach it a second time you need 8 more tiles,  that  is
    58, and so on. If you successfully complete Bonus Game 3 you will earn
    an extra life.

    If you choose a two player game then it really gets exciting,  because
    you`re  both  playing  on the same playing area - so theres nothing to
    stop your opponent finishing off a loop that you  started  (of  course
    you can do the same to him or her!0.

    Player 1`s piece is highlighted in green, Player 2`s piece in red, but
    once you place a piece it looks just the same as the rest. Each player
    has  a  seperate  timer. If one player loses all of his or hers lives,
    the other player can continue alone.

    STANDARD (one or two players)
    You can choose the difficulty level before the game starts,  and  this
    remains  the same throughout the game. In a two playe game each player
    can choose a different level. There are no bonus games in a two player
    game,  but in a one player game you can reach Bonus Game 1 by clearing
    the screen. However, once you`ve cleared the screen you must  complete
    ten loopz before you`ll be allowed to enter the bonus game again.

    CHALLENGE (two players only)
    This is a head to head confrontation betwen one of the  world`s  Super
    Loopz  players  (you,  of  course),  and  your opponent. There are two
    seperate playfields, one for each player, and the object of  the  game
    is quite simple - make loopz and score more points than your opponent!

    The  game is played over 3 rounds, and you have 3 lives in each round.
    Whoever wins the most rounds is the Champion!

    PUZZLE (one player only)
    This game is a really tough challenge.  You`ll  be  shown  a  complete
    loop, then before your eyes pieces will be removed one by one. Did you
    watch carefully? Lets hope so, because now you`ve got  to  replce  the
    pieces and recreate the loop!

    You have just 3 lives in this game.

    HOW TO PLAY THE BONUS GAMES
    In each of the bonus games you have just 1 life.

    Game 1 - at first it appears like a normal game of Super Loopz  -  but
    it isn`t, because when you complete a loop, instead of disappearing it
    just stays there! Your job is to score as many points as  possible  by
    making loopz before you run out of space, or lose your life.

    Game  2  -  is a level selected at random from a puzzle game. Complete
    the puzzle to score a bonus of 5000 points.

    Game 3 - is even more tricky. place the pieces to  create  loopz  that
    cover the fruit scattered on the playing area.

    GOPHERS
    `Gophers` are special pieces that allow you to remove partly completed
    loopz. Place the gopher on any part of the loop you wish to remove.

    Note: If you`re clever you may  be  able  to  place  the  gopher  over
    several incomplete loopz.

    Gophers appear usually when the playfield is very congested - in other
    words, just when you need them. There`s no penalty if you  decide  not
    to use your gopher.

    HINTS AND TIPS

    Remember  that  long loopz score many more points than short loopz; it
    is easier to make long loopz at the start of  a  new  level  when  the
    playfield is clear.

    If  you  make  mistakes when playing the ARCADE game, so that you have
    partly completed loopz which are impossible to join up,  try  to  make
    short  loopz  so  that  you  get  to  the next level quickly, when the
    playfield will be cleared.

    Do not be too ambitious on the levels with obstructions.

    Always try to leave room for unexpected large pieces.

    Unless you manage to slow down the timer (by completing Bonus Game 2),
    you`ll  find  it extremely difficult to proceed beyond level 21 of the
    ARCADE game.