INSTRUCTIONS FOR SUPER HUEY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

OVERVIEW                                                     1
LOADING THE PROGRAM IN AMIGA                                 2
LOADING THE PROGRAM IN ATARI (NOT TYPED IN THESE INSTS)      3
HELICOPTER CONTROL CONVENTIONS                               4
UH-1XA FLIGHT CONTROL                                        7
INSTRUMENTS                                                 11
COMPUTER CONTROL FUNCTIONS                                  15
WEAPONS FIRE                                                15
COMPUTER COMMANDS                                           16
TAKE-OFF, FLIGHT AND LANDING                                17
AUTOROTATIVE LANDING                                        19
MISSION ASSIGNMENTS                                         20
THE MISSIONS                                                20
NAVIGATION                                                  24

OVERVIEW
The UH-1XA is a new, experimental high performance helicopter using the 
latest in electronic control systems and stabilization. Its features include:

    *State-of-the-art electronic instrument console
    *On-board computer that regulates and monitors ship's systems and 
     provides pilot messages and commands for special operations.
    *Automatic pitch control to engine power linkage for RPM equilibrium, 
     including synchronization of anti-torque pitch (with manual override).

The UH-1XA is powered by a new VLW (very light weight) piston engine molded 
from a super-strength, superlight composite metal of militarily classified 
process, which rivals the weight to thrust ratio of most turbo shaft engines,
and provides lower echelon field maintenance capabilities. Mounted 
vertically, the engine is coupled to the main rotor shaft through a custom 
direct drive transmission that auto clutches to a 10 to 1 engine to rotor 
RPM reduction rate.

The rotor assembly consists of semi-rigid blades and a hub articulation 
system that is adjusted servo-electronically to respond to flight conditions.
This system causes flight drag reduction of 40 to 60% with resultant 
improvement in speed, performance and fuel economy.

Structually based on Bell Helicopters' UH-1 series, the UH-1XA's fuselage is
molded in carbon fiber laminates for optimum aero-dynamic characteristics 
and low weight. Defensively, the fuselage is vulnerable to weapons fire, 
although the unique elasticity of the material resists and deflects hits 
better than metal exteriors of equivalent weight.

The streamlined cockpit seat one pilot in front with room for a navigator/
pilot directly behind. Space amidship allows three additional personnel to 
squeeze in.

The main controls are incorporated into one unique incremental controller --
a revolutionary and controversial innovation that replaces the collective, 
cyclic and anti-torque controls of conventional helicopters.

While the UH-1XA's innovative controller requires new techniques to be 
learned by both novices and experienced pilots, it also provides advantages.
In solo flight, it allows the pilot to fly the craft while also operating 
the on board computer, radio and weapons.

The weapons system includes rockets that can be armed in sets of four and 
fired at one second intervals. Two machine guns, mounted one on each side of
the fuselage, fire in tandem. Maximum load is 20 rockets and 2,000 machine 
gun rounds.

The UH-1XA was not specifically designed as a military aircraft. It's high 
speed and long range is useful for reconnaissance or rescue, while its 
armaments provide adequate defense capability.

The UH-XA represents a new direction in helicopter flight and control system
design. See your Huey dealer and fly one when it becomes available. In the 
meantime, prepare yourself with the Super Huey Flight Simulator from Cosmi!


LOADING THE PROGRAM INTO THE AMIGA

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS FOR THE AMIGA 1000
1) The Super Huey Disk
2) Amiga Computer with 512K minimum RAM
3) The Amiga Mouse
Note: The mouse should be plugged into port #2 during play, leave the disk 
in the drive.
1) Be sure your computer, monitor, computer keyboard and mouse are correctly
connected.
2) Install the Kickstart (version 1.1 or later), and power on the computer. 
Also power on the monitor. If your system is already initialized, just warm 
boot to reset.
3) Place the Super Huey disk in the computer's built-in drive.
4) When the 1> symbol appears, type in the letters SH and press the return 
key on the computer keyboard.
5) After the title sequence plays, you are in the cockpit of the Super Huey 
UH-1XA.
6) To choose your mission, press the F7 key to power up the on board 
computer, they type in the word mission, press the return key followed by 
one of the four mission commands:
    1) SCHOOL
    2) EXPLORE
    3) COMBAT
    4) RESCUE

LOADING THE PROGRAM INTO THE ATARI ST (These instructions were not included 
by the typist).

HELICOPTER CONTROL CONVENTIONS
This is not intended as a tutorial on helicopter but rather a general 
description of the traditional and well understood characteristics of 
rotary-wing aircraft.

The physics of flight are the same for fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft, 
but the helicopter introduces some complex problems over airplanes. In the 
first place, airplanes are inherently stable whereas helicopters are 
inherently unstable. As a result, planes tend to maintain straight and level
flight, while helicopters tend to deviate from it. Both the wing of an 
airplane and the rotor blade of a helicopter are "airfoils" and interact 
with the air the same way through the "Bernoulli Effect". Briefly, this 
describes the effect of the curvature of a wing causing a higher air 
pressure area below the wing and a low pressure area above, producing 
(vertical) lift as the wing moves through the air.

A fixed wing craft requires forward movement through the air to produce lift.
A helicopter blade achieves lift by spinning on a stationary axis, causing 
the blade to cut through the air, this producing lift (or vertical thrust) 
in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of the blade.

The amount of lift depends on the "angle of attack" of the airfoil, which is
the angle of the blade to vertical. A "flat" blade will produce lift merely 
because of the airfoil effect, but not enough to lift the mass of the 
helicopter. The angle of attack is the pitch of the rotor blade -- the pitch
is controlled by the pilot -- greater pitch increasing the Bernoulli effect,
therefore producing more lift. But, simultaneously, as pitch increases, so 
does drag, because more power is required to maintain the rotor RPM. The 
relationship between pitch and RPM is perhaps the most important 
consideration in operating a helicopter.

Another factor in a rotary wing system is the torque reaction of the 
spinning rotor on the fuselage. The torque of the turning rotor exerts an 
equal and opposite force on the body of the craft causing it to turn in the 
direction opposite to the rotation of the blades. Unless counteracted by 
another force, in this case the action of the tail, (or anti-torque), rotor
blade. The tail rotor provides thrust in a direction opposite the torque 
reaction, thereby equalizing the force and stabilizing the rotation of the 
craft. Further, the thrust of the tail rotor is controllable by the pilot 
providing directional control, described as right or left yaw. This is 
possible because overcompensation of the torque effect will turn the 
fuselage in the direction of the spinning blades: a thrust less than the 
force of torque will allow the fuselage to turn opposite the rotor direction.

To fly, four main control systems are found in conventional helicopters. 
These are the cyclic stick, the collective pitch control, the throttle, and 
the anti-torque (or rudder) pedals. This collective pitch control, usually 
just called the collective, increases or decreases the pitch of all blades 
equally, and is the primary vertical thrust control. Normally, pulling up on
the collective stick will produce lift and lowering it will decrease lift. 
As mentioned above, as pitch increases, so does rotor drag, requiring an 
increase in engine power to maintain RPM. In many helicopters, this 
synchronization is provided automatically by the link between the collective
and the throttle.

The throttle controls engine power and RPM directly. It is located on the 
collective stick to aid in the coordination of pitch and RPM. The anti-
torque pedals control the pitch of the tail rotor blades, providing torque 
compensation and directional control. Normally these are conventional rudder
pedals.

Finally, the cyclic stick is the main direction control, and determines the 
attitude of the rotor system. Basically, when the plane of the spinning 
rotor is horizontal, all the trust produced is directed upwards, 
perpendicular to the rotor plane and the horizontal axis of the helicopter, 
and parallel to the rotor shaft axis. Moving the cyclic stick in any 
direction away from center (the neutral position) tilts the plane of blade 
rotation -- the rotor -- in the same direction, thereby adding a horizontal 
component to the thrust caused by the spinning of the blades, causing the 
helicopter to move in that same direction. For example, moving the cyclic 
forward will cause forward thrust to a degree which is proportional to the 
amount of rotor tilt from the horizontal. At the same time the attitude of 
the fuselage will change to the same degree (in forward flight, a nose down 
condition). Also, a cyclic change changes the "blade angle of attack" set by
the collective pitch control, which will affect RPM and thereby torque 
reaction. This illustrates an essential characteristic of helicopter 
controls. Any change in one of the controls will, in most cases, require 
some adjustment of the others. This fundamental instability in flight 
behavior is why helicopters must be flown at all times. Summing up, the four
main control systems are:
    *The cyclic controls the direction and attitude of the helicopter.
    *The collective controls the amount of thrust produced by the rotor 
blades in the direction set by the cyclic.
    *The throttle directly controls engine power output and RPM.
    *The anti-torque control adjusts torque compensation and directional 
control (by yawing) to maintain heading.

UH-1XA FLIGHT CONTROL
The Super Huey Control System is divided into two main components: the 
computer keyboard and the incremental flight controller.
The keyboard design is based on the familiar computer, with full key 
complement and 10 function control keys. The UH-1XA functions are:

        FUNCTION              KEY
        COMPUTER ON           F7
        START ENGINE          F8
        ENGAGE ROTOR CLUTCH   F9
        CUT POWER             F10

The remainder of the keyboard and other functions are used to enter commands
and data to the on board computer, and control the Super Huey UH-1XA's 
weapons system.

The flight control device is a UH-1XA innovation, and houses all four of the
helicopter's normal control devices into a single unit. The "mouse" style 
controller may be positioned to the pilot's satisfaction, and it accommodates
itself to each pilot's own style of operation.

It operates on an uncluttered flat surface, and employs two activation 
switches: a left button operated switch and a right button operated switch.

The UH-1XA Control operates in two modes: the cyclic mode, wherein the 
controller operates like a normal helicopter's cyclic control stick, and 
collective mode, wherein the controller effects the throttle and rotor blade
pitch angles.

Pressing the left button engages the cyclic control; pressing the right 
button engages the collective. Starting with the controller at any position 
on the surface comfortable to the pilot. A button is pressed and held down, 
and the control is moved slightly forward (away from the pilot), backwards 
(toward the pilot), or to either side to engage a specific operation.

The operation is engaged until the button is released, or the controller is 
moved in another direction. Please note that the top line on the on board 
computer screen verifies the operation currently engaged, and that the 
current position of the controller is always relative to the its last 
position. With both buttons released, the controlled may be moved to any 
comfortable starting position for the next incremental control move.

Movement of the controller will be described with compass directions: 
Forward-North, Back-South, Left-West, Right-East, with Northwest or 
Southwest movement of the cyclic producing left yaw and Northeast or 
Southeast movement of the cyclic producing right yaw.

With the exception of hard bank turns, all other cyclic and collective 
controls changes are designed to "set to hold". This control will be 
continuous until an opposite control maneuver to the same degree is executed
by the pilot. For example, pushing the control to the Northwest will lessen 
tail rotor thrust, allowing the fuselage to begin turning to the left. The 
longer the control is held in that direction, the greater the reaction in 
tail rotor thrust. Returning the control to center will not eliminate this 
change, and the helicopter will continue turning left. To stop turning, the 
pilot must increase tail rotor thrust by moving the control to the Northwest.
This counteracting thrust, correctly applied will stop the turning and the 
helicopter will fly a straight course. This counteracting thrust, applied 
too vigorously, will cause the helicopter to turn right, for which left 
correcting yaw control must be applied.

Similarly, in the collective mode, an increase in lift produced by moving 
the control South will build vertical thrust. This lift attitude will remain
the same until the collective is lowered (moved northward), thereby reducing
lift. If the resultant lift is not enough to overcome with weight of the 
helicopter, then it will begin to descend, and, if conducted at a proper 
rate, land safely. Only experience will allow the pilot to discover the 
precise points of equilibrium for successful maneuvers.

INSTRUMENTS
                     
1) FRE-Automatic VHF omnidirectional range transmission from a local station
or base used by the navigation computer to set a heading to the transmission
heading.
2) HOM-A homing device with an effective range of approximately 25 miles may
be dropped using the HOM command. The heading to the drop spot from the 
helicopter is transmitted from the HOMing device is displayed here.
3) NAV-Compass navigation heading computed from the VOR transmission. (1) 
The AUTO (Automatic Course Correction) command may be used to copy this 
heading to the automatic course (COR) setting (2) or the NAV heading may be 
followed manually.
4) RES-This is the heading displayed by a homing transmitter in the 
possession of the ground personnel to be located. This readout will activate
automatically when within range of the REScue signal.
5) NAV SCREEN-Blip marks location of current active NAVigation, or REScue 
transmission source relative to the position of the helicopter within an 
8-mile radius.
6) ARM-ARM is when the machine guns are activated during the COMBAT mission.
7) 1 2 3 4-These numerals represent rocket bays one, two, three and four. 
When the rockets are loaded into the bays, the numerals are lit. When the 
rockets are armed, the indicator lights are on.
8) INDICATOR LIGHTS-Routine automatic systems check will light the 
appropriate indicator if a malfunction is found in the electronic systems. 
Cycling lights indicate check in progress: non-cycling light on indicates 
malfunction.
9) ON BOARD COMPUTER-On board computer screen displays cyclic and collective
action, computer messages, and the pilot's computer keyboard commands.
10-11) ENG-Engine tachometer set includes digital readout of engine 
revolutions per minute (RPM) and a sliding needle gauge. Red areas on needle
gauge indicate low or excessive levels. Yellow areas are cautionary levels.
Pale blue area is the normal operating range.
12) MFLD-The manifold pressure gauge indicates engine power output. Red area
indicates dangerously high pressure.
     Note: The engine automatically cuts off to prevent rupture at high 
manifold pressure levels.
13-14) ROT-Rotor tachometer set includes digital readout of rotor RPM and 
sliding needle gauge. Red, yellow and pale blue areas are explained above 
under ENG.
15) FUL-Fuel gauge
16) OIL-Oil pressure gauge. Optimum reading is center mark.
17) TMP-Engine temperature gauge. Normal reading is center mark.
18) WIN-Ambient wind direction.
19) PCH-Collective pitch gauge: shows degree of blade pitch between from 
"full low" (zero degree angle of attack) to the highest pitch point.
20) HORIZON-Artificial horizon indicates the fuselage attitude relative to 
a horizon line.
21) COM-Compass heading.
22) COR-Automatic course setting indicates preset heading (set with the AUTO
on board computer command), which will be followed if there is no manual 
flying control.
    Note: Although many stabilization features are included in the UH-1XA, 
the inherent instability of helicopters makes automatic course setting with 
the AUTO command only 70 to 80% reliable.
23) ATQ-Anti-torque gauge indicates level of rotor torque compensation by 
the tail rotor. Also indicates rate of yaw.
24) AMP-Ampmeter gauge indicates electrical power output. Normal reading is 
center mark.
25) EXH-Exhaust/cylinder head temperature gauge indicates engine operating 
conditions. Optimum reading is center mark.
26) SPD-Indicates wind speed in the direction indicated by the WINd gauge.
27) CRB-Carburetor gauge: during warm-up, this gauge shows "full-rich" fuel 
mixture for primary ignition, which then falls to medium. At normal operating
temperatures, the gauge indicates carburetor intake air temperature.
28-29) SPEEDOMETER-The speedometer set includes digital readout and sliding 
needle gauge. Red, yellow, and pale blue areas are explained above under ENG.
30) GROUND PROXIMITY GAUGE-Vertical needle gauge shows elevation from 0 to 
200 feet.
31-32) ALTIMETER-The Altimeter set includes digital readout and sliding 
needle gauge. Red, yellow and pale blue areas are explained above under ENG.
33) MALFUNCTION LIGHTS-Indicator lights illuminate in the event of 
malfunction or excessive readings in its related instrument.

COMPUTER CONTROL FUNCTIONS
F1, F2, F3 and F4 - Loads rockets bays number 1 through 4 respectively on 
first press, arms rockets 1 through 4 respectively on second press.
F5 - In combat mission, arms the UH-1XA's machine guns
F6 - Not used
F7 - Powers on board computer
F8 - Starts the engine. The engine will not start until the on board 
computer command POW is entered.
F9 - Engage rotor clutch. It is not advisable to engage rotor clutch until 
engine RPM exceeds 1200 RPM.
F10 - Cut engine power. This stops the engine. The rotor clutch automatically
disengages and the rotor "free-wheels" to an autorotative landing.

WEAPONS FIRE
Left Amiga (Red A by space bar) - Rockets are fired using left A.
Right Amiga (Read A by space bar) - Fires machine guns.

COMPUTER COMMANDS
Enter at least the first three letters of the computer command. Make 
corrections with the on board computer's delete (DEL) key. When the command 
is complete, press the on board computer's RETURN key.

ABORT - Abort current mission and stop all activity.
AUTO - Set automatic course correction. When prompted by SET, enter compass 
heading. Auto works only when there is no manual control input.
CLIMATE - Displays current climatic conditions including temperature, 
humidity, and barometric reading.
DISTANCE - Displays line-of-sight distance from take-off point.
HOMING - Drop a homing device that transmits directional signal to the 
navigation computer.
MISSION - Select new mission, then enter one of the following commands into 
the on board computer: (1) SCHOOL - Flight Instruction (2) EXPLORE - 
Exploration and mapping (3) COMBAT - Air battle (4) RESCUE - Personnel 
rescue mission. Note: The mission can be changed anytime, which aborts the 
mission currently in progress.
POWER - Turn on power
SEND - Send coordinates when landing or during emergency.
VOR - Activate VHF Range reception for navigation.
VSI - Display digital vertical speed reading
XXX - Cancel previous command input. (Not available on immediate action 
commands).

STANDARD TAKE-OFF, FLIGHT AND LANDING PROCEDURES

1) Turn on the computer with the F7 key, then enter MIS to select an 
assignment. Select your mission when prompted by the on board computer.
2) Enter the POW command to turn on power.
3) Start the engine (F8). Wait for engine temperature gauges to warm up to 
middle range, then increase throttle to bring engine RPM to about 1200 RPM.
4) Engage rotor clutch (F10). Wait for RPM to stabilize at approximately 
one-tenth of the engine RPM. Monitor oil pressure and carburetor gauges for
 normal operating levels. Observe instruments for engine malfunctions and 
high or low temperature levels.
5) Increase throttle to build RPM to take off speed (3500-3600 engine, 
350-360 rotor RPM). Note: Make sure that collective pitch is at FULL LOW 
before increasing throttle.
6) With engine at proper RPM begin to increase pitch with the control 
(collective south). As lift is attained, watch for wind drift and 
instability. Control position and heading with rudder (yaw) control 
(cyclic NW, NE, SW, SE). Continue to control pitch angle as necessary to 
obtain smooth vertical movement. Equalize lift to attain a stationary hover 
at 90-100 feet.
7) Select heading with the rudder control and begin moving the control, in 
cyclic mode, forward (cyclic north). As some airspeed is achieved, add more 
lift with the collective to go into a climbing forward attitude. While 
forward cyclic increases RPM, back collective maintains RPM due to a 
throttle link. It is very important to hold RPM at a constant rate during 
cyclic/collective adjustments. Also forward cyclic will tilt the fuselage 
forward bringing the nose down. Hold the ship at the proper attitude with 
back cyclic adjustments. Increase forward thrust and airspeed with the 
collective control rather than the cyclic control to maintain flight 
attitude, but monitor the degree of pitch and manifold pressure to stay at
safe levels. Holding the control too long in any position will result in 
over controlling. Make adjustments small and gradual to achieve a smooth 
steady, controlled rate of change.
8) Bring airspeed to between 70 and 90 knots and continue climbing to at 
least 500 feet, which is the minimum altitude from which an autorotative 
landing can be made in the event of engine failure.
9) Once desired altitude is reached, decrease collective to a point of lift 
equilibrium allowing straight and level flight. Watch the airspeed indicator
and altimeter for steady and consistent readings.
10) During straight and level flight, maintain altitude and airspeed with 
both cyclic and collective control, and hold steady course with rudder (yaw))
control. Watch the magnetic compass for your heading.
11) To return to base, bank a full 180 degree turn to right or left (cyclic 
left or right). Monitor your heading on the compass. Slightly BEFORE reaching
the desired return heading, bring the control to center and level off.
12) While flying forward and in close proximity to the base, begin descent 
by gradually decreasing pitch (collective south). As altitude decreases, 
maintain airspeed with cyclic control. Keep the descent rate constant with 
pitch adjustments on the collective. Watch your ground proximity gauge for 
the needle to approach center, which is an altitude of 100 feet, then slowly
increase collective pitch to reduce descent speed. Also, decrease forward 
thrust by applying "back" cyclic (cyclic south) to "flare" the helicopter, 
which brings the nose up and further reduces the speed of descent. At 20 to 
25 feet, bring the ship to zero airspeed and hover, then gradually decrease 
lift with the collective to lower the helicopter to the ground. Just before 
touchdown, add some degree of lift to cushion your landing. Once on the 
ground, immediately DECREASE PITCH TO FULL LOW.
13) Cut the engine and power with the F10 key. The rotor clutch will 
disengage and gradually slow to stop. The engine cannot be started again 
until the rotor has come to a complete stop.

AUTOROTATIVE LANDING
Autorotative is a maneuver wherein, through failure or intent, the engine 
has stopped and the rotor is spinning freely. Control during autorotative is
similar to powered flight, with the exception that rotor RPM is maintained 
by either free-wheeling rotating blade is then an airfoil as in an autogyro,
the forerunner to helicopter. Therefore, speed or sufficient elevation to 
permit accumulation of speed is necessary for an autorotative landing. To 
control autorotative descent, try to gain a high forward glide speed, while 
reducing drag by reducing collective pitch, yet keeping enough lift to check
the rate of descent. Near the ground, a full flare maneuver with back cyclic
(cyclic south) combined with a quick and substantial collective pitch 
increase (collective south) should cut vertical speed enough to allow a 
fairly soft touchdown. Note: Your local library will have information on the
flight characteristics of helicopters, and with the exception of their 
standard control configuration, will be of further help learning to operate 
UH-1XA with confidence and skill.

MISSION ASSIGNMENTS
1) FLIGHT INSTRUCTION (Enter SCHOOL) - Computer controlled flight training. 
The computer will lead you through a series of maneuvers from take-off to 
landing with simple control pull control of the on board computer. However, 
the trainee is in full control of the aircraft and should have an understand-
ing of the instruments and controls before attempting the flight.
2) EXPLORATION AND MAPPING (Enter EXPLORE) - Fly a survey mission over 
previously uncharted territory. Map out the general terrain, major geological
features, water supply, timberland or sings of habitation.
3) RESCUE (Enter RESCUE) - Military personnel are either lost or 
incapacitated. The mission is to locate, transmit heading and distance, and,
if possible, land and pick up the party. The helicopter's maximum passenger 
capacity on this mission is four.
4) AIR BATTLE (Enter COMBAT) - A secret desert installation to which you are
assigned is under possible threat of attack by unknown hostile forces. You 
job is reconnaissance and, if necessary, defense. Determine enemy's strength
and determine if engagement is feasible.
All mission assignments are unrestricted in form and within the general 
outline of the mission are nonrepetitive. All command decisions are the 
responsibility of the pilot.
Refueling and repairs are at the take off point only. In the event of crash 
landings, damage, or emergency set downs, the current mission is terminated.

THE MISSIONS

FLIGHT INSTRUCTION
This training mission tests your ability to follow flying procedures in an 
efficient and competent manner. The on board computer is programmed to lead 
you through a flight that employs the maneuvers necessary to develop flying 
skill and familiarize you with the terms associated with flight procedures. 
In the mission, observe the on board computer screen for your instructions, 
then obey them in a responsive, controlled manner. Flying skill is evidenced
by a gentle, firm hand on the controls, and smooth transmission from one 
maneuver to another. When your mission is over, only you will know how you 
performed -- you are on the honor system. The training flight can be taken 
at any time.

EXPLORATION AND MAPPING
The essential task of this mission is to map the terrain that surrounds your
base. Mapping can be a very long and involved process, and is probably best 
done in stages to prevent the inaccuracies from careless work caused by 
fatigue. The are to be explored is quite large, and is evidenced by ground 
objects such as forests, low hills, towns, lakes and other unique terrain 
features. Note that vegetation, water, and other features cause pronounced 
variations in color of the terrain. Monotonous terrain without changing 
ground characteristics indicates that you have flown beyond the exploration 
area.
Establish your pattern of sweep early, and as you monitor your headings, pay
close attention to ground features. Note their location from your position 
and distance from the base, and any other triangulation method you develop.
 As an example of a type of pattern you might like to establish, let's 
assume that you have chosen to start in the quadrant Northwest of the base. 
Take off from the base and fly North Northwest. Check your distance from the
base with the DISTANCE computer command, and when you are approximately five
miles out, then turn due west to a compass heading of 270. Your NAV gauge 
should be showing a heading of approximately 150 from your position back to 
the base. As you continue west, the NAV will move toward a reading of 090. 
Continue due west for the distance necessary to cover the area you have 
chosen. When you reach that distance, turn due north (COM 000), travel 10 
miles and turn due east (COM 090). Maintain that course, continuing to 
observe and note ground features, until the NAV reading approaches 180, 
which means the base is due south of you. Go north 10 miles again, then turn
due west, again noting ground features, maintaining course and calculating 
the point at which you turn to backtrack for the next leg of your search. 
Planning and practice will determine that searching pattern that produce 
best results.

RESCUE
Military personnel are stranded. They are transmitting from a homing device 
whose heading will register on your REScue digital display once you are 
within range of it. But, since your briefing only indicates that the general
location of the party is unknown, careful ground-covering search and rescue 
techniques must be employed. At an elevation that permits visual detection 
of the ground party, select a compass quadrant and establish a search 
pattern that allows for the transmission range of their device -- from five 
to 10 miles.
Once the heading is received and followed, keep your eyes open. Military 
sorties into the desolate country are required to carry signal flares. Once 
the flare has been sighted, visual reckoning should bring you to a position 
over the party -- and they should be overjoyed to see you.
A careful landing will provide the grateful party the opportunity to climb 
aboard, and insure your ability to deliver them safely to the base.

AIR BATTLE
At desert base of undetermined location you will do battle with an 
unidentified enemy helicopter force. Their position is in relatively close 
proximity to your base, and they change their field of operation often, and 
so no heading from the base is safe.
When they discover you, it is all out combat, and the skies won't be friendly
until you have eliminated them all. Your base is not a safe haven, because 
they will pursue you to their last man. It takes skillful flying to evade 
their deadly attacks.
Your defense weapons are rockets and machine guns. They are fixed mount and 
aimed straight ahead. While machine gun fire must be extremely accurate, the
rockets have proximity detonators that arm in flight, and so can destroy the
enemy without a direct hit. The machine guns short fire-to-target time 
permits quick response once Super Huey is head onto target. To be successful
with the rockets, you must anticipate the enemies flight path.
You have 20 rockets, which must be loaded into the rocket bays, then armed, 
before being fired in 1 2 3 4 sequence. 32 enemy craft must be vanquished, 
so judicious use of the rockets and the 2,000 machine gun rounds available 
to you to insure victory.
Fortunately, the enemy apparently has a kamikaze code, and will approach and
fire only from your front. Evasive action, combined with aggressive use of 
your arsenal and flying skills, is your only chance.
Not recommended, but perhaps useful for greater accuracy, the field sight 
developed by Huey Cobra pilots in Viet Nam may be useful to you, but perhaps
harmful to your equipment. In Nam, pilots with a grease pencil, drew an "X" 
on their windshield to mark the point of convergence of their weapons fire.

NAVIGATION

To understand the NAV and RES readouts of compass headings for navigation it 
is necessary to adopt the proper perspective relationship of the earth and 
helicopter. The headings displayed are coordinates relative to the magnetic 
compass, but the computer always sees itself at the exact center of the 
compass with the earth moving beneath it. Assume that a compass diagram 
showing North, East, South and West is affixed to the aircraft. Whenever 
you fly, the vertical line that always points East and West always converge 
at the helicopter. All other locations are measured from this helicopter 
centered intersection.
Let us take off from Base, the source of the VOR transmission, with our NAV 
active and fly due north. The COMpass reading will be 000. If we observe the
NAV readout we see that it reads 180, the opposite of our flight heading 
because that base is now directly behind us to the South. If we stop, hover 
and turn completely around until the COM reads 180 and fly straight ahead 
and south, the NAV also reads 180 until we pass over the base, at which 
point the NAV will change to 000, or due north, since the base is now behind
us as we continue on our southward heading of 180. In the same manner, had 
we flown due East from Base at a COMpass reading of 90, the NAV readout 
would indicate 270, a west heading, since it is showing the heading necessary
for return to the base.
Before flying in some other direction, a further understanding of the way 
headings are computed is necessary. Since there is only one signal coming 
from one direction on which to home in on, the position of the source cannot
be triangulated, and therefore the NAV heading is not absolutely accurate 
and becomes significantly inaccurate beyond a range of 25 miles. To compute 
the helicopter's position from base transmitter, a single source, the 
computer first uses a north/south bias that selects either north or south 
numbers depending on the incoming signal. A discrete measurement is made of 
the angle of reception to find the distance to the east or west of the 
source.
To see how this works out, let us take off from BASE and this time fly 
Northeast at COMpass reading of 040. What happens to the NAV readout? As we 
move in a somewhat northward direction, we know the base is somewhat south 
so the NAV reading will be some southern degree. Similarly, since we are 
also flying eastward, the Base is somewhat to the west of our position. 
Therefore, the NAV heading to the base from the helicopter falls somewhere 
between South (180) and west (270). Therefore, as we remain in the quadrant
Northeast of the base, the NAV heading should vary between 180 and 270.
What would happen if we turned due North (COMpass heading 000)? At that 
moment, the NAV readout would not change since we are at the same relative 
position to be base. If, on the other hand, we turned southeast the NAV 
would to move toward 270 as we continued in a southwest direction. But, when
we cross the line due east from the base (where the NAV reads 270) and enter
the quadrant southeast of the base, the NAV readout would 'flips' to a 
Northwest heading.
The inaccuracy of the NAV heading is approximately 10% beyond 25 miles of 
the base, and increases proportionally with distance. Therefore, flying 
southeasterly and crossing the line due east from the base as in the example
above, at a great distance a NAV heading of 230 could 'flip' to as much as 
330. Since the base is now Northwest of the helicopter, the NAV reading is 
incorrect but indicates the correct quadrant.
In practice, the pilot should interpret the NAV heading with consideration 
to the inaccuracies of the system. If one followed the NAV heading exactly 
as the numbers indicated, the course travelled back to Base would be an arc 
rather than a straight line as the readings grow more accurate within 25 
miles of the base.
A thorough understanding of the error introduced into the NAV headings and 
the bias in the error toward the previous locations of the craft will allow 
the pilot to 'cut in' on the arc and fly a more direct course by leading the
NAV heading in the direction of change. For example, you are somewhere 
northwest of Base: the NAV reads 150. If you travel east, the number changes
 to 160, 165, 170, etc. As you can see, the heading is moving toward due 
south (180). If you originally did not follow the heading 150 but, instead, 
turned more southerly, say 160, you would actually be moving more directly 
toward the Base. Calculating the amount of lead is a matter of geometry and 
practice but, as you see, the selection in this instance must be a considered
estimate between 150 and 180. If you choose the lesser.


THE END