			GREETINGS MORTALS

			 CHARON IS BACK

		   WITH THE FULL DOCUMENTATION

		     FOR SUPER STARDUST AGA



SUPER STARDUST THE STORY
------------------------

One year ago, Professor Schaumund, the most evil and twisted genius ever to
have lived, launched a violent attack on your galaxy in the hope of
imprisoning the beautiful princess Voi Levi.  His evil agents, controlling
vast meteor-spaceships bombarded the galaxy in an attempt to crush all
resistance.  But you in your small but powerful Lynx X 1 spaceship rose to
the challenge, and defeated the evil genius.

Now the Evil Professor Schaumund is back, and with new, more terrifying
army of destruction, still intent in conquering the galaxy and enslaving
the princess.  He is willing to sacrifice millions of innocent lives to
achieve his despicable goal.

Once again the galaxy turns to you, their finest fighter piot, to save them
from impending doom.  You are equipped with the all-new, super powerfyl
Panther PX2 fighter, but remember this time, Professor Schaumund wants to
get even with you for defeating him before.

You`ll need your sense working overtime, your reactions balanced on a hair
trigger and your determination set to full power to defeat the evil
Professor.

Good luck son, you`ve only got thirteen hours to save the Galaxy!!.


LOADING SUPER STARDUST
----------------------

To load Super Stardust, simply place disk one in your internal floppy drive
and turn on the machine, or perform a reset by pressing the [Ctrl] key abd
bit [Amiga] keys simultaneously.

Swap disk when prompted to do so on screen.
Super Stardust will recognise external Disk drives.

PLAYING SUPER STARDUST
----------------------

When you boot Super Stardust you will be presented with an options screen.
Here are the functions you will find on that screen.

---> LOAD	Load hi-scores
		Loads the currently saved hi-score table from disk.

<--- SAVE	Save hi-scores
		Saves the current hi-scores table to disk.

		Clear Password
		Clears the password entry option so that you can re-start
		the game at the beginning.

		Enter Password
		This enables you to enter a code to allow you to start the
		Game at a later level, assuming you have previously reached
		this level.

		Music
		On or off

		Autofire
		On or off

		Lives
		3, 4 or 5. Select the number of lives you have to complete
		the game.  Start with 5, and as you improve reduce the 
		number you use.

		Tunnel Control
		Normal or reverse.  This switches between arcade style
		joystick [up moves ship up] control and flightsim style
		joystick [up moves ship down] style control.


KEYBOARD CONTROL
----------------
MAIN GAME

	TYPE A
	
	Cursor up		Thrust
	Cursor left		Rotate left
	Cursor right		Rotate right

	Left/right alt		Shield
	Left/right shift	Fire weapon
				Brake in the special missions.
	Space			Weapon selector
	Esc			Quit game
	P			Pause

	TYPE B

	< >			Thrust
	Left shift		Rotate left
	Left Amiga		Rotate right
	Right/left alt		Shield
	Right shift		Fire weapon
				Brake in the special missions.
	Space			Weapon selector
	Esc			Quit game
	P			Pause

	TUNNEL SECTIONS

	Cursor up		Move up
	Cursor down		Move down
	Cursor left		Move Left
	Cursor right		Move right
	Left/right shift	Fire
	Esc			Quit game
	P			Pause

	Detail
	High or Low.
	This adjusts the level of graphical detail.

SPACE SECTIONS
--------------

In these sections you musy destroy all the rocks to complete the level.
Many of these sections also contain alien space ships.  Often these must be
destroyed too,  but sometimes it is sufficient to merely avoid them.
Warp tunnel sections.

Pick ups
Shooting some rocks in both the tunnel and space sections will produce a
small golden icon.  Collect these icon for the following power ups:

	HEART	extra life		X  extra energy
	 B	mega bomb		G  gun power up
	 @	flame burst		E  engine power
	 S 	shield energy		P  points

THE MAIN SCREEN 
---------------

Your main screen display contains data vital to the success of your
mission.

Score [top left]
How many points you have managed to achieve.

Ships [below score]
How many live you have remaining.

Time [top right]
How long you have left to complet the level.  If you exceed this time
Professor Schaumund`s force will have time to call for reinforcements.

Energy
Once all your energy has been depleted, your ship will be easy prey for the
Professor`s forces.

Shield
The shield can be used to prevent damage from collisions and repel enemy
shots.  But use it sparingly, you have finite shield power.

MAP SCREEN
----------

Once you start the game, and between levels you will be confronted with the
mapscreen.  Move around this screen with the joystick or cursor keys to
select which quadrant you wish to defend next.  Information about the
difficulty, and incidence of enemy craft will be displayed when you
highlight any given quadrant.  To choose a quadrant, press the fire
button/key.

WEAPONS PICK UPS
----------------

At certain points during the game destroying an alien ship will result in a
token being dropped.  Collect these and you will be awarded a new weapon.

Press the space bar to be presented with the weapon selector screen:

 3 way	Bouncer	Plasma Flamer Burster Exit
			Missiles

When you have been awarded a weapon it will appear in one of the circular
windows.  To select a weapon, move along the windows using the joystick or
cursor keys.

It is possible to re-route the power ups you collect to a new weapon, while
you still use the old [already powered up] one.  To do this, select the new
weapon and while you have the file button [or key] depressed, also press
the joystick down adn to the right, or use the down-right keyboard
combination.

Once you wish to use a weapon.  Reselect it and press the fire and
down-left combination/joystick postion.
The space bar or exit window will return you to the game.

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS
--------------------

Super Stardust requires an Amiga computer with at least 2 megabytes of RAM
and an AGA chipset.  This means that the game will only run on an A1200,
A4000 computer or the cd ³² console.

HARD DISK INSTALLATION
----------------------

Super Stardust may be installed to the hard drive of AGA machines.  To do
this, boot from disk 2.  You will now be prompted to insert a blank
formatted disk.  The program will now create a HD install disk. Once this
has occured:

Reboot your machine to the Workbench.  Insert the HD install disk, double
click on its icon and drag the HD install icon into the drawer that you
wish to install Super Stardust into.  Now double click the install icon and
follow the on-screen prompts.  Once it has finished, re-boot your machine.

You will be required to play any of the Super Stardust disks in DF0: while
you are running the game from hard disk.

Super Stardust is a production of Bloodhouse Software Limited in
association with Team 17.