Surf Ninjas
Typed by Belgarath

Loading:- Amiga 1200  

Insert disk 1 into the machine and switch on,
following on screen prompts to change disks.


Controls:- Joystick

Walk:                  Left & Right
Jump:                  Up
Duck:                  Down
Enter building:        Fire and Up
Stomach Jab:           Down + Fire Button
Jab:                   Left/Right + Fire Button
Hook:                  Automatic When Ninja is in the correct position
Ninja Stomp:           Left/Right + Fire, The Ninja needs to be on the
                       ground in front of you.
Head Butt:             Fire + Up together
Knee in Face:          Fire on its own to attempt to grab a Ninja
Rip out Ninjas Heart:  Fire + Down together, when Ninja is dead in front
                       of you.

Combination's can be strung together with the above moves, ie Knee in the
face then Headbutt: Smash Ninjas head special.

Other Special moves can be discovered through out the game.


Baseball Bat

When you have picked up the baseball bat you can do the following extra
moves:

       Swing the Bat          : Fire
       Hit Ninja over the head: Up and Fire

The baseball bat will be taken away from you 30 seconds after you leave
the location.


The Story

Johnny McQuinn and his brother were brought from a small
oriental island called Patu-San to the ultra modern life of Los Angeles,
California. The brothers grew up with their uncle into typical American
surf loving dudes but Johnny was unaware of what was ahead of him.

As he reached his sixteenth birthday, his uncle told him the story of his
early years on Patu-San and how he was the heir to the throne and destined to
return to his birth place and rid the island of the evil Colonel Chi and his
Ninja followers.

This action adventure game is based on the hilarious New Line Cinema film
of the same name.

Johnny has to leave the beaches of California and fight his way back to his
island, travelling through Little Patu-San, The village of Mee-Grob, The
Caves of Kwantzu and finally the Fortress of Sri-Wan to defeat Colonel
Chi and claim the throne that is rightly his.


The Game

To solve the game you must collect clues and objects scattered
around the levels. However the Ninja warriors will get in your way and
need to be constantly eliminated, using your new found Ninja skills. You
have a wide range of different moves that you can perform in your quest to
reach that final goal, make your choice wisely otherwise it could
seriously damage your health !


Screen Layout

At the bottom of the screen is a Strength Meter. This indicates Johnny's
strength which gets depleted when he is hit by the Ninja Warriors. To
replenish Johnny's strength he must pick up food scattered through out the
game. The total loss of strength is the loss of one life, lose three lives
and Johnny is dead.

The item collected is displayed to the Right of the Strength Meter. You can
only hold one item at a time, so it is important that you pick up the
collectable you wish to use immediately.

Typed by Belgarath