                FIENDISH FREDDYS BIG TOP 'O FUN TIPS

Typed in by SIDEWINDER for LSD


HIGH DIVING
If you don't want to be flat and miss the water with a splat just keep
auto-fire on all the way down.  Just push in the direction you want and
Fiendish Freddy won't bother you with his fan at all.  Use the overhead
picture in the bottom left-hand corner and just keep the cross in the
middle.  Then you just do the same for all four boards you jump from and
Freddy won't make a blind bit of difference to your score, (if you want a
good score, land in the water and keep moving from left to right as fast as
possible).

JUGGLING
If on the first level you don't drop anything then Fiendish Freddy won't
lob your death warrant to you in the shape of a bomb or nuclear missile.
If you do drop something and a bomb comes on just push up and fire and
Fiendish Freddy will be shaken.  On the next round a baby will join in the
fun as it needs to be juggled alongside the balls, all you need to do is
get in the pram.  Drop five items and you will have a very sore neck.

TRAPEZE
Looks easy but it can be very hard if you make a bodge of it early on in
the swing.  If you want to keep going swing left to right all the time.  Be
quick otherwise Fiendish Freddy will snip you to your doom.
Leave the swing an extra turn if you're not sure but don't chicken out too
many times as time is against you.  Leave the swing for about four seconds
before you let go at the beginning.  Hoops are no problem: just wait until
you see the rope on the other side and then pretend they weren't there.
Make sure you are swinging upwards when you press fire to let go otherwise
you die.

TIGHTROPE WALKING
Make sure you're moving fast otherwise a cannon will make mince-meat out of
you.  On the second level start moving out as soon as the screen appears.
If you don't, Freddy will punch you out of the tent, he's that quick!  You
just need to press fire once in the second level to block the razor blade
he throws at you.  In the last level you just need to move across as normal
and press fire when Freddy uses the razor blades again.  Timing is all
important on the third level.  Look at the top left-hand corner and use
that view to guide you.

KNIFE THROWING
As soon as you see the screen just move to the outside of the circle and
fire when the balloons reach the point marked on the illustration.

                               |
                               .
                             .   .        <-- This is a circle.
                           .       .          @=where you press fire.
                        -. @   .     .-
                           .       .      The balloon will then burst if
                             .   .        you have press fire at the
                               .          correct point.
                               |

The rest is easy, just do that and you will complete the level easily and
rack up all the important money to save the Big Top!

End.