  FISH
 Part 1

 Good morning, double-0-salmon. Inside your fish bowl, turn over and
enter the castle. From here, you begin your assignment by recovering the
focus-wheel taken by the Seven Deadly Fins. You may enter any of the
three warps, each of which leads to an independent sub-adventure. Each
of these must be completed in order to proceed to the second half of the
game.
 Enter the jagged warp. Inside the back of the van, take the jeans and
put them on. Take the blanket with you and go south to the front seat.
Search the rubbish and find the torch (flashlight). Turn on the torch
and leave the van by going east. Continue east as far as you can so that
you are inside the abbey. Then go south. Put your blanket on the broken
pew, take the pew and then turn off the torch. Go north twice to reach
the ruined transept. Drop the pew, turn on the torch, and then take the
passage down. Go south through the doorway, into the catacombs. Search
the debris to find the sarcophagus lid. Move the lid (don't try to take
it with you) and go down into the altar room. Examine the altar and note
the gargoyles, the hole, and the ceremonial cord. Take the cord and go
up, north, and up.
 Stand on the broken pew and then climb up. Tie the cord around the
gargoyle and then climb down. While standing on the ground pull the
cord. The stone gargoyle will fall, bringing most of the arch along with
it. You need to move quickly now. Take the gargoyle and go down and then
south. Drop the gargoyle and put the lid in the doorway. Pick up the
gargoyle and go down into the altar room. Untie the cord from the
gargoyle and put the gargoyle into the hole in the altar. The altar will
sink into the ground and a column will come down from the ceiling.
Examine the column and take the chalice.
 What happens now is unpreventable. The hippies have found a way around
your lid-in-the-doorway trick. Look into the chalice and note the
grommet. You will be attacked by the hippies and warped against your
will back into the fish bowl. The warps are still there, and you should
re-enter the jagged warp which will land you back in the rear of the
van. Get dressed, take the torch and go south and then east until you
are back at the abbey. Go north, down and south and then down so you are
back in the altar room where the hippies and the chalice are still
waiting for you. Look into the chalice (don't try to take its contents
until you've looked!) and get the grommet. You will be warped back to
the fish bowl, along with your prize. The grommet will be stored in the
glass case where you will not have access to it until the second half of
the game.

  FISH
 Part 2

 Enter the smooth warp. You are now in a forest with the deranged agent
Micky Blowtorch. Immediately go southeast, southeast, and then east. You
are inside a smithy where some work has already been started. Open the
bird cage, but don't worry yet about its contents or its occupant. Open
the cupboard and wear the asbestos gloves (this will save you some
precious time shortly). Leave the smithy by going west.
 Outside you'll see that the parrot has left the cage. Forget about him
-- he's just a piece of exploding scenery. Go back to your starting
point by heading northwest twice. Now you must wait several turns. Micky
will get up from his seat in the tree-stump and leave the area. You must
be careful not to let him see anything you are doing or what you are
going to take. Inside his tree stump is a gold disc. Take the disc and
go east, east, south, south, and east back into the smithy (any other
route will cross Micky's path). Take the hammer, the mould (from the
now-vacant bird cage), and the tongs. Hold the crucible with the tongs
and then put the gold disc into the crucible. Hold the crucible with the
tongs in the fire. The disc will melt and you should put the gold into
the mould and then hold the mould with the tongs.
 Leave the smithy by going west. Carrying the tongs, go west twice to
the charred glade. Go north and then northeast to the dim forest.
Finally, go east to the cool glade. Wait in the cool glade three turns
and you will get the message that the mould has become cool. Hit the
mould with the hammer and get the gold ring you have casted. You will be
warped back to the fish bowl and the ring will be stored in the glass
case.

  FISH
 Part 3

 Enter the small warp. You will enter the body of an employee at the
recording studio in which the Seven-Deadly-you-know-whats produce their
music. Immediately after you arrive, the boss of the studio demands that
you make him some coffee. You, of course, have no idea where to begin.
However, there is a co-worker named Rod sitting next to you and he's not
doing anything. Tell him "Rod, make coffee." Before leaving this area,
examine the waste bin and take the ferric-oxide cassette tape. Now go
west, passing the recording studio (don't open the door!) and west again
to the end of the hallway. Turn on the switch next to the wooden door.
Open the door and go south into the storage room. Examine the tape bin
and take the chrome cassette and the metal cassette. Go north, open the
door to the secondary control room, and go north again.
 Once inside, close the door and press the button which is next to the
door. Open the cupboard and take the head-cleaning cassette. Note the
fader control on the amplifier and set it to 5 (or any number which is
not too soft nor too loud). Put the head cleaning tape in the cassette
player and play it. Now remove the head cleaner and insert any one of
the three tapes you are carrying. It is necessary for you to play all
three tapes. When you reach the third tape, you will hear the producer
shouting instructions at the musicians. Take note of the three numbers
he mentions. These numbers will change each time the game is played.
 Now you can open the control room door and go south. Go east twice,
back to the lobby. Open the glass door and go north. Ignore the desk,
but set the lock on the file cabinet to the three numbers you heard on
the last tape. Open the cabinet and get the spindle. Immediately you
will be warped back to the fish bowl and the spindle will be deposited
into the glass case.

  FISH
 Part 4

 Having recovered the three parts of the focus wheel, you are now ready
to enter the body of Dr. Roach, a very highly-regarded fish. Enter the
large warp. Here, in Dr. Roach's apartment, examine the shelf and take
the "fishofax" which contains your FISA card (don't leave home without
it!), and an ID (tatty) card. Look under the fishton and get your travel
pass. By now you've been reminded that you have an appointment with the
principal at the university. You must attend this appointment before you
do anything else as Dr. Roach.
 You open the apartment door by touching the handprint on the wall with
your hand. Before you leave, it is important that you turn off the light
switch. Outside your door is another apartment, that of your associate
Ernest Chub. At this point, you could close your door by touching the
handprint -- but don't do it! You need to have the apartment
burglarized. When you leave the building you'll notice that your score
has increased. By your apartment being robbed, you will accomplish
something which you would not be able to do had you closed the door.
 Go down the access tube and leave the building by going south. Outside
you have many directions to choose from, but only east will serve your
needs. Go east to the underground station and then down to the tracks
(if you are unable to do this, it is because you did not bring with
Roach's travel pass). Wait for a train (there's one every three
"waits"), and then get in. Do not leave the train until you reach Opah
University. From the train, go up and then east. Continue east to the
university foyer where the principal's office is to the south. Go south
and meet her. When you've heard what she has to say, you will be
returned to the foyer. Go east twice and insert your tatty card in the
slot and you will be allowed to enter your laboratory.
 Inside, have a seat at your computer terminal. There is much
information here regarding what you need to accomplish. Login using
Roach's name and ID word "ME." Read everything to which you have access.
When you enter the "games" section, you will note the underwater
versions of other Magnetic Scrolls games. However, do _not_ play "Fish!"
or the program will fulfill your request by sending you back to the
beginning of the game. Very important: The computer will tell you that
one of the games, "Shutdown," can only be played by only one member of
your team. The identity of this person will change each time you play
the game. This is the fish who has been taken over by a spy from the
Seven Deadly Fins (just as you have taken over Dr. Roach). At a later
point in the game, you will need to identify the spy, so take note of
his identity now.
 When finished with the computer, logoff and get up. Go northeast to the
"project room" and study the device, but don't try to manipulate it. Go
southwest and then southeast to the storage room. Study the wall chart
and the protocopier. The items on the chart have a letter which
corresponds to the equation give you by the computer in the section
marked "equipment." These are the items you need to find to build the
stream regulator, also as per the information in the computer. Note that
one object listed on the chart is not part of the equation, and does not
need to be found.
 Go northwest and then use your tatty card to go west. Go west again and
the library will be to your south. Go south and examine the one book to
which the game calls your attention. The book describes many objects in
the game which you have already seen. Unfortunately, sections describing
objects which you now need to find have been torn out. The only useful
page is the one describing the focus wheel. Tear out that page from the
book and you will be forced to leave the library.
 Go east, back to your office. Open the door with the tatty card, go
east, and then go southeast to the storeroom. Put the torn page into the
protocopier and wait. The focus wheel which you fought for and won in
the games's first part is finally in your hands. Make sure you now turn
off the protocopier (it was left on when you found it), and leave the
focus wheel in the laboratory after you go northwest.

  FISH
 Part 5

 Again, use the tatty card to leave the lab. Go west, past the library
where you are unwelcome, to the foyer. There is another metal door here
to the north with a slot for an ID card. Try yours, but it won't work.
You will be informed that only Dr. Salmon, who's office this was, has
the proper ID card. Dr. Salmon has been dismissed from the project for
several reasons, soon to become obvious. Continue west until you are
outside the gates of the campus.
 To the north is a disco -- don't enter it yet. The bright lights and
loud noises will break your host/parasite bond. There is a restaurant to
the south. You don't have a reservation, but stop in anyway. They are
willing to sell you plankton in a sachet and you should but it with the
FISA card. Then go north to the university and west to the underground.
Go down and enter the first passing train. Stay on the train until you
are at Eelpout. Leave the train, go up, northwest, and east into a
hardware store.
 In the hardware store, buy the bag, the hyperdriver, and the
screwdriver; all with the FISA card. Go west and then north to the 2nd
Hand Shop. Inside you'll find a radio case, but it's already been
purchased by your neighbor Ernest Chub. But also there is your fishton!
You let your apartment door remain open and you were robbed! Buy back
the fishton (with the FISA card) and it will be delivered to your
apartment. And this way, Chub's radio case, which is on the list of
things you need, will be left outside Chub's door by Rod the delivery
boy. Wasn't that smart of you to leave your door open?
 Go south, west, and west to enter the pub. The poor drunk sitting there
is Dr. Salmon, the fish who's office you'd like to enter as well as the
fish who was dismissed from the project. Buy Salmon a drink (not really
a drink -- fish inhale alcohol from gas masks called "snifters" -- buy a
snifter with your FISA card and then give it to Salmon). Salmon is
grateful, but has nothing to repay you with. So ask him, "Salmon, where
is the identity card?" He is thrilled to give you the new identity card.
 Leave the pub by going north. Enter the underground to the northwest
and go down to the train. Get off the train at the Battersea power
station and go up. By going north you'll take a 1/2 hour tour.
Afterwards, you'll see a switch which controls power to the entire
underground system. You've just learned, by taking the tour, that
Battersea supplies power to the underground, as well as secondary power
to Hydropolis. If you have remembered to turn off the protocopier (which
uses up a whopping 38 unspecified fish-power units) and if you have
turned off the lights in Roach's apartment (which only uses 1), then
switching off the underground will allow Battersea to switch off. Only
when the important gauge shows "0" will the door to the turbines open.
But you must move quickly now because the underground won't remain
inoperative for long. Go west, past the turbines, to the intake grilles.
Examine the grills and the filter. Remove the screw with the screwdriver
and you will have the filter. Go back east, fast. Once you are passed
the turbines, you can drop the screw and the screwdriver. Go south to
the underground and then down.
 Take the train to the museum. Go up and then north. There is only one
direction with anything of interest to you. Continue north until you are
in the alarm room. To your north is the untuned crystal you read about
in Dr. Roach's computer notes. If you try to go that way, you will set
off alarms which will cause you to be arrested by the guards. Apparently
there are alarm beams through which you are stepping. You might be able
to sneak through if you could see the beams. Open your sachet of
plankton and then drop the sachet. The beams reflect off the plankton so
you can now sneak north and get the crystal. Return to the underground
by going south and then down.
 Your next stop should be the university again. Get off the train, go up
and then east. Continue east until you are at the foyer. Put the new
card in the slot and then go north. Inside is Dr. Salmon's "crystal
tuna." Put the crystal from the museum inside the crystal tuna, close it
and turn it on. Open the crystal tuna and take out the (now tuned)
crystal. There are other things of interest in this lab, but we're not
quite ready for them. Again put the new card in the slot and go south.
Go east until you're in the corridor outside Roach's lab. Put the tatty
card in the slot and go east. Here you should deposit the filter, the
tuned crystal, and the hyperdriver.

  FISH
 Part 6
 Put the tatty card in the slot and go west. Continue west 4 times,
which takes you to the underground. Go down and enter the train. Get off
the train at Eelpout, go up, and northwest. From here go south to the
music shop. Buy the ear plugs with your FISA card, wear the ear plugs,
and then leave by going north.
 Go west twice to enter the pub. You need to buy a few drinks from the
bartender. Don't sniff any yourself -- Dr. Roach doesn't handle alcohol
too well. Give them to anyone else in the bar. After you've purchased 2
or 3 snifters, Steve will offer to sell you the giant cylinder for
"only" 99 clams. Buy it with your FISA card. You won't be able to get
your hands it because one of the Deadly Fins will appear and grab it
away from you. Immediately you'll get a message from headquarters -- the
cylinder has been hidden somewhere between dimensions. A warp has just
opened up in Roach's apartment and it is to there you need to return.
 Leave the pub by going east twice, then southeast and down to the
underground. Get on the train and get off at Paddlington. Once there go
up, west, north to the lobby, and then up to your apartment.
 Here you will find the radio case, which was purchased by your neighbor
Ernest Chub. It was brought here by Rod from the "2nd Hand Store" when
your fishton was returned to you. If the radio case is not here, then
you either did not "accidentally" leave your apartment door open or you
did not purchase your stolen fishton back from the 2nd Hand Store. Take
the case and enter your apartment to the north. Drop the radio case. You
will be alerted that the apartment has been robbed, but you already know
that. The fishton was the only object taken, and you've just had it
redelivered.
 Save the game here!
 The dark warp which you are about to enter is unmappable! You will very
likely have to restart this maze several times before you get the
desired result. Please don't say you weren't warned.
 There are two ways of navigating the dark warp. The first solution
given here is the o-fish-al one given by Rainbird Customer Support.
 1. After entering the dark warp, count the number of exits available.
If the number is odd, proceed to step 3.
 2. Swim "up." If "up" is not available, then swim in any other
direction. Then swim up.
 3. Swim through all "corners" in order, i.e., NE, SE, SW, NW. If a
corner is not available, swim through an "edge" (N, E, S ,W), which will
open up corners.
 4. Swim through all edges (N, E, S, W).
 5. Take the cylinder and swim up.
 Other solution to the maze (you've saved your game, right?): The maze
is extremely random. Simply go through different exits until you find
the cylinder. It is possible that you will come across it in only one or
two moves. In any case, if you haven't found it within about 7 moves,
restore the game back to the maze entrance. Start again. Honest, it
works.
 Take the case and the cylinder with you. Leave the apartment to the
south and go down to the lobby. Go south, east, and down to the train.
Enter the train and get off at Pickerel. Go up and north to the clothing
store. Purchase the tie and glasses with the FISA card but wear only the
glasses. Leave the store to the south.
 It is now necessary for you to have seen on the university computer who
is the Fin spy. It changes each time the game is played. It will be
Ernest Chub, Bertie Bream, or Simon Tench. Enter the pub to the south.
Is the spy here? If he is, tell him "(name), go to the disco." He'll
give you a time to meet him there. If the spy is not here, don't panic.
Go north, northwest, and down to the underground. Get on the train and
get off at the university. Go up and east. If you still haven't found
your spy, then wait around here for a while. He will show up and you can
tell him to go to the disco.
 You have some time now, so enter the university to the east. In the
foyer, put the new card in the slot and go north. Drop everything here
except the new card, the cylinder, and the bag. (The bag was purchased
at the hardware store along with the hyperdriver and screwdriver). Go
up. This is a water storage tower which is running low on water, thanks
to the Fins. At the top of the tower is a trap door. It is far too high
for you to reach (remember you are a fish, not a bird). Put the cylinder
in the bag. Open the cylinder. You will float up to and through the trap
door. Here is the photon bridge -- don't touch it yet! First drop the
bag, then take the photon bridge. Climb (down) the railing. It is an
amazing stunt you've performed, so accept your applause and re-enter the
University to the east. At the foyer, put the new card in the slot (you
did remember to take it, didn't you?), and go north. Take all of your
things which you left here, put the new card in the slot, and then go
west.
 Whoever you have directed to go to the disco will show up at the time
they indicated when you spoke to them. You only have one chance to flush
out the spy, so be careful. When your suspect shows up here, go north.
Your guest will refuse because he doesn't have a tie. Give him the tie
you purchased at the clothing store. Make sure you are wearing the
glasses from the clothing store and the ear plugs from the music store.
Go north. If you have correctly identified the infiltrator, the bright
lights and loud music will force him to evacuate his host body. You, of
course, would be forced out of Roach's body if you were not protected.
If your guest enters the disco and does nothing but boogie, then you've
blown it. There are no more ties and no more guests will accept your
invitation.

  FISH
 Part 7

 Outside the disco, return to your lab by going east. Put the tatty card
in the slot and enter. You now have all material necessary to build the
stream regulator. First, fit the filter to the focus wheel. Next, fit
the photon bridge to the tuned crystal. Fit the resulting "focus filter"
to the "crystal bridge." Finally, put the newly constructed "crystal
filter" in the radio case. You now have the regulator. Go northeast to
the device.
 If you examine the device, you will see a stream accelerator. It must
be removed and replaced with the regulator. The accelerator is bound to
the device with a loc-screw. Remove the screw with the hyperdriver.
Stop! You've just been warned by the recovered Fin-victim that the
device has been double booby-trapped. If you continue, the device will
explode. You must now go southwest to the university computer. Login
following the instructions of the victim. Use his name and his password
which he has revealed to you. Go to the games section and play Shutdown.
 The word which you are given to change to water is randomly generated
each time Shutdown is played. Of course you don't know the rules to
Shutdown, so here they are.
 1. Write down the alphabet, A to Z. Under A put the number 0, under B
put the number 1, until you have reached Z and numbered it 25.
 2. Translate the 5-letter beginning word the computer has given you to
5 numbers. The word "water," which is your goal, translates to 22 0 19 4
17.
 3. A "cell" refers to one of those five numbers. Cells are numbered
from 1 to 5. The "value" of the cell refers to a number which will be
added to the number already in the cell. The values range from 0 to 25.
You wish to add the appropriate number to each cell so that the result
is "22 0 19 4 17." Remember that when adding, 25 is the limit. Instead
of counting 26, you go back to 0, which is the letter A.
 4. Here's the trick: when you add anything to cell 5, the numbers in
cells 4 and 1 are increased by 4. When adding to cell 4, the numbers in
3 and 5 are increased by 3. To put it another way:
 When you add to cell:      Cells:           Are increased by:
         5                   1,4                    4
         4                   5,3                    3
         3                   4,2                    2
         2                   3,1                    1
         1                   2,5                    0
 5. Start with cell 5. What number, when added to that number, will
equal 17? Write down the answer, but don't enter it yet. It's going to
change. Add 4 to the numbers in cells 1 and 4. Go to cell 4. What value
will change the number in it to 4? Again, write it down. Go back to cell
5. Subtract 4 from your "temporary" value. This number will not change;
it will be your value for cell 5 and it should be entered first. Move to
cell 3 and add 3 to that number. Then, what value will change that
number to 22? Write down a temporary answer. Then subtract 3 from the
temporary value in cell 4. That number becomes the value for cell 4 and
should be entered next.
 6. Add 2 to the number in cell 2. What value, when added to the new
number in cell 2, will make it 0? Jot that one down and subtract 1 from
the temporary value in cell 3. Enter it as the value for cell 3. You can
now enter the value for cell 2; it won't change. Go to the number in
cell 1 and add 1 to it (remember cell 1 was already increased by 4 in
the first step). What value will make cell 1 equal 22? Enter it as the
value for cell 1.
 7. You should receive a congratulatory message from the computer, and a
notice that the destruction of Hydropolis has been set back to its
original time.
 If you don't get the desired answer, try again. If you're still having
problems, well...this isn't a math class.
 Stand up and go northeast to the device. Remove the screw with the
hyperdriver. Take the accelerator and put the regulator in the device.
Screw the regulator to the device with the hyperdriver.
 If Hydropolis is still here, you deserve a vacation. Turn over and
enjoy the water!
 FISH is published by Rainbird Software and distributed by
Activision/Mediagenic.
 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1989 by Allen L. Greenberg. All rights
reserved.