Typed out by _/aybee!
Taken out of cu Amiga!

                     Flight Of The Intruder - Hints    
                     ------------------------------

FLYING THE PHANTOM 
------------------
It's all too easy to confuse friendly plane with enermy fighters. If you're
playing with rules of engagement, you have to make visual contact with
aircraf befor you attack. Phantoms can usally be identified by there engine
emissions, and Intruders tend to follow a straight flight path and keep
very low.

    AIM-7 missiles are quite accrurate over long ranges, if fired in pairs.
AIM-9s are a real plane. These work by looking onto the heat signature of a
plane, which means you have to get behind your target for you to lock on.
The best weapon is still the cannon. Cut your speed to 75 per cent then
find a target. Match their trajectory then hit the after-burners. Keep
pulling yourself round to face the target and adjust your aim according to
the angle of your attack. By the time your target is in range you should be
heading towards it head on.

    The Phantom's biggest advantages are its speed and agility. In s tight
spot go to full speed, dive for a few seconds then pull up for a few
seconds then pull up sharply so you're your clibming at 80 degrees from
horizontal. Gain some hight and cut your speed down to 60 per cent. Break
right, roll, dive slightly then activate you after-burner. At this point
any puruing MIGs should past you. The key to performing this manoeuvre is
breaking as tightly as possible. Rolling on the dive gives you room to
avoid any other incoming flighters.
 
    Fly several thousands feet above the Intruders if you're on an escort
mission as this gives you the height to deal with incoming bogies and dive
on to AAA and SAM sites. Your plane is an easy target for missiles
battaries atthe height which means they're more inclined to lock onto your
plane rather then the low-flying Intruders.

THE INTRUDER
------------
    No matter how good its avionics, the Intuder is still as slow, sluggish
plane. Going back to a target for a second strike is difficult and
dangerous, so your first shot must count. You're not allowed to bring back
used bombs to the carrier, as they tend to explode if you make a hash of
your landing. Rather then load up with lots of small weaponds that you
couldn't possibly use, take a few large bombs that are guranteed to take
apart the hardest of targets. Because you only get one attempt at taking
you have to make sure you hit it. DIANE is most accurate method. If you
come to low you'll need to `prop-up` in the last 15-20 miles of flight to
reach a height of 10,000 feet. From the position you can dive bomb the
target using DIANE to plot trajectory.
    
    Direct bombing requires plenty of practice. The important factor here
is calculating the dive angle. You then have to calculate the Mil settings
which is time consuming. Personally i use the dive-bomb method. Clilb to
10,000 feet and dive on the target with two miles to go. Centre the
crosshairs over the target, pull up and press the firebutton. Don't fly two
high if your carrying large bombs, as your plane can get caught in the
blast, you have to keep your plane level otherwise the bomb will miss its
target.

    The most accurate bomb is the Paveway. This need a high angle of attack                           
to deliver. After releasingit, your plane tends to follow weapond's
trajectory, soon as the bomb is dropped you have to pull up sharply to
avoid being caught in the blast, your wing mas takes care of the laser
targeting of the Paveway. If he's been shot down the bomb has to be used as
a normal unguided weapon.

    Sometimes extreme accuracy is called for, and dropping a 2,000 pounds
bomb in the middle of a VC compound tends to flattern everthing, which
isn't good if your intended target is surrounded by hospitals. The best for
accuracy is the AGM-62 Walleye. Fly towards the target at 4,000 feet, so
you can make a positive ID of your target. As the Walleye has a very small
warhead you'll need to approach slowly so you can launch a second missile
to make sure the target is destroyed.

HAPPY LANDINGS
--------------
Landing is the memesis of many of unwary pilot. The most important thing is
the glide slope. The glide slope is an imaginary line which extends
outwards from the carrier deck at a 3 deg angle. To land you need to
intercept the slope. Start your final approach at 10-12,000 feet. Fly
towards the carrier and use the ACL to get your initial line. When you
close in on the carrier locate the meatball system, which is on the ship's
left hand side. If the yellow light is above the green ones you're coming in
to high, if it's level you following the glide slope and if it's bellow you'd
better pull up, fast. Use the AOA to gauge you pitch and speed.

EJECT!
------
If your planes been badly hit you havent got much time. Don't hit the eject
button until your sure you're pointing up, or as close as possible. As plane
tend to go into a spin when there trail's been blown off.

End.