                       FRONTIER: ELITE 2 CHEAT
                       -----------------------

Here`s a handy cheat to help you get hold of the biggest and most powerful
ship:

1.  Start on Mars and sell your IMW Beam Laser.
2.  Buy an Extra Passenger Cabin.
3.  Go to the Bulletin Board.
4.  Take on a Passenger.
5.  Return to the Shipyard and go to New and Reconditioned Ships.
6.  Buy an Interplanetary Shuttle (press <1> instead of clicking).
7.  Repeat Steps 1-6 as many times as you like.
8.  Taxi your passenger to wherever they want to go.
9.  Buy the biggest ship and all your upgrades.
10. Now create havoc and have lots of money for it!

 TIPS:

 I'm not too sure if any of the following are official cheats or just
 plain bugs. If they are bugs then please note that some of these may
 only work on early versions of the game. This is due to the fact that
 later copies are allegedly bug free.

 Dock at any spaceport with a passenger on board, enter the shipyard
 and attempt to purchase a ship (press [1] instead of clicking) which
 is worth less than  your own. You'll be informed that this isn't
 possible because you have a passenger on board, but the cash you would
 have got for your spaceship is still added to your bank balance.
 Repeat as many times as you like until you've got loads of cash.

 Another trick enables you to fly anywhere in the galaxy without
 exhausting your fuel supply. First go to the map and move the cursor
 down to between 620.00 - 660.00 light years until you come across a
 system which stays in range and hyperspace. It also works going up.
 Which is between 720.00 - 770.00 light years. It also works from side
 to side at approximately the same range.

 When the military ask you to destroy a target, fly to the planet and
 spot the target from space. Then lock on to the target and fly towards
 the  edge of the planet above it with the time control set to three
 arrows. As soon as the distance to the target is below 4,000Kms, fire
 a missile and the target will be destroyed. This is an easy way to
 gain money and rank.

 When you carry a risky passenger or parcel and you're told you're
 going to regret dealing with someone, lock onto the ship that sent the
 message and switch to autopilot. The attacking ship will not fire or
 fly in your direction, enabling you to destroy it safely. 

 A few useful black market ads:

 Sol                 Li Qing Joa        Robins Holdings        
 Barnard's Star      Boston Base        Haynes & Son Inc
 Cemiess             Mackenzie Relay    Patricks Exchange
 Capitol             Fort Donalds       Honest John Thatchers
 Van Moanen's Star   O'Connor City      Perry's Holdings
 Y2 Cawis Minoris    Fort Wagner        Honda's Trading
 Delta Pavonis       Duval              Steven's Goods
 Farece              Fortress York      Goldstein Merchandise