Magic Johnson's Basketball

Catch The Magic!
Now you can slam dunk like the pro's! Magic Johnson's Basketball is slammin' jammin' basketball action. It's simple enough for beginners, and challenging enough for pro's. Play against the computer or an opponent. Head for the hoop, and slam dunk the ball. You can shoot 3-pointers and other special plays. The better you get, the better your salary gets. 

Getting In The Action
Magic Johnson's Basketball is fast-paced basketball for up to two players. 

Press 1, 2 or 3 to begin. 

Each game consists of four quarters. At the end of a quarter, the referee will sound his whistle and play will stop. Pressing either of the fire buttons will begin the next quarter. If the score is tied at the final buzzer, additional quarters will be played until a winner is determined. 

At the start of each quarter, a jumpball is played to decide which team gains initial possession of the ball. The referee throws the ball into the air, and each team jumps and tries to knock the ball to a teammate. 

On offense, go for 2 or 3 pointers, depending on your distance when you shoot a ball. On defense, guard your basket from the other team and even try to steal the ball. Don't forget to go for the rebound. 

Once the offense has entered their opponents half of the court, they are not permitted to carry or pass the ball back across the center line. If they do, a back court violation occurs and the ball is given to their opponent for an in- bound. 

Only 5 team fouls are permitted each quarter. Each additional foul awards 2 free throws to the offended side. If the fouling team has under 5 at the time of the foul, then an inbound is awarded to the other team. Exceptions are:

a) the player is fouled while shooting and the shot is good - 1 free throw awarded.

b) the defense fouls a player during an inbound - 2 free throws awarded.

One point is awarded for each successful free throw. If the ball does not go in after the last free throw, the ball becomes live. Both teams may grab the rebound. If it does go in, the other team takes possession. 

One-Player Games
In a one-player game, the computer controls the green team, playing right to left. You are the red team, playing left to right and using joystick in port 2. 

Your can move only one player at a time, so an arrow will appear above the man you are controlling. 

Two-Player Games
In a two-player game, joystick in port 1 operates the green team, playing from right to left. Joystick in port 2 operates the red team, playing from left to right. 

Because each joystick can move only one player at a time, an arrow will appear above the man being controlled by each player. 

The Scoreboard

[left to right...] 

Team fouls in quarter (5 permitted) - player 1 
Score - player 1 
Shot clock (24 seconds permitted) - player 1 
Time left in quarter 
Shot clock (24 seconds permitted) - player 2 
Score - player 2 
Team fouls in quarter (5 permitted) - player 2 

Hot Tips!
* Want to score? Get as close to the net as possible before you shoot. 

* Want to steal the ball? Get close to the ball and press the fire button repeatedly. 

* Guarded too closely? Pass the ball to a teammate by pressing the fire button. But be careful, the other team can intercept the ball. 

* Want to swap control to your teammate? On offense, just pass him the ball. On defense, press the fire button and the arrow will move to the other player. 

Now Get Ready To Catch The Magic!

** END OF FILE **