Manchester United Europe
Typed by Belgarath


Introduction

In February 1990, Krisalis Software launched Manchester United The Official
Computer Game to great critical acclaim. The game has since sold over 100,000
copies and is still proving to be a must purchase for all football fans.

Over the past 12 months we have received over 4000 reply cards from our
customers who as well as telling us how much they enjoy playing Manchester United,
provided us with many helpful hints for the follow up. Without exception all asked for a
European edition.

We also collected all other requests which came down to 15 major points, all of
which have been implemented in Manchester United Europe.


Loading The Game

Amiga/Atari ST     Insert disk, then switch on machine

IBM PC             Type MUFC2


Controls

                   Player 1     Player 2
Amiga              Joystick 1   Joystick 2
Atari ST           Joystick 1   Joystick 2
IBM                Follow on-screen prompts


The Management Section

a) Upon loading select the appropriate language by moving the ball to the relevant
   flag and clicking the joystick fire button.

b) To restore a previously saved game, click whilst the ball is over the disk icon.
   Alternatively, select any of the three European trophies to enter this competition
   and begin a new game. If you wish to change your mind after competition
   selection, move the ball over the "cross" icon and click. To proceed, press fire over
   the "tick" icon. This will take you to the main control menu.


Main Control Menu

This screen contains the following icons:-

a) Disk
   This icon allows you to save your current game position to disk.
   To cancel, and return to the main menu, click on the "cross" icon.

   Amiga/ST
   To save your game, insert a formatted disk in any drive and click on the required
   disk drive icon, which will take you to a further screen showing seven disks.
   Clicking on any of these will save your game to that position. Previously saved
   positions show the cup title and round number, although these may be replaced by
   a new game at any time. You should be careful at this point not to accidentally
   overwrite any valued position.

b) Question Mark
   Clicking on this icon takes you to the game preference section. The screen
   contains the following options:-

   i) Clock
      Clicking on the plus and minus symbols will increase or decrease the length of
      the match in the arcade section. This is the total match length in real time.

  ii) Pitch
      Use the icon to set whether you wish to play the arcade section of the game,
      or let the computer decide your result, depending on the strengths of both
      teams.

 iii) Manager
      Change the name of the manager by clicking on this. Use keyboard to type in a
      new entry.

  iv) Players
      4 player option only with Joystick adapter (ST & Amiga only). Clicking on this
      allows you to set the number of human controlled players in the arcade section.
      The players represent, from left to right, MUFC outfield players, MUFC
      goalkeeper, opposition outfield players and opposition goalkeeper. Clicking on
      any of these toggles between human and computer control.

   v) Tick
      Click on this to leave the preferences section.

c) Blackboard
   This icon takes you to the tactical section. Upon selection, move the ball pointer
   between MUFC and the opposition team to view formation, team selection and
   skill levels. On the right of the screen are 4 slide bars. These represent the skill
   levels of Goalkeeper, Defence, Midfield and Attack for the respective team. By
   clicking on the plus and minus symbols, you may adjust the pointer to represent
   the skill rating. Clicking on the 2 arrows at the top of the screen will cycle through
   the formations available to you. Moving over any shirt will display the member of
   your squad currently picked to play in that position. Pressing the fire button at this
   point will allow you to swap the player for any other squad member by moving up
   and down the list and pressing fire again. Team and formation selection is only
   available for Manchester United.

   Click on the tick to exit this section.

d) Statistics
   Selecting the MUFC player at this point displays your player statistics.

   The icons at the top represent, from left to right, the players goal tally (goals
   conceded in the case of a goalkeeper). Stamina levels, skill levels (from a total of
   255 maximum), yellow and red cards and games played in the current tournament.
   Move the joystick up and down to select players. Names may be changed using keyboard
   to type.

e) Friendlies
   A single match may be played at any time, against any team in the game, by
   moving up or down through the list and pressing fire. To exit, move the joystick left
   or right. Confirm your selection by clicking the tick icon on the presentation screen.
   Human and computer control of the two teams is also shown here; and clicking on
   the cross will allow you to quit if the choices are not to your liking.

f) Cups
   Click on any trophy to view the current state of play in each competition. Moving up
   and down shows the full draw and moving left and right shows all rounds and
   results so far.

g) Cross
   Clicking on this gives you the option to quit the current season and start again.

h) Tick
   Clicking on this will take you to the presentation screen for your next cup match
   (providing you are still in the cup). You may exit by clicking on the cross or proceed
   to the match section by clicking on the tick.


Player Control

The player nearest the ball at any time is highlighted. This changes as the ball moves
around the pitch. By moving the joystick the highlighted player moves in the chosen
direction.

To gain possession of the ball the player can challenge by interposing an opponents as
he runs with the ball. You may challenge an opponent by use of a sliding tackle, this
is performed by pressing the fire button as you run to tackle for the ball. A successful
sliding tackle will result in you gaining control of the ball, an unsuccessful sliding tackle
may result in a foul and a caution from the Referee.


Kick Logic

Quick Shot:          A quick press of the fire button will produce a power shot in
                     the direction you are travelling (with no after touch control).

Controlled Shooting: You will notice that pressing and holding the fire button as you
                     run with the ball takes away your ability to change the
                     direction in which the player is travelling but not your ability to
                     kick the ball in any direction you wish including back kicks. To
                     produce a controlled shot hold down the fire button to select
                     the strength of the shot. While holding down the fire button move
                     the joystick in the direction you want the ball to go, then move
                     the joystick to the neutral (centre) position and release fire.

Aftertouch:          Aftertouch emulates a curl shot that a skillful player in real life
                     would produce when kicking the ball.

                     After releasing the fire button you have a short time to select
                     aftertouch mode. This is selected by immediately moving the
                     joystick in the direction listed below:

                      Up           - Keeps the shot on the ground
                      Up right     - Ground shot with curl to your left
                      Up left      - Ground shot with curl to your right
                      Right        - Power shot with left curl
                      Left         - Power shot with right curl
                      Centre       - Power shot
                      Down right   - Chip with left curl
                      Down left    - Chip with right curl
                      Down         - High chip

One Touch Play:       If the ball is free and off the ground you can play one touch
                      football. By running in the direction of the ball and then holding
                      down the fire button you will produce one of three actions:-

                       1. If the ball is at waist height you will attempt a volley shot.
                       2. If the ball is at head height you will attempt a power header.
                       3. If the ball is on the ground you will attempt a sliding shot.

All three actions can produce spectacular goals or passing shots.

Corner Kicks:         Move target to where you want the ball to go and press
                      fire to make the shot. Use aftertouch to control the ball.

Free Kicks:           Move target to where you want the ball to go. Press fire
                      to make the shot. Use aftertouch to control the ball.

Throw Ins:            Move target to where you want the ball to land and press
                      fire to throw.

Penalties:            If you have been awarded a penalty move the joystick in
                      the direction you wish to take the penalty. Press fire and
                      the player taking the penalty will run for the ball. Use
                      aftertouch to control the ball.

Goalkeeper:           If you have selected to take control of the goalkeeper at
                      the menu screen use the following joystick control method.
                      Use the eight directions of the joystick to move the keeper
                      around the play area, pressing the fire button will enable
                      the keeper to save or collect the ball by the most appropriate
                      method at the time dependant on the position of the ball.

Goalkeeper Penalty    If a penalty has been awarded against you then use the
Control:              following control method:-
            
                      1. Fire and up - Dive away from you
                      2. Fire and down - Dive towards you
                      3. Fire - Keeper will defend the middle of the goal mouth.

Substitutes           You can make up to two substitutions in any game. You
                      have four substitutes on the bench to select from.

Player 1 (MUFC):      To warm up a substitute use key 1-4, at the next break in
(Amiga & Atari ST)    play the substitution will be made unless you press this
                      key again to return him to the bench.

Player 2 (other)      Your keys are 7-0
(Amiga & Atari ST)    
                      At the next break in play a coach from the team selected
                      will hold up a card. Cycle through the numbers using your
                      joystick and press fire to confirm the player coming off
                      (Amiga & Atari ST only).
       
                      The Animated sequence of the player warming up and
                      preparing to come on to the pitch is available to Amiga owners
                      with 1 Meg only.

Instant replays:      Press F10 at any time to view the last few seconds of play,
(Amiga 1 Meg)         use F9 to change replay speed. Press F10 again to return.


Typed by Belgarath