              MANHUNTER 2 (MANHUNTER IN SAN FRANCISCO)

Typed in by CHUCKLES. Edited by PARASITE.


CONGRATULATIONS
On being selected for the esteemed position of Manhunter. This
guide will introduce you to all of the information you will find
necessary to become an effective, loyal follower of the Orb
Alliance. Manhunter is the highest position a human can hold
under the Alliance, so be grateful.

Each day, you will be given an assignment by your sector's super-
vising Orb. The assignments will involve tracking down humans
who, in some way, have wronged the Alliance. You will be given a
24 hour period to discover and report the human's identity so
that he can be corrected.

Unlike Manhunter: New York, you are not immediately issued a
Manhunter Assignment Device (MAD), but you will find it soon
after crashing. MAD is your link to the Alliance computer. With
MAD, you can access the tracking records associated with your
current assignment as well as the Human Database Service. As
Manhunter, you are allowed to travel to locations pertinent to
your current assignment. DO NOT STRAY OR LOITER. Always conduct
yourself in a manner suitable to your position. Treat your fellow
earthlings with the indifference they deserve.

MANHUNTER ASSIGNMENT DEVICE (MAD)
MAD is a small, portable terminal linked by radio transmission to
the Alliance computer. MAD has two functions:

INFO & TRACKER

INFO: This function provides access to limited information on all
humans currently residing in the Planet Earth city where you are
located. After pressing the INFO button, type in the full name of
the human. The Human Database Service will then provide your MAD
with information (Address,ID numbers, etc.) of the selected
human. After receiving information, you may select REPEAT to try
another name or select EXIT to leave the program. If you accident
-ally type in the wrong name, you can try again or type BYE to
leave the program.

NOTE: The Orb Alliance has authorised Manhunters to visit any
address furnished by the Info system.

TRACKER
All human movement is recorded in the Human Tracking Records
database of the Alliance computer. Due to the low priority placed
on these records, tracking information on each human is only
available from shortly before the time of the alleged criminal
activity to a time period not extending beyond the end of that
day. Due to unforseen difficulties with human tracking disks, the
targeted human's identity is not recorded. Also, tracking of a
target is cut off if the human should venture under earth soil.
However, this practice is strictly forbidden and should not
hamper your investigations.

One function of MAD is to tap into the appropriate human tracking
records for your current assignment. When MAD first accesses
tracking records, it will determine and then "tag" the most
appropriate human target signal. A playback will then begin of
that target's movements throughout the city. During playback, MAD
will also display any other human targets that come in close
contact with the tagged human target. You may tag any of these
human subjects that you feel may be superficial to your
investigation. To tag a new target, simply place your marker over
the desired subject and press Enter. You may encounter a target
represented by a large 'S'. This human has a special purpose and
cannot be tagged. The yellow rotating target should change to the
subject you have chosen. You may replay tracking records as often
as you find necessary. Manhunters are authorized by the Orb
Alliance to visit any location that a tagged target visits.

NOTE: Experienced Manhunters have found that the most efficient
way to use the tracker is to watch it until it terminates
tranmission. Proceed to replay the transmission, closing MAD
after the target leaves each location. Travel to the location
shown and investigate.

MANHUNTER OVERVIEW
A Sierra 3-D Animated Adventure Game, simply stated, is an
interactive movie where you become the main character. In this
game, the main character is a Manhunter, an agent of the future
who spies on fellow humans for an alien empire.

Each 3-D Animateed Adventure Game has a main goal, and yours in
Manhunter is to work undercover as a San Francisco manhunter, try
to find the killer that you followed from New York, and discover
why the orbs are so busy in San Francisco. You will need to move
stealthfully and wisely, as time is quickly vanishing for America
and its citizens.

QUICK REFERENCE CARD
Manhunter is somewhat different from other 3-D Animated Adventure
Games. Most of the game is presented in a first person
perspective. This allows you to view your surroundings onscreen
as if you are actually there. The perspective changes to thirs
person several times during the game. When you are in third
person perspective, you will see your character on the screen.

A marker on the screen is used to move through the game and to
manipulate various objects. The marker will change shape when it
is positioned over something that is important to the game.You
can search a room by simply placing the marker over the various
objects in the room. Watch the bottom of the screen for
descriptions of what you can do. Press ENTER or the SPACEBAR to
perform the actions described at the bottom of the screen. The
various marker shapes are as follows:

BLUE BALL WITH RED CENTER - You can perform any special
activities at this location on the screen.

ARROW - You can move in the direction that the arrow is pointing.

MAGNIFYING GLASS - You can take a close-up look at the object.

OPEN HAND - You can take or manipulate the object displayed.

POINTING HAND - You can press (push) the object displayed.

? QUESTION - Describes an object.

3 3rd PERSON - You see yourself on the screen.

COMMAND AND CONTROL KEYS

                    MS-DOS   AMIGA   ATARI   MAC   APPLE IIGS

HELP                  F1      F1       F1     1      1   SHIFT 1

TOGGLE SOUND          F2      F2       F2     2      2   SHIFT 2

TRAVEL                F3      F3       F3     3      3   SHIFT 3

SAVE GAME             F5      F5       F5     5      5   SHIFT 5

RESTORE GAME          F7      F7       F7     7      7   SHIFT 7

RESTART GAME          F9      F9       F9     9      9   SHIFT 9

MENU                  ESC    MOUSE    MOUSE MOUSE   ---  MOUSE

INVENTORY             TAB     TAB      TAB   TAB    TAB   TAB

QUIT GAME            ALT-Z   ALT-Z    ALT-Z  ---    ---  OPT-Z

JOYSTICK             CTL-J    ---     CTL-J  ---    ---  CTL-J

TIPS ON PLAYING MANHUNTER

1. HOW TO MOVE AROUND
See reference card or WALK THRU later in these notes.

2. KEEP YOUR FACE COVERED AND YOUR LIPS TIGHT
Due to the dangerous nature of this adventure game, you will want
to save your game often. Follow the instructions on your
reference card to SAVE GAME after you have made important
progress in the game. SAVE GAME whenever you encounter a
potentially dangerous situation.

If you do encounter danger, or fail to complete all the required
tasks to get past a given obstacle, you can follow the
instructions on your reference card to RESTORE GAME to the place
you were at when you last saved your game. Intelligent use of
this function has spared many a Manhunter from having his
position terminated permanently.

NOTE: Manhunter: San Francisco employs a conveniant feature that
automatically gives you a second chance after you have
encountered the most grisly of situations (namely, a gruesome
death!). This feature allows you to face the most unexpected of
conclusions without requiring you to replay the entire game.

3. KEEP YOUR EYES OPEN
Look at and examine everything you can. Watch those around you
closely. Pay attention to detail. There are many clues, both
visual and symbolic, which will help you succeed in your quest.

SOLDIER ROBOT (full robot)
These servants of the Alliance act as the orb's arms and legs. Do
not in any way interfere with their activities. They have
ultimate authority.

SHEPHERD ROBOT (has legs only)
These servants of the Alliance maintain control over special
humans. It is forbidden to interfere with them.

Arcade difficulty is normally set to hard. If you want to change
the difficulty level, it is under the "Action" menu selection.
Difficulty will be reset to hard when you reach the next arcade sequence.
