                           Master Type

                            Contents

ONE
	GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS  5
		Required Equipment  5
		Backing Up Your Program Disk  6
		Loading the Program  6

TWO
	CONTROLLING MASTERTYPE AND THE TRAINING GROUND  7

THREE
	GETTING SET--THE MASTERTYPE LESSONS  10

FOUR
	GETTING READY--COME TO THE TRAINING GROUND  14

FIVE
	READY FOR ACTION? THEN LET'S PLAY MASTERTYPE!  24
		Playing the Game--The Control Panel  24
		Game Rules  26
		Creating Your Own Lessons  29

Index  31

				3

                              ONE

                       GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

Welcome to New Improved MasterType for the Amiga, a typing instruction game
in which letters, numbers, and words are your enemy and are trying to
destroy your spaceship.  Fortunately, you have help in this battle--from
the legendary figure of the MasterType.

REQUIRED EQUIPMENT

For the game you will need:
	
	1. An Amiga with a minimum of 512K of memory and one disk drive.
	2. An Amiga color monitor.

				5

BACKING UP YOUR PROGRAM DISK

Your MasterType disk is not copy-protected.  To make a backup of it, use
the DISKCOPY utility on your Workbench.  However, copying MasterType for
purposes other than making your own backup copies (such as to sell, give to
someone else, or distribute within schools or clubs) is against the law.

LOADING THE PROGRAM

	1. Boot up your Amiga Kickstart disk and then insert your Workbench
	   disk when prompted.
	2. Remove the Workbench disk and insert your MasterType disk into
	   the drive, label side up.
	3. You will see the MasterType disk icon in the upper right-hand
	   corner of your screen.  Double click on it.  You can also get
	   into the program from the command line interpreter by typing
	   the file names MT for the MasterType Game and TG for Training
	   Ground.
	4. You will see the MasterType window open up, with two icons
	   inside: one for Training Ground, which will have the name TG
	   under it, and one for the MasterType Game, which will have MT
	   under it.  Double click on the one you want.  Both games have a
	   "quit" function which will take you back to this window, so you
	   can switch options anytime you want.

If you are a novice at typing, you may want to use the Training Ground
exercises before beginning to play the MasterType Game.  When to use the
different options in the MasterType Game and the Training Ground is
discussed in the chapter on the Training Ground.

For now, before deciding what to play first, we suggest you go to the next
chapter and learn how to operate the controls of MasterType.

				6

                               TWO

           CONTROLLING MASTERTYPE AND THE TRAINING GROUND

Although MasterType is a "typing game" and tied to the keyboard, you will
get around primarily by way of your mouse.  The Amiga mouse is a two button
mouse, but all of your clicking will be done with the left button.

There are several different kinds of objects on the control panels and
option screens you will encounter:

	Action		Take you to the option indicated on them.  The
	Buttons		most common action buttons are:

	PLAY		Play - allows you to begin whatever option you
			have chosen.

	HELP		Help - takes you to a series of help screens on
			your option.

				7

	QUIT		Quit - usually takes you back one level to the
			previous control panel or option choice.

	O.K.		OK - is used to indicate that you are satisfied
			with the lesson you have chosen on the Lesson
			Choice Page, or after you have read the
			instructions to the lesson.

	CANCEL		Cancel - the opposite of OK, and will take you 
			back to a control panel.

			Exit Help - go back to where you were when you
			asked for help.

	Options		These look like a button with an "X" next to it.
			The MasterType Game Control Panel and the Skill
      Commander		Test Control Panel have options you can customize;
    X Beginner		for example, you can play the MasterType Game in
      Shift Key		Beginner Mode or Commander Mode (these will be
    X Sound		explained later) by turning on one of these options
			on the control panel.  Activating an option marks
			it with an "X"; the option is deactivated by
			clicking on it again (the "X" will disappear).

	Speed		These look like big right and left arrowheads with
	Controls	a window in the middle, and the letters WPM (for
			words per minute) appearing over it.  The right
	WPM		and left arrowheads control the speed.  Clicking on
     << 15 >>		the right arrow will increase your speed, and
			clicking on the left arrow will decrease your
			speed.  If you hold the mouse down, the speedometer
			will accelerate.

When you are in the MasterType Game itself or any of the Training Ground
options, you will have your hands on the keyboard.  So you won't have to
take your hands off the keyboard and reposition them, the controls you need
while on these pages are available from the keyboard.

				8

	ESC		The ESC key lets you leave any game or exercise
			page and return to its Control Panel.

	RETURN		The RETURN key is used between waves of the 
			MasterType Game to signal your readiness to
			continue.

	HELP		The HELP key (not to be confused with a picture of
			a help button, although they perform the same
			function) is used while working on the Training
			Ground options to request help.

				9

                              THREE

               GETTING SET - THE MASTERTYPE LESSONS

Whether you are learning new skills or are an experienced typist
fine-tuning your particular skills, you need to understand the lessons
available to you in New Improved MasterType.  The lessons are the heart of
both the Training Ground and the MasterType Game itself.  They control how
easy or hard a game or drill is and which fingers are being used.

The standard MasterType lessons are designed to take you through a
progression from the first keys you need to learn to the last.  When you
choose a lesson in MasterType, you will see the following information.

	1-3	HOME ROW
	4-5	QWERTY ROW
	6-8	QWERTY & BOTTOM ROWS
	9-13	WORDS USING ALL LETTERS
	14-17	NUMBERS AND SYMBOLS
	18	C PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE

				10

This is the short version of the information you need to choose a lesson. 
The numbers here are lesson numbers (when you request lessons, they will
have names like Lesson 1, Lesson 2, Lesson 3, etc.)  Beside the numbers are
brief descriptions of the contents of those lessons.  Here is a more
detailed explanation.

LESSON 1	A S D F J K L ; make up what is called in typing "the home
		row."  Your fingers rest on these keys; your left hand on
		the A S D F keys, and your right hand on the J K L ; keys.
		Your thumb is used to press the Spacebar.  Use whichever
		thumb is more comfortable; most right handed people use
		their right thumb.  These keys are the basis for all
		typing; you have to be able to type the home row without
		looking to be a really good typist.

LESSON 2	One-, two-, and three-letter words on the home row.  These
		words will include the G and H keys, and also the ; key.
		You reach for the G key from the F, and you reach for the
		H key from the J.  Remember after you move to the G or the
		H key or any other key to return your fingers to the home
		position.

LESSON 3	Three-, four-, five-, six-, and seven-letter words on the
		home row.  This is the final lesson on the home row alone.
		It is a good lesson to practice on for building up speed
		once you can find the home keys without looking.

LESSON 4	Q W E R T Y U I O P is the top row of letters.  These are
		reached by using the corresponding key from the home row -
		A to Q, S to W, D to E, F to R, F to T, J to Y, J to U, K
		to I, L to O, and ; to P.  You will practice these top row
		keys and the reaches from the home row.

				11

LESSON 5	Short words using the top row of letters and home row
		mixed.  Remember to return your fingers "home" after each
		stretch to the third row.

LESSON 6	Harder words on the home and top row of letters.  A few
		words at the end of this lesson use the letters on the
		bottom row.

LESSON 7	Z X C V B N M , . / are the bottom row of the keyboard.
		These are reached by using the corresponding key from the
		home row: A to Z, S to X, D to C, F to V, F to B, J to N, 
		J to M, K to comma (,), L to period (.), and ; to slash
		(/).  You will practice these bottom row keys and the
		reaches from the home row.

LESSON 8	Moving from the home row to all the other rows except the
		number row.  This lesson practices all of the letters on
		the keyboard.  When you finish this, you will be ready for
		some real typing.

LESSON 9	Three- and four-letter words using all the letters.
		Remember to type at a steady pace and always return to the
		home row.

LESSON 10	Common five-letter words using all the letters.

LESSON 11	Five- and six-letter words.

LESSON 12	Six- and seven-letter words.

LESSON 13	Eight- and nine-letter words.  This is the last lesson 
		with words alone.  These longer words can be difficult, so
		take your time at first and build up speed gradually.

				12

LESSON 14	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0.  Letters and the corresponding
		numbers in the "number row".  Once again you use the
		corresponding key from the home row: A to 1, S to 2, D to
		3, F to 4, F to 5, J to 6, J to 7, K to 8, L to 9, and ;
		to 0.

LESSON 15	Three-, four-, and five-digit numbers.

LESSON 16	Numbers, letters, and shifted symbols.

LESSON 17	Difficult numbers and symbols.

LESSON 18	Words in the C programming language.

As you can see, the lessons build in intensity, first on the regular part of
the keyboard and then in numbers and special symbols.  Lesson 18 is a
special lesson for programmers who want to sharpen their skills on those
often typed C and DOS words.

NOTE: Some lessons are difficult in both of the main Training Ground
options.  Timed Finger Practice and Word and Sentence Practice.  In Timed
Finger Practice, lessons 16 and 17 concentrate on abbreviations, decimals,
and punctuation, such as periods, commas, semi-colons and slashes.  In Word
and Sentence Practice, the lessons 14-17 contain actual sentences.

This guide to the lessons is an important part of using the MasterType
Game.  Timed Finger Practice, and Word and Sentence Practice in the
Training Ground.  Feel free to refer to it often to decide what to tackle
next when learning how to type.

				13

                               FOUR

           GETTING READY - COME TO THE TRAINING GROUND

There is no right or wrong way to use the Training Ground and the
MasterType Game.  You have come to this program with a unique set of typing
skills and deficiencies.  Very few people are complete novices to
keyboards.

Training Ground focuses on several key essentials: which fingers to use for
which keys; learning to type at a smooth, steady rhythm; practice in typing
words and complete sentences; and testing your skill and reflexes on
individual keys.

If you really are a beginning typist, Training Ground is for you.  Even if
you have never used a keyboard before, you will soon feel at home with one.
You will be surprised by the steady and fast progress you will make, from
learning the location of the keys and which fingers to use with them to
developing the kind of rhythm and flow that is essential to really fast
typing.  Training Ground will also prepare you for your battles in the
MasterType Game.

				14

Read over the descriptions of the four options in Training Ground and then
look over the suggested uses at the end of this chapter.  Then make your
own decisions about how you will use the Training Ground.

The Training Ground Option Page gives you the four activities to choose
from:

	MasterType Fingering Chart
	Timed Finger Practice
	Word and Sentence Practice
	Training Ground Skill Test

Click on any one of these action buttons to choose that option.  There is
also a Help button and a Quit button.  The Help button will take you to the
beginning of a help sentence about 14 pages long covering all the Training
Ground options.  On each help screen there will be a Next Page and Previous
Page button as well as an Exit Help button.  Use these to move through the
help or to return to the program.

MasterType Fingering Chart.  When you select this, a keyboard with a pair
of hands superimposed on it will appear on your screen, showing you the
correct placement for your fingers.  The fingers are on the HOME ROW (A S D
F for the left hand and J K L ; for the right hand).  When you have placed
each finger on its proper key, press any key on that row and look at the
screen.  Now try pressing some of the other keys.  Study the screen to
learn which fingers to use with which keys.  Study the screen to learn
which fingers to use with which keys.  Remember that to learn good typing
you must not look down at your hands and you must return your fingers to
the home row after each key press.

NOTE: The fingering chart only includes the alphabet, ordinary punctuation
such as comma, period, and semi-colon, and the
	
				15

number keys.  Shifted keys are not shown separately, nor are little used
symbols such as {}, [], \ (backward slash), and the shifted symbols on the
number keys.  fingering for all shifted keys is the same as for their lower
case equivalents; the MasterType Game itself will let you practice shifted
keys.  Not all the keyboard symbols will be shown on the screen.

Timed Finger Practice.  The purpose of Timed Finger Practice is to teach
you to type at a steady, rhythmic speed. If you are an average typist, you
will find this very frustrating at first.  If you type for example, at 50
words per minute, what this probably means is that you type most letters
faster than 50 words per minute and a few uncommon letters more slowly.  In
this option, type to type all the letters for a particular lesson at the
same speed. Choose a speed that is about half of your measured typing speed
to start, and pick

				16

an early lesson with keys you are comfortable with.  When you get the hang
of it, gradually try harder lessons.  You will see that this option, if
practiced diligently, will develop smooth even typing on keys on which you
are currently weak.

When you click on Timed Finger Practice from the Options page, the next
screen you will see is the Timed Finger Practice Control Panel.  The panel
will show you the current lesson (defaulted to Lesson 1 if you have not
previously chosen a lesson), and the current speed.

If you click on the Change Lesson button, you will go to the Lesson Choice
Page.  Remember that on this page you can choose any of the lessons that
come with MasterType or any one you've created in the MasterType Game. 
Lessons you've created will be down at the bottom of the list.  Remember to
consult Chapter 2 to find the best lesson for you to work on.

				17

Training Ground Skill Test.  Knowing the keys without looking at your hands
or having to "think" about what finger to use is at the heart of speedy,
error-free typing.  The skill test is designed to measure just how well,
and at what speed, you "know" the keys.

In this option, keys circle over two wizards, the wizard of the right hand,
and the wizard of the left hand.  As a key drops into position, it will
either light up or pass by.  If it lights up, try to press the key as fast
as you can.  If you do, it will be "zapped".  If you press the "wrong" key,
it will be scored as "missed"; if you don't try at all, it will be marked
as "not tried" and you will lose twice as many points.

When you select Training Ground Skill Test, you will come to the Skill Test
Control Panel.  The panel will display six options on the right; you must
choose one of these options for your skill test.

	Home Row only
	Home Row and Top Row
	Home Row and Bottom Row
	Home Row and Number Row
	Letters and Punctuation only
	All Characters

Make your choice based on which keys you are ready to be tested on.  These
categories roughly correspond to the lessons you have been working on. 
Then pick a speed appropriate to the option you picked, slower for harder
options and faster for easier ones.  Press the Play button to start the
test.

Scoring begins in the Skill Test as soon as you press the first key.  At
the end of a Skill Test you will be given information on how many letters
were zapped, attempted, presented and missed.  Remember, if a skill test
isn't a challenge, you are playing at too low a speed.  Move on to a harder
option or a faster speed.  You can press the ESC key off the Skill Test to
go back to your Control

				20

Panel, or press your HELP key for help pages specific to the Skill Test.

The higher the speed you choose, the more points you get for each "zap". 
Of course, when you miss, you lose more points too.  Here is how the
scoring works:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Words/Minute)
    Speed		Hit		Missed		Not Tried
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	 4		 100		  -50		 -100
	 6		 120		  -60		 -120
	 8		 140		  -70		 -140
       	10		 160		  -80		 -160
	12		 180		  -90		 -180
	14		 200		 -100		 -200
	16		 300		 -150		 -300
	18		 400		 -200		 -400
	20		 500		 -250		 -500
	25		 600		 -300		 -600
	30		 700		 -350		 -700
	35		 800		 -400		 -800
	40		 900		 -450		 -900
	45		1000		 -500		-1000
	50		1200		 -600		-1200
	60		1400		 -700		-1400
	70		1600		 -800		-1600
	80		1800		 -900		-1800
	90		2000		-1000		-2000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here are some suggested starting places for people with different skill
levels.  You can mix and match these options to fit your particular need.

				21

For the Complete Novice: Begin in the Training Ground looking at the
Fingering Chart.  When you are comfortable on the home row, try out lessons
1-3 in Word and Sentence Practice.  After mastering the home row keys, test
yourself on the home row in the Skill Test.  How fast can you do the Skill
Test and still get a high score?  Then move on to the ultimate test, the
MasterType Game itself.

For the Intermediate Typist: Most typists come with a variety of strengths
and weaknesses.  You can pinpoint these weaknesses in the Training Ground
Skill Test.  Try each row combination at a little more than half of your
measured typing speed (if you need a way to measure your speed, use the
measurement in World and Sentence Practice, but correct it by subtracting 5
words per minute for each error you make).  For example, if you get around
50 words per minute in Word and Sentence Practice, try the Skill Test at
half your measured speed.  If not, you know you need more practice on these
keys.  See Chapter 2 in this manual to look up which lessons drill on the
keys you need.  Then you take your choice; either the Timed Finger
Practice, or Word and Sentence Practice, or the MasterType Game.

For the Experienced Typist:  You probably know all the keys and should
begin with one of the later lessons in the MasterType Game which practice
words using all the letters of the keyboard.  If you spot some particularly
weak keys, you can come back to the Training Ground and try and practice
them.  A special challenge for good typists is to try out the Timed Finger
Practice at a higher than comfortable speed to see where your weak keys
are.

				22

For the Person Who Primarily Wants to Have Fun: The MasterType Game is for
you.  If you are getting blown up too much there, try getting your speed up
by practicing in the Skill Test.  The Skill Test is fun if you play it at
faster speeds.

The MasterType Game and the Training Ground can accommodate all styles and
speeds of typists.  Use them to make your own customized typing world.

				23

                               FIVE

          READY FOR ACTION?  THEN LET'S PLAY MASTERTYPE!

PLAYING THE GAME - THE CONTROL PANEL

After you have double clicked on the MasterType Game icon from the
MasterType Game window, and you have seen the title screen, you will see
the MasterType Game Control Panel:
	
The MasterType Game Control Panel is similar to all the other control
panels, but it has the most features on it.  Let's go over it in detail.

The highlighted part of your Control Panel contains the three main action
buttons you use to "operate" the MasterType Game.

Play: Begin the game.  Put your fingers on the home row, because the game
will start within a few seconds of your clicking on Play.

				24

Demo: Start a self-running demonstration of the MasterType Game.

Quit: Return to the MasterType window on the Workbench.

The four option buttons on the right-hand side of the panel give you four
options for customizing your MasterType Game.

Commander: Play the MasterType Game without seeing the words as you type
them (for advanced players only).

Beginner: Each "word" is only one letter long and you do not have to press
the SPACEBAR between words.  This option is particularly useful for Lesson
1 (which has only single letter words).

Shift Key: Use this for practicing the Shift Key.  If you choose this, you
will have to type in upper and lower case in the game.  This option is also
for advanced players.

				25

Sound: Use this to turn the sound on and off.  You can make the sound
louder or softer with the volume control on your monitor or amplifier.

At the top of the panel is an area telling you the current lesson, and two
buttons which will take you off to choose a different lesson (Choose
Lesson) or make one of your own (Create Lesson).

On the bottom left of the Control Panel is your speed control.  The current
speed in the MasterType Game tells you how fast you must type to keep the
space invaders from blowing up your space station.

Above the speed control, you have a Hall of Fame action button that will
let you look at the records of the highest space ever for your disk on each
lesson.  You best scores will be saved on your disk, along with the date
you set when you boot up.

NOTE: If you have "write-protected" your MasterType disk, you will need to
remove the write-protection for this feature to work.

GAME RULES

The object of the MasterType Game is to prevent the enemy from destroying
your ship.  Letters, words, punctuation marks, and/or symbols will appear
in the four corners of the screen.  These letters or words will shoot
missiles, killer satellites, and atomic fireballs at you.  You must quickly
type in the letters before the missiles or fireballs reach you.  If you
type too slowly, the missiles will keep coming.

When a missile successfully reaches your command ship, it will destroy one
of the four shields.  Shields protect your command ship.  If a missile
destroys one of your shields and then penetrates your command ship on that
side, the ship will be destroyed and the "words" will win.

				26

The game is divided into four "waves" of 10 words each, a total of forty
words per game.  In between waves you will be presented with your average
speed, and other statistics.  You will also be given an opportunity to
increase your speed goal if your average speed is running significantly in
excess of your goal.

At the end of each way the following information will be presented to you:

		You have successfully
		completed Wave 1
		Average Speed 65
		Speed Goal 25
	  Press RETURN to Continue
	  Press ESC for Control Panel

If your speed is significantly above the goal, you will see this additional
information:

		Your speed is well above the speed goal.

		Nice going!
	  If you like, the program
	  will increase your speed goal
	 	for you.
	     Speed Goal 25
	     Proposed Goal 45
	Press ESC for Control Panel
	Press F1 to retain initial goal
	Press RETURN to accept proposed goal.

Here are some game rules and suggestions for playing:

1. You may type the letters or words you see on the screen in any order you
wish, but your first priority should be to hit the

				27

missiles that are most threatening to your command ship - the ones that are
the closest.

Next, try to get those missiles that are just starting toward you.  If you
blow up a missile when it is right next to the word itself, the explosion
will hit the word and blow it up as well.  This will give you a lot of
extra bonus points.

2. If you are not in Beginner mode, you must press the SPACEBAR after
typing each "word".  This tells the program that you have finished.

3. If you make a typing mistake and fail to destroy the enemy missile on
the first try, press the SPACEBAR and try again.  Or you can correct your
mistake by backspacing with the computer's BACKSPACE key (top row, right
side) and retyping.

4. You must type the letters quickly in order to blow them up.  If you type
slowly, they will keep shooting at you.

5. To improve your scores you must change to higher speeds and move up in
lesson difficulty.  To change speeds or lessons, go to the MasterType Game
Control Panel.

6. If you have typed faster than your speed goal, you will be offered the
opportunity to adjust the speed the words come at you in each wave.  This
is a good opportunity to make the game more challenging.

If you challenge yourself in this way and find the words are too fast for
you, try the lesson again, but this time, don't accept the new proposed
speed or type more slowly in the early waves of the lesson.

7. Don't leave the home row.  Always begin typing with your fingers
correctly placed on the home row keys (A S D F and J K L ;).

8. Put your best finger forward.  To type accurately and quickly, you must
not only press the correct key, you must also use the correct finger.

				28

9. Try to use your shields to maximum advantage.  You are allowed one hit
on each side before your ship is destroyed.  By sacrificing one or more
shields you can get through the most difficult parts of the lesson.

CREATING YOUR OWN LESSONS

The MasterType program encourages you to create your own lessons.  Parents
and teachers find this feature especially useful for giving grade-school
children practice with spelling words.  Adults can create lists of commonly
used words in areas of personal interest.

To create a lesson, press the Create Lesson button on the MasterType Game
Control Panel.  This places you in the lesson-creation system.  You will
see three areas of the screen: a place to type the lesson name, a place to
type the lesson introduction, and forty spaces for the forty words you need
to make a lesson.  You can move through using the RETURN key, or you can
use your mouse to go to any particular word to enter or change it.  To
change the introduction, BACKSPACE and retype.

1. The box for the name of the lesson is on the top left of your screen. 
Make up a name that begins with a letter and has twelve or fewer characters
in it.  (Try to pick a "mnemonic" name, one that lets you remember what the
lesson is about.  For example, if you write a lesson for someone named
Linda, you can name the lesson LINDA.)  Now type the name and press RETURN.

2. The space for the introductory text is in the middle of the screen. 
There is room for you to type 10 lines of 40 characters each.  You do not
need to type something on each line.

				29

3. Next, you need to type in the words you want to use in the lesson.  Each
lesson must contain forty words.  Each word should be between 1 and 12
characters long and may contain no spaces, since MasterType uses a space to
mark the end of a word.

4. Press the RETURN key after each word you type in.  If you make a mistake
in typing a word, you can use the computer's backspace or delete key to
correct it.

5. When you have everything finished, click on the OK button.  Your lesson
will be saved on disk with the name you gave it.  If you change your mind
about creating a lesson, just click on the Cancel button.  Remember, you
can use the mouse to change any one of the forty words, the lesson name, or
the introduction before saying OK or Cancel.

To play a lesson you have created, you must first get to the Lessons Choice
page from the Control Panel.  (If you are in the middle of a game, hit ESC
to go to the Control Panel).  You will see the name of the lesson you
created in with the standard MasterType lessons.  All your lessons must be
saved on the program disk.  You cannot save lessons on a separate disk.

				30

INDEX

Action buttons, 7, 15, 24
Backspace key, 28, 29
Backup copies, 6
Beginner mode, 8, 25, 28
Bottom Row, 12, 20
	programming words, 13

Cancel button, 8, 18, 30
Change Lesson button, 17
Choose Lesson, 26
Commander mode, 8, 25
Control Panel, 7-9, 17-21, 24-26, 28
Copy-protected, 6
Create Lesson, 26, 29-30

Demo, self-running, 25
DISKCOPY, 6

Equipment, for game, 5
Errors, 18, 19
	recording, 19
ESC key, 9, 18, 20
Exit Help button, 8, 15
Experienced typist, 22

Fingering Chart, 15
Fun, playing for, 23

Game rules, 26-28

Hall of Fame button, 26
Help button, 7, 15, 19
HELP key, 9, 18, 21
Home Row, 11, 15, 28
	mastering, 22

Intermediate typist, 22
Introductory text, 29

Kickstart disk, 6

Lesson Choice Panel, 17
Lessons, 11-13
	changing, 16-18, 28
	choosing, 10-11
	contents of, 11-13
	creating, 29-30
	introduction, 29, 30
	saving, 30
Lesson Choice, 30
Loading the program, 6

MasterType Game, 5
	controlling, 7-9
	options for customizing, 25
	object of, 26
	playing the game, 24
	required equipment, 5
MasterType Game Control Panel, 24-25
	options, 8
Mnemonic name, 29
MT (MasterType), 6

Name of lesson, 29
Next Page button, 15
Novice, typing, 6, 22
Number row, 13, 20
Numbers and symbols, 13, 16

OK button, 8, 18, 30
Option buttons, 8, 25
Options, 8

Play button, 7, 18, 20
Previous Page button, 15
Program disk
	backing up, 6
	write-protected, 26
Programmers, lesson, 13

Quit button, 8, 15
Quit function, 6
QWERTY row, 11-12

RETURN key, 9, 27, 29
Rhythm, 18

Score, improving, 28
Scoring, Skill Test, 20
Sentence practice, 13, 18-19
Shift Key, 25
Skill Test Control Panel, 
	options, 8, 20
Sound button, 26
Speed
	adjusting, 18
	changing, 28
	choosing, 16, 21
	controlling, 8
	steady, 16
Speed control, 8, 26
Speed goal, 27, 28
Spelling words, practice, 29
Starting places, skill levels, 21
Suggestions for playing, 27

Timed Finger Practice, 13, 15, 16-18, 22
Timed Finger Practice Control Panel, 17
TG (Training Ground), 6
Training Ground, 6, 14-23
	controlling, 7-9
	four options, 15
	key essentials, 14
Top Row, 11, 20
Training Ground Skill Test, 15, 20
Typing
	accuracy, 28
	Home Row, 11
	mistakes in, 28, 30
	weaknesses, 22
Typing rhythm, 14, 18
Typing speed, 19, 22
Typist
	beginning, 14
	experienced, 22
	intermediate, 22
	novice, 6, 22

Write-protection, 26
Words commonly used, creating list of, 29
	short, 12
	using all letters, 12-13, 17
Words per minute (WPM), 8, 19
Words and Sentence Practice, 13, 15, 18-19
	control panel, 19
Workbench disk, 6

				31

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================