                   MATRIX MARAUDERS

                Complete Manual Typed By
                     J.M.S.oftware

                        PAGE 1

You are now the owner of a new concept in superfast 3D
abstract computer racing games - your task will be to both
outdrive and outthink your opponents in a futuristic no
holds barred first past the post contest.

Matrix Marauders has taken over three man years to develop
and has been designed to test the skills of even the most
dedicated games enthusiasts world-wide, yourself included.

Dropped from your mother spacecraft in a specially tuned
marauder racing pod onto the unique three dimensional
circuit, you face evermore challenging levels of difficulty
together with even more fearsome opponents as you progress
through the game.

Your mission - To emerge victorious as Annihilator One - and
so to be accepted as the sole recruit required for the elite
Intergalactic  Screaming Race Skull Team.

Both you - as Earth One - and the other pilots have already
proved to have exceptional abilities during the play-offs
on each participating planet.

Yet nothing in the play offs can compare for what is to
await you on the awesome Grid of No Return constructed by
prisoner droids, deep in the bowels of a Black Hole.

For razor sharp reactions are only part of the skills
necessary to graduate to the ultimate contest.  An
extraordinary mind is also required in order to make the
colossal number of decisions necessary to emerge victorious.

                        PAGE 2

Hurtling through the complex mazes of the Death Tunnels you
must negotiate torturous twists and turns, in order to
remain ahead of the other competitors.  You must keep track
of numerous facets of your ship, speed, weapons, fuel and
still compute the optimum path to the next Pit Grid, for if
you fail to make the top three, you're OUT!

The deadly race tracks are linked by a series of Pit Grids
where the contestants may refuel and re-arm, assuming they
have qualified for the next section, before re-entering the
main race.  It is crucial that the player picks up enough
fuel and speed amplification modules in order to reach the
next grid.  The grids are also littered with extra
ammunition and special components that will enable the
mapping and navigational components of your ship.

The players must collect these bonuses with all possible
haste, for while they are accumulating the extras for their
ship, opponents will continue to speed towards the entrance
to the Death Tunnels.  Once prepared, the player then races
towards the centre of the grid and with split second timing
leaps over the barrier surrounding the entrance to the
circuit.  He then braces himself for a tremendous increase
in acceleration as he re-enters the circuit.

On entering the Death Tunnels the player must negotiate the
race matrix and avoid the numerous dead ends and other
traps, lock on to extra fuel and ammo, whilst simultaneously
tracking his opponents.  Once in his sight he will then
unleash the full force of his armoury on his unfortunate
victim.

You must fend off your opponents on all the Death Circuits
and emerge victorious before you can don the prized ornate
Screaming Skull Squadron helmet.

Good luck Earth One.  We'll be rooting for you......

                        PAGE 3

EARTH ONE - PREPARE TO DESCEND
YOUR TIME HAS COME.........

Calling all "Death Club" enthusiasts.  This is your friendly
reporter - Irving The Ghoul Hansen - about to give you a
deadly blow by blow commentary on the event that annually
tops the sickie ratings - Matrix Marauders.

Here I am once again jostling with the rest of the media
observers in the sweaty, smoke filled - if only they'd never
been invented those cancer free cigarettes - beer swilling
confines of the observation platform hovering in the bowels
in one of the less attractive black holes.

But if it's blood and guts that you want - there's no better
place to be calling the shots from than the Grid of No
Return.  After all, there's only one surivor and that my
friends means gore galore, courtesy of the losers.

Let's not forget though that each of the combatants is here
of his own free will - and they're lean and mean and well
blooded after returning victorious from the qualifying
rounds on their own planets.

And all are driven or consumed with the overwhelming desire
to emerge as Annihilator One - and so to be accepted as the
solitary annual recruit for the elite Intergalactic
Screaming Skull Squadron.  And those boys are real nasty
sons of bitches.

This time razor sharp aerial dogfight skills will not be
enough.  For it's not called the Big One for nothing.  It
is set apart because it also demands brain throbbing
concentration on two distinct levels.  Not

                        PAGE 4

only do they have to destroy or be destroyed, but they have
to simultaneously memorise the mind numbingly complex Death
Tunnels as they hurtle through them at breakneck speeds.

And the Gladiatorial Killing Grid has never looked more
menacing.  Those prisoner droids pressganged into
constructing have been beavering away, relishing their
opportunity to ensure that this years event offers even more
horrendous possibilities for that final trip to oblivion.

Very soon now, the last of the mother ships will be dropping
the challenger from Earth in his kamikaze fighter pod - then
we're off to Space Body Bag Land.  Here it comes now, the
huge grey hulk is about to disgorge the tiny craft and its
occupant on the journey into a nightmare from which only one
combatant will awaken...

In the last few seconds before his fighter craft is lowered
into Vehicle Armament and Repair section, or as you game
afficianardo's call it, the Arsenal of Doom, memories of
what he well knew may prove to be his final few weeks alive,
flashed before the eyes of Earth One.

The Faces of the 17 crack pilots he had been forced to
dispose of in the kill-offs during that time - many of whom
had been his friends - hauntingly appeared, causing tiny
beads of perspiration to appear on his hairline.

But it was their death screams heard in full polyphonic
sound over his battle intercom that now echoed once again in
his ears which caused his stomach to almost discharge its
contents.

Not that this provoked pangs of conscience in Earth One -
his personal programming saw to that - but he did ponder
whether or not when his turn came he would emit similar
blood-curdling sounds.

                        PAGE 5

The seconds were now ticking down.  Earth One must now
prepare his fighter, before leaving the Arsenal of Doom and
entering the game proper.

The centre is a huge modular cavern entered by a shaft from
the killing grid.  Here a severely damaged craft could be
readied for battle once again by an army of mechanical
drones.  But for a price.

Because down here the only currency accepted is battle
credits - the same credits needed to replenish or enhance
the offensive capabilities of his ship.

Once again time is not on Earth One's side.  For every
second spent in this section allows the other competitors to
increase their advantage on the surface.

Scrolling through the replacement parts available via his
onboard computer, he selected a new undersection - and
electronically transmitted the correct number of credits to
the grim dome cashier.

At the push of an unseen button the replacement section
swung into view and powerful robotic arms eased it into
place then atom welded it to the main superstructure.

Earth One concentrated on the Arsenals weaponry inventory -

    CANNONS AND LASERS - capable of only firing in straight
                         lines.

    ROCKETS - offering a smooth arc long-range trajectory.

    SMART GUN - able to spew out a constant stream of
                heat-seeking homing bullets.

    PLASMA WEAPON - pumping out projectiles at a speed
                    difficult to detect even using the most
                    advanced electronics.

                        PAGE 6

    MISSILES - the most powerful weapons of all guaranteeing
               an apocalyptic hit.

Weapons selected.  Clunk.  He was grounded, his kamikaza
fighter pod locked onto the gleaming tutomium grid line.
Click.  The instrument panel in both the cockpit and his
head visor lit up simultaneously - both issuing warnings of
imminent danger.

Throttle back and Earth One hurtles away, his superb powers
of mental agility allowing his to absorb the contents of
both displays at the same split second.

WILL EARTH ONE MAKE IT THROUGH THE INCREASINGLY
TORTUOUS LEVELS OF DIFFICULTY IN THE DEATH TUNNELS?

WILL HE BE ABLE TO OUT-THINK AND OUTWIT THE EVER MORE
DANGEROUS OPPONENTS THAT WILL APPEAR IN EVERY STAGE?

WILL HE WIN THE ORNATE HELMET AND BE ACCEPTED BY THE
INTERGALACTIC SCREAMING SKULL SQUADRON?

ONLY YOU WILL WILL KNOW.  FOR YOU ARE EARTH ONE!

                        PAGE 7

                   GAME CONTROLS

MAIN GAME

Joystick          Left/Right      Turn selection (Turn again
                                  for tighter turns)

Mouse             Left/Right      Turn head

Escape            Jump Thrust     Forces craft to make a
                                  jump

Space             Centre head     Forces view to centre
                                  position

Fire Button/      Fire weapon     Fire the current weapon
Right Mouse Button

Left Mouse Button Toggle weapons  Changes to another weapon

Enter             Target          Target weapon on object

T                 Triangle Disp   Grid section is shown as
                                  filled triangles

L                 Line Display    Grid section is shown
                                  displayed as lines

P                 Pause Game      Stop the game

J                 Eject           When ejector seat is
                                  fitted

REPAIR CENTRE

Joy Up            Enter game      Go back to the game itself

Joy Left          Enter repair    Enter the repair bay

                        PAGE 8

Joy Right         Weapon select   Enter the ordinance screen

R    Restarts Game

L    Load saved game.  Select file and press Return.

S    Save Game.  Select file and press Return.  Enter Name
                 and press Return.

X    Enable/Disable Serial Link for 2 players
     (Via null modem).  When the serial option is enabled
     the game is then re-set and starts at Level I.
     The link is enabled until either opponent is killed and
     then the remaining opponent will continue to play
     against the computer until the serial link is
     re-established.

REPAIR BAY

Mouse pointer at the following

Repair box

Internal/External box switches screen

Right joystick enter main screen

ORDNANCE CENTRE

Joystick left/right      Scan available weapons

Fire                     Selects/Re-arms

Returns to Repair centre screen by wrapping round to the
left or right.

                       That's All Folks....


