McDONALDLAND(tm)

Virgin Games


Virgin Games Presents

McDONALDLAND(tm)

The following are trademarks of the McDonald's Corporation: M.C. Kids,
Ronald McDonald, Golden Arches, Mick, Mack, Hamburglar, Birdie The
Early Bird, Grimace, Fry Guys and Fry Girls, CosMc, The Professor,
Ronald McDonald Children's Charities, and McDonaldland.

(c) 1992 McDonald's Corporation
(c) 1992 Virgin Games Ltd


McDONALDLAND(tm)

Original Design - Darren Bartlett
Amiga, Atari ST & IBM PC Conversions - Arc Developments
Commodore 64 Conversion - Miracle Games
Executive Producer - Andrew Wright
UK Producer - Mike Meringue
US Producer - Cathie A Bartz-Todd
UK Software Manager - Ian Mathias
Quality Assurance - Ken Jordan, Darren Lloyd
Pack Artwork & Design - Definition
Artwork & Design Coordinator - Matt Walker
Manufacturing Coordinator - Rose Dalton
This Manual Copy - John Penn, Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems
This Manual Design, Layout & Production - Definition


COPYRIGHT NOTICE

The computer program and its associated documentation and materials
are protected by National and International Copyright Laws. Storage of
the computer program and its associated documentation and materials in
a retrieval system, reproduction, translation, copying, hiring,
lending, broadcasting and public performance are prohibited without
the express written permission of Virgin Games Ltd. All rights of the
author and owner are reserved worldwide. This program and its
associated documentation and materials are sold accordingly to Virgin
Games Ltd's terms of trade and conditions of sale, copies of which are
available on request.

Virgin Games Ltd, 338A Ladbroke Grove, London W10 5AH.
Tel: (081) 960 2255. Fax: (081) 960 9900.


WELCOME!

Welcome to McDonaldland(tm). This manual has been produced to ensure
that you get the very best out of this premium product. Please take
time to read it thoroughly before you play. If you should find either
the program or the documentation unsatisfactory in any way, do not
hesitate to drop us a line.

Opinions and complaints should be sent to The Project Manager,
McDonaldland(tm), Virgin Games Ltd, 338A Ladbroke Grove, London W10
5AH.


CONTENTS

Pack Contents......................................4
Equipment Requirements.............................4
The Story..........................................5
Loading McDonaldland(tm)...........................6
Loading Problems...................................8
Meet Mick(tm) and Mack(tm).........................9
The Character Selection Screen....................10
The Scene Is Set..................................13
Let's Go!.........................................13
The Map Screen....................................14
Mick(tm) and Mack's(tm) Groovy Moves..............15
What You Can Expect To See During A Level.........20
Special Items.....................................22
Special Scenery...................................23
Appendix One: The Six Lands of McDonaldland(tm)...27
Appendix Two: McDonaldland(tm) Creatures..........31
Appendix Three: Play Advice.......................35


PACK CONTENTS

Accompanying this manual inside this pack you should find a
McDonaldland(tm) program diskette or Commodore 64 cassette. We advise
that the disk is "write-protected". Commodore 64 owners and users of
IBM PCs and compatibles with 5¬" disk drives should ensure that the
notch in the side of the disk is covered. Amiga and Atari ST owners
should ensure that the black plastic tab in the corner of the disk is
moved "up" so a "hole" is created.


THE STORY

One sunny day Ronald McDonald(tm) was performing magic tricks at a
picnic in the meadow when all of a sudden... the Hamburglar(tm)
appeared and ran off with Ronald's(tm) Magic Bag! Luckily, Ronald(tm)
has many friends, among them Mick(tm) and Mack(tm), the M.C. Kids(tm)
(that's pronounced "EmCee" Kids, by the way). He calls upon them to
help find his Magic Bag.  And they will! Hoorah!

The Hamburglar(tm) is hiding in the one of the six lands of
McDonaldland(tm). In their search for the Hamburglar(tm) and
Ronald's(tm) Magic Bag, the M.C. Kids(tm) must collect Puzzle Cards
and beware of the crazy creatures sent by the Hamburglar(tm) to
protect his new-found interest. They must hurry, before they are too
late!


LOADING PROBLEMS

In the unlikely event that McDonaldland(tm) fails to load, turn off
your computer and remove any extraneous external peripherials such as
printers (leave the monitor or television connected) before repeating
the loading procedure.

If McDonaldland(tm) still refuses to load then pop the faulty cassette
or disk (not the package) into a suitable-sized jiffy bag or padded
envelope along with your name and address. To aid the trouble-shooting
department, please provide in as much detail as possible your
equipment configuration (not forgetting any RAM expansion devices).

Send the package to: McDonaldland(tm) REPLACEMENTS, Virgin Games Ltd,
338A Ladbroke Grove, London W10 5AH. Virgin Games Ltd will endeavour
to replace the faulty disk within 28 days of its receipt.


MEET MICK(tm) AND MACK(tm)!

Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) went to sleep and were magically transformed
into the M.C. Kids(tm). Being Ronald's(tm) friends, they want to catch
the Hamburglar(tm) as much as you do!


MACK(tm)

Mick(tm)'s best mate can't wait to get his hands on Ronald(tm)'s Magic
Bag.

[Picture of the two kids omitted]

MICK(tm)

Mack(tm)'s best mate loves having fun in McDonaldland(tm).


THE CHARACTER SELECTION SCREEN

Once McDonaldland(tm) has loaded, press the joystick firebutton to see
the Character Selection Screen. Here's where you can choose to play
either the Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) character. Note that neither character
has any adventage over the other. On this screen you can also choose
to play McDonaldland(tm) alone or with a friend.

Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) are controlled by a compatible joystick plugged
into the port marked "PORT 2" on the Commodore 64.

[Other machines' joystick info omitted]

[Picture of the character selection screen omitted]

Push the joystick shaft left or right to make Mick(tm) and Mack(tm)
move in those directions (Fig 1). This will happen whether they are on
the ground or in the air or water. If Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) move along
the ground for a second or two they will start to run.

Push the joystick up to make Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) jump in the
direction he's facing (Fig 2). Push the joystick down to make Mick(tm)
or Mack(tm) duck (Fig 3).

[Fig 1, 2, 3 omitted]


THE MICK MACK'ER(tm)

When Mick(tm) touches this he will turn into Mack(tm). If Mack(tm)
touches the Mick Mack'er(tm) he will turn into Mick(tm).


SOLO PLAY

In solo play, you control either Mick(tm) or Mack(tm). The choice is
yours.


COOPERATIVE PLAY

In cooperative play, you and a friend play Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) (or
Mack(tm) and Mick(tm)) alternately but share everything. When the
character you control completes a level or loses a life, your friend
will resume play controlling the other character.


SORRY!

Of a friend leaves or arrives during play you will have to load
McDonaldland(tm) from scratch and start the selection process again.


THE SCENE IS SET

Once you have decided how you will play McDonaldland(tm), the scene is
set with a short animated story. You will see Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) in
their tent, reading about Ronald McDonald(tm)'s adventures (Fig 4).
Press the firebutton to skip each section of the story.

[Fig 4 omitted]


LET'S GO!

Each island has a McDonaldland(tm) character associated with it. To
pass through one land to the next you must complete all the levels in
that land and return Puzzle Cards to its McDonaldland(tm) character.
When you first arrive in a new land, its McDonaldland(tm) character
will tell you how many Puzzle Cards you need to collect before you can
continue to the next land (Fig 5). When you have read what the
character has to say, press the firebutton to continue.

[Fig 5 omitted]


THE MAP SCREEN

Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) move between levels in the land they are
currently exploring by means of maps (Fig 6). Push the joystick shaft
in the direction of the path to move the Mick(tm) or Mack(tm)
character to the nearest level entrance or crossroads. When Mick(tm)
or Mack(tm) is on top of a level entrance, press the firebutton to
enter the level.

Note that if a level has not been completed, you cannot walk past its
entrance. You can however return to a completed level or land as often
as you wish. You never know what secrets (or Puzzle Cards even) you
may have missed the first time around!

As the correct Puzzle Cards are collected they are turned over to
reveal the face of the land's McDonaldland(tm) character.

[Fig 6 omitted]


MICK(tm) 'N' MACK'S(tm) GROOVY MOVES

It's easy to learn the controls for an M.C. Kid(tm) exploring a level
but it takes time to master them. Practice! You know that the boys van
run, jump and duck (see page 11). But did you realise they also have a
few other tricks up their sleeves?


JUMP

Not only can an M.C. Kid(tm) jump in the direction he's  facing (Fig
7), he can leap even higher by ducking before he jumps (Fig 8).
Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) jump higher and farther if they are running when
they jump (Fig 9)!

[Fig 7, 8, 9 omitted]


PICK UP

If an M.C. Kid(tm) is standing next to an object and facing it (Fig
10) or is standing on top of it and ducking down (Fig 11), press the
firebutton to pick up the object. Be careful when you pick up a block
below Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) in the air - he will fall! There are times
when the M.C. Kids(tm) can pick up dirt or snow (Fig 12) simply by
standing on it before you press the firebutton.

[Fig 10, 11, 12 omitted]


THROW

With an object in hand, the M.C. Kids(tm) can throw it straight up
(Fig 13) or down (Fig 14) or in the direction he's facing (Fig 15). If
Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) is running when he throws the object (Fig 16) it
will fly farther than if he was standing still. The M.C. Kids(tm) can
also throw dirt and snow in the same way.

[Fig 13, 14, 15, 16 omitted]


DIG

There are times when the M.C. Kids(tm) need to dig through sand (Fig
17).  A press of the firebutton will dig in the direction the M.C.
Kid(tm) is facing. To dig up or down, push the joystick shaft in the
appropriate direction and then press the firebutton (Fig 18).

[Fig 17, 18 omitted]


SWIM

If Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) should fall into water and find something
fishy and vicious snapping at his heels, he has to move fast! You will
lose a Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) character if he falls off the bottom of
the screen, so jump to stay afloat and try to get out of the water
quick!


WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT TO SEE DURING A LEVEL

The top four fifths of the screen is the  playfield where all the
action takes place (Fig 19). The panel below the playfield shows
important details about Mick(tm) and Mack(tm), such as the number of
Golden Arches(tm) and Puzzle Cards they have collected.

[Fig 19 omitted]

When play begins you have four Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) characters. Each
character starts with three hearts. When Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) touches
a creature, he loses a heart and flashes for a few seconds. During
this time, touching a creature has no effect. If Mick(tm) or Mack(tm)
loses all his hearts, play will only resume if characters are
remaining.  Otherwise your quest is over... for the moment. Try again!

Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) can have up to four hearts. You can earn more
hearts for Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) by performing Super-Shots, for
example, knocking out two or more creatures with a single block. A
heart is also given for knocking out 10 creatures.


HIGH FIVE!

When Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) finish a level for the first time or when
they complete a level having found a Puzzle Card they congratulate
each other with a high five.


HOLD IT!

Press the "P" key during play to freeze the action. Press the "P" key
a second time to resume play.


GAME OVER

When there are no more Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) characters to play, don't
despair. You can continue playing from the land last shown in Mick(tm)
and Mack(tm)'s book. Simply press the firebutton when you see the
"GAME OVER" screen. Note that any Puzzle Cards collected after the
book was viewed will be returned to their original locations and must
be found again.


SPECIAL ITEMS
[all the items' pictures omitted]

Every level has at least one of the following. Don't pass them by.
Pick them up!


PUZZLE CARDS

Some are very well hidden so have patiance and search high and low.
Not all Puzzle Cards found in a land will be for its character. This
means you may need to visit other lands to find Puzzle Cards to
complete the land you are currently exploring. You do not have to
collect all the Puzzle Cards in a set, only the number required to
move on to the next land. However, you will recieve bonus points for
collecting a full set of Puzzle Cards. There are 42 in all.


GOLDEN ARCHERS(tm)

Collect 100 of these to play the special Bonus Level where you can win
up to five 1-Up tokens.


1-UP

Each one collected provides an extra M.C. Kid(tm) character.


BLOCK

A common block which can be thrown at creatures to knock them out.


POROUS BLOCK

These are essential for crossing dangerous scenery, such as lava. The
M.C. Kids(tm) have no control over a floating Porous Block.


SPECIAL BLOCK

By throwing or placing one of these in an outline in the sky, the M.C.
Kids(tm) can use it to help them reach alternate routes through
levels.


SPECIAL BLOCK OUTLINE

A Special Block is thrown into this.


BOAT

This is simply a must for crosing water. Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) can
pick up a Boat, throw it in the water and jump into it. Now pushing
the joystick shaft will move the Boat. To leave the Boat, jump out of
it - but make sure there's solid ground nearby!


SPECIAL SCENERY
[all scenery pictures omitted]


ZIPPER

With and M.C. Kid(tm) standing in front of one, press the firebutton
to use it.


REVERSER

Don't touch these rotten blocks for they send Mick(tm) or Mack(tm)
spinning back to the beginning of a level.


SPINNER

These are found at the end of some of the platforms in the sky. Run
across a Spinner at full speed to play upside down! The sky will
become ground and vice versa. To play the right way up again, run over
a Spinner at full speed.


MICK MACK'ER(tm)

Touch this to turn Mick(tm) to Mack(tm) and vice versa.


LEAVES

They act as platforms. Some of them hang steady in the air, while
others float to the ground - so use them quickly!


SPRINGBOARD

When Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) jumps onto one of these he is shot into the
air.


SUPER SPRINGBOARD

A larger, more powerful version of the Springboard. The Super
Springboard needs weight to activate it so an M.C. Kid(tm) must be
carrying a block when he jumps on it.


ICE BRIDGE

It's slippery and not very strong. If Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) carries
anything over the bridge or falls on to it, it will break.


FIRE BRIDGE


It looks fine - until an M.C. Kid(tm) steps on it. The fire will burn
from left to right so run across the bridge as fast as you can!


FALLING BRIDGE

Some of the blocks in this bridge will fall when Mick(tm) or Mack(tm)
stands on them.


BONES

You won't see them often, but if you do, don't stand on one for too
long or it will crumble and fall.


TRAVEL LIFT

It only operates when Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) stands on it.


CONTINOUS LIFT

It moves non-stop in loop.


CONVEYOR LIFT

This is the most difficult to master. A Conveyor Lift will not move
until Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) walks on it... in the opposite direction
you wish to go!


CLOUDS

They take Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) skywards where they will find hidden
bonuses and other useful items.


THE FINISHING LINE

At the end of every level there's a Finishing Line - a tightrope with
a spinning Golden Arch(tm) moving back and forth along it.

For extra bonuses, to be used at the end of the quest, Mick(tm) and
Mack(tm) must jump on the Finishing Line and land on the Golden
Arch(tm).  The farther to the right they land, the bigger the bonus.

When Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) jump far enough to the right and land on
the spinning Golden Arch(tm) they will recieve a Magic Block to be
used in the final stage of their quest. And remember: only a true
Finishing Line has the moving Golden Arch(tm) that spins!


APPENDIX ONE: THE SIX LANDS OF McDONALDLAND(tm)

Here's a brief guide to the six lands of McDonaldland(tm).


[Map of the Clubhouse omitted]

RONALD'S(tm) CLUBHOUSE

Mick(tm) and Mack's(tm) quest begins here. You need a good head for
heights to reach the tops of the tall trees!


[Map of the Treehuse omitted]

BIRDIE'S(tm) TREEHOUSE

Climb up through the clouds, across a frosty mountain, and through
frozen caverns and an icy maze. And beware of icicles!


[Map of the Highlands omitted]

GRIMACE'S(tm) HIGHLANDS

This land is full of cliffs and lakes. Watch out for the huge
waterfall.


[Map of the Workshop omitted]

PROFESSOR'S(tm) WORKSHOP

An enchanted forest and a ship are found where the sand lies all
around.  The Professor(tm) will allow Mick(tm) and Mack(tm) to use his
latest invention... provided they can find his Puzzle Cards!


[Map of Cosmic's(tm) world omitted]

COSMIC'S(tm) RETREAT

A lunar land full of caverns and tunnels. Beware! The Moon's
gravitational pull isn't as strong as it is on Earth!


[Map of the Hideout omitted]

HAMBURGLAR'S(tm) HIDEOUT

Here is a land full of volcanoes with hot lava to cross. Don't abuse
the machines in the lava or they might stop working! Ronald's(tm)
Magic Bag is almost within your grasp!


THE BONUS LEVEL

When the M.C. Kids(tm) have collected 100 Golden Arches(tm) they will
be whisked away to a secret (and special) Bonus Level. At the very
bottom of the Bonus Level (Fig 20) you will see a Mick Mack'er and a
Zipper. More importantly, above this are four Special Lifts. They will
be active for a second, in which time only one of them will go up.
That's the one you want! Be prepared to jump onto another Special Lift
going up if you want to reach the top and earn 1-Ups!

[Fig 20 omitted]


APPENDIX TWO: McDONALDLAND(tm) CREATURES
[All creatures' pictures omitted]

Meet the creatures found in the six lands of McDonaldland(tm).


GOFORIT

This crazy creature will keep you on your toes, for he follows an M.C.
Kid(tm) wherever he goes.


DRAGGIE

He moves slow and looks dim, but be quick to jump him.


ALBERT

He flaps and tries to fly away but only ends up in Mick(tm) and
Mack's(tm) way.


HANGING HARRY

He hangs from trees so please be wise, or Harry will take you by
surprise.


FITCH

It's a harmless pretty flower, yes? Don't you believe it - it causes
distress.


PUTT

Watch out for this batty bird, it's flight path is quite absurd.


GNASH

Be careful in the water where this fish swims, for a character's lost
if it touches his limbs.


SPLINTER

It's best to leave alone this busy little beaver (groan).


FINEOUS

Up in the clouds your eyes must be keen, for Fineous(tm) fin is all
that is seen.


FROGO

Goforit's distant relative can withstand the cold, but not a
well-placed Super-Shot, so be bold!


SHNO-ZER

He's more dangerous than he'd appear, throwing snowballs at those who
near.


DEE-THAW

Shno-zer's close cousin jumps straight for an M.C. Kid(tm), so when
crossing the snow, be careful not to skid.


I PSYCHO

This mysterious character lives in the snow and shouldn't be touched,
wouldn't you know.


JACK RABBID

When you meet this funny bunny here, you will just wish he'd
disappear.

PROPBOT

Watch out for the propeller of this tough little fella.


McMOOSE

He doesn't look much to fear, but when he charges, stand clear.


GERG

He follows the M.C. Kids(tm) wherever they roam, even in the sand, his
true home.


POKUMS

These spikes are sharp, beware, so jump them all with care.


NERB

Out from the volcano walls it flies, and anything it touches, it
fries.


KROME-DOME

His protective helmet will never stop, so hit him just right for a
Super-Shot!


LEINAD

He knows every move an M.C. Kid(tm) makes, his big eyes alert for any
mistakes.


WHIRLEE

The precipitous cliffs are where Whirlee's found, so mind he doesn't
knock the M.C. Kids(tm) to the ground.


FIZZIE

When crossing the water watch out for this tricky fishy leaping about.


NERRAD

When an M.C. Kid(tm) crosses his bridge so pure, Nerrad will be hot on
his heels for sure.


TYE

When it is free from the Magic Bag, it takes more than one hit to make
it sag.


MAGIC WAND

Ronald's(tm) magic is at work here, so hit this rod often, it's clear!


APPENDIX THREE: PLAY ADVICE

Try to carry a Block with you at all times.

It's possible to catch a block once it's been thrown - try it!

When Mick(tm) or Mack(tm) is temporarily invulnerable after touching a
creature, use the brief time wisely to pass tricky spots.

If you are having trouble finding Puzzle Cards in a land, try visiting
its McDonaldland(tm) character for some helpful hints or clues.

There are many secrets to be found in McDonaldland and - some of them
in the craziest of places! Don't be afraid to explore.


CAUTION!

Cassettes and diskettes are magnetic media. Do not expose them to
x-rays or intense magnetic fields as the data they hold will be
erased. Do not attempt to "back up" this data as it may be destroyed
in the process, and it's also an infringement of copyright. Virgin
Games Ltd accepts no responsibility for cassettes or diskettes damaged
as a direct result of infringement of copyright.


[Back cover:]


[Mick's face omitted]

1 COOL GAME, 2 COOL KIDS!

[Mack's face omitted]

[Virgin Games logo omitted]

The following are trademarks of the McDonald's Corporation:
M.C. Kids, Ronald McDonald, Golden Arches, Mick, Mack, Hamburglar,
Birdie The Early Bird, Grimace, Fry Guys and Fry Girls, CosMc, The
Professor, Ronald McDonald Children's Charities, and McDonaldland.

(c) 1992 McDonald's Corporation. (c) 1992 Virgin Games Ltd 1993.

Screen shots may be taken from a different version.

Virgin Games Ltd, 338A Ladbroke Grove, London W10 5AH.
Tel: (081) 960 2255. Fax: (081) 960 9900.