                                 MEAN 18

            		      Ultimate Golf

INTRODUCTION

	Mean  18  allows  1 to 4 people to play a round of golf at a variety of
famous  and user designated golf courses.  This is a great simulation of a
classic  game,  combining  a  challenging  blend  of  strategy  and  skill
development.
	Mean  18 requires 512K memory, KickStart (v.1.1 or later) and Workbench
be  loaded prior to inserting the Mean 18 "Program and FamousCourse" disk.
Because  of  the  Amiga's  higher disk capacity, the "Program" and "Famous
Course Disk:  Vol.  I" have been combined onto one disk.

COURSES

	The  "Program  and  Famouscourse  disk"contains  St.  Andrews, Augusta,
Pebble Beach, and Bush Hill country club.  All courses were designed using
the COURSE ARCHITECT.


			PLAYING MEAN 18 GOLF


	To  select  course,  click  on the name of the course you wish to play.
Selecting  the  game options is done by moving the mouse pointer over your
selection and clicking the left button.

SELECTING OPTIONS

	At  the  bottom of the screen, you will be prompted to start a new game
or resume a saved game.
	If  you resume a saved game, it will be restored and play will continue
where you left off.
	For a new game you will select the number of players (from 1 to 4).

	Select Scoring:
	
		Stroke (Medal) - normal play for 1 to 4 players
		Match - 2 player - player who scores the best on holes wins
		Best Ball - 2 teams - 4 players - lowest score for team wins

	For   each  player  -  Enter  initials,  professional/regulation  tees,
beginner/experienced.
	Pro/reg tees: Each hole has 2 tees; pro is set further back.
	Beg/exp player: A beginner gets perfect aim and the caddy
		recommends the best club based on distance to the pin (you
		can change this club selection if desired). The experienced
		player must choose his own club and make more accurate
		shots.
	Beginning Play:
		1. Practice tee - develop shot making skills with each club
		2. Practice green - improve putting accuracy
		3. Practice a hole - play any hole.
		4. Begin Game - start playing a round of 18 holes.
		5. Quit - ends the game

ORDER OF PLAY:

	At  the  beginning of each hole, order of play is determined by honors,
that  is,  which  player  or team won the previous hole.  Once all players
have tted off, the player farthest from the hole is always next.

MAKING A SHOT

	Use  the  ESC key anytime to view available options.  Up and down arrow
keys  are  used  to  change  club selection.  Use left and right arrows to
scroll the aim (a full 360 degree rotation if possible).  "O" gives you an
Overhead view, "C" displays the scorecard, and "Q" quits the game.

	Note: At any time use ALT-S to alternatively toggle the sound
	      effects on or off.

	A complete shot requires three taps on the mouse button as follows:

          !-----!	1. Tap once to start backswing. Each line on the 
          !-----!          power guage (on the left side of the screen)
        =-      -100%      incrementally increases the power of your swing
  Top of  !-----!          by 10% of the club's rated potential distance
  swing   !-----!          (see club distance table below). Dark area at
		 -90%       top (over 100%) indicates overswing which
	       !-----!          significantly reduces ball control and results
   P      !-----!          in a longer (but wilder) shot.
   O            -80%    2. Press the mouse button a second time to start
   W      !-----!          downswing at the desired point on the power
   E      !-----!          guage. An arrow will mark the point where this
   R            -70%       occurred. Stopping your backswing part way up 
          !-----!          will result in a shorter shot (useful for
          !-----!          chipping).
   G            -60%    3. The third (and final) tap will snap your wrists
   A      !-----!          at the bottom of the swing (line where swing
   U      !     !          began). Snapping the wrists early (above the 
   G      !-----!          line) will result in a hook (ball curves to the
   E            -50%       left). Snapping the wrists late below the line
          !-----!          results in a slice (ball curves to the right).
          !     !          An arrow will mark this point.
          !-----!
                -40%    To select an option, position the pointer over the
          !-----!       icon and click.
          !     !   
          !-----!       When hitting the ball, move the pointer anywhere
                -30%    above the icon portion of the screen.
          !-----!     
          !     !       Use the volume control on your monitor to adjust
          !     !       sound.
          !-----!
                -20%
          !-----!       SHOTMAKING TIPS
          !     !
          !     !        From deep rough and sandtraps, a wood will result
          !-----!        in a poor shot. Use an iron, and even them make
                -10%     sure not to overswing, which will almost certainly
          !-----!        result in a poor shot. Each shot's trajectory is a
          !     !        combination of your swing and a little bit of luck.
          !     !        When the ball hits the gound, it randomly bounces
          !     !        left or right. Also, when hitting from different
 Hook     !-----!        terrains, you need to use a bigger club than normal
Straight -      -0       to achieve the same distance. From light rough,
Slice     !-----!        this difference is about one club up. From deep
          !     !(Start) rough and sand it is more like 2 to 3 clubs. Both
          !     !        beginners and experienced players must make this
          !     !        adjustment.
          !-----!

PUTTING
	Use  the  up/down arrows to aim your put.  The arrows on the green will
indicate  the  direction  of the undulations (breaks) which will cuase the
ball  to  move  in  their  direction.   Therefore  you must anticipate the
correct "line" the ball should travel in order to sink your putt.

CLUB DISTANCE TABLE

	With  a  good full swing, each club averages the following distance and
loft.   Loft is the angle of the club face.  The more loft, the higher the
ball will go in the air.

	DISTANCE			LOFT (degrees)

	Driver - 250 yards		15
	3 Wood - 230 yards		22
	4 Wood - 215 yards		25
	2 Iron - 207 yards		18
	3 Iron - 197 yards		22
   4 Iron - 184 yards		25
   5 Iron - 172 yards		30
   6 Iron - 159 yards		34
   7 Iron - 148 yards   		38
   8 Iron - 136 yards		42
	9 Iron - 124 yards		46
	P-wedge- 112 yards (pitching wedge)
	S-wedge- 100 yards (sand wedge)
	Putter - Each mark on the power guage is approximately 8 feet. Make
	allowances for breaks on the greens.

TERRAIN

	The following are types of terrain:

	1. Fairway
	2. Light rough
	3. Deep rough
	4. Sandtraps
	5. Water hazards
	6  Putting greens
	7. Out of Bounds

	Note: In "COURSE ARCHITECT" see samples of terrain color and
	      shading when designing or modifying a hole.

	When landing in rough, or using short irons (ie., 9 iron) the ball will
come to a stop more quickly than normal.  When landing on a green, it will
"bite"  more  quickly  than in the fairway.  When landing in sand, it will
come  to a stop very quickly (although it may still skip out of the trap).
When  using  a  wood  or  long  iron  (ie.,  3 wood, 3 iron) the ball will
continue to roll farther unless it lands in the rough or a trap.
	If  the ball comes to rest out of bounds, a penalty stroke is taken (in
addition to the stroke played), and the shot must be replayed.
	If a ball lands in the water, a penalty stroke is taken (in addition to
the  stroke  played).  The ball must then be replayed or dropped somewhere
along an imaginary line between the hole and the point where the ball last
crossed  water.   The  player  is  taken to the overhead view to make this
decision.

TREES

	When a ball hits a tree, it will either ricochet back towards you along
a random angle (if you hit a solid brown or black part of the tree), or go
through the tree (slowed down and exit sideways along a random angle).

GREENS
	
	When  all  players  have  reached  the green, the screen switches to an
overhead  view  of  the  green  with  all  balls  lying on it.  The player
furthest  from  the  hole  putts first, and play proceeds normally, except
that  a  player  has  the  option  of finishing their putt (like real golf
etiquette).

SCORECARD

	The  scorecard  shows  the current score of each player.  Dots indicate
the  player  (match  play) or team (best ball) which won the hole.  At the
end  of  18  holes  of  play,  you  will  have  the option of printing the
scorecard for a permanent record.

QUITTING

	Players may quit at any time.  However, the game only saves information
on  completed  holes.  When a game is "quit" while playing a hole, players
will  resume  on the tee of that hole.  Quitting also allows the option of
restarting the game.

HALL OF FAME

	The  Mean  18  Hall  of Fame is reserved for the top 10 scores for each
course.   It  records the players initials, score (for both front and back
nine),  skill  level,  which  tees  were  used, and the date (input by the
user).   only scores under 100 will be recorded.  If you score over 100, a
trip to the practice tee is probably in order!

			   COURSE ARCHITECT

THIS FEATURE ALLOWS YOU TO DESIGN OR MODIFY AN ENTIRE GOLF COURSE.

	Note:   Remember  to  make  a  backup copy of your course disk prior to
using  the COURSE ARCHITECT.  This preserves the original courses supplied
with the game.

CONTROL

	Mouse  (refer  to  the  manual  supplied  with  your  mouse  for proper
installation.

	Joystick
	Keyboard (directional arrow keys and space bar as action button)

SELECTION SCREEN

	By   using   the   appropriate   control,  move  the  cursor  over  the
corresponding  area  of  the  screen (until the corner brackets around the
item are displayed) to select one of the following options:

	1. Change or enter course name (by typing up to 17 characters from
	   the keyboard when prompted to do so).
	2. Design or modify skyline background.
	3. Modify trees and bushes.
	4. Design or modify all or any one of 18 holes.

	Note: Use the action button (mouse or joystick) or spacebar to
	      activate option.

	NOTE: Only the mouse is used on the Amiga for course design.

DESIGN AND MODIFICATION

	When  designing  or modifying skyline, trees or specific holes, some or
all  of  the following features may apply (note:  some features may not be
displayed on all option screens):
	
	You can select the view marker under and/or to the left of the wide
	angle (panoramic) display. These markers may be moved right/left
	or up/down to scroll the zoomed detail window displayed on the
	left of the screen.

	The white directional arrows on the screen may be used for fine
	scrolling of these images.

	You may select one of the following                 !!
        "paint brush" sizes:                     .   +     =  =
                                                            !!
	You may select a color or terrain type with which to paint or fill.

	PAINTING - place the cursor over the specific area on the detail
	(or panoramic) view and press the action button to change that spot
        (corresponding to current "paint brush" size) to the selected
	color.

     Note: While painting or scrolling you may hold the action button down
	   and the activity will continue until released. Using the
	   mouse button, the first press "locks" it down and the second
	   press releases it.

	FILLING - select "FILL", then move to the specific area (as with
	PAINTING above) and press the mouse button. This will change that
	spot and all adjoining spots of the same color to the currently
	selected color. The adjoining spots effected must be horizontally
	or vertically touching (not on a diagonal) and corresponding spots
	adjoining them will also be effected.

	CANCEL - undoes any immediate (unsaved) changes you have made on
	this screen.

	SAVE - permanently saves your design changes to the disk.

When  designing  a  specific  hole,  there  are  several  other options in
addition to the ones listed above.

	CLR - (Clear) erases all terrain features except hole and tees.

	TREES - select TREES box on the right. The new screen will allow
	you to select one of six types of trees or brushes and (while
	holding mouse button down) move it into the desired position on the
	course (then release the mouse button). Use a similar procedure to 
	remove trees from the course. There can be a maximum of 28 trees on
	any hole. You can also move the flag and hole (cup) any place on
	the green using a similar procedure. Select DONE to exit from this
	screen.

	PAR - move cursor over PAR number and click mouse button to change
	value from 3,4 or 5.

	TEES - select P or R to move the position of the Pro or Regular
	tee. Move the cursor to the new position on the upper panoramic
	screen and click the mouse button to position it (indicated by the 
	block dot). The old tee position will be "erased" to fairway color
	and must be painted out manually if another type of terrain is
	desired. Yards to hole are indicated on lower left of the screen
	and will vary as the cursor is moved in relation to the hole. This
	number indicated "line of sight" distance from the Tee to the hole.

   Note: When actually playing a hole this number may be larger since the
	 distance is then calculated along the fairway.

	GREEN (positioning) - click on G move cursor to the position where
	you want the upper left hand corner of the new position of the green
	(on the upper panoramic screen). The new green (of the same shape)
	will be drawn at this position. The old green will be "erased" to 
	fairway similar to the "Tees" above.

	GREEN (design) - select the GREEN box on the right of the screen to
	design the size, shape and undulations of the green. Then select a
	"paint brush" size and FWY to make the green smaller by painting in
	(adding) fairway. To increase the size of the green and to define
!--       /\ 	     --!	the slope (undulations) select a slope or
!        /  \         !   flat direction (center section) from
                          Diagram as indicated. Use this to paint the
                          desired areas. Select DONE to exit this
/        Flat         \   screen.
\                     /
                          Note: Although cup position is indicated on
!        \  /         !         this screen it can only be moved on the
!---      \/        --!         TREES screen as described above.

	MODIFYING TREES - You may design/modify a tree to better suit the
	course environment using the Course Architect.
	
	Pick any one of the six available trees from the "selection
	screen". You will then be taken to the "tree design/edit" screen.
	You will see bothe the "course tree" (on left) "overhead tree" (on
	right) represented in both "actual" and "zoomed" windows. You may
	edit both windows of each tree except for the "overhead tree". Only
	the "zoomed window" may be edited.

	MODIFYING SKYLINE - You may design/modify the skyline in much the
	same manner as trees. The skyline will be represented in the "course"
	depiction only snce it is not seen from the "overhead" view. The
	skyline in the game is made up of eight 45° screens spliced
	together to provide a full 360° panoramic view when playing Mean
	18. When editing a skyline, the left side and right side should
	"connect" to provide a sense of continuity.

=============================================================================

Mean 18 docs brought to you by The Southern Star.

