               MicroLeague Baseball: The Manager's Challenge

                           QUICK REFERENCE CARD 
 
Game Controls 
 
If you have a mouse all input can be done by pointing to your selection and 
pressing the mouse button.  With or without the mouse, the keyboard can be 
used to select an option by pressing the left/number appearing to the left 
of the option. 
 
In a two-player game, you can alternately use the mouse, or the visiting 
team can input their selections using the number keys (top of keyboard), 
while the home team uses the numeric keypad (right of keyboard). 
 
** To convert MLBII disks to TMC format call for free Enchanced Stat
Compiler. **


               MicroLeague Baseball: The Manager's Challenge
 
                         EXPERT MODE REFERENCE CARD 
 
                                  OFFENSE 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|  (1)     Batter                 |        (2)     Runner **               | 
|                                 |                                        | 
|   1     Hit and Run             |         1     LF Extra Base            | 
|   2     Bunt for Hit            |         2     CF Extra Base            | 
|   3     Sacrifice Bunt          |         3     RF Extra Base            | 
|   4     Hit behind Runner       |         4     Steal                    | 
|   5     Squeeze Bunt            |                                        | 
|   6     Swing Away              | ** After you make your selection(s)    | 
|   8     Lineup                  | (if any) you must press the [spacebar] | 
|   9     Bullpen                 | or [+] to advance to the next menu.    | 
|   10    Stat Book               |                                        | 
|                                 |                                        | 
| Default selection is Swing Away |                                        | 
|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------| 
|  (3)     Pitch Type             |  (4) Pitch Location (Full Count Only)  | 
|                                 |                                        | 
|   1     Fast Ball               |   1     Inside Low                     | 
|   2     Curve Ball              |   2     Low                            | 
|   3     Slider                  |   3     Outside Low                    | 
|   4     Change Up               |   4     Inside High                    | 
|   5     Specialty               |   5     High                           | 
|                                 |   6     Outside High                   |
|                                 |                                        | 
|   Default selection is random   |      Default selection is random       | 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
Remember: To choose the default selection, the visiting team can press 
          the [spacebar] and the home team can press [+]. 
 
 
 
 
                                  DEFENSE 
                                   
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|  (1)      Pitcher              |         (2)     Infield **              | 
|                                |                                         | 
|   1     Pick Off               |          1     Infield In               | 
|   2     Intentional Walk       |          2     In at the Corners        | 
|   3     Pitch Around           |          3     Guard Line               | 
|   4     Pitch Aggresively      |          4     Play to Pull             | 
|   5     Pitch Out              |          5     Play Opposite Field      | 
|   6     Pitch                  |          6     Play Behind 1st Base     | 
|   8     Lineup                 |                                         | 
|   9     Bullpen                |  ** After you make your selection(s)    | 
|   10    Stat Book              |  (if any) you must press the [spacebar] | 
|                                |  or [+] to advance to the next menu.    | 
|   Default selection is Pitch   |                                         | 
|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------| 
|   (3)     Outfield             |       (4)     Pitch Type                | 
|                                |                                         | 
|    1     LF Shallow            |        1     Fast Ball                  | 
|    2     CF Shallow            |        2     Curve Ball                 | 
|    3     RF Shallow            |        3     Slider                     | 
|    4     LF Deep               |        4     Change Up                  | 
|    5     CF Deep               |        5     Specialty                  | 
|    6     RF Deep               |                                         | 
|    7     Play OF to Pull       |      Default selection is random        | 
|    8     Play OF Aggressively  |                                         | 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                  |  (5) Pitch Location (Full Count Only)  | 
                  |                                        | 
                  |   1     Inside Low                     | 
                  |   2     Low                            | 
                  |   3     Outside Low                    | 
                  |   4     Inside High                    | 
                  |   5     High                           | 
                  |   6     Outside High                   | 
                  |                                        | 
                  |      Default selection is random       | 
                  ------------------------------------------ 
 
Remember: To choose the default selection, the visiting team can press 
          the [spacebar] and the home team can press [+]. 

==============================================================================
              MicroLeague Baseball: The Manager's Challenge 

                               MANUAL 
  
                     HANDBOOK AND REFERENCE GUIDE

MicroLeague Baseball Hard Drive Installation for Amiga Users

   To run the hard drive install utility from the Workbench simply double
click on the icon labeled "HDinstall" on the MicroLeague Baseball game disk.
To run the utility from the CLI type "MLBB:HDinstall".  The HDinstall
program will then prompt you to type the desired location for the
MicroLeague Baseball directory (e.g. Workbench:games).  After entering
the path name the install utility will create a directory called "MLBB"
and copy all the necessary files into that directory.  MicroLeague Baseball
and the Stat Compiler require 800 kilobytes of free space on the hard
drive to install.

   Please note that this manual was written for the IBM version of the
simulation.  Anything referencing specific IBM hardware or software 
should be ignored by the Amiga user.  As an example the quick reference
card has various loading procedures for various graphics modes.  This
does not pertain to the Amiga user who will only use the standard Amiga
display mode.  However there are "Quick-keys" listed on the card for
use in the game, and they are not to be ignored.  They are available
for your use during the game.

   Also note that the stat compiler is included in this game, but you
will need to access it from the opening icon or type "statcomp" from 
the CLI prompt.

WELCOME

It's the bottom of the ninth, one out and your pitcher has the tying run
on second and the winning run at the plate.  The opposing team has put in 
their best right-handed pinch hitter and he looks confident.  Now it's up
to you.  Your managerial skills are the key to winning this game.  Using 
your Stat Book feature, you will see that the pinch hitter has a 
tremendous batting average against left-handed pitchers (.308) but his
average against right-handed pitchers isn't that great (.200).  He is
a pull hitter with a lot of extra base hits when batting against the
"lefties" (10-2b, 2-3b, and 15 HR).  Your starting pitcher, who is a 
lefty, has thrown a terrific game so far, but you can see from the bullpen
that he's getting tired.

You look in your bullpen for a righty who can blow the ball right past
this batter.  Remember, however, that this reliever is cold and can be 
rocked for an extra base hit by this batter.  The result being the loss
of the game.  You can see from his stats that the reliever has only
given up 3 HR's in the last 50 innings pitched and struck out 23 right
handed batters.  His only bad 'stat' is that he has given up 9 doubles
in the same amount of time.  Do you go with him?  He's powerful and you
are sure he can end this game with a win.

Since you know the batter is a solid pull hitter, you need to play your
fielders accordingly.  You don't want balls to go over the outfielders
head, but the chances of this batter hitting the ball any where near
right field are slim.  Use your defensive coach menu and have your left
fielder play deep and your center fielder play deep for the pull.  Both
of these players in your lineup have strong arms, so play them aggressively
and they'll be able to keep the runner from scoring on a long fly.

There's only one out; will the batter sacrifice bunt to advance the runner?
Look at his bunting and sacrifice ability.  You see that this guy is big
and powerful but he's not fast.  You decide he will not try to bunt in
this situation.

Since the batter is a pull hitter, cover the gap in right-center field by
telling your infielders to play for the pull.  This will bring your
second baseman closer to second base, in effect plugging up the gap. 
Also, you don't want to give up and extra base hit, so you guard the
line -- your infield is set.

What about your pitching strategy?  The reliever is powerful; do you throw
it right at the batter?  The batter can really hit the ball so pitching
aggressively may not be the best choice.  Walking him is an option with 
first base open.  The on-deck batter isn't as threatening as this guy
but they could pinch hit for him too.  If you can retire this guy the
game will be yours.  You decide to pitch regular to him and not give him
anything good to hit because of the open base and weak on-deck batter.
Hopefully, he will swing at the trash and strike out.  You decide to
pitch around him and throw a slider.  The slider will break away from him
so if he does connect it shouldn't be a solid hit.

Here's the pitch... the batter swings... he connects... it's going deep
to left center field... your center fielder is running underneath it
and makes the grab to end the game.  If he hadn't been playing in the
alley he may not have gotten to the ball and it could have rolled to the
wall for a double.  Your managerial decisions made the difference in the
game, and you won.  That's what MicroLeague Baseball, The Manager's
Challenge is all about.

MicroLeague Baseball - The Manager's Challenge is a third generation
simulation.  We have put many hours of research and development into this
product so the above example can be as close to reality as your computer.   
 
To make TMC the best we've added the following:

More Statistics

o Righty and lefty breakdown for pitchers and batters
o More defensive ratings
o More offensive ratings
o Different probability calculations to make the outcomes of each play
  more realistic
o Seasonal factors.  A players performance will drop if you over play him
  and you need to bring up a reserve

More Options

o Different effectiveness of pitch, pitch aggressively, and pitch around
o More control over base runners - running coach
o More control over defensive positioning in the field, both infield and
  outfield
o More stadium factors taken into consideration
o Expanded 30 man-roster so you can bring up a reserve when your regulars
  are tired
o Go to a full count, face a batter on a pitch-by-pitch basis

Now you are in control of your team and you actually make the difference
in taking them to the championship.  No two games are ever the same.  
Your team's schedule and your managerial decisions will affect the
statistical outcome of MicroLeague Baseball, The Manager's Challenge.

MicroLeague Baseball, The Manager's Challenge is better than ever.  From
our exclusive, MicroLeague Action 3-D graphics to expanded stats and 
rosters, it includes these new features:

Before the game:

   When you select the batting order you can check the player's stats vs.
left-handed and right-handed pitchers.
   Select the batting order and starting pitcher.
 
During the game:

   Tell a batter to bunt, hit away, or take a pitch.
   Pitch aggressively and call for a fastball, slider, or curve.
   In key game situations, go to a full count.
   Pitch around the hitter or issue an intentional walk.
   Bring your infield in to guard against a bunt.

After the game:

   Print out a complete box score.
   The Stat Compiler lets you accumulate season stats for your team,
track league standings, manage reserve and disabled players, copy teams
from season disks, and more...
   In future games, you can use these stats in scouting reports to help you
win.  You can even form your own teams for league play.

Season and Team disks from MLB the Original and MLB II will be compatible
with TMC.  Other specialty disks such as the General Manager/Owner, 
Season, and Manager Philosophy disks are also available.

The GM/O disk allows you to trade, draft, or release players and change
your roster/stats as the season progresses.

Manager Philosophy disks will give you the opportunity to test your
managerial skills against other coaches like Whitey Hertzog, Sparky
Anderson (based on their teams' tendencies) and more.  Call for details.

Stadium disks will be available representing old-time and current 
stadiums.  These disks will further enhance the simulation by giving 
you the true representation of each team's playing field.

The MicroLeague Field Guide and Disk published by Bantam is an in-
depth look at the players on each team on the MicroLeague game disk.
This book is essential for the MicroLeaguer who wants to try to take
his team to the World Series.  The book provides highly sought-after
"scouting reports" on over 1000 players featured on the game-disk as
well as an historical perspective on all 26 Major League franchises.

GETTING STARTED 
 
Load the game according to the enclosed reference card.  Once the program
has loaded, the main menu will appear.
 
Main Menu Options  
 
Play Game 

Use this option to fully test your team management skills.  You will see 
every play shown graphically as you call it.  This mode of play allows you 
to access all of the features of the game.  You have two options when you 
are in the middle of the game and need to stop.  You can save the game or 
quick play the rest of it, both of which are explained below. 
 
Play Quick - (during a game being played) To complete a game with lightning 
speed all you need to do is press [B] and bring up your box score screen. 
One of the selections on this screen will be Play Quick and it will 
complete the rest of your game so you can see the stats in seconds. 
 
Save Game - Once you begin playing a game you will have the ability to 
save it at any time during the game so you can come back to it later. 
You will need to go to your box score by pressing [B] and look for Save 
and Quit Game.  This will be explained more in the Scoreboard sections 
of the manual. 
 
Expert / Normal Play - To switch between these two modes of play, which 
will be discussed shortly, all you need to do is press [X] when you are in 
the Game Options screen.  The game will automatically start in Normal mode. 
If expert mode is selected, game play will stay that way until you change 
it or quit the game. 
 
Play Quick

This option lets you play games without making decisions.  Using artificial 
intelligence, the game is played in less than a minute.  At the end of the 
game you will see the complete box score.  You could play an entire Major 
League Season in a few hours. 
 
Quit

Press [ESC] to quit the game, or to go back to the previous menu.  You can 
only use this method of back-tracking when the box with a circle in it 
appears in the upper-left-hand corner of the screen.  If you would like to 
quit while a game is in progress, press [B] to see the boxscore, then 
select [F3] to quit. 
 
Stat Compiler 

The Stat Compiler, which is on a separate disk, will work with both the 
Play Game and the Play Quick modes.  This invaluable component of TMC is 
hard drive compatible and will allow you to create your own leagues and 
track the players' stats as you play games.  It also allows you to check 
and update your full 30-man roster so you can prepare for the next game.  
For a complete explanation of how to load it and use all of its functions, 
please refer to the Stat Compiler section of this manual. 
 
PLAY GAME 
 
Team Selection Screen

First you will make selections from the Team Selection screen.  Simply 
press the letter next to the name of the visiting team, then the home 
team.  After your teams have been selected, you will go to the Game 
Options screen where you can select the various options available.  If 
you do not want to change any of the options, select [F9] and your game 
will begin.  All of the options, including team selection, ar explained 
below. 
 
Selecting Teams

To select new teams, press [V] for visiting team selection or [H] for 
home team selection.  Once you have selected [V] or [H] a team selection 
menu will appear.  To select a team press the letter or number to the left 
of the team name.  Once you have selected a team you will go back to the 
Game Options screen and the team name will appear in the box below Visitor 
or Home.  Repeat this process for the other team, if you would like a 
change to be made. 
 
Stadium Selection
 
To choose a stadium to play in press [S] and a pop-up menu will appear on 
the screen listing the available stadiums.  If you have a stadium disk 
type the letter of the drive it is in and those choices will appear on the 
screen.  If all of your information is on your hard disk type [C] and your 
available choices will appear.  Select the number of the stadium you want 
and you will return to the "Game Options" screen.  If no choice is made 
from this screen, you will automatically play at Yankee Stadium.  Remember, 
the stadium you choose does effect the outcome of the game.  A ball hit off 
the wall at Dodger Stadium may be a home run at Yankee Stadium. 
 
Manager Selection

Under the visiting and home team names you will see windows for your 
manager selection.  If no choice is made both managers will be "Player 
Managers" rather than "Computer Managers".  For the Visitors to have a 
"Computer Manager", select [F1].  The message in the window will read 
"Computer MAN".  To change the Home team to a computer manager select [F2] 
and the appropriate change will be made.  These changes will be permanent 
until you change them or exit the game. 
 
Designated Hitter Option

You have the choice of using a DH with any team.  The game starts off 
without the DH.  To select the DH option press [D].  The message in the 
window will now say "Use DH Rule."  The DH will be the tenth man on your 
roster and he will bat in the ninth spot for the pitcher. 
 
Switching Graphics On/Off

You will be able to play TMC with graphic animation or without it.  The 
advantage of having the graphics off speeds up game play.  The 
disadvantage is that you do not see the play, only the result.  To play 
with the animations, look to the lower left portion of your Game Options 
screen.  Next to the letter [A] you will see "Animate Plays" or "Animation 
Off".  The letter [A] is like a switch.  If you hit it once the message 
will change, if you hit it again it will return to the original message.  
For example, if the message is "animation off" press the letter [A] and
the message will change to "Animate Plays."  You can use this option in 
Expert as well as Normal Play.  It cannot be used, however, in the Play 
Quick mode. 
 
Load Game

To use this option you must have a saved game.  To save the game you are 
currently playing you need to access the boxscore.  To do this press [B].  
Once you are there, select [F2], Save and Quit Game and the program will 
ask you to input a name to save your file under (You can use any name you 
wish).  To play the game later, select [L], Load Game from the Game 
Options screen and then select the filename for your game.  The game will 
pick up exactly where you left off. 
 
Expert / Normal Play

To switch between these two modes of play, which will be discussed shortly, 
press [X] when you are in the Game Options screen.  When you start the game 
the computer will automatically select normal mode.  Once you have chosen 
expert mode it will stay that way until you change it or quit the game. 
 
Normal Play - This lets you play the game with all of your menus visible 
on the screen.  You will see all of your possible selections in the upper 
left or right hand corner of the screen during your selection process.  This 
is where you should start, until you become familiar with all the features 
of the game. 
 
Expert Play - This selection enables you to play the game without cycling 
through all of the menus that appear on the screen during the game.  The 
available selections are the same in the expert mode as they are in the 
normal mode of play, however, all you will have to do is enter a series of 
codes and the play will commence.  You will have to refer to a quick 
reference card to be sure that you are inputting the correct keystrokes 
for the options you desire.  The advantage of this method of play is your 
selections will not be seen by your opponent. 
 
Series Play - This feature is a must for league members.  You will have the 
ability to play each team in your division or in your league for a total of 
either 12 or 18 games.  After each game is played you will be able to see 
and printout the complete boxscore.  It's a great way to play an entire 
season in a short amount of time. 
 
Next you will move on to the Pitcher Management Screen. 
 
Pitcher Management Screen

Pitcher Management 

First, you will make decisions concerning the pitchers for the visiting 
team.  The same methods are used to manage the pitchers on the home team. 
 
When deciding how to manage your pitching lineup, pitching rotation, and 
relief pitchers, you will be able to access several different ratings and 
statistics.  First, you may print out the complete team roster and examine 
each player's statistics as they performed on that team in that year (or 
in your league).  

This will help determine which pitcher you would like to play.  When you 
have reviewed the current pitching lineup, you may examine each pitcher's 
statistics more closely. 
 
Pitcher's Condition

The Pitcher Management screen is broken into two parts.  On the left side 
is the list of available pitchers.  The only information you are given is 
the pitcher's name and which arm he pitches with.  The starting pitcher's 
name and condition are listed on the right-hand side.  Any pitcher who is 
warming up is also listed on the right.  The condition may be cold, warm, 
O.K., or tired, and will affect his pitching.  Be sure to rotate the 
starting pitchers; you can't expect your best pitcher to pitch a 100+ game 
season! 
 
Available Pitchers

Pressing the letter that is next to any available pitchers' name will 
bring up a screen that contains his pitching statistics.  The following 
statistics and ratings will be listed for each pitcher.  Each one is an 
important variable when deciding on strategy. 
 
Pitcher Stats
 
W    - Number of times pitcher has recorded a win. 
L    - Number of times pitcher has recorded a loss. 
ERA  - Earned Run Average. (earned runs) x (9) / innings pitched 
CG   - The number of complete games for the pitcher. 
SV   - For a relief pitcher, the number of times he has "saved" the 
       starting pitcher, winning the game. 
IP   - Total number of innings a pitcher has pitched. 
TF   - Tiring Factor.  This rating suggests how long a pitcher can continue 
       to pitch effectively. 
Hitting Rating
       Rating of the pitchers hitting ability. 1-4, with 4 being 
       a good hitter. 
 
The next set of statistics lists the pitcher's numbers vs. right and left- 
handed batters.  This statistic will be the same for both RHB and LHB for 
teams prior to 1982. 
 
BF   - Number of batters the pitcher has faced. 
H    - Number of hits against the pitcher. 
GBFB - The ratio of ground balls to fly balls. 
2B   - Doubles hit against the pitcher. 
3B   - Triples hit against the pitcher. 
HR   - Home runs hit against the pitcher. 
SO   - Number of strike outs. 
BB   - Number of walks. 
 
As a manager you must keep in mind that the actual statistics and subjective 
ratings will affect the outcome of the play and should be taken into 
consideration.  The ratings and statistics will remain constant unless you 
choose to update them with the Microleague GM/O Disk (or if you use the 
Compile Stats option with a league you've created). 
 
At the bottom of the statistics screen, you have three choices: 
 
o Press [F1] to put him in the game. 

o Press [F2] to warm him up. 
 
o Press [F9] to return to the list of pitchers. 
 
If you choose to put the pitcher in the game, his name will appear on the 
right side of the Pitcher Management screen listed under Pitching.  If you 
have selected him to warm up, he will be listed as "warming up". 
 
Pressing [F1] will show the statistics for the current pitcher.  On the 
statistics screen, two options are listed: 
 
o Press [F1] to remove the pitcher. 
 
o Press [F9] to return to the previous menu. 
 
When you are happy with your adjustments, press [F9] to move onto the home 
team's Pitching Management menu. 
 
Lineup Management

After you have selected the pitchers for the visiting and home teams, you 
will choose the starting lineup for first the visiting team, then the home 
team. 
 
This section will allow you to improve your managerial talent or test the 
knowledge of the game you have developed over time.  It is a good idea to 
print out your team roster before making any decisions.  

The print out will give you some sense of your team's abilities and 
tendencies, both weak and strong. 
 
Lineup Management Screen

The Lineup Management screen is divided into two parts.  On the left-hand 
side is a listing of the available substitutes.  Their batting hand is 
listed (S stands for switch-hitter) as well as their starting position.  
On the right-hand side is a listing of the current lineup.  Again, each 
player is listed along with their starting position. 
 
To see the stats of any player, press the number/letter corresponding to 
that player's name.  A screen will appear with the statistics of that 
player.  To view your entire rosters stats at once press [F1].  You will 
be able to make your choice a little faster when you have all of your 
players' information in front of you.  You are able to use this function at 
any time. 
 
Player Stat Screen

Players Stats
 
POS - The batters starting position. 
B   - His batting hand. 
T   - Throwing ability: 1-4, where 1 is the lowest. 
RBI - Number of runs the batter has driven in. 
F%  - This relates to the batters fielding percentage. 
SB  - Stolen bases 
CS  - Caught stealing a base. 
R   - Base running ability.  Rating from 1-6. 
B   - Bunting ability.  Rating from 1-6. 
S   - Sacrifice ability.  Rating from 1-6. 
P   - Pull hitter = 0, Spray = 1, Opposite Field = 2 
W   - Power (1-4) 1 being weak, 4 a HR hitter 
F   - Fielding rating range (1-9) 
 
The following statistics are listed for a batter versus a left-handed and 
right-handed pitcher.  Remember, teams before 1982 didn't track righty/ 
lefty stats. 
 
BAVG - Batting average 
AB   - Number of times a batter appeared at the plate, excluding walks, 
       hit by pitch(es), and sacrifices. 
H    - Number of hits. 
2B   - Doubles hit. 
3B   - Triples hit. 
HR   - Home runs hit. 
SO   - Number of times batter was struck out. 
BB   - Number of walks. 
 
Platooning

Platooning is used to neutralize the opponents pitcher by placing lefty 
batters against righty pitchers and vice versa.  Also taken into 
consideration are the players' batting averages.  The computer will 
choose the default lineup based on the platooning technique. 
 
Changing a Players Position

The current lineup remains on the right-hand side of the screen for 
reference.  The initials in the upper-right-hand corner correspond to the 
9 positions on the field, along with Pinch Hitter, Pinch Runner, and 
Designated Hitter.  To change the position of the current player (the one 
whose stats are on the screen), just press the letter corresponding to the 
new position.  Changing a player's position will affect his fielding range.
To keep these effects at a minimum, try to keep players within their normal 
fielding area (i.e. keep the infielders in the infield). 
 
Substituting a Player

To substitute a player into the lineup, select the player on the left side 
that will be substituted.  When the Statistics screen appears, press the 
letter corresponding to the player he is replacing.  If the position needs 
to be changed, press the appropriate letter as explained above.  The player 
that was replaced will now appear on the list of available players. 
 
After you have arranged the lineup, press [F9].  Once both teams' lineups 
have been decided, the national anthem will play, and the players will take 
the field. 
 
NOTE: It is important that you have a player in every position or you 
      cannot advance to the next screen. 

THE PLAYING FIELD 
 
Playing Screen

Scoreboard

The scoreboard displays the teams playing (visiting team first), current 
inning, the number of outs in the inning, and the total number of runs, 
hits and errors in the game.  An Asterisk (*) will mark the team at bat.  
To see a complete boxscore during the game press [B].  You will go to 
the Game Final screen and have to select [F1] to see the complete boxscore. 
 
Pitcher's Window

This window is located on the pitching teams side of the field.  It shows 
to current pitcher's name. 
 
Batter's / On-Deck Batter's Window

This window is located on the batting teams side of the field.  It shows 
the current batter's name.  When deciding how to pitch to the current 
batter, it is sometimes helpful to know who the on-deck batter is.  A 
window located below the Batter's Window shows the name of the batter on-
deck. 
 
Play-by-Play Window

TMC has a text announcer who will call plays as they happen.  The play by 
play will appear on the top of the screen, where the scoreboard usually 
appears. 
 
Replay Window

Pressing [L] after the play is done will give you a text summary of the 
last play. 
 
Selection Windows - These windows appear in the upper corners of the screen. 
The options on these menus are fully described in the following section. 
 
PLAY BALL! 
 
Making Selections

Each player will build a strategy based on their selections from the 
following option menus.  The only call you must make to set a play in 
motion is the style and type of the pitch (or swing).  Once the pitch and 
swing are chosen, the play animation will begin. 
 
Pitching Selections

Before the pitching team selects the pitch it would like to throw, a 
number of fielding strategies may be used.  A series of menus contains 
all of the defensive options.  It is either located in the upper right or 
left-hand corner, depending on which team is pitching. 
 
Defensive Coach

For some winning teams, a robust offense can overcome the most glaring 
deficiencies in the field or on the mound.  To be successful, major league 
managers and MicroLeague managers must observe and evaluate ever-changing 
factors before they set their defense.  Is the baserunner a threat to 
steal?  Is the batter a pull-hitter who can go all the way? 
 
Defensive Coach Menu

Positioning the Infield

To position the infield players, select [7], Defensive Coach from the 
Pitching Options menu.  The next menu that appears is the Defensive Coach 
menu.  Select [5], Position Infield from this menu. 
 
   Infield In - This brings all the infielders in as the pitch is thrown. 
This strategy increases the chance that the runner will "hold" or could be 
thrown out at the plate on a ground ball.  On the other hand, this increases 
the chance that a sharp grounder will get through for a single, since the 
infield is playing in.  Nevertheless, this is a useful strategy late in the 
game if your team needs to keep a run from scoring on a ground ball. 
 
   In at the Corners - This brings the third and first basemen in, moving as 
the pitch is thrown.  this cuts down on the chance for a successful surprise 
or sacrifice bunt, and may hold a runner on third base.  However, this 
increases the chance that a ground ball if hit to third or first might get 
through for a hit. 
 
   Guard Lines - The first and third basemen will move closer to their 
respective lines.  This option will decrease the chance of an extra base 
hit if the ball is hit down the line.  If the ball is hit in the hole, the 
chance for a base hit is increased. 
 
   Play to Pull - The shortstop or second baseman (depending on which side 
of the plate the batter lines up on) will move to the hole to guard against 
a pulled ball.  The advantage is if the hit is a grounder to the pull side, 
the chance of an out is increased.  If he hits it anywhere near the opposite 
side, however, it is unguarded. 
 
   Opposite Field - The second baseman or shortstop will plug the hole 
opposite of the "pull" hole.  For a right-handed batter, the second baseman 
will plug the gap between where he usually lines up and the second base bag. 
If the batter is left-handed, the second baseman will close the gap between 
him and second base.  If the ball is a grounder to the pull side it will be 
unguarded.  If it is hit to the opposite side of the pull, however, the 
chance of an out is increased. 
 
   Behind Runner at 1B - This option can only be used when there is a runner 
on first base.  It will allow the first baseman to play as if there is no 
one on base.  Using this option increases the chance for a successful steal, 
while decreasing the chance of a ground ball getting by the first baseman. 
 
Press [7], Pitching to return to the Pitching Options menu. 
 
Positioning the Outfield

Once the infield has been adjusted, it's time to instruct the outfielders 
(OF).  Select [7]. Defensive Coach.  The following choices are available. 
 
   Play OF Shallow - With this selection you can position your outfielders 
closer to the infield.  Once it has been selected, a second menu will give 
the choice to play one, two, or all the outfielders shallow.  The advantage 
of playing the outfield shallow is seen when the runners are in a scoring 
position.  The outfielders are prepared to field a shallow hit and throw 
out advancing runners.  The downside is if the ball is hit deep, the batter 
may take extra bases. 
 
   Play OF Deep - This gives you the ability to guard against the deep shots. 
A sub-menu appears which will allow you to select which fielders to play 
deep (see Play of Shallow).  This option decreases the chance that a long fly 
ball will be good for extra bases, however, the chances are increased that 
short flies will be singles. 
 
   Play OF to Pull - When this option is selected, your centerfielder will 
play in the hole between him and the other outfielders, depending on which 
side of the plate the batter lines up on.  For a right-handed batter, the 
center fielder will line up in the left center field alley.  Likewise, for a 
left-handed batter, he will line up in the right center field alley.  The 
advantage is that this option decreases the chances for a double if the 
batter pulls the ball.  However, if the ball is hit to the opposite field, 
the chance for an extra base hit is increased. 
 
   Play OF Aggressively - This option will cause all of your outfielders to 
try for the fly ball, or gun down a runner trying to take an extra base 
during the play.  This option may cause the outfielders to make fielding 
or throwing errors, giving up extra bases, as they attempt the "play of the 
game". 
 
Once you have given the outfielders their instructions, go back to the 
Pitching Option menu by pressing [7]. 
 
Selecting a Pitching Strategy

You have six pitching strategies to pick from.  These strategies are 
listed in the top half of the Pitching Options menu. 
 
   Pick Off - The pitcher will try to throw out the runner at first base. 
You may get the first baserunner out, however, you could throw it past the 
first baseman and the runner may take extra bases.  This also increases the 
chance of a walk because the pitcher's concentration is broken. 
 
   Pitch Out - The pitcher will pitch far outside the plate so the catcher 
can throw out a stealing baserunner.  This option will decrease the chances 
of a stolen base, however, it the runner is not attempting to steal, the 
chances for a walk are increased. 
 
   Intentional Walk - Use this strategy when first base is open and a good 
batter is up to try for a force play.  This option can also be used to 
allow for the chance to pitch to a weak on-deck batter. 
 
   Pitch Around - When a good hitter is at the plate you do not want to 
give him a good pitch.  This option decreases the chances for a strike out 
and an extra base hit, but increases the chances for a walk and a hit. 
 
   Pitch Aggressively - The pitcher will "go right at the batter" by throwing 
the ball over the plate.  This option will decrease the chances for a walk 
or a single, and increases the chances for a strike out or an extra base 
hit. 
 
   Pitch - This is a normal pitch. 
 
Full Count

You have the ability to go to a full count three times per side, per game.  
This is only an option when you are in your defensive menu.  The full count 
gives you a chance to face the batter on a pitch by pitch basis.  Balls and 
strikes will be called by the umpire and can be seen in a small gray window 
just below the box score. 
 
When you are in the full count mode, your menus will stay the same as before. 
You will have to select the way you want to throw to a batter and the pitch 
you want to throw.  There will now be one more menu from which you can make 
a selection.  You will be selecting the location where you want to throw 
the pitch.  If you are the batter, you too will have to make your regular 
throwing selections, and then select the location where you think the pitcher 
will be throwing the pitch. 
 
The possible selections for the pitch location menu (for both batter and 
pitcher) are as follows: 
 
     1 Inside Low 
     2 Low 
     3 Outside Low 
     4 Inside High 
     5 High 
     6 Outside High 
 
NOTE: The full count option is only available in the normal mode with two 
      "player managers." 
 
Selecting the Pitch

Once you have selected the pitcher's strategy, you must then determine what 
type of pitch to throw.  The second pitching menu appears automatically 
when you select the pitching style.  It is important to use a mixture of 
pitches to keep the hitters off guard. 
 
   Fast Ball - This pitch is thrown straight and hard.  As the name implies, 
it also travels fast.  Some pitchers can throw a fast ball at over 100 mph. 
The advantage is that the ball is very hard to hit; but when a batter does 
connect, you'd better hope your outfielders are playing deep. 
 
   Curve Ball - The curve ball is the most deceptive pitch in baseball.  The 
path of the ball over the plate is difficult to determine.  The disadvantage 
to this type of pitch is that the connecting batter may go for extra bases. 
 
   Slider - The path of a slider depends on the arm the pitcher pitches with. 
A right-hander's slider curves from the right to the left and downward.  The 
advantage is that the cross-plate flight path either crowds the batter or 
makes him stretch for the ball.  Once again, if the batter connects he may 
go for extra bases. 
 
   Change Up - This is an off-speed (slow) pitch which will fool the batter 
if used properly.  The pitch is easy to hit if the batter is expecting it. 
If he's caught off-guard, he'll be swinging at thin air. 
 
   Specialty - This pitch encompasses a fork ball, sinker, knuckler, palm 
ball, and a slur.  The batter will definitely be guessing, but so will 
you. 
 
Once an item has been selected from this menu, your entire strategy for the 
next play is locked in and cannot be changed. 
 
Batting Selections

On the other side of the plate, there are so many decisions to be made.  
Since selecting the swing will execute the play, that is the last decision 
to be made.  The first decision that must be made is the way the batter 
and players on base will run.  To set these options, press [7], Running 
Coach, from the Batting Options menu. 
 
Running Coach Menu

Running Strategies

The following running strategies are available for you to use. 
 
   Take Extra Base - The menu that appears when this option is chosen allows 
you to specify when you would like the runners to take an extra base.  You 
can specify left field (LF), center field (CF), right field (RF), or always. 
More than one option can be chosen from this menu.  For example if you want 
the runner to attempt an extra base when the ball is hit to LF or CF, select 
both of these options from the menu.  The runners will run aggressively any 
time the ball is hit in any of the selected areas, and they will try to take 
one more base than is calculated for them to advance safely.  The 
disadvantage of this option is the chances for the baserunner getting thrown 
out is increased. 
 
   Steal - You should take the opposing teams fielder's throwing ratings 
into consideration when selecting this option (See Stat Book for more info). 
If there are two men on base, you will attempt a double steal -- unless the 
men are on first and third in which case the man on first will attempt to 
steal second. 
 
Once the batter strategy has been selected, press [7], Batter to return to 
the Batting Options menu. 
 
Batting Strategies

Now it's time to select the batting strategy.  The batting strategy 
selection screen is the Batting Options menu. 
 
   Hit and Run - With men on base, this option will allow your runners on 
base begin to advance before the ball is hit.  If everything works out, the 
runners will take an extra base or avoid the double-play.  On the other hand, 
a shallow fly-out could cause base runners to get "doubled up". 
 
   Bunt for Hit - If you have a batter who has good speed and has good 
bunting ability, you may catch your opponent off guard and get on base. 
 
   Sacrifice Bunt - If you are trying to advance the runner(s), this 
selection is useful.  The idea is that the batter is thrown out at first 
while the runner(s) advance.  It may not always work, especially if the 
defensive coach is expecting it and plays his infielders in. 
 
   Hit Behind Runner - The is another way to advance a runner on base. 
The advantage over a sacrifice bunt is the batter has a chance of a base 
hit.  The disadvantage is an increase in the possibility of a double play 
or a strike out. 
 
   Squeeze Bunt - This bunt is used to bring the third base runner home. 
The success of this play depends on the positioning of the infield, the 
batter's bunting ability, sacrifice ability, and the speed of the runner. 
 
   Swing Away - When this option is selected the batter will swing normally. 
 
After selecting a batting strategy, a menu will appear listing the type of 
pitch the batter will anticipate.  The pitches on this menu are the same as 
those on the Pitching menu. 
 
Depending on the pitch selected by the defensive coach (i.e. fast ball, curve 
ball, etc.) and the pitch you anticipate will be thrown, the probability for 
a hit will increase or decrease accordingly. 
 
Once all selections have been made, pay attention to the play--it will aid 
you in making choices the next time the batter is at the plate. 
 
Other Menu Options

There are three options listed on both the Batting Options, and the 
Pitching Options which are discussed here. 
 
Lineup Option

Selecting Lineup will display the Lineup Management screen.  This option is 
used for making substitutions in the lineup.  For information on using this 
option, see the Lineup Management section on page 17.  To view everyone's 
stats at once, press [F1]. 
 
Bullpen Option

Selecting Bullpen, will display the Pitcher Management screen.  This option 
is used to replace and/or warm up pitchers.  For information on using this 
option, see the Pitcher Management section on page 14.  To view all the 
pitchers' stats at once, press [F1]. 
 
Stat Book Menu

Using the Stat Book

Selecting the Stat Book option will display a pop-up menu.  The players and 
their stats are organized in the following way. 
 
   Batter - Shows the following stats for the batter at the plate: At Bats 
(AB), Hits (H), Strike Outs (SO), Base on Balls (BB), Home Runs (HR), Batting 
Average (AVG), Stealing Ability (SA), Pull rating (PUL), and power rating 
(POW). 
 
   On Deck - This shows the stats for the batter on-deck.  These are the 
same types of stats for Batter. 
 
   Runners - This shows the names of all the runners on base, along with 
their Speed Rating (SR) and Stealing Ability rating (SA). 
 
   Pitcher - This shows the name and stats for the current pitcher.  The 
stats for the current pitcher.  The stats shown are Innings Pitched (IP), 
Earned Runs Average (ERA), Batters Faced (BF), Hits given up (H), Doubles 
(2B), Triples (3B), Home Runs (HR), Strike Outs (SO), and Walks (BB). 
 
   C-LF-CF-RF - This shows the following ratings for those players: Run 
rating (R), Throw rating (T), and Fielding Percentage (%). 
 
   1B-2B-3B-SS - This shows the same ratings as above for listed players. 
 
   V Lineup - This will display the lineup for the visiting team.  The next 
batter is denoted by (*). 
 
   H Lineup - This will display the lineup for the home team.  The next 
batter is denoted by (*). 
 
   Close Book - This will return you to the playing screen. 
 
Game Final Screen

At the end of the game, the Game Final screen will appear.  This screen 
summarizes the results of the game.  There may be three options you can 
select.  [F1] will enable you to print the stats, [F2] and [F3] will let 
you compile the stats for the teams in your league.  If the teams you are 
using are not in a league, you cannot compile stats. 
 
STAT COMPILER 
 
The Stat Compiler has many functions that can be very useful in managing 
your dream team.  Do you think the Braves would do better in the American 
League?  The Stat Compiler lets you find out by creating your own leagues 
with any teams you want.  Once you have started a league you can add or 
delete any of the teams that you have in your league.  Once you have compiled 
stats for your league you have the ability to view and print out your league 
standings.  Instantly see who is number one and who is the basement club. 
You'll be able to see their win/loss record, their winning percentage, and 
how many games they are behind the first place team.  Select which team you 
want to see and every stat a manager could need will appear before your eyes. 
These stats can also be printed out.  Last, but not least, is the gem of the 
Stat Compiler, and the game itself.  You have an entire 30 man roster from 
which to choose your active players.  You will be able to see the condition 
of all your players: who is active, who is on reserve, and who is on the 
disabled list (DL).  This is the big leagues, and you'll have to decide who 
sits and who plays.  Don't push too hard or one of your star players may get 
tired and play poorly. 
 
The best way to get a feel for the Stat Compiler and all of its functions is 
to follow our example step-by-step.  Jumping right in may make for some poor 
managerial choices later.  An educated manager is a winning manager. 
 
The Stat Compiler is on a separate disk from the game disk.  To load the 
Stat Compiler type: statcomp at the appropriate prompt.  If you are loading
from a floppy disk it will be either the A or B drive (most likely).  
If the disk has been loaded on the hard drive type statcomp from the
subdirectory it was loaded onto.  The Stat Compiler main menu will 
appear.  The options are explained by example on the following pages.

Stat Compiler Main Menu

Initialize League

Press [F1], Initialize League, this is where we'll make our league.  The 
screen that appears next will be titled Number of Divisions.  You may 
choose to have 1, 2 or 4 divisions in your league.  For our example, let's 
choose [2] for a two-division league. 
 
The next screen is titled "Edit League Names".  On this screen you have the 
ability to create your own league and division names or select the names that 
are given for you.  The names given for the division are National and 
American, and the league name is MicroLeague.  You will notice a flashing 
cursor on the letter "M", if you want to change the league name start 
typing.  For our example, let's keep MicroLeague as the name.  Press [enter] 
and the cursor will move down to the first division name.  Let's change 
these names.  Type "big city" where "national" used to be.  You will notice 
that you cannot type in any capital letters.  Don't worry, your keyboard is 
not broken.  Now press [enter] to move the cursor to the "american" division. 
Type "little country" into the division #2 box.  Once you are done typing, 
you need not press [enter], it will only drop you down to the next line. 
 
   Press [F1] to save the names you've changed.  After you press [F1], the 
Save Game as screen will appear.  You will notice at the top of the screen 
three icons (or illustrations) of the available disk drives.  If you have 
TMC on your hard drive (usually C drive) you should save your league there.  
If you are saving the game on a floppy, press the letter that corresponds 
to the drive your disk is in.  The "A" drive is usually on top of or the
left of the "B" drive.  Only the drives you have available will be listed. 
If you would like a backup of your league, you can copy it using the DOS
copy command.
 
Let's save our league names as "baseball".  Type baseball and press [enter] 
to save everything you've done so far.  When everything is saved you will be 
placed back at the Stat Compiler menu.  Now that you have a league, you need 
to select teams to add. 
 
Add Teams to League

Press [F2], Add Teams to League to place teams in your league.  A screen 
will appear titled "Choose Target League".  You need to choose the league 
you want to add teams to.  Choose the number that corresponds to our team 
name.  In this example our league should be number 1.  Press [1] and a 
screen will appear titled "Copy Team".  On the left side of the screen you 
will see "F1 - Pick Source".  You have the ability to make your new league 
out of teams on the game disk, teams from other leagues, or teams from 
Franchise History disks.  Select [F1] and you'll see a menu that looks like 
the previous menu.  This menu is titled "Choose Source League."  This lists 
all the available leagues on the current disk that you can choose from.  
Select [F1], "Alltime.sea" as the league you want to choose from. 
 
Now that we know where the teams are coming from all we need to decide is 
which division they are going to.  In our example, "big city" will be the 
division we select teams for first.  Press [A] and you will notice that 
'27 NEW YORK AL has been copied to your "big city" division.  To select
teams for the "little country" division, press [2] which appears in front
of the division name.  You will notice that "little country" is the name
underneath "pick target".  Now, any team you letter you press will add the
team to the "little country" division.  For our example, lets scroll down
to the bottom of the list of available teams.  To do this, press the down
arrow key until you see the '88 Oakland team appear next to the letter "K".
You will notice that the letters do not change, only the teams listed next
to them.  Pause a couple of seconds after pressing the down arrow, it may
take the computer a second to catch up with your keystrokes.  For our
example, choose [B] for Cincinnati, [C] for Baltimore, and [I] for St.
Louis.  Once you have done this, press [ESC] to leave this screen.  Your
teams have been saved, so don't worry.
 
League Standings

Press [F4], League Standings to check up on the league standings.  A screen 
will appear that looks like the boxscore screen, except here, you will see 
the league standings.  For the league we just created, they won't be too 
exciting, we haven't played any games!  After you play a few games, you 
will see that the standings are divided into divisions.  This screen will 
give you win/loss, winning percentage, and the number of games each team is 
back in their division.  Once you have played a full season, you can create 
a new league out of the playoff teams to see who is number one.  This 
information is important for you to have, so if you'd like a copy, press 
[F1] to print the standings. 
 
Print Team Stats

To really be a top manager you need to be aware of who is performing and 
who is not.  Select [F5], Print Team Stats to see any teams stats.  These 
are up-to-the-minute stats you need to give yourself the edge over the 
other guys. 
 
Team Stat Screen

You will need to use the arrow keys to scroll through the exhaustive number 
of stats that TMC offers.  It looks like you are reading the sports page, 
not playing a simulation.  To print the stats, press [F1].  To return to the 
Stat Compiler menu, press [ESC]. 
 
Set Team Roster

[F6], Set Team Roster is a managerial must.  You have a complete 30-man 
roster at your disposal and you make all the calls.  When this option is 
selected, you will see a team selection menu.  Make sure you are in the 
correct league and then select a team to view.  Just press the letter in 
front of the team name. 
 
Team Roster Screen

This screen displays all of the players on the roster, along with their 
condition and status.  
 
If you have a tired player you will need to put him on reserve so he may 
rest up.  To have a full active roster, you'll need to activate a player 
every time you deactivate one.  To change the status of a player, select 
the player by pressing the letter/number in front of his name.  Juggle your 
lineup as much as you want - you're the manager! 
 
Delete Teams

Last but not least, let's try pressing [F3], Delete Teams From League.  A 
screen will appear titled "Delete Team" and will look exactly like the team 
selection screen you see when you play a game.  Make sure you are in the 
right league before you make any moves.  Select the number to the left of 
our example league, "baseball.lea".  Select [A] which is '27 Yanks.  The 
team will not be automatically deleted, you will see another screen which 
has the name of the team you selected and two choices: [F1] - Delete Team 
and [F2] - Clear Stats. 
 
Now you have the choice of deleting the team or just clearing its stats. 
For our example, let's delete the team, press [F1].  This will bring you 
back to the Delete Team menu which now only lists two teams in the "big 
city" division. 
 
Now you know all you need to be a successful MicroLeague Manager.  Be sure 
to take advantage of everything we offer to make your managing experience 
the best. 
 
PLAY QUICK 
 
To play a Quick Game, select [Q] from the Main Menu.  The same list of 
teams will appear as if you selected Play Game. 
 
See the Play Game section for information on selecting teams, changing 
pitchers, changing lineups, and the designated hitter rule. 
 
The difference between these options begin when the players normally would 
take the field.  The game is not shown, but instead it is played quickly. 
 
Immediately after the game is played, a score summary is shown which 
contains the final score, the number of hits, and number of errors. 
 
   o Press [F1] to view the complete boxscore. 

   o Press [F3] to compile visiting team's statistics. 
 
   o Press [F4] to compile home team's statistics. 
 
Viewing the Boxscore

To scan up and down the boxscore screen, use the arrow keys on your 
keyboard, or click on the arrow icons on the screen with your mouse. 
 
Printing the Boxscore

Once the boxscore screen appears, you may print the boxscore by pressing 
[F1].  To return to the main menu, press [ESC] until you reach it. 

End................
