                   P A R A N O I M I A   P R E S E N T S
               
                Might and Magic II - Gates to Another World

                     A Fantasy Role-Playing Simulation

              The Complete Docs Typed by: Ollie North
                     Spell List Typed by: Evil Priest

                       THE INQUISITION (805)967-8833
                       PURE EVIL       (201)686-3971



                          Prologue

'An account of Corak the Mysterious' unsettling disappearance as told by his
apprectice, Gwyndon the Young:

Corak has always held many dire secrets, but recently he had shown signs of
being outwardly distressed. This troubled me greatly as what could disturb
one so powerful and composed as Corak the Mysterious? Was he not only 
High Priest as well as being regarded by all as a most accomplished warrior
and being the most powerful Archmage other than King Kalohn the
Vanquished? He was all that the knowledgable strive to be and what the
ignorant claim to be.

Corak used to tell me stories of different, wondrous worlds with hideous
monsters and mighty warriors. he once even mentioned that he came from
another world.  I thought his stories mere fables or myths meant to entertain
me. Little did I know that he spoke the truth and that a problem would arise
from this truth that would drive him mad.

One day while I was working on translations of a sorcerous scroll, Corak 
burst into the library with a harried look on his brow. He told me of an alien
criminal from another reality who had escaped into our beloved CRON! Corak
then promptly forgot that I was present and proceeded to curse and mumble
profusely as he searched through the books for some lost text which
contained a gleaming of information which might help him expel the
dangerous alien.  Being insatiably curious, I attempted to eavesdrop on the 
conversation he was having with himself. He spoke of CRON being out of
alignment with other worlds, of a highly destructive alien being named
Sheltem, and of an anointed champion who could reaqlign CRON before a 
horrific wave of fiery destruction would sweep across and destroy the land.

After his foray in the library, Corak acted quite strangely during the next few
days. He would lock himself up in his private study for hours at a time.
Frightful noises emanated from behind the locked door and then, suddenly,
they would stop.  He would emerge changed each time in some subtle fashion.
He would enter the study after devouring almost an entire banquet by
himself and exit with an appetite as if he had not eaten in days.  Other times
he would be wan and pale from long hours of intensive research done in the
library. He would then go to the study and exit in a few hours with a tan as
if he had just returned from Murray's Resort Isle, baski in the sun there for
a week.

This weird behavior continued for almost a fortnight. One day, he left his
study after an unusually long session and immediately started screaming
about the end of the world and how he could not stop it. Amazingly, he was 
covered in snow and yet it was mid-summer! He then looked about it 
desperation and withdrew a strange, four-taloned claw which i had never even
seen before.  Corak then uttered a spell which caused a blinding glow of 
sheer power to evelope his body. He was terrible to behold, bathed in an 
eerie shower of what must of been pure ethereal energy, just standing there,
exalting in his newfound might.


Might and Magic II                                            Page 1





Seconds later, a clap of thunder shook the building and Corak was gone. I
believe that he transported himself away in order to try to stop the
mystifying doom which lay upon CRON. Unfortunately, I have my doubts.
Maybe the spell of power was too much for Corak the Mysterious and he 
brought about his own destruction. I do not know anything for sure. After
all, I am now only an apprentice without a master to tell me if I am right or
wrong.

A week later, Lord Pinehurst visited and went into Corak's study. The strange,
eerie noises started again and Lord Pinehurst was gone. I entered the study
and noticed that one of Corak's machines was missing. Next day I received a
sealed letter delivered by special courier from Lord Pinehurst. He wrote that
he was fine, not to worry and that I should travel to Castle Pinehurst to 
continue my studies. I go now and hope that this growing chaos in my life
will soon end.

                                                         
                                                                  Page 2


                           History of CRON

'This being a synopsis of the histories of CRON as gathered by Corak the
Mysterious and found in his study in the Luxus Palace Royale by Gwyndon
the Young:

I, Corak,, called the Mysterious, have gathered these histories of the world
aptly called CRON through personal experiences gained by the use of a 
magical artifact which allows travel through the very fabric of time itself.

At first, there was only void. Yet, in the nothing something arose. An ethereal
substance capable of supporting life came into existence. From the time of
this forming shall I, as do all in CRON, reckon time. The shaping of this
etherealness took well-nigh one century to occur and develop into
recognizable form.

Next, water in vast amounts came from disorder and remained to mix with
the ether. Strange beings arose out of this chatoic union. Elemental lords of
great power warred for control of the waters. The greatest of these was
powerful Acwalandar, mightiest and most majestic of all the Water Kings.
Preternatural fierceness combined with uncanny intelligence allowed him to
hold unquestionable dominion over all of the other elementals. He reigned
supreme for three score and a generation years, then turmoil erupted.

Potent creatures from an unknown, mystical land charged into CRON with 
conquest of the brutal Water Lords as their goal. A battle which would last
centuries began. Acwalandar and his minions were taken by suprise and the 
strange beings gained a foothold which they would not release. Puzzlement
and fear of the unknown swept through the ranks of the normally stolid
water elementals. Who were these warriors who suddenly came from
nowhere? They were Spirits of the Air come from afar to expand their empire.
Their lord was terrible indeed, a creature of tumultuous air named Shalwend
who could call upon tremendous legions of vicious air elementals to blow
back the shocked Water Lords. Air fought with Water for over a century, until
reaching a level of equilibrium which neither side could change.

Seeking to upset the deadlock and gain the momentum in the war against
the air elementals, Aswalandar charged his servitors to create an ultimate
weapon. He received much more than he wanted. His vassals summoned
forth incredibly powerful creatures of destruction that would remain under
the Water Lords total dominance. Fire elementals were issued forth . These
hateful monsters sole purpose in life was to destroy, and at destruction their
like will never be approached. They sucked the life out of the Air Spirits
without mercy forcing them to endure a slow, consuming burn until there 
was nothing left. However, the Fire Lords were few in number and could not 
totally destroy the Masters of the Wind.

The leader of the burning horde, Pyrannaste, Master of Flame, dislike the
iron-fisted fule of Acwalandar and the Water Lords. Any hesitation of a fire
elemental in carrying out an order issued by a Water Lord would result in 
extinguishment. Pyrannaste waited, for he was patient, and even though he
and his vassals chafed under the rule of the water elementals they hated
Shalwend and the air elementals even more.


                                                          Page 3




Eighty years of servitude and war passed for the Fire Lords until Pyrannaste
deemed the time proper for rebellion against Acwalandar. Wanting only to
escape servitude while still being able to crush the ranks of the despised
Shawend, the Master of Flame attempted to break away peacefully from the
air elementals. At first they succeeded, but resentment and overconfidence
built up in the Legions of Water. Are not hte fire elementals our servants,
brought forth by us to serve our needs? Can we not crush them as we
crushed the Masters of the Winds? This the armies of Acwalandar thought,
forgetting that the might of the air horde must be fought once again without
aid. Also forgetting that in order to extinguish a fire elemental, a Water Lord
loses much of himself in the struggle that ensues.

Shrewd Acwalandar realized that the Water Lords could not hope to end 
victorious in a war against both the air and the fire elementals. However, his
counsel fell upon deaf ears. What good is the voice fo reason to an angry
mob? For fifty years Water fought Air and Fire, Fire fought Water and Air, and
Air fought Fire and Water. Battle were bloodthirsty and allies were
nonexistent. CRON had transformed into a chaotic battlefield with no one
group able to assert itself over the others.

And then came disaster. From places vaguely rumored to exist came the
most fearsome creatures yet. Emperors of Earth they called themselves. They
were led by Gralkor the Cruel. In one fell stroke they invaded CRON and 
caused the petty struggles between Water, Air, and Fire to come to an utter
halt. Ancient enemies were forced to unite for survival against the new,
common enemy. At first, the earth elementals appeared invulnerable. Eighty
years and innumerable battles later, a method was found to stop them.
Acwalandar and the Water Lords would soak the earth elementals with a 
flood of water. Then, Pyrannaste and the Fire Lords would bake the dissipated
creatures into dry silt. Finally, Shalwend and the Air Spirits would lift the silt
into the sky and spread all of the particles across the world, leaving the
earth elemental utterly eradicated.

Alas, the effort by the three elemental tribes was too late to stop Gralkor the
Cruel and the Emperors of Earth. They had pooled together and formed a
giant mass of earthen matter which floated upon water, was immune to fire,
and which would not scatter as leaves upon the wind. For twenty more years
the elementals attempted to overcome the earthen landmass of Gralkor the
Cruel. They failed miserably and the Emperors of Earth assumed command of 
what would become CRON.

By the year 500, Gralkor and the earth elementals were busily constructing a 
fixed land area with the toil of their slaves. For almost one hundred years all
of the elementals, Water, Air, Fire, and Earth, struggled to perfect the 
landmass. What they came up with is what we know as the physical land of
CRON.

Rumor of CRON spread to other worlds somehow and an inexorable flow, of
what were to the elementals, small pitiful creatures began to populate the
work of Gralkor in the seventh century. The creatures were of many different
humanoid types, but they all had basic similarities and resistances which
enabled them to survive in CRON. Water beaded off them, air swirled past
them, fire did burn them, but only under extremes, and might earth they
trod upon. The humanoids were able to extract properties from each of the
four element's features and use it for their own benefit. But perhaps most


                                                          Page 4




important of all, they could weave magic. At first, there were few of these
pathetic creatures, but they multiplied rapidly and spread across the 
landmass. The humanoids strengthened after years of toil and pain.
Ambitions grew and they attempted to make CRON their own. This aroused
the attention of Gralkor the Cruel and forced him into action.

Unfortunately for the elementals, Gralkor acted too late. The humanoids had
been in CRON for over seventy years and had acclimated themselves to all
the difficulties which the elementals could produce They had weapons and
spells which would immobilize all but the most powerful elemental lords.
Gralkor did not realize this and made a most fatal error, he attacked. He
marshalled his forces for the obliteration of the feeble humanoids. The
humanoids knew what to expect and lay a trap for the elemental forces.

All of the most powerful spell-casters gathered on the Isle of the Ancients
and combined their efforts to creat an orb of power. This orb had a mystic
receptacle, a four taloned claw. There was a talon for each elemental force
and alone, that talon could control the elemental creatures it represented.
The four talons could be combined to form a holder for the orb. This formed
a weapon of incomparable power which could guarantee the complete
submission of destruction of any and all elemental creatures. Many tests
were made in order to perfect this weapon. Gross mutilations and horrible
deaths were the result of most of these. In the latter part of the eighth
century there was a human male weak in magic but strong in courage
named Kalohn who tested the orb and survived unmolested. Many 
humanoids died before this because of Gralkor's attack and the testing of the
orb. Kalohn resolved to end it all immediately.

He went to the tallest mountain in all of CRON alone. He then challenged the 
four elemental lords to do battle. Much damage to the land followed, including
the transformation of the mountain into the crater we know as The Dead
Zone. Kalohn, armed with orange, glowing orb emerged victorious and 
then banished each of the four elemental tribes to a seperate corner of CRON
and formed barriers to keep them imprisoned. Within each elemental zone he
placed the corresponding talon of the mightly claw in the order of the 
elementals' appearance, water, air, fire, and earth. He kept the orb for himself.

With the elemental forces banished from direct interaction with the humanoids
of CRON, civilization evolved and everyone prospered. Kalohn gained much
magic power due to his battle with the elementals and his frequent use of
the orb. He became King Kalohn the Conjurer and ruled wisely for thirty or
more years. Peace spread throughout the land. Education began of the young
and living conditions improved. Communities formed and trade developed.
People were happy and content.

Then in the mid ninth century, the elementals struck back. Unable to
physically enter CRON and maddened at the elemental's defeat at the hands
of a single, puny human, Acwalandar studied that which defeated him,
magic. He had a great aptitude for sorcery and learned quickly by studying
the humanoids who ventured near his realm. He gained particular skill in
forming and summoning. Using this skill, Acwalandar formed a fell creature
of enormous girth and power. He filled it with life from many of his followers
and endowed it with the most fearsome of weapons known to him, fire. He
had created the first dragon, a creature of mindless destruction and incredible
strength. This dragon was formed just outside of the water barrier and left
Acwalandar with the intent to destroy Kalohn and then CRON.


                                                          Page 5




King Kalohn the Conjurer sensed the dragon's creation and the threat it
posed. He sought it out ot vanquish it and quell the elemental lords forever.
He met the dark creature in the beautiful Savannah of Plenty. Unfortunately,
mighty as he was, Kalohn had only the power of the now faintly glowing orb
with him and perished after a disappointingly quick battle. The dragon
breatherd barrels of flame and engulfed Kalohn entirely, consuming him in a 
bath of fiery death. Kalohn had attempted to cast a spell which would form a 
shield of water to protect himself, but the spell was changed as a last minute
surge of power from teh orb went through Kalohn's body and caused a flood
to ravage the Savannah. For all the might of the dragon, he could not fly
without wings and was too heavy to swim. He died a slow death, powerless 
against the natural habitat of his master.

Aftereffects of the battle were numerous and disastrous. The Savannah of
Plenty was destroyed and became the Quagmire of Doom, an area of great
evil. However, it is rumoured that the orb still exists somewhere in the 
Quagmire, though no one has ever found it. Dragons entered CRON through
once closed corridors and wreaked havoc amoung the populace. Pricess
Lamanda, Kaholn's daughter, assumed a tentative command of the land. All
of these factors led to regression and the ultimate downfall of the level of
civilization which had been achieved.

Now it is the tenth century and chaos reigns. Swords and sorcery have
replaced law and order as the way of life. Monsters roam the land of CRON
freely and do as they please. Isolated areas hold out against barbarism, but
are doomed to fall. All the remains of CRON's glorious past are old wives'
tales of mighty warriors and wizards doing battle against evil hordes and of a
tragic lord, King Kalohn the Vanquished.


                                                             Page 6





              Table of Contents

Introduction......................................................1

Chapter One: The Opening Options Menu.............................9
Main Options Menu.................................................9
Create New Characters.............................................9
View all Characters..............................................12
    Hirelings....................................................12
    Character Profile............................................12
    Delete a Character...........................................13
    Rename a Character...........................................13
Transfer Characters..............................................14
Go to Town.......................................................14
    Set Up Your Party............................................15

Chapter Two: The Adventure Begins................................16
Moving & Mapping.................................................16
Game Commands While Marching.....................................19

Chapter Three: Encounter With Danger.............................23
Encounter Commands...............................................24
Combat...........................................................25
Saving Your Game.................................................29

Chapter Four: Beginners Guide to Adventure.......................30
The World........................................................30
Your Characters..................................................31
Weapons & Armor..................................................32
Monsters.........................................................33
Quests...........................................................33
Spells...........................................................33

Appendix A: Details & Options....................................34
Character Statistics.............................................34
Character Classes................................................35
Character Race...................................................36
Character Alignment..............................................36
Sex of Character.................................................37
Character Status.................................................37
Secondary Skills.................................................38
Armor, Weapons & Equipment.......................................39
Time Travel......................................................39
Auto-Mapping.....................................................39

Appendix B: Spells...............................................40
Spells...........................................................40
Clerical Spells..................................................41
Sorcerer Spells..................................................50


                                                        Page 7




                       Might and Magic II

                    Gates to Another World

Is an ongoing journey that can last up to hundreds of hours. As you 
begin, let Chapters 1-3 of this book guide you through the first steps
of your journey. If you are new to fantasy games, Chapter 4 will help
acquaint you with the terms and conventions of this new world. As
you gain in exprerience, your primary guide will become your computer
screen. Even then you will find important reference information, on
game options and spells, in the appendices of this book. Might and
Magic One players should skim through the manual for new features.

(Picture of a Gate)

HAPPY ADVENTURING!


                                                       Page 8





Chapter One



Opening Options Menu


Start Game  Allows you to proceed with the Game. It is
            recommended that you copy your disks before selecting
            this option.

Demo        Demonstrates features of the game, ie. walking around,
            encounters, combat, etc. To return from the demo press
            "ESC".

Copy Disks  Allows you to make Backup copies of your original
            disks. The Source disk is the Original. The Target disk is
            the disk you want to copy on to.

# of Drives Lets you play with one or two drives. This option also
            works with Copy Disks.


Main Options Menu

Create New Characters

If you decide to play Might and Magic using the pre-programmed
characters provided, you can skip this section.

Much of the fun of any fantasy game, however, lies in the creation of
the characters with whom you go adventuring. If you are creating
characters for the first time, or need to refresh your memory on
character options, read Appendix A before continuing. The information
in that appendix will help you create more varied and interesting 
characters, who have a greater chance of succeeding in their quest.

To create a new character, display the Main Options Menu and TYPE C.

A character's class is determined by 7 vital statistics.

MIGHT        INTELLECT        PERSONALITY      ENDURANCE
SPEED        ACCURACY         LUCK

Each statistic is randomly assigned a rating between 3 to 21, with 21
being the highest. To generate a new set of random ratings, press
RETURN (or SPACE BAR for animation).


                                                       Page 9



Exchange Statistic

You may exchange any of the 7 statistics by pressing the letter of the
statistic you want to exchange.

Select a Calss

A Character my belong to one of 8 classes.

KNIGHT       PALADIN          ARCHER           CLERIC
SORCERER     ROBBER           NINJA            BARBARIAN

To the right of the statistics are the eligible classes for the ratings
given. These are the classes from which you may choose. Notice how 
the eligible classes change as you generate different sets of statistic 
ratings.

To chose a class, type the NUMBER next to the desired class. At any 
time 'before' selecting a class, you can return to the Main Options Menu
by pressing ESC.

Assign a Race

After selecting a class, choose the character's race.

HUMAN        ELF              DWARF           GNOME        HALF-ORC

To select race, type the NUMBER next to the desired race.


                                                            Page 11





View all Characters

From the Main Options Menu you can view a list of all the Characters and
Hirelings stored on your copy of disk B.

The View All List includes:

* KEY LETTER for character
* NAME of character
* CLASS of character
* TOWN in which character is currently located

From the View All list you can:

1) Press ESC to return to the Main Options Menu;
2) Type the LETTER (A-X) of the character to view a detailed Character
Profile.
3) Press the Space Bar to toggle between Characters and Hirelings.


Hirelings

Hirelings are characters that are not created but hired at various ins
throughout the game. When hired they act, and are controlled as 
normal party members except:

1) Initially there are no hirelings for the characters to choose from.
   After completing various quests, deeds, etc. Hirelings will be 
   made available to the party at selected inns.

Note: After signing into an inn, check to see if any Hirelings have
become available for your party.

2) At the end of each day you must pay the Hirelingss daily fee. If  
   you are unable to pay the fee that day they will leave your 
   party and be waiting at the inn in which they were last saved.

3) Hirelings may be dismissed at any time and will return to the last
   inn at which they stayed (see Dismiss command).

4) When viewing a Hireling, instead of gold being displayed their
   cost per day will be shown.

5) Hirelings are not included in the process of Gathering or Sharing
   gold.


                                                          Page 12

6) Hirelings may train for free when gaining Experience levels and
   Spells, consequently their cost per day will increase.

7) A Hirelings name may not be changed nor may the Hireling be 
   deleted.

Caution: Abuse of Hirelings (ie. always placing them in the first
position, removing their items and not replacing them with
comparable items, etc.) may lead to a disgruntled Hireling,
consequently increasing their cost per day.


Character Profile

A Character Profile gives you all the facts and figures on a specific
character. It is an invaluable aid in decision making, when factors of
strength, vulnerability, spells and wealth must be considered.
Character Profiles are available at most times during game play. Only
from the View All Characters list, however, can you display the profile
of any character on the disk. All information on the Character Profile
screen is in abbreviated form. A detailed description of each item on 
the screen is provided in Appendix A. Below is a brief overview of the 
screen.

Lvl = Experience Level
Mgt = Might
Int = Intellect
Per = Personality
End = Endurance
Spd = Speed
Acy = Accuracy
Luc = Luck
HP  = Hit Points
SP  = Spell Points
AC  = Armor Class
SL  = Spell Level
Exp = Experience Points
Cond= Current Condition


Delete a Character

To delete a character displayed by the Character Profile, hold down
the CONTROL (CTRL) key and press D. When asked: 'Are you sure (Y/N)?'
press Y to confirm. The character will then be deleted from the disk B
copy which you are using.

Rename a Character

To rename the character displayed by the Character Profile, hold down
the CONTROL key and press N. Then type the NEW NAME, up to 10
characters and press RETURN. The new name will replace the old
name.


                                                            Page 13



Transfer Characters

There is no Might and Magic I from the Amiga to transfer characters from.


Go to Town

Each time you play Might and Magic II, your party of adventurers sets
out from the inn in one of five towns:

1 MIDDLE GATE   2 ATLANTIUM   3 TUNDARA    4 VULCANIA   5 SANDSOBAR

The town from which you set out is the town containing the characters
in your party. All characters, pre-programmed or created, first start out
in Town 1, so this is where you begin the game. Later, as your party
travels to and lodges in other towns, you will set out from Towns 2-5.

From the Main Options Menu, type G to go to the towns. The screen
will show the last town you signed into and the last characters you
used will be selected. (To quickly continue playing, press Z to exit) If
there are no characters in that town, no characters will appear in the
list.

From the list of characters in the town, you can:

  1) View the Character Profile for any character on the list. Press
     ESC to return to the list of characters in the town.

  2) Press SPACE BAR to switch between Characters and Hirelings.
  
  3) Return to the Main Options Menu by pressing ESC.

  4) Add or remove Characters or Hirelings from the party.


                                                            Page 14




Set Up Your Party

To add a character to your party, hold down CONTROL and press the
KEY LETTER next to the character's name on the list of available
characters. A (check) will appear next to the character's name, marking
him/her as a member of your party.

A party of adventurers may consist of a combinatoin of created
Characters and Hirelings:
   
   a. One created Character minimum and six maximum.

   b. Seven Hirelings maximum.

   The total of a and b may not exceed eight.

Example: A standard party consists of 6 created Characters and 2
         Hirelings. Experimentation with other combinations may
         prove more valuable.

When you have marked 8 party members, a message will indicate the
party is full. To add a character at this point, you must first remove a
character.

To remove a character from your party, hold down CONTROL and 
press the KEY LETTER next to the character's name. The (check) marking
the character as a member of your party will disappear.

As soon as you have marked one character as a member of your party,
a new command option -Z(Exit)- will appear on the screen. Pressing
Z will take you to the 3-D view of the inn, from which you may start
out on your adventure.

NOTE: To stop the game and save information, you must get your 
party to the inn in one of the five towns, and sign in. See Chapter 3,
Battle Over.


                                                       Page 15




Chapter Two

The Adventure Begins

Moving and Mapping

After you give the Z command, you truly enter the world of Might and
Magic II. The screen shows a 3-D view of your present position, a list
of possible commands, and a list of characters in your party, shown
in marching order. (If a character is highlighted it indicates a condition
other than good.) Since your view of the world is from your party's
perspective, you do not see the members of your party.

You start inside the inn, facing the
door. Turn around to sign back in,
or simply move your party forward
to leave the inn.

To move your party, use the following keys:

(UP ARROW) or Return        Move Forward
(DOWN ARROW)                Move Back
(LEFT ARROW)                Turn Left
(RIGHT ARROW)               Turn Right

When you press a forward or back movement key, the entire party
moves on square forward or 
backward.  When you press the <-- or --> key, the entire party turns
90 degrees in that direction.

Unlocked doors open automatically as you move your party forward
through them. However if a door is locked, you must unlock it with
the UNLOCK or BASH command...or find a way around it. (Warning:
many locked doors are also booby-trapped, with the traps set to go
off when you unlock or bash in the door.)

When you come up against an obstacle, such as a wall or mountain,
a message will appear (i.e., SOLID, IMPASSABLE, etc.) These messages
are particularly useful when traveling in the dark or testing for secret
passageways.

Remember that you are now in a world of magic and danger, where
all is not as it seems. Doors may lock behind you. Areas may be
darkened by spells, requiring you to "feel" your way through them.
Certain squares may teleport you acress vast distances, into
unmapped areas. And of course, any square may contain treasure or
monsters.


                                                     Page 16




The Map as Guide

Map Not Included.

Tips on Mapping..

Each grid is 16 x 16.

Exact Coordinates see Sorcerer Spell: Location

Sorcerer Spells: Eagle Eye and Wizard Eye, will also help in mapping.


                                                     Page 17




Game Command while Marching

While your party moves through the 3-D view of the world, you may use
any of the commands shown on the screen. The key used to give the 
command appears to the left of the command. When the # sign is
given, type the CHARACTER NUMBER from the character list at the
bottom of the screen.

COMMAND       PRESS        DESCRIPTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------
FORWARD (Up arrow) or Ret  Move entire party one square forward
BACK    (Dn arrow)         Move entire party one square back
LEFT    (Left arrow)       Turn entire party 90 degrees left
RIGHT   (Right arrow)      Turn entire party 90 degrees right
BASH            B          Attempts to knock down a locked door. If
                           successful, the party moves forward
                           through the door. If the attempt fails, the
                           party does not move. In either case,
                           bashing a trapped door is likely to set off
                           the trap.

CONTROLS        C          Lets you select the sounds, party disposition
                           and message delays.

                           Party Disposition - This is the party's
                           outlook and adventuring style. Novice
                           players should set their disposition to
                           Inconspicious until they become more 
                           familiar with the game. When seeking more
                           challenging encounters and more valuable
                           treasure, the Aggressive or Thrill Seeker
                           options may be selected. We recommend
                           the Average setting for the majority of play.

DISMISS         D          Lets you select a Hireling to dismiss. When
                           you rest, you pay the Hirelings. If you do
                           not wish to pay a Hireling for the next day,
                           you must dismiss him/her. Before resting,
                           the Hireling will return to the last inn in
                           which they stayed.

EXCHANGE        E          Character exchanges battle position with any
                           other member of the party. A prompt asks
                           with which party member the exchange is
                           to take place. Press ESC before selecting
                           the exchange party member to abort the
                           command and return to the combat options
                           list for another selection.

QUICK REF       Q          Displays a brief overview of all party
                           member's: Hit Points, Spell Points, Level,
                           Spell Level, Armor Class, Age, Gems, Food,
                           Condition. To return to the 3-D screen,
                           press ESC.

REST            R          Rests party overnight in square currently
                           occupied. Rest restores all character's Hit
                           Points and/or Spell Points, unless inhibited
                           by special conditions. Rest requires and

    
                                                           Page 19




                           uses 1 food unit from each character's food
                           supply. All protetion spells wear off during
                           rest and must be recast upon awakening.
 
                           Party may encounter monsters during rest.
                           If so, some members of the party will enter
                           the encounter with their condition listed as
                           asleep.  If the area is too dangerous, the
                           party will not be allowed to rest in that
                           square. Time does pass in the land of Cron
                           and many events are time related. See Time
                           Travel section, page 39, for more details.

SEARCH          S          Finds treasure or other items hidden in
                           square occupied by party. You should
                           always search after defeating a monster
                           and before moving off the square in which
                           the encounter occurred. However, you do
                           not need to search immediately after
                           combat. You may want to rest, cure
                           wounds, etc. first.

                           When a chest is found there are 3 options
                           available:
   
                           1. Open it - Simply opens the chest. If
                           there is a trap it will probably go off.

                           2. Find / Remove Trap - Opens chest
                           carefully, using the robber's thieving ability
                           and reducing the chance of a trap being set
                           off.

                           3. Detect Magic / Trap - Detects whether
                           the contents of the chest are magical and
                           whether or not the chest has a trap. May
                           only be selected by a character with
                           sorcerer spells.

UNLOCK          U          Allows one character an attempt to pick the
                           lock on a door. Only a robber has any real
                           chance of success. If the attempt succeeds,
                           the door will be unlocked and any traps will
                           be disarmed, so the party may move forward.

                           If the attempt fails, the door will remain
                           locked and any existing traps may be set
                           off. The attempt may be made again, but
                           each subsequent failure increases the
                           likelihood of setting off traps.

VIEW CHAR       #          Displays the Character Profile for that
                           character. (See Chapter 1 for a description
                           of Character Profile.) At the bottom of the
                           Character Profile is a set of options which
                           may be exercised only while adventuring.

                           Quick Ref (Press Q) Displays a brief
                           overview of all party members's Hit Points,
                           Spell Points, Armor Class and Condition.


                                                     Page 20



                           From this list, you can view an individual
                           Character Profile, by pressing his/her
                           CHARACTER NUMBER, To return to the
                           original screen, press ESC.
  
                           Cast (Press C). Displays a characters Spell
                           Book which lists all known spells for that
                           character. Then prompts you to cast a non-
                           combat spell, providing the character may
                           cast spells at that level and has the
                           required number of spell points and
                           magical gems. Prompts ask for spell level
                           and number and other information if
                           needed. See Appendix B for spell
                           descriptions.

                           Discard (press D). Permanently removes
                           item from the character's backpack. Follow
                           screen prompts.

                           Equip (Press E). Shifts and item from 
                           character's backpack to equipped area so
                           character may use it. A maximum of 6
                           items may be equipped at any given time.
                           not all items must be equipped in order to
                           be used (i.e., a potion may be used from
                           the backpack).
                           
                           Items which must be equipped include
                           armor and other clothing, weapons, and
                           shields. Restrictions follow the laws of logic.
                           A character can only wear one suit of
                           armor at a time; can only be equiped with
                           one hand-to hand weapon and one missile
                           weapon simultaneously; cannot be
                           equipped with a shield if equipped with a 
                           two-handed weapon; and so on.

                           NOTE: Equipping a character with armor
                           may affect his/her Armor Class

                           gather (Press G). Transfers all gold, gems
                           and food carried by other party members to
                           that character, up to the maximum amount 
                           of each item which the character can carry.


                                                     Page 21



                           Remove (Press R). Shifts item from
                           equipped list to backpack if there is room
                           in the character's backpack for the item.
                           Follow the screen prompts.

                           Share (Press S). Evenly distributes all
                           gems, gold or food in the party's possession
                           amoung all party members. Follow the screen
                           prompts.

                           Trade (Press T). Transfers an amount of
                           gems, gold or food, or a particular item,
                           from viewed character to another character.
                           Follow screen prompts.
                           
                           Use (Press U). Activates an item that has
                           special powers. Items may or may not also
                           need to be equipped for use. Follow the
                           screen prompts.

                           If an item has limited power, a spell can be
                           cast to reveal the number of charges
                           remaining. See Appendix B for spell 
                           descriptions.

PROTECT         P          Displays currently active spells covering the
                           entire party. Light spells also show, in 
                           parentheses, the current number of light
                           units available to the party. One light unit
                           is needed to light up a dark square while
                           occupied by the party. Light units are
                           automatically used when the party steps
                           into a darkened square.

                           Magic shows the percentage of magic
                           resistance of the party. Forces shows the
                           percentage of elemental forces resistance.
                           Levitate, Walk on Water, and Guard Dog
                           appear when they are active.

                           If either of the spells Wizard Eye (indoor) or
                           Eagle Eye (outdoor) are active, the upper
                           right hand corner of the screen will display
                           a 5x5 overhead view of the party's location
                           and facing by an arrow at the center.

MAP/LOCATION    M          This option is not shown on the screen. By
                           pressing M, the equivalent of casting the
                           sorcerer spell Location will occur. This 
                           allows you to use the Auto Mapping feature
                           more readily. (See Auto Mapping, page 30,
                           for more details.)

Other Windows

Across the center of the screen is the status line which allows you to
toggle between Options and the Protection screen. It also displays the 
current Day, Year, Facing of the Party and other relevant events like
encounters, solid walls, locked doors, etc.

The character window at the bottom of the screen displays the
characters names in their marching order along with their current hit
points. Other text may also temporarily appear in this window.


                                                      Page 22




Encounter with Danger

During your explorations, your party will encounter many creatures,
characters and special places. Encounters, while often filled with
danger, are necessary, therefore, should not be avoided. Of course, if an
encounter apperas to be more than your party can handle, do 
whatever is necessary to survive - run, bribe, hide, etc.

Most creatures that you encounter will be monsters. Monsters usually
travel in groups. A group may be homogenous or include a mixture of
different types.

There are hundreds of different monsters, some timid, some highly
dangerous. Different monsters have different powers, capabilities, 
speeds and armor classes. You will learn about each type of monster
as you encounter and (frequently) battle it.

When an encounter occurs, the screen will change. The
command/protection list will be replaced with a list of creatures
encountered. A picture of the most powerful creature will appear below the
monster.

Your encounter options will vary, depending on whether the monster(s)
surprises you, you suprise them, or neither party is suprised.


                                                      Page 23




If the monster(s) suprises you party, you go directly into
combat. There are no other options. Combat is covered in this
chapter, beginning on page 25.

If your party surprises the monster(s), you have the option
to advance or not. If you choose to avoid the monster(s), nothing
further occurs. The encounter is over. If you do advance, you are
given the same options as when neither party is surprised.

If neither party is surprised, you have several encounter options.
Note that the option you choose may affect your character's alignments.

Encounter Commands

COMMAND       PRESS      EFFECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------
ATTACK          A          This takes you to combat. See the sectoin
                           on combat.

BRIBE           B          Your party attempts to buy off the monsters
                           with bribees. If the monsters refuse your
                           attempt, combat will begin. If the monsters
                           accept your attempt, a prompt will ask
                           "bribe with what: Food, Gold, Gems".

                           Select one of the options and another
                           prompt will ask how much. Type the amount of
                           bribe and press RETURN. If they accept,
                           encounter is over and they may even
                           choose to give you a message. If they
                           refuse the bribe, the party will immediately
                           go to combat.

HIDE            H          This is similar to Run except the percentage
                           of failing is greater, but if you succeed you
                           will remain in the same square.

RUN             R          Your party attempt to flee from the
                           monsters. If the retreat succeeds, your party
                           will be moved to the safest square within 
                           the immediate 16x16 square area. (You may
                           need to cast a spell to discover your exact
                           location.)
                           If the retreat fails, combat will begin.

                                           
                                                             Page 24




Combat

Combat is the heart of Might and Magic II. By battling and defeating
monsters and other creatures, your party will gain experience points
and any treasure which the monsters are carrying. Both are necessary
for characters to advance in skill level and ability.

Only one character or monster acts at a time. The order in which both
characters and monsters act is based on their individual speed. The
fastest character or monster goies first, followed by the next fastest,
and so on. Each character or monster attacks once per round. A new
round starts after all characters and monsters have had a turn.

When a monsters name is highlighted, it is that monsters turn to act
in the current combat round.

The character's name appears below Options for: when it is his/her
turn in the current combat round.
 
On the right side of the screen is a list of monsters, in the order in
which your party encounters them.

A (check) in front of a character number or monster letter
indicates that the character or monster may engage in hand-to-
hand combat. With the exception of archers, characters who can
engage in hand-to-hand combat cannot use missile weapons.

The character list at the bottom of the screen can be used to
determine which character is in which battle position. If a
character's name is highlighted it indicates a condition other than good.

                                                         Page 25




Battle Options

When a party member has the combat initiative there are 9 battle
options available.

Once you complete a battle option, the results of your action appear
on the screen almost immediately. The message remains for the
duration set by the DELAY command or by default.

COMMAND       PRESS        EFFECT
---------------------------------------------------------
ATTACK          A          Character attacks monster in the A
                           positiion,with whatever weapon he/she has
                           equipped. If the monster in the A position
                           dies as a result of the attack, all other
                           monsters move up one position.

FIGHT           F          Character attacks monster in any hand-to
                           hand battle position, with whatever weapon
                           he/she has equipped. A prompt asks which
                           monster is being attacked. Abort the
                           comand by pressing ESC before selecting
                           a monster. You will return to the combat
                           options list for another selection.

SHOOT           S          Charcter fires missile weapon. This
                           command appears for any party member
                           who as a missile weapon equipped and is
                           not engaged in hand-to-hand combat. it
                           also appears for an archer, even if engaged
                           in hand-to-hand combat. A prompt asks at
                           which monster the character is shooting.
                           Press ESC before selecting a monster, to
                           abort the command and return to the 
                           combat options list.

CAST            C          Character casts a combat spell. This
                           command only appears for spell casters.
                           Prompts asks for spell level, spell number, 
                           and any other information required. Press
                           ESC before entering final spell information,
                           to abort command and return to the
                           combat options list.

USE             U          Character activate special power for any
                           item in his/her possession. A prompt shows
                           all items in character's possession and asks
                           which is to be used. Press ESC before 
                           selecting and item to abort the command
                           and return to the combat options list.


                                                        Page 26




BLOCK           B          Character increases his/her Armor Class for
                           that round only.

RUN             R          Character attempts to run away and seek
                           safety. If the character gets away...
                           a) and the party wins, he/she will
                           rendevous with party after combat.
                           b) and the party dies, he/she can attempt
                           to return to an inn and revive the party.
                           c) and the rest of the party succeeds in
                           running, all will regroup immediately after
                           combat.

EXCHANGE        E          Character changes battle position with any
                           other member of hte party. A prompt asks
                           with which party member the exchange is
                           to take place. Press ESC before selecting
                           the exchange party member to abort the
                           command and return to the combat options
                           list for another selection.

VIEW            V          View a characters profile.


                                                          Page 27




Other Options

DELAY           D          Allows you to set the duration of on-screen
                           messages to any number between 0 and 9.
                           (0 is the shortest duration, 5 is the default)

PROTECT         P          Allows you to see all teh currently active spells
                           which cover your entire party.

QUICKREF        Q          Displays the QUICKREF list of character in
                           your party, including Hit Points, Spell
                           Points, Armor Class and Condition. From 
                           this list you can view an individual
                           Character Profile, by pressing the  
                           CHARACTER NUMBER. To return to the 
                           combat screen, press ESC.

VIEW CHAR       #          Displays the Character Profile for that
                           character. (See Chapter 1 for a description
                           of the Character Profile.) From the
                           Character Profile, you may type Q to return
                           to the QuickRef screen, or press ESC to
                           return to combat.

For Advanced Players

To speed up combat, hold down CTRL and A together. The character
with the combat initiative will:

* attack the monster in position A, if engaged in hand-to-hand combat;
* shoot the monster in position A, if not in hand-to-hand combat but
  in possession of a missile weapon;
* block, if neither in hand-to-hand nor in possession of a missile weapon.


                                                             Page 28




Battle Over

Combat continues until either side retreats or is completely destroyed.
At the end of the battle, a message indicates the number of
experience points gained in combat for each surviving member of
your party. Party members who are dead, eradicated or turned to stone
do not receive experience points.

After combat, the screen returns to the 3-D view of the world, your
journey continues, and your party will return to its original marching
order, regardless of any position changes made during combat.

IMPORTANT: Before moving your party off the square within which
combat occurred, SEARCH the square for treasure. Most monsters
carry treasure of some sort with them.
You may, of course, take care of other business (healing wounds,
resting, etc.) before you search the square.


Saving Your Game

If you need to interrupt the game, but save the experience points and
other abilities gained by your characters during the most recent game
session, you must take your party to the inn in one of the five towns
and SIGN IN. When you enter the inn, you will be asked if you want to
sign in. By answering Y (Yes) you will save your character's current
statistics and status on your disk B copy. Should your party die, all
gold, items, and information gained since you last visited an inn
(saved the game) will be lost. Any important quests or clues found
during the time should be reaccomplished.

The next time you play, you may resume the game from the inn and
town containing your party of adventurers...or start from another town
with a different party.


                                                        Page 29




Chapter Four

Beginners Guide to Adventure

The object of an adventure game is the game itself, rather than a
particular goal. During the game, you assume the roles of the
characters in your party, sharing their uncertainties and adventures.

There are certain conventions to most adventure games, which may
vary in detail but are essentially similar. These conventions are the
subject of this chapter. The details are covered in the following
chapters and appendixes of this book.

(Generic Adventuring Bullshit...)

Pages 30-33...



Appendix A

Details and Options

Character Statistics

Each character receives a random rating from 3 to 21, in each of 7
vital statistics. Because these ratings establish a character's
strengths, weaknesses and abilities, they also determine his/her class
(knight, paladin, archer, cleric, sorcerer, robber, ninja, barbarian).

Throughout the game, a character's actions, discoveries and battles
may affect one or more of his/her vital statistics. Certain spells may
even cause a vital statistic to exceed the normal maximum rating of
21. If however, any vital statistic drops to 0, the result is death for
the character.

MIGHT. A character's strength. It affects damage done by a character
       in battle.

INTELLECT. A character's general knowledge. Affects sorcerer spell
           points.

PERSONALITY. A character's general charisma. Affects cleric spell
             points.

ENDURANCE. A character's stamina in battle. Affects Hit Points (the
           amount of damage that can be sustained before death).

SPEED. A character's quickness and agility. Higher speeds increase a
       character's Armor Class. Speed also determines the order of
       combat druing the battle, with the fastest character or monster
       going first.

ACCURACY. A character's ability to land a blow on the enemy during
          combat.

LUCK. A character's chance of succeeding, when all else fails. A
      random element whose effects cannot be predicted.


                                                    Page 34




Character Classes

KNIGHT. Prime statistic (15 or greater): MIGHT
  Hit points gained per experience level: 1-12*.
  Spell skills: None.
  A knight begins with the best all-around fighting skills of any
  character. He/she can use any weapon or item of armor, unless of
  opposite alignment or designed exclusively for another class.

PALADIN. Prime statistic (13 or greater): MIGHT, PERSONALITY, ENDURANCE
  Hit points gained per experience level: 1-10*
  Spell skills: Clerical, at higher experience levels.
  A paladin can use any weapon or item of armor, unless of 
  opposite alignment or designed exclusively for another class.
  General fighting skills are equal to an archer's except that a 
  paladin cannot use missile weapons during hand-to-hand combat.

ARCHER. Prime statistic (13 or greater): INTELLECT, ACCURACY.
  Hit points gained per experience level: 1-10*
  Spell skills: Sorcerer, at higher experience levels.
  An archer can use any weapon, unless of opposite alignment or
  designed exclusively for another class. An archer can wear only
  chain mail or lighter armor, and cannot carry a shield. An archer
  can use any missile weapon, even during hand-to-hand combat.

CLERIC. Prime statistic (13 or greater): PERSONALITY.
  Hit points gained per experience level: 1-8*.
  Spell skills: Cleric (defensive, healing).
  A cleric can use splint mail or any lighter armor, and can carry a
  shield. Weapons are restricted to clubs, maces, cudgels, whips,
  mauls, flails, staffs and hammers. A cleric may not use missile
  weapons. At higher experience levels, a cleric gains the ability to
  use higher level spells.

SORCERER. Prime statistic (13 or greater): INTELLECT
  Hit points gained per experience level: 1-6*.
  Spell skills: Sorcerer (offensive, combative).
  A sorcerer may wear only padded armor and may not carry a 
  shield. Weapons are restricted to clubs, whips, pipes, staffs,
  knives, and daggers. As a sorcerer advances in experience level,
  he/she gains the ability to use more powerful, high level spells.

ROBBER. Prime statistic (13 or greater): LUCK
  Hit points gained per experience level: 1-8*
  Spell skills: Pick locks, find traps, backstab.
  A robber's armor is limitted to chain mail and shield. Weapons
  including sling, crossbow, and all one-handed weapons, such as a
  short sword, or dagger. As experience levels increase, the robber 
  increases his/her ability to pick locks and disarm traps and
  successfully backstab during combat. A robber's fighting
  abilities equal those of a cleric. Robbers have the best chance to
  pick locks, find traps, as well as having special attack -
  backstab. A robbers first attack, if possible, will automatically
  attempt to be a backstab. A successful result will be displayed
  incurring extra damage.


                                                     Page 35 




NINJA. Prime statistic (13 or greater): ALL
  Hit points gained per level: 1-8*
  Special skills: Pick locks, find traps, backstab and assassinate.
  A ninja's armor is limitted to ring mail or lighter armor and
  cannot carry a shield. A ninja can use most one handed weapons
  but only swords specifically designed for a ninja. Two handed 
  weapons are limitted to staff and naginata. Most missile weapons
  can be used. Ninja's have the same abilities as robbers except to
  a lesser degreee. A Ninja's first attack, if possible, will automati-
  cally attempt to be an assassination. A successful result wil be 
  displayed, incurring extra damage.

BARBARIAN. Prime statistic (15 or greater): ENDURANCE
  Hit points gained per experience level: 1-12*
  Special skills: None
  A barbarian begins with the greatest number of Hit Points.
  Barbarians are limited to scale and lighter armor and can use
  most shields. A barbarian can use most weapons except swords,
  Missile weapons are limited to slings, blowpipes.

In selecting characters to make up a party of adventurers, it is a 
good idea to start with on member from each class. This allows you
to avail yourself of the special skills and abilities offered by each
class.

*The number of hitpoints gained per experience level may be
increased by a character's endurance rating. The number of Hit Points
with which each character starts the game is equal to the maximum 
number of points which each gain per level, modified by
endurance rating.

Character Race

Although there are no restrictions on the race to which any character
may belong, selection of certain races may change the rating on one 
or more of a character's vital statistics. In addition, different races
have different hidden strengths, which do not show up in a character
profile. In general, these are:

HUMAN. Strong resistance to sleep spells and poison.

ELF. Some resistance to sleep spells.

DWARF. Strong resistance to poison.

GNOME. Some resistance to magic spells.

HALF-ORC. Some resistance to sleep spells and poison.

Although racial differences are never noted during the game, they
may be important in overcoming the effects of various forms of
magical attack. It is therefore a good idea to strive for a racially
mixed group, when creating a party.

Character Alignment

In Might and Magic II, good and evil are not absolute, but rather a
measure of the character's inclinations when confronted by the
unknown. Throughout the game, a character's responses to
encounters and combat can shift his/her alignment, as can certain
spells.


                                                  Page 36





A character's alignment will occasionally restrict his/her activities
while adventuring. Certain places, items and weapons are designated
good or evil. These cannot be entered or use by a character of
opposite alignment. A neutral character can enter an alignment
restricted place, but cannot use a restricted item.

Sex of the Character

Sex in Might and Magic II means gender. Any character may be either
male or female. Sex does not affect a character's vital statistics, or
normally restrict his/her activities during the game. However it is still
advisable to include both male and female characters in your party,
since you may encounter items, places and/or activities that are
available only to members of one sex or the other.

Character Status

On the Character Profile Screen you will find abbreviated information
about an individual character's status, in a number of different areas.
These include:

CHARACTER OPTIONS: Assigned when you create the character.
  These may include the name, sex, alignment, race and class

LEVEL: The experience level which the character has achieved. This
  starts at 1 and rises as the character gains experience through
  combat and training. At higher levels, a character gains in abilities
  and power according to his/her class (ie. a knight will attack more
  than once as his/her levels increase).

HIT POINTS: Number of damage points which the character can
  sustain in combat. At 0 unconsiousness sets in. Any damage
  after that results in death. Shown are the current number of
  points/the maximum number which can be accumulated.

SPELL POINTS: Number of points available for use in casting spells.
  Each spell costs a certain number of spell points, usually equal to
  the level of the spell. Shown are the current accumulation of
  points/the maximum accumulation of points.

ARMOR CLASS: This number denotes a character's vulnerability to
  physical attack in combat. The higher the number, the less chance
  that a character will sustain damage from an attack. Normally
  ranges from 0 to 30, depending on such things as armor, shields,
  speed, spells, etc.

SPELL LEVEL: Shows the highest spell level that can be cast.

AGE: Starts at 18 and grows older as the game progresses. As a
  character ages, his/her skill begin to deteriorate as vital statistic
  ratings drop. After about age 80, a character die while resting
  overnight, from old age. Age can be delayed or reversed by a
  rejuvenation spell.

EXPERIENCE POINTS: A running total of all points gained from
  defeating monsters, completing quests, etc. Experience points
  determine a character's eligibility for various types of training and
  for advancement to the next experience level. Approximately 2000
  points are needed to advance from level 1 to 2. Point 
  requirements generally double with each subsequent level.

THIEVERY: This is a measure of a character's ability to perform
  thieving skills (pick locks, find traps, etc.). Certain items as well
  as training can modify this statistic.

SECONDARY SKILLS: Character may learn secondary skills while
  adventuring. A character may only have two such skills at any one
  time. These skills provide many benefits including the ones listed
  below:
    Arms Master - increases accuracy with weapons
    Athlete - increases speed
    Cartographer - enables the auto-mapping feature.
    Crusader - allows the character/party to be bestowed quests
    Diplomat - increases personality
    Gambler - increases luck
    Gladiator - increases might
    Hero / Heroine - all stats are raised
    Linguist - increases intellect
    Merchant - receives most favorable price when buying or
               selling.
    Mountaineer - allows passage over any mountain range if at
                  least two party members retain this skill.
    Navigator - keeps party from becoming lost in large, open 
                spaces
    Pathfinder - allows passage through any forest area if at least
                 two party members retain this skill.
    Pickpocket - increases thievery
    Soldier - increases endurance

GOLD: Number of gold pieces which the character is carrying. Gold is
  needed to purchase armor, weapons, food and other useful items.
  Gold must be acquired along the way.

GEMS: Number of magical gems which the character is carrying. 
  Gems, which must be found, are required to cast many higher
  spells.
  
FOOD: The number of food units which a character is carrying. One
  unit equals a one-day supply of food. One food unit is needed to
  regain Hit Points and/or Spell Points during rest. Each character
  starts with 10 food units and may carry a maximum of 40 food units.

CONDITION: Charcter's overall state; i.e. good, poisoned, asleep,
  unconscious, dead, etc. More than one condition (other than good)
  may exist simultaneously. Any condition other than good should
  be remedied as soon as possible.


                                                   Page 38




EQUIPPED: Displays items in character's possession which have been
  equipped for use. Items which must be equipped before they can
  be used include armor, shield, weapons, cloak, etc. (in general, any
  item which must be carried, worn or prepared for use). Up to 6
  items may be equipped at a time. Items are restricted by the laws
  of logic; i.e., only one suit or armor at a time, only one 2-handed
  weapon, and so forth.

BACKPACK: Lists items being carried in character's backpack. Items
  in backpack are not (and may not need to be) equipped for use.
  Up to 6 items may be carried in a backpack at a time. Items can
  be discarded, added or shifted while adventuring.


Armor, Weapons & Equipment

Various types of armor, weapons, and adventuring items (rope, torches,
etc.) are available for purchase, to help your party. Hundreds of
magical items, weapons and armor can also be found.

Most standard articles, can be purchased in the various town shops.
When you enter a shop, you will be presented with a list of available
items and prices. As a rule, the more expensive articles are more
powerful, offer greater protection, etc.

A WORD TO THE WISE: Don't waste money purchasing items which
your character cannot equip due to class restrictions.


Time Travel

During the course of play it will become necessary for your party to
travel through time. You begin the game in the 10th century (the year
900). This is the true time and visits to the past are merely temporary.
Each century is unique unto itself, therefore, places, people and things
may not be present in all centuries. While traveling in time, your stay
in any century is limited to a random amount of time. Consequently,
while resting, you may be transported back to the 10th century to the
moment at which you left.

Auto-Mapping

Might and Magic II is equipped with a complete Auto-mapping function.
Every square or location in which the party stands is remembered by
the game.

Note: You must have a character with Cartographer secondary skills
for Auto-mapping to work.

When viewing the map from the Location Spell all the locations that
party has been in for the current 16x16 area are shown.

Note: You may only view the map of the area in which you are in,
therefore it may become desirable to copy the maps onto the 
mapping paper.

                                   
                                Clerical Spells
                                ---------------

Level One:      |SP/Gems/Level  |Object|Type|          Description   
----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------
                |               |      |    | 
1.  Apparition  |     1/0       |  10  |COMB|reduces monster's hitting chance
2.  Awaken      |     1/0       |PARTY | ANY|awakens all members of party
3.  Bless       |     1/0       |PARTY |COMB|Increases accuracy of party
4.  First Aid   |     1/0       |1 Char| ANY|Restores 8HP to a character                             
5.  Light       |     1/0       |1 Char|N-CO|Gives party 1 light factor
6.  Power Cure  |     1/L+1 Gem |1 Char| ANY|Gives 1-10 HP back/cleric level
7.  Turn Undead |     1         | ALL  |COMB|Destroyes some Undead                              
--------------------------------|------|----|-------------------------------
                |               |      |    |  
Level two       |               |      |    |
                |               |      |    |
1 Cure Wounds   |     2/+1 Gem  |1 Char| ANY| Restores 15 Points to 1 person
2 Heroism       |     2         |1 Char|COMB| Temporary elevates 6 Levels Up
3 Nature's Gate |     2         |PARTY | OUT| Teleports. Time Machine Also.
4 Pain          |     2         |1 Mons|COMB| 2-16 damage unless immune
5 Element. Protc|     2/+1 Gem  |PARTY | ANY| increases all resistances
6 Silence       |     2         |4 Mons|COMB| Prevents monsters from casting
7 Weaken        |     2/+1 Gem  |10 Mon|COMB| Reduces monster's damage by 1/2
--------------------------------|------|----|-------------------------------                       
                |               |      |    |
Level Three     |               |      |    | 
                |               |      |    |
1 Cold Ray      |     3/+2 Gems |5 Mons|COMB| Does 25 points of Cold Damage
2 Create Food   |     3/+2 Gems |PARTY |N-CO| Makes 8 units of food      
3 Cure Poison   |     3         |1 Char|ANY | Cures Poison        
4 Immobilize    |     3         |5 Mons|COMB| Imobilizes Monster Affected
5 Lasting Light |     3         |PARTY |N-CO| Gives 20 Light Factors to Party     
6 Walk On Water |     3/+2 Gems |PARTY |N-CO| Party walk on water for 1 day
--------------------------------|------|----|--------------------------------
                |               |      |    | 
Level four      |               |      |    | 
                |               |      |    |
1 Acid Spray    |     4/+3 Gems |3 Mons|COMB| Does 6-60 Points of damage           
2 Air Transmuton|     4/+3 Gems |Party |N-CO| Transforms Party to Air                  
3 Cure Disease  |     4         |1 Char|ANY | Cures Disease   
4 Restore Align |     4/+3 Gems |1 Char|N-CO| Restores Original Alignment             
5 Surface       |     4         |PARTY |N-CO| Transports party to ground         
6 Holy Bonus    |     4/+3 Gems |PARTY |COMB| increases damage by 1 Point/2LEV                   
--------------------------------|------|----|-------------------------------
                |               |      |    |         
Level Five      |               |      |    |                       
                |               |      |    |
1 Air Encasement|   5/+5 Gems   |1 Mons|COMB| Does 10 Damage per Round       
1 Deadly Swarm  |   5/+5 Gems   |10 Mon|COMB| Does 4-40 Points of Damage         
3 Frenzy        |   5/+5 Gems   |1 Char|COMB| Hits all monsters then unconscis  
4 Paralyze      |   5/+5 Gems   |10 Mon|COMB| Atempts to immobilze all monsters               
5 Remove Conditn|   5/+5 Gems   |1 Char| ANY| Releases char from bad conditions    
--------------------------------|------|----|----------------------------                 
Level Six       |               |      |    |  
                |               |      |    |
1 Earth Transmut|   6/+6 Gems   |PARTY |N-CO| Transforms party to earth
2 Rejuvenate    |   6/+6 Gems   |1 Char|N-CO| Takes off 1-10 years of age
3 Stone to Flesh|   6/+6 Gems   |1 Char|ANY | Re-Animates a character
4 Water Encaseme|   6/+6 Gems   |1 Mons|COMB| 20 points of damage per round
5 Water Transmut|   6/+6 Gems   |Party |N-CO| Transforms party to water
--------------------------------|------|----|------------------------------
                |               |      |    |
Level Seven     |               |      |    |
                |               |      |    |
1 Earth Encaseme|   7/+7 Gems   |1 Mons|COMB| 40 Points of Damage per round
2 Fiery Flail   |   7/+7 Gems   |1 Mons|COMB| 100-400 points of damage
3 Moon Ray      |   7/+7 Gems   |10 Mon|COMB| gives 10-100 bak and takes same
4 Raise Dead    |   7/+7 Gems   |1 Char|ANY | Brings bak from dead +1 Year
--------------------------------|------|----|-------------------------------  
                |               |      |    |
Level Eight     |               |      |    |
                |               |      |    |
1 Fire Encasemen|   8/+8 Gems   |1 Mons|COMB| 80 points of damage per round
2 Fire Transmuta|   8/+8 Gems   |PARTY |N-CO| Transforms party to fire
3 Mass Distrortn|   8/+8 Gems   |2 Mons|COMB| Makes mosters loose 1/2 their HP
4 Town Portal   |   8/+8 Gems   |PARTY |N-CO| Moves party into towns
--------------------------------|------|----|-----------------------------                
                |               |      |    |
Level Nine      |               |      |    |
                |               |      |    |
1 Divine Interve|   10/+20 Gems |PARTY |COMB| restores all HP, gives life.etc
2 Holy Word     |   10/+10 Gems |ALL   |COMB| destroys ALL undead monsters
3 Resurection   |   10/+10 Gems |1 Char|N-CO| Removes eradicated condition
4 Uncurse Item  |   10/+50 Gems |CASTER|N-CO| Atempts to remove cursed item
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                Sorcerer Spells
                                ---------------

Level One       |
                |
1 Awaken        | 1
2 Detect Magic  | 1        
3 Energy Blast  | 1/L+1    |
4 Flame Arrow   | 1        |
5 Light         | 1        | 
6 Location      | 1        |  
7 Sleep         | 1        |
                |          | 
Level Two       |          |
                |          |
1 Eagle Eye     | 2/L      | 
2 Electric Arrow| 2        | 
3 Identify Monst| 2+1 Gem  |    
4 Jump          | 2        | 
5 Levitate      | 2        |      
6 Lloyd's Beacon| 2+1 Gem  |        
7 Protect. Magic| 1/L+1 Gem|    
                |      
Level Three     |     
                |        
1 Acid Stream   | 1/L+2  
2 Fly           | 3      
3 Invisibility  | 3
4 Lightning Ball| 1/L+2 Gems         
5 Web           | 3+2 Gems   
6 Wizard Eye    | 3/L+2 gems    
                |
Level Four      |   
                |       
1 Cold Beam     | 1/L+3 Gems        
2 Feeble Mind   | 4+3 Gems            
3 Fireball      | 1/L+3 Gems
4 Guard Dog     | 4
5 Shield        | 4
6 Time Distortio| 4+3 Gems
                |    
                |     
Level Five      |     
                |     
1 Disrupt       | 5+5 Gems         
2 Fingers/Death | 5+5 Gems 
3 Sandstrom     | 2/L+5 Gems     
4 Shelter       | 5  
5 Teleport      | 5  
                |    
Level Six       |   
                |       
1 Disintegration| 6+6 Gems  
2 Entrapment    | 6+6 Gems       
3 Fantastic Frze| 2/L+6 Gems      
4 Recharge Item | 6+6 Gems    
5 Super Shock   | 2/L+6 Gems  
                |        
Level Seven     |      
                |       
1 Dancing Sword |  3/L+7 Gems    
2 Duplication   |  7+ 100 Gems   
3 Etherealize   |  7+7 Gems   
4 Prisatic Light|  7+7 Gems      
                |      
Level Eight     |   
                |       
1 Incinerate    |  3/L+8 Gems  
2 Mega Volts    |  3/L+8 Gems  
3 Meteor Shower |  (8+1/Mon)+8 Gems    
4 Power Shield  |  8+8 Gems     
                |     
Level Nine      |  
                | 
1 Implosion     |  10+10 Gems 
2 Inferno       |  3/L + 10 Gems
3 Star Burst    |  (10+1/Mon)+20 Gems 
4 Enchant Item  |  (50/+)+ 50 Gems
        

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ____________________     ____    ____                   _____    ___
 |                    |   |____   |    |  |      \    /  |        |   \
 | Might and Magic II |        |  |    |  |       \  /   |___     |    |
 |____________________|    ____|  |____|  |____    \/    |_____   |___/

  by LORD YUTU  *  The Joshua Tree   (416) 462-xxxx    96/24
                   Pandemonium       (416) 273-xxxx    3  <- just kidding

Amazingly...  I finished a game...  my second game I ever finished... Thanks
to New World Computing for making such a simple game...  (how come I couldn't
solve MM1?  I even had the hints and I couldn't win...)

I only detailed the cleric/wizard's spells that you have to look for, actually
most of these spells are pretty useless.  The only spell I found really useful
was Divine intervention which I used once.

You do not need to find every single hireling (though I found them all A-X).
Only one, Sherman, is crucial in winning the game.  (You must find Sherman to
get the use of the time machine that Lord Peabody has!).  I gave some hints on
where they are though...

Provided some explanations of 'TRUE' and triple crowns...  Also, some insights
on circus games...

I have a pretty detailed runthrough of what is needed to win the game...  Hope y
a have some characters of at least 20th level and some good stats...


---------------
Clerical Spells
---------------

A lot I don't remember but these are the ones that I do!

Nature's Gate - Go to bar in Vulcania and eat red-hot wolf nibble chips. Then
                go Druid's Grove (C3 - 1,9) and you will find a druid eating
                the same thing.  He'll like your breath so much he will give
                you the Nature's Gate spell... (Frankly, I don't find much use
                for this spell)

Walk on Water - Can't remember the exact co-ordinate (it is in C2)

Air Transmutation - 8,8 in the air elemental plane (Area A1)

Air Encasement - 1,14 in the Air Elemental Plane (Area A1)

Frenzy - A group of natives who resides in Native's Cove (Area B4 - 8,1) often
         go into a Frenzy

Earth Transmutation - 8,8 in the earth elemental plane (Area E4)

Water Encasement - 1,1 in the water elemental plane (Area A4)

Water Transmutation - 8,8 in the water elemental plane (Area A4)

Earth Encasement - 14,1 in the earth elemental plane (Area E4)

Fire Encasement - 14,14 in the fire elemental plane (Area E1)

Fire Transmutation - 8,8 in the fire elemental plane (Area E1)

Divine Intervention - Go to the Druid's Cave, at 14,15 is a arch druid who
                      needs a favor from you.  Find Horvath!  Well, Horvath is
                      within the cave (5,3?) find him and kill him.  Horvath is
                      a pretty tough opponet so beware...  If you succeed, go
                      back to the druid and he will grant you this spell.

Holy Word - In the Lost Soul's Wood (Area C1 - 9,7?)


-----------------
Sorceror's Spells
-----------------

Eagle's Eyes - Do the quest in Middlegate, this spell is part of the reward.

Lloyd's Beacon - In Corak's Crypt (7,11)

Wizard's Eye - In Sandsobar (Geez, the door says Wizard's Eye!)  Pay the man!

Fingers of Death - Supposedly at C1(1,8) but never found it.

Dancing Sword - Kill the Mist Warrior at Mist Haven (A1 - 15,11) and you shalt
                learn the spell.

Starburst - It is suppose to be in the middle of the Dead Zone, but I have yet
            to find it.  You die when you enter the Dead Zone...

Enchant Item - Find the Gemmaker in the Gemmaker's Cave (D1 - 10,12? a bit
               north of Vulcania!)  The Gemmaker is at 3,3 in the dungeon.
               Warning: His fee is TIME! (You character gets AGED.)

Anyways, a list of all spells to be found is at the Hall of spells in Castle
Xabran.


---------
Hirelings
---------

Do you really care?  Nah...  Some clues anyhow...

- Dead Eye and Red Duke are in Bozorc's (BOSS ORC) control in D1 at 14,1
- Sir Kill and Jed I are in Sarakin's Mines, unfortunately, ya gotta kill
  Sarakin first (and his undead friends!)
- Might Nakazama and Lord Peabody's servant Sherman were last seen having
  some problems with amazons near Native's Cove at 10,1
- A couple of guys are in prison in Atlantium, break em out....
- A couple of kids are in kept in prison by kobolds in kobold's HQ in the
  dungeons beneath Middlegate
- Buy fried troll's liver at bar in Vulcania...  I think there are a couple
  of hirelings who likes your taste... But ya gotta demonstrate your skills
  to them first... (So what is killing a dozen cripples and misers...)
- A couple of hirelings are almost dinner for the snowbeast in Tundara...
  Kill the snowbeast (in the outer walls of the city), skip the emerald ring
  or you will be accused of murder, and save the 2 hirelings...
- A lichlord guards a high level wizard in Area D3.
- A couple of guys are currently being held in prison in Castle Hillstone.

Anyways, with the exception of Sherman, most of the hirelings are not necessary 
to win the game.  They are nice to have around.  The most a hireling can cost is
 50000 gold a day.  There is a list of all the hirelings and their locations in 
the hall of hirelings in Castle Xabran.



------------------
Raising Statistics
------------------

On days 140-170 at B2 - 14,4 (the circus grounds), there is a circus.  Now
try a few events there...  You will probably lose, but you do a some
consolation prizes...   A cupie doll!   Now go (fly is quicker) to D3 - 4,13?
(somewhere there!) and meet this old raving hermit...  He will take the doll
and direct you to the pool in the Inner Limits (E2 - 10,11?).  Bath in this
pool (usually it is acid, but now!) and you will feel like a WINNER!  Go back
to the circus grounds and choose a category you want to improve on.  For
example, if you want improved strength, try to ring the bell...  Horseshoes for
improved accuracy...  Kissing booth for better personality...  Shell game for
better intelligence... sack race for better speed...  head dunk for better
endurance...  now what was for luck and stamina? (You get the idea...).  +10
to the category...



-----------------
Individual Quests
-----------------

For one to be true, each class must fulfil his quest... Each class must be
alone or be in the company of thieves.  When the quest is done, return to Mt.
Farview in area D2 - 7,0 to claim true status (+) and 5 million experience.

Fighters - Must kill the Dread Knight at B3 - 5,14.

Paladins - Must kill the Frost Dragon in the dungeon among the Forbidden Forest
           in Area B3.

Archers - Must kill Baron Wilfrey at B2 - 11,2

Ninjas - Must assassinate Dawn in Dawn's Mist Bog in D4 - 8,9

Clerics - Must defeat a haunt of ghosts at C1 - 10,15 in the Lost Soul's Woods
          and collect Corak's Soul.  Then go to Corak's Crypt and reunite the
          soul with his body.  One must have an Admit 8 Pass to enter the crypt
          though, and to obtain one, you have to get it from a zombie in the
          dungeon beneath Sandsobar.

Wizards - Go to either castle on the Isle of the Ancients.  If you go to the
          Dark (Evil) one first, follow these sets of doors (the doors are
          marked), 1-3-1-(3 or 7)-9-11-A-C-G-I  the combination to free the
          evil wizard is Right 46 (type 46 when you enter the right alcove)
          and Left 23 (type 23 when you enter the left alcove!)

          The Good (Light) castle and path, follow this path
          2-2-4-6-6-12-A-D-F-I, the combination to free the good wizard is
          Right 32 and Left 64.

Barbarian - Must kill Brutal Bruno, the Barbarian chieftain at C4 - 0,15.

Thieves - Accompany any class on a quest.


-------------
TRIPLE CROWNS
-------------

Buy a key of the appropriate colour.  Buy several arena tickets and then fight 
in the 3 different arenas (Middlegate's ARENA, Sandsobar's Monster Bowl, and
Atlantium's Colliseum).  Once you have won all 3 fights, you are a triple crown
winner of that colour.  Go to the bishop of the appropriate colour to  claim
the experience earned. There are 4 colours and 4 types of tickets.

        Green Key -   Key Shoppe in Middlegate
        Green Ticket - Supplies Store in Middlegate
        Green Bishop - Castle Woodhaven

        Yellow Key - Key Shoppe in Sandsobar
        Yellow Ticket - Supplies Store in Sandsobar
        Yellow Bishop - Castle Hillstone

        Red Key - Key Shoppe in Vulcania
        Red Ticket - Supplies Store in Vulcania
        Red Bishop - Castle Pinehurst

        Black Key - Key Shoppe in Atlantium
        Black Ticket - Supplies Store in Atlantium
        Black Bishop - Luxus Castle

You have to be BOTH TRUE and a TRIPLE CROWN winner (must be black?) to qualify
for the quest for Princess Lamanda (goal of the game).


---------------
TO WIN THE GAME
---------------

First you will need the Element Orb.  To get the Element Orb, you must first
grab these items, A-1 Tolidor (0,6 in Luxus Palace), J-26 Fluxer (7,6 Castle
Pinehurst), N-29 Capitor (3,13 Castle Hillstone), M-27 Radicon (2,11 Castle
Woodhaven).  Now this part I am not too sure of...  Go to Dawn's Mist Bog
Cavern at 10,15 and you will find the Element Orb.  You will find that you canno
t leave the dungeon with the Orb in hand.  There should be a teleporter 
in the dunegoen (very near the entrance), use that instead and you should end
up in Murray's Cave in Murray's Resort Isle.  Another way I devised was to
transfer the Orb to the hireling and then 'D'ismissing my hireling.  Now I can
leave the cave with no problem and I can find the hireling with the Orb same and
 sound back at the original inn... (Sorta cheated on it...)

Ok, so you've got the Element Orb, now you will need the 4 elemental talons.
Travel back in time using Lord Peabody's time machine to the 9th Century (Era
8), and go to Castle Xabran at C2 - 14,8.

In Castle Xabran, get the following items... Air Disc (15,15); Earth Disc
(6,2); Fire Disc (6,14); Water Disc (15,0)

Now, either using the time machine in Castle Pinehurst, or thru the vortex
holes at the corners of each elemental planes, travel back to the year 100, 200
300, 400 to find the talons.  The time of air hides the talon at 11,7.  In the P
lane of Water, 10,10 will reveal the water talon.  In the plane of earth, the
talon is enshrined at 8,8.  In the plane of fire, the talon rest at 4,4. Each
shrine which holds the talon requires the appropriate disc to open.

Now you should have all 4 talons and the orb.  Go back to the 9th Century again
and find King Kalohn at C4 - 14,5 and see him fighting the Mega Dragon. When he
sees you with the talons and Orb, you will haved changed history because
history had said the battle would have been lost.  Now that the dragon has been
vanquished, King Kalohn will live after all.... (confused?)

You return to the 10th Century and you go back to Luxus Palace.  Instead of Prin
cess Lamanda, you now see King Kalohn!  He tells you of the final quest.
To go to Square Lake and try to stop the villain that is going to doom Cron.

You enter this fantastic maze (that you won't be amaze with).  At the end of
this simple maze, you meet him.  SHELTEM and his elemental friends...  You
should be able to defeat him, but alas, can you beat his recorded message?  He
has left a pre-recorded message and REAL-TIME cryptogram puzzle.  If time
expires, the world crashes into the Sun.  Now, the encription algorithm changes
EVERY time so I can't help you with that.  But the message is the same every
time.

Here is the message,

We, the people of Terra, in order to form a more perfect union, establish
justice , insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense...

The answer of this is given already, Preamble.  Now, find the corresponding
encryption and translate the word Preamble to its encrypted code and then you
are done!   Cron is saved from crashing into the Sun.


By the way, New World Computing tells you to give them a shout if you should
finish...  Here's where to send New World computing, P.O. Box 2068, Van Nuys,
California 91404 USA.   Wonder what Might & Magic 3 has in store?  (No, I don't
want a 16 sided M+M3).

LY- Another Quality Solve from the Ethereal Dimension (206)255-XXXX 120+ Megs
            Imported by Midnight Maniac & Mayday of Paradox