                              MIND - ROLL

Relax. Take a deep breath and leave your body behind. You're now the Orb
of Id, ready to bump, roll, and crash through ten different planes of an
insane, 3D puzzle. Slide around shocking, electric seas, bounce off
invisible walls, and pick up keys and amulets to escape disturbingly
infinite mazes. Move fast to finish each plane in time, but don't get
careless - one step over the edge and you'll fall into the deep, dark
Void of Freud.

Loading Instructions - 1. Set up your system and plug a joystick into
                          joystick port 2.

                       2. For Amiga 500 or 2000, insert the Mind-Roll disk
                          into the disk drive and turn on your system.

                          For Amiga 1000, insert a disk containing
                          Kickstart version 1.2 into the drive and turn on
                          your system. When asked to insert the Workbench
                          disk, insert the Mind-Roll disk instead.

                       3. The program loads and the title screen and demo
                          game appear. Press the fire button to begin play.

Game Controls - Roll                      Push joystick handle in any
                                          direction. Release joystick handle
                                          to stop.

                Jump                      Press fire button.

                Pause a game              Press P. Press it again to resume
                                          play.

                Return to Opening Screen  Within a plane, press Esc.

                End a session             Reboot your system.

                Help                      Press Help for a list of key
                                          commands. Press Return to resume
                                          play.

Play the Planes   From the opening screens, press the fire button to see
                  the Choose Plane table. Select the plane you want to
                  play by typing its number, then press the fire button to
                  begin. After you successfully complete a plane you
                  return to the Choose Plane table to select the next plane.

                  Use the Designer screen to set up the planes in the
                  order you want to play them. Follow these steps:

                  1. From the opening screens, press F7 to display the
                     Designer screen.

                  2. Type the number of the plane you want to play first.
                     That number appears in the highlighted box on the far
                     left and the box moves to the right. Then type the
                     numbers of the other planes in the order you want to
                     play them. Be sure to enter a plane's number once only.

                  3. To change a number, push the joystick handle right or
                     left to move the highlighted box to the number you
                     want to change. Then type a new number. Again, be sure
                     a number appears once only in the list.

                  4. Press the fire button when you're finished. The
                     opening screens appear. Press the fire button to see
                     the Choose Plane table with your first choice
                     highlighted, then press the fire button again to
                     begin play.

                  As you successfully complete each plane, the Choose Plane
                  table appears with your next selected plane highlighted.
                  Press the fire button to continue play.

                  Note: Completing each plane increases the difficulty of
                  other unsolved planes.

Surviving     Time is your worst enemy. The upper right corner of the screen
the Planes    shows the time units you have left to complete the plane. As
              you roll through the planes, keep an eye out for the symbols
              below. Some are beneficial, some are bothersome, and some
              are downright lethal. Touch the Goal to complete each plane.
              You end a game and return to the Choose Plane table if you
              bump into an Eliminator or time runs out.
 __
(--)
 ||= Key          ___                __
 |=                |                (/\) Lift Up
                  (_) Amulet        (||)
__|__ Energizer                     (||)
  |                _                (\/) Lift Down   
                  (+) Time Booster   --  
  ? Surprise


Star surrounded by a circle - Teleport
Skull & Crossbones - Eliminator
The word GOAL in a box - Goal
Box with mazes inside - Electric Sea

Id's Up to You!   PLANE 1 - Roll or bounce the length of the plank and drop
                  through the Void into five subplanes. Two hints: In
                  subplane 3, avoid the Electric Sea - it speeds up the
                  clock. Slalom to the finish in subplane 5.

                  NOTE: If you leave plane 1 before you finish all five
                  subplanes, when you return to plane 1 you will continue
                  on one of the remaining subplanes.

                  PLANE 2 - Roll over Keys (in the right order) to open
                  doors. Roll near Keys to make more Keys appear. Use
                  Teleports to scout out the entire maze.

                  PLANE 3 - Stay out of the Electric Sea! Find four
                  hidden Amulets to make the Goal appear.

                  PLANE 4 - Race down the track as fast as you can. Avoid
                  time-draining blocks and use Lifts up and down, as you
                  have a limited number of jumps.

                  PLANE 5 - Fill the puzzle with tiled squares.

                  PLANE 6 - Grab the three sets of Surprises to make the
                  Goal appear. If you roll over a Surprise in the wrong
                  order, pneumatic tubes suck you up and deliver you to an
                  Eliminator. Avoid the time-eating Electric Sea!

                  PLANE 7 - Pick up extra Time Boosters - you can use them
                  in other planes.

                  PLANE 8 - Roll over all four Keys in one of the four
                  mazes before you run out of time!

                  PLANE 9 - Bash out all the cubes. Energizers temporarily
                  boost your speed. Avoid the flashing squares!

                  PLANE 10 - Bounce from platform to platform, but tackle
                  only one unit of height at a time to avoid a time penalty.
                  Get to the Goal as fast as you can!

Scoring   When you successfully complete a plane, any time units remaining
          convert to points. (For example, 5 time units remaining earns
          you 5 points.) Time left when you finish a plane also carries
          over to the next plane you play. You score points by rolling over
          the following:

          Keys and Surprises.. 2 points each    Amulets.. 5 points each

          Bonus rounds, worth 20 points (and sometimes extra time), follow
          the planes you successfully complete. Follow the arrows to play
          bonus rounds. Press the fire button to continue play after
          bonus rounds.

          Scores of the first five games are recorded in the Master Table.
          As you continue playing, higher subsequent scores replace those
          scores. At the Master Table, type your name next to your score.
          Press RETURN to enter your name in the table and save your name
          and score to disk.


Mind-Roll (Complete manual & Cracked Game)

        Brought to you by The Leader in Cracking Technology

              World of Wonders

Docs typed by The Corsair's secretary.