		             Mobile Warfare Information
		             --------------------------

	                (C)opyright 1997 Applaud Software Ltd.
			  Distributed by Epic Marketing.


 
SWAPPING DISKS:
When the game needs the second disk in drive df0: press F12,
go to the "Disk Drives" menu, click on "Eject" for df0: and
select the second disk file named "MobileWarfare2.adf" from the
"Games" folder inside the Amiga Classic 4 installation
directory. After that click on OK and follow the instructions
on screen.


DISKETTENWECHSEL:
Wenn die Aufforderung am Bildschirm erscheint, die zweite
Diskette des Spiels einzulegen, muss folgendes getan werden:
F12 drücken und das "Disk Drives" Menü anklicken, danach auf
"Eject" für df0: klicken und die zweite Diskettendatei mit
Namen "MobileWarfare2.adf" aus dem "Games"-Unterverzeichnis der
Amiga Classix 4 Installation auswählen. Danach OK drücken und
den Bildschirmanweisungen folgen.





 Starting Mobile Warfare.
 ------------------------
 Mobile Warfare will run on any Amiga with at least 1.5 Megabytes of chip
memory. It can be run directly from the floppy disks by inserting Disk 1
(the boot disk) and turning on the computer. Alternatively you can copy the
files "Warintro" and "Mobile Warfare" onto any directory on your hard drive.

 Special Note to Hard drive users.
 ---------------------------------
 Hard drive users of Mobile Warfare should make sure that neither of the
Mobile Warfare disks are in drive DF0: if you are running the game from the
hard drive.

 Mobile Warfare Overview.
 ------------------------
 Mobile Warfare is a turn based strategy game in which the player controls
different military units and completes missions set by General Armstrong of
the United Nations Chief Of Defence staff. The Player controls the blue army
known as the "Allies", and the computer player controls the red army, known
as the "Axis". Each turn the human player moves his forces and attacks, then
the computer player moves his. 
 Each unit has different statistics, and abilities which control how many 
moves it gets,and attack and defence capabilities. It is the interaction of
different units which creates the strategic element. Each unit has a "best
target" and "worst target" factor which determines which units it can cause
most and least damage to.
 There are also special units which add a little spice to the strategy,and a
menu of ranged attacks,these are explained in detail in the Unit Description 
and Air Support sections.

 Mobile Warfare Introduction.
 ----------------------------
 The title page appears after the first section has loaded. From here you can
choose to start the set missions,the "Campaign", or play a custom level which
gives the player significant control over such elements as Allied and Axis
forces and strength, to how much money the player starts with. It is best to
start the campaign game for new players as this introduces new units and game
features slowly, rather than overwhelming the player.

 Mobile Warfare - The campaign game.
 -----------------------------------
 When you select the campaign game you will be taken to the United Nations
headquarters and meet General Armstrong. He will be your liason to the U.N,
reporting on your upcoming missions and giving other information. You should
pay attention to the mission briefings as your success depends upon the
implementation of General Armstrongs orders.
 Please note the during the mission briefing screen you should click the
right mouse button to continue after each text message. 

 Starting out - The screen display.
 ----------------------------------
 The main game screen is split into two sections. The first main area is the
gameplay area where the level is displayed. Units are shown,background items
and scenery. Some background items are collectable, and some items of the
scenery can be destroyed by certain units. You will need to experiment to 
find out which.
 The second is the information section, the far right of the screen.This area
shows a portrait of the unit you are currently moving,along with its name,
and three numbers next to icons. These numbers represent the units Attack 
Power,Defence power,and Movement points.There is also a vial of liquid to the
right of these numbers which shows the Hit points of the unit.
 Underneath them is a compass which shows four arrows. You can click on these
to move the current unit in any of the four directions. Under the compass are 
four coloured icons, each with a letter on them.They are "E","O","S", and "A"
These represent End Turn,Options,Statistics,and Air support. More about these
later. Finally at the very bottom is a six digit number showing how much 
funding you have in pounds (£) to help you on the current level.

  Starting out in the first mission.
 ----------------------------------
Your first mission is to eliminate the few forces that oppose you in the area
Notice that one of the blue Riflemen is flashing at the bottom of the screen.
This is the unit that you can see on the information display to the right.If
you click on the blue "S" icon under the compass, you can see the statistics
for the Rifleman. This shows a brief discription and data on any unit that 
you are currently controlling.
 Now you will want to attack the red enemy riflemen.Move the current blue
rifleman with the compass arrows until his two movement points are used up.
You can see this by looking at the number next to the arrow icon,above the
compass. When you have done this, the computer will automatically select the
next rifleman and you can move him. This will continue until all have moved.
You don't have to move each rifleman in the order the computer shows you,if
you click on one of the others,that one becomes available for moving (if he
has movement points remaining that is), or you can right click anywhere on 
the screen, and the computer selects the next one for you.
 When you have moved them all, the computer will move it's riflemen. When it
has finished, you can move yours again, and all your units regain their Move-
-ment points. If you wish to end your turn before all your units have moved,
just click on the "E" icon.

 Fighting the enemy forces.
 --------------------------
 To attack the enemy,simply move a rifleman into the same square as one of
the enemy. This will initiate combat. Combat is conducted by up to 5 rounds
of attack and defence. Explosions will be shown over each of the combatants,
a red explosion on the enemy will score a hit,and lose some of his Hit points
but a red explosion on you will mean the enemy has successfully damaged your
attacking unit,and you will lose some Hit points.
 Remember the "Best target" and "Worst target"? If you attack an enemy and a
dull grey explosion occurs instead of a red one, then the unit you are using
to attack with is attacking a "Worst target" enemy unit, and only does 1 Hit
points worth of damage. The same applies to the enemy, if a grey explosion
occurs over you, the enemy unit is attacking a "Worst target" unit, and YOU
will only suffer 1 Hit points worth of damage.
 You should remember which units mix and match with others, so that you don't
attack a worst target enemy, but the enemy does.This virtually guarantees a
victory.
 As units suffer damage, the liquid in the vial of Hit points is used up,and 
turns from green to yellow, and then red. Another side effect of losing Hit
points is that as a unit enters the yellow zone, the attack and defence power 
diminishes slightly,and in the red zone, even more. This adds another 
strategic element to the combat,as you can suffer less damage if you attack
an already weakened unit, and a weakened enemy unit will have a hard time 
attacking one of your units that has full hit points.
 If units lose Attack Power to less than 5, then the number of combat rounds
also decreases,so their potential to damage other units will also decrease!
 That's a lot to remember - but put simply, if two identical units attack one
another, the one that is already damaged will suffer more damage, than the
one with more Hit points.

 Units in more detail.
 ---------------------
 You can move the mouse pointer around the screen and a bar will appear on
any unit in the gameplay area showing it's hit points. This is a good way to
know how strong an enemy unit is, and also how strong one of your units is,
without having to click on it to select it. 
 Some units are special, they are non-combat units.One such unit is the Nurse.
You can heal any injured Infantry unit to full health by moving the nurse so
that it "attacks" one of your injured men. This keeps units alive longer.
Later on in the game, you will be able to use units such as Spies,Saboteurs,
and Technicians to do other non-combat functions.

 The Barracks.
 -------------
 Some levels give you access to a barracks. Here you can buy units to help in
the mission.You will know what a barracks is,as it looks like a large factory
with a brown door,and a blue flag flying outside. Click on the barracks and
you can select units from a sidebar to purchase. Move the mouse pointer over
a dark blue unit and it will be available to buy,if you have enough money.
 Dark shadow units are unavailable in the current level. Move the mouse to
the edge of the sidebar,and it turns into side arrows which signify another
page of the list.Click to turn the page.
 Units appear outside the barracks entrance,so don't keep this way blocked.

 Air Support.
 ------------
 Some levels give you access to air support.Click on the red "A" icon from
the bottom of the screen to bring up this sidebar.Like the barracks,dark
shadow units are unavailable,only dark blue ones can be selected. Again,it
costs money to buy air support, but you can use paratroopers anywhere,and
bomb any enemy unit with the bomb option. You can also provide medical aid
to injured infantry units,and launch cruise missiles from here.

 Money.
 ------
 Money is shown by the six digit number at the bottom right of the screen.
Early levels don't give you any,but later on, you can use money to repair
units with technicians,buy reinforcements from a barracks,launch air support,
bribe units with spies,and lots more. You can even find money crates lying
around if you are lucky, don't let the enemy get to them first!

 Options.
 --------
 Clicking on the yellow "O" from the four icons at the bottom of the screen
will bring up the options sidebar. Here you can adjust the units movement
speed,and combat speed by clicking on the selectors. You can also make the
game pause after enemy moves,automatically select new units once purchased,
and abort the current mission.

 When you have completed a mission.
 ----------------------------------
 Completing a mission shows you the mission complete screen.Here you can see
how well you did.Leadership scores are determined by the allied to axis kill
ratio, tactics by the number of "worst target" hits, and you also get an 
allied casualty percentage. Your score is calculated on these.
 You will also be awarded passwords starting at level three and from then on,
every OTHER level, so for example, on levels 3,5,7,and 9 etc... You can use
these to start the game on the level it was first awarded,so you will have to
complete 2 levels at a time before you can obtain a password.

 Helpful hints for beginners.
 ----------------------------
 Mobile Warfare is a very simple game to play,but has a lot of complex game
permutations hiding under it's deceptive surface. To help you out,here are a
few hints which should see you along to completing the first few levels.

 * Manoeuver carefully - you can place units in such a way as they won't be
   hit by an enemy next turn,but are in a way to strike back.For example:
   Place a rifleman 2 squares away from an enemy,and the enemy will come
   walking up to you ready to be killed!

 * Gang up on your enemies - use the above tactics with 2 or more units,and
   you can kill enemies easily. You attack up to four times,and he can only
   attack once!

 * Remember which units can best hurt others - Riflemen don't do much damage
   to a Centurion tank, but the tank will make mincemeat of your Rifleman.

 * Use the "S"tatistics icon whenever you have a new unit to control.You can
   find out the strengths and weaknesses of units and make best use of them.

 * The enemy units have the same advantages/disadvantages as you - they don't
   cheat, so what comes around goes around!

 * Grab money crates early on to deprive the enemy and add to your reserves.

 * When you have a barracks always buy at least one nurse if you are using a
   lot of infantry, it extends their life immeasurably.

 That's about it for Mobile Warfare. Have fun, and remember - it will all be
 over by Christmas.