

                             MOEBIUS COMMANDS



TO BEGIN PLAYING MOEBIUS



Place Disk A in drive and turn on power.

Press any key or click mouse button to exit demo mode.

At prompt insert Disk B into drive and press a key.

From Book of Moebius menu, press "A" to Add Disciple.

Name disciple by typing in name.

Press "T" to Train disciple. 



NOTE:   Disciples must be trained in Sword Fighting, Hand to Hand Fighting, 

and Divination,  i.e., they must be successful in one session of each type, 

before an Adventure may be started.   Once a disciple has been trained, you 

may Begin an Adventure by pressing "B" at the Book of Moebius menu.

     A copy of Disk B,  the Book of Moebius,  can be made to save disciples 

for archival purposes or to permit the playing of separate  games.   Please 

refer to your Atari-ST owner's Manual for the correct copy procedure.



                              COMMAND SUMMARY



As  you move about the realms of Moebius,  you will see that there are  two 

ways to control your disciple's movement.



1.   Use  one  of  the two sets of eight movement  keys  indicated  in  the 

section:  MOVEMENT.

2.   Using  the  mouse,  click  directly on the play window  to  move  your 

disciple in the direction indicated by the cursor arrow.



NOTE:   All  menu options in Moebius may be selected by pressing the  first 

letter  of  the  desired command or by clicking with  the  mouse  upon  the 

appropriate icon.



B - Bare Hands.  Put sword away.

C - Communicate with character.  Press appropriate initial letter when   

    Communication Menu appears.

D - Open or close door.  Use movement keys to indicate direction to door.

E - Equip with sword, i.e., hold sword at ready.

F - Cast Fireball.  Available only in shrines.  Use movement keys to choose

    direction when indicated.

G - Get item or fresh water.

H - Hit with hammer if one has a hammer.

L - Listen.  Disciple's effective Listening radius will improve with level

    increase.

M - Magic.  Choose appropriate initial letter when Magic Menu appears.

    NOTE:  "Utter Prayer" requires a period of fasting after which "Utter 

    Prayer" must be selected again in order to activate a prayer.  "Stop

    All" will end all magic in use at the time.

Q - Quit & Save game.  Up to four Adventures may be saved.  The Book of 

    Moebius will be automatically updated during this time and when moving

    between realms.

R - Restore at last saved position.

S - Swing sword; to cut vegetation or attack adjacent character.  Use 

    movement keys to choose direction when indicated.

T - Throw shuriken, if one has shurikens.  Use movement keys to choose

    direction when indicated.  NOTE:  If an opponent is right next to you, 

    your shurikens will not be very effective.

U - Use item in Inventory.  Will turn torch on/off, if torch is chosen.

    When Inventory Menu appears, press the appropriate initial letter to

    choose item.





                                   - 1 -







V - View Maps.  At Map menu, press the appropriate initial letter of the

    map to be viewed.  Pressing "ESC" again will return to game play.

    When viewing the Memory Map, use the movement keys to scroll the map.

1-9 - Set Game and Combat Speed.  Slowest to Fastest.  Use number keys

      across top of keyboard.

ESC - Pause Game.  Pressing "ESC" again will display Options and Character

      Status during Adventure.  "ESC" also exits all menus (Use, Magic,

      etc.,) and will cancel most of the adventuring commands (Throw, 

      Swing, Fireball, etc.,)





                                  COMBAT



During  combat,  there  are  several methods you can  use  to  defeat  your 

enemies:



1.   Use the movement keys that are indicated on this reference card  under 

Combat, Sword and Karate.

2.   Use the mouse directly on your disciple to move and strike.   If  your 

disciple is equipped with a sword then a sword icon will appear.   If  your 

disciple  is  bare-handed then a foot or hand icon will appear for  you  to 

strike with.

3.   There is a set of icons directly below the combat screen that  can  be 

clicked upon for movement and striking.



A  glowing sword to the left of your stats indicates that you are  using  a 

blessed sword.



              Movement                                     Combat



  (I) (O) (P)        (7) (8) (9)                 Action            Keys

    \  |  /            \  |  /               Long strike left        A

     \ | /              \ | /                Long stride right       S

      \|/                \|/                 Short step left         Z

(K)---------(;)     (4)--------(6)           Short step right        X

      /|\                /|\

     / | \              / | \

    /  |  \            /  |  \

  (,) (.) (/)        (1) (2) (3)





                                 Sword

                                 -----

Short upper swing     I or 7                 Long upper swing     O or 8

Short middle swing    K or 4                 Long middle swing    L or 5

Short lower swing     , or 1                 Long lower swing     . or 2





                                 Karate

                                 ------

High Kick             I or 7                 High Punch           O or 8

Middle Kick           K or 4                 Middle Punch         L or 5

Low Kick              , or 1                 Low Punch            . or 2





NOTE:  To "Block" with a sword or bare hands, press the SPACEBAR.



RETURN - Break and Run during Combat.   Does not work in Training. 

 NOTE: The probability of successfully breaking and running from a combat 

decreases with lowered Dexterity.





                                   - 2 -







DESCRIPTION OF ICON:  Function



- Disciple: Toggle Between Equip Sword/Bare Hands.

- Disk: Preferences/Ways of Play.  * (See below)

- Question Mark: Options/Commands.

- Pouch: Use Pouch Contents.

- Mystic Square: Magic.

- Eye: View Maps/Lenses.

- Head with sound waves: Listen.

- Disciple and peasant: Communicate.

- Hand: Get (Chest/Vials/Water).

- Door: Open/Close door.

- Sword: Swing sword.  Will only appear if you are equipped with a sword.

- Hammer: Hit with hammer.  Will only appear if you have one in your 

  possession.

- Shuriken: Throw Shuriken.  Will only appear if you have some in your 

  possession.

- Fireball: Cast Fireball.  Only available when you become eligible to use

  them.



* Special Note:  When Preferences/Ways of play is selected by choosing the 

disk icon, a menu with the following options will appear.



   Auto chop: Toggles a mode in which you automatically swing your sword at 

      vegetation as you try to move onto it.

   Pace: Another way to adjust speed of play.

   Show mouse: Toggles between visible and invisible mouse pointer.

   Full sound: Plays music throughout the game.

   Mid sound: Plays music at important events.

   Basic sound: Sound effects only, no music.

   No sound: Silent

   Restore: Restores your game to the last save.




                                   - 3 -




                            THE BOOK OF MOEBIUS





                              THE HEADMASTER

        He who does not understand words cannot understand people.

                                                        (Confucius)



The Headmaster speaks:

     Twas in the Year of the Yak that the disciple Kaimen abandoned the one 

true path of Moebius the Windwalker and stole the Orb of Celestial Harmony.  

The ensuing nine months have brought devastation and ruin to Khantun, death 

and  suffering to our people.   It is said that Kaimen was the favorite  of 

the  favored,  and  for this reason the Windwalker failed  to  take  action 

against  him until the Evil One had fled beyond the reach of  even  Moebius 

himself.  Without the Orb, the Windwalker must stay on his plane and cannot 

pursue  his former disciple,  for the Orb aids him in ignoring  the  mystic 

boundaries between the elemental realms.   The Orb,  it is said,  holds  in 

check the forces of dissolution that are inherent to our land.  Now that it 

resides somewhere in the four material planes of  Earth,  Water,  Air,  and 

Fire,  we are plagued by unseasonable rains and droughts,  while the ground 

quakes in anguish.



     The self-styled Warlord of the East Wind fled along the four-fold path 

and  has set up his base of operations in the Realm of  Fire.   Our bravest 

youths  have sought him in the other planes,  to no avail - and  none  have 

survived  long enough to reach the Realm of Fire.   He has  imprisoned  the 

Holy  Ones who keep the shrines of Moebius on the four  planes,  installing 

his own Evil Monks in their stead.  Those who have dared to oppose him have 

died on his crosses of bamboo,  while the rest of our people are  oppressed 

by his armies of rebel guards and hordes of dread assassins.



     Our  beloved Khantun groans under the burden of the tyrant's  horrors.  

The  rains  have  increased tenfold and the land is  buried  beneath  ever-

increasing  forests.   The  very Earth trembles and shakes as  his  legions 

tread upon it.  Savage tigers have smelled the carnage and left their hills 

to come prey upon our people as they toil in the fields and  forests.   Our 

rivers  and  streams are infested by giant water  beetles,  with  mandibles 

capable of rending the staunchest warrior from limb to limb.   The  dreaded 

forest  demon  has  returned to plague all who travel the  land  at  night. 

Surely the long foretold Age of Doom is upon us!



     Khantun  has not maintained an army for ten  generations.   Since  the 

Windwalker showed our people the path of peace there has been no need.  Now 

we  are woefully unprepared and the people fall to the Warlord as grain  to 

the reaper's scythe.   Our people will help you,  but they are wary of  the 

Warlord's  informers  who  increase in numbers as  maggots  increase  on  a 

carcass.  Only the monks loyal to the one true faith are fearless, and they 

deal with none but the pure of heart.  They are old men and cannot stand up 

to  the vile dregs of the land that serve the Evil One.   So it is left  to 

you,  my  child.   The  ancient prophecies foretell of one  of  our  people 

serving the Windwalker in his time of need.  That time is upon us.



     Go now, visit with your Instructors that they may prepare you for your 

journey,  and tell you what is known of the path that lies ahead.   May you 

too walk the path of wind and sun,  bravely to the very stairs of the House 

of the Windwalker;  may you take the seat reserved for He who has travelled 

the four-fold path and lived to see the Evil One stripped of the power that 

saps the very life's blood of our Khantun!









                                   - 1 -







                             THE SWORD MASTER

    The mechanic that would perfect his work must first sharpen his tools.

                                                                (Confucius)



Taito the Sword Master speaks:



     So,  the  Windwalker has chosen you?   Well,  they say his  wisdom  is 

surpassed by none - who am I to question his view?  Let's get on with it.



     Your  sword  is a tool.   Tools are glorified by poets and  broken  by 

fools.   'Tis best to respect your sword and use it with calm.   There  are 

six  ways  to strike your opponent,  two styles of pacing,  and  a  single, 

universal way of protection.  They are:

     

     (I) Short Swing to the Head

     (K) Short Swing to the Center

     (,) Short Swing to the Legs

     (O) Long Swing to the Head

     (L) Long Swing to the Center

     (.) Long Swing to the legs

     (S) and (A) Long strides forward and back

     (X) and (Z) Short steps forward and back

     (SPACE) Block Opponent



     The  short  swings are easier to use and constitute the tools  of  the 

worker.  A flurry of such strokes can hold an opponent at bay, draining the 

lifeblood in droplets.   The long strokes are finesse moves, harder to land 

but much more effective.



     Most of the sword-wielding minions of Kaimen the Warlord, who serve as 

guards to his Overlords,  are aggressive fools who will try to bludgeon you 

to death.   The Evil One recruited them from taverns and gutters.   The are 

cowardly  at heart and usually seek to dominate by rushing at  an  opponent 

and exhausting themselves with a plethora of strokes designed to beat their 

victims  into  submission.   These dregs of humanity often prefer  to  stun 

their victims,  rob them of some or all of their possessions, and then flee 

as far as possible to enjoy their ill-gotten booty.   The only recourse  is 

to  track  them down and slay them.   They will invariably  do  battle  the 

second time they are encountered.



     During battle,  the path to success is to watch your opponent's  feet, 

not  his  eyes.   The swordfighter must be centered,  and  that  cannot  be 

achieved while mingling consciousness with one's opponent.   You must learn 

to aim for places and allow your opponent to move into your blows,  for  if 

you aim directly at him he will move before your sword has found its  mark.  

This is the key to the use of the long strokes.



     When  you  enter  a battle,  strike fearlessly to the  center  of  the 

battleground  - this permits strategic retreat and the choice of  position.  

If your opponent drives you back to a wall,  push him back with your  body.  

No  one can land a blow at very close quarters.   A quick rush and  then  a 

leap  backwards can gain time to catch one's breath and renew a fight  with 

vigor.   The Palace Guards do not always fight in the traditional manner of 

swordsmen.   Beware their technique of partially blocking a swing and  then 

quickly thrusting at one's midsection.   It is a cowardly move and not used 

by true swordsmen.













                                   - 2 -







     When you are exhausted and hard-pressed by an opponent,  you can  rest 

by  blocking his swings.   Know that the block is almost always  effective, 

and should be relied upon when one is near to death,  even when fighting an 

assassin who uses no weapon save the hands and feet.   But,  when facing  a 

renegade  monk  who  abuses his staff of power,  the block  can  fail  with 

alarming frequency.



     In a very desperate situation,  you can flee by:

(RETURN) Break and Run.     



     But  you  shall  pay for this cowardice by suffering a  blot  on  your 

Karma.   The  Zen Master shall explain the ways of Karma to you before  you 

leave  the  hallowed  House of Moebius  the  Windwalker.   Also  beware  of 

attempting  to  flee if your Dexterity is weakened as you may  stumble  and 

fall before your opponent and be exposed to grave danger.



     Your sword has uses other than combat.  It is, verily, an extension of 

your arms and can aid you in your travels.   When surrounded by  vegetation 

you may:   (S)wing  and chop down grasses,  bamboo,  or the evergreen trees 

that  grow  throughout the first three of the fourfold realms  of  Khantun.  

Such use of your sword will dull its blade according to the severity of the 

object you chop down.  Thus, the use of whetstones to keep your blade sharp 

is  imperative.   A dull blade in battle permits you only to bludgeon  your 

opponents  and  makes  the slaying of an evil  one  extremely  tedious  and 

difficult.



     The  sword can also protect you against the myriad beasts of  Khantun.  

The Tiger and Water Beetle strike quickly and will wound the traveller  not 

equipped  with a sword.   If you have your sword ready,  however,  you  can 

usually  fend  off such attacks.   You may also (S)wing your sword  at  the 

previously mentioned beasts and at the nesting Condor with some effect.



     The  people of Khantun have not wielded swords in  several  centuries.  

Their religion forbids the use of edged weapons and they fear them greatly.  

Should you approach a citizen with your sword held in your hand,  then will 

not speak to you and may very well summon the guards.   To them,  all those 

who bear swords are equal.



     Finally,  abuse of your sword - using it to chop down vegetation  when 

your Dexterity is low,  or striking rocks with it,  can lead to your  blade 

shattering  in your hands.   You only recourse in such circumstances is  to 

defeat a palace guard with your bare hands and take his sword.



     That  is all I can teach you concerning the use of swords,  my  child.  

The rest is up to you.   Go now to the Training Arena and learn to use  the 

blade  in  mortal combat.   And may the Moebius the Windwalker  watch  your 

every step.































                                   - 3 -







                          THE MARTIAL ARTS MASTER      

      To lead into battle a people that has not first been instructed

                             is to betray them.

                                                            (Confucius)



Tuan Chi the Martial Arts Master speaks:



     Hai!   Another disciple comes to learn the ways of the hands and feet.  

Good,  good!  Let us explore the only true path to martial success, the use 

of  no weapons other than those that are part of nature's  equipment.   Let 

blades of metal serve to part the flesh of trees but sully them not on  the 

flesh  of  man.   Deal bloodless death as is befitting the highest  of  all 

creatures.   Pay no heed to Taito the Swordmaster,  for he is naught but an 

elevated carpenter who would slay with hammer and nails given the chance...



     I shall teach you half a dozen ways to deal death with your hands  and 

feet.   I shall teach you how to move with the grace of a panther.  I shall 

teach  you  to  render  your opponent's blows  harmless  as  the  rain  the 

Windwalker sent to nurture our crops,  before the Evil One made the rain  a 

thing to be feared.   I shall give you the key to crush the evil Kaimen and 

all of his underlings.   But you must pay heed,  for the sword cuts deep he 

who knows not to divert its path,  and the clumsy assassins can kick a  man 

to  death  as readily as can a horse.   There is great danger  in  troubled 

Khantun and swift death to he who is not centered.  Let me show you the six 

blows...they are:



     (I) High Kick             (O) High Punch

     (K) Middle Kick           (L) Middle Punch

     (,) Low Kick              (.) Low Punch



     Blows aimed at the opponent's head yield the greatest results, but are 

the hardest to land.   The middle blows stagger your opponent and keep  him 

at arm's length.  Blows aimed at the legs are the most demoralizing to male 

opponents  and  can cause them to stumble and fall to  their  knees.   Each 

fighter must search for the  style that suits him best.   My own preference 

is  to use the low and high kicks in combination against a  weapon-wielding 

opponent,  while  reserving the low punch for the ill-trained assassins  of 

Kaimen the Evil One.   But then I am not so tall as you and have  developed 

by  style  in accord with my physical endowments.   Graceful  movement  and 

blocking is accomplished by:



     (S) Long stride forward

     (A) Long stride backward

     (X) Short step forward

     (Z) Short step backward

     (SPACE) Block



     The block is particularly useful against an assassin,  less so against 

others,  although  still quite effective.   Beware the flying kick  of  the 

assassins, for they often feel they must mimic the lowly frog and thus leap 

frequently,  severing  their  link  with the very  Earth  that  gives  them 

strength.   Learn to use the short, gliding step to position yourself well.  

And,  above  all,  be not mesmerized by your opponent's  eyes;  focus  your 

attention on his movements,  not his person,  for the battle is won by you, 

not lost by him.



     Go  now and train in the Arena that you may become proficient  at  the 

only  true form of combat.   And then pay special heed to the words of  the 

Zen Master, that you may more fully understand your own true nature.  Hai!







                                   - 4 -







                              THE ZEN MASTER

             He that will not economize will have to agonize.

                                                   (Confucius)



Yan Chun the Zen Master speaks:



     So Disciple,  you prepare to leave the House of Moebius and tread  the 

fourfold  path in pursuit of Kaimen the Evil One?   It is well that you  do 

so,  for he is a great danger to Khantun as well as to  himself.   Remember 

that  he  once was a disciple of the Windwalker as are  you,  and  that  he 

shares  the knowledge that you possess.   Treat him not lightly,  nor  take 

lightly  his minions.   Above all,  never let yourself be swept up  in  the 

excitement  of a single moment.   Ultimate victory will go to the  one  who 

never loses presence of mind and who thinks when confronted with  difficult 

situations.  The key to final victory is to remain centered at all times.



     Contemplate  your  very  nature  first.   You  are  composed  of  four 

attributes:



     Body - This attribute governs your mortality.   Should your Body  fade 

to nothing,  you will die.   Each blow you take in combat,  each period  of 

fasting  you undertake,  and every time a beast wounds you,  your  Body  is 

diminished.   It will return to its full potential with time.  When Moebius 

the Windwalker chooses to praise your worthiness and grant you a title  and 

a haiku, your Body will increase in strength and potential.



     Mind  -  This attribute governs you mental prowess  and  capabilities.  

Your Mind will enable you to call upon the mystic arts of charm and  prayer 

usage to confound your enemies.  As you wield mystic power, your Mind shall 

diminish  as you maintain the focus needed to use magic.   It  will  return 

with time.   When Moebius the Windwalker praises your worthiness, then will 

your Mind increase in scope.



     Karma  - This attribute grows with you and is relative to your  deeds.  

You may monitor it by envisioning a zen symbol.   If you flee from  battle, 

suffer an innocent to die, frighten an innocent with your sword, or perform 

any  deed not befitting the path of true honor,  the symbol will  begin  to 

split  apart.   If your Karma is not pure and the symbol is  divided,  then 

villagers  and monks will shun you and the use of magic will be  difficult.  

You  may redeem your Karma by feats of bravery or by being blessed  with  a 

visit from the Windwalker himself.  In time your Karma will mend as well.



     Dexterity  - This attribute is relative as is your Karma.   It may  be 

visualized  as  a  pair of wings that separate when you fall  victim  to  a 

thieving Palace Guard, or a beast of the wilderness, or when you are struck 

by  an  Assassin's  shuriken or the fireball of  an  Evil  Monk.   If  your 

Dexterity is damaged, you will have problems opening and closing (D)oors or 

(G)etting chests,  as well as in climbing the staircases of the  Overlord's 

palaces.   Remember, a closed door can be a useful strategy when seeking to 

prevent the escape of a thieving guard.   You may redeem your Dexterity  in 

feats  of valor and in successful attempts at (G)etting  chests.   A  visit 

from Moebius will also help your Dexterity, as will the passage of time.



     Movement throughout Khantun             (I) (O) (P)   

        is accomplished by:                    \  |  /     

                                                \ | /      

                                                 \|/       

                                           (K)---------(;) 

                                                 /|\       

                                                / | \      

                                               /  |  \     

                                             (,) (.) (/) 

                                   - 5 -







     As  you begin your travels you will be equipped with a Sword,  a  full 

waterskin  containing  the  traditional  100 sips,  a  food  pouch  of  100 

mouthfuls,  a torch,  a whetstone, three Body Elixirs, and three shurikens.  

As these are consumed you will have to find more to replenish your  supply.  

Villagers, young Village Girls, and aged Monks will offer you some of these 

(save  water,  which  has become too precious to part with) if  you  appear 

honorable  and  unarmed when you seek to communicate  with  them.   Do  not 

confront our people with your sword drawn as they are long unaccustomed  to 

seeing weapons and will be frightened and perhaps cry out for aid from  the 

very ones who oppress them.   Furthermore you will find hammers with  which 

to  smash rocks and shovels with which to obtain soil samples,  as well  as 

some objects of a more mystical nature which we shall deal with shortly.



You may (S)wing your sword to chop vegetation or attack a nearby beast or

           opponent.

You may (H)ammer rocks that block your path.

You may (U)se (T)orch at night to light your way.

You may (U)se (W)hetstone to sharpen your sword after cutting brush.

You may (U)se (S)hovel to obtain a soil sample.

You may (G)et water if you are at a cistern or near a source of drinking

           water.  The water in the rivers and streams has been rendered

           unfit for consumption.



     Should you be fortunate enough to find Elixirs or to gain them through 

the defeat of an Evil Monk:



You may (U)se (B)ody Elixir to restore your Body; or

You may (U)se (M)ind Elixir to restore your Mind faculties.



     During  your  travels you will most certainly encounter  villagers  of 

both sexes.  Approached properly they will aid you.  To talk to them:



You may (C)ommunicate with them.



     Once  you  have initiated conversation you must be brief  as  time  is 

precious in these troubled days:



Ask them to (H)elp and they will give you resources and even advice;

Ask them to (F)ollow Me, and they will do so as long as your Karma is pure;

Ask them to (S)tay Here and they will await the pure disciple;

Ask them to (G)o Away and they shall do so.



     If  your  Karma is not pure,  then they may pay you  no  heed.   Their 

willingness  to communicate and obey your suggestions is governed  by  your 

purity.   So do no evil, protect the innocent, and behave not in a cowardly 

manner.



     Should you wish to carry your sword at ready to hold the beasts of the 

wild at bay:



You may (E)quip yourself with your sword.

(B)are hands will replace your sword amongst your belongings and leave  you 

open-handed to deal with our people.



     At any time that you encounter a door you may endeavor to open it  and 

explore within by (D)oor opening.  The same action serves to close a (D)oor 

as  well.   Many dwellings house minions of the evil Kaimen,  while  others 

hold villagers who will help you in moments of need.









                                   - 6 -







     Throughout  the  Realms of Earth,  Water,  and Air there  are  magical 

cisterns where one can obtain water as previously described.   The cisterns 

also have certain mystical properties.   If you meditate at the foot of the 

idols  found  within the cisterns, your Body and Mind will be  restored  to 

their  full  potential.   The Windwalker takes care of his people  in  many 

ways.



     Finally,  I  have  given  you  three shurikens as  a  means  of  self-

protection.   They  are one of the tools of the assassins employed  by  the 

Evil One,  but they do have some merits and are being adopted by those that 

follow  the Windwalker.   There is still some debate to their enhancing  of 

one's  worthiness,  but they do earn some respect in the eyes  of  Moebius.  

You  may (T)hrow the shuriken at an adversary approaching from any  of  the 

eight movement directions.   Sometimes they will be fatal,  sometimes  they 

will  but wound or entirely miss your opponent.   They are  less  effective 

when  used  against assassins,  for these evil killers are trained  in  the 

avoidance of missiles and are quite nimble at times.



     And now my child, let us delve into the mystic side of matters.  there 

are items in the world that contain great power, as indeed do you yourself.  

All mystic force - be it spiritual as is Prayer, or based on the mundane as 

are maps,  lenses and charms - is both controllable and finite.   There are 

three disciplines of magic, two major and one minor.



     The  minor form is the use of mystic (F)ireballs.   They may  only  be 

used in the shrines of Moebius where the spiritual power that fuels them is 

ever-present.  Thus when you endeavor to cleanse a shrine and slay the Evil 

Monk within,  you may attack him with (F)ireball or with your bare hands in 

martial arts combat.   The Evil Monk,  however,  draws power from the  evil 

that  permeates his very being and may attack with fireballs outside  of  a 

shrine.   Beware the touch of these fireballs, for they bathe their victims 

in  evil and cause all blessings to dissolve.   Note as well that the  Evil 

Monks  abhor swords and will cause them to vanish if they see them,  so  do 

not attempt to engage such a person whilst wielding a sword!  During shrine 

combat,  the Evil Monk may also cast the spell of Inhibition at you.   This 

enchantment saps the will and renders one powerless to move.   Yet you must 

struggle against it in order to break its hold.   Thus,  the only means  to 

overcome  the  lack of movements is to strive to move until  your  superior 

will overcomes the spell.



     The monks that once kept the shrines of Moebius the Windwalker and who 

now  languish in the prisons of the Evil One and his  Overlords,  hold  the 

keys  to the two major mystic arts.   You must rescue these  sufferers  and 

install them in their shrines to restore Khantun to its former state.  Each 

time you do so, the monks will open the doors to the realms of mystic power 

for you.



     When you liberate a captive monk,  (C)ommunicate to him that you  wish 

him  to (H)elp.   He will bless your belongings and offer to share what  he 

has  with you.   He may also teach you a prayer.   Thenceforth you will  be 

able  to use (M)agic by (U)ttering Prayer.   To successfully pray you  must 

first  undertake  a  fast  of 7 Body points  in  the  Earth  Realm,  and  5 

additional  points  for  each succeeding Realm,  then  repeat  the  (M)agic 

(U)tterance  of  Prayer.   To maintain the effects of the prayer  you  must 

continue fasting.  When you wish to fully return your spirit to the present 

world, use the (M)agical command of (S)top Magic to end your fast.



     Each prayer is uttered by chanting a mantra, and each monk will give a 

special  mantra to a disciple for each prayer.   Thus,  you may  only  gain 

prayer by liberating monks.  The known effects of Prayers are:



     

                                   - 7 -







     Speak  with  the  Dead  - This enables you to  gain  wisdom  from  the 

crucified  remains  of  victims  of the Warlord  that  you  will  encounter 

throughout Khantun.

     Protection - This prayer removes your enemies from your presence.

     Waterwalk  -  This enables you to read the surface of the  rivers  and 

streams and avoid their treacherous currents.

     Cure  Sickness  -  This will alleviate the sickness brought  on  by  a 

beast- or demon-inflicted wound.

     Guiding Light - This provides light in place of or in conjunction with 

the light shed by (U)sing a (T)orch.  It is divine light and is not subject 

to winds or rain.



     Your  Mind must be of sufficient strength to activate  a  prayer,  and 

will  immediately  drop to its utmost minimum  upon  successful  utterance.  

(U)se of Mind Elixirs will restore your Mind quickly when it is  imperative 

to do so.   The mental strain of prayer precludes the use of magical charms 

at the same time that one is filled with the spirit of holiness.



     The  final major mystic art is the use of charms.   These  charms  are 

given  to  the  disciple that installs a monk in a shrine  of  Moebius  the 

Windwalker.   Even the monks do not know the properties of the charms  they 

guard.   You  must  use (M)agic force to (D)ivine the true  nature  of  the 

artifact.   You  must learn the art of (D)ivination in the  Training  Arena 

before  you ever  leave the House of Moebius.   Remember that  the  key  to 

(D)ivination  is  calmness  and fully  centered  concentration.   You  will 

meditate  on  a  box containing a zen symbol which strives  to  escape  its 

confines.   You must keep the zen symbol within the box by use of the  same 

techniques as used for movement.  The symbol will grow more  frantic in its 

attempts to break its bonds until a state of illumination is attained.



     Once  you have (D)ivined the nature of an artifact you must make  sure 

that it has been blessed by a monk of Moebius.   All charms will be blessed 

when  you first receive them,  but suffering a blow from a Fireball  of  an 

Evil Monk will render all current blessings null.  You may then (M)agically 

(I)nvoke  its powers by expending Mind energy to activate the  charm.   The 

charm  will continue to act as long as you are providing Mind  energy,  but 

when  you are mentally exhausted it will shut off.   You may also  use  the 

(M)agic command (S)top Magic to end the use of a charm.



     The charms known to exist are:



     Ventriloquism - This will cause everyone in your vicinity to think you 

are  elsewhere;  however,  should you physically  encounter  someone,  your 

presence shall be known immediately.

     Paralysis - This will cause everyone in your vicinity to  freeze.  You 

will  be able to touch them,  but not to engage them in conversation or  in 

combat.

     Teleport  - This will carry you and anyone in contact with you to  the 

last spot at which you obtained a soil sample.

     Invisibility - This will render you invisible to all around you unless 

you pass so close to them that they sense your presence.

     Spirit - this charm will enable you to pass through any solid  object.  

It does not bestow the power of flight, however, and you should not venture 

near the edge of the world in any of the fourfold realms lest you plunge to 

your death!

     Were-Spell  - This charm permits one to assume the form of the  native 

beasts in a particular realm.   It is special and may only be obtained from 

the Minstrel.  the Minstrel is a Night Demon who, as dawn approaches, turns 

for  an instant into a benign being.   If you capture him at the moment  of 

his transformation,  and if you are wearing the proper Amulet, he will give 

you  this  charm.   Otherwise,  encountering  a Minstrel will  still  be  a 

rewarding experience.

                                   - 8 -







     Charms require one other component.   This is a material component and 

it can be obtained in various ways.  One such component is simply soil from 

the  spot you wish to revisit;  while the others are parts of the beats  of 

the land.  The components for each charm are:



     Ventriloquism - Tiger Teeth.

     Paralysis - Beetle Pincers from the Water Beetle.

     Teleport - Soil Samples obtained with a shovel.

     Invisibility  -  Fish  scales which can be  found  at  an astrologer's 

        observatory.

     Spirit  -  Panda  Hair,  obtained by capturing one  of  these  elusive 

        creatures.

     Were-Charm - Condor Feathers found where the condor nests.



     You  may use (M)agic command to (E)xamine your stock of components  at 

any time.   Remember that the only return from the fourfold path is through 

success in recovering the Orb of Celestial Harmony.  Once you have embarked 

on this journey there is no turning back.  So guard the components you find 

as  you  will not be able to replenish your supply once you have  left  the 

realm in which they are to be found.



     The  realms of Khantun are littered with chests and  vials.   You  may 

attempt  to discover the contents of the chests by (G)etting  them.   Often 

you  will  find mystical maps and lenses.   These devices will aid  you  in 

finding  your way about the land.   The maps will display features  of  the 

realm as a whole,  while the lenses display features of a smaller area with 

much greater detail.  You may (V)iew any of these once you have found them.  

The maps will not survive in the Realm of Fire,  however, and you will have 

only the lenses to rely on there.   At any time you may review your  recent 

movements  by  (V)iewing  the (M)emory map.   This map shows  but  a  small 

portion  at a time and may be reviewed in its parts by using  the  movement 

techniques to shift the map perspective.



     The  vials will usually contain either a Mind Elixir or a Body Elixir.  

These  may  be  (U)sed to restore either your Body or  your  Mind  to  full 

capability in the event of fatigue.



     Go  now  and speak with Moebius the Windwalker that you may  know  the 

history and the nature of your quest.   May you heed His and His call as  I 

did many years ago, for He is supreme in wisdom.













































                                   - 9 -







                          MOEBIUS THE WINDWALKER

    There are shoots whose lot it is to spring up but never to flower;

          others whose lot it is to flower, but never bear fruit.

                                                       (Confucius)



Moebius the Windwalker speaks:



     Hail,  brave one.   I am Moebius the Windwalker.   I,  too, was once a 

youth such as yourself.   I was a disciple of the Four Elementals -  Earth, 

Water,  Air, and Fire - when they were the principal dieties of our people.  

I  was the first to travel the fourfold path and to meet with each  of  the 

Elementals.   In  those  days  the world was young and Khantun  was  but  a 

collection  of  huts on the shores of the Great Water.   In  my  travels  I 

learned  that the Elementals were not truly beings as we had  thought,  but 

states of mind that governed the environment of each Realm.  In truth, they 

were but four spirits that were capricious and constantly at war with  each 

other.   When I learned of their true natures,  I forged a crystal from the 

molten  rock  at the heart of the volcano in the core of  the  Fire  Realm, 

where the upstart Kaimen now dwells.  In this crystal, I imprisoned each of 

the  four  Elementals - the crystal is now known as the  Orb  of  Celestial 

Harmony.   I  then  established a pair of shrines in each of  the  fourfold 

Realms  that  Order might reign and our people might flourish.   I  paid  a 

great  price  for  my deeds,  but one must do what one  is  called  to  do, 

whatever  the  price.   I now dwell here in the ether,  with  my  corporeal 

existence bound to the Orb, for it was my very body that forged the Orb.  I 

can no longer travel the fourfold path except in spirit, for to do so would 

loosen  the bonds that hold the Elementals captive and allow our  world  to 

exist in peace and harmony.



     When  the four Elementals become bound together as one in the  Orb  of 

Celestial  Harmony,  the fortold of an Age of Doom - an age when the one  I 

most  trusted  would  rise against me and free the  Elementals  from  their 

bondage.  They also prophesied that only a human could defeat He who was to 

be  their  Liberator  - a human who possessed a human  body  and  only  the 

supernatural powers that are inherent to our,  or should I say,  your race, 

for I have left my earthly body behind.  I began this school, where you and 

your  fellows have trained these many years,  in hopes that I might  foster 

many who could forestall the Age of Doom and smash the Usurper.   My  first 

four  disciples were the Nameless One who serves as Headmaster,  Taito  the 

Sword  Master,  Tuan  chi the Martial Arts Master,  and Yan  Chun  the  Zen 

Master.   They  are as human as you and your fellows,  subject to the  same 

jealousies  and  rivalries that all humans  endure.   Yet,  they  are  fine 

people.   Pay no heed to Yuan Chi's caustic nature toward Taito, but depend 

on what he teaches of his art - as you may depend on all of your  teachers.  

Fear not their humanity,  but embrace it - for it is the gift that  permits 

all to war against Evil.   One cannot fight an enemy one does not know,  so 

we  must all hold a little of envy and jealousy that we may  recognize  our 

true enemy and better ourselves.



     So far, many of my disciples have tried to find and subdue Kaimen - He 

who once was my most prized disciple - but none have succeeded.  It is with 

a  heavy heart that I watch you and your brethren set out on the quest  for 

the Orb,  for I know that of all who go only one shall survive,  while  the 

others shall perish.



     Keep in your heart the true meaning of being a  disciple.   Discipline 

is the foundation upon which civilization is built.   The quality of  being 

disciplined is the quality of being centered.  To be centered is to be calm 

and contemplative.   This is the key to success in all your  endeavors,  be 







                                  - 10 -







they combative,  mystical,  or peaceful.  Kaimen is ambitious and mercurial 

by  nature  -  this  is his weakness.   He could  never  achieve  the  true 

centering  needed for ultimate power,  for he is ruled by a  fiery  nature.  

Make not the same mistake.   Kaimen is indeed very powerful, no magic works 

against his person,  and he wields an extraordinarily powerful  sword.   To 

fight him I shall give you these gifts:



     You shall begin your journey with three Resurrections.   If you should 

die, three times shall I call Death to me as he comes to collect your soul.  

Furthermore,  each  time  you rescue one of my monks from  the  prisons  of 

Kaimen's Overlords and restore him to his rightful place in my  shrines,  I 

shall grant you another Resurrection.



     Each  time you liberate on of my monks and return him to his  rightful 

place in my shrines I shall empower him to give a special Blessing to  your 

sword,  that  it  may remain sharp for as long as you remain pure  in  your 

actions.   Should your Karma slip,  the Blessing will be lost.  But as long 

as  the Blessing remains upon your sword it will smite your enemies with  a 

force equal to that wielded by the evil Kaimen himself.   I cannot  empower 

you to carry this blessing from one Realm to the next,  for the forces that 

separate  the  Realms are great enough to nullify the  blessings  that  add 

power to your sword.



     Each time I feel you have shown your worthiness I shall visit you  and 

give  you an additional name and a song of power.   You Body will  increase 

and your Mind will grow in scope.   When you have liberated both shrines in 

a Realm,  I shall empower you to enter the Astral Gates therein and  travel 

along  the  fourfold path to your destiny.   Should you  reach  Kaimen  and 

destroy Him, I shall return you to the House of Moebius where you may dwell 

in peace and the pursuit of knowledge for the rest of your days, revered by 

all the peoples of Khantun.



     Go now my child.   Enter the Training Arena and prove your  worthiness 

by successfully training in the disciplines of Swords,  Martial  Arts,  and 

Divination.  Once you have done so, you may embark upon your journey.































                                                                      rmh























                                  - 11 -







