MOOCHIES DOCS
=============
                                                            
INTRODUCTION
------------

Long ago the happy, peaceful Moochies left the violence and conflict of
the human world behind.  Now they live in the Forgotten Land, far beyond
the reach of the big people.  Or so it was.  Their happy life has been
shattered by the appearance of Tarai, the evil magician.  From Entity
castle in the Valley of Gloom, he threatens to destroy all of them.

Only the legendary spellbuster machine can force him out of the forgotten
land.  Unfortunately Terai has stolen the spellbuster, broken it into 24
pieces and scattered then around the castle.  The Moochies' only hope is
that you will be able to collect all of these pieces and recreate the 
machine.

LOADING
-------

Switch on computer and insert disk 1 into drive df0:.  Press the left
mouse button to skip quickly through the intro sequence onto the 
selection screen.

Here you can set the number of players and how each will control their
Moochie.  There are 4 Moochies - Bit, Bud, Bat and Bob - and so a 
maximum of 4 players (if you have a adaptor).

On the same screen you can set sound to music, effects or silence, and
define the game level from which you want to start.  Whilst you think,
the computer will also tell you more of the story of the Moochies.
PrEsS FiRe To StArT ThE GaMe.

THE CASTLE
----------

The castle contains around 200 rooms, each containing a different puzzle,
all of which must be visited to complete the game.  In each room, the aim
is to move the three bonus blocks together, and socollect the special bonus.
The most important bonus is a piece of the spellbuster machine, but there
are many other typesm which you will have to find out about for yourself!

PRESSURE PADS
-------------

Some of the Castle Entity's rooms are hidden; their doors won't appear
(usually) until you step onto one of the small grey pressure pads you will
find.  Pressure pads can also be used to open and close all doors, which
can be vital to solving a room.

TELEPORT SQUARES
----------------

Another class of strange object to be found in the castle is the teleport
square.  These will take you to new sections of the castle, some of which
cannot be visited in any other way.

MOVING BETWEEN LEVELS
---------------------

The castle is made up of several floors.  To go up or down, use the holes
in the ground and teleport squares.

GAME OPTIONS
------------

Press CAPS LOCK to pause the game, and ESCAPE to quit.  HELP will reset
room to the state it was in when you entered it, which can be very useful 
if you make a mistake.  DEL will return you to the first room of the game.
This panic move should only be made if you are completely trapped
somewhere in the castle.

THE END GAME
------------

If you ever manage to collect all 24 pieces of the spellbuster, you will
be given a chace to re-assemble it.  The highest scoring player will be
allowed to try first, and each of the others in turn.  Assemble the blocks
into a picture of the machine before yourtime runs out.

PLAY EXAMPLE
------------

To start you off, here's and example of how to solve one puzzle.  Plug
your mouse into joystick port 1, and your joystick into port 2.  load up
the game, and get to the selection screen.  Set one moochie to joystick
2, and the others to off, and start the game.

Quickly move your moochie down through the door at the bottom of the
screen, being careful to avoid the red nasties.  The 3 bonus blocks are
to your left and right, and near bottom right corner of the screen.  Go 
to the square underneath the third bonus square.  Turn to face upwards,
by trying to move up.  Now press fire, and the block will be pushed up 
next to the top right one.

Move to the square one left of the last isolated block.  Face right, and 
hit fire.  All 3 blocks should be lined up.  One will be replaced by the
`?BONUS' sign.  Move onto the sign to collect the bonus - an extra life
in this case.

End........
