                      The Doc Machine Strikes Again With

                         MORPH   from   Millennium           
                         =========================

Loading Instructions 
--------------------

1.   Turn  off the computer and disconnect all unnecessary peripherals.  We
recommend  that  you  leave  your computer turned off for thirty seconds in
case  a  virus  has installed itself into the computer's memory - this will
kill a virus if one is present.

2.   Insert  Disk # 1 into the drive and switch the computer on.  (The game
will now begin to load.
 
3.   When the computer prompts you to "Insert Disk #2", eject Disk #1 and
insert Disk #2.  The game will continue to load automatically.

4.   You  may bypass the intro sequence at any time after the title page by
pressing the space bar.

The Story
---------

When  Morris  Rolph - Morph to his friends - called round to see his uncle,
the  eccentric Professor Krankenpot, he was surprised to see how excited he
looked "Come in my boy, come in.  It's finished at last!" he said, ushering
him in from the gathering storm.  As Morph followed him into his laboratory
he  wondered if it could really be true, that after months of hard work the
professor had finally succeeded in building a teleport machine.

"Watch this!" the professor said, putting Eric the white mouse on to one of
the  two  metal platforms at either end of the enormous room.  Morph`s eyes
opened  wide as the professor parted some curtains revealing a wall full of
cogs and gears that were attached to a massive machine.

The  professor  pulled  a  metal lever on the wall, and the machine whirred
into  life.   Eric disappeared with a squeak into a haze of sparkling stars
and the machine fell silent.

Morph held his breath - would everything work alright?  He hoped Eric would
be safe!  The professor looked around with a triumphant gleam in his eye as
he  pulled  the  second lever and the machine gave a cough, spluttered, and
the  sparkles  began  to form on the platform at the other end of the room.
Morph breathed a huge sigh of relief as the brave little mouse snapped back
into reality , twitching its little nose in the air defiantly.

"You  did  it!"  he  gasped  in  amazement.   As  Eric scampered around the
labratory,  Morph`s  brain raced.  Just think of the fun he could have with
this  machine!   He could get into football matches free, get out of school
quickly  and  as  for  practical jokes, the teleport machine was brilliant.
"Can I have a go now?" he yelled, jumping onto the platform.

Professor  Krankenpot  shook his head "I'm sorry Morris", he said "It might
not  be  safe.  I haven't tested it on humans yet, only Eric.  Now where is
that creature?".

Just  then  the  professor caught sight of the mouse.  He was about to jump
off  the  top  of  the  machine  onto  the  first metal lever.  "Nooo," the
professor  yelled,  but  it  was  too late!  The white mouse leapt onto the
lever  which  slowly  sank down.  Once more the machine clunked into action
and Morph vanished into the swirling stars.  The room fell silent once more
save for the lashing of the rain against the window panes.

The  professor  stood frozen to the spot in horror until he was roused by a
loud  clop of thunder that shook the house to its foundations.  "I must get
Morris  back", he thought, dashing across the room to the second lever.  He
was  just tightening his grip on it when a bolt of lightning ripped through
the  sky, tore through the roof and smashed into the mochine!  The force of
the  bolt  sent  sparks  flying  through  the air and the machine exploded,
scattering  its components around the surrounding countryside.  Aghast, the
professor  creid  out  "Morph,  are  you  alright?  Did I pull the lever in
time?".   As  the room cleared the professor saw a cloud of twinkling atoms
and electrons all that remained of Morph!

"On no" my poor nephew," the professor cried "What has become of you?"

"Don`t  worry  I'm  here  and  I'm  feeling fine." Professor Krankenpot was
interrupted  by  a familiar voice.  It was Morph "I'm in some sort of state
of limbo," he explained "I can't regain my body but I can pull my molecules
closer  together and change my shape.  I'll go and find all the parts while
you  check the rest of the machine.  Once I've collected the missing pieces
you  can  repair the machine and bring me back.  It'll be alright, just you
see!"

The Game
--------

The  objective of the game is for Morph to re-assemble the teleport machine
enabling  him to return to the form of a small boy.  To achieve this, Morph
has  to  collect  each  of  the machine's many pieces, in the form of cogs,
which  have  been  scattered  over a number of game levels.  To do this you
must:

1.  Collect the cog

2.  Complete the level within the given number of transformations (shown by
the star at the right hand side of the panel)

3.   Use  no  more of any individual transformations than allowed (shown on
left hand side of panel)

The  levels  themselves are spread over four different areas, each of which
have their own particularly tricky hazards and puzzles to complete:

The Gardens

A  fun  packed  area  filled  with all sorts of bushes, flowers and flowing
water.   Watch  out  for  the bush fires and the prickly bramble bushes and
other hidden hazards as they're sure to pop your plans to progress

The Factory

A  labyrinth  of  pipes,  heaters,  coolers  and  impenetrable steel doors.
There's  plenty  of  electrical equipment such as conveyor belts, lifts and
fans  to negotiate, all the time avoiding pipes and shafts which can easily
sidetrack you

The Sewers

A  dark  and dank subterraneon level filled with slime and a maze of pipes.
Be aware of the treacherous side shows and tunnels, and make sure you avoid
the broken glass

The Laboratories

The  laboratory  is  filled  with  bubbling  glassware,  electrical testing
equipment, chemicals and shelves stocked high with books and lab equipment.
You will need all your skills and quick wits to navigate your way though it
all

Choice of Level

At  the  beginning  of  the  game  the screen shows the four areas.  At the
centre of the screen is Morph's home.  By simply pushing in the appropriate
direction  on  the joystick you can chose which area to enter.  This screen
also  shows  how  many  of  the  machine  parts,  shown  as cogs, have been
collected  from  each  of  the areas.  The cogs hang on a board next to the
path in each area.

To  complete  each  level,  Morph must collect one of the machine's missing
cogs and locate the exit within two minutes without exceeding his number of
transformations.   If  you  fail  then the Professor will appear to explain
where  you  went wrong.  You may then attempt that level once again or move
onto  a  level  within  another  area.   However, the six levels within any
individual  area  can only be tackled one after another.  There is no limit
to the number of times that you can try to complete a level.

Morphs Transformations

Morph  may no longer be a normal boy, but there are advantages in the being
a  collection  of disembodied atoms.  Morph can, with great effort, metamor
phose at will from one state of matter to another.  Each of the four states
he can assume has its own advantages and, of course, its disadvantages.

Gas:   In  this  state Morph may float upwards and thus defy gravity He may
also  pass  through  small  holes  and  grilles.   However  the gas is very
combustible  and  disagrees highly with extraction fans.  Unfortunately, as
it is lighter than air, it cannot move down wards.

Liquid:  When transformed into a liquid Morph may seep through small holes,
extinguish  fires and squeeze around the sjdes of lifts.  However he can be
killed  by  drains  and  dissolve in any other liquid.  So look out for the
streams and treacherous pools.

Flexible:   The  state  in  which  elasticity  is  the  key physical charac
teristic.   Morph  will  become  very  rubbery and bouncy just like a beach
ball,  this  enables  Morph  to bounce vertically and across gaps and float
across  water.   However,  sharp  spikes,  brambles, broken glass and metal
corners will burst him.  He will also burn in fire, or explode in a heating
element.

Solid:   The  heaviest  state  for Morph to be in.  He is limited to moving
like  a cannonball, however this does make him impervi ous to sharp objects
and  due to his heavy weight he can smash through certain walls.  Take care
when  Morph  is  solid  as  he  is extremely heavy and will crumble through
flimsy stone paths and sink in liquid of any kind

Number of Transformations

Morph  can  only change a certain number of times per level.  These are dis
played  in  the  form  of  counters  at  the bottom of the screen next to a
graphic of the form to be changed into.

As well as a limit to the number of times Morph can assume a certain state,
there  is  a  global transformation value (shown on the far right window of
the  control  panel) which, if exceeded, means Morph can no longer hold his
atoms  together  and he fails.  Bonuses can however be collected (stars) so
that the number of global transformations can be increased.

You  may  actually exceed the number of transformations to any one state as
long  as the number of global transformations is not exceeded.  The counter
will  then display a negative (red) number.  This allows you to explore the
level  further  but  means  that  you may not be able to complete the level
successfully.

Finishing a Level

To  complete  a level you need to work your woy through all the puzzles and
hazards  using  the  appropriate  state of matter at the correct point in a
level.   In  this  way  you  can  cross  certain  hazards by using only the
allotted number of transformations

There are several ways of completing a level, so experiment!

Controls

Controls  for  the  gome  are  simple.   The joystick is used to move Morph
around, each state having its own movement characteristics.

To  change  Morph  to  another state you must hold down the fire button and
push one of four directions:

UP      - Gas
DOWN    - Liquid
LEFT    - Flexible
RIGHT   - Solid

The control commands are displayed at the bottom of the screen at all times
showing the direction needed to be pushed next to that state's counter.

Additional controls are:

FIRE HELD WITH JOYSTICK CENTRAL     - View map
SPACE                               - Pause
ENTER                               - Restart level

There is no limit to the number of times a level may be restarted

Hazards & Obstacles

Many  of the objects and hazards that appear in the game will affect Morphs
state  in  one way whilst affecting his other states in a totally different
way.

Heater Blocks
This  is  a  glowing element and when entered will transform Morph from his
current  state  to  a  less dense state.  The heater may be entered as many
times as you like thus providing "free" transfor mations.  The direction of
change is as follows:

SOLID -  FLEXIBLE - LIQUID - GAS

Therefore  if Morph enters as a liquid he will be automatically transformed
into a gas.

Freezer Blocks
This  has  the opposite effect to the heater.  It looks like a block of ice
and  when  entered, will transform Morph into a denser state of matter.  As
with  the  heater, the transformation costs nothing and can be used as many
times as you like.  The transformation order is:

GAS - LIQUID - FLEXIBLE - SOLID

Pipes
The pipes are, of course, hollow and so Morph may travel along inside them,
unfortunately  he cannot be seen whilst he is inside a pipe.  Certain pipes
contain  valves through which Morph may only travel one way, this direction
is shown by an arrow on the block.

Grilles
To  the  solid  and  flexible  type  of  matter  this  block  represents an
impassable  obstacle,  but the water and gas states can pass freely through
its small holes

Fans
The  fans will only affect gas and flexible materials - and only when Morph
reaches a certain distance from the fan.  If Morph is in his gas state then
he will be sucked away to his doom.  If he is in his flexible state then he
will  just  be  stuck  fast  to  the  fan.   He can easily escape from this
predicament by transforming into a liquid or solid state.

Electromagnets
These  will  attract  the solid material, but only when activated.  This is
represented graphically by their coils oscillating.

Breakable Areas
These  are  represented  by blocks with cracks in them.  If hit at speed by
the  solid  or  flexible  Morph  they may be smashed so that passage can be
gained.   However,  the  flexible  material may only smash very cracked and
therefore very weak blocks.

Direction blocks
These  will  pull the ployer through in one direction only.  This direction
is  represented  by  a  large arrow on the block.  It is impossible to pass
through  the  block in a direction that is not indi cated by the arrow.  On
some  levels  a  question mark may appear on the block.  These will require
the  player  to  test  them  to  deter mine the direction of passage.  This
direction will remain the same from game to game.

Spikes and sharp objects
Whilst  they  are totally harmless to most states, they are deadly to Morph
when  in  a  flexible  state.  Should you touch them whilst in the flexible
state then Morph will burst

Drains
Similar  to  the  spikes,  these affect only the liquid state and again are
very deadly should you encounter them whilst in the wrong state.

Locks
These can only be removed if you have already collected a key which will be
located somewhere on that level.

Fire
Whilst  harmless  to the solid it is deadly to gas and flexible Morph.  The
liquid  state  will, however, extinguish the fire and this may be needed to
solve  puzzles  where  you  have  to  cross the area a second time but in a
combustible form.

Lifts
If  Morph stands upon them they will carry him either upwards, downwards or
in  some  cases  horizontally.   Some  of  the lifts are continually moving
whereas  others  only  become  activated when Morph comes into contact with
them.

Conveyor Belts
These  carry  Morph  in  their  direction of travel.  Some of them may help
Morph whilst others could be a hindrance by carrying Morph into danger.

Slime/Oil/Water
These  will  dissolve  the liquid and drown the solid thus providing a very
sticky end for Morph.  The flexible Morph may roll across their surfaces.

Bonuses

Not  everything in the four areas is a hazard or obstacle, some of them are
useful bonuses that can be collected when Morph passes over them:

Free Transformations
Represented  by  the  stars  on a red circle, these objects increase Morphs
number of global transformations.  They are usually placed in hard to reach
locations.

Free State Transformations
These are represented as minitures of the state Morph can transform into.

Key
These allow Morph to remove locks

Map
Once  this  has  been  collected, Morph may look at it whenever he wants by
holding  fire  with the joystick central for a couple of seconds.  The only
penalty for this action is the time used whilst viewing it.

X-Ray Specs
These  allow  the  player  to see Morph - even when he is obscured by items
such as pipes and walls - so he can be safely navigated.

Teleports
These will transport you from one place to another.

Switches
These  are  used  to activate much of the electrical equipment found in the
levels,  be  it  electromagnets,  fans or lights.  They can also be used to
reverse  the  direction  of  the conveyor belt.  The state of the switch is
changed every time that Morph touches it.

Treasure Chests
These  give  bonus  points  and  in some cases can only be obtained by very
advanced  players, giving Morph something to try for if he easily completes
a level.

Stops Watches
When collected they will stop the clock for five seconds.

When the level is completed Morph will be awarded bonus points for any time
remaining,  the  number  of transformations left and the number of treasure
chests collected.

Winning!

Once  Morph  has  collected  all  six  cogs from each of the four different
areas,  the  Professor  can  reconstruct  his  teleportation machine.  Thus
Morph`s atoms can then be re-constructed out of the ether to once more form
a small boy, as the sun sets on another extraordinary day!
 
 
  
  
              HAVE FUN GUYS AND REMEMBER ITS ALL FOR FUN 
                      DoCs DoNE By THe SHaRD/N&B