                              MOTORHEAD
                          <<<<<<<<>>>>>>>>>

Intro/plot
----------
allo eadbangers, or should i say motorhead bangers?. what you are reading
is the only existing recorde of one of the most severe cases of censorship
ever displayed against one particular human being. some people think that
sticking a label on an album cover is a bit strong. some states in the usa
wont let a band swear on stage, which is a bit of a joke, but you aint
heard nothing until you`ve heard the grisly fate that befell lemmy
kilminster when he tried to play one small tow, which will remain nameless
due to certain legal restrictions.

the motorhead bangers of this town had been looking forward to this night
for months, ever since the head announced that they were to play in the
areas major venue, bullet belts were polished, necks were limbered up and
t-shirts were washed especially, but someone had different ideas concerning
the performance of rocks loudest warriors. as the battered transit rolled
into town,it was ambushed by a local guerilla army of unknown quantity and
every body was taken captive, our hero, the great beraded one himself,
was`nt aboard at the time, having quickly nipped around the back to, ahem,
expel some of last nights jack daniels. and was so engrossed in his
activity that he missed all the action.
returning to the bus, only a small note remained....

`like listen dude, this town dont need your over-kill. take the van, and
go, or you`ll be sorry`

a lesser man would have ran in an instant thinking about forming a new
group. a coward would have stood frozen to the spot,quivering slightly.
lemmy is`nt known to be a lesser man,nor is he famed for his cowardice.
with the sort of combat training you can only get playing small pubs for
years,lemmy set forth to recover his band-mates and crew,with exactly the
same dedicated glint in his eye that he wears when approaching a
particularly difficult bass lick.

armed with only his fist and `axe`, the gruff voiced powerhouse stepped
into town. the rest is down to you....

aims and objectives
-------------------
as lemmy you must work your way through some of the toughest scrolling 
levels ever encountered. fight through swarms of motorhaters,swigging 
whisky and collecting the magical talismans,with the aim of collecting all
ypour drinking/band members and getting on stage.

its not all hard work,though. at the end of each level, you have the chance
to mount your chrome and steel steed, and race at highly illegal speeds
collecting bonuses. but watch out for the flies. remember the way to spot a
happy biker is to count the flies in his teeth!.finish this stage,and you
can have a little rest and recuperation in the many sub-games -like
betty-ford clinic without the abstinence.

in those less aggressive movements(like when you arent stabbing the fire
button like crazy) lemmy can walk around the screen, if you want him to get
where he`s going faster,then. double click the joystick to the left or the
right.by double click, i mean push the joystick to the required direction,
and quickly centre it and re-point it in the same direction. with an
expensive micro-switched joystick,this should make a clicking sound. with a
less expensive joystick it could make a `cracking sound` hehehe

but you dont want to know how to walk around,do you?. you want to know how
to hurt people. this is where the fire button comes in handy.before you can
really cause carnage, there are a couple of moves you need to master,and i
dont mean the bar prop or the horizontal shuffle. by holding down the fire
button and pressing the joystick in the way lemmy is facing, he will do one
of two things. if he doesnt have a member of the town scum stood right in
front of him, he`ll swing his bass and hopefully catch one off guard. if,
however, one of those toe sucking slime is facing him off, he`ll launch a
lemmy piledriver,knocking him into the middle of next week(or across the
screen at any rate).

the controls
------------
he may not be carrying much,but lemsworth is quite a resourceful fellow,
heres all the things he can do.

keyboard.   spacebar..call up demonic figure(ie magic)
            f1........pause on/off
            f2........sound on/off
            f10.......abort game/whilst in pause mode

joystick [ without fire ]
--------
top centre.....walk into screen
top left.......walk up left
top right......walk up right
centre.........nil
centre left....run left<<walk left
centre right...run right<<walk right
down left......walk down/left
down right.....walk down/right
down centre....walk out of screen

<< signifies `double clicking` the joystick, that is pressing the stick in
the required direction then returning it to the required direction then
returning it to the centre and pressing once again in quick succession.

joystick [ with fire ]
--------
top centre.....jump
top right......power chord
top right......attack (as right)
centre.........nil
centre left....power chord
centre right...attack (knuckle duster) & swing axe
down left......power chord
down right.....attack (as right)
down centre....expel oral missile (spit!!)

when facing left the attack and power chord switch direction.

if fire is pressed whilst running then lemmy begins to skid until the
button is released. if a sprite is close by then lemmy will head butt it.

the power chord causes lemmy to fire a note at an enemy in front then
recoil backwards for as long as the fire button is pressed or until he hits
an object. power chords use up to 3 units of magic per strike.

press fire then move the joystick to perform a move.
         ------------------------------------------------------

pushing the fire button and pulling the joystick down makes the hero of the
utilise his lungs in a way only `killed by death` could evere require (more
later) whereas pulling the joystick in the opposite direction to the way
he`s facing will get him to play a murderous chord,provided you have the
magic for it(also later, dont you have a lot to look forward too)

if lemmy is running, then pressing the fire button makes him dig his heels
in and skid across the screen,releasing the fire button makes him stop
sharply and makes his head snap forward in a vicious head-butting movement.
any enemy characters nearby get it in the mush!

last, by no means least, fire and joystick up launches lemmy into the air
for a brief period of time (jumping to you and i) handy for getting over
holes in the ground,sharp spikes,hostile fans ect...

life and energy
---------------
along the top of the screen is the energy level for your current life. in
our book, life is defined as the state between stages of being sober. every
time an assailant lays a finger on you,this goes down,mind you. they nearly
always get you from behind.
and theres always more of them than you,so you can be excused the odd
bruise, on the belt at the bottom of the screen is your lives counter. the
more spades there are,the more lives you have. if the bar at the top is
reduced to nothing, then you lose a spade...easy innit?

bonuses
-------
each time you turn an enemy into a puddle of slush, something will fall out
of their pockets- consider this your reward for removing another insult to
mankind. of all the things that could fall heres the list.

motorheads
----------
these mystic talisman have weird and magical qualities. collecting them
causes your magic counter to go up,allowing you to perform the sort of
tricks that black sabbath were accused of.

coins
-----
money,dosh,spondulicks, whatever you call it cash is cash,and that means
more points for you. you might as well pick it up,because if you dont some
undeserving toad will!!

beer
----
is that a can of beer in yer pocket or are you pleased to see me?..wine of
the gods,why these weirdos carry a can of cold beer in their front trouser
pocket is anyones guess,although it isnt to hard too work out,waste
not.want not. not only refreshing (it tops up your energy) but the can
makes a handy weapon.

jar of cockles
--------------
the beauty of cockles is that it doesnt take any effort to swallow
them.which is useful should you consider a snack in the middle of battle.
the only problem with them is that they require at least 2 cases of mints
before you can talk to anyone without knocking them over.

jack daniels
------------
if beer is wine, then this stuff is champagne. everyone`s favourite
explanation for spontanoeus combustion, a little swig of jd is all you need
to heat things up a little -literally!

flies
-----
flies are there to do the same thing as they do in real life;cause a
distraction, an irritation and always threaten to fly head first into your
beer.collecting a fly results in the loss of 100 points.

using your lungs
----------------
as a musician, one of lemmys strongest tools is his charcteristic voice.
that isnt to say that he can`t put his high powered lungs to other uses
after collecting a bottle of jack daniels or a jar of cockles,pulling down
on the joystick will cause the leather clad one to belch at the enemy. if
whisky has passed his lips,then a flaming fireball will streak across the
screen incinerating the nearest lamehead,cockle breath is just as lethal.

magic
-----
people have often asked what exactly the motorhead is. well its a magical
symbol used for the summoning of a variety of demons, the more you collect,
the more powerful the demon you can call upon to help you in your quest.
the demons are;

magic level 1
-------------
an attractive young bit of fluff who`ll walk on and exhibit
herself,distracting the attention of all on screen except you,freezing them
for a moment.

magic level 2
-------------
a large motorhead that sweeps across the screen, sapping large amounts of
energy from all, again except you.

magig level 3
-------------
no one can tell what this will call up, but its guaranteed to be good


the magic counter gives you an instant readout of exactly how much power
over esotric forces you have, with the lowest level being just coloured
bullets,going up to bullets with three bands around them.to summon help,tap
a space bar with any available limb(it doesnt have to be yours)

magic is also used to play power chords,but as these are magic-hungry i
would`nt advise playing too many of them. save them for a gig!

the bike ride
-------------
at the end of each level you will see the member of your crew you have
rescued chained to the wall,no matter how much he asks you to leave him
there,remember you have a job to do,so free him, to release him,simply walk
towards him,and the 2 of you will leap upon any large vehicle that happens
to be parked nearby with its engine running. heres your chance to stock up
on magic and energy for the next levelsimply weave the bike/tractor/pizza
delivery moped through the flies and collect as many bonuses as possible
before you get to the end of the road.

the levels
----------
heres a full run down of the 6 levels you`ll have to work through before
you can play the gig. thanks too the `great drinkers guide` roadie 1992
edition for all the info.
         ------------------------------------------------------
level 1 the rapland
-------
the first place to start looking is the streets,who else would you find
wandering through the slums with nothing else to do but rap fans. decked
out with baseball caps(but no bats,mummy would`nt let them) they wont stop
in their efforts to stop you!. at the end of the level, you`ll find your
roadie chained to the wall,but thats nothing new.

characters [level 1]
----------
baseman; a real baseball freak,in fact,he`s so into the game,its surprising
he doesnt wear his cap the right way round.

pump; more of a surf bum than a music fan,the only similarity between you
and this neatnderthal is the lenght of your hair.his is california blonde
hough,while yours is hackney black.

breaker;what a poser!, who does this guy think he is,micheal jackson?.
probably the easiest person to destroy on this level simply because you`d
want to anyway,regardless of the kidnap scenario.

end of level game [beer frenzy]
-----------------
hooray you`ve completed the first level. that calls for a celebration.
heading into the local bar, lemms eyes almost pop out of his head when he
sees there are actually 4 bars in one building!.
its almost closing time,so there`s no time to waste as lemmy quickly sets
up his orders at all 4 bars. all you have to do is move our main character
up and down the screen collecting the pints as they come sailing across
each bar. the more you catch the more bonus points you get!
         ------------------------------------------------------

level 2 [ nashville ]
-------
who would`ve thought that those peace loving country and western singers
from way down south would have turned so violent so quickly. it seems that
they played a hand or two in kidnapping. in between rousing choruses of
`youre a real friend to me but your no son of mine` and the classic `got to
maim my dog to get me a woman`. watch out for small chasms that need to be
leapt over, and dont forget to free the sound technician spread-eagled at
the end.

characters [level 2]
----------
tex; tex is a real cowboy,from the genuine 10 gallon hat on his head to the
point of his genuine cowboy boots.which you will probably feel if you dont
dispose of him instantly.

clint; for years,people have attempted to create the `perfect` human
being,clint is a prime example of how `keeping it in the family` isnt the
way to about things. with a club foot,a hunchback,webbed toes,this guy
should`nt cause too much of a problem.

dolli; a mean babe with a whip. and she`ll use it too (but only if your
very nice to her).

end of level game [ grab a groupie ]
-----------------
its a regular night out the back of the venue,and its taken you too long to
get changed from your stage leathers. the groupies have got fed up and
called taxis. you have to stand at the roadside and stop them from climbing
into the cabs when they arrive.to do this,all you have to do is stand
between them and the cab and run into them when they make a break for
it.make sure you dont pick up one of their boyfriends by mistake though.
         ------------------------------------------------------

level 3 [karaokeville]
-------
oh no! it looks like you took a wrong turn into hell!!, who else but the
japs,those people who like eating raw fish and competing in `endurance`
would come up with a machine that amplifies the drunk in the corner of your
local pub,and gives him some backing music too play along to?. somewhere in
this festering landscape is your lighting man. lets hope that he`s chained
up with cotton wool in his ears.

characters [level 3]
----------
mr akagi; high flying business man by day,high flying businessman with a
loose tie by night,mr akagi is a leading force in pub entertainment,which
means your in for a tough time.

shinji; bouncer turned compere,shinji is one hard mother. one of the few
people who can get away saying `shut up and listen`

tojo; an aspiring karaoke singer,tojo already knows all the words to `my
way` and `release me` and there can`t be to many who`d go that far!

sumo; rumours abound of sumo wrestlers who come here to psyche
themselves.putting themselves through hours of carpenters songs just to be
aggressive enough to fight. disturb them at your peril. or alternatively,
beat the fat slobs to a pulp.

end of level game [sushi slap]
-----------------
strolling into the local chinese take away, you reliase how hungry you
are,howvere, nobody wants to serve a scruff like you, so you have to steal
the food from the tables before the clientelle sit down to eat. move lemmy
between the five tables by pushing up and down on the joystick. the more
sushi you manage to grab, the more points you amass.
         ------------------------------------------------------

level 4 [scrapyard]
-------
what cooler place for a punk to hang out than a scrapyard,full of scrap
metal to decorate their ears and noses with, these are no ordinary,run of
the mill,pose with tourists for a fiver punks. these shaven heads mean
business,and no amount of reasonable discussion about direct relationship
between early motorhead albums and the new wave of punk will calm them
down, you could go home, or alternatively you could rescue your rhythm
guitarist, the choice is yours.

level 3 [characters]
-------
kevi; the ring leader, as denoted by his long coat and his ponytail.kevi
would rather kill you than be seen to be hit by a long haired girl like
you.

pek; pek has been a punk since birth, and came very close to winning the
national schools pogo championship, until people reliased that not only was
he not using a stick, after a while he started nutting people while in
flight, he was instantly disqualified.

skeli; with his sunken features and his shaved head, it isnt hard to see
where skell aka norman wistley got his name from.solid bone from the neck
up, this is one tough cookie to crack.

end of level game [hotel havoc]
------------
never leave lemmy in a room where there are breakable items. one warning
this hotelier should have taken notice of. there are 15 smashable wreckable
and punchable items in your hotel room, and you have a very brief time in
which to break them all. use the joystick to walk up to the items,and he`ll
hammer them automatically. points are agined for the number of items you
break,and trash them all in the shortest time possible for a bonus
multiplier.
         ------------------------------------------------------

level 5 [cathedral]
-------
who would have thought that a goth would have been able to summon up enough
interest to partake in a kidnapping. would`nt they have paused for a bit to
listen to `fields of the nephilm` and then decided it all was`nt worth it?.
obviously not, as they have taken your drummer captive.in this run down
deconsecrated church.watch out for the spikes, and use the balconies that
line some of the walls to get over holes in the floor.

level 5 [characters]
-------
sp; short for spaz,spanner ect, is the fashion conscious goth, to him black
isnt just a colour,its a mood and a statement. scum like that deserve to
die regardless of wether they have kidnapped you or not.

she; she rides the night,danzig once said. she also wears her make up like
a fright wig and fights like a bloke. who knows, with a figure like that
perhaps she is.

blaki; blaki is in every sense a true goth, she wears long clothes to hide
her weight problem,puts on her eyeliner with a woolies number 6
paintbrush,and probably drinks cider. she also used to be a big duran duran
fan.

end of level game [hippy headache]
-----------------
using ideas taken from the police handling of the last pilgrimage to
stonehenge, this games shows what the menhirs are really for.
as the ghostly figures appear and meditate,move lemmy behind the nearest
stone pillar,and then press fire to knock it onto them. the more you hit,
the higher your hardness rating (score)
         ------------------------------------------------------

level 6 [rave on]
-------
before about 3 years ago, a raver was someone who was locked up for life
due to some serious mental disturbance. these days it mans exactly the same
thing,only now tese poor souls are sent to clubs where they listen to drum
machines and walk up and down looking skyward with their hands in the air.
your drummer is hidden in one of these clubs, so in you go....

level 6 [characters]
-------
nope you`ll get no help on these..you`ll just have to find out about these
set yourself....[lifes a bitch aint it]

end of game [level 6]
-----------
same here..get to here and find out...dont life suck when this happens....
         ------------------------------------------------------

                              FINITO