       Mr Blobby was Released By QUARTEX on AMIGA and CONTOUR on PC.
       -------------------------------------------------------------

PC
--

The joystick mimics the actions of the cursor keys from the keyboard, and
the fire button takes the place of the space bar. The remaining functions
stay on the same keyboard keys.

PC KEYBOARD DEFAULT KEYS
(All keys are user definable)

CURSOR keys: Moves Blobbly up, down , left and right.

SPACE BAR  : throw a custard pie, fire water pistol, throw any item being
             carried.

TAB key    : Makes blobbly jump.

ENTER / RETURN key : Pockets / eats an item, if they are holding one, 
                     explodes party blower.

BACKSPACE key      : Puts blobby in a whirlwind.

ESC key            : Transports the current blobby to Chez Blobby.

PASSWORD entry     : use the cursor keys to select the letters and symbols
                     required and the space bar to enter them.

PAUSE key          : toggles PAUSE ON And OFF during the game.

CD 32
-----

DIRECTIONAL PAD : moves your blobby in the 4 directions, swims up and down
                  in water if wearing a pirate hat.

START BUTTON    : Starts the game / pauses the game when playing

PASSWORD ENTRY  : use your joypad to select the letters and symbols required
                  and the red button to enter them.

LEFT/RIGHT      : Pockets / EATS an item, if they are holding one.

GREEN BUTTON    : Puts blobby in a whirlwind.

RED BUTTON      : Makes Blobby JUMP.

YELLOW BUTTON   : Transports the current blobby to chez blobby.

BLUE BUTTON     : Throw a custard pie, fire water pistol, explodes party
                  blower, throw any item being carried.

AMIGA 500/600/1200
------------------

JOYSTICK left and right : Moves your blobby left and right.

JOYSTICK up             : Moves your blobby up a ladder, when not on a 
                          ladder, when in water , allows blobby to swin
                          up-wards.

JOYSTICK down           : Moves your blobby down a ladder, pocket / eats an
                          item if they are holding one, swim downwards in
                          water, if wearing the pirate hat.

FIRE BUTTON             : Makes Blobby JUMP, swops blobby with other
                          BLOBBY'S when in blobby house.

SPACE BAR               : Throws a custard pie, fires water pistol, explodes
                          party blower, throws any item being carried.

AMIGA keys              : Returns blobby to Chez Blobby.

Password Entry          : Use your JOYSTICK to select the letters and symbols
                          required and fire to enter them.

'P' key                 : Toggles pause ON and OFF during the game.

WAGGLE joystick left to right : Puts Blobby in a whirlwind.

Can also be played on the keyboard with fully user-definable keys.

ENGLISH.
--------


		EVERYONE IS INVITED TO BLOBBY WORLD TO
		CELEBRATE MR BLOBBY BEING NAMED AS THE 
                      WORLDS GREATEST CHARACTER.
                PLENTY OF FUN AND SURPRISES GUARANTEED.
                    AS MUCH FOOD AS YOU CAN EAT.
             
                           Noel Edmunds

                                RSVP

The Blobbys
Blobby House - the pink and yellow spotted one.
Crinkley Bottom
Blobby World.

Something is wrong in blobby world. a strange mist has descended over
its five, lands plunging it into darkness and ruining blobbys' party plans!

Only one character is big enough to solve the mystery and to save the world -
Mr Blobby. Comedy king, style leader and the role model for millions, Mr
blobby is ready to bounce into action, and this time he's bringing his family.

This is your chance to join the blobbys in their adventure. The WHOLE world
is waiting expectantly and we would just like to take this opportunity to
say, in the words of the great MR BLOBBY himself, 'BLOBBY BLOBBY BLOBBY 
BLOBBY BLOBBY'

The game begins in the first land of Mr. Blobby's world. The Forest.
Upon arrival on this or any of the other four lands in the blobbys' world
terrain will appear grey and lifeless with the mist swirling in the
background. When mr blobby or one of the other memebers of the his family run 
over the landscape it will spring into life as colour floods over it.
This will also give bonus points. Above the landscapes are a series
of platforms and ladders, enclosing rectangular windows.

The blobbys can colour the platforms and ladders by running over and around 
them. When a complete window frame has being coloured, a bright colourful
background will become visible, restoring the area's previous party
atomsphere.

When the mist has been driven away from all the windows, any remaining mist
will flee from the level and the whole background will become visible. A
number of bonus are thrown into the level at this time and the player has a
short period of time to collect and eat these before transported to the next
one.

At any time during the game, the player can choose to play any member of the
blobby entourage, Mr blobby, Mrs Blobby and baby blobby by transporting your
current controlled blobby to their tastefully decorated house in Crinkley
bottom. The blobby's are either busy watching the TV or are sleep. Two of the
blobbys are sitting on the sofa and the armchair whilst your current blobby is
standing up. You can jump onto either the sofa or the armchair and swop with
the blobby currently sat there. if your blobby is asleep , you will need an
alarm clock to wake them up. Once you have chosen your favorite blobby just go
through the door to enter the world of the blobbys.

You can return to 'chez blobby' at any time and chose a different member of
the blobby family by jumping on the furniture as before.

Each member of the blobby family has the same abilities but they can gain
extra skills by donning one of the different party hats that can be found on
each level. Each hat gives its wearer a different ability. Only one hat can
be worn at any one time. You can wear a hat simply by running over it.

PIRATE HAT - gives wearer special swimming skills.

COWBOY HAT - this is a mover faster hat.

FEZ        - allows the wearer to jump higher.

CROWN      - putting this on gives your blobby all three of the above skills.

VIKING HAT - slows its wearer down.

The blobbys must avoid stationary obstacles such as spikes as well as 
various moving enemies left behind by the mist to get in the way of
party goers. If you chosen blobby is hit by one of the obstacles or enemies
they lose some of their energy and appetite for parties. As depicted by the
cake displayed on screen.
The game is OVER when the entire family have lost their appetite.

THE LANDS
---------

Blobby world is made up of five lands which have all been swallowed up by the
mist. Each land has 12 various levels. The lands are :

FOREST
BEACH
CASTLE
OUTER-SPACE
WEIRD

The blobbys will stumble upon ten 'hidden' parties. if a specfic task is
completed on any level, your blobby will be invited to a party. Once there
your blobby will have a certain time limit in which to collect all the
bonuses. if successful, the player will be able to skip the next level due.
The player will have to experiment to find the hidden tasks. eg. one
of them is to colour the whole landscape of a level.

SCREEN INFORMATION
------------------

WHIRLWIND : At the start of the game you have 3 'whirlwinds' available. You
can turn your blobby into a terrorising whirlwind, in this state , blobby is
virtually out of control, he sprays colour everywhere, and any enemy he meets
is instanly consumed.

CAKE : This is your indicator of how much appetite your current blobby has
for life. If he is hit by an enemy he loses some of his zest, as indictaed
by the loss of the one slice of cake. 4 hits and your blobby loses all their
appetite,they will return to the blobby cottage and fall asleep. from then 
on, they cannot be awakened by being bounced, expect with the aid of an alarm
clock.

CUSTARD PIES : this tells you how many custard pies your blobby is
carrying. There is a limited amount available to you on each level. Bonus
pies are scattered around the levels to help you.

SCORE : this tells you how many points you have scored.

BONUSES
-------

Extra points are gained by collecting the various types of party food and
other bonus items that are scattered across blobby world. A bonus item can
be grabbed by simplying running into it. Your choosen blobby will then hold
the item in his or her hand. items can be pocketed or eaten depending on the
item.

Blobbys can make enemies safe by getting them into the party mood.
This can be done by throwing items at enemies although some enemies may need
to be hit by several items. if your blobby is not holding an item, he will
throw a custard pie.
Some items will combine to form a new more. apppestising item if thrown
together. the new items may yield a bigger score. Try experimenting with
differnt combinations.
Two bonus items are particulary useful for knocking out enemies- the water
pistol and party blower.

WATER PISTOL :- if your blobby collects the pistol , they can carry it for
short period of time. During the time, blobby will be able to shoot a jet
of water at their enemies, turning them into water droplets. The advantage
of the water pistol over the custard pie, is the pistol fires further than
you can throw a custard pie.

PARTY BLOWER :- if your blobby collects this item, it acts as a general
exterminator. it will explode and all the enemies on screen will be
destoryed, and although it explodes in blobbys face, it won't affect
his/her appetite.

PICK-UPS : some bonus items, will give your blobby special powers for a
short period of time others will give you a variety of additional bonuses.
there are available by combining some of the peices of food together, you
will need to experiment to see the results of your 'blending'.

ALARM CLOCK - when pocketed, your chosen blobby will return home to wake up
another member of the sleeping family - effectivly giving him or her an
extra life.

INVINVIBILIY     - this makes your character invincble for a short period.

TRANSFORMATION   - this turns all enemeis on the screen into collectable
                   bonus items.

WINDOW CLEANER   - this clears all windows currrently on screen, of mist.

PARTY INVITATION - this bounces blobby into a hidden party zone.

WHIRLWIND        - once pocketed, adds an extra whirlwind to your total of
                   whirlwinds.

BONANZA          - this gives you a 100,000 bonus points bonanza.

BONUS APPLES     - much these to boost your core score.

GUNGE TANK       - this speeds your charcter into the gunge tank.

DUNGEON          - sends your blobby to the dungeon where bonuses are scattered.

GRAB-A-GRAND     - gives your blobby a set time limit in which to collect
                   bonuses.

Docs Typed By RR!/QTX. Sundays are BORING. DOC typing is slighty less boring :)