		Mr Wobbly Leg Versus The Invaders From Space
		
			Copyright M.C.Diskett	
			
			
   Written in 100% Assembly Using DevpacII
   
   This game has been written in exactly one month for the 'win a job at 
   bullfrog competition'.
   
   I wanted to keep the same square wave formation and left to right 
   movement of the aliens as I felt this was core of the game and so 
   worked my original idea arround that restriction. 

   My other plan was to write a game based on the diplomatic relations 
   between an alien race and earth requiring subtle alien psychology
   and original thinking, was abandoned as being so unlike space invaders 
   as to be a completely different game. 	  
   
   The Game has two main parts 
   
   The Fisrt part
   
   You ( Mr Wobbly Leg) have to attain a ranking of first class pilot
   in order to do battle with the alien legions. 
   To do this you must collect five stars of glory without dieing.
   The stars are on the far right hand side of the screen. A lever to 
   make the Stars appear is on the far left. The only problem is the
   sixty, plasma squirting, Killer Death Guardians (Aliens) inbetween.
   
   Moving quickly on....
   
   Having obtained the five stars of glory ( Yes the Orange ones). You
   must now collect as many Power spheres ( Yes the grey ones) as possible.
   These will give you better hardware when shove turns to push and you
   have to go hand to hand with the plasma squirting, Killer Death Guardians.
     
   The Second Part
   
   Having dodged and weaved your way here you must now murder the Aliens
   ( even if they do only want to be friends and the plasma they squirt 
   is only a strange form of extra terrestrial communication).
   
   The mother ship ( Yep it's in there ) must be shot to give you more men
   to collect the stars of glory with in the next round.
   
   Ad Infanitum...  	


   The Game can only be completed by collecting enough Power spheres
   to make the ultimate final weapon......
   
   The highest score and the maximum number of runs made by Mr wobbly
   in one life are recorded.