                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                 ALLEYWAY
                                 --------

Door lock:This grubby little keypad clings desperately to the wall. The numbers are barely visible but it seems to be working.
Door:This door stands locked shut. On one side of the door there is a notice that you can't quite read because the rain has washes the lettering away.:Try using the door lock.
Skip:The skip smells disgusting! The bottom of the skip is covered with a four inch deep pool of decomposing and decayed trash.:The sides are slippery, and you can't get a firm grip.
Ladder:The ladder fixed to the inside of the skip has two widely spaced steps.:You hoist yourself out of the skip using the ladder, glad to be free from the stench.:You decide not to get back into the skip.
Pipe:An overhead pipe that runs into the garbage chute above the skip.:You can't find any use for the pipe.
Garbage chute:An ominous looking garbage chute emerges from the wall and ends above the skip. The end of the chute has a hinged lid on it. A pipe leads off from the chute.:You can only use the chute from inside the building.
Fence:A barbed wire fence crosses this portion of the alley. You wonder how the rubbish is ever removed from the skip.:The fence has a gap in it so just walk through.
Light:A neon light that is so dirty it emits only the smallest amount of light.:You can't use the light.
Pipe:A thin metal pipe goes overhead from the side of one building into the side of another.:The pipe is of no use.
Light:The entrance to this alley is lit by two red lights. Both are fixed on the wall above your head:The light is out of reach.
Light:A red neon light that is fixed onto the wall.:You prod the light but nothing happens.
Grating:A metal drain cover that emits gurgling sounds from the rainwater rushing beneath.:The grating is far too heavy to lift.
Rubbish:Peering over the edge of the skip you see an assortment of other people's rubbish. Most of it seems to be brightly coloured fast food cartons.:You stretch your arm over the edge of the skip but you can't quite reach.
ALLEYWAY:You find yourself in a dank and gloomy alley way. Rubbish is strewn all over and the stench makes your stomach churn. High above you are the grimy windows of the buildings either side of you. You can see a way out of the alleyway ahead.
ALLEYWAY ENTRANCE:You stand just outside the alleyway. The street leads of in two directions. As you emerged from the shadows the smog from the road seemed like fresh air compared to the foul air in the alley.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                 CAR PARK:
                                 ---------

Mini:An old Austin mini sits on deflated tires by one of the huge supporting struts of the car park. The mini seems to have been stripped of most of its innards and two of the windows are missing.:The mini is not driveable.
Light:A green neon light fixed to a massive pillar that hold up the roof.:You can't operate the light.
Car:A flashy Japanese sports car. An alarm light flashes occasionally in the window.:You peer into the car and see that the car has leather seats and a computerised dashboard.
Light:A green neon light that is fixed to the wall at a height of about ten feet. The light bounces off the walls with a bright green glow. The car park seems very odd because of this.:You can't operate the light.
Camper van:A Volkswagen camper van is parked in one corner of the car park. It is almost a box on wheels. It has a roof rack on the top and typically has a spare wheel on the front.:The van isn't yours to drive.
Light:A green light cased in glass and bolted to a pillar.:You can't operate the light.
Van:A battered old builder's van. The back of the van is open. The cab has a row of lights fixed to the top.:You look into the cab and spot a pair of fluffy dice hanging by the rear view mirror.
Tarpaulin:In the back of this van is a crumpled tarpaulin covered with splashes of plaster and paint.:You lift one corner of the tarpaulin and see that there is nothing concealed beneath it.

CAR PARK:You stand by the exit to the car park which leads down into darkness. You suddenly feel very cold and wet. You really feel that you would be much better off back at home, or better still, back with Eden.
CAR PARK:You stand by a large camper van and a sports car. In the dim light you see the intermittent flash of an LED in the window of the sports car. It must have an alarm in it. 
CAR PARK:There is a sheen of water across the floor of the car park. A pickup truck sits in the corner and water from a broken pipe drips down onto it with a dull metallic clang. You can feel cool air blowing from the exit.
CAR PARK:You take a look around and see that you are in an almost empty car park. You can hear nothing but the distant and incessant drip of water. The place smells of damp and mould and is lit by unfriendly green neon lights.
Wire cutters:A pair of sturdy looking wire cutters with plastic orange handles. The metal blades look sharp and almost unused.:Find something to use them with.:You decide to try cutting the chain on the gate....

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                              CAVERN TUNNELS
                              --------------

Cavern walls:The room here has been carved out of the rock. It looks as if the priest has built some kind of altar. The rock reflects the gory red glow from the priest's remains.:The walls look damp and mouldy.
Remains:There is a sickening stench coming from the mutated remains of the priest. His flesh has stretched and split to grow into long vieny tendrils that reach across the room.:You dare not touch the remains. They still pulsate slightly.
Tunnel:You see a tunnel that reaches far down into the earth. This is where the priest made his exit in a form you cannot even imagine. The tunnel interior looks like an endoscopic view of a human organ.:Leave the priest. Beckett is your target now.
Hole:In the floor you see a hole where a stone floor tile has been removed. Peering into the hole you see a small room below.:You lower yourself through the tiny hole...
ALTAR ROOM:You have stumbled upon the priest's doorway through to the Dreamweb. The remains of his mutilated human form lie across the floor and spill into the gateway in the centre of the floor. There is a sickening stench in the air.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               DAVID'S SUITE
                               -------------

Lift doors:A pair of large doors that lead to the room beyond this lift which should be Crane's penthouse suite. The doors are made of smooth shiny metal that has been well polished.
Lift roof:The roof is covered with large metal pipes and girders. Wiring protrudes from almost every small gap and a group of heavy cables reach up towards the roof.:You can't use the lift roof.
Hatch:Through the open lift hatch you see the lift floor about 10 feet away.:You haphazardly lower yourself back through the hatch and into the lift below.
Pool steps:In typical swimming pool fashion these steps are next to useless. They are far too small and in any case the pool is only a few feet deep. There are two chrome handles.:You don't want to go in the pool, you'll mess up your hair.
Bush:This bush has clusters of small leaves and a tangle of thin branches. Poisonous looking red berries can be seen deeper in the bush.:You reach and touch the plant. It is cold, wet and slimy.
Body:The body of one of Crane's guards lies with its feet dangling in the pool. Your axe remains embedded in his chest and blood seeps onto the floor.:You can't bring yourself to remove the axe.
Plant:This plant is a vivid shade of green and has long tapering leaves that sprout out of a central trunk. The leaves are covered with a fine sheen of water droplets.:The plant isn't any use to you.
Rocks:A small cluster of grey rocks that are placed amidst the shrubs. The rocks are damp and cold to the touch and look shiny with moisture.:The rock is embedded firmly in the soil.
Sprinkler:Above one of the larger tropical plants in the suite is a sprinkler device which is designed to keep the plants damp.:The sprinkler appears to be operated by its own internal timer.
Thermostat:On the wall are the heating and air conditioning controls for the suite. The controls have several illuminated buttons and a display screen.:You press a few buttons and the display flashes up "Error, please try again".
Window::You glance out of the window again.
Window::The window is of no use.
Window:The picture window looks out across the city where the lights seems very far away. Rain pelts against the glass and runs in rivulets down the smooth surface.:You glance out of the window again.
Gauge:A small temperature gauge for the pool.:You tap the gauge but the temperature reading stays at 20 degrees centigrade.
Lilo:A bizarre purple blow up lilo bobs up and down sickeningly in the pool. One inflatable arm has a plastic tray attached to it to put a drink on.:Water has never been your strong point, you can't even swim.
Bush:When you shot the bodyguard into this bush he left a trail of blood across its leaves and crushed most of the branches. Several leaves are missing.:You don't need to use the bush.
Body:The body of one of your adversary's lies partially covered by a bush. The limbs are limp and from the chest you can see blood seeping slowly onto the tiles.:You search the body and find nothing.
Can:At the bottom of the pool you see the can that was tossed into the water when you entered the room.:You can't reach the can from here.
Lift doors:The doors seem to have been welded together from the fire of your adversaries gun. Smoke wafts lazily upwards from the blackened metal.:The doors are very firmly stuck.
LIFT ROOF:You stand rather uncertainly on the roof of the hotel lift. In front of you are the doors to this floor which is the penthouse suite. Peering down you can see the lift through the open hatch.
PENTHOUSE SUITE:The penthouse suite has a swimming pool in it! The room is decorated with plants of many different kinds and they are all fed by sprinklers. The room leads off into the living area.
Leaf:From your fight with the Crane's bodyguards this is a leaf from one of the bushes in the penthouse.:The leaf has no use.
Leaf:This green leaf comes from one of the bushes that were in the penthouse where you discovered David Crane.:You can find no use for the leaf.
Shell:A discarded shell casing from a standard plasma type gun. Each casing holds a plasma bolt. When the gun is fired the shell is ejected from the gun.:The casing is empty and useless.
Shell:This small tube of metal is an empty shell from a plasma gun. The casing is scorched around its edges.:The shell is spent.

                            DA END OF PART ONE
                            -----========-----
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                 PART TWO

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                DAVID CRANE
                                -----------

David Crane:Crane sits up in bed with a pillow over his groin. His forehead is beaded with droplets of sweat and his chest rises and falls with his rapid breathing. He looks though he is scared of you.

So you've found me. The keepers have sent their deliverers.
Then you are Crane.
It won't do any good. Killing me will only make the others stronger.
I must kill you. Then the nightmares will end.
No, please! Spare me!
No. I know what I have to do...

Please, spare me!
No, you must die...

Window:On the far wall of the room is a large window.As ever, the rain pours down it and beyond you can see the lights of the city as they recede into the night.:You can't reach the window from here.
Bed:The bed in this room is quite large. The bed has an ornate brass frame and plush looking bed clothes. David Crane lies on the bed looking terrified.:You are here to kill Crane, not to sleep with him!
Lamp:The room is lit by several of these lamps that give off a low and soft light across the bedroom.:You can't, you have a loaded gun in your hand....
Monitor:A standard Network monitor protrudes from the bedroom wall at about head height. From where you are standing you can see images flickering across the screen.:You have other things to attend to...
Jeans:On the floor lies a crumpled pair of Levi's that probably belong to David Crane. The jeans look almost brand new.:You've already got your own clothes on.
Dress:Across the steps in the room lies a dress that belongs to the woman in bed with Crane. The dress must have been discarded along with the other clothes here at the height of passion.:Oooh kinky!
Television:Dominating this bizarre room is a monstrous TV set. The sound is down but a pornographic film plays on the large screen.:Amazing! This TV makes everything look so big!
Mirror:A large arch shaped mirror that reflects the hole room. The mirror has a bevelled edge and a metal frame.:Looking into the mirror you see the room around you and you are reminded of the urgency of your situation.
Light:The light is fitted into a recess in the wall and is a pale blue colour. The circular face of the light stands slightly proud of the wall.:The light has no controls near or on it.
Rocks:A small clump of smooth grey rocks that glisten with moisture from the tropical atmosphere in this room.:The rocks seem to be stuck to each other and to the floor.
Sofa:A jet black leather sofa that looks soft and comfortable. The design is modern and angular.:There isn't time to sit around. Crane is near.
Plant:A leafy plant that is a disturbingly strong green colour. The plant doesn't look very real.:You squeeze one leaf of the plant and it feels damp and rubbery.
Pond:In the corner of the room is a small fish pond surrounded by aquatic plants. The water in the pool bubbles around the few rocks that poke out through the water's surface.:There's no need to use the pond.
PENTHOUSE SUITE:The penthouse suite seems similar to your own, with the exception of the pool. The same black furniture and blue carpeting is here. The room leads to the bedroom from which you can hear music.
BEDROOM:The bedroom is a mess. Clothes lie on the furniture and the floor. Loud music blares out from concealed speakers. In the centre of the room is a bed upon which lies David Crane.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                             DIANE UNDERWOODS
                             ----------------

Underwood:The woman lies in a pool of blood and entrails. Amazingly she is still alive and she is trying to dig her fingernails into the floor in a desperate and futile attempt to drag herself away from you.

Uh, Ryan, that's your... uh... name isn't it?
Yes.
I wondered.. uh... how long... it would take for you to find me.
I have come this far, I have to kill you all.
Then kill me now you bastard! End this pain...
Where are the others?
As if... uh... I'd tell you! O'Rourke is is growing, soon he will be too strong.
Then I must hurry, but first...
Show me mercy! Show me the heavens! I want to die now.

Uh... What are you waiting for?
It hurts doesn't it?
Kill me... please....

Desk:Diane Underwood's desk is stood directly in the centre of the room. Blood is splattered across its surface and one end of it has been blown clean off by the explosion.:The desk has no use. Turn your attention to Underwood.
Broken glass:On the floor there lies the remains of the window that blew inwards from the force of the blast outside. The glass shattered into thousands of tiny pieces.:The glass looks like safety glass.
Telephone:On the desk is a combined phone and answer machine. It has a small green display on the top and a wire trails off from the side.:You pick up the handset but the phone is dead.
Display unit:The VDU is set into the desktop at an angle comfortable for viewing when seated at the desk. Green text scrolls occasionally upwards across the screen.:Although the computer survived the blast, it shows garbled data.
Drinks cabinet:A mirrored drinks cabinet is situated in the corner of the room. In the from surface you see your reflection. Your face is covered in mud and dried blood and your hair is matted together.:The cabinet is locked.
Desk:Part of the desk that was destroyed by the explosion outside lies in a mangled pile on the floor. The desk has melted and warped from the heat of the blast.:The desk is useless to you.
Globe:This globe is set into a solid metal base and is itself constructed from a huge metal sphere like a giant ballbearing. It is held in place by vast metal hoops that meet at the top.:The globe spins lazily.
Window:Beyond the window you see the blackness of the night.:The window is of no use.
Chair:This chair is where Underwood must have been sitting when you sabotaged the security system. The top part of the chair has been completely blown away and blood drips from what is left.:The chair is useless now.
Blood:It looks like Underwood has made an attempt to escape despite her horrific injuries. She has left a trail of blood and intestines across the cold stone floor.:You can't think of any use for this!

BOATHOUSE:The room has been wrecked by the explosion you caused. There is blood everywhere and a trail leads to Diane Underwood who lays barely alive with her intestines trailed out behind her.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               EDEN'S GARAGE
                               -------------

Car:Eden has obviously had some car trouble and she's been repairing it
    herself. The repairs aren't finished and the car stands here with the
    bonnet open.
You would have to fix the car first and you don't have the first idea...
Storage units:Fitted around the garage walls are these plain metal storage units. The top surface is covered in smears of oil.:You don't need to do that.
Door::The door can only be operated with a remote control.
Door:A thick steel door covers the entrance to Eden's garage. The door is segmented so that it folds across to one side when opened. Splats of heavy rain pelt the door with a hollow sound.:The door is controlled with a remote.
Pipe:Running across the ceiling of the garage are several of these pipes. Some of them must be for the air conditioning for the apartment above but some seem left over from the building's past.:You can't reach the pipe.
Door::You can't operate the door.
Door:The garage door is a thick industrial door that spans a doorway of about ten feet. The door is probably controlled using a remote control.:You can't use the door unless you use the remote, which you don't have.
Light:Eden's garage is lit by several dim lights that cast a red glow across everything. Each light is fitted close to the ceiling. The light stays on permanently.
Light:This red neon light is fixed high on the wall close to the nearby air conditioning pipe. The light remains on all the time because there are no windows in the room.:The light is controlled automatically.
Light:The way to Eden's car is lit by this red neon lamp. The light in the garage is dim and everything seems strange in the reddish light.:The light stays on all the time and has no switch.
Lift control:This lift control betrays the origins of this building. The control has a large device hooked onto the wall. A thick segmented cable leaves the bottom of the control and joins the wall.:You push the button marked "UP".
Heater:Fixed to the wall is this small heater that is giving off quite a lot of heat. The heater is almost black with dirt.:You can't reach the heater from where you are standing.
Light:One of several dull red neon lights that provide a small amount of light for Eden's garage.:The light has no visible controls or switches.
Crate:An empty packing crate that is left over from Eden moving into her new home. The crate is made of a thin strong plastic and has orange "Fragile" labels on it.:The crate has no use at the moment.
Crate:As you peer into this open packing crate you see that it is empty apart from a few cobwebs that have formed in the corners.:The crate is of no use to you at the moment.
Pipe:As you look up over your head you see a network of large pipes covered with dust and cobwebs. This one disappears into the wall.:The pipe is too high for you to reach.
Pipe::You jump up but you still can't reach the pipe.
Pipe:Above your head you see a series of pipes suspended from the ceiling. Most of them seem to go nowhere and you suspect that they aren't used. They may be left over from when this building was a warehouse.:You can't reach the pipes.
Auto manual:The manual lies open a page describing how to change oil filters.:You are much, much worse at car maintenance than Eden.
Button:Examining the button you see that it has the words "Call" written on it in small letters.:You press the button and eventually the lift arrives.:The lift is already on this floor and the doors stand open.
Pipe:Through a hole in the wall pokes a small pipe that turns downwards and heads straight into a drainage hole in the pavement.:You consider climbing the drain pipe, but giving it a pull you decide that it won't hold your weight.
Pipe:Above your head you see several pipes that cross over and under each other at different levels. The pipes are all fixed to the ceiling with large metal brackets with huge rusted bolts in them.:You can't reach the pipe and it's useless anyway.
Door:The door to Eden's flat was once a trade entrance and the door shows its industrial origins in its design. The metal surface is pitted and marked with age.:The door is controlled by the keypad next to it.
Door:This strong metal door leads out into the street. It senses movement and will open as you approach it.:The door will open if you walk towards it.
Lift door::The lift is already waiting for you to go inside.
Lift door:The door is about eight inches thick and has a green coloured door on its outer face.:The lift doors will close automatically if you use the controls.
Keypad:On the wall you see a bulky keypad set into the brickwork. The pad has metal buttons with numbers etched into them. The keypad will allow you to enter Eden's home if you know the entry code.
EDEN'S GARAGE:Beneath Eden's apartment is a parking space where her car sits. The exit is covered with a slatted metal door and the gloomy light is provided by small windows close to the ceiling. There is a lift entrance here.
EDEN'S LIFT:A cumbersome control box is fixed to the wall and the lift door is an iron gate. The lift was used to carry goods at one time and it only travels one floor, up to Eden's flat.
EDEN'S GARAGE:Beneath Eden's flat is a parking space where her car sits. A slatted metal door covers the exit and there are only small skylights so the room is quite gloomy. There is an lift entrance here.
OUTSIDE EDEN'S:You stand outside Eden's house which has been converted from an old factory. Her garage is an old loading bay and the door to the building still has a faded "Trade Entrance" sign on it.
Screwdriver:A large flat bladed screwdriver with a translucent orange plastic handle. The screwdriver belongs to Eden.:Find something to use it with.
Wrench:A strange looking wrench with a dark red handle. The neck has a small device on it to tighten or loosen the teeth.:Find something to use it with.
Oily rag:It would be blue if it wasn't so oily.:There isn't anything around to clean, anyway the rag's too oily.

                            DA END OF PART TWO
                            --==============--
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                PART THREE

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               EDEN'S PLACE
                               ------------

Eden:Your girlfriend Eden lies in bed with her eyes half closed and the covers pulled tightly around her. Her dark hair spills out over the pillow. She has a slight frown on her face.

Eden opens her eyes slightly and gives you a smile. Concern shows in her eyes.
Eden, I feel terrible.
You feel so hot, your skin is soaking wet. You were dreaming again last night and it scares me when you shout out so loud.
I thought the dreams had gone away, but last night was worse than ever and I don't think it's just bad dreams.
What do you mean, not just dreams?
It all seems so real and so vivid. My mind is telling me to do things that I don't want to do.
You have to stop talking like this, you need to see a doctor. I'm so worried about you.
I'll be OK. I just need to sort some things out in my mind.
Look, it's late, you'd better get to work or Sparky will be mad with you. We'll talk more when you get back.
Alright, but you will be here when I get back won't you?
Of course I will, I'll always be here for you. Now hurry up, you don't want to be any later than you already are...

Ryan, is that you?
Yes, it's me. Just try and get some sleep. I'll speak to you later.
Alright, see you later, I love you...
Goodbye Eden.

Eden:Eden is neck deep in bath water and foam bubbles. Her eyes are half closed as she relaxes in the hot water.

Ryan, where have you been? I've been worried about you.
I got the sack. Sparky finally got fed up with me.
Where have you been? You look awful.
I've, um, been with Louis.
I suppose that explains why you look so bad.
He's my friend, I needed to talk to him.
You could have talked to me...
Look, I've just got to sort this out on my own.
I worry about you.
I know....

Why don't you get some sleep? You look terrible.
I know, people keep telling me that.
Go and lay down. I have to go to work soon...
Yeah, maybe I will.

Bath:The bath is fitted into the plastic casing that surrounds the bathroom walls.:You have no time for a bath right now even though you'd like to have one.
Chair:Eden still hasn't settled into her new apartment. The chair has a white dust sheet over it.:You consider taking a seat, but decide that you must get on.
Table:A strange little coffee table with two shelves and a carved leg at each corner. You remember Eden buying this from an antique shop last year. It has a layer of dust on it.:There is nothing to use it for.
Waste bin:A flimsy metal waste bin stands in the corner of the room by Eden's desk. The bin is a dull grey colour and the it weakly reflects the neon light that shines onto it.:To use the bin, just open it.
Plant:A squat plant sits on the coffee table. It is growing in a small ceramic pot.:You sniff the plant in an appreciative manner.
CD player:Eden typically has a top of the range CD player. The sturdy case has a display set into the front showing song details in blue lettering.:You reach out and press a few buttons....
Toilet:Eden's whole bathroom is coloured a relaxing sea green. The toilet has a stainless steel handle on it.:You don't feel the need right now.
Sink:The wash basin is coloured the same as the rest of the bathroom and is fitted neatly into the wall. There is a small puddle of lukewarm water in the bottom.:You splash some cold water over your face.
Tap:A shiny stainless steel mixer tap with controls for hot, cold and a "preprogrammed" washing temperature.:You turn the tap and run your hands under the water.
Doors:The doors in front of you are for the lift that runs between the two floors of Eden's flat. The front face of the doors is covered by a padded green material.:The lift is controlled using the control pad on the wall.
Tap:A stainless steel tap that mixes the hot and cold water together in one stream. There is a temperature control on the top.:You turn the tap and run your hands under the water.
Mat:Around the base of the toilet is a green coloured mat.:There is no use for the mat.
Radiator:This old fashioned metal radiator is fixed to the wall by the window. You touch it with your hand and quickly pull it away. The radiator must have been on for a while.:The radiator controls are somewhere else.
Bed:Eden must have made the bed while you were gone. She has straightened out the quilt and pillows.:There is no time for sleep, you have a lot of work left....Door:Eden's bathroom door intelligently opens as you approach and closes behind you. The door is covered in a grey material that is soft to the touch.:You notice the words "LEK Corporation" in the corner of door in tiny letters. Door:Eden's bathroom door is a familiar automatic door. The door opens as you approach it and closes behind you. The two sections of the door move into the walls.:The door will open on its own.
Drawers:One of a pair of small wooden storage units, placed either side of the bed.:Try opening them.
Drawers:A small chest of drawers that you recall Eden bought not long ago. The drawers are obviously quite old and are in need of some repair.:Just open the drawers.
Mirror:A wooden framed mirror hangs on the wall. In it you can see your reflection.:You inspect yourself in the mirror and find that you are just as spotty as ever.
Crate:A collapsible packing crate made of a light, but fairly tough material. Eden still has some of her belongings packed into these crates, even though she has lived here almost a month.:The crate isn't any use.
Light:A neon light held onto the wall by two metal clasps. The light is thin and long and is held an inch or so away from the wall.:There is no way to use the light.
Light:A yellow strip light fixed to the wall just above your head. The light is strong and even along the whole length of the neon tube.:The light switches on and off on its own.
Radiator:This metal radiator is used to heat the room. The weather is cold and rainy outside as usual and the radiators are on to heat the room.:You have no idea where the controls are and besides that, they need to be on at this time of year.
Desk:A small desk is used by Eden when she works at home. Her computer and mouse mat are placed on top of it.:There is no reason to use the desk.
Chair:A businesslike black leather chair on a swivel base.:It's time for action, not for sitting around.
Monitor:This monitor is connected to Eden's computer. It is fixed to the wall at head height. Along the bottom right-hand corner are some tiny lights which indicate that the monitor is off.:The monitor is part of the computer system.
Console:A flat plastic computer console used by Eden. It is used as a word processor and is entirely voice activated. There is a small display on the top which means it can be used as a portable.:I shouldn't mess about with Eden's stuff.
Light:A bright yellow neon lamp fixed to the wall. You look closely at the bracket fixing it to the wall and you see the name "LEK Corp" in small letters.:The light is controlled automatically.
Light:An ordinary neon light which is one of many in the apartment.:There is no use for the light.
Window:This huge window overlooks the city. Rain hammers into it incessantly.:The view of the rain and the endless skyscrapers stretching off into the distance is bleak and depressing. You turn back to the room.
Window:This huge window offers a view of the city outside as it is battered by wind and rain. The old Victorian buildings are dwarfed by the modern skyscrapers in between them.:The view is bleak and depressing.
Mouse mat:A blue rubber mouse mat with the word "Supamouse" printed in one corner. The mat feels soft and spongy.:Move the mouse around.
Clock:A small alarm clock sits on Eden's bedside table. Large red letters announce the time and a flashing light ticks away the seconds.:Pressing the ALARM button you see that Eden has to be up at six thirty tomorrow.
Organiser:Eden's pocket organiser lays on the bed. It has a compact keyboard above which is a small plasma screen. A small LED blinks on and off on the top.:You turn the organiser on....
Mouse:A white mouse controller for Eden's computer. The mouse has two buttons. It sits on a mouse mat:You move the mouse around, and change something on the screen.
Control:A large lift control panel with big brass buttons set into it. The controls are clamped onto the wall.:You examine the controls and select the ground floor. You press the button marked "DOWN" and the lift takes you down.Interface:A Network interface that has yet to be connected. There is the usual slot for a cartridge. There is a large number of connectors at the back.:Eden's Network interface is not connected. Maybe you should use the one at your apartment.
Gate:The  gate stands open against the wall. A large metal handle is welded onto the iron struts that join to make the gate.:The gate will close automatically when you select a floor on the control panel.
Sink:Set into the worktop is a highly polished steel sink unit that must have been fitted recently, it looks brand new.:There is no need to use the sink.
Tap:A mixer tap is fixed by the sink. The controls allow the exact temperature of the mixed water to be set as well as supplying fresh cold drinking water.:You don't need to use that just now.
Towel:A clean white towel hangs on the side of the bath.:The towel is soft to the touch.
Cabinet:This medicine cabinet is at head height on the wall. The door has a round plastic handle on it and there is a mirror set into the front.:Maybe you should open the cabinet.
Worktop:You find that the way Eden's apartment has been designed is quite strange. Eden is the first tenant and the worktops are all quite new. The kitchen is part of the living room.:You lean on the worktop for a moment.
Monitor:A wide screen Network monitor placed in the corner of the room. The screen has a white dust sheet placed over the top.:The monitor is not connected to anything.
Sofa:Eden's wide three seater sofa is placed in front of the Network monitor. The sofa appears to be brand new. It is partially covered by a dust sheet. Eden has only recently moved into her apartment:You decide not to.
Drinks machine:A drinks dispenser. This seems to be one of the few items of equipment that works in Eden's apartment.:You push the button marked "Tea" on the machine. It makes a gurgling sound but appears to do nothing else.
Micro cooker:Eden's micro cooker looks completely burnt out. The door hangs limply off one hinge and the inside is blackened with soot.:The micro cooker is no longer operational.
Worktop:The worktop follows the contours of the room and ends here by the bathroom door. Set beneath the worktop are cupboards, drawers and a refrigerator.:That doesn't seem to work.
Drawer:The drawer is flush with the worktop and two metal handles stick out from its front.:Try opening the drawer to use it.
Refrigerator:The fridge is set into the work unit and this small handle is connected to one side.:Open the fridge to look inside it.
Window:Above the sink is a small window that lets in some of the weak light from outside.:You stare out into the rain and think of far off places.
Window:This window provides some weak light for the room. Rain runs down the pane of glass in streams.:You look out and see nothing but darkness.
Crate:This collapsible packing crate has a white dust sheet draped over it.:You lift the dust sheet and find that the crate is empty.
Light:A yellow neon light that glows with an unsteady brightness.:The light has no switch.
Door:The lift doors are covered with a green material that vaguely matches the furnishings in the rest of the room.:The doors are controlled automatically by the lift.Magazines:There is a small pile of magazines here. There are a couple of copies of Vogue and some magazines about the advertising business.:You flick through one of the magazines. They aren't really your sort of thing.
Book:On the bedside table is a book of Eden's. She never really got on with reading books on the Network machine. There is a bookmark inside marking her page.:You read the title and it says "Mortal Mask".
Toilet roll:A roll of luxury bathroom tissue in unbleached environmentally friendly white.:You prod the toilet roll, it feels soft and spongy.
Button:A square metal plate on the wall has a small button set into it. The writing has faded but you can just about make out the word "OPEN" written on it.:You give the button a press and the door opens.:The doors already stand open.
Door:The lift doors are about eight inches thick. As they open and close the slide back into the wall with some difficulty. Years of use seem to have made the doors a little temperamental.:The door is controlled automatically by the lift.
Jeans.:A pair of Eden's blue denim Levi's lay over the chair. The jeans are faded and well worn. The stitching has come loose around the pockets.:Eden's jeans would never fit you.
Plate:A simple white ceramic plate.:There isn't any food around.
Light:A orange neon light fixed just below the window in Eden's main room. The light shines brightly out across the room.:Searching the light you can find no switch. It must come on automatically as the light fades outside.
Bed:Your girlfriend Eden lies in bed with the covers pulled up tightly around her. The bed has an ornate metal frame and a blue continental quilt.:You only just got out of bed!
Towel:Eden has placed a towel on the floor ready for when she gets out of the bath. The towel is white and fluffy.:You aren't wet so there's no need to use the towel.
Shirt:One of Eden's shirts lies crumpled on the bed. It's a bright pink colour and it's inside out.:Eden's shirt is of no use to you.
Fan:On the ceiling is a fan that rotates slowly to circulate the air in the room so that the small radiator on the wall can heat the whole room.:There is no visible switch on the fan.

EDEN'S BEDROOM:Eden's bedroom doubles as a study. Opposite the bed is a desk with a computer console on it. There is a huge window in one wall of the room giving a view across the city.
EDEN'S FLAT:Eden's flat has been converted from an old warehouse. The floor and walls are both made of stone and the ceiling is high. One small area of this room has been converted into a kitchen.
EDEN'S LIFT:Eden's lift used to be a goods lift. There are heavy doors across the entrance and the control panel is a large piece of industrial equipment bolted onto the wall.
EDEN'S BATHROOM:Eden's bathroom leads directly off her living area. The floor is small black and white tiles and everything else is green coloured. There is a medicine cabinet on the wall by the sink.

Mug:A white ceramic mug with a light blue interior. It has a small crack in the rim and there are hairline cracks around the handle too.:Find something to use it with.
Mug:A cup with the words "Apple Advertising Agency" printed in grey letters on one side over the outline of an apple. This is the name of the agency Eden works for.:Find something to use it with.
CD Box:A plastic case for a CD. The case has a small booklet inside with a track listing on the front. The CD belongs to Eden.:The CD box can be opened to see what is inside.
CD box:A CD box that has an abstract design on the cover. The price sticker is still fixed to the box even though Eden bought this CD ages ago.:	The CD case may be opened.
Polaroid:You remember Eden taking this picture of you several months ago. The picture is a close up of you waving wildly at the camera and is slightly out of focus.:You turn the picture over and see that the date is printed on the back.
Mug:A stumpy ceramic mug that looks as if it would probably hold a pint of liquid. The mug has a marbled effect on its outer surface.:Find something to use it with.
Mug:This mug is one that Eden bought a few months ago. On one side you can see a crack that you made when you dropped it into the sink.:Find something to use it with.
Deodorant:A thin aluminium tube of deodorant with a red plastic cap on the top and a concave base.:You remove the lid and shove the can inside you coat. You give an experimental squirt under each arm. You smell much better!
Toothbrush:This is your own red toothbrush. The bristles are squashed and flattened at the ends and you obviously need a new one.:You don't need to clean your teeth right now.
Toothpaste:A half squeezed tube of fluoride toothpaste. A green logo across the tube says "Staybrite". The cap is missing.:You squeeze the tube and a tiny bit of toothpaste plops onto the floor.
Brush:A blue handled hairbrush with nylon bristles. There is a square hole in the end of the handle and a couple of bristles are missing.:You brush your hair and find that it is full of tangles.
Jeans:Probably the only pair of jeans you have. They could virtually walk around by themselves. They are torn, dirty and very comfortable. One pocket at the back has almost come loose.:You are wearing them already.
Shirt:A long sleeved purple shirt with buttons that reach half way down the front. The material is rough to the touch on the outside, but smooth on the inside. A button is missing.:You have the shirt on already.
Trainer:An expensive training shoe with two brilliant green flashes of colour down each side. The shoe has a Velcro fastener across the front.:You adjust the shoe slightly so that it is more comfortable.
Trainer:One of a pair of training shoes that you have on your feet at present. The shoe is almost new but already looks well worn. These are all you ever wear.:You have no need to take the shoe off.
Cigarettes:A bright orange packet of synthetic cigarettes that you have been trying to give up for ages.:Just try opening the packet.
Shades:A battered pair of plastic black sunglasses that you've had for ages. The smog outside rarely lets through enough light to make them necessary, but you wear them anyway most of the time.:You feel much better.:You are wearing the shades already.
Lighter:You can't remember where you got this lighter, but you've never seen another one like it. You've had it for at least five years and it has never run out of gas.:Arson will get you nowhere.:You decide not to.
Watch:The watch that Eden bought you for your last birthday has a gunmetal grey face and a worn leather strap. Several small buttons on the sides control the watch.:You slip the watch over your wrist.:You are wearing the watch already.
Gum:A packet of mint flavoured chewing gum with three green stripes across the packaging. The packet is made from tin foil.:Open the gum packet to take out the gum.
Ring:A gold ring that you wear on your right hand. The ring is quite old and shows its age. Around the edge of the ring your name is engraved in tiny letters.:You already have the ring on.
Cashcard:A small green plastic card that has a yellow flash running across it. There is a small space that reads thumbprints and a digital readout. It has your name on it.:The card shows a balance of...
Gum:Spearmint flavour chewing gum, sugar free of course.:Unwrapping the silver foil you take out the gum and bend it into your mouth.
Gum:A single piece of chewing gum wrapped in foil.:Ahhh minty. 
Gum:Chewing gum, sugar free for smokers.:Placing the gum in your mouth the taste circulates like a party in my mouth and everybody's invited.
Cigarette:A single cigarette with a filter tip.:Find something to light it with.:You're trying to give up but your nerves are on edge. You decide that one won't hurt so you smoke the cigarette.
Cigarette:An average, everyday cigarette.:Find something to light it with.:You light the cigarette with a shaky hand and smoke it.
Cigarette:A low tar filtered cigarette.:Use something to light it.:You're trying to give up but you really need a cigarette now. You light the cigarette and smoke it.
Cigarette:Just a normal, every day cigarette.:Use something to light it.:You light the cigarette and smoke it. Your frazzled nerves seem a bit better.
Wallet:A brown leather wallet with your initials in the corner. The clasp hangs limply off the leather and the wallet has seen better days.:Open the wallet to remove its contents.
Toothbrush:This green toothbrush is made of translucent plastic and belongs to Eden. The brush is almost brand new. Just what you'd expect from Eden.:Uch! You shouldn't go around using other people's toothbrushes without asking.
Soap:A bar of white soap that has a simple design carved into it.:The soap smells fresh.Cartridge:This standard Network cartridge has Eden's familiar handwriting on it saying "Client Information. Sartain Industries".:The cartridge must be placed inside a Network interface.
Key:A heavy gold key that is about four inches long. There is a design carved into the handle and there are strange markings along the barrel.:The key is of no use here.:You place the key in the slot.
Cheese:A triangular block of low fat Swiss cheese that has holes running through it. The cheese has a pungent, and quite unpleasant odour.:You break off a small bit of cheese and eat it. It tastes awful.
Milk:A carton of skimmed milk which has a picture of a cow on the front even though the milk is completely made from vegetable extracts. The cow has a ridiculous smile on its face and a banjo in one hoof.:You take a swig from the carton.
Milk:A cardboard carton of skimmed milk that has a familiar logo across the front which reminds you of the TV advert. There is a sell by date on the side.:The sell by date is over six months from now. This stuff must keep for ages!
CD:You recognise this CD as one of Eden's. The name of the band is printed around the centre of the disc and there is a track listing in tiny almost unreadable print.:You'll have to put the CD in a CD player.
CD:A CD that belongs to you. You see a big scratch across the surface as you hold it up to the light. This CD has always had a jump in it.:The CD goes in any standard CD player.
Magazine:A copy of a popular music magazine that Eden used to subscribe to. The cover has the titles of various articles about new bands plastered all over it.:You flick idly through the magazine. It is incredibly dull.
Pound coin:A small and chunky old English coin that used to be in circulation. It is made of a dull metal alloy.:Examining the coin you see that it has "NEMO ME IMPUNE LACESSIT" engraved around the edge.
Pills:A foil packet containing four red pills. The foil has FemiFree printed diagonally across it.:You realise that being a man you don't have period pain just a headache.
Orange juice:A plastic bottle of freshly squeezed orange juice. The label has a picture of a couple of oranges surrounded by unrealistic looking green leaves.:You unscrew the cap and take a swig of the juice. Maybe you should have shaken it first.
Cheese dish:A tacky plastic cheese dish with a shallow red base and a domed perspex top. There is an extremely small handle on the top.:Open the dish if you want some cheese.
Knife:A small table knife with a white handle that has three metal rivets in it.:Find something to use the knife with.
Fork:A metal table fork with a white plastic handle. The fork has three prongs and seems a bit flimsy.:You don't need to use the fork at the moment.
Knife:A small table knife with a white plastic handle. The blade is extremely shiny but has bits of food stuck to it.:Perhaps you should use the knife with another object.
Fork:A small table fork with a white plastic handle that has three metal rivets holding the handle on.:The fork isn't much use.
Photo:A small photograph torn from a strip of prints from a passport photo booth. The picture shows Eden with her face lit up far too brightly by the flash.:You turn the photo over and see a message on the back saying "Love Eden".
List:A crumpled piece of paper that has barely legible door lock numbers that belong to people you don't even know any more.:Examining the list you see your own number that you've written down so that you don't forget it. The number is 5106.

                             END OF PART THREE
                             --=============--
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                 PART FOUR

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               REGENCY HOTEL
                               -------------


Receptionist:The receptionist is a middle aged woman in a red dress who is looking decidedly agitated. She hammers away on her keyboard and stops occasionally to answer the phone. She is wearing a pair of large glasses.

The receptionist looks up and says "Hello Sir. Welcome to the Regency Hotel. How can I help you."
I'd like a room for tonight please.
Well we haven't got many left and they are all quite expensive. David Crane, the singer, is staying here tonight you know.
Oh yeah, I suppose he's got all the best rooms.
Well Mr. Crane has the penthouse suite, naturally, but there is a vacant suite below that and it's quite luxurious.
And how much would that cost just for tonight?
I'm afraid that's 830 altogether, including tax. Will that be alright?
Er, yes, I guess so.
Well if you'd just like to sweep your cashcard through the scanner I can give you a room key.
Right, thanks.
The receptionist looks at you expectantly. Perhaps you should use your cashcard now.

Hello again, if you still want that room just put your card through the scanner and I can give you your key.
Thanks, I'll do that.

Receptionist:The hotel receptionist continues to fiddle with things on her desk and occasionally she answers the phone. She looks slightly nervous.

Hello again, what can I do for you now?
Erm, can you tell me where my room is?
Yes, it's on the ninth floor, just use the lift over there to get to your room.
Okay, thanks.
That's alright, just remember to use you room key to operate the controls in the lift.

Oh, it's you again. What can I help you with.
Oh, it's nothing. Don't worry about it.
The receptionist returns to her work and tries to ignore you...

Young man:The man has a yellow haircut which stands on end, a luminous green shirt and leather trousers and a jacket. He seems bored as if he's been stood here for hours.

Hey, are you waiting here to see Crane too?
Er, not really, I'm just staying here for a few nights. What do you know about Crane?
There's nothin' we don't know about him. We've been waiting here for two days just to catch a glimpse of him.
Are you sure he's in this hotel then?
Oh yeah, he's got the best room in the hotel, the penthouse suite. It's supposed to have a pool!
Well, I hope you see him.
Yeah, catch you later.

No luck yet. Crane still hasn't come down from his room.
Oh right. Well I hope he does...
Yeah, me too.

Girl:Sat on the sofa is a girl wearing a purple dress made from a strange material that seems to change colour slightly as she moves. She sits staring out across the lobby. Occasionally she says something to the man stood next to her.

Oh hello! We're waiting for David Crane. Don't you just love him?
I...
I've been to all his gigs an' I've got all his albums.
Well actually...
You know, I've even got his early stuff. He spat on me at a concert once. It was great!
Um, yeah I'm sure it was. Catch you later...
Oh, OK, see you then...

Oh, hello again. I forgot to tell you about my signed photo that Crane sent me.
That's OK. See you later. I'm busy.

Light:The hotel lobby is lit by several of these small lamps. The yellow light doesn't quite reach the farthest corners of the room, giving it an old fashioned feel.:You can't use the light, it has no switch.
Light:One of several lights fixed to the walls around the room. The light is attached to the wall with a brass fitting.:There doesn't seem to be a switch anywhere on the light.
Light:One of four lights around the room, fixed on the wall. The light shines upwards onto the ceiling before being reflected around the room.:The light is controlled from behind the reception desk.
Light:This light is deliberately quite dim in an attempt to create some atmosphere in the hotel lobby. The neon tube inside the light is diffused by a frosted glass cover.:You cannot use the light.
Lift doors:The doors to the lift stand open. Through them you can see into the lobby.:The doors will close if you travel anywhere in the lift.
Light:On of two lights fixed to the outside of the Regency hotel. The lights cast a pool of light across the floor and wall.:The light has no switch.
Light:A yellow neon light that spills a glow across the wall and pavement outside the Regency hotel.:You can't find any way to switch the light off.
Drain:A heavy looking cast iron drain cover with three vertical bars crossing it. The sound of distant water comes from within.:You brace yourself and attempt to lift the cover. It moves only slightly before you are forced to let go.
Desk:The reception desk is made of solid wood. The fact that it is shows just how exclusive this hotel is. Behind the desk is a middle aged female receptionist.:You lean on the reception desk for a while.
Desk:The reception desk is made of solid wood. The fact that it is shows just how exclusive this hotel is. Behind the desk is a middle aged female receptionist.:You lean on the reception desk for a while.
Desk:The reception desk is made of solid wood. The fact that it is shows just how exclusive this hotel is. Behind the desk sits a middle aged female receptionist.:You lean on the reception desk for a while.
Terminal:The receptionist has a booking terminal in front of her. It has a flat display screen that is tilted upwards slightly. A short lead leaves the back and disappears into the desk.:You can't reach, but the receptionist can book a room for you.
Keyboard:This small keyboard is connected to the booking terminal on the desk. The receptionist occasionally taps something into it before carrying on with her work.:You lean over the desk and the receptionist coughs loudly. You decide not to bother.
Lamp:This small angle-poise lamp has a square base. It is wired directly into the wall. It casts a circle of light across the top of the reception desk.:You twist the head of the light around before you notice the receptionist watching you.
Lift doors:These large doors must be at least a foot thick and they are covered with studded brown leather, to match the rest of the lobby.:The doors will open if you call the lift.
Pad:On the wall you see a square plate with the word "Lift" printed across it. Below is a button labelled "Call".:You press the button and it illuminates briefly.
Seat:A sofa covered in brown leather is up against one wall of the lobby. You are supposed to sit here if you are waiting for someone.:There isn't any time to sit around.
Waste bin:A small metal waste bin is on the floor between the Network machine and the seating.:Try putting something into it.
Card scanner:When booking a room you must place a cash card in this scanner. There is a slot across the top and a display above it.:Perhaps I should book a room before I pay....
Chair:The receptionist sits in this comfy looking swivel chair. Along with everything else it is made from leather and has brass fittings.:You can't, it is already occupied.
Screen:This screen shows your booking information. As the receptionist finds you a room, the details are displayed on this screen for you to see.:Try booking a room.
Camera:A small security camera that tracks your movements around the street outside the hotel.:You can't reach.
Plant:This weird plant is set into an artificial base. It seems that the only reason it looks real is because it is pumped full of water.:Use it? For what?
Rail:The hand rail in the lift is made of solid brass. It's so shiny you can see your face in it.:You peer at the rail and you see your face expand as you get closer.
Rail:The hand rail in the lift is made of brass. The lift travels very fast and it is there for you to grip in case you find the sensation of speed disturbing:You grip the hand rail tightly for a moment.
Mirror:One wall of the lift is covered with a vast mirror. The lift looks alarmingly big because of this.:You study your reflection and notice that you are looking more crumpled than ever.
Controls:The lift controls are completely blank apart from a thin slot. You are supposed to place your key in here:Try using your room key. If you haven't got one, then get one.
Plant:A leafy green plant that sits on the reception desk. The leaves are thick and slightly furry to the touch.:You can't really use the plant for anything.
Sign:A small plastic sign that says "Reception" in black lettering on a gold background.:You pick up the sign and read it again.
Table:A small octagonal table made from synthetic wood. It stands in the corner of the room next to the sofa.:There is no need to do that.
Light:A gold light fixed to the wall of the lobby. A small wire comes from the side of the light and enters the wall underneath it. You assume this is the power lead.:You shouldn't mess about with the fittings.
Light:A neon light that spreads light across the room. On the top you notice a tiny panel. This must be some kind of detector or switch.:You jab at the panel but nothing seems to happen.
Bell:A brass bell with a small knob on the top. You are supposed to ring it when you need attention:You ding the bell loudly and the receptionist looks at you over her glasses.

HOTEL LIFT:Everything in the lift from the wooden floor, to the brass fittings, to the huge mirror on the rear wall is highly polished. The lift positively gleams. A control panel is by the double doors.
HOTEL LOBBY:The lobby is dominated by a curved wooden reception desk across one corner, behind which sits a receptionist. Most of the room, including the floor, is made of wood. Strangely, the consoles and monitors here don't look out of place. 
OUTSIDE HOTEL:The rain pours down in sheets outside the hotel. A sign above the doorway shines bleakly in the dim light and reads "Regency Hotel". The inside is visible and looks warm, dry and welcoming.

Keycard:A small blue square of plastic with your room number printed on it. It says "Suite 4221". This is the second best suite in the whole hotel:Find somewhere to use it.
Leaflet:A small printed leaflet that advertises the good points of the Regency Hotel. The word "Regency" is printed in embossed letters on the front:The leaflet looks totally uninteresting.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                HOTEL SUITE
                                -----------

Apple:A large green fresh apple, courtesy of the Regency Hotel.:You take a large bite out of the apple. It's a pity it didn't taste as good as it looked.
Bible:A Gideon bible that's small enough to fit in the palm of your hand. It has a large cross embossed onto the cover.:The last thing you need at the moment is this.
Axe:A wooden handled fire axe with a sharp and polished metal blade.:You don't need to use the axe at the moment.:You take the axe in both hands and take a swing at the guard sat by the pool.
Ashtray:A circular glass ashtray with a thick base. The words "Regency Hotel" are etched around the sides.:The ashtray isn't much use.
Controller:A stumpy plastic remote control for the TV system in your hotel suite at the Regency. The remote has only six very large buttons.:You turn the TV on and flick through the channels. Mindless rubbish as usual... You turn the TV off again.:You aren't near the TV that this remote belongs to....
Toothpaste:The toothpaste is in a grey and orange tube marked "Regency Hotel. Complementary toothpaste.":There are more important things to attend to.
Soap:A small bar of soap with a tiny sticker embedded in the top surface. You examine the sticker and find that it says "Regency Hotel. Complementary soap.":You examine the sticker more closely and find that it says "Regency Hotel. Complementary soap."
Soap:A small bar of white soap that has a small sticker in its top surface.:You examine the sticker more closely and find that it says "Regency Hotel. Complementary soap."
Soap:A small white bar of soap with a tiny sticker embedded in its top surface.:Upon closer examination you find that the sticker reads "Regency Hotel. Complementary soap."
Cushion:A dark blue cushion made from a velvet like material. The words "Regency Hotel" are printed subtly across one corner.:The cushion isn't much use to you at the moment.
Cushion:A dark blue cushion that has the Regency Hotel logo printed across one corner.:A use for the cushion doesn't spring to mind. You could sit on it, but this isn't really the time or place.
Shampoo:A small bottle of shampoo that has the wording "Regency Hotel" on it, and underneath in small letters "complementary shampoo".:You don't like washing your hair and now isn't a good time.


                             END OF PART FOUR
                             --============--
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                 PART FIVE

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                IN A CHURCH
                                -----------

Bag:A small leather bag with a draw string around the top. The leather is worn and very soft to the touch.:There is no use for the bag.
Gem:A large red gem that has so many sides on it that it is almost a sphere.:You hold the gem up to the light and it sparkles as you turn it.
Gem:A bright red gem that is large enough to almost fill the palm of your hand. The edges are perfectly cut and the gem is flawless all the way through.:You are unsure if this will help you at the moment.
Candlestick:A heavy candlestick that actually appears to be made of solid gold. It is highly polished and extremely heavy.:The candlestick isn't much use. There is plenty of light already.
Candlestick:A gold candlestick with three stems and a wide circular base. The candlestick seems to be made of solid gold and consequently it is very heavy.:It is light enough already here.
Hand:A skeletal hand with clean white bones. The hand has the index finger extended and the joints seem unmovable.:Find something to use it with.
Bible:A small leather bound bible with its title in gold lettering across the front.:Being an atheist there isn't much point.
Bible:A small leather bound bible with faded gold leaf lettering across the front and the spine.:Being an atheist, there isn't much point.
Bible:A small leather covered bible with some pages missing. The paper inside has yellowed with age.:This isn't the time for prayers!
Bible:A pocket bible bound in leather and with gold lettering across the front.:Being an atheist, you don't see the point.
Bible:A small leather bound bible with the word "Holy Bible" across the front in gold leaf.:The bible isn't any use to you at the moment.
Bible:A small copy of the bible, bound in leather. The pages inside are very thin and yellow with age. They almost crumble as you turn them.:There's no need to use the bible.
Skull:You turn the human skull over in your hands. The bone is clean and bright white apart from a small amount of dried blood in one eye socket.:The skull stares at you.
Bowl:A small wooden bowl that is obviously quite old. The inside is scratched and worn.:You don't need to do that.
Bowl:A wooden bowl that's about six inches in diameter. The edges and inside are well worn with use.:The bowl isn't of any use to you at the moment.
Bowl:A small wooden bowl with a split down one side that renders it completely useless.:I said "completely useless".
Candle:A stumpy half-used candle that has drips of dried wax down the sides.:There is plenty of light in this room.
Candle:A stumpy looking candle that has been used before. The wick is charred and the candle has drips of wax around its edges.:This room has enough light.
Candle:A tall wax candle that has drips of wax down the sides. The drips dried in motion and look caught in suspended animation.:There is plenty of light here.
Candle:A short wax candle that has been half used. The wick is burnt and smells recently used.:There is plenty of light in this room.
Goblet:A bronze goblet with a small base. There is an etched design around the rim.:The goblet is not much use.
Goblet:A small bronze goblet with a design around the rim. It looks quite old and doesn't look well made.:It seems quite useless.
Goblet:A bronze goblet with a small base. There is a geometric design around the rim.:It isn't much use.
Goblet:A small bronze goblet with a geometric design around the base.:It isn't much use at the moment.
Wafer:A small thin communion wafer.:It wouldn't seem right.
Wafer:A small thin communion wafer.:It wouldn't seem right.
Wafer:A small thin communion wafer.:It wouldn't seem right.
Wafer:A small thin communion wafer.:It wouldn't seem right.
Cloth:A plain white piece of cloth about four feet square when unfolded.:There is no immediate use for the piece of cloth.
Candle:A stumpy candle that was probably twice this length at one point. The wax is slightly soft to the touch.:There's no use for the candle at the moment.
Candle:A candle made from white wax. It stands about a foot tall and looks unused.:There is no need to use the candle at the moment.
Candle:A half used wax candle that has drips of dried wax clinging to the side. The wick is charred black and the candle seems recently used.:There's no use for the candle at the moment.
Candle:A tall candle made of white wax. The charred wick tells you that the candle has been used before.:There is plenty of light here without the need for candlelight.
Candle:A tall wax candle that has already been used at some time. The top lip of the wax is uneven and drips of wax have dried down the side.:There is enough light here already.
Cross:A plain and simple wooden cross made from two pieces of wood bound together with twine.:You may need this later, but not now.
Cushion:A soft green cushion that feels damp. Most of the stuffing has come out and the fabric is old and well worn.:The cushion is of no real use.
Cushion:A soft cushion made from a dark green cloth. The material is soft and has worn away in places revealing the stuffing inside.:The cushion isn't really any use at the moment.
Cushion:A small green cushion covered in a soft green material that is worn away in several places leaving holes where stuffing pokes through.:There's no use for the cushion.
Cushion:A green cushion from St. Septimus church. The cushion shows signs of a lot of use over a long period of time. The green fabric has worn almost white in places.:The cushion isn't much use.
Cushion:A soft cushion made from a faded green fabric. Most of the stuffing seems to have come out from a split in one seam.:There's no obvious use for the cushion.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                LONG BEACH
                                ----------

Rocks:These large brown rocks by the water's edge are cold and damp to the touch. Seaweed and barnacles are visible towards the ground so you assume the tide must come up pretty far.:You can't use the rocks.
Rail:A metal guard rail that runs around the top step of the stone stairs. The rail is obviously very old. There are patches of rust all over it.:The rail looks decidedly unsafe.
Rocks:A massive clump of rocks covered with a sheen of water. The light from the moon catches them and casts dark long shadows from them. They look very strange.:The rock is useless.
Rock:A small brown rock on the water's edge.:You lift the rock and peer underneath. There is a crab sat underneath. You replace the rock carefully.
Rocks:A cluster of rocks covered in wet salt and sand. The rocks smell strongly of salt water.:The rocks feel very cold to the touch.
Rock:A boulder that has been worn smooth by the constant ebb and flow of the tide along this shore. There is a line around the boulder where the seaweed stops.:The can't use the boulder.
Rocks:A group of slippery wet rocks covered with bumps and hollows worn smooth by the sea.:You can find no use for the rocks.
Sign:A weather beaten sign has flaking white paint on it that you can just about make out.:The words read "DANGER! Polluted water. No swimming.". You wonder if you swallowed any of that water.
Rocks:Two round rocks nestled together in a small pool of sea water.:The rocks resist any attempt to move them. They are stuck solidly in the mud.
Railing:A long iron railing that runs along the length of the balcony. A sign hangs crookedly from the railing that says "DANGER. SECURITY SYSTEM IN OPERATION!".:Somewhat rashly you decide to try and climb the balcony.

Security device:You aren't sure what this does but there is a shallow trench in the sand that leads directly downwards to the sea. It looks as if this thing might fire laser bolts of some kind.:It seems to be completely sealed.
Rocks:A massive clump of rocks covered with a sheen of water. The light from the moon catches them and casts dark long shadows from them. They look very strange.:The rock is useless.
Pipe:This rusty metal pipe emerges from the sand and touches the edge of the water. Foul smelling sewage gushes out of the pipe into the sea. It looks disgusting.
Junction box:Having removed the sand from the lid of the junction box you can see that there is a thin gap around the lid.:Taking the railing in your hands you carefully prise open the lid of the junction box.
Junction box:You see a metal plate lightly covered with sand. A raised symbol in the surface shows a lightning bolt. This must be some sort of electrical junction box.:You remove the sand from the cover with your hands.
Junction box:The lid of the junction box is open and inside you can see a mass of wires and bits of circuitry. Electronics is something you've never been to get to grips with.:That doesn't seem to work...
Hole in window:That blast has created quite a big hole in the window. Shards of broken glass lay all around and the edges of the window are sharp and jagged. Some parts of the window seem to have melted.:Gingerly you step through the window.:You can't reach the window from here.
Hole in balcony:The blast from the exploding security system has left a gaping hole in the balcony railing. It should be safe enough to climb up now. Unless there is a secondary security device of some kind...:You hoist yourself onto the balcony.
Glass:Underfoot glass crunches as you walk. There are bits of glass inside and outside the window left over from the explosion.:You try and pick up the glass, but it's boiling hot!
Security device:There isn't really anything left of the security machine. There's just a crater in the wall where it used to be. Small wisps of smoke rise slowly upwards from the blackened wreckage.:It looks like you've already disarmed it.
Brick:A small lump of rock that appears to have come from the wall that the security device was fixed to. The brick smoulders slightly and is hot to the touch.:You have no use for the brick.
Brick:A small brick that seems to have come from the wall nearby. The brick is warm to the touch and is of no use to you.:You really don't need to use the brick.
Junction box:Peering into the junction box you see a clump of melted wires dangling into a small puddle of water. Occasionally a spark jumps from one wire to another.:The electrics inside the box have been desroyed.

DESERTED CREEK:You stand on an embankment covered in silted earth. Sea water washes slowly and darkly against the sand and the bank is littered with rocks and boulders. Stone steps lead upwards.
BY THE BOATHOUSE:The boathouse is located here on the beach. It is about ten feet up in the air supported by concrete pillars that plunge deep into the beach and into the murky waters.
Railing:A rusty piece of railing that has one broken end where it has sheared away from the steps behind you.:Find something to use it with....

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                   LOUIS
                                   -----

Louis is one of your oldest friends. He sits slumped on the toilet. He is
wearing a hideous green shirt covered in food stains and dull grey sweat
shorts. His belly pokes out from underneath his shirt. He's almost asleep.

You give Louis a shake and he opens his eyes slightly.
"Hey Ryan, how are you man?"
I feel pretty bad, I'll be alright. But I could use some help.
Help? What do you mean, I can't help with anything.
Look, I'm in deep trouble and there are some things I need and I think you can
get them for me.
Sure, what are you looking for, drugs?
Not today... I need a gun and I don't know anyone who has one.
Well.... there's this dealer I know, he's into heavy stuff like that, weapons
and shit. It'll cost though.
Just tell me what to do Louis.
Whadya need a gun for anyway? What would you want with a gun?
I can't explain, it's all too complicated. I'm not even sure what I'm doing
myself.
If you're serious then you need to go to a pool hall by the river. There's a
guy called Silverman who'll help you.
Where's this pool hall then?
If you find my membership card for the place the address is on that, and
you'll need the card to get in.
Thanks Louis, I won't forget this.
No problem, man. I just hope you know what you're doing.
Yeah Louis, me too...

You give Louis another shake and he half opens his eyes again to ask what's
up.
It's OK Louis, just go back to sleep. I might be back later.
Be seeing you, don't do anything stupid...

Your friend Louis is sat dozing in front of the TV, occasionally he half
opens his eyes and lazily flicks to another TV channel.
Louis looks at you through bleary eyes and then sits bolt upright.
Louis, how's it going?
Oh, it's you. Did you see Silverman?
Yeah.
Did you get what you wanted?
Yeah, I got what I wanted.
I'd offer you a beer but I've drunk it all.
Thanks.
You look like you could use some sleep, man.
I don't think I can sleep, I've got too much on my mind.
You can crash here if you like, I'm not moving from this chair.
Ok Louis, thanks but no thanks.

Have you seen this TV show? It's great.
Louis, I don't really wanna watch TV right now.
I can change channel if you want.
Don't bother. I'll see you later...

Detector:A small disc set into the wall glows red and detects entrance or exit
through this doorway. It is part of the building's security.
You can't use the detector, it's automatic.

Detector:There are two of these detectors, one each side of the doorway.They
are used by the security system here.
You can't use the detector, it operates automatically.

Detector:One of two detectors that are fixed on opposite sides of this
doorway. Walking past them triggers the security camera in the corner of the
lobby
You can't use the detector, it is automatic.

Detector:The detector glows with a weak red light. It is connected to the
security camera in the lobby. If you walk through the detector's beam the
camera will record your entrance.
You can't use the detector.

Light:This light is fixed high on the wall. It has a thin tube of neon running
through it and is fixed into a metal bracket. A wire comes out of the light
and joins the wall.
The light has no switches or buttons.

Light:This neon light glows green. It is fixed firmly to the wall above your
head.
The light is controlled from somewhere else in the building and it is switched
on at dusk.

Door:A sturdy set of doors made from a smooth grey plastic. The doors slide
apart when opened.
The doors are locked and cannot be opened from outside. Why don't you try
ringing the doorbell.

Doorbell:The doorbell is a flat pad with the outline of a hand printed on it
in blue. The bell is activated by body heat.
You place your hand on the pad and it illuminates. No one answers...

Doorbell:The doorbell is a pad fixed to the wall. If you place your hand on it
will ring.
You press your hand to the pad and it illuminates. You wait a while but there
is no answer.

Louis's Doorbell:This doorbell has a small sign taped to it that says
"Out of order". The bell was like this last time you were here. Louis has
probably left it like this on purpose. He likes his privacy.
The bell doesn't seem to be working.

Door:The door to this house is shut and no light shines from underneath it.
It would appear that whoever lives here is out.
The door won't open unless the keypad unlocks it.

Door:This door is to Louis's place. It has his name written in a small panel
on the front of it. Beside the door is a doorbell and a keypad.
Try using the keypad or ringing the bell.

Chair:Louis's overstuffed armchair is old and battered. The stuffing and
springs stick out all over the place.
There's no time for sitting and watching TV.

Unit:These storage units are built into the floor. A microcooker sits on top.
If you open the units you will see what's inside.

Light:The hallway outside Louis's flat is lit by this solitary green neon
light. As a result the hallway is quite dark. The green light makes everything
seem rather strange.
The light cannot be tampered with.

Doors:These doors lead out into the hallway. As you approach them they will
open and then close behind you.
The doors are automatic.

Vent:This vent must be part of the air conditioning system in this apartment
block. Cool fresh air comes from it. It's a refreshing change from the air you
have to breath outside.
The vent is made of strong stuff and won't move.

Monitor:The familiar shape of a network monitor. Louis has almost the same
model as you, although his is the worse for wear. Louis uses it all the time.

Toilet:The toilet occupies about half the space in Louis's tiny bathroom.
Do you really need to, right now?

Door:Another standard set of doors.

Bed:Louis's bed is in a mess. The covers are crumpled and the sheets have worn
through to the mattress. The bed feels very lumpy and some of the springs are
in danger of coming through.
You wouldn't want to.

Keypad:Half hanging off the wall is a grubby metal keypad that opens the door
next to it if the correct code is entered.

Monitor:Louis's Network Monitor is switched into TV mode. Louis watches about
twenty seconds of most programmes and then he flicks over to another channel.
You can't use the Network whilst Louis is watching TV. Why not use your own
one?

Microcooker:A cooker the same as yours at home. Louis appears to be out of
food. Everything he had he has eaten. Most of the empty packets are on the
floor.
Place a food pack inside.
You press the cook button. After two seconds there is a bleep.

Table:A small wooden table that Louis has next to his armchair. He usually
uses it to rest his beer on.
There's no point in trying to rearrange Louis's furniture.

Wash basin:A perfectly ordinary wash basin.
You turn the tap and wash your hands. Looking around you cannot find a towel
so you dry them on your shirt.

Tap:The tap is stainless steel and has hot and cold water coming out together.
There is a temperature control on it that is set to the right temperature for
washing.
You splash some cold water over your face.

Mirror:The mirror is fixed above the sink and reflects the rest of the small
bathroom. A blob of shaving cream is stuck to the corner.
You admire yourself for a while and then realise you are in a hurry.

Holder:A toilet roll holder that is fixed to the wall by two rusty looking
screws.
You give the plastic holder a tug but it seems firmly stuck to the bathroom
wall.

Pillow:This pillow was probably white once. It sits limply on Louis's bed.
Sleep is the last thing you have time for.

Guitar:Louis's famous acoustic guitar is on the bed. This is Louis's most
treasured possession.
You pick up the guitar and give it a strum. It is hopelessly out of tune,
just the way Louis likes it. Carefully you put it back.

Interface:This Network interface is designed to take standard cartridges. They
are placed in the slot in the nearby interface and then viewed using the
monitor.
Place a cartridge inside.

Spill:Something has oozed out of one of Louis's food cartons and it sits on
the floor looking horrible.:What on earth would you use this for?

Food:This food is cold and slightly mouldy. You wonder how Louis lives like
this. His apartment is in such a mess.
You really wouldn't want to eat that.

Rubbish chute:This pull open chute protrudes from the wall. To save Louis
having to leave the house, he can throw trash away using this. It smells
awful.
You don't need to throw anything away.

Comunit:You can use this to speak to someone who has just rung the doorbell,
to see who it is. You have to be security conscious.
There is nobody outside, and besides this isn't your apartment.

Shirt:One of Louis's bits of clothing lies in a crumpled heap. From the looks
of it needs a wash. Louis doesn't appear to have a washing machine.
I don't think you want to wear this. It doesn't smell too good.

Camera:This security camera records who comes in and out of the lobby. It
looks as if it's broken.
The camera operates on its own when someone enters or leaves the building.

Wiring:These two wires appear to be part of the network system. They
disappear beneath the furniture to hidden connection points.
Louis would be devastated if you meddled with his Network, and disconnected it.

Keypad:The door entry pad to Louis's flat is grimy and slightly sticky to the
touch. It has the standard buttons for code entry.
You tap in the correct code.

CD player:Louis has a CD player pretty similar to yours.
As you expected, it doesn't work. Maybe the remote is around somewhere.

Door:A pair of automatic doors.:The doors are locked and can't be opened from
here.

LOUIS'S LOBBY:The inside of Louis's lobby is shabby and untidy. Food cartons
and litter are all over the floor. The broken security camera in the corner
of the room makes an occasional slow and painful "whurr" noise.

OUTSIDE LOUIS'S:You stand outside the building where Louis lives. It looks
grey and ominous. A couple of steps lead up into the lobby from the street and
you can see a glow of light from inside.

LOUIS'S FLAT:Louis lives in absolute squalor. Food packets and empty wrappers
are all over the place. There is a sickly sweet smell in the air and a haze of
smoke in the room. The Network monitor is on, as usual.

LOUIS'S LOBBY:You stand outside Louis's flat. The floor and walls are chipped
and broken. By the door is a keyboard entry pad for the door lock and a
Comunit. The door has graffiti on it and is closed.

Carton:A fast food carton that has the remains of some ketchup inside it. The
polystyrene has "Don't Drop Litter" stamped into it.
The carton's been used already.

Burger:A disgusting cold burger that has been half eaten.
You can't bring yourself to eat it.

Gherkin:Someone with taste has obviously discarded this Gherkin from the
inside of a hamburger.
You try and taste it but you spit it straight out. You never did like Gherkins

Rubbish:A crumpled wrapper from some fast food. It usually contains another
bag with a box inside it, and with another couple of boxes inside that. It
has "Protect Your Environment" written on it.
You no reason to use it.

Rubbish:A crisp packet that has the name "Crunch Munch" splashed across the
front.
The packet is empty.

Rubbish:A wrapper from a snack. You can't read what it was and it doesn't
really matter anyway.
Even you can't find a use for a piece of rubbish.

Wallet:A battered brown leather wallet. It has the initials LJK on it in gold
lettering.
You can put things in it if you wish.

Wire:A short piece of grey flex with three coloured wires sticking out of the
end. It looks as though the wire has been ripped out of something.
The wire seems pretty useless.

Plectrum:This plectrum is one of Louis's. You can tell this because it's been
chewed.
You turn it over in your hands.

Plectrum:A red plectrum in the shape of a heart. It belongs to Louis. He buys
plectrums all the time, but usually loses them straight away.
You are awful at the guitar.

Plectrum:Louis can never find a plectrum when he wants to play guitar. Now you
know why, they are either scattered across the floor, or someone like you has
wandered off with them.
You decide not to play the guitar.

Controller:This is the controller to one of Louis's appliances. You are not
sure which one. It has many buttons on it.
You experimentally press a few buttons but as you look around the room
nothing appears to have happened.

Food tray:This food tray has been used and contains a few remains of its
former contents.
There is no point using an old food tray, you can only heat up and eat from
a new unopened one.

Food tray:A completely empty food packet from Louis's flat. There really
doesn't seem to be much point in taking this with you.
You can't, Louis has half eaten this.

Cup:A cup that has "I love New York" written on it, only the "love" is replace
by a big red heart shape. It belongs to Louis.
Find something to use it with.

Cup:This cup has a crack down one side, but that doesn't stop Louis using it.
The handle looks as if it won't hang on much longer.
Find something to use it with.

Mug:A short wide mug. It has the word "Tea" written across it in large
letters.
Find something to use it with.

Cigarette:A badly made cigarette that belongs to Louis and smells a bit
strange.
I wouldn't if I were you. You need a clear head. You can relax later.

Butt:A cigarette butt from one of Louis's cigarettes. He doesn't care where
he throws them. One day his house will burn down.
It has already been used.

Butt:Another cigarette butt from Louis's apartment.
You can't, there is nothing left to smoke.

Butt:A small crumpled cigarette butt.
Surely you aren't desperate enough to smoke other people's cigarette butts?

Toilet roll:A jumbo sized green roll of toilet paper with your average
cardboard tube through the middle.
You don't need to, at least, not right now.

Cartridge:A green Network cartridge with a label on it that has had
something written on it but the writing has been almost scrubbed out.
Place it in a Network interface.

Card:A membership card for a pool hall in the city.
The card can be used to gain entry to the pool hall.
This is the card Louis has for the pool hall.
The address is written on the back.

Trainer:One of Louis's trainers which is thankfully almost new. The shoes
fasten with a Velcro strip. The soles have a chunky rubber tread.
You are wearing the shoe already.
You slip the shoe over your left foot.

Trainer:One of Louis's white training shoes that has red stripes down each
side. They are pretty similar to the ones you had before you got mugged for
them.
You are wearing the shoe already.
You slip the shoe over your right foot.


                             END OF PART FIVE
                             --============--
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                 PART SIX

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               MALIBU BEACH:
                               -------------

Rocks:These large brown rocks by the water's edge are cold and damp to the touch. Seaweed and barnacles are visible towards the ground so you assume the tide must come up pretty far.:You can't use the rocks.
Rail:A metal guard rail that runs around the top step of the stone stairs. The rail is obviously very old. There are patches of rust all over it.:The rail looks decidedly unsafe.
Rocks:A massive clump of rocks covered with a sheen of water. The light from the moon catches them and casts dark long shadows from them. They look very strange.:The rock is useless.
Rock:A small brown rock on the water's edge.:You lift the rock and peer underneath. There is a crab sat underneath. You replace the rock carefully.
Rocks:A cluster of rocks covered in wet salt and sand. The rocks smell strongly of salt water.:The rocks feel very cold to the touch.
Rock:A boulder that has been worn smooth by the constant ebb and flow of the tide along this shore. There is a line around the boulder where the seaweed stops.:The can't use the boulder.
Rocks:A group of slippery wet rocks covered with bumps and hollows worn smooth by the sea.:You can find no use for the rocks.
Rock:An extremely large brown rock.:You couldn't lift the rock because it's far too heavy. 
Sign:A weather-beaten sign has flaking white paint on it that you can just about make out.:The words read "DANGER! Polluted water. No swimming." You wonder if you swallowed any of that water.
Rocks:Two round rocks nestled together in a small pool of sea water.:The rocks resist any attempt to move them. They are stuck solidly in the mud.
Indent:You realise that you must have laid here on the beach for ages. The imprint of your body remains in the sand.:Laying back in the sand will achieve nothing.

DESERTED CREEK:You stand on an embankment covered in silted earth. Sea water washes slowly and darkly against the sand and the bank is littered with rocks and boulders. Stone steps lead upwards.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                MISSION ONE
                                -----------
Whew! I'm glad to get out of there....This.....is really hard work...
I can't believe it. They mugged me for my trainers! 

"Keepers. The web of dreams is slowly unwinding."
"The seven evil powers on Earth are joining forces"
"If they become too strong the Dreamweb will be destroyed"
"Who will be the deliverer?"
"When will it be?"
"We must not let the web be broken"
"SILENCE! The chosen ones are becoming aware."
"If they discover their powers they will become too strong"
"Has the seed been planted?"
"Yes. It has grown strong and he is stirring."
"The time has come and I shall awaken him."
"This is the future..."
"I know what you want from me. I think I understand now."
"The seven are becoming stronger."
"They have haunted my dreams."
"I know. They control the seven points of the Dreamweb."
"Must they be destroyed?"
"Yes."
"I can feel they are all close to me. Who will be the first?"
"His name is Crane."
"He is the weakest of the seven."
"How will I find him?"
"He is very near. Arm yourself and begin your search."
"Time is running short my brother..."

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                MISSION TWO
                                -----------
Ryan, your path has been chosen.I know. It has begun.
The power released from the human Crane has entered the Dreamweb.
His life energy must be consumed by the web.
Use the key of the ancestors to unlock the power.
We have a long way to go. The remaining six are becoming stronger.

I can feel it.

They are recruiting more followers, becoming stronger and joining forces.

Who will be next?

His name is Sterling. He commands the largest armed force on Earth.
He is in a great position of power and must be destroyed.

I know what I must do.

Ryan. Your task lies in the halls of the ancestors. Not here.
I understand...

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               MISSION THREE
                               -------------
Sterling's power has been absorbed by the web, but the remaining five are
aware of your presence. They will try and stop you. Now they have a leader.

What is his name?

His name is Sartain. He is a wealthy and influential businessman.

How will I find him?

We feel that he is close to someone you know well. This may provide a path to
him.

Must I release Sterling's power from the Dreamweb?

Yes Ryan. On your path through the Dreamweb you will find a crystal.
The crystal has a power that will protect you.
Do not leave the Dreamweb without it. Now make haste...
Ryan. Your task lies ahead of you in the hall of the ancestors. Not here.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               MISSION FOUR
                               ------------
Ryan. We believe that the remaining four have begun to fight amongst
themselves.

What has happened?

We sense that one of their number, a woman named Chapel, is weakening.
If you reach her before the others she may help you. We fear that they are
planning her assassination.

What if she is killed before I find her?

Then she has been lost to us. Seek out a woman called Underwood.

Where is she?

She works for the government but now she is under the protection of Sartain's
men. We do not know where.

I know what I must do...

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                           MISSION FIVE AND SIX
                           --------------------
Ryan. You have done well. Only two remain but they are very strong.

I can feel their strength. 
The two left are a priest, named O'Rourke and a violent psychopath named
Beckett.

The priest has almost reached Entropy.

He will use his power to transcend the boundaries of Earth.

He seeks higher goals than the mere domination of the Dreamweb.

Can I reach him in time?
Perhaps. But you must act quickly. You already know where he is.

What if he has reached Entropy?

Then pursue Beckett. He is the last and most evil threat to the Dreamweb.

He holds the final key. Now you must hurry....

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               MISSION SEVEN
                               -------------
Ryan. You must hurry! It is a critical time for the web.

I understand.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               THE POOL HALL
                               -------------

Assistant:Behind the glass an assistant leafs through a magazine. He is about fifty years old and has ginger hair and small round glasses. He is sat with his chin in his hands and pays little attention to you.

Look, I'm sorry pal. If you're after a new membership I can't issue any 'til next week.
Actually I've got a friend's card here.
You can use someone else's card if you like. If it's OK by them, it's OK by me.
Won't the electronic thumbprint on the card be wrong if I use this card though?
Look, I shouldn't be doing this, but if you use your card in the reader by the doors I'll sort out the rest.
Yeah, thanks. I'll do that.
No problem, you can owe me one....
Look mate, stop hanging around here. If ya get a card then I'll let you in!
OK, just checking...

Light:A small round red sign that is lit from behind. The sign says "Join Now" in large black letters.:The sign has no switch. It must be controlled from inside the booth.
Neon light:A rectangular green neon light that casts an eerie green glow. The light has no use, except for lighting the approach to the pool hall.
Hatch:By the entrance to the pool hall is a small hatch in the wall that has bars over the windows. Behind the bars sits a man who is reading a magazine.:You lean on the hatch momentarily.
Sign:Fixed to the front of the booth is a sign that is lit with yellow neon.:The sign says "Memberships and Information".
Lift control:The lift control has a number of lights on it. Each has a legend printed beneath it. One green light flashes that says "Basement".:You press the green flashing light and you hear a beep.
Pipe:The alleyway here has a multitude of these huge metal pipes running above it. The pipes are a dull grey metal and brackets with large bolts fix them in place.:The pipe is too high to reach.
Ledge:From the building next to you there comes a ledge which is about six feet above your head. The ledge is made of interlocking metal pieces.:The ledge is too far above you to reach.
Grille:A drain cover is set into the floor. The rain water floods into it.:You grasp a couple of the bars on the grille and pull. It lifts a little but it's extremely heavy and you lose your grip.
Girder:Overhead is a girder that seems to serve no purpose. It emerges from the building next to you and disappears off into the rain as it crosses over the street.:You can't reach it.
Lift doors:The lift doors are covered in an odd purple plastic material. Attempts have been made to vandalise the doors but the surface seems almost indestructible.:The lift doors are controlled by the box next to them.
Reader:On the wall is a small device flashing the message "Insert Membership Card".:You slide the membership card into the reader and the doors open.:The reader won't work because Louis's card doesn't recognise your thumb print.
POOL HALL LIFT:This lift leads down to the pool hall. There is a control box on one wall. The floor has a geometric design stamped into it and is made of a grey resin.
OUTSIDE POOL HALL:You stand in the street outside the pool hall. A dark alleyway leads off to one side where you can see dim neon lights. The pavement is cracked and pitted from years of use.
ABOVE POOL HALL:The alleyway above the pool hall leads to some lift doors. There is a hatch next to these where a man sits. Pipes of varying sizes pass overhead and beneath your feet the pavement has almost disintegrated.



                             END OF PART SIX
                             --===========--
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                PART SEVEN

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                 POOL HALL
                                 ---------
Mr. Silverman:The pool hall owner sits behind his desk and puffs on a large cigar. He wears an off white shirt and a blue waistcoat. He drums his fingers on the desk in an irritated manner. He looks as if he doesn't trust you.

Good evening. My name is Silverman. What's yours?
Oh, my name is Ryan and I need your help. Louis King is a friend of mine, he said you would have what I want.
Your friend Louis was right, I can usually help people out, providing they have enough money.
Oh yes, I have money, I just hope I have enough.
And you're after a handgun of some kind, yes?
Yeah, something that's easy to use. I've never used a gun before but I need to now. I need to kill a m...
Please, Ryan, don't tell me any more than I need to know. I can supply you with a gun. What you do with it is up to you.
How much will it cost?
For 200 I can give you an SI140. It's a fully automatic pulse laser weapon with a full pack of ammunition and computerised sights.
Er, that sounds fine, I guess.
A child could use it. The gun virtually aims and fires for you. Will this weapon be acceptable?
It'll be fine, thanks.
If you'd just like to put your cashcard through the scanner on the desk, I'll deduct the money.Ok, and thanks for your help Mr. Silverman. 
That's allright, give Louis my regards when you see him...

Mr. Silverman gives you a cool stare and asks you once again to use your cashcard.
Perhaps you should do as he says.

Man:The man lies slumped across the table. Like most of the people here he's wearing just jeans and a shirt. On his wrist he wears a large wristwatch.

The man doesn't make a move as you approach him.
Excuse me, can you help?
The man mutters something slurred and incomprehensible.
Hey! Wake up!
There is no response.
Oh forget it....

Man:Sat at the bar, facing out across the room, is a man who looks as if he's in deep thought. He drums his fingers on the bar and is looking blankly across the room. His clothes look expensive and he wears a gold ring.

As you approach the man sat at the bar he gives you a stern look.
Excuse me.
The man continues talking to the person next to him and ignores you.
Look. Can you help me?
The man stops talking, turns around and bares his teeth.
Er, right. I think I'll be going...

The man ignores you as you walk up to him.
I think I'd better leave him alone. He looks annoyed.

Man:Sat at the bar is a man drinking. He wears a pair of jeans and a black shirt. His blond hair is long and untidy. He is in conversation with the bartender as you approach him.

Hey. I'm talking! Why don't you piss off?
But...
I don't wanna have to tell you twice.
Alright, see ya.

Are you deaf?
No, I just.., I mean. Oh forget it.

Bartender:The bartender stands behind the bar lazily smoking a cigarette and speaking in a low voice to the man opposite him. As you approach he looks at you with suspicion.

"What can I get you?" says the bartender with a smirk.
I've been told I can get some help here.
Oh Yeah? By who?
Er, my friend's name is Louis, Louis King. He told me to mention his name.
Louis King? Yeah, I've seen him around here a few times, what exactly are you looking for?
I need a gun, I mean..... I don't know much about them, but I need one.
Well, Mr. Silverman deals with all that, you'll need to see him in his office. The number for the door lock is 5222.
How will he know who I am?
I'll ring through and tell him you're on your way and that you know Louis. The office is down to your right and make sure you have some money.
Oh right, I will.... and thanks.

Hey! I thought I told you to go to Mr. Silverman's office, he's expecting you.
Don't worry, I'm on my way.
Well, just make sure you have some money. He doesn't like being messed about.

Man:A bald-headed man sits at the table smoking. The man watches you as you approach and doesn't seem too pleased that you've chosen to speak to him. He wears a sleeveless shirt and has arms like tree trunks.

Whadya want?
I need some information.
People 'round here just keep themselves to themselves. It doesn't pay to ask questions.What do you mean?
What I mean is, if you keep asking questions someone will shut you up.... Permanently.
I see. Catch you later...
I doubt it.

Are you trying to make trouble?
No, my mistake. See you later.
Not if I see you first.

Man:Stood in one corner of the room on his own is a man who looks nervous. He swaps his balance from foot to foot and glances around the room furtively. He has a tattoo on his arm and he has long dark hair.

What the hell are you lookin' at?
Erm, I just wanted...
Look, I'm just waiting here for someone and I don't wanna be disturbed. Got it?
Er.... yeah, OK.

Look, I've told you, now get lost.
Ok, I got the message.

Woman:A young woman sits by one of the small tables at the edge of the room. As you walk about the room she watches what you are doing, and talks to the man who is with her.

Heavy:Stood in front of a door close to the desk is a man dressed entirely in black, with black shades, black shoes and with a black expression on his face. He looks as if he would very much like to rip your head off.

Silverman's security guard stares at you with a stony expression.
I don't think he wants to talk to me...

Bartender:The bartender scowls as he sees you again and he drums his fingers on the bar in an irritated manner. You approach him uncertainly.
 
Listen buddy, you've got what you wanted so make yourself scarce. We don't need any unwanted attention OK?
Sorry, I just wanted to ask if I could have a drink.
No you can't. Now get lost.

Mr. Silverman:Silverman looks at you with a great deal of suspicion. He puffs away on a large cigar and his hands grip the chair arms so tightly that his knuckles have turned white.

Ryan, now that I have given you what you want I'd appreciate it if you would leave as soon as possible.
OK, I'm just leaving...

Light::You look around but you can't see any switch.
Light:A small round disc of purple fluorescent light that casts a small amount of light across the wall and ceiling.:You can't reach the light.
Lift doors:The lift doors stand open. The front has a blue covering but the material is torn in places.:The doors are automatic.
Lift doors:The lift doors are sturdy and reach to the top of the lift. The surface is smooth and unmarked metal. Through the doors you can see the bar.:The lift doors will close when you select a floor.
Lift control:The control panel has a red flashing light on it. The words "Street level" are written below it and the light doubles as a button.:You press the red light firmly and the lift makes a beep.
Monitor:Suspended from the ceiling on a metal arm is a monitor. The TV picture is unstable and the reception poor. The case is battered and marked and a small read light flickers below the screen.:Someone has broken the channel change switch.
Pool table:You run your hand over the pool table and you can't believe the state it's in. The blue felt has several large tears in it and the ball spots are barely visible.:Looking around, you can't see a cue. Most of them have probably been taken by the police as evidence in various cases of GBH.
Shelf::You can find no use for the shelf.
Table::There isn't any reason for you to sit at a table. 
Table::The table is already occupied.
Table::There isn't any use for the table.
Table:The decor in the bar is very strange. The table is made of a hard plastic and is etched with deep grooves that make a geometric design. The purple wall lighting is reflected dimly on the table.:Why not go to the bar if you want a drink.
Seat::You don't need to sit down here.
Seat:You don't think it would be a good idea to crowd the people near this seat.
Seat::This seat is already occupied.
Seat:This seat is occupied already.
Seat:There isn't much point in just sitting around.
Seat::Perhaps you ought to spend as little time as possible in here.
Shelf::You can't find any use for the shelf.
Shelf::You don't need to do that.
Shelf:Anyone who wishes to stand up can put their drink on one of these shelves. The shelf fits neatly into the right angle of the wall and there is a small bright purple light embedded in the front of the shelf.:You lean casually on the shelf.
Neon sign:A green neon sign on the wall that says "POOL" in letters about 6 inches high.:There isn't any use for the sign.
Neon sign:A read neon sign on the wall behind the bar says "BUDWEISER" in large letters. The sign lights up the glasses stacked below it with red light.:There is no use for the light.
Monitor:This monitor is suspended from the ceiling on a metal arm. A wire runs from the back of the monitor and disappears into the ceiling. A light flashes just below the screen.:You press the on switch but nothing happens.
Toilet:The toilet here is in a disgusting mess. In fact, you can hardly bring yourself to even look at it, let alone actually use it.:There's no way I'm going anywhere near that!Sink:This grubby little sink has a crack in it so large that any water that runs into it leaks onto the floor almost straight away.:The sink is more or less useless. Tap:A stumpy stainless steel mixer tap that is fixed above the sink. The tap looks as if it could fall off the wall at any moment.:You turn on the tap and some water runs into the sink, through the crack in the sink and onto the floor.
Holder:A grey plastic toilet roll holder with a very small amount of paper on it.:There is no need to do that.
Toilet:There are three of these urinals in the toilet and they all look equally dirty. The bowls are cracked with age.:You don't want to, at least, not here.
Desk:The room is dominated by a large wooden desk with a highly polished top. On the desk is a card scanner and a computer terminal. Behind the desk sits the owner of this pool hall.:You go to lean on the desk but think better of it.
Bar::There isn't much room at the bar for you to lean against it.
Bar:The bar is made from the same material as the tables here. It is just above waist height and the barman behind it stands higher than you. There are several people sat at the bar.:There isn't much room at the bar.
Card scanner:A large white card-reading machine that removes money from cashcards. The front has a display screen on it that currently lists the prices of various drinks.:I don't really want a drink right now.
Pump::If you want a drink use the card scanner to pay for one.
Pump:A beer pump that has the name of the beer lit up on the front panel. On the back of the pump is a small control switch that controls the flow of beer.:You must buy a drink if you want one.
Seat:A small circular seat covered in black leather that stands on a single steel leg that is bolted to the floor.:You look around the bar and decide that you ought to get in and out of here as quickly as possible.
Hand drier:On the toilet wall you see a hand-drying machine. It has a list of rather obvious instructions on it that tell you to place your wet hands under the vent.:You place your hands under the drier and it quickly dries your hands.
Trivia machine:This machine has seen better days but it still seems to work.:Pressing a button the machine asks "What is 88137283 divided by 27?" Seems a bit tricky doesn't it?
Shelf::Someone is stood in front of the shelf, so you can't get to it.
Shelf:In each corner of the room, opposite the bar is a shelf that can be used for putting drinks on. There is a purple light fitted into the front of the shelf.:There is no use for the shelf.
Keypad:On the wall next to the door is a small metal box with a standard keypad on it. A thick wire leaves the box at one side and disappears into the wall.
Blotter:An old fashioned blotting pad that looks as if its only used for scribbling down notes. The paper is held in place by triangular metal brackets at each corner.:You try and read some of the writing on the blotter but you can't make it out.
Clock:A clock with a digital readout that shows the date and the time in blue letters. The clock has a polished wooden case.:You begin to reach out towards but you notice Mr. Silverman's icy gaze and think better of it.
Chair:A large black leather chair that looks very well padded. It sits on a metal leg that sits on a star shaped foot and rocks back and forwards occasionally as the pool hall owner watches you.:The chair is already in use!
Light::The lights must be controlled from a central point in the room somewhere, probably behind the desk.
Light::There isn't any visible control for the light.
Light::The light is controlled from elsewhere in the room.
Light::You can't see any controls but you suspect they are within reach of the desk somewhere.Light::You can't see any controls. Light:This yellow neon light has an orange tinge to it and is one of many that light this small room. The light is quite dim because of the number of lights here.:Looking around you see no controls.
Monitor:Silverman has a Network monitor that seems to be displaying financial news. He has a top of the range LEK model with high resolution colour graphics.:Silverman has the controls somewhere within his desk.
Console:A computer console that has its own tiny screen and a cramped keyboard. The screens occasionally scrolls up new information.:Touching the keyboard would be an extremely foolish thing to do.
Filing cabinet:A tall metal filing cabinet with four drawers in the front. The nearby light shines across the front of the cabinet and you can see that the drawers are labelled alphabetically.:That isn't a wise idea.
Intercom:A square plastic intercom with a grille at the bottom and several button on its front.:You press the button on the intercom.
Plant:A green pot plant with wide green leaves that sits in a small plant pot.:The plant hasn't any use.
Printout:A pile of computer printout paper is on the desk.:Leaning forwards slightly you try and read the printout, but the printing is upside down and you can't make it out.
Water dispenser:The glass water dispenser is about half full of clear water. The dispenser stands on a tall wooden table.:You should concentrate on the job in hand.
Card scanner:A standard card-scanning machine that has a slot along the front for a card to be swept through. The display on the front intermittently flashes messages across its face.:I'd better speak to Silverman first....
Notice board:On the wall you see a black and white map of the city. The map is dotted with small drawing pins, each with a coloured head.:You scrutinise the map but you can't really see what it is used for.
Door:The door is controlled by the keypad on the wall next to it. Use the keypad to enter the correct code and the door will unlock and then open.:Use the keypad, not the door.
Door::The door has no controls.
Door:A metal door that is firmly closed, and you suspect, is firmly locked too.:The door has no controls visible and you don't know how it is unlocked.
Door::There are no controls for the door.
Door:A metal door that retracts into the walls and floor as you approach it.:The door operates of its own accord.
Card scanner:A small card scanner with a tiny screen on the front and a slot for cashcards to go into. A lead leaves the side of the scanner and disappears into the desk.:You don't need to buy another gun and you may need your money later...
POOL HALL LIFT:The doors to the lift stand open and the control box on the wall flashes a light. Through the doors you can see the bar.
POOL ROOM:This room tapers to a dim corner where you can see there is a small door in one of the walls with an intercom next to it. The door has a sign that says "Mr. Silverman" in small neat letters.
POOL ROOM:This pool room is lit by purple neon strip lights that eerily light the purple carpets. In the centre of the room is a pool table covered with blue cloth that is now torn and stained.
POOL HALL BAR:This isn't so much a pool hall, as a bar with pool tables in it. The decoration is awful. Purple carpeting is surrounded by furniture constructed from a tough metal compound. The place is in a state of disrepair.
TOILETS:The toilets here are fairly small and you notice that there are only male toilets here. The floor is covered in tiles which are mostly chipped or worn away and bare piping runs overhead.
OFFICE:The office is dominated by a huge wooden desk placed directly opposite the door. Behind it sits the owner of this bar who beams at you from behind a large cigar. There is a haze of cigar smoke in the room.
Glass:A tall and quite dirty beer glass.:Find something to use it with.
Glass:A tall beer glass that has a hairline crack in the side and a chip on the rim.:Find something to use it with.
Glass:A beer glass that is covered in greasy fingermarks and is chipped in places.:Find something to use it with.
Glass:A small glass used for serving spirits. The glass doesn't look very clean.:Find something to use it with.
Glass:A small glass about three inches high. It has a thick base and a small crack in one side.:The glass isn't much use.
Gun:A small hand gun that fires small bolts of high energy plasma. The digital readout on the handle gives an indication of the amount of fuel left.:You shouldn't use the gun just yet.:You can't use the gun until you pick it up!

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                        ROOF OF SARTAIN INDUSTRIES
                        --------------------------

Sign:By the door is a sign that says "Exit" in small red neon lettering.:The sign has no switch.
Door:A standard automatic door that opens and closes of its own accord when people approach it.:The door controls itself, there is no manual control.
Air vent:On the roof here is a large air conditioning vent. It makes a constant humming noise from the ventilation grille in the top.:Standing closer you feel a blast of stale air coming from the vent.
Crates:A pile of cargo crates stands by the helipad, presumably waiting to be despatched somewhere. The crates are covered in "Fragile" and "Confidential" stickers.:Worry about the crates later...
Light:There are two of these tiny but extremely bright spot lights that are used to light the helipad. They are fixed close to the ground and cast a bright pool of light.:The lights are no use to you.

STAIRCASE:You stand at the top of the stairs that lead onto the roof of Sartain Industries' offices. The door is wide open and in the distance you hear the whine of a helicopter engine as it gains speed.
ROOFTOP:The rooftop of Sartain Industries gives you a vertigo-inducing view of the city. The wind blows strong against you and you find it hard to keep your balance. You see a helicopter on the helipad off to the left.


                             END OF PART SEVEN
                             --=============--
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                PART EIGHT

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                RYAN'S FLAT
                                -----------

Bed:Your much loved single bed covered with a temperature regulated duvet that
hasn't worked since you spilt beer on it last Christmas. There isn't any time
to sleep now. There are important things to attend to.

Grate:A small grate with four bars running across it. The green light from the
nearby lamp shines across it.:You give the grate a hopeful shove but it won't
move. You have no idea what it is for.

Interface:A green display glows dimly on the top of your Network interface.
Beneath this is a slot cut into the smooth plastic casing where Network
cartridges are placed.:Place a cartridge inside, then use the monitor.

Gauge:This small box perched on the window sill has a display screen on the
front giving continuous readouts on air pollution, temperature and humidity.
The screen flickers as new data is received and displayed.

Drawers:By the side of your bed you see a chest of drawers. This is the place
where you should keep your belongings, although more often than not they are
strewn across the floor.
You try shutting the drawer but it is jammed shut.

Chair:A battered old armchair that you've had ever since you got your first
flat. It looks worn around the edges and the padding has lost its spring.
There is no time for resting now.

Mirror:Looking in the mirror you see your familiar "lived in" face. You
scratch your chin and wonder where you have put your razor. Come to think of
it, did you ever own one?
You gaze into the mirror and your reflection stares back.

Switch:Pressing this will ring the doorbell inside your flat.
You press the switch and a red light illuminates briefly. You wait a while
and realise that you are not in. Perhaps you are out somewhere, like in the
lobby pressing your own doorbell.

CD player:A tiny CD player that's not much wider than a CD. The facia is
covered with many buttons. The display on the front lists the song currently
playing, its length and a readout that changes in time with the music.
Look for the remote.

Lift control:A large control panel with an array of coloured buttons on it.
You press a well worn and familiar red button marked "Lobby" and the lift
begins to move...

Switch:This switch operates your neighbour's doorbell. Pressing it rings a
bell inside his flat.

JukeBox:A replica Wurlitzer jukebox with brightly coloured translucent tubes
running over the top. Inside the glass tubes water is pumped constantly
around. The effect is mesmerising.:Unfortunately there are no records inside.

Clothes:An assortment of clothes lie screwed up in the drawer. You notice a
couple of odd socks and several strangely coloured shirts.
You are already wearing your favourite clothes.

Keyboard:This keyboard is remotely linked to your Network machine. The Escape
key is missing and a loose wire dangles from the back.
Use the Network monitor.

Picture:On the wall you see a framed picture that says "Home Sweet Home" in
the sort of typeface used for such things.
You don't need the picture.

Lift doors:The doors to the lift look amazingly sturdy. They are covered in a
smooth graffiti resistant material that is covered in graffiti.
The doors are already open.

Lift doors:The lift doors are controlled from the panel on the wall.
The doors will close automatically when you select which floor you want to go
to.

Keypad:A door entry pad that gives you access to your flat... If you can
remember the number.

Network screen:This high definition Network monitor dominates the room. It is
bolted securely on the wall at the right height for viewing when seated or
when in bed. The screen is perfectly flat and reflects no light from the room.

Refrigerator:A slimline cold food storage unit. A thermostat regulates the
temperature and the condition of the contents. Each feature is displayed by
figures on the door. These show that the contents are fresh.
Try opening it.

Spring:You can see this spring sticking out of the stuffing of your armchair.
You remember vaguely the pain you suffered when you found it.
You push the spring but it refuses to stay down.

Radiator:This radiator is the only means of warmth for the lobby. A tiny light
on the side indicates that the radiator is trying to heat the room.
You reach out and touch the radiator. It doesn't feel very hot.

Waste bin:A small waste bin made of a dull metal.
You must open the waste bin to put something inside.

Security comp:A small screen that shows who is at your door.
There isn't anyone at your door at present. When there is, your doorbell will
ring.

Unit:A kitchen unit made of a hard wearing and easy to clean substance. The
sink is set into it.
You don't need to use the worktop.

Menu screen:A screen embedded into one of your kitchen worktops. It shows
information on the various foods including nutritional value, cooking times,
and what you should be eating to keep healthy.
The menu screen displays some dull nutritional information about mashed
potato.

Multi cooker:A cooker that looks like a microwave oven. If you put a food
packet inside the machine it will automatically read the instructions and cook
the food perfectly.
Place a food packet inside.
You press the cook button and wait.

Light:This ball of glowing fluorescent light is fixed into a metal base on the
wall. The light is gold and glows brightly.
You can't do anything with the light, it just hangs there.

Unit:A nearly white kitchen unit that has a toaster sat on top of it.
There is no need to use the worktop.

Toaster:A stumpy looking toaster.
To use the toaster put some fresh bread inside.

Keypad:On the wall you see a small grubby keypad next to your neighbour's
door. Above the group of keys you see the name "Ted Kingston" printed in
uneven lettering.
You try entering a code...

Towel hoop:A plastic hoop that is used for hanging towels on.
You can't find a towel.

Basin:A wash basin that is made from the same plain white plastic as the rest
of your bathroom.
You turn the tap and take the opportunity to wash your face.

Mirror:This mirror is fixed to the wall just above the hand basin.
You see your reflection. You look awful.

Light:The gold orb of light peeks out of its casing on the wall. The light
seems to ooze across the room.
The lights control themselves as they are light sensitive.

Tap:A short stainless steel tap with a control on each side for hot and cold
water.
You run your hands under the tap and splash some water over your face.

Air duct:A large air duct that juts strangely into the lobby. You have
absolutely no idea where this pipe comes from, where it leads or what it does.
The duct appears to have no real use.

Pillow:A soft white fluffy pillow that lies on your bed.
You contemplate having a snooze but you remember that important things are
afoot.

Doors:A pair of "distance sensitive" electronic doors that are unlocked using
the keypad next to the door.
The door will not open by force, use the keypad next to it.

Wheel:This wheel is connected to the air duct in the lobby
It spins with no visible effect.

Light:The light is fixed on the wall high above your head. You wonder why it
is green, and why you never bothered to noticed until now.
The light is tamper proof.

Light:These lights are fixed around the walls of the lobby. They appear to be
functional rather than decorative.
There is nothing you can do with the light.

Doors:These doors slide smoothly apart as you approach them and, once you are
safely though, close again.
The doors do not need any assistance. They open and close on their own.

Pipe:A overhead pipe that runs across the lobby. Looking upwards you can't
really see where it goes.
You can't reach the pipe, it is far too high.

Doors:You still remember the time when a pair of these doors closed on you.
The grinding of motors rings in your ears as you recall the panic you
experienced.
Just walk towards them.

Doors:A blue strip of light pulses above the doors, sensing you movements
around the room.
Walk towards them and they will open.

Toilet:Grey is the colour of your bathroom, and so grey is the colour of your
toilet.
You don't need to. Do you?

Tap:A shiny metal tap that mixes hot and cold water into one.
You take a drink of cold water. It tastes a bit strange.

Doors:These doors are standard. They attempt to open and close at the right
times to let you through.

Pipe:A thin pipe fixed to the ceiling with brackets. The pipe enters the wall
at both ends.
You can't use the pipe.

Pipe:A pipe with a bend in the middle that is suspended from the ceiling. It
leads into the wall at both ends.
You cannot find any use for the pipe.

Pipe:A pipe that disappears into the wall just here. You think the pipe is
probably carrying water supplies.
You can't use the pipe.

Pipe:One of two pipes that traverse the lobby. The pipe bends in the middle
and is connected to the ceiling with a solitary fixing.
You have no use for the pipe.

Pipe:The pipe disappears into the wall just here. You are unsure where it is
headed.
You cannot use the pipe.

Pipe:A segment of piping that runs from one side of the lobby to the other.
You have no idea what the pipe carries.

Pipe:This pipe crosses the passageway above your head and travels from your
apartment to that of your neighbour. The pipe looks as if it is covered in
condensation.
The pipe has no use.

Pipe:A water pipe that joins the wall here. The pipe is dark grey in colour
and has moisture dripping from it.
You can't find any use for the pipe.

Pipe:A section of pipe with a ninety degree bend in it that seems fixed only
loosely to the ceiling.
There is absolutely and positively no use for the pipe.

Shower:A tiled shower base that has a thick rim running around its edge and a
series of gullies in the bottom that lead to a drainage hole.
You don't need a shower right now.

Shower nozzle:A shower nozzle that is fixed on the wall above head height.
The end of the nozzle has many small holes from which there leaks a few drips
of water.
The nozzle is controlled from somewhere else.

Light:A gold coloured neon light that switches on and off according to the
ambient light level. Because the weather is usually dull and rainy the lights
spend most of their time on.
The light is totally automatic.

Light:A bright little neon light in a frosted casing. The colour of the neon
is gold.
The light responds to light and dark by itself.

BEDROOM:Your bedroom consists of a small room with varnished wooden
floorboards, populated by some odd items of furniture. Nothing matches
anything else and your possessions are scattered around.

BEDROOM:Your bedroom is a complete mess and is populated by an odd assortment
of furniture. The wooden floorboards are scuffed and dusty and your bed is
unmade. Your possessions are all over the place.

LOBBY:Outside your flat the walls are made from a dull metal. The floor is a
tough resin, shaped into tiles. The green lighting is harsh and eerie, not
quite reaching the farthest corners of the room.

BATHROOM:The bathroom is dominated by a Wurlitzer jukebox that is pushed up
against one wall. The air conditioning must be broken again because the walls
are damp with condensation from the last shower you had here.

KITCHEN:Your kitchen is compact and surprisingly clean, mainly because you
never use it. You have every labour saving device here including a huge
refrigerator. A door here leads to the bathroom.

LOBBY:The lobby shows years of neglect. The floor tiles are broken in places,
fittings hang off the walls and the air conditioning clanks and rumbles with
age. In the distance you hear a faint drip of water.

LIFT:The lift is small and clean. Reflective walls attempt to relieve the
claustrophobia, but actually make it worse. You can see yourself reflected a
thousand times.

Network card:A small red plastic card about an eighth of an inch thick. This
card contains data that can be read by all compatible network machines. As
usual you've forgotten to label it.
Try placing it in your Network interface.

Mug:A ceramic mug embossed with a bright blue logo that says
"Sartain Electronics". You recall that Eden gave you the mug.
You need to fill it up first.

Network card:One of the small cards that slots into your Network machine.
The label has nothing on it. The cartridge is probably blank.
These cartridges must be placed inside a Network interface.

Coke can:A dented and empty red coke can.
The can is empty.

Primula:An almost empty tube of Primula cheese spread that you rolled up last
timed you used it to try and get the last bits of spread out.
You try and squeeze a tiny bit of cheese from the tube, but it doesn't work.
You may have to throw this away.

Four pack:Four cans of cheap beer without much alcohol in it. The cans are
joined together with piece of clear plastic.
You take a swig from one can. It tastes cheap and low in alcohol.

Toast:A piece of toast that must be a couple of days old. It is rock hard and
slightly mouldy.
With a grimace you tentatively attempt to bite the toast. You almost break a
tooth in the process.

Toast:A piece of hard dried toast that must have been sat in your toaster for
a good few days. You see the first signs of green mould creeping across its
surface.
You can't bring yourself to eat something with this much mould on it.

Album:A holographic photo album. When used it can show 3d images taken with a
holographic camera.
Pressing a button the album projects an image that is about a foot high. The
image shows you with your first car.

Controller:A remote control unit for your audio system, it has ten buttons
each with its function marked beneath it in minute writing.

Apple:This apple shaped magnet sticks to refrigerator doors.
There is no use for the magnetic fruit.

Picture:A small framed picture of your girlfriend Eden with a stand fixed to
the back.
You look at the picture. It shows Eden and yourself together on your last
holiday.

Ashtray:A clean ashtray that has the words "I've been to Ibiza" painted rather
badly on it.
There is no need to do that.

Cartridge:A coloured cartridge for the Network machine. Like most of the ones
you own this has yet to be labelled.
Place it inside a Network interface.

Compact disc:A dusty CD that has the title "Led Zeppelin IV" printed across
the surface.
You will need to put this inside a CD player first.

Cartridge:The Network cartridge has several ridges in it and a thin hole where
the internal circuitry slots into your Network machine. The label reads
"Important!":Find a Network interface. It only fits in one way up.

Pen:A disposable pen that has only a small trace of ink in it. The end has
been chewed.
Find something to use it with.

Cartridge:A network cartridge. It is about the size of a playing card and
about a quarter of an inch thick. There is a space on top for a sticky label.
Use your imagination.

Business card:A rather tatty white business card that reads "MARJACQ MICRO".
Unfortunately the phone number is illegible.
You can't really use it for anything because the phone number is illegible.

Food tray:A shallow tray made of thin white plastic. It contains the remains
of some food.
This has already been used, you will need to find a new one.

Knife:A very sharp knife made of a stainless alloy. It is not clean.
Find something to use it with.

Fork:A metallic fork with three prongs. The fork has obviously been used
recently.
The fork might be useful later.

Cup:An empty cup that once contained coffee, It has your name across it and a
description of your birthsign underneath that.
Find something to use it with.

Pea:A small green pea that is extremely cold.:I don't think you'd want to eat
this.

Pea:A green processed pea that was once part of a whole meal. It is now stone
cold.:The pea doesn't look appetising.

Food tray:A plastic food tray with the remnants of a meal in the bottom. These
trays are bought with a plastic seal across the top. You remove this and place
it in your cooker.
The food looks too unappetising.

Rubbish:A crumpled packet from some crisps.
There is no use for the rubbish.

Rubbish:The screwed up wrapper from a bar of chocolate.
It's too late, the chocolate has been eaten.

Cup:An unbreakable mug that has the appearance of being made of pottery,
although it isn't.
Find something to use it with.

Toilet roll:A very large peach coloured toilet roll.
You tear off a couple of sheets and noisily blow your nose.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

SARTAIN INDUSTRIES BUILDING
---------------------------

Light:The whole building appears to be lit by these same neon lights. Each one is identical and they are arranged in a similar fashion all over this area. You consider that you ought to be getting after Sartain.:There is no time for that.
Light:The scene of your fight is lit by these soft blue neon lights.:You really have more important things to do.
Light:This light casing is splattered with blood. Suddenly fear grips you again and you realise that you must hurry. If Sartain escapes you will have trouble finding him again.:The light has no switch.
Light:A pale blue neon light held to the wall by a standard fitting.:You have no time to play with the lighting.
Lift control:The lift control is flush with the panelling on the wall and it contains several vertical columns of buttons each of which has a floor description next to it.:Your task lies ahead of you, not behind.
Waste bin:A flimsy metal waste bin placed close to the lift doors. The bin reflects the blue light from the neon lamp close by.:The bin can be opened to see what is inside.
Light:The blue neon from this light shines across the hallway.:You are in a hurry, remember?
Light:This section of hallway is lit by four of these neon lamps. They shine a soft blue light over the gory mess in the corridor.:You have no time to fiddle with the light.
Light:A large blue neon lamp that is about a foot by six inches in size. It is quite flat and is fixed close to the wall.:The light is controlled from somewhere else in the building.
Light:One of four neon lamps fixed on the wall close to the floor. The lights shine upward and outward across the room.:The light has no switch on it.
Light:The stairwell is lit dimly by this single red light that gives off only a tiny amount of light that doesn't quite reach the farthest corners of the room.:You cannot do that.
Locker:This appears to be some kind of storage locker or fuse box. There is a heavy padlock holding it closed and the locker itself is made of a heavy material.:You will have to break in to the locker to see inside.
Waste bin:A small waste bin sits next to the lift doors. Across the top is a flip top lid that swings freely when pushed.:You note with interest that the bin has the company logo on the front.
Lift door:The sturdy lift doors moved slowly apart when the lift arrived at this floor. They will not close until the lift is called, or a floor is selected.:The doors operate using logic from the control panel.
Lift door:The lift doors stand open awaiting a command from the control panel. The front of each door is covered with a padded material designed to match the carpeting.:The doors are automatic.
Door:This door stands firmly locked. You consider breaking into it, but you are aware that whilst you waste time Sartain may be getting away. You should pursue him at once.:You have no time to figure out how to unlock the door.
Briefcase:A new looking leather briefcase that Sartain must have discarded in his haste to get away from you. There is blood on the handle so perhaps Sartain has been injured in some way.
Door:A pair of automatic doors. They are light grey in colour and have the words Sartain Industries stencilled onto them.:The doors are automatic.
Explosion:You see the remains of the guard who was hit by his own plasma bolt. Blood runs down the smoke blackened walls and an occasional spark of plasma runs across the rubble from the wall.:You can't do anything with the mess.
Arm:On the floor you see the gruesome sight of one of the security guards' arms. Blood seeps from the end of the arm in a steady flow.:You prod the arm gently and withdraw your hand quickly.
Explosion:A stray bolt of energy from the fight must have hit the wall here. The metal edging around the carpet is twisted from the heat and the wall has a large hole in it that still smoulders.:You peer into the hole but see only darkness.
Hand:A hand and part of an arm that belonged to one of the victims of the explosion. The hand tightly grips a gun.:You try and prise the gun out of the fingers but you can't release it. You have your own gun anyway.
LIFT:The lift is cramped but warm and friendly. The control panel is on one wall and the doors stand open ready for you to exit.
CORRIDOR:You battle with the security guards has taken its toll. The walls are marked with bullet holes, fittings lay in broken shards of glass on the floor amongst the bodies of your victims who themselves lay in pools of blood.
CORRIDOR:There is a strange tranquil air to this part of the corridor. It appears to be a dead end apart from a single door in one wall. Sartain himself went down the other corridor as he escaped.
CORRIDOR:Your fight has left its mark. One man lies in a pool of fresh blood on the carpet and the wall above him is smeared with the trail of blood he left as he slumped to the ground. Sartain himself has made a swift exit to the stairs.
STAIRWELL:Standing at the bottom of the stairwell you can hear Sartain's footsteps echoing back down to you. You must hurry now or he will escape and you doubt that he'd be so easy to find next time...
Papers:A metal folder that contains a thin sheaf of computer printed papers. The front of the folder has Sartain Industries punched into it.


                             END OF PART EIGHT
                             --=============--
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                PART  NINE

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                            SARTAIN INDUSTRIES
                            ------------------

Door:A door that has the words "Sartain Industries Personnel Only" written on it. There is a slot for a keycard next to the door.:The door is locked.
Door:A closed door that must lead to some kind of store room, or stairway. The door has a sign on it that tells you it is for Sartain Industries employees only.:The door is locked.
Sign:A large sign that bears the Sartain Industries logo in a raised design. The sign leans back on a solid base.:You look at the reverse of the sign but there's nothing to see.
Lift doors:The sturdy lift doors are covered in a blue material that has studs set into it and if the lift is called they slide apart silently.:The doors open when the lift is called.
Lift doors:The lift doors stand firmly shut and there seems to be no way to open them from outside.:The doors must be opened automatically by the security system, if you can activate it...
Doors:A pair of "distance sensitive" electronic doors that are unlocked using the keypad next to the door.:The door will not open by force, use the keypad next to it.
Doors:A pair of "distance sensitive" electronic doors that are unlocked using the keypad next to the door.:The door will not open by force, use the keypad next to it.
Name:Imprinted into the carpet is the logo of Sartain Industries.:You can see what it says, there is no need to look again.
Lift control:On the lift wall is a large panel containing the lift controls.:Scanning the list of floors you hopefully press the button marked "Management Suite". The lift doors close and you are swiftly taken to the 5th floor.
Plants:A clump of plants in a deep square plant pot. The plants all have large dark green leaves. The soil feels dry to the touch.:The plant isn't any use.
Light:The rectangular covers of the neon light is clamped in place by the grey metal bracket fixed around it. The neon light is a light shade of blue.:You can find no switch or button.
Light:You reach out and touch the light and find the surface warm. The light casts a blue glow across the room.:The light has no controls.
Light:The lobby is lit entirely by these blue neon lights that complement the carpet and walls.:The lights is not usable.
Light:The cover of this neon light is made from an almost clear plastic that is covered with thousands of tiny bumps. The cover serves to diffuse the harsh neon light contained inside.:The light is automatic.
Light:A pale blue neon light that spreads a glow across the room. A metal bracket hold the light in place.:The light has no use.
Light:A pastel blue neon lamp fixed to the wall by your feet, The light shines a circle of blue light across the wall and over the carpet.:The light has no visible switches.
Light:On of many lights fixed around the lobby. Each one is fixed to the wall just off the floor.:The light has no switch.
Light:A blue light fitted firmly to the wall. As with most lighting it is neon.:The light is automatic.
Light:The blue neon light shines a bright light that is diffused by its translucent casing.:You reach out and touch the light and find that its hot to the touch.
Light:One of several blue neon lights that provide soft lighting for the lobby. The whole of Sartain Industries is decorated in blue.:The light has no controls visible.
Light:Around the lobby blue neon lights are all fixed at the same level around the room.:The light has no use.
Light:A blue neon light emits a steady glow of soft light. There are several lights dotted around the lobby.:The light has no use.
Light:A pale blue neon lamp that throws a small pool of neon light around itself.:The light is controlled automatically.
Light:A blue neon lamp about a foot wide by six inches down. It is fitted into a metal bracket that holds the lamp at either side.:The neon lamp has no controls.
Light:One of several neon lights that spread a subtle glow of light across the room. A metal bracket fixes the light to the wall by your feet.:The light is automatic.
Computer:A security computer that controls entry to the building.:The computer says "Please enter handprint". You press your palm on the space indicated on the side of the screen but the computer refuses you access.
Keypad:Next to the door is a large door keypad with the Sartain Industries logo printed at the top.
Computer:The burnt out remains of the reception computer. It fizzles and sparks occasionally and small wisps of smoke rise up from inside.:The computer is now unusable.

LIFT:The lift is decorated in the same way as the rest of Sartain Industries. The blue carpet is rimmed by metal fixings and the walls are light grey. A blue line runs around the wall at waist height. A lift control is on the wall.
SARTAIN INDUSTRIES:The entrance to a lift leads off from this room. On one wall is a huge analogue clock that has "Sartain Industries" written across its face in bold blue lettering.
SARTAIN INDUSTRIES:The lobby to Sartain Industries is spartan and decorated to give an impression of efficiency. The blue carpeting and grey walls are lit by subtle blue neon lights. There is a reception computer here.
SARTAIN INDUSTRIES:The lobby follows through to this seating area. In the centre of the room is a large potted plant. There are two doors leading off from this room that seem to be for employees only.
SARTAIN INDUSTRIES:The outside of Sartain Industries and the walkway leading up to the entrance is mostly constructed from stone. The sombre grey walls have only the smallest of windows and the building looks totally unwelcoming.  

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                DRUNK MAN:
                                ----------
As you approach the man doesn't stir.
Hey! Wake up.
There is still no response from the man, whose face rests in a pool of
rainwater.
Can you hear me?
There's still no sign of movement. Perhaps he isn't even alive...

VIDEOGAME PLAYER
----------------
Vidgame player:You recognise the vidgame player as someone who comes into
the bar fairly often. He wears a brown leather jacket and torn and faded
jeans. He is concentrating intently on his game.

The vidgame player is wrestling furiously with the controls on the arcade
machine and ignores you as you approach.
Hi there. How's it going?
Look, I'm try to concentrate, just leave me alone.
Your name's Steve isn't it?
Yeah that's right, now could you just leave me alone?
I guess I should get going anyway, see you later.

Steve looks sideways at you as you walk up to the machine.
Hello again.
I don't think you're listening to me. I just want to be left alone to play
this game. Now get lost.
Yeah, sure. See you later...

SPARKY
------
Sparky:Sparky is stood behind the bar. Obviously he has no staff available
and has to work himself. Sparky is overweight and scruffy. His belly pokes
out from beneath his grey shirt. He doesn't look very happy.

Sparky looks up at you and says "Hey Ryan. Did you get my Mailnet message?"
No, sorry, I mean, sorry I'm late.
That's OK, no problem at all.
Really?
Yeah, you're fired. If you'd bothered to read my message you would know by
now.
You can't do that! I really need the money.
Sorry Ryan, I can't use unreliable staff.
Look, I'm sorry, I've been having a few problems sleeping recently, I'll try
and pull myself together.
I'll tell you what I'll do. Take a couple of weeks off, try and sort yourself
out. You aren't any good to me like this.
Thanks, I really appreciate it. Do you think I could have my wages?
Well... I guess so, even though I've ended up having to work behind the bar
myself. Just run your card through the scanner.
OK, and I promise I'll sort myself out.
Sparky looks at you expectantly. Perhaps you should do as he says.

Look Ryan, if you want your wages you'll have to give me your cashcard.
Oh yeah, I can't think straight today.
Well maybe you should go and see a doctor...

Sparky:Sparky is stood behind the bar. Obviously he has no staff available
and has to work himself. Sparky is overweight and scruffy. His belly pokes out
from beneath his grey shirt. He is humming to himself.

What do you want now? I've given you your pay. Why don't you go and get some
sleep? You look awful.
Maybe you're right. I'll see you later on.

Yeah, look after yourself.

Now what? You look terrible. Go home Ryan and get some sleep.
Yeah, I'll try.

MAN
---
Man:Sat at the bar is a large man who is smoking a cigarette. He stares across
the bar impassively and occasionally glances at the TV. He looks as if he's
having a really bad time.

The man takes a puff of his cigarette and asks you what's up.
Mind if I sit next to you?
Do whatcha like. I don't care.
Thanks. What's on TV?
Oh, it's a programme about that singer, David Crane.
What about him?
He's playing some concert or other tonight. He's just arrived in town.
Where's he staying?
At a hotel called the Regency. Hey! What is this anyway. Why all the
questions?
Oh, no reason. The Regency is that big place near the bridge isn't it?
Er, yeah. Now why don't you shut up and leave me alone?

Look pal, just stop annoying me will ya?
Sorry I spoke.

SLEPPING MAN
------------
Man:A man a little younger than yourself lies with his head firmly on the
table. He's asleep and obviously drunk. His jacket sleeve is in a pool of beer
and he snores quite loudly.

The man lies in front of you snoring.
Hey! Wake up, I need to talk to you.
Zzzzzz.....
Come on, wake up! I really need some help.
Zzzzzz.....
Oh forget it.

Light:This purple neon lamp provides dim light for the stairwell leading into
Sparky's bar.
You can't use the neon light.

Light:One of two bright purple lights on the stairs leading down into Sparky's
bar. The light from it is barely adequate.
You touch the glass casing and find it warm.

Light:The bar is lit by several of these gold coloured lamps. Each of them is
fixed to the wall at head height.
The light has no visible switch.

Light:A neon lamp with a gold colour to it. The lamp is filled with a gas
which, when excited by electrons produces ultra violet light. This in turn
illuminates a phosphorous coating on the inner surface of the bulb.
There is no use for the light.

Light:A gold coloured neon lamp providing lighting for the bar.
You can't use it.

Light:One of several neon lights positioned around the bar. Because the bar is
underground there are no windows and the lights stay on in here constantly.
There is no switch visible.

Light:A neon light that is about eight inches wide and gold in colour. It is
fixed onto the wall with metal clips.
The light has no use, except to provide light.

Neon sign:A green neon sign that says "Sparky's" in letters about a foot high.
The sign is fixed to the wall in only two places and looks dangerously close
to coming loose.
You can't use the sign for anything.

Bar:The bar is made of wood and has a brass rail around the bottom for you to
put your foot on. The surface of the bar is heavily scratched.
You lean on the bar only to find that your elbow went in a damp patch. You
stand up straight again.
Bar:The wooden bar stretches around one corner of the room. There is a card
reader on top of the bar and there are two beer pumps behind it.
There is no reason to use the bar.

Machine:A cigarette machine that has a sign taped onto it. The sign says
"Out of Order".
You press one of the selection buttons on the front of the machine and nothing
happens.

Rail:A brass foot rail that goes around the bottom of the bar.
You rest your foot against it.

Rail:A brass rail fitted to the bottom of the bar. It is held on by a series
of brackets.
There is no need to do that.

Shelf:A wooden shelf that has glasses on top of it.
The shelf is for the sole use of people working behind the bar.

Arcade machine:The arcade machine is making a frantic noise. The blue casing
is covered in gaudy logos and graphics. There is a joystick and three fire
buttons on the panel at the front.
The machine is already being used.

Card scanner:This card scanning device allows Sparky to deduct from and add
money to cashcards.
Maybe I should ask Sparky if I can have my wages....

Sign:A bright green neon sign that says "Toilet" and points to the doorway
next to it.
You examine the sign once more.

Drain:A solid metal drain cover. Water from the street runs steadily into the
drain. The green light from the nearby neon sign reflects off the drain.
You peer down into the murkiness and can see nothing.

Bin:A square metal bin on a single leg that is bolted to the floor.
Open it and put something inside.

Toilet:A light grey coloured toilet with a push button flush on it.
You press the button gently and the toilet flushes.

Monitor:A Network monitor that is switched permanently into TV mode.
The monitor shows a music channel at the moment.
You can't reach the controls and Sparky has lost the remote control.

Table:An octagonal wooden table. There are a few of these around the bar.
The top is scratched and has spilt liquid on it.
Sit down first.

Table:An eight sided wooden table that has a lip around the edge to stop
any spilt drink from running onto the floor.
You usually sit at the bar.

Table:A small wooden table that stands on four legs of varying heights.
The table is already in use.

Table:A wooden table with eight sides. There is some spilt beer on it that
has gathered at one edge.
You decide that it would be best to sit at the bar.

Seat:A small wooden bar stool with a leather seat on it.It stands on one
brass leg that is bolted to the floor.
You don't usually sit here at a table, you like to sit at the bar. It annoys
Sparky.

Seat:A bar stool with a leather cover. This stool is where you normally sit
if you come into Sparky's when you're not working.:You decide to take a seat
for a few moments.
You are already sat down.

Seat:A bar stool which is stuck on the floor close to the bar. It has a single
leg.
Sit in your usual seat.

Seat:A leather covered seat by the bar.
You decide that you would rather sit elsewhere.

Chair:A chair with a well worn leather covering.
You can't sit here.

Chair:A leather covered chair. On the back is a small gold coloured plate with
the word "Sparky's" stamped on it
You can't sit here.

Chair:One of several chairs positioned around the tables in the bar.
You can't sit down here.

Chair:This chair is jammed right into the corner of the room in front of a
small hexagonal table.
The chair is inaccessible to you.

Chair:This chair is directly opposite the arcade machine. The covering is
marked and worn in several places and one leg appears to be longer than the
other.
You can't sit here.

Chair:A leather chair that is by a table next to an arcade machine.
You can't sit here.

Sink:A light grey sink with a tiny plug hole in it. It looks as if this place
hasn't been cleaned for ages.
You search for the plug but it is nowhere to be seen.

Tap:A silver tap that drips water slowly and steadily into the sink beneath
it.
You turn the tap and a burst of filthy looking water comes out. You turn it
back as tight as you can but it continues to leak.

Holder:A grey plastic toilet roll holder with a very small amount of paper on
it.
There is no need to do that.

Mirror:The mirror above the sink is so grimy that you can hardly make out your
face in it.
You wipe your hand across the mirror but it doesn't help.

Light:The bathroom is lit by two of these neon lamps. They are gold in colour.
The lights are controlled from somewhere else in the bar.

Light:The bathroom is lit by two of these neon lamps. They are gold in colour.
There is no switch visible on the lamp.

Hand dryer:A "Dryomatic" hand dryer. The instructions tell you that your hands
will activate the machine when placed inside. They will be dried
automatically.
You place your hands inside and the machine dries them.

Pump:Sparky's bar has two types of beer on tap. The rest are bottled. This
pump delivers cool fresh glasses of a German beer.
Sparky will do that for you.

Pump:One of two beer pumps in the bar. You can't read the label on this one
but the beer has a reputation of being strong.
Sparky will help you with that.

Door:An automatically opening door. As you walk towards it one segment opens
sideways and the other segment disappears into the floor.
Just walk towards it.

Door:A distance sensitive door that opens as you approach it.
Walk towards the door and it will open for you.

Door:The door to the toilet opens automatically as you walk towards it.
The doors will open when you get near to them and close when you are far
enough away.

Door:The toilet door has much graffiti scribbled all over it. Mostly the
writing refers to Sparky and most of it is unpleasant.
You don't have a pen!.
Making sure you are alone you quickly scribble your name.
You don't need to do that twice!

Pipe:Over your head runs a water pipe that disappears into the wall by the
door.
You can't use the pipe.

Pipe:A water pipe that runs overhead. The neon lights reflect off the
moisture covering the pipe.
You couldn't reach the pipe from here.

Pipe:The overhead pipe disappears into the wall at this point. You wonder
vaguely where it goes to.
You can't use the pipe.

Pipe:The overhead pipe goes into the wall just here. From the pipe comes a
slow trickle of water than runs down the wall.
You can't use the pipe.

SPARKY'S BAR:There are only a few tables in the bar along with a cigarette
machine and an arcade game. The deep red carpet extends up to the bar,
behind which stands Sparky himself. Music plays quietly over hidden speakers.

TOILET:The toilets in Sparky's are small but adequate. There is a sink to one
side with a mirror above it. There is a hand dryer on the wall. The door is
self locking and shuts behind you when you enter the room.

OUTSIDE BAR:Through the torrential rain you can see the neon sign for
"Sparky's Bar". Next to this is a doorway that leads to a small flight of
stairs. At the foot of these stairs is the entrance to the bar.

Ashtray:A blue ashtray with the word "Sparky's" printed around the rim.
There is no need to use the ashtray.

Ashtray:A cheap plastic ashtray with a grooved base and a high rim. The
ashtray is a deep blue colour and has the word "Sparky's" embossed along the
edge.
The ashtray is quite useless.

Ashtray:The ashtray is made of a flimsy, and possible flammable cheap plastic
that bends easily in your hands. Around the rim you notice that Sparky has had
the name of the bar embossed.
The ashtray is of no use to you.

Glass:A clear pint glass that belongs to Sparky's bar. The glass has a small
chip in the rim.
Find something to use the glass with.

Glass:A clear straight pint glass that feels slightly sticky to the touch.
Find something to use the glass with.

Glass:A small glass tumbler that belongs in Sparky's bar. The glass has a
hairline crack running down one side.
Find something to use the glass with.

Glass:A small glass used for spirits. The glass is a couple of inches high
and quite thick.
Find something to use the glass with.

Rubbish:A crumpled piece of paper with barely legible red print on it.
You uncrumple the paper and see that it is a statement of someone's account
at Sparky's. They owe even more than you do!

Bottle:A green beer bottle with a white label that is peeling off at the corners.
Find something to fill the bottle with, if you want to.

Bottle:A green glass bottle that once contained beer. It was discarded by the
tramp outside Sparky's bar.
The bottle can be used with a tap to fill it up.

Bottle:The label on this beer bottle states that the beer is five percent
proof.
There's no apparent use for the beer bottle.

Coke can:A used coke can that is slightly crumpled. It is mainly red and has
the familiar logo along its side.
Someone has already drunk the coke.

Rubbish:A crumpled up leaflet that someone has obviously read and then thrown
away.
Trying to straighten out the leaflet you see that it is advertising Sparky's
bar.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -



                             END OF PART NINE
                             --============--
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                PART  TEN

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                       TALKIN' TO DIFFERENT PERSONS
                       ----------------------------

Old man:Behind a thick piece of glass is an old man with wispy grey hair that is bald at the top. He has a blue uniform on with gold rings on the cuffs and lapels. He leans on the counter as if he is waiting for someone.

How can I help you young man?
Er, I've got an appointment.
Look, the military have closed us down for the day. No one has an appointment.
But...
You must have made a mistake. I can take your name and book you in for tomorrow if you like.
Why is the TV station shut down?
Military General Sterling has a special live TV interview this afternoon about the Middle East.
I see, well thanks anyway.
Goodbye Sir.

Look I've told you. Nobody can enter the building.
But I really need to see someone inside.
If you don't leave sir I'll be forced to call security.
alright, I'm on my way.

Soldier:The soldier is dressed in camouflage with leather boots half way up his shins and a large machine gun gripped firmly in his hands. He looks as if he's been gritting his teeth like this for hours. He looks around nervously as you watch.

The soldier looks straight at you and ignores you.
Can I go inside, I have an appointment.
No! Nobody is allowed in or out, security regulations.
But I have an important appointment!
You heard me, now please leave.
Right, I get the message.

Look. I've told you. No one is allowed in.
Sorry, just checking.

Soldier:The soldier is dressed in green and brown camouflage gear and has a Balaclava on. He has a machine gun in his hands and he looks around the street as he tries to give an impression of efficiency.

Motor:The barrier that blocks access to the rear of the TV studio is connected to a motor housed in a yellow painted metal box.:Examining the box carefully reveals the words "LEK Corporation" in tiny black letters.
Barrier:Across the road is a metal barrier painted with red and yellow stripes. A red sign is fixed to it and announces "All vehicles must show authorisation".:The barrier is operated from the booth next to it.
Ledge:From the wall of the studio building comes a ledge that runs around most of the perimeter. The ledge changes shape as it accommodates piping and wires that supply the building inside.:The ledge is high above your head.
Drain cover:Set into the floor is a drain cover made from a solid matt grey resin. There appear to be no handles or key holes. A geometric design is set into the cover.:The cover can't be moved.
Girder:Above your head a metal girder crosses the street from this building to the next. Two metal struts are criscrossed by smaller metal bars. The girder probably carries power lines.:The girder is way too high for you to reach.
Girder:Above your head is a girder constructed from metal tubing. The girder carries wiring across the street to the next building.:The girder is inaccessible.
Drain:The rain runs fast into this small drain cover set into the pavement.:You peer into the depths of the drain. The smell is awful.
Ledge:A ledge follows the building at a height of about twenty feet. The ledge is about a foot thick and has a series of small ridges set into it.:The ledge has no use. It is a standard part of most buildings in the city.
Ledge:From the wall above you protrudes a ledge made from the same material as the building itself.:You couldn't reach the ledge, it's far too high.
Ledge:A large piece of the building sticks out from the main wall to form a ledge. Inset into the ledge is a ventilation grille.:The ledge will serve no purpose.
Light:A red light is fixed into the casing of the ledge that runs around the studio building. The red light spills out across the wall.:You are unsure of the purpose of the light. It seems to have little effect.
Girder:A flimsy looking metal girder crosses the street at this point. It goes high over your head and connects with the building across the road.:The girder is too high for you to reach, and would be of no use anyway.
Girder:A metal girder that carries power lines, or Network lines across from this building to the next. The rain gathers at one low point of the girder and runs down in a constant stream.:The girder has no use at this point.
Girder:This girder is connected to the wall by firmly secured bolts and reaches across the road. In the wind the girder sways gently where it is unsupported in the middle.:The girder is not close enough for you to reach.
Girder:This metal girder crosses the street from the TV studio to the building across the road. The blue light from the pavement lighting shines from the wet underside of the girder.:You cannot reach it.
Lettering:Painted into the tarmac is a rapidly fading logo that provides information about parking. The lettering indicates that this is Channel 6 and the parking is somewhere along this narrow street.:The sign is mainly for vans entering here.
Lettering:A circled parking sign indicates that the parking for Channel 6 is located around this corner.:The lettering has already told you what you need to know.
Light:Set into a long metal casing this light was once used for lighting the way along the street. It has long since been surpassed by the more advanced pavement lighting. The light is dull and useless.:The light has no switches or controls.
Ledge:The dull metal of the ledge houses an air intake. It is about twenty feet above your head.:The ledge is twenty feet in the air! You can't reach it.
Ledge:The building's ledge sticks out pretty far just here. The light shines off the water that is running off the ledge.:The ledge is useless.
Light:This red light is set into a metal casing that is covered in tiny detailed designs and piping. The light is very weak and seems to be a pointless outdated design feature.:The light has no controls on it.
Ledge:An intricately designed ledge that runs around the studio building. The ledge incorporates air intakes and outlets and also carries hidden pipes and wires.:The ledge is of no use to you.
Ledge:A dull grey ledge forms part of the TV studio building about twenty feet off the floor. Set into the ledge is a ventilation intake.:The ledge is too high for you to reach.
Ramp:In the road is a small bump in the tarmac designed to slow down the goods vehicles that make their way to the rear of the TV studios.:You don't need to. You aren't driving anything!
Control panel:A control panel covered in LEDs that presumably controls the entry gate and the rear doors.:You lean over and press a button marked "Rear Door". You hear a noise to your left.:You have already opened the doors.
Control panel:A control panel covered in LEDs that presumably controls the entry gate and rear doors.:The guard behind the glass wouldn't let you touch it.
Doors:The doors that cover the main entrance to the TV studios are firmly shut. The doors look very sturdy and completely impenetrable.:There's no way inside through these doors.
Truck:An army truck stands parked on the pavement outside the studios.:You peer inside the truck and notice a soldier sat in the cab. He looks back at you silently.
Truck:An army truck stands parked on the pavement outside the studios.:You peer inside the truck and notice a soldier sat in the cab. He looks back at you silently.
OUTSIDE TV STUDIOS:You stand on the pavement and through the gloomy fog of pollution you see a sign that says "Channel 6 Studios" in large lettering. Behind the sign a large building reaches up into the darkness.
TV STUDIO ENTRANCE:The entrance to Channel 6 has one armed guard on the entrance and an army truck is parked at an angle half on the pavement. The glass doors to the studios have a mist of condensation on the inside.
OUTSIDE TV STUDIOS:The pavement leads from the entrance of the studio towards a road junction. The studio building is a massive one storey warehouse that the road runs right alongside.
OUTSIDE TV STUDIOS:The road meets a junction here and follows the TV studio's main building along to what looks like a back entrance or exit. The road leads off into a badly lit area and the rain comes down in torrents.
BESIDE TV STUDIO:Above your head the rain pours down through girders and ledges protruding from the building next to you. The pavement is cracked and has tiles missing. Water runs down the gutter at quite a speed. 
SIDE OF TV STUDIOS:Above your head the rain pours down through girders and ledges protruding from the building next to you. The pavement is cracked and has tiles missing. Water runs down the gutter at quite a speed. 
BESIDE TV STUDIO:The studio building next to you provides a little shelter from the wind, but almost no protection from the rain. Above you the sky is cloudy and dark. The road seems to lead into a back road up ahead.
BACK OF TV STUDIO:The rear door to Channel 6 studios is offset from the road slightly. The side of the studio is blank apart from the solitary doorway. The air here smells damp and thick with exhaust fumes.
BEHIND TV STUDIOS:The approach to the studio's rear doors is blocked by an automatic barrier. The side of the building has a small glass fronted booth built onto it. You can see the road stretch off in front of you.
BACK OF TV STUDIO:You stand in front of a side road that leads to the rear of the TV Studio. You assume that this is where delivery vans gain access. The buildings either side of the narrow road are high and block out most of the weak moonlight.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                          TALKIN' TO A POLICEMAN
                          ----------------------

Policeman:By the squad car you see a policeman taking notes.  He looks up at the devastated building in front of him occasionally before he writes in his notepad.

Sorry sir, I'll have to ask you to leave the area.
What happened?
Looks like a terrorist attack. Are you a journalist?
No I'm not. Actually I knew Miss Chapel. Was she inside?
Well, so far we haven't found a body inside the house...
Can I go inside?
No you can't. There's still plasma residue from the explosion. It's too dangerous.
OK, maybe I should speak to her family.
Yes Sir, that's a good idea. Now if you don't mind, I've got work to do.
OK, goodbye...

I really think you should leave now Sir, there could be another device in the house.
Oh yeah, of course. Sorry...

Woman:Stood talking to the policeman is a large woman in a green dress. She looks extremely distraught and she has obviously been crying. She is telling the policeman what she has seen.

Hole:A massive hole in the floor which must have been the result of a bomb explosion. Nothing else could have caused so much damage. The hole is steadily filling with water from a burst pipe.:That is not possible.
Wall:You reach up and grab onto the lip of the wall. Slowly and painfully you lift yourself over.
Curtain:In the wreckage you see the remains of a pair of purple curtains. There must have been a window just here. Part of the curtain rail is still attached to the curtain.:The curtains are totally ruined.
Picture:The picture shows a church and its one that you recognise although the church is now abandoned. You try and recall the address but it escapes you.:You feel that the church is important... but where is it?
Police car:A standard police car with "Metropolitan Police" written on the side underneath a crest. The lights on the top are flashing and the passenger side door is open.:The detective is stood right by it!
Wall:A section of high wall:You jump up in front of the wall and reach out. Your fingers just about grab the top....
BY CHAPEL'S HOUSE:You stand nervously by the wall surrounding the house you think belongs to the aristocrat. There is a strong smell of burnt wood in the air and the flicker of lights from a nearby Police car.
BY CHAPEL'S HOUSE:A Police car is parked haphazardly on the pavement guarding the entrance to the house. A detective stands by the car. The lights on the car flash constantly.
CHAPEL'S HOUSE:There must have been quite an explosion here. The whole wall of the house has been blown outwards. Inside you see broken furniture amongst the rubble. The floorboards have given way inside and a water main has burst.
Cartridge:A blue plastic Network cartridge that appears to have partly melted. The label is scorched and you can't read what was written on it.:Maybe you should try putting it in a Network interface. It might still work.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                DREAMWEB 1
                                ----------

Door:As you stand at the foot of the door you see it stretch high above your head. The door is only about four feet wide but must be at least twenty feet tall. Its surface is blank.:You place your hands on the door....
Vines:Surrounding the seventh and most impressive doorway in these tunnels are long green tendrils. You aren't sure what they are but they seem to move very slowly of their own accord.:They seem to be growing!
Gate:Across this large doorway is a gate with a lock on it. The bars are rusted with age and damp to the touch. From the darkness beyond you hear distant screams.:You try and push the gate open but it is firmly locked.
Chain:One of four stone chains used to suspend a central orb from the ceiling. The chains are joined firmly to the wall and are intricately carved.:The chain is too high to reach.
Orb:Above your head in the centre of the room is a clear orb suspended in a stone ring. The stone ring is held in place by four long chains coming from four corners of the room.:The orb is too high to reach.
THE DREAMWEB:You stand at a junction where the ceiling is a huge dome. Suspended above your head is a glass sphere held within stone chains. The chains reach from four corners of the room. As you walk your footsteps echo loudly through the chamber.
THE DREAMWEB:You stand in one corridor of the Dreamweb. There are two doors in the south wall and overhead there is a stone archway. The ceiling is very high and the walls are rough stone blocks that are cold and slightly damp to the touch.

Crystal:As you hold the crystal in your hand it glows a strong purple colour. You feel the power of the Dreamweb pulsating through the crystal.:Now is not the time to use the power of the crystal:You hold the crystal firmly and raise your arms...

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                               THE DREAMWEB
                               ------------

Stone slab:The huge piece of stone is so highly polished that it looks as if its surface is mirrored. In the centre is a stone plinth.:The plinth looks more important than the slab.
Plinth:A stone plinth that stands about four feet high. It has what looks like a keyhole in the top.:That doesn't seem to work.:You take your key and place it on the plinth.

THE DREAMWEB:This room has an air of importance. The focus is a stone plinth about three feet high in the centre of the room. This must be the gateway back to the real world. There is a smell of sulphur in the air and you feel a distant vibration.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                                THE STORY: 
                                ---------          
     
           JUST THE DARK EVIL SEVEN CAME BACK FROM THEIR GRAVEYARD, AND 
           WANTED TO TURN THE WHOLE MOTHER EARTH INTO A DARK PLANET, AND
           SO THE 7 MASTERS FROM *DREAMWEB* GOT FRIGHTENED AND FORCED THE
           LEADER TO FIND A HUMAN BEING, WHO IS ABLE TO HELP THEM AND TO
           PROTECT THE DREAMWEB AND THAT PERSON'S NAME IS... RYAN.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                              THE UNDERGROUND
                              ---------------

Cart:Half embedded in the wall and covered in bricks and rubble is the mangled shape of the mine-cart you used to break down the door. One wheel dangles limply from its a axle.:The cart is useless now.
Tomb:An old tomb that has some remains and objects inside it. Everything is covered by a thick layer of dust, presumably from the decayed flesh of the occupant.:Just take what you need.
Remains:You can see a few pieces of bone here. There are definitely some teeth here and everything is covered in a thick layer of dust:You blow on the bones and a cloud of dust mushrooms into the air. It makes you sneeze.
Doors:A pair of sturdy doors which lead, you think, to the exit.:You try pushing and pulling the doors but they won't budge. Perhaps they only open from the other side.
Bed:There is an unmade bed here that looks recently slept in. The sheet is a dingy grey colour and the duvet is blue.:You push the mattress. It feels hard and uncomfortable.
Stone slab:The stone slab is the lid of the tomb.:Bracing yourself, you give the stone slab a heave...
Cupboard:An old and battered cupboard with two doors. The front is scratched and the handles are worn. One seems to be loose.:Open the wardrobe if you want.
Sink:A stainless steel sink that is fixed badly to the wall. It looks as if it's held there only by the water pipes. The sink is dull and there is a small pool of cold water in the bottom.:You wobble the sink backwards and forwards for a bit.
Doors:In one wall you notice some doors. They stand firmly closed and there doesn't seem to be any handle or switch to open them. You sincerely hope that you aren't stuck in here.:You search again but there's no way you can see to open them.
Mirror:An old mirror that hangs crookedly on the wall. The mirror is broken in one corner and the surface is so badly marked you can hardly see yourself in it.:You wipe your hand across the surface and leave a trail of fingermarks in the dust.
Chair:A grey office chair that has stuffing poking out of a hole in it. The chair is on one stainless steel leg that spiders out into four arms with wheels on the end.:You sit on the chair for a moment, and then stand up again.
Statue:A tall stone statue with a crystal set into the top above two stone rings sat one on top of the other. Each stone ring has a series of symbols carved into it. The stones appear to move.:You examine the statue more closely...
Tap:A plastic mixer tap with hot and cold levers. The writing for hot and cold has worn away and the tap drips slowly.:You try and tighten the tap but it refuses to stop dripping.
Light:Fixed to the wall above your head is a round orange light that shines weakly out across the tunnel. A thick wire leads from the bottom of the light and runs along the wall of the tunnel:The light has no visible switch.
Pillow:A flat and limp looking blue pillow.:The pillow wouldn't be any use.
Table:A small wooden bedside table with on leg shorter than the rest. Like everything else in the room it looks old.:You lean on the table and it rocks forward onto its short leg.
Crate:A wooden packing crate made out of thin plywood.:The crate is empty and isn't any use.Crate:A flimsy looking wooden packing crate that has the lid resting lightly on top of it.:You lift the lid and look inside. As you expected, it is empty.
Gate:The bars of this gate reach from floor to ceiling and each bar is a thick piece of metal. There is no lock or handle that you can see but the gate seems to come from a recess in the south wall.:You give the gate a shake but nothing happens.
Door:Examining the wall you see that there's a door of some kind here. In the door is a triangular hole.:It looks as if the hole is for a key of some description.
Gate:The gate is open and has retreated into its recess in the wall.:The gate is open already.
Shelf:A small metal shelf that is fixed into the corner of the room with metal brackets.:The shelf is fixed fairly firmly to the wall and is pretty useless anyway.
Jar:A jar made of clay that's about knee height. There is a slim opening in the top that is just big enough for you to fit a hand inside. There is a small clay lid covering the opening.:Try opening the jar.
Stone tile:Set into the floor you see a square stone tile with three circular holes in it. The holes are man made and they are identical.:You carefully place the crystal into the first free slot in the tile. It fits neatly.
Stone tile:The stone tile now has one crystal in what seems to be one of three "keyholes". The crystal seems to glow very slightly.:You push the second crystal into the stone tile. It clicks gently into place.
Stone tile:The stone tile has two crystals in place in opposing corners. The central keyhole is empty.:You place the third crystal into the stone tile and as it slots into place a pair of hidden doors swing open.
Stone tile:The stone tile has three red crystals embedded in it and they all are glowing very faintly. The doors stand open in the east wall of the room.:You have already discovered how to open the secret door...
Tomb lid:The huge slab of stone lays pushed back on top of the tomb.:You don't think it's worth trying to shut the tomb again.
Door:A large stone door that stands open to reveal a corridor beyond. Where the door joins the wall you see some ancient machinery. You give the door a shove but it stands firmly open.
Cart:A sturdy metal cart that has four small fat wheels huddled closely together on its base. On the front of the cart is a handle from which there dangles a short chain with a hook on it.:You load the rock into the cart.
Cart:A sturdy metal cart that has four small fat wheels huddled closely together on its base. On the front of the cart is a handle from which there dangles a short chain with a hook on it.:You give the cart a huge push.....
Crate:A flimsy looking wooden packing crate that has the lid resting lightly on top of it.:You lift the lid and look inside. As you expected, it is empty.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:The tunnel reaches a dead end here. The walls are damp and mouldy and the air is stale. A faint breeze blows through the tunnels.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:The tunnel reaches a dead end here. The walls are made from stone bricks that are about eight inches square. The bricks are damp and icy cold to the touch.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:The tunnel makes a right-angled turn here. A breeze blows lightly through the tunnel wafting a stale smell with it. Occasionally you here the sounds of what might be small animals in the distance.
UNDERGROUND TOMB:You find yourself in a small square room built from stone blocks. The ceiling is high above you and through the small opening in it you can see the dim light from inside the church.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:The caverns here are fairly wide. This tunnel leads off in two directions into the gloom. Occasionally you hear the distant dripping of water.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:The wide corridor here meets a smaller tunnel that passes across the end. The tunnel is almost silent and every tiny sound reverberates around the labyrinth with eerie and distorted echoes.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:You have found what appears to be the usual entrance into these underground rooms. Two large steel doors cover a doorway cut into the rock. These doors must lead to the room that was at the back of the church above you.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:The tunnels turns at ninety degrees here and there is an opening in one wall leading into another room. In the darkness you hear something with tiny feet scuttle past you.
UNDERGROUND ROOM:This room must be used as a storage area as there is nothing but boxes and crates here. The room is lit by a single bare bulb that throws a harsh glare across the room.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:The cavern widens out here and light from the room beyond spills out into the corridor. The stone floor and walls are dry along this section of the tunnel.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:The tunnel is very narrow at this point and there are several exits. You wonder vaguely which way to go, and exactly how far you have come.
UNDERGROUND CAVERNS:The tunnel reaches another dead end here. In front of you is a totally featureless wall made from the same stone blocks as the rest of the tunnels. 
UNDERGROUND ROOM:You stand in what you think must be some kind of store room. A few empty packing crates are stacked against one wall with the lids removed. There is a damp musty smell in the room.
Dagger:A short dagger with a gold handle and a steel blade which looks sharp.:Find something to use the dagger with.
Rock:A small grey boulder that is mouldy and damp to the touch.:Find something to use the rock with.
Rock:A small grey rock with a round hole in it that was probably caused by dripping water. The rock is cold and slimy.:Find something the use the rock with.
Rock:A small almost spherical bit of rock that has probably come from one of the walls. The rock is cold and clammy.:Find something to use the rock with.
Rock:A round lump of grey rock that is shiny and damp. It has mould growing on it and it's quite heavy.:Find something to use the rock with.
Rock:A smooth round light grey piece of rock that feels cold and heavy. Find something to use the rock with.
Rock:The rock is small but heavy and is covered with some kind of mould. It is very slippery because it is wet.:Find something to use it with.
Rock:A lumpy grey piece of rock that must have come from one of the walls in these catacombs. The rock is wet and shiny.:Find something to use it with.
Rock:A lump of rock that has probably come from the crumbling walls in these corridors.:Find something to use the rock with.
Gem:A small red gem that is smooth to touch.:Find something to use it with.
Gem:A small red gem that is translucent if you hold it up to the light from the room above.:Find somewhere to use the gem.
Gem:A small smooth gem that is a deep red colour. The gem shines a red glow into your hand.:Use the gem with another object.
Rock:A large lump of rock that was thrown clear of the collision between the cart and the wall of the underground cavern.:The rock isn't much use.
Rock:A lump of rock that was part of the wall in the underground cavern before you knocked a hole in it.:The rock has no apparent use.
Rock:A cold grey lump of rock that was part of the cavern wall. The rock is wet and slimy and green mould creeps over its surface.:You can't find any use for the rock.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

 

                             END OF PART TEN
                             --===========--
                         _  _  _              _  _
                        | \|_)(_`|\ |\/|(   )(_`|_)
                        |_/| \(_.|~\|  | \^/ (_.|_)
                            COMPLETE - SOLUTION
                                PART ELEVEN

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                             TV STUDIO PART 1
                             ----------------

Door lock:On the wall by the door is a small square box with a slit in one side. A small illuminated panel on the front informs you that the door is locked. It requests a key.:You sweep the card through the lock and the door opens...
Worktop:There is a metal worktop fixed to the wall here. The brackets that hold it in place look rusty.:There are things on the worktop already.
Doors:The entrance doors to the studio complex stand open. Obviously the body of the security guard has yet to be discovered.:The doors are controlled from the security guards booth outside.
Table:From above you can see that the table is glass topped and has thin tubular metal legs.:You can't reach the table.
Lift doors:The lift doors stand firmly shut and a small red LED flashes on the compact control panel to the right of the doors.:The lift doors are controlled from the panel on the right.
Set:Positioned around the studio floor are three of these pieces of wooden framework. The back is a plain piece of unfinished wood but the side that the cameras see are an abstract pastel painting.:You can't reach it.
Door:An automatic sliding door that opens when approached. The door is a dull metal and is totally unremarkable.:The doors opens automatically.
Fusebox:The fusebox remains open from your work with the screwdriver.:You don't need to fix the fusebox.
Fusebox:This small metal box holds a fuse and a switch for the light next to it. The front of the box has a small panel held on by screws.:You quickly undo the two screws holding on the front plate. When you finish the plate drops down.
Desk:The reception desk is about waist height and is only about two feet wide. It is covered in a carpet-like material and has a wooden rail around its base.:You lean on the desk and peer over it. There isn't much to see,
Monitor:The monitor is linked to a computer terminal. As far as you can make out the data on the screen shows programming schedules. In one corner of the screen is a window that shows the current programme being transmitted.:It has no use.
Crate:This heavy looking metal crate is suspended from the winch using a large hook. The crate looks extremely heavy.:You give the crate a push and it sways very slightly. Whatever is inside must be very heavy.
Light:On the wall is a flat illuminated white disc set into a circular metal frame. The light emits a soft white light.:The light has no visible switch, it's probably controlled automatically.
Control box:The control box is very small and has a slot on one side. On the front of the box some lettering intructs you to enter your security pass in order to activate the lift.:That doesn't seem to work.
Winch:Connected to the gantry here above the TV studio is a winch. The control box next to it allows the winch to be moved along the scaffolding.:Use the control box, not the winch.
Winch control:The winch controls have soot around the edge of a small panel in the front. The lights on the top are all off.:The winch control must have blown a fuse. Nothing happens.
Gantry:Beneath your feet is a metal gantry. It seems to be made from quite flimsy metal bars but it easily holds your weight. Through the bars you can see the studio below.:You are already using it!
Ladder:A metal ladder with widely spaced rungs leads up to a hole in the ceiling. The ladder is fixed securely to the wall.:You climb the ladder looking upwards as you go.....
Ladder:Through a small alcove in the wall there comes a ladder that leads back down to a storeroom below.:You almost slip as you lower yourself down the ladder.
Plant:This bushy pot plant is sat in the corner of the room. It's large leaves sway slowly in the light breeze from the air conditioning.:The plant isn't any use.
Glass:A small glass tumbler that has some water in it. The liquid reflects the multitude of lights that are suspended from the ceiling.:You can't reach the glass from here.
Chair:From your position in the lighting gallery you can see that the chair a modern design and is made of leather.:You can't reach the chair from here.
Doors:Examining these doors you see some wording that reads "Studio 2. No Entry when red light is on.":The doors are held firmly shut by hidden machinery.
Waste bin:A tall cylindrical waste bin with a stainless steel flip top. The word "LItter" is printed on the side of the waste bin.:Open the waste bin to use it.
Lights:By the door are two large red bulbs that are illuminated. Below the lights is a sign which says "Transmission in progress. No Entry.":You can't use the lights.
Camera:Below you is a TV camera that must be controlled from a director's box somewhere else in the studio complex. Occasionally you see the camera adjust position.:You can't get to the camera from here.
Wire:From the back of one of the TV cameras leads a clump of wires bound together with small plastic fasteners. The wires disappear into a mass of wires that snake across the floor.:You aren't here to sabotage the TV transmission.
Seat:A brown plastic seat that's supposed to look something like natural wood. The seat seems very flimsy and too small to be really comfortable.:There's not really any time to sit around.
Shelf:A fitted shelf is attached to the wall here. It has a couple of cardboard boxes piled on top of it and its top surface looks well worn.:The shelf seems firmly in place.
Crate:A large metal cube that has the word "Fragile" written across it in red letters. The lid of the box is slightly open.:Peering inside you see a mass of cables and lighting equipment but it's no use to you.
Light:This circular neon light is fixed to the wall a few inches above your head. It shines a bright white and is quite painful to look at for long.:The light has no switch on it.
Chair:A black leather swivel chair with four stainless steel feet.:The receptionist may be back at any time. You haven't got time to waste.
Keyboard:A standard computer keyboard that is connected to a computer hidden away within the desk.:You experimentally tap a few keys but nothing happens on the screen. The keyboard must be locked out.
Telephone:On the desk is a small telephone. There is a keypad on the top with about forty buttons on it.:You push a few buttons but the phone beeps an error. On the LCD display the phone reports "Phone locked".
Mop:A wooden handled mop that sits in a bucket. The mop has a clump of string as a head.:This is no time for housework!
Bucket:A dented and battered metal bucket that has three wonky looking wheels on the bottom. There is a mop in the bucket sat in a small pool of foul smelling water.:You push the bucket and its wheels make a loud squeal of protest.
Box:A small cardboard box that is sealed with tape over each end. On the side of the box are the words "Kleenex Industrial Toilet Tissue".:You consider taking the contents of the box but it really isn't worth it.
Open box:An open cardboard box that has a stack of paper towels inside.:You don't really need any paper towels.
CORRIDOR:This corridor leads to a set of doors that have a light over them saying "Transmission in Progress". Apart from this the corridor is quiet and empty.
TV STUDIO:You stand on a raised gantry above the TV studio down below. The programme featuring General Sterling is taking place below. On the gantry is a winch and its controls.
TV STUDIO:This little room must be used by lighting engineers. Lighting equipment is all over the place and there is a ladder here which may lead up onto the lighting rig.
TV STUDIO:You stand in a room that leads off to two doors and a wide corridor. The largest of the two doors is locked and the other small door is open.
TV STUDIO:You stand in the entry lobby at the rear of the TV studio. The desk here is unmanned and you can see no-one around. Exits lead off left and right.
TV STUDIO:You stand in an almost empty room in the TV studio. There are some seats here and a large evergreen pot plant. A door leads off ahead of you.
STORE ROOM:You are in some kind of store room. There is a workbench here and there are bits and pieces of electrical equipment around. The room is lit by one odd red light.
Fuse:A tiny electrical fuse that has a red cover on it and a metal contact at either end.:The fuse can be used in a fusebox.
Blown fuse:A small green fuse that is blackened at either end where it has obviously blown.:The fuse is useless.
Passcard:This looks like some sort of electronic pass key. It is slightly thicker than your cashcard and it has the details of a cleaning company employee on it.:Find something to use it with.
Brochure:This slim document has a Channel 6 studios logo on the front. Underneath it says "Forthcoming Programmes".:Flicking through the brochure you find that it is a long list of news related programmes that Channel 6 have planned.

 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

                            UNDERGROUND TUNNEL
                            ------------------

Chair:A cheap looking read plastic chair that is held onto the wall by a large iron bar. The chair is covered in scratches and has several bits missing.:Carefully you take a seat.
Chair:A plastic chair that looks amazingly unsafe. The thin plastic is easily pliable and the bolts that fix it to its mounting seem loose.:You decide to take a chance and sit down.
Chair:A chair made of red plastic. You wonder when trains last stopped here. Everything seems as if it was just left as it was when the station was closed.:You sit on the chair, but a train is never going to arrive for you.
Chair:A flimsy plastic chair fitted onto a metal bar that is screwed into the wall. The chair hasn't been used in years.:You sit warily on the chair.
Vent:An air vent that once supplied warm air to the underground station is fixed to the wall. Tendrils of cobwebs hand limply from the grille across the vent's opening and blow gently in the breeze.:The vent hasn't worked in years.
Vent:On the wall above your head is a hot hair vent that is rusted with age. The underside of the vent has a metal grille covering it and a faint breeze comes from it.:The vent has long since decayed into uselessness.
Ticket machine:A dust covered ticket machine that has several glass windows in the front behind which are lists of destinations. The glass is so scratched that it is almost impossible to read what is behind it.:The machine makes a strangled beep.
Gate:The gate has metal bars that reach from floor to ceiling. The bars are rusty and covered in tiny droplets of condensation.:You give the gate a shake and the noise reverberates around the disused station. The gate is locked.
Pipe:Above your head you see a network of pipes through which you dropped from the church above. Somehow you don't think you'll be able to get back up.:You try and reach the pipe but you can't.
Door:A wooden door with rusted hinges and a small window in it at head height. The window has rusty iron bars across it.:You try to move the door but it steadfastly refuses.
END OF PLATFORM:The platform ends here and the train track leads off into darkness. The walls are covered with the remains of old advertisements and graffiti. The walls are moist and freezing cold to the touch.
DISUSED STOREROOM:Beckett has obviously been hiding here in the darkness for days. A few possessions lie scattered amongst the pipes and drains. The place is damp, cold and uninviting.
UNDERGROUND TUNNEL:The tunnel leads off into utter darkness but in the dim light you can barely make out the outline of an alcove. Above your head the damp brickwork of the tunnel is curved and is just bigger than the trains that pass through.
UNDERGROUND TUNNEL:The tunnel is most worrying. The only light that you can see by is the light from the platform. The shingle between the rails is slippery and you are painfully aware of the live rail by your feet.
PLATFORM:The platform ends just here and the track disappears into complete darkness. From the tunnel you can hear the faint sound of dripping water. A strong wind blows from the tunnel entrance.
STOREROOM:You appear to be in a small storeroom of some description, although by the look of it the room hasn't been used for years. Through the open doorway you can see an underground railway platform.
SUBWAY PLATFORM:A cold and musty wind blows across the subway platform and you shove your hands deep into your pockets. This station is disused but the shiny tracks show that trains still pass through here.
SUBWAY PLATFORM:The silence of the platform in this disused subway is broken only by the sound of a loose fitting somewhere in the station that squeaks constantly. Old posters line the walls and a dusty ticket vending machine is fitted to the wall.
 
 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -



                             END OF PART ELEVEN
                             --==============--