            - >>  F - 1 6   C O M B A T   P I L O T << -

                            THE MANUAL


 
             TYPED BY THE TWINS AND LUCAS OF TRILOGY !!!
        




                          Contents

 Map "Kneepad"..............................................2

 Quickstart.................................................4

 1. Introduction............................................5

 2. Arriving at base
    *    squadron crewroom/system set up....................7
    *    mission selection.................................10

 3. Training squadron
    *    pre-flight briefing...............................11
    *    cockpit familiarisation...........................17
    *    getting airborne/ flying training.................40

 4. Font line operations
    *    mission selection.................................47
    *    mission tactics...................................48
    *    weapon management.................................58
    *    debriefing........................................68

 5. Combat manoeuvres - how to stay one step ahead!........70

 6. Ground school
    *    your aircraft.....................................80
    *    basic aerodynamics................EXCLUDED........82
    *    weapon loading restrictions.......EXCLUDED........86
    *    flying clothing...................EXCLUDED........87

 7. Aircraft technical data................EXCLUDED........88
 
 8. Weapon technical data..................EXCLUDED........92
 
 Appendix 1 one-on-one communications......................94

 Appendix 2 8 bit versions.................EXCLUDED........95

 Appendix 3 the team, acknowledgements & further reading...96 EXCLUDED

 Glossary..................................................99

 Index....................................................101





			--- Page 2 ---


        	F-16    COMBAT PILOT    "KNEEPAD"

CONTROLS

 Roll Right ................................................6
 Roll Left .................................................4
 Pitch Up ..................................................2
 Pitch Down ................................................8
 Rudder Left ...............................................1
 Rudder Right ..............................................3
 Centre Controls ....................................Mouse Left Button
 Increase Throttle .........................................+
 Decrease Throttle .........................................-
 Throttle Slam Open ......................................+ and Shift
 Throttle Slam Shut ......................................- and Shift
 
 UnderCarriage ............................................U
 Airbrakes .............................................Backspace
 Wheelbrakes ..............................................B
 Dogfight Mode ............................................D
 Jettison Fuel Tanks ................................J and F together
 Jettison All .......................................J and A together
 Eject ................................................Ctrl E

DISPLAYS
 
 Change Left MFD ........................................F1
 Change centre MFD ......................................F2
 Change right MFD .......................................F3
 Radar Target Select ....................................F9
 Radar Target Designate ................................F10
 HUD pitch bars  on/off ..................................K
 HUD  on/off .............................................H

WEAPONS SELECTOR

 Weapons select (fwd) ..................................TAB
 Weapons select (rev) ...................................Q
 Chaft ..................................................C
 Flares .................................................F
 Pickle Target ........................................SPACE
 Fire Weapons .........................................SPACE

OTHER KEYS

 Pause/Continue ........................................P
 Quit ..............................................Ctrl Esc

UP FRONT CONTROL PANEL

 Mode Select ............................................F5
 Channel Select .........................................F6
 Autopilot ..............................................F7
 Recce pod  on/off ......................................F8

COMMUNICATIONS

 Transmit Callsign ......................................T
 Request GCA ............................................G


			--- PAGE 3 ---

COCKPIT VIEW

 Cursor Keys:
    - hold for brief look
    - Shift & cursor key to look

MENU CONTROLS

 Select .................................................DEL
 Cancel ................................................HELP
        .......................or mouse left or right button



			--- PAGE 4 ---



			 QUICKSTART

 Desperate to get airborne? Immediately after the title screen you will
be standing in the squadron crewroom. Move the pointer over to pilot
and go for it....

Briefing:
  *  Temporary posting to Tactical Fighter Training Squadron
  *  Aircraft fully fuelled, at the end of runway
  *  "General purpose" weapon mix
  *  No mission selection necessary
  *  No pre-flight briefing
  *  No adverse weather conditions
  *  No pilot's log active
  *  Controls - see kneepad

Just enter your IFF security code and get airborne.......



			---PAGE 5 ---


		Chapter 1  INTRODUCTION

Welcome to the world of the F-16 combat pilot. You are about to join an
elite group of pilots envied by fighter crews the world over. The F-16
Fighting Falcon is a truly remarkable aircraft, designed originally as
a highly manoeuverable dogfighter and subsequently developed into an
awesome multi-role combat aircraft. Every thrilling aspect of the F-16C
has been included in this simulation, including many features only just
becomming available to the front line squadrons.

F-16 Combat Pilot is the first in a new generation of "strategic"
flight simulations. In this single product you will fly on a variety of
training missions, join an active front line squadron responsible for
each role of the F-16 and ultimately participate in a strategic global
conflict involving real-time interaction between aircraft, ground
forces and the supporting infrastructure of military installations and
essential services. Throughout your flying career your successes (and
failures!) will be monitored and logged by Tactical Air Command (TAC)
who are well aware of every pilot's amgition to fly with the supreme
squadron.

OVERVIEW
 Your experience as an F-16 pilot begins in the first of eight
squadrons. During your training you will become familiar with the
performance and complexities of your new fighting machine.Instructors
will be on hand to offer a few words of advice and also to give you a
taste of things to come.
 Active duty in a front  line squadron will be a very different ball
game. The targets are real, the enemy is real. Planning your mission is
essential if you want to get back in one piece. Still, you have the
best aircraft available, and a ground crew second to none....

MISSION TYPES:
  *  TRAINING - mission practice & aircraft familiarisation
  *  SCRAMBLE - air - to -air interception
  *  HAMMERBLOW - offensive counterair operations
  *  DEEPSTRIKE - interdictor strike
  *  TANKBUSTER - battlefield close air support



			--- PAGE 6 ---

  *  WATCHTOWER - reconnaissance
  *  GLADIATOR - two-player dogfight
  *  OPERATION CONQUEST - strategic option
 Each squadron is responsible for controlling its airspace of roughly
20.000 sq. miles. For security reasons, the name and location of each
squadron is TOP SECRET. After being posted to a new squadron, be ready
to familiarise yourself with your new surroundings during the
pre-flight briefing - it could save your life!

With the exception of OPERATION CONQUEST, each mission will consist of
completing the objective assigned during the pre-flight briefing
intelligence sources suggest well in excess of 1500 potential targets,
both fixed and mobile, within each combat zone. For example, your task
may be to destroy an early warning radar on an offensive counterair
operation or a particular area may need "photographing" on a
reconnaissance mission. In each case,you will be expected to fulfill
your objectives within a single flight.

For OPERATION CONQUEST however, you will need experience of all roles
of the combat pilot. For this multi-mission scenario, the overall
objective is to force the enemy to surrender by reducing his fighting
ability and morale. You will experience the passing of day and night,
variable weather conditions, the damage of strategic installations, and
the deployment of tanks and mobile ground forces. The duration of this
operation canvary significantly. To avoid pilot fatigue you will be
allowed to request leave, and return whenyou are in peak fitness.

All Tactical Fighter Squadrons and allied groups forces depend upon
industry for supplies of weapons, spares and fuel. The enemy is
expected to interrupt these supplies by attacking strategic targets
such as power stations, fuel depots and factories. Fortunately, early
warning radar installations are monitoring your airspace 24 hours a
day. Coordination of all military operations lies with the Command,
Control and Communications (C-cubed) centres and military bases.
Anticipating the next strike and making the best tactical decisions is
your job. HQ intelligence will do their best to keep you up to date....



			--- PAGE 7 ---


	Chapter 2      ARRIVING AT BASE


 Your day begins in the squadron crewroom. Before getting airborne,
let's take a look around. Select any item by simply pointing to the
appropriate object.

		QUICKSTART - (Pilot)
 For all you fighter jocks keen to get off the ground without doing any
homework! Not recommended for the serious pilot but it will give you a
taste of things to come. The default conditions are descriped earlier.

		PILOT'S LOG (Filing Cabinet)
 This is your personal record containing all details of your experience
as an F-16 pilot. Select your log by opening the cabinet and giving
your name. A new log will be created automatically if the name given is
not on file.


			--- PAGE 8 ---


  *  NAME - enter your name, up to 8 characters.
  *  CALLSIGN - enter your callsign, up to 10 characters. This will be
     used during air-toground communications.
  *  SQUADRON - You will begin your flying career in the Wildcatters
     squadron. Each time you  succeed in Operation Conquest you will be
     offered a transfer to a new outfit.
  *  FLYING HOURS - total number of hours flown by this pilot.
  *  KILL RECORD - total number of enemy aircraft destroyed - total
     number of ground targets destroyed, Mission Effectiveness ratio
     (over all missions), Kill Ratio (over all missions). pilot rating.

Mission Effectiveness (ME) ratio =

no. of assigned targets destroyed / total no. of assigned targets

Kill Ratio (KR) =

total number of targets destroyed / number of weapons used

 Pilot rating is determined by your ME ratio n.b. During your
debriefing you will be given ME and KR ratios for the particular
mission. These should not be confused with your overall ratios recorded
in your log.

  *  AIRCRAFT LOST - total number of aircraft that you have failed to
     bring back in one piece.
  *  OPERATION CONQUEST - hours in command- victories- losses.
  *  ERASE - use ERASE if you no longer wish to keep a particular log.

		FLIGHT CONTROLS  (Desktop Computer)
 Your aircraft may be flown by usingonly the keyboard but you are
strongly advised to use a joystick or mouse in order to create a sense
of "feel" in the controls.

		DEMONSTRATION MODE  (Window)
 For a dramatic flying display, take a look out of the window!

		AIRCRAFT TECHNICAL DATA  (Aircraft Poster)
 Additional technical data on your aircraft and all likely adversaries
is available for further study, Knowing your enemy's capabilities is
essential if you are to succeed in air combat.


			---  PAGE 9 ---



		WEAPON TECNICAL DATA  (Weapon Poster)
 Additional technical data on all weapon systems is available for
further study. Familiarise yourself with each weapon systems is
available for further study. Familiarise yourself with each weapon,
when and how to use it. These are the "tools of your trade".

		OPERATION CONQUEST - RESTORE (Pilot's Flight Case)
 On returning from R & R select this option to continue the campaign.

		MISSION SELECTION (Door)
 Move onto mission selection by leaving the crewroom (via the door!).
On leaving the crewroom you will arrive at mission selection.


			--- PAGE 10 ---

			MISSION SELECTION


 The five sides of the U S Pentagon represent each role of the F-16:
   * SCRAMBLE - Air-to-air interception
   * HAMMERBLOW - offensive counterair operations
   * DEEPSTRIKE - interdictor strike
   * TANKBUSTER - battlefield close air support
   * WATCHTOWER - reconnaissance
 The centre icon, used for selecting OPERATION CONQUEST, will not
appear until you have satisfied Tactical Air Command that you are
capable of commanding your squadron on Operation Conquest. For this
you must fly a successful mission on each of the above categories, on
front line duty, at least once.

 In the top left hand corner you will see a two-seat F-16D. Use this to
select a temporary posting to the Tactical Fighter Training Squadron.

 In the top right hand corner is the icon used to select two-player
mode. Selecting this will lead you to the Communications set-up screen
and GLADIATOR, the one-on-one dogfight.



			--- PAGE 11 ---


	Chapter 3      TRAINING SQUADRON


 Welcome to the Tactical Training Squadron. Your documentation includes
a map of our training area to help you plan your missions during your
stay. For those of you not familiar with the F-16 we suggest our Free
Flight or Landing Practice course. Mission-oriented training is
available for more experienced pilots, covering all aspects of front
line duty.

 If you are familiar with the pre-flight briefing and F-16 cockpit, I
suggest you skip the next lecture and get airborne as soon as possible.

			Pre-flight briefing.

 OK guys. Notebooks at the ready. Your attention please....

 Our electronic strategic display is identical to those used by the
front line squadrons, showing your current position, all airfield
locations, towns and major geographical features. Make sure that you
are familiar with the layout - it could save your life!


		        --- PAGE 12 ---


 Along the front of your display are the mode selector switches:
  *  MISSION objectives
  *  TARGETS target selector
  *  REPORT intelligence update
  *  WEATHER met report
  *  WAYPOINT programmer
  *  COMMAND aircraft assignment

 These allow you to access various computerised functions that you will
need for planning your mision profile. How we ever managed in the old
days I'll never know! Select the appropriate key to change the mode of
the text area beneath the strategic display:

 MISSION key.

 With the exception of OPERATION CONQUEST, you will have selected your
mission category prior to this meeting. TAC will now release details of
your objectives. This information is CONFIDENTIAL and is for "your eyes
only".

example: MISSION: HAMMERBLOW CALLSIGN: HOTDOG
  *  TARGET (A) EARLY WARNING RADER @ 014,283
  *  TARGET (B) SAM SITE @ 059,268
  *  TARGET (C) SAM SITE @ 051,259

 TARGETS key

 The display defaults to showing only airfield locations and major non-
strategic geographical features. Pressing the "TARGETS" switch will
illuminate several target selector keys within the text area. The
categories are as follows:

  *  Tank battalions
  *  Military bases
  *  Command centres
  *  Early warning raders
  *  SAM sites
  *  Power stations
  *  Factories
  *  Fuel depots


			--- PAGE 13 ---


 Press the appropriate key to highlight (or remove) the desired target
category. In the case of mobile targets, the best we can do is to give
you their last known positions reported by TAC reconnaissance flights.

   REPORT key
 Operators at the Command Centre have been piecing together the latest
whispers and hard facts togive you their best advice for your flight.
For the latest update, select "REPORT".

 Example:
  *  Interceptor activity high
  *  Enemy tank battalions @ 487,926
  *  Allied factories - heavy losses

   WEATHER key
 For a brief summary from the met office, select "WEATHER".

 Example:
  *  Cloudbase 25000 ft
  *  Light SW crosswinds
  *  Mild turbulence
 These conditions may well change during your flight but we can't help
that can we?

    WAYPOINT key
 So, down to the important task of flight planning. As an F-16 pilot
you will not have the luxury of a navigator in the back seat but
fortunately you do have the latest programable navigation computer to
give you in-flight guidance via your Up Front Control Panel.
 A flight plan may vary from a simple direct route from A to B, to a
complex multi-target hi-lo-hi profile over enemy territory. After
selecting the waypoint mode, your present position will be highlighted
on the strategic display. To set a waypoint, simply move the pointer to
the required coordinates and press the "select" key. You iwll now see
your proposed flight route automatically plotted. Further waypoints may
be introduced, up to a maximum of five, each addition extending the
flight plan.

  

			--- PAGE 14 ---


To cancel a waypoint, place the pointer over the point to be erased and
press the "cancel" key. Your flight route will be replotted
accordingly. Select the "Waypoint Programmer" box to highlight your
flight route in other display modes. Finally, a "clear all waypoints"
option is available.
During flight you may select range, bearing and time-to-go information
for each waypoint on your Up Front Control Panel.

COMMAND key   (Operation Conquest only)
 As squadron commander, you may now instruct additional aircraft to
execute missions in parallel to your own. Selecting the COMMAND mode
will reveal the number of servicable aircraft available at each allied
airfield. To despatch an aircraft, first contact the airfield.
Providing that an aircraft is available you may now assign target
coordinates for its mission by positioning the display pointer at the
desired target location and pressing the "select" key. 


			--- PAGE 15 ---


The aircraft's flight route will be plotted as visual confirmation. To
cancel an assignment, place the pointer back in the text area at the
appropriate airfield symbol and press the "cancel" key. You may assign
one aircraft per airfield. up to a maximum of four at any given time,
bearing in mind that an aircraft cannot be given new instructions when
its airborne.

 FUNCTION KEYS
 Before take-off you will want to consider your weapon configuration 
and weather conditions. On the right hand side of the display you will
see the following:

 MET OFFICE function key
 With the exception of OPERATION CONQUEST, TAC will allow you to take
off in the weather conditions of your choice. The met office will do
their best to comply with your wishes! However, they cannot guarantee
that conditions will remain stable throughout your flight.

 WEAPON function key
 OK, it's time to take a stroll across to the hangar and meet the
ground crew. They have already refuelled your aircraft, rearmed the
internal gun, and completed the sub-system ground checks.

Your F-16 has 9 external hardpoints capable of carrying a vast
selection of weapons, including the latest laser guided "smart"
missiles, and the  new AMRAAM "beyond visual range" air-to-air missile.
In addition to this we have been cleared to use the first production
LANTIRN nightvision and target acquisition pods, attached at specific
locations either side of the engine intake. These pods will
revolutionise our night attack capability.


			--- PAGE 16 ---

			Weapon selection.

 Having decided upon your weapon configuration, check the stock records
for awailability. Weapons are loaded in pairs by indicating to the
ground crew the chosen hardpoint for the weapon. Please bear in mind
the loading restrictions explained to you at Ground School - they will
not take you seriously if you suggest putting 2000 lb bombs on the wing
tips! Keep an eye on your All Up Weight. Although it is not possible to
exceed the specified maximum, remember that with increasing weight you
become less manoeuverable. In fact, your F-16 will automatically reduce
its maximum g capability if you exceed the 9 g stress loads. Also shown
on your load report are your fuel state and ammunition level. You may
resort to reducing these if your A.U.W. gets uncomfortably high.
Weapons may be loaded and unloaded as often as you wish using "select"
and "cancel".

 For your convenience, the stores officer will keep a record of up to
three "preferred configurations" of your choice in order to speed up
turn-around-time between missions. Your ground crew willalso be glad to
suggest a weapon mix approriate to your mission.


			--- PAGE 17 ---

 TAKE OFF function key

 OK, you know your targets. Time to get airborne. Don't forget your
last minute visual checks to make sure that all safety pins and covers
are removed. Request permission for take-off, and be prepared to
respond with your security clearance. Have a nice flight......


				"You fight like you train"

		- Motto, U.S. Navy Fighter Weapons School TOPGUN

 For those of you not familiar with the F-16C, it's time to strap into
the reclining ACES II ejection seat and take a look at "the office".



			--- PAGE 18 ---


 MULTI-FUNCTION DISPLAYS  (Sperry) 
 Following the trend in all modern aircraft towards the "glass
cockpit", the instrument panel has been modified and updated many times
since its first design. You are now looking at the very latest version,
including the 3 multi-function digital displays introduced as part of
the MSIP avionics update programme. This layout was first evaluated in
the AFTI F-16 technology demonstrator.
The major advantage of MFD displays is flexibility. You, the pilot,
decide which to use for radar, weapons status, moving map etc. All
functions are available on each display, giving you the choice of what
to display and in the position you prefer. Refer to your kneepad for
mode selection.

AN/APG-68(V) Multi-mode Radar (Westinghouse)
 For the purpose of our flight, we will concentrate on the short range
modes available on this state-of-the-art radar.

 (a)AIR-TO-AIR MODES:

 (i)TRACK-WHILE-SCAN (TWS) MODE

 Effective range approx. 30nm. Used for air-to-air search for hostile
aircraft. The display represents a cross-sectional view of the pilot's
field of vision, pointing in the direction of the noise of the
aircraft.
Ther radar will display all aircraft within its field of view and is
capable of tracking up to ten targets simultaneously. Using the "target
select" key, you may track any displayed target, with range (top LH
corner, miles), altitude (top RH corner,  000's feet), and bearing
information (bottom RH corner) calculated by your weapons computer.



			--- PAGE 19 ---


 (ii)SINGLE-TARGET-TRACK (STT) MODE
 Pressing the "designate" key will switch the radar to "single target
track" mode (STT). The selected target will now be displayed as a
diamond, with all others removed from the screen. You will also see the
target designator box appear on the HUD, showing the position of your
target relative to your aircraft together with the LOCK discrete.
Return to track-while-scan mode by either pressing the "designate" key
again or destroying the target. n.b. If your designated target leaves
the radar's field of view, the display will return to TWS mode.

 (iii)AIR COMBAT SCAN (ASC) MODE
 Using the "dogfight" selector on your throttle control will put your
radar in "air combat" mode. Target symbology is the same as STT mode
(single diamond) but your weapons computer will automatically lock onto
the target of "greatest threat", excluding allied aircraft of course.
Effective range approximately 10nm. Return to track-while-scan mode by
pressing the "designate" key.
Superimposed on all modes you will see the roll orientation bar to
assist you when looking down into the cockpit.

 (b)AIR-TO-GROUND MODES:
 Not to be confused with your GPS moving map display, the radar air-to-
ground mode is used for ground target tracking.


			--- PAGE 20 ---


 (i)GROUND-TARGET-RANGING (GTR) MODE
 Equivalent to the air-to-air mode "track-while-scan". The display is
now a forward-looking plan view showing fixed installations and mobile
ground targets, differentiated by symbology. Using the "target select"
key, you may track any displayed target, with range and bearing
information shown on the HUD and MFD. Effective range 10nm.

 (ii)GROUND-TARGET-TRACK (GTT) MODE
Pressing the "designate" key will switch the radar to "ground target
track" mode (GTT). The chosen target will now be displayed as a
diamond, with all others removed from the screen. You will also see the
target designator box appear on the HUD, showing the position of the
target relative to your aircraft together with the LOCK discrete.
Return to GTR mode by either pressing the "designate" key again or
destroyed the target. The display will automatically return to GTR mode
if the designated target leaves the radar's field of view.


			--- PAGE 21 ---

 MOVING MAP DISPLAY
 Linked to the tri-service Global Positioning System, this display uses
your inertial navigation computer and various external "classified"
sources to pinpoint your exact position within the combat zone. The
symbolic digital display highlights airfields, hills, towns, waypoints
etc, relative to your aircraft at the centre of the MFD.

 WEAPON STATUS
 This mode gives a symbolic presentation of your external weapon count
on each of the nine hardpoints. Having chosen your weapon type, (shown
on the Head Up Display) the weapons computer will automatically select
the hardpoint. Also shown are the number of remaining rounds of
ammunition, plus the remaining chaff and flare cartridges. The
currently selected weapon is highlighted. Consult this display if you
get a "weapon failure" warning.


			--- PAGE 22 ---

 DIGITAL ARTIFICIAL HORIZON
 We are currently evaluating a new concept in arficial horizon design.
A multi-segment circular strip is used to portray the attitude of your
aircraft relative to the ground.
Pitching the nose of the aircraft up gives an impression of flying over
a "hill" and conversely, diving creates a "valley" effect. The
proportions of "sky" and "ground" remain constant as the aircraft rolls.
The distinct advantage of this new British design is that unlike the
conventional spherical artificial horizon, the pilot is always aware of
his aircraft's orientation.

 PRIMARY FLIGHT DATA
 This direct output from the air data computer replaces the old analog
airspeed and altitude indicators that we used to have mounted in the
central console. This display is particularly useful in the event of
HUD failure or on the approach.

  *  IAS Indicated airspeed, Knots
  *  ALT Altitude, feet
  *  VSI Rate of climb, feet per sec.
  *  HDG Aircraft Heading, degrees
  *  FUEL Fuel state ibs


			--- PAGE 23 ---

 ZOOM THERMAL IMAGE - with IIR Maverick and/or LANTIRN
 When carrying Maverick AGM-65D (Imaging Infra Red) missiles and/or the
LANTIRN pods, you may select a miniature thermal image on any MFD,
similar to looking through a telephoto lens. Without LANTIRN, you are
effectively viewing the world through the homing head of the missile,
restricted in this case to "hot" targets such as tanks and mobile SAM
launchers. The image enhancing capabilities of LANTIRN enable you to
identify and track any potential target within the capabilites of the
selected weapon. (See weapon management, Chapter 4)

 INSTRUMENT LANDING SYSTEM, AN/ARN-108 (Collins)

 This display is your primary landing aid. The system consists of two
radio beams transmitted from the airfield to help you line up with the
runway centreline and approach the airfield descending along the
correct glidepath. The equipment on board your F-16 uses the two beams
to drive your display.


			--- PAGE 24 ---

 (a)LOCALISER

 The beam that helps you line up with the runway centreline is called
the localiser. As you deviate from alignment with the centreline, the
vertical needle on your display will drift in the opposite direction.

 e.g. drifting to the left will cause the vertical needle to drift
right, and vice versa.

 Deviation from the centreline

 So, the localiser needle shows your relative offset from the
centreline and to corect any error you must turn TOWARDS the needle.
Make a corresponding turn in the opposite direction as the needle
centralises to ensure that you finish on the correct heading. It will
help if you have your Up Front Control Panel navigation display locked
to the airfield for range and bearing information.

 (b)GLIDESLOPE

 Thesecond beam provides guidance for adjusting your rate of descent
during your approach to the runway. The "ideal" glidepath leads to
touchdown a few hundred feet beyond the runway threshold. Approaching
too high will cause the glideslope needle to be BELOW the centre of the
display and vice versa. So,to maintain the correct descent rate during
your approach, keep the glideslope needle central. Respond if necessary
by flying TOWARDS the needle, i.e. increase your rate of descent if the
needle is low; decrease your rate of descent if the needle is high.


			--- PAGE 25 ---

 Deviation from the glideslope
 To summarise, your ideal approach is achieved by keeping the two
display needles central. "Fly towards the needle" to correct errors.

 When in the vicinity of an ILS system, availability will be confirmed
by the "ILS in range" light on your Up Front Control Panel. The landing
aid is effective up to an altitude of 5000 feet at its maximum range of
approximately 15 miles. n.b. Not all runways have ILS transmitters.

 OTHER INSTRUMENTS:

 Range Warning Receiver, AN/ALR-69 (Dalmo Victor)
 
 To the left of the Up Front Control Panel you will see a small
circular display. This is your passive Radar Warning Receiver. Sensors
positioned around your F-16 are used to detect radar transmissions from
enemy aircraft, radar guided missiles and enemy early warning radar
stations. Used in conjunction with your Threat Warning Panel, it is
possible to determine the source and direction of the threat. It is 
interesting to note that an enemy aircraft using his air-to-air radar
will be detected by your Radar Warning Receiver before he is aware of
your presence. This is because your radar reflection will initially be
too weak to be "seen" by the enemy rader. This illustrates the
importance of maintaining "radar silence" wherever possible.


			--- PAGE 26 ---

 Attitude Director Indicator (Clifton Precision)

 To the right of the Up Front Control Panel is your Attitude Director
Indicator, otherwise known as the standby artifical horizon. This
instrument shows the pitch and roll attitude of your aircraft.

 Angle Of Attack Indicator (Gull Airborne)

 The vertical "tape" scale to the centre MFD is the Angle of Attack
indicator. Refer to your ground school notes for a description of angle
of attack, lift etc. From the practical point of view, you can imagine
angle of attack as a measure of how hard the wing is having to work to
generate the required amount of lift. For stability reasons, the angle
of attack is automatically limited to 25 degrees by the fly-by-wire
control system. A typical value during landing is 12 to 13 degrees.


			--- PAGE 27 ---

 Vertical Speed indicator

 To the right of the central MFD you will find the Vertical Speed
Indicator. Calibrated in feet per second, this "tape" scale shows your
rate of climb and descent. This instrument is particularly useful
during the landing phase, but dramatic rates of climb/descent will
exceed the full scale deflection.

 Engine rpm indicator

On the far left hand side of the instrument panel, below the Master
Caution light, you will see the new digital engine rpm indicator
together with the afterburner indicator. The old analogue engine rpm
indicator is in the usual place, over by your right knee.

 You will be pleased to hear that we now have the General Electric
F110-GE-100 engine, rated at 27000 lbf maximum thrust. On power up the
engine control system will adjust the idle rpm to around 60%. The
throttle lever by your left hand adjusts engine rpm up to 100% and
then, after passing a detent, moves through into reheat by pushing the
control further forward. The amount of reheat selected is shown on the
afterburner indicator. For your convenience a second digital rpm
display is mounted next to the throttle control.

 Fuel gauge

 Over on the right hand side you will see the fuel gauge, together with
the "fuel low" and "external tanks empty" warning lights. The gauge has
two needle; one for internal fuel supply, and a second for external
load. Fuel is consumed from the external tanks first.


			--- PAGE 28 ---


 Please bear in mind that for a given throttle setting, fuel
consumption DECREASES as you gain altitude. Optimum performance is
reached at the normal cruise altitude of around 35000 ft where we find
that fuel consumption is roughly a quarter of the rate at sea level,
giving an approximate flight duration of two hours and a tactical
radius of 500 n.m. on full internal fuel. Using reheat does however
consume fuel very rapidly giving a total duration with maximum reheat
at sea level of less than ten minutes!

 Up Front Control Panel (UFCP)

This panel houses essential Communications, Navigation and
Identification functions (CNI)

 (a) CNI Datalink

 The largest portion of the UFCP is dedicated to a three function
datalink display. Airfield and waypoint navigation data is derived from
your Inertial Navigation System LN-39. Tracking data for enemy aircraft
is obtained via datalink with allied Early Warning radar stations. Use
the UFCP mode selector to cyle through the following modes:


			--- PAGE 29 ---


 (i) Airfield

 Range, bearing and ETA information is avialable on all allied
airfields: Select the required airfield using the UfCp channel
selector.
e.g. A3 Airfield 3
  *   RNG 89    range 89 miles
  *   BRG 245   bearing 245 degs
  *   ETA 9:13  estimated time to arrival 9 mins 13 sec

 (ii) Waypoint

 Range, bearing and ETA information is available on all waypoints
defined prior to takeoff. Select the required waypoint using the UFCP
channel selector.
e.g. W1 waypoint 1
  *   RNG 26    range 26 miles
  *   BRG 172   bearing 172 degs
  *   ETA 2:41  estimated time to arrival 2 mins 41 secs

n.b. To fly towards your selected target, adjust your heading to match
the target bearing. The estimated time assumes you are heading towards
the target at your present speed.

 (iii) Tracking

 Allied early warning radar ststions will relay tracking information on
all hostile aircraft currently being monitored. Select the required
channel for range, bearing and altitude data, relative to your own
aircraft.
e.g. T2 target 2
  *   RNG 90    range 90 miles
  *   BRG 018   bearing 18 degs
  *   ALT 35    altitude 35000 ft


			--- PAGE 30 ---

 (b) System Control Functions

 To the left of the datalink display you will see six indicator lights:

 Top row (left to right):

"Recce pod on" Comfirms ATARS pod on/off (manual)

"LANTIRN" Confirms targetting pod on/off (automatic)

"RADAR" Comfirms RADAR system on/off (MFD selected)

Bottom row (left to right):

"ILS in range" Your aircraft is within range of an ILS system

"Autopilot" Confirms selection of automatic landing system

"UHF transmit" Confirms transmission of callsign

 (c) UHF Communications Transceiver AN/ARC-164 (Magnavox)

 Mounted along the bottom of the UFCP is your UHF communications
display. This is used for receiving numerous in-flight messages from
airfields, command centres and EW radar installations.

 Data entry panel

 Before take-off you will be asked by the control tower for your IFF
(Identification Friend or Foe) security code. Having made the
approriate response via your Data Entry Panel you will be cleared to
start your engine, taxi and take off.


			--- PAGE 31 ---


 Threat Warning Panel

 Immediately to the left of the Radar Warning Receiver you will find
your Threat Warning Panel. This consists of five warning lights, each
designed to bring to your attention a particular type of threat.

   * SAM - launch of surface to air missile detected. Threat will
     appear on your Radar Warning Receiver if radar guided, otherwise
     you can assume infra-red guidance. Respond by releasing chaff or
     flares. Manoeuvre to deplete missile energy and maximise tracking
     errors.
   * AAM - launch of air to air missile detected. Threat will appear on
     your Radar Warning Receiver if radar guided, otherwise you can
     assume infra-red guidance. Respond by releasing chaff or flares.
     Manoeuvre to deplete missile energy and maximise tracking errors.
   * ECM - enemy is transmitting Electronic Countermeasures in an
     attempt to defeat your tracking radar or air-to-air missile.
   * IFF - you are being tracked by the radar of an enemy aircraft.
     Consult your Radar Warning Receiver to determine his approximate
     bearing.
   * EWR - you are being tracked by an enemy Early Warning Radar
     installation. Consult your Radar Warning Receiver to determine its
     approximate bearing.

 Your Airborne Self Protection Jammer (ASPJ, AN/ALQ-165, Westinghouse/
ITT) should automatically attempt to break any radar tracking beam but
don't depend upon it too heavily. Once the enemy are aware of your
approach they are not going to give up trying to track you and far
worse, you can expectto be met fairly soon by enemy interceptors. To
break the lock, fly as low as possible and alter your course.


			-- PAGE 32 ---

 Warning lights

   * ALERT master caution light. Attracts your attention when any
     "subsystem" fails. Consult your Failure Status Panel to determine
     the precise failure.
   * ENG engine failure - not a pleasant sight considering that you
     have only one engine! Given sufficient altitude and a nearby
     airfield you should be able to execute a "dead stick" landing.
     Practice makes perfect!
   * FIRE warning of on board fire. Your only option is to eject.
   * FUEL fuel low warning. Flashes when fuel low, stays lit when out
     of fuel. Do not ignore! The consequences lead to unscheduled
     gliding practice....
   * EXT external fuel tanks empty - comfirms empty tanks as cue to
     jettison if required.

 Other lights

   * Undercarriage - extreme left of instrument panel. Three GREENs
     confirm undercarriage UP.
   * Jettison - below the undercarriage light. You may jettison only
     external tanks, or jettison all external load with the exception
     of missiles fitted to the wingtips. The light illuminates to
     confirm operation.
   * Wheel brakes - illuminated when wheel brakes are ON
   * Air brakes - illuminated when air brakes are ON

 Eject handle - below the centre MFD. When all else fails, this is the
last resort. Pulling the "loud handle" could save your life but don't
use it at low altitude when inverted....


			--- PAGE 33 ---


 Left hand panel
 
 Turning to your left you will see the throttle grip which is used to
control engine rpm and reheat in the normal manner - forward to
increase, back to decrease. You will probably notice a slight delay
between your throttle movement and the change in engine rpm. This is
quite normal and is due to the inertia of the engine's rotating blades.
Once lit, your engine control system will prohibit a deliberate shut
down of the engine.

 Typical engine rpm at the idle setting is about 60%. The power curve
of the engine gives a gradual increase in thrust up to around 90% rpm,
above which you will experience a rapid thrust increase up to 100% rpm.
This is the maximum "dry" thrust or full military power. Further engine
thrust is achieved with the selection of reheat. The principle operates
on spraying additional fuel into the engine exhaust whereupon it
ignites to provide a significant increase in thrust e.g. from 16000 lb
to 27000 ib. Reheat is selected by moving the throttle grip through a
detent beyond which you have linear control up to maximum thrust. To
select reheat, push the throttle until you reach 100% rpm, release the
throttle monentarily and then continue to push to the required reheat
level as indicated next to the rpm readout. n.b. Enginerpm does not
increase with the selection of reheat. Reheat will cause a dramatic
increase in fuel consumption. Use it sparingly!


			--- PAGE 34 ---

 Right hand panel

 Looking over to your right you will see the sidestick controller.
Instead of a conventional control column, your F-16 is fiited with a
force-sensitive sidestick. Movement is minimal, with pitch and roll
rates being proportional to the pressure applied. The sidestick also
offers a nose wheel steering facility when moving on the ground at
speeds below 95 kts.

 Mechanical compass

 Further forward you will see the back up mechanical compass,
calibrated every 10 degrees e.g. 09 = East, 18 = South, 27 = West, 36 =
North


			--- PAGE 35 ---

 Also on the right hand side you have the Failure Status panel. Consult
this panel when you see the Master Caution light illuminate.
   * FBW - failure of fly-by-wire channel. Results in reduced aircraft
     agility. Control system gains halved.
   * U/C - undercarriage failure. If you cannot lower your
     undercarriage you will have no option but to do a "wheels up"
     landing - VERY GENTLY! One of the early prototypes managed it and
     just scraped the paint - it is possible.
   * RAD - radar failure. All radar modes lost.
   * OXY - oxygen system failure. Flight above 8000 feet will lead to
     impaired vision and eventually loss of consciousness.
   * NAV - failure of the INS. All navigation aids on your UFCP will
     cease to function.
   * LAN - failure of LANTIRN night vision pod or targetting pod.
     Automatic target selection will be lost. Enhangced night vision
     will be lost.
   * HUD - failure of the Head Up Display. Loss of all weapon aiming
     functions and head up flight data - speed, altitudeetc.
   * ECM - failure of ASPJ ECM jammer. More susceptible to radar
     tracking.
   * COM - failure of communications transceiver. GCA option no longer
     available.
   * RWR - failure of Radar Warning Receiver. Detection of enemy radar
     tracking beams will cease.
   * WPN - weapon failure. Consult weapon status display on an MFD to
     determine precise failure.
   * ILS - failure of Instrument Landing System. Automatic landing will
     no longer be available since autopilot uses the ILS system.


			--- PAGE 36 ---


 Rear view

 Your F-16 offers excellent all round vision from the cockpit. During
combat manoeuvres this is essential. Makes sure that periodically you
look out each side and to the rear to check for hostile aircraft.

  "One peek is worth a thousand radar sweeps"    - Unknown

 Head Up Display (GEC Avionics UK)

 Superimposed upon your view ahead is a peojection of symbolic and
alphanumeric information. Essential information such as airspeed,
heading, altitude and weapon aiming symbology are presented enabling
you to focus outside the cockpit ("head up") for the majority of the
time. The display also has the ability to present a "daylight" infra-
red image when usedin conjunction with LANTIRN for night flying.


			--- PAGE 37 ---


 Aircraft heading

 Magnetic compass heading across top of display. Incrementing left to
right, notared in units of 10 degrees, calibrated every 5 degrees,
resolution 1 degree. Central marker at your present heading.

 Indicated airspeed

 Vertical scale on left hand side of display. Incrementing from bottom
to top, notated in units of 10 knots, calibrated every 10 knots,
resolution 2 knots. Central marker shows your current indicated
airspeed (n.b. NOT true airspeed; see Ground School notes for
description of difference if you are not sure).

 Altitude

 Vertical scale on right hand side of display. Incrementing from bottom
to top, notated in units of 1000 feet, calibrated every 100 feet,
resolution 20 feet. Central marker at your present altitude.


			--- PAGE 38 ---


 Fligth Path Ladder

 Pitch bars (switch selectable) show aircraft pitch and roll altitude
relative to the ground. Ends of bars point downwards when climbing and
upwards when diving. Notated in units of 10 degrees. Present value
intersects centre of HUD.

 Aircraft symbol

 At the centre of the HUD is a small synbol representing your aircraft.
The symbol inverts to show inverted flight.

 g force

 At the top left hand corner of the HUD you willsee a readout of g
force (weight multiplying factor) currently acting upon your aircraft
and you.

 Mach number

 Your speed is given at the top right hand corner, expressed in units
of the speed of sound at your present altitude.

 Range

 The uppermost figure at the bottom right hand corner of the HUD is
the distance, in miles, to your current target.

 Bearing

 Immediately below Range you will find target bearing. Ajust your
heading to this value in order to fly directly towards the target.

 Weapon symbology:

 Selecting a particular weapon will be confirmed on the HUD by its
abbreviation or "discrete":
   *  M61A1    cannon
   *  AIM9M    Sidewinder
   *  AIM120   Amraam
   *  DUR      Durandal
   *  AGM88    HARM
   *  MK84     2000lb bomb
   *  MK83     1000lb bomb
   *  AGM65D   IIR Maverick
   *  AGM65E   Laser Maverick
   *  MK82     Snakeye bomb

 plus no. of weapon type remaining
   *  LOCK     radar locked on to target
   *  IN RNG   in range cue for selected weapon


			--- PAGE 39 ---


 Ranging reticle

 Afterdesignating a target on your radar, the ranging reticle will
appear atthe centre of the HUD. This symbol provides a dynamic visual
cue of the range to your target.

 Target designator

 This small box gives you an indication of where your target will
appear on the HUD as it comes within visual range.

 Lock-on diamond

 Once the launch parametters of your chosen weapon are fulfilled, the
homing head will confirm lock-on by superimposing a diamond over the
target.

 CCIP

 To ensure accurate delivery of unguided bombs, your weapons computer
offers a Continuosly Computed Impact Point, displayed on the HUD for
the appropriate weapons. Place the displayed "impact point" over the
desired target at the point of release.

 That just about covers everything. Any questions?


			--- PAGE 40 ---


 Getting airborne

 OK. Time to get airborne. "Free flight" is a good place to start if
you're low on flying hours Don't forgetto register your pilot's log -
paperwork is important too!

 Free flight

 On all training missions your flight will begin with a fully
servicable aircraft, loaded with a weapon configuration appropriate to
the sortie. Having requested permission to take-off, the control tower
will ask for your IFF (Identification Friend or Foe) security code.
Clearance to start your engine and taxi to the runway will then follow.

 Check your straps, one last look around - all clear - power up! Engine
rpm will rapidly reach idle level (approximately 60%). Nudge the
throttle forward gently to start taxiing away from the hangar. Steer by
using either the sidestick  controller (Nose Wheel Steering) or the
rudder pedals (differential braking). Make your way over to the runway,
line up with the centreline, throttle back to idle and apply the wheel
brakes.

 Canopy locked. Control surfaces functioning. Clear for take-off.
Holding the wheel brakes on, open the throttle to 80% rpm. Release the
brakes. Open the throttle to 100% and follow through to full reheat.
Hold tight! At a typical combat weight, this bird accelerates from 0 to
125 kts in approximately 10 seconds. As your speed passes through 125
kts, pull back gently on the sidestick to raise the nose. You will
become airborne at roughly 150 kts with the speed continuing to
increase even if you pull up into a vertical climb, providing that your
All Up Weight is not in excess of 26000lb or so. Normal climb out from
the airfield is at about 60 degrees. Retract the undercarriage
immediately - you'll stress the retraction mechanism if you exceed 300
kts with the wheels down and your ground crew will NOT be pleased.
Flaperon operation is totally automatic with the fly-by-wire system
adjusting the leading and trailing edge settings optimum wing lift at
all times. (See your ground school notes)


			--- PAGE 41 ---

 Having reached about 5000 feet, pull the throttle out of reheat and
begin with a few gentle turns left and right to get a feel of the
aircraft's response. Response. Remember to keep an eye open for other
aircraft as you manoeuvre. As you bank your aircraft the "g" force
required to sustain the turn increases. If you do not pull back on the
sidestick as you roll, your aircraft will start to slip into the turn
and the nose will fall slowly. Momentary back pressure on the sidestick
will "trim" the aircraft by increasing your angle of attack and you
will see a corresponding increase in "g" force (top left corner of the
HUD).

Once you become confident, try a few 360 degree rolls and tight turns.
Notice how the maximum roll rate increases with forward speed. When
manoeuvering at lower speeds you will notice the fly-by-wire control
syatem limiting your angle of attack to 25 degrees. This is a built-in
design feature to help you avoid stalling or spinning. If the aircraft
finds that it cannot generate the required lift, the nose will
automatically be lowered in order to increase the airspeed. For a more
detailed discussion on aerodynamics, see your ground school notes.

Similarly, at higher speeds the pitch rate is automatically limited to
avoid overstressing the airframe. The F-16 will allow you to pull up to
9g (within its combat speed range) but don't expect to hold this for
very long or you will black out. The effect is only temporary but
things could get nasty at low altitude. Even worse, pushing on the
sidestick will build up negative "g" resulting in "redout" - NOT to be
recommended.

During a sustained turn the wings need to generate extralift if the
aircraft is not to lose altitude. This extra lift is generated by
increasing the wing incidence which in turn creates extra aerodynamic
drag. So, in a turn, you will notice your speed decay if you do not
compensate by increasing the engine thrust. For example, in a 9g turn
at approximately 600 kts you may need all the thrust you have -
including reheat - depending upon your aircraft weight.

Here's an interesting manoeuvre. Roll your aircraft to approximately 45
degrees and pull up into a climbing turn. As you continue to pull you
will perform an "off-axis" loop i.e. inclined to the vertical.


			--- PAGE 42 ---

During the manoeuvre you will see changes in both pitch and roll
angles, with pitch decreasing to about 45 degrees and then decreasing
as you pull into inverted flight. Unfortunately the ground school
simulator doesn't get this right and ends up pitching over 90 degrees,
even at steep roll angles!

During "free flight" you are invited to fly to any of the designated
ranges for target practice. You will NOT be subjected to dummy SAM
alerts and drone interceptor aircraft - you will probably have enough
on your plate already.

Before getting too adventurous, it will be well worth while to practice
your take-off and landing technique, usually referred to as "circuits
and bumps". The idea is to remain within the airfield "circuit",
getting familar with landmarks, perspectives and aircraft handling.

The following illustration is a suggested circuit pattern with
distances and altitudes that should give you plenty of time to correct
for errors. As you become more proficient you will be able to stay much
closer to the airfield, perhaps performing "airshow style" tight-turn
take-offs and approaches.

			--- PAGE 43 ---


 So, let's start thinking about getting back down. On your Up Front
Control Panel should be range and bearing information for the airfield.
Turn onto the displayed bearing and your Inertial Navigation System
will show you the estimate time to arrival. Aim to be approaching the
airfield at about 125 kts, at 4000 ft altitude and 15 miles from
touchdown. For assistance from the control tower, transmit your
callsign and requesta Ground Control Approach (GCA). If you would like
to practice your landing technique, ask the instructor to position your
aircraft on the approach by requesting "Landing Practice" prior to
take-off.

 Landing Practice

 Your flight begins at 2500 ft, lined up with the runway 10 miles from
touchdown. At a typical approach speed of 125 kts you will have
approximately 4 minutes before crossing the runway threshold. During
your approach you may either (a) proceed without assistance (b) request
a GCA talkdown (Ground Control Approach) or (c) select autopilot.
Option (a) is what you should be aiming for, option (b) will give you a
little help from the control tower, and option (c) is for those who
want to see how it SHOULD be done.


			--- PAGE 44 ---


 (a) manualapproach

 Checklist: (all values approximate and will vary with aircraft weight)
   *  throttle 78%
   *  speed 125 kts
   *  altitude 2500  ft
   *  AoA approx. 13degs
   *  VSI - 11 ft/s
   *  pitch +5 degs
   *  touchdown 10 mis
   *  undercarriage down

 Contact the airfield control tower by transmitting your callsign. Be
prepared for the response:
   *  "ROGER callsign"
   *  "STATUS GREEN"
   *  "CLEAR TO LAND"

 Use your Instrument System to ensure that you maintain the correct
glideslope during the approach. Lowering the undercarriage will make
the aircraft response less agile (imposed by the fly-by-wire system)
and the flaps will automaticallyadopt the landing configuration. Be
ready to adjust the throttle slightly to account for the extra drag.
Aim to touchdown a few hundred feet beyond the runway threshold,
remembering to "flare" (pull the nose up slightly) just before
touchdown in order tom raduce your rate of descent. After touchdown
close the throttle and apply your wheel brakes after the nosewheel has
lowered. Having finally stopped, take a look aroundfor the nearest
hangar, open the throttle slightly and begin to taxi. Your debrif will
begin after stopping inside the hangar.

 (b) Ground Control Approach, GCA

 Select the required airfield on your UFCP and transmit your callsign.

 Tower response:
   *  "ROGER FALCON"
   *  "STATUS GREEN" airfield combat status
   *  "CLEAR TO LAND"

 Request GCA to start GCA approach
   *  "ROGER FALCON"
   *  "STARTING GCA"
   *  "TURN LEFT TO 270"    adjust your heading to 270
   *  "DESCEND TO 2500 FT"  adjust your altitude
   *  "FINAL APPROACH"      turn into final approach
   *  "HDG 360 VSI-8"       Adjust heading and rate of descent
   *  "HDG OK VSI OK"       on finals...
   *  "WELCOME TO BASE"     after touchdown



			--- PAGE 45 ---


 (c) Autopilot

 Your aircraft is fitted with a landing aid which links the autopilot
with the Instrument Landing System to give a fully automated landing.
This may only be used if both your ILS equipment is functioning and
ILS is available on the selected runway. The autopilot may be selected
whenever the "ILS in range" light on the UFCP is lit. Control is fully
apply the wheel brakes as usual.

 (d) Dead stick landing

 If you are unfortunate enough to be faced with a "dead stick" landing
i.e. gliding in after engine failure, first ensure that all external
stores are jettisoned. For a fixed wing fighter, the F-16 is very
efficient at gliding with a typical altitude loss of 750 feet for every
nautical mile flown. Adopting a slightly nose down attitude, maintain
an indicated airspeed of approximatly 170 kts to give you the optimum
glidepath. Your VSI should be around 40 feet per second. Do not put
your undercarriage down during the approach - you cannot afford the
extra drag. As you approach the runway threshold, lower your
undercarriage and pull gently on the sidestick to flare and reduce your
rate of descent to around 5 to 10 ft/sec. With practice you will be
able to execute this manoeuvre with confidence - practice makes
perfect! Having made a safe touchdown and brought your aircraft to a
standstill, you will of course not be able to taxi to the hangar. The
ground crew will be along shortly to congratulate you...
It is vital that you perfect the technique of landing your aircraft
safely! The only good landing is one that you can walk away from, with
your aircraft in one piece!


			--- PAGE 46 ---


 Flying training

 During training, you may select a dummy "front line mission" for any
role of the F-16.
   *  SCRAMBLE - air-to-air interception
   *  HAMMERBLOW - offensive counterair operations
   *  DEEPSTRIKE - interdictor strike
   *  TANKBUSTER - battlefield close air support
   *  WATCHTOWER - reconnaisance
 Objectives will be assigned appropriate to your mission with simulated
SAM warnings and "hostile" drone aircraft injected to maximise the
"realism" of your sortie. Although there is no danger of actually being
shot down, you will be warned of any "simulated kill" if you would not
have survived in real combat.

 Remember to take notes during your pre-flight briefing and plan your
flight route carefully. Your ground crew will ensure that your aircraft
is fully serviced, refuelled and armed with a weapon mix appropriate to
your mission.



 "Know and use all the capabilities of your airplane. If you don't,
sooner or later, some guy who does will kick your ass."
				-Lt.D.Pace, U.S.Navy FWS Instructor


			--- PAGE 47 ---


 Chapter 4 FRONT LINE OPERATIONS

 WARNING! Do NOT embark upon a mission without training....it is
DANGEROUS!


 Mission selection

If is daybreak. You join the other pilots in the squadron crewroom to
discuss objectives for the day ahead. Tactics, combat manoeuvres, one
thing is quite clear - you're all itching to get airborne.

 The majority of your flying will be on missions assigned by Tartical
Air Command (TAC) with front line operations grouped into the 5 primary
roles of the F-16:
   *  SCRAMBLE - air-to-air interception
   *  HAMMERBLOW - offensive counterair operations
   *  DEEPSTRIKE - interdictor strike
   *  TANKBUSTER - battlefield close air support
   *  WATCHTOWER - reconnaisance
 Having made your selection, you proceed to the pre-flight briefing for
target details and weapon loading.

 Now, for all you fighter jocks who want to take the F-16 back to its
roots, TAC has a special assignment:
   *  GLADIATOR - one-on-one dogfight

 Never mind the SAM's or other "everyday" problems, just get out there
and take him out!

 And finally .....
   *  OPERATION COQUEST - multi-mission strategic campaign

 Tactical Air Command will not allows novice pilots to command
Operation Conquest - the risk is too great! Permission will be granted
only after you have completed a successful mission in each of the
primary roles at your first squadron.


			--- PAGE 48 ---


                        MISSION TACTICS

 SCRAMBLE - air-to-air interception

Hostile aircraft approaching........no time to lose! Your ground crew
have refuelled and re-armed your aircraft, ready for take-off.
Don't forget your pre-flight briefing.......
     *   MiG-29s.......check!
     *   15000 ft......check!
     *   25 miles......check!
     *   Heading 260...check!

 Weather update.....cloudbase 25000 ft, light SW winds

 OBJECTIVE: Intercept and destroy hostile aircraft.

 To explain fully the principles of air combat would take a book in
itself so let's take a look at the five basic elements involved:


			--- PAGE 49 ---

 (a)DETECTION.

Early warning radar may be able to help you here providing that the
targets is not flying too low. Locating and tracking the target is best
done with your air-to-air radar but bear in mind that it is a
transmitter and will warn the enemy of your approach. The most
important factor with detection is "the earlier the betteer" in order
to give you time to plan your attack and to select the right weapon.

      "He who sees first,lives longest"    -Unknown

 (b)POSITIONING

Your most effective weapon is surprise. The majority of kills are made
without the target even being aware of the attack until it is too late.
So, planning your approach is vital. A wide sweeping turn to a position
above and behind your enemy will give you maximum "energy" and the
upper hand as you begin your attack.

 (c)ATTACK

Having chosen your weapon commit yourself to the attack. Speed is very
important now in order to maintain the element of surprise. Watch for
the launch parameters of your weapon and let him have it!

 (d)ENGAGE

Unless you caught your target completely off guard, expect him to make
some pretty dramatic evasive manoeuvres. Put him on the defensive by
getting in the first shot, then manoeuvre your aircraft onto his tail
as quickly as possible. The most well known combat manoeuvres are
described in detail in chapter 5 so make sure you've had plenty of
practice. Pilots will also tell you that violent uncoordinated turns
are often the best way to throw the enemy off your tail, so it pays to
not be too predictable!

 Things can happen extremely quickly during a dogfight which may only
last a few seconds so try to keep a good idea of what your target is
doing and where he is - often easier said then done! On top of this you
must keep an eye on your altitude and speed - trade off one for the
other but don't let your speed drop significantly or you'll end up
being the target.


			--- PAGE 50 ---


 (e)BREAK OFF

The key to success in any dogfight is to remain as aggressive as
possible. However, if you suffer extensive damage or see that you are
running dangerously low on fuel, it's time to get the hell out of
there. How? This could be tricky! Speed and height are what you really
need so it's time to select full afterburner and head for home. Unfor-
tunately, your opponent is not going to give up the chase too easily...

 HAMMERBLOW - offensive counterair operations

Our objectives here are to reduce the enemy's ability to strike back.
We achieve this by a variety of ground attack missions focussed upon
military installations such as:

 (a) AIRFIELDS - runways, hangars, grounded aircraft, control tower etc
 (b) MILITARY BASES - these control the deployment of mobile ground
     forces
 (c) C-CUBED CENTRES - responsible for intelligence and EW coordination
 (d) EARLY WARNING RADAR INSTALLATIONS
 (e) SAM AND ANTI-ARTILLERY (AAA) SITES
 
TAC will select your target and brief you with the necessary detaiels
prior to take-off. You may even get a few words of advice about
potential hazards in the target area so be ready to take notes.

Your ground crew have refulled your aircraft and will recommend a
suitable weapon configuration if you so request. Don't forget to make
at least a couple of air-to-air missiles in case you attract some
unwelcome attention.

The most important aspect, as in any mission, is surprise. Here are a
few tips so that you give the enemy as little warning as possible.

(a) Flying directly to a target will allow the enemy to anticipate your
objectives and prepare its defence. So, a common tactic is to plan your
flight path with a dramatic change of direction prior to arriving at
the target.

(b) Flying low will minimise the possiblity of you being tracked by
enemy early warning radar. This should reduce the likelihood of enemy
interceptors appearing.

(c) Unless radio and radar "silence" as much as possible. Transmitting
to an airfield or using your radar will only make the enemy aware of
your presence.

(d) Unless directed to attack a SAM site or EW radar it is best to
avoid these at all costs.

                             "Fly low, hit hard!"

OBJEKTIVE: Destroy assigned target(s) and return to base.
             


			--- PAGE 51 ---


 DEEPSTRIKE-interdictor strike

 As a key member of our interdictor fighter wing, you will now focus
your attention on vital suppert installations and supply links. Targets
of particular interest include:

(a) FUEL DEPOTS - control fuel supply to airfields & military bases.
(b) POWER STATIONS - supply power to factories.
(c) FACTORIES - provide essential & replenishment.
(d) BRIDGES - supply route choke points.

 Your priorities are clean. Penetrate enemy airspace, avoid ground 
defences, strike yous assigned target and get home as soon as possible.
Easy? Don't you belive it! These missions need to be planned if you're
going to survive. Organise your flight plan carefully - TAC will want
to know where to look if you don't make it back! Get familiar with your
route and any possible landmarks that you can use on the way. It's 
also a good  idea to estimate your time to each waypoint - any fuel
reserves are going to be essential if you have to divert to an 
alternative airfield.

 Your ground crew will recommend a suitable weapon load or, of course,
you may select your own preferred configuration. Above all, keep a
watchful eye on your threat warning panel and be prepared for the
arrival of enemy interceptors. Just hit that Dogfight button and get in
there!

 Objective: Destroy assigned target(s) and return to base.


			--- PAGE 52 ---


 TANKBUSTER - battlefield close air support

 Low level ground attack in the heat of the battlefield.....perhaps the
most dangerous mission of all. Our intelligence sources have located
allied and enemy tank battalions locked in a fierce land battle. Heavy
losses are predicted unless you can provide air support - and fast!
Now, these guys aren't fooling around down there, they'll shoot at
anything that moves! Chances are there will be helicoptergunships
providing air cover, backed up by mobile radar-guided SAM launchers.
Still willing to volunteer?

 Your first priority will be to down any patrolling gunships so a
couple of AMRAAMS should clear the air before you arrive. Use your
air-to-air radar in track-while-scan mode to search during your
approach - any choppers should be sitting ducks. Your next biggest
threat are those mobile SAM launchers so keep an eye on your Threat
Warning Panel. Be ready to use chaff and flares. Use your Mavericks
to clear the area of SAMs before you arrive. Now, what about those
tanks? Take LANTIRN with you if it's available. This box of tricks
gives you automatic target acquisition and long range missile guidance
for both infra-red and laser-guided Maverick missiles. Survival is the
name of the game and if you can pick off your targets from a reasonable
stand-off distance so muchthe better. However, this is not a perfect
would and LANTIRN pods may be in short supply. What now? Well, laser-
guided Mavericks may still be used from long range providing that
allied infantry in the area are equipped with laser targets
designators. A last resort is to use your AGM-65D IIR Mavericks by
locking-on "visually" using the infra-red zoom lens of the missile.
Without LANTIRN however this can only be achieved at relatively close
range.

OBJECTIVE: Assist your ground forces to clear the area of all enemy
armoured vehicles, SAM launchers and hostile helicopter gunships.

 WATCHTOWER - reconnaissance

 For TAC to plan and coordinate its operations it is essential that up
to date informations be acquired on the movement of enemy ground
forces. Despite the advent of spy satellites, reconnaissance missions
remain a vital source of intelligence. Present techniques involve two
different approaches (a) high speed, high altitude sorties typical of
the SR-71 Blackbird and (b) high speed, ultra-low level sorties which
is where you come in....

 We have recently taken delivery of the very latest high-tech
reconnaissance pod - ATARS (Advanced actical Air Reconnaissance
System) Mounted on your centreline weapons pylon, you can transmit your
information in real time via relay stations back to HQ giving literally
an up-to-the-minute strategic and tactical update.

 A vitally important aspect of any reconniassance mission is to keep
the enemy unaware of where you've been and what you've learned about
his movements. So, plan your route carefully, keep yourself as light
and manoeuvreable as possible with a minimum self-defence capability,
and remember to switch on your ATARS transmitter ONLY when  you're
over the target area.

			--- PAGE 54 ---


OBJECTIVE:  Fly over designated areas and transmit data back to HQ

One last point...your ATARS pod is the very best that technology
can offer. Don't let it fall into enemy hands....BRING IT BACK!

GLADIATOR - two-player dogfight (dual pilots only)

 Select this mission for an exhilerating head-to-head battle. Your
mission beginsat take-off with an air combat weapon load. (No preflight
briefing necessary, no pilot log active.) Intelligence will inform you
of your opponent's location and EW radar will track him during flight
if he strays above 500 ft. (See T0 on UFCP) A new mission begin after
each kill.
"When you engage you know that only one of you is going home..."

OPERATION CONQUEST

Telex for you sir.....

/ITX23291XX(TAC)+ 11:45:00
SECURITY: *TOP SECRET*
DIPLOMACY NEGOTIATIONS
DETERIORATING.
INTELLIGENCE SOURCES HAVE
IDENTIFIED INCREASING MILITARY
MANOEUVRES.
STANDBY......


			--- PAGE 55 ---



Looks like we could be in for some trouble. Time to get over to the
pre-briefing room to assess the situation. Intelligence are expecting
an update at any minute....


 /ITX 23291XX(TAC)+14:45:00
FROM:TACTICAL AIR COMMAND
SECURITY: *TOP SECRET*
DIPLOMACY NEGOTIATIONS FAILED. APPROACHING HOSTILE
FORCES. RULES OF ENGAGEMENT -*DEFENCE* DO NOT
OPEN FIRE UNLESS FIRED UPON. STANDBY...
Time to select weapon load and get refuelled. Check weather conditions
- no asking for a calm sunny day now! Potential targets, enemy
strenghts, be prepared - flight planning is essential. Will the enemy
strike?

/ITX 23291XX(TAC)+ 15:37:06
FROM TACTICAL AIR COMMAND
SECURITY: *TOP SECRET*
RED ALERT! HOSTILE FORCES ENGAGED.
ACTIVATE **OPERATION CONQUEST**.
YOU HAVE BEEN SELECTED AS SQUADRON COMMANDER.
REPORT FOR INTELLIGENCE UPDATE IMMEDIATELY. RULES OF
ENGAGEMENT - PURSUE ENEMY SURRENDER.
GOOD LUCK!

It is already clear thatthe enemy offensive consists primarilyof low
flying ground attack aircraft and highly mobile tank battalions. their
priorities are unknown, but many of our military installations and
strategic support services are under threat. Things should become
clearer as you learn more about the enemy's movements. Right now the
enemy is enjoying air superiority - you've got to change that!

Unlike your other front line duties, OPERATION CONQUEST will test your
leadership and flying skills throughout a conflict that you hoped
would never happen. Day and night, regardless of weather, the enemy
advance continues. Without air support the allies will suffer heavy
losses and morale will fall. Every ounce of experience will be needed
to prevent the enemy from fulfilling his objective - total defeat of
the allies.


			--- PAGE 56 ---


As squadron commander it is your responsibility to anticipate the
enemy's intentions, consider the consequences and act decisively. Under
your command is a squadron of allied aircraft capable of flying
missions in parallel to you own. Assignmentof targets and the effective
use of these aircraft is YOUR responsibility during the pre-flight
briefing but be prepared to face problems of reliability and shortages
of weapons and spares - your ground crew can't work miracles!

Study your strategic display carefully during your preflight briefing.
Watch out for any weak links. Essential strategic installations can be
repaired, given time and spares, but don't rely on either! Your
priorities must remain flexible. TAC has prepared the following brief
to assist with formulating your strategy:


                      TACTICAL AIR COMMAND
                OPERATION CONQUEST - TARGET BRIEF
                      COMMANDER'S EYES ONLY

(a) AIRFIELDS - These range from minor airstrips with limited support
capability to major front line stations. Airfields are heavily defended
with SAM launchers and anti-aircraft. Your prioties here will include
any visible aircraft on the ground, and putting the runway(s) out of
action.

(b) MILITARY BASES - These control the deployment of mobile ground
forces, including tank batallions, SAM launchers and helicopter
gunships. Destruction of these bases will reduce military coordination
and effectiveness. Heavily defended.

(c) FACTORIES - Supply weapons, spares, new military equipment (tanks,
aircraft, etc) and provide an essential repair service for all damaged
installations. Factories are considered relatively "soft" targets
(i.e. not so heavily defended) but not all sites are of strategic
importance.

(d) POWER STATIONS - Provide power to factories. Because of their
strategic importance they are very heavily defended. Output will only
cease if all colling towers are destroyed.

(e)FUEL DEPOTS - Supply fuel for aircraft and mobile ground forces.
Relatively "soft" targets but numerous. Their destruction will lead to
fuel shortages and reduced mobility for all military vehicles.

			--- PAGE 57 ---


(f) SAM & AAA SITES - These are major ground defence installations
offering long range, wide area defence against air attack. Avoid if
possible or destroy from reasonable "standoff" range. Do not confuse
with mobile SAM and AAA vehicles or shoulder-launced SAM's, all
offering short range cover.

(g) EARLY WARNING RADAR STATIONS - Responsible for tracking intruder
aircraft and scrambling enemy interceptors. Avoid detection by flying
below 500 feet, if possible, and take advantage of any "blind spots"
midway between stations. Damage will reduce their effective range. Any
area without radar cover is extremely vulnerable to air attack
therefore EW stations are heavily defended.

(h) COMMAND, CONTROL & COMMUNICATION CENTRES - responsible for
producing intelligence reports, in-flight updates and the coordination
of air and land forces. Heavily defended.

(i) TANK BATTALIONS - Responsible for offensive ground attack on
strategic installations. Highly mobile with cover against air attack
provided by SAM launchers and/or helicopter gunships. Capable of
limited self defence.
(j) BRIDGES - Usually referred to as "supply choke points". The
destruction of bridges will have a detrimental effect on the supply of
spares, weapons and fuel.

 Your experience during OPERATION CONQUEST will be recorded in your
personallog under "commanding hours" and "successful campaigns". As
commander you will not "personally" embark upon a flying mission but
instead fly as a squadron pilot, under your own callsign. In the event
of this pilot being "killed in action", you will continue flying as
another pilot, subject to the availability of aircraft. After
successfully completing a campaign you will be offered the opportunity
to transfer to a squadron of higher status during the debriefing.


			--- PAGE 58 --- 


 For safety reasons, all weapons are disarmed until you are airborne.

AIR-TO-AIR missiles
You have two types available:


Sidewinder AIM-9M
Infra-red (IR)
Min.range 0.5nm
Max.range 11 nm


AMRAAM AIM-120A
Radar guided
Min.range 0.5nm
Max.range over 30 nm




			--- PAGE 59 ---



 Both of these  missiles are "fire-and-forget" i.e. you may turn away
from your target after weapon release. Although modern technology gives
these missiles an "all-aspect" capability, they are most lethal when
fired at a target either head-on or from astern.

 Vulnerability cone & lethal cone

The missiles is armed using the weapon selector to bring the AIM9M or
AIM120 discrete onto the head up display (HUD). The number remaining is
also shown. In the centre of the HUD you will see the raning reticle,
calibrated to approximatelt 30 mls.

 Your attack will begin having located the target on your air radar,
probably in "track-while-scan" mode. Locking on to your chosen target
with the "designate" command, you will see the LOCK discrete appear at
the bottom left hand corner of the HUD and the target designator box
overlaying the target if it is within the HUD field of view. The target
will probably still be out of visual range so use the designator box as
a steering cue. Look to the bottom right hand corner of the HUD for
target range and bearing information. Prsitioned in the centre of the
HUD you will now see the ranging reticle. As you get closer to the
target you will see the ranging reticle "unwinding" in a counter-
clockwise direction.



			--- PAGE 60 ---



 Once you are within range for the selected weapon you will see the IN
RNG discrete appear on the HUD and the weapon will confirm its own
lock-on by superimposing a diamond over the target as soon as its
launch parameters are satisfied. Manoeuvre until the target is
reasonably central on the HUD and launch your weapon.

 In the case of the AMRAAM, your radar will have passed tracking
information to the hominng head up to point of launch. Guidance is
automatic thereafter, party inertial, partly by its own radar. Be
prepared for an ECM warning, (see Threat Warning Panel) indicating that
your target is trying to confuse the missile with electronic counter-
measures. This light will extinguish automatically if either your
on-board ASJP (Airborne Self Protection Jammer) or the AMRAAM's
internal ECCM (Electronic Counter-Counter Measures) manage to counter
the ECM defence.

 The Sidewinder homes in on infra-red (heat) emissions from the target-
a glowing afterburner being a particular favourite. Don't get confuse
by the LOCK cue from your radar. The Sidewinder is NOT receiving radar
guidance, you are! The missile will comfirm its own lock-on with the
usual diamond symbol. After launch, the missile will follow the
strongest heat source and that could be decoy flares if the enemy pilot
has realised what is happening. So, if he tries to fool the missile, be
ready for sharp evasive manoeuvres - he may just pass through your gun
sights. Also, the missile's inability to distinguish one infra-red
source from another makes it unwise to use when allied aircraft are
close by or engaged in the same dogfight. Another point worth noting is
that infra-red guidance systems do not work well in cloud so don't
waste your Sidewinders if you find yourself above the cloudbase.
Likewise, zooming for cloud cover may save your life if an IR missile
is heading for your tailpipe.

 Don't forget that all missiles have a minimum range as well as a
maximum. On launch, the missile accelerates very rapidly to its maximum
speed and may in fact overshoot and miss the target all together if you
are too close. If you find yourself staring down his tailpipe, arm your
M61 internal gun and give it your best shot.


			--- PAGE 61 ---


 AIR-TO-GROUND MISSILES

HARM AGM-88A, High Speed Anti-Radiation Missile

HARM is a highly effective missile for use against any form of ground
radar emitter e.g. early warning radar stations and radar-guided SAM
installations. Your Threat Warning Panel includes a "radar tracking"
warning light which illuminates whenever you are being tracked by a
ground-based air defence radar. Assuming that you have HARM on board,
proceed as follows.

 Use your weapon selector to arm the AGM-88 (confirmed on your HUD) and
slect "Ground Target Ranging" radar mode on one of your multi-function
displays. Working in conjunction with your radar, your weapons computer
will now restrict displayed targets to ground radar installations, and
the radar will automatically select the offending site shown on your
Radar Warning Receiver. Lock on to the target using the "target
designate" command. Operation of HUD symbology for radar LOCK, target
designator box, ranging reticle, IN RNG cue and the weapon lock-on
diamond, is the same as for air-to-air weapons.

 HARM is the very latest anti-radiation missile, sufficiently
intelligent tostill find itstarget even if the enemy's transmitter is
switched off after launch. Effective range approximately 4nm.

MAVERICIK AGM-65

The stores inventory includes the two most popular versions of this
highly effective air-to-ground missile:
 * AGM-65D Imaging Infra Red (IIR)
 * AGM-65E Laser guided
Both types may be slaved to the LANTRIN target acquisition system,
greatly enhancing stand-off range, accuracy and ease of use. Above
30000 ft the weapon becomes unstable.

The AGM-65D is by far the most common version. Use the weapon 
selector to arm the missile, confirmed on the HUD by AGM-65D. Next
put one of your MFDs into "thermal image" mode. Target acquisition 
without LANTIRN is by means of the of the imaging infa-red seeker
in the nose of the missile which is used to generate a zoom thermal
image on an MFD in your cockpit. Any "hot" target (i.e tank or mobile
SAM launcher) wihtin the missile's field of wiew may be indentified 
beyond visual range, up to approximately 3 miles.

Having indentified your target (ensuring that it's hostile and NOT 
allied!) "pickle" the weapon to lock the homing head to the target.
The lock-on diamond will now appear and track your target, within 
the constraints of the HUD.

The ranging reticle is calibrated to approximately 10nm. Manoeuvre
your aircraft to bring the target reasonable central your weapon.
n.b. Selecting and designating a target on your ground radar will
not necessarily corrospond with the "pickled" target. Your weapon
is locked on to the target surrounded by the diamond symbol whereas 
you may have designated a different target for tracking purposes
on your radar. The LOCK and IN RNG discretes will refer to the rader-
tracked target only. To summeraise:

1.Approach the target area, preferably with your Up Front Control 
Panel in Waypoint mode. The enemy may detect your approach if you use 
your ground radar.

2.Have the AGM-65D already armed, with an MFD in "thermal image" mode.

3.As soon as you identify a hostile "hot" target, pickle the weapon 
to lock on and Fire!

4.Repeat step 3 during your approach but do not stay immiediately
over the target area - you will be less vulnerable if you fly out 
and then make a second pass.

5.Once launched, the missile is self-guided.


			--- PAGE 63 ---


The AGM-65E version uses the tri-service laser tracker, allowing target 
designation by ground infantry, another aircraft carrying the weapon. 
The missile effectively rides a laser beam reflected from the chosen
target, making it more accurate and elss susceptable to countermeasures
than its infra-red equivalent. The missile's biggest advantage however 
is not being restricted to "hot" targets. In the absence of the LANTIRN
you will be relying upon ground infantry to illuminate the target using
their portal ILS-NT200.

Operation is similar to the AGM-65S but lock-on is automatic once the
weapon detects an illuminated target. This will be confirmed by the 
diamond tracking symbol appearing on your HUD.

Advantages include not having to picle the target manually and knowing
immediately that the acquired target is hostile. You do not however get 
a thermal image of the target. Without LANTIRN your effective range is
approximately 3 miles.

Now, adding LANTIRN starts a whole new ball game. As well as providing 
a night vision capability, LANTIRN allows you to identify and designate 
targets via your ground radar, both manually and automatically.

The targetting pod contains both infra-red and laser target designators,
allowing the system to be used with both types of Maverick. The infra-
red type however is still restricted to "hot" targets. Having armed the
required weapon (AGM65D or AGM65E) and comfirmed that the LANTIRN pod
is active (see UFCP) select your ground radar on one MFD and "thermal
mode" on another. LANTIRN will now automatically scan for hostile
targets and designate the "most appropriate" on your ground radar
display. You may of course manuallly override this and designate a
different target. Range and bearing will be displayed on the HUD as
usual, together with nthe target designator box overlaying the target
which will initially be beyond visual range. Weapon lock-on is
confirmed with the tracking diamond. After firing your weapon, LANTIRN
will lock on immediately to its next prioritised target, leaving you
ready to release another weapon. You will soon appreciate the enormous
advantages of automatic target recognition and when you see how many
targets can be destroyed on a single pass. Your effective range is now
that of the missile - approximately 11 miles!

 To summarise, LANTIRN gives you automatic target recognition and
selection from a much greater stand-off range - for both infra-red and
laser guided Mavericks - together with night vision. Take it if you can
get it!

 Unguided ordnance

n.b. Bombs may not be released at roll angles greater then 60degs.

 Durandal

 By far the most effective weapon for putting runways out of action,
the "concrete dibber" is an unguided bomb incorporating brake chute and
internal rocket motor (see chapter 8 for further details). Selecting
this weapon puts the HUD into CCIP mode (Continuously Computed Impact
Point) and is confirmed by the discrete DUR.

 Release the weapon when the aiming reticle is over the desired point
of impact, preferably at the intersection of two runways. Although this
sounds simple, the best technique of bomb release requires a fair
amount of practice:



			--- PAGE 65 ---


 1. Approach the airfield at approximately 500 kts at below 500 feet.

 2. Pull up into a climb, to about 2000 ft.

 3. Roll inverted, pulling the nose down to position the aiming reticle 
    at the required impact point.
 
 4. Roll to level flight ,release weapon, light the afterburners and
    get the hell out of there, releasing chaff and flares as you go.

MK83 1000LB AND MK84 2000LB BOMBS

Both types are simple freefall "iron" bombs, capable of giving the enemy 
quite a headache. Again, use CCIP mode on the HUD with a release 
technique as described above.



			--- PAGE 66 ---


MK82 SNAKEYE

This paritcular freefall bomb is fitted with retarding fins that flick
open immmediately upon release. Dropped at high speed and low altitude,
their primary purpose is to "shake off" unwanted purpuing aircraft by 
exploding in their flight path.

M61A1 CULCAN 20mm CANNONA

The F-16 reings supreme int hte close-up digfight and this is where your
choise of weapon wil be the internal 20mm cannon. When seleced, the 
ranging reticle (calibrated 6000 ft) is positioned by the weapon aiming 
computer to show the bullet trajectory.

Manoeuvre your aircraft to position the reticle over the enemy aircraft
and getting as close as possible, open fire whit short burst. Range can
be up to 3000ft but is only really effective up to 1500ft. The motto here
here is to go in close , and then when you think you are too close, go
in closer! However, this is easier said than done. At typical combat 
speeds of 450 to 550 kts, things happen VERY fast so you'll have to keep
your wits about you. A dogfight rarely lasts for more than just a few
seconds and only one of you is going home.

Mounted internally on the port side, this six-barrel, high velocity gun
fires 100 rounds per second. Bearing in mind that you have only 500
rounds to begin with, its magazine can be emptied in 5 seconds! So, the
techique is to fire short bursts, and only when the enemy is in your
sights. This is not a video game!

 Other equipment:

ATARS -Advanced Tactical Air Reconnaissance System

This new high tech pod provides near-real-time reconnaissance
capability. Electro-optical sensors replace conventional photographic
technology. Images are digitally processed and transmitted back to HQ
via relay stations for immediate interpretation. Operation is
straighforward. Simply switch on the pod (confirmed on your UFCP) to
scan the area beneath, simultaneously transmiting the data back to HQ.
Remember, however, that any continuous transmitter will eventually 
reveal your position to the enemy. Do not leave the systemon for longer
than necessary.

Note: Do NOT jettison an ATARS. This would result in the enemy decoding
our secure transmission algorithms and stealing the technology.


			--- PAGE 67 ---


EXTERNAL FUEL TANKS

These may be carried either on the centerline or inner wing pylons. 
Fuel is consumed equally from the external tanks prior to switching
automatically to the internall supply. See the fuel gauge for 
quantity remaining and the "external tanks empty" light.
 
CHAFF & FLARES

Your F-16 is fitted with internal chaff/flare dispensers (ALE-40).
The number of chaff and flare cartridges remaining is shown on your
weapon status display. Unlike your weapons, chaff and flares do not 
have to be selected prior firing.

Chaff is a simple but effective means of self defence againsf radar-
guided weapons and tracking stations. Deploy chaff when you see a
threat appear on your radar Warning Receiver.

Flares are self-defence decoys used to "fool" infra-red homing 
missiles. Use when you see the AAM or SAM warning on your Threat
Warning Panel but no indicate on your threat warning reciever. to be
safe, dispense both chaff and flares and starts to manoeuvre 
aggressively.


			--- PAGE 68 ---


After landing, procees to the nearest hangar where you will be
met by the ground crew. They'll give you a full damage report later.
Please observe airfield speed restrictions when taxing.

So, time to relax a little. Asses the mission. TAC will be waiting to
give  you a full debriefing.

For all "primary role" missions, you will be given your Mission
Effectiveness (ME) ratio and your Kill Ratio (KR) for the particular
flight. This will not neccessarily agree with your overall (ME) and
(KR) values which are culminative and recorded in your pilot's log.
For Operation Conquest your debriefing between flights will include
information on squadron strength, allied ground forces, and a morale
assessment.


			--- PAGE 69 ---


                         DAMAGE REPORT


 Having digested that little lot, it's time to take a look at the
damage report. Your ground crew will give you a report on major
component status and will do their best to get your bird back into
shape as soon as you initiate repairs. If all systems are not available
your only option is to try another airfield. Who said life was perfect?

 If you are in the middle of OPERATION CONQUEST and fatigue is setting
in, select the "R & R" option to take some well-earned leave. After a
couple of days rest you'll be able to continue with the campaign by
selecting the "OPERATION Conquest - Restore" option in the squadron
crewroom.

 Finally, if you have just returned from a successful OPERATION
CONQUEST, TAC will offer you a voluntary transfer to a new squadron of
higher status. The choice is yours. Completion of OPERATION CONQUEST in
the top level squadron takes a very special kind of pilot. Few have
achieved this distinction and been awarded the highest accolade...



			--- PAGE 70 ---

      Chapter 5     COMBAT MANOEUVRES


The following combat manoeuvres are categorised as Offensive and
Defensive, bearing in mind that during a dogfight the situation can
reverse in seconds with the pursor becomming the pursued.

OFFENSIVE:

		The Lag Pursuit
 This is a very simple but effective manoeuvre, used to maintain both
speed advantage and initiative during the attack. Follow your opponent
as he attempts to break from the attack with a tight turn. By remaining
on the outside of the turn radius, slightly astern, you can remain
hidden from his field of view. Be ready for an attempt by your opponent
to tighten the turn and force you into a spiral dive.

			--- PAGE 71 ---


		Offset head-on pass
 Approaching your opponent from head-on, begin by turning slightly to
create an offset to one side. Follow this by turning sharply towards
your opponent, passing beneath his flight path as he begins his turn
towards you. Maintain this high g turn until you complete a full
circle, finally out-turning your opponent to arrive on his tail.

			--- PAGE 72 ---


		Barrel roll attack
 As your opponent attempts to break by turning sharply into the
directionof the attack, avoid the overshoot by pulling up hard
and rolling away from the direction of his turn. Continue the barrel
rolland complete the manoeuvre by pulling in behind your target as your
direction of turn reverses.

			--- PAGE 73 ---


		High speed yo-yo
 If you find yourself closing in too fast and in danger of overshoo-
ting, the high speed yo-yo can be used to trade off speed for height.
Begin by pulling up into a climb, rolling on the way up to become
inverted at the top of the manoeuvre. As you continue with the pull
through, your speed loss will effectively tighten your turn radius
allowing you to slide in behind your opponent. The high speed yo-yo is
a very difficult manoeuvre to execute correctly, with timing and
technique being critical if you are not to reveal your intentions.

			--- PAGE 74 ---


		Low speed yo-yo
 Use this manoeuvre to gain extra speed during the closing stages of
your attack. Trading height for speed, start by diving inside your
opponent's turn. Before he counterattacks, pull in behind your target
by cutting across his turning circle. The desired closing effect may
not be achieved in one execution, in which case repeat the manoeuvre
until you are within firing range.

			--- PAGE 75 ---


DEFENSIVE:

		The break
 With the enemy closing at your "six" there's no time to waste. Turn as
sharply as you can into the direction of the attack thereby creating
the quickest "angle-off" between yourself and the pursuer. Brief use of
your airbrake may force your opponent to overshoot, allowing you to
reverse your turn and move in for the attack. If the enemy is alert,
this could be the beginning of the scissors manoeuvre.

			--- PAGE 76 ---


		The scissors
 Best described as a sequence of turn reversals, the objective is to
force the enemy to overshoot and leave you in a firing position. With
closely matched aidcraft (and pilot!) however, the manoeuvre can
rapidly reach a stalemate with each aircraft gaining only a transient
advantage. It is strongly recommended that after two reversals some
alternative manoeuvre be tried such as the spiral dive.

			--- PAGE 77 ---


		Spiral dive
 Often used to shake off a pursuing opponent, this manoeuvre begins by
rolling inverted and pulling into a steep turning dive. As the enemy
follows you into the spiral, throttle back and extend your airbrake
thereby forcing him to overshoot. Open throttle again quickly, turn
towards your opponent and pull up for the attack. This manoeuvre should
only be attempted at a starting altitude in excess of 15000 feet.

			--- PAGE 78 ---


		Split S
 Sometimes known as the Half Roll, this manoeuvre is commonly used to
disengage from the dogfight. Begin by rolling your aircraft inverted
and pulling into a vertical dive. Continuing the pull will bring you
out on a heading opposite to that of your opponent.

			--- PAGE 79 ---


		Immelmann turn
 Used primarily for repositioning prior to attack, the Immelmann turn
uses the vertical plane to change the direction of flight. Open full
throttle and pull into a vertical climb. During the ascent roll your
aircraft in preparation for a "roll off the top" onto your new heading.
 All of the above manoeuvres are common and well documented. In close
combat however it often pays to not be too predictable!

			--- PAGE 80 ---

Chapter 6    GROUND SCHOOL


Your Aircraft
 Flying your F-16 is identical, in principle, to flying any other
fixed-wing fighter. However, the F-16 was the first aircraft to be
designed, from scratch, utilising the benefits of "fly-by-wire"
technology. On-board computers automatically ensure that the pilot
cannot overstress the airframe or execute a manoeuvre that would lead
to a dangerous flight condition e.g. spin. Exceptional handling
qualities and the application of advanced control techniques combine to
give a superbly agile aircraft that can be flown aggressively and with
confidence.

Aircraft Controls
 To begin with the controls, your inputs are made via the sidestick
controller (the F-16's equivalent to a control column) and the rudder
pedals. Unlike conventional controls, hand and foot movement is
minimal, the controlling factor being the force applied. Your inputs
are measured by miniature force transducers linked to the computers of
the quadrplex fly-by-wire control system. Here your demands are "inter-
preted" and summed with a complex formula of stabilising criteria
before finally signalling the control surfaces electronically. The F-16
contains no mechanical links between you and your airframe. The remark-
able agility of this "electric jet" is achieved by designing an
aerodynamically unstable aircraft and then using the fly-by-wire system
to make it flyable. This involves dozens of minute adjustments to the
control surfaces being made automatically every second!

Let's take a look at the control surfaces:


			--- PAGE 81 ---



FLAPERONS - a control surface with the combined function of flaps and
ailerons. Pressing left or right on your sidestick will drive these
surfaces differentially (one up, one down) and your aircraft will roll
in the appropriate direction. Relative to you, of course, it appears
that the horizon rolls in the opposite direction.
 The flaperons are also driven automatically. By changing the camber of
the wing very rapidly, the fly-by-wire control system can optimize the
wing shape for maximum wing efficiency, stability and control.


			--- PAGE 82 ---



TAILPLANE - unlike conventional elevators, modern jet fighters use an
"all flying" tailplane whereby the whole surface rotates. Pulling back
on the sidestick moves both tailplane surfaces in unison, the effect
being to pitch the nose of the aircraft upwards. Pushing on the
sidestick has the opposite effect. At high speeds, the tailplane is
used for roll control by driving the surfaces differentially in
response to lateral pressure on the sidestick.

RUDDER - The automatic coordination of controls make use of the rudder
pedals rare, except perhaps for fine heading adjustment during fianal
approach. In fact, during extreme manoeuvres, the rudder is locked out
from the pilot so as to avoid sideslipping into a spin.

AIRBRAKE- Situated either side of the tailpipe, this control is an
efficient means of reducing airspeed quickly. The brake returns to its
closed position on release.



			--- PAGE 83 ---

			--- PAGE 84 ---

			--- PAGE 85 ---

			--- PAGE 86 ---

			--- PAGE 87 ---

			--- PAGE 88 ---

			--- PAGE 89 ---

			--- PAGE 90 ---

			--- PAGE 91 ---

			--- PAGE 92 ---

			--- PAGE 93 ---

			--- PAGE 94 ---


Appendix 1 ONE-ON-ONE COMMUNICATIONS

Software
 Selecting GLADIATOR will lead you to the communications set-up screen.
Ensure that BOTH computers are assigned the SAME baud rate. Choose
which pilot will be RED LEADER and BLUE LEADER (must not be the same on
both computers). Select TAKE-OFF to start mission.
 Pressing HOLD on either computer will freeze BOTH aircraft. The
mission is resumed by pressing Continue on the same computer. Pressing
Quit on either computer will abort the mission and return both pilots
to the debriefing room.
 The simulation will run at the speed of the slowest computer, with
adjustments made automatically to maintain real-time.

HARDWARE

 Connection between the computers is via an RS232 null modem cable.
Pin connections as follows:

                Plug A              Plug B
Pin               2       to          3
Pin               3       to          2
Pin               7       to          7


No handshake lines are necessary. If you have difficulty obtaining a
suitable cable, then please call DI on 0276684959.



			--- PAGE 95 ---

			--- PAGE 96 ---

			--- PAGE 97 ---

			--- PAGE 98 ---

All these pages where not written because they have noting to do with
the game itself, so in order to safe some space and time it was cut
away.  Twins


			--- PAGE 99 ---

GLOSSARY & ABBREVIATIONS

AAA.............anti-aircraft artillery
AAM.............air-to-air missile
ACS.............air combat scan
ADI.............attitude director indicator
AFTI............Advanced Fighter Technology Integration
AGM.............air-to-ground missile
AoA.............angle of attack
ASPJ............Advanced Self-Protection Jammer
ATARS...........Advanced Tactical Air Reconnaissance System
AUW.............All Up Weight (aircraft total weight)
Avionics........aircraft electronic equipment
BRG.............bearing (heading required to fly to target)
Callsign........nickname used for radio transmissions
Camber..........curvature of the wing
CCIP............continuously computed impact point
C-cubed.........command, control and communications
Ceiling.........maximum practical flying altitude
Cloudbase.......altitude at which you will enter cloud
CNI.............communications, navigation and identification
Combat zone.....designated flying area
Dead stick......flight after engine failure
Discrete........head up display symbology
ECCM............electronic counter-countermeasures
ECM.............electronic countermeasures
ETA.............estimated time to arrival
EWR.............early warning radar
FBW.............fly-by-wire
g...............weight multiplying factor, units of gravity
GCA.............ground control approach
Glideslope......up/down ILS beam
GPS.............global positioning system
GTR.............ground-target-ranging
GTT.............ground-target-track
Hardpoint.......weapon loading station
HUD.............head up display


			--- PAGE 100 ---


IAS.............indicated airspeed
IFF.............Identification Friend or Foe
IIR.............imaging infra-red
ILS.............instrument landing system
Jock............pilot
LANTIRN.........Low Altitude Navigation & Targeting Infra-Red for night
Localiser.......left/right ILS beam
Mach............unit of speed of sound
MFD.............multifunction display
MSIP............Multi-national Staged Improvement Program
nm..............nautical mile
NWS.............nose wheel steering
Pilot's log.....personal flying record
R & R...........rest and recuperation
Recce...........reconnaissance
Reticle.........weapon aiming and ranging symbol
RNG.............range or distance to target
RWR.............radar warning receiver
SAM.............surface to air missile
Sidestick.......F-16 equivalent to conventional control column
Sortie..........flight or mission
STT.............single-target-track
TAC.............Tactical Air Command
TAS.............true airspeed
TFTS............Tactical Fighter Training Squadron
TWS.............track-while-scan
UFCP............up front control panel
UHF.............Ultra-High Frequency
VSI.............vertical speed indicator
Waypoint........pre-planned destination on flight route



			--- PAGE 101 ---

INDEX

Aerodynamics...............................................82
Airbrake...................................................82
Aircraft technical data..................................8,88
Air-to-air missiles........................................58
AMRAAM, AIM120A............................................58
Angle of attack indicator..................................26
ATARS reconnaissance pod...................................66
Altitude director indicator................................26
Autopilot..................................................45
Barrel roll attack.........................................72
Break, the.................................................75
Chaff......................................................67
CNI datalink...............................................28
Cockpit familiarisation....................................17
Command key................................................14
Compass....................................................34
Damage report..............................................69
Data entry panel...........................................30
Dead stick landing.........................................45
Debriefing.................................................68
DEEPSTRIKE.................................................51
Demo mode...................................................8
Digital artificial horizon.................................22
Durandal...................................................64
Eject handle...............................................32
Engine rpm indicator.......................................27
External fuel tanks........................................67
Failure status panel.......................................35
Flaperons..................................................81
Flares.....................................................67
Flight controls.............................................8
Flying clothing............................................87
Free flight................................................40
Fuel gauge.................................................27
GLADIATOR..................................................54


			--- PAGE 102 ---


Glideslope.................................................24
Ground Control Approach....................................44
Ground speed...............................................85
Gun........................................................66
HAMMERBLOW.................................................50
HARM, AGM-88A..............................................61
Head Up Display............................................36
High speed yo-yo...........................................73
IFF security code...................................1,kneepad
Immelmann turn.............................................79
Indicated airspeed.........................................85
Instrument landing system..................................23
Kill ratio..................................................8
Lag pursuit................................................70
Landing practice...........................................43
Left handle panel..........................................33
Loading restrictions.......................................86
Localiser..................................................24
Low speed yo-yo............................................74
Maverick, AGM-65...........................................61
Met Office Function key....................................15
Mission Effectiveness.......................................8
Mission key................................................12
Mission selection........................................9,47
Mk 83 and Mk84 bombs.......................................65
Moving map display.........................................21
Multi-function displays....................................18
Offset head-on pass........................................71
OPERATION CONQUEST.........................................54
OPERATION CONQUEST - restore................................9
Pilot's log.................................................7
Performance envelope.......................................84
Pre-flight briefing........................................11
Primary flight data........................................22
QUICKSTART................................................4,7
Radar modes................................................18


			--- PAGE 103 ---


Radar warning receiver.....................................25
Rear view..................................................36
Reconnaissance pod, ATARS..................................66
Report key.................................................13
Right hand panel...........................................34
Rudder.....................................................82
Scissors...................................................76
SCRAMBLE...................................................48
Sidewinder, AIM-9M.........................................58
Snakeeye, Mk82.............................................66
Spiral dive................................................77
Split-S....................................................78
System control functions...................................30
TANKBUSTER.................................................52
Tailplane..................................................81
Take-off key...............................................17
Targets key................................................12
Threat warning panel.......................................31
Training...................................................11
True airspeed..............................................85
UHF communications transceiver.............................30
Up front control panel.....................................28
Vertical speed indicator...................................27
Vulcan, M61A1 cannon.......................................66
Warning lights.............................................32
WATCHTOWER.................................................53
Waypoint key...............................................13
Weapon Function key........................................15
Weapon management..........................................58
Weapon selection...........................................16
Weapon status display......................................21
Weapon technical dat.....................................9,92
Weather Key................................................13
Zoom thermal image.........................................23


              CHECK OUT THIS NEW TRILOGY BBS 804-499-2266

                             IT'S FAST !!!!!




