            F-29 Retaliator dox by Snuskbuske of H2O/Dual Crew
            --------------------------------------------------

                        F-29 RETALIATOR SCENARIO:
                        -------------------------

     A new and deadly breed of fighters is taking shape in the secret
     workshops deep in the American West: The Advanced Tactical Fighter F-22
     and the Forward Swept Wing F-29. They will convey one message to the
     enemy - the Retaliators are effective, deadly and meet the threats of
     21st  Century warfare.

     Their pilots will have a dangerous mission; to penetrate bands of surface
     to air missiles, destroy hostile AWACS and radar, launch ground strikes
     at enemy resources, armies, installations and communication links, and
     to break up hostile raids before they reach friendly territory. Their
     bases will be under air and missile attack from H-hour + zero. They must
     destroy four or more hostiles for every loss in order to survive and win.

                                LOADING:
                                --------

     Amiga 500:

     Insert the disk into the primary drive and switch your computer on. The
     program will load automatically.

     Amiga 1000:

     Insert the Kickstart disk into the primary drive and switch your computer
     on. When the Workbench prompt appears, insert the program disk and the
     game will load automatically.

                              AIRCRAFT DATA:
                              --------------

     Retaliator is a flight simulation program based upon two of the most
     revolutionary aircraft designs ever conceived: The Lockheed F-22 Advanced
     Tactical Fighter and Grumman F-29. The Grumman F-29 has been developed as
     a technology demonstrator towards creating the ultimate fighter aircraft
     and was a genuine contender for the USAF's new advanced tactical fighter
     but is now unlikely to enter service as it was judged too risky and too
     costly in terms of performance for the ATF. However new studies have
     shown a forward swept wing STOVL (Short Take Off and Vertical landing)
     multi-role supersonic fughter which could be feasible in the late 1990's
     thanks to improved engine performance. The F-29 shows great potential
     for the next generation advanced tactical fighter, around 2007 to 2012.

     Background to the new ATF:
     
     In 1979, the USAF first thought of a new advanced tactical fighter to
     replace to F-15, whilst the Navy replaced the F-14. In 1981 the first
     step towards a new fighter was taken when the ASD asked the American
     aircraft developers "request for information", and their views on a new
     aircraft to be called The Advanced Tactical Fighter. From studies on the
     ATF it was clear that the most important attributes for it were: STOL -
     Short Take Off and Landing

     STEALTH - Radar invisible

     SUPERCRUISE - Supersonic persistence without using any afterburner

     In 1986 Lockheed, General Dynamics and Boeing announced an agreement
     that they would team up to develop an ATF if one of their proposals was
     selected. Two weeks later Northrop and McDonald Douglas announced a
     similar arrangement. Two main designs had been picked for the fly-off
     competition: The Lockheed F-22 and the Northrop F-23. The FSWX-29 by
     Grumman was shut out at this stage. The first flight for the F-22 (which
     is now the favourite contender for the ATF) was set for the Autumn of
     1989 in California. Full production will commence in 1994 at a cost (in
     1989 terms) of 60 million dollars per unit.

     Technical Information on the F-22 and F-29 ATF:

     The ATF flies at Mach 1.4 to 1.5 (930 to 1000 mph) on dry thrust with
     full armament and cruise at a greater altiude than current fighters;
     70,000 ft as opposed to 50,000 ft in the High Fast Sanctuary with less
     threat against SAM's, and at supersonic speed covering the ground from
     75% faster than a subsonic cruise type, reducing the fighters exposure
     time by a factor of 3 in the shrunken danger zone.

     The ATF combat radius is 700 to 920 miles - a significant increase over
     the F-15. It would be able to take-off from a 2,000 ft runway or rough
     surfaces and easier to maintain than the F-15. Being slightly heavier
     than a F-15 (around 60,000 lbs), the ATF has the same wingspan but is
     slightly longer to accommodate the extra fuel load. Great use is made of
     wing to body blending like the F-16, SR-71 and B-1, again providing
     more internal volume for fuel and weapons.

     For its stealth capabilities the ATF is made with RAM (Radar Absorbent
     Materials). It is also designed to reduce the radar cross section by a
     factor of 100 compared to the F-15.
     The engines are Pratt and Whitney XF-119 with vectoring and reversing
     nozzles, having the advantage in all flight regimes as well as increasing
     the manoeuvrability. Reversing nozzles remove the use of large air
     brakes.

     The control surfaces (flaps, canards and rudders) and the vectoring
     nozzles on the ATF work together under the control of powerful computers
     to give the impression of flying a straight-forward simple plane. The
     actual aircraft will be so complex and have so many flight modes the
     pilot would not be able exploit them all. The pilot issues a command and
     the system will interpret it, i.e if the pilot pulls back sharply on the
     stick, the control system will first deflect the vectoring nozzles upward
     and the MAW flaps (Mission Adapted Wing) downward, to rotate the fuselage
     and start the aircraft into the manoeuvre.

     The basic argumment for supermanoeuvrebility (the ability to turn at low
     air speed at high G's within a very small radius) is that an aircraft
     which cannot emulate such a manoeuvre can be prevented to bring its
     weapons to bear.

                          MAIN SELECTION COMPUTER:
                          ------------------------
                             (Start up sequence)

     1. The Enrol Data Bank

     Here you enrol to the USAF and select your rank. The ranks available from
     lowest to highest rank are as follows:

     First Lieutenant - Captain - Major - Lieutenant Colonel - Colonel.

     The higher the rank you select, the more variety of missions will be
     available. More points are awarded to the higher rank for the same
     mission as the game will be harder (see scoring). To return to the main
     menu, press either return or clock on OK or Cancel with the mouse.

     2. Choose your scenario

     On this screen you are given the choice of four different locations.
     Three of these locations will involve you in the wars that are taking
     place in those areas. The four scenarios are:

     a) Arizona
     You are assigned to the USAF Test Range Arizona where you will be given
     the controls of the new ATF and the new F-29. The test range is
     approximately 1000 sq miles and contain various targets and remote
     control vehicles. This world is a true simulation of a hostile
     environment.

     b) The Middle East
     Several F-22's and F-29's have been exported to a friendly Middle East
     nation who are currently engaged in a fierce war with two other
     countries. The friendly nations artillery is, however heavily outnumbered
     although it is technically superior to its rivals. Consequently in order
     to succeed three enemy planes must be destroyed for every one friendly
     aircraft destroyed.

     The War is on two fronts, with large tank battles to the South West and
     artillery exchanges across the natural river boundary to the South East.
     The ATF Squadron is based near the capital Tel-A-Von.

     c) The Pacific Ocean
     The startegically important volcanic islands of Solomos provide vital oil
     supplies to the USA, and is the only deep sea port for 1000 miles in all
     directions. A small military airstrip is located there with a squadron of
     ATF's.

     A military blockade by the enemy fleet has cut-off all support to the
     islands, threatening the vital oil supplies to the USA and is ready to
     invade the islands.

     A task force from Guam led by USS JF Kennedy is steaming towards the war
     zone with two squadrons of F-22's, F-18's and F-29's.

     d) Europe 196 the Ultimate Battle Front
     The diplomacy has failed and the world is about to plunge into another
     world war: A full scale conventional war across the heartland of Europe
     will begin. All airfields, installations, factories and towns will be
     attacked and initial losses are expected to heavy on both sides.

     The NATO forces have been mobilised and put on full alert, as have all
     air bases with all squadrons being dispersed away from the vulnerable
     bases. Mounting enemy activity has been reported near the border where
     an estimated 9000 tanks and 3 million soldiers have amassed.

     The enemy is expected launch a massive assault on key points along the
     border and its airforces will plunge deep into your country crippling
     the infra-structure.

     Two enemy tank divisions have assambled along the border with huge
     reinforcements being being drawn up from their rear flanks. The
     situation will be critical if the enemy mobile tank divisions break
     through the border defences as they will plunge deep into your territory
     threatening the industrial complexes at Huttgart, Nurgen and Coberg.

     To select your scenario press key 1, 2, 3 or 4.

     3. View Sierra Hotel Pilots

     This screen shows the top ten highest scores achieved by pilots. These
     scores are saved automatically. Press RETURN or CLICK the OK button with
     the MOUSE to return to the main menu.

     4. View Pilots Log

     The game disk is designed to store all of the statistics of one pilot e.g
     his/her number of missions completed; name; rank; score and awards.

     To clear this log press ESCAPE and all data will be erased for a new
     pilots log. It is also cleared if the pilot is killed or retires.

     5. Load Pilots Log

     This loads up the previously saved log into the game.

     6. Zulu Alert

     Zulu Alert provides a quick entry into the game.

     You are given unlimited weapons and begin a "shoot-em-up" game in your
     selected scenario, starting in mid-air flight against a squadron of enemy
     fighters. No points are awarded and no log information is saved to disk
     as this is merely a practice exercise.

     7. Mission Control

     Selecting this option puts you into the mission control section of the
     game.

     When entering Mission Control you are provided with the latest update
     of the war situation in your chosen scenario (except American world)
     with a detailed map showing the battle front and text describing the
     latest events in the war. War updates are provided after every four or
     so missions, dependent on your scenario.

     Press RETURN to access the Mission Control option screen.

                      MISSION CONTROL SELECTION MENU:
                      -------------------------------

     1. Select Plane

     Using the mouse, point the cursor on the panel below the plane you wish
     to select; clicking once on the appropriate panel will select the plane
     and return you to the Mission Control Menu.

     2. Select Base

     Using the mouse, point the cursor on an airfield located on the map.
     Clicking with the button on an air base provides you with a text
     description of the base and clicking again on the same base will confirm
     this as your home base in the game; i.e starting location.

     3. Select Armament

     See Weapons and Stores

     4. Choose Mission

     Here you are provided with a selection of missions, the number of which
     is dependent on three factors: your rank; your location and how long
     into the war you are. Simply select a number.

     5. Accept Mission

     This puts the player directly into their chosen scenario. It is essential
     that all aircraft, weapons, mission scenarios etc have been selected
     prior to accepting a mission as the default status will be totally
     inadequate for the scenarios you will be presented with.

     On entering 3-D section of the game you are shown a welcome screen
     appropriate to your location. Here you have the option to abort by
     pressing escape and return to mission control. Any other key will start
     the mission.

                                 END GAME:
                                 ---------

     At the end of the game wheter you fail or complete your mission, or are
     killed ar retire you are returned to the main computer bank where you are
     given a quick debriefing of the mission and your current statistics.
     Pressing any key to continue will then return you to the mission control
     selection screen.

                            WEAPONS AND STORES:
                            -------------------

     The F-22 and F-29 boast a wide and awesome variety of weapons. For air
     to air and air to ground missions the weapons are selected by clicking
     on the left mouse button over the appropriate weapon (to deselect,
     click RH button). Both planes have a limited payload and are restricted
     to 11000 pounds on the ATF and 9000 on the FSW.

     Weapons are subject to availability, dependent on your base, location
     and rank. Shortages will become likely further into the wars. Both planes
     have seven pylons (the ATF has four external and three internal pylons
     in a bomb bay to reduce drag).

     MAXIMUM STORES PER PYLON (diagram)

                                          _________________________
        WEAPON                            |   |   |   |   |   |   |
        AIR TO AIR              PYLONS:   A   B   C   D   E   F   G
        BACKWINDER-9X                   | 1 |   |   |   |   |   | 1 |
        AIM 9M-R SIDEWINDER             | 1 | 1 | 1 |   | 1 | 1 | 1 |
        AIM 132 ASRAAM-N                | 1 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 1 |
        AMRAAM-120A                     |   | 1 | 2 |   | 2 | 1 |   |
        AIAAM-FIREBOLT                  |   | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |   |
                                        |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
        AIR TO GROUND                   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
        MRASM-AGM 109H                  |   |   |   | 1 |   |   |   |
        ASLAM BDM                       |   |   |   | 1 |   |   |   |
        CSW                             |   |   | 1 | 1 | 1 |   |   |
        MAVERICK AGM-1                  |   | 3 | 3 |   | 3 | 3 |   |
        EXTERNAL FUEL TANK              |   |   | 1 | 1 | 1 |   |   |

        TWIN GUN, 1760 ROUNDS

                          AIR TO AIR WEAPONS
                          ------------------

     AIAAM 196 Fire Bolt

     Advanced interceptor, long range "fire and forget" air to air missiles.
     These are the successors to the AIM 54 Phoenix and are probably the most
     advanced and sophisticated missiles in the world with a true radar
     homing.

     Weight - 980 lbs
     Range - 250 km (130 miles)
     Speed - Mach 5

     AMRAAM 120 A

     Advanced medium range air to air missile "fire and forget" with active
     radar homing known also as BVR (Beyond Visual Range) missile.

     Weight - 326 lbs
     Range - 50 km
     Speed - Mach 4

     AIM9M-R-SIDEWINDER

     Short range AAM is the latest and most advanced of the sidewinder family
     with an imaging infra-red seeker. This builds a detailed image of the
     target (similar to a Maverick) and isn't easily duped by counter
     measures.

     Weight - 190 lbs
     Range - 11 miles
     Speed - Mach 3

     AIM 132 ASRAAM-N

     Advanced short range AAM. This is a smaller and more agile than the
     Sidewinder and has a advanced focal plane array homing radar (infra-red).

     Weight - 156 lbs
     Range - 9 miles
     Speed - MAch 3

     BACK-WINDER 9X

     Rear mount short range air to air missile. A new weapon that overcomes
     the problem of a rear firing missile system. It locks upon the attack
     radar of the enemy fighter.

     Weight - 180 lbs
     Range - 6 miles
     Speed - Mach 3

                       AIR TO SURFACE MISSILES:
                       ------------------------

     MRASM, AGM-109H CRUISE MISSILE (also known as SOM'S - Stand Off Missiles)

     A base line airfield attack missile with DSMAC II (digital scene matching
     area correlation) guidance and carrying a heavy payload of 58 TAAM
     (Tactical Airfield Attack Missile). Bomblets are discharged from upward
     facing tubes along the fuselage. This is a launch and leave missile that
     flies for a few hundred miles hugging the landscape and finally flies
     with great precision down the centre line of the runway whilst ejecting
     the bomblets causing a row of craters.

     Weight - 2825 lbs
     Range - 370 miles
     Speed - 650 mph

     ASALM (Advanced Strategic Air Launched Missile)

     Effective against all form of surface target including those of the
     highest degree of hardening. Also able to destroy AWACS type aircraft.

     Weight - 3100 pounds
     Range - 700 miles +
     Speed - Mach 3.5 to 4.5

     MAVERICH AGM 1 LASER AND TV

     The latest generation of the Maverick family, the smallest of the fully
     guided self-homing ASM's in use. An improved version of the AGM 65E,
     with infra-red.

     Weight - 484 lbs
     Range - 25 miles
     Speed - Mach 1.6

     CSW (Conventional Stand-Off Weapon)

     Seen by the USAF as the best way to destroy hostile anti-aircraft
     defence and armour moving behind the FLOT (Forward Line of Troops). It
     can be distinguish between tanks and low value trucks or decoys and it
     is smaller and much cheaper than the MRASM. It is fitted with a PLSS
     (Precision Location Strike System) and has 20 warheads which separate
     over an area homing in on particular targets.
     These are especially effective against formations of tanks and armour.

     Weight - 2700 lbs
     Range - 30 miles
     Speed - Mach 1.1

     NOTE: Standard NATO Ground Forces have FOF devices (Friend or Foe), so
     earial launched "smart weapons" avoid them, such as the CSW and other
     cruise missiles.

                                  MISSIONS:
                                  ---------

     The enemy vehicles in Retaliator have a dark-grey camouflage, whilst your
     own forces are green/brown. Enemy Battleships are also dark-grey. To
     differentiate between enemy and friendly aircraft, only enemies show on
     your radar. Similarly, the FOF (Friend or Foe) system prevents you from
     launching a missile upon a friendly airborne target.

     Note: there are 3 tanks in a battalion, and 3 planes per squadron.

     All missions will only be deemed complete when your aircraft has
     completed the mission and landed safely at an appropriate base.

                          ARIZONA TEST RANGE MISSIONS:
                          ----------------------------

     Mission 1: Hit the two canvas targets in Sector 7B.

     Mission 2: A convoy of retired trucks are moving along the east-west
                highway. Destroy all trucks in sector 8A-8H.

     Mission 3: Hit the freight trains on the rail-line in Sector A3.

     Mission 4: Destroy the SAM sights and their radar control station in
                Sector 5D.

     Mission 5: Hit the Test Bridge in the Yuscon firing range and avoid the
                electronic SAM simulators located in the area F8.

     Mission 6: Engage the Drone MIG 29B Fulcrum Fighters in your vicinity.
                Two must be destroyed.

     Mission 7: Attack the mock-tank formations crossing the Nevada Plains
                in Sector 3A.

     Mission 8: Destroy the industrial complex in Sector 1C.

     Mission 9: Destroy the airbase in Sector 4C and the main runway; drone
                fighters are located at this base.

     Mission 10: Destroy the enemy command centre, avoiding the complex SAM
                 network located in Sector 1E. This is perhaps the most
                 difficult mission  on the North American test range.

     NOTE: If you destroy any unauthorised targets or civilian property, you
           will be liable to court material! (see America.iff for the map !!)

                              PACIFIC MISSIONS:
                              -----------------

     War Update 1

     1. "Scramble"
     Two bandits have been located in Sector 4D closing in on your island
     base. Engage and destroy.

     2. "Firebolt"
     The enemy has launched an aerial attack on the oil refinery on Vejan
     Island (Sector 8D). Repel the enemy and destroy at least three fighters.

     3. "Drop-in"
     An enemy battleship has been detected in Sector 4G. Launch a surprise
     attack using NSRAM Missiles, avoiding its radar network and destroy the
     battleship.

     4. "Plunge"
     Hit the enemy oil storage depot on the island of Zahiti (Sector 1D).

     War Update 2

     1. "Splash"
     The enemy fleet has launched a full scale amphibious attack on Troy
     (Sector 8E) with at least ten landing craft landing on the North Shore.
     These are escorted by a squadron of fulcrums. You must destroy the
     landing craft.

     2. "Warmpump"
     Intelligence reports two Enemy Frigates are closing from the South in
     Sector 3B to reinforce the Red fleet. Give them a surprice welcome.

     3. "Deep Heat"
     The Leonid Brezhnev fleet carrier has retreated from the Enemy fleet
     but has launched a long range strike force closing in on the Solomos
     Islands located in Sector 4B. Engage all three hostile aircraft and
     destroy them.

     4. "Beta-1"
     The gigantic Enemy Super Tanker Azov has to be crippled in a surprise
     retaliator strike in Sector 4G. MIG's provide aerial cover.

     War Update 3

     1. "Revenge"
     The Battleship New Jersey has stormed into the scene as two Enemy
     cruisers, the Kresta 2 and Admiral Zozulya, have engaged her. Provide
     aerial cover againstincoming MIG's and engage the cruisers in Sector 7H.

     2. "Arc"
     The enemy has finally launched a full scale attack on Solomos with ten
     plus ships to the south, barraging the southern coast. Scramble and
     destroy the four MIG's providing aerial cover for the fleet and hit any
     enemy ships.

     3. "Strike BAck"
     The US fleet has arrived in Sector 5H, steaming towards your island
     bastion led by the carrier JF Kennedy. Launch a counter strike at the
     Eenemy fleet, avoiding SAM's whilst the MIG's engage the US Task Force.
     Destroy at least two ships and return to base.

     4. "Stamps"
     You must attack and destroy the vital enemy gas plant and refinery on
     Zahiti in Sector 1D.

     War Update 4

     1. "Knock-Out"
     The Leonid Brehznev has been sighted in Sector 1G, with a support ship.
     Locate and destroy.

     2. "Flight Back"
     A fierce Enemy counter-strike has sunk three US ships and threatens the
     JFK. Provide air support and destroy the two Enemy Battleships in
     Sector F4.

     War Update 5

     "Hand Shake"
     A meeting between the two fleets has been arranged to discuss peace
     terms on tthe Enemy battleship Lenningrad, in Sector 4B. Provide an
     aerial patrol to enforce an exclusion zone a MIG, as intelligence
     reports a sabotage attempt will be imminent......

                   (Look at PACIFIC.IFF for the map!!!)

                           MIDDLE EAST MISSIONS:
                           ---------------------

     War Update 1

     1. "Bravo"
     Destroy the tank brigade (3 tanks) crossing the border in Section 5A.

     2. "Bogie"
     Two MIG's are closing in on your base sighted in Sector 6F. Engage and
     destroy.

     3. "Alpha"
     Destroy the radar tracking station in Sector 4D to provide an aerial
     corridor.

     4. "Foxstrike"
     Destroy the roadbridge in Sector 3F to hamper the enemy reinforcements.

     5. "Lizard"
     An enemy armoured column of at least six trucks and four tanks is
     advancing up the highway in Sector 4C. Stem the advance and obliterate
     the column.

     6. "Charlie"
     Launch a deep strike attack on the enemy airfield in Sector 2H.

     War Update 2

     1. "Moonstruck"
     Hit the industrial works in Sector 3B which provides ammunition to the
     Arab forces.

     2. "Rogue"
     The power station in Sector 2F, east of the city needs to be knocked out.

     3. "Pincer"
     Refer to your War Update Map before commencing this mission, as it will
     inform you of the whereabouts of two grey enemy tank battalions which are
     leading an assault. Destroy these six enemy tanks and return to base.

     4. "Torch"
     Destroy the tracking station in Sector 4A.

     5. "Crossfire"
     Destroy the enemy oil refinery in Sector 1F with your primary target, the
     three oil holding tanks.

     War Update 3

     1. "Mayday"
     Three enemy fighters are closing in on the capital. Break up the raid,
     destroy all fighters and return to base. Move to Sector 5E to engaga.

     2. "Lord"
     Two continuing tank battles are occuring along the front-line. Stem the
     enemy divisions. Refer to War Update Map on computer for the battle
     locations.

     3. "Torture"
     You must locate and demolish the rail-brigade in the lower Sector of 3B.

     4. "Romeo"
     Lac Mi-El tank farm in Sector F1 is assembling Russian T-80's
     imported in from Russia. Raze the complex to the dround.

     War Update 4

     1. "Heat"
     Information is sketchy at this time, but it is believed a large enemy
     road convoy is located around the vicinity of Sector 1D. This comprises
     of over 10 trucks and tanks. You must locate this convoy and destroy.

     2. "Juno"
     A large scale aerial force is massing over enemy territory and moving
     towards the capital. Their target is uncertain but you must destroy
     four bandits and hold them away from your base. vector south to
     Sector 3G.

     3. "Warrior"
     Destroy the chemical processing plant in Sector 1C, believed to be
     developing chemical weapons.

     4. "Gold"
     The greatest tank battle of the war is raging (refer to War Update Map),
     with all reserves being drawn up. Provide aerial support and destroy
     eight plus tanks.

     War Update 5

     1. "Ajax"
     Miscon has lifted the restriction on bombing the enemy capital in
     Sector 1B and surrounding installations, and has made the international
     airport in Sector 2A its primary target. Destroy the main runway and
     return to base.

     2. "Dawn"
     Destroy the steelworks in Sector 1D, south west of the city, but make
     sure to avoid any damage to the Red Cross hospital based in the compound.

     3. "Zeus"
     The enemy has thrown everything into a new strike. Fresh Enemy armour has
     been deployed to the front line (see War Update Map) and is overwhelming
     the exhausted armoured divisions. Provide aerial support and smash the
     lead tank battalion.

     4. "Red"
     The road and rail networks have been badly damage consequently
     jeopardising supply routes. Shortages to the front line are threatening
     our positions, so you must provide aerial cover for a massive convoy
     moving from Tel-A-Von to the front line against impending MIG attack.
     This takes place in Patrol Sector 7G.

     War Update 6

     1. "Standstill"
     The situation is critical with all three countries industries smashed.
     The massive El Alamein factory (Sector 1A) is the sole productive enemy
     plant. Avoid the fierce SAM systems and destroy the complex.

     2. "Vice"
     The forces on both sides are reaching exhaustion as the war is becoming
     a war of attrition. Fanatical enemy tank brigades in the relevant sector
     (see War Update Map) are causing havoc with our resisting ground  forces.
     Destroy the four leading tanks and the supply vehicles.

     3. "Thunder"
     The heavily pounded enemy air-forces have gathered from unknown runway
     strips and are launching perhaps their last full-scale attack of the
     war. Vector south to 4G to engage and destroy all Bogies - number
     unknown.

     War Update 7

     1. "Abyss"
     On this day the war reaches its climax with the outcome unknown. A
     secret or special range of missions will exist in this final chapter of
     the war.....

                  (Look at MIDDLE.IFF for the map!!!!)

                           EUROPE MISSIONS:
                           ----------------

     War Update 1

     1. "MIG Cap"
     Zulu Alert: two incoming MIG's closing in your base. Search, engage and
     destroy. This is not a drill - repeat - this is not a drill.

     2. "Bomb Cap"
     Three enemy bombers are closing in on your base at low level, escort
     provided. Vector 30 degrees for Bogey - engage and destroy.

     3. "Intercept"
     Two SU-27 Flankers are crossing the border and are zig-zagging towrds
     Huttgart )Sector 8A). Engage and destroy.

     4. "Tom Cat"
     Three plus bandits are providing aerial support for advancing enemy
     mobile divisions along the border in Sector 4D. Engage and destroy.

     5. "Aggressor"
     Provide close aerial support against advancing Red army tanks for the
     armygroup centre in Sector 6D, near Ziepen. Destroy the two tank
     brigades (6 tanks).

     6. "Firehand"
     Two enemy mobile divisions are engaging the British Seventh Centurion
     Tank Division in the north of the country. Stem the advance and destroy
     the leading brigade in Sector 8D.

     7. "Ironhand"
     Provide an aerial corridor along the southern border section by
     destroying the three enemy SAM sites and radar site near the Stein
     river in Sector 3D.

     8. "Backbreaker"
     In order to stem enemy rear movements and hamper rear supply lines, your
     primary target is the key bridge Liepen in Sector 5E.

     9. "Limelight"
     The road convoys towrds the front from Frunsroure, across the Liepen
     bridge, must be destroyed (Sector 8F).

     10. "Linebacker III"
     This is a deep strike retalitory mission against the Red Army airfield
     of Tranevora, in particular against its main runway and hanger areas in
     Sector 1G.

     War Update 2

     1. "Jawbreaker"
     Destroy the bridge in the northern section on the Stein river
     (Sector 6D).

     2. "Four Star"
     Destroy the enemy supply dumps in Sector 2F.

     3. "Big Ear"
     Destroy the radar tracking station and the SAM emplacement near-by
     Sector 7E.

     4. "Deep Throat"
     The enemy air force has been scattered to regional bases across their
     country. Miscon has detected a large enemy presence near an airstrip in
     Sector 3H. Destroy any airborne hostile and the runway.

     5. "Strike Out"
     The enemy has launched its biggest bombardment of the war against all
     air force bases. Five plus bandits are closing over the border -
     heading unknown. Intercept and destroy. Vector to Sector 2C.

     6. "Tin Can Alley"
     Provide close air support for allied tank forces against a massive anemy
     assault. Destroy the two leading enemy battalions (6 tanks). Refer to
     War Update Map for battle location.

     War Update 3

     1. "Iron"
     Destroy the vital road bridge in Sector 8C, to prevent enemy supplies
     reaching the front.

     2. "Titan"
     Large enemy convoys are rallying towards the front. A massive amount
     of armour is moving west in Sector 8G, with pontoons providing river
     crossings. Destroy the convoy and return home.

     3. "Snake Eye"
     Fierce tank battles are continuing in various sectors (see War Update
     Map), with French and British Northern Tank Divisions holding their
     ground. Provide air support against three MIG's and destroy the leading
     enemy tank brigades in both battles.

     4. "Grind"
     The enemies massive industrial complex in Sector 5H provides machine
     parts for the Red Army war machine. Destroying this complex will cause
     great shortages to the enemy.

     5. "Lights Out"
     Cripple the riverside power station in Section 5H, destroying the cooling
     towers which will disrupt enemy productivity.

     6. "Fly-by"
     A large number of allied interceptors have been downed by a Enemy MIG 29
     Hunting Squadron. The three ace fighters are operating from the Alps in
     Sector 1D. This mission is self-explanatory!

     War Update 4

     1. "Operation Wolf"
     A new squadron of MIG 29-C Fulcrums gave been located zig-zagging across
     the border towards Nurberg. Intercept in Sector 5C and break the pack up.

     2. "Avenger"
     A ferocious string of land battles has left the front line NATO forces
     exhausted, with two fresh Warsaw Pact tank divisions engaging them
     (refer to War Update Map for location). Halt the enemy attack and destroy
     at least ten tanks.

     3. "Operation Thunderbolt"
     Decimate the chemical factory in Sector 7H and its two storage tanks.

     4.  "Operation Bear"
     Attack the arms factory in Sector 2H, avoiding the SAMs located nearby.

     5. "Express"
     Constant convoys of rail freight are arriving hourly on the rail-lines
     from east to the enemy capital and the battle front. Destroy the
     rail-line and any trains in Sector 4H.

     6.  "Untouchables"
     A squadron of enemy flanker bombers have destroyed several allied storage
     depots near the front line and are closing in on the international
     airport in Sector 7A. Engage and destroy.

     War Update 5

     1. "Venus"
     The Red armies' second air force has reinforced the depleted first army
     and has launched the biggest aerial assault yet seen in the war, with
     six squadron of fighters causing havoc to NATO ground forces. Provide
     aerial cover for Huttgart around Sector 7B against three closing MIGs.

     2. "Venus 2"
     Provide aerial cover from Nurbergs industrial complexes against the
     ominous threat of the squadron of three MIGs in Sector 4B.

     3. "Counter"
     The massed NATO ground forces are now beeing pinned down by this new
     surge of Enemy aerial dominance. Provide aerial cover for the Second US
     Tank Corp in the relevant sector (refer to War Update Map) and destroy
     any opposing tanks.

     4. "Backache"
     Launch a deep strike attack on the last main enemy bridge in Sector 7H
     to cloak the enemy rear guard action.

     5. "Trax"
     The massive tank factory in Sector 8H is primary target. Rip out the main
     building.

     6. "Flame"
     The huge storage depot in Sector 8H, conveniently located between a
     hospital and a church, has fuel for the Warsaw Pact armies. Destroy a
     storage tank and return home.

     War Update 6

     1. "Burst"
     The hardest mission so far: hit the centre line of the international
     runway in Sector 6H and engage any scrambled bandits. Avoid the dense
     SAM belts to the west of the base.

     2. "Mercury"
     A rag-tag formation of fighters is closing over the border, towards your
     home runway and intelligence believes cruise missiles may be carried on
     board. Intercept and destroy enemy hardware in this battle zone.

     3. "Man Hunt"
     The remnants of two massive armies are clashing in the relevant sector
     (see War Update Map). Destroy enemy hardware in this battle zone.

     4. "On-Line"
     The nuclear power station south-east of the enemy capital is your target.
     Destroy the cooling towers and main building, avoiding the reactor plant.
     This will plunge the enemy into a total black-out in Sector 7H.

     5. "Saturn"
     A train carrying new tanks to the front has been located by satellite in
     Sector 7H. Prevent the tanks from ever reaching the battlefield.

     6. "Mars"
     A heavily defended aircraft factory in Sector 8H has remained unscathed
     so far, and is producing large numbers of enemy aircraft. Destroy the
     main building.

                     (Look at EUROPE.IFF for the map!!!!)

     War Update 7 (the final update)

     Your three missions are: No. 1 Savior; No. 2 Retaliator and No. 3 Hour
     Glass.

     These missions are all secret to protect the outcome of the war - refer
     to War Update Map.

                            KEYBOARD CONTROLS:
                            ------------------

     EJECT
     Pressing this key once will place the systems into eject mode. This
     allows you 3 seconds to confirm by pressing the key a second time,
     which will then eject you from the plane. If the key is not pressed
     within the 3 seconds, all systems will revert to normal mode.

     Note: this key is also used as an 'escape' key on the menu selection
     screens to abort/cancel any inputs.

     FRONT
     This gives you the cockpit view/display.

     REAR
     This gives you the view from the inside rear of the craft.

     LEFT
     This gives you the view from the left side of the aircraft.

     RIGHT
     This gives you the view from the right side of the aircraft.

     SATELLITE
     This gives you an overhead view, taken as from a satelitte positioned
     at approximately 80,000 FT. Your aircraft is always at the centre point
     in this view.

     SOUTH-FACING
     This gives you a fixed south-facing view from outside the aircraft.

     ZOOM-IN
     This gives you the facility, when using an exterior view, to zoom-in
     towards your aircraft.

     ZOOM-OUT
     See Zoom-in.

     BEHIND
     This gives you an exterior view of the aircraft from the rear.

     NORTH-FACING
     See South-facing.

     MFD 1/2/3
     These keys act as toggles between the three different modes on each
     of the three MFD displays. See Instrument Description Section.

     SUPERCRUISE
     Pressing this key gives an instant thrust of 100%. This is usually used
     on high-level flights only.

     RPM -/+
     These keys increase and decrease revs/thrust.

     ECM ON/OFF
     This key toggles the electronic counter-measures system. See Instrument
     Description section.

     CHANGE TARGET LOCK
     This key will toggle the lock your missile has on a particular target.
     If there are, say, three enemy targets on the screen, pressing this key
     will alternate the lock-on between each of the three targets.

     PAUSE
     Pauses the simulation at any time during flight.

     WEAPON SELECTION
     Pressing this key will cycle through all of the weapons systems you have
     available on-board. In this cycle there will be the facility to revert
     to the normal HUD display - 'non-armed' mode. The weapon you select will
     be automatically armed and ready for launch.

     AUTOPILOT
     This key will toggle between manual flight and autopilot - see
     Instrument Description section.

     STEALTH
     This key toggles Stealth mode on or off. See Instrument Description
     section.

     FLAPS
     This toggles flaps in or out. See Instrument Description section.

     GEAR
     This toggles between lowering and retracting the landing gear. See
     Instrument Description section.

     HUD
     This toggles the HUD display on or off. See Instrument Description
     section.

     JOYSTICK/KEYBOARD/MOUSE
     These keys will defer to the chosen control at any stage during flight.

     BREAK LOCK
     This key cancels the lock your weapon may be holding on a target

     COCKPIT
     This key 'freezes' all cockpit displays when pressed, although functions
     will continue as normal. All ESSENTIAL displays will remain visually
     active. Press this key again to unfreeze.

     BRAKES
     This toggles the brakes on or off. See Instrument Description section.

     FIRE/TRIGGER
     This key emulates the Joystick Fire/Mouse LH buttons and fires the
     appropriate weapon, if armed. Note: with certain wepaons, it is
     necessary to wait for them to fix a lock on to a target - an appropriate
     symbol will appear in the HUD: See HUD diagram.

     LEVEL WINGS
     This will automatically recover you from any bad stalls, rools, etc. and
     will level your craft out.

     CHAFF
     This releases the Chaff. This effectively 'blinds' enemy radar and
     radar-guided missiles.

     FLARE
     This releases a flare (decoy), used primarily to divert infra-red-guided
     missiles.

     DIRECT FLIGHT CONTROLS

     Cursor-up key/Joystick up/Mouse up               - Lower the nose

     Cursor-down key/Joystick down/Mouse down         - Elevate the nose

     Cursor-left key/Joystick left/Mouse left         - Bank Left

     Cursor-right key/Joystick right/Mouse right      - Bank Right

     Space-bar/Joystick fire/Mouse Left Button        - Launch/Fire

     ESC - EJECT (Press twice)
             - F1 - Front                        - F6 - South facing
     Inside |  F2 - Rear               Outside  |  F7 - Zoom in
     cock- =   F3 - Left                plane  =   F8 - Zoom out
     pit    |  F4 - Right                       |  F9 - Behind
             - F5 - Satellite                    - F10 - North facing

     1 - MFD 1                     F - Flaps toggle
     2 - MFD 2                     G - Gear toggle
     3 - MFD 3                     H - HUD toggle
     8 - Supercruise               J - Joystick
     - - RPM -                     K - Keyboard
     + - RPM +                     X - Break lock
     E - ECM on/off                C - Cockpit on/off
     T - Change target lock        B - Brakes toggle
     P - Pause                     M - Mouse
     A - Autopilot Toggle          <Return> - Weapon selection
     S - Stealth toggle            <Space bar> - Fire/Trigger
     <Del> - Break lock            <Help> - Level wings

     NUMRERIC KEYBOARD:

     * - Supercruise mode (100% Thrust)
     - - RPM -
     + - RPM +
     . - FLARE
     0 - CHAFF
     1 - MFD 1
     2 - MFD 2
     3 - MFD 3

        THE NEXT GENERATION COCKPIT SYSTEM (ECOP) INSTRUMENT DESCRIPTION:
        -----------------------------------------------------------------

     1 - 4: Flight Surfaces and controls panels which are also colour coded
            and act as damage control panels.

     1. The Auto-Pilot

     This key turns auto-pilot on or off. When operative the light is on
     green. The auto-pilot flies you on your last setting, but does not avoid
     high ground and mountains.

     2. Brakes

     When your plane is on the ground the brake key turnsthe landing gear
     brakes on and off - in the air it turns the air brakes on or off. When
     the air brake is extended or the gear brake is on, the brake light will
     appear green. If the brake light is red then the brakes are not
     operative, or are damaged. If you exceed 70 rpm on the ground whilst
     brakes are engaged, you will incur damage to the landing gear.

     3. Flaps

     The flap key turns the wing flaps out and in. When the flaps are out,
     the aircraft slows down, gains lift and reduces stall speed. When out,
     the green Flaps light will appear. High speeds can rip off the flaps if
     they are extended out, causing serious wing damage above 360 mph. A
     yellow light will warn you if you exceed 260 mph. Fatal damages are
     indicated in red text.

     4. Landing Gear

     The green landing gear light will appear when the gear is out and in
     the landing position. When gear is retracted the light is out. If you
     exceed 320 mph you will fatally damage your gear if it is out and at
     240 mph a yellow caution light will appear. If this occurs, you should
     either raise your gear or slow down to prevent any further damage. A
     red light indicates fatal damage or failure to your gear.

     5 - 9: Systems Analysis

     5. Master Arm Light

     This lights up when a selected weapon is armed and ready for launch (see
     weapons).

     6. Stall Light

     A stall occurs when the wings angle of attack becomes too acute.
     Unstable air flows over the wings surfaces and reduces lift which
     generally causes the nose to drop. Stall speed varies in different
     circumstances depending on the aircrafts flaps and attitude.

     NOTE:
      The F-22 and F-29 computer system recovers from stalls automatically -
     all you need do is level out and bring your pitch back to normal.

     7. RPM Bar

     This shows the amount of thrust being applied. Each small bar represents
     10% increments of thrust. To increase and decrease thrust press the
     thrust key (see keyboard). More thrust consumes fuel quicker.

     8. The Fuel Bar

     This shows the amount of fuel left in the three internal fuel tanks of
     each plane. This is represented in increments of 1000 lbs for each small
     bar shown (if external fuel pods are carried the fuel in these is spent
     first and then the empty tanks ejected).

     9 - 15: Warning Indicators (Yellow 196 Caution, Red 196 Danger).

     9. Fire

     If there is an engine fire this light will flash red - it is not
     recoverable and the pilot must eject.

     10. Fuel (low)

     If the level of fuel is below 2000 pounds a yellow caution light will
     appear. If below 500 pounds a red flashing light will appear and below
     200 pounds a solid red light and a message will appear on the HUD.

     11. Engine

     The engine warning light will appear a cautionary yellow if the RPM falls
     below 50% in flight or if partial engine damage has occured. If severe
     engine damage occurs, the light will flash red and the pilot will have
     to eject. Partial (yellow) engine damage allows you to limp back to base,
     but can get worse if left unchecked. A solid red light represents turbine
     failure.

     12. Altitude

     If you fly below 500 ft a yellow altitude warning ligt will appear;
     below 200 ft a red light will show.

     13. Radar

     If the radar is damaged partially or is faulty, a yellow caution light
     will appear. If it is totally damaged or destroyed a red light will show.

     14. WEP (Weapon Damage)

     If the weapon system is damaged or jams on one particular weapon, the
     warning light will appear appropriately.

     15. COM (Communications)

     If any communication faults occur, a yellow warning light will appear.
     If these faults are fatal (and irreparable) a red light will appear.

     NOTE: The F-29 and F-22 have a computer self-diagnostics test and in
     some cases are able to track down and repair faults.

     (only yellow caution faults). E.g. some problems on RAD, WEP and COM
     can repair automatically.

     16. Messages

     Various text information is provided on this display, eg: the type of
     enemy missile approaching, etc.

     17 - 22: ENEMY THREAT PANEL

     17. Lock

     If a lock is fixed on your plane by enemy radar this light will apear.
     You can attempt to break the lock with ECM and chaff, abd shut down to
     "stealth".

     18. LNCH

     WHen an enemy missile launch occurs then there is a large bright
     flashing launch light.

     19. RWR (Radar Warning Reciver)

     This has a fixed range of 24 miles and shows any threaths, i.e SAM's
     and enemy planes (it is a crude horizontal radar).

     When an object appears on this and is behind your plane then an audio
     signal also sounds.

     NOTE: RWR still operates in "Stealth" mode, as it receives but does not
     emit.

     20. Threat

     When the onboard ECM equipment detects a Fansong signal (Russian SAM
     Radar Signals), you are presented with a yellow steady missile "threat"
     light and audio tone. If you are detected and the enemy radar has a
     target, the missile warning light will flash and the tone warble.

     21. Stealth

     You have limited radar cloaking and can appear radar invisible if you
     fly slowly and low and reduce all radar emissions from your craft, i.e
     radar shutdown. You can still be detected visually but it is a lot safer.
     An indicator shows how vulnerable you are to radar emission.

     Note: The radar and maps have a freeze mode, displaying a target and
     its position whilst all radars are shut down.

     22. ECM (Electronic Counter Measures Radar Jammer)

     When activated the ECM light appears. The ECM "blinds" radar guided
     missiles and stops them homing in on your plane. The ECM works better
     at long range.

     23. Engine Ignition Light

     When the engine is powered up this light is activated until RPM reaches
     20%.

     24 - 32 The Multi Function Display Units.

     24 - 26: MFD 1

     24. Systems

     This provides present flight details for fuel, RPM, Speed and Altitude.

     25. Weapon Selection Screen

     This shows the number od weapons and type;  which weapon is armed and
     selected and it also shows the amount of Chaff and flares remaining.

     26. BVR Radar

     The Beyond Visual Range Radar is used for the medium and long range
     air to air missiles. It provides extra range than the horizontal radars
     and shows distant enemy aircraft.

     27 - 29: MFD 2

     27. Forward Looking Radar

     This gives a detailed infra-red display of the front of the plane
     providing data on the type of a plane, its bearing and speed, whilst in
     combat.

     28. Missile FLIR and TV

     This provides a cockpit display of what the CSW, Maverick, MRASM and
     ASALM sees via TV and forward looking infra-red cameras. This is relayed
     directly to the cockpit showing the missile closing in on its target in
     3-D perspective.

     29. Horizontal Indicator

     This provides the pilot with information of the plane's roll from left
     to right and at what angle it is banking.

     30 - 32: MFD 3

     30. Horizontal Situation Radar

     This radar provides a cross section view of the plane and all the area
     around it, with a variable range indicator. This radar provides
     locations of SAM's or enemy planes within its 40 mile range.

     31. Satellite Radar (Moving map display)

     This shows a digital map of the world, 40 miles around you. It provides
     terrain locations of all enemy bases, factories and road/rail networks.

     32. MMD (Moving map display with direction finder)

     This is a computer generated display above the moving map which shows
     the directions of the plane with a line indicator.

     The Head-Up Display (HUD)

     The HUD can be toggeled on and off (see keyboard). This will show you
     on a constant basis: heading, air speed, altitude, "G-loading", weapon
     selected and number of weapons remaining and the flight equipment
     currently in use. Other symbols that will appear when appropriate are:
     gun sight and missile sights. (for this look at HUD.IFF)

     See COCKPIT.IFF for layout details.

                         SIMPLE CONTROL OF YOUR ATF:
                         ---------------------------

     Here follows a very breif outline of how to land, takeoff and, in simple
     terms, control your aircraft. For a more in- depth view on the function
     of other equipment, such as flaps, brakes, etc, please refer to section
     headed, 'Instrument Description'.

     Takeoff
     1.   Start and build thrust up to 50%.
     2.   Release brakes and steer slowly along the strip.
     3.   Increase thrust to 80-90% to eventually attain a takeoff speed of
          approximately 200 MPH.
     4.   Pull gently back on the 'stick', which lifts the nose. After the
          plane lifts off the ground, retract landing gear before you exceed
          300 MPH.

     Level Flight
     To achieve 'level' flight, the pilot raises or lowers the nose until the
     Ladderbar (in the HUD) shows 0 degrees.

     Lift
     The amount of lift generated on the craft is dependant upon your
     airspeed. Reducing speed reduces lift, making the craft descend - without
     lowering the nose. Increasing speed elevates the craft.

     'G'-Loading
     Represented on the HUD, this informs you of the gravitational force
     exerted upon yourself and the game, which varies according to speed and
     angle. If the G-Loading exceeds about 8, you will be subjected to
     'Blackout'. If the G-Loading is -3, or less, then you will be prone to
     'Red-out', as the blood rushes to your head.

     The most common way of inducing these G ratings is by generating a very
     steep-banked turn at great speed, the combination of which will result
     in the aforementioned blackout. If you straighten out immedialtely after
     a very highangle, high-speed ascent, then you will cause a minus G-force
     which may result in a Red-out.

     Altitude
     The maximum altitude of the ATF is 75,000 feet (which is the approximate
     height of the generated satellite view). To attain the required height
     to evade radar detection, you need to fly at between 200 - 300 FT above
     the ground or the sea level (dependant on the enviroment you are over).

     Ladderbar
     Partrayed on the HUD, the ladderbar indicates the angle of your aircraft
     in relation to the horizon. Hence, the zero level indicator indicates
     'level' flight. Note that the Ladderbar Pitch Lines are always horizontal
     to the horizon, IE, when you roll, the Ladderbar will change angle
     accordingly in the HUD. The Ladderbar is shown in increments and
     decrements of 10 degrees.

     Landing
     1.   traighten the craft using the centreline of the runway as a
          reference. Maintain a speed of around 300 MPH and a height of
          between 1500 - 2000 FT. Lift the nose slightly to maintain level
          flight.
     2.   On approach, descend down to around 300 FT and reduce airspeed to
          around 200 MPH, lowering your flaps. It is advisable to lower your
          landing gear at this point. Remember to keep the centreline of the
          runway directly ahead of you, IE your central focal point of
          reference.
     3.   When your wheels touch the runway, reduce the throttle to zero and
          push forward on the joystick in order to lower the nosewheel down
          to the ground.
     4.   Apply the brakes and when the craft stops completely, the mission
          you have just undertaken is complete.

                                 SCORING:
                                 --------

     In this simulation, there is no automatic promotion. It is up to your
     discretion to decide whether you are skilful or experienced enough to
     promote yourself to the relevant rank.
     Your achievements will be based on the rank you have selected. If
     1 st. Lt. is taken as the 'base' rank, Captain will be awarded twice as
     many points for the mission; Major, three times; Lt Col., five times and
     Colonel seven times as much. It must be borne in mind, though, that the
     higher rank you select, the more difficult will the mission be to
     complete.

     Scores are given after each mission and Awards (if applicable) after
     each War Update. Different missions will attain different scores - you
     will be awarded proportionally more points the further you progress into
     the war.

                                  MEDALS:
                                  -------

     1. PURPLE HEART - awarded if injured or killed in action.

     2. AIRMANS MEDAL (AM) - awarded after War Update 1.

     3. DISTINGUISHED FLYING CROSS (DFC) - awarded after War Update 2.

     4. SILVER STAR (SS) - awarded after War Update 3.

     5. AIRFORCE CROSS (AFC) - awarded after War Update 4.

     6. MEDAL OF HONOUR (MOH) - awarded after War Update 5.