         Present F17 CHALLENGE DOCUMENTATION by LYRICAL-GANGBANG
         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

F17 Challenge is an exciting arcade style race game for your Amiga, the
aim is to become the World F17 Champion by racing your way around the 
worlds toughest circuits.  Select from four different cars, each with its
own characteristics and choose the style of game and skill level that's
best for you.  You'll find that F17 Challenge caters for a wide range
of players in both skill levels and realism/arcade options.

1.  LOADING F17 CHALLENGE

"F17 CHALLENGE" runs on any Amiga model, requires at least 1 Meg of RAM
and one joystick connected to port 2.  An extra drive is recommended.

1)  Turn off your Amiga, wait for 10 seconds and then turn it back on.

2)  Amiga 1000 owners only: insert the "Kickstart" disk and wait for the
    workbench prompt screen.

3)  Insert DISK 1 into drive DF0: and the game will commence loading, 
    after a short time a presentation sequence will begin.

2.  SCREEN SELECTION

You can choose between NTSC (FULL SCREEN) or PAL (NORMAL SCREEN) video
mode, if your machine has a recent version of the Amigas "Fat Agnus"
chip.  If you have an old 2000, 500 or 1000 then this option might not
work and the screen size will default to normal.
To select one of the two display modes, move the joystick Left or Right
to highlight the desired option and press the fire button.

3.  MAIN MENU

Move the joystick up, down left, right to highlight one of the four 
available icons and press fire.

WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
You have to race all of the 16 circuits of the F17 World Championship.

RACE SINGLE CIRCUIT
You can choose any of the 16 circuits to enjoy a non-Championship race.

PRACTICE
You will race on a difficult test-track, with or without opponents.

OPTIONS
You can customize the game by modifying various options outlined in the
next section.

4.  GAME OPTIONS

These customize the skill level, control options and other aspects of 
the game.  They are accessed via the main menu.
To modify the parameters move the orange square using the joystick and
press fire to switch through available options of each item.

CAR
There are four cars available, each with it's own characteristics
these are as follows;

RED                 : Powerful engine, very fast in straight tracks.
                      
RED/WHITE           : Reaches its best even during wet races.
                 
GREEN/WHITE         : Powerful engine, strong structure for hard tracks.

YELLOW/GREEN        : A fast car for fast tracks.

GEARS
Select the gearshift of your car.

AUTO                : Automatic gear, just accelerate!

MANUAL              : Push the fire button and move Joystick up
                      (Shift up) or down (Shift down).

ACCELERATE

BUTTON              : Push the fire button to accelerate; to BRAKE
                      move the joystick down.

STICK               : Move the joystick up to accelerate; to BRAKE
                      move the stick down.

LAPS
Choose the lap number (5, 8, 10 or 15).  If you select the "ARCADE"
Game Mode (see below), the lap number is automatically set to 3.

GAME MODE
You can choose between two kinds of World Championship.

NORMAL              : You will race each circuit one after the other
                      even if you don't complete the race and you can
                      save your current position to disk.

ARCADE              : You are admitted to the sebsequent circuit only
                      if you end the race in the top six positions.
                      You cannot save to disk, the difficulty level 
                      gradually grows from circuit to circuit and the
                      lap number is fixed to 3.

LEVEL
Select the difficulty level.

ROOKIE              : The easiest level.

AVERAGE             : The intermediate level.

PRO                 : Strictly for the Professionals!

EDIT NAMES
You can modify the default drivers/team names.  In theory you could enter
all your favorite real-life drivers and teams and compete against them!
It's possible to save these for later use.  Follow the on-screen 
instructions for loading and saving this data.  The driver-name that will
be yours during the race is shown in a different colour to the rest.
ExIt - Go back to the Main Menu.

5.  PRACTISE

You can race the test-track to improve your driving ability.  When the
track map appears, choose if you want to race with other cars on the
circuit (OPPONENTS ON), race with no other car (OPPONENTS OFF) or go back
to the Main Menu (CANCEL).  During the race press "ESC" key to quit the
practise session and go back to the Main Menu.

6.  CONTROLS

Joystick LEFT              : Steer Left
Joystick RIGHT             : Steer Right
Joystick UP / FIRE BUTTON  : Accelerate 
Joystick DOWN              : Brake

NOTE - If Manual Gear is selected the following applies

Joystick UP + BUTTON       : Gear Up
Joystick DOWN + BUTTON     : Gear Down

KEYS

P                          : Pause ON/OFF
I                          : Toggle Status Panel ON/OFF
ESC                        : Quit the race

7.  STATUS PANEL

You find it on the top of the screen; it gives you important information
about the race:
Your current lap and lap time, current speed, gear, percentage damage
(damage affects you cars performance - 100% means you are out of the
race), best lap-time, current position and the number of cars in the
race.
If you like, the status panel can be turned off by pressing the "I" key.

8.  PITSTOP

If your car has a damage percentage near to 100%, we suggest that you are
to stop at the pits.  Just a little after the start/finish line, on the
right, there's the pit-lane(look for the dozens of big white signs!).
Enter this lane and brake immediately a fast team of guys will appear and
proceed to repair your car, you can wait until the DAMAGE level reaches
zero, then just accelerate to re-enter the circuit, or you can press fire
to stop the mechanics when you think enough damage has been fixed, and 
leave the pits.
Keeping your eyes peeled on the DAMAGE rating is very important, we
recommend that you get high levels of damage repaired as soon as
possible as heavy damage affects the cars overall performance.  It
takes about 13 seconds to fully repair a 99% damaged car so do bear this
in mind.

9.  RACE SINGLE CIRCUIT

When the "RACE SINGLE CIRCUIT" icon is selected, the "SELECT RACK" 
screen appears and you can choose one of 16 circuits of the World
Championship.  Move the joystick Left and Right to scroll the maps
and press fire to confirm.  On the bottom of the screen appears a
new options bar:
QUALIFY - To reach the first positions of the grid, you have to qualify 
          you will race 2 laps to get the fastest lap time and then,
          after a result table, you will be involved in real
          competition, at a grid position based on how fast your
          second (or best) lap-time was.

RACE CIRCUIT - If you don't want to qualify, you can select this option
               but you will start at the back of the grid!

CANCEL - To go back to the Main Menu.

If you push the joystick up the bar disappears and you can select
another circuit.

10.  WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP

The "WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP" screen shows you the map of the circuit you are 
going to race and four options:

QUALIFY and RACE CIRCUIT - To qualify or race the circuit;

DISK - To save or load your game position (see below).  This option is
       NOT available if the " Arcade Mode" has been selected.

QUIT - To abandon the World Championship.

11.  DISK OPERATIONS

You can save your current game position to disk.  When the "DISK ACCESS"
screen appears move the joystick to select one of the 6 disk icons and
press fire; the options bar on the bottom of the screen allows you to 
SAVE the game, LOAD the game or CANCEL to go back to the previous menu.  
If you push the joystick up the bar disappears and you can select another 
disk icon.
You may also save the best-laps to disk, follow on-screen instructions to
do so.  Note that you may also reset the lap-times in the options, this
will also reset the ones stored@ in "memory" at the time you reset them.
When you confirm the SAVE or LOAD operations, follow the on-screen 
instructions.

12.  RACE RESULTS

After each race you will see two interesting tables; the RACE FINISHING
RESULTS table and the DRIVERS CHAMPIONSHIP table.  The first one shows
for each driver, his position, his name, his team and the points
earned in the race (10 to the winner, 6 to the second, 4 to the third
3 to the fourth, 2 to the fifth, 1 to the sixth).  The second one sums
up the results race by race.

Press fire to skip each table.

13.  CREDITS

Game Design                Holodream

Program                    Fabrizio Farenga
Graphics                   Alfredo Siragusa and
                           Raffaele Valensise
Music                      Nicola Tomljanovich
Sound F/X                  Raffaele Valensise
Cover Illustration         Kevin Jenkins
Technical Support by       Francesco Simula and
                           Massimiliano De Sanctis
Project Management
     (Holodream)           Raffaele Valensise
     (Team 17)             Martyn Brown

Special Thanx to
     Max Reynaud           Luca Farenga
     Daniela Liberatori    Paolo Bacci
     Rigas Raftopolous     Gianluca Sciano
     Tiziano Toniutti      The Small Fishing Game

Produced by Team 17