                                   FAST LANE

     Typed in by MEDUSA. Edited by Parasite.


     PLAYING "FAST LANE"
          The object of the game is ultimately to win the C1 racing driver's World
     Championship Title, by competing in races at nine different circuits around the
     world.

     HOW TO PLAY
        When the game is started you can choose whether to enter a Championship
     race,or just to practice first on the appropriate circuit. If you choose to
     PRACTICE on a circuit you can choose which circuit to practice on, how long to
     practice for and which driver from Spice Engineering's team you want to put
     behind the wheel.

        If you choose to "Start Championship" you will first choose a driver and
     then race on the first circuit in the championship and thereafter on all the
     other circuits in a set order. (See VENUES").

        Before entering each race in the championship or practicing a circuit, you
     will enter the pits to set up your car. Note that this is just the initial set
     up and that you will be able to pull into the pits at any time during the game,
     except when qualilfying, to re-adjust any of the set up parameters. (See
     "PITS").

        If you are competing in the championship, before each race you will have to
     qualify in order to get a good position on the starting grid. You do this by
     completing three laps of the current circuit. The quickest lap time of these
     three laps will then be used to as your qualifying time, and you will be placed
     on the starting grid accordingly. Each circuit has its own set of best
     qualifying times. (See "CHAMPIONSHIP OPTIONS").

     VENUES
        At the start of the championship a list of circuits will be displayed. The
     order in which they appear on the screen will be the order in which you compete
     on them. Pressing "SPACE" will cycle through the circuit maps and dates and
     pressing "FIRE" will set the championship.

     CHAMPIONSHIP OPTIONS
        Before each championship race begins, and options page with the following
     options will appear:

     1.Race information-choosing this option will give you information on the race
     about to begin. Details such as circuit length, number of entrants, etc ,will
     be shown.

     2.Driver Data-choosing this option will give you information on the driver you
     have chosen to sit behind the wheel.

     3.Enter race-Choose this option to actually enter the race!

     4.C1 car specs-choosing this option will give you the car specification for the
     C1 Spice car you are driving.

     5.Drivers championship table-this option gives you the current drivers placings
     in the championship. Note that this table is only for races already run and
     does not include the one about to begin.

     PITS
         When the "PITS" icon starts flashing on the screen (not in the qualifying
     section), it means that the pit lane and pits will soon appear on the left hand
     side of the track. To pull into the pits turn onto the black pit lane, stop the
     car and turn off the engine. You will then be in the pits.

         While you are in the pits, you can choose whether to adjust/repair a part
     of a system (each having a damage status underneath),by choosing one of the
     icons at the bottom of the screen, these icons represent:

     1.  Tires-replace a wheel or select a tire type.

     2.  Gearbox-replace the gearbox/clutch etc.(this option is not available on
     initial set up).

     3.  Suspension-replace a strut or change the suspension setting.

     4.  Brakes-replace the disc or change the brake bias-front/rear.

     5.  Bodywork-replace a body panel or adjust the spoiler angles.

     6.  Engine-tune up the engine or replace the battery etc. (this option is not
     available on initial set up).

            Each menu system is made up of three or more sub-systems, and each will
     have its own individual damage factor. It is advisable to replace any
     sub-system if it is more than 65% damaged.

            Pressing "ESC" from any part of the sub-menus will return you to the
     main icon screen. Pressing "space" on this screen will give you a "Current
     System Set Up", which is a list of which tires you have got on the car, spoiler
     angles etc. Press "space to return to the icon screen.

            Pressing "ESC" while on the icon screen will let you fill up the car
     with fuel etc and "ESC" will take you out of the pits.

           Note that the race is run in real time and so if you come in for repairs
     or fuel etc during the race you may lose one or more positions if you take too
     long on your pit stop. So quick pit stops may be essential depending upon your
     position in the race.

     GAME CONTROLS  (ON CIRCUIT)
        You will need a Joystick connected.

        The car has five gears ( + neutral ) and has a maximum speed of 182 mph.
     Pressing "fire" when speeding up will change you up a gear, whilst pressing
     "fire" when slowing down will change you down a gear.

                                    ACCELERATE
                                         |
                  STEER LEFT   _ _ _ _ _ | _ _ _ _ _ STEER RIGHT
                                         |
                                         |
                                       BRAKE



     KEYBOARD CONTROLS (ON CIRCUIT)
     P               - Electrics on/off
     Q               - Main fuel tank select
     A               - Reserve fuel tank select
     I               - Ignition on/off
     S               - Starter motor on/off
     R               - Request systems report
     L               - Lights on/off
     SPACE           - show current positions (in race only)
     F1              - pause mode
     HELP            - display these keys with status on screen
     ESC             - quit race / qualify / practice session

     NOTE:
             At  the start of a practice session you will have to go through a
     start up sequence, as in the real race cars, to get the car going. The
     correct sequence is as follows:

     1 .             Electrics on (P)
     2 .             Fuel select (Q or A)
     3 .             Ignition on (I)
     4 .             Starter motor on (S)

     This sequence is done automatically in the main race.

     STALLING
             If you stall the car ("STALL" appears near the steering wheel),
     by going too slow in too high a gear, you can re-start the car by turning
     the starter back on provided all other systems are set correctly.

     CRASHING
             Going too far off the side of the circuit will cause a crash. This
     does a lot of damage to the car and it is advised you request a systems
     report after the crash to determine whether attention is needed in the pits.
