            Complete Docs to Fast Eddie's Pool and Billiard Parlor
               Done by Mictlantecuhtli and Stark of Skid Row
                   

                                Introduction         

      Welcome to Fast Eddie's Pool and Billiard Parlor! This is the
      most ambitious billiards video game of our time--Fast Eddie's
      combines the entertaining graphics and frivolity of an arcade
      game with the customizability of great computer software to
      create a product you will find thoroughly enjoyable, whether you
      are a novice or an expert at pool or computers.

      Every effort has been made to give you not only the feeling of
      being there, but being in control! After all, if the computer won't
      let you do what you want, what fun is that?


                                   BACKUP                              

      Before you do anything else, make a backup or working copy of
      your diskette! The Fast Eddie's disk can be copied by simply
      dragging its disk icon over another disk icon. Use the working
      copy you have made, and archive the distribution diskette for
      safety.


                         Getting Into Fast Eddie's Parlor     

      Fast Eddie's can be run from either CLI or the Workbench icon.
      To run from the Workbench, double click on the Fast Eddie's Icon
      or on an Instant Replay icon. If you chose the Instant Replay,
      the program will immediately load the game and transfer you to
      the table from which the replay was saved. This feature allows
      you to restore the situation of the game just as it was when you
      saved it.

      To run from the CLI, type

                         Fast Eddie's

      at the CLI prompt, and [Enter]. If this command is followed by a
     instant replay filename,

               Fast Eddie's mygame.replay

     for example, the saved game `mygame.replay" will be restored
     just as you saved it, ready to continue playing.


                        Hard Disk installation    

      Fast Eddie's can be installed on a hard disk in any drawer.
      Installation is simple from the Workbench, drag the icon for Fast
      Eddie's from the distribution diskette to the drawer of your choice.

      If running the program from either WorkBench or CLI fails to bring
      up the program screen, you do not have sufficient chip memory
      available to run the program. Fast Eddie's is designed to

                                     1

      multi-task with other programs, but it does use a great deal of
      chip RAM. Because of this, we recommend that you not attempt 
      multi-tasking with this program if your computer only has 512K of
      RAM. If Fast Eddie's is run with less than 512K free memory, no
      attempt will be made to make use of the the Amiga computer's
      built-in speech synthesizer software.


             Please note: it is recommended that overscan
             not be used on a 512k system.  If you are
             having trouble running in 512k, first try booting
             off your working copy of the Fast Eddie's 
             diskette, if this was not done.  Next, try
             disconnecting any external disk drives and
             rebooting.  If all these steps fail, contact
             Technical Support at Oxxi, Inc. The program
             has not failed to run on any Amiga with 512K
             or more, to the best of our knowledge.


      If you are so fortunate as to have Amiga with a CPU
      accelerator, you are in for a pleasant surprise--Fast Eddie's has
      been designed to utilize faster CPU's in order to achieve much
      smoother animation.

      On a technical note:  If you do wish to multi-task with this
      program, please note that attempting speech or sound from
      another task simultaneously is not recommended. Sprites #2 and
      #3 are also requested, but if they are not available, they are
      simply not displayed - no harm will result.


                   Copy Protection     

      The Fast Eddie's disk is not copy-protected and can be copied
      under the conditions listed in the license agreement. When Fast
      Eddie asks for word number N on line number Y on page number
      P, count each word (but not punctuation), every line, including
      chapter titles such as Introrduction (except text in illustrations or
      boxed in note boxes) ad use the page number printed on the
      manual page.  Count hyphenated words as TWO words.  For
      example, Word 13 in line 11 of Page 2 (this page) is "this".

      We're eager to offer program upgrades and free technical advice
      to legitimate users, but not to unauthorized users of the program.
      We need your cooperation in this matter, which consists of your
      returning your registration card.

      Software piracy is a crime. So please-spread the word, not the
      disk! [You better do it!!


                                     2

                       The Pool and Billiard Parlor   

      Assuming there is sufficient RAM, the title screen will appear once
      the program is fully loaded into memory. The crisp sound of the
      cue ball striking other balls should accompany this image-you
      can adjust your Amiga volume at this point. When done with the
      credits, press any key or a mouse button to continue.

      Next you will see the pool hall, with Fast Eddie himself behind the
      counter instructing you to type in the necessary password,
      followed by the [Enter] key. There is no time limit on looking up
      the password. If you give the wrong password, you will be
      tossed out of the pool hall--and out of the program.


                              Look Around  

      Once you have given the correct password, you are free to do as
      you wish within the pool hall. To indicate that you are interested
      in something in the room, just click the left mouse button over
      that item.  Releasing the button while over the item is not
      necessary for certain items--for example, there is an exit door in
      the upper left had corner. When the mouse pointer is positioned
      over that area, and you depress the mouse button, the door
      swings open. If you release the button while the pointer is still
      over the door, you will exit the program. If you release the button
      while the pointer is no longer over the door, the doors swing shut
      and you can continue to play.

      The pool hall is viewed from a vantage point near the back of the
      room. The door is not the only active item in the room, of course.
      An arcade game in the opposite corner displays EHB if your
      Amiga has Extra Halfbrite capability. The arcade game can be
      played by clicking once anywhere on it with the mouse. A
      warning,   though -- Fast Eddie has the game rigged, and is always
      ready with a sarcastic comment if you lose the game!

      Next to the front counter is a jukebox, playing Fast Eddie's
      favorite song.  (He turns it off whenever anyone gets serious
      about playing a game.) The jukebox displays its On/Off, status, in
      case you have the sound turned off on your machine. You can
      turn off the jukebox yourself by clicking on the word ON, and turn
      it back on just as easily. There are additional active areas to be
      discovered--by clicking on Fast Eddie!

                                  The Tables           

      The primary active areas, of course, are the four different tables.
      One is set up for all the popular pocket pool games, and the
      other three are for bumper pool, carom billiards, and snooker.
      Selecting the table you want to play is easy: when the button is
      depressed while the pointer is over a table, the table "lights up".

                                     3

      If the button is released while the pointer is still over the table, you
      will be ready to play at that table.  If the pointer has moved
      somewhere else when you release the mouse button, the table
      returns to its original appearance, and you are free to choose
      other options in the pool hall.

                               Number of Players
    
       If you choose a table, but it does not appear, ready for play, you
       most likely do not have the right number of players selected for
       play at that table. To change the number of players, go to the
       rack of cuesticks on the wall between the jukebox and the arcade
       game, and click on one to remove it or click on the area where
       one used to be to put it back. Up to four players can be chosen
       in this fashion. In play, the player's names appear in sequence as
       their innings commence, with the first player's name in red, the
       second in blue, green for the third, and the fourth in turquoise.

       Zero is not a valid number of players, so if all four cuesticks are
       on the wall, you will be told to grab some if you wish to play. The
       default number of players is two, but this default, like most others,
       can be changed. This feature is discussed later, under Saving
       Your Configuration

                               Playing A Game            

      When you select a table, the table zooms to fill the whole screen,
      Fast Eddie turns off the music, and the game begins. The first
      time you select the pool table, the default game is 15-Ball. Let's
      start with that game--click once on the pool table (close to you
      on your left).

      The right mouse button now serves as the menu button, and it
      will bring up a menu anytime it is pressed, except when the action
      has already been paused to perform a menu operation. The left
      mouse button, the selection button, is used to make selections
      and perform game ections. If a joys1ick is used in port #2, the 
      fire button is the selection button.

                           The Counters and Timers

      Below the table is a band containing play information. Each
     player's name will be displayed in turn, starting with Player 1 at
     the left.  Under the player's name are the counters which tally
     number of balls ad shots. The Balls tally represents the player's
     score. At the right of each player's area is a timer display. With
     the initial skill setting, Novice, for Player 1, this timer displays the
     word UP during Player 1's turn.  Between the two player tally
     areas is the enlarged picture of a cue ball--more about this
     gadget in a moment.

                                     4

                        Positioning the Cue Ball

     First the cue ball must be positioned on the table. It can be
     placed using the mouse, joystick, or the cursor arrow keys. Once
     you decide on a location, press the selection button to place the
     ball on that spot.  Think carefully before pressing the
     button--there is no quick way to undo this action!



                           Aiming the Cue

     Next you aim the cuestick. To aim the cuestick, move the mouse
     left or right. The graphical image of the cuestick will rotate. When
     you have your aim set, press the selection button.  Do not 
     release it immediately . Hold the selection button down as you
     fine-tune our aim, if necessary, with the left and right cursor
     arrows. (This can also be done by moving the joystick left or
     right with the firing button held down.)

                            Calling a Pocket 

      15-Ball does not require it, but if the game being played calls for
      the destination pocket to be named before the shot is
      made-calling the shot-an X  will appear above one of the
      pockets. Move the mouse up or down (toward the top or the
      bottom of your mouse pad) to cycle through all of the pockets.
      The joystick or up-and-down cursor arrow keys can also be used
      to select a pocket.

      In bumper pool, you will sometimes have the option to choose
      which ball to shoot as the cue ball. In a bumper pool game,
      moving the mouse up or down (or using the cursor arrow keys)
      cycles through all balls that you are eligible to shoot.


                     Make Your Shot                               

      The final step is executing the shot. A crosshair will appear at the
      bottom of the screen, hovering above the enlarged cue ball

           _____ 
          /  F  \
         /       \                        F:  Follow stroke
        /         \                       D:  Draw stroke
       |     |     |                          Reverse English
       |L  --+--  R|                      R:  Right English
       |     |     |                          curves ball left
        \         /                       L:  Left English
         \   D   /                            curves ball right
          \_____/    


      between the player tally areas at the bottom of the scree. The
      crosshair, which looks like a "+", can be moved in any direction
      by using the mouse or joystick. This crosshair position is used to
      apply spin to the cue ball.

                                  Spin 

      To apply  Spin or `English"  to the cue ball, position the crosshair
      off-center.  Lateral spin, left-hand or right-hand English, is
      produce if the crosshair is located to the left or right of center.
      For  Follow  (backward spin), position the crosshair above the
      center of the cue ball.  Draw  (forward spin or "reverse English) is
      created when the crosshair is positioned below the center of the
      cue ball. Often, it will be most strategic to place the crosshair at
      the center, which imparts no unusual spin to the ball.

      If you do apply spin, be careful not to miss the ball--and don't
      jump the table! Fast Eddie gets very annoyed if your ball breaks 
      the glass in his trophy case.

                                 Power 

      Having chosen the crosshair position, all that remains is
      determining how hard to hit the cue ball. The crosshair is
      constantly growing and shrinking, representing the velocity of the
      shot should the selection button be released at that instant. The
      larger the crosshair, the greater the velocity of the shot. To hit the
      cue ball hard, release the selection button when the crosshair is at
      its largest.

                               The Shot 

       When you release the button, the shot is executed, and the cue
       ball is sent on its way. While the shot is played out, the menu
       and selection buttons do not function. Pressing the right mouse
       button during the animation of the snot invokes a requester which
       asks whether you wish to  Abort  the shot in progress. If you say
       Yes, the shot is immediately terminated, leaving all balls at their
       current position. You will not need this feature for normal use.

       To return to the pool hall screen, use the menu button to select
        Quit  under the  Game  menu.

                                     6
                                                                              
                                A Different Game                               

                   Pool and Other Games                              

      You can stop playing any game at any time, without leaving the
      table. The  New  command under  Game  allows you to select any
      of the games available at the table. The pocket pool table offers a
      selection of one to nine games, depending on now many players
      there are.

                          Playing By Yourself 

      When you are the only player, the pocket pool table offers you
      only one game, Golf. Every other game at this table requires at
      least two active players, one or more of which can be the
      computer.  With two, three or four players, nine games are
      offered. 15-Ball, Rotation, 14.1, Moon, Golf, 6-Ball, Wild Sevens,
      and 9-Ball are available for two to four players. Cutthroat is
      available only if exactly three players are at the table, and 8-Ball
      requires two or four players.

                         Moving To a New Table 

      To play a game offered at a different table, you must  Quit  from
      the current table. Select  Quit  from the  Game  menu, or press
      Right-Amiga- Q . if you are actively playing a game at this table,
      you will be prompted to see if you really wated to Quit the
      current game.

      Once you are back in the pool hall, press the selection button and
      release it while you are over the desired table. If you are playing
      with the correct number of players for that table, you will be at the
      table, ready to play. The other three tables in the pool hall do not
      have muitiple games offered.

                          Demonstration Play 

      You can set Fast Eddie to play another pool-hall layabout, Las
      Gatos Fats, in a demonstration of ay game--in fact, you may
      want sometimes to get the real "heavies" at  Fast Eddie's  to play
      for your amusement or instruction. Watching Los Gatos Fats,
      West Chester Wally play a fast game of 8-Ball at the Legend level
      is epic.

      To set up demonstration play at any level, simply set all the
      players to  Amiga  type, and select the skill levels preferred. The
      player's names appear in sequence as their innings commence,
      with the first player's name in red, the second in blue, third, green,
      and the fourth in turqouise.

                                     7

                            Instant Replay 

      One of the most interesting features of Fats Eddie's is  Instant 
      Replay , allowing you to review the last shot.

      To activate Instant Replay's VCR control panel, select  Replay 
      from the  Shot  menu. At the bottom of the screen will appear six
      buttons, like the controls of a Video Cassesette Recorder. These
      are operated with the left mouse button or the function keys F1
      through F6, and perform Rewind , Play , Pause , Stop , Slow , and
      Record  respectively.

      The  Rewind  button winds the replay "tape" back to the beginning.
      Play  begins the animation.  Pause  allows frame-by-frame viewing
      of the recorded action. The  Slow  button toggles the speed of the
      replay from slow-motion to full speed.  Stop  terminates the replay,
      removes the VCR control panel, and restores the setup of the
      game as it was before instant replay was selected. The  Record 
      button, like the  Stop  button, stops the replay and removes the
      VCR control panel; however, it does not  restore the game setup.
      This resets the game in progress to to the situation recorded in the
      replay tape-this feature is used in restoring old games from disk,
      discussed later.

                          Save Instant Replay 

       Instant Replay shots of interest can be saved to disk for viewing
       or playing at a later time. The  Save  item under the  Shot  menu
       pops up a file requester, which prompts you for the filename to
       call your replay file. When you have entered the name, and the
       file has been saved, the game continues.

                          Load a Saved Replay 

       To view an instant replay file later, choose  Load  under the  Shot 
       menu. The file requester will appear. When your choice has been 
       selected and loaded, the instant replay VCR control panel will
       automatically be activated. You can choose to view the replay,
       then continue with the current game you were playing--to do
       this, simply select the  Play  button, followed by the  Stop  button.

                      Resume Playing An Old Game 

       You can also use this feature to abandon the current game, and
       take up play of a saved game at the point where you saved the
       replay. To do this, select the  Record  button. To include the very
       last shot made when this game is saved, select the  Play  button
       first, and wait for all balls to stop before selecting  Record .

                  Create Your Own Shots                             

       Have you ever wanted to try some trick shots?  Fast Eddie's  lets
       you do just that, and more! Simply select  Create  from the  Shot 
       menu. The pointer will change to an image of a hand to indicate
       you do just that, and more! Simply
       you are in create mode.

                                     8

      Game play and menu operations are suspended during create
      mode. Due to the precision input necessary, the keyboard and
      Joystick cannot be used in this mode, only the mouse.

      In create mode, you have the ability to move any ball to any place
      on the table. Move the pointer to the desired ball and click the
      left mouse button to select that ball. Any movement of the mouse
      will result in a corresponding movement of the selected ball.

      In most games, an object ball can be removed from the table. Just
      move the ball to the very top of the screen, and place it over the
      marker for that particular ball. Click the left mouse button, and if
      successful, the ball will be dropped at that spot. If the ball was
      not in the correct position, the ball will still be "in your grasp". 
      To put a ball back on the table, simply grab it from the top of the
      screen and move it back onto the table.

      In all games except bumper pool, it is not possible to remove the
      cue ball, and in billiards, no ball can be removed from the table.
      However, in bumper pool, the bumpers and even the pockets can
      be moved--be careful not to place the pockets up on the rail!

      The setup which exists before the first shot of a bumper pool
      game will be used at the beginning of all subsequent games, until
      it is changed again before the beginning of a game. Use  Create 
      to customize the initial setup--even handicap your opponent by
      removing one or more balls or placing the holes in different
      positions.

      To restore the bumper pool setup to its original setting, select the
       Create  menu item and click the button labeled [Default]. This
      moves all balls, holes and bumpers back to the standard
      positions. Remember that if you do this  after  the first shot of the
      game, next time you begin a bumper pool game, the initial setup
      will revert to the positions which were in effect before the defaults
      were restored.

      At either side of the storage spots for balls removed from the
      table, you are offered two choices for quitting create mode.
      [Proceed] will accept the changes you have made, returning you
      to play the shot you have created.  You may also chose to
      [Cancel] all changes made, in which case the original positions of
      the balls, before  Create  was selected, will be restored.

      Since all shots can be saved as instant replay files, if you devise
      an interesting setup using  Create , consider saving a shot made
      with that setup.  At a later time, by loading in the replay and
      pressing the  Record  button, and you can try your interesting
      setup again!

                                     9

                                                                              
                              The Options Menu                                

       Under the  Options  menu is a array of different parameters
       you can customize for your play at this table.

                      Edit Player                                

       Is your name  Human ?  Many computer games make this
       assumption. For those of us who do not answer to that moniker
       in our day-to-day lives,  Fast Eddie's  allows you to put in your own
       name.  If no name is entered,  Player 1  is the default name
       displayed for the first player. Names can be entered fo up to four
       players.

       Some games require at least two people to play. Not  Fast 
        Eddie`s --the Amiga computer can play, and plays reasonably
       well, at that. The computer can also "fill in" for any player at any
       time in the game. In fact, you can set the computer to play itself.

                              Skill Level 

       You also can change your skill level--the default is  Novice , which
       means you need things as easy as possible. As you become 
       more proficient, you may wish to advance to  Expert , or even
        Legend . These more--difficult settings can be used to handicap
       yourself when facing others who are playing the game for the first
       time--or use them to handicap the computer for easier tutorials.

       The Novice player has an unlimited time to make a shot. The
       Amiga computer at the Novice setting makes its shot in 30 
       seconds or less (usually less than 10 seconds). Experts and
       Legends are timed--the timer appears at the right of the player's
       counters at the time play passes to the player, and counts down
       30 seconds for the Expert, and 10 seconds for the Legend. At
       timeout, if no shot has been made, a foul buzzer sounds, and
       play passes to the next player in the sequence.

                            Order of Play 

       The initial defauit order of play is Player 1, yourself then the
       Amiga. You can reset this, so the Amiga breaks, and you are
       second. Other human players can be set up just as easily.

       Name, skill, and preset order of play are adjusted using the  Edit 
        Player  command from the  Options  menu. The name is edited by 
       clicking the cursor down into the player name box. Change the
       skill level and player type (Human or Amiga) by clicking the
       button next to the player name.  The requester allows you to
       define these characteristics for up to four players. The attributes
       for all participating players can be changed, and will be reflected
       immediately after the requester is dismissed by selecting the OK
       button.
                                    10

                      Preferences.                                 

       In the  Preferences  sub-menu are settings which affect the display
       of the pool balls, order of play, and other features of the pool and
       billiards games.

      To turn on any option, select  Preferences  under the  Options 
      menu, and release when the item you want turned on is
      highlighted, so that it becomes check-marked. Unlike the other
      menus in this program, selecting items in this one does not turn
      off the other settings in this sub-menu; it only toggles the selected
      item. As a resuit, there may be muitiple items check-marked in
      Preferences . To toggle muitiple settings in this menu, click the
      left mouse button over each of the items you wish to change,
      holding the menu button down until all selections are completed.

                             Show Numbers 

        Show Numbers  toggles the display between showing the
       numbers on each ball, and showing an animated, more realistic
       look.  For novices to the game or those with color-blindness,
       being able to read the number of the ball can be a real boon.
       Normally, you will want  Show Numbers  turned off. This menu
       item applies only to the pocket pool games which require
       numbered balls.

                             Drop Shadows 

       The ability to turn off  Drop Shodows  is included for users whose
       Amiga computers lack the Extra Halfbrite display mode capability.
       When  Drop Shadows  is checked, the program renders pool ball
       images which look great in Extra Halfbrite, but unattrective on
       machines without this capability. To determine whether your
       machine has Extra Halfbrite, look for the initials  EHB  on the
       arcade game in the pool hall. If you do not see these initials, you
       do not have Extra Halfbrite display mode, and should turn off
       drop shadows to obtain more accurate ball images.

                             Reverse View 

       The  Reverse View  item rotates the positions of all the balls 180
       degrees. This feature is provided as a change of pace.

       Normally, the pool, snooker or billiards table is displayed with the
       foot spot on the right and the head spot on the left.  Reverse 
       View  reverses not only the display of ball positions, but also the
       points where balls are re-spotted, the areas where the cue ball may
       be placed during break, and so on.

       If you are playing Bumper Pool, the default display shows the
       white balls and white pocket at the top. Selecting  Reverse View 
       in the Bumper Pool game puts the red balls and red pocket at the
       top.

                                    11

                              Lag for Break 

       If a preset order of play does not suit you, you may choose to
       "lag for break", determining not only who goes first, but the order
       of turns for other players as well. The object of a lag is simple:
       bounce the cue ball off the far rail and end up as close as
       possible to the near rail, without scratching (pocketing the cue
       ball). Each player shoots in the preset order of turns. To avoid
       any strategical advantages, the other players should not watch
       while a player is making a lag shot.  (In real life, each player
       would perform this shot simuitaneously, but for practical reasons,
       it is implemented differently in this program.)

                              Show Path 

       The Show Path oplion displays a straight line along the aim of the
       cue, which extends across the table to assist you in your aim. It
       acts like `laser sights" to let you know precisely where your cue
       ball will move if it is struck dead center.

       Side English on the cue ball will tend to move it off this straight
       path after the ball is struck. Straight follow or draw strokes should
       not curve the cue ball off the path.

                        Table Speed                                 

      The table speed can be changed at any time in the game.
      Settings ranging from very slow to very fast are chosen from the
       Table Speed  menu under  Options . A "fast" speed means the
      balls take a long time to slow to a stop. An additional setting,
       Random , randomly changes the speed every game.  A
      checkmark indicates which setting is active; only one table speed
      setting can be active at a time. To change the setting, move the
      mouse to highlight the new setting and release the menu button.

                       Table Color                                

       The color of the table cloth can be changed in a similar fashion.
       The  Table Color  item under the  Options  menu permits several
       classic choices, with green as the defauit. To change the setting,
       move the mouse to highlight the new setting and release the
       menu button.

                         Ball Makeup                              

       The behavior of the pool balls also can be changed at any time in
       the game by changing the ball makeup. The default is ivory,
       which resuits in normal behavlor. The other settings will be left for
       you to explore.  To change the setting, move the mouse to
       highlight the new setting and release the menu button

                                    12

                       Save Options                                 

      Save Options, the last item of the  Options  menu, performs a save
      of all parameters pertaining to the  Options  menu to a file on disk.
      This configuration file will be saved under the name  S:Pool.cfg .
      From then on, when  Fast Eddie's  is run, the program will
      automatically grab its defauit settings from this file, and your
      favorite options come to life, just as they were when they were
      saved!
 
      To restore the factory settings for the  Options  menu, simply
      delete  S:Pool.cfg . Saved parameters include the number of
      players, the jukebox setting, and the  Option  menu settings.


                                    13

                                                                             
                            Practice Makes Perfect                           

                Undo, Create and New Games                          

      Because accidents can happen, a command has been provided
      which will allow you to undo a shot you have just made. It is
      called  Undo  and is found under the  Shot  menu. If you should
      inadvertently select  Undo  by accident, or feel remorse after doing
      a premeditated undo, don't worry. Simplychoose the same menu
      item. It will be called  Redo  instead of  Undo , and it will restore the
      game to the way it was before the  Undo  was made.

      By creatively using the  Create ,  Undo/Redo , and  New Game 
      options, you can polish and perfect your--even practice
      pool "hustling" with your unwitting friends.

                          Break                                  

      In the chosen game, set the playing order with yourself first. Turn
      off  Lag for Break  in the  Options  menu. Break, with the object
      being to maximize your score in the break---or practice scattering
      the balls for a "safety", to give your opponent the most difficult
      shot possible. After the break shot, you can continue to pocket
      balls until your frame ends, or you can halt the shot and set up to
      break again with the  New Game  command (Right-Amiga- N ).

                        Bank Shots                                 

      Sending the cue ball into the object ball by rebounding it off one
      or more rails is called a  Bank Shot , and requires practice to
      master. By using the  Abort Shot  and  Undo  fetures, you can
      polish your technique. To practice bank shots, use  Create  to set
      up one or more object balls, then turn on  Show Path 
      (Right-Amiga-5), or select  Show Path  from the
       Options-Preferences  menu. The cue ball will rebound from the
      rail at the same angle as it encounters it (the incident angle
      equals the rebound angle).  Use the diamonds (the eighteen
      spots in the rails) to help you eye-in the angle.

      If your shot does not go as planned, press the right moue button
      to abort the shot, then press Right-Amiga-Z to undo the shot. The
      table will return to its pre-shot situation, and your cue will return to
      its original angle. Use the fine-tune options (press the left mouse
      button and use the left and right cursor arrow keys) to adjust the
      aim of the cue stick, or position the crosshairs differently to redo
      the shot.

                                    14

                    Kiss or Carom Shots                              

      Striking an object ball with another object ball which has been set
      into motion by the cue ball striking it, is a  Kiss  or  Carom  Shot,
      and it is a difficult technique to perfect. Instead of the motions of
      the cue ball and a single object ball, carom shots require you to
      understand how three or more balls will interact on the table.

      Force from the striking cue ball is transmitted through the first
      object ball, at an angle that depends on the characteristics of the
      cue ball's motion. The cue ball's spin, speed, and the point at
      which it strikes the object ball all help determine where the struck
      ball will travel. For example, a cue ball with left-hand English on
      it, striking "square" on the object ball (at the nearest point of the
      ball's circumference) will impart a right-hand spin to the object ball.
      Likewise, a cue ball with no spin on it, striking the object ball
      on its right side, will also give the object ball a right-hand spin.

      Again, you can use the  Abort Shot  and  Undo  features to polish
      your technique. To explore the behavior and interaction of the
      cue ball and multiple object balls, or just to practice carom shots,
      use  Create  to set up one or more object balls, then turn on  Show 
      Path  (Right-Amiga-5), or select  Show Path  from the
      Options-Preferences  menu. Use the diamonds to help you
      figure all the angles.

      If your shot misses, simply abort and undo It. The table will return
      to its pre-shot situation, and your cue will return to its original
      angle. Use the fine-tune options to adjust the aim of the cue
      stick, or position the crosshairs differently to retry the shot.

                    Combination Shots                           

      Another difficult type of shot is the  Combination . This involves
      shooting your cue ball into a number of object balls-often a
      cluster, with several balls touching--in order to pocket an object
      ball at the outside of the grouping. Combination Shots are
      usually classed as trick shots, and are very useful to awe and
      astound onlookers.

      Fast Eddie's  Undo, Create, and Abort features will help you hone
      this technique to a fine edge. In fact, Combination shots are a
      special kind of carom shot, and the method described above
      works very well to give you plenty of practice perfecting them.


                         New Game                                

      If you select New Game from the keyboard (Right-Amiga- N ), what
      you get is a new break set-up for the previously-selected type of
      game.

      At the Pool table, to select a totally new kind of game, pull down
      the Game menu and open the New Game submenu. You will see
      the  A -N notation next to the current game type. Select a different
      game to change this default.

                                    15

                      Fourteen Ready-to-Play Games 

       Practice playing each of the different pool, billiards, snooker and
       bumper pool games. Not counting the irifinite possibilities of the
       Create option,  Fast Eddie's  provides 14 defined games, for up to
       four players.

                                    16

                                                                             
                               Menu  Overview                                

                         Game                                    

            About            Program version is displayed.
            Help  A-H Game's rules are displyed.
            New   A-N Start a new game at this table.
            Quit  A-Q Quit this table, return to the pool hall.

                          Shot                                    

           Reploy A-I       instant replay remote control panel.
           Load        A-L   Load a replay from disk.
           Save        A-S   Save a replay to disk.                
           Delete            Delete a file.
           Undo        A-Z   Undoes the last shot made.            
           Create A-C        Allows placement of balls in any       
                             position.

                         Options                                  

           Table Speed       Change rate at which balls slow down.
             Slowed
             Slow
             Normal
             Fast
             Fastest
             Random
           Table Color       Change the color of the table cloth.
             Green
             Red
             Gold
             Tan
             Black                                                

                                   17  

            Preferences      Switch various game toggles.
            Show Numbers    A-1
            Drop Shadows    A-2
            Reverse View    A-3
            Lag for Break   A-4
            Show Path       A-5
            Edit Flyer       Edit player parameter.
            Name
            Skill level
            Human or Amiga
            Ball Makeup      Change behavior of the pooI balls.
            Boingite
            Ivory
            Velcro
            Save Options Saves configuration file to disk

                                    18

                                                                               
                            The Rules Of The Game                              

                              For All Games                               

                                  Help 

       With so many different bliliard games to choose from, it is easy to
       forget the rules of a particular game. It would be very annoying if
       the rules were not readily available to the player during the course
       of a game. The rules are also spelled out in this manual--but
       who wants to go fetch a manual and search for game rules in the
       middle of a contest? So this information is provided online.

       With the touch of a key, you can get the basic rules of the game
       that is being played. Just press the  HELP  key (Right-Amiga- H ) or
       select  Help  under the  Game  menu.

                              Foul Buzzer 

       In any game, at any table, when the cue ball is sunk or hits or
       sinks the wrong ball first, a loud buzzer sounds, a statement of
       the type of foul appears at the top of the screen (and of course,
       Fast Eddie makes a sarcastic comment!)  Driving balls off the
       table is also a foul, and provokes the buzzer.

                      Force Player to Break Again 

       In many pool and billiard games, a foul shot on the break requires
       the player to break again. At  Fat Eddie's , however, a requester
       will appear to ask if you want to force this player to break again.
       If you select  YES , the balls will be racked again, and the player
       who fouled will have another chanoe to break.  Selecting  NO 
       passes the play to the next player in sequence, who will break.

                       Pocket Pool                               

       The standard pool table is a rectangle 9 feet long, and 4.5 feet
       wide, with six pockets, one in each corner, and one at the
       mid-point of each long rail. Two spots, the head spot and the foot
       spot, are located one-quarter of the way along the table from
       each short rail, and centered between the two long rails.

       An imaginary line (marked on some championship tables)
       extends between the center diamonds on the foot and head end
       of each long rail, through the foot or head spot. The line which
       extends through the foot spot is called the foot string. Balls are
       always racked with the lead point of the triangle on this line, and
       re-spotted balls are placed, touching each other, in a straight line
       from the foot spot toward the foot rail (perpendicular to the foot
       string).

                                    19

      The line extending through the head spot is called the head string,
      and it defines the furthest forwars point at which the cue ball may
      be placed for the break. The section of the table between the 
      head string and the head rail is sometimes called the
      "kitchen"--many games require the cue ball to leave the kitchen
      for the shot to be legal.

                               Pool Balls 

      Pocket pool games are played with 16 balls, a white cue ball, 8
      solid balls, and seven striped balls. The balls are numbered 1 through
      15, and have specific colors.

           Ball Number       Color          Characteristic 
               1            Yellow         Solid
               2            Blue           Solid
               3            Red            Solid
               4            Purple         Solid
               5            Orange         Solid
               6            Green          Solid
               7            Brown          Solid
               8            Black          Solid
               9            Yellow         Striped
               10           Blue           Striped
               11           Red            Striped
               12           Purple         Striped
               13           Orange         Striped
               14           Green          Striped
               15           Brown          Striped

                           Racking the Balls 

      At the beginning of the first five games listed, all of which use 15      
      balls, the balls are racked with the ball at lead point over the foot
      spot, in semi-random order in the racking triangle. Order is
      semi-radom because each game has one or three specified
      balls which must go in the points of the triangle.

              Game      Lead Point     Left Back     Right Back 
             15-Ball   15
             Rotation  1           2             3
             14.1              1          5
             Moon      1
             Cutthroat 1           6             11

       Golf uses all 15 balls, but they are placed about the table in a
       random pattern, different for each game. After the 8-Ball is sunk
       during a Golf game, a flashing "8" may appear at the top of the
       screen throughout the rest of this player's turn.

                                    20

       One other game uses all 15 balls--8-Ball. In this game, the 8-ball
       is racked in the middle of the third row, with the other balls racked
       at random within the triangle.

       Games which use fewer than 15 balls have a specified order and
       pattern in which the balls must be set for break:

            Game    Rack Shape     Number balls Order 
            6-Ball  Triangle       6    Lead=1
                                        Second Row=2,3
                                        Third Row=4,5,6

            Wild Sevens     Hexagon     7      Lead=1
                     T            Clockwise from
                                         1-ball=2,3,4,5,6
                                         7-ball in middle
            9-Ball   Diamond      9      Lead=1
                                         9-Ball inside
                                         2 through 8
                                         random.

                                                                               
                                   15-Ball                                     

        Number of Players: 2 to 4 

        Object: Outscore your opponent(s) by sinking as many 
        balls as possible, in any order. 

      The value of each ball is equal to its number. The game ends
      when any player reaches 61 points (15-Ball is sometimes called
      "61" for that reason) or when all object balls have been sunk from
      the table. Sinking the cue ball is a foul, and the foul penalty is
      always three points. After a foul, play moves to the next player in
      the sequence.

      15-Ball is an easily-understood game. You don't need to know
      which balls have what numbers and there is only one way to foul
      (pocket the cue ball)--this makes it ideal as a beginner's game.

      In 15-Ball, all 15 balls are racked in the triangle, with the 15-ball at
      the lead point. The other ball are placed at random positions in
      the triangle. Any ball on the table can be the object ball, and
      there are no limitations as to which ball must be struck first.

      Illegally-sunk balls (balls sunk during a foul shot) are replaced on
      the table, spotted in a straight line from the foot spot to the foot
      rail.

                                    21

                                                                              
                                  Rotation                                    

        Number of Plyers: 2 to 4 

        Object: outscore your opponent(s) by sinking as many 
        balls as possible, in any order. 

      Like 15-Ball, the value of each ball is equal to its number, but a
      game of Rotation ends when all object balls have been sunk. To
      be a legal shot, the cue ball must first touch the lowest-numbered
      ball on the table.

      In Rotation, all 15 balls are racked in the triangle, with the 1-ball at
      the lead point, the 2-ball in the upper (left) back corner, and the
      3-ball in the lower (right) corner. The other balls are placed at
      random positions in the triangle.

      The cue ball must strike the 1-ball first on the break--if you fail to
      touch the one-ball first, play passes to the next player in the
      sequence, and any balls pocketed on the break are re-spotted on
      the table. On the break, if the 1-ball is struck first, you get credit
      for all balls pocketed on the break. As each ball becomes the 
      object ball when the lower-numbered balls have been pocketed,
      any balls pocketed are credited to you as long as the first ball 
      struck by the cue ball is the object ball--even if you don't pocket
      the legal object ball.

      Sinking the cue ball is a foul. There is no point-penalty for a foul,
      but three consecutive fouls is loss of game. After a foul, play
      moves to the next player in the sequence.

      When you first begin playing Rotation, it may help to press
      Right-Amiga-1 to turn on the  Shadow Numbers  feature. Of course,
      as you becorne more familiar wl1h the game, you willi not need to
      see the numbers to avoid fouls.

                                                                             
                                    14.1                                     

        Number of Plyers: 2 to 4 
        Object: To be the first to score 25 points. 

       This game, sometimes called "straight pool", is the classic
       game in which the player "calls" each shot. It is sometimes called
       14.1 continuous, because the 14 pocketed balls are re-racked
       when one object ball remains on the table. Each ball is worth 1
       point, but only if the fiirst ball sunk is in the specified pocket.

       All 15 balls are racked at the start of the game, with the 1-ball in
       the upper or left-hand back corner, and the 15-ball in the lower or
       right-hand back corner. Each player's frame continues until a
       shot is missed, when play passes to the next player in sequence, 
       with the existing situation of the table.

       When only one object ball remains on the table, the rest are
       re-racked--not spotted in a straight line, but placed in standard

                                    22

       format in the traangle and racked, with the lead point of the
       triangle empty. If the cue ball or a remaining object ball lies in the
       space normally occupied by the triangle, the balls are racked with
       the lead ball above the foot string, as close as possible to the
       normal position.

       Because of the way the balls are re-racked on the table,a point of
       strategy in a game of 14.1 is the position of the break ball (the
       object ball remaining on the table before the others are re-racked)
       and the cue ball after the key ball (the last ball pocketed before
       the re-rack) has been pocketed. Obviously, if the cue ball is
       badly positioned for the break after re-racklng, you may miss your
       shot, and play will pass to another player. Less obvious is the
       role of the break ball--but its position helps determine where the
       re-racked balls will be placed.

       In 14.1, the pocket is called. Any object ball may be sunk in the
       called pocket, but sinking object balls in another pocket without
       any ball going into the called pocket is a foul. Penalty for fouls is
       two points on the break, and one point thereafter. Whenever a
       point is lost, one obJect ball is returned to the table, spotted
       normally at the foot spot.

       Three consecutive fouls is a five-point penalty. Sinking the cue
       ball is also a foul. After a foul, play moves to the next player in
       the sequence.

                                                                                
                                    Moon                                        

        Number of Players: 2 to 4 
        Object: To be the first to score 25 points. 

       The legal onject ball is the lswest-numbered ball on the table, and
       it must be the first ball hit by the cue ball for a shot to be legal.
       If the object ball is sunk first, each ball sunk after it is worth 3
       points, otherwise, each ball is worth 1 point.

       All l5 balls are racked at the start of the game, with the 1-ball at
       the lead point, and the others placed in the triangle at random.
       Play begins with the break--the 1-ball must be struck first on the
       break--and continues until the player fouls or misses a shot,
       when play passes to the next player in the sequence.

       When only one ball remains, the rest are re-rack--not spotted
       in a straight line, but placed in a standard format in the triangle
       and racked. If the cue ball or a remaining object ball lies in the
       space normally occupled by the triangle, the balls are racked with
       the lead ball above the foot string, as close as possible to the
       normal position.

       Like 14.1, Moon thus involves some foresight in your
       strategy-the position of the cue ball and the break ball are
       important when the balls are re-racked.

       The penalty for a foul shot is one point. Scratch, or sinking the
       cue ball, is a foul with a penalty of 3 points.  After a foul, play
       moves to the next player in the sequence.

                                    23

                                                                               
                                    Golf                                       

        Number of Players: 2 to 4 
        Object: Sink the 8-ball in the designated pocket in as 
        few shots as possible. 
 
       Table setup is random, but is identical for all players. The game
       ends after each pocket has been made, for a total of six "holes"
       of golf. Foul penalty for sinking the 8-ball in the wrong pocket is 1
       "stroke" (an additional shot added to your total), and is assessed
       when the 8-ball is sunk in the wrong pocket. A 1-stroke penalty for
       scratching or jumping the cue ball off the table is also in force.
       After a foul, play moves to the next player in sequence.

       Golf is the only pocket pool game which can be played solitaire.
       In fact, playing games of solitaire Golf is a good way to develop
       your eye or agles of shots, and practice bank, carom, an
       combination shots.  Turn on tje  Show Path  option
       (Right-Amiga- 5 ) for a some assistance with sighting and lining up
       your shots. You can endlessly Undo and re-shoot your shots if
       you're using the game as a practice session. And each new
       game of Golf lays out a completely new table situation for your
       enjoyment.

                                                                            
                                  Cutthroat                                 

        Number of Players: 3 
        Object: Sink the balls of your opponents. 

       Before the break, all 15 balls are racked with the 1-ball in the lead
       point, the 6-ball in the upper or left-hand back point, and the
       11-ball in the lower or right-hand back point. The first player to
       sink a ball chooses which group of balls to protect: 1 through 5,
       6 through 9, or 10 through 15. The second player chooses one
       of the two remaining groups to protect, and the last player
       protects the remaining group. A player wins when all the balls left
       on the table belong to that player's group.

       If the cue ball hits a ball from the player's own group first, it is
       a foul. On a foul, one ball of each opponent is returned to the table
       at the racking point, and play moves to the next player in the
       sequence.

       Cutthroat gets its name from the style of play it encourages--your
       goal during any frame is not only to sink as many of your
       opponent's group as possible (the offensive game), but also to
       leave your group in as difficult a lie as possible (the defensive
       game). A practiced player sets up one opponent to sink most of
       the other opponent's group, then polishes off the remaining
       opponent in the next frame.

                                    24

                                                                               
                                   6-Ball                                      

        Number of Players: 2 to 4 
        Object: To legally pocket the 6-ball. 

       To be a legal shoot, the cue ball must hit the lowest-numbered ball
       first.  Players may sink the 6-ball on any shot, as long as this
       requirement is met. Each player continues to shoot as long as a
       ball has been legally sunk on the previous shot. 6-ball is not a
       scored game--the only way to win is to legally pocket the 6-ball,
       nobody is "ahead" at any point in the game, and there are no ties
       or draw games.

       A foul shot is any shot in which the cue ball does not touch an
       object ball, does not touch the lowest-numbered ball first, or in
       which the cue ball is pocketed.  Balls sunk on a foul shot are
       returned to the table, re-spotted touching in a straight line with
       the lowest-numbed at the foot spot, and higher-numbered balls in
       numeric sequence toward the foot rall. There is no point penalty
       for fouls, but three cosecutive fouls loses the game. After a foul,
       play moves to the next player in the sequence.

       An unusual aspect of 6-Ball play is that, after a foul, the
       succeeding player may spot the cue ball anywhere on the table.
       This is the true penalty for fouls--the next opponent in the order
       of play can make the shot an easy set-up!

       6-ball is a lightning-fast game, ideal for players who have only a
       little time to spare for play. Even at the novice level, two players
       can finish a game in a few minutes, yet 6-ball involves all the
       elements of skill needed for the longer games.

                                                                               
                                   8-Ball                                      

        Number of Plyers: 2 or 4 
        Object: To legally pocket the 8-ball. 

       8-Ball is a fast pool game, as demanding in its own way as 14.1
       or Cutthroat. Except the 8-ball, the seven object balls may be
       sunk in any pocket, without calling the shot. Only in the end
       game, when all other balls of this player's group have been
       pocketed, does the player need to call a shot--the 8-ball.

       The game begins with all 15 balls racked in random order except
       the 8-ball, which must be placed in the middle of the second row,
       or the center of the triangle. The first player to sink a ball after
       the break chooses a group of balls to sink, stripes (1 through 7) or
       solids (9 through 15). Any ball on the table, including the 8-ball,
       may be used in carom or combination shots, but the player
       automatically loses ff the 8-ball is pocketed while any other object
       balls remain.

       When no more of this target group remains, the object becomes
       to sink the 8-ball into the called pocket. The player automatically

                                    25

       loses if the cue ball is pocketed while attempting the 8-ball, or if
       the 8-ball is sunk in the wrong pocket. Three consecutive fouls
       also loses the game. After a foul, play moves to the next player in
       the sequence.

        Behind the 8-ball 
       There are many ways to automatically lose a game of 8-ball, most
       of them involving the 8-ball itself--in fact, there are more ways to
       lose than to win! No wonder the expression "behind the 8-ball"
       became part of the language, describing a feeling of being in a
       no-win or hopeless situation.

                                                                               
                                   9-Ball                                      

        Number of Players: 2 to 4 
        Object: To legally pocket the 9-ball. 

       A game of 9-Ball begins with balls 1 through 9 racked in a
       diamond shape, with the lead "point" of the diamond, the 1-ball,
       on the foot spot, and the 9-ball in the center of the diamond. The
       other balls are placed in any order to complete the diamond.

       The player who breaks--this is one game in which it is to your
       advantage to break because you might make the 9-ball and
       win-tries to pocket any ball in any pocket. A player continues to
       shoot until a ball is not sunk in a specified pocket--except on the
       break, when the shot does not need to be called.

       After the break shot, the cue ball must hit the lowest-numbered
       object ball first on any shot.  The object is to sink balls in the
       called pocket. The 9-ball can be sunk at any time.

                                    26

       A shot is a foul if the cue ball does not hit the lowest-numbered
       ball first, when a ball is not sunk in the called pocket or if the cue
       ball is sunk. Play passes to the next player in the sequence on a
       foul. There is no penaity for fouls, but 3 consecutive fouls is
       automatic loss of game.

                                                                            
                               Wild Sevens                                  

        Number of Players: 2 to 4 
        Object: To legally pocket the 7-ball. 

       To be a legal shot, the cue ball must hit the lowest-numbered ball
       first. Players may sink the 7-ball on any shot, as long as this
       requirement is met. Each player continues to shoot if a ball has
       been sunk. Three consecutivee fouls loses the game, and the
       player automatically loses if the 7-ball is sunk on a foul shot.
       After a foul, play moves to the next player in the sequence.
       Pockets need not be called on any shot.

       Wild Sevens is a fast rotational pool game like the games
       developed for the time requirements of television, averaging about
       three minutes per game. Players need skills in carom and
       combination shots. A special circular rack or the diamond rack of
       9-ball may be used to rack the balls clockwise in numerical order
       with the 1-ball at the lead point and the 7-ball in the center of the
       circle.

                                    27

                                                                              
                                Bumper Pool                                   

       The bumper table is octagonal, and its standard configuration
       calls for 14 bumpers, 10 of which are arranged with
       four pairs forming an opened-centered cross, and two more located
       one on either side at about mid-point between the horizontal
       arm of the cross and the rail. The bumpers thus form four
       four vertical, two horizontal, and two diagonal "channels" through
       which the balls must pass to cross the table.

       A pocket at the "top" and a pocket at the "bottom" of the table are
       each bracketed on either side by two of the remaining four
       bumpers. Four plain red balls are lined up on one side, two
       along the rail on each side of the bumpers. The fifth, a spotted
       ball, is placed in front of a red-rimmed pocket. This setup is
       echoed on the opposite side with five white balls and a white-
       rimmed pocket.

       Because of the bumpers, this game combines the skills of kiss or
       carom shots, bank shots, and careful eyeing of angles for an
       expert tecnique. Use the  Create  and  Undo  features to set up
       and re-shoot practice shots until you are comfortable with the
       characteristics of rebound from the bumpers and oblique
       angles of the rails.

                             The Game                                 

       Number of Plyers: 2 or 4 
       Object: To be the first to sink all the balls of your color 
       in the opponent's pocket. 

       Each "side" has a spotted ball which serves as the cue ball until it
       is sunk. The spotted ball must be sunk before the others, or it is
       a foul. Shooting a ball into your own pocket is also a foul, and
       results in the removal of one of your opponent's balls, and the
       return of all illegally-sunk balls to the center point between the
       bumpers. After a foul, play moves to the next player in the
       sequence.

       The point or tally area of the screen reports how many of each
       side's balls are left on the table at any time.

       Once the spotted ball has been legally sunk, any of the player's
       balls may be used as the cue ball. To cycle through the balls that
       you are eligible to shoot, move the mouse or joystick up or down
       (or use the cursor arrow keys).

                                    28

                                                                             
                                 Snooker                                     

      Snoker can be played on any pocket pool table, but it is played
      with 15 solid red balls (the "reds"), 6 balls of other solid
      (the "coloreds"), and the white cue ball.

      At the start of the game, the 15 red balls are racked with the lead
      ball over the foot spot. The pink ball is placed in line with the
      lead ball, touching it. The back ball is placed midway between
      the center ball of the back row of the rack, and the foot rail. A
      blue ball is placed on the center spot. Green, brown and yellow
      balls are each placed along the headstring, with the brown ball on
      the head spot, and the other two equidistant from it, not quite half
      the way along to the side rails.

      An imaginary semi-circle bounded by the head string and the
      green and yellow balls is referred to as the "D". Play begins with
      the first player placing the cue ball anywhere within the "D".

                                The Game                                 

        Number of Players: 2 or 4 
        Object: Be first to sink all your balls in the goal pocket. 

      The initial stroke of each turn must strike the cue ball against a
      red, so long as any reds remain on the table. The second stroke of
      your turn must strike the cue ball against a colored ball first, the
      third against a red, and so on. The ball which is next to be struck
      is referred to as the "on" ball.

      Reds are not returned to the table after pocketing, but any of the
      colored balls thet are pocketed are respotted to their original
      start-of-game positions. When another ball occupies this original
      position, the ball will be re-spotted at the closest original poisition
      of another colored ball.

      Reds are worth one point each, credited when the ball is legally
      pocketed. The colored balls must be pocketed in ascending
      order of their point value for the points to be credited to the
      player; pocketing a colored ball out of order is a foul.

       Point Values of Balls in Snooker 

            Ball Color   Points 
            Red               1
            Yellow            2
            Green             3
            Brown             4
            Blue              5
            Pink              6
            Black             7

                                    29

      Play continues as long as the player keeps pocketing red balls,
      until there are no more red balls on the table. This puts the player
      in the end game, when the colored balls must be pocketed in
      ascending order, beginning withg the Yellow and ending with the
      Black. In the end game, colored balls are not replaced on the
      table.

      After any foul shot, play passes to the next player in the
      sequence, and the player who fouled looses any points that might
      have been credited from the foul shot. If the cue ball failed to hit
      the appropriate type of ball first, the opponent receives 7 points.

        Fouls 
       Scratching (pocketing cue ball)
       Missing all balls
       Hitting first a ball which is not "on"
       Stiking simultaneously two balls, other than two reds
       Pocketing on the same shot two balls, other than
           two reds or the "on" ball and another ball
       Pocketing the wrong ball

        Snookered 

       A player is said to be snookered when a ball which must not be
       played obstructs a straight line between the cue ball and the ball
       that is next to be struck. The player must attempt the shot, but it
       in dire straights of being penalized--so the phrase "snookered"
       came to be used for any situation where you are punished if you
       do, and punished if you don't.

                                    30

                                                                              
                                Billiards                                    

      Billiards is played on a slightly larger table then a pool table,
      without any pockets. At Fast Eddie's, the Billiards table is the one
      nearest you on your right when you are in the pool hall. The
      game is sometimes called Carom Billiards, to distinguish it from
      English billiards (which is played on a table with six pockets, like
      pool). Only three balls are used--solid white, a solid red, and a
      spotted white ball. The white and spot white balls are used as the
      cue balls, one by each player or pair of players. The red ball
      must never be hit by a cue ball, only by knocking other balls
      against it.

       At start of play, the red ball is placed on the foot spot, and the
       opponent's cue ball on the head spot. The first player may place
       his cue ball anywhere in a semi-circular "D", similar to the cueing
       area of the snooker table. Each player continues until no score is
       mede on a shot, or a foul is committed, whereupon play passes
       to the next player in the sequence.

                             The Game                                 

        Number of Players: 2 to 4 
        Object: To be the first to score ten points. 
       A point is scored when both object balls (the opponent's cue ball
       and the red ball are struck by your cue ball during the execution
       of the stroke. The cue ball may kiss from one object ball to
       another--as long as both object balls are struck by the cue ball, a
       point is tallied. In any shot except the break shot, the player's
       cue may contact either of the object balls first. A player's turn
       continues until a shot makes no score or, a foul is committed,
       then play passes to the next player in the sequence.

       A shot in which no score is made, but no foul committed, is called
       a "safety". A safety shot in billiards is any shot in which the
       cue ball touches one object ball and sends it to the rail.
       Foul shots include those in which one or no object ball is
       touched, or in which the touched balls do not go all the way to
       the rail. Each foul reduces the player's score by one point.

                                    31

                                                           
                                 Glossary                                   

 Angle              The relationship of the cue ball to the target (object)
                  ball.

 Ball On            A stright-in shot. In a combination shot, any ball which
                   can be stroked into a called pocket.

 Bank               A cushion or rail.

 Bank Shot          A shot in which the object ball is driven into one
                  or more cushions before it is pocketed.

 Behind the 8-ball  In a game of 8-ball, to be in a position where every
                  possible shot will lead to a penalty and loss of game;
                  any hopeless situation ( slang ).

 Billiards          Any game played on a billiards table. The name is thought
                  to come from the French word for stick,  billiarts .

 Break              The opening shot of the game.

 Bumper             Any of the 14 cylindrical obstructions on a bumper pool
                  table.

 Called Ball        The ball which must be pocketed next in the game.

 Called Pocket      The pocket into which the player intends to drop the
                  called ball--in  Fast Eddie's , the called pocket is
                  marked with an  X  and can be shifted with the mouse,
                  joystick or cursor arrow keys.

 Carom              A shot in which the cue ball strikes and rebounds from
                  and object ball.

 Carom Billiards    Another name for Billiards, to distinguish it from English
                  billiards, which is played on a different typoe of table.

 Center Spot        A point in the precise center of the pool table, where an
                  object ball may be spotted.

 Count              A score, a point.

 Cripple            A ball that comes to rest close to a pocket opening;
                  an easily pocketed ball.

 Cue Ball           Pool and Billiards:  The solid white ball which is struck
                  with the cue. Bumper pool:  Until the spotted ball is
                  sunk, it is the cue ball. After it has been pocketed, any
                  ball of the player's group may be selected as the cue ball.

 Cuing              Striking the cue ball with the tip of the cue. Cuing at
                   Fast Eddie's  is controlled by the aim of the cue
                  stick, and the position and size of the crosshairs when the
                  mouse button is released.

 Cushion            The rails that form the edge of the table.

 D                  An imaginary half-circle bounded by the head
                  string and the positions of the Yellow and Green
                  balls in snooker or a similarly sized and
                  positioned half-circle on a billiards table, where
                  the cue ball may be spotted for the break.

 Diamond            One of the eighteen spots spaced regularly
                  around the rails of the pool table.

 Draw               Sometimes called reverse English, draw is a
                  stroking technique which causes the cue ball to
                  reverse its direction after striking the object ball
                  (the cue "draws" the cue ball back toward it).
                  Draw is produced by positioning the crosshair
                  below the center of the cue ball.

 Draw Shot          A shot in which draw is applied to the cue ball.

 English            Any spin or twist applied to the cue ball or an
                  object ball.

 English Billiards  A game laid out like Billiards (or Carom
                  Billiards), but played on a pocket billiards table.

 Follow             A stroking technique which causes the cue ball
                  to continue rolling in the same direction as the
                  object ball (the cue ball "follows" the object
                  ball). Follow is produced by positioning the
                  crosshair above the center of the cue ball.

 Follow Shot        A shot in which follow is applied to the cue ball.

 Foot Rail          The short rail nearest the foot spot. Unless you
                  have selected Reverse View, the foot rail is on
                  the right. On a commercial pool table, this is
                  the short rail opposite the one with the
                  manufacturer's name on it.

 Foot Spot          A spot (usually marked) on the table,
                  equidistant from the center spot and the center
                  diamond on the foot rail, used for spotting
                  object balls. The foot spot is where the lead
                  ball of the rack is placed before the break.

 Foul               Any unfair stroke; a violation of the rules of the
                  specified game. After a foul, a specified penalty
                  may be applied, often including the passage of
                  playing turn to the next player in the sequence.

 Frozen             A ball touching the cushion or two balls
                  touching each other.

 Frame              A single turn or inning.

 Head Rail          The short rail nearest the head spot. Unless
                  you have selected Reverse View, the head rail is
                  on the left. On a commercial pool table, this is
                  the short rail with the manufacturer's name on it.

 Head Spot          A spot (usually marked) on the table,
                  equidistant from the center spot and the center
                  diamond on the head rail.

                                     ii 

 Head String        An imaginary line drawn through the head spot and the
                  center diamonds of the side rails on the head end
                  of the table (usually not marked) which is the limit
                  of the "kitchen", the area in which the cue ball may be
                  placed for the break. many games require that the cue
                  ball move past the head string for a legal shot.

 High Run           The highest toal of points scored by an opponent during
                  a single inning or turn.

 Inning             A playing turn or frame.

 Kiss               A carom.

 Lagging            Banking balls the length of the table (from head rail to
                  foot rail and return) to determine playing rotation.

 Left English       A stroking tecnique which spins the cue ball to the left.
                  Balls with left English on them will curve right as they
                  move across the table.

 Long String        An imaginary line drawn through the foot spot and the
                  center diamonds of the side rails on the foot end of
                  the table (usually not marked).

 Miscue             A faulty stroke.

 Miss               Failure to perform a shot as intended.

 Object Ball        A ball other than the cue ball.

 On Ball            In snooker or billiards, the object ball which is to
                  be struck next.

 Pool               Any game played on a pocket billiards table with pool
                  balls. Pool is distinguished from English billiards and
                  Snooker, also played on a pocket pool table, by the pool
                  balls, 15 consecutively-numbered balls, the first eight
                  of which are solid colors and the last seven striped.

 Rack               The frame in which the balls are grouped before the break.
                  The most common rack is triangular, but there are also
                  diamond-shaped and circular racks for specialized racking
                  set-ups. See also  Triangle .

 Reverse English    Draw.

 Right English      A stroking tecnique which spins the cue ball to the right.
                  Balls with right English on them will curve left as they
                  move across the table.

 Run                A series of consecutive points or counts in one frame.

 Safety             A defensive shot, taken in an effort to leave the balls
                  in a difficult set-up for your opponent.

                                     iii 

 Scratch            A stroke in which the player forfeits a
                  turn--most often used to refer to pocketing the
                  cue ball, but actually any stroke which causes
                  play to pass to the next player in the rotation.

 Set-up             A simple shot.

 Snooker            A game played on a pocket billiards table with
                  snooker balls, 21 balls (not counting the white
                  cue ball) of which 15 are solid red, and six are
                  other solid colors.

 Snookered          To be in a position where any possle shot at
                  the obiect ball which must be hit next is blocked
                  by a ball or balls which must not be hit; any
                  impossible task or situation (slang ).

 Spotting           Placement of balls on designated spots.

 Triangle           A triangular rack in which the 15 object balls are
                  placed to prepare them for the break shot. See
                  also Rack .
