------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 0
                                   FATE
                               Gates of Dawn

                                  Manual

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1
                               INSTRUCTIONS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 2

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                             Loading instructions    4
                                            Amiga    4
                                         Atari ST    4
                              IBM and compatibles    5
                           Other Computer Systems    6
                             FATE - GATES OF DAWN    7
                                        THE STORY    9
                                       ATTRIBUTES   23
                                 Character Values   23
                                Magical Abilities   26
                                   Battle Classes   26
                                        THE RACES   28
                                THE WORLD OF FATE   33
                           In Cities and Villages   34
                                         Dungeons   37
                                        ENCOUNTER   39
                                        Disengage   39
                                           Action   41
                                          Forward   41
                                             Talk   41
                                            Fight   44

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 3

                                        MAIN MENU   51
                                 THE MAGIC SYSTEM   54
                               ARMAMENT AND ITEMS   55
                                    SCREEN LAYOUT   57
                   GENERAL OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS   60
                                 Movement on Land   60
                                    Ship Controls   61
                           Invoking the Main Menu   61
                Additional Operating Instructions   62
                      THE FEATURES UNIQUE TO FATE   63
                                  Party-Switching   63
                                        Storyline   64
                            Reality Approximation   64
                                        Surprises   65
                                    A QUICK START   66
                                   How to Proceed   66
                                     General Tips   67
                                MEMORY MANAGEMENT   68

                                       APPENDICES    1a
                             The Development Team    2a
                                         Contents    3a
                                  Spells Overview    4a
                                  Magician Spells    6a
                                  Conjurer Spells    7a
                                  Sorcerer Spells    8a
                                    Wizard Spells    9a
                                  Archmage Spells   10a
                                     Fairy Spells   11a
                                     Witch Spells   12a
                                 Enchanter Spells   13a
                                  Valkyrie Spells   14a
                                    Cleric Spells   15a
                                    Priest Spells   16a
                                     Angel Spells   17a
                                   Warlock Spells   18a
                                     Nymph Spells   19a
                                     Druid Spells   20a
                                 Alchemist Spells   21a
                                      Monk Spells   22a
                                   Banshee Spells   23a
                                Elementary Spells   24a
                                    Master Spells   25a
                                    Magic Potions   26a
                                    Item Overview   29a
                                            Index   31a

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 4

Loading Instructions

The game can be played either from a floppy or hard disk on any computer
system. To avoid any danger from viruses it is recommended that you turn the
computer off and on again before starting the game.
ALWAYS make sure that your original disk is write protected!
The program saves data only to a separate data disk, the original disk must
therefore always be write protected.

AMIGA

As soon as the hand prompting you to insert the workbench disk appears
insert the "FATE - Gates of Dawn 1" disk in the internal drive. The game
will then automatically load and start. If you wish to install the game on
your hard disk, first load the workbench as usual. Once it's loaded insert
the "FATE - Gate of Dawn 1" disk in any drive. Click on the disk icon twice.
A window will appear containing the program FATE INSTALL. Double click
this icon. All further instructions will then be provided by the program
itself.

ATARI ST COLOR

Insert the "FATE - Gates of Dawn 1" disk in the internal disk drive and
press the reset button. The program will load and start automatically.
If you wish to install the program on your hard disk, insert the "FATE -
Gates of Dawn" disk from the Desktop. Click on the icon for drive A twice. A
window will appear containing the

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 5

program INSTALL. Doubleclick this icon. All further instructions will then
be provided by the program itself.

IBM PC AND COMPATIBLES

The program must be run from the DOS command level interface. Insert the
"FATE - Gates of Dawn 1" disk in drive A. Switch to this drive by typing A:
and then type in "FATE". This can be done only if the program hasn't already
been installed. You can install it on a formatted floppy disk (3.5", 5.25",
DD, HD etc.) or on your hard disk.
The following expansion cards are supported by the program:

 e     EGA graphic card
 v     VGA graphic card
 t     TGA graphic card (Tandy)
 a     Adlib sound card, Soundblaster sound card and compatibles
 s     Tandy sound
 m     Microsoft compatible mouse cards and drivers
 j     analog joystick cards

The program normally recognizes any installed expansion cards and uses them
to the best of its ability. However, if something is still not quite right
you can use the letters shown above to activate a particular piece of
hardware (e.g. "e" for an EGA card). Example:
You have a computer with a VGA card, adlib sound card and

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 6

a mouse. For this configuration you would then use the following to run the
program: "FATE v a m".
Do note that the sound and mouse drivers must be activated before running
the program.

OTHER COMPUTER SYSTEMS

The complete loading and installation instructions can be found on the label
of the "FATE - Gates of Dawn 1" disk or on a separate instruction leaflet.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 7

Fate - Gates of Dawn

Role playing games are currently very popular. Computer users like games
which are not only exiting and imaginative but also challenging and real.
The delectable mix of atmosphere, storyline, battles and presentation makes
such a game a classic which continues to fascinate and is fill of spirit
years after it is first published.
However, popular role playing games are often only improvements and
modifications which result in a game which is fun but contains no new ideas.
I've missed these innovations in many of the "new" role playing games. So,
the development of FATE - Gates of Dawn begun already in 1986. And here too,
the classic programs were the spiritual forefathers, but the usage and
complexity of common functions were improved and many new ideas not found in
any other role playing games were released.
First of all, the game is controlled by the computer in a systematic fashion.
The player obtains important information during game play only by engaging
the inhabitants and Mages in a conversation. In time, he encounters numerous
puzzles which must be solved. FATE - Gates of Dawn does not employ the often
abused question and answer trick - each puzzle must be solved step by step
before a new adventure can begin. Since not only the graphics but also the
program data need an immense amount of memory this sometimes caused
problems in making the program run on computers without requiring additional
memory. Because of this, especially during lower levels, additional data must
be loaded but this loading is kept

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 8

to a minimum by using an improved loading procedure. The total memory is
available at all times without any of it being lost to the operating system.
If you have a computer with a large amount of RAM, the complete game is
loaded at the very start and no additional loading takes place after that.
But enough about that - you are now invited to enter the fantastic world of
FATE - Gates of Dawn and meet interesting people, mysterious creatures and
encounter magical powers.

                                                O. Patzenhauer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 9

The Story

Winwood, the main character in FATE - Gates of Dawn, is a man in the best
years of his life and a proud owner of a small record shop on fifth street.
His business can not exactly be described as a gold mine, so since Winwood
can certainly use each cent he makes, he keeps his store open for as long as
possible. However, one afternoon he felt particularly weak and tired. Barely
able to keep his eyes open, he closed his store, laid down on his old sofa
and wandered off into the dream land. As soon as he fell asleep, Winwood was
drawn into a world of dark nightmares. Lightning and thunder went off around
him, images flashed before his eyes only to disappear again just as fast.
Suddenly, he was engulfed by a gaping emptiness. Slowly, he began drifting
towards an old, peculiarly dressed man. An underground vault started
materializing around him, and as Winwood approached he made out a weird
drawing above the old man. Sweat dripped from the forehead of the ancient
one as he performed magic gestures with his hands. He whispered strange words
- and, all of a sudden, the drawing started to glow in a dark red color. It
gloved ever brighter, with sparks flashes disappearing into the darkness. A
blurred image of a man wandering helplessly

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 10

through the nothingness appeared from the drawing. Winwood shuddered - this
helpless man was himself!
The old man uttered another magic word and disappeared in front of Winwood's
eyes together with the underground vault. Once more Winwood was engulfed by
darkness. Minutes became hours. Slowly, a paralysing cold started creeping
all over his body. He could not feel his arms and legs anymore. The coldness
reached his head. Winwood drifted into a deep, dreamless sleep.
As he awoke he found himself, to his amazement, not on his sofa but in a
sparsely furnished room. The wooden bed on which he lay was covered with a
dirty sheet. Against one wall of the room was a richly decorated wardrobe,
which looked like an expensive antique, yet it did not appear to be that
old. On the other side of the room he saw a simple wooden chest, with a few
pieces of clothing strewn over it.The clothes looked as if they were from
some movie about middle ages. Since Winwood awoke in an old dirty nightshirt
he had no choice but to put these clothes on. He had to draw in his stomach
while putting on the trousers but the clothes seem to fit him perfectly.
Winwood - not exactly prone to brooding - began immediately exploring the
room more closely. It was a were dirty room which on top of everything seem
to be flee infested (a few itchy spots on his body led him to this
conclusion). His imaginative mind accounted very quickly for the
circumstances of his peculiar surroundings. The notion that the room in
which he stood was not only very far away from his record shop but

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 11

was only apparently in the 16th century didn't come as a great surprise to
him.
As Winwood left the room and went down the corridor he arrived in the bar of
an inn. He stood at the top of a protruding rustic staircase from which he
was able to see every nook and cranny in the smoky bar. Winwood glanced at
the scene below which resembled something from a cloak-and-dagger movie. The
adventurous guests loafed around a rough table drinking heavily. Winwood,
who in his new robe found a few coins - so-called Piasters - thought it would
be the best to mingle among the people and try to find out where he was. He
soon noticed a table which, as it seemed to him, wasn't filled with
cutthroats alone so he joined the group. At first he only listened, but then
carefully joined the conversation, and after a tasty round of beer Winwood
knew approximately were he was. Indeed, he woke up in the same area where
his record shop used to be. And the year was not sixteen-hundred-something
as he suspected but 1932. The only problem was that the world that he found
himself in was not the Earth he knew. Furthermore, this was a place very
similar to his Earth but it's history technical development seem to have
taken a very different turn. Even though this was 1932 cars and similar
machines were nowhere to be seem. The electricity was not yet discovered and
the alchemists and the Mages were all the rage since magic worked very well
in this world. And just like chemistry, physics and mathematics use
formulas and theorems, in that other world everything was done with magic.
For example, the guild of Mages at the court of sultan

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 12

Suleiman, who reigned over the Ottoman empire 300 years ago, rendered
outstanding services to the science of magic. For it was they who discovered
and recorded the basic laws of magic. This magic enabled Suleiman to first
lay siege to and then take Vienna. In Winwood's world this conquest failed.
But here Suleiman managed to hold on to the conquered city and his wise
government made the Ottoman empire blossom in previously undreamt of way.
The inhabitants of this other world were also different from the people on
Earth. In addition to Humans it contained many other intelligent and
civilized races that by and large lived in harmony with each other.
Winwood thought that for now he learned enough, so he paid his bill and
left the bar...

He was only a couple of hundred of yards away when he saw a group of
horsemen approaching in the distance. Somehow he had a bad feeling that it
would be a good idea to hide from the horsemen so he jumped sideways into
the bush and kept quiet. The horsemen galloped by and a short while
afterwards he heard shots from the direction of the inn. A little later a
thick, oily smoke cloud appeared above the hill and obscured the view of
the inn. After making sure that the horsemen have gone Winwood ventured back
to the inn.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 13

The horsemen committed a terrible bloodbath and slaughtered all guests -even
those he just spoke with. He then heard a moan. A man was alive but badly
hurt. The dying man told him that the horsemen were the bodyguards of a Mage
called Thardan. They looked for someone they described as a "traveller
between worlds". And as he uttered those last words the man died.
A number of theories came to Winwood. If Thardan was old man he saw in his
dream cowering over the magical drawing and, with hindsight, who abducted
him from his own world, what was he up to? Winwood just had to find answers
to these questions if he wanted to return to his own world. And he was very
sure he wanted to return.
Meanwhile, Winwood thought it would be wise to hide in the bushes, since he
had no idea if the horsemen, after facing Thardan, were to return and look
for him once more. So. out of branches and leaves Winwood built himself a
hideout in a nearby oak tree. From there he could keep an eye on the inn
without being observed. In his hiding place Winwood thought some more about
strange circumstances which put him there. It appeared that there was at
least one reason as to why he was here. It was something to do with this
Thardan. The traveller between worlds must have been Winwood himself,
although he did not come to this world willingly. Could it be that
Thardan brought him here by using the magic powers he already demonstrated?
If this was the case what did Thardan hope to achieve by Winwood's presence
in this world?
And while these thoughts were going through his head, the

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 14

afternoon turned into evening and first signs of dusk appeared on the
horizon. Even though Winwood's hideout was not very comfortable he fell
asleep. When he woke up he could not tell how long was he asleep, nor could
he say what was the reason for the scream that startled him and woke him
up. By weak moonlight he thought he saw pale shapes crawling around among
the ruins of the inn. Sniffing noises like those of a horde of rummaging
animals reverberated through the darkness. The sniffing was accompanied by
smacking and cracking finally climaxing in a shrill, triumphant cry. A cry
seem to reflect the primeval terror of animal rage. A chill run down
Winwood's back and he sure hoped that this screaming creature could not
climb. The smacking, cracking and sniffing continued throughout the rest of
the night and ended only with the first signs of dawn. But even in full
daylight Winwood did not dare to leave his tree. Whatever happened in the
ruins last night could still be going on in the surrounding area and he had
no wish to face such a being. Out of his tree Winwood could also see the
street leading to the inn and while the middle of this street was still
enveloped in the last remnants of the early morning fog, a man rode into the
ruins. Winwood was still suspicious that this horseman too could be in the
service of Thardan but, nevertheless, his appearance exuded confidence.
The horseman reacted the blackened ruins and disappeared among them. A short
while later he reappeared, mounted his horse and was about to ride on.
Winwood could not stand it any longer so he got out of his hideout as fast
as he could and then climbed down the rugged

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 15

branches of the oak tree. He ran towards the horseman with both arms waving.
As he ran he caught a glance of the insides of the ruins.
The image he got from this short glance will haunt him in his nightmares for
a long time to come. The massacre performed by Thardan's henchmen was an
invitation to something or someone. No corpse was left on the same spot
where it was the day before. In the middle of the ruin was a mountain of
bones, whose greasy surfaces reflected the morning sun and shimmered in a
few red and moist places. The base of this heap of bones was a ring of
skulls whose tops were shattered. Winwood shuddered and then ran on waving
and shouting after the horseman who finally noticed him. He stopped his
horse and turned half way around in his saddle. To his amazement, Winwood
noticed that the man did not for the ominous rapier dangling from his hip.
A bit out of breath Winwood about ten yards in front of the horseman,
looked straight into his eyes and introduced himself. The man on the horse
wasn't exactly in the prime of his life. The broad-brimmed dark-grey felt
hat, decorated with a large white feather, was on a head of thick gray hair
which extended down to his shoulders like a white loin's mane. The left eye
was covered with a black eye patch. The stranger wore a brown cape under
which Winwood saw a black leather suit with many small pockets.
After Winwood told the horseman about the bloody attack on the inn, leaving
out the amazing circumstances of how himself got there, the man run his
gloved right hand through

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 16

the big, gray, thick beard and nodded. Without a word the gray-haired one
signaled Winwood to follow him, turned his horse and started riding slowly.
Even when a little later they got of the road and on to a winding path
fighting the undergrowth, Winwood did not utter a word.

After a long stretch of road through the thick forest they arrived in a
large valley which suddenly appeared in front of them. The valley was about
three miles wide and had an almost perfect circular shape. The middle of the
valley contained a forest which even from this distance looked very thick
and dark. A steep rock shot out of this forest. Its eastern side was covered
with lush woody plants almost all the way to the top. All of the other sides
were a steep and smooth rock face. The top of this cliff, flat and wooded,
did not rise above the forest or the rock face surrounding the valley.
You could only find this place from air or if you knew the way. If you
wanted a place to hide this was it.

The climb down into the valley proved to be real hard, but in spite of the
precipitous path the grey-haired-one did not get of his horse who seem to
instinctively find each step. They travelled across the valley and reached
the forest. As they approached, the rock in the middle of the ground started
to ascend steadily. The old man beat a barely visible path in the easterly
direction through the thick, ancient forest. The way lead to the east side
of the rock. Ever more frequently the layer of soil thinned out exposing
the white limestone underneath.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 17

The higher they climbed the smaller the tree tops were, and the last
stretch to the rock plateau was over a small, steep and growth-free ridge.
The plateau was not very big and not perfectly flat but this was hidden by
the thick tree growth in its middle. The gray-haired-one lead Winwood
straight to the thick forest which thinned out a little after only a few
steps. Winwood could see that in the very middle of the plateau, hidden by
the trees, was an old, fortified tower.
It was obvious that the old man lived here. Indeed, he got of his horse and
walked it to a stone stable up against the tower wall. he tied his horse to
the stable wall, took his hat off, glanced at the outside of the tower and
called out several times to someone named Jordrak. Another gray-haired man
appeared. But even though the horseman was obviously older, he made an
impression of being alert and strong while Jordrak walked with a stoop.
He greeted both Winwood and the horseman in a friendly manner, walked by the
grey-haired-one, loosened the rope with which the horse was tied to the moss
covered stone wall and lead it into the stable. The grey-haired-one waved to
Winwood to follow him and entered the tower

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 18

through a small but portal.
The inside was heated and lit up by a fire from a large stone fireplace.
In the middle of the room, whose floor was made out of rough floor boards,
was a big table. Around the table were wooden benches. The rest of the room
was in the shade and Winwood, by and large, could not make out the items
hanging on the walls. The most he could see was that right next to the
fireplace was a stone staircase going along the tower wall up to the
ceiling. The gray-haired-one indicated to Winwood, still without speaking,
to sit down and then got a large round metal bowl out of one of the
numerous cupboards. He filled it with soup from the boiling kettle above the
fireplace and placed the ball together with a large piece of bread in front
of Winwood. He then sat down at the table across from him and said: "My
name is Naristos". And after a short pause: "And what shall i call you the
traveller between worlds?" Winwood, who noticed how hungry he was only after
seeing the hot, delicious smelling soup, almost choked then he heard these
words. When he recovered he looked up at Naristos wide eyed and asked:
"What do you know about it?" "More than i would like to. Today as i rode by
the inn, or what was left of it, i was looking for you." "In that case you
must have certainly heard of one Thardan?" As soon as this name was
mentioned the expression on Naristo's face darkened. "If there is anyone in
this world who can get you it's Thardan." "But why?", asked Winwood.
"I believe it's time you learn more about certain strange

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 19

events. You will surely think that a lot of what i am about to explain is
nonsense, but i beg of you to suspend your disbelief and hear me out to the
very end." "Well replied Winwood, "I have been transferred from an afternoon
nap into a strange world, and that expanded my horizons tremendously."
A bit bewildered by this spontaneous exchange with Winwood the gray-haired-
one shook his head. But since Winwood did not say anything else, he run his
hand through his beard and started to speak.
"As you the traveller between two worlds can establish by yourself, there is
more than one world which the people who live on it call Earth. All of these
worlds exist side by side, in a way incomprehensible to us, some of them
even in one and the same place, without approaching or interfering with each
other. It's even impossible to see one world, for example your Earth, from
the other. Even if one is to build a telescope which could see throughout
the whole universe the search would be fruitless. And yet there are gates
through which these other worlds can be reached. But one should not view
these gates as simple doors which can be opened by anyone. Just as each
single world is different from all other worlds, the methods for opening
these world gates are different from world to world. There are worlds where
the time flows slower than it does here, in others the history recorded the
strangest of developments. But in some odd way all of these worlds are
somehow related to each other. What is a fairytale, saga or legend here is
history somewhere else. And many of our past heroes and

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 20

demons are fairytales in other worlds. Each traveller who enters a new world
brings along many things from his old home - not things which can be felt or
seen but which are nevertheless real. He took a deep breath and continued.
"People of all times used all means available to them to solve the riddles
of the gates, the worlds and the traveller between worlds. The people from
other Earths have been to this world several times already, but did not jump
out of a tree dressed in rags like you did. They came in floating spheres
shining as if they were lit up by a thousand of candles. They made notes,
observed, recorded and then disappeared. Nobody was ever hurt or damaged by
them in any way. But what happened to you could not have been their doing.
That was the work of a resident of this world. Perhaps, the person who
brought you here wants to use whatever you brought with you from your own
world. This someone surely wanted to put you in chains as soon as he got you
here. But it seems that fortunately something went wrong."
It appeared that the old man finished his story because he folded his hands
on the table and stared at Winwood. Winwood said: "Well, all this doesn't
sound that implausible. Only, I don't quite understand the bit this
invisible something that the traveller is supposed to carry with him between
worlds?"
"Well, in our world there are simple ghosts, trolls, fairies and many other
things and beings which in your world exists only as legends and fairytales.
The magic makes it possible to use all of these beings and powers to one's
own advantage. For example,

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 21

there is a railway in these here parts which is not powered by a steam
engine. The locomotive contains a simple ghost whose power makes it move. If
you were to attempt to build a locomotive you are familiar with and which is
powered by a steam engine, it would not move an inch here. The water would
become hot and turn into steam, but the steam would not built up any
pressure. In the same way you can mix some gun powder in this world but even
though it would hiss and explode you would not be able to shoot with it.
Thardan can build many things with whatever it is you brought with you from
your own world but it will never work here.
"Who is this Thardan anyway?" asked Winwood somewhat uneasily.
The expression on the old man's face darkened again as he considered
Winwood's question. "That's a very difficult question you are asking me.
Nobody has so far met this Mage face to face, at least nobody that's still
alive. Yet, in a strange way, all residents of our world always feel his
presence. He commands an unbelievable magical power with which he keeps all
beings under his permanent control. And any creatures that dare to revolt
against him regretted it bitterly. He never appears in person, but commands
an enormous and inexhaustible army of henchmen which he created using his
magical abilities."
With a long look at Winwood, who still felt uneasy, he continued. "As you
can see, you are in great danger. Sooner or later Thardan will find out
where you are. And if he were to capture you here, that would have terrible
consequences for both you and us."

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 22

Winwood overcame the strong urge to hide somewhere and wait for this
horrible nightmare to end. He pulled himself together and turned again to
Naristos. "But what can I do to return back to my own world?"
"Well, I don't believe there is a simple way back", replied Naristos in a
sympathetic voice, "I'm sorry to say, but you have become a part of our
world. And the only who can reverse this is Thardan. But I doubt he'll help,
at least not willingly. The only thing left for you is to make the problems
in our world your own. Perhaps with your help we'll finally manage to find a
way to end Thardan's tyranny."
"But what can I do", replied Winwood doubtfully, "I am a normal man who
finds himself in a desperate situation. How can I assist you against such a
superior Mage?"
"Don't forget the secret power you bring with you into our world", retorted
the old man cheerfully, "If Thardan went out of his way so much to obtain
this power, maybe it can also help you to do something to him."
"But it's time for you to leave", continued the old man. "You should not
stay too long in one place. Don't forget that Thardan will do everything he
can to capture you. His henchmen are everywhere and if you are not careful
you'll meet them."
"Go to Larvin first and make yourself scarce. Try to find a few companions
since alone you will not get far. Good luck, Winwood!"
With these words the old man said his goodbyes and left the room. Winwood
looked around once more, then opened the

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 23

Attributes

Each character has a whole range of different attributes which are very
important for their actions. They are character values, magical abilities
and battle classes.

CHARACTER VALUES

Hitpoints

The hitpoints are the most important strength of a character. They determine
their vigour. Each time a character is wounded it looses a few hitpoints.
When they reach zero the character dies.

Magepoints

The Magepoints determine how many spells a Mage can cast before having a
rest. Each spell uses a certain amount of Magepoints. When all are used up
the Mage is no longer able to cast spells.

Strength

This is demonstrated most clearly in battle and it determines, together with
the weapon, what damage a blow can cause to an opponent. But it's also very
important in special cases, for example when an obstacle is to be
overcomed. In addition, it determines how much a character can carry.

Stamina

The stamina is the ability to resist. It determines how quickly the
hitpoints of a character can regenerate, how he reacts to

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 24

illness or poisoning and how quickly will he get tired if under strain.

Skill

This value determines the offensive capabilities of a character. The weapon
proficiency, aim and the ability to take the opponent by surprise with
clever tricks all belong to skill.

Dexterity

This value encompasses the defensive abilities. It determines the agility
with which the character can evade the attacks of an opponent and how fast
can he withdraw from battle. Both dexterity values also influence how
quickly can a character get ready in a battle round.

Intelligence

The intelligence influences all actions of a character and is central to it.
It's particularly important for Mages since the effectiveness of the spells
depends on it.

Wisdom

This encompasses the attributes such as concentration, talking skills,
ability to withstand mental stress, cunning and alertness. Wisdom too is of
central importance to the way a character behaves; in particular it
determines how quickly the Magepoints of a Mage are regenerated.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 25

Charisma

This describes the personal charisma of a character, that is to say the
impression he makes on his fellow men. This gift decides whether someone is
sympathetic person or an unpleasant, unfriendly companion. The charisma is
particularly important for communication and recruiting.

Experience

The experience points determine what a character achieved while belonging to
a party. Each person gets a certain number of experience points for each
successful action. When a specific value is reached the player is promoted
to next level. Together with this promotion he gets particular number of
Hit- and Magepoints as well as the permission to improve his abilities and
learn new spells.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 26

MAGICAL ABILITIES

Each character is surrounded by a number of invisible magical spheres which
protect and aid him in his actions.

Anti-magic sphere protects the character against opponent's spells.
Anti-shot sphere blocks arrows and thrown weapons.
Anti-fire sphere protects against burns of all types.
Anti-infection sphere prevents illness.
Sphere of magical powers strengthens the spells of a Mage.
Invulnerability sphere protects against injuries and limits the damage.
Anti-critical sphere can protect the character so that his weak points are
 not hit.
Anti-charisma sphere protects the person against the enchantments.
Magic Eye prevents the character from falling into traps.
Anti-poison sphere protects against poisoning.

BATTLE CLASSES

The fighting power of a character is composed of many values: character
value, magic spheres, weapons, the effectiveness of spells and magic
potions and many other values. To give the player a good overview of all
these values they are combined in 4 battle classes which are permanently
shown in the status display.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 27

The Weapon Class (WC)

WC describes the effectiveness of weapons belonging to a character. It's
mainly composed of weapon and character values.

The Armor Class (AC)

This is determined from the values for the armaments (suit of armor, the
helmet, gloves and shoes) and character stamina.

The Skill Class (SC)

SC is basically calculated from the armament values and skill.

The Dexterity Class (DC)

It shows the defensive strength which is obtained from the values for armor
and dexterity.

All classes include the active magic (spells and potions) and the character
level. In addition, certain races and character classes get particular bonus
which is added in during battle class calculation.
To score a hit in battle the character must first overcome the opponent's DC
with his SC or he will miss. Second, he must surpass the opponent's AC with
his WC. Only when both of these conditions are met the opponent is hurt.
When the opponent attacks he tries to achieve the opposite.
There is a number of other values which influence the actions of a character
such as his bravery and loyalty. However, these values are not displayed;
they are only demonstrated in actions a character remarks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 28

The Races

In the beginning the development of the human race on the parallel Earth
occurred exactly the same as on our world. However, once the magic was
discovered the changes were very sudden.
Since there was a big dependence, on slaves the ancient Mages attempted at a
very early stage to change the genetic makeup of many people. They wanted to
create a race of ideal work slaves. These were to be as strong as possible,
so they could perform the hardest of chores, but not be very intelligent so
as not to realize that their situation really is.
So the Mages experimented and experimented. However, most of their creatures
were not able to survive and died very quickly. But there were a few
successes too. The most peculiar beings were created in this way. But the
Mages did not stop with humanoid beings, they also formed all of the animals
according to their own wishes.
However, all those manipulations upset the balance of nature and strong laws
were promptly created to ban the experiments. But the interventions could
not be reserved anymore. Numerous new races of humans and species of animals
were already in existence, many of them possessing many abilities which until
then were totally unknown.
A list of most important human races which dominate the world of FATE
follows next.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 29

Humans

These are the humans which were spared from the experiments and have not
mixed with other races. Humans can be found in all available professions in
this world. They don't possess any special abilities but they don't have any
great disadvantages either.

Zaraks

The Zaraks emerges from the original slave race. They are mostly quite
large, strong and of low intelligence. They are persistent warriors and
workers, and can be influenced easily. Only a few Zaraks are able to go to
school. Most of them refuse to indulge in magic because they trust their
strength. Since, in most cases, Zaraks are not very good company, are
unfriendly and unpredictable most races get out of their way.

Bes Zaraks

The Bes Zaraks are half-breeds between Humans and Zaraks. In the beginning
they were outcasts, accepted neither by Humans nor Zaraks. But in time they
created their own race with their own culture. Judging by appearance they can
barely be distinguished from Zaraks. However, they are more intelligent. Bes
Zaraks are ideal warriors willing to be hired by anyone.

Giants

Giants were created, like the Zaraks, to be a slave race. They are enormous
in stature and very heavy. They are ideal workers

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 30

since they have immense body strength. Giants are often slow and stout
so they are in most cases not suitable as warriors. In contrast to Zaraks
they are really friendly and good-natured and can be seen everywhere.

Morons

The Morons are the result of an experiment to create a mental super race.
Morons spend all of their lives trying to improve themselves. They refuse
all physical labor without exception. They are mostly delicate and tend to be
fragile. But you should not be fooled by their appearance. Due to their
outstanding intelligence almost all of them posses magical powers. Morons
are a highly ethical race and refuse to use weapons.

Ter Morons

Like Bes Zaraks before them Ter Morons are also a half-breed this time
between Humans and Morons. They also created their own culture and distance
themselves from their originating races. In their appearance they resemble
Humans but their mental abilities resemble the Morons. They are able to
defend themselves and are sometimes warriors.

Pheyds

The Pheyds emerged from the Morons. They are a highly spiritual race which
consider their own bodies only as a hindrance. They strive a complete
division between the body and the soul. Pheyds are all Mastermages who use
their powers only

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 31

for good. They roam the world and help those who are in need of their help.
They are mostly encountered in the shape of Fairies and Druids.

Dwarfs and Gnomes

These races are a result of failed experiments. They often have weird shapes
and peculiar abilities. They are very hard to describe or figure out. Most
of them are constantly furious and see as their only goal in life is to
anger or harm others. What's worse they command strong magical powers and
use whenever they can. If you have them as comrades in arms they can be very
useful. Otherwise, you should keep out of their way.

Errins

The race of demon ridden Errins was created with black magic. On the outside
they appear like Humans but looking into their eyes sends a chill down one's
back. They are excellent warriors, master of war spells and have very fast
reflexes. In this they are clearly superior to all other races. They are
totally unable to relate to other people since every normal person feels
very uncomfortable in their presence. Errins are therefore loners who roam
around at night looking for victims. But if you have an Errin as a comrade
in arms he is valuable.

Laurins

Laurins are also creatures of black magic. With them one never knows if they
are real or imaginary. Laurins can change their appearance at will and they
use this to deceive. Sometimes they

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 32

are simply invisible. Laurins can have any profession and in most cases
cannot be recognized as Laurins since they always try to hide it. Laurins
are, like Errins, perfect warriors since they can deceive the opponents at
will.

Mutants

Mutants are not a race as such, they are a hotchpotch of all beings that
don't belong anywhere else. They have most peculiar abilities and the
strangest of shapes. Most of them are not very intelligent and often very
ugly. They don't usually have any profession and they are only rarely versed
in the art of magic.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 33

The World Of Fate

THE WILDERNESS

The world of the game Fate, in which the player takes on the personality of
Winwood, is composed of a great wilderness which is surrounded by an
impenetrable mountain range in the north and west and by a great sea in the
south and east.
In the wilderness the player will find 4 big cities (Larvin, Valvice,
Cassida and the mysterious Katloch) as well as 5 small villages (Laronnes,
Fainvil, Perdida, Pirate Rock and Mernoc).
The cities are interconnected by a wide network of roads.
Numerous signposts serve to guide the traveller so he is not hopelessly lost
in these foreign parts.
A more comfortable way of travel is by an underground railway, the
Cavetrain, which connects almost all cities with each other as well as with
a few locations in the wilderness. However, it's not always safe to use this
railway.
The wilderness is full of ominous dangers which await the lonely traveller.
One should always be on the lookout there and be prepared for anything. At
the beginning of the game it's a good idea to seek out the protection of a
city as fast as possible and leave it only after finding a few companion and
gaining some experience. But even then the dangerous swamps and thick
forests should be avoided for some time to come and travel only on
relatively safe roads.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 34

IN CITIES AND VILLAGES

Most cities are relatively safe. But one should nevertheless be careful
since even there treacherous thieves hide behind corners and vicious
murderers lurk in the shadows. But one should also be careful with his own
actions. You should not simply slaughter every person you meet. The city
guards will severely punish such behavior.
While exploring the cities one will come across various public buildings
whose services are essential to the adventurer:

Pubs and Taverns

The destitute traveller can satisfy his hunger quench his thirst here. He
can also stock up supplies of nourishment and drink and so be prepared for a
long journey. After a long trip one should treat his character now and then
to the cozy atmosphere of a noisy pub so that the character does not get
bored. Furthermore, the pubs always offer the opportunity of eavesdropping
on this or that conversation and so obtain valuable information. Drunk guys
are often very talkative. You can also find many adventures which are
willing to join your party.

Inns and Hotels

After a long and exhausting trip the tired traveller can rest here. One
should spend the night in one of the numerous inns whenever possible.
Admittedly, you can rest almost anywhere, even in the wilderness or in the
dungeons, but the character will not like it very much in the long run.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 35

The Blacksmiths

Each town has several blacksmith shops that offer a wide range of weapons
and armor to the mobile adventurer. Here, one can find everything required
to survive in the wilderness: gleaming swords, comfortable armor, gloves and
shoes of all types, but also spells for the Mage and arrows for the archer.
Each blacksmith shop has a different assortment of items in stock. But just
as diverse as the wares are also the prices.
While most blacksmith shops can be described as fair, there are also black
sheep in the guild. And they're out to get the unsuspecting adventurers. As
a greenhorn one should never reveal that he's not very familiar with the
prices.

The Shops

Beside blacksmiths the towns also have a whole range of other traders which
specialize exclusively in magical items. The adventurer will find many
useful things there to make his life easier. The selection range from magic
potions and magic lamps to all imaginable magic wands for all purposes. But
watch out, some traders hiding behind fancy sounding names will also try to
sell you garbage at outrageous prices. Otherwise, everything else is the
same as in blacksmith shops. Careful window shopping can save the
adventurer a lot of money and frustration.

The Banks

The banks found in cities are just as helpful. Since the number of thieves
and robbers is always on the rise it's a good

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 36

idea not to carry too much cash around. A common thief can be hiding behind
any corner poised to relieve the adventurer of his hard earned Piasters.
There is a whole range of various accounts which the adventurer can open.
But keep in mind that the deposits and withdrawals can only be made at one's
own bank. The only exception to this is a general account to which all
characters have access and which allows transfers between cities.
There are also savings and investment accounts. The interest on saving
accounts is higher but the money must be deposited for a longer period of
time. You can speculate with the investment accounts but you should be
extremely careful. Some adventures have already lost all their fortune in
dubious speculations.

The Temples

Since certain areas can be quite dangerous and one can get caught up in
bloody battles, there are temples almost around every other corner where the
wounded and dead adventurers can be taken care of for a fee.
This has turned into a profitable undertaking for the clerics and healers
particularly since Thardans henchmen started making even the cities unsafe.
The inexperienced adventurer will surely be a frequent visitor to the
temples.

The Indulgence Traders

Another type of cleric specialize in confession business. Since in certain
cities one can be severely punished for his

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 37

sins, these so-called clergymen can make a pretty profitable business out of
it. Such cleric can become one of richest inhabitants in the city since he
charges the adventurers who went astray horrendous amounts of money for
penance. But for inexperienced adventurers his services can make a
difference between life and death.

The Guilds

Various groups of Mages have formed guilds to help educate their younger
members.
The Mages who advance a level can learn new spells here and get recognition
for new Spellclasses. The Mages in the guild will also, for a fee,
regenerate the magical and bodily strengths of an exhausted traveller.
Furthermore, all characters who have the permission can improve their
personal abilities here.

DUNGEONS

The dungeons in Fate are all huge and full of nooks and crannies. One can
very easy get lost in there. It is therefore advisable to either draw one's
own map or take along a large supply of magic Jewels which can be used to
create a map of their surrounding area. For those who wish to draw their own
map do note that all levels (cities and dungeons) are always 56 by 56 fields
and are directly one on top of the other, i.e. your position is not changed
when using the stairs. Most dungeons are divided into several large sections
which are not connected to each other - i.e. they can be composed of parties
in different dungeons.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 38

Many traps and riddles await the adventurer. But valuable treasures and
useful items can also be found in certain corners and recesses. One should
therefore examine the labyrinths very carefully. Do not despair if you get
lost and can't find the exit anymore. At least in the first two dungeons
there are emergency stairs which can be used to exit the dungeons.
Each level has numerous clearly marked teleports which lead to these
emergency stairs.
A general note: As a rule a dungeon should be entered before the party knows
exactly why. Otherwise, one goes in and out of dungeons endless and nothing
happens.

                                              -----------------
                                              | MAP 1 picture |
                                              -----------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 39

Encounter

The worlds of Fate is swarming with various life forms, so it is only to be
expected that one constantly comes across them during these encounters an
abundance of different positions is available to the player. For best
results one should know these options very well so as to be able to always
choose the right move.
At the start of an encounter one is in the so-called encounter mode, i.e.
it's not yet clear whether this is friendly or a hostile encounter. In most
cases the player himself has the control over this.
The "Fight" option should be selected only in the last resort since it's
always better to have a peaceful encounter. The "Talk" option is particulary
recommended. If an opponent refuse to respond but you, nevertheless, wish to
avoid a confrontation select "Disengage".

DISENGAGE

Converts a hostile encounter into a peaceful one. If the opponent is a
peaceful person or being using this option does not make much sense. The
following explanations apply only to adversaries with hostile intentions.
RUN AWAY Not exactly a heroic solution. Running away in panic should only be
done in utmost emergencies since in the mayhem of the withdrawal the party
can often loose items or have them stolen. If running away fails the
opponent starts fighting right away.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 40

IGNORE Wait and see what happens. Sometimes the opponent will reconsider
whether it would be better to avoid fighting.
HIDE An attempt to avoid battle by hiding quickly. The assumption is that
the members of a party are highly skilled.
As a rule, running away is preferable because if it fails the opponents may
not start fighting right away.
PRAY An extremely likely cause of getting away without a scratch. However,
sometimes the prayer are heard and the party can escape unseen and unhurt,
But this require a very strong priest or cleric in the party.
BRIBE A relatively sure way of avoiding battles. The rule is: the more you
give the better the chance of the bribe being accepted. A sizeable offer
will make even the cutthroat henchman ready to talk. However, there are also
a number of beings to whom the money doesn't mean anything.
CHANT Recommended only for musically gifted characters. Trying to get a
horde of barbarians and warriors to chant will only make even the most
peaceful opponent start fight. But if there is a Fairy or a Nymph in the
party the chanting can be successful and lull the opponent to sleep so that
the party can leave unnoticed.
JOKE Requires a lot of intelligence and wisdom but is often rewarded by
achieving success. If it doesn't work right away you should try this option
several times. If you have a Jester in your party almost all hostile can be
calmed down so that they agree to peaceful solution.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 41

ACTION

Can sometimes end an encounter quickly.
MOCK A double edged sword. If you're lucky and mock the opponent in a right
way it can happen that he gets so confused he taken leave of his senses. But
if you're unlucky, the opponent can get even more mad and hostile than
before. Here too a professional jester is very valuable.
WARCRY Scream loudly and the battle is half won. But this works only if you
have loud warriors in your party who can let out a fearsome battle cry.
SCROLL A holy Scroll can always be read but you must get one first. It
performs the same as a Holy Handgranade only it's fatal.
All other actions require no further explanation.

FORWARD

If the opponents maintain a distance from the party, the party will advance
2 yards forward.

TALK

An attempt to engage in a conversation is normally the best solution for
everything. Most information is obtained this way. During a conversation you
don't have to type things in. Everything can be chosen quite comfortably by
using the mouse.
You only need to choose between a question and a remark. A remark relevant
to the situation or a question based on the knowledge of the party is
automatically selected.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 42

WAIT This will make the opponent take the initiative. You just simply wait
and see if he says anything by himself.
JOIN An attempt to convince the person you're talking to, to join the party.
But before this happens you must, as a rule first negotiate a little and try
to befriend the opponent.
Since this is a very important option, which is also used very often, a few
tips to help recognize at an early stage if the person you're talking to can
at all join your party:

   * the characters who can join usually travel alone
   * at the start of an encounter they are always immediately in front of
     the party
   * monsters can never join a party

BYE Ends a conversation. An encounter should always be terminated using the
option and not just by clicking away since the character will then not get
experience points.
GIVE ALMS A quick, although expensive, method to make friends with the
opponent. But be careful, there are people who might be offended by it.
TRADE An attempt to buy something from the people you talk with.
THREATEN Not very nice but lucrative if you have a strong party. You face
your opponent with: "Your money or your life!".

                                              -----------------
                                              | MAP 2 picture |
                                              -----------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 43

SPECIAL QUESTIONS (Ask for):
PROFESSION The opponent is asked about his occupation.
HELP The opponent is asked for help. The help which is eventually given can
be quite varied. Sometimes the help can only be obtained after giving alms.
HINT General hints are requested here, that is to say, the party already
has some incomplete information. An appropriate question is then
formulated. For example, if the party has a hint about an island a more
detailed question about the island is then asked.
ITEMS Either a general question about weapon or a specific question
depending on that you already know.
PERSON Asking about a person.
BEINGS Asking about one or more beings.
NAME Asking the person you're talking with for his name.
SELF The opponent is asked to say something about himself. If he responds
positively to this question, the probability that he wants to join the party
is greater.
MORE Appears only after the person you're talking with has already answered
to the question "Self". Normally, the opponent is asked about his special
abilities.

GENERAL CONVERSATION (Chat):

INSULT If the conversation does not lead anywhere this menu item can be used
to force a fight.
ADULATE You shower the opponent with praise trying to get on his good side.
Not very honorable but it works.
ENCHANT Trying to flirt. This option can only succeed if the

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 44

character has a high charisma value.
CURSE As with insults there are beings who consider swearing a friendly
greeting.
JOKE A good joke sometimes works wonders in loosening up a conversation. But
you should be careful not to select a character who tells stale jokes.
BRAG It's well known that immodesty stinks, but if a character can really
proclaim his enormous abilities, an accomplished boaster can thoroughly
impress the opponent.
TELL FIBS Invent totally wild stories to empress the opponent. But you
should be careful to whom you tell these fairytales. A highly intelligent
Mage will notice right away that you're putting him on.
INTRODUCE You say a greeting and introduce yourself.

FIGHT

You should familiarize yourself with the complex battle system in case a
fight can't be avoided.
The fighting runs in rounds. In each round everyone involved gets one turn.
This applies every character and every opponent. Everyone then takes only
one action. The order is based on character values, experience and on the
race and class of the character. It should be the best if a character were
to face the opponent in one line but at the start of the game and in most
other cases this occurs only rarely. If it does and he's strong enough, the
character who is first in line then has the opportunity to eliminate the
fastest or the most dangerous opponent.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 45

The commands are issued only when the character is next in line. This has
the advantage that you can adapt to the current state of affairs. In older
role playing games there are always a problem in that all actions must be
specified in advance so by the time the character attacks the opponent -
they may not longer exist.
When a character is ready for action one can see his picture and the main
battle menu. In addition, the current opponent is also shown on the scroll.

ATTACK A direct blow with a primary weapon. If a character has no weapon in
hand he tries to punch or kick. The range for this attack is determined by
the weapon used. Most weapons or a punch or kick have a range of zero, i.e.
they can only be used against opponents immediately in front of the party.
In most cases only one opponent is hit. If there are more groups they must
be selected for attack separately.
The following also goes for all other options. If a character has a
so-called Melee Weapon a whole group or in case of a Greater Melee Weapon
all opponents are attacked.

SPELL The most important battle option there is. When casting a spell the
Spellclass is determined first and only then the

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 46

desired spell. As in case of attack, the spell as for all of the following
options, the target groups is chosen next. When all this is done the effect
of the spell is displayed on the scroll.
You shouldn't only limit yourself to destructive spells. Often it makes much
more sense or make even be necessary to weaken the opponent first and only
then attack in earnest. Since the enemy Mages have the same spells as the
party you should normally fight them first.

ITEM Using items is another indispensable martial art. Since some character
classes may not use effective weapons and have only few or no battle spells
at all, the items are a good alternative. Each item can be used by all
characters without limitations. For example, a Fairy with a Masterwand can
become an extremely strong warrior.
But compared to weapons the items have a big drawback. Since they are all
magical in nature, they often disappear in thin air after being used. Whether
they do disappear depends first of all on the item themselves; a magical
Pearl disappears almost always after usage, while a Lightwand can sometimes
be used more than 100 times. On the other hand it also depends on the
character who uses the item. A Barbarian given a Flamewand makes it disappear
every time, sometimes even before he uses it.

SHOOT An effective way to do battle at a distance. Although it requires that
a weapon (bow or crossbow) be placed as the 2nd weapon of the character who
is about to shoot. Of course,

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 47

one also needs arrows which can be purchased from any blacksmith. Do pay
attention to their quality though. Simple wooden arrows can at best be used
to shoot a rat. A giant would surely use such an arrow as a toothpick. But
there is a sufficient variety of arrows to kill even the strongest of
opponents. The professional archers are a special case. If an archer has
enough experience he can sometimes shoot two arrows in the same round.

THROW If you have no shooting weapons but still wish to attack an opponent
from a distance, the only thing you can do is hurl at him the weapon you
have in your hands. The big drawback here is that the weapon which is thrown
is then lost for the duration of this battle. There are certain magic
weapons which return after being thrown. The primary weapon is thrown first
and the secondary weapon is thrown after that.
If one is victorious in battle the characters automatically gather all their
thrown weapons. This does not apply to any arrows that were shot.
Throwing at sea from a ship is definitely not advisable.

WEAPON When this option is selected you can change the weapons in your hands
during battle. This is very useful when you've already thrown your primary
and secondary weapons.

DEFEND In principle this means you wish to do nothing. It should only be
selected when there are no useful alternatives or if you engage in battle by
mistake.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 48

SPECIAL

ENCHANT An attempt to distract or confuse the opponent. It should only be
used when charisma value of a character is well above 20.
If an attempt to enchant is successful the opponent becomes very confused.
This can be used mercilessly by the next character in line. Not very
honorable but extremely effective. When enchanting you can choose between
attacking all opponents or concentrating on a single group. The effect is
stronger in the second case.

                                              -----------------
                                              | MAP 3 picture |
                                              -----------------

WARCRY A battle cry by a Warrior or a Barbarian can be very effective. An
opponent who until then appears fearless can easily wet his pants in panic.
His attack is then considerably weakened. Sometimes he can even be scared
out of damage points. A battle cry is basically directed at all opponents.

Steal Trying to steal gold pieces out of opponent's pockets. It should only
be attempted by experienced thieves since if the

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 49

opponent catches the thief he will become considerably more aggressive and
will attack more forcefully.
If stealing goes unnoticed you get a bonus of extra cash.

MOCK It does require a bit of courage to ridicule an opponent during battle,
but it can be very effective. However, you should be very careful in
choosing which opponents you mock. An irritated opponent will as a rule
become exposed somewhat in order to attack more forcefully. In addition he
will not attack carefully but will allow himself to be carried away be
instinct. Also, it makes no sense to ridicule a barbarian since his actions
are already influenced by his feelings. Mocking can be used very
successfully on Mages and other equally intelligent people since they will
then loose their concentration.

GROPE Grabbing an opponent is a special type of fighting which only a few
very experienced characters can perform. Some creatures, mainly Errins and
Laurins, over time get so powerful in magic that they can hurt an opponent
badly by simply touching. This can paralyse, age or even turn him to stone.

DUPE A very sneaky trick. The character makes the skilful manoeuvre and
tries to strike the opponent from behind with a decisive blow. It should
only be attempted by characters who are very swift and experienced in
battle. If the attempt fails the

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 50

character is momentarily exposed and is then very vulnerable. You should
therefore think carefully before trying this manoeuvre.

HIDE This is an option for characters in grave danger who have no great
battle strength, such as magic beings like Fairies or Nymphs which have been
struck more than once. To avoid a fight by hiding a character most possess
necessary amount of hiding skill as well as be intelligent.

SPECIAL This is only available to characters who possesses special
abilities. The player must find out for himself how this works.

                          BLUE-----RED-----BLACK

                                  YELLOW

                          WHITE---BROWN----GREEN

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 51

Main Menu

Certain actions and functions can be performed even when a party is not in a
confrontation. To do this click on the picture of a character (see
"Operating Instructions").
ARMAMENT All objects can be made ready, dropped, examined, used or
transferred to another member of the party. If the clicked character has a
magic jewel you can use this function to create a map of the surrounding
area.
CONSUME Using this submenu a character can eat, drink or take a magic
potion. The whole party can eat/drink together or the nourishment can be
divided among all members of the party.
SPELL If a character has magic powers (Magepoints) a spell can be cast here.
STATISTICS What would a role playing game be without statistics?
In FATE - Gates of Dawn you can practically invoke all information about the
party and its members.
PARTY The numerous party functions and so-called party-switching are the
icing on the cake. The following functions are available:
   SPLIT Given that there are no more than 3 parties a party can be divided
   here.
   TRANSFER If two parties are on the same playing field one or more
   characters can be transferred to the other party.
   RELEASE A member of the party is let go.
   INFO Using this function general party information such as level,
   statistics, position, tickets and abilities can be invoked.
   SWITCH TO If one wishes to continue playing in another party the player
   can change over. The party (or parties)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 52

   remain at their current position(s). The name of the first
   character is always given as the party name.
   EXCHANGE This is similar to the Transfer command; two characters from
   different parties are swapped. Here too, both parties must be located on
   the same playing field.
   REST Even the strongest parties need to rest from time to time. Invoking
   this function creates a place to rest and the player decides how long the
   party will rest.
   BOARD If a party is near a ship this command can be used embark the ship.
   ASHORE If a party is already on board a ship this function can be used to
   disembark.
GAME The functions listed here relate to somewhat "technical" settings and
options:
   SAVE The current state of the game including all data and settings are
   saved. You can only save to a separate floppy disk or to a hard disk. On
   Amiga you can even use unformatted disks (in any case the previous
   contents of the disk are destroyed!!!). On other systems the disks must
   be formatted before the game starts. Up to eight games can be saved on
   one disk.
   NEW GAME If everything has gone wrong for you the game can be restarted.
   QUIT This will also save the game. However, the game will then be
   terminated.
   FREEZE There are no ridges in FATE - Gates of Dawn. The game normally
   operates in real time. This option here is the only possibility to stop
   the time (this is particularly

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 53

   handy for coffee breaks).
   LOAD Reloads a previously saved game. The current game state is thereby
   destroyed.
   DELAYS To guarantee a comfortable game operation you can set a variable
   pause after each text output. The
   CLICKS parameter is particularly handy for beginners because it waits for
   a mouse click after each text output.
   PIC / NO PIC On computers with very little RAM this option is selectable.
   Frequently used graphics such as room interiors can be activated and
   deactivated.
ACTIONS You can invoke the general actions like touch, dig, search or -
well, this is a reLINE game - kiss, at any time.
TIME No, not the current time of your internal clock but the time and date
in the world of FATE.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 54

The Magic System

In contrast to other worlds, the magic in Fate is something quite normal.
Admittedly, not everyone can use it but it belongs to the normal everyday
life just as much as various physical items. Due to the constant presence of
magic, several new unique races have been developed such as the eerie
Laurins and Errins. Some classes of Mages can use magic already from birth
(Witches and Fairies, for example), while others must first acquire these
abilities by studying (such as Sorcerers and Wizards). In theory, any being
can learn the art of magic but some professions have decided to renounce it.
All in all, there are 15 non-Mage and 17 Mage classes. The 200 known spells
are divided into 20 Spellclasses. Each Spellclass has its own unique
properties. There are for example purely defensive Spellclasses such as
Elementary or Enchanter, healing Spellclasses such as Clerics or Fairies and
naturally the fighting Spellclasses such as Banshee or Warlock. At the start
of his career each Mage has only one Spellclass. Later, as he advances he
can require additional Spellclasses. But the order of this advancement is
fixed for each profession. A healing Mage must first get all of the healing
Spellclasses before he can require a fighting Spellclass. The actual spells
are explained in detail in the "Spell Overview" appendix.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 55

Armament And Items

The number of armament items is considerably greater than even the number of
spells. In all options they are divided into 7 groups.

1. Weapons       Swords, daggers, shields etc.
2. Armor         Robes, breastplates, capes etc.
3. Headgear      Caps, helmets, bandannas etc.
4. Gloves        Gloves of all sorts
5. Footwear      Shoes, boots etc.
6. Arrows        Arrows and projectiles of all sorts
7. Items         Magic wands, magic pearls etc.

In each category the player can experiment with numerous items. A detailed
description can be found in the appendix.

How much a character can carry is limited to prevent one from lugging about
an infinite number of things. Even the number of items of the same kind
cannot exceed a certain value regardless of weight. For example Weapons,
Armor, Headgear, Gloves and Footwear are always limited to 9, while items
and potions are limited to 20 items per character. An archer can carry a
maximum of five different quivers with up to 99 arrows.

            ---------------------------------------------------
            | Note: A character must make his weapon or armor |
            | ready before he can use it.                     |
            ---------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 56

As is common in role playing games not every character class can pick up
every weapon. There are set rules as to who can use what. Mages cannot, as a
rule, use heavy armor or weapons, while most warriors cannot use magic
equipment. An exception are magic items which can be used by all characters.
In the equipment menus or prohibited items are shown in red and all allowed
items in white. The most important items are listed and explained in the
chapter "Overview Of Important Items".

           -----------------                  -----------------
           | MAP 4 picture |                  | MAP 5 picture |
           -----------------                  -----------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 57

Screen Layout

The screen is divided into four independent areas.

       -------------------------------------------------------------
       |           |           |           |           |           |
       |           |         Character display         |           |
       |           |           |           |           |           |
       |           |           |           |           |           |
       |-----------|-----------------------------------------------|
       |           |                                   |           |
       |           |                                   |           |
       |           |                                   |   Menu    |
       |           |            View window            |   field   |
       |-----------|                                   |           |
       |           |                                   |           |
       |           |                                   |           |
       |           |                                   |           |
       |           |                                   |           |
       |-----------------------------------------------------------|
       |                                                           |
       |                       Output scroll                       |
       -------------------------------------------------------------

The view window

All events occur in this window. The window shows exactly what the party
sees at a given moment. For example when it's dark this window can also
become completely black.

The menu field

This shows all current options available to a character or a party.

The output scroll

All events and actions are documented on the scroll. After each text output
there is a pause of variable length. There are 5 possible settings for this
pause and its length can be

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 58

changed in the game menu (see DELAYS). In the beginning you should choose a
longer pause. But after you familiarize yourself with the text it's a good
idea to change to a shorter pause or the encounters will take too long.
However, in case of important texts, such as the story information, the game
waits for a mouse click so no information is lost. This occurs even when the
pause is completely turned off.

The character display

The 7 characters in the party are shown here. As a rule you can see the
status display of the character. The bars and lights have the following
meaning:

          _______________________________
         |   _________________________   |     A:  Name
         |  |A                        |  |     B:  Hitpoints
         |  |_________________________|  |     C:  Weapon class
         |             _____             |     D:  Armor class
         |   _   _    |B    |    _   _   |     E:  Dexterity class
         |  |C| |D|   |_____|   |E| |F|  |     F:  Skill class
         |  | | | |             | | | |  |     G:  Magicpoints
         |  | | | |    _____    | | | |  |     H:  Hunger
         |  | | | |   |G    |   | | | |  |     I:  Thirst
         |  |_| |_|   |_____|   |_| |_|  |     J:  Tiredness
         |   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   |     K:  Burden
         |  |H| |I| |J| |K| |L| |M| |N|  |     L:  Illness
         |_______________________________|     M:  Poisoning
                                               N:  Drunkenness


The top number shows the Hitpoints, the bottom number the Magepoints. The
four bars indicate the battle classes and the 7 lights at the bottom the
condition of the character. If the values are satisfactory or good the
lights and the bars are yellow.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 59

A gray bar indicates that the corresponding value is only adequate or bad.
If a condition light are gray something is wrong with the character. You
must then take measures to repair the damage.
If you click on a character you can see their picture.

The menu structure

All menus are consistent. They are always composed out of a heading and up
to 8 menu items. In some cases there are also additional icons to click on
such as arrows or plus/minus fields.

How to use

Clicking on one of the 8 menu items performs the relevant function or
invokes the relevant submenu. (Keyboard: (1) to (8))
Clicking on a menu heading from a submenu goes one up in the menu hierarchy.
If you're already on the first level clicking on a heading terminates the
action. (Keyboard: (Return))
Clicking outside of the menu cancels the action if possible.
(Keyboard: (ESC))
If you need to select a character simply click on the field with the desired
character. (Keyboard: function keys (F1) to (F7))
In some cases the menu items must be scrolled up or down. The arrow fields
are intended for this purpose. (Keyboard: cursor keys (up) (down))
If you need to set numeric values use the 3 fields [+] [-] and [=].
(Keyboard: cursor keys (up) (down) and (space bar))

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 60

General Operating Instructions

MOVEMENT ON LAND

The simplest way to move a party is by using the mouse and the movement
menu. The following options are available:

  - step forward         (cursor key up)
                         (numeric keypad 5)
  - turn left            (cursor key left)
                         (numeric keypad 4)
  - turn right           (cursor key right)
                         (numeric keypad 6)
  - step left            (numeric keypad 1)
  - step right           (numeric keypad 3)
  - turn around          (cursor key down)
                         (numeric keypad 2)
  - step back            mouse only

SHIP CONTROLS

Once on board of a ship you can change its Course and View as well as roll
the sails up or down. The arrows underneath the relevant compass are always
used for this purpose. The Course can be changed in 45 degree steps, while
the View can only be changed in 90 degree steps, as in the case of land.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 61

Keyboard commands:

  - starboard            (cursor key right)
  - port                 (cursor key left)
  - turn right           (numeric keypad 6)
  - turn left            (numeric keypad 4)
  - role sails up/down   (Taste (S))

To find out the wind strength and direction click on the compass.
(Keyboard: (W))

INVOKING THE MAIN MENU

To invoke the main menu  you must first select a character. This is done by
clicking on the relevant character field.
(Keyboard: function keys (F1) to (F7))
If the character is able to do something their picture will appear. You can
then see all currently possible action in the menu field. Since there are
many different options they are divided into several submenus.
Please refer to the chapter "Main Menu" which lists all available functions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 62

ADDITIONAL OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS

When writing the documentation one never know on which computer the program
will be run. To avoid potential problems any possible changes to the
instruction are to be found on a separate sheet or a "READ ME" file on
FATE 1 disk.

A READ ME file can be viewed with any standard editor.
Important modifications are displayed as a page of text when the program
starts.

                                              -----------------
                                              | MAP 6 picture |
                                              -----------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 63

The Features Unique To FATE

This chapter should be of particular interest to role playing game fans
since FATE - Gates of Dawn has a whole range of completely new game
elements.

PARTY SWITCHING

Party Switching is the biggest difference between Fate and other older role
playing games. The player can form up to 4 parties each with 7 characters
and switch between them at will. Of course, the other parties will not move.
But even for inactive parties the life goes on. So these characters will
also get hungry and tired.
The inactive parties, though, do not participate in the game directly, i.e.
they will not attack and do not move even when there is an opponent on their
own playing field. They will react only when you switch. This simplification
could not be avoided for technical reasons.
As far as experience and crimes are concerned all parties are treated as one
big unit - if the player engages one party in battle all other parties share
in the experience points. If a party obtain certain information the other
characters become immediately aware of it. When one party commits a crime
all other must suffer because of it. This collective nature of things goes
for both good and bad.
In case of certain tasks the player MUST react with several parties
simultaneously, for example when one character holds the door open while
others search the area.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 64

STORYLINE

At the beginning the player only knows what has happened in the past.
Everything else is obtained by communicating with persons he meets during
his adventures. The subjects of the questions during a dialogue are chosen
depending on the current amount of available knowledge.
If the player deviates from the storyline too much he is given tips which
put him back on the right track. This prevents the player from getting
totally lost. The newcomers to role playing games will particularly treasure
this help.

REALITY APPROXIMATION

All persons in FATE react like living beings. They can become tired or
hungry, dissatisfied with their situation and some have a manifest sense of
justice. Each character has its own peculiarities and preferences; some
persons are very inobedient while others do things even before being asked
to. The player has totally unlimited control only over Winwood. The others
he must also control - but with a lot of forethought and treating them with
kid gloves.
Even the weather plays a part in what goes on. When it rains the respectable
citizens stay at home and one meets mostly beggars and vagabonds. During the
night the murderers and thieves are up to their mischief. When it gets cold
the characters need better clothing so that they don't freeze.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 65

SURPRISES

Obviously even the citizens of FATE - Gates of Dawn are familiar with the
famous reLINE games. There are rumors that, due to a technical error by a
graphic artist during digitalization, a model from the Hollywood Poker PRO
vanished into this parallel world. Her clothing has also disappeared during
this process. Who knows, maybe you'll meet her and help her out...
To keep the evil software pirates at bay the reLINE team employed a Password
Nymph who constantly checks to see whether Winwood is only a cheep copy of
the original. She too, seems to have already met the model from Hollywood
Poker PRO several times - but see for yourself!
Normally, we don't want to reveal all of the surprises (we wouldn't like to
spoil your fun). But we will say so much: even when you've completed the
game - and enjoyed the lavishly animated final credits - it certainly pays
to play again.
Allusions to any current or old games are purely coincidental.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 66

A Quick Start

The beginning of a role playing game is always the most difficult part (also
the most beautiful!). In order to make it easier for role playing game
newcomers, in the beginning one meets only very weak persons who do not pose
a very big danger for Winwood. This protective mode is active until a small
party is assembled.

HOW TO PROCEED

Very close to the starting point is a path with the destroyed inn. Explore
this area carefully since there are some weapons and armaments to be found
here. Pick up armaments and weapons by using the main menu (the main menu
appears as soon as the Winwood character image is clicked on). In order to
orient yourself it's recommended that you have a look at the map of the
surrounding area (select ARMAMENTS from the main menu and then in the
submenu go to Jewel).
Then, go along the path to the city of Larvin (in the north-westerly
direction). Watch for signs and avoid any fights with opponents if you can.
Once in the city assemble a party as quickly as possible. Talking with
people can frequently provide additional help. After a bit of tittle-tattle
and pointed questions select the function JOIN. Many adventurous characters
eager to join can be found particularly in pubs.
Senseless killing of opponents is far less helpful than a diplomatic
approach. Mages in particular provide a party with valuable information
about what happens next. Do keep in mind that

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 67

without helpful information you don't really know what to do next!
Many shady creatures crawl around in the night. A safe place to stay
protects the party from uninvited guests.

GENERAL TIPS

A magic Jewel can only create one map of the surrounding area. To be on the
safe side and to limit the use of magic Jewels you should also draw your own
maps of cities and dungeons.
An old favorite is to save the current game and then try out several
different approaches from that point. Don't bother trying this with FATE -
the program will notice frequent game loading and will as a result make the
game more difficult.
Do not crack or copy the game under any circumstances! The citizens of FATE
are very touchy about this; the Password Nymph in particular is not amused
by it. Now, we don't really want anything to happen to you (or your disk
drive)...

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 68

Memory Management

The program uses all available memory. Any installed memory expansion are
used to the last byte.
Due to cache memory management the loading times at the beginning of the
game can differ considerably since the complete free RAM is first filled
with data. This avoids having to later load the required program segments or
data.
The program and data altogether about 6 megabyte in size (this varies across
different computer systems). If you have that much RAM all data is loaded at
the beginning of the game. In theory, you could then take the disk out of
the drive since, barring any password checks, nothing else needs to be
loaded.
On the computers with very little RAM some things such as sound or graphics
are somewhat limited (otherwise the program itself will not have enough
memory).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1a

                                APPENDICES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 2a

                              The Development Team

                 Program by:  Olaf Patzenhauer
                   Graphics:  Frank Knust          Matthias Kstner
                              Ingo La Tendresse    Rydiger Skwarczynski
                              Andreas Gehrke       Thomas Langhanki
                              Thomas Andrae        Michael Plger
                              Olaf Patzenhauer
 Game concept and storyline:  Olaf Patzenhauer     Heinrich Stiller
                 SoundTrack:  Matthias Steinwachs  Karsten Obarski
              Sound effects:  Olaf Patzenhauer
                Game tested:  Kalle Teichmann      Jens Busse
                              Oliver Assel         Frank Fenske
                              Oliver Kuhlemann     Tobias Basse
                              Michael Wolff        Jrg Kopmann
                              Andre Negerski       Timo Lomatzsch
                Disk system:  reDOS 5              Holger Gehrmann
      Datasearch filesystem:  Holger Heinrich
      Compacting algorithms:  Holger P. Krekel     Holger Heinrich
         Technical advisers:  Holger Heinrich      Rydiger Skwarczynski
                              Holger Gehrmann
            Project Leaders:  Olaf Patzenhauer     Holger Gehrmann
              Handbook text:  Holger Gehrmann      Olaf Patzenhauer
                              Timo Lomatzsch
                Translation:  Donald M. Maple
              Cover picture:  Celal Kandemiroglu
                Coordinator:  Holger Gehrmann
          Special thanks to:  Dominik Tonn         Uwe Gramschuh
                              Antje Thoene         Heike Nixdorf
                              Jrg Heitmyller      Softgold GmbH
                              Herrn Blymel         Familie Poppenhger
                              Karl-Ernst von Hallmackenreuter
         Copyrights 1991 by:  reLINE Software GmbH - Germany
   reLINE Hotline (service):  Tel:+49 511-315834,Mo to Fr, 15-16 PM

 Any written inquiries about the game or tips as well as telephone calls
 outside of the hotline hours (see above) will NOT be answered. In case of a
 defective disk or incomplete enclosures please contact your dealer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 3a

                                 CONTENTS

                            Spells Overview    4a
                            Magician Spells    6a
                            Conjurer Spells    7a
                            Sorcerer Spells    8a
                              Wizard Spells    9a
                            Archmage Spells   10a
                               Fairy Spells   11a
                               Witch Spells   12a
                           Enchanter Spells   13a
                            Valkyrie Spells   14a
                              Cleric Spells   15a
                              Priest Spells   16a
                               Angel Spells   17a
                             Warlock Spells   18a
                               Nymph Spells   19a
                               Druid Spells   20a
                           Alchemist Spells   21a
                                Monk Spells   22a
                             Banshee Spells   23a
                          Elementary Spells   24a
                              Master Spells   25a
                              Magic Potions   26a
                              Item Overview   29a
                                      Index   31a

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 4a

Spells Overview

In order to best explain the spell functions they are sorted by magic
classes. In addition, each spell is also explained in more detail on a small
function template:

               Name   The name of the spell as it appears in the
                      spell menu.
                MPt   The number of required Magepoints before a spell
                      can be cast.
              Range   The range of a battle spell in yards or "long"
                      for long range spells.
                  *   Specifies who the spell can be used against.
                      The characters mean the following:
                 PM   The member of a party
                  P   The whole party
                  O   An opponent
                 OG   A group of opponents
                 AO   All groups of opponents
                  A   All   (universal)
              Power   This is the magic power of all spell. For the
                      total effectives add this value to the magical
                      power of a Mage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 5a

                  o   Specifies the duration of a spell. The
                      characters mean the following:
                 vs   very short
                  s   short
                  m   medium
                  l   long
                 vl   very long
                  p   permanent
                  a   one-time action
                  !   In case of destructive spells this indicates the
                      approximate damage caused. For extremely strong
                      or weak opponents this may vary.
               Type   The type of spell is specified here.
                      The characters mean the following:
                  B   a spell which is only available in battle
                  A   a spell which can always be cast
                  E   can only be cast without a threat

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 6a

 Magician Spells
                 Name      | MPt|  Range | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     entangles an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  ENTANGLE |  2 | 14 yds | O  |  30   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     strengthens the armor |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     ARMOR |  3 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     paralyses an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  PARALYSE |  4 | 12 yds | O  |  35   | vs |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      confuses and injures |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                       FOG |  4 | 12 yds | O  |  25   | p  |    3-6    |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    slows down an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      LAME |  5 | 12 yds | OG |  65   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    increases the strength |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  STRENGTH |  4 |   -    | PM |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        blinds an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 LIGHTBALL |  7 | 12 yds | OG |  22   | a  |   4-11    |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  removes opponent's armor |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  ARMORZOT |  6 | 10 yds | O  |  63   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      creates a hate field |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        around an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      HATE |  4 | 14 yds | AO |  55   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      beats up an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   JABFIST | 10 | 14 yds | OG |  19   | a  |   23-54   |  B

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 7a

 Conjurer Spells
                 Name      | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      creates a very short |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               magic light |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        LIGHT (very short) |  3 |   -    | -  |  -    | vs |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     makes ugly and stupid |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      NUTS |  3 | long   | O  |  65   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         makes very greedy |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 for money |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     GREED |  4 | long   | OG |  86   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     weakens the abilities |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 of a Mage |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  MAGEWEAK |  6 | 12 yds | O  |  125  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          causes an attack |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               of weakness |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    WEAKEN |  3 | long   | O  |  155  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           creates a short |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               magic light |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 LIGHT (s) |  4 |   -    | -  |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      creates magic vortex |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    VORTEX |  7 |  8 yds | O  |  20   | a  |   7-14    |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         entangles a group |    |        |    |       |    |           |
              of opponents |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 ENTANGLE! |  9 |  9 yds | OG |  70   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    causes an overpowering |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           feeling of fear |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     SCARE | 12 | 10 yds | OG |  85   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     weakens the abilities |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 of a Mage |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 MAGEWEAK! | 14 | 16 yds | OG |  185  | p  |     -     |  B

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 8a

 Sorcerer Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   strengthens the weapons |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    WEAPON |  4 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      creates a cold field |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        around an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    FREEZE |  5 | 14 yds | O  |  50   | a  |   50-81   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     forces an opponent to |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      jump around like mad |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    TICKLE |  7 | long   | O  |  85   | vs |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             makes a tired |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           character alert |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     AWAKE |  8 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    speeds up the movement |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    FASTER |  7 |   -    | PM |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     causes an opponent to |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      have a sneeze attack |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    SNEEZE |  9 | long   | O  |  80   | vs |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 starts a vortex of stones |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 STONEFALL | 11 | 12 yds | OG |  31   | a  |   40-83   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  strengthens the throwing |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      power of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     THROW | 16 |   -    | PM |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         turns an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                into stone |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   STONING | 13 | 18 yds | O  |  60   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       increases the magic |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         powers of a party |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 MAGEPOWER | 22 |   -    | P  |  -    | s  |     -     |  A

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 9a

 Wizard Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       poisons an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    POISON |  6 | 16 yds | O  |  87   | a  |   15-48   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          causes an attack |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               of weakness |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     FAINT |  8 | 14 yds | OG |  75   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         turns an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  into ice |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  ICECLOUD |  7 | long   | O  |  70   | vs |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 throws an magical iceball |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   ICEBALL |  9 | 12 yds | OG |  59   | a  |   15-64   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      makes the opponent's |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           armor disappear |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 ARMORWHAM | 11 | 10 yds | OG |  83   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         turns an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  into ice |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   ICEFIST | 11 | long   | O  |  120  | m  |     -     |  B
          makes a group of |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       opponents fall into |    |        |    |       |    |           |
              a deep sleep |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     SLEEP | 11 | 10 yds | OG |  75   | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          sets off anxiety |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  and fear |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    HORROR | 17 | 14 yds | AO |  65   | p  |   7-15    |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    sets off a brain shock |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     SHOCK | 15 | 10 yds | O  |  355  | a  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       being very cruel to |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  EVILSONG | 30 |  8 yds | AO |  120  | p  |   39-70   |  B

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 10a

 Archmage Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         burns an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      ACID |  6 | 10 yds | O  |  86   | a  |  40-150   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      prevents an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       from casting spells |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  SPELLZAP |  9 | long   | O  |  125  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     makes an opponent age |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    WITHER | 12 | 12 yds | OG |  110  | p  |   15-30   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   speeds up the movements |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                of a party |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     SPEED | 11 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         blows an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             12 yards away |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  BLOWAWAY |  8 |  2 yds | OG |  240  | a  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        sometimes turns an |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       opponent into stone |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 STONEFIST | 15 | long   | O  |  62   | a  |  90-200   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         makes an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           ugly and stupid |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      NUTS |  8 | long   | AO |  115  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       poisons an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   POISON! | 25 | 16 yds | AO |  135  | a  |  400-800  |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  enormously increases the |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   battle power of a party |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     POWER | 22 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          hits an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           very critically |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                EVILHAMMER | 45 | long   | AO |  110  | a  | 3000-5000 |  B

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 11a

 Fairy Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 returns up to 6 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    HEAL 6 |  3 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      calms down and makes |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           less aggressive |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    CALM 1 |  4 |  8 yds | O  |  155  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        weakens opponent's |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   attacks |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   PROTECT |  5 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 returns up to 6 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         to all characters |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 HEALALL 6 | 13 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      calms down and makes |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           less aggressive |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    CALM 2 |  9 |  8 yds | OG |  145  | p  |     -     |  B
          returns up to 15 |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          Hitpoints to all |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                characters |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   HEAL 15 |  6 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   creates a calming field |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      around all opponents |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    CALM 3 | 14 | 10 yds | AO |  190  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  makes a character immune |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         to poison attacks |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  ANTIDOTE |  7 |   -    | PM |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             protects from |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         opponent's spells |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 ANTIMAGIC | 12 |   -    | PM |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    makes a dead character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        come to life again |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    REVIVE | 40 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  E

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 12a

 Witch Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      throws a storm punch |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 STORMFIST |  4 | 16 yds | O  |  45   | a  |  75-100   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                "STRGHT 1" |  5 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         prevents a battle |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             at a distance |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  ANTIHURL |  6 | long   | O  |  179  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  makes an opponent insane |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  INSANITY |  8 | 18 yds | O  |  155  | p  |   50-60   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          causes an attack |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               of weakness |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    FAINT! | 14 | long   | AO |  85   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               "WC PLUS 1" | 12 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   incinerates an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  FIREBALL | 14 | 12 yds | OG |  70   | a  |  50-180   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 guides arrows to a target |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 NEVERMISS | 10 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   draws an opponent close |    |        |    |       |    |           |
              to the party |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  PULLNEAR | 14 | long   | OG |  555  | a  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         turns unprotected |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      opponents into stone |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 STONEFIRE | 22 | 14 yds | OG |  97   | a  |  110-175  |  B

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 13a

 Enchanter Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      sets off anxiety and |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       fear in an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  FEARWORD |  4 | long   | O  |  155  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          creates a strong |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             magical light |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            LIGHT (medium) | 10 |   -    | A  |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         shows the current |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       position of a party |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  LOCATION |  1 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     causes a strong greed |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 for money |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    GREED! | 13 | long   | AO |  166  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         reduces the power |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                of weapons |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    WEAKEN | 10 | 12 yds | OG |  153  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       sucks the opponents |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             into a vortex |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   TORNADO | 10 |  8 yds | OG |  68   | vs |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        exposes opponent's |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  treasure |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    REVEAL | 30 | long   | AO |  60   | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        shows hidden doors |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     FLARE | 40 |   -    | A  |  -    | l  |     -     |  A
  creates an illusion of a |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    map of the surrounding |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      area |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   SHOWMAP | 23 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    blocks various attacks |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     BLOCK | 20 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |  A

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 14a

 Valkyrie Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          creates a strong |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                shock wave |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     BLAST |  6 | 12 yds | O  |  145  | a  |  100-220  |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        destroys armor and |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          defensive powers |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 DEPROTECT |  8 | 10 yds | OG |  138  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     enhances the throwing |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      power of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 LONGTHROW |  8 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     guides direct attacks |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   always to their targets |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   SUREHIT |  8 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     creates a fear sphere |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      FEAR | 11 | 14 yds | OG |  151  | p  |  40-160   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    returns thrown weapons |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    RETURN |  9 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      prevents a battle at |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                a distance |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 ANTIHURL! | 12 | long   | AO |  149  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       weakens an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           in every regard |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 WEAKSPERE | 24 | long   | AO |  136  | p  |   5-40    |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     strengthens the power |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   WEAPON! | 29 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 reverts magic and strikes |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      all Mages critically |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  REVMAGIC | 65 | long   | AO |  185  | a  |     -     |  B

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 15a

 Cleric Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            to 7 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    HEAL 7 |  3 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          zaps a small sin |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  committed by a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    ZAPSIN | 13 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   removes all poison from |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   CLEANSE | 11 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   zaps several small sins |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  committed by a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   ZAPSIN! | 24 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  cures vitamin deficiency |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  VITAMINS | 16 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          to 100 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  HEAL 100 | 16 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         zaps a mortal sin |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  committed by a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  ZAPSIN!! | 31 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    return youth and power |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                REJUVENATE | 21 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          heals all wounds |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                of a party |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   HEALALL | 36 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     increases the loyalty |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  SOULBIND | 75 |   -    | PM |  -    | p  |     -     |  E

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 16a

 Priest Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            to 5 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    HEAL 5 |  3 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  alleviates the poisoning |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  somewhat |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   CLEANSE |  6 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    alleviates the illness |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  somewhat |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      CURE |  9 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         sobers up a drunk |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     SOBER |  7 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 makes a character content |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             and satisfied |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 ZAPHUNGER |  6 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            to 5 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 HEALALL 5 | 12 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 puts an opponent to sleep |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     SLEEP | 10 | 10 yds | O  |  145  | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           to 80 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   HEAL 80 | 15 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     petrifies an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 with fear |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   PETRIFY | 22 | 14 yds | O  |  52   | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    "CURE" | 30 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 17a

 Angel Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            to 8 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    HEAL 8 |  4 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         heals the illness |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      CURE | 10 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        weakens opponent's |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   attacks |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   PROTECT | 14 |   -    | P  |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          heals all wounds |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            of a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    HEAL A | 14 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  creates a strong magical |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           protection wall |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 MAGICWALL | 13 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      heals all wounds and |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            mental illness |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   RESTORE | 22 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    makes immune to poison |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   attacks |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  ANTIDOTE | 20 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    heals all wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          to 100 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               HEALALL 100 | 21 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  creates a strong magical |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           protection wall |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  MAGEWALL | 28 |   -    | P  |  -    | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      heals all wounds and |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            mental illness |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  RESTORE! | 45 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |  A

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 18a

 Warlock Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        hurls a magic club |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  MAGECLUB |  6 | 12 yds | O  |  135  | a  |  55-180   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 enhances the battle power |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  WARPOWER |  6 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    returns thrown weapons |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   GETBACK | 13 |   -    | PM |  -    | l  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    make an opponent loose |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                all reason |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  MINDFIRE | 12 | 14 yds | OG |  85   | p  |  12-140   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   incinerates an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  FIREWALL | 18 |  6 yds | AO |  83   | a  |  70-130   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      destroys the magical |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             defense power |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  ZAPPOWER | 23 | long   | AO |  135  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        hurls a stone club |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                STONECLOUD | 21 | long   | O  |  76   | a  | 2000-4000 |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates a critical |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               shock field |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                BRAINSHOCK | 29 | 14 yds | OG |  116  | a  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  changes a berserker back |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    CANDOR | 34 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    turns a character into |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               a berserker |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 BERSERKER | 41 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 19a

 Nymph Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            to 5 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    HEAL 5 |  2 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    calms down an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    CALM 1 |  6 |  8 yds | O  |  175  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           to 24 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   HEAL 24 |  6 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         returns the youth |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            to a character |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     YOUTH |  9 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        calms down a group |    |        |    |       |    |           |
              of opponents |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    CALM 2 | 11 |  8 yds | OG |  175  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    creates a regeneration |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    sphere |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  R-SPHERE | 28 |   -    | P  |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 makes a tired party alert |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     AWAKE | 11 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           to 24 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                HEALALL 24 | 16 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       removes disease and |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   poisons |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     CURE! | 30 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                creates an |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    invulnerability sphere |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 R-SPHERE! | 50 |   -    | P  |  -    | l  |     -     |  A

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 20a

 Druid Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 "DXRTY 1" |  4 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
      creates a protection |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      field against poison |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   attacks |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                POISONWALL |  7 |   -    | P  |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       makes all opponents |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           unable to speak |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   SILENCE | 11 | long   | AO |  145  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         makes an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  pass out |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   PASSOUT | 10 |  8 yds | OG |  45   | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 "HEAL 15" | 11 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         increases defense |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             against magic |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                ANTIMAGIC! | 15 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 "REFRESH" | 17 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         turns an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  into ice |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    FREEZE | 21 |  8 yds | OG |  95   | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    prevents a corpse from |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               decomposing |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     MUMMY | 22 |   -    | PM |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 "HEALALL" | 31 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 21a

 Alchemist Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  "HEAL 4" |  2 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 "SKILL 2" |  6 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 envelops an opponent in a |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   cloud of itching powder |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    ITCH 1 |  7 | long   | O  |  160  | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               "DC PLUS 1" | 14 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               "SC PLUS 1" | 17 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     makes gold coins rain |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               from heaven |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  GOLDRAIN | 12 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     causes a coughing fit |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     COUGH | 14 | 10 yds | OG |  150  | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               "AC PLUS 1" | 16 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates the potion |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   "INVUL" | 21 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 envelops all opponents in |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 a cloud of itching powder |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    ITCH 2 | 29 | 14 yds | AO |  155  | s  |     -     |  B

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 22a

 Monk Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            to 6 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    HEAL 6 |  2 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 envelops an opponent in a |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             cloud of heat |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      BURN |  4 |  8 yds | O  |  130  | a  |   2-17    |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    protects from "turn to |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            stone" attacks |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 ANTISTONE |  6 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    increases the strength |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      and the battle power |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  WARPOWER | 10 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          weakens and ages |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    WITHER |  8 | 16 yds | O  |  160  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        heals wounds of up |    |        |    |       |    |           |
            to 3 Hitpoints |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 HEALALL 3 | 14 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      protects from thrown |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        weapons and arrows |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                HURLSHIELD | 10 |   -    | PM |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         makes an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  go crazy |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     CURSE | 14 | 16 yds | O  |  150  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        alleviates illness |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             and poisoning |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    SOOTHE | 20 |   -    | PM |  -    | a  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      slimes the opponents |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 SLIMEFIST | 15 |  8 yds | OG |  135  | a  |   5-20    |  B

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 23a

 Banshee Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     makes the brain of an |    |        |    |       |    |           |
          opponent explode |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   MINDZAP |  6 |  4 yds | O  |  112  | a  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  deteriorates the defense |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    WEAKEN |  8 | 10 yds | OG |  138  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     creates a nerve shock |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   MADNESS | 11 | 18 yds | OG |  155  | p  |   20-80   |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        leaves an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       totally unprotected |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 ZAPSHIELD |  9 | 14 yds | O  |  192  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         kills an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                    HAMMER | 17 | long   | O  |  180  | a  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     unleashes a firestorm |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 FIRESTORM | 19 | 10 yds | OG |  46   | a  |  150-320  |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         makes the defense |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  collapse |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 UNPROTECT | 22 | 10 yds | AO |  138  | p  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         turns an opponent |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  into ice |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   FREEZE! | 31 | 10 yds | AO |  95   | s  |     -     |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
        creates a critical |    |        |    |       |    |           |
              wall of fire |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  HELLFIRE | 29 | long   | OG |  157  | a  |  400-900  |  B
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
    destroys the brains of |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             all opponents |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 MINDCRACK | 40 | 12 yds | AO |  142  | a  |     -     |  B

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 24a

 Elementary Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 creates a long and strong |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             magical light |    |        |    |       |    |           |
              LIGHT (long) | 15 |   -    | A  |  -    | l  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 makes it rain for a while |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                      RAIN | 15 |   -    | A  |  -    | m  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     deactivates all traps |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  ZAPTRAPS | 15 |   -    | A  |  -    | m  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       makes the sun shine |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   ZAPRAIN | 22 |   -    | A  |  -    | m  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     stops the time, short |    |        |    |       |    |           |
              TIME (short) | 20 |   -    | A  |  -    | s  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   makes a party invisible |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 INVISIBLE | 18 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   speeds up the movements |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 DOUBLEHIT | 22 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           deactivates all |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           teleport fields |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 TELEPORTS | 39 |   -    | A  |  -    | m  |     -     |  E
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      stops the time, long |    |        |    |       |    |           |
               TIME (long) | 45 |   -    | A  |  -    | l  |     -     |  A
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
         unleashes a storm |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     STORM | 50 |   -    | A  |  -    | l  |     -     |  E

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 25a

 Master Spells
                      Name | MPt| Range  | *  | Power | o  |     !     | Type
 --------------------------|----|--------|----|-------|----|-----------|-----
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   destroys all protection |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   DEARMOR | 30 | long   | AO |  199  | p  |     -     |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
      creates a life-stone |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 LIFESTONE | 35 |   -    | A  |  -    | a  |     -     |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
   creates a magical light |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                PRIMEFLARE | 40 |   -    | A  |  -    | vl |     -     |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
  makes an opponent go mad |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                  MINDWARP | 45 | long   | AO |  199  | p  |  400-900  |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
     heals wounds, disease |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             and poisoning |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 GREATHEAL | 45 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
 improve characters values |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   IMPROVE | 50 |   -    | PM |  -    | m  |     -     |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
             increases the |    |        |    |       |    |           |
              battle class |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                     SKILL | 60 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           strengthens the |    |        |    |       |    |           |
           magical spheres |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                   SPHERES | 60 |   -    | P  |  -    | m  |     -     |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
       unleashes hell fire |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 PURGATORY | 70 | long   | AO |  199  | a  | 5000-9000 |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                           |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                 heals all |    |        |    |       |    |           |
                MASTERHEAL | 85 |   -    | P  |  -    | a  |     -     |

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 26a

Magic Potions

There is an abundance of various magic potions which can make the life of an
adventurer easier. Magic potions are sort of like spells that even the
non-Mages can use. You can either bye them in stores, create them using
spells or quite simply find them. Due to space constrains we cannot list all
the potions. A few remarks first to make the abbreviations and information
easier to understand
As a rule, the names of potions are composed of a description which indicates
what the potion does, and a number which specifies how strong the effect is

                 1  weak for a short time

                 2  strong for a short time

                 3  permanent improvement by 1 point

                 4  permanent improvement by 2 points

                 5  permanent improvement by 4 points

               ----------------------------------------------------
               |  A few examples                                  |
               |                                                  |
               |  WC PLUS 2 enhances the weapon class briefly     |
               |                                                  |
               |  DXRTY 3   performs a permanent improvement of   |
               |            defensive fate by 1 point.            |
               |                                                  |
               |  ASHOT 1   will briefly enhance the Anti-shot    |
               |            sphere (by about 4 points.)           |
               ----------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 27a

The healing potions are the exception since the number of hitpoints to
regenerate is specified explicitly e.g., "Heal 15" heals by 15 hitpoints.

The HP PLUS... potion increases the hitpoints permanently. Here are a few
examples:

         HP PLUS 1   increase by 1 point

         HP PLUS 2   increase by 13 points

         HP PLUS 3   increase by 25 points

Furthermore, there are some potions with special effects. Here are a short
selection:

         YOUTH       heals an artificially aged character

         REFRESH     relieves a character from hunger, thirst or exhaustion

         SPELL       enables a Mage to learn a new spell

         HP PLUS 1   increase by 1 point

         BERSERKER   see the Warlock Spell of the same name

         CANDOR      see the Warlock Spell of the same name

         RESTORE     restores the character's values and Magepoints

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 28a

POTION ABBREVIATIONS

A lot of abbreviations, sometimes not very obvious, are used in potion names.
The most important ones are as follows:

                     DXRTY   Dexterity
                     SKILL   Skill
                    AMAGIC   Anti-magic spheres
                     ASTON   Anti-stone sphere
                     ASHOT   Anti-shot sphere
                     AFIRE   Anti-fire sphere
                    AINFCT   Anti-infection sphere
                    MPOWER   A sphere of magical power
                     INVUL   Invulnerability sphere
                     ACRIT   Anti-critical sphere
                    ACHARM   Anti-charm sphere
                      MEYE   Magic eyes
                    APOISN   Anti-poison sphere

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 29a

Item Overview

Since the exact effect and meaning of some items are not immediate apparent,
here's a brief summary of the most important ones:

      Pearls   gives the coordinate position of the party.
     Whistle   deteriorates many of opponent's values.
      Clover   eliminates hunger, thirst, tiredness and vitamin deficiency,
               heals some things and improves the defenses.
     Oakleaf   improves the defenses and heals by up to 3 Hitpoints.
   Lifestone   makes a dead character come to life again.
  Deathstone   releases a character who was turned into stone.
 Crystalwand   permanently increases the strength by 1 point and the
               Hitpoints by 3. It also heals poisoning and illness.
   Curestaff   cures disease and returns 3 Hitpoints.
   Grailwand   permanently increases the wisdom by 1 point and the
               Hitpoints by 3.
     Plunger   A plunger with a piece of string attached. Draws a group
               of opponents to the party.
    Repowand   cures poisoning.
    Starwand   heals poisoning and illness.
     Goldeye   creates a magical light that makes the secret doors visible.
   Lockstaff   gives the position of a party.
    Fracwand   stops the time briefly.
   Stonering   protects against being turned into stone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 30a

The following items are simply weapons. Their effects manifest themselves on
the opponent to whom they're applied:

                      Mirror   causes damage
                       Sling   causes damage
                       Fluff   makes an opponent possessed
                 Holy Mortar   causes damage
                   Eviltowel   makes insane
                  Magic Sack   causes damage
                     Warpipe   causes damage
                   Flamewand   causes damage
                  Dragonwand   turns into stone
                    Jaggalak   poisons
                   Stonewand   turns into stone
                  Masterwand   strikes a decisive blow
                     Bogwand   makes mad
                   Deathwand   strikes a decisive blow
                  Froststaff   lames
                  Witherwand   makes old

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 31a

Index

ANTI-CHARM SPHERE The Anti-charm sphere protects the character from being
 enchanted.
ANTI-CRITICAL SPHERE The Anti-critical sphere can protect the weak points
 from being hit in battle.
ANTI-FIRE SPHERE The Anti-fire sphere protects against burns of all types.
ANTI-INFECTION SPHERE The Anti-infection sphere can prevent a character from
 getting sick.
ANTI-MAGIC SPHERE The Anti-magic sphere protects the character against
 opponent's spells.
ANTI-POISON SPHERE The Anti-poison sphere protects the characters from being
 poisoned.
ANTI-SHOT SPHERE The Anti-shot sphere blocks arrows and thrown weapons.
ANTI-STONE SPHERE The Anti-stone sphere protects the character from being
 turned into stone.
ARMOR CLASS (AC) The armor class specifies how well a character is protected
 against attacks. It is composed of the clothing and armor the character
 wears as well as the physical constitution of the character.
ATTRIBUTES see character values.
BROADSIDE WEAPON A weapon which can be used to attack a whole group of
 opponents or even all opponents simultaneously.
CHARACTER A character is a figure controlled by the player during a role
 playing game. A character has particular character values and various
 characteristics and abilities.
CHARACTER VALUE A character value determines the abilities of a character.
 It can be improved during the game.
CLASS Each character has a predefined class. This is similar to a profession

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 32a

 but cannot be changed during a game. The class determines the development of
 a character.
CONJURER, Conjures magicians.
CRIMES The crimes are killing or injuring of friendly persons. Friendly
 persons are decent citizens in the towns as well as fairies and nymphs in
 the wilderness.
CRITICAL HIT A critical hit is always fatal. It hits the miracle spot of the
 opponent.
DAMAGE POINTS Damage points indicate the amount of injury caused by a blow or
 spell. They are subtracted from the Hitpoints.
DEATH As in role playing games the death is not final. Dead people can be
 brought back to life at any time using proper measures. Only when a character
 remains dead for too long he cannot be revived.
DEXTERITY CLASS (DC) The dexterity class indicates how well a character can
 deflect opponent's attacks. It is composed of defence abilities, battle
 experience (level) as well as the armor in its possession.
DISEASE The effect of disease are similar, but stronger, to those of poisons.
DOOR There are many different types of doors. Some are visible, others are
 not. A few are only passable in one direction.
DUNGEON A dungeon or a vault, usually underground, swarming with dangerous
 monsters and valuable treasures.
ENCHANTER, Enchantress magicians.
EXPERIENCE POINT Each character gets experience points for each successful
 action. When a certain number of points is reached the character is promoted
 to a higher level.
FIGURE See character.
FORTY-TWO A very famous number which, in contrast to many other computer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 33a

 games, has absolutely no meaning in FATE.
GROUP OF OPPONENTS Opponents basically attack in an orderly formation. They
 can be organized in up to 5 groups each with up to 8 members.
GUILDS In contrast to other buildings guilds have a completely different
 meaning to the one in reality. In role playing games guilds are magical
 places where new abilities are negotiated and the art of magic is learned.
HITPOINTS The Hitpoints indicate the health of a character. A few Hitpoints
 are lost with each hostile encounter. Once they are down to zero the
 character dies.
INCANTATIONS Invoking of demons to support the party.
INDULGENCE Get a pardon for one's sins.
INVULNERABILITY SPHERE The invulnerability sphere protects the characters
 from injury or limits the damage.
JEWEL By using a jewel a map of the surrounding area can be looked at.
LAW The law in FATE is set and maintained by druids and guards.
LEGEND OF FAERGHAIL Another neat role playing game by reLINE.
LEVEL A level is an experience plane which a character reaches during game
 play. The higher the level the easier it is for the character to master
 difficult situations.
 Level also describes the floors in a dungeon. The various levels are on top
 of each other and are connected by stairs.
MAGEPOINTS Each Mage has a certain number of Magepoints. After each spell a
 fixed number of points is subtracted. When all Magepoints have been used up
 the Mage must rest before being able to cast spells again.
MAGIC CLASSES The spells are divided into various magic classes. When a Mage
 learns all spells in a magic class he can be granted a new magic class in a
 guild.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 34a

MAGIC EYE The magic eye protects the character from falling into traps.
MENU All options available to a player at any given time are listed in a menu.
NON-PLAYER CHARACTER (NPC) An NPC is a character figure which cannot be
 controlled by the player. They proceed at their own discretion.
OLD Old is a special condition of a character. This does not mean the natural
 process of aging but an artificially caused condition. The character is
 robbed of all of his abilities.
OPTION Options are all possible courses of action available to the character
 in a certain situation.
OUTLAWS If a character commits more than 9 crimes he is considered an outlaw
 and may be killed by the custodians of the law without warning.
PARTY A party is a group of characters which have joined forces and roam the
 world together.
PARTY SWITCHING Party Switching is changing from one party to another.
PERMIT The character can get a permit to learn spells and to increase their
 character value. They are educated in the guilds.
PIASTER The monetary unit in the world of FATE.
PLAYER A strange being sitting in front of a computer in a tense posture and
 with a strained expression on his face.
POISON If a character is poisoned his defensive powers decrease considerably.
 If this condition persists he starts loosing Hitpoints and eventually
 character values.
POSSESSED A possessed character cannot be controlled by the player anymore.
 He's neither dead nor alive and is dominated by a diabolical power.
PROMOTION From time to time the characters are rewarded for their efforts.
 They are promoted to a higher level and receive a number of bonus points

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 35a

 for special abilities.
RACE Each character has a predefined race to which he belongs and which
 affects his abilities.
reLINE The legendary software company which basically only produces
 exquisite software.
RESTAUR., RESTAURANT Restores bodily and mental capabilities.
SCROLL Reading a holy scroll can kill all opponents in one go.
SINS See crimes.
SKILL CLASS (SC) The skill class indicates how skilful a character is at
 administering blows. It is composed of its attack skill, battle experience
 (level) as well as the weapons in its possession.
SORCERER, SORCERESS Magicians.
SPELLS Each Mage has a certain number of spells available to him. Once a
 spell has been learned it can be used at will. New spells can be learned in
 the guilds.
SPHERE OF MAGICAL POWER The sphere of magical power enhances the magical
 power of a spell cast by a Mage and increases its punch.
STATUS The status of a character determines its general condition. Normally,
 he's OK but he can also be insane, turned into a stone or dead.
STONING A character condition similar to death. A character who was turned
 into stone does not decompose and can be brought back to life at any time.
TELEPORT FIELD Teleport fields transport the party in trouble to a different,
 safer place.
UNDEAD See possessed.
WARLOCK A magician.
WATER You cannot normally go across water surfaces on foot or by swimming.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 36a

 You can reach the other side only by ship.
WEAPON CLASS (WC) The weapon class indicates the damage a character can
 inflict in an attack. It is composed of all weapons a character carries, the
 strength and various other factors.
WIZARD A magician.
W.PIPE War-pipe.



 Also available:

LEGEND OF FAERGHAIL  Amiga, Atari ST (color + mono), IBM PC
A group of, still uninjured, warriors are sent to a neighboring country to get
help in war against fairies. Impressive graphics and numerous sound
effects make for a perfect atmosphere. An international hit!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   Typed by
                  FastBrain, Dennis the Menace and Allan TNT
                                     1994