 -+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-
 | The LoOnS: Python  Fraz  The Guardian  Off  Action Man  Chuck  T-Leaf  |
 |                                                                        |
 |                     )/ideo /\/asty    Bill                             |
-+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-
                                                          03/12/93
                           PROUDLY PRESENT

            Full Docs To..:)  FATMAN THE CAPED CONSUMER    


              Supplied by ...Python    Typed By ...Fraz


     THE STORY SO FAR

 Once-upon-a-time there was a quiet city somewhere in Cartoonland. This was
 home to Roy Fat and his wife. They lived in a small house near the city
 border. Roy was an inventor and a restaurant owner.


 Every morning he would get up at 9am, eat nine scrambled eggs for breakfast
 and go to his secret lab to work on his useful (and more than often useless)
 inventions.
 Roy loved his food and his stomach! Therefore all his inventions were based
 on food! Some examples of his creatibe genius - Food Inventing Processor 
 (FIP), Ice Warning Gadget (IWAG) and many other not-so-useful gadgets.

 But his most useful - and by far the most succesful - invention was....
 .. THE FOOD DUPLICATOR! With this wonder of modern technology he could make
 a copy of any food you processed through the machine (insert a pizza and out
 come TWO pizza's!). No wonder Roy's stomach was rather sizeable, to say the
 least! But that wasn't the only feature the FOOD DUPLICATOR possessed; using
 a 'flavouring processor algorithm' the machine actually duplicated tasty,
 delicious food even when the food the machine was fed with, wasn't very good
 itself....and with the stored data THE FOOD DUPLICATOR could reproduce any
 food it had previously duplicated!

 No wonder Roy Fat's restaurant was very famous worldwide, with lots of people 
 coming from all the corners of Cartoonland to eat in the 'Stomach Building
 Centre', as Roy's restaurant was called

 But there were also some people who didn't care for Roy's success story. A
 multi-national company called Thindicate inc. that happened to be based in
 Roy's home town, hated Roy Fat for his ivention more than any others. 
 Thindicate had a monopoly in the food market, delivering to all the markets,
 shops and restaurants. But since the big opening of the 'Stomach Building
 Centre', businesswas going down the hill for Thindicate. Ted Thinsin, the
 managing director and evil mind behind Thindicate Inc. tried evrything to get
 to get this new and hugely successful competition wiped off the map. He tried
 to convince Roy to sell the duplicator to Thindicate to mass-produce it, so
 the whole world could enjoy the unbelievable taste. Roy decided to go into
 business with Ted, but in the last minute, he got a tip from Ted's secretary
 that Thindicate wanted to destroy the duplicator to regain the monopoly!

 Ted was absolutely furious when Roy didn't hand over THE FOOD DUPLICATOR!
 Very, very furious....

 The wicked game started...

 
                               INSTRUCTIONS
                              --------------

 Use joystick in port 2. Press the button to fire weapons and to change weapons
 pull the joystick down and switch them by pressing the button while in this
 position. Alternatively use the 'SPACE' bar to change from one to another.

 THE JUMP

 Throw your weight about to squash enemies out of existence. Jump as usual and
 pull the joystick down before landing. You will come splashing down on enemies 
 in a way they will never forget!

 THE BELLY BUTT

 Select the belly butt icon from your possible moves and swing that belly by
 pressing the joystick button. You have unlimited belly butts at your disposal
 (lucky you aren't as thin as a broomstick!).

 THE BELCH

 Power from the deeper places! This ones powerful, so use with care! Picking
 up the extra belch icons available in some levels will give you enough to
 fuel another three burps!

 THE POWER CARROT

 Carrots dont look nice, dont taste particulary good and they aren't packed
 with calories... so what are they for??? Weapons! Throw them at your enemies
 and pick up 5 extras with the special icon.

 THE POISONOUS MUSHROOM!

 Another powerful one. Drop it on enemies and away they go!.

 THINGS TO REMEMBER:

 The roast chicken (doesn't it look tasty!) represents the energy - resp.
 calorie - level in Fatman. Keep a good eye on it! Pick up the roast chicken
 on some of the levels for an extra calorie dose!

 Press P for pause. This is only to be used when you want to go off and raid
 the refrigerator!

 And last but not least, keep your eyes open for hidden parts, cheats, short 
 cuts and secret rooms packed with goodies!!!!!! 

                              enjoy...........

                                   FIN