			DRIVER'S REFERENCE GUIDE
		        
                         TO FERRARI FORMULA ONE

GETTING STARTED
	Turn on your Amiga and monitor, then insert the Ferrari Formula One
master disk in the drive - the game loads automatically. Note to Amiga 1000
Owners: Boot your Amiga with kickstart v.1.2 before inserting the Ferrari
Formula One master disk. Ferrari Formula One will use any additional memory
over 512K that you have installed in your Amiga to minimize disk drive access
during the game.

BACKUPS
	You can make as many backups of the Ferrari Formula One master disk as
you need, but you will be prompted to insert the master disk for a brief
verification before the game starts. Important: Your backup disks cannot have
the same name as the master disk. Use your standard copy method to make a
backup of the Ferrari Formula One master disk.

	If you want to get right to the track, without learning to use the
advanced features of the simulation, then read the next section entitled,
"Going For A Lap." For detailed information about setting up your car and
racing the Grand Prix circuit, read the manual when you finsih with this
reference guide.

			   GOING FOR A LAP

	To begin racing quickly, let the Ferrari Formula One theme music
finish, and the demo begin. The demo begins briefly at the paddock area of the
Fiorano test track, then goes to the transport screen, where you'll see your
racing team and equipment fly to the first race of the season at Rio. Next, the
paddock area of Rio will appear briefly, then you'll go to the cockpit level
view of the cars lined up on the grid ready to start the race. When this screen
appears, press any key to take the wheel of the Ferrari under your control.
Race information such as the current flag, lap and lap time appears in the
upper-right corner of the screen. You may want to watch a lap or two of the
demo before you take control, because once you press a key, you'll have only a
moment before you get the green light to begin your race.
	If you let the demo run through to the end, the race results screen
appears. You can then continue the season if you want to. Read "Race Control"
later in this guide for more information about continuing a season and using
this control panel.

CLUTCH - When you hold down both mouse buttons, it's equivalent of holding in
the clutch and revving the engine. When you get the green light, release the
left button and you'll surge forward with the pack.

STEERING - You control your Ferrari using the mouse. Place your hand on top of
the mouse, and pretend that you're placing you hand at the top of the steering
wheel. Move the mouse slightly to the right to steer right, and slightly to the
left to steer left. The Ferrari is very responsive, so don't oversteer. The
right mouse button is the accelerator and the left is the brake.
	You can race in only one direction - you cannot make a U-turn and race
in the opposite direction.

SHIFTING - The demo automatically puts you at the beginner driving level. At
this level you don't have to worry about shifting gears - it'll happen
automatically. At more advanced levels, you'll use the keyboard to shift gears.
See the "Keyboard Shortcuts" section at the end of this guide for keyboard
equivalents.

CURVES - Take curves cautiously at first. It's very easy to oversteer or
understeer and wind up on the pilings. Let up on the accelerator going into the
curve, use the brakes if you have to, and accelerate out of the curve. You'll
notice as you race that in certain areas you'll pass a sign post, then a series
of smaller signs, on either the left or the right side of the track. These
signs are "brake markers" and indicate when you're approaching a curve. The
brake markers will be on the left when you're approaching a left curve, and on
the right when you're approaching a right curve.

FINISHING - Your first race runs for three laps. At the end you receive a
breakdown of how you did against the other drivers. Your driver number is 28,
and your initials are "S.J." (you can change these later, of course, see "Race
Control" below). Click the green "Accept" button in the upper-left corner of
the screen when you are finished reading the standings, and you'll go to the
pit.

		        SELECTING SCREEN REGIONS

	Once you're in the pit, you should go to the track's paddock area. You
do this by clicking a certain onscreen region of the pit that will take you to
the paddock. The pit contains regions in which you can click to do other
functions. For instance, click and hold down either button on a gray area of
the pit floor. Continue to hold down the button and move the pointer around the
screen. As the pointer passes over "hot spots," it will change into an icon
that represents the function you can perform by clicking that spot - but
nothing will happen until you release the mouse button. The icons for the
various screen regions are also located in the manual. If you want a detailed
explanation for a particular icon, simply look for the icon in the manual, and
read the adjacent section.

THE PADDOCK - You can learn more about the pit by reading about it in the
manual. For right now, return to the track paddock by clicking the Ferrari
placard near the upper-right corner of the screen. After a moment, the track
paddock appears. Click the bare area of the track, hold down either mouse
button, and move the cursor around the screen to locate all of the hot spots
identified in Figure B below.

RACE CONTROL - When you locate the Race Control spot (a checkered flag icon)
release the mouse button to select it. The Race Control panel that appears is
your key to controlling many aspects of Ferrari Formula One. For instance,
click the track icon on the panel, and a requester appears that contains all of
the tracks from the 1986 Formula One World Driving Championship.
	The second track in the season, Jerez, is currently selected. Read the
next sections about entering your name as a driver, and about saving and
loading seasons before you begin the season.
	If you feel that you need more driving practice, and would like to
experiment with configurations click FIORANO to return to the Ferrari test
track; notice that this also resets the date and time to the beginning of the
season. Click the green "Accept" button to confirm your track selection.

DRIVER NAME - Click the driver's helmet icon on the Race Control panel. Enter
your name in the "Text Entry" box of the requester, and click the Accept button
or press Return to confirm your name as a driver. Now click the Accept button
on the Race Control panel to go to the paddock of the track you selected from
the track requester in the previous section. If you're going to begin a season,
you should probably read "Your First Race" in the manual. If you're going to
Fiorano, then read "Fiorano - Launching Your Career" in the manual for a
detailed description of the Ferrari test track.

				KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS

0-9..............Controls turboboost. 0 is off, and 9 is full power. Remember,
		turboboost increases wear and tear on your engine and fuel
		consumption - especially important since you can't refuel 
		during a race.

ESC.............Pauses the action. Press again to restart.

K...............Kills the engine and tows you to the pit from your current
		location on the track. Using the Kill command disqualifies you
		during a race!

Lft-Alt.........Downshift. Only operates if you are playing at Formula One
RT-Amiga        (F1) difficulty level.

Lft-Alt.........Upshift. Only operates if you are playing at Formula One
Rt-Alt          (F1) difficulty level. Note: Amiga 500s and 2000s have a
		"Commodore" key in place of the Left-Amiga key.

P...............Go to the pits while racing in Passenger mode.

			SAVING/LOADING SEASON STANDINGS

	You'll need a formatted, blank disk in order to save your season
standings. Please refer to your Introduction to Amiga manual for instructions
on formatting disks.

SAVING - Use the following steps to save your season standings to disk:

1.	Bring up the Race Control panel and click the trophy icon to open the
	Save/Load requester.

2.	Click the button for the disk drive you want to save to (DF0:=internal
	drive, DF1:=external drive). NOTE: If you have only one disk drive,
	eject the Ferrari Formula One disk and insert your blank, formatted
	disk. The drive button and the text entry box will not operate if the
	disk is locked or too full to save to.

3.	In the File Requester, click the icon where the arrow points towards
	the disk.

4.	Now click the "Text Entry" box and type in the name of an existing file
	in the requester.

5.	Click the green "Accept" button to save the file.

You can save only race statistics. You cannot save the qualifying times and
pole position you achieve before the actual race.

LOADING - Use the following steps to load saved season standings:

1.	Bring up the Race Control panel and click the trophy icon to open the
	Save/Load Requester.

2.	Click the button for the disk drive that holds the file you want to 
	load (DF0:=internal drive, DF1:=external drive). NOTE: If you have
	only one disk drive, eject the Ferrari Formula One disk and insert the
	disk containing the file.

3.	Now click the name of the file you want to load.

4.	Click the green "Accept" button to load the file.

Once the file is loaded, you can resume your season right where you left off.

			FERRARI FORMULA ONE MANUAL

				CONTENTS

How to start your engines!................................................1
How to use this manual....................................................1
About the Grand Prix and this simulation..................................2
Fiorano - Launching your career...........................................4
Who's Mauro?..............................................................5
Map of Fiorano............................................................6
Setting Up Your Ferrari...................................................14
Testing Your Car..........................................................24
Transport.................................................................28
Your First Race...........................................................30
Competition Track Layout..................................................30
The Grand Prix............................................................31
Returning to Fiorano......................................................34
Where to go from here.....................................................35
APPENDIX A - 1986 SEASON SCHEDULE.........................................36

			START YOUR ENGINES!

Grand Pris/Formula One racing is one of the most exciting sports in the world
to be a Grand Prix driver, you must not only have a mind like a computer and
reflexes like a mongoose, but you must also be an expert on racing technology
and an excellent business manager.

Ferrari Formula One brings all of the depth and excitement of the Grand Prix
race circuit to your computer. You'll have plenty of races to run, but you'll
also have a pit crew to manage, a Ferrari Formula One 1986 (F186) race car to
modify and test, deadlines to meet, and schedules to keep. But all of this is
only for those who want to run the full simulation. If you just want to get
behind the wheel of a Ferrari (the most successful Grand Prix racing team in
the world), then you can do that as well.

			HOW TO USE THIS MANUAL

This manual is designed so that you can use just as much of it as you want. It
covers everything about the Ferrari Formula One simulation, from Formula One
World Driving Championship rules, to travelling to and competing in your first
race. However, if you want to simply drive without worrying about schedules and
your season standing, then you probably don't need to read this manual.

Just take a moment to carefully read the Driver's Reference Guide. It provides
everything you need to get started quickly including how to control your
Ferrari, the specific features and keyboard shortcuts for your computer, and
other information you'll probably wnat to keep handy as you race. And because
Ferrari Formula One is available on a number of different computers with
differing capabilities, some of the features and functions described in this
manual may be different on your computer. The Driver's Reference Guide will
help you deal with those differences as well.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
We'll use this type of note to call your attention to important information
throughout this manual.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

			ABOUT THE GRAND PRIX AND THIS SIMULATION

There are a lot of rules in Formula One World Driviang Championship racing. The
majority of Formula One rules apply to car design and specifications. You won't
need to worry about these rules too much because Ferrari Formula One won't let
you modify your car beyond the parameters laid down by Formula One rules. In
other words, Ferrari Formula One lets you make adjustments to your F186 (like
changing the attack of the wings), but you won't be able to alter the car's
structure (like making the wings larger), because this is against Formula One
rules.

	The Grand Prix race season consists of a series of races, each at a
different track. Each race consists of:

Practice One (P1), in the morning, two days before the race. This is where you
	get acquainted with the track and your opponents.

Qualifying One (Q1), in the afternoon, after P1. This is the first real
	competition of the race. In qualifying you're competing with the other
	drivers for the best grid position for the start of the race. Your
	starting position is based upon your best lap time during qualifying.
	You'll want to adjust your car radically and push it to its limits.

Practice Two (P2), in the morning of the day before the race. Continue to
	familiarize yourself with the track and prepare to improve your time
	for the second qualifying session.

Warmup, on the morning of the race. This is a 30 minute session in which you'll
	make a final inspection of the track, and your opponents' strengths
	and weaknesses. Take it easy on your car during the warmup race - don't
	take the risk of destroying your engine before the race even starts
	because you probably won't have time to replace the engine before the
	race begins.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------	
Track testing time is probably your most limited resourse during a Grand Prix.
In a little over four hours you must:
	Learn the track and its layout.
	Find the fastest setting for the Qualifying sessions.
	Secure a good grid position.
	Find the best combination of speed and endurance for the race.
	Find the fuel economy that will let you complete the race.
Make sure that you spend time driving your car in race trim. The wrong time to
find the right settings is after the green flag drops.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Race, with your car tuned to the best balance of speed and endurance, this is 
	where you'll engage in competition for the race trophy. A Grand Prix
	race normally lasts two-hours or about 315 kilometers, whichever comes
first, but you can use the race control (described later) to select races as
short as 2-5 laps (about 18 kilometers). If the race doesn't run the full
distance within tow hours (or the time limit for a shorter race), then the lead
car is the winner. Unlike the practice, qualifying, and warmup sessions, you
can't refuel during the actual race.

	Ferrari Formula One, the simulation, operates just like the Grand Prix
race circuit in the real world. The moment you boot the program the clock
starts ticking. You must get yourself and your car into shape in time to
transport yourself, your equipment, and your crew to the first race of the
season. Car repair and travel time is accelerated, but all other aspects of
Ferrari Formula One are in real-time. Furthermore, if you damage your car
before, during, or after the race, you'll receive a time penalty in the amount
it would really take to put your car back in working condition, or your body
back in shape if you were injured in the crash. A really bad crash may put you
out for the rest of the season.

			FIORANO - LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER

Fiorano (pronounced FEE-OH-RON-OH) is your home base and test track. Fiorano
has all the facilities you'll need to coax the best performance out of your
Ferrari and to hone your own driving skills. And your crew chief is always
available to help you make the setup decisions that can determine race outcome.

				WHO'S MAURO?

Mauro is your computerized crew chief who's always available when your car is
in the pit or garage.

Select the toolbox to get Mauro's suggestions on car adjustments. When you
select the toolbox, all the control panels for your Ferrari will open. Solid
squares highlight Mauro's suggested settings just as if you had selected them
yourself. If Mauro's settings are the same as the current settings, only
Mauro's settings will show on the control panel. When you are playing at F3
level, Mauro's settings automatically take effect each time you go to a new
track.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
After you have driven the car, some of the current setting squares may be
partially blacked-out, indicating wear. A solid black square means that
component is no longer operational.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

				MAP OF FIORANO

The Fiorano paddock is made up of seven different areas. You can get to the
differnt areas of Fiorano by selecting one from the paddock screen. See the
Driver's Reference Guide to learn how to select screen areas on your computer.
Fiorano paddock is very similar to the paddocks of the competition tracks,
except that it has some additional facilities that you won't find at the
competition tracks (see "Competition Track Layout" under Your First Race for
more information on competition tracks). The following sections describe each
of Fiorano's areas in detail.

This is where you pick the race settings such as track, session, race length,
and driver name. The race control panel appears when you select the second
floor race control building. 

You can use the date and time controls, or the track and session controls to
quickly advance a race season if you are trying to run a season from start to
finish. When you choose the track control, a list of the various race tracks
appears for you to choose from. Choosing a track resets the clock, calendar,
and session control to the first session of that race. The session control
changes the selected session and resets the clock and calendar for that
session. you'll notice that once you pass the last session of a race, the
session control also switches the track control to the next race of the season.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Unlike the transport trucks, selecting a new track or session from the race
control panel sets the clock and calendar ahead to the day of the current track
session. This means that you can use it to skip races. But if you are keeping a
record of your season standings, you won't have scores for the races you've
skipped. Also, if you use the race control to go back and repeat a session,
you'll forfeit your accumulated season standings.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The skill level control lets you set Ferrari Formula One's difficulty from
Formula One (F1 - the hardest) to Formula Three (F3 - the easiest). The harder
the skill level, the more skillfully your opponents will drive and the more
likely that wear and tear will cause a mechanical failure in your car. At the
F1 level, you must also shift gears manually (see the Driver's Reference Guide
for information on manual shifting). The P in the skill level area of the
control panel lets you leave the driving to us so you can view the race as a
passenger. (But you still call the shots when it comes to car repairs, even
though you're only a passenger during the race.)

The driver control lets you enter your own name as a driver for the season. The
name you enter here will appear before your score on the season standings
screen. The trophy control lets you save your current season to disk, or load
another season from disk. You'll need a formatted/initialized, blank disk in
order to save your seasons. See the Driver's Reference Guide for more
information on saving your season statistics, and see your computer's users'
manual for instructions on formatting or initializing blank disks.

				GARAGE

The garage is where you'll adjust your Ferrari's major systems before you take
it out to the test track or to a race.

Select the garage building to enter the garage. Figure 5 shows the inside of
the garage and the eight screen areas you can select for garage functions. See
the Setting Up Your Ferrari section below for more detailed information on
using the garage. The dyno room is also located in the garage (at Fiorano
only). See "Dyno Room" in the Testing You Car" section below for a description
of, and information on using the dyno room.

				WIND TUNNEL

The Fiorano wind tunnel is where you'll learn to make adjustments to your
Ferrari's wings, and then test to make sure your adjustments are
aerodynamically sound.

The adjustments you make to your Ferrari's wings affects the way the car
handles on the track, so the wind tunnel plays an important part in developing
a winning Ferrari. Select the wind tunnel building to put your Ferrari in the
wind tunnel. Figure 6 shows the inside of the wind tunnel and the controls you
can use. See "Wind Tunnel" in the Testing Your Car section below for more
detailed information on using the wind tunnel.

				PIT

The pit is the place where youfine tune the major adjustments you performed on
your Ferrari in the garage.

You can select the pit building to put your car directly into the pit from the
paddock, or if you have a problem on the track, just pull off the right side of
the trace after the start/finish line (the area without a curb) into the pit
and ask Mauro's advice. The pit has most of the features of the garage except
for the dyno room, the engine crane for changing engines, and the ability to
change gear ratios. The dyno room is available only at Fiorano.

In the pit, however, you can also adjust your car's wings, refuel (except when
Formula One rules prohibit it), and see your current lap times and the weather
conditions on the scoring monitor. During competition, you can also use the
scoring monitor to see the overall race scoring. When you're done in the pit
you can return to the track by selecting the Ferrari's cockpit.

Figure 7 shows the inside of the pit and the nine screen areas you can select
to use its various functions. See the Setting Up your Ferrari section below for
more detailed information on using the pit.

				TEST TRACK

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Your pit crew's accurace and speed will vary depending on whether you're in the
garage or the pit, and depending on whether you're practicing, qualifying, or
racing.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When you have your Ferrari set up in what you think will be a winning
configuration, it's time to take to the test track to see how she performs.
There are no other cars on the test track except yours, so this makes it a good
place for you to learn to drive at high speeds. Select the car that's lined up
on the track at the bottom of the paddock screen, or the cockpit of the Ferrari
in the pit to move onto the track. See the Going for a Lap section of the
Driver's Reference Guide for more information on getting behind the wheel of
your car.

				SEASON STANDINGS

Season standings is housed in the building directly below race control and
shows your overall season standing.  

Figure 8 shows the season's standings. You can save your season standings
screen to disk and view them again later using this screen (see your Driver's
Reference Guide).

During the 1986 season, the season score for a driver was calculated by using
the 11 best scores out of all 16 races. The driver gets a certain number of
points per race, based upon his finishing position. Table 1 shows the
correlation between points and finishing position.

TABLE 1:

	POINTS		POSITION
	 9		1st place
	 6		2nd place
	 4		3rd place
	 3		4th place
	 2		5th place
	 1		6th place

			TRANSPORT

The transport trucks take you to the competition track of your choice, and
advances the clock for the amount of time it takes to travel there.

The transport trucks let you travel to tracks early or between races during the
season so you can log extra test time. For instance, if you select the
transport trucks in January at Fiorano and choose Rio, then you'll arrive at
Rio two months before the race, which begins on March 19th (see" Appendix A -
1986 Season Schedule"). You can still do practice laps even though the track is
closed.

When you select the transport trucks, a world map appears that shows your
current location and all the other track locations. Weather icons appear near
each track location to show you the weather conditions there. If you're testing
your car or practicing between races, you can use the weather icons to select
the weather conditions of your choice. Select a track and you'll see the route
marker appear as you travel. The weather conditions you see on the map are for
the current day, and may change in the time it takes you to travel to your
destination.

			SETTING UP YOUR FERRARI

Now that you've seen how to navigate through Ferrari Formula One, it's time for
you to start thinking about getting your car ready for competiton. Your Ferrari
is basically composed of five systems: engine, gearbox, tires, suspension, and
wings. You should look at track conditions to determine the best way to adjust
your car's systems. For instance, you'll pick rain tires for a wet track, and
slicks for a dry track. You'll also need to adjust the gearing and wings
differently if a track has a lot of curves, or a lot of straights.

You can tell when a system is worn, damaged, or completely destroyed by the
amount of filling in the system's control box. A brand new system has a solid,
completely filled control box, while a destroyed system has an empty control
box. The amount of time it takes you to repair one of your car's systems will
be subtracted from your game time. The following sections explain how you
adjust, repair, or replace these systems, and the theories and concepts you
should be aware of as you work with them.

				ENGINE

Your Ferrari's engine is a V6 Turbo that delivers up to 1,000 horsepower at
11,000 rpm; it's one of the highest revving turbo-charged engines available.
The engine itself is made up of five sub-systems that you repair or replace
with the engine control. Just select the system you want to repair. The time it
takes to repair the engine sub-system varies according to the amount of damage
it has taken, and when and where you make the repair. The engine life and fuel
level indicators display engine age and the amount of fuel only - you can't
adjust their status with the engine control.

Engine life is a strong determining factor in engine performance. An average
time for engine life in the Grand Prix circuit is roughly six hours, with a
maximum life of 12 hours. This is when you'll get the optimum performance out
of the engine. Luckily, no race will ever last that long, but you'll use up
some engine life by burning it in during a pre-race warm-up. You'll see how
engine life affects performance when you learn to use the dyno room in the next
section, Testing Your Car.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Formula One racing is one of the most expensive forms of motor racing in the
world. Car chassis are constructed from exotic materials such as carbon fiber,
and front line drivers can make more than three million dollara a year. Engines
can cost in excess of $60,000.00 dollars apiece, and drivers will generally use
three engines during a Grand Prix (one for each Practice/Qualifying day, and a
third in race configuration).
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The time on the engine increases the longer you run the engine. Using the
engine crane in the garage resets your engine's life to 0 - the equivalent of
replacing your old engine with a new one. The only time you can replace your
engine is when your car is in the garage. This means that you can't replace an
engine once a race has begun, because leaving the pit to return to the garage
is the same as dropping out of the race. If you lose an engine during a race,
you may as well head for the next race in the season.

FUEL LEVEL shows the amount of fuel left in your tank, in liters (195 maximum,
according to 1986 rules). Your Ferrari's fuel consumption is affected by other
factors such as engine life, engine ROM's, turboboose, and wing settings. For
instance, the older an engine gets, the less efficiently it will use fuel. Read
the section on engine ROMs and turboboost below for more information on those
systems, see the "Tires" section for more information on tire compounds. Using
the fuel can in the pit during testing, practice, or before qualifying fills
your Ferrari's tank. The amount of fuel will usually be less during qualifying
runs so your car will be lighter and faster. The amount of fuel will also be
less if you are running a race that is shorter than a regulation race. Because
Grand Prix rules don't allow refueling during a race, the fuel can is removed
from the pit during an actual race.

OIL SYSTEM is affected by engine life, temperature, ROMs, and turboboost. Oil
pressure is measured in bars (a bar is approximately 14.7 psi - pounds per
square inch), and has a maximum level of 9.0. Pull into the pit and fix your
oil system immediately if the oil or temperature indicators drop below half
during a race (see Driver's Reference Guide for cockpit controls and
indicators). High oil pressure is good, low oil pressure is bad.

COOLING SYSTEM and the oil system are closely interlinked. The lower you let
your oil pressure get, the higher the water temperature will go. Engine
temperatures will also rise if you've been racing hard with a high turboboost
setting, or running a very lean mixture (see "Engine ROMs System" below).

ELECTRICAL SYSTEM provides the power which is essential to your Ferrari's
ignition and fuel injection systems. Because these systems are drawing full
current during a race, there is a continual drain on your electrical system. If
your electrical system fails during race, so will your engine.

FUEL INJECTION/IGNITION  COMPUTER ROM SYSTEM regulates your engine's fuel-air
mixture and igintion timing. ROMs (Read Only Memory) are computer chips that
are installed in the engine to tell it how to regulate the fuel to air ratio.
The program contained in a ROM chip, and your turbocharger setting, determines
the horsepower output, power curve, fuel economy, and wear characteristics of
your engine. The ratio of fuel to air affects the temperature at chich the fuel
burns, and the energy it provides. A rich fuel to air ratio burns more fuel
than a lean mixture.

A leaner mixture provides more horse power, but makes the engine run hotter,
work harder, and makes it more sensitive to excess turboboost. A richer mixture
is more conservative on the engine, and lets you use more boost from the
turbocharger, but consumes fuel more rapidly.

Typically, you'll want a lean mixture during a race to conserve fuel, and also
because burning more fuel with a rich mixture doesn't necessarily increase
horsepower. The A-ROM is the leanest mixture, while the F-ROM is the richest
mixture. The Q-ROM is an extremely rich mixture that you should use only in
qualifying races.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You can see just how the various ROMs and turbocharger settings affect your
engine's performance in the dyno room. See the "Testing Your Car" section for
more information on using the dyno room.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TURBOCHARGER SYSTEM is a collection of components that increases the engine's
horsepower by literally stuffing more air and fuel into the engine. A small
turbine, placed in the flow of the engine's exhause, spins an impeller that
pumps pressurized air into the engine. The extra air forces the fuel injection
system to balance the mixture with more fuel, thus greatly increasing the
potential energy in the cylinder. But, as you might imagine, an increase in
turboboost also increases the engine's fuel consumption. An F186 in qualifying
trim won't win any fuel economy awards.

Turboboost is measured in bars (a bar is approximately 14.7 psi - pounds per
square inch). The higher you set your turboboost, the more pressure you're
putting on your engine. Thus turboboost and engine wear have a direct
correlation. If you run a high turboboost setting for long periods of time, you
increase your chances of blowing the engine - especially at skill levels above
F3. But the temptation to use full turboboost is always great because the
turbocharger can boost your Ferrari's overall horsepower by 100%, thus
increasing your top speed dramatically. If the turbocharger system sustains
damage, use the control in the engine control panel to repair it (the amount of
time it takes to repair will depend on the extent of the damage). If you should
happen to blow your engine during a race, then you'll lose the race.

				GEARBOX

Use the gearbox control panel to adjust your Ferrari's gear ratio in response
to track conditions.

Short gear ratios provide fast acceleration, but lower maximum speed. This
means that you should use a short gear ratio for slower trcks with tight turns
- so you can accelerate quickly out of the turns. Long gear ratios provide slow
acceleration, but higher maximum speeds. This means that you should use a long
gear ratio for straighter tracks where you can go fast for longer periods
without slowing for curves.

Also be aware that shorter gears cause higher engine revs, and thus, greater
fuel consumption. For some races you may want to use a longer gear to help
conserve fuel.

				TIRES

Almost no other area has improved as much over the years as the performance of
Grand Prix tires. Cornering forces can reach better than three G's (forces of
gravity). Tires have become highly specialized for their specific duty, and are
categorized by their compound (the rubber composition that gives the tire its
performance characteristics) and tread design (the grooves cut into a tire
based on track conditions). For instance, there are different tire compounds
and tread configurations for wet and dry weather, or for hot and cold weather.
Typically, wet weather tires are the only types that are treaded. Dry weather
tires have no treads, and are referred to as slicks. The goal in picking tire
compounds is to get the best grip, and thus, the best lap time. The basic rule
of thumb is: the softer th tire compound, the faster the lap time; but the
greater the wear on the tire. This means that you should atempt to find a happy
balance between lap time and tire longevity.

Choosing the appropriate tire compound is extremely important to the success of
your race. Each tire of the Formula One car is subjected to its own distinctive
form of stress, so you may have to pick a different tire compound for each tire
of the vehicle. Your choices should be based upon the layout of the track, the
weather conditions, and the track session you're competing in. Your goal is to
pick tires that will become just the right temperature during the race so
you'll get good grip on the track. If a tire stays too cold, it won't get soft
enough to grip. If it gets too hot, it will smear, become sticky, and
deteriorate faster.

Let's say that you're racing on a track which has a lot of right-hand turns.
You would probably want to select a hard front-left compound, a fairly soft
front-right, and two medium-hard rear tires. The hard front-left compound
willhelp the tire hold up under the punishment it will receive in all of those
right turns, while the soft front-right compound will help provide additional
grip. The medium-hard rear compounds will help the rear tires survive the fast
acceleration out of all the corners, but since the compound is only
medium-hard, it will also provide better grip than a very hard compound. Three
completely differnet compounds on the same car are quite common in Formula One
racing.

The tire control in the garage and the pit gives you six tire compound/tread
combinations to choose from. The arrows at the top of the compound columns
point to a tire on the car in the following order from left to right;
right-front, left-front, right rear, and left-rear. The temperature for that
tire appears at the top of the tire control when you select one of the arrows.
Table 1 lists the compounds, their types, and their degree of firmness.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Remember, letting your tires get too hot makes them deteriorate faster and
reduces their grip. You can monitor tire wear during a race by watching the
movement patterns on the tires - they'll change pattern as they get hotter.
(You can watch the rear tires in the corners of your rear-view mirrors.) If you
see that the tire(s) are wearing too fast, slow down to conserve them. You'll
lose some lap time, but it's sometimes better than pulling into the pit for a
complete tire change.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

		TABLE 2: Compounds, Types and Firmness
		-----------------------------------------
		COMPOUND	TYPE		FIRMNESS
		----------------------------------------
		SE		Qualifying	Very Soft
		SA		Race A		Hard
		SB		Race B		Medium
		SC		Race C		Soft
		RG		Rain Qual.	Very Soft/Tread
		RE		Rain Race	Soft/Tread
		----------------------------------------------

Rain tires are the softest compound, are water compatible, and they are treated
to help prevent hydroplaning. The rain compound lasts only so long as rainwater
acts as a coolant for the tires during the race. This means that they'll
deteriorate rapidly on a drying track.

The ideal situation is to have all four tires reach their best gripping
temperature at full speed. Although you can reduce tire temperature by varying
your driving tactice, remember that this usually means slower lap times. Of
course, losing a little time to let the tires cool off is better than losing
your first place slot if you have a narrow lead. It takes less than 15 seconds
to change the tires in the pit, but when you add the time it takes to
decelerate into and acceleration out of the pit, you'll lose about a minute.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Qualifying tires provide great grip because they are so soft, but they
deteriorate fast. They're designed to be destroyed because you need fast lap
times while qualifying, and you can usually afford the time it takes for a tire
change during qualifying runs.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

				SUSPENSION

Your Ferrari's suspension system works in tandem with the wings and tires to
help provide the best handling characteristics. You should adjust the
suspension system in response to your own driving habits as well as to track
conditions.

The suspension system has a drastic effect on whether your car under or
oversteers. Understeering is when you go into a turn and the front tires break
traction first, causing them to wash-out (continue straight even though they're
turned). Oversteering is when the rear tires break traction first and make the
car fishtail or, in the worst cases, spin-out.

Firm suspension provides less sway, but is less forgiving of road
inconsistencies and will break traction faster. Soft suspension has the exact
opposite effect. For instance, firm rear suspension and soft front may make the
care more likely to oversteer; i.e., the rear tires may break traction first
and the car may fishtail or spin-out.

When you're adjusting your car's suspension, take into account whether the
track is twisty or fairly straight, and wheter it's wet or dry. Also, the F186
has a natural tendency to understeer, so calculate this into your adjustments.
Finally, you must also consider your own driving habits. For instance, if you
like to take corners at high-speeds with little or no braking, then you'll
probably want to use firmer rear suspension to make the car oversteer slightly.
But keep in mind that the car is more likely to break traction and go into a
skid if you have to use the brakes too heavily into a turn. you should also
take your tire and wing setting into account when adjusting the suspension. If
you're using a soft tire compound, and wing settings that provide less of
downfouce (see "Wings" below), then you can probably afford to use a firmer
suspension system.

				WINGS

Next to proper tires, you car's wings are the next most important factor
affecting how the car handles on the track. Your Ferrari's front and rear
airplane's wings operate exactly like an inverted airplane wing. While an
airplane's wing provides life, your Ferrari's wings are turned upside-down so
they provide downforce. Essentially, they push your car down onto the track to
provide better grip around corners and other areas where you might lose
ground. The wings also help compensate for under/oversteer which was discussed
in the last section, "Suspension."

The higher you put the rear edge of the wing (or the greater the angle of
attach), the more downforce it provides when the car moves forward. But this
also creates more drag, which hinders the car's forward motion, and this, its
acceleration. Your job is to find a happy medium between downforce and drag.
But remember that the effect is exponential with speed; that is, the faster you
go, the less wing you'll need to create the downforce, and straigh line
acceleration versus cornering speeds. Wing Control is used to adjust your car's
front and rear wings.

Like all the other components of your Ferrari, the way you adjust your wings
depends upon track conditions. On a very twisty track, you might have to
sacrifice some top speed (because of increased drag) in order to get a lot of
cornering performance (because of increased downforce). On a track with a lot
of straights, you might sacrifice speed (because of decreased drag). You can
see the way wing adjustment affects downforce and drag by testing your car in
the wind tunnel (see "Wind Tunnel" below).

			   TESTING YOUR CAR

Before you leave Fiorano for your first race, you should test your car using
Fiorano's test lab facilities to learn exactly how your adjustments affect your
car. The following sections describe each of Fiorano's test labs and how you
should use them.

			      DYNO ROOM

By adjusting the various controls in the dyno room you can quickly see how
engine performance is affected at various speeds (RPM) by the age of the engine
(HRS), turbocharger settings (BST), and the ROM type. In all likelihood, the
fuel effenciecy in an older engine won't be nearly as good, and other factors
such as the cooling and electrical systems will be less efficient also.

The performance graph below the engine control shows the way in which
increasing the output of one engine factor decreases or increases the
efficiency of another. For instance when you increase turboboost (the BST
control), horsepower (HP) and engine torque (TORQ) increases but fuel
efficiency (FUEL) drops. Try increasing the engine age with the HRS control and
see what happens to the engine's performance (once you age an engine with the
HRS control, you cannot make it young again; you must use the engine crane in
the garage to install a new engine). Note also, the RPMs at which your engine
reaches peak performance in its current tune. you shoul try to shift at this
RPM if you use the same engine turn on the track.

			       WIND TUNNEL

The wind tunner is where you see how your Ferrari's wings affect downforce and
drag. Use the wing control panel to adjust the angle of attack of the car's
wings, then use the airspeed control to increase the speed of airflow across
the wings. The performance graph below the wing control shows you how downforce
on the front and rear wings, and the overall drag will increase as the speed of
your car increases.

Your goal is to find the greatest increase of downforce with the least drag at
the highest wind sped. Naturally, this all depends on race track conditions -
your wing settings will probably be different for every track.

			       TEST TRACK

The Fiorano test track is where you measure the F186's performance after making
all your adjustments in the garage and pit. You should also work ot hone your
driving skills here before an actual race. In particular, practice braking into
corners from high speed since this is typically where new drivers are overtaken
by experienced Grand Prix race drivers.

The most common tactic is to configure your car so it understeers into the
corner, and oversteers out. You achieve this with a fine balance of wing and
suspension settings. There are two schools of though on the best way to
negotiate a corner; the traditional method, recommended by Jackie Stewart and
others; and the friction circle method, pioneered by Mark Donahue.

Using the friction circle method, you brake to the apex of the turn, and
accelerate out. Using the traditional method, you brake into the beginning of
the turn, then accelerate all the way through the apex and out of the turn. Use
whichever method feels right for you.

Your main objective on the test track should be to increase your lap time and
your car's performance. pull into the pit after every few laps and check your
car's systems for wear and tear, and check the race monitor for your lap times.
If it looks like some of your car's systems are really taking a beating after
only two or three laps, try driving more conservatively. Be prepared for longer
lap times though. If after two or three more laps your car is still taking a
beating, you should make some adjustments to those systems that are't holding
up well.

			      SCORING MONITOR

The scoring monitor in the pit at Fiorano shows a lot more than just your lap
times. There are sensors at every turn of the test track that record exactly
how you performed during a given lap. Click the button next to the lap time you
want to analyze, and the scoring monitor will show you the times recorded at
each sensor. Using the information gathered by the sensors around the test
track, you can isolate and work on the areas of your driving that need
improvements. 

The scoring monitor during a race shows the current status of all race
participants, ranked by position. You can see what lap the other drivers are
on, their times, and whether they're on the track or in the pit (a "P" appears
next to the name of drivers who are currently in the pit).

The time shown for each sensor location on the race monitor indicates the time
it took you to reach that sensor from the last, and the total lap time up to
that point. Compare the numbers with previous laps to note your improvement (or
lack of improvement).
  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Smoothness and consistency are the keys to turning fast lap times. The greatest
cornering forces occur furing the transition from braking to acceleration as
the weight of the car is magnified by momentum. If you can make a smooth
transition, you can reduce the impace of the transition. Consistency lets you
avoid problems and execute the most important of all racing strategies -
finishing. The more control you maintain, the closer you can drive to the car's
limits.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

				TRANSPORT

When you feel confident in your car and your capabilities as a driver, it's ime
to head for your first race of the season (see "Appendix A - 1986 Season
Schedule" for race dates). The first race is held at Rio, on March 23rd. If you
have spent enough time testing and practicing at Fiorano for the game date to
almost reach the date of the first race, you can take the transport trucks
there. Using the transport trucks to get to another track sets the game clock
ahead only for the amount of travel time it takes to get there from your
current location. This means that to get from Fiorano to Rio in time for the
race you should leave Fiorano no later than March 19th.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The difference between using the transport trucks and the race control panel to
go to races is that the transport trucks simulate real-time in the game, while
the race control panel lets you advance the game clock and skip ahead to where
you want to be. You can use the race control to skip over the sessions except
the race itself (but you forfeit a good starting position), or you can even use
it to skip over entire races. But remember, you forfeit the races that you
skip.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can still take the tansport trucks to competition tracks even if it's
before or after the date of the actual race, but you can only test on the track
when you get there. The travel times are as follows:

	One day to travel to another track in the same country as your current
location.
	Two days to travel to another track on the same continent as your
current location.
	Three days to travel to another track on a different continent from
your current location..

If you want to go to the actual race, but the game clock hasn't yet reached the
date of the race, then use the race control panel located in the race control
building of the paddock, to select the track you want to go to. Race control
automatically sets the game closk ahead to the track's opening.

			     YOUR FIRST RACE

It's March 19, 1986. You know your Ferrari like the back of your hand and you
could drive Fiorano in your sleep. Now it's time to get your car and crew
packed up in the transport trucks and head for your first race of the season -
Rio.

Held at Rio de Janeiro in March, the Brazilian Grand Prix is 5.013 km/3.126 mil
course that features one very long straigh away, and a lot of challenging
left-hand turns. The weather is typically hot and dry.

			COMPETITION TRACK LAYOUT

Like Fiorano, each competition track has a paddock area that contains the
transport trucks, garage, race control, scoring, pit, and race track access.

However, the competition tracks do not have wind tunner or dyno room
facilities. The first thing you should do when you arrive at a competition race
track is to note the date, time, and weather conditions, which are shown as an
icon near the upper-left corner of the paddock screen.  If you're early for the
race, you'll have time to take some practice laps around the track and get some
first impressions. Then you should put your car in the garage and make your
adjustments based on the track conditions and the current track session.

			    THE GRAND PRIX

A Grand Prix is broken into various track sessions that make up the entire
race. There are a total of six track sessions, including the race itself, which
are spread across a three day period.  On each day, the first session is always
at ten in the morning, and the second session is at one in the afternoon. You
can check the main paddock to see what time it is and when the next session
begins. The track sessions follow one another logically as you complete them,
or you can select the session you want to race from the race control panel in
the race control building of the paddock.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You can use the race control panel to skip the sessions before the actual race,
but you'll have to settle for a grid position at the back of the pack if you
skip both qualifying sessions.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

				DAY ONE

There are two sessions on the first day of the Grand Prix; the first practice
session (P1) and the first qualifying session (Q1). P1 is a practice session in
the morning that gets you acquainted with the track. Although you'll meet the
other drivers on the track, don't expect to see them show all their
capabilities during this session. You should hold back and take it easy during
the practice session as well. Get to know the layout and trouble spots of the
track, and don't risk damaging your car.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	A green flag means the race is on at full speed.
	A white flag means there is one lap remaining.
	A checkered flag means the end of the race.
	A red flag means the course is closed, proceed to the pit.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q1, in the afternoon, is the first real competition of the race. In this
session you are trying to qualify for the best grid position; that is, the
position your car occupies in the pack at the start of the race. The driver
with the best flying lap (like a running start) time gets the pole position.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You'll ned to find a free stretch of road in order to find your fastest
qualifying time. As you start your second lap, make sure you have some
traffic-free distance in front of you. Remember that there are other drivers
also trying to get fast times. All will be running at different speeds, many in
excess of 100 mph. This is one of the two most dangerous times in Formula One
racing (the other is Q2).
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use the Q engine RPOM, lots of turboboost, and qualifying tires to try and get
the best lap time. You will also lighten your car's load by using less fuel
because you can refuel at any time during the qualifying and practice races.
This means you can reach faster speeds and you don't need to worry about fuel
efficiency. Do the best you can to get the best lap time you can, but don't
risk damaging your car - you still have two more practices and another
qualifying session to get through before the real thing. And watch the other
drivers as well. Although they won't show you all their tricks during
qualifying, some of their strategy and tactice may become apparent.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pay attention to tire wear during the practice and qualifying sessions. If your
tires are wearing unevenly, try to select a better balance of compounds to use
in the race.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

				DAY TWO

Day two of a Grand Prix is also composed of two sessions: Practice Two and
Qualifying Two. Like P1, P2 is intended o help you familiarize yourself with
every inch of the track. The goal to make your P2 times better than your P1
times of the day before. It also gives you a chance to tweek your car to peak
performance.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outside of the Ferrari factory in Maranello, Italy, there is a bust of Gilles
Villeneuve. Gilles was a Canadian Grand Prix driver for the Ferrari team in the
late '70's and early '80's. Gilles was well likes for his competitive spirit,
and his success. He placed second in the 1979 World Championship, and won six
races in four years for Ferrari. Gilles was killed in the early '80's while
trying to overtake another car during a qualifying session. The Canadian Grand
Prix circuit was named in his honor.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q2 is likely to be even crazier than Q1 as the drivers try to imporve on their
qualifying times from the previous day, and beat eveyone else's times in the
process. If your lap times happen to match another driver's from the previous
day, the other driver receives that pole position (because he reached it first)
and you get the next in line. Again, get radical with your car adjustments.
Don't worry about fuel efficiency and tire wear, just try to get your bet time.
And don't forget to keep you eye on the competition.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Many Grand Prix drivers like to replace their engines after Q1 and Q2 so
they'll have a brand new engine for the sessions of the next day.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

			   DAY THREE - THE RACE

Day three starts with a 30-minute warm-up session in the morning, followed by
the race itself in that afternoon. The warm-up session is your final chance to
overcome any problem areas the track may present for you. It's also a last
chance to tune your car one last time. Take it easy during the warm-up, burn-in
that new engine gently, and conserve yourself and your car for the race.

Your place at the start of the race in the afternoon is based upon how well you
performed in qualification. If you did wellin Q1 and Q2, then you'll have a
place at, or near, the front of the pack. If you didn't do so well during
qualifying, you'll be at the back of the pack.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The standing start is one of the most spectacular moments in all motor sport.
Expecially since turbo cars have found their way into Formula One. Cars often
overtake six to eight spots on the grid before the first turn. Others may stall
on the grid, causing gridlock at over 100 mph!
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Drive aggressively, but remember, you can't refuel during the race, and a tire
change is the most time-costly of the standard problems. By "standard" we mean
a problem that probably won't cost you the race, only a lap or so. If you
encounter a non-standard problem during the race - like having to change your
turbo charger system - then you will lose the race.

A regulation Grand Prix is two hours or 310 kilometers (200 miles), whichever
comes first. You can get a shorter distance using the race control panel in the
race control building at the paddock if you want (this also scales down the
time limit and fuel capacity). If the time limit is exceeded and you haven't
run the full length of the race, then the lead car is declared the winner as he
crosses the finish line and the race ends. After the race, you can save the
season standings to disk (see your Driver's Reference Guide).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you did not finish the race, the reason will be listed in the race results
screen. For instance, the word "SHUNT" means that you had an accident. "DNF" is
short for Did Not Finish and appears when you deliberately leave the race. If a
component from your car is listed (i.e., "WINGS", "ENGINE", and so on), then
there was a mechanical failure in your car that prevented you from placing.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

			    RETURNING TO FIORANO

Hopefully you did well in your first race, but if you didn't, then maybe it's
time to return to Fiorano and practice some more. Use the transport trucks to
return to Fiorano in the same way you used them to get to the first race. You
can also go to other competition tracks to test if you want, but it won't
register in your season standings if the track is closed.



			APPENDIX A - 1986 SEASON SCHEDULE

	Race		   Date			Location

	Rio		3/21-3/23/86		Jacarepagua, Rio de Janeiro
	Jerez		4/11-4/13/86		Jerez, Spain
	Imola		4/25-4/27/86		Imola, Italy
	Monaco		5/9-5/11/86		Monaco
	Spa		5/23-5/25/86		Spa, Belgium
	Montreal	6/13-6/15/86		Montreal, Canada
	Detroit		6/20-6/22/86		Detroit, United States
	Ricard		7/4-7/6/86		Paul Ricard, France
	Hatch		7/11-7/13/86		Brands Hatch, England
	Hockenheim	7/25-7/27/86 		Hockenheim, Germany
	Budapest	8/8-8/10/86		Hungaroring, Budapest, Hungary
	Osterreich	9/5-9/7/86		Osterreichring, Austria
	Monza		9/5-9/7/86		Monza, Italy
	Estoril		9/19-9/21/86		Estoril, Portugal
	Mexico		10/10-10/12/86		Mexico City, Mexico
	Adelaide	10/24-10/26/86		Adelaide, South Australia

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ferrari Formula One docs brought to you by The Southern Star.
