                       F I N A L   M I S S I O N
                       -------------------------
It took two years to find the last one ... as a skeleton in a pitfall.  Many
before you have tried.  All have failed.  "Your training was hard..." the
officer says.  "Final Mission" your companions whisper nervously.  You are
escorted by two robots and two guards through the corridors to the red steel
door.  "Final Mission," said the tiny voice coming over the loudspeaker over 
the door, "Code 9417, Mission 58, Agent's stage of development is 10.A robot
steps forward.  He speaks with a soft, well modulated voice.  "Reflexes,
fighting spirit and cleverness will decide your fate.  Carelessness is your
enemy.  "The robot pauses." You must find the redplates of madness and the
yellow balls of insanity. They are the soul of the Labyrinth and the cause of
all the grief and sorrow in our world.  They are the silent rulers.  They are
like cells that make up the whole.  Powerless alone, they are multi-
dimensionaly connected to each other.  They control everything.  Only by
reaching the highest level can you gain freedom.  "Another guard steps forward.
"Beware of the traveling WasteKyboter, arobot equipped with a cybernetic,
semiprotoplasmic random generatorfragmentizer.  He will demotivate you.
But with your 2 x 10 calibur automatic game gun you can overcome the danger.
"The Red Door opens, and a bizarre world full of traps and dangers unfold in
front of you.  The Problem-----------To find your way through the Labyrinth
you must jump over mines and traps, use transport lines, ladders, elevators and
transmitters.  Avoid contact with the Kyboter.  Somewhere there is a computer
terminal, which among other things will give you an overview of the entire
Labyrinth.  However, before you can use the terminal, you have to collect the
parts of the puzzle.  The energy fields will drain your strength, but you can
regain lost energy by collecting hearts.  Psionic-biodynamic energy beings
(they look like tadpoles), which are the nucleus of the dangerous 
Metabolymphquaddles, can give you an extra life.

Joystick Control
----------------  
Running -   --O--         
                                           Leave Terminal - Space Bar
    \ /     Operate Transmitter -    O     Jumping -     O 
            Shoot Walls         -  --O--   Pause -    Space Bar               
    / \     Operate Terminal    -    O     Game Over -   Esc


........... Doc provided by THE HELLION  &  THE CORSAIR ............ 
                     Special Greetings to QUARTEX

