			    FIREZONE

			      INDEX

INTRODUCTION......................................................1
THE COLONIAL WARS.................................................2
MAP...............................................................8
QUICKSTART INSTRUCTIONS...........................................2
HOW TO PLAY.......................................................3
	Beginning the Game........................................4
	Game Sequence.............................................5
	Victory...................................................5
	Game Screen Display.......................................6
UNIT TYPES.......................................................10
MOVEMENT.........................................................13
COMPUTER PLAYER..................................................14
SAVING AND LOADING...............................................14
PRE-SET SCENARIOS................................................14
COMBAT...........................................................15
TACTICS..........................................................19
MISSION BRIEFINGS................................................20
GAMEGEN..........................................................24
	Controls.................................................24
	Designing a Scenario.....................................26
	The Plot.................................................26
	Map Making...............................................28
	Example Scenario - Diagram...............................27
	Opposing Forces..........................................28
	Reinforcements...........................................29

			    21ST CENTURY

			    INTRODUCTION

Following the break up of the old Superpower blocks at the end of the 20th
Century colonial wars ravage the world.

Powerful beam weapons and defensive energy shields are developed that give
a new lease of life to ground warfare and reinforce the place of the
Armoured Fighting Vehicle.

Now the 21st Century propulsion systems have been designed beyond
recognition. The new Grav engine means a tank can skim across the
battlefield at the speed of a 1980's helicopter gunship and is worth a
batallion of the 20th century equivalent.

Firezone simulates this new style of combat in which battles are fought in
minutes not hours. Although several countries and power blocks are
contesting what's left of the World the main protagonists feature in the
game and are the European League and the Pacific Combine. You can command
either side against human or an artificially intelligent computer opponent
in three pre-set scenarios or design and save your own using the game
generator.

This manual includes a Quickstart "Load 'N Go" section that allows you to
start playing the game in minutes with a key that will direct you to any
relevant sections of the manual in case you get stuck.

Players who prefer to know the lay of the land and gauge the enemy they
will face before they're staring down the barrel of a gun will find full
instructions as well as some basic tactics to get you going, full briefings
for each of the three present missions, and instructions and a guide to
creating your own Firezone scenarios with the Gamegen program.

Finally, when you play Firezone remember that everything is going to happen
quickly so your wits and your strategy will have to be razor sharp to win
the day.

				THE COLONIAL WARS

1990 - Reduction in Nuclear Arms between the Superpowers continues rapidly.
Soviet States enjoy a high standard of living. The Islamic Revolution
spreads to Saudi Arabia.

1999 - Channel Tunnel completed which improves links in Europe. The USA
becomes insular and States demand more independence. Poland breaks free
from the Soviet Union and joins the newly formed European League.

2012 - Black Africa combines to form the UAS (United African States and
declares war on South Africa. More Soviet States gain independence. China
and the USA form closer links. Islam (the group of fundamentalist states)
grows throughout the Middle East.

2034 - China and USA form the Pacific Combine against threats from the
growing European League.

2059 - The Grav drive is invented by a Dutch scientist but is almost
immediately leaked to the combine. The Colonial Wars begin.

2063 - Australia joins the Combine. UAS and Islam clash. The League and the
Combine fight over the Balkan States. Northern Africa falls to the superior
League forces.

2160 - The League and Combine are now the major powers in the Colonial Wars
and fight for global domination. Defensive shields have been perfected and
the Infantry, Grav Tanks, Heavy Tanks, Striders, Nova Guns and Leviathans
clash in the Firezone.

				QUICKSTART INSTRUCTIONS

If you can't wait to play Firezone then simply follow these brief Load 'N
Go instructions and start playing in minutes.

Load the game by following the instructions on the key card. Select the
required number of players and load in the First Blood scenario by pressing
the appropriate keys to start the game.

Firezone is played in a series of game turns where each turn represents 60
seconds and although there is a maximum fo 50 turns in a game few battles
last more than 10-15 minutes. Each turn consists of the following phases.

Combine Round
	Combine player moves some or all of his pieces.
	Both players fire any pieces in range.

League Round
	League player moves.
	Both players fire.

The keys you need to play the game are summarized on the enclosed key card.

Scan mode allows you to scroll around the map by moving the cursor and
allows selection of the next piece to move.

In move mode, moving the cursor moves the piece. You can only select move
mode with the cursor over one of your units.

Combat is controlled by the computer that randomly selects the next piece
to fire. Simply, move the cursor over the target and press fire.

	To find out about terrain turn to page 10
	To find out about the combat units turn to page 15
	A mission briefing is on page 20
	Basic tactics are on page 19
	The full instructions start over the page.

Good luck and remember that in the Firezone things happen fast.

				HOW TO PLAY

Firezone depicts ground combat in the 21st Century when battles are fought
at high speed and last minutes and not hours. Although Firezone pits you
against human or an artificially intelligent enemy the game is remarkably
simple to learn and play.

The computer will handle all the complex logic and mathematics involved in
calculating the effects of the different weapons and terrain in the game
and provide you with a computer opponent that will challenge even
experienced wargamers. This will leave you free to command the forces at
your disposal and devise your game winning strategies.

Beginning the Game.

Once the game has loaded (follow the instructions on the enclosed loading
card) you will be presented with the following scene and menu of options to
define your game.

By pressing the appropriate key you can alter ....

P - Number of players: - (Default = Dual)

	Choose between a 2 player (dual) game, a solo (1 player) game or a
demo game where both sides are controlled by the computer.

C - Computer Opponent: -

	If you select a 1 player game you can decide whether the computer
will control the European League or the Pacific Combine.

D - Unit Display: - (Default = Open)

	Units may be displayed in either a hidden or open mode. If open
mode is selected then all units will be visible throughout the game. Hidden
mode is more realistic and only displays the units spotted by the current
player. Beginners should select Open mode.

M - Mission: - (Default = First Blood)

	Selects the game scenario you will play. Each time you press "M"
this option will toggle between the three pre-set scenarios "First Blood",
"Surprise Attack" and "Final Conflict" and the Expansion Game that loads in
missions designed using the "Gamegen" program.

Note: The disk version of the game has nine pre-set scenarios. The first
three are as listed above, with 'Wastelands War', 'Swamp Raid', 'Stalingrad
II', 'Jungle Firefight', 'Armoured Thrust' and 'Infantry Assault' as the
other six.

B - Begin Game: -

	Loads in the required game (so make sure the appropriate tape or
disk is ready). Once the message "Loading Complete" appears the game is
ready to play.

Game Sequence.

Firezone is played in a series of turns, rounds and phases. A game can last
up to 50 turns but it is unlikely they will go the distance as most games
end between turns 10 and 12. Each turn represents one minute of the battle
and has the following order of play.

Turn Sequence

Combine Round
	Combine Movement Phase
	Combat Phase

League Round
	League Movement Phase
	Combat Phase

In missions where the League moves first then the Combine Round of the
first turn is skipped.

During the movement phase the active player (the League player in the
League Round) may move some or all of his units. However, during each
combat phase both players may fire at any target in range.

When the last phase of a turn has been played a new turn begins.

Victory.

The game ends when only one side's forces remain on the battlefield and the
enemy has been destroyed or forced to retreat. Units can leave the
battlefield off the same edge they came on but are lost from the game. This
is only allowed if the retreating force has suffered heavy casualties.

During the game, victory point totals are displayed for each side as a
running total of losses sustained. Although the battle isn't decided until
the last piece has been lost or routed these totals give an at-a-glance
guide to the state of the game.

At the end of the game the program displays a game report that shows the
game turn, the scenario and other options selected as well as the
percentage of total force that both sides lost and a percentage rating for
each player. Anything over 70% will mean a good result.

Game Screen Display

The screenshot below shows the main areas of the Firezone screen display.

The Game map displays a scrolling window that can move over the whole game
map. This is because the scenario game maps are far bigger than the size
that could be displayed on a single screen. The map is divided into hexes
to regulate movement. Hexes are far better in wargames than say squares as
they have six sides, each of equal length and movement over them doesn't
suffer the distortion of diagonal movement on a squared board or the
restriction of movement to only four adjacent squares.

The Terrain/Unit Display shows the type of ground in the hex the cursor is
currently in or details of any units (name, size, strength, attack and
defence strengths - full details in Unit Type section) that are in that
hex.

The Mode Indicator is a reminder so that you know whether you're in scan
mode (looking around the map) or movement mode.

Game Information: this display box is set to the color of the current
players side.

Turn Number: each turn represents one minute of the battle.

Current Terrain Type: indicates the terrain of the hex the cursor is
currently in.

Victory Points: an at-a-glance guide to the state of play.

Cursor: controlled by the keyboard and used to scan map and move units.

Unit Information: details of any combat units highlighted by the cursor
and temporarily replaces the game information.

Com-base

The static or (rarely) tracked nerve center that controls the computer that
controls the Nova guns and issues orders to the unit leaders. It also has
several feet of plasma powered armour and enough firepower to keep a
battalion at bay. It's your base for the coming campaign so look after it.

Whenever a unit is highlighted by the cursor the display box shows the
following information.

Unit Name: - Identifies the company and the battalion or regiment the unit
belongs to.

Unit Side: - Color is used to distinguish between units of the two sides.

Unit Strength: - This displays the type of weapon system and the number in
the unit. E.g. 12 Grav tanks, 15 infantry squads or 1 Leviathan.

Attack Rating: - Two numbers that represent the strength of the attack and
the maximum range of the attack.

Defence Rating: - This represents the strength of the units armor and
defensive shields.

Movement Rating: - The unit's current movement rating is followed by the
maximum movement rating. Movement points are consumed according to the
terrain the unit crosses during the movement phase.

				MOVEMENT

During your movement phase you can move some or all of your units as far as
their movement rating will allow them. For each terrain hex you move
through movement points are deducted from your units movement rating.
Obviously more points are deducted for moving through a wood than along a
clear road. We've included some pointers in this manual as to how the
terrain affects each unit but it's up to the Commanders to quickly find out
what their units can and can't do. You must have enough movement points
left to enter the hex and won't be allowed to "move halfway". Movement
points cannot be stored or transferred to another unit or a later turn
although they are replenished at the beginning of each turn.

The mode display shows whether the cursor is in Scan mode or Movement mode.

In Scan mode the cursor can be moved freely over the entire map.

In Movement mode, moving the cursor also moves the highlighted unit as far
as permitted by it's movement rating.

The keys that are used to move the cursor and change modes are explained in
the key guide.

Make sure that you press the mode select key when you have moved a piece as
far as you want it to go otherwise when you move the cursor to select
another piece you'll move the existing piece if it has any movement points
left.

Hidden Movement

If you select hidden movement then you can only see the enemy units that
your units could see. So it's important to remember that rough, woods,
ruins and urban hexes will hide your units.

COMPUTER PLAYER

When the computer player is taking it's turn all movement and computer
combat is resolved automatically without any input from you. If the hidden
movement option is selected movement is only shown if it can be spotted by
one of your units. So early on, you'll see little of the computer's
activity, until perhaps, it's too late.

SAVING AND LOADING

At the end of each round you have the option to SAVE the game or LOAD in a
saved position.

If you select SAVE or LOAD you will be prompted for a filename and the game
continues once saving or loading is completed. Try not to use the filenames
SCEN1, SCEN2 or SCEN3 as they are reserved for the pre-set scenarios.

PRE-SET SCENARIOS

Three pre-set missions (nine in the disk version) are included in Firezone
and are explained fully, with hints and tips for both sides, in the Mission
Briefings section of this manual. A brief outline of each scenario is
included below.

1. First Blood

	Introductory game in which both sides have four Grav tank and four
heavy tank companies which start at opposite sides of the map.

2. Surprise Attack

	Three League Grav tank units attempt a hit and run raid against a
lightly defended coastal command post before the Combine forces call up
reinforcements.

3. Final Conflict

	A major battle for a heavily populated urban area that was started
by an attack by a Combine Grav force on the League city. Both sides quickly
call up heavier backup forces for a deciding battle.

4. Wastelands War	)     

5. Swamp Raid		)	We leave you to discover

6. Stalingrad II	)	the background to these

7. Jungle Firefight	)	scenarios.

8. Armoured Thrust	)

9. Infantry Assault	)
 
  
COMBAT

Each game turn contains two combat phases that follow each players movement
phase. However both players can attack in both combat phases.

During a combat phase the computer randomly selects a unit to fire next
which then is replaced on the map by a flashing cursor. This cursor can
then be moved anywhere within the firing units attack range onto any
visible target (one that isn't obstructed from view by rough, urban, ruins
or woods terrain hexes.

Once a target has been selected the computer will display any losses
inflicted and then display the next unit to fire.

If no target is possible a message will be displayed and the next firing
unit selected.

In the early turns there may be no combat at all.

When all combat has occurred the game continues with the next players
movement phase.

Combat examples

The following sequence of annotated screenshots show part of a Firezone
game and illustrate some examples of combat and basic tactics.

Another infantry unit takes heavy casualties.

The League Grav tanks then pursue the retreating heavy tanks.

The Grav tanks finish off the heavies, but another unit remains untouched.
The heavy tanks are killing 4 Grav tanks for every one they lose, and the
League player must now retreat, bring in reinforcements, or bypass the
Combine heavy tanks.

TACTICS

As you play Firezone more and more you will gradually build up your own
strategy and tactics. It will take you a few games to gauge the strengths
and weaknesses of the various units and terrain types so here are ten
tactic tips to get you started.

1. If this is the first wargame you have ever played then you should start
by reading this manual fully then follow what the computer players do in a
few demo games. Once you have a brief idea of what to do and the
capabilities of each unit type and the effects of the terrain, set up the
First blood scenario but without hidden movement.

2. Before you make a move scan the entire map and look for enemy units and
key terrain features such as blocks of woods or roads that lead over
bridges. If you get control of these and use the terrain to your advantage
by forcing your opponent to stay in the open while you lurk in cover, then
you should win the day.

3. Think before you launch an attach (that means think before you move) as
the computer selects the order of battle randomly your unit could be
destroyed before it's had a chance to fire a shot. A good General looks at
the battlefield and the units uses the strengths of his and exploits the
weaknesses of the enemies. You should try to do the same.

4. If you're playing a hidden movement game (and this is recommended) it's
often useful to send in a single Grav tank unit on a scouting raid as every
unit it spots will appear on the screen. You can then either retreat or
take cover. Now you know where some of the enemy locations are you can plan
your attack. A human player (who should look away or turn the screen away)
won't even know you've spotted his units.

5. If you think you've been spotted then quickly move away or swap some
units to provide a few surprises. For example, if you think an infantry
unit has been spotted add in a few tanks to surprise the force that will be
sent in to "take it out".

7. Use the terrain to your advantage, not only for defence but also to fire
at opponents that can't hit back. Nova guns can fire over any terrain and
striders can fire through woods.

8. Similarly, use the difference in ranges to have a "free shot" at an
opponent. They will be able to move into range on their turn but because
the combat order is random you may fire first and finish them off before
they get a shot.

9. Think before you move and fire, as a wrong move or a shot at the wrong
unit could cost you dearly.

10. Don't stack your units in enemy range as attacking units get a shot at
each unit in the stack. Conversely, if you see a stack, attack it.

MISSION BRIEFINGS

Firezone includes three pre-set scenarios (nine on disk) that each pose a
unique challenge. The next few pages contain your briefing for each
mission. Try to read the briefing for the side you've selected only (at
least for one game) as inside knowledge of what the enemy is trying to do
will confuse more than help you. In later games between two skilled
players, using the hidden movement option these briefings will represent
intelligence reports and add to the cat and mouse feel of the game.

FIRST BLOOD

Since both sides begin with the same units the same briefing applies to
both players.

League/Combine

Both you and the enemy begin this game with four Grav tank and four heavy
tank units. Your mission is to obliterate the enemy. That means get him
before he gets you.

If you're a beginner then use this mission to get to know the lay of the
land. See how quickly the Grav tanks can skim across the landscape and
gauge the relative defence afforded by the different types of terrain.

If you use you Grav tanks to attack the enemies heavy tanks try to attack
over a river as if the going gets tough you can get going back over the
river and the heavy tanks won't be able to follow.

Wherever possible try to attack with odds in your favor. Two or three
against one will have more chance of success.

In a hidden movement game you will have to be very careful as a scouting
mission that loses you a unit could put you at a disadvantage. You probably
will have devised your own tactics but I'd suggest you attack in packs.
Send your Grav tanks out, try and outflank the enemy and then follow up
with the heavy tanks.

Finally, be alert and be quick to respond to whatever your opponent does as
in an eight unit side game one mistake could cost you the battle.

SURPRISE ATTACK

European League

With three Grav tank regiments at your disposal you must attack a lightly
defended Combine coastal command post. You must move fast as the Combine
forces will call up reinforcements.

The Combine forces begin with infantry and nova guns but these will be
joined by heavy tanks and even striders.

Attack in packs and attack quickly. Take out the Nova guns first as their
constant assault will drain your forces.

Remember that you don't get any reinforcements so don't try anything silly.

Once you've taken care of the guns, weaken the infantry with ranged attacks
before finishing them off. Once that's done don;t take on the command post
instead wait in the hills near the Combine side of the screen for the
reinforcements to arrive and then swamp them before they can attack you.

If you think things are getting too hot then fall back and either ambush any
pursuing units (the striders will probably reach you first) or regroup for
another attack.

Finally, take out the command post. Good luck, with just Grav tanks you've
got to keep on the move and avoid any losses.

Pacific Combine

Your job is to defend the command post from an enemy attack. We expect the
League to attack with Grav tanks only so expect a fast moving onslaught.

We've radioed for reinforcements so if your Nova guns and infantry squads
can hold out, the expected heavy tanks and striders will smash the League
forces and win a great victory for the Combine.

The League will probably try and attack the Nova guns so protect them with
infantry squads or pull back around the command post so that it's guns can
join in the action.

When the reinforcements arrive hit the League hard. Use the striders to
weaken them and the heavy tanks to finish them off. Remember that striders
can blast a Grav tank even if it's retreating through woods.

When the Grav tanks retreat, tread carefully as an ambush may be set. Again
your striders are the key as even if a Grav tank runs when it's full move
the striders move and superior range will usually allow a free shot.

In a hidden movement game watch out for blind spots that could allow the
Grav tanks to get close to your Nova guns before you've blasted a few of
them.

FINAL CONFLICT

European League

Your mission is to defend a heavily populated urban area from a major
Combine attack. This is a crucial battle as a crushing defeat for the
Combine would help our Eastern Empire.

The attack will happen very quickly but will be led by a Grav tank force.
These must be repelled and destroyed with your initial force of infantry
and Nova guns. Fail in this task and the ensuing battle will be even
harder.

Your own Grav tank force will arrive in time to wipe up any remains  but is
needed to defend against the full force that is now approaching. Soon your
striders will appear which you should quickly move up to attack the enemies
striders along with your Grav tanks. If you get strider advantage the
battle should be yours.

The rest of the enemy forces consist of a few infantry regiments, heavy
tanks and even some Leviathans.

A determined attack by full strength infantry and tank regiments can
dislodge a Leviathan so don't give up. Soon your victorious striders will
join in the assault. Remove them and the game is over.

We don't expect anything to go wrong as only our best Commanders defend
cities such as this one.

Pacific Combine

Commander, armed with an initial strike force of Grav tanks followed by an
army of infantry, tanks, striders and Leviathans your task is to take the
city and the enemy command post. We do not expect you to fail.

Use the Grav tanks to weaken the enemy defenses ready for the main attack
but beware of oncoming reinforcements. You may elect for total annihilation
tactics or hit and run, the choice is yours. In a hidden movement game the
Grav tanks should also scout out the area and monitor enemy reinforcements.

You main force is led by a powerful combination of striders and
Leviathans. If you play it well this combination will be unstoppable. We
suggest you weaken any full strength enemy battalions as quickly as
possible as these could, with a lucky shot, take out a Leviathan.

The striders and remaining Grav tanks should take out the enemy striders
and then rout any remaining forces leaving the Leviathans with heavy tank
escort free to smash through to the command post.

				GAMEGEN

Gamegen is Firezone's game designer program that will help you to design
your own scenarios.

Gamegen must be loaded separately so follow the instructions on the loading
card. Once Gamegen has loaded you will be prompted by the message "Load
Which File?" and should answer either SCEN1, SCEN2 or SCEN3 for one of the
pre-set missions or the name you gave the file for a game you've already
created using the Gamegen program. Obviously, you shouldn't call your own
scenarios SCEN1, SCEN2 or SCEN3. Once that is loaded the game map will
appear and you're ready to begin.

Gamegen Controls.

Gamegen uses the following controls (which are selected from the menu and
summarized on the enclosed key card.

T - Changes the border color to green and pressing the following keys will
    set or alter the terrain of the selected hex.
	1 - Clear
	2 - Woods
	3 - Rough
	4 - Marsh
	5 - Water
	6 - Ruins
	7 - Urban

R - Turns the border red and set a road from the center of the hex through
    one of the six sides depending on the following keys.

              6              1
                     / \   
                   /     \
                 |         |
           5     |         |   2
                   \     /
              4      \ /     3

	Pressing a second number key will add another road.
	
	0 - removed all roads from the hex.

V - River set. Keys 1-6 place a river hex edge on the appropriate hex side.

	0 - removes all river sides from the hex.

K - Sets key variables.

	Opy - decides which player goes first (O is the
           Combine, 1 the League).

	Mu - Sets the maximum number of units, between 1 and
          52.

	Scen - indicates if one side is on a raid mission (1 is
            Combine raid, 2 a League raid and 3 by both
             sides).

U - Sets unit data through a list of options that can be altered to fully
    define each unit in the battle.

	1 - Company (0 = Co-A, 1 = Co-B, 2 = Co-C, 3 = Co-D).
	
	2 - Battalion (1-7 = Combine units, 8-13 = League units).
	
	3 - Unit type (0 = Infantry, 1 = Nova Gun, 2 = Strider, 3 = Grav
	    Tank, 4 = Heavy Tank, 5 = Com-base, 6 = Leviathan)
	
	4 - Side (0 = Combine, 1 = League).
	
	5 - Unit Strength (the number of each type in the unit, 1-15).
	
	6 - Range (1-4)
	
	7 - Attack Strength (1-15)
	
	8 - Defense Strength (1-15)
	
	9 - Movement Rating (0-15)
	
	A - Deployment Zone (0, 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 11 = map edges, 4, 5, 6,
	    7, 12, 13, 14, 15 = map interior).
	
	B - Deployment turn (0 = Start of game, otherwise game turn that
	    reinforcements appear).
	
	C - Clone (copies another units stats into the current unit record).
	
	P - (Sends all unit data to Printer)
	
	U - (Selects new unit)
	
	R - (Returns to Map set)

S - Saves game file once all map, key and unit data have been set.

Designing a Scenario

Designing a scenario from scratch can be a daunting task so it's usually
best to start by altering one of the existing scenarios by: - 

	1 - Changing the terrain
	2 - Altering the unit types
	3 - Changing the time units appear on the battlefield

Once you've altered the scenario either play it or set-up a demo game so
you can gauge the effects of your changes. After a few games you'll be
ready to design your own Firezone game.

The Plot.

This is the reason behind a battle and can range from a surprise attack on
a command post, a well laid ambush, a small skirmish between two patrolling
forces to a full scale set piece battle. As an example of how to use
Gamegen and it's flexibility we're going to build up a small scale skirmish
between two opposing infantry patrols inside a city.

The scale of the battle is therefore small and so the units will represent
single tanks and small groups of men and so we will exaggerate the terrain
to build up the edge of a city and the surrounding terrain. We will have to
cheat a little by outlining the buildings with river sides to stop the
tanks driving through buildings at will. This also shows the variety of
scenarios that you can build up with a little imagination.

Having decided on the plot the next stage is to build the map.

Map Making

We have included a sheet of hexagons that represent the full map area of a
scenario. Photocopy this and use it when designing your own scenarios. See
our example of a completed scenario map to get an example of how to do it.

As you can see from the completed scenario map we have built up buildings
from Urban hexes with clear and road hexes in between them. The river
hexsides aren't really there but aim to stop tanks from roaming through
buildings.

The north end of the city has been reduced to rubble and there are some
surrounding woods and rough ground however most of the action will take
place in the city. Once the map is completed save it to tape or disk.

Opposing Forces

The next stage in building a game is to add in the units that will fight
the ensuing battle.

In this scenario the units represent single tanks and single or small
groups of men.

The full list and their starting positions and ratings of the two patrols
are listed below with a brief description.

When assigning variables to unit types it is important to remember the
scale of the game and not to exaggerate the abilities of units. For
example, a squad of infantry in the full scale battle will rarely have an
attack value above 2 but in skirmish they may range between 2 and 7 to
illustrate the differences in training and weapons skill. In this scenario
the platoon Commanders are the best shots with the Sergeants a close
second.


Reinforcements

As in the pre-set scenarios both sides radio for reinforcements. However,
in a small scale skirmish patrols have to put up with what they're sent. To
simulate this and take away the obvious advantage the scenario designer has
over his opponent we have supplied six different sets of reinforcements and
the game turns and hexes they enter. Use these to create six different
scenarios called pat1, pat2 or pat6 using the same map and unit strengths
and save them to disk. When you want to play the game let your opponent
secretly load in one of the variations (or you could throw a dice to
decide). When you play the game you'll have a vague idea of what could
happen but with hidden movement you just won't be sure.

League Forces

Type		Attack		Range		Defense		Movement

Inf		7		4		6		4
Inf		5		3		5		4
Inf		4		3		4		3
Inf		3		3		4		3
Inf		2		2		4		4
Inf		2		2		4		4
Inf		2		3		4		4
Inf		2		3		4		4

Reinforcements

1.

Inf		3		3		3		3
Inf		4		3		2		4
Inf		2		4		4		4

2.

H.Tank		9		6		6		5
Inf		2		4		4		4

3.
Strider		10		5		6		6
Inf		 2		4		4		4

4.

As number 1

5.

As number 3

6.

No reinforcements

Combine Forces

Type		Attack		Range		Defense		Movement

Inf		6		4		7		4
Inf		5		4		4		4
Inf		2		2		4		4
Inf		2		2		4		2
H.Tank		10		6		5		6

Reinforcements

1.

H.Tank		10		6		4		3
H.Tank	 	9		5		5		4

2.

Inf		4		4		4		3
Inf		2		2		4		4
Inf		4		4		4		3
Inf		2		3		4		4

3.

Strider		10		5		6		6

4.

Inf		4		4		4		3
Inf		2		3		4		4
Strider		10		5		6		6

5.

As number 2

6.

No reinforcements

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================
