                   FIRESTAR DOC'S TYPED BY T.D.B. FROM LEGEND!

Loading:
Ensure your machine has been switched off for ten seconds, insert the write
protected game disc and switch on.

Controls:
This game can be played by either the standard mouse or with the Trojan
Phazer.
When the mouse is used the left button is equivalent to the trigger on the
Phazer.

Rookie:
It's your first day on space patrol, and you've been given control of the
latest "Firestar" space sector patrol craft.
Your task is to rid the spaaceways of all illegal/dangerous crafts that
invade Earth space.

Flying High:
To control your "firestar" craft you can select (i.e. fire at) the left and
right sides of the control console.
To turn the ship over, fire at the console scanner, to shoot at spacecraft
on the screen simply fire straight at them.
The scanner at the control console indicates your schip position and 
direction, and shows other craft as white, red, and green dots.
The scanner represnts an overhead view of your ship and the other crafts
horizontal distance from you.
The message screen above the scanner gives periodic game information to help
you.

Who's Who:
Travelling on the space highway are numerous crafts ranging from harmless to
extremely deadly, here is a rundown of the types.

Innocents:
Shown as white dots on the scanner these should be left alone as shooting
them will lose you points. 
If these ships travl safely through your sector you will gain 250 points.

Dngerous:
Shown as red dots, these should be shot as early as possible or they will
shoot you and deplete your shield.
Occasionally when shot one of these will drop it's jewelled cargo, shoot 
this to pick up and gain five credits of cargo.
Many ships are rugged and require multiple hits to kill, WIth the standard
laser.
if any dangerous ships sneak through the sector you will los 150 ponts and
your shield will be depleted.

Very Dangerous:
Shown as green dots, if shot will always leave a cargo jewel, shown as a
blue  dot.
There are 5 types of very dangerous craft which are:
 
  CRAWLER   - Very slow and hold up traffic. So blow them up.
  SPEEDER   - Very fast and difficult to catch.
  PIRATE    - Shoot early or it will destroy other crafts ans lose points
              and deplete your shield.
  CONFUSER  - It's special equipment will flip the red and white dots
              on the scanner.
  JAMMER    - Will totallt blank the scannerrr, until it's destroyed.
 
Upgrade:
At the  end of each level you can trade the credits you have collected
for ship upgrades or repairs to your shield in the workshop, shoot the
area whch contains what you want, if you do not have enough credits then
it will not be selected.
Extra Lazers mean that alien craft will need less hits to destroy.
Extra thrusters wil give you the speed to ctch faster craft.
Repairs ro your shield are essential to survive many later levels.

Stages:
As you are a rookie, you will be introduced to each alien type in turn, but
after this on regular highways service you will be exposed to all aliens
sinuktaneously.

Failure:
If your shield reaches zero then your patrol is over and you will return to
base, but if you have accumulated enough points you will be asked to record
your initials for for posterity.

Notes:
During the game press F1 to pause it and F2 ro carry on, F10 will exit from
the game.
Amiga workbench 1.2 owners with a second drive and no memory expansion will
have to disable the second drive before loading the game.

Returns:
If you find a fault within 28 days of purchase, please return it for a free
replaacement, Proff of purchase should be sent with any returns.

ALL RETURN TO :    FIRESTAR RETURNS
                   TROJAN PRODUCTS
                   UNIT 7
                   DAFEN PARK
                   LLANELLI
                   DYFED
                   SA14 8LX
                   UNITED KINGDOM


                                          Brought To You By LEGEND!

