                                FIRST CLASS
                                   WITH
                              THE SHOE PEOPLE
                                 FULL DOCS
                                 TYPED BY:
                            THE GOD THAT FAILED
                                  FOR LSD


GETTING STARTED.
----------------
1. Plug your mouse into port 1.
2. Turn on your computer and monitor.
3. Insert the game disk into the built in disk drive, or DF0. The game will
now load automatically. Follow the on screen loading prompts for further
instructions.

CONTROLS.
---------
We have tried to make this software as easy as possible to play. To do this
we have kept the controls to most of the activities to just three keys;

HIGHLIGHT key
-------------
This key allows you to highlight a particular option. Pressing this key will
will change the option that is currently highlighted.

SELECT key
----------
This key allows you to select the currently highlighted option, and thus
select the one you wish to access.

ESCAPE key
----------
This key usually takes you out of the game and back one step. This has the 
same function as P.C.Boot

COMPUTER          HIGHLIGHT          SELECT          ESCAPE
--------         -----------        --------        --------
 Amiga             Space             Return           Esc
--------------------------------------------------------------

Oh, and we nearly forget the P.C.Boot square. This is such an important thing
we will let P.C.Boot tell you all about it himself.

P.C. BOOT SQUARE
Evening all. 

I'm very pleased to see that you are playing our little game. On nearly every
game screen you'll see a little box with me inside it. No, I'm not in the
prison, I'm just waiting there to see if you want to highlight and then select
me. If you do, I know just what to do.

What! what do I do? You want to know? Oh alright then. I say to myself, these
people want to go back to where they came from. Where's that? Well I'm sure
I don't know if you don't. I mean it depends where you've just been. (We will
leave P.C. Boot there as he does carry on a bit. We are sure you understand
what we mean. If not, just select P.C. Boot a few times and you'll soon get 
the idea).

REWARDS
-------
Most activities have a reward sequence. This can act as an encouragement for
children to do well. Details of the rewards are given by Clever Clogs in his
message accompanying each activity.

THE ACTIVITIES
---------------
Note: In most instances when a child gives a wrong answer, the game will wait
for the Return or Escape key to be pressed before continuing. This is to allow
you to point out the correct answer, and to explain and discuss why the answer
was incorrect. This will obviously give the child a chance to understand, 
before going on to the next activity.

                              ACTIVITY ONE
                             --------------
                      TRAMPY VISITS HIS FRIENDS
                     ---------------------------
It is a lovely day. The sun is shining and everyone is feeling happy. Trampy 
wants to see his friends. He decides to pay them all a surprise visit.

However. Somebody in Shoe Town has been very careless. Lots of things that
should be in the shops have fallen off the back of a lorry (Honest P.C. Boot!)
and are lying in the middle of the road. 
Can Trampy recognise what he finds on the road? And wiil he know what to do 
with it? More importantly, will his friends be in when he reaches where they
live?.

A MESSAGE FROM CLEVER CLOGS FOR GROWN UPS
-----------------------------------------
The early levels of this game involve matching similar objects, and leads to 
the idea of matching a familiar object with its written name. Children will
then begin to read the words. Attention is then drawn to the opening of the 
words, so important in reading. Finally children are encouraged to spell the
word from memory. The reward in this exercise is as follows: If children do
well, they will find Trampy's friends are in when they get to them.

PLAYING `TRAMPY VISITS HIS FRIENDS'
-----------------------------------
First highlight, and then select who you would like Trampy to visit. The same
words are used throughout this game, and are later encountered as anagrams in
the Alphabet Robbery. The difficulty level increases as you go down the list,
and each exercise builds on what was learned in previous ones, so it is better
to work down the list in order, especially when playing for the first time.
The following list is in the order as presented on screen, along with the 
purpose of that activity.

THE ACTIVITIES
---------------
If you vist...           Then the child must...
---------------         ------------------------
Sergeant Major          Match the correct object.
Margot                  Find the similar object.
Wellington              Find the correct word.
Charlie                 Find the correct word from a list of words with
                        similar beginnings.
Sid Slipper             Find the correct word from a list of words with
                        similar endings.
Dr Merryweather         Match the first letter.
Morris Minor            Spell the word. (The correct spelling will be flashed 
                        on screen for a couple of seconds first.)
Marshal                 Spell the word.

                             ACTIVITY TWO
                            --------------
                       SGT. MAJOR SORTS IT OUT
                      -------------------------
Naughty Baby Bootee. He went into Sgt. Majors store and knocked everything off
the shelves. What a terrible mess!
Now he has got to help Sgt. Major sort everything out and put it back on the
correct shelf.

A MESSAGE FROM CLEVER CLOGS
----------------------------
The activities are designed to build confidence in recognising the properties
of objects, e.g. shape, colour and pattern, and then being able to put them
togrther in groups. The reward in this instance is that if children do well
they will help Sgt, Major raise a flag to the top of the flagpole.

PLAYING THE GAME
-----------------
First select and choose the level of difficulty, from easy or hard.
The difference between the two is that on the easy level, each of the shelves
will already have the first object on them. On hard, the shelves have to be 
allocated by the child. Once the difficulty level has been chosen, select the
exercise you want to attempt from the choice of Colours, Shapes, Coloured
shapes, and Patterns.

Baby Bootie will point to the object he wants placed back on a shelf. Pressing
the Select key will move Sergeant Majors baton to each of the shelves in turn.
The idea of this game is to try and sort all the objects back onto the shelves
correctly. That is all the help we are going to give you. Get sorting!

                             EXERCISE THREE
                            ----------------
                       THE GREAT ALPHABET ROBBERY
                      ----------------------------

Look out P.C. Boot! Sneaker has taken all the letters of the alphabet and is
trying to escape with them. Can you imagine what it will be like if he gets
away with it. No letters! No words! How will we manage? Quick P.C. Boot! You
can still catch him before he gets to the bridge, and rescue the alphabet for
Shoe Town.

 A MESSAGE FROM CLEVER CLOGS
-----------------------------
Children encounter capital letters (A,B,C, etc) and lower case letters (a,b,c,
etc) everywhere. They see them on television, on labels, in shop windows, on
road signs and in many other places. Realising that there are two different
ways of writing letters is an important part of learning how to read and write

Anagrams (sorting out jumbled letters to make a word) are fun, but they also
focus a childs attention on the letters which spell a word. If children do 
well, they will be rewarded by helping P.C. Boot stop Sneaker from making off
with the alphabet.

NOTE:
----- 
The words featured are those to be found in `Trampy visits his friends,' and
the child should be familiar with these words before beginning this exercise.
We are aware that there are other words that can be spelt from the letters,
but these will be marked `incorrect', as the aim of this exercise is for a
child to recognise words and letters he or she has already encountered in 
`The Shoe People'.

PLAYING THE GAME
-----------------
When the game begins, Sneaker will begin to run away with his swag bag full 
of Shoe Towns letters and words. But wait! Here comes P.C. Boot. Sneaker is
aiming to get over the bridge out of Shoe Town with the letters. Can you help
P.C. Boot to stop him? Each correct answer will take Charlie one step further
away from the bridge, but each incorrect answer will take him two steps closer
to the bridge. To begin the game, you choose the type of game you want to play
The menu will look like this:

              PLEASE SELECT THE TYPE OF GAME YOU WANT
                             TO PLAY


                      BIG AND SMALL LETTERS

                           SMALL WORDS

                          MEDIUM WORDS

                            BIG WORDS

BIG AND SMALL LETTERS
----------------------
Choose the correct letter from the panel at the bottom to match with the letter 
Sneaker takes out from his bag.

SMALL WORDS
------------
Naughty Sneaker has jumbled up all the letters of a word. If you think you can
unjumble the letters to make the correct word, press the keys of the letters to 
make the word in the bottom panel.

MEDIUM WORDS
-------------
As for small words, but obviously more difficult.

BIG WORDS
----------
The same as small words, only more difficult again.

NOTE:
------  This exercise can become difficult fairly quickly. The anagrams might
prove easier if your child has a pencil and paper to hand, and writes the 
relevant letters in a small circle.

                            ACTIVITY FOUR
                           ---------------
                     WELLINGTON GOES TO THE PARK
                    -----------------------------
What a wet and windy day. Wellington decides to get his warmest woolly hat on 
and go to the park to play with his friends.

Wellington notices a big, huge, puddle. Oh Wellington. You're not going to 
jump up and down in that and get yourself all muddy, are you? Even your new
woolly hat?

A MESSAGE FROM CLEVER CLOGS
----------------------------
Wellington recognises and adds numbers. Being able to do so is the basis
for much of arithmetic. Feeling confident with numbers through an activity
such as this will lead to your child wanting to explore numbers further at
school. If children do well, Wellington will have a great time and get
completely covered in mud.

PLAYING THE GAME
-----------------
First select the type of game you want to play from the following on screen
menu:

                     PLEASE SELECT THE TYPE OF GAME YOU WANT
                                    TO PLAY

                                    BLOCKS
                                
                                 MORE BLOCKS

                                 SINGLE DICE

                                 DOUBLE DICE
                                   
                                   NUMBERS

There will be five questions to be answered in each sequence. Firstly, a dice
or number will appear on one side of the see-saw, obviously causing it to tilt
to that side. Your child must now select the box at the bottom of the screen
which they think will balance the see-saw. If all five are worked out correct-
ly, Wellington will spend ages jumping up and down in the mud. If any answers
are incorrect, however, a cloud will appear and rinse poor Wellington clean.

                               ACTIVITY FIVE
                              ---------------
                             CHARLIES BIG DAY
                            ------------------
It is a holiday. Charlie has decided he will put on a show for everybody in
Shoe Town.

Come to my circus at two o' clock' he says. Oh dear. What a problem. Charlie
has forgotten how to do his tricks. Can you help him to remember so that he
can do his show?

A MESSAGE FROM CLEVER CLOGS
----------------------------
Being able to recognise and develop patterns is so important as one of the 
first steps in mathematics. After all, mathematics is all about patterns.
If children do well, Charlie will not get a pie in the face or a bucket of
water over his head. (Who would want to see that?)

PLAYING THE GAME
-----------------
When Charlie has loaded, a menu will offer a choice of easy tricks, Medium
tricks, and Hard tricks.

EASY TRICKS
------------
In the first exercise, Easy tricks, Charlie will perform a trick, and then
the child will be asked what trick Charlie did first. If the child gets it 
right, Charlie will do the same trick, but follow it with another. The child
must build up as large a sequence as possible.

MEDIUM TRICKS
--------------
The second exercise, Medium tricks, is similar to the first, except that 
tricks are generated randomly on each go thus making it a lot more difficult

HARD TRICKS
------------
In this exercise, the child must recognise, and then predict, a pattern.
The pattern is in the form of a sequence of tricks, followed by a bow.
Charlie will perform the set sequences of tricks twice, taking a bow at the
end of each, and then beginning the third. The child will be asked what trick
completes the sequence. If the child gets it right, then every other turn,
another trick will be added to the sequence. It might follow this sequence,
for example:

Rabbit from hat: Fire gun: Juggle: Spin plate: Bow.

Rabbit from hat: Fire gun: Juggle: Spin plate: Bow.

Rabbit from hat: Fire gun.... What next?

Just watch carefully what Charlie does and see if you can help him remember
his tricks.

MARGOT'S MAGIC COLOURING BOOK
------------------------------
Good old Margot. She is always happy to get out her lovely paints and colour-
ing books and let the children in Shoe Town have fun. You can colour pictures
of your favourite friends in Shoe Town, or have fun making your own pictures.

A MESSAGE FROM CLEVER CLOGS
----------------------------
Playing with Margot enables children to experiment with the use of different
colours to produce different effects. By playing this activity with the child
you can talk about the names of colours and why the child chooses to use them
in different ways. Children can colour and make there own pictures. They can
also save them so that they can show them to people at a later time.

PLAYING THE GAME
-----------------
NOTE: Due to the limitations of the various computers, there are some differ-
ences between the different versions of Margot's Magic Colouring Book. You
should make sure you read the version of instructions appropriate to your own
computer.

AMIGA
-----
SPECIAL NOTE: On this activity, the mouse is used to carry out every action.
For younger children with smaller hands, there is also a keyboard option. The
cluster of direction keys to the right of the main keyboard, and the return
key,are used instead. The direction keys move the cursor around, and the 
`Return' key must be held down to draw. When you first load up Margot, you
will be offered the following options.

CREATE A PICTURE
----------------
Starting from scratch you want to colour a picture or you want to draw a 
picture which you can then colour.

SAVE A PICTURE
---------------
You want to save a picture you have drawn or coloured. All pictures are saved
onto a picture disk, which you will create later.

LOAD A PICTURE
---------------
You want to load a picture that you have previously saved onto the picture
disk.

PRINT A PICTURE
----------------
You want to print the picture for which you obviously need a printer. This
option allows the built in pictures to be printed for colouring with pencils,
pens or paint, or will print a created picture. 

NOTE: On a created picture, all lines will be printed as black.

In more detail:

CREATE A PICTURE
-----------------
This will take you to the art package. The first thing you will see is one of
the pre-drawn pictures, with a row of colours underneath, and a column of 
icons to the right. To use the icons on the right of the screen you must first
select them. This is done by moving the pointer over the box and then select-
ing it by pressing the mouse button or return key. the two arrows should then
be next to the box you have chosen. When selected, each box has the following
function:

DRAW
-----
Moving the pointer over the draw box and pressing the mouse button will vary
the thickness of the pencil, and thus the width of the line you draw on the
screen. If you chose draw, when you move the mouse over the drawing screen,
it will change to a pencil.

Moving the pointer over the palette at the bottom of the screen, and pressing
the mouse button, will select the colour of the line you draw. The default
pencil colour is always black.

PAINT
------
Moving the pointer to the screen and pressing the mouse button will paint the
area of the picture you have chosen. So, if you had previously drawn a circle,
and then chose paint and moved the paintbrush into the middle of the circle
and pressed the mouse button, it would fill the circle with paint.

NEW PICTURE
------------
This allows you to choose pictures to colour or a blank screen. Keep clicking
the mouse button to cycle through the different pictures available.

WIPE
-----
This will wipe the screen clear of any drawing and painting you have added.
For this option, you will need to first click the mouse button to select it,
and then press the button again to chose it. This two step method makes it
less easy to accidentally wipe a picture.

SAVE A PICTURE
---------------
NOTE: The first time you use this option, you will need to create a picture
disk. This is done by attempting to save a picture. When you do this you will
be requested to insert a picture disk. To create a disk, simply insert a 
BLANK DISK at this point, and the computer will do the rest.

When you save a picture, the last picture you were working on will be saved to
the special picture disk. If, for example, you had created your own picture,
and then quit by pressing Escape and then chose the `Save a Picture' option,
that picture is the one that would be saved.

If this option is chosen, you will be prompted to put the picture disk in the
default drive if it is not already in, and press Return. Once this is done you
will be presented with a screen containing twenty squares, one of which is
occupied by P.C. Boot. Asis usual, this is the exit square. The other nineteen
squares are available to you to save pictures into. If a window is blank, this
means that it is available to save a picyure to. If a window already has a 
picture in it, it will contain a number. You can, of course, save over a pic-
ture that is already on the picture disk, but this will erase the picture that
has been saved previously.

LOAD A PICTURE
---------------
Again, choosing this option will first prompt you to insert the picture disk
if it is not already in the drive. Once done, you will be shown the matrix of
twenty windows. Any that have a picture saved into them will contain a number.
To load a picture, click on the particular window, and this picture will then
be loaded into memory. You will automatically exit once the picture has loaded.

PRINT A PICTURE
----------------
This option will only work if you have an IBM compatible printer linked up 
to your computer. Fortunately, around ninety percent of printers are IBM
compatible. Printing a picture will do one of two things, depending upon
what you were last drawing. If you were drawing a picture, then that picture 
will be printed. Every pen mark, regardless of what colour it is on the 
computer screen, will be printed as black.

If you were colouring one of the pre-defined pictures, then that picture 
will be printed. No fills will be printed, and the result will be a copy of
the original illustration to be coloured in with felt pens or crayons.

APPENDIX: THE WORD LIST
------------------------
The following words are the words first encountered in `Trampy', and later
in `Alphabet Robbery'.

     Apple        Banana        Ball        Bag        bed        

     Beans        Bowl          Bread       Brush      Car
 
     Cat          Chair         Chips       Coat       Comb        Cow

     Crisps       Cup           Dog         Doll       Duck        Fish

     Fork         Glove         Grapes      Hat        Jumper      Kite

     Knife        Lemon         Melon       Pear       Pencil      Pen

     Plate        Rubber        Ruler       Sheep      Ship        Shoe

     Sock         Spoon         Sweet       Table      Towel       Train

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                   END