 FULL ENGLISH DOCS FOR FLASHBACK
 -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

                                 SCENARIO

 The year 2142, Conrad Hart, agent with the Galaxia Bureau of Investigation
 was in great danger.  "Got to keep one step ahead of them, if i don't, I'm
 a Hamburger!"
 Hugging the shop fronts, collar turned up, he was making his way back to 
 his apartment.  "I must try to contact Sonya, wherever she is, and get to
 headquarters, it's the only safe place."
 While field testing his latest piece of equipment, the Molecular Density 
 Analyser, Conrad and his girlfreind Sonya made a startling discovery.
 Certain individuals had a molecular density so high, the only conclusion
 could be that they weren't human!  Since then, Sonya had mysteriously 
 disappeared, leaving him as the only one who could warn the authorities.
 "They'd better believe me..."  Still, if they don't, the visual record of 
 my discovery can be extracted from my fucked memory patterns within this 
 holocube I'm carrying.  "They've got to believe that!" Reaching his 
 apartment block, movement from the top of the building opposite caught his
 eye.  As he turned around to get a better look, a pulse of laser light 
 caught him square in the center of his back, sending him sprawling across 
 the sidewalk.  Almost immediately, the silence was broken by a whining roar.
 A sleek shuttle hovered over head.  It's landing thrusters blew clouds of
 water vapor and trash into the air all around as it sat beside him.  Two
 dark suited figures got out with there eyes scanning the surrounding build-
 ings, quickly approached an unconscious Conrad.
 "Get him into the shuttle fast!" rasped one of his captors, "I'll contact
 Central Command."
 he brought a walkie talkie upto his mouth.
 "Number Seven here.  Subject acquired, we're bringing him in."

 Semi-conscious and totally stoned, the only thing conrad could do was listen
 to the voices of his kidnaper coming from the front of the shuttle.
 "I don't see why they bother with all that memory erasure business.  "Came a 
 voice."  Why don't they just have us kill him and be done with it?"
 After a short pause another voice responded.
 "Insurance...We'll place one of our agents in his job with orders to gather
 as much information as possible.  If for any reason, the operative is 
 threatened with discovery, we can extract him and send this one back minus
 his memory.  Everyone will think he's gone ga- ga...leaving us undiscov-
 ered."
 "Ah...I see, but where..."
 Suddenly a third voice blasted over their conversation.


 "SHUTTLE HQ782, THIS IS TITAN FLIGHT CONTROL, STAND BY TO RECEIVE RE-ENTRY-
 COORDINATES."

 "TITAN!!" The though almost burst out of Conrad's skull.  "I know I've been
 out for a while but not for that long!...."
 Squirming, fighting against his bonds, he could feel that little strength 
 he had left slowly slipping away.
 "Got to remember to escape, escape, escape, escape, esc....."
 The shock of this position was too much for Conrad, a wave of unconscious-
 ness swept over him.

 Light, blinding light.  Conrad staggered to his feet.  Grazes and cuts on 
 his wrists and ankles burned painfully.

 "Can't remember..., where am i...., who am i...., what's going on?".
 Before conrad realized what he was doing, he was running down a long corri-
 dor gun in hand.
 "Got to getaway!" the though kept repeating it over and over in his head.
 Alarms suddenly broke the silence.

 "ATTENTION, ATTENTION... DANGEROUS PATIENT ATTEMPTING TO ESCAPE... SECURE -
 ALL EXITS... SECURITY TEAMS TO LEVEL 3..........ATTEN"

 Conrad stopped dead in his tracks.  Confused and scared, not knowing which 
 way to turn he stood transfixed.

 PTOOOM!!!

 A laser blast striking the wall nearby shook him back to reality.  Two
 guards were closing in on him.  "This is security Team 2, patient near 
 entrance to main hanger area.  Close security door, level 3."
 With no time to think, Conrad hurled himself through the closing doorway.
 Scrambling to his feet, he spotted a Hover Bike.
 "Open the door! Open the door!" Both guards yelled into their intercoms,
 watching Conrad climb aboard the Bike.
 "Stand back!" Three blasts of one guards laser gun and a shoulder charge 
 from both of them shattered the door.
 Conrad hade all ready cleared the hanger by the time the guards had bought
 their guns to bear.  A frustrated guard called in the news.
 "The patient has escaped on a stolen Hover Bike, continuing to pursue in a
 shuttle."

 Skipping the tree tops, the shuttle and the Hover bike were locked in an 
 aerobatic cat and mouse game.  The more agile hover bike ducking and 
 dodging laser blasts from the larger, slightly faster, shuttle that was
 slowly closing in.
 "5 more seconds and I've got him!" The determined guard muttered as he 
 began to match Conrad's manoeuvres with the targeting cross-hair on his
 heads-up-display.

 Two pulses narrowly missed but the third one hit it's target.  A plume of 
 sparks and white hot gas exploded out of the back of the bike marking the 
 end of Conrad's bid for freedom.  Rocking violently the bike spiralled 
 downward out of control.  Conrad plunged through the jungle canopy and with
 the ground rushing towards him, blacked out.  The shuttle circled over the
 crash sight once.  Satisfied that there was nothing left to salvage, the
 smug guards returned to their base.  Unknown to them, Conrad was still 
 alive lying in the undergrowth.

 As the sound of the shuttles engines died away into the distance, Conrad
 stirred.  Moving this arm to try to get to his feet he knocked what looked
 to him like a small plastic box over a ledge.  Standing up he walked over 
 to the ledge and looked around.  Vegetation covered everything, huge trees
 draped in vines, rocks and boulders over grown with mosses and grass.  He 
 could clearly see the box about 10 metres below, a red light on the side of
 it blinking steadily.  "Might as well go fetch it."  Conrad thought.  "I
 suppose it could contain something useful."

 He thought he was safe now.  However, we know different and it's up to you 
 to make Conrad gets to know too...

                                BACKGROUND 

 Throughout the 20th century, an unprecedented political and economic crisis
 afflicted Earth, leading to the systematic disabling of it's programme to 
 conquer outer space through lack of funding.  The highest priority now was
 to carryout research into new energy sources, preservation of the enviro-
 ment and maintenance of the cultural heritage.  However, at the dawn of the
 21st century, provision of considerable funds from an unknown source released
 by the politicians of the new, unified government, permitted a return to 
 the space research programme.  
          The conquest began gradually with the construction of huge, manned     
 artificial satellites.  Several lunar bases were created with the view to 
 becoming future Earth colonies within the solar system.  The considerable 
 advancements made together with the supply of increasingly greater sums of
 money allowed man to explore, even as far as the planet Titan.

                                   TITAN

 Saturn is orbited by a large planet that is permanently obscured by the dense
 atmosphere surrounding it: Titan.  This planet, between Mercury and Mars in
 diameter, is the only one, along with Earth, whose atmosphere is mainly made
 up of nitrogen.  With its density of just 1.9, Titan's composition has to 
 be half rock and half ice.  Titan's atmosphere, almost 90% nitrogen, about 
 10% methane and traces of hydrocarbons, is very dense, and the sky is 
 probably never visible from the ground.  The average temperature is about -
 180 degrees.
          Under such conditions, you can imagine Titan as being a world that
 is forever plunged into a kind of pale twilight, veiled by thick fog and 
 lashed by methane rains.  The dull, monotonous brownish landscapes are 
 perhaps the most desolate in the entire solar system.

 In order to exploit Titan, the inhabitants built gigantic domes the size of
 towns, beneath which life went on at two different levels.  On the upper
 level, a huge artificial jungle was created to supply oxygen.

 Oxygen produced by this vegetation is conveyed to the heart of the City,
 situated on the lower level, via an extremely elaborate ventilation system.
 The underground city (N.W.) can be reached through shafts located in the 
 jungle.

 The capital of Titan, New Washington, is a pleasant town where job prospects
 within the mines ensure a promising future to those willing to seize the 
 opportunity.  For this reason, a large number of Interstellar companies
 vigorously compete to other numerous benefits to the future pioneers of the
 new colony, Including Earth-Titan tickets at very reasonable prices, the 
 chance of frequent trips back to Earth, all matters taken care of on 
 arrival...  In short, an ideal world!

                             UTOPIA BAR      

 "Cheers!" a word frequently on the lips of the thirsty clients frequenting
 the Utopia bar.  What could be more natural, after all, we have come to one 
 of Earth's best ambassadors, here on Titan.

 Wine and Beer, brought over in special ships, flow freely and conversation 
 becomes quite lively, but always good-natured.

 Open 24 hours a day.  You will find a welcome warm enough to make you 
 forget the worries of city life!

 Address:1023 Oscar Wilson Avenue(A.M District)
                Underground: America, HP PHONE: AME-648X
   
                              A LUCKY WINNER 

 The drawer for " A contract for Titan" has just been taken place in the Tokyo
 Skate-ball stadium, and Mr Firbank was awarded the prize of a work contract
 on Saturn's satellite planet.
 "How do you feel, Mr Firbank, knowing that you have been chosen to leave
 for Titan?"
 "I'm very happy at the though of finding myself on this prestigious plant, 
 and I want to thank once again, the Interstellar Mining Company, as well as
 the Interplanetry Travel Company."
 "Do you know what to expect over there, or up there, if you like?"
 "Yes, I have a vague idea from the information i was able to gather before
 taking part in the contest, but i prefer not to know everything so as to 
 get a surprise once i arrive on Titan."
 "Well, Mr Firbank, allow me to present you with your Earth to Titan ticket
 together with the programme of activities which are available in  
 New-Washington.  Mr Firbank, congratulations once again, have a good trip,
 and good luck."
 "Thank you, thank you, see you soon."

                    PROGRAMME OF ACTIVITIES ON TITAN   

 Mr Firbank, you have just won a trip to the planet Titan, enabling you to
 discover the wonders of it's capital (New Washington) as well as the 
 possibilities of work on offer by the Interstellar Mining Company.  First
 of all, on your arrival, you will be taken to the luxurious hotel
 "Planetarium" close to the museum of Ancient Art.  With spacious rooms, a
 business center, a superb outdoor swimming pool and gym, the hotel puts a 
 free shuttle service at the disposal of it's clientele, allowing you to 
 visit all the districts of New Washington.

 You will be able to move around easily thanx to the Optional Measured 
 Reaction Shuttles, which serve the places of interest in the city and stop
 when you wish.
       It is certain, Mr Firbank, that thanx to the Interstellar Mining
 Company, you will also have the benefit of a placement of your Choice
 within one of our prestigious mines.  Don't worry, we haven't forgotten 
 you.  One of our most able members of staff will come to take you out of 
 the pleasant reality of your comfortable surroundings.

 Because, and don't ever forget this, you are on New Washington in order to 
 work.  So you will be accompanied to your future work place, where all 
 career opportunities are open to you.  It's all upto you now!

                        OPENING OF THE SPACEPORT  

 The opening ceremony of the new SPACEPORT took place yesterday, on 2 April, 
 in an atmosphere that was both dignified and good natured.

 Monsieur Antoine Lubeche said on this occasion:  "It's a great day for our
 city and for that matter for the future of Titan, which will now be able to
 maintain co-dial and permanent commercial relations with the planets in our
 solar system".
    Accompanied by First Governor Dunfee and all the directors, the President
 of C.O.  used a laser to cut the three dimensional cord of the single 
 landing strip, allowing the space shuttle to make it's first orbital flight.

                             PHYSICIST HONORED

 At the invitation of the Governor of our city, EDWARD VAN RIZOTTO, the re-
 owned earth scientist, arrived this morning.  A large security operation 
 was mounted for the occasion.  The inspired inventor of transitional scanning
 teletravel, whose efforts, despite some unfortunate destination errors, 
 permitted the transport of prisoners to the moon without the use of space
 shuttles, was received with all honor due his rank.  After a brilliant 
 rendering of the "Patriots anthem", the visit was followed by the opening 
 of a museum dedicated to the first settlers to arrive on Titan.  The 
 scientist will be staying at the governors palace during his brief one week 
 stay with us, before returning to earth where top secret projects await 
 him.

                      BLOODY RIOTS IN NEW WASHINGTON

 Several dozen mutants from the forbidden zone rebelled on Wednesday 29th 
 March, following an overdose of sap from the artificial jungle on the upper
 level. Initially indulging in limited actions of vandalism (breaking windows
 setting fire to autospaces, and generally causing havoc), the revolt degen-
 erated into attacks on the population and surrounding districts. A special
 commando group, led by the ex-space mission leader, Arthur Macfly, was set 
 up. Their mission, to eliminate the overflow of mutants by any available 
 means.
 
 The city's security services continue to recruit in order to deal with any
 similar future occurrences.
      For more information, contact the security department in your area,
 or ring holophone number EUR-103H
     The Nicofighters brigade was put in control of the investigation into
 sap trafficking. To be continued.

                             MINING DISASTER  

 The final death toll in the mining disaster in the Western zone stands at
 three. On the 30th March last, at about 2100 hours, the fifth level of mine
 B7 collapsed in a single block on top of the workers, even though they were
 equipped with protective equipment. According to survivors, the majority of
 the victims' shields had not worked. "This accident was caused by defective
 material, not human error" the supervisor of MB7 stated. In order to avoid 
 another accident of this type the mine has temporarily closed down, to allow
 a complete review of its protective shields and to rearrange the mines fifth
 level.  The investigation continues.

                         TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 

        MOTOR:
        Cylinders:                                               8
        Valves                                                  32
        Ionic Injection                                         
        Powered by integrated visualization

        Capacity                                           4893cm3
        Max Power(HPDIN)                      300hp at 40500 TR:/M
 
        SIZE:
        Length and Width HT:                          2.055m/0.885m                         
        Weight                                                203Kg

        PERFORMANCE:
        Top speed(m/s)                                          345
        Price:                                        50980/Credits
  
 Streamlined and aggressive, the B.M. ZAKI 5000 leaves you in no doubt as to 
 its strength of character as an ultra fast vehicle.  A powerful motor 
 fitted with the latest anti-jet system will easily allow you to exceed
 speeds approaching mach 1.  This machine is afraid of nothing and no-one.

                            WORK BRINGS FREEDOM
 
 In the beginning, this phenomenon worried hardly anyone. But the evidence is
 there; recruitment to high risk jobs has fallen markedly over the last few
 months. Many areas of work are affected by this crisis, such as station
 engineers, dome scrapers, bounty hunters, body guards, messengers, mutant 
 killers....
 With a view to revitalizing the job market, recruitment personnel are now
 offering candidates absolutely unbeatable salaries.
 If you like dicing with death, are in good shape physically and money is
 your driving force, there's a job for you! Get in touch immediately with 
 the Special Unit for High Risk jobs (SUHRJ) on AFR-598.

                                  ECONOMY

 During the months of March and April, sap production from the artificial
 jungle fell by 10%. No cause for alarm was recorded. Morale continues to be
 high amongst the workers in the upper level.

                              MEDICAL COLUMN
 
 A team of multi-planetary researchers, led by Doctor Sybille Burmock, 
 Published a paper in the latest issue of "Arti-Jungle", the Titan weekly, 
 dealing with the appearance of a new and fearful illness which could be the
 disease of our time: Craniaflab.  
  The first symptoms of this illness are, which affects people of all ages,
 are physical (lost of nails, softening of the skull, loss of teeth) and 
 psychological (acute paranoia, sudden loss of memory are a tendency towards
 murderous hysteria).  More than fifty people showing symptoms of the dis-
 ease have been hospitalized in the intensive care unit at the Multimedical
 Center (Asia district).  It should be noted that some of them, mostly 
 natives of the American district, have now been undergoing treatment there
 for over 8 months, with no visible sign of improvement.

  Following long and costly research, a chemical compound has been isolated, 
 mainly based on mercuriolate of iodised tetraxyne, which seems to show 
 evidence of having a real effect against this disease.  This substance 
 recently discovered from a carnavours plant (orchis aciarrum (fucken
 latin)), is not easy to obtain, since this plant only grows in the forest
 reaches of the artificial jungle.  
  Groups are now being trained, specializing in the gathering of these half-
 vegetable, half-metal specimines upon which scientists are pinning so much 
 hope.

                               UTOPIA AGAIN!

 A minor dispute occurred in utopia yesterday evening at about 11pm (Titan
 time).  Two minors attacked a barman who refused to serve them, as they were
 already drunk.  The security services of the famous establishment have no 
 difficulty in restraining the two hot heads, ejecting one and warning the 
 other.  Everything returned  to normal after this, and the evening ended 
 happily.

                                ENVIRONMENT:

 During a school visit to the artificial jungle two new animal species have
 been discovered.  At the same time a strange new plant, unknown upto that 
 point was also found.  A group of researchers has been assigned to study
 these interesting phenomena.
  These half-organic, half-metallic creatures live in the same macrocosm.
 The complex makeup allows them to adapt perfectly to the harsh surround-
 ings of the artificial jungle.
  There is nonetheless, cause for concern, if the words of Professor 
 Marcouze are to be believed: "In fact, if we humans have created this arti-
 ficial jungle in order to produce the oxygen we need to survive, it is not
 impossible that species have been created by this same jungle.  All the 
 same, let us hope that these organo-metallic lifeforms do not harm the over-
 all balance of the artificial vegetation.

                          FOREIGN NEWS (EPA)    

 According to the Earth Press Agency, the lunar penitentiary has recorded a
 rise in violence over the past few days. It began when certain detainees
 refused to return to their sterile bubble, saying that there was a lack of
 protozamine is the freeze-dried food. Negotiations were aborted, leading 
 to wide spread rebellion. The taking of several luno-maton hostages led to a
 swift reaction by the security forces. The final toll stands at 25 dead, 
 5 injured, 1, a guard seriously, and many moved to high security district.
    The unified government order that a detailed enquiry be carried out to 
 determine what happened.

                   NEWS FROM EARTH IN BRIEF 1 APRIL 2142
 
 The warming of the ice cap has resulted in a tidal wave of unprecedented
 proportions of the coast of Mexico. Many lives have been lost.

        *--------------------------------------------------------*

 Century celebration of the unification of the Earth Confederation are well 
 under way. Planetary preparations are unfolding in an atmosphere of good will
 
        *--------------------------------------------------------*
 
 The Nobel prize for applied holo-cybernetics has been awarded to the Gennes
 Charpark VI a.l. generation of androbots.

        *--------------------------------------------------------*

 The underwater of Erabu III has been opened of the coast of Dover. This new
 underwater city could soon be used to house the survivors of the Mexican 
 disaster.

        *--------------------------------------------------------*

 The rolling asteroids interplanetary tour is due to reach Titan towards the 
 end of June this year.  Reservations  for the legendary Earth group may be 
 made at any of the box offices of the Delphine Corporation (or so we hear!)


                       AT LAST, FREELY AVAILABLE...

 The new micronized molecular fusion pistol is now on sale near you at best 
 armourers in New Washington.  You will be surprised by it's manoeuvrability,
 lightness, range and in particular its super quick re-charging capacity, 
 making this thew pistol for today which will still hold its own for tomorrow.

 Technical Specifications:
 
        Weight: 1500g
        Range: 850m
        Penetration coefficient: 1.6cm
        Magazine: Platinum fibers
        Type of projectile: variable according to circumstances
        Price: 1750credits

                               CULTURAL INFO

                                Cinema:   

 During the 22nd 2D Sci-Fi festival, presided over this year by Jurgen Lucas,
 we will again have an  opportunity to see four now immortal works of art on
 "Titax" screens: Star Wars, Blade Runner, Star trek, E.T, and the unforget-
 able Aliens Trilogy, films which had a considerable impact in the 20th 
 century.

                                 Museums:

 Georges-Clinton Center: Art revitalizes the city. Urban life and 
                         contemporary art.
          Address:303, BA-92 Street. Metro: Asia.
 Xenon Gallery:National library discount center.
          Address:R4, KT1-69 Street. Metro: Europa.
 National Gallery of Arcade Games:The Martians and Europe.
                                  Every day except Sundays.
                                  Admission: 10 credits.

                   
                   HOLOSCOPE: TODAY'S SIGN: SAGITTORPIO

 With your enhanced natural charisma, free of regrets, you expect a lot of 
 the present and the future. People under your sign do not cling to the past,
 with good reason. Calm your impatience. Save energy. You will surprise those 
 around you with your speed in safeguarding your interests or those of your
 loved ones. Your quest for perfection often makes you intransigent. On the 
 other hand your directness, so pleasing and sexy in love matters, will help
 break down barriers and give your passions free reign!

                     T.T.V PROGRAMMES for 07.05.2142

 19:00  NEWS
 19:30  NEWS FROM EARTH
 20:00  Final Part Of "DEATH TOWER"
        This is the last showing of the famous game, in which contestants 
        risk their lives to win a return trip to Earth.
 22:00  REGIONAL VARIATIONS
 06:00  END OF IMAGE BANK ACCESS

                         LOADING INSTRUCTIONS    

 RUNNING FROM FLOPPY DISK:  When the computer is switched off, insert 
 Flashback disk1, and then turn the computer on. After a few seconds the
 program will start running automatically.

 It will be necessary to change disks during the running of Flashback,
 please follow the on-screen prompts.

 INSTALLATION TO HARD DISK:  From the CLI prompt, create a folder in which
 to place the game, by typing:
    MAKEDIR DH0:FLASHBACK
 Now insert Flashback Disk 1 into drive DF0: and copy all the files into the 
 Flashback folder by typing:
    COPY DF0: DH0:FLASHBACK ALL
 Repeat this above procedure for the remaining disks.

 NOTE: In the above example the hard disk has been called DH0:, It may be
 that your hard disk has a different name (e.g.WORk:), if this is the case,
 substitute DH0: with the name of your hard disk in all commands.

 RUNNING FROM HARD DRIVE: From the CLI prompt, type in the following:
    CD DH0:FLASHBACK
    END RUN FLASHBACK
 In a few seconds the program will start running automatically.
 
 MEMORY DIFFICULTIES: Flashback will only run on computers with at least 1Mb
 of memory. Certain systems(Amiga 600 for example) have operating systems that
 take up a lot of memory< leaving little room for any program.
 
 If you come across this problem, disconnect any peripherals: external drives,
 printer, hard disk, etc.
 
 AMIGA 600/1200 owners should press both mouse buttons simultaneously at the 
 start up, to recover memory. From the menu displayed select"Advanced Options"
 then deactivate all peripherals, except drive DF0:, by clicking on the buttons
 marked"ENABLED'.

 -If the game will not start:
 the memory may be fragmented: Switch off and restart the game.
 -If the game starts up correctly but hangs:
 Try disconnecting all your peripherals (external drive, printer, etc...)
 
                                 CONTROLS

 Flashback can be controlled by using the keyboard, single button joystick or
 a Mega Drive control pad.
 
 The Keyboard controls are as follows
 
       CURSOR UP----UP
       CURSOR DOWN--DOWN
       CURSOR LEFT--LEFT
       CURSOR RIGHT-RIGHT

 These controls are used for:
 -Moving the Conrad during the game.
 -Selecting an object from the inventory.
 -Moving the cursor through the menus.
 
 SHIFT-ACTION Button, used to run, jump, pick up an object, etc.
 ENTER-USE Button, used for selecting an object from the inventory.
 SPACE-ARM Button, used for drawing and holstering the gun.
 F1-INVENTORY
 ESC-Cut short animation sequences.
 SHIFT+ENTER+SPACE+F1-Quit to main menu.
 F10-Show full screen.
 F9-Zoom x2.
 F8-Zoom x4 (in zoom mode the window can be moved in any direction by using 
             the mouse).
 CTRL and G-Switch automatic zoom on/off. The default is off.
 CTRL and C-Switch in game cinematic sequences on/off. If Flashback is running 
            from floppy disk then the default is off the default is on when 
            running from hard disk.


 USING JOYSTICK
 
 Single Button Joystick:
 Select joystick from the options menu or, while in the game, by pressing the
 keys:   
 CTRL and 1.
 Button acts as the ACTION Button during the game.
 
 Double Click Single Button Joystick:
 Select joystick from the option menu or, while in the game, by pressing:
 CTRL and 2.
 Button acts as the ACTION Button. Pressing the button twice in quick 
 succession acts as the ARM Button, (draws the pistol or puts it back in its
 holster). ENTER on the keyboard acts as the USE Button.

 Two Button Joystick (unmodified Mega Drive type): 
 Select joystick from the options menu or, while in the game, by pressing:
 CTRL and 3.
 Button B acts as the ACTION Button. 
 Button C acts as the Arm Button.
 ENTER on the keyboard acts as the USE Button.
 
 CHANGES: Please refer to the READ-ME file on disk one, for any additional
 information.
 
                          YOUR QUEST STARTS HERE 

 You play the part of Conrad Hart, controlling his every move through the 6
 levels of the game. During your quest, you will come across many different
 friends and foes whom you may wish to help or vanquish using your gun. you
 will have to complete many challenges in order to restore your lost memory.
 Each level features its own unique graphics and hazards, linked by
 cinematic animation sequences.

 GETTING STARTED
 
 After the title screen is displayed, an animation sequence explaining the
 story so far is displayed. If you have seen this sequence before, you may
 press the ACTION Button to jump to the main menu.

 MAIN MENU
 
 To select an option, use UP/DOWN, and press the ACTION Button to select it.
 -START: Start a new game.
 -PASSWORD: Allows you to enter a Password, and re-start the game from the 
 beginning of the level that Password corresponds to. It will also restore
 the difficulty level. The password for level 1-normal difficulty is WIND.
 This is the same as starting the game using the START option. To enter the
 Password, type it in using the keyboard. If the password is incorrect, you
 will return to the main menu. At the start of each level, a new password 
 will be displayed in the center at the top of the screen. MAKE A NOTE OF IT.
 -OPTIONS: To select an option, use UP/DOWN to move the highlight, and press
 LEFT/RIGHT to change the setting. The options are as follows:
    Level: Allows you to choose the game difficulty (easy, normal or expert)
    Joystick type: Allows you to select the joystick type (3 possible Choices)
    Sound Test: Allows you to hear the game music, press the ACTION Button to
                listen to the selected track.
    Exit: Return to main menu.
 
 PLAYING THE GAME
 
 On the screen you will see Conrad, his movements are varied and some of them
 complex. Please refer to the section Moving The Character later in this DoC
 for all available moves.

 
 INTERACTING WITH YOUR SURROUNDINGS

 As you move through a level, you will come across many people and objects.
 Each time you come across one, the name and the icon will be displayed at
 the top left of the screen.  The icon will explain which way you can interact
 with the object.  Pressing the ACTION BUTTON performs the action indicated
 by the icon.  The various icons are as follows:

 *-*  What the picture of the icon looks like is in a [eye]...

 [hand] TAKE: Pick up an object (stone, key, etc)and place it in your 
 inventory.

 [eye] LOOK: Examine an object or a notice.

 [spark] RECHARGE: Recharge your shield or cartridge.

 [mouth] TALK: Talk to a person.

 [switch] ACTIVATE: Operates doors, lifts etc.

 [card/arrow] USE: Allows you to use the selected object from your Inventory
              (e.g. insert a keycard into a cardlock).  It may also be used 
              to give items to other people.
 
 Press the ACTION BUTTON to carry out the action indicated by the icon. N.B.
 Some actions (recharge,use) need an object selected from the Inventory.

 INVENTORY

 Press the INVENTORY button to Open and Close the inventory.  At the start 
 of the game, there are all ready several objects listed.  As you TAKE
 further objects on your journey through each level, they will be added to 
 your inventory.  At the end of each level, any unnecessary objects will be
 discarded.  You might be given extra objects to help you complete the next
 level.

 Once you have opened your inventory, use LEFT/RIGHT to move the selector.
 If other objects have been stored, an arrow will be displayed.  You might 
 move to the extra lines by pressing UP or DOWN.  To select an object, 
 highlight it and exit the inventory by pressing the INVENTORY button.  That 
 object will now be active an will be displayed in the top right hand corner 
 of the screen.  If the active object is given away, the previously selected
 object becomes active again.

 Whilst in the Inventory, press the ACTION button to display the current 
 score and difficulty level.

 OBJECT LIST

 Here are some of the objects that you may find in the course of the game.

 the icons are in the [] kause i cant draw them in ansi.?

 [gun] GUN: Your main weapon
 [cube] HOLOCUBE: Contains important information
 [bracelet] FORCE FIELD: Creates an energy barrier which stops enemy shots.
 [stone] STONE: Can be thrown or placed
 [credit card] CREDITS: Money
 [cartridge] MAGNETIC CARTRIDGE: Creates an energy source when recharged and
             placed in the corresponding generator
 [medium mouse] MECHANICAL MOUSE: Crawls along the ground setting off pressure
                pads and cameras
 [smaller mouse] EXPLODING MOUSE: Similar to the Mechanical Mouse, but 
                 explodes at the slightest touch.  May be picked up when not
                 moving.
 [id card] ID CARD: Identity card, some may be used as keys
 [small box] TELEPORT RECEIVER: Allows Conrad to teleport where the receiver 
             is placed - works only in conjunction with the Teleport Remote
             Control.  This object may be thrown or placed.
 [box with light] TELEPORT REMOTE CONTROL: Works only with the Teleport 
                  receiver and allows Conrad to be teleported to where the 
                  receiver is.  You can retrieve the receiver automatically
                  by putting the remote control down.
 
 MISCELLANEOUS DEVICES

 Either activated by the ACTION button or when used with certain objects.

 [teleport pad] TELEPORT: Transports Conrad to a place that is inaccessable
                on foot.
 [arcade machine] ENERGY GENERATOR: Allows the shield or magnetic cartridge
                  to be recharged.
 [switch] SWITCH: Opens a door or calls a lift.
 [camera] CAMERA: May open or close a door, call a lift, etc.  It also aims
          the automatic fire from the laser cannon.
 [box that flashes a green light] PRESSURE PAD: May open or close a door, 
                                  call a lift and may also set off an alarm.
 [thin box] CARD LOCK: Opens a door, when an ID card is inserted.
 [thick box] KEY LOCK: Opens doors or trap doors, when ya insert a key.
 [save switch] SAVE: Memorises Conrads exact position in the game.  The 
               memorised position will be erased if ya switch of ya machine.
 
 HAZARDS
 
 During the game, Conrad will come across various kinds of enemy and killer 
 objects.  The enemy may be destroyed by using his gun.  However killer 
 objects cannot be destroyed by using the gun.  If Conrad is hit, one shield
 will be destroyed.  If the enemy is hit, it will destroy them.  The objects
 are as follows:

 [mine] LAND MINE: Explodes when another object passes over or near it, it 
        is possible to jump over these.
 [mine] FALLING MINE: If any object passes beneath one of these mines, it 
        will cause it to fall, exploding on contact with the ground, Conrad.
 [gun on swivel] LASER CANNON: Activated by a camera or pressure pad.

 SHIELD

 Conrad is armed with a shield with four resistance layers at the start of 
 the game.  Each time he is hit, his shield losses a layer, if Conrad is hit
 and there are no remaining protective layers left, the blow will be fatal.
 Placing the shield in a generator will completely replenish it.

 In this dangerous world, there are a number of situations which may result
 in instant death, here are some of them:

 [green mist] DISINTERGRATER: Conrad will be killed immediately if touched.
 [floor flashing] ELECTRIFIED GROUND: Conrad will be killed if he steps on 
                  these parts of the floor.

 Fall: A fall of two or more floors will prove fatal(broken back).  It is 
 possible to stop Conrad falling to his death, if he is lucky enough to catch
 a side wall.

 END OF GAME

 If Conrad dies the game is over and the continue screen will be displayed
 if you decide to continue press F1 and you will restart the game where ya 
 last save point was or at the beginning of the level you died on.  If you dont
 wish to continue press the ACTION button and the timer will go down.

 HINTS AND TIPS

 *BEFORE STARTING YOUR QUEST, PICK UP THE HOLOCUBE AND READ THE INFORMATION
  YOU MAY NOT TRAVEL FAR WITHOUT IT.
 *SOURCE INFORMATION FROM PEOPLE YOU TALK TO IT MAY HELP YOU
 *SEARCH THE SCREEN FOR OBJECTS WHICH MAY NOT BE OBVIOUS AT FIRST GLANCE
 *KEEP AN EYE ON YOUR SHIELD YOU MAY BE CLOSER THAN YOU THINK
 *SAVE THE REGULARLY
 *SPEND TIME MASTERING THE CONTROLS

 --------------------------MOVING THE CHARACTER-----------------------------

 You can move Conrad by using the joystick.
   
 MOVEMENT CONTROLS
 
 left/right: walk left/right                         
 fire and left/right: run left/right
 fire and down: makes Conrad do a roll
 up and fire: makes Conrad jump
 
 PLATFORM CONTROLS

 keep hold of the fire button: conrad will hang in mid-air 
 fire and down: makes Conrad climb down
 fire and up: makes Conrad move up a level
 
 ACTIVATE CONTROLS

 fire: to pick an object up place Conrad over it and press the fire button.
 (that also applies for activating switches)

 *TO USE OR GIVE AN OBJECT SELECT IT FROM THE INVENTORY CROUCH DOWN AND PRESS
  ENTER/RETURN
 
 *TO PUT AN OBJECT DOWN SELECT THE OBJECT FROM THE INVENTORY AND PRESS ENTER

 *TO THROW AN OBJECT SELECT IF FROM THE INVENTORY AND THEN PRESS ENTER
 
 fire then left/right then up: to do a big jump

 fire left/right then fire: to run and catch a floor

 down and fire then fire then left/right fire: catching hold of a lower floor
 either to the left/right

 to draw your pistol: press SPACE
 to move forward with the pistol: press left/right
 to fire pistol: press fire
 press down then fire: to fire the pistol while kneeling down
 while kneeling down press left/right: to do a roll
 press left/right: to drop down a floor with the pistol still drawn
 *to call a taxi stand in front of the sign and press the ACTION button
 *to get on the metro, stand in the entry zone and wait for the train to 
 arrive, then press the ACTION button.  To get off the train, wait until it
 stops at the desired station and press the ACTION button.

 while on lift press up and fire: to move up a level
 while on lift press down and fire: to move down a level  

 while on the lift Conrad can draw his weapon, but not move.

 =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

        ;::::::;;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
       ::::::;::::::;::::::::::::::::::DoC TYPED BY PoB OF THE LoOnS:
      :::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
        :SOME HELP BY JOSIE::::::::;:::::::::::;:;::;::;:;:;:;:::;::::
         ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::
       :::::::;:;::::::::;:::::::DoC SuPpLiED BY DaBbLe/|.(.(::::::::
      :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 