Flight of the Amazon Queen
Typed up by Belgarath




What The Heck Is This Game All About?
In Flight of the Amazon Queen you play the role of Joe King, pilot for hire as you follow his tongue in
cheek adventures in the South American Jungles, circa 1949.

Joe is scheduled to fly movie star Faye Russel to an Amazon jungle location for the shooting of her latest
film, JUNGLE PASSION. Arriving at a
hotel in Rio to pick her up he is
tricked by his rival, an unscrupu-
lous Dutch flyboy called
Anderson, and locked in one
of the hotel rooms. Anderson
plans to fly Faye to the jungle
himself in an effort to run
Joe out of business.

It's your job to take
control of Joe, help him
escape from the hotel
and foil the plans of the
flying Dutchman. Once
done, you'll fly Faye
into the Amazon jungle
where you'll encounter a
dangerous temple,
fearsome Amazonian
warriors, and a power
mad scientist intent on
taking over the world!

It's up to you to deal with the imminent
threat of world domination... but be
careful, or this may be the last Flight of
the Amazon Queen!

How Do I Get To Play The Game?
To Play Flight of the Amazon Queen, please refer to the reference card that came with the game.

How Do I Control The Little Guy?
In case you skipped the section "What The Heck Is This Game All About", that little guy is called Joe
King.

The screen is broken down into two areas: the Play Area (the top three quarters of the screen) and the
Control Area (the bottom quarter of the screen). To control Joe you will on occaison need to use both
areas. Here's a description of each area.

4

The Play Area is where all the action takes place. It is a representation of a location from the story that Joe
can walk around and interact with. You can move the mouse pointer around this screen pointing to
objects and characters that may appear here.

The Control area consists of the command
Line, Control Panel and the Inventory
Box.
. The Command Line is the strip
between the Play Area and the
bottom of the screen where the 
commands that you construct
are displayed.
. The Control Panel consists of a
number of graphic images of
Actions. These Actions are open,
close, move, give, look at, pick
up, talk to and use. Pointing at
the images will display the Action
names on the Command Line.
. The Inventory Box displays up
to four of your inventory Items at 
any one time. It also contains the
left and right arrow icons.
Pointing at the desired Item will
display it's name on the Command
Line.

Moving Joe Around The Screen:
. To make Joe walk to a point in the Play
Area, just point the mouse pointer and click the
Left Mouse Button (LMB). Joe will walk as near as
possible to that area. If you select a place on screen
that Joe cannot reach, he will tell you - in which case you may need to find an alternative route.
. To make Joe walk to an Object, simply point the mouse pointer at that Object and press the LMB.

How To Make Joe Do Things:
. In order to make Joe do your bidding, you must construct a command. A command consists of an
Action and an Item or Object. For example you could select the open Action from the Control Panel
followed by the door Object from the Play Area. Click the LMB to make Joe do the command.
. Commands may also consist of Actions followed by an Object or Item followed by another Object or
Item. For Example you could select the use Action from the Control Panel followed by the crowbar Item
from the Inventory Box. The command use crowbar will appear on the Command Line. Now select the
chest Object in the Play Area and click the LMB. The command use crowbar on chest will be carried out.
. Some Objects will have a default Action associated with them which is displayed on the Command Line.
In the first room in the Hotel for example, the curtain cord object has a default use Action. when you
point the mouse pointer at the curtain cord, the Command use curtain cord appears on the Command
Line. You can make joe perform this default Action by clicking the Right Mouse Button (RMB).

5

Using Your Inventory Items:
. To move through the inventory one item at a time click the LMB on the required arrow icon.
. To move through the inventory four items at a time click the RMB on the required arrow icon.
. All inventory items have a default Action attached to them. This is usually look at. You can automatically
select the default Action by clicking the RMB on the Item. With the baseball bat Item for example, the
default Action is use. By clicking the RMB on the baseball bat, the command use bat on will appear on the
Command Line. To complete the command point to an Object in the Play Area (such as a door) and click
the LMB. The command use bat on door will be carried out.
. Clicking the LMB on an Item will automatically look at it regardless of the default Action.

The ALWAYS command:
. You can change the default Action of an Object in the Play Area or an Item in the Inventory Box by
simply clicking on the desired Action graphic in the Control Panel with the RMB then clicking on the
desired Item or Object with the RMB again.
. You may find this useful if you come across an Object that you may want to use a lot, but has a different
default Action. For example, if you find a lever that has a default of look at, you can change it to use by
clicking on the use Action with RMB. The command always use will appear in bright blue in the Command
Line. Simply click on the lever Object with the RMB again. Now the lever's default Action will always
appear as use lever.

Cutaway sequences:
A cutaway sequence can occur in the same location as Joe or in other locations with other characters.
Cutaways are non interactive and usually progress the story and/or offer some clues. When a cutaway
occurs the Control Panel and Inventory Box will turn black and white and the mouse pointer will disap-
pear.
Cutaways can be skipped by pressing the ESCAPE key, with the exception of sequences that contain
important story information and are only played once.

I Feel Lonely And Would To Talk To Somebody.
You'll find the jungles of South America teeming with interesting people to talk to. Most of them will
have something useful to tell Joe, while others will just want to talk. Don't forget to return to your new
found friends to talk some more, as many of them will have new things to say as your adventure pro-
gresses.

Most characters will have a default talk to Action associated with them, so
you can simply click the RMB to initiate conversation. A list of sentences
that you can say to the character will appear on the bottom of the screen
where the Control Area is usually situated. Pointing at these sen-
tences will cause them to highlight, and clicking
the LMB will make Joe speak that sentence.

If you want to stop talking to a
character simply select an exit
line. This is usually the last sentence
to be displayed and will say goodbye
or something similar. If no such
options are available,
simply press the ESCAPE key.

6

If I Press A Key What'll It Do?
A Number of keyboard shortcuts have been included to allow you to restart or quit the game, use your
journal or select commands from the Control Panel. And here they are!

F1 - Opens your Journal allowing you to load or save a game, or adjust music volume or text speed.
Pressing the F1 key during a cutaway will skip it and go straight to the journal, if the cutaway can be
skipped.
F5 - Restarts the game. You are prompted to make sure you really want to restart.
F10 - Quits the game. You are prompted to make sure you really want to quit.
ESC - Quits through cutaway sequences. Not all cutaway sequences can be skipped, some contain
important story information and are only played once. It also closes the Journal.
SPACE BAR - Skips through text speech and CD voice samples. Very handy if you've heard the speech
before or if you've already read the text speech.

The commands in the Control Panel can be selected by pressing the following keys.
O - Open
C - Close
M - Move
P - Pick ip
L - Look at
U - Use
T - Talk to
G - Give

1-4 - Selects the corresponding 
inventory item (if available).
While in diaglogue mode, keys 1 to 4
select the diaglogue choices 1 to 4.

CURSOR KEYS - Move the mouse
pointer around the screen.
CTRL - Same as the left mouse
button.
ALT - Same as the right mouse button.

7

It's 8 AM In The Morning And I Gotta Go To Work. How Do I Stop This Thing?
If more pressing matters need to be attended to and you haven't finished the game yet, then we
have a solution. You can save your current position in the game by using your trusty Journal.

Press the F1 function key, or LOOK AT or USE JOURNAL to bring up the Journal screen.

Make Entry:
This option allows you to save the position of your current game. There are 100 save game positions in
the Journal, which are broken down into 10 save game slots per Journal page. You can select a new
Journal page by clicking on the letters that range from A to J on the side of the Journal. To save a game,
first select a slot then type in your save name then press ENTER or click on the MAKE ENTRY button.
You will be asked to confirm whether you want to save the game. Click on the YES button to save, or the
NO button to return to the main Journal selection.

Read Entry:
This option allows you to load a previously saved game. Simply select one of the save games slots and
click on the READ ENTRY button. You will be asked to confirm whether you want to load the game. Click
on the YES button to load, or the NO button to return to the main Journal selection.

Close:
This option closes the Journal, returning you to the game. You can also exit the Journal by pressing the
ESCAPE button.

Give Up:
This exits the game. You will be asked to confirm whether you want to exit the game. Click on the YES
button to exit, or the NO button to return to the main Journal selection.

Word Balloon: This is a CD-ROM feature only,
allows you to toggle the voice samples on
and off.
Sfx Speaker: This toggles the sound effects
on and off.
Text Icon/Scale: The scale adjusts the
speed at which the text is dis-
played on the screen. The box allows
you to turn the text on (applicable
for the CD-ROM version only).
Music Icon/Scale: The scale
adjusts the volume of the music. The box
allows you to turn it on/off.
Information Icon: This displays copy-
right information as well as the
Version number and
Language type.

8

My Screen Has Gone All Funny!
If you leave the game alone for more than 5 minutes, one of a variety of screen savers will spring in to
action.
If A screen saver has been activated simply press a key or click the mouse to return the screen to
normal.

Is There Anything Else I Should Know?
Yeah. Look at everything you can, and pick up everything that can be picked up. If someone tries to stop
you from picking up something or going somewhere, chances are it's important.

As a rule of thumb if you try and pick up something and you get one of the usual brush off responses,
then you probably don't need that object.

In some situations (although it is extremely rare) you may need to use an object with another object (as
opposed to to an item with an object). And don't be afraid to use inventory items with other inventory
items.

Also, if you have an item that you think someone may need, you may have to talk to them about it before
giving it to them. Otherwise joe has no idea that this person would want whatever you want to give
them.

Who Do I Give A Piece of My Mind To?
If you have any comments on Flight of the Amazon Queen or suggestions of what you'd like to see in our
future games, then please email us at
BINARY@ESELINK.BRISNET.ORG.AU

9


Typed up by Belgarath