Football Manager.
Docs typed by /\/asty Boy.


PLAYING INSTRUCTIONS

There are three parts to the game and the following notes will guide you
through the game.


PART 1 - STARTING THE GAME

Enter your name as the Team Manager,then select the team you wish to
manage.If your favourite team is not included,choose any team,as you will
be able to change the team names later on. Whichever team you select,you
will start in the fourth division and will have to work your way up to the
first.Start at the beginners level and progress as you become more
skillful.


PART 2 - THE MAIN GAME

The OPTION MENU allows you to:

1.SELL/LIST YOUR PLAYERS: The team is displayed,but note that if you decide
to sell a player and refuse an offer,there is a chance that other clubs may
not want him.

2.MANAGERIAL RATING: This screen enables you to check your progress as Team
Manager.

3.REQUEST A LOAN: Credit limits are as follows-

  Your Division            Credit Limit
 ---------------          --------------
       1                    1,000,000
       2                      750,000
       3                      500,000
       4                      250,000


4.REPAY LOAN: As interest is charged on loans of 1%,you may find it prudent
to repay a loan as quickly as possible.

5.ALTER TEAM/PLAYER NAME :You may change any or all team and player names 
toinclude your countrys teams and favourite players,past and present,and
even make yourself player manager.

6.CHANGE LEVEL: As you progress,increase your skill level for a more
challenging game. 

7.LOAD/SAVE GAME: You can leave a game and resume play with your management
record intact.To save a game put a formatted disk into DF0: and select SAVE
GAME.To restore a game,insert disk with a saved game on and select LOAD
GAME.

8.DISPLAY LEAGUE TABLE: To check the table and your position.



PREPARING FOR A MATCH


Details are given of your next league or F.A Cup match and the attributes
of both teams,with a points value between 1 & 20.
You may select your team bearing in mind the skills of the opposing
team.Match highlights only are shown with the home team playing from left
to right.You team always plays in its own colours and just like the real
thing,its not always the better team that wins.After the match,you will
hear the other match results for the day together with the updated league
table.

WEEKLY BILLS

Income: Your gate receipts increase when you win and decrease when you
lose.Receipts for away games depends on the quality of your opponents.

Expenditure: Your wage bill and ground rent will increase as you climb up
the divisions.Also,your wage bill and ground rent will increase as the
total skill of your team improves.Loan interest is 1%.

TRANSFER MARKET
You may bid for a player,but if your offer is refused,the players value
increases.If your squad consists of the maximum 16 players the transfer
market will not be available to you.


PART 3 - END OF SEASON


The final league table is displayed and your league success money,which
depends on how well you have done over the season,is calculated and
displayed.In divisions 2,3 and 4 the bottom three teams are relegated.Your
final managerial rating for the season is calculated for all players.The
new season starts as PART 2.


 * IMPORTANT NOTES *

When players are listed,their attributes are listed:

a) Position played: D (defender),M (midfield),A (attack)
b) Player name
c) Player number
d) Skill rating - 1 (lowest) 5 (highest)
e) Energy - 1 (lowest)  20 (highest)
   Part of the skill of the game is in resting the right players to
   increase their energy without doing too much harm to the overall team. 
f) Value - relates directly to players skill and the division your team is
in.
g) P (picked to play),I (injured),or blank for available to play.An injured
player cannot be selected to play,nor can he be sold until match fit again.

End.