                        FOOTBALLER OF THE YEAR II

Typed by THE QUARTERBACK of SLIPSTREAM.  Edited by PARASITE.


SCENARIO
 The aim of this game could be decribed quite simply - to become the number
 one striker in the country. Footballer Of The Year. But that coverted title
 isn't just about ball skills and goals scored. The best player in the land
 also needs to be able to work as part of a team, needsto think on the field,
 needs to work hard off the field and needs to have knowledge of the sport
 and it's history. You ask Gary Lineker...

CONTROLS
 A choice of either joystick or mouse options are available.

GAMEPLAY
 Throughout this game. You will be asked to make decisions, most of which
 require a Yes or No answer. To speed up play, we have included a quick
 confirmation facility. In addition to keying either: Y or N, you are also
 able to use your joystick or mouse to enter Yes or No. If you are using a
 mouse, pressing the LEFT button gives Yes, while pressing the RIGHT button
 gives a No. When using a joystick, moving left or right has the same effect
 as using the mouse.

 When the game has loaded, you will be asked if you wish to load a
 previously saved game or not. Press N(o), unless you have already played a
 game and saved it. If you have a saved game on disk, insert the disk and
 press Y(es).

  Then at the prompt, input your first and second names and the skill level
 ( 1 - easy , 9 - hard ) that you wish to play at.

 You will then be asked if you wish to customise your league by editing the
 team names. If you wish to change any of the teams, press Y(es) and follow
 the simple on screen instructions, until you are satiffied with the changes
 you have made.

 Now comes decision time. Choose the league side that you wish to play for
 initially, and then choose your nationality, just in case you get selected
 for your country's side.

 And now... here we go. In front of you is the main Control Menu. This is
 where all decisions are made.

 You are now at the beginning of a brand new season, having just signed for
 a UK Superleague side. Every time you click on the PLAY ( boot ) icon, you
 will play another match in the season. These matches consist of :-

        League Matches

        Gremlin Supercup Matches

        Supercup Matches

        European Supercup Matches

        World Supercup Matches (if uou make it as an international !)

PLAY ( A )
 Before each match (if your team is playing that week), you will be asked if
 you wish to buy any extra goal cards. Goal cards represent the possibility
 of you scoring a goal, and initially you start off with ten cards. Extra
 cards cost $600 each. Your wages and your bank balance are shown, and you
 then make the decision to buy extra cards or not.

 You will then be asked if you wish to use any goal cards in the comming
 match, and if so, how many (1 - 3). A selection screen will then ask you to
 decide which of the cards you wish to use. Each card represents a different
 tactical manoeuvre, which you will need to use to score a goal.

 Each of the manoeuvres you have chosen will then be shown to you on a
 blackboard.

A TYPICAL TACTICAL PLAN
 The straight lines represent what your team mates are hoping to do with the
 ball. The dotted line shows your part of the plan. At the right moment in
 the game, you must follow the plan, intercept the ball in the right place
 and then shoot for goal. Therefore, you must commit each manoeuvre to memory.

 Having seen a plan and learn't it, press FIRE to either see the next plan
 or to play the match.

 Now comes the moment of truth. Your player is controlled by the JOYSTICK -
 UP, DOWN, LEFT and RIGHT moves the player. FIRE kicks the ball. Watch the
 ball, wait for the right moment, run into position and put the plan into
 action. Score. As easy as that...

 At the end of the match, the results will be given for your game as well
 as all the other results for that day. Press FIRE to return to the Control
 Menu.

DOUBLE OR NOTHING ( B )
 Obviously, the more goals you score, the more money you will make. But
 playing is not the only way to make money. As a potential football
 personality, money can also be earned from personal appearances, media
 events and sponsorship deals. Nobody wants just a football player though -
 you have to have personality, intelligence and a knowledge of football to
 make it big off the field.

 This is where the DOUBLE OR NOTHING  ( question-mark ) icon comes in.
 Clicking on this brings up the Quiz Show screen, asking first how much
 money you wish to gamble. Type in an amount  ($10 - $500) and press RETURN.
 You will then be asked a football trivia question, and asked to answer 1,
 2 or 3. If you get it right, you get double your money back. If you are
 wrong, you lose thhe lot.

 If you are right, you get the chance to either take the money now, or
 gamble it again on the result of another question. Get this right, and you
 will get the chance to play for the third and final time ( or again just
 take the money and run). Get it wrong, and all the money is lost. The
 decision is yours.

STATE OF AFFAIRS  ( C )
 To check on how your team are doing in the league, click on the STATE OF
 AFFAIRS  ( globe ) icon. This gives you the league table, along with the
 points won, matches played and goals scored for and against each team. This
 also gives you an idea of how all the other teams are doing, should you
 decide to...

TRANSFER
 If you have been scoring goals left, right and centre, but your team keeps
 losing it's matches, maybe it is time to consider a change. Let's face it ,
 no matter how good you are, you will never be picked as Footballer Of The
 Year if you are playing for a useless team, who'll never win any cups or
 trophies.

 Clicking on TRANSFER gives you the option of buying a transfer card, thus
 putting yourself onto the transfer market. A card costs $5,000, and buying a
 card gets you scouted for another team. Either the scout will not be
 interested in you, your career has not yet sufficiently impressed him, or he
 will want to buy you, on the condition that you either answer a number of
 trivia questions or score a number of goals in your next match.

 The amount of money offered, and your cut of it, will be shown to you, and
 of course you have the option to refuse the offer. If you accept, choose
 either goals or questions to prove yourself to the scout. If you then
 answer the questions or score the goals in the next match, the transfer will
 take place. Now you will get the chance to beat your old side as well as
 everybody else in the country.

CAREER  ( E )
  Clicking on the CAREER  ( non bandaged head ) icon gives you a list of
 teams that you have played for, cup medals you have won, and your F.O.T.Y.
 record (how many times you have won it). Click again to return to the
 Control Menu.

SAVE / LOAD  ( F )
 This icon gives you the option to either SAVE your career up to the present
 onto a DISK, or to LOAD in a previously saved career. If you wish to save
 your present status, position a blank FORMATTED DISK in the intrenal disk
 drive and click on "SAVE GAME" to save out your career statistics.

QUIT  ( G )
Enables you to exit out of current game.

INTERNATIONALS
 At certain times through the season, you will be considered for your
 international side, and offered a place on the condition that you score a
 number of goals in your next match. If you manage this, you will then play
 all the international matches for your country as well as your league
 matches, so improving your chance of becoming Footballer Of The Year.

 To stay in the International side though, you must score at least one goal
 in every match that they play. Failure to do this and you're out.

END OF SEASON
 At the end of the season, two awards are given. One is the top goalscorer
 award, given to the player who scored the most goals in the season. Winning
 this, if you can, helps enormously towards the winning of the big one. The
 Footballer Of The Year. Best Player in the Country. Can you do it? You'll
 have to play through the seasons to find out. Good Luck.

End.