                           Formula One Masters v4


Published By:     ESP Software
Supplied By:      tINtIN
Cracked / Trained By:   Jaguar
These Docs By:    Jaguar

TECHNICAL SUPPORT:

These instructions should provide most of the answers to any questions you
may have.  If you really get stuck or don't understand something then you can
phone for assistance during the hours 10am to 1pm or between 2pm and 5.30pm
most week days.

Only registered users questions will be answered.  If you did NOT buy this
game direct from ESP Software you must return the registration card before we
can offer any assistance.

BACK UP YOUR DISK

You are allowed to make one copy of this disk for yourself as a personal
backup, in case the original disk develops a fault.  YOU ARE NOT PERMITTED TO
MAKE A COPY OF THIS DISK FOR ANY OTHER PERSON, IT IS ILLEGAL.  If anyone asks
you to make such a copy, we suggest you refrain fromcomplying and politely
ask them to buy it for themselves.  If they like the game so much, they will
surely be happy to pay for their enjoyment while investing in this products
further enhancements.

FAULT DISK?

We recomment that you return the faulty diusk directly to us with your
registration card.  We will then immediately send you a fully tested
up-to-date replacement.  If you obtain a replacement directly from your
retailer and that fails towork please contact our office for further advice
as it is probably something that your retailer cannot deal with.

If your disk becomes fauly after 30 days of purchase you may obtain a
replacement [by calling Orbital BBS - Hellfire WHQ (081 372 2511)] direct
from ESP by returning the faulty disk with a payment of £5.  If you change
your computer we can also exchange disks on a similar basis, subject to
availability.

Our direct assistance offer for faulty goods is an extra service that we
provide to all our customers, it does not contravene your statutory rights
[who knows what they are anyway?].

PROBLEMS

If you find a fault within the program itself then please ensure you have
fully read the relevant instructions before contacting us for TECHNICAL
SUPPORT.  If the error is ours we will endeavour to correct it as quickly as
possible and send a fixed replacement without charge.

FUTURE UPDATES

Since 1991 this product has sold well enough to make it feasible for us and
our predecessors to invest in updating this product.  We will continue this
policy as long as sales continue to support it.  As and when any future
changes are completed we will write to all registered users with detaied
specifications of all improvements made to old titles.  Don't forget to tell
us about any change of address after you register.

BEFORE YOU START

Before playing the game seriously make sure you understand making tyre
choices, the grip & wear of tyres and making wing settings.  If you intend to
save the game you will need a new blank formatted disk.

(For instructions onhow to format a disk see your introduction to the Amiga
manual supplied with your computer).

LOADING THE PROGRAM

Turn computer off, place disk in drive and turn computer back on again, the
game should now load automatically.

If you experience any unusual problems while using this program andyou only
reset the computer before loading, try physically switching the computer off
for 15 seconds or more and then reload the program.  Sometimes unwanted
remnants of old programs may linger in memory and interfere with this game.
With 1mb RAM machines you may have to remove any extra peripherals (disk
drives and printers etc.) attached.

SECURITY CODE

You will be required to enter a password every time you load the game.  A
security code will appear on the screen which refers to a page number,
paragraphs, line and word number in this manual.  [Ignore it totally and type
in hellfire].  Type in the correct word ignoring all headings.

eg. If it asks for Page 3, Paragraph 1, Liune 2, Word 3 you should type the
word 'load' excluding the quotes, followed by return.

INITIAL MENU

After the game has successfully loaded the title screen will appear.

Click `New Game` with the left mouse button to start a totally new game.
Click `Load Game` with the left mouse button to enter to load a prviously
saved game.  After loading you will be prompted with the MAIN MENU.

                                  NEW GAME

Number of Players

You will be prompted with a screen that expects you to select from 1 and 4
by clicking the left mouse button over the box representing your choice.

Name Entry

Each player is then asked to enter his name.

Skill Level

Using the left mouse button you can choose to clikc on Difficult, Average,
and Easy.

Team Selection

Each player is then asked to elect the team he wishes to manage.

Engine Choice

Do not overspend here because you have other things to buy later on (ie. tyre
contract, engine power, driver(s) & pit crew skill).

You start with 1m but as a general tip do not buy an engine that costs more
than 60% of the money you have.  So in the first season it is unadvisable to
buy an engine that costs more than 600,000.  If you attempt to spend too much
your financial adviser will prevent you.

Tyre Manufacturer

Make your selection from three choices.

Select Driver

You can only sign a driver who has not already got a contract with another
team.

Once all these details have been entered you will be presented with the main
menu.

MAIN MENU

All the game options are accessible form the main menu.

Weather [top left]

This is the first item you should check.  It tells you the temperature and
the weather conditions that the race will begin as,  then followed by a full
weather forecast.  This shows the current weather conditions together with
the forecast.  Also shown is the race state ie. whether the race is a wet
race (more than 1/2 of cars on rain tyres), miced race (more than 1/2 of cars
on intermediate tyres), or a dry race (more than 1/2 of cars on dry racing
slicks).

Cars [top]

The screen is split into two the top half for your 1st car and the bottom
half for your 2nd car.  Clicking on the small white boxes next to tyres,
engine power, wing settings or pit crew  using the left mouse button will
take you to these separate sections.  If you click on the tyre or wing
settings boxes with the right mouse button the setting will advance by one,
so if you have `a` compound tyre set and you click the right mouse button on
the white tyre section box it will change to `b`'s and so on.

Tyres

This is the most complex concept to understand so if you can grasp this the
game should become a lot more playable and enjoyable.  Here is an
approximate selection of tyres depending upon the weather conditions.

Thunderstorm      Rain
Heavy Rain     Rain
Rain        Rain
Drizzle        Intermediates
Overcast    A
Sunny       B/C
Mild        A/B
Heatwave    C/D

You should only use the above as a rough guide since other factors such as
the remaining race distance etc. will play a part, only experience will allow
you to make the correct judgement under all circumstances.  Your tyre
selection plays a huge part in the outcome of a race, so correct selection is
vital.

Hint: The weather is sunny.  If you choose a C you will have a lot of grip,
but your tyres will wear out quite repidly.  Whereas if you choose a B you
will hgave less grip, but your tyres won't wear out as quickly.

Tyre selection depends upon the weather, the temperature, the `twistyness` of
a track, the total race distance and how good you are at doing pitstops.

Engine Power

This will determine the power output of your engine.  Each 1% of power will
cost you 100.  You are told how much you can afford for this car and how
much you can afford if you split your money for engine power between both of
your cars.

Auto-fill up will increase your engine power to 100% if you can afford it,
else it will go onto enter amount mode : you enter the percentage you want to
increase the power by.  The exact engine power is shown to the left of the
bar.

Wing Setting

For this you must examine the track diagrams of the current circuit and its
statistics.  You must determine how `twisty` (lots of sharp corners, few
straits) the track is.

Twisty:        Large (lot of downforce)
Average:    Medium (med. downforce)
Strait:        Little (little downforce)

There is also a fourth wing setting, called `extra` providing it is not
raining (drizzle - thunderstorm) you do not need the `extra` wing.  The idea
is thatif it starts to rain you will need more wing (downforce), so if it is
raining or you predict it will rain then increase the downforce by 1 setting.

If in dry conditions you would choose the medium wing setting then when it is
raining choose the large wing setting for more downforce.

If the weather is really bad (heavy rain or thunderstorm) then ideally you
should increase the downforce by 1 or 2 settings.  So from medium wing in the
dry to extra wing if the weather is really bad.

Since you can't change the wing settings during the race you will need ot
predict the weather conditions and decide whether the gamble onusing more
wing or not.

Pit Crew Skill

This option is similar to engine power, but it is for the pit crew skill of
your whole team so this option works for both drivers.  1% increase costs
200.  The pit crews skil determines how quickly you will be able to complete
a pitstop.  The lower your pit crew skill the less chance you have of a quick
stop.

Options o, oo & iii must be chosen for both of your cars ifyou have two
drivers and you wish to / can afford to enter both cars.

Drivers [top right]

Here you can look at the skill records of your drivers, the other drivers and
you can but a new driver (or replace one). On this screen you can see the
points, skill, race wins and pole positions a driver has had.  The numbers to
the right of these are the drivers career totals.

Selecting a new driver (or just checking out the records of drivers) clikcing
the right mouse button will bring up a separate screen showing four top ten
tables uncluding the top ten best pitstop times which saves to the disk, so
you should keep your disk write-enabled.

Click the up arrow to change your 1st driver and the down arrow to change or
sign up a 2nd driver.  You will be presented with a list of 50 drivers.  Your
current drivers will be highlighted.  If you click the right mouse button on
the driver you are highlighting you will bring up information on his career
records etc.  (right mouse button again to de-select).

You can only buy a driver that does not have a team name by his name and if
you can afford him.  To choose a driver highlight one and click the left
mouse button.  To exit this screen click the left mouse button on quit [the
word quit exactly, even if you click the * the game will crash out].

Note: The drivers are very roughly sorted into skill order, so only
experiance of playing the game and of following formula one races will help
you decide whether a driver is worth signing or not.  Very roughly though the
best drivers are at the top left and the worst at the bottom right.

Championship [left]

This is a run down of both the drivers and constructors championships.  Click
up & down arrows to move through the lists.

Track Details [centre]

Gives a rundown of track details for the current circuit, as well as the lap
record holder.  Click anywhere to return to the main menu.

Records [right]

Can only be selected if you have completed the first race of a season.  Click
on the up and down arrows to go through the results of the race of the
current season (only the top 6 finishers are recorded). Click elsewhere to
exit this option.

Statistics [bottom left]

Four tables showing the number of career points of drivers, the career race
wins, career pole positions, and the best pitstop times by human opponents
which are saved to disk.

The Race [bottom centre]

Only click on this when you have your car(s) set up and are ready to compete.
If there is more than one player playing.  This will move onto the next
player's team.  to allow him / her to enter their choices.  After the final
players choices have been made, clicking this option will go to the race,
after the F1 news and qualifying.

News Section

Various news on things will appear, and have a distinct effect.

Qualifying

The cars are displayed on the screen in their qualifying positions, the top
left car being in pole position.  The grid will scroll automatically up and
down, or you can continue by clicking the left mouse button.  Only 26 cars
qualify for each race, so if your car is not shown then you have not
qualified for the race.

The Race

Click the left button after seeing the track information and you will see the
cars lined up on the grid.  After a few seconds the lights will turn green
and the race will be on.

** If after lap one you hold the left button for about a second when the huge
information scoreboard is being updated or the cars are going past, you will
be taken to the options screen.  To get to the options screen the pits
indicator in the bottom right hand corner must turn red, if the box next to
the `pits` word ios green then hold the button down again.  Once the
indicator turns red, you will have to wair for that lap to finish and then
theoptions screen will be displayed.

The Options Screen

Clicking on the race highlights word will toggle the race highlight on / off.

With race highlights on you will not see the cars zoom past unless one of the
cars is retiring from the race for some reason.  The car that is retiring
will travel slowly along the bottom of the track.

Near the top of the options screen will be all the drivers for the human
controlled teams that are in the race.  Next to each driver are two coloured
bars.  The top green bar being tyre wear and the lower red bar for tyre grip.
The grip bar is the all important one, keeping the grip high is vital tokeep
your car going at a fast rate.  The closer the red grip bar is to the green
tyre bar the better the choice of tyres you have.

If both bars are equal than you have too soft a tyre on and your tyres will
wear out quickly.  You should aim to keep the grip bar between 70% and 90% of
the green wear bar for maximum performance out of the tyres.  A pitstop shoul
be considered when your grip bar falls below 50% ubless of course you are
nearly at the end of the race and then a stop would be pointless.

Next to each driver is a request pitstop box.  Clicking this will call that
driver into the pits.  You can only bring one car per team in to the pits per
lap.  (You only have one pit crew!)

Skip Race

When selected you will return to the usual race screen with the scoreboard.
The cars will not go past atall.  Only weather changes will be reported and
the positions will not be updated.  The race is still being computed behind
the scenes, but at a much faster rate, this option should be considered when
all human controlled cars are out of a race.  Holding down the left button
will exist from this mode.

The current weather conditions can be seen from the options screen abd by
looking at the colour of the sky above the scoreboard.


Note: On the options screen the game is also paused.

Pitstops

It is usually advisable to make a pitstop when either the weather changes
significantly or just before half race distance.  Once you have requested a
pitstop you will be told who is coming into the pits and you will be given a
choice of tyres to fit (Rain, Int, A, B, C's or D's).

After seeing your car come into the pits you will see a huge picture of a
wheel.  You must click at the centre of the wheel as quickly as you can.  If
you miss the time will continue to tick by and you will heve to click once
more to reverse the drill, before clicking in the centre again.  The time
ticks away at the bottom of the screen in seconds.

A good pitstop will be about 6 seconds.  You do not only lose 6 seconds in
the pits though, you may lose about 16 seconds for a 6 second stop, this is
due to slowing down and speeding up in the pit lane.

Race Over

You will be told the winner of the race anbd the championship points will be
awarded.

1st      10pts
2nd      6pts
3rd      4pts
4th      3pts
5th      2pts
6th      1pt

After this you will be shown the drivers and constructors championship
tables.  You will then be returned to the main menu for the next race unless
the season has been completed.

Season Over

You will have to get a new engine contract, tyre deal, etc. and pick your
drivers again as before.

The drivers are selected by each team depending on the finishing positions in
the constructors championship.  So the constructors championship get first
choice.

If you haven't made enough money to continue the next season (1,000,000) then
your sponsors may help you out.  They will only help you out three times
though and after that you will be risking being fired as the team manager!

Load / Save [bottom right]

You will first be prompted to select Load, Save or Return the Main Menu from
the load save menu.

Loading

First you will be prompted to insert your save game disk in drive Df0: means
you have to remove your program disk.

You can then choose which game position to load by typing 1 to 5.  The game
will load, if available, and then you will be prompted to replace the program
disk in drive Df0:

Whenever changing floppy disks you must wair for the drive light to go out
before removing or inserting any disk.  If you do not heed this warning with
this or any other game then you risk damaging the floppy disk inserted
permanently.  This may also cause unnecessary extra ware on the drive itself.

Saving

This process is identical to loading with the obvious difference being that
you are writing information to the disk rather than reading it.

If you choose to save and a game has been preiously saved to that disk using
that number then the previous gameposition will be overridden.

Do not save on the program disk but on any framatted disk dhat does not
contain important data [load save game 1 from program disk to start with 10m
and a 98% driver!].

Playing Tips

*  Don't bother too much the with tyre manufacturers in your first few
seasons (choose the cheapest!) and choose a driver with the rest of your
money, leaving around 10,000 for other things.

*  Don't spend loads on a driver & next to nothing on an engine, try and
compromise, buying an average driver and reasonable engine will bring better
results when money is tight.

*  Learn who the high skillled drivers are.  The drivers tables are
roughly ordered, but experiance will allow you to pick up better drivers at
bargain prices.

*  Try and get a second driver as quickly as possible, but make sure
that he will qualify, if you are not confident that he will qualify then wait
a few more races and getr a better driver.

*  Don't be too eager when doing pitstops, keep your finger off the
mouse button until you are in the centre of the tyre! Keep calm!

*  If the weather does not change, and you are considering making a
pitstop during the race then check the grip / wear bars.  Make your pitstop
before half distance.  Due to a lightening fuel load tyres will be more
heavily used in the first half of the race compared with the second.

*  Select the easiest difficulty level to start with so that you can get
going.  If you start doing too well then select a harder difficulty level for
the next season (can also help to even out the team when you are playing with
human friends).

*  Increase the amout of downforce (wing) when the weather is raining,
possibly by 2 settings if thunderstorm conditions.  So for a fast track like
SILVERSTONE for which in dry conditions you want little wing, when raining
choose medium, or really heavy rain, choose large wing.  For other circuits
you may need to use the EXTRA wing setting.

*  8 races out of 10 you will be better off making a pitstop than going
the entire race distance on one set of tyres.


jAGuAR of hELLfIRE
27th January 1995