   FRONTIER - ELITE II - MANUAL         TYPED BY SHARD 13 NOVEMBER 1993
   ============================         ===============================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SUE CRIPPLE & SNEER
                         
                          SOLICITORS

     Windrush Tower. Olympus Village. Mars. Sol System. 0/0S04 OLI

                                             YOUR REFERENCE: SCS / CPJ-4.1
J.Jameson Jnr                                OUR REFERENCE:  CPJ / JJJ-4.1
51a South Dormitory
Fish Processing Plant 3142
Sirocco
Merlin
Ross 154
-1/0Rs2a S16
                                                                31.12.3199

To whom it may concern

It is our duty to inform you of the death of your grandfather, Commander
Peter Jameson.

The wreckage of his ship was found in the Reidquat system on 11 November
3199.  He was presumed killed in combat after a "misunderstanding" over
some stolen goods according to the local press.

A last will and testament was prepared on 3 February 3199 and section 4.1
has been circulated to all living grandchildren as instructed by our late
client.

If you have any queries do not hesitate to contact us. The normal fees of
fifty (50) Credits per hour (including service tax) apply.


Yours sincerely



Mr Edmond Sneer

--------------------------------------------------------------------------


         Last Will & Testament

Commander Peter Jameson                    Section 4.1

A way of life that is very different to the dull planet bound existence you
have probably led up to now. It is a way of life that I loved and want you
to experience.

I want you to feel the freedom of flying your own ship and being able to
explore the vast galaxy. Whatever your aims in life (I settled for wealth
power and fame) there is an occupation for you. Try your hand at trading,
following established trading routes or making your own. May be doing odd
jobs is more your style buzzing from one place to the next, never working
for the same person twice. What about mining? Later perhaps.

I know that some of you will succumb to a criminal existance, so I may as
well say that piracy, bounty hunting and mercenary work will suit you.

I won`t tell you to place your allegiance with the Federation, the Empire
or the Indepandents but be careful they all use you for their own aims. No
amount of treaties will change the fact that they dislike each other

Space has changed a great deal since I was your age. No I am not going to
harp on about everything being cheaper and friendlier in the past. People
were just as bad then as now but we now have better technology and humans
have spread further so there is more scope. Your abilities as a pilot will
be tested to the full, especially in combat so before you upset anybody get
in some practice.

I want to give you the best start I can. As there are now so many of you
my resources have been spread thinly. Each of you will receive an Eagle
Long Range Fighter and one hundred credits. The ship has been delivered to
your local starport but the documents are enclosed with this letter

Above all enjoy yourself and BE WARY!


       Mortal Press 2/2TX4-LWT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------


WELCOME!

CONGRATULATIONS on buying the Eagle Long Range Fighter, clearly the
purchase of a discerning pilot!

As you will no doubt have noticed, our continual quest for excellence has
resulted in this, the culmination of the search for the most advanced
technology and ergonomic design, embodied in one ship. We are proud of the
individualistic style married with functional superiority, as we continue
the Faulcon De Lacy pedigree.

As you are obviously a cut above the common space traveller, the
understated styling of the interior will have impressed you. A dynamic
spacehound such as yourself will not have time for unnecessary frills, so
we have styled the interior with the minimum of fuss, just like the
exterior.  Particularly pleasing though, are the lines of the pilot's seat
made of revolutionary Silastoplaston, a material that stays dry at all
times.  It really gives the message that you are in control! It feels as
though you are immersed in water while it protects you from dangerously
high acceleration forces.

Always mindful of necessity we have included the 1MW Phlaschgyt Pulse Laser
weapon.  The laser is noted for being compact, economical and again
understated the hallmark of this craft. As if that is not enough, we have
installed the latest Manolife one man life support system that keeps you
cooking at the right temperature and nasty gases at bay. We have been
accused of madness for giving away lots more as part of a limited period
offer, just look at the specifications list!

Whether on the run or just cruising, feel that tight gyroscopic control.
You will be so thrilled with the Eagle that you will want to purchase
accessories, available from all good Shipyards.

THE EAGLE LONG RANGE FIGHTER
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
------------------------

THE HULL 
A 25 tonne ship with a 20 tonne hull capacity. An amazing 15 tonnes of
equipment is included in the price leaving you with a 4 tonne capacity
cargo bay with 1 tonne of fuel.

Dual main thrusters capable of a blistering peak acceleration of 25g or 0
to 1000 kilometres per hour in only 1.13 seconds.

FREE! Atmospheric Shielding for heat protection on entering atmospheres.

WEAPONRY 
1 Megawatt Pulse Laser (front mounting only).
2 Missile Mountings giving you a choice of missiles
FREE! Not one but TWO KL760 homing missiles

DRIVE 
Class 1 Hyperdrive with a range of 8 light years

FREE! 1 tonne of Hydrogen Fuel giving you 8 light years travel.

FREE! Autopilot.

CONTROLS 
Scanner incorporating the Galactonav System.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
Manolife Life Support System.
Silastoplaston pilot's seat.

            F R O N T I E R
            ===============

SECTION ONE: ICONS
Using the console to control your ship.
 
SECTION TWO: NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT 
Getting around the galaxy and flying your ship. 

SECTION THREE: COMBAT 
Using offensive and defensive equipment. 

SECTION FOUR: THE SHIPYARD 
Buying new ships, equipping them, and contacting local police.

SECTION FIVE: TRADING
Using the Stockmarket and the black market.

SECTION SIX: MINING
Mining asteroids and planets.

APPENDIX ONE: SHIPYARD EQUIPMENT
A breakdown of all available equipment.

APPENDIX TWO: TRADE ITEMS
Items you can expect to trade

APPENDIX THREE: AN INTRODUCTORY JOURNEY
If you need further guidance before going it alone, this is it.

APPENDIX FOUR: THE MECHANICS OF SPACE FLIGHT
Technical details not for the faint-hearted, by David Braben.

APPENDIX FIVE: SHIP IDENTIFICATION
Facts and figures about some of the ships you will see and fly.


FRONTIER  ELITE II COPYRIGHT NOTICE
-------------------------------------

The computer program and its associated documentation and materials are
protected by National and International Copyright Laws. Storage of the
computer program and its associated documentation and materials in a
retrieval system, reproduction, translation, copying, hiring, lending,
broadcasting and public performance are prohibited without the express
written permission of Konami UK Ltd and Gametek (UK) Ltd. All rights of
the author and owner are reserved worldwide.  This program and its
associated documentation and material are sold according to Konami UK Ltd's
and Gametek (UK) Ltd's terms of trade and conditions of sale, copies of
which are available of request.

1993 David Braben

1993 Konami


SECTION ONE - ICONS
===================

USING THE CONSOLE
-----------------

This is a guide to using the console to control your ship there is also a
summary sheet which summarises the use of icons.

SELECTING AN ICON
The icons are activated by first touching them with the tip of the
mouse-controlled pointer and then pressing the left hand mouse button.
Alternatively, simply use the keyboard shortcuts (for the main icons there
are function keys F1-F10 the number of which is shown at the bottom
right-hand corner of the icon). Note that all icons give an indication of
what will happen if that icon is selected. They do not show the current
mode.

The four main icons F1-F4 to the left-hand side of the scanner select the
current type of display.

The icons on the right-hand side F7-F10 change depending on the active
display.

This section outlines the four main types of display and their associated
functions.

VIEW ICONS (F1)
---------------

These icons allow you to cycle through a choice of views of the space
through which you are travelling. They are: Front, Rear and External (and
Turret if fitted). The position of the view from your ship is described in
the View Status area.

FRONT VIEW 
This gives the view in the direction in which your ship is pointing. It is
not necessarily the direction in which you are travelling. If you have a
gun at the front, a sight will be positioned on the screen in the shape of
a cross.
 
REAR VIEW 
A view in exactly the opposite direction to the front view. A sight will
only be visible if you have a gun mounted on the rear.

EXTERNAL VIEW 
An external view is simulated by your onboard computer and can be useful
for aligning your ship. Some landings are particularly pleasing if viewed
in this mode. Use the Arrow (Cursor) keys to change the angle of view, the
- key to zoom in and the + key to zoom out. This can be used for general
surveillance of the surrounding space.

It needs to be borne in mind that the view is locked to the orientation of
the ship.  For example, if you are looking at the craft from the side and
it is rolling, you will not see it roll, but the space around it will
appear to move and the craft will stay still.

TURRET VIEW
If you have top or bottom turrets on your ship this icon will become
available and is needed in order to fire lasers from turrets. If you have
two turrets (top and bottom) and you select this icon, the view presented
will come from the turret you were using last. Use of the right- hand
mouse button will move the angle of view, not the orientation of the ship.
If, when using the mouse, you dip below the level of the turret, the view
automatically changes to the other turret if you have one.

FLIGHT CONTROL ICONS (F7)

This icon on the right hand side of the display is operational in View mode
only.  It switches between Engines Off (Fig 2) and Manual flight (Fig 3).
If you have an Autopilot and have selected a target (see THE AUTOPILOT on
page 20), then the Flight Control icon will cycle through Autopilot (Fig 4)
too.  When you are landed, the Vertical Take-Off icon (Fig 5) is the only
option available. The status of your ship and its engines is described in
the Ship Status area.

HYPERSPACE ICON (F8)

While in View mode select this icon (Fig 6) to make a hyperspace jump. See
the NAVlGATION AND FLIGHT section on page 23 for details.

UNDERCARRIAGE ICON (F9)

In View mode use of these icons raises or lowers the undercarriage (Fig 7
and Fig 8).  The Autopilot does this automatically when landing, but in
Manual Flight you must operate it yourself.

IDENTIFICATION TEXT ICONS (F10)

In View mode these icons (Fig 9 and Fig 10) are used to name all identified
objects on your display to aid navigation as the name can sometimes be seen
before the body itself.

MAP ICONS (F2)
--------------

These icons cycle through two map pages: Galactic Map (Fig 11) and Current
System Map (Fig 12). See the NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section on page 11 for
a more detailed description. Note that the functions of icons F7 to F10
are not always the same in Galactic Map and Current System Map (see below).

GALACTIC MAP ICON (F2)
 
A grid map of all the star systems in the galaxy is displayed and the
following options are available:
 
DATA ICON (F6) 

Gives geographical and physical data on the selected system if it has been
explored This is only present if a system has been selected.
 
Selecting the Data icon calls up the following four functions:

GALACTIC MAP (F6) Returns you to the Galactic Map.

ECONOMY ICON (F7) Gives data on imports, exports and illegal goods for the
selected system

SOCIAL STRUCTURE ICON (F8) Gives data on government type, population etc,
for the selected system.

ORBITAL MAP ICON (F10) Provides a diagram of the orbits of all bodies
within the system shown. They can be seen in motion using the Forward and
Rewind icons (see below). For closer observation of bodies use the Zoom
icons F7 and F8.

ZOOM ICONS (F7, F8)
Allow the view to be magnified (Fig 14) or reduced (Fig 15), except in Data
mode F6 where F7 and F8 are redefined for other uses.

TOOLS ICON (F9)
The galactic map can be redefined for easier and faster use.

Selecting the Tools icon calls up the following four functions:

STALKS ICON (F7) Turns height indication stalks on the galaxy grid map on
or off.

GRID ICON (F8) Turns grid on the Galactic Map on or off.

TRADE ROUTES ICON (F9) Turns Trade Routes on the Galactic Map on or off.

IDENTIFICATION TEXT ICON (F10) Some text on the Galactic Map can be turned
on or off.

GALACTIC VIEW ICON (F10)

Shows a creator's eye view of the galaxy to remind you of how small you
are.  The brightness of each pixel depends on the number of stars in the
area covered by that pixel. Use the Zoom icons F7 and F8 to adjust the
view.  Select the Galactic Map icon F10 (Fig 18) to return to the Galactic
Map.

CURRENT SYSTEM MAP (F2)
----------------------

Shows an orbital map of the system through which you are travelling.
Again, bodies can be seen in motion or at close range. Use the Zoom icons
F7 and F8 to adjust the view. The following options are also available:

TOOLS ICON (F9)
The orbital map can be redefined for easier and faster use.

Selecting the Tools icon (Fig 19) calls up the following two functions:

ORBITAL ICON (F9) Turns orbital lines on or off.

IDENTIFICATION TEXT ICON (F10) Turns names of bodies on or off.

TARGETING ICON (F10)

Enables you to select targets for combat or the Autopilot. Do this by
activating the icon (Fig 20), then clicking on the body to be targeted.
See the COMBAT section on page 35 and the NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section on
page 11.

INVENTORY ICONS (F3)
--------------------

If activated.  this icon will cycle through seven information pages, in
order:

SHIP'S EQUIPMENT (see the SHIPYARD section on page 49)

COMMANDER PROFILE (see the COMBAT section on page 35)

CREW ROSTER (see the TRADlNG section on page 55)

CARGO ON BOARD (see the TRADlNG section on page 55)

PASSENGER ROSTER (see the TRADlNG section on page 55)

OUTSTANDING CONTRACTS LIST (see SHIP'S INVENTORY on page 60)

MININING INSTALLATIONS (see the MINING section on page 65)

See also SHIP'S INVENTORY on page 60 for a summary of the pages contents.
Note that if there is no information on a page it will not be displayed.

COMMUNICATION ICON (F4)
-----------------------

The effect of this icon (Fig 21) is different depending on whether you are
landed (or docked) or in flight

COMMUNICATION WHILE LANDED (OR DOCKED)

When this icon is selected a list of options will appear (Fig 22), for
example Stockmarket (See the TRADING section on page 55), Bulletin Board
(see the TRADlNG section on page 55), Launch Request (see the NAVlGATION
AND FLIGHT section on page 30) and Shipyard Services (seeTHE SHIPYARD
section on page 49).

COMMUNICATION IN FLIGHT

A list of messages to be broadcast will be superimposed on the main display
(Fig 23) Options include a request for landing or docking clearance and
sending  messages to others.  Some will provide a further list of
communications ,for example Broadcast message to all in range.... which
allows you to send distress calls or demands for surrender. You can also
contact the police and settle any outstanding fines by remote payment. See
the TRADING section on page 55, the COMBAT section on page 35, and the
NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section on page 11.

FORWARD AND REWIND ICONS
They are only displayed when orbital maps are in use (see the NAVIGATION
AND FLIGHT section on page 11), and are used to show the position of bodies
at different points in time. The simulated time is displayed at the bottom
left hand corner of the screen.

TIME CONTROL ICONS

These allow the pilot to alter the apparent speed of time. The single
arrow means real time and the arrows to the right increase the passage of
time by 10 to 10,000 times. The icon on the far left hand side is a pause
button to halt everything. See the NAVIGATION AND FLlGHT section on page
11 and the TRADING section on page 55. The pilot should realise that his
enemies are similarly sped up, so using these icons will only make a dodgy
problem worse.

THE WEAPON CONTROL PANEL
Call up the Weapon Control Panel (fig 26) by selecting the Scanner area.

Some items of your ships equipment do not have icons because they work
automatically Those that do have an icon which needs to be activated in
order for them to function are illustrated in the grey boxes. In the
bottom right hand corner of the icon, the letter for the keyboard short cut
is shown.  The separate icon guide lists the weapon and equipment icons.
See also the COMBAT section on page 35 for details of use of weapons and
APPENDIX ONE:  SHIPYARD EQUIPMENT on page 69 for technical details of
weapons and equipment.


SECTION TWO: NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT
===================================

NAVIGATION
----------

One part of your ship that is impressive is the Galactonav space navigation
facility, built in to all spacecraft. You have a number of facilities at
your disposal by using the Map icons F2 (Fig 27 and Fig 28).

Those icons cycle through two maps: the map of the galaxy and a current
map of the system in which you are travelling. Depending on which map you
are viewing the icons on the bottom right-hand side of your console have
different functions (see GALACTlC MAP ICON on page 5 and CURRENT SYSTEM MAP
ICON on page 7).

VIEWING THE GALAXY IN DETAIL USING THE GALACTIC MAP
---------------------------------------------------

Select the Galactic Map icon F2 to obtain a map of all the star systems in
the galaxy (Fig 29), thanks to the Galactic Survey of 2817. The positions
of all 100,000,000,000 stars (approximately) were mapped as soon as
technology provided telescopes sophisticated enough to do the job.

A grid is drawn through the plane of the galaxy to aid visual orientation
and provide navigational coordinates.  The galaxy is divided up into
sectors.  Since the galaxy is thin and flat, sector coordinates are only
two dimensional with a sector measuring eight light years along each edge
and containing all the stars above and below it. Sector boundaries are
shown in bright green on the map, and their coordinates are given relative
to the Solar system for historical reasons.
 
From Sol's sector, 'east' and 'west' coordinates are represented by the
first coordinate 'east' being a positive and 'west' a negative number.
Similarly, 'north' and `south` are represented by the second number, with
'north' positive.  Up to nine sectors are displayed at once on the screen
and the coordinates of the central sector are displayed at the bottom
left-hand corner. Each star is shown coloured according to type (eg. red
for a red giant. blue for a hot blue star) and with a line indicating its
height `above` or 'below` the galactic plane.

The pink lines linking systems are recommended trade routes in case you
feel you need some guidance to start with. They were compiled by the
Zebulon Intergalactic Trading Corporation five years ago.

MOVING AROUND THE GRID

To move around the grid, use the Arrow (Cursor) keys. The system in the
centre is highlighed in green and a small amount of information on it is
shown on the console. The system you are currently travelling through is
highlighted in pink.

To change the angle of the grid itself (Fig 3O), to see the relative
positions of systems more clearly, hold down the right hand mouse button
and move the mouse.

You can zoom in and out with the Zoom icons F7 and F8

You can re-centre the map by pressing the C key.

MANIPULATING THE GALACTIC MAP

Once familiar with the grid, faster operation can be achieved by electing
to discard certain features (Fig 31 and Fig 32). Select the Tools icon F9
and four different icons become available which enable you to adjust
certain features of the grid.

. The Stalk icon F7 will turn the distance lines on or off.

. The Grid icon F8 will turn the grid on or off.

. Trade icon F9 will turn the trade routes on or off.

. The Identification Text icon F10 will remove the incidental and other
 details like Core System.

As you elect to do any one, the four icons disappear but can be brought
back again with the Tools icon F9.

OBTAINING DATA ON A SYSTEM

ASTRONOMICAL DATA

From the grid map, select the system you are interested in by using the
Arrow (Cursor) keys to move it into the middle of the screen where it will
be highlighted in green

Use the Data icon F6 and a schematic summary of all astronomical bodies in
the system will appear, if the system has been explored (Fig 33).

Use the mouse to pick out individual bodies on which you require
geographical and physical data including:

Average surface temperature.

Major starports.

Orbital period (which is the sidereal period measured in Earth days).
Average orbital radius.

Orbital eccentricity and inclination, measured relative to the rotational
plane of the central body.

Clicking away from the text returns you to the general system data.
Alternatively click on another body.

If you want to return to the grid map of the galaxy, use the Data icon F6
again or the Galactic Map icon F2.

When in Data mode F6 the icons F7, F8 and F10 have new functions, as
follows:

DATA ON ECONOMY OF SELECTEO SYSTEM The Economy icon F7 gives a breakdown of
imports, exports and illegal goods. Exports tend to be cheap and imports
expensive.

DATA ON SOCIAL STRUCTURE AND COORDINATES The Political icon F8 gives
relevant details on Government type, economy, allegiance and population.
Sector coordinates in the Galactic map are also given here.
 
CONFIGURATION OF ORBITS OF THE SELECTED SYSTEM While still in System Data
mode F6 use of the Orbital map icon F10, will allow you to see the orbital
configuration of the system you selected (Fig 34), To alter the viewing
angle. press the right-hand mouse button and move the mouse.

VIEWING ORBITS WITH RESPECT TO TIME The orbital map shows a `snapshot' of
the positions of bodies. Select the Forward or Rewind icons on the right
hand side of the screen to predict the position at different times. The
time and date shown at the bottom left hand side of the screen will change
The real time is displayed underneath it.
 
VIEWING A SPECIFIC BODY Click on a body which will then become central on
the screen and use the Zoom icons F7 and F8.

MANIPULATING THE SELECTED SYSTEM ORBITAL MAP

Select the Tools icon F9 and two different icons become available which
enable you to adjust the features of the grid.

The Orbital icon F9 removes or replaces the orbit lines.

The Information Text icon F10 removes or replaces the text on the screen.

To get out of the Orbital map, use the Map icon F2 to return to the
Galactic map.

THE GALACTIC VIEW 

This feature can be used to get an idea of perspective. While in Galactic
map mode, click on Galactic View icon F10 and a Creator's eye view of the
galaxy is shown (Fig 35).

At maximum zoom (showing 500 light year scale) each pixel represents a
single sector To zoom in and out use the Zoom icons F7 and F8 (Fig 36).
Note that the resolution is best while not zooming. When you stop zooming,
improvement of the first, coarse picture is made as quickly as possible by
the on board computer.

The Galactic Map icon F10 can be used to return to the Galactic map.

USING THE CURRENT SYSTEM MAP
----------------------------
 
VIEWING THE CONFIGURATION OF ORBITS

1. Select the Map icon F2 twice and a map of the system you are currently
  in is displayed, showing the configuration of the orbits (Fig 37).

2. Zoom in and out with the Zoom icons F7 and F8. 

3. Alter the viewing angle by holding down the right-hand mouse button and
  moving the mouse as for the Galactic map.

VIEWING ORBITS WITH RESPECT TO TIME

The orbital map shows a 'snapshot' of the positions of bodies. Select the
Forward or Rewind icons on the right of the view screen to predict the
positions at different times.  The time and date shown at the bottom
left-hand side of the screen will change. The real time is displayed
underneath it.

VIEWING A SPECIFIC BODY

Click on a body which will then become central on the screen and use the
Zoom icons F7 and F8

Note that the Autopilot can be targeted using the Current System map (see
the FLIGHT section on page 20).

MANIPULATING THE SYSTEM MAP

Select the Tools icon F9 and two different icons become available which
enable you to adjust certain features of the map.

The Orbital icon F9 will remove the Orbital paths.

The Information Text icon F10 will remove the names of the bodies.

OBTAINING PERMITS
-----------------

Some systems, such as those with a prison colony, require visitors to have
permits in order to enter the system. Any such requirements for a system
will be shown on the console when using the Galactic Map.

Permits are not widely available and you will find that they can only be
obtained indirectly.  This means that you must do business involving the
system in question, for example delivering a package, so that the client
must give you a permit.

FLIGHT
------

Your ship has three basic modes of flight: Autopilot, Manual and Engines
Off which can be selected by using the Flight Control icons F7 in View
mode.  The Autopilot is by far the easiest way to control your craft but
does not give you a sense of achievement. Manual flight may take some
getting used to, but is more rewarding. Flying with engines off does not
get you very far, but has some advantages as you will see.

THE AUTOPILOT

This most useful device, although not usually fitted as standard, has been
included with your Eagle.  It can be bought and fitted at a shipyard if
ever you need another one.  Your Autopilot, the Robocruise automatic
navigation system, superseded the Celestial Pathfinder which was less
reliable.

The Autopilot can only be used to select a destination in the system
through which you are currently travelling.  For longer journeys, a
hyperspace jump needs to be made

OPERATING AUTOPILOT IN VIEW MODE

The Autopilot can only be used when in flight.

Whilst in a View mode (use the View icon F1 if you are in another mode),
target a planet or space station which is on the screen by clicking on the
centre of the target Note that you will find it easier to find a target,
for example, a city, if the name is on screen. If names have been turned
off, select the Identification Text icon F10.

Clicking where there is no potential target deselects any previously
selected target.

When a target is selected a sight will come up with targeting squares and
the range in astronomical units or kilometres (Fig 38). If the target goes
off the screen an arrow will appear pointing in its direction. If it is
behind then Target Behind is displayed.
 
Use the Flight Control icon F7 and cycle through Manual and Engines Off
to Autopiiot.

The Autopilot icon will only appear if a target is selected.

OPERATING AUTOPILOT IN CURRENT SYSTEM MAP MODE

This mode can be used when the desired destination is too far away to be
visible.  A target can be selected even while landed or docked but the
Autopilot can only be engaged while in flight.

Use the Map icon F2 twice to obtain the Current System map.

Use the Current System map controls until yon can see the desired
destination on the screen

Click on the Targeting icon F10.

Click on the centre of the desired destination (Fig 39).

If you wish to change the target, click on the Targeting icon before
selecting another body. Clicking on bodies without selecting the Targeting
icon will merely move that body to the centre of the screen.

If you wish to deselect the target, click on an area which is blank. This
will also disengage the Autopilot if it is currently in control.

Return to View mode using the View icon F1. Targeting squares, looking
like a tunnel leading to the destination, will be visible, if in Front or
Rear View.

If you are in flight click on the Flight Control Icon F7 and cycle to
Autopilot to engage it. To return to Manual flight, use the Flight Control
icon F7 and cycle to Manual or Engines Off.
 
The Robocruise will automatically plot and maintain the course to your
destination.  It will also lower the undercarriage and dock or land for
you, having automatically asked for clearance, while you freshen up. Some
pilots find it disorientating when the Robocruise engages and swings the
ship round.  The true Spacehound knows that it is only locking on to the
new course.

Remember you can only trade and do business in cities or at space stations.
If you do land anywhere else the console will indicate Landed (Rough).

The Robocruise really comes into its own when used in conjunction with the
Stardreamer Time Control unit which is fitted as standard on all ships due
to regulations regarding Wilbron's psychosis. This condition is known to
afflict the space traveller who endures lengthy, uneventful journeys.
Boredom becomes so intense after all leisure pursuits have been exhausted
that pilots have been known to fly their craft into the odd star or planet
just to liven things up a bit.

USING THE STARDREAMER TIME CONTROL 
This can be used with the Robocruise or in Manual flight. Use the Time
Control icons (after targeting your destination if using the Robocruise) to
select the rate of time acceleration. Time appears to increase in steps of
ten from ten times to ten thousand times, depending on the icon selected.
Return to real time by selecting the single arrow.

Sit back and a combination of a Zilman field and ultrasonic waves induce a
semi- hypnotic state which renders you unaware of the passage of time other
than seeing the range indicator change rapidly in front of you. This
effect was discovered by Dr Rabbne by accident when he revised why his
projects were running over time for no apparent reason. Reassuringly, if
your ship is attacked or hailed or you have arrived at your destination,
the Stardreamer will restore you to full consciousness and real time.
Don't forget that your enemies may be operating in real time and hence will
seem to be sped up enormously.

HYPERSPACE JUMPS
----------------

Space is BIG and hyperspace jumps are necessary to access different systems
quickly.  Hyperspace jumps can be made using either Standard Hyperdrive or
Military Hyperdrive engines which can be bought at the Shipyard and come in
different sizes with varying ranges.  Refer to APPENDlX ONE: SHIPYARD
EQUIPMENT on page 69 for a description of them.

A hyperspace jump causes a disturbance resulting in a glowing field at the
entry and exit points.  A Hyperspace Cloud Analyser can determine the
destination of the jumping ship (See APPENDIX ONE: SHIPYARD EQUIPMENT on
page 69) Before attempting your first jump, it is recommended that you read
the whole of this section.

RANGE

The range of the jump is determined by two things: fuel and the type and
class of engine.  Details of these are given in the TRADING section for
fuel on page 55 and APPENDIX ONE: SHlPYARD EQUIPMENT for engines on page
74.  Briefly the engines range depends on its class as well as the size of
the ship.

Engine ranges are displayed in two ways:

On the Inventory page select the Inventory icon F8 until the Ship Equipment
appears where the engine's range will be given.

On the Galactic map (Galactic Map icon F2, displayed in the panel, to the
right of the system name.  If your engine is not up to jumping to the
destination selected, the mssage Out of Range will be given.

Fuel range is shown in two ways:

The amount of fuel required for a jump is displayed at the bottom left of
the Galactic map.  If you have insufficient fuel then Insufficient Fuel
will also be displayed otherwise the fuel which will be used will be shown.

On the Galactic map, a pink circle will surround the system you are
currently in and this shows your maximum range for hyperspace in a single
jump.

JUMP DURATION

Although the perceived duration of a jump is very short, the actual time is
much greater It takes a week to make the maximum range jump for any engine.
For example an engine with a maximum range of 1O lightyears will take a
week to jump that far or 3.5 days for a 5 light year jump, and so on. A
ship with a maximum hyperspace jump range of 4 light years will take half a
week to jump only 2 light years. This has implications for piracy because
a pirate ship with a Hyperspace Cloud Analyser and a lighter ship can
'overtake' you and lie in wait. Contact in Hyperspace is not possible.

HYPERSPACE OPERATION

Target a system using the Galactic Map icon. by placing the required
destination in the centre of the screen with the Arrow (Cursor) keys. That
system becomes highlighted in green.

Return to View mode using the View icon F1.

Select the Hyperspace icon F8 (it will not show if you have no hyperspace
facility or a valid jump is not selected) and cross your fingers. If you
like you can set your destination. go about your business and be able to
make a quick exit at any time if things hot up a bit. Alternatively, if
you use the H key you can make your jump (Fig 40) without going into View
mode first.

Remember that the evidence of your hyperspace jump will be visible to
anybody in the vicinity of your exit or entry, as it leaves a glowing area
of disturbance in space. The destination can only be ascertained with a
Hyperspace Cloud Analyser, available at shipyards.
 
There are a number of reasons why the Hyperspace icon may not appear,
they are as follows:

You are too close to a planet. Regulations were laid down after the first
few decades of hyperspace jumping.  Sudden above average recordings of
mutations around starports occurred a few years after jumps became routine.
It was discovered that the intense radiation caused by the jump was
affecting the population below.  It became a requirement by law (on all
sides) that all ships have a cutout system built into the Hyperdrive which
is activated if you try to jump from near to a planet or space station.

A valid destination is not selected.

You do not have enough fuel for a jump to the selected destination.

Engine is damaged or destroyed.

You don't have a Hyperdrive engine!

MIS-JUMPS

Hyperdrives almost never go wrong, but if you are unfortunate enough to
suffer a spontaneous misjump, you can get into serious trouble. You will
emerge somewhere other than your planned destination, which may be out of
range for your remaining fuel. It is even possible to mis-jump beyond the
maximum range of your drive. If indeed your fuel reserves are too low or
the Hyperdrive is broken, your only hope is to call for help (Communication
icon F4) and risk pirates responding. It is not entirely understood why
mis-jumps happen but an unserviced Hyperdrive is a likely culprit. There
are no reliable statistics available on the occurrences of mis-jumps as
most ships are never found. A missing ship could just as easily be the
result of piracy.

FORCED MIS-JUMPS

Faulcon De Lacey do not condone this practice as it has an unpredictable
effect on the Hyperdrive.  It is the equivalent of blindly jamming a
screwdriver into the works.  We feel that it needs to be mentioned as a
warning because foolish pilots do use it as a last resort to escape
pirates.  If they are being pursued by a larger pirate ship with a
Hyperspace Cloud Analyser they force a mis-jump by pressing the Alt key
while activating the Hyperspace icon or the F8 key. The pirates follow
them into hyperspace only to find that their quarry is nowhere to be seen
and is in fact somewhere else, frantically trying to work out exactly where
they are. The Hyperspace Cloud Analyser cannot distinguish a mis-jump from
a normal jump.

WASTE PRODUCTS

Unfortunately, the convenience of hyperspace travel is blighted with the
problem of waste products if you use military fuel. Due to the processes
in the Hyperdrive, every tonne of military fuel is converted to one tonne
of radioactives which you will need to dispose of on the stockmarket. See
APPENDIX TWO:  TRADE ITEMS on page 77 for more information. Standard
Hyperdrive engines powered by hydrogen fuel do not produce problematic
waste products.

USING MANUAL CONTROL 
--------------------

Due to the marked improvement of engineering technology the engines of the
craft are not controlled by the pilot directly, but by the on-board
computer in response to the pilot This fly by wire facility has enabled
many to take to the cockpit who would not have had the skill to do so.

The main problem for beginners is that they are usually accustomed to
driving surface based vehicles in reasonable gravity, or have only used
poor quality space flight simulators. What needs to be borne in mind is
that when direction is changed, the experience is rather like skidding. If
your ship is travelling in one direction changing course will mean that the
nose will turn but you still have momentum in the direction you were
originally going. The engines will compensate for this but there is a lag,
the duration of which will depend on the type of ship. For example the
response rate of a fighter will be faster than that of a heavy cargo ship.
This must be borne in mind at all times.

FUEL CONSUMPTION

Normal flight consumes much less fuel than hyperspace jumps and for that
reason fuel for this purpose is kept separately in an engine tank from the
hyperspace fuel (kept in the hold). Class 1 Engines hold one tonne, and
Class 2 Engines hold two tonnes. You do not need to refill very often and
the current level can be seen on the green gauge (left most of three) in
the dials area, to the right of the scanner. See INVENTORY ICONS in the
ICON section on page 8, and THE SHIP`S INVENTORY in the TRADING section on
page 60.

REFILLING THE ENGINE FUEL TANK

Spare fuel for refilling the engine tank is carried in the hold in one
tonne units.

To refuel the engine tank, select the Inventory icon F3 until the Ship
Equipment page is displayed. (Refuelling is done automatically with the
Auto Refueller fitted.)

Click on the Refuel button to transfer the fuel into the engine tank from
the hold.

If the engine tank only needs one third of a tonne, two thirds will be
wasted as the hold tank transfers units of one tonne only.

CONTROLS IN FLIGHT

TO MAKE THE SHIP DIVE Use the A key, push the joystick shaft forward or
move the mouse forwards while holding down the right-hand mouse button.

TO MAKE THE SHIP CLIMB Use the Z key, pull the joystick shaft back or move
the mouse backwards while holding down the right-hand mouse button.

TO GO LEFT Use the < key, move the joystick left or move the mouse to the
left while holding down the right hand mouse button.

TO GO RIGHT Use the > key move the joystick right or move the mouse to the
right while holding down the right hand mouse button.

Note that when flying with your engines off, the front and rear engines may
be controlled using the Enter and Shift keys respectively.

THE FRONT SCREEN

In Front View mode (see page 3 for a reminder) you will see two crosses on
your screen, One is a gun sight cross (Fig 47) which shows which way you
are facing, and the other is a diagonal cross, the velocity sight (Fig 48)
which indicates the direction in which you are travelling. When the two
are in line (Fig 49) it means that you are moving in the direction you are
pointing.  If they are separate, it means that your velocity is in the
direction of the diagonal cross and you are pointing in the direction of
the gun sight because, for example, you have suddenly changed course. you
will hear the engines fire until alignment is achieved, You may see the
velocity sight disappear when your direction of travel is not within the
area of the screen if, for example, you veer wildly and the engines have
not yet compensated enough.

To summarise, the gun sight shows the orientotion of the ship and is
controlled by the pilot, the velocity sight indicates the direction of
travel and is controlled by the on- board computer.

Your ship's internal gyros enable it to rotate, much like those in the
ancient Earth satellites, good examples of which are now in the space
museum in Apollonius City on the Moon. While greatly superior now, the
gyros still have a limit to the rate at which you can turn, so don't expect
to spin 'on a sixpence' (small coin used in Britain on Earth, about 1,200
years ago).

SPEED

Speed is controlled with the Return key to accelerate and the right-hand
Shift key to decelerate.  Two speed values are displayed on the screen:
Set speed and Actual speed (Fig 50). The first is the requested speed, set
by the keys above and the second is the speed relative to the most
important body in your vicinity. This important body can be a planet, star
or a space station or very large spaceship, and is selected by the on board
computer.  If you fly away from it and the computer then designates
another, the actual speed will change, as will the velocity.

You will notice that the velocity sight will move as the on-board computer
adjusts your speed relative to the new body. For those who are happy to
point your ship at something and go, this is all you need to know. Pilots
wishing to be accomplished in flight theory should refer to APPENDlX FOUR:
THE MECHANlCS OF SPACE FLIGHT on page 91.

ALTITUDE

An altitude reading in metres will be displayed on the screen when in close
proximity to a planet or star.  It will give your distance above the
average ground height of the body (Fig 50).

LAUNCHING
---------

SURFACE TAKE OFF

A warning sign is shown over the Take Off icon if permission to launch has
not been granted. If you are landed anywhere other than a starport (Landed
Rough) you do not need to ask for clearance. If you are in a starport
select the Communication icon F4 followed by Launch Request.

In View mode, activate the Right Control icon F7 for take off. This gives
you vertical thrust. The console will display Take Off.

This can seem quite slow so a faster ascent can be made if you tilt the
nose up once you have left the ground and increase your Set speed with the
Enter key. Using the rear view will display a pleasing panorama.

Once you have used forward thrust, the vertical thrust is turned off and
the console will display Manual Control.

Bear in mind that gravity will always pull you back down. If you wish to
fly in the atmosphere you must give the ship some lift by pointing the nose
up slightly thereby providing a small vertical component to the thrust.

LAUNCH FROM A DOCK

Activate the Commuication icon F4 and select Launch Request.

Accelerate forwards using the Enter key.

You must leave the area promptly because your clearance expires.

RUNNING WITH ENGINES OFF

If you are economising, turning off the engines has obvious advantages and
your engine flares wil not be visible to your enemies. It can make
manoeuvring easier when strafing a target. For example you can aim to fly
across a target and turning off the engines means you can point at it, go
sideways and shoot without the engines firing to propel you forward into
it.  Experienced pilots often use this mode in combat, using the forward
and reverse thrusters (Enter and Shift).

SLING SHOT ORBITS

This technique for gaining speed was important in the early days of space
flight, but now it is unecessary due to advances in space technology. The
only reasons to do this are because it can be visually pleasing to sweep
past a planet or sun so that you can say you`ve done it. A sling shot uses
to your benefit the gravity of large bodies to 'sling` your ship in the
direction of its travel. Your engines need to be turned off otherwise they
will compensate for any effect and it saves fuel as well.

LOSS OF ENGINES

If an engine is disabled, the Autopilot will not function properly and only
very experienced pilots will be able to fly the ship manually.

LANDING AND DOCKING
-------------------

LANDING MANUALLY AT A CITY WITH A BREATHABLE ATMOSPHERE (AN OUTDOOR CITY)

Executing a manual landing will require practice, so try it in a relatively
safe area. You may find it easier to use External View to align the ship.
Remember though that the ship will appear to be stationary and the ground
will seem to move.  You may also find it helpful to use the targeting
squares, obtained by setting your destination as a target (see THE
AUTOPILOT section on page 20 or the TARGETlNG section on page 36).

Normally the Autopilot flies to an area 20km above the target and descends
vertically.  You can set the controls to Manual flight using the Flight
Control icon F7 at any point in this operation. Alternatively you can fly
the entire approach and land manually (Fig 41).

The easiest method is to make a pass over the port while waiting for
clearance  (Communication  icon  F4)  and lowering the undercarriage
(Undercarriage icon F9).  If the undercarriage has not been lowered you
will crash land. When you have been told which landing pad to use, aim to
be more or less at zero speed when you come to rest above it. If you
select Engines Off, gravity will take you down, with the on board computer
stabilising the ship.  If there is little or no gravity, you may have to
thrust slightly with the nose down to start with, but be careful.

LANDING AT A CITY WITH NO BREATHABLE ATMOSPHERE

Follow the same guide lines as for an outdoor city with a breathable
atmosphere.  The only difference is the appearance of the landing area,
covered with a hexagonal airlock door (Fig 42). When clearance is granted,
the aperture will open to reveal the landing pad. Don`t ask for permission
too early or you will find that the clearance will be withdrawn and the
airlock shut.  Again, the targeting squares may be helpful by providing a
'tunnel' through which you can fly (see THE AUTOPILOT section on page 20 or
the TARGETlNG section on page 36).

DOCKING AT A SPACE STATION

Request permission for docking (Communication icon F4) and wait until the
red flashing light turns white and orange homing lights are visible it is
illegal to approach prematurely. The on board computer matches your roll
with that of the station so you do not have to make difficult calculations
in order to dock.  Position the ship immediatly in front of the docking
entrance and proceeding slowly (Fig 43).  The dock`s vechicle arrest
mechanisnm will halt the craft provided your speed is not excessive.


SECTION THREE COMBAT
====================


USING YOUR WEAPONS
------------------

Welcome to the manual!  (in case this is the first page you have turned
to).

While Faulcon de Lacy do not condone offensive combat, it is often
unavoidable.  The best defence is always to run away if at all possible
(though many cultures reject this as cowardly). Combat is very dangerous,
and rarely ends up without expensive repairs being necessary.

Weapons (like missiles) may be controlled via the Weapon Control Panel of
your ship (Fig 52) which may be selected by clicking on the scanner area
with the left hand mouse button, or pressing the F5 key.

This display replaces the scanner display (if fitted). The scanner may be
restored by clicking on the area again (away from any icons) or by pressing
the F5 key.  It should be borne in mind that keyboard shortcuts to the
Weapon Control Panel icons can still be used even if the Control Panel is
not currently selected.

As additional weapons and equipment are fitted to your ship, their icons
appear along the bottom of the panel. The icon boxes will remain blank
until you have obtained the equipment. As you buy missiles and mines, they
will be illustrated next to the icon boxes as shown above. It is
recommended that you read APPENDIX ONE: SHIPYARD EQUIPMENT on page 69 for
more technical information before buying anything.

TARGETING 
Targeting is used for both long range navigation (see the NAVlGATION FLIGHT
section on page 11) and combat. One target can be set at a time.

Using the screen in Front, Rear, External or Turret View mode F1, click on
the centre of the ship to be targeted.

If you are in external or Turret View a sight on the target will appear
together with the range (Fig 53).

If you are in Front or Rear View you will be presented with the Targeting
Tunnel on your headup display (Fig 54). This is displayed as a series of
contracting squares along the path to the target, and looks like a tunnel.
The range of the target is given in Astronomical Units AU or kilometres km.
Targeting Tunnels are not normally shown for ships as they can be
confusing. They may be enabled by using the 'Preferences'.

In order to pursue the ship you fly down the tunnel. As you get closer to
the target the squares will be shown closer together, thus the squares will
come towards you faster. If you are approaching a stationary target then
ideally the squares should pass at a constant rate, as you slow down on the
final approach.

If the target goes off screen an arrow will indicate the direction in which
it lies, or, if it is behind your ship, Target Behind will show.

To deselect the target, click on a blank area that is not a potential
target.

You may also select another target at any time by clicking on another
object

Some pilots may find the 'tunnel' an annoyance. If you are one of these
refer to the Preferences sheet supplied separately from this manual.

OFFENSIVE WEAPONS
-----------------

Quite often, the best form of defence is attack, hence Faulcon de Lacy do
provide what may be considered offensive weapons. It should be made clear
that they should only be used in a defensive capacity against an attacker -
Faulcon de Lacy in no way condone any other use.

PULSE LASERS AND BEAM LASERS
One laser (or other gun) can be mounted at the front of your ship and, for
ships with a rear mounting, one at the rear. Some larger ships are fitted
with turret, which can each take a single weapon. There is a wide range to
choose from (see APPENDIX ONE: SHIPYARD EQUIPMENT section on page 69),
though the full range will only be available at the biggest shipyards. It
is rumoured that the military of both sides have developed additional
weapons for their own use, but this is usually denied.

A Pulse Laser fires a single high energy pulse about once every 5/8 of a
second, while a Beam Laser fires a continuous beam, so is far more
devastating.  Even small lasers are reasonably effective up to 8km range,
but their effectiveness decreases with distance, as the beam spreads
slightly. It is recommended that you get your shots in at as short a range
as possible, for maximum efficiency.

Beware of laser reflections from certain types of surface, especially when
at a glancing angle, Though the beam may have lost much of its energy it
can still cause serious damage. There are also words that the Imperial
Navy are developing reflective armour, which reflects much of a laser's
energy back along the incoming path, though this is strongly denied.

OPERATING PULSE OR BEAM LASERS

Lasers are fired by pressing both mouse buttons together, the Spacebar on
the keyboard or the fire button on the joystick. The front mounted laser
will fire if you are in Front View mode F1, the rear laser if in Rear View
mode, and the appropriate turret laser if in a Turret View mode. If you
are in External View, then the front laser will be used irrespective of any
other lasers fitted.

It is quite common for lasers to overheat, particularly with more excitable
pilots and with the higher power beam lasers. It is unlikely you will do
your laser any damage by this as it is protected by an automatic cut out to
prevent it burning out, but it may stop working for a few seconds.

LASER COOLING BOOSTER

This reduces the problem of lasers overheating at that vital moment. It
supplements the built in cooling system of your currently selected laser,
causing it to cool more rapidly. It does not affect Plasma Accelerators.

USING MISSILES

If you want a quiet life, be careful who or what you use as target
practice.  When the time comes to use one of these devices, proceed as
follows:

Arm the missile of your choice by clicking on one of the missile icons.
The console will show the type of missile or mine you have armed. You can
arm only one missile at a time so if you click again on a different
missile, you will be arming that one and disarming the previous one.

A Fire icon also appears. Clicking on this or pressing the M key on the
keyboard fire the armed missile at your target, but it is important to
remember that you can only firew if a target has been selected.

Disarming is simply achieved by clicking on the missile in question or
clicking on an another weapon.

All types of missile will home in on their selected target as rapidly as
their incredible 65g acceleration ZX34 Short Burn engine will allow.
Nevertheless they have limited fuel (enough for about one minute of flight)
so pilots do sometimes evade them. It is best to fire the missile from as
close to the target as you dare. Ideally while facing it. If the target
is behind, the missile will turn around, but this will waste precious
flight time, and give the target ship more time to use ECM if it has it.

The missile will detonate on hitting any solid object (including the ship
that fired it) but will attempt to avoid such non target objects if
possible. It does not need to hit the target in order to detonate - it may
detonate in close proximity and do almost as much damage. Due to an
international treaty it will also detonate when it runs out of fuel. A
small village was once destroyed by a missile which had been flying through
space for months, following the battle in which it was fired.

USING MINES

Mines operate just like missiles, but without drive systems. They need to
have an assigned target since they also will detonate in the proximity of
that target without necessarily hitting it. Mines are also susceptible to
detonation by ECM.  Dummy Mines are a relatively recent innovation, and
still contain machinery internally in order to fool radar scans, hence
their weight.  They are also visually indistinguishable from normal mines
so, although they are safe to scoop back up again, beware of accidentally
scooping a live mine instead, as the scoop mechanism will cause it to
detonate.

ENERGY BOMB 
Generally only of use against smaller ships. This causes the main reactor
of all small ships' drive systems (within a range of about 100km) to
resonate and overload. it is linked to the drive of the ship using it, so
will not cause that to detonate. Operated with the Energy Bomb icon (Fig
56) on the Weapon Control Panel, or from the keyboard with the B key.

LARGE AND SMALL PLASMA ACCELERATOR

These are very large weapons, usually carried by large naval cruisers and
battlestations, and are sometinmes carried by large trading ships and
passenger liners in the more dangerous regions of space. They are used in
the same way as lasers and take up a gun mounting. After firing, they take
a few seconds to recharge. Two sizes are commonly available, imaginatively
named 'Large' and 'Small'. Even a Small Plasma Accelerator will destroy a
well armed hundred tonne ship with a single shot. The large version has
been known to be used as a planetary assault weapon, destroying selected
areas of cities from orbit. This has a devastating effect on the local
population, because the terrifying noise of the beam cutting through the
atmosphere can be heard for hundreds of kilometres, and will deafen anyone
unprotected in the vicinity.

DEFENSIVE AND OTHER EOUIPMENT
-----------------------------

ECM SYSTEM

This destroys all active Mines and Homing Missiles in the vicinity (within
about 100km) It is operated with the ECM icon from the Weapon Control
Panel, or with the E key from the keyboard. Do not be alarmed if it causes
interference on your main display.

NAVAL ECM SYSTEM

A superior version of the standard ECM system, which can also destroy Smart
Missiles and has a greater range (about 200km). This may also cause
interference on your main display. This is operated with the Naval ECM
icon from the Weapon Control Panel, or with the E key. If both ECM systems
are fitted, then Naval ECM is used in preference.  The only slight
advantage in having both systems fitted is that if the Naval ECM breaks
down or is destroyed, then you can use the standard unit.

AUTOMATIC HULL SEALING

All hulls have an automatic sealing system, fitted as standard, thanks to
Faulcon Hermeseal.  It is comprised of two separate layers of resin under
high pressure in the hull. When the layers are breached the substances
expand and mix to form a very durable foam likepatch. This prevents the
whole hull being explosively decompressed from a single shot.

HULL AUTOMATIC REPAIR SYSTEM

This gradually completely reverses hull damage, but it is so big that only
larger ships can have one fitted. See APPENDIX ONE: SHIPYARD EQUIPMENT
section on page 73.

SHIELD GENERATOR

This will protect against energetic weapons like lasers and missiles. It
is not much good with collisions. If a ship that has a Shield Generator is
hit by a weapon, the field will glow in a colour depending on the strength
of the shield. At full charge, the field will glow a bluish white but will
progress through to yellow, orange and finally red as it is discharged.
While the shield is active, no damage will get through to the hull. If
your ship has shields, they work automatically and the percentage of the
charge remaining if not 100 per cent, will be indicated on the top left of
the screen.  More than one shield Generator may be fitted to a ship at
once, and their shielding effect is additive.

ENERGY BOOSTER UNIT

This large unit increases the rate that all Shield Generators currently
fitted to your ship recharge. Only recommended for larger ships with a
large number of Shield Generators because of its size.

TACTICS AND PLANNING
--------------------

It is vital to know what your enemy is up to, so you can avoid getting into
combat with them. There are several different ways of doing this.

CHECKING UP ON THE COMPETITION

USING THE SCANNER 
This device, usually provided as standard by Faulcon de Lacey, shows the
relative positions of ships and other objects in your vicinity. The
holographic display shows the other objects as coloured blobs above or
below the plane of your ship, with a coloured line drawn to that plane.
The plane of your ship is shown as a red circle with a grid on it (seen in
perspective when viewed from the pilot's seat), with two lines drawn on it
to show the extremity of your front view. The colour of the blob reflects
the mass of the ship or object.

BLUE   1- 15t
GREEN  16- 31t
MAGENTA 32- 63t
RED   64-111t
ORANGE 112-159t
YELLOW 160-207t
GREY  208-299t
WHITE  300t+

USING THE RADAR MAPPER 
This provides you with additional information about your current target,
such as the number of Shield Generators it has fitted, their current charge
level, the ship's maximum hyperspace range and any important equipment such
as Energy Bombs and Hyperspace Cloud Analyser. It will also check if the
ship matches any on the Wanted Criminals list, and if so will show any
bounty that is offered.  This bounty will be paid into your account
automatically, when the destruction of the ship is recorded by your
on-board computer.  No bounty will be paid for a ship if the Radar Mapper
has not first identified it, since proof of identity is needed

To operate the Radar Mapper:

Make sure you are in View mode by using the View icon F1.

Target a ship by clicking on it using the left hand mouse button. If the
selected target is not a ship then no information will be shown.

Select the Radar Mapper icon (Fig 60) on the Weapons Control Panel and
information will be displayed at the top right of the headup display (Fig
61) on your target until the Radar Mapper is deselected.

To deselect this facilicy, use the icon again.

To deselect the target, click away from the ship where there is no
potential target.

USING THE HYPERSPACE CLOUD ANALYSER 
This device is commonly used by pirates to identify the destination of
their quarry, and also by police forces and bounty hunters. If your ship
has a greater hyperspace range than the one you are chasing (use the Radar
Mapper and your Ship Equipment Inventory page to determine this), then you
will arrive at the destination before them if you left at the same time.
 
It gives their hyperspace destination, the ship's mass is also shown and
the exact Galactic Mean Time and date at which they will arrive.

Make sure you are in View mode by using the View icon F1.

Target a hyperspace remnant by clicking on it using the left hand mouse
button.  If the selected target is not a hyperspace remnant then no
information will be shown.

Select the Hyperspace Cloud Analyser icon (Fig 62) on the Weapons Control
Panel and information will be displayed at the top right hand corner of the
headup display until the Hyperspace Cloud Analyser is deselected.

To deselect this facility, use the icon again.

To deselect the target, click away from the ship where there is no
potential target.

To follow the ship, use the Galactic Map icon F2 to jump to the same
destination (see the NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section on page 11), As long as
you enter hyperspace not too long after your quarry then you will leave
hyperspace at a similar position.

Once out of hyperspace, use the Stardreamer Time Control (see the
NAVIGATION AND FLlGHT section on page 22) to wait until the likely time of
arrival of your quarry. The Hyperspace Cloud Analyser information is quite
accurate, so if the predicted time has been exceeded by about a minute,
then your quarry will not arrive.  They must have mis-jumped (whether
intentionally or not) and there is no way you can find them.

BROADCASTING MESSAGES

While in flight you can hail other ships using the Communication icon F4.
A range of messages for broadcasting will be presented on your headup
display (Fig 64).  For example you can demand surrender if you are
fortunate enough to be in such a position.  If your ship is on the
receiving end of aggression you can call for assistance, but there is a
risk some pirates listen for a call of distress and will home in on it like
a spider to a fly. If you have broken down the dilemma is the same, but
calling for help may be the only option open to you.

MAKING A RUN FOR IT

You will discover that there are many bigger and more heavily armed ships
than yours and a ship to ship fight may be foolish. Faulcon De Lacey do
not advocate illegal evasive measures and feel that going down in a blaze
of glory is more memorable for your loved one than a prison sentence. If
posthumous praise is not appealing, an escape capsule could be your answer.

ESCAPE CAPSULES 
An escape capsule is not fitted as standard and needs to be obtained from
the shipyard.  It is not a capsule as such but is a modification that
allows  your  cockpit  section  to break off as a separate craft.
Unfortunately leaving any crew members passengers and cargo behind. It
flies to the nearest starport under a cut down Autopilot, and can be used
only once.  For this reason, it comes with an insurance policy which is
automatically cashed in for a basic Eagle Long Range Fighter to replace
your abandoned ship.

The capsule has no weapons or hyperspace facility. You may ask why your
enemy isn`t going to shoot at you. It is considered to be extremely bad
form to shoot at escape capsules because they are much too easy a target,
and most pilots realise that some day they may need to use one. It has
been known though, that some pilots are not bothered by image and will pick
you off anyway. Another problem is ships scooping up escape capsules and
selling the occupant into slavery. This is severely frowned upon by both
the Elite Federation of Pilots and the Federation itself. To release the
capsule, you select the Escape Capsule icon on the Weapons Control Panel,
or use the X key on the keyboard.

HYPERSPACE 
Jumping into hyperpace is often sufficient to evade pirates, but a pirate
with a fast ship may use their Hyperspace Cloud Analyser to chase you into
hyperspace and, if they have a faster ship, may even arrive at your
destination before you do.

ILLEGAL AND RISKY PRACTICES 
You may notice others committing offences in order to remain alive and we
feel compelled to explain their erroneous behaviour in order to discourage
you from copying them. One tactic is the highly risky Hyperspace Mis-jump
and this can be found in the NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section on page 25.
Another is to jettison cargo in the hope that any ship following will give
up the chase in order to scoop it up. This is explained in the TRADE
section on page 59. Remember it is illegal to jettison any cargo.

COMBAT AND SERVICE RATINGS
--------------------------

ELITE RATING

Your rating as a pilot is displayed if you use the Inventory icon F3, and
cycle through to Commander Profile (Fig 66).

You are given a rating by the Elite Federation of Pilots which is
calculated from the number and type of kills recorded by the on board
computer.  For example, shooting up a heavily armed ship will a mass a
large number of points. Many have disapproved of using kills in order to
calculate this rating as it can lead to illegality. In older times much
store was set by this as you had to be able to fight to survive, so
shooting down others was seen as a mark of skill and bravery. Great
respect is still held for the rating in the outer systems, where the way of
life still reflects that of the past of the inner, now more civilised,
systems.  For historical reasons therefore, the method of rating has been
preserved. The categories are as follows, in order of merit:

ELITE RATINGS

Harmless      Above Average
Mostly Harmless  Competent
Poor        Dangerous
Below Average   Deadly
Average      ELITE

MEDALS

If homicide is not your scene, medals are awarded by the Federation or the
Empire  for  particularly  heroic deeds.  Medals include the humble
Certificate of Valour and the highly respected Imperial Celestial Warrior
medal.  These are also shown on the Commander Profile page of the
Inventory.

MILITARY RANK

Both the Federation and the Empire give military ranks for services
rendered although these are known as titles in the Empire. An individual
can gradually progress up the ranks even from purely mercenary missions,
receiving promotions after sustained loyal service. Usually these ranks
are mutually exclusive as each of the superpowers does not tolerate its
officers working for the other power (though work for the independant
worlds is usually allowed).

FEDERAL RANKS             IMPERIAL TITLES
None      Lieutenant       Outsider     Viscount
Private     Lieutenant Commander  Serf       Count
Corporal    Captain        Master      Earl
Sergeant    Commodore       Sir       Marquis
Sergeant Major Rear Admiral      Squire      Duke
Major      Admiral        Lord       Prince
Colonel                Baron

LEGAL RATING

Before you start shooting at everything that moves in order to improve your
rating consider your legal status. Data is collected by the three police
forces:  The Federal Security Service (of the Federation), the Imperial
Guard (of the Empire) and interpol (that of the Independent Systems). The
latter was set up after the Federation and Empire became established as
superpowers, and the world leaders that wished to remain free of both got
together and decided to set up their own police force. This was largely to
avoid the independent worlds becoming a dumping ground for criminals.
Remember what you do and who you work for will almost certainly be noticed
by someone.


SECTION FOUR THE SHIPYARD
=========================


SHOPPING FOR SHIPS AND PARTS
----------------------------

The shipyard on any planet or station is where you can contact the police
to pay any outstanding fines or buy equipment for your ship, have parts
fitted and removed, repairs made or even part exchange your ship. The
range on offer depends where you are, so you may have to shop around. For
example a low population area is not going to have a vast selection of
hardware for your ship.  Having used the Communications icon F4, select
Shipyard and you will be presented with a list of services (Fig 67).

UPGRADING THE SHIP OR REMOVING PARTS FOR CASH

Click on Upgrades. The screen will show items for sale with options to Fit
or Remove them and the prices for doing so (Fig 68).

Select Fit or Remove buttons for the item of interest, and your cash total
at the bottom left of the screen will change accordingly.

If the complete list of available items is too long to be shown in its
entirety, use the More... arrows to look through it.

Use of the Go Back...  button will return you to the Shipyard and the
Communications icon F4 will return you to the Services list. Equipment is
fitted or removed while you wait and the process is fully automated.

NOTE FOR FITTING GUNS

For guns, if your ship has more than one mounting you will be asked where
you want the gun fitted. Old campaigners may recall that left and right
mounts were once available but this was outlawed after so many people found
that they were accidentally shooting their own their friends or, more
embarrassingly, the police, due to the impracticality of using them.

DECIDING WHAT TO BUY OR REMOVE

Each ship has only so much space in the hull and out of this, room has to
be made for the engine, guns, fuel, cabins, cargo and so on. The
proportion that these items take up depends on your needs, for example a
fast courier ship's engine will dominate the hull.

Alternatively, if you are interested in having a more deadly ship than a
fast one, engine size can be sacrificed for weapons. All items are rated
for weight which is equivalent to the space they occupy, any space left can
be used for cargo.  If a particular shipyard does not sell a piece of
equipment, repairs or removal cannot be carried out because the tools
required will not be available either.

SHIPS EQUIPMENT INVENTORY

A list of equipment on board can be obtained by using the Inventory icons
F3.  Cycle through the pages until you find Ship Equipment Status. The
picture of your craft will show any externally visible items.

REPAIRS, SERVICING AND BREAKDOWNS

Equipment is usually very reliable but will become more unreliable with
age, so servicing is important. It can be done at any time, and the longer
you leave it the more likely a problem is to occur, so delay at your peril.
Shipyards vary in the service they give, so you may find that your ship
suffers from poorly fitted parts and shoddy repairs.  If an item of
equipment breaks down it will not function and will be shown on the Ship`s
inventory page (Inventory icon F3) in faded text until is has been
repaired.  If a particular shipyard does not sell a piece of equipment,
repairs cannot be carried out because the tools required will not be
available either.

Having a piece of equipment repaired or serviced:

Select the Communications icon F4.

From the list choose Shipyard followed by Repairs and Servicing.

You will be presented with a list of servicing options.

NEW AND RECONDITIONED SHIP HULLS

This mode allows you to part exchange your ship for another. It is
standard procedure to strip a ship of its extras before selling it, as the
only optional item which affects your trade in value is the Hyperdrive.
New ships come with 1t of the appropriate fuel in the internal tank,
whatever the size of the tank.

Via the Comnmunications icon F4 select Shipyard followed by New and
Reconditioned Ship Hulls

The ships on offer will be listed with sale details.

You may elect to Buy or to View the ship first. Note that the types of
ship on offer in a system will differ according to political allegiance,
population and types of visitor.
 
Additional ship information is provided when selecting View including
mountings crew and hyperspace range.

TAKING ON CREW MEMBERS

When you buy a larger ship, it may require extra crew in order to fly it.
Without them it will not be able to take off. It is not necessary to buy
extra cabins because they come with the ship if it needs multiple
personnel. You must hire the crew members through the Bulletin Board using
the Communication icon F4 (see the TRADING section on page 61). When they
are hired, a page called Crew Roster appears in the inventory mode
(Inventory icon F3, see the ICONS section on page 8), and will list all
crew members You can also fire them using this page, but only when you are
in dock.

Crew members will cost you the fun of the ride isn't enongh. Wages will be
deducted by direct debit from your bank account. Wages are sometimes
negotiable but are generally quite high because there is a certain amount
of danger for crew members. For example, should you decide that you need
to use your escape capsule, the crew are left behind. Remember, you get
what you pay for.


SECTION FIVE TRADING
=====================

BUY! SELL!

Trading is a simple process thanks to an agreement between the Empire and
the  Federation that allows free trade within all systems via the
stockmarkets.  After all the cold war has to be supplied and fuelled by
something. There are also private markets which may be more lucrative, but
are sometimes risky. Each will be explained in turn.

TRADING ON THE STOCKMARKET

You need to go to a city or space station in order to trade on the
stockmarket.  You cannot trade in flight but at least you will be safe
whilst trading.

Select the Communication icon F4 at the bottom of your console. and a list
of options will appear

Select Stockmarket from the menu, and you will be presented with a
selection of items (Fig 72).  Click on the down More... arrow and any
remainder of the list will be given.

The screen displays Buy and Sell buttons, price per tonne, stock on the
market and the amount of cargo (in tonnes) that you have at present in your
hold

Before trading read the information on the items below. Note that only
legal items will be listed. For illegal goods you will have to use the
private market (see THE BULLETIN BOARD section on page 61).

BUYING

To buy one tonne of a chosen item, activate the button corresponding to the
item of your choice in the Buy column. Your console will show the item you
have selected. One click will auto load one tonne into your hold. Holding
down the button will buy multiple tonnes at an accelerating rate.

If you want to revise your transaction, the Sell button will subtract from
your stock. There is no charge for changing your mind during trade but you
must make a decision reasonably quickly.

UNSUCCESSFUL TRANSACTIONS

You will be unsuccessful if:

Your cargo hold is full (indicated at the bottom left of the screen under
Cargo Space). See also THE SHIPS INVENTORY section on page 60.

You have insufficient money (indicated at the bottom left of the screen
under Cash)

The stock is not available.

Information on all situations will be displayed on your console.

SELLING

This is a similar operation to buying, but using the Sell button. Your
stock level will be automatically decreased as you sell. A mistake can be
changed using the Buy button or which there is no charge but if you delay
too long, someone else may buy first.

You will be unsuccessful if your own stock runs out, which will be shown on
your console. See also THE SHIPS INVENTORY section on page 60.

STOCK AND PRICES

The stock level indicated on the console is that on the stockmarket, not
the private market which has its own separate holding. Prices are brought
to you by Zebulon Intergalactic Trading Corporation (ZITCO), and are
updated each midnight Galactic Mean Time (GMT). Galactic time was adopted
after the signing of the treaty between the Empire and the Federation.
Hostilities between them cannot be conducted if one party does not turn up
because they have calculated the time incorrectly. If the stock level
falls due to demand, the local price may rise. If a ship arrives with a
large cargo of grain say, when it sells this onto the market, the price of
grain may fall at the next midnight price adjustment.

TRADING AND THE STARDREAMER TIME CONTROL

Prices are changed every midnight which may be a bit frustrating if you are
in a hurry Use of the Time Control icons activates the Stardreamer which
will appear to speed up time. There is a description of this Device in the
NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section on page 22. Remember that your enemies are
also going to be sped up so only use this when it is safe to do so, though
even on an open air station, you will be protected by the station's own
defences.  Remember also that the station makes a small charge every
midnight for your stay.

CHOOSING WHAT TO TRADE

Systems all have their own production and consumption, imports and exports
Generally the price of imports will be higher than the Galactic average and
that of exports lower than average. For example a farming area will have
cheap grain, so it will be a good place to buy in order to sell to an area
that has no grain production;

A listing of imports and exports for a given system can be found by using
the Data icon F6 (see the NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section on page 15).
Information on illegal goods will also be found there.

CHOOSING WHERE TO TRADE

The Galactic Map (Galactic Map icon F2) shows a number of recommended trade
routes (lined in pink) updated by ZITCO in 3195. Faulcon De Lacey take no
responsibilty for any inaccuracies for this reason. A map with the trade
routes has also been supplied with this manual,

It is always worth looking at the political and economical details of a
system before possibly wasting fuel (see the NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section
on page 15) Items that are in abundance in a star system will be relatively
cheap to buy.  Conversley items that are in short supply will be more
expensive and worth selling there.

CASH

Your funds are indicated under Cash at the bottom left hand corner of the
screen.  They are safe if your ship is destroyed thanks to an automatic
banking system.  if you run out of cash you could sell your ship for a
smaller one or sell off a piece of equipment. It may be worth looking for
offers of insurance from the Bulletin Board.

JETTISONING AND SALVAGING GOODS

This is an illegal practice but is occasionally necessary. Certain goods
are damaged by this act and this needs to be taken into consideration when
salvaging such cargo.

The following changes will occur:

Live animals will become animal meat

Slaves die and are officially used as fertilizer but rumour has it that the
bodies are finding their way onto the animal meat market.

Liquor, luxury goods, grain, fruit and vegetables are all turned into
rubbish.

Sometimes containers will explode unpredictably when released due to
irregularities introduced during their manufacture.

JETTISONING

Select the inventory icon F3 and cycle to the Cargo Inventory section,
which displays jettison buttons (Fig 73). Activate the button next to the
goods which will be ditched one tonne at a time.

SALVAGING

You cannot salvage jettisoned goods unless you have bought a Fuel Scoop and
a Cargo Scoop Conversion. If you have such equipment, manoevre so that the
cargo item is immediately in front of the scoop and move forwards slowly
relative to it.

SHIP'S INVENTORY
----------------

This gives a more detailed account of your cargo and passengers, and is
obtained by using the Inventory icon F3. Clicking on this icon cycles
through seven pages of information for your perusal including:

SHIP EQUIPMENT STATUS
Lists weapons and equipment currently fitted to the ship. See the SHIPYARD
section on page 51 for details of individual items. It also shows the
level of fuel in the engines which is distinct from the hyperspace fuel
(see FUEL CONSUMPTION in the NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section on page 26).

COMMANDER PROFILE
Lists awards and grading. See the COMBAT section on page 47.

CREW ROSTER
Lists any crew members (on larger ships only). See the SHIPYARD section on
page 53.

CARGO INVENTORY
Your cargo is listed if you have any. Jettison on tonne of any item by
clicking on the relevant button.

PASSENGER AND SMALL ITEMS
This lists the names of your passengers or clients, the number of persons
on board, any small packages and the destination and how much money you are
still owed from the deal.

OUTSTANDING CONTRACTS LIST
This shows contracts taken on but not yet completed. Those which involve
carrying parcels and passengers are listed on the Passenger And Small Items
page.

MINING INSTALLATIONS
Lists the locations of all active mining installations owned, See the
MINING section on page 65.

Note: the pages will not be shown if there is nothing on them.

THE BULLETIN BOARD
------------------

This is a collection of small advertisements for trading, services and
requests for passage, amongst other things. You will find other types of
advertisements so it is worth a browse. It is also possible to contact the
military, its allegiance depending on the system you are in.

TRADE IN LEGAL ITEMS

Some individuals trade on the Bulletin Board in preference to the
Stockmarket, and taking a risk with them may benefit you. There may be ads
for specific items which a person needs urgently that cannot be bought on
the Stockmarket, so they are prepared to pay over the odds for them. You
may earn more money this way than simply selling directly on to the
Stockmarket.

Select the Communications icon F4
 
Select Bulletin Board and look for advertisements stating WANTED (Fig
74).

TRADE IN ILLEGAL ITEMS

Of course being a law abiding citizen you will not be engaging in this, but
in order to understand the criminal mind better you ought to know the
typical procedure.

Select the Communication icon F4.

Select Bulletin Board and took for advertisements stating Goods Bought and
Sold Though there may not be any in a particular place or that day, The
More...  arrows will allow viewing of the ads which on a given day don't
fit on the screen.

Click on the button for the Goods Bought and Sold advertisement you are
interested in and a list will appear of all the illegal goods available.

Trade in a similar way to the stockmarket.

The police, although aware of this practice, will not shut it down. Not
only do they take a cut in profits but they often use it to their
advantage.  Traps are laid in the form of advertisements and the astute
criminal will get to know their characteristics. once successful trading
has taken place, there is always the threat of customs officials, not that
you will ever have anything to hide of course.

CARRYING PASSENGERS

People may place ads asking for passage for themselves or a group to a
stated destination.  If you want to do this, you need sufficient cabin
space on your ship, which may mean extra outlay for you. See THE SHIPYARD
section on page 50, where upgrading your ship is explained.

TAKING UP A REQUEST

On the bulletin board via the Communication icon F4, look for the
appropriate advert and select it (Fig 76).

Choose one of the responses presented to you, for example one response
might ask why they are prepared to pay so much.

The answer comes up on the console at the bottom.

If you want to make a deal, click on "OK- agreed" at the top of the list of
responses

The passengers will appear on your passenger list.

Payment is normally made on arrival at your clients' destination, although
some will pay half up front or even all!

CARRYING PACKAGES

To act as a courier, negotiate in the same way as for passengers after
finding adverts for transporting packages. A package is deemed to take up
negligible space in your cargo hold and of course does not need a life
support system.

TAKING ON CREW

If you ever buy a larger ship, it may require extra crew which are also
obtained through the Bulletin Board small advertisements. More details
about your contract with them can be found under TAKING ON CREW MEMBERS in
THE SHIPYARD section on page 53.


SECTION SIX MINING
===================

THERE'S GOLD IN THEM THAR HILLS
-------------------------------

If you prefer a solitary life, then mining is for you. This occupation
entails travelling from place to place collecting ore. There are two types
of mining: Asteroid Mining and Surface Mining, both have their merits and
drawbacks.

ASTEROID MINING

Asteroid mining is an old method but it is tried and tested. It is the
easiest and cheapest way of obtaining ore and requires you to have a 30 MW
Mining Laser, Fuel Scoop and a Cargo Scoop Conversion. You simply blast an
asteroid with the laser then fly over the bits of asteroid and the Scoop
collects as much ore as you can accommodate in the cargo bay. Not all
asteroids are mineral rich though, so you may end up with a bay full of
rubbish.

SURFACE MINING

Once you are established, this type of mining is a more predictable means
of getting ore. It does, however, demand a large initial outlay in order
to acquire the installations and possibly a larger ship (minimum of 30
tonnes of free cargo space) to transport them The only recommended device
is the MB4 Mining Machine which, alas is still not widely available. The
MB4 is impressive in that it not only mines but also refines the material,
so you put it in place, leave it and come back to pick up the results. The
MB4 can mine, separate and refine minerals, alloys and even on occasions
precious metals and gem stones.

The disadvantage is the risk of mining others' claims, resulting in an
aggresive response to your activities. In some areas it is illegal to mine
and police, depending their mood, may not be too interested in maintaining
a public image of fairness and understanding and may blast you to pieces.

SETTING UP YOUR WB4

Choose a mining site with a temperature below 200 degrees Centigrade. The
most likely suitable locations will be on systems' inner planets which are
more likely to be mineral rich. Ones which humans have hardly touched are
more likely to be mineral rich as machines like the MB4 and its
predecessors are very thorough, and will have scoured most of the surface
of core worlds by now. To test the composition of the crust, you need to
land.

Land at the chosen site and select the Weapons Control Panel by clicking on
the Scanner

Activate the Unload Rig icon (Fig 78) which will cause the mining rig to be
unloaded whereupon it will analyse a sample of the crust and relay the
results to your on board computer. If the prospects are good it will bed
itself in and begin drilling immediately. You may then take off and come
back later once it has mined the full capacitv of 10 tonnes.

FINDING THE MB4 AGAIN

All the mines have a beacon which has your own coded signal allowing the
computer to pin-point its position. If you pick up someone else's rig,
your computer will automatically register the code of the owner. All other
rigs belonging to them in this star system will then be shown on your
inventory page. This means that stealing ore is possible however the same
can be done to you. A safeguard is to avoid placing numerous rigs in one
system, so that they are not so easily found should one of your rigs be
purloined. Your beacons will use a different code in each system.

Select the Inventory icon F3 and cycle through until you come to the Mining
Installations page (Fig 79). It will list your rigs and their location.

Fly to the Star system in which a particular rig is situated.

Set up the Mining Installations page again and use the button next to the
rig you wish to find.

The on-board computer will then set it up as your current target. You may
then fly to it manually or with the Autopilot. You can deselect the target
as before by placing the pointer away from the target and using the left
hand mouse button.

COLLECTING THE ORE

Land near to the installation and select the Load Rig icon (Fig 80) with
one click. this will remotely instruct the machinery to off load ore into
your hold until it is full. It will be no more than 10 tonnes at a time
because that is the maximum capacity of the MB4's hopper.

If there is no ore to collect the first selection of the icon will load the
rig onto the ship if you have space.

Your cargo inventory (Inventory icon F3) will show the minerals on board

COLLECTING THE MB4 MINING MACHINE

Land next to the installation and click on the Load Rig icon twice so that
the rig and the contents of its hopper are taken on board.

As stated above, the rig will be loaded after the first click if there is
no ore in the hopper

The rig may be left for further mining. There is no need to bring it on
board if you intend to Deposit it in the same place.

If you want to move the MB4 to another location on the same surface because
a site is 'mined out', it is worth moving it a good distance. This is
because the MB4 probes quite a large area with its underground drills.

If your MB4 had found a rich seam of minerals, Do not move it as the seam
may be a long way below ground and the MB4 may not be able to find it
again.


APPENDIX ONE SHIPYARD EQUIPMENT
================================

MINES AND BOMBS
---------------

XB13 PROXIMITY MINE 
Explodes when object is within range. They are carried on missile pylons
in place of a missile.

XB74 DUMMY PROXIMITY MINE 
Exactly the same in appearance as the Proximity Mine, even on radar, but
they do not explode, in fact they do nothing except increase your foes
laundry bill.  You can even recover them like cargo if you have a Fuel
Scoop and a Cargo Conversion, but beware of accidentally scooping a real
one!

ENERGY BOMB 
Causes the drive system of smaller ships to overload and explode, but not
your own as it is very specific. It can be withstood if a ship has a
strong enough shield.

MISSILES
--------

The COMBAT section on page 38 gives additional information. Note that all
the missiles have the same flying characteristics.

KL760 HOMING MISSILE
For destroying small spaceships and damaging larger ones.

LV111 SMART MISSILE
Similar to the Homing Missile but has ECM protection (not effective against
Navy Grade ECM). Has a greater explosive power than the Homing Missile.

NN500 NAVY GRADE MISSILE
Even more bang for your money and immune to any known ECM system although
it is rumoured that technology is improving in this field

GUNS
----

The COMBAT scetion on page 38 provides furthur details.

30MW MINING LASER
Pulse laser set up to blast asteroids into recoverable portions if you see
your future in mining. Can be used as a weapon but its repeat rate is not
as fast as weapon lasers.

1MW PULSE LASER
The very same as the bottom of the range laser weapon as the Phlaschygt
that came with your ship. seasoned combatants consider it only of use for
tattooing numbers onto slaves. Better than nothing.

5MW PULSE LASER
Otherwise known as the Phlaschbugher. More powerful than the Phlaschgyt,
but less devastating than the Beam Laser.

BEAM LASER
Continuous laser beam which is more devastating than a Pulse Laser. the
1MW, 4MW, 20MW, and 100MW Beam Lasers are the same but more destructive
with increasing voltage.

LASER COOLING BOOSTER 
Some busy pilots find their normal laser cooling equipment inadequate.
Since lasers cut out when they overheat, this Device is a bonus.

SMALL PLASMA ACCELERATOR 
Very big and heavy and carried by larger ships and Naval ships only. It is
extremely potent and obliterates small to medium ships with one shot.

LARGE PLASMA ACCELERATOR 
The ultimate weapon pilots aspire to owning.

ECM SYSTEMS
-----------

ECM SYSTEM 
Short for Electronic Counter Measures. A clever device this, as it causes
detonation of all activated Homing Missiles in range (including your own).

NAVAL ECM SYSTEM 
This higher specification system can also destroy the Smart Missile. Only
obtainable at larger Shipyards.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
-----------------------------

CARGO BAY LIFE SUPPORT 
Superb environment control, including deodoriser and choice of four fresh
air scents, Fomalhaut Harvest, Ma`s Cookies, Seashore and Solar Breeze.
Needed for transportation of live animals and slaves.

EXTRA PASSENGER CABIN 
For one person it comes with life support, food dispenser and Holovid dream
inducer for long journeys.  An extra facility is the automatic decor
control which changes in order to compliment the mood of the occupants. It
is activated by sensors of heat and pheromones. Takes up five tonnes of
cargo space.

ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
--------------------

FOR CONTROL AND SURVEILLANCE

AUTOMATIC PILOT 
The Robocruise automatic navigation system has the capability to plot and
control travel to any destination within a system. For details of how to
use the Automatic Pilot see the NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT section on page 20.

AUTOREFUELLER DEVICE 
This automatically tranfers 1t of fuel from the cargo bay to the internal
tank of a ship`s engine when it is needed, so preventing any wastage. It
also avoids any embarrassing moments when your engines fail during combat
or docking.

SCANNERS 
The scanner section in the middle of the console is provided as standard on
most ships.  Some hardened space travellers remove it in the belief that
demonstrates a certain amount of machismo, but others say this demonstrates
something else.

RADAR MAPPER
Scans for information on a targeted ship. For details of how to use the
Radar Mapper see the COMBAT section on page 43.

HYPERSPACE CLOUD ANALYSER
Determines the destination and the exact time and date of arrival of ships
by analysing the residual space time disturbance left behind after a
hyperspace jump. You will also be told the mass of the ship which has left
or is about to arrive.  See HYPERSPACE in the NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT
section, and also Combat on page 43.

DEFENCE
-------

SHIELD GENERATOR 
This device affords additional shielding to the normal damage resistance of
a hull. More than one can be fitted at once and the effect is cumulative.
They recharge from the ship`s power system, and each shield takes a fixed
amount of time to do so.  For example a large ship with ten shield
generators will take the same time to recharge as a ship with one shield.
The ship with ten however, will achieve the same defense as the ship with
one shield in a tenth of the time because of the additive effect of shield
Generators. See the COMBAT section on page 35.

ENERGY BOOSTER UNIT 
Boosts the recharging rate of all Shield Generators fitted. A good buy for
very large ships

ESCAPE CAPSULE 
For those sticky moments when a fast exit is prudent. It has no weapons or
shields.

ATMOSPHERIC SHIELDING 
Additional coating to the hull which enables a ship to enter an atmosphere
at high speed.

HULL AUTO REPAIR SYSTEM 
A large piece of equipment which is generally only fitted to larger ships.
Exactly how this works is a trade secret, but it does entail placing many
microbots in the hull reinforcing channels. See the COMBAT section.

ENGINES AND MISCELLANEOUS
-------------------------

INTERPLANETARY DRIVE 
An ordinary, lightweight engine that uses hydrogen fuel contained within
the drive. It is not capable of hyperspace jumps but is suitable for small
interplanetary Hops. It is equivalent to the Class 1 Hyperdrive but has no
hyperspace capability.

STANDARD HYPERDRIVES 
Standard Hyperdrives are readily available and are used by most ships.
They use Hydrogen fuel which can be bought or scooped (see Fuel Scoop) and
all waste products are used as reaction mass by the thrusters. The range
of a Standard Hyperdrive engine depends on the size of ship it is fitted
to. For example, a Class 3 engine will have a greater range if fitted to a
200 tonne ship rather than a 300 tonne ship. Although the classes are
listed up to seven, higher classes exist but are only obtainable from
specialists.

MILITARY HYPERDRIVES 
This is a different breed of engine to the Standard Hyperdrive in that it
has a greater range and is faster and lighter. This means that a small
ship can carry an engine of the military type that is equivalent to a
Standard Hyperdrive that would be too big to fit. All military ships are
driven by them. They run on Military Fuel which is much more expensive and
has drawbacks (see MILITARY FUEL in APPENDIX TWO: TRADE ITEMS Section on
page 79).

A Military Hyperdrive will give your ship advantages over the competition,
but it will cost you to run it. In the same way as Standard Hyperdrives,
the range is a function of the size of tHe ship and the maximum possible
range for the engine. Military Hyperdrives are not widely available and
there are only three classes for sale.  The reason is thought to be
instability occurring in bigger engines, but rumours say that military
engineers are working on this problem. They are also reputed to be making
even lighter engines.

FUEL SCOOPS AND MINING EQUIPMENT
--------------------------------

FUEL SCOOP
Scoops fuel from the upper layers of gas giants or the photosphere of cool
stars when you fly at below about 30km altitude while travelling forwards
at speed.  In order to scoop from a gas giant, Atmospheric Shielding is
needed.  A star however, requires greater protection for your ship in the
form of an Atmospheric Shield and a Shield Generator. Even with these it
is still dangerous and only a desperate pilot would attempt it.

CARGO SCOOP CONVERSION 
Allows the Fuel Scoop to be used to salvage jettisoned cargo and Dummy
Mines.  It is also used to collect ore during asteroid mining, and
explosion debris from ships.
 
MB4 MINING MACHINE 
This amazing machine prospects, mines and refines minerals for you (see the
MINING section on page 68) but is not readily available.


APPENDIX TWO TRADE ITEMS
=========================

AIR PROCESSORS 
Devices used in life support systems to remove unwanted gasses from the
air. These are vital to many mining establishments, keeping the air in the
huge underground complexes breathable.

ANIMAL MEAT 
Real meat from an animal. A delicacy, but the market for this is growing
as a revolt against synthetic meat. People have become unsettled by the
thought of their food growing in vats of seething, viscous fluid, the
stench of which is indescribable The idea that real animal meat once felt
the sun on its back and frolicked in a meadow feels more wholesome and
natural and such meat is claimed by many to taste better. Given that the
amount of meadow available is far exceeded by the hooves to roam it and
that factory farming is unfashionable, the meat is rare and widely sought
after. Trading in animal meat is illegal in some places.

ANIMAL SKINS 
This covers the skins of all sorts of animals and parts of them. It seems
that the more that go into a garment, the more prized it is. A ridiculous
extreme is a coat woven from eyelashes of the Sweetums Scroblet, an ugly
animal with a bad temperament and no endearing qualities other than
colourful, luminescent eyelashes

BATTLE WEAPONS 
The heavy weapons used on the battlefield and usually illegal

COMPUTERS 
Mostly used for administration and as components for automated machines
like space craft, though some advanced cultures use them a great deal for
interactive entertainment systems.

FARM MACHINERY 
Machinery used to, erm... farm.

FERTILIZER 
Fertilizers are usually manufactured in vast chemical plants, but organic
waste is often used to supplement this.

FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 
This can seem like a loose term looking at some of the produce that comes
under this classification.  One could be forgiven for taking up a shovel
and disinfectant when faced for the first time with the Oosli from the
Formalhaut system.

GEM STONES 
They come in all colours and different levels of sparkle. Fashions come
and go, but the current gem to be seen wearing is the Zublic, a colourless
stone that is totally reflective. It is very easily mimicked but only the
real stone is non irritant to body, so those who are status conscious have
them sewn into their skin.

GRAIN 
One of few foodstuffs that is both traditionally grown and not too
expensive

HAND WEAPONS
Firearms.  Many cultures regard them as a necessary accessory and feel
naked without one. Illegal in many systems.

HEAVY PLASTICS 
Have a variety of uses especially in high temperature environments like the
rocket engines. Manufactured in large industrial complexes.

HYDROGEN FUEL 
The nornmal four star fuel for spacecraft. All the waste products are used
as reaction mass in the thrusters. It can also be obtained by scooping it
from stars and gas giants (see FUEL SCOOPS in APPENDIX ONE: SHIPYARD
EQUIPMENT on page 75).

INDUSTRIAL PARTS 
Everything from fusion motors to nuts and bolts.

LIQUID OXYGEN 
Used mainly by settlements on airless worlds for life support systems

LIQUOR
Covers all intoxicating Drinks from interesting local hooches such as the
Bourbon from the system of Epsilon Indi to unexciting brews made by large
industrial companies.  An example is Splag, which is akin to watery Old
Nova, but some have been less generous in their appraisal
 
LIVE ANIMALS
Used for meat, exhibition or recreation or just companionship. Your hold
must have a life support facility to carry them.

LUXURY GOODS 
Many items are classed as luxury goods, for example perfumes jewellery,
artefacts and fabrics.  The most treasured are generally produced on
esteemed worlds like Earth.

MEDICINES
Drugs are as always, big business as people would rather be reassured by a
drop of something that tastes foul, rather than examine their way of life
that more often than not causes the ill health. However, the most healthy
person can still fall foul of bugs such as black hole fever (well known but
seldom talked about except in jest with references to escape velocity
usually being made).

METAL ALLOYS 
They have hundreds of uses, one example is the production of foam metal
valued for its lightness and use as electromagnetic shielding.

MILITARY FUEL 
Very high energy per unit weight. It is manufactured and consists of an
engineered molecule with anti matter atoms suspended in it. It is not
always available and is expensive. You need to weigh up the advantages of
greater range and speed with the fact that it is converted to radioactives
when consumed.

MINERALS 
There is little to say about minerals. Mined on rocky planets by machinery
except on planet Major (van Maanen's star) where the Guardians of the Free
Spirit exhume it with only a hammer and chisel. They believe in severe
hardship and live underground. It is thought that money (left over after
buying necessities like oxygen) is burned in ceremonies intended to purify
the soul.  The worshippers think of all the luxuries, such as a salve for
their bleeding hands, that the money could have bought causing great
anguish which is thought to be cleansing.

NARCOTICS 
The most common is Lyrae weed. Narcotics are readily available on some
large corporate manufacturing complexes to induce a sense of well being in
such appalling conditions.  Occasionally a few workers are killed due to
insensibility or halllucinations but it is considered that they are better
off that way and there are plenty more where they came from. Illegal in
many places.

NERVE GAS 
Expect the police in most places to take up a chase if you trade in this.

PRECIOUS METALS 
Mainly used for adornment and trying to maintain stability in unstable
financial systems. Generally cheaper in the outer systems, where precious
metals have not yet been mined out.

RADIOACTIVES 
Radioactive materials for example Plutonium and Tritium. Note that this
item has a negative trade value, in other words, you have to pay for
someone to take it off your hands. Some make a living out of being paid to
take this waste away and deliver it to reprocessing plants (ie, anywhere
that  has  Radioactives as a major import).  More unscrupulous and
irresponsible characters will prefer to jettison it instead, risking
prosecution.  This is a highly illegal practice and locals are usually
vehemently opposed to this act. Police often don't bother with questions
but deal with you there and then, as this not only saves on police time but
court fees as well.

ROBOTS 
This covers a whole range of automata.  Generally they are intricate
machines used to do everything from serving canapes to use as assault
troops.  They are illegal in a few cultures, mainly because of the
violation of their work ethic, but also the extreme techno fear some people
experience.

RUBBISH 
Again, this has a negative price, so you must pay to dispose of it. Some
cargo items when decompressed (by being jettisoned) will turn into rubbish.

SLAVES 
Consider carefully where you are going to trade because slave trading is
illegal in many systems, where it is seen as unacceptable. Life support
needed.

SYNTHETIC MEAT
This is the most common form of protein to be found, so it is relatively
cheap.  Grown in vats, this meat is in no way derived from animals, though
most would agreed that it tastes exactly the same as real meat. It is sold
in one flavour, called Original, which is fairly bland and unexciting.
Individual flavours are added by the user, for example Earth beef, Lava hog
from Biggs Colony or Brog buck from Homeland around Beta Hydri (for those
who like their meat to bite back).

WATER
H2O, usually needed by small industrial settlements and those with no
natural water supply.


APPENDIX THREE AN INTRODUCTORY JOURNEY
=======================================

TO BEGIN...

You are at Sirocco Starport, on Merlin, a planet orbiting a gas giant which
in turn orbits Ross 154, 9.35 light years away from Earth. What you can
see on the screen is the front view from your ship with the ringed gas
giant, Aster, looming in the sky. The time of day and the date are given
on the left hand side of the console.

1.First take a look at the system you are in.

(a) Select the Galactic Map icon F2 and you will see a map of all the stars
in your vicinity. Ross 154 is in the middle, highlighted in green.

2.Find out details about the system.

(a) Select the Data icon F6 and a diagram of your system will be shown

(b) Count two bodies from the star, Ross 154. This is Aster, Now click on
the planet below it and information on Merlin will come up.

(c) Select the Economy icon F7 to get trade details for the whole system.
Notice that major exports are animal meat (this is fish on Merlin) and
liquid oxygen so both should be relatively cheap.
 
(d) Select the Political icon F8 to get information on the social
structure. This system is under federation control so should be reasonably
safe.

3. Find a place to sell the goods you buy at a reasonable price.

(a) Go back to the grid by using the Galactic Map icon F6.

(b) Use the Arrow (Cursor) keys to move the map until Barnard's Star (look
up and then right) is in the middle of the screen and highlighted in green.

(c) Select the Data icon F6

(d) Click on the bodies until you find the space station orbiting
Birminghamworld, it is called Boston Base.

(e) In the same way as steps 2(c) and 2 (d), check the economy and social
structure.  You will see that animal meat and liquid oxygen are imports.
the system is a corporate state and it should be reasonably safe, so you
could trade here.

(f) You can see the orbits of the systems bodies by using the Orbital Map
icon F10.

(g) If you want to take a closer look, you can use the Zoom In icon F7 and
the Zoom Out icon F8. Click on the body to place it into the centre of the
screen and then use the icons.

4.  Buy one tonne of fish at Merlin. You can only trade while in dock so
now is the time to do it.

(a) Select the Communication icon F4, and you will be presented with a list
of options.

(b) Choose Stockmarket.

(c) A list of items with Buy and Sell buttons is now displayed so locate
Animal Meat. You can afford to buy one tonne of animal meat.

(d) Click on the Buy button for animal meat once so that one tonne of
animal meat will be autoloaded into your hull. (If you ever buy too much
by mistake, simply click on the Sell button until you have the right
amount).  The console will display the amount of cash and cargo space you
have left.

5.  See if there are any packages to take to Barnard's star. This sort of
thing is what makes money but there is some risk involved. The good thing
about packages is that they take up negligible cargo space and do not
require cabins or life support.

(a) Click on the Communications icon F4 again followed by Bulletin Board

(b) Scroll through the advertisements using the up and down More... arrows

(c) There may not be a suitable advertisement but if there is one, click on
it. If there isn't go to step 6.

(d) A list of replies will be presented to you from which you must choose
one to send by clicking on it. The brave will click on "OK- agreed". with
no questions asked.

(e) The package will be autoloaded into your ship.

(f) You can check that it is on board by clicking on the Inventory icon F3
until the page showing passengers and small packages is displayed.

6. Take off for Barnard's Star system

(a) Go back to the front view by using the View icon F1 and click on it
until Front View is displaved on the right of the console.

(b) Select the Communication icon F4 and you will be given a list of
options. Click on Launch Request.

(c) When clearance is indicated on the console, select the Right Control
icon F7.  This will cause your vertical thrusters to engage, lifting you
slowly upwards.

(d) Tip the nose of the ship by moving the mouse backwards whilst holding
the right hand mouse button down.

(e) Activate the thrusters using the Enter key for a couple of seconds and
you will begin to fly out of the atmosphere. You now have manual control.

7. Make a hyperspace jump to Barnard`s Star.

(a) Use the Galactic Map icon F2 and make sure Barnard's Star is in the
middle of the screen where it will be highlighted in green.

(b) Return to View mode by using the View icon F1.

(c) Activate the hyperspace engine with the Hyperspace icon F8. After your
journey through hyperspace you can see the effects of the disturbance. Use
the View icon F1 to get a the rear view in order to see it. This
hyperspace cloud behind you is visible for an enormous distance and may
attract pirates, so it is wise to leave it as soon as possible by pressing
the Enter key to increase your Set speed. Click on the View icon again
until you get back to the front view.

(d) Select the Identification text icon F10 which will overlay names onto
the systems bodies which may not yet be visible to the naked eye.

(e) If you wish to look around then you can do so by holding down the right
mouse button to swing the ship round. This is not essential to get to your
destination.

8.  Fly to Birminghamworld by using the Autopilot and Stardreamer Time
Control
 
(a) Take a look at the system structure by using the Galactic Map icon F2
and then the Current System Map icon F2 to obtain an orbital map of the
current system.

(b) Zoom in using the Zoom icon F7 until you can see Birminghamworld
clearly

(c) Put Birminghamworld in the middle of the screen by clicking on it then
zoom in until it is clearly defined and the orbital lines almost cover the
width of the screen.

(d) When you can see the space station name (Boston Base) move the mouse
while holding down the right hand mouse button so that you can see the
space station clearly.

(e) Set up the destination for the Autopilot by using the targeting icon
F10

(f) You will be instructed by the console to select a target so point at
the space station and click on it and a homing square will be displayed.
If you take too long doing this you may have to use the targeting icon
again.

(g) Return to View mode with the View icon F1.

(h) Engage the Autopilot with the Flight Control icon F7 by activating it
until Autopilot is shown on the console, the ship is no longer under manual
control

(i) You will see targeting squares looking like a tunnel leading to Boston
Base, Aa you get closer they will come towards you more rapidly, indicating
that you should slow down as you approach. Ideally, these should pass at a
constant rate.

(j) Even though you are relatively close to Boston Base it will still take
a long time to get there so use the Stardreamer time Control to make time
appear to pass more quickly. Further details of its function are given in
the NAVIGATION section on page 22.

(k) Locate the time Control icons. The single arrow sets normal time and
each icon to the right increases the apparent rate of passage of time by
ten times.  Select 1000 times normal time (four arrows) or 10,000 times
normal time (the last icon on the right) as you wish. When you approach
the space station the on-board computer will return you to normal time for
docking.
 
(l) The docking process is handled by the Autopilot including obtaining
clearance from traffic Control, If you do not wish to watch the docking the
then you may operate the time control again.

9. Sell your goods.

(a) Once docked select the Communication icon F4 and choose Stockmarket
again

(b) Sell your goods by using the Sell buttons. ie. click on the Sell
button for Animal Meat once.

(c) The money shown under Cash at the bottom left of the console should now
be a greater sum than you started with, unless you have been very unlucky
with the stockmarket prices.

(d) Remember to refuel by buying at least one tonne of hydrogen fuel!


APPENDIX FOUR MECHANICS OF SPACE FLIGHT
========================================

FLY BY WIRE

As starship designers through the ages have found, space craft have so many
potential degrees of freedom they are impractical for a mere human to
control to the full unaided. Logically a free flying combat craft has at
least five independent directions (or vectors) to control, Those vectors
are:

1. Facing vector (unit magnitude) F
2. Velocity vector V
3. Thrust vector T
4. Camera viewing vector C
5. Weapon vector W

It is clearly logical to combine some of these, but the more they are
combined, the more functionality is lost, Faulcon de Lacy (and indeed most
ship manufacture) combine (1), (4) and (5) and control (2) and (3)
automatically, leaving the pilot to control only (1), with the option of
disabling the automatic control of (2) and (3) when necessary. Even this
seems a handful for a species evolved to move in only two and a half
dimensions (up and down are very much secondary to north, south, east and
weat).

The pilot is assumed to have a desired velocity vector D along his or her
facing vector, the magnitude of which is the desired speed S they have set.

Hence: D = sF
   and thrust to achieve velocity D T = mf (D-V)
   where f is a factor chosen for fuel efficiency
   and m is the mass of your craft

A maximum value is given to f (about 1). to avoid wasteful thrusting and
possible oscillations. This is why your craft will slowly settle down over
the landing pad even with a zero set speed. At higher speeds the limits of
the power of the thrusters effectively restrict the value of f. The
desired thrust is resolved into components along each of the ships working
thrusters and if any of the these cannot provide sufficient thrust then the
value of f is reduced appropriately (preserving the direction of thrust is
more important than its magnitude).

FRAMES OF REFERENCE

The problems of the fly-by-wire technique are further complicated when
considering the frames of reference in which velocities are measured. When
a vehicle moves slowly along a street, say, the driver does not want to
know that both the street and the vehicle are moving sideways at many
thousands of kilometres per hour (due to the velocity of the planet around
the star, and the rotation of the planet). Indeed, if the vehicle were to
face the way it is travelling, then its motion along the road would be
almost irrelevant. What the driver wants is to face along the direction of
travel in the frame of reference of the planet, which is both moving and
rotating.

Hence D = sF + R
    where R is the velocity of the frame of reference
    and ideal thrust T = mf ( D-V )
    T = mf ( sF + R-V )

Your on board computer automatically selects the body you are most likely
to want to define a frame of reference for your motion. This is usually a
planet or moon, but can also be a space station or large ship. It also
decides whether it would be more intuitive to use a rotating frame or not.
For space stations, it is only sensible to use a rotating frame in the
docking tunnel otherwise your ship continually thrusts to attempt to move
in a circle in time with a similar point on the station.

CHOICE OF FRAMES OF REFERENCE

The body is used to define your current frame of reference is shown on the
bottom right of your head up display this is chosen by a weighting
function.  For planets and stars this is based on mass, thus a star's
sphere of influence generally extends way beyond its planets. For other
bodies it is based on their dimensions.

You may notice your ship's engines suddenly starting to thrust when a
different frame of reference is chosen. This is not a fault with your ship
but is because your set speed has suddenly appeared to change as it is now
measured relative to the new body.


APPENDIX FIVE  SHIP IDENTIFICATION
==================================

ADDER

HULL MASS			15 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		55 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	40 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	8 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	18 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1+F
MISSILE PYLONS			0
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT, FEDERATION


ANACONDA

HULL MASS			150 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		800 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	650 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	3 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	6 EARTH G
CREW				10
GUN MOUNTINGS			2+F
MISSILE PYLONS			8
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT


ASP EXPLORER

HULL MASS			30 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		150 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	120 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	7 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	22 EARTH G
CREW				2
GUN MOUNTINGS			2+F
MISSILE PYLONS			1
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT, FEDERATION


BOA

HULL MASS			200 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		1500 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)    1300 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	4 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	8 EARTH G
CREW				12
GUN MOUNTINGS			4+F
MISSILE PYLONS			6
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT


COBRA MK1

HULL MASS			15 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		75 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	60 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	6 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	16 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			2+F
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT, FEDERATION


COBRA MKIII

HULL MASS			20 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		100 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	80 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	7 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	20 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			2+F
MISSILE PYLONS			4
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT, FEDERATION


CONSTRICTOR

HULL MASS			30 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		120 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	90 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	10 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	22 EARTH G
CREW				2
GUN MOUNTINGS			2+F
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT, FEDERATION


EAGLE LONG RANGE FIGHTER MKI

HULL MASS			5 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		25 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	20 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	10 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	25 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION, EMPIRE


EAGLE LONG RANGE FIGHTER MKII

HULL MASS			6 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		28 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	22 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	4 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	28 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION


EAGLE LONG RANGE FIGHTER MKIII

HULL MASS			8 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		30 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	22 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	15 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	28 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			EMPIRE


FALCON

HULL MASS			5 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		16 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	11 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	9 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	30 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION


GECKO

HULL MASS			11 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		45 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	34 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	9 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	6 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			2
MISSILE PYLONS			1
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT


IMP COURIER

HULL MASS			130 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		480 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	350 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	6 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	16 EARTH G
CREW				3
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			6
ALLEGIANCE			EMPIRE


IMP TRADER 

HULL MASS			175 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		700 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	525 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	4 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	9 EARTH G
CREW				6
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			6
ALLEGIANCE			EMPIRE


INTERPLANETARY SHUTTLE

HULL MASS			4 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		8 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	4 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	3 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	5 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			0
MISSILE PYLONS			0
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT, FEDERATION, EMPIRE


KRAIT

HULL MASS			8 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		38 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	30 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	10 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	20 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			4
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT


LIFTER

HULL MASS			3 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		10 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	7 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	2 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	4 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			0
MISSILE PYLONS			0
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION


LION

HULL MASS			65 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		300 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	235 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	3 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	5 EARTH G
CREW				4
GUN MOUNTINGS			4+F
MISSILE PYLONS			6
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION


MORAY

HULL MASS			17 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		87 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	70 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	6 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	14 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1+F
MISSILE PYLONS			4
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT, FEDERATION


OSPREY

HULL MASS			4 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		15 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	11 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	8 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	27 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			EMPIRE


PANTHER

HULL MASS			400 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		2500 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)    2100 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	3 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	6 EARTH G
CREW				15
GUN MOUNTINGS			4
MISSILE PYLONS			8
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION


PUMA SHUTTLE

HULL MASS			175 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		1000 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	825 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	3 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	6 EARTH G
CREW				11
GUN MOUNTINGS			4+F
MISSILE PYLONS			8
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION


PYTHON

HULL MASS			100 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		500 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	400 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	4 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	10 EARTH G
CREW				7
GUN MOUNTINGS			2+F
MISSILE PYLONS			4
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT


SIDEWINDER

HULL MASS			8 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		33 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	25 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	12 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	23 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1+F
MISSILE PYLONS			0
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT


TIGER TRADER

HULL MASS			80 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		400 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	320 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	5 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	12 EARTH G
CREW				5
GUN MOUNTINGS			1+F
MISSILE PYLONS			1
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION


TRANSPORTER

HULL MASS			40 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		200 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	160 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	4 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	9 EARTH G
CREW				3
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT, FEDERATION


VIPER DEFENCE CRAFT

HULL MASS			15 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		65 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	50 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	10 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	24 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1+F
MISSILE PYLONS			4
ALLEGIANCE			INDEPENDENT, FEDERATION, EMPIRE


KESTREL AIRFIGHTER

HULL MASS			5 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		20 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	15 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	6 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	25 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION


HAWK AIRFIGHTER

HULL MASS			5 TONNES
MASS (FULLY LADEN)		18 TONNES
INTERNAL CAPACITY (NO DRIVE)	13 TONNES
RETRO THRUSTER ACCELERATION	6 EARTH G
MAIN THRUSTER ACCELERATION	27 EARTH G
CREW				1
GUN MOUNTINGS			1
MISSILE PYLONS			2
ALLEGIANCE			FEDERATION

 

              HAVE FUN GUYS AND REMEMBER ITS ALL FOR FUN 
                      aLL DoCs DoNE By SHaRD/N&B 

      :        .     _________                 ________       _____________
_____    |            __   / :   ___________/   _   \      \   __  _   /
|     \    ____    :     \_/ -A : \______    \    |    \___  \_/     \_/
|      \       |          \_  D_  /   /   _/    |     /  ___/       \_
|    :     :    |    _______/  `N _/    \    \_________/   |   \________/
    _____        |           :  \__________/      \          \_
:    :    \__________         R                       \___________/
.                           C  A  Y     A   G
     .                            Z    G   N
 
           PRESENTS MORE SHYTE FOR YOU ON THIS FINE BORING DAY
         ====================================================== 

   FRONTIER - ELITE II - GAZETTEER       TYPED BY SHARD 16 NOVEMBER 1993
   =====================================================================

INTRODUCTION
------------

This gazetteer of selected worlds has been compiled for Faulcon De Lacey by
Darlitz the makers of the well known pocket holiday guides. The principle
contributor was our correspondent David Massey whose tireless travelling
made it possible for so many planets to be described. Such was the tight
schedule for writing this gazetteer his three assistants, Kathy Dickinson,
David Braben, and Ian Bell were called upon to contribute some of its
contents.  It serves as a brief introduction for the avid traveller or a
source of dreams for the sedentary explorer. The Sol System is described
first because of its historical importance along with the Achenar. Both
have headquarters of the two main players in the competition for galactic
rule, the Federation and the Empire. To aid the reader, we have included a
brief history of early part of mankind`s quest

A BRIEF HISTORY
---------------

1950s 	First man in space, controlled nuclear fission, transistor, start of
    	first nuclear arms race

1960s 	First man on Moon, commercial fission power, integrated circuits,
    	computers

1970s 	Probes in Solar system

1980s 	End of first nuclear arms race

1990s 	First serious environmental problems on Earth, controlled nuclear
    	fusion

2000s 	First (minor) armed conflict between a nation and a "multi-national"
    	corporation

2010s 	First serious population problems on Earth

2020s 	First international environmental protection enforcement agency,
    	first commercial space station

2030s 	Major energy crisis, fossil fuel restrictions, religious unrest,
    	first baby born off Earth

2040s 	World War III. Huge technological advancements. Huge loss of life,
    	dreadful environmental damage

2050s 	War gradually abandoned due to popular rebellions. Commercial fusion
    	power

2060s 	Rebuilding Dominance of corporations increased

2070s	First man on Mars, first permanent Moon base

2080s 	Manned exploration of solar system, orbital cities around Earth,
    	first interstellar probes launched,

2090s 	First permanent Mars base, heavy industry on the Moon

2100s 	Discovery of fossils on Mars, "hyperspace" discovered, humans
    	throughout solar system

2110s 	Arrival of message from first interstellar probe to Alpha Centauri
    	system.  First pictures taken of an extra solar planet in the
    	Lagrange point of the two main stars

2120s 	Presence of life on Tau Ceti 3 detected, first armed conflict in
    	space over rights in the asteroid belt.

2130s 	Hyperspace capable probes sent to all nearby systems

2140s 	Manned space craft sent to Tau Ceti.

2150s 	Colony established on Tau Ceti 3 Major corporations sending first
    	private colony ships

2160s 	The race for the stars. Enormous production effort to produce colony
    	ships, and mass exodus started,

2170s 	First attempt to terra-form Mars started.

2180s 	Life on Delta Pavonis discovered and made extinct in same year from
    	bacteriological infection

2190s 	Discovery of life on Beta Hydri 4, Altair 5. Human colonials
    	spreading out of control

2200s 	Earth environmental recovery program started, terraforming of Mars
    	abandoned

2220s 	Extinctions on Tau Ceti 3 increasing, Earth threatens to send a
    	police force if nothing is done about it

2230s 	Ultimatum sent to Tau Ceti ignored

2240s 	First interstellar battle.  Formation of the Federation, founder
    	members: Earth Tau Ceti, Delta Palonis, Altair, Beta Hydri.

2260s 	Spread of Federation influence

2270s 	Second attempt to terra form Mars started

2280s 	Discovery of first non human relic in space. Origin still unknown in
    	3200

2290s 	First man "outside" on Mars (ie breathing unaided) on completion of
    	terraforming

2300s 	Remaining indigenous life on Tau Ceti 3 preserved in special
    	enclosures

2310s 	News of elimination of a reputedly sentient race on Achenar 6d by
    	private colonists causes outrage in the Federation Achenar refuses
    	to join Federation many terra forming projects started

2320s 	Federation sends war fleet to Achenar Resulting enormous space battle
    	won by Achenar

2330s 	Spread of Empire from Achenar to surrounding worlds War between
    	Empire and Federation

2340s 	Continuing battles between Federation and Empire

2350s 	Sirius corporation founded, and grew rich supplying the war fleets

2360s

2370s

2380s 	Treaty signed between Empire and Federation,



Achenar
=======

This system consists of ten major bodies only one of which, Achena 6, has
habitated planets in its vicinity.  It is one of the only systems with
three worlds with a breathable atmosphere, although two are terraformed.
The most notable feature of this system is that it is the base of the
Empire and Emperor Hesketh Duval whose seat is on the natural world Achenar
6d (known as Capitol to locals).  The Emperor is of the Duval dynasty
decended from Marlin Duval. She was a wealthy woman, disenchanted with the
Earth administration and authorities. who set off with her own colonising
fleet to Achenar 6d because it was so far from Earth. Her leadership ended
when her brother, Henson oversaw a flying "accident" in which he perished.
The democratic government changed abruptly to one of strict Imperial rule,
and from then on the family assumed leadership. Female children in the
family are prevented with genetic techniques such is the vehement hatred of
Marlin Duval`s principles and vision of a world living in peace.

In the past the Federation has tried to get various emperors to agree to
joining them but his has been met with derision. The population growth
necessitated the terraformation of Achenar 6b and Henson oversaw the
eradication of a reputedly sentient race on Achenar 6d and began to
influence other systems, enraging the Federation. This led to the first
large scale space war, from which Achenar emerged victorious and, swelled
with success the Empire spread to other worlds. Sporadic battles were
fought for many years until finally, leaders of the Empire and the
Federation signed a treaty pledging to stay on amicable terms. It was not
worded so tightly that hostilities could not continue in the outer reaches
of territories while leaders displayed solidarity in public.

Tourists, once they have amassed the documents required to visit the
Achenar system, flock to see the Emperor`s palace on Capitol (6d). The
building is a vast structure of a pink glass like material which shimmers
in the sun and glows as it re emits the energy at night Foreign visitors
are welcomed by palace staff who use subtle pro Empire propaganda in an
attempt to undermine the Federation. This greeting is not extended outside
the palace grounds where a person with a Federation accent is met with
scorn unless money can be made out of them. The accent of the Empire has
evolved out of Achenanians trying to mock the standard Federation diction
by accentuating certain vowels.  To the foreigner their speech sounds
rather like a whine.

Such is the capitalist way of life, there are not many items that are
illegal to buy or sell, quite why the line is drawn at radioactives and
nerve gas is a mystery - perhaps they could pose the most significant
threat to the Emperor, should anyone feel ambitious? KD


Ackwada
=======

The official discovery of this system and its habitable planet is nowadays
accredited to Augustus Brenquith, although the Rockforth Corporation claim
the land deeds and development rights to the system. Thirty nine years
after the Corporation declared the system its own, an ancient message
capsule was recovered from outside the orbit of Jupiter in the Sol system,
tumbling in an uncontrolled fashion. It is now believed that the capsule
suffered a power failure immediately after returning to Sol by hyper space
and had been orbiting Jupiter for an untold length of time.

The discovery aroused considerable interest amongst archeologists on Earth
at the time and while the capsule was in transit to New Delhi University
there was heated debate as to whether the artifact should be opened or not.
When the capsule was studied, the seal was seen to be broken, so the matter
was resolved. Inside the capsule was a message crystal with the log of the
second five years of Augustus Brenquith's solitary search for new worlds,
his "glittering legacy", included in the list of planetary systems he had
stumbled upon was that of Ackwada

Ackwada is a benign world, with a gravity very closely matched to that of
Old Earth and a pleasant climate.  Many visitors and industrialists
attending Corporation functions are struck by the similarity to the home
world.  Locals tend to be bitter about this comparison, pointing out that
Earth has seen fit to launch four separate invasions on the planet in the
past.  In many ways Thompson's planet is one of the disputed zone, roughly
equally spaced between the heart of Federation and Empire. Rockforth
Corporation managed to preserve the colonys independence during the early
years, and this trend has continued, even though the Corporation holding
rights to the planet has changed several times since the founding

Rush's Camp is a heavily industrialised city, and raw materials are
transformed into the machines and tools needed by the developing system.
The outspill of pollutants and wastes is unrestricted, because of early
Corporation law, and the environment in the region of Rush`s Camp is
unhealthy except in protective wear.  The local life forms have mostly
fallen prey to heavy metal poisoning and carcinomas from effluents of the
different plants. The air near Rush`s Camp is not safe to breath for long
periods without a respirator or sophisticated filter system

Most people turn to Yorkville for relaxation. The Corporations owning the
World provide regular free shuttles between the two major cities and as the
local saying goes "Rush to work, Rush for pay, York you live, York to play.
The entertainment sectors of Yorkville are Corporation sponsored and this
has led to allegations amongst some neighbouring star systems that
organised crime has set up at Ackwada. This charge is vigorously denied by
all senior executives of the Corporations and legal actions are in progress
in several colonies in this regard. The Corporations have found the threat
of punitive legal damages and costly trials is an effective deterrent for
all but the most vociferous of their opponents
 
Ackanphi
========

At about the same time as the Ackwada system was being colonised by the
Rockforth Corporation, a consortium of smaller industrial groups laid claim
to the Ackanphi system.  There were five principle shareholders in the
venture,  Nagoshima,  Grendell-Hooper, Shan- Boorman, Memoryvista and
G'greenventure.  Unlike many joint corporation ventures, after initial
establishment of planetary bases the groups did not fall to squabbling over
exploitation rights.  The five corporations consolidated their positions
and ground together as a single trading entity to deal with outsiders.
 
The world of Biggs is only about half the mass of Earth, but has a
correspondingly smaller radius, so that surface gravity is almost Earth
normal introduction of terrestial flora and fauna proceeded in an orderly
fashion, thanks largely to the influence of rebecca Swaan- Schiffman of
G'greenventure. The environmental control policies introduced by the Big G
corporation (as it became known) have made Biggs an ecological show-case
for planetary management.  Cynics point out that because of the lack of
large predators on the planet, there were no native species needing
control, but a quick scan through the colony records quickly dispels that
peaceful illusion.

Early in the colony's history, there were a series of dangerous plagues and
diseases, which nearly ended the colony. The Shan-Boorman Corporation
imported a team of reasearch biochemists to tackle the problem and
Grendell-Hooper financed the building of a suite of laboratories. These
eventually grew into the Shan-Hooper Institute, one of the most prestigious
science academies of the known worlds. The plague was defeated after three
years of intense work and now all visitors are routinely inoculated against
fast disease and filigree on arrival at any starport. (The two diseases
are still endemic to the World of Biggs and quarantine laws are strictly
enforced)

The Institute was not disbauded after solving the initial acclimatisation
diseases, but remained and was expanded to encompass other fields of study.
Early in the history of the colony it was visited by Munkhouse Brewer, a
famous singer songwriter of the time and a friend of Siobhan Young the
poet. Munkhouse composed a fairly trite popular song declaiming the "fiery
skies and demons' eyes" of Biggs, but managed to convey to Siobhan the
haunting beauty of the Ackanphi system.

Young, and her artist companion Taylor Arkwright came to view the marvels
first hand, and stayed to capture the sights for themselves. The cycle
poem "Blazed by glory, insipid flesh" created a place for Young amongst the
very best and secured her the chair of the newly formed faculty of Arts at
Schneider university.  Taylor Arkwright shunned all publicity and instead
made a new colony on the third planet, funding a small dome base by selling
most of his early works.  For forty two years he worked in complete
obscurity, refusing contact with outsiders, painting and drawing the scenes
he beheld

Arkwrights anonymity came to an end when a persistant young artist, Dieter
Blemmring from Achenar, sought him out after seeing The third leaf in
Facece Central Museum.  Impressed by Arkwright's early work, Blemmring
sought out the master and persuaded the painter to let him visit Taylor's
Claim. Thus began the artists colony on Taylor's Claim, which has become a
refuge for painting, sculpting and all forms of representational art. Many
of the most famous works in known space are kept in the refuge, and it is
the ambition of all Empire artists to view the collection at least once in
their lives.

With science and the written arts established in the Ackcanphi system, it
was not long before other faculties, for performing arts, humanities and
philosophy were developed in Biggs. This has developed into a cultural and
aesthetic centre for the region. For some reason the local pirate raiders
have kept clear of the universities, museums and galleries of Biggs and the
planet and its Corporations are rightly proud of the high reputation it
holds amongst the cultured people of the Empire.

DM

Alioth
======

Alioth presents a star system of enormous potential, yet to be fully
exploited by its colonists.  It has had a chequered history in terms of
political dominance, and both Empire and Federation forces have fought over
the rights to control the system. The only period when both Empire and
Federation have acted together towards Alioth was the Quaterson revolution
of 2617 when the people of Gordonworld attempted to wrest freedom from both
major powers Quentin Devisises led a coup to try and establish Gordonworld
(then known as Fruitcake) as a local capital of free traders, but was
ruthlessly suppressed by a rare combined naval action of Federation and
Empire navies

New California was terraformed shortly thereafter, using an experimental
accelerated program of genetic modifications. The Empire initiated the
methods which met with mixed success in this trial planet. In later years
the approach has become more reliable but the native colonists of New
California occasionally exhibit unusual traits which are carry overs from
the mutagenic past. This is partly responsible for the favour show towards
the Federation by New Californians.  If carried out to the letter the
Empire's attitude to racial purity would call for a repopulation of the
colony and removal the affected inhabitants. To prevent this there is a
permanent petition for recognition as a Federation protectorate from the
population of New California

The experimental origins of the planet of New California in no way detract
from its beauty and the mutagens buried in the environment are of no danger
to tourists (NOTE: Anyone planning to stay longer than 300 standard days
should ensure they recieve the appropriate vaccination and chemical
therapies after 200 days and at regular intervals thereafter). The system
as a whole presents a stunning visual appearance, with an abundance of gas
giants orbiting the giant central star.  It has been compared in its
compelling beauty! to the sextuple sun systems of Andbephi or Ioaray. The
star inspired the flash-rock group Jjagged Bbanner's first quad platinum
recording "Sungrazing" which led to their enormous rise to popularity

The enormous hydrocarbon resources made available by the large number of
gas giants, as well as the primary star of the system have led to a huge
plastics industry based at this system. The scientists of Nesbitt Landing
introduced the quinker process and led to a revolution in robot production
techniques.  They still lead the Federation in many aspects of design and
production of automata, especially androids. These products are highly
sought after amongst the Empire worlds

DM

Altair - Biggs Colony
=====================

Out of the twenty bodies of this system this is one of two notable planets,
for their extreme conditions.  Biggs Colony is a jungle world with high
humidity and very interesting wildlife, which makes it a popular holiday
destination for those who like an adventure. Hotels abound and cater for
all tastes, even providing conditions for those who normally live in very
different environments.  In case they need a break while on holiday. For
example natives of Stevenson in the Phiagre system can rest in refrigerated
apartments.  Outside hotels, humans need to wear all enviroument suit such
are the extremes of heat and humidity on these sort of planets. When
tourists arrive on Biggs Colony they must sign a disclaimer in case they
are injured by any of the wildlife (unless on hotel property, such as the
animal free areas).  All sorts of life abound, and visitors not used to
this tend to go wandering unprotected, enchanted by the sights and sounds.
Jungle Search is a thriviug business which offers to search the jungle for
parts of a lost friends or relatiles of tourists, when they go missing, for
burial purposes

Many vaccinations are required if you intend to go on jungle treks, as the
deseases are as varied as the wildlife. When you leave a hotel you are
issued an environment suit, a stun gun, a large swat big enough to down an
Oort fly (you would need body armour to protect yourself fully from this
beast).  If you pale at the thought of close contact with nature, you can
take a trip on a Landcrawler which transports you through the jungle
protected by a Securifield

The second planet, Darkes Hollow is very hot and not pleasantly so - the
average temperature is 226 degrees Centigrade. The reason it is populated
at all is the ore available for mining is very rich in metals. Miners
families live there in small underground communities and the mining
corporation subsidises two holidays on Bigg`s Colony per year. Robots have
to do most of the surface work as the temperatures and radiation there are
too great for humans Power is derived from massive arrays of solar panels
which run the very powerful air reconditioning units for the settlements
below, and also drive the vast smelting operation Reputedly, enormous
danger money is paid to miners when they need to venture on to the surface
in their powered armour.  In order to do some urgent repair or other.
There have even been stories of disenchanted workers arranging for robots
to be unavailable when a good arises, just so they can receive the one-off
payment and leave the hated place forever.


Andceeth
========

Andceeth boasts a bustling starport in the city of Diamond, and travellers
from a host of worlds come to stay in the splendour and luxury of its
hotels.  These date back to the early days of the Federation, when Diamond
was  the major centre for Commercial transactions between planetary
govemments. Before the days of the Universal Bulletin Board and guaranteed
transfer.  The worlds of Andceeth were the banking centre for the
Federation

The mineral reserves for the largest companies of the Federation and many
planetary governments were stored in an enormous vault built on Trouble.
Andceeth two.  The violent surface storms, constant electrical discharges
and corrosive atmosphere were intended to deter would be raiders. The
actual banking and commercial centres were established on the more
congenial world of Capitol (not to be confused with the heart of the
Empire).

Despite the harsh conditious of Trouble, there were several recorded
attempts to raid the vault and make off with the biggest haul in the
history of crime.  None of the raids ever succeeded, although Hari van
Dryuver managed to penetrate all (of the outer defences before dying of a
heart attack brought on, so it is said, by the sight of so much wealth in
one spot Even if Hari had managed to leave the planet, it is still doubtful
that he would have escaped the enormous police presence maintained at the
time.

The most audacious attempt on the Federation reserves was launched by
Colonel Maximillian Wrekcht, one-time commander of the Empire's fifth
fleet.  Embittered by a series of defeats at the hand of the Federation he
attempted to destroy the vault by means of an asteroid bombardment, from an
orbit just outside that of the sixth planet. He entered the system with a
modified and heavily stealthed cruiser and managed to deflect three
planetoids towards Trouble before he was detected. The Federation were
able to destroy two of the missiles and shunt the last into the sun.
Maximillian was subject to court marshall in his absence, but most people
believe he died trying to ram the vault with his own ship in a final
defiant gesture at the Federation.

When the system of guaranteed transactions and Universal Bulletin Board
trading was introduced, the commercial heart of Andceeth was destroyed.
There followed a very turbulent period and fortunes were made and lost in
minutes in the chaos surrounding the charge. The world suddenly pluuged
from being the banking capital of the explored worlds to relatively
anonymous dot in most computer star banks.

Capitol now preserved a jealously guarded independence of both Federation
and Empire, relying on agriculture and mineral exploitation to support its
inhabitants.  The vault on trouble was seized by the planetary govemment
two months after the conversion to guaranteed transfer, and although much
depleted from its initial state, the mineral wealth contained there has
been enough to finance the colony towards complete self sufficiency. The
colony now runs on a democratic system and is a popular trading stop for
the communities of the surrounding star systems


Anlave
======

Anlave is a small, compact system, with a long and distinguish history in
the records of the Federation navy. It was originally colonised by a team
of experimental horticulturalists, eager to try and develop new citrus
crops in a different stellar system than Old Earth. In this regard, the
colony was a failure and the three new strains developed in the early
years, the plum lemon, ground fruit and the mugwach were engineering
disasters.  Vast tracts of land had been given over to the new crops and
when the market failed to materialise the colonists sought new income.

Luckily, at the same time, the emerging Federation navy were looking for
cheap land to establish dockyards and supply depots and accepted the offer
made by the colonists of Anderton. One continent was sold to the military
for their sole use.  This was sufficient to provide the scientists with
capital to fund their next series of crops the potato-grape, harricot
marrow, carrot-banana and lentil quince. These new arrivals also failed to
excite  the  gourmet palates of the Federation, and the scientific
entrepreneurs left Auderton, run out by irate farmers. Ironically, thirty
four years later the potato grape was revived, when it was found to provide
a perfect feed for the newly discovered Verrix beast of Phiagre.

The Anlave system was a focus for the third birthright wars, and many of
the early settlements were destroyed by bombardment. The Federation navy
took great losses during the surprise attack, but rallied round the
flagship of Adnmiral Ghenkis B'nami and in a flourish of innovative
surprise manoeuvres, recaptured the planet and drove the invaders away.
After the raid, the defences of the naval base were strengthened and
additional bases were established on Anderton's mine and Denver. Military
influence on the re established farming community on Anderton remains
strong.

With three planets having substantial military presence, and a wide variety
of environments to hand, Anlave was a natural choice for the first military
training academy outside the Sol system. It is also conveniently situated
at the heart of a moderately dense group of stars, and has several times
been a local administrative centre. This pivotal role in local space has
led to it being the focus of attention for nearby wars. The population of
the planet has varied cousiderably during its history, and the number of
settlements has in the past been far greater than at present. Although the
Academy has now moved to the custom world of Navy Central in the nearby Eta
Cassiopeia system, most of the naval administration remains including some
of the naval repair facilities.

Fraser is an interesting city to visit, but the bustle of constant naval
activity coupled with the tacitum nature of the native farmers and miners
means that it can be hard to get to know the people of the colony. The
museums of the planet are very well laid out especially the Menmory of
Gildur building in honour of the planets only truly great musician. A more
depressing, but equally impressive display is the Folly of mankind
exhibition, which graphically displays the desolation suffered in the wars
for the planet.


Arcturus
========

The main settlement is on Discovery, a planet with an oxygen atmosphere
and, like others of this type is used for agriculture to feed the rest of
the galaxy.  For those unaccustomed to living under a red giant, the red
light of day is rather unsettling, particularly during the summer when
there is permanent daylight, such is the inclination of the planet Some
find it disturbing and locals regularly see newcomers in a state of
hysteria as they try to get passage home prematurely. "Red people" as they
are known are said to be strange and this is attributed to the colour of
the light.

When the first settlers arrived, life was at an early stage of evolution so
was easily replaced by the species introduced. Despite the knowledge in
the field of ecology, humans still manage to end up with an imbalance due
to the complexity of building a system from scratch Evolution still does it
best, but then it does have time on its side.

Due to the orbital period, seasons last for around seven Earth years. this
is quite a daunting thought when that can mean seven years of almost
complete darkness or daylight For this reason, those who can afford it have
two homes, one in the southern and one in the northem hemisphere. If they
are very fortunate, a person may have a residence in another system. Those
who are less so, make do with artificial lighting to provide the
wavelengths essential for human survival. Even so, the suicide rate is
always high in the winter years. People born in different seasons have
distinct personalities, due to their formative years spent in one extreme
or the other.

The inhabitants of the Arcturus system ignore warnings from the Stellar
Monitoring Service, that the sun is not stable. Reports suggest that is
likely to collapse into a white dwarf in the next few thousand years, but
some studies say that it could be in the next hundred. Collapse would
produce massive doses of radiation which would be received by all orbiting
bodies, killing all life. Still, the locals insist on staying. Any change
in the sun`s state will be announced by the S.M.S. so visitors should not
be put off.

KD


Arexack
=======

Peter's Eden is a small mined out world resettled by followers Church of
KumByar, an obscure sect which believes in an after life made progressively
less awful by successive years of virtuous living. For 100 Arexack-years
after the founding of the colony (65 Earth-years of prayer, head shaving,
flagellation, and life-extending drugs) there was little trade with Peter`s
Eden since the settlers lived austere lives eating locally grown roots and
vegetables raw.

But then Galactic Play Boy Zack Blackbeam spent some ten million Credits on
HoloProjectors and meteorological control deviccs to stage a fake Coming of
KumByar on Peter's Eden.  The settlers, being religious and extremely
gullible, were totally taken in and so devastated to hear that their
ascendence to the Highest Level of Paradise was prevented only by the
"displeasing shave" of their leader His Magnificence the Right Holy Ssord
Rettu III

65 sin free years were promptly tarnished by the lynching of Rettu III and
74 years of bloody holy war that continues to this day. The Church is
violently divided over the interpretation of the phrase "displeasing
shave".  The traditionalists believed that KumByar had found them wanting
on grounds of insufficient baldness and now remove every follicle of hair'
from the body using micro laser surgery. The other side feel that shaven
skin is offensive in His Sight and, with the aid of imported hormonal
treatments, attempt to grow verdent hair over every part of their bodies.
This war has brought Arexack back into Galactic Trade, importing firearms,
defollicalation kits, and hair creams; exporting root crops and pelts.

IB

Ayethti
=======

Topaz has rich indigenous life, but little has progressed from the seas to
the land. For this reason most star catalogues class the world as a water
world.  It would be more appropriate to describe it as one enormous
paddling pool, with an occasional large hill. The world possesses no
really deep oceans, instead it has a thin covering of mineral rich water,
rarely deeper than 300m. The water is at an almost uniform temperature,
making swimming a very pleasant experience, since it is almost impossible
for a human to sink in the dense liquid.

Life forms on Ayethti have adapted to the rich mineral broth of the seas
and they out compete introduced life forms from the Federation and even
bio-engineered empire technology is no better than the native species. The
colonists of this world therefore farm the local fauna and flora, exporting
large quantities of protein rich plankton and krill like animals. Mining
of the mineral rich seas is conducted both directly, on land and
underwater, and indirectly by harvesting modified animals which filter and
concentrate desired salts from the water.

The planet orbits an M red flare star, and most colonists have flare
shelters beneath the protective water of Topaz. The starports are all
situated on land and have provision for shelter for all visitors. It is
mandatory for all visitors to signflare disclaimers and prove they have
adequate insurance cover before they are allowed on the world.

Flares are a spectacular sight and stellar seismologists normally provide
good warning of impending events. If you are present on Topaz when a flare
is publicised, it is worth delaying your leaving until after the event. A
local law on Topaz, followed in Simpsontown and Lomas (but less so at
Fortress  Sheehan)  is that a hotel resident can extend a booking
indefinitely during a flare this is very useful for a visitor since when a
flare is declared, hotel charges for new visitors have been known to
increase seven fold or more over the resident price.

Topaz may be well known amongst amateur astronomers and star gazers for its
flares but what makes it truly famous was the creation of Quitolline. It
is  amazing  that  until  the  Topaz  life forms were studied for
pharmaceuticals, over 80% of all space travellers were subjected to
hyperspace sickness. This is a tremendously debilitating syndrome which is
now almost unrecognised. Only the very few people who suffer from allergic
reactions to Quitolline need endure the disorientation of hyper-jump
sickness.  (And most such people really prefer to remain at home and do
their stellar travelling second hand by way of sensa- vid). Quitolline is
the most effective anti-h-sickness drug ever discovered and its synthesis
from naturally occurring forms on Topaz is a closely guarded secret. It
forms one of the major exports for the planet and system.

D.M.


Aymiay. 
======

Cooperworld is a hot and steamy jungle planet, of the sort often depicted
in the more ridiculous high adventure yarns of the popular vid media. It
teems with native life and the raucous cries of the native fauna which fill
the night time can be unsettling to newcomers. The grail bat imitates the
sounds of a screaming human with uncanny accuracy and can be very
off-putting for the unwary. It is regrettable that the native colonists
seem to have developed a habit for playing practical jokes on new arrivals,
so any visitors had best be prepared for some sleepless nights

The jungle provides a fascinating and lively environment for tourists and
the world has a wide range of indigenous life. This has been allowed to
remain since the plant and animal life can all be assimilated by the human
digestive system.  This means that colonisation of the world has been
relatively cheap to carry out compared to terraforming, but the humid
conditions of the world have limited industrial development. Most income
for the world comes from organised hunting and exploration parties.

Lomasport forms the centre for the Revised Catholic Mission and has three
universities, each with a very high reputation amongst the federation
worlds.  The Grahamhurst theological college has produced some of the most
incisive philosophers and radical thinkers of modern times, as well as a
constant stream of missionaries to the outer systems and worlds of the
Empire.

Goldstein starport maintains ship repair facilities which are universally
acclaimed, and it is a major centre for used ship exchanges in this region
of the explored worlds.  The world is proud of its allegiance to the
Federation and adheres strictly to the legal code of Old Earth Visitors
from the Empire should be aware of the restrictions on the introduction of
slaves to the world. Any man or woman resident on the planet for a period
of more than thirty days is automatically decreed a free person and laws of
the Empire are not binding. This information is clearly stated in all new
immigration documents, but has caused diplomatic incidents in the past

DM

Bedaho
======

Bedaho is famous throughout the known worlds as the home of the goldskins.
There are very few worlds which do not leave some marks upon the human
population but few are as obvious as that of Bedaho. While many humans go
to some lengths to hide any effects their home planet might produce, the
population of Home delight in showing off their differences

Any form of life which grows on Home is infected by a native life form, at
the sub- cellular level.  It is entirely benign and some people believe
that it confers resistance to some viral infections. The only side effect
of infection is to turn the host creature a radient glow colour. A visit
to Home is like taking a trip into King Midas' court, the world glows with
gold from one horizon to the other. Every living creature on the planet
shimmers with life and glisters in golden hues. The crops are gold, the
trees are gold, the animals are gold and the people are golden.

The only other colours are pigments, produced in vast quantities by the
local chemical plants and used at every opportunity to break up the
landscape.  People from Home are probably unique in the known worlds for
preferring granite jewellery and jade ornaments to those of gold. There is
little demand on Home for the metal gold, except for electronics and
robotics, but other precious metals and luxury goods are always welcome.
There is a ready market on Home for off world animal pelts, any shape,
pattern or shade makes a welcome change to the locals who regard their
planet's life forms as being monotonously dull, despite the richness of the
colours involved.

There is a corresponding trade from Home to the rest of the known worlds
for goldskin leather. Astrogator Corporation signed an exclusive deal with
the planetary government of Home early this century giving it sole rights
to commercial use of goldskin leather in its ships and yachts. It is the
quality and colour of the leatherwork which marks an Astrogator spacecraft
as distinctive, quite apart form the other luxury features which it might
enjoy.  Several other companies use goldskin fabrics to give themselves an
edge in the luxury markets as well.  At one stage the uncontrolled
slaughter of native and imported animals threatened to turn the colony into
an anarchy, but intervention by the Imperial navy restored order. In
modern times the culling of local animals is strictly controlled by
government, and poaching carries a very heavy sentence and fine.

The exact nature of the organism which causes the goldskin effect is not
completely determined yet, though its effects are well understood. A
creature born on the planet or remaining there for a prolonged time (longer
than 30 days) will become infected by the organism and then acquires the
distinctive pigmentation within a few weeks. The colour is permanent and
goldskins who leave the planet remain golden but the organism is not passed
on by any form of contact. Empire technicians trying to get the goldskin
effect to appear in laboratory animals have so far failed to duplicate the
condition necessary for the organism to survive


Beta Hydri
==========

Conveniently situated approximately halfway between the centres of both
Federation and Empire it is one of the founding memebers of the Federation.
Following the first interstellar war.  This large system maintains a
thriving  civilisation  and trade.  The main World of Homeland has
established itself as a major centre for trading in luxury goods and the
downtown regions of Dickens and Hooper are renowned for precious metal work
and jewellery. The authorities on the planet have attempted to control the
spread of industrial technology, craftsmen and women provide high quality
finished work, for a price. Tourism is a major source of income for the
system, though several major corporations maintain large offices here,
because of the convenient location.

The terraformed world of New Caledonia was settled originally by two
families of mega millionaires of Scottish descent,from Capitol (before it
became the centre of Empire administration). They financed the conversion
of the world, and placed major constraints on its development. As was the
wish of the founding families, the world is devoted to game hunting and
fishing, with large areas of the planet given over to moors, fens and
forests despite the relatively high population.  The planet lives by
tourism and sporting events.  The planet also has a reputation for good
stables and has held the interstellar equestrian finals more often than any
other planet.

New Caledonia also has a reputation for producing the finest liquor in
civilied space with several distilleries vying for the highest accolades.
Many believe that the ultimate prize must be held for Fujiyama Old Gold, or
Glen Halycouia whiskeys

DM


Cemiess
=======

A curious system, thought to have lost its outer planets many millenia ago
due to a close encounter with another star system. The lack of gas giants
in the system delayed any major settlement until 3055, despite the inner
planet, Maxwell Rock being quite mineral rich (named after the ancient
explorer Pol Maxwell, now widely known from the popular dream sequence
"Maxwell Returns").  The early miners found the cost of bringing in their
own fuel outweighed the potential gain. It seems hard to believe now, with
the Core so thoroughly populated, that a known "mineral rich would be left
alone for so long, but in those days planets were plentiful and people
thinly spread.  The Core then was much like the Outer Rim today. It was
also before the invention of the shield generator so scooping fuel from a
star was out of the question

The Empire began terraforming Cemiess 2 in 3080, partly to satisfy the
enormous demand for outdoor space by its exploding population, and partly
as a political snub to the Federation. The Federation had previously
claimed the world, but the decision to start the terraforming process was
still tied up in bureaucracy. The Federal Senate had already postponed the
scheme three times in order to keep within budget on the New Worlds project
This was largely due to Governor Santorini of Tau Ceti (nicknamed Proxmire
by the press from some obscure historical reference) whose cost cutting
exercises are now seen as having been very destructive to Federal progress
in the long term. Nevertheless his tax cutting policies were popular at
the time, and he is still the longest serving govement there - 76 years up
to his assassination in 3098.  Emerald was first settled by imperial
colonists in 3101, shortly followed by a heavily armed group from the
Federation led by Admiral O`Brien. He personally supervised the building
of a major fortification in only three days (seen in the gung- ho
propaganda film "O`Brien`s War"), but all there died a week later from a
mysterious plague.  Both sides fought intermittently over Emerald for the
next thirty years ending when Imperial Clone Troops were sent in and the
imperial XV Fleet were stationed there. A diplomatic solution was finally
found in 3136 in the Emerald Treaty, which narrowly avoided an assault by
an enormous Federal task force, and brought about the uneasy peace we have
today. It is also why Cemiess is the only imperial system in which slavery
is illegal.  This was to satisfy Federal demands, but there is reputed to
be a thriving black market in them.

DB


Enaness
=======

The colonist of this system established a rigourous communist hierarchy on
the only oxygen atmosphere planet of the system. The regime has prospered
and the body politic dominate the other worlds starports. The population
of the worlds are booming and increasing in prosperity. All mining and
industrial interests are state owned and largely automated Slavery is
strictly forbidden and freedom is assured to anyone arriving in the
territory regardless of race. Religious ceremonies of any form are illegal
and commitments made in such circumstances are regarded as void under
Enaness law

All inhabitants of the system have a birthright guaranteed by the state,
which is a single journey ticket to either Earth or Capitol, no other
property is acknowledged.  political indoctrination begins early on in
childhood, but anyone declaring a desire to leave free to do so. There is
no return permitted, however immigration to the worlds is strictly
controlled and all goods are turned over to the state on arrival. Traders
and visitors sometimes find the attitude of the inhabitants to material
goods disconcerting

The academy of Rymhananman is justly famous for its theoretical physics and
chemistry departments.  It also boasts the foundation established by
Wyksyrndra Baranha to explore and exploit Enaness 4. WyKsymdra is famous
for his conjecture that the fourth planet of Enaness was the homeworld of a
civilised alien race, who later terraformed Charles Colony when they
rendered their own world uninhabitable by excessive pollution.  The
evidence for his theory is hotly disputed by many eminent archeologisls,
but they are at a loss to explain the peculiar mineral deposits of Enaness
4 and the absence of ancient fossils on Enaness 5 The abrupt appearance of
life sprung full grown in all its glory suggests to Baranha tentative
evidence of the works of an ancient spacefaring civilisation.

If this theory is correct, there is no doubt that the alien species, and
all tangible artifacts have disappeared during the intervening millenia.
Part of the work of the foundation is to analyse the native species of
other alien worlds and see if there are any anomalous similarities across
worlds.  The task is monumental and no conclusive results are expected for
at least a century. The Foundation is supported by voluntary contributions
from a number of trusts and charities. For information about donations,
consult your local library database

DM


Epsilon Eridani
===============

This system has nine planets, three of which are home to humans. The most
noticable, is the inner pfanet New California, terraformed by the Cisco
Corporation in 2958.  This large conglomerate made a fortune with a
patented terraforming method and now they have interests in innumerable
fields.  It is a beautiful world with stunning panoramas everywhere;
flowers exotic trees, rivers and mountains have been carefully placed to be
aesthetic.  In fact it is so consistently picturesque that some people
become distressed.  When they are used to worlds with pockets of scenic
beauty scattered amongst jungles of the urban type, it all gets a bit too
much on New Califomia where there isn't so much as a discarded vidicube
wrapper in the verdant garden

Most come here for the Cisco Theme Park which was set up with no expense
spared and costs a fortune to visit. It is well worth it though because
you can live in a world of almost any fantasy you wish, even murder (slaves
are very useful). If you want a break from the lushness outside, you can
elect to stay for a day at the Ancient London Earth World of 1995. Every
effort has been made to make it as authentic as possible, it even has the
stench of pollution

Every fantasy theme has its own complex which is self contained, with
actors to help tourists play a part in adventures and feel that it is real.
You can pay a little extra and have a personal android servant that looks
exactly like the personality of your choice for when you are relaxing in
the hotel section. The most frequently attended is the Erotic Pleasures of
the Galaxy Centre which is not for the prudish or the faint hearted Amongst
the customers there are always a number of private detectives doing
research for angry clients who think their partner is up to no good having
found receipts from Cisco Theme Park

There are more wholesome themes on offer and it is not worth describing
more because one man`s fantasy may be the every day drudgery of another.
Remember there are always psychiatrists on hand to help you prepare for
reality when you have to return home.

KD


Eta Cassiopeia
==============

A very unusual system, which went unexplored for a long time after a small
error in the Comprehensive Star Survey of 2153 logged the system as a
binary with no planets.  It is the only system known, so far, with
habitable worlds in the Trojan points of a large planetary body with all
three bodies moving in exactly the same orbital path, separated by 60
degrees

Both these worlds, Trojan and Feynman have indigenous life and examination
of their biological structure shows them to be based on the same DNA-like
genetic mechanism as each other. Current theories suggest that particles
spread along the orbital path following an asteroidal impact with Trojan,
on which life was just emerging, and reached the atmosphere of Feynman
relatively intact. Though there is evidence for a major glancing impact on
Trojan in its early history (thought by some to have helped form its moon),
this is highly contested by some scientists. The Federal Navy terraformed
the only moon of the gas giant between in the 2970s to give an ideal
training ground for planetary assault troops, and now that the Naval
Academy has been moved here, it is the foremost naval training centre.
There are no surface settlements for civilian visitors, they must disembark
at the orbital station "Morgues Mortuary." The station was named (at first
it was only a nickname) after a tyrannical naval training sergeant
Maximillian Morgue.  He was found guilty of abusing his position and was
executed, following a mutiny after twenty of his recruits died in a single
horrific incident

Both Trojan and Feynman are largely agricultural worlds. Trojan is more
heavily populated, and was the first to be settled. It is also where most
of the light service industries which supply the Navy are based. The Navy
import most of their heavy equipment from other nearby systems (especially
from Camp Powell in AC+79 3888). Since the joint government here highly
discourage the polluting heavy industry this would require. Feynman (named
after an ancient physicist) is almost entirely agricultural, and is joked
about within the navy as being the most boring place for shore leave. The
well known saying getting leave on Hicksville, was started here.

DB


Exbeur
======

The planet Sheehanworld was initially overlooked in the exploitation of
this region of space, the Federation gained a very firm grip on the planets
and nearby star systems and relied on mainly automatic mining ships to
develop the region.  Because of this human population of the stars was
relatively slow.  There were furthur setbacks for the first colonists on
the planet, with the first two settlements being wiped out by mysterious
plagues

The natural life on this cold planet were naturally hardy and many intrepid
explorers fell victim to local parasites which managed to find comfortable
hosts amongst the humans The planet is not an ice world, although it has
large glaciated regions. There are fertile areas close to the equator and
most humans choose to live there. The life on Sheehanworld is no longer
harsh.  Federation cultivators and harvesting machines have cleared large
tracts of all native species and Earth basic stock has been imported to
take over the cleared land.

The most successful animals imported to the planet have come from the
antipodes of Earth with kangaroos, duck billed platypuses and wombats
providing a peculiar set of creatures to exploit a foreign ecology. The
success of the duck billed platypus is especially remarkable considering
its own precarious existence on Earth itself, where the animal is mainly
confined to zoos and breeding laboratories.  An ironic turn about is
provided by the rabbit, which wreaked such havoc when it was introduced to
Australia on Earth; it completely failed to find a foothold on Sheehaworld,
in fact, the Sheehanworld parasite which killed most of the rabbits
introduced is now used on Earth to control the population back in Australia

The planets of Exbeur are not known for the commercial crops grown there,
but rather as the centre of operations for the Federation mining concerns
which operate in the volume of space nearby. Exbeur is home for one of the
Federations largest mining fleets, and repair facilities for automated
mining equipment can be found here, for Federation owned machines. Some
Corporation vessels have service contracts here, but these are rarely
leased to individual traders

The miners of the Federation are renowned as rough and ready types and
strangers wandering into any of the planetary bars or saloons may be
surprised at the frequency of fist- fights. The experiences of a real life
Exbeur miner, Douglas Mounthilbert form the basis of one of the most
popular vid-series, Times of Splendour back at the Federation heart.
Although the series has glamorised the events considerably, historians such
as Aldwaith Rumbart are quick to disclaim the series as popular trash, but
have to agree that in many matters of detail it accurately portrays the
early development of the Exbeur system and establishment of Camp Biggs and
Nakamichi Depot.

There is a museum in Nakamichi Depot to the memory of Mounthilbert,
containing some of the most remarkable footage ever captured on vid. A
restored version of the vid can be enjoyed by anyone visiting. It records
how Douglas managed to defend one of the local farmers from attack by a
leopard hawk, one of the local predators. The "hawks were a bane of the
early colonists" once the plagues were overcome, and Mounthilberts battle
is the only recorded incident where a man bested one of the creatures with
his bare hands, as well as being the storyline for may plays and an episode
of Times the event captured the imagination of Jjagged Bbanner who
dedicated their recording Death and Dishonour to the memory of Douglas (The
Mounthilbert estate found the title offensive and tried to sue the band,
but were unsuccessful)

DM


Exioce
======

O'Rourke Colony is not a particularly hospitable world, since the surface
temperature of the World never goes above the freezing point of water. It
became of interest to the scientific community when the rest of the system
was explored. The third planet shows evidence of being terraformed in the
very distant past, although the corrosive atmosphere suggests a very
different life form than humankind was responsible. This discovery led to
massive research investment by both Federation and Empire in the system.
Thatcher Starport grew out of a group of industrial chemists investigating
the origins of the Exioce III "biosphere". It is now a centre for the
fabrication of super conductors and related products

Experiment was terraformed by the Empire and this world is now the heart of
the system.  Being so much nearer to the star, it maintains a far more
clement climate with a year half as long as that of O'Rourke. From its
early beginnings as a research station to monitor closely the terraforming
process, de Gaul Depot has become the centre for administration in the
system.  There are abundant mineral resources amongst the worlds of the
system and it is a major production centre for computers and robotics.

Attempts  to  introduce livestock onto Experiment have been largely
unsuccessful, and O'Rourke colony has a polar climate, severely restricting
the animals able to survive there Polar bears and seals have adapted well,
competing on equal terms with the indigenous life forms, but no other Earth
animals have adapted to the conditions. A fierce native predator has been
christened the Yeti, after a mythical creature from antiquity, and has been
responsible for the deaths of over two hundred research staff during the
history of the colony. this in turn has made the system attractive to big
game hunters.

D.M


Extila
======

The farmers of Carter`s World are justly proud of their reputation for
producing some of the richest harvests of the Empire. Food exported from
the World find their way to Achenar, Facece and even Earth, where the
ground tree is a favourite delicacy amongst the high society and luxury
catering industry.  We cross bred grain varieties of of Carters World are
reputed to make the finest bread in the known worlds and the Revised
Catholic Mission of Aymiay insist that all their holy wafers be made with
pure Carter wheat

The populace of Carter's World are a racially mixed group, with several
waves of settlers with different backgrounds landing and making a fresh
start under the harsh light of Eltila. The planet has an "open door"
policy for immigration and the relatively simple and disorganised feudal
ruling system suits an agricultural life style. Despite the variety of
racial backgrounds" the inhabitants of Carter`s World have a very uniform
appearance to off- worlders. The harsh sunlight and the high gravity have
bred a distinctive bulky dark skinned race with a marked distain for any
kind of pretension

The indigenous life forms of Carter's World are tolerated, but not pampered
a local hexapod is used as draught animal by most farmers. But with
typical Carter bluntness it is called beast and has no more formal name.
The local fauna compete fairly evenly with imported Achenar and Earth
stock, but the native plant life is not compatible with human digestive
tracts and so imported varieties are farmed. A few verrix can be found
hauling loads for the most prosperous farm communities. The imported
verrix are highly prized and more than one local war has broken out over
disputes about land use with the animals. These wars are highly localised
affairs and tradition forbids the use of military or heavy weapons.
Disputes are usually between neighbouring villages and rarely escalate
furthur.

Visitors to Carter's World are made welcome and the local hospitality is
freely extended to one and all.  Most visitors find the 2.8 standard
gravities a bit daunting but booster shots can temporarily overcome this.
Unless a traveller has grown up in high gravity environments, strenuous
exercise should be avoided. There are organised tourist visits of all the
famous planetary features of Caters World and tourists are advised to keep
with the registered tours.

DM


Facece 
======

Known as the second capital of the Empire, this system is the home of one
of the major Empire fleets. The commercial and industrial heart of the
system is the oxygen atmosphere planet of Topaz, famed for its spectacular
rift valleys and tremendous waterfalls. Mineral exploitation development
of Topaz is confined to deep mines and the planet supports a thriving
tourist industry in addition to the vital administrative support it
provides the Empire Many of the Empire's most prominent politicians and
officers have their second homes on the lake shores of Topaz

The eighth planet, Peter's Wreck has been taken over by the military, and
training bases have been established there, for this reason the planet is
interdicted and no casual visitors are allowed. It corresponds closely to
the military worlds of the Federation such as Navy Central on Eta Casiopia.
The military industrial complexes of the Facece system are self supporting,
with military fuel synthesis using the abundant power in the system. If
your credit is sufficient, there are no better facilities in the Empire
than those available here for equipping a vessel.

The proximity of so much Empire force means that the traveller in this area
has little to fear from pirate raiders, though adherence to Empire law is
of prime importance. For the visitor from the Federation, Topaz seems like
a condensation of all things Empire, and in many ways the regime is
enforced more strictly than on Capitol. Tourists must be absolutely sure
that all papers are in order and always keep their identity disks to hand

The planet of Topaz has been colonised for almost as long as Capitol and
bears the marks of some of the early excesses of the Empire, particularly
with regard to the race laws and early eugenics programs. The native life
forms have been rigorously suppressed and Earth forms have taken control
completely. The Quagga was introduced early on in the colonisation program
and vast herds now roam parts of the planet. Topaz is almost unique of the
known planets since an attempt to introduce rabbits to exterminate native
herbivores failed completely early in the colony's history.

DM


Fawaol
======

The Fawaol system was originally explored by scouts from the Darius
Foundation in an attempt to find a planet which could be used as a base for
genetic engineering research. The first colony was established two years
after discovery of the planet and a wide variety of animal life was
imported from all the oxygen atmosphere worlds of explored space. The
Foundation intended to exploit the different forms and experiments were
undertaken to cross breed and geneticalty combine strains from entirely
different evolutionary groups

The work was undertaken in strict secrecy, since the manipulation being
conducted were of highly dangerous and illegal nature. No-one is likely to
know of the results of the work, however, since the early experimental
records and "creations" were destroyed in a series of raids by extreme eco
terrorists on the principal laboratories of the Foundation. Documents
related to the experiments had been leaked to concerned orgaisations, and
their contents were so horrifying to the general public that although one
hundred and seventy four terrorists were arrested by planetary authorities,
all were acquitted on technicalities.

The Empire sent armed forces to finish the work of the terrorists and the
Darius Foundation was destroyed forever. There remained the question of
what to do with the enormous range of animals left after the laboratories
were dismantled. Quentin Cholmondley presented a proposal to convert large
tracts of the world, (renamed Tracy after the commander of the Empire
fleet) into game reserves and zoological gardens. The intention was to
provide micro environments tailored to each group of species and establish
the largest series of free range habitats in space, where animals from all
planets could be seen in conditions as close as possible to the wild.

After the success and popular acclaim for the ecological fighters the idea
of confining the creatures through artificial barriers was dismissed, and
alternative methods of separating the widely different animal species were
sought.  In addition to the use of geological features and artificial
earthworks, several biological methods are employed in the game parks of
Tracy.  These range from the poisonous and repellant gemini worms of
Ackandso to the genetically enhanced tigers of Achenar, which are used to
confine large herd animals to their prescribed lands

Tracy has a twelve hour day and though the change of day length does not
affect many of the imported species, few purely nocturnal hunters manage to
flourish and have to be assisted by the zoo staff instead. The zoos are
staffed on a permanent basis by teams of rangers and scientists who perform
all necessary culling in a controlled and systematic fashion. The Empire
retains a police force to deter poachers and game hunters and unlicensed
killing of any creature on the world is illegal and carries stiff penalties
and fines

D.M.


Laedia
======

Mansfield Colony began as a Federation re supply depot for deep space
exploration The initial colony was provided with workshops and hyperdrive
repair facilities and automated Federation mining equipment was brought to
provide the necessary raw materials The local ecology of the main continent
suffered terribly due to the unenlightened attitudes of the commanders of
the Federation navy at the time. In retrospect, the damage that was done
to the planetary environment seems terrible but at the time the single idea
uppermost in the minds responsible for space exploration was expand

At the time Laedla was explored and developed, there was serious concern
amongst humanity in general that there was a belligerent extra terrestrial
race waging war on new planets. Many ships were disappearing near Zelada,
Ququvc and Aymiay and the federation was keen to expand in a different
region in case the fears of non-human encounters were verified

To this day, the loss of thirteen exploration vessels within a single
sector in three months remains unexplained, but similar bursts of losses
have occurred on different occasions at the edges of expanding human space.
The threat of alien invasion or warfare has diminished however, since no
active encounter has ever been recorded and no trace of non-human
civilisation has been reliably confirmed on any planet.

Mansfield colony was put together in a frenzy of panic, when the Federation
anticipated a war which never emerged. The colony was equipped with a mass
of sophisticated robotic equipment and machine shops, but few colonists.
The second stage of colonisation set out to reverse this trend, immigration
by thousands of peasant farmers from worlds bordering the Empire. As the
population changed from military dominated mining and refurbishing to a
more agricultural base, the Federation navy presence was reduced

The Empire invaded Mansfield colony in force on Lightning Thursday, and the
Federation forces were overwhelmed within two hours. It was the greatest
set-back the Ghurka regiment of the Federation has ever suffered and it
confirmed the Empires Clone troopers as their elite forces. The empire
ensured that the Federation could not reclaim the world by establishing
strong fortifications at Maxwell City and Suzuki town and two naval bases
off planet.

Once the Empire had taken control of the population, they lost no time in
re- establishing an industrial economic base for the planet. The world and
the outer planets are all donated by Empire mining concerns, and Mansfield
colony is a net importer of food in some years. This is due to Empire
reliance on single strain crops which can be very vulnerable to epidemics,
when the entire world crop of a particular type may be destroyed.

DM


Lave
====

The trading centre for this region of unusual systems. Through some
unexplained quirk of nature all systems have just one inhabited woirld
orbiting a single star. These systems are often known as ."The Old Worlds"
as they were amongst the first to be settled, despite there lack of gas
giants.  They were also renowned for their lawlessness as only the
corporate states in the region had any police force to speak about

"Lave is most famous for its vast rain forests and the Lalian tree grub" as
the main planet used to be desrribed on the now outdated Data on Systems
publication from the Elite Federation of Pilots. Much of the rain forest
has now been cut down by irresponsible locals wishing to raise cattle, and
the famous tree grub is on the verge of extinction in its natural habitat.
Unfortunately it is very sensitive to its environnient and all attempts to
breed them in captivity have so far failed. The ecological demonstrations
made up almost entirely by off- worlders) here are almost continuous; so
much so that many come here regularly on their vacations in order to
protest.  Indeed, ironically the dictator Dr, Walden once reffered to the
protesters on a vid interview as "Our thriving tourist industry" and also
said "The system's economy depends on them so much so that we cannot afford
to stop cutting down the forests!".

DB


Liaedin
=======

The hot white star of Liaedin sears the surface of Schneider Colony with a
bright artinic glare. The inhabitants have come to learn that hiding from
the light especially in the midday hours is vitally necessary to avoid
dangerous skin cancers. In local slang a trip out in the midday sun is to
invoke "death from above".  The locals have a very sanguine attitude to
life and death, since in the past few hundred years they have been subject
to far more death from above than just the sunlight.

Schneider Colony has had numerous starports established in the past and New
Cousens is only the latest in a long line of local capitals. The remains
of some of the others dot the landscape here and there, scattered amongst
radioactive craters and pock-marks form other debris of the almost
continual skirmishing over the planet between the Federation and Empire The
planet is catalogued in most libraries as being "disputed" but the true
situation is that the population are in an almost continual state of civil
war, and neither the Federation or Empire seem very keen to end the
situation

The burning surface of New Cousens supports a very vigorous form of native
life which have a very rapid growth cycle. Some plants sprout from nothing
to full growth reproduce and then decay within a single day, since they are
killed by the midday light. Earth crops have not adapted well to the harsh
environment and most colonists survive on hydroponic crops grown in
filtered light in sheltered darkhouses. There are few large animals native
to the world; the largest so far discovered is a burrowing worm 20 metres
long which inhabits the tropical deserts which lie in two bands just South
and North of the planetary poles

The presence of the giant worms in the deserts of Schneider Colony was
revealed by the peculiar metal rich patterns detected in the initial
orbital survey of the world conducted by Theodore Schneider. He believed
the intricate patterns to be the work of native intelligences eager to give
messages to visiting astronauts.  When it was discovered that they were
merely the waste products of a native worm with less intelligence than an
average dog, Schneider relinquished claim on the world and flew off in
search of true extra terrestrial intelligence

Theodore Schneider left the colony in the hands of two families, the
Blossoms and the Faveots.  The Blossom family contracted a group of
planetary engineers to persue the exploitation of the seas, which are very
mineral rich.  The Faveols imported Empire technology and bred a hybrid
worm which burrowed deeper into the deserts and actively sought out mineral
rich earth.  The Faveols leave a trail of enriched ores as they move
through the ground which can be easily harvested with cheap mechanical
devices.  The secrets of the sea mines and the hunting worms have been
protected diligently and handed down from one generation to the next and
are undoubtedly the best kept secrets on the planet

It has become traditional to call for assistance from either the Empire
(for the descendants of the Faveols) or the Federation (for the Blossoms)
at the slightest infringement of the convoluted territorial laws on
Schneider's Colony, or if mineral quotas are exceeded by either family.
The Federation and Empire both seem content to continue the dispute,
perhaps viewing it as a good testing ground for new military hardware,
without wishing to start conflict in more prosperous areas,

The Federation maintain a small permanent force at Wilson Base, on Ulrichs
rock while the Empire has taken over Moore's World and the small starport
of Smith Town Visitors to any of these worlds should be aware of the
constant tension which prevails and the delicate potitics which prevents
full scale war from breaking out here. Be very careful to ensure that all
documents are up to date and accurate before venturing into this system

DM


Liaququ
=======

The water world of New California is famous for the wide range of medicines
which the abundant ocean life provide. The World is devoid of advanced
life forms with no natural vertebrate forms. Evolution appears to have
pursued a similar route as on Earth with plants and simple life developing
in the oceans, but the most advanced species are equivalent to the
terrestial  echinederms.  Despite the unsophisticated anatomy of the
animals, the ocean teems with life and it yields an abundant harvest for
the farming communities which now inhabit the world

The life forms of New California may lack sophistication, but a huge
variety of developments have occurred in the benign environment of the hot
ocean. On Earth some of the most potent poisons known to mankind are found
in the jellyfish, and this is true of Liaququ's planet as well. Early
settlers fell easy prey to the local creammis floaters and flying drevis
froms with their potent nerve toxins. Even nowadays, the fish farmers have
to beware of the swarming migration patterns of whip slimes.

The deadly venom of many of the species of New Califomia have spawned a
thriving pharmaceutical trade. The factory and laboratory ships of major
interstellar drug companies keep track of the ocean currents and harvest a
rich variety of natural drugs and medications. They also serve to notify
the resident fisheries of unexpected concentrations of dangerous fauna

Many varieties of aquatic life from Earth and other worlds have been
introduced to the oceans of New California. Local environmental lobbies
have made no progress at limiting the import of foreign life forms. In
many cases the introductions have been unsuccessful and several ambitious
commercial farming ventures have come to nothing. The dolphins and killer
whales of Earth and the barabous and inqoqo of Cemiess have done
particularly well, but are not commercialty exploited due to their
recognised intelligence levels. The most successful commercial fish crop
is the stinger of Facece which is the local staple food and a valuable
export.

The largest predator on New California is a species of eleven limbed
starfish known as Godzilla, a historical reference of uncertain origin.
The naturalist and environmental lobbyist M'harma Dennet has captured on
film the remarkable fight between a godzilla and a sperm whale following
the battle in an aircraft and finally diving into the ocean to catch the
final moments as the godzilla dispatched the giant mammal. The fiIm has
won several awards including the prestigious DIGMA bronze star.

DM


Phekda
======

The Phekda system was opened up by three major corporations simulaneously.
Kamawachi,  Bell Traket and Inter-market.  A brief spell of mutual
cooperation soon degenerated into fierce corporate warring, resulting in
the destruction of most of the original bases. Several small pressure
groups converged on the planet of New California and set up independent
operations, using military hardware from a nearby war to enforce their
independence. In the uncontrolled warring, much of the indigenous life was
destroyed by bacterial warfare and radioactive fall-out. Many parts of the
World are still contaminated.  The entire system now operates as an
anarchic state and visitors must be prepared to deal with each individual
entirely on their own merits

It is a dangerous system to visit, especially on a casual basis, since
there is no law enforcement in the system. Every once in a while the
Federation attempts to impose order but the fiercely independent colonists
resort to guerilla tactics to maintain their freedom. Any traveller
visiting the system during such a sortie can expect to be treated in a very
undignified fashion and may even have to stand trial as a spy. The system
is also a haven for escaped convicts and bounty hunters

All in all a highly uncivilised region and well worth missing by any law
abiding citizen

DM


Phiagre
=======

Stevenson is a cold world orbiting an isolated star of this ternary system.
It is a Corporate planet, but runs along the lines of the Empire rather
than the Federation, and visitors and tourists must be sure to have all
papers and identification readily to hand if they land at either Fortress
Birmingham or Nakamichi's Camp. Despite the martial sounding name Fortress
Birmingham has never been the focus of military action and the history of
the planet has been quite peaceful the civil war which established the
planet as an independant Corporate run World occurred within a decade of
first landing and the government structure has all the merits and
deficiencies of a long established bureaucracy.

There was a great movement towards eco awareness at the time of the
colonies foundation, and pledges to conserve the native forms were forced
on the Corporations from the outset.  This proved to the companies
advantage when the native flora were later exploited commercially. The low
mean temperature of the world has produced some extremely hardy plants and
animals, of great interest to scientists and with huge commercial spin
offs.  There is geological evidence that the planet has had a much warmer
climate in the past, and this may in part explain how the life forms of
this world have proved so adaptable to other worlds

Few companies or individuals with an interest in terraforming and planetary
modification will be unfamiliar with grana-root. This had become one of
the major planet- breakers for terraforming operations. It can out-compete
many simpler plants and directly consume tailored bacteria (strains
IGH\CFi\ag I, IV and V), breaking up earth and soil to provide fertile land
for grain crops. At the same time, the spread of grana root is controlled
by appilex, a burrowing worm also derived from one of the creatures of
Stevenson

For many, though, the most familiar of the animals of this world will be
the verrix which is probably to be found on more worlds than any other
single species except mankind itself.  The giant creature, with its
enormous musclepower and placid nature is standard equipment for many new
colony ships.  Transported as fertilised ova it has replaced mechanical
tractors on many emerging worlds, especially those of the Empire and bio-
engineering oriented Corporations.  Records indicate that the verrix can
grow to approximately three times the size of the Earth elephant. It is an
omnivore and can adapt to digest most foods though the potato grape of
Anlave is known to be the ideal feed for the animal. Finally, many
colonies have found that the versatile hair and hides of the creatures have
reduced the need for expensive import of materials from off-planet during
early years of colonial development

Verrix for export are genetically pure "strains" geneticaly modified to be
sterile after three generations. This is a Corporation device, to ensure a
continuing market for their animals. The strict quarantine Laws and heavy
penalties for import or export of the live animals are designed to maintain
the Corporations strangle hold on the verrix market. Visitors to the
verrix farming regions are welcome. The sight of herds of the enormous
creatures trampling the plains, herded by enhanced polar bears from Exioce
is quite amazing.  as one poeticatly inclined visitor stated "the polar
bears seem to dance around the verrix as if they were stoats herding Cows
on Earth"

The O'Hanlon orbital station has excellent repair facilities and boast a
number of first class hotels. The sight from the station of the planet and
ternary system are quite spectacular Phiagre is an interesting stopover
between the Federation and Empire and well worth a visit by even a casual
tourist

DM


Quince
======

The second planet of this system, New America was claimed early in the life
of the Empire and has stayed loyal from the very beginning. The population
are fierce bound to the Empire and many of the most fanatical of the
Empire's regiments have a core of Quincet soldiers. The Empire's tolerance
of genetic manipulation has found a ready hold in the people of Quince and
here more than anywhere else in the worlds the principles of directed
development have been pursued

The most deadly insult which can be delivered to a native Quincet is too
long or too hard.  This can be difficult for someone brought up in the
sheltered worlds of the Federation.  It is quite possible to meet
engineered humans with very heavily adapted physiques to enable them to
operate effectively under the seas, or high in the mountains of New America
and even the occasional attempt at growing extra limbs can be glimpsed now
and then since dueling is permitted in Empire law, and choice of approach
is left to natives visitors should be careful when wandering the streets of
any of the major starports not to gawp too openly

The principles of directed development mean that most births on the planet
are planned, indeed "Designed" but the inhabitants are also masters of
genetic grafting and implant surgery" so a person's form is very flexible.
If you make friends with a native during one visit, you may be surprised at
their appearance when you next meet them. The enhancement possible by the
best of Empire technology is frowned on by Federation law, but is available
at a price to anyone who wants it, in the laboritories of Simpson Town.

DM

Quphieth
========

An independent world in which feudal land barons are propped up with aid
from the Empire.  To avoid this world and its interesting biology being
consumed by the Federation

The Quphieth system was first visited by Augustus Brenquith, a rich
eccentric from Old Earth who spent the latter half of his life exploring
and opening up new stellar systems He was one of the great early explorers,
and left Earth in a highty modified Griffon class freighter. His ship was
"extensively altered" to enable it to make very long jumps (for the time)
and most of the cargo space was converted to life support and message
capsules.  He left Earth just after the third algac war and vowed never to
return. His aim was to explore the surrounding stellar systems and provide
a legacy of inhabitable planets for the people of Earth

For a period of 35 years, message capsules from Brenquith returned to the
Sol system bearing news of new worlds or hazardous planets which he had
encountered.  Each new arrival spurred a wave of colonists out from the
home planet to the new World. His descriptions of the planets he visited
were often poetically tinged, and after so long without human company
became rather unreliable but were always great media sensations

His initial description of Quphieth centred mainly on the rich and diverse
life of the main continent.  And he wrongly concluded from his initial
aerial survey that there was no large animal life present, only a rich
variety of plants and insects. The world is now famous for the peculiar
biology which has produced the most successful non standard (neither plant
animal nor fungoid) life form so far encountered. All the creatures of
Quphieth combine features which lead to classification as plant and animal,
according to Earth standards and they continue to surprise and amaze
scientific surveys to this day

The system is now most famous for the so called "whispering palms" which
produce sounds and mimic the cries of local flying creatures. These plants
form huge forests and the din created when the planimals echo the sounds of
a violent thunder storm have to be heard to be believed. Visitors to the
system are restricted, and export of the local species has been strictly
controlled ever since the Doleviera incident. It is unusual for permission
to be granted for individual trips to any of the islands, where scientists
are still attempting to catalogue the local life forms.

DM.


Ququve
======

This thinly populated federation world is home to the great funkenstromer.
Works, a giant industrial chemical conglomerate which furnishes the
fittings and equipment for 30% of all federation ships. The conglomerate
favours undeveloped worlds for its industrial bases, since there is less
danger of law suits from ecological activists. The federation law enables
the company to establish single owner sites and prevent access by casual
investigators.  Funkenstromer also build very efficient security systems
and all their plants are very well guarded

New America was named with a good deal of sarcasm by the first colonists.
They found a grim forbidding world and the original choice of name was
"Inferno" but too few visitors caught the reference to Dante's outermost
hell and the name was changed by common vote. Life on New America was
confined to the seas before the arrival of mankind and the giant ice floes
and continental shelf were effectively sterile. The world was therefore
ripe for plundering by the conglomerates which started work with a huge
investment in robot task forces.

The charter of planetary development drawn up by federation beaurocrats for
New America set firm limits on the emission of effluents and toxic wastes.
These are restricted and controlled so that the seas do not become polluted
by industrial effluent.  The emission of greenhouse gases is strictly
controlled and minimum levels of emission for each type of industry were
established and agreed with the conglomerate. Any site not meeting the
emission requirement must supplement its own waste gasses with additional
quantities generated deliberately to bring the levels above the minimum

Company meteorologists are monitoring the condition of the world carefully
and new guide lines for gas levels will be presented as soon as the target
heating of the planet has been achieved. It is hoped that the warming of
the world can be conducted in a controlled fashion so that the native life
is disturbed only marginally, but the surface of the planet will be made
far more accessible. So far the development is proceeding pretty much to
plan, according to the spokeswoman for the conglomerate. The sudden bloom
of weltsers leaf in two of the planetary seas and the consequent
extermination of the bottom grazing wirromin skate are put down to freak
environmental accidents.

Until the surface of New America warms considerably, or the industrial
development  exceeds  reasonable limits, New America supplements its
industrial output by operating as a winter sports centre. The facilities
available at Scott, the major starport, are second to none in the
Federation.  There is a thriving market amongst the wealthy visitors for
all manner of luxury goods and provisions.

DM


Riedquat
========

Like Lave, this is one of the Old World systems, with just a single planet
and star. It has now been in a state of anarchy or civil war for some five
hundred years and it seems very unlikely that a stable government will ever
be successfully established, since the anarchic attitude is so ingrained in
the planet's culture Social stability depends on large family groups or
clans, and minor wars between them are continually breakiug out, keeping
the thriving arms importers busy. There have been attempts in the past to
start up local weapon manufacture but typically family rivalries tend to
end up with the factories being destroyed.  Indeed there is no heavy
industry to speak of because the investment required to build a factory is
far greater than that to destroy it.

Slavery here is rife, as captured members of rival families are either used
as slaves on their vast farms, or sold on the open market to generate
foreign currency to buy arms.  The major battles tend to be seasonal,
mainly since most of a family's income is spent on weaponry, and much of
their income comes from the grain harvest, once every 131 days (a local
year). Each family tries to get its harvest out as soon as possible, so it
can wipe out its hated rivals before they get their order of weapons.
Quite often a hard pressed family will be almost out of ammunition
immediately before harvest, so this is a good time for a rival to attack.
It has beeu known for families to cooperate, especially distant families in
different hemispheres (since the seasons occur there at different times)
but these agreements rarely last more than a few seasons

The harmless Riedquatian mouse is much prized for its delicate meat and
extremely soft fur, used to make the much treasured "mousemat" coats, sold
throughout the known worlds. Many families farm them, and there is still a
thriving population in the wild. A wild mouse is particularly treasured if
found scavenging on a battlefield, as the flesh is supposed to be
especially succulent.

DB

Ross 128
========

Travellers do not flock to Ross 128 or to its only inhabited planet, Grants
Claim When Maurice Grant claimed it, it was through an over ambitious
desire to build an independent colony that he could rule without question.
His early surveys suggest that the planet was mineral rich and promised an
exciting future amassing wealth from mining Unfortunately, he discovered
that in every body of people there are always a few who ask questions, and
awkward ones at that, then don't settle for a feeble answer. Whilst
answering a few of these at his Citizens' Clinic he was assassinated.
Grant's analyses proved to be erroneous as minerals were only to be found
in small pockets here and there the mines were soon abandoned. The
remaining would be leaders realised that it was not an easy job to govern a
population driven mainly by greed and the resulting economic collapse was
devastating.  The Federation stepped in and "rescued' the colony on the
condition that it came under their control. The populace greeted them with
open arms and promptly found that their home was to become a prison colony

The prison, nicknamed "The Warren" is a vast underground complex of cells
accommodating miscreants of every kind. The security is very tight and few
have seen beyond the visitors' hall without being an inmate. For this
reason rumours are rife, and include tales of genetic experiments,
prostitution and corruption.  It is true that the prisoners experience
great hardship due to the manual mining at minus four degrees centigrade.
It is no holiday for the warders either and there are reports of some of
the narcotics intended for use in prisoner obedience programmes being
diverted to the staff. Nobody outside really complains because they are
glad that someone else is willing to do the job

Don't forget, if you ever have a loved one serving a sentence, you need a
permit to see them.

KD.


Ross 154
========

A very small system with little to attract any interest. The only reason
it is mentioned here is the curious ecosystem on the ice world Merlin. All
the indigenous life is beneath the ice of the vast salt water ocean, which
covers the entire world. It exists in large pocket of gas trapped beneath
the permanent stable ice sheet, and in the oceans themselves

It wasn't until 2775 when Burt Hackrington Smythe made the series of
documentaries "Heaven Under the Ice" that it was understood how such a
world managed to sustain the large shoals of merlin fish found here. The
ecosystem is based on a lichen which grows on the walls of air filled
chambers under the ice.  Living off the weak red light which filters
through from above.  The lichens produce oxygen to give a mixture
surprisingly breathable by humans and they form an insulating layer.
Typically the temperature inside can be as high as 20 degrees centigrade,
heated by the thick layer of rotting vegetation which floats on the surface
of the sea below.  A whole host of other species graze on the Lichen,
lighting the cavity with their various glowing body parts, and species such
as the Merlin Plesiosaur with its fierce red glowing eyes (much valued for
its silky hide) travel between these oases, eating a few of the grazing
creatures at each stop.

The life cycles of these cavities is tens of Earth years. They start as
little high pressure bubbles deep under the ice, and can grow up to about
five kilometers across, giving the truly beautiful panoramas depicted by
Hackrington Smythe. The cavities slowly migrate to the surface as the ice
above them melts, and their eventual death can be quite spectacular when
suddenly a crack forms in the ice above the cavity and the pressure is
released.  There is a long rumble as water floods the cavity, then rushes
up through the hole formed, forming a giant moss laden geyser on the
surface above. The shoals of merlin fish rush to the sound of rumbling, to
feed on the debris which falls into the sea below, and it is for this
reason that the fishing industry on Merlin was so easy to establish. No
fishing fleets are needed - each factory simply releases an explosive
charge in a man-made cavity below the reprocesing plant and an hour later
it is full of fish. Strict controls are enforced to prevent overfishing
since the early private fisheries almost wiped out the stock in only four
years

The only surface settlement is the windswept Sirocco Starport. It is built
directly on the ice sheet, and is used to supply the numerous fish
processing plants built under the ice. It is also through here that the
huge tonnage of fish is exported to the surrounding worlds. The seedy
starport diner, The Ecstatic Gourmet, serves an excellent dish called
Merlunch which is a pie made with pickled merlin fish. It sounds off
putting but regular travellers to this area make a point of visiting the
diner just for this, rarely risking the other fare

D.B


Sirius
======

Most visitors to the Sirius system are disappointed at how little there is
to see, given its importance in human history. It has numerous firsts to
its name, in addition to being the brightest star in the sky of Ancient
Earthbound humans.  Doubtless the guides in the Sirius Museum Complex on
Lucifer will tell you, this was the first entirely corporate system and the
location of the first commercial production of Anti-matter based fuels

Most historians now tell a different story, however, about how Sirius
became rich during the First Interstellar War. The Sirius Corporation was
set up by a group of rich industrialists from Earth, in order to exploit
the discovery of a way to store a stable atom of anti matter within a
complex molecule. And use it as a fuel Sirius first started production in
2350, supplying the Federation war fleet, whose ships had been adapted to
use the new fuel This caused a major swing in the Federation's fortunes,
but only a few years later Imperial ships were similarly equipped,
cancelling the advantage, It is now known that Sirius supplied both sides,
engineering convenient shortages whenever one side was winning, thus
greatly prolonging the war (and increasing their own income). Though it is
not denied by Sirius today it is blamed on a few unscrupulous individuals,
who are now long dead. This Gazetteer does not wish to suggest in any way
that the Sirius Corporation today would do any such thing

Lucifer itself is an interesting planet. It orbits Sirius B very closely
indeed hence the enormous power the corporation can extract using the coils
wrapped around the planet and from their solar collector panels. Visitors
should beware of the high radiation levels mainly from Sirius B, but also
from the fuel plant. The numerous volcanoes are quite a sight and small
craft can be hired to go on a sling shot path close to the fearsomely dense
white dwarf.  This is supposed to be the "ride of a lifetime," though be
warned - there have been many fatal accidents.

DB


Tau Ceti
========

This system is remarkable in that it was the first on which life was
discovered off Earth. The first intrepid pioneers led by John Taylor set
up a settlement and named it Taylor Colony. They were very successful and
used the fertile land for agriculture which was fully automated. The
population grew rapidly and revenue was earned from hunting which more or
less wiped out the indigenous life. When word got back to the Authority
for Ecological Control they became concerned and issued guide lines for
conservation, which were duly ignored.  The hunting of wildlife and
destruction of habitats continued until Earth threatened to send a police
force. John Taylor was a particularly hot headed individual and started to
insist that independence from Earth was granted to the Tau Ceti system.
Trade embargos failed and finally a military force was sent out by Earth
believing that Tau Ceti would not have the resolve to resist. A battle
followed which resulted in an impasse - surprising the authorities.
Eventually after much diplomacy the deadlock was broken was by forming the
Federation including Tau Ceti and Earth amongst others as founder members.
The unfortunate creatures that fuelled the whole debacle which led to this
extremely powerful alliance, virtually died out. Today they remain in
small numbers in enclosures and sanctuaries

KD


TILIALA
=======

Valhalla is a small, hot world, comprising equal parts of tropical jungle
and desert. Water covers only one third of its surface, but they team with
native life.  The seafood of Valhalla is a gourmet`s dream, complicated
only by the dangers involved in fishing on the planet, which is subject to
violent storms throughout the year. The Valhalla serpent is incorrectly
named, since it is anatomically related to the mammal like native animals
of the world. It grows to lengths in excess of thirty metres in the deep
ocean regions of the planet and careful control of hunting of the creatures
maintains the population at a suitable level. The serpent is the source of
cabitol oil and greaver, used in pharmaceuticals and beauty products
throughout human space, and its brilliantly patterned hides adorn the
wealth of the Federation

Similarly striking animals inhabit the jungles of Valhalla, perhaps the
best known being the Rajah Sphinx, now unfortunately extinct in its native
habitat, but preserved in zoos throughout the galaxy. The Trupin Sphinx
reins in the wild, however and safari tours to see it in situ are arranged
on an ad hoc basis.  Valhalla is a relatively light world, with few
accessible mineral deposits, so competition for land has been slight and
the ecological management of the planet has proceeded in an exemplary
fashion

The sister world of Democracy has been terraformed and is the site for most
mining and industrial activity in the system. The world is dense and
mineral rich, and is heavily exploited. The combination of a naturally
fertile "organic" world and a heavily industrialised and mineralised
artificial world is very successful and many of the wealthiest people of
Federation call the system home.

D.W


Wolf 630
========

This is an amazing system in fact a combination of coorbital systems,
including Wolf 629 and the white dwarf VB8 (named after Van Beisbrock in
ancient times).  The sky provides a stunning spectacle as six different
bodies are visible together. The scene from Landfall has been made famous
by the painting, Six Sisters by Dee Kosmala

Landfall, the only planet is home to the Second Founding Fathers, a rich
group of individuals who wanted to set up an ideal world. They named their
capital Mayflower City and set up an agricultural community which has grown
to enable a major export industry to flourish. The inhabitants are an
insular lot because they do not have any other planets in their system, and
view foreigners with suspicion so a reduced gene pool has resulted in much
inbreeding

Landfall orbits a brown dwarf named McCarthy, a spectacular sight. It was
named after an ancient astronomer who was not taken seriously when he
discovered it. The inhabitants of Landfill like to think it was the first
brown dwarf known to Man but those of other systems dispute this.

The indigenous life had to be very hardy as it had to withstand the high
levels of radiation from the white dwarf as it cooled and from McCarthy.
Thus the very irresponsible introduced life from Earth did not cause too
much of an ecological problem because most of it died out.

K.D.

Zeaex
======

The territorial rights over the Zeaex system has been disputed between the
Empire and Federation for over two centuries. The mineral rich inner
planets, together with a diverse range of gas giants make this an economic
centre for the region. The presence of a habitable world greatly increases
the system's strategic importance. The inhabitants of the worlds of this
system try to balance the need for trade with a desire to be left well
alone.  Tourists are welcome, but many are viewed with deep suspicion by
the residents.  Both Federation and Empire have naval bases within the
system, which limits the efforts of pirates but puts pressures on
legitimate traders.

Heavy metals are mined on the innermost world of Cambridge's Hole, named
after the miner Gramboume Cambridge who was first to stake claim to the
world.  He  invested heavily in mining machinery and obtained the
exploitation rights to the system from the Federation. Erronsa Ashfield
followed Grambourne to the system ten years later with permission to mine
granted by the Empire. Ashfield, with her husband Francis established a
base on the second planet, having failed to force Cambridge from the
innermost world.  The Ashfields made an early fortune exporting rare gems
to the Empire, while the Federation provided a ready market for Cambridge

A bitter rivalry developed between the two camps and naval vessels of both
sides once threatened to escalate the conflict into open warfare. The
confrontation was averted by the majority of colonists on Democracy,
petitioning both Earth and Capitol to have the mineral rights to the rest
of the system given to the settlement of Newtown in the ensuing legal
battle the armed forces were called to other areas and the situation
settled into a more peaceful state The mining families on the inner planets
retain only ten percent shares in the profitable mineral trade.

As with many worlds in the so called "disputed zone", neither Empire nor
Federation have dominance.  Travellers from the Federation may find the
presense of so many slaves distressing, but visitors from the Empire will
be equally disturbed by the lack of imposed discipline and positive
discrimination for racial and minority groups. The worlds and colonies of
the disputed zone are a mixing ground for two very different cultures and
this can be experienced in full at this world.

D.W


Zearla
======

The Zearla system is home base for the vast majority of the miners who work
the nearby worlds and systems in this sector of space. The city of
Jeffries on Fraser homes the head office of Wreaken Construction and
Mining, the most prosperous of the independent mining and development
companies which work at the edge of the Federation Employing over a quarter
of a million full time staff and owning sole mineral rights to some forty
nine planets.  The Wreaken company can be found throughout most of the
frontier and Federation Worlds

With such a concentration of mining interests on Fraser it is not
surprising that there are a large number of starports, all offering
excellent  repair facilities to miners and traders alike.  Whatever
facilities are not provided at one of the Fraser bases can almost certainly
be acquired at nearby Andceeth. The Earth like world of Charles Colony,
orbiting Enaness is also nearby, but its rigourous communist principles
deter many casual visitors

The Zearla system is well developed, from the smelting planet of Jamesons
Wreck named after the unfortunate Naomi Jameson who crashed while chasing a
metal rich comet towards the star but survived for three days before being
rescued, to Leetown on Cooperworld, the seventh planet. The only solid
world between Jameson's Wreck and Cooperworld not to boast a permanent
settlement of some type is Zearla 2, locally known as Nemesis, which has no
mineral wealth to speak of and whose crust contains sizeable fractions of
volatiles.

The surface of Nemesis is unstable and six attemnpts to establish bases on
the planet have ended in disaster. The number of lives lost trying to
populate this inhospitable world is one hundred, despite the best efforts
of standby rescue teams.  The local miners use the planets name as a
powerful curse and the more superstitious will even climb out of its
orbital plane to avoid the taint of its path!

D.W.


Zeessze
=======

The first thing to strike a person casually browsing through a planetary
catalogue is the remarkable similarity between the systems of Sol and
Zeesse.  This superficial similarity led to very high hopes amongst the
initial settlers, who christened their world paradise This hopeful start
was soon dispelled when the colonists arrived at their destination. The
first bases were established on the minor planet Gonzalez's Grave, named
after the unfortunate shuttle pilot whose crash landing was to be
symptomatic of the initial set-backs the colonists experienced

The starport of Oliver, on Gonzalez's Grave was built to schedule, and
probes to the third planet were sent out. They reported back a very
differcnt picture to that given by the Earth bureau of colonisation.
(Recall that this was in the second wave of emigration when Earth was
suffering severe population pressures and almost any measure was regarded
as fair to rid the planet of excess). The planet was verdant and new life
forms were abundant but it is smaller and denser than Earth, giving rise to
very high surface gravity

The initial colonisation of the world was hampered because humans were
unable to work for more than a couple of hours at a time before needing to
rest. In these early days of exploration and exploitation, transport costs
for machinery was prohibitive between systems so most early colonisation
work was performed by human labour (some historians suggest this is the
origin of the Empire's slave culture). Quite apart from the high gravity
the world was far hotter than the colonists, originally from Lappland and
the Siberian pan- conurbation were accustomed, and many immigrants died of
heat exhaustion before a second wave of colonists introduced a more
sensible work regime

The world was re-christened New America after a botanist showed the
similarities between the climate of the world and of Ancient South American
forests on Earth. This provided the first clue to conquering the planets
indigenous life forms.  At first, and for several generations the local
fauna and flora successfully resisted the attempts of Earth phenotypes to
take over.  Earth crops could only be grown in restricted areas and local
carnivores and raptors made the world a dangerous place to explore.

Qui Luk Soo introduced a number of slightly modified strangler vines from
Earth stocks, and this small start led eventually to the taming of large
parts of the jungle planet for human use. The problem of labour was partly
solved by the introduction of genetically "improved" gorilla stock, which
could be trained to perform simple clearing and construction work. A brief
but  extremely  violent  assault  on the colony by a war band of
eco-revolutionists destroyed all the facilities for the gorillas, who
"escaped" into the wild.  Some were able to find their way back to the
community, but to this day there are some feral gorilla tribes in the
heartland of the jungles.  These are the subject of intense study by
anthropologists and are covered by Federal interdict from all further
tampering by mankind

With the passing generations, the human stock of the system have adapted to
the strong gravity of their planet, becoming heavily built and muscular.
It is sometimes hard for visitors to distinguish men and women of the
planet, but given their violent tempers and general impatience, it is
important to get it right if you are a tourist. New Americans do not
suffer fools gladly.  The jungle of the world is still inhabited by a
number of very dangerous native predators, including the Quivol and
Nii-worm, which claim a respectable annual toll of lives if your interest
in visiting the planet is hunting, do not expect to find native guides
cheap to hire, nor eager to venture into the relatively unexplored Southern
continents

New America is home of the modern Ghurka assault regiment, which saw action
in all the major wars against the Empire.  In the past century, the
fighting men and women of the regiment have seen action in several disputed
systems and even the Empire clone troops hold them in high regard. They
are normally planet fighters, preferring and training for ground action
rather than space warfare, so they play littLe part in current naval
actions against pirates Occasionally they are used as "shock troops" in
recovering Frontier world where organised crime has established too strong
a hold and threatens the economic stability of the Federation

DM


Zelada
======

The Zelada system was colonised at roughly the same time as Ququve but by a
fundamentalist religious sect, looking for a world to conduct a penance for
humanity.  The  conditions  they found on New Africa suited their
requirements to a remarkable degree the life was tough, uncompromising and
harsh.  The arrivals on New Africa had to cope with a bitter climate,
coupling torrential sleet and electrical storms with hurricane strength
winds and fast moving glaciers. The first three settlements were overrun
by these natural forces and all of the initial equipment they brought from
Quphieth was lost within the first dccade

Modern archological and palaeontological surveys of the planet reveal that
at one time the temperature of New Africa was much more benign than at
present.  The world is going through a very prolonged ice age, but before
the current cold cycle there was the opportunity for life to colonise the
land.  The animals which are native to the land of the new Africa are
fierce hunters and can survive in the harsh climate which will freeze a man
to the bone in seconds the early colonists had to re-learn primitive
hunting skills and attributes in order to survive and their descent into
primitivism was swift

The strict conditions the early settlers had placed concerning interference
with the colony from outside meant that no contact was established with the
groups  for  three  generations.  The early religious settlers had
emphatically stated that no outside communications would be accepted and
supplies would be destroyed.  It was entirely by accident that the
Birchwood New Spirit of the Lord Woodwind Ensenmble en-route for Aymiay for
a concert performance, was precipitated out of hyper space near the Zelada
system.  The crew of the ship were able to reach orbit around New Africa
and put down an emergency shuttle. The tiny settlement thus formed was
later to grow into Rush Depot the planet`s largest starport.

While the musicians tried to eke out an existence at Rush Deput, the crew
ship searched for the original colonists. No evidence of the original
camps was found but primitive society of the final remnants of the
religious order was encountered living a nomadic life hunting the local
omnivores and harvesting wild grasses and roots Instead of making contact,
the ship Captain decided to leave the remnants of humanity in peace and
instead sent an emergency rescue message to the Federation, describing the
plight of both groups

New Africa was recolonised by an assorted group of wanderers, to no set
plan.  The initial colony had failed and a sort of planetary squatter's
rights became the norm in establishing rules on New Africa. This trend
continues today, and the planet suffers under an anarchy with no clear
constitution nor allegiance.  Zelada system has become synonymous with
banditry and hi-jacking, but the mineral rich outer worlds still attract a
lot of miners and hopeful traders visit the system despite the high
incidence of piracy, and freelance bounty hunters find the bulletin boards
of Zelada a useful hunting ground for information

DM

SOL
===

Earth
=====

Steeped in history, the Earth has suffered many adversities before becoming
the resort that it is today. Humanity began here and documented accounts
tell of three planet bound wars, the last one in 2040 almost bringing
extinction due to the loss of life and environmental damage. For these
reasons the Landscape has changed beyond all recognition since then mainly
due to devastation and depopulation of nearly all the cities and towns.
The final insult was a viral pandemic, for which no cure was found and many
perished who were not resistant to it

As the world was rebuilt corporations became more influential and the
balance of power went in their favour. After the war, fierce competition
between them made it possible for space to be conquered whereas previously,
that was seen as unimportant and exploration budgets were cut

As extra terrestrial settlements were established industry was moved off
the Earth along with many people.  An intensive environmental rescue
program saved the planet and it again became the beautiful place it once
was.  It became both a very up-market tourist destination and the
Federation capital with only the extremely rich being able to live there
Many native extra terrestrials aspire to visit their roots and save up for
many years just to be able to say they have been to their ancestors`
birthplace

KD


Mars
====

In 2290 Mars became the first planet to be terraformed successfully but not
before  several  aborted  attempts.  Major corporations based their
administration centres here when land was very cheap in the early days and
Mars seemed like the Garden of Eden compared to the ravaged Earth. The two
major cities are Qnetnisset and Olympus Village both are very cosmopolitan
and manicured in appearance.  There are many bijou bars and restaurants
designed for businessmen to impress and to strike deals in privacy. All
sorts of servive and entertainment industries thrive as they pander to the
needs of the over indulged. The environment is tailored to be tasteful,
even the animal life looks like an attractive accessory, so whilst it is
Earth like, Mars has a very sterile feel about it

KD


The Moon
========

Heavy industry was moved here in the early days. And it is based around
the only starport, Apollonius city. This is another must for the tourist
being the first city to be built on an airless surface. The majority of
the settlement is subterranean and the vast halls like chasms are quite
breathtaking.  Many beat a path to the famous Museum of Humanity which has
many rare exhibits from early space exploration, you will wonder how we
managed to get where we are today!

K.D


Space stations Columbus and Titan City
======================================

Columbus orbits Io around Jupiter and Titan City orbits Titan around Saturn. 
Both are of historical interest only in that they used to be fabulous holiday 
resorts when they were the most distant settlements. Unfortunately with easier 
travel they changed from very pleasant venues to the vacation destinations of 
the masses. The quiet atmosphere has been shattered by loud music intended to 
confince you that a good time is being had by all. It blares forth from gift 
boutiques selling such items as a bottle of Genuine Red Spot Gas and Saturn
Ring Rock jewellery.

K.D.
 
       HAVE FUN GUYS AND REMEMBER ITS ALL FOR FUN 
           aLL DoCs DoNE By SHaRD/N&B