                            Typed by Flux/Crystal

                              FULL CONTACT DOCS

THE STORY...

 As a boy you were happy, your world was peaceful and life was good. Then the
Triad came, a ruthless gang who  brought  chaos. You escape the slaughter but
witness the scene as your family one by  one, are put to the sword. You swear
to one day avenge them.
 Found wandering through the country, you are  taken  in by a kindly order of
monks. They teach the ways of old, the  ways  of the land and the ways of the
wise. They teach you the real art of self-defence, you are told never to make
full contact but you wish you could.
 All that stands before you is the might of the Triad gang, each elite member
proving increasingly difficult, each armed with  deadly skills or weapons and
each one giving no mercy.
 But as time passes  you  find  it  increasingly  difficult  to live with the
terrible truth, slowly and  surely  you  realise  that  the  time has come to
avenge your family, the time has come to bring about justice and the time has
come to make Full Contact.

GAME OPTIONS...

 As well as a single player arcade mode  where you take on the Triad members,
Full Contact offers the chance to spar with a friend or compete with up to 15
friends in a tournament. These options  are  selected by going to the options
screen on the main menu.

OPTIONS SCREEN...

 From here you can select game  mode  (one  player, two player or tournament)
and change the initials of competing players. In the case of tournament mode,
click on the number of  competing  players  by  using the joystick. To change
initials simply click on the initials  you  wish to change and use left/right
and fire on the joystick to alter the characters.

PLAYING THE GAME...

 Just click on start game to commence play. If playing with a friend you will
need to unplug the mouse and  insert  another  joystick into game port 1. ESC
quits to  the  main  menu  whilst  in  the  game.  Full  Contact  features  a
demo/attracts mode if left alone.

CONTROLLING YOUR FIGHTER...JOYSTICK CONTROLS:

Without button pressed..


             B    A    C                A. Jump Up    B. Jump Left
                                        C. Jump Right D. Walk Left
             D    O    E                E. Walk Right G. Crouch Down

             .    G    .


With button pressed..


             B    A    C                A. Head Kick    B. Body Blow
                                        C. Knee Blow    D. Body Kick
             D    O    E                E. Head Punch   F. Roundhouse
                                        G. Leg Kick     H. Roundhouse
             F    G    H


 There are two bonus levels that  appear  in  the single player game when you
beat certain opponents. Instructions to these are given prior to playing them
in the form of a scrolling message. All that remains are our good luck wishes
(you will certainly need them) and Team 17 hope that you enjoy this.

                            Typed by Flux/Crystal
                    Finished on 13 June 1991 at 14:19:46

