Future Bike Simulator
Typed by Belgarath


In 1995 extreme legislation by world governments banned the
motorcycle as we know it today.

Finnius M. Houlder, multi-billionaire extraordinaire and almost
certainly the world's richest man, incensed by this banning of his
most loved sport - the motorcycle - set his research labs to work on
a 'legal' replacement. A vehicle that got around the laws.

In 1999, the result - FUTURE BIKE.

Capable of speeds in excess of 300 mph in fully faired form this anti-
grav wheel-less wonder took the world by storm. Finnius Houlder
bought up large chunks of land (privatised motorways) in virtually
every industrialised country.

The result - THE STRIP.

No juggernauts, no jam sandwiches, no fast lane crawlers, just out
and out speed, but, watch out, there are hazards.


FUTURE BIKE SIMULATOR - THE GAME

Essential Info:

The control panel displays on screen, information about your score,
energy level, lives remaining, high score, money carried, radar and
shield.

When a shield is bought, it is displayed as a full shield and as it runs
out, so the shield disintegrates.


Enemies

All Enemies when shot, will drop money. The amount of money
dropped depends on the strength of the enemy.

The money can be used to buy items from the shop.

Mines appear in front of you and contact with these will result in an
energy loss.

AI bombs, like mines, appear in front of you. Contact with one of
these will cause you to lose some of your money.


Weapons

There are many additional weapons that can be added to your bike.
These include Missiles, Sidearms and Radar. 
The others you must find out for yourself.

NOTE: Sidearms are sold singly - one left, one right.


SHOP

At various points in the game, you will enter the shop.
It is here that you may buy the additional weapons.

PLEASE NOTE: CREDIT CARDS ARE NOT ACCEPTED.

When you enter the shop, you will see a number of icons denoting
the items you may buy.

Positioning the hand over the items will display their prices, pressing
FIRE will buy the item.

Should you buy too many of certain items you will be given a 'Ship
Overload' warning. This will be shown, for example, if you buy three
side arms. To exit the shop, position hand over the Future Bike and
press FIRE.


Ultimate Aim Of The Game

Your challenge is simple - ride the Strip on your Future Bike through
City, Desert, River Rapids, Ice Floes, Mountains AND SURVIVE!!!


Loading Instructions

Reset machine, insert disk into drive.


Keys

P    - Pause (to resume press P or FIRE).
ESC  - Quit game.
F    - Fast mode (for ultra speed freak, runs game at 25Hz).
N    - Normal mode (runs game at 16.7Hz).

Hold down FIRE at the end of game for quick game start


Programmed by: Gary Antcliffe
Graphics by: Ken Jarvis
Design & Print: FHD Sheffield.
Typed by: Belgarath
(C) P.A.L. Developments 1990