                                 HELLFIRE PRESENTS

                   FULL DOCUMENTATION VALHALLA 3 / VULCAN SOFTWARE




    THE PLOT

    In this, the third adventure in the Valhalla series,  our  noble  King
    has  reached  the  age  where  he's interested in ladies and so he has
    decided to find himself a wife. The problem is that all  the  eligible
    ladies have been kidnapped by the evil Queen Eve and imprisoned in her
    fortress,

    In Valhalla & The Fortress Of Eve you play the king's  mentor  on  his
    quest to free the ladies of Valhalla and find himself a wife. You must
    guide him through four treacherous levels  solving  countless  puzzles
    along  the way. You must communicate with the many characters you will
    encouter and your skills in general  knowledge  and  word  association
    will be put to the test.

    PLAYING FROM FLOPPY

    Switch  on  your  computer and your monitor. At the disk prompt insert
    the Valhalla disk. Please insure the four level disks  are  NOT  write
    protected.

    INSTALLING ON HARD DRIVE

    Insert  the  Valhalla disk into your floppy drive then double click on
    the disk icon to reveal its contents. Create a new drawer on your hard
    drive  and drag the Valhalla game icon and the --V-- icon into the new
    drawer. Repeat this procedure with the other five disks so you end  up
    with  six  icons  that spell -V-U-L-C-A-N-. Now simply double click on
    the Valhalla game icon to play.

    PLAYING THE GAME

    After the credit sequence, which can be speeded up by holding down the
    left  mouse  button  (LMB),  you  will be faced with the choice screen
    allowing you to choose whether or  not  you  wish  to  see  the  story
    animation.

    After  the  animation has finished, or if you decided not to watch it,
    you will be allowed  to  chose  either  to  play  the  game  from  the
    beginning  or  play  a  specific  level.  To  play  the  game from the
    beginning simply press enter on the keyboard or, if you wish to access
    a  particular  level, enter the appropriate level code by choosing the
    correct letters from the screen. The level codes appear on  the  title
    screen of each level.

    THE CONTROLS

    Valhalla  & The Fortress Of Eve is completely controlled by the mouse.
    Your mouse pointer is in the shape of a pointing finger. If  you  move
    your mouse pointer into the main doisplay in the middle of the screen,
    it will change into an arrow indicating the different  directions  the
    King  is able to walk in. When you have decided in which direction you
    wish him to walk, simply hold down the LMB and  he  will  follow  your
    mouse pointer until you release the button or he bumps into somehting.
    You can also move your mouse pointer into the action  zones,  allowing
    the  King  to  perform  the  many  actions  that  are described on the
    following pages.

    THE ACTION ICONS

    The action icons are situated beneath the main display.  If  you  move
    your  mouse  pointer  into  the action icons zone, the various actions
    will appear with a hi-lighter  representing  your  current  choice.  A
    single  click  of the LMB will initiate that particular action. If you
    do not wish to choose an action then simply move  your  mouse  pointer
    out of the zone. The action icons are as follows..

    THE MAP

    This  allows  you to see a map of the level you are currently playing.
    You can scroll around it by moving your mouse pointer  into  the  grey
    borders or to fold the map away just press any mouse button.

    LOOK

    Represented  by the eye. Choose this icon and the King will inform you
    about the contents of the square directly in front of him.

    TALK

    Represented by the open mouth. Choose this icon and the King will  say
    'Hello'  to  the  square  directly in front of him. This is useful for
    initiating conversations with the many characters you will come across
    in the levels.

    TAKE

    Represented  by  the  open  hand.  Choose  this icon and the King will
    attempt to take the contents of the square directly in front of him.

    OPERATE

    Represented by the spanner. Choose this icon and the King will attempt
    to operate the object in the square directly in front of him.

    DISK ACCESS

    Choose  this  icon  and  the  main display wil change to a plaque that
    contains the name of the level you are curently playing along  with  a
    five level code. (Good idea to take note of the level code.)

    The icons below the main display will be replaced by six further icons
    that relate to the disk options and the in-game preferences. They  are
    as follows..

    RESTART

    Choose this icon to restart the level you are currently playing.

    LOAD

    Choose this icon to load in a previously saved position.

    SAVE

    Choose  this  icon  to  save  your  current position. (If playing from
    floppy then make sure the level disks are not write protected.)

    TEXT OPTION

    When this icon is green all the spoken words  in  Valhalla  will  also
    appear  as  text  above the main display. If you wish to turn the text
    off simply click on the icon again so it changes to red.

    SPEECH OPTION

    When this icon is green, the King will  continually  comment  on  your
    actions  as  you  progress  through the game. If you wish to limit his
    ramblings to essential phrases only then  click  on  the  icon  so  it
    changes  to  red.  This  is  useful  if you make a mistake and have to
    retrace your steps.

    ATMOS OPTION

    When this icon is green the atmos track will play in  the  background.
    If  you  wish to turn the atmos track off then click on the icon so it
    changes to red.

    If you decide not to choose any of the  options  just  described  then
    simply  move  your  mouse  pointer  out  of  the  zone and you will be
    returned to normal play.

    THE RUCKSACK

    The black squares above the main display represent your rucksack. Each
    time  you  command the King to take an object it will appear in one of
    these squares. You have enough room for nine objects. To access one of
    the  objects in your posession move the mouse over it. You will notice
    a hi-lighter around the object.

    When you click with the LMB the action icons  below  the  mai  display
    will  change  and your mouse pointer will become trapped in the action
    icon zone. The new icons offer you choices for  the  object  you  have
    selected  from  your  rucksack.  If you decide not to choose an action
    then simply click the RMB to return to normal game play. The new icons
    are as follows...

    LOOK

    Choose  this  icon  and  the King will inform you about the object you
    have selected from your rucksack.

    If it is a readable object like a book or a note then  the  text  will
    appear in the main display. When you have finished reading then simply
    click the LMB to return to normal game play.

    EAT

    Choose this icon and the King will attempt to eat the object you  have
    selected from your rucksack.

    DRINK

    Choose  this  icon  and  the king will attempt to drink the object you
    have selected from your rucksack.

    DROP

    Choose this icon and the King will attempt to drop the object you have
    selected from your rucksack into the square directly in front of him.

    INSERT

    Choose  this  icon  and the King will attempt to insert the object you
    have selected from your rucksack into the square directly in front  of
    him.

    GHOSTS OF YOUR PARENTS

    Choose this icon and the ghosts of your parents will attempt to supply
    you with further information about the object you have  selected  from
    your  rucksack.  There  are  times  when  consulting  your  parents is
    essential to your progress. For  instance,  it  is  the  only  way  to
    discover  the  names  of  the  various potions you come across in your
    travels.

    THE POTION INDICATOR

    The potion indicator is situated to the left of the main display. When
    you instruct the King to drink a potion the indicator rises to the top
    and then slowly begins to descend.  When  the  indicator  reaches  the
    bottom the King is no longer under the influence of the potion.

    THE STAMINA INDICATOR

    The  stamina  indicator  is situated to the right of the main display.
    Your stamina will decrease every time the King hurts himself and  when
    it reaches the bottom the King will die. Don't be disheartened though.
    You can always load in a previously  saved  position  or  restart  the
    level from the beginning. Stamina pills, to top up your supply, can be
    found throughout the course of the game.

    QUITTING

    To quit back  to  Workbench  simply  press  the  'Ctrl'  and  'C'  key
    simultaneously.

    FLIPPING

    To  temporarily flip back to Workbench simply press the left 'Amiga A'
    and 'A' key simultaneously.

    TROUBLESHOOTING

    When I try to save the game it crashes back to the  Workbench  screen.
    Ensure your 'Level' disks are NOT write protected.

    The game crashes or refuses to save for no apparent reason. Remove all
    extra floppy disk drives, CD Rom drives and other external devices.