Veteran
Typed by Belgarath

Welcome to VETERAN. In this exciting simulation, you take the role of a crack commando, battling through hordes of enemey soldiers and blowing up tanks, helicopters 
and gun emplacements. You will need to pick up spare rocket launchers and ammunition left behind by your fleeing enemy if you are to achieve your objective, and you will need to be constantly alert to avoid the hail of enemey fire and to destroy their grenades. 
It will take grit and determination to win through in the face of ever more desperate resistance. Good Luck!

IMPORTANT, READ THIS PARAGRAPH BEFORE USING THE PROGRAM.
The enclosed diskette contains copyrighted material.
Making a copy of it or of the instruction manual is strictly forbidden.
The diskette has been electronically tested and write protected for your convenience.
The diskette has been protected against copying.

ATTEMPTS TO COPY THIS DISKETTE WITH COPY ROUTINES OR PROGRAMS INVALIDATE ALL GUARANTEES
AND MAY CAUSE DAMAGE TO THE DISKETTE AND COMPUTER.
You are reminded that copying copyright material without the direct permission of the
copyright holder is ILEGAL. SOFTWARE HORIZONS will reward anyone supplying information
concerning the illegal copying of its copyrighted material and leading to successful
prosecution.

SYSTEM INSTRUCTIONS
To run the program you will need one 520 ST, 1040 ST or Mega ST with disk drive, 
one mouse and a colour monitor or television set. The mouse should be in the ST's
mouse port (No. 0). To load the game on an ST, insert the disk in drive A and run the
program VETERAN.PRG. by double clicking on the icon. The disk is autobootable on the Amiga.
To load the game insert the master disk in the disk drive and reset the machine.


BRIEFING INSTRUCTIONS
The war is nearly over. Your side seems to have lost everything. For once in history,
the good guy's don't seem to gave won. But there is just one last chance to save the day.
You must battle your way through three deadly missions, knocking out the enemy positions
until you reach their Headquarters. Destroy this and your troops might just have a chance
to win the war; fail and your men are doomed to certain death.

INSTRUCTIONS
When the game has loaded, you will be presented with a choice of machine pistols.
Use the right mouse button to select the weapon with the range and rate of fire you want.
When you have mae your choice, press the left mouse button to start the game.
Your weapon sight is controlled by the mouse. Move the mouse to aim at targets.
Press the left mouse button to shoot the gun.
Press the right mouse button to launch rockets.
Extra ammunition may be obtained by picking up the golden bullet and rockets.
