                                   L S D

                               P R E S E N T

                    T H E   F U L L   M A N U A L   T O


                               V O L F I E D


Typed by SIDEWINDER/LSD.


PLAYING THE GAME

Select PLAY GAME to begin playing.  Once in the game, using the
joystick you can move the 'Scanner' ship around the 'Shield Line' at
the parameter of the playing area.  While moving around this edge the
ship is protected from the aliens by a shield indicated by a glowing
circle around the ship.  This shield is not infinite and care should
be taken to complete each level as quickly as possible.  A counter
indicates the level of shield that you have: when it reaches zero then
any contact with an alien is deadly whether you are on the 'Shield
Line' or not.

        The idea of the game is to cut areas out of the screen without
touching any of the aliens.  this is done by pressing the fire button
which initiates the 'Laser Cutter' and moving off the 'Shield Line'
and rejoining it somewhere else.  While you are in the process of
drawing a line, your shield is inactive and touching an alien is
fatal.  Similarly, if one of the aliens touches the line then it will
send a charge down the line towards you and you must quickly return to
the safety of the edge before it reaches you.

        When you rejoin the 'Shield Line' the area that does not
contain the 'Boss' alien will be filled (points are gained by trapping
the other aliens) and the 'Shield Line' will be adjusted to surround
the area that is left.  The level is completed when a certain
percentage of the total area has been filled in.  This percentage
starts at 80% but may increase in the later levels.

BONUSES

Throughout the game there are a number of 'Bonus Blocks' which can be
captured to give the 'Scanner Ship' special abilities or add to your
points totally.  Some of these 'Bonus Blocks' are permanent and other
appear at fixed intervals.

        There are also several 'Special Bonuses' for completing the
screens in different ways - these will have to be discovered by you
the player, in your fight for ultimate supremecy.


End.
