                   Voodoo Nightmare HELP!
                   ----------------------

                      by Phantom Shark


     It just wasn't Boots Barker's day. There he was, minding
his own business in a small private plane flying over the
African jungles of the Congo, when out of the blue one of his
ghastly relatives picked him up and chucked him out of the
plane to his doom. Fortunately, Boots had put on one of the
plane's parachutes and floated down to safety, but knocked
himself unconscious upon landing. A few hours went by and
eventually Boots started to come round, but to his horror he
found that he had been encased in a huge Voodoo mask that
covered him from his waist upwards, and it wouldn't come off.
Somehow, Boots thought to himself, I must find who put this
horrible mask on me and make him take it off, and then go
back to the city and find the person who threw me out of the
plane.

     As Boots finds out, the person responsible for putting
the mask on him is an evil Witch Doctor who rules the jungle.
The Witch Doctor is presently holing out in his evil fortress
which is magically protected so that you can't enter. The
only way that you can get into his home is by collecting some
magical pins and sticking them into a Voodoo doll of the
Witch Doctor. However, these pins aren't just lying around
waiting to be collected and you will have to do quite a bit
of searching before you find them.

     Within the jungle can be found five temples devoted to
various animal gods, and each one of these gods possesses one
of the pins and a special item that will help you somewhere
else in the game. Each of the five temples will pose a large
challenge with a large number of puzzles to work out, and an
ample amount of creatures to mar your path. Besides these
five temples there are also three missions that can be found
in the jungle, and once completed they will each give you a
reward of somekind.

     As you wander around the jungle you will be attacked by
hordes of creepy-crawlies that will sap your strength until
you eventually kill them. This can be done with the aid of a
pair of Doc Martin boots that squash the nasties if you jump
on top of them. The Witch Doctor also owns a small chain of
stores that are dotted around the jungle, and from these you
can purchase various items that will help you in the temples
and jungle. But nothing's free in these days and you'll have
to trade jewels and bananas with the owner of the shop for
the objects


HOW TO LOAD AND SAVE:
---------------------

     Pressing the SPACE BAR will bring up a menu. From this
menu you press F1 to load a previously saved game, or F2 to
save your current game. You can save to your game disk, or
to a blank formatted disk. I was able to get 2 or 3 saves on
my game disk with no problem.


HOW TO USE OBJECTS:
-------------------

     Again, press the SPACE BAR for the menu. You will see a
display of the items that you have available for use. Just
use the joystick to pick the item you want to use.


THE STORES:
-----------

     There are several stores scattered throughout the
jungle. Each store has different items, and possibly
different pieces of a map. You can purchase the items with
the joystick. Note that stores are closed for business at
night, so you must enter the store hut when it is day time.
Part of the game is to determine what each item is used for,
and where to use it. So you will need to experiment.


THE CASINO:
-----------

     Somewhere in the jungle is a casino. Here you can wager
a red stone against the spin of a slot machine.  You win when
you match from left to right a two or three of a kind. There
is a chart displayed that shows the winning prize for each
type of match.


HINTS:
------

* Some of the scenery that you find in the temples can be
moved to reveal hidden things. Some of the objects can only
be moved in a certain direction, so a lot of trial and error
is needed.

* There are three missions to be completed in the game.
Reuniting the lion cub with his mother is just one of them.

* Wandering around the jungle is quite a dangerous business
what with all the nasties about, but if you wait until night
time they all go to sleep and you can walk around without any
hassle.

* The banana grove is a great place to increase your income.
Wait there a little while and you will be able to afford
quite a bit.

* Teleporters are a very important thing, and a lot of
experimenting is going to be needed to get to all the
different locations. Some gems can only be collected with the
aid of a teleporter.

* When you leave one of the temples you will be instantly
picked up by a huge eagle to the temple in the sky that is
devoted to the eagle god.

* At last you make it into the Witch Doctor's lair and head
off in search of him. However, the Witch Doctor is not
unprotected and hordes of undead minions will try their
utmost to dispose of you.


HINTS FROM PHANTOM SHARK:
-------------------------

* When you first start, you can't go very far. Step on the
little pad in front of the temple and press the joystick
button. You will be transported to the Spider Temple.

* Getting out of the Spider Temple takes a little work. You
will find 6 blue gems, and 69 red gems. You need these to buy
items when you get out of the Spider Temple.

* Some rocks move, so push on things. Kill the spiders by
jumping up and down on them. Make use of the teleporters.
Look for hidden teleports underneath moveable rocks.

* I strongly suggest you make a map of where you go. This
will help you find your way around, and keep you from wasting
time back tracking. The Spider Temple really isn't as big as
it seems.

* When you find the last blue gem, a door will open above
you. In this room is a stone and a picture of a spider in the
wall. Push the stone from the NE corner into the SW
direction. If you have completed everything, the Spider Queen
will appear and give you some items. You will then be
transported back to the jungle.

* Once you exit the Spider Temple you can move around a lot
more.  I suggest you find a store and buy a knife. This makes
it a lot easier to kill nasties. Remember to hit the SPACE
BAR and activate the knife.

* Different stores have different items, so go to all the
stores you can. Don't just stop at one and quit.

* I found the Lion cub in a tree in the jungle. Returning him
to his mother is one of the three missions.

**** At the store you may see a rolled up piece of paper you
can purchase. That is a HINT! Here's one I got.

   To give meaning to prayer use Spider and Snake adding
   Eagle and Ape, end at the King, in his lair.

* The Snake Temple can be found inside a tree in the jungle.

* To enter the Snake Temple, stand in front of it and press
the button while standing on the pedestal.

* Once you enter the Snake Temple, I suggest you make liberal
use of the SAVE feature. This sucker is tricky!

* The Snake Temple starts you in an enclosed area. Push the
walls! You will be able to move a section towards the NW.

* Once you get out, you can start collecting jewels again.

* Don't step in the black areas! These are holes and you will
die!

* If you are using the Knife, you MUST switch to the boots!
That will enable you to jump over the black areas and get out
of the first room.

* Switch back and forth between BOOTS & KNIFE depending on
the situation.

* There are a LOT of moveable rocks in the Snake Temple. Try
pushing just about everything!

* Plenty of teleports in the Snake Temple. You'll need them!