                                  VORTEX

LOADING THE GAME

To play this game, you will require an Amiga 500, 1000 or 2000 with at
least 512K of memory and a minimum of 1 mouse controller.

To Load VORTEX:

1. If your Amiga is on, turn it off and on again to ensure that no
   Viruses are present.

2. If two mice are to be used, you must plug the second mouse into game
   port 2.

3. If you own an Amiga 1000, insert Kickstart when prompted to do so
   by the Amiga.

4. When prompted for the Workbench disk, insert the VORTEX disk into DF0:.

5. The game will now boot, and load automatically.

6. When the game has loaded, press one of F1 through F4 to begin the game
   (refer to the STARTING THE GAME section of this manual).

7. DO NOT REMOVE THE VORTEX DISK FROM DF0: during game play.  Failure to
   follow this simple rule may have unpredictable consequences.

STARTING THE GAME

To begin playing VORTEX you must press one of the following keys:

F1 - Single player mode.

F2 - Two player mode.

F3 - Team mode (2nd mouse necessary).

F4 - War mode (2nd mouse necessary).

Single player mode allows one player action.

Two player mode allows two players to alternately play VORTEX and compare
their achievements.

Team mode allows two players to play cooperatively sharing resources.

War mode allows two players to challenge each other as well as the VORTEX.

PLAYING THE GAME

OBJECT OF THE GAME

The game playfield is an enclosed area of a large elliptical force wall
centered on your screen.  Two smaller ellipses to the top left and bottom
right are small extensions of the force wall and act as traps for the
antimatter creatures of the Vortex.

   The VORTEX is the most visible feature in the game: a large, chaotic
spinning mass of stars and dust particles in the center of the field.

   Your goal in each level is to cool down the Vortex.  You do this by
starving the Vortex of its fuel.  Knock the hunks of matter feeding the
Vortex into the force wall and destroy them.

Enemies:

Enemies will fly out of the core to race around the force wall seeking
an exit, and destroy anything in their path.

   Most enemies are made up of clusters of other smaller enemies.  Knock
the larger enemies repeatedly into the walls by colliding with them
until they overheat and break down into smaller enemies.  The smaller
enemies can withstand much less and will break up after only one or
two hits into the force wall.

   The enemies will also attempt to knock you into the force wall.
You can sustain only a limited number of collisions with the force
wall before your player will break down.  The amount of strength your
player has remaining is shown at the right (for Player A) or at the
left (for Player B).

   Not all types of enemies will be released at the start of the game -
be on the lookout for different enemies that bring new danger!

Special Powers:

Bonus objectives which your allies drop into the containment area will
give you shielding ability.  To use your shields press and hold the left
mouse button.  You cannot control your movement while shielded.  A
pulsing blue sphere in the top right corner (for Player A) or a pulsing
green sphere in the bottom left corner (for Player B) will show how
much shielding ability you have left.  When the pulsing sphere turns
black your shields have expired.

   You can also drop small dummy images on yourself, using the right
mouse button.  Enemies will seek, these images rather than you.  The
number of dummy images remaining is visible either below the icons
showing the number of men you have left (for Player A) or above (for
Player B).

CONTROLLING THE GAME

Moouse Control:

Your player is controlled by the direction and speed at which you move
your mouse.  Your ship has weight and velocity - Don't accelerate too
quickly or you won't be able to stop from smashing into the force wall
yourself!

Other Keys:

P = Pause game action until pressed again.
Q - Quit game.

HINTS AND TIPS

The gates into the small rooms will become open periodically.  You can
place a dummy image of yourself near the gate to attract enemies into
the trap.  Once inside, the enemies will bash themselves to bits.  The
room gates will become one way portals when a certain number of enemies
enter.  The rooms will not turn one way if you are in them.

   Ride the edge of the Vortex for a fast spin away from enemies.  Avoid
being sucked into the Vortex - don't get too close!

Some levels have invisible walls, or an invisible VORTEX; The dangers
are still there!

Careful when you have selected two-players simultaneously; Players can
collide with each other!

Have fun, and remember...
          The fate of twin universes lies in the balance.


PARANOIMIA 89

 
Brought to you by Midnight Maniac & Mayday of Trilogy