ELF


 CHEAT MODE:

 On the first level go up to the sage and type 'CHEAT', then enter
 what he replies, which is 'CHOROPOO'. This gives you 99 pets and
 enables these keys:

 [W] - Wolf potion.
 [H] - Hardman potion.
	           
                 
                  THE ULTIMATE PLAYERS GUIDE TO: ELF

LEVEL ONE
---------
Find the uncooked chicken and the bowl of bird seed in the first area. Give
the seed to the bird who will drop a feather down to you in retern. Take
the feather to the Indian and give it to him for his headress - in retern
he'll give you a piece of old paper. Now take this to the man in the
toilet, who has been stranded after a puppy ran off with his loo roll! Take
the matches that he gives you and light the fire. Cook the chicken and then
bribe the old sage near the door. This will allow you to pass into the next
stage.
  Go to the far right, collecting the apple pip and blunt axe on the way.
Shoot down the magical book and give this, along with the pip, to the old
wizard. He'll turn the pip into an apple.
Take this to the ferocious guard and use it to pass by him into the third
stage.     
  Go down and collect the cash. Go up and give this to the tool
sharpener, together with the blunt axe. Give the newly-sharpend axe to the
queer-looking lumberjack. He'll give you a magical spell in retern. Atack
the smiling monster with this, and steel his teeth while he's stunned. Give
the gnashers to the old granny, who'll will give you a clothes peg in
retern. Where this on your nose and you can pass the smelly troll into the
last area. This is your final chance to buy some goodies before battling
the evil spider Belbob. Allways keep away from the side of the screen that
she is on, and make sure that you kill the little monsters she releases
when she touches the ground.

CUDDLY STATUS
Wandering around the landscape are truly cuddly characters. Shooting one of
these harmless creatures will result ot words like these BOO, HISS and
SHAME floating up the screen, plus and increase in your "nasty" rating.
This will aventually effect the three end sequences you see. If you do not
shoot all the cogs in Level Eight, and you have a rating of PLEASENT or
nicer, then you'll see a scene of stomatch-churning loveliness. Otherwise,
the end result is not quite so pretty!

LEVEL TWO
---------
This level is longer than the last and is inhabited by a fearsome set of
guards. Get the small key and window handle from the first set of
underground cave. Unlock the steel cage in the top right hand corner and
take the cog. Fit the cog and the handle to the window mechanism and wind
the magic bridge out. Cross over and pick up the boots. Take these and give
them to the prisoner, who'll will reward you for saving his neck with a
sliver flute. Give the flute to the jester BEFORE you open the cage with a
larger key which is found outside, on the right. He'll kill the deadly rats
so you can travel to the oil well and fill up the oil can lying on the left
of the map. On the way, make sure you kill the jester when you see him
again, as you'll need the flute for Level Five. Now use the oil on the
stiff handle for the chain bridge. You can now pull the lever and hope
across the gap. Go down and enter the final Guard Captain's room. This is a
highly intelligent opponent who'll dodge your shots if you're slow onthe
trigger. He also as a nasty habit of jumping on your head if you stay
still. The trick is to fire rapidly and pressure him into a corner. Get
ready to move sharly if he begins to jump!

LEVEL THREE
-----------
A nice gentel sroll from one side of the lake to the other - or so it may
seem! The trick is to flick the platform switches in the correct sequence
after FIRST turning on the power in the first room. 
Here's the seqquence:
   Switch Action

 1 Flick   2 Flick  
 3 Flick   4 Flick
 5 Leave   6 Flick
 7 Leave   8 Flick
 9 Flick  10 Flick
11 Leave

Make sure you jump over all the monsters that spring out of the water, and
watch out for the killer plants!

SECRET ROOMS
Each level has at least two secret rooms and you'll know when your in them
because they'll be full of goodies like herbs, pets and extra lives, and
the screen will turn into a lovely set of grays. If you want to find them,
remember that not all walls are solid, and you might be able to stand on
some clouds.

LEVEL FOUR
----------
The lake now turns into a marsh which is patrolled by the swamp indians
under there great leader. Collect the dagger from out of the dead
explorer's back, together with the boxing glove. You should pass a single
switch on the way - DO NOT flick this one or later you'll come to a an
abrupt halt.
  Bop the first guard on the nose with the glove and take the piece of
paper with the password written on it. Cute the rope holding the cage on
the air. Go down and collect the gold icon that has fallen out of it. Give
the password to the second guard and then battle your way to the indian
chief at the far end of the map, if you give him the icon, you can pass
into the temple to meet the indian god.
  The monster has a long tentacle arm that spits fire, plus a large mouth
that shoots ball of power. Remember to keep fireing while the mouth is
opening, and to jump or duck all incoming shots. A useful tip (If you can
aford it) is to buy the force shield and rush the monster - but if you
choose the tactic, make sure you get him!

LEVEL FIVE
----------
The twisting labyrinth of dwarf caves will realy tax your maping tips to
the full. Thirty interconnected zones with multiple entrances and exits
will have you in serious trouble if your map isan't accurate - you have
been warned. Make sure you kill all the pesky dwarves, as there are highly
intelligent and will come straight for you give half a chance, jumping gaps
and climbing ladders to do so.
  First, find the bone and give this to large plapping monster. Walk to the
edge of the chasm in front of the HALT sign and stand still. The monster
will fly over, pick you up and drop you on the other side. Go throgh the
door and collect the belt. Come back by waiting at the other HALT sign.
Give the belt and the flute to the blacksmith who'll turn the flust into a
cross, with this you can pass the deadly bats who would otherwise kill you.
Collect the machine part lying on th other side. Collect all the other five
machine parts and give them to the machine machanic whois building his time
machine. He'll give you a piese of paper to give to the dwarf guard, who'll
then let you in to see the King. To get past the King you'll need to find
the three jewels. Once done you can do battle with Henry.
  Henry is very good at blocking your shots with his shield so wait forhim
to make his move before attacking. Try to keep Henry away from you by
keeping him under pressure, because otherwise he'll make a charge straight
for you. Under no cercumstances let him start firing, as you'll end up
having to jump the balls he rolls on the ground insted of trying to kill
him!
  
PICKUPS
Dotted around the landscape are verious items that can be of use. Health
can be found aswell as the autofire potion - very useful, that. Watch out
though, for the negative health spell and the stun potion. Both should be
ovioded.
  Keep an eye out for the green chests, as once shot these will release a
1UP bottle. The monster holding cards with 1X, 2X, 3X, 4X, 5X and 10X are
worth 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000 and 10,000 points respectivley.

LEVEL SEVEN
-----------
Your objective is in sight - you've entered Necrilous' castle! It's
unhabited by a weird collection of servants who are bent on killing you.
Make sure you time your jumps well as there are many floating platforms
hovering over boiling pits of green slime. Keep an eye on the faces in the
wall who spit fireballs, and also the rotating ball spikes. Collect the
pork pie after shooting the glass container behind it. Give this to Teedle
Dee (the one in the red and green shell suit). He'll give you his smelly
socks, which turns out to be a useful weapon against the old mother. After
fainting from the smell, take her stick and insert it into the wheel of the
bike the reptiliant cyclist is riding. This will eject him over the handle
bars and stop him generating the power that surrounds the control panel
later on in the level. You can now press the large red button that starts
the rotatig platform moving. Time your jump well and head for the door.
     
HERBS AND PETS
Herbs can usally be found in great abundance but it pays not to waste the
pets that you find, epecially on frivlous items like advice! The five pets
are snails, bees, red jumpies, egg-heads and bobbers!

LEVEL EIGHT
-----------
This is it - the last lap. You've got a big decision here - are you
actually going to save Elisa or get the hell out as quickly as possible.
If you want to save her, you have to find the ten parts to the window
mechanism and destroy them before entering the final door where Necrilous
lurks. You do this by inserting the green crystal (which you will
automatically have after killing all the previous guardians) into the slot
next door.
  Necrilous will now descend to attack you. As he hurtles around on the
magic carpet, make sure you keep moving as he will throw shot down at you
when he is above your head. Kill him with rapid shots and sit back to watch
the end sequence - but which one of the three will it be?

THE SHOP
It pays to know which items to buy. The WOLF SPELL alows you to fall any
height and is particularly useful on levels Two and Five. However, for the
best all-round protection, go for the HERO SPELL with cool sunglasses and
watch those shots bounce of your musculra chest!

EXTRA LIVES should only be bought when the cash can be spared, and the
FLYING CONTRAPTION is a definite buy on Levels One and six as it saves a
lot of time. SHOT POWERS are also very useful - the best all-round
combination is the three-way split with shot speed three. The BOMB cando
more damage but only within a confined space. HEALTH is always readily
available, often quite cheaply, while the FORCE SHIELD - through expensive
- is very helpful for talking on the level guardians. The ANTIFREEZE is a
must on the subzero Level Six, as the magic ring is inaccurate without it.
Also, the CHAIN MAIL on Level Five should be bought, as it cuts body damage
in half. If you've got any pets left over after all that lot, buy some
ADVICE - it won't do you any good by at least you'll get a laugh out of it.

End.