ELVIRA II - Jaws of Cerberus
 
Walkthrough 
 
 
Only check with this file if you are completely stumped, need 
some extra clues or just want to see the great graphics. 
 
Start of game- Outside gates.  Over by the billboard, get the 
shamrock (yes there really is one there).  Its the first move 
and you can't complete the game without it.  Turn around.  To 
the left of the walk, pick up the rock.  (they sure don't 
make the start very easy , do they?).  Got to the guard's 
house on the right of the screen.  Throw the rock through the 
window and enter.  Take the guard's uniform (it's really a 
protective vest).  get keys from guards uniform.  Press 
button on computer terminal to see which of the movie 
studio's contains the ending.  (not necessary to  do but the 
graphics are nice.  Take all the papers from the bulletin 
board especially the pin-up calendar.  Well you really don't 
need the calendar but why not look over a pin-up/  Wear the 
guard's jacket.  Enter security code to open studio gates (if 
you have a cracked version, does not matter what you enter. 
 
  Exit the hut and go through open gate to the parking lot. 
Look at Elvira's car.  Open the trunk by clicking on the 
lock.  Open the case in the truck and get the wire cutters 
and wrench.  Turn to the left and enter through the doors 
into the studio. 
 
  In the lobby you can look around at everything including 
the notebook for Elvira.  With that set of boobs, don't know 
how the girl ever learned to type.  Checking things out adds 
to your experience points even if you don't need the items. 
 
  Go to the elevators to the right of the double doors and 
push the enter the code for the elevator (you do have the 
revised version of the game with the new set of codes don't 
you?). Enter elevator, turn around, and push the button for 
the second floor.  Get off, turn right, right again and enter 
the first door on the right of the corridor. 
 
  This is the computer room.  Grab the book on the far side. 
The next room on the right is for makeup.  Get the mirror 
from the wastebasket on the left side.  Get the makeup case 
at the second mirror from the left. 
Exit the room and go to the next room on the right side of 
the corridor.  This is the dressing room.  Take the nail 
file, newspaper and tissues, towel, popcorn, three cans of 
hair spray, the silver clover charm, curling iron and makeup 
case. 
 
  The door at the extreme end of the corridor is the typing 
pool.  Take the disk from the box of floppies and the boom 
box.  Going back down the corridor, the next room on your 
right is the dressing room .  Get the spirits and seltzer 
spritzer on the book shelf. 
 
    Next room on right down the corridor is the costume dept. 
Pass this by for now as you don't have enough power points 
and spells to enter yet. 
 
  The last room back down the corridor is the canteen.  Get 
the cupcakes in the case and a can of soda.  Go back to the 
elevator, enter and press B (basement).  Exit the elevator 
and make two right turns. 
 
  Move up to the Indian and you can start to talk to him. 
Ask him questions about where Elvira is and what you have to 
do.  Just don't make any jokes about firewater or scalps if 
you ever want to talk to him again. 
 
  Turn around and on the way back to the elevators, take the 
matches and clorox bottle from the janitors closet on the 
right. 
 
  Go back up to the first floor and take the fire 
extinguisher from the wall.  You can also enter the bathrooms 
and tinkle and wash your hands if you have to.  It has 
nothing to do with the game, however. 
 
  Your ready to start casting spells.  You've got a lot of 
stuff and it weighs a lot.  Spells weigh nothing. 
 
  Cast the following spells: 
 
Protection - use the soda can 
Breath Underwater - three of them using the popcorn, gum (you 
had at the start) and the cupcakes 
Healing Hands 
Luck (remember that four-leaf clover) 
Ice Darts(several) 
Unseen shield 
 
  Enter stage 2 elevator (the one with the big 2 on its 
entrance.  When you enter the stage area, put down the 
wallet, computer disk, wrench, mirror, hair spray, towel and 
seltzer bottle.  Turn left, go through the doors. 
 
  You are now in the living room of the haunted house.  Take 
the helmet and the left gauntlet from the suit of armor on 
the right.  Don't put anything on just yet.  Suits of armor 
guard the entrance door to the study.  Enter and on the 
inside there a desk on the left.  Open the drawers and take 
the prayer book and use it to mix an Unholy Barrier spell. 
also take the padlock.  On right there is a fish tank with 
some piranhas.  Don't touch. 
 
  Go back to the living room and take the antique vase from 
the corner shelf.  Turn it into a Detect Trap spell.  The 
bucket next to the fireplace is used to cast another 
Protection spell.  The door to the right of the fireplace 
leads to a library.  (later you will go this way and get past 
the poltergeist by dropping kids toys from the bedroom 
upstairs. 
 
Go to the entry and go up the right side of the staircase. 
At the top make a right.  Go left at the main hall and left 
again into the first doorway. 
 
  You are inside the Nursery.  Take the blacks.  Go back 
downstairs to the living room.  Stand 2 paces back from the 
library door and place a block on the floor.  When the 
poltergeist goes for the toy, run past him into the library. 
 
   You can't check any book out of the library but keep notes 
on any books that seem useful to you.  You need these written 
clues later.  Look carefully at what people use as bookmarks. 
 
  Go through the living room, back to the entry and straight 
ahead to the door on the far wall.  Add kids toys to your 
inventory as you pass through the entry.  Turn the seltzer 
bottle into a Detect Trap spell. 
 
  In the dining room, take all that you can.  You should be 
hungry from now.  Turn the wine into a Courage spell, glasses 
into detect rap spells.  Stay way from the service window 
until you've taken everything.  If you looked in, as we all 
do, you wound up in the meat locker freezing your patties 
off. 
 
  Pull the boots off the biker.  They are foot armour.  Pick 
up the meat and cheese from the freezer shelf.  Wine bottle 
are turned into another Courage spell and the bread becomes 
another Breathe Underwater spell.  Leave behind your keys and 
pen (they will freeze and be used for another spell later. 
The door is locked automatically.  Put on the boots, helmet, 
jacket and gauntlet.  Get out your knife (its a weapon). 
Cast an Unseen Shield spell and a Luck spell.  Build some 
more ice darts and save the game.  Your getting ready for on 
tough mother. 
 
   Now the fun begins.  Use the curling iron to heat up the 
thermostat.  When the alarm goes off a ghoul arrives.  Fire 
the Ice Darts and back away.  When he dies, go through the 
open door. 
 
  Turn right, go downstairs and turn left at the bottom. 
Straight ahead is the Lab.  Take the yellow flask, bleach, 
heart, skin, all test tubes you can find and the brain in the 
jar on the left wall.  Turn the brain into a Turn Undead 
spell and go upstairs.  The door on the right, across from 
the meat locker, leads into the Kitchen.  (Food again). 
 
  In the hallway between the Kitchen and the Entryway, fight 
the Zombie.  Then go the to Kitchen and drop everything.  Put 
on the armor, go into the hall way, turn left and Immediately 
case a Turn Undead spell.  If you start to faint at the 
sight, try a Courage spell.  Warning, its as bad as hearing 
Roseanne Arnold sing the star spangles banner. 
 
  Make a Brainboost spell and the following spells: 
Revive - using cheese from the meat lockers and bleach from 
 the basement 
Telekinesis - magnet from the boom box 
Glue - tube of adhesive in yellow tin on kitchen shelf 
Protection - use bucket 
Luck (use horseshoe in the bucket 
Several Fireballs - newspapers, tissue, calendar, postcard, 
  papers from the security hut. 
Several Magic Missiles - using pots & pans, tins, knives 
Two more Detect Trap spells - using glass jar on the kitchen 
shelf 
Several More Ice Darts 
A few more Unseen Shields 
Two Healing Hands 
 
  Keep the meat cleaver as a weapon.  Don't use the wire 
cutters fro Magic Missiles (that's latter).  Return to the 
entry and drop off any extra items in a junk pile, after 
cleaning out the kitchen. DO keep the crucifix. 
 
 The pile should now include: 
Candelabra 
Place settings 
three cans of hairspray 
egg basket from kitchen 
all the lab stuff 
mirror 
gin and vodka bottles 
padlock 
computer book 
towel 
shank of meat from the freezer 
 
  Go upstairs.  The left staircase takes you to the bathroom 
door.  inside, take the towel and sponge.  Leave the 
bathroom, go right and go towards the main hall.  Door right 
in front is the lavendar bedroom.  Oh boy, now we're getting 
good.  Enter the room.  Put on the armor, beef up your magic 
muscles and pull down the sheet.  Use ICE Darts to finish 
your enemy and pick up the script that falls.  Pick up the 
pictures that fall on the floor. 
 
  Look for the red button under the bed.  Push it in and a 
secret room behind the bed opens up.  Grab the chalice and 
the ten candles off the altar and leave the secret room 
Turn two lucky cats on the bedroom mantel into Luck spells. 
Leave the bedroom, turn right and stop before the second door 
on the right.  Put on your armor, again, invoke a Courage 
spell and step inside.  When you regain your consciousness 
(id faint too at the sight of Pew Wee Herman doing his thing 
with a raincoat)_, take the pillow and tuning fork off the 
bed. 
 
  Across the hall is the nursery you saw earlier.  Find your 
pile of junk you left behind, leave the pillow, towel, 
chalice and sponge on the pile. 
 
  Go back to the studio offices and down to the basement. 
Don't bother the chief but get the fire extinguisher from the 
wall and the medicine bag off the back of the boiler room 
door.  Just enter boiler room and turn around.  Take the 
copper rod off the leg of the left boiler.  You can get rid 
of the Yeti who attacks with a Fireball. 
 
  Upstairs you need to get ready for the costume room.  Put 
on the armor, take up the meat cleaver, cast and Unseen 
Shield and go berserk.  You will dispatch the witch and turn 
her eyeball (yuck!) into a Fear Spell. 
 
  The light switch is on the wall behind you.  Get the 
wizard's robe, white lab coat and sword from sir Walter 
Raligh costume.  Go across the hall to the makeup room. 
 
  Check the six pictures found in the lavendar bedroom and 
find the one that looks like a sorcerer's apprentice. 
Working with the mirror, stuff in makeup case and wigs on the 
shelf, makeup your disguise to match the picture.  Take off 
the disguise and place the pieces in your pocket for future 
use.  Find the picture that looks like a lab assistant (very 
geeky).  You want to look like that with an assist from 
the lab coat, wig on the lower shelf of the costume room and 
items from the makeup case (mustache, half glasses, eyebrows 
and false teeth).  Once your look is in place, raid the other 
offices for paper supplies. 
 
  Head towards studio 2 and while in the lobby pick up the 
fire extinguisher 
 
  In the entryway of the haunted house add the wizard's 
disguise and the fire extinguisher to the junk pile. 
Turn down the hallway that runs left of the dining room and 
right into the kitchen.  Turn left into the gringy hallway 
and left again down the stairs. 
 
   Check out the disguise.  Entry is on the right and enter 
the office on the right.  Dr. Frankenstein is busy.  You can 
offer to help him.  Thus buttered up, he'll whip you up a 
batch of poison, which is what you need (make sure you have 
the poison formula you found in the library).  Once you have 
the poison, leave. 
 
  Back in the entryway, remove the costume and use poison on 
the shank of meat.  Go to the study. Piranha in study will 
think it is a treat and you can retrieve the key from the 
bottom of the tank.  The key opens a safe in the wall hidden 
behind the duck picture.  Inside the safe is the chief's 
peace pipe. 
 
  Go back upstairs, make a right at the main hallway upstairs 
and take the staircase to the far end of the attic. 
Immediately use the tuning fork.  This causes the skylight to 
shatter and kill the vampire. 
 
  Go back downstairs and stop in the first door on your left. 
Get the book of matches out of one of the tea chests.  Move 
the ladder back up to the attic and use it to climb up onto 
the roof.  Stick the copper rod you found in the basement 
onto the side of the chimney.  Go back downstairs as the 
storm gathers. 
 
Studio 3. 
--------- 
 
  You should be about level 6 magic by now.  Leave behind all 
with your junk pile except for: 
 
weapons and armor 
spells 
test tubes 
precious metal items 
crucifix 
mirror 
keys and pen left in meat locker 
pillow 
hair sprays 
gin and vodka 
wizard suit and makeup 
 
  Put on the armor and pick up the sword.  Keep moving 
straight through studio 3.  The bats are nasty but eventually 
you will enter the church.  Turn the precious metal into 
magic armor and the religious articles on the altar to your 
right into Holy Blast spell.  Take the prayer book from the 
pulpit (don't turn it into a spell -yet).  Fill the test 
tubes with holy water from the font and use on of the filled 
vials along with the crucifix to cast a Bless spell.  Make a 
supply of Ice Darts and Healing Hands before you close the 
prayer book.  Drag the pulpit to the left.  Check your armor 
and open the trap door below the pulpit.  Create a Protection 
spell and head down.  Dispatch the banshees and move the slab 
aside.  At the bottom of the pit, you are in the catacombs. 
 
Catacombs 
--------- 
 
Almost every room has a trap 
When you get to level 8, launch a brainboost and mix spells 
for: 
 Freezing Blade (pen and knife from meat locker) 
 Illusion (mirror) 
 Trueflight(pillow) 
Apply the Freezing Blade to the dagger on the second level. 
This along with the Bless spell makes the dagger into the 
ultimate weapon. 
  At level 9 mix up some Cure Wounds spells and turn the hair 
spray cans and bottles of booze into Nova spells. 
 
  Do not use Telekinesis, Buoyancy or Holy Blast spells in 
the catacombs and hold onto at least one Unholy Barrier. 
Elvira can be found along the far wall of level 6.  Wait 
though.  Although those jugs look luscious, it is only a 
doppelganger.  I know this is hard to do but you have to slay 
her.  Wipe that smile off your face.  I said slay her, not 
lay her.  If you don't she turns into an acid spitting cobra 
that takes all your fireballs.  Take the war lance she is 
guarding. 
 
   When you slash your way back up the catacombs and get to 
the top, watch out.  There is a zombie behind you.  Whirl 
around and throw up an Unholy Barrier spell to keep him away. 
Don't move.  Don't touch him or try to hit him with a weapon. 
Lob Holy Blasts at him.  When they run out, use Fireballs. 
If he's still there throw Ice Darts. 
 
Spider Caves 
------------ 
 
  Go back to your junk pile in the haunted house entryway. 
Patch your wounds and heal up by waiting a while.  Then take: 
 
all your spells including Buoyancy and Telekineses 
as many weapon type spells as your qualified to make 
weapons and armor 
yellow liquid in flask 
nail file 
 
  Head across the hall to studio one.  The crystals you will 
find down in the spider caves can be turned into spells and 
the mushrooms have special properties.  You will have to kill 
every single worm and maggot in the rooms before you can get 
to the goodies. 
 
  When you first enter studio one, look for the elevator near 
the entrance and turn it on or you won't get out later. 
 
  Turn crystals into spells as soon as you can 
turn edible mushrooms into Herbal Healing 
 
  On level A of the spider caves - run Buoyancy and Breathe 
Underwater before entering the lake.  At the bottom of the 
lake along with the water nymph is a discarded rope which you 
will need for the Bind Demon spell. 
 
  On Level B is a small side cell. Inside is a giant scorpion 
guarding a binding scroll you need to defeat Cerberus. 
 
  On level D you run into a director.  Get the elevator key 
from will wallet with a Telekinesis spell. 
 
  In the cavern on level D, you see a giant spider in her 
lair across the chasm.  Fire an Ice Dart to get her 
attention.  When she comes after you, lead her around to the 
elevator.  Go straight through both elevator doors and close 
them behind you.  Now she is trapped.  Climb down her web and 
rescue Elvira.  This time, Elvira turns into a giant wasp. 
You knew Elvira was a great piece of tail but ouch.  Once the 
coast is clear, pick up the chief's tomahawk before heading 
out. 
 
  To leave the caves use a vertical strand of web to swing 
down to level C.  GO to the elevator, use the key from the 
director and ride down to level A to get out. 
 
  In the haunted house, stop off in the entryway.  Pull down 
the a barometer from the wall and turn it into a Summon Storm 
spell.  Go to the roof of the house and invoke the storm. 
The surge fires up Frankie's apparatus.  Go down to the 
basement.  Keep the wire cutters handy.  Use them to clip 
Frankie's head wires. Take the metal band, brain, scalp and 
heart.  Don't be squeamish. 
 
  You now have the brain, heart, scalp, eggs and prayer book 
for a Resurrect spell. 
Binding scroll and rope for Bind Demon spell 
10 black candles 
magic bag 
tomahawk 
war lance 
chalice of blood 
matches 
 
  Go back to the church through studio 3.  Tell priest that 
we need help.  He will draw a pentacle out in the parking lot 
by the studio entrance.  Take all to the basement of the 
studio.  Have the Indian chief bless the tomahawk, war lance 
and magic bag.  Give him the peace pipe. 
 
  Go to the parking lot and lay out the 10  black candles on 
the pentacle.   Get ready with the tomahawk, war lance and 
magic bag so you can get them instantly.  Click on the 
candles to light them and use the magic bag to summon 
Cerberus.  Throw the Blind Demon spell to stop him.  The 
instant the lightning dies down, throw the war lance at him. 
He may have seemed to blow up but he's just coughing fire. 
Throw the tomahawk at his heart. 
 
Don't be surprised if Elvira invites you into her bedroom to

End..........
 
show her sincere appreciation.