*DOX TO J E T P I L O T *Vulcan Software!*

In the manual it says you can play from floppy but you have to load through WB for some reason, anyway

Do not protect the JETPILOT disks as presets and qualification status must be saved while the program runs.
Installing on Hard Disk

Click on the System Button to activate the system screen and then on the install button. You can now select a device from the list and the installation will begin.

The installation will create a directory called 'Jet Pilot' on your hard drive and copy 4 meg of information to that location. Once complete you can simply double click on the JetPilot icon to run the simulator.
OVERVIEW

This manual is designed to give you a brief insight into the working of JetPilot as there is an online interactive flight manual within the simulator that covers all aspects in great detail.
INPUT DEVICES

All of the functions in JetPilot are controlled by mouse or keyboard. The mouse is used to make selections on the menu screens as well as the in-flight operational functions. (most have keyboard equivalents) To actually fly the aircraft you can use wither the mouse or analogue joystick.
THE MAIN SCREEN

After initialising JP you will be faced with the menu screen. The various menu options at the top of the display are described in detail in the following pages.
THE SYSTEM SCREEN

Click on the system button to view the systems screen which gives you full control over all the hardware configuration settings in Jet Pilot. You can set detail levels of the aircrafts as well as enabling or disabling the many added functions in the simulator. Most of the functions rely on system memory and processor speed, the number of options you can take advantage of depends on the amount of memory you have and the speed of you Amiga. To exit the System screen simply click on another menu icon.
THE SITUATION SCREEN

In the situation screen you can exercise full control over the preferences in JP. You can change elements such as weather, time of day, time of year, wind speed, temperature, pressure, the aircraft you wish to fly, the airfield starting place and air traffic configurations. (In certain scenarios these settings will default to the required configuration).
OPERATING DATA SCREEN

Click on the data button to switch to the operating data screen. The performance of various aircraft can be displayed and compared in graphical form.
THE FLIGHT MANUAL

Click on the manual button to access the flight manual which is a disk based interactive document. Apart from scrolling and paging in the normal way you can also click on the highlighted words to quickly find the section of text you want. Activate the panel button to display your instrument panel in the lower half of the display. Click on any instrument, switch or indicator light to see the relevant page of the manual.
RESET & CONTINUE

Once you are happy with all the option configurations and wish to start any exercise, practice, demo or mission simply click on the reset button. If at any point you wish to return to the menu screens you can press the help key on the keyboard. To return to your flight simply press the Continue button.
MISSION SCREEN

The missions are divided into four categories. These are as follows...
DEMO

These are missions where all aircraft are controlled by computer.
PRACTICE

Missions specially designed to allow you to practise your flying skills.
EXERCISE

These are missions that must be completed for qualification.
COMBAT

These missions can only be accessed after you have qualified by successfully completing all exercise missions. Click on your choice to reveal the corresponding list, the run button will start your selection and the notes button switches to the briefing note.
THE CONTROLS

Once you have made your selection and you are inside the cockpit of your plane, pressing the Alt-Left key will switch you mouse to pointer mode and the yellow mouse pointer will appear. move the pointer to the top left of the display and a view control window is shown. Move the pointer to the top right of the display and the communication control window appears. Many buttons and switches on the forward instrument panel are also activated by the mouse.
FLYING CONTROL

If you are not using an analogue joystick to fly your plane you will need to read the following section.
MOUSE CONTROLS

The mouse controls elevator and ailerons, the mouse buttons are used to set rudder and to steer which taxing on the ground.

An A4 sized area is needed for full travel of aileron and elevator and the mouse should be placed just above the centre of this area as the elevator has to travel further up than it has to go down. All other major controls are located on the left side of the keyboard and should be operated with the left hand while the right hand can remain with the mouse for most of the time.
KEYBOARD FUNCTIONS

Most keyboard functions can be duplicated by the mouse.
DEL & HELP

Pause function and Return To Menu screen respectively.
AMIGA-LEFT

Aileron centre function This key moves and hold ailerons in a neutral position and is very useful in a rapid pull up manoeuvre or when resetting the mouse.
CTRL

Amongst many extended functions this key also stops all elevator. aileron and rudder movement and can be used to hold the controls while moving the mouse to a comfortable position if it has been upset too much in a sharp manoeuvre.
TAB & '

Throttle movement, as seen on throttle position indicator.
F & V

Leading edge flaps up and down for F-104 aircraft. Selection and travel can be seen on the flaps position indicator. Leading edge flaps are also referred to as take-off flaps.
S & X

Wheel brakes and wheel brakes lock. Brake pressure increases when S is pressed and decreases as the key is released. Any given brake pressure can be sustained if S and X are pressed simultaneously. The wheel brakes indicator shows the level of brake pressure. Once it has reached 100 percent key X locks the brakes for parking. Unlock with S or X.
D & C

Trailing edge flaps up and down. Selection and actual travel can be seen on the flaps position indicator. Trailing edge flaps are also referred to as Landing Flaps.
A & Z

Airbrakes in and out. Movement can be seen on the airbrakes position indicator.
G

Undercarriage up and down. The undercarriage status is indicated by the undercarriage lights.
B

Brake chute release which can be seen by using the arrow keys or F3 and F4 to look back. The chute is jettisoned by pressing key B again.
MORE CONTROL WITH F KEYS

F1 for a quick glance to the left
F2 for a quick glance to the right
F3 for looking over left shoulder
F4 for looking over right shoulder. (Good for checking your wingman is still there)
ESCAPE key to look up.
F6 & F8 allows you to select 'Track View' in order to view aircraft from the outside.
F7 allows you to select 'Spotter View' in order to view from any airfield.

By pressing the arrow and numerical keypad keys you can control the direction.

F9 allows you access to the map
F10 Air Traffic Control This includes the surveillance radar and approach radar as well as the aircraft movements board with a list of all active aircraft.
F5 returns you to the cockpit view.
IN-LIGHT HELP FUNCTION

To use this function point at any item or instrument on the forward instrument panel with your mouse while holding down the Amiga-Left key. In most cases a short description will be shown in the window just above the panel.
TROUBLESHOOTING

The major problem on a 1mb or 2mb system is memory shortage. To be able to run in 1mb many facilities are disables by default as the bitmaps and the full cockpit are too large to fit into the original 512kb chip RAM. On a standard A1200 you can choose between the full cockpit or the menu and radar bitmaps. It is recommended that you use the full cockpit. A MC68000 based system and even the A1200 with MC68020 is unable to produce maximum object density, scenery, detail and visibility at an acceptable frame rate. You can experiment with different settings on the system screen but overall VULCAN recommend you acquire an accelerator and extra FAST RAM to gain the full benefits of JetPilot.

Indeed I would like to Reiterate that last point made by Vulcan, any person without AT LEAST an 040 in their machine cannot possible HOPE to run any texture mapped / 3D style games at a decent enough speed. Think about it!
