JOAN OF ARC SIEGE & THE SWORD

INTRODUCTION

Welcome to 15th Century France;the time of the Hundred Years War between
England and France,Agincourt,intrique and warfare - and a young peasant
girl named Joan who would lead the French in a campaign to win back their
homeland against all odds.

"Joan of Arc" lets you play the part of Charles,the young Dauphin(Prince)of
France who must,after his father's death,reclaim the French throne and
drive the English invaders our of France.

It is your task to,first,reclaim the French throne,with the help of the
"miracle army" led by your unlikely war general Joan of Arc. Then,you must
lead your cuntry in all aspects of its battle to oust the English - from
raising money for the Army to diplomacy to campaign strategies and tactics.
Choose your best method for winning,but be ready to alter your strategy if
you fail.

"Joan of Arc" requires no special "war game" knowledge or skills - just a
sure hand at battle,a crafty mind,and the ability to lead a country from
the depths or ruin to the heights of victory. Enjoy the historically
accurate story line, the rich graphics,and the excitement of battle and
power. But you may wish to turn your head at the executions - there's a
touch of medieval violence at the Place de Greve.

So hark back with us to this time of battle,intrique,deeds of arms,and the
courage of a peasant girl who gave all in her struggle to free her
homeland.

				1

			LOADING THE GAME

MS-DOS

FOR FLOPPY DRIVES:Insert Disk A into your floppy drive. Type:JOAN to begin
the game. The game will prompt you to insert disks later in the game based
on the video display mode you are using.

FOR HARD DRIVES:To install the game for Hercules,CGA,EGA and Tandy 16-color
video modes,insert Disk A into your floppy drive(usually drive A)and type:

		INSTALL C	or	INSTALL D

depending on whether your hard drive is designated "Drive C" or "Drive
D"(check the user's manual for your computer if you are unsure). You will
be notified when to insert other disks,and when your installation is
complete.

Move into the newly-created directory on your hard drive entitled "JOAN".

Type: JOAN to begin the game.

Press the space bar,joystick or mouse button to move through the
introductory book pages,or press escape to go directly to the game.

Press CTRL/Q to Quit to DOS.

AMIGA

Insert Disk A in Drive DF0: and turn on the machine. Your computer will
automatically start the game.(NOTE:Amiga 1000 owners must boot their
machines with their Kickstart disks. If you have two disk drives,just
insert both disks (Make sure Disk A is in Drive DF0:). You cannot launch
the game from the

				2

Workbench. "Joan of Arc" must be played from floppy disks on the Amiga;it
cannot be installed on a hard drive.

Press the space bar,joystick or mouse button to move through the
introductory book pages,or press escape to go directly to the game.

ATARI ST

Insert Disk A in Drive A and turn on the machine. Launch the game by
double- clicking the icon labeled Joan.PRG on Disk A. If you have two disk
drives,just insert both disks. "Joan of Arc" must be played from floppy
disks on the Atari; it cannot be installed on a hard drive.

Press the space bar,joystick or mouse button to move through the
introductory book pages,or press escape to go directly to the game.

PLAYING THE GAME

You can use a joystick or mouse to play the game,if you have one,or you can
simply use the keyboard. You may also change the device you use at any
point in the game. To activate the joystick,simply click the joystick
button;to activate the mouse,click either mouse button;to activate the
keyboard,press the space bar. You may find certain parts of the game easier
to play with one device rather than another. If you use a joystick on the
Amiga or Atart ST,plug it into Port 2.

Using the shift key with the arrow keys on the keyboard will provide finer
cursor control.

				3

			THE LAND IN DISPUTE

PROVINCES

After you read the introduction,you'll see a map of France divided into 23
provinces. Located in these provinces are 50 French towns which are the
individual prizes in the struggle for power.

To identify a province,move the cursor or joystick to that province and
press the mouse button or space bar. Overlaid on the left half of the
screen will be the name of the province,the country in control at that
time,and a list of cities in the province(along with a notation of which
side controls each city). Overlaid on the right half of the screen will be
descriptions of each army(if any)located in that province. Included in the
description will be:

Commanding Officer
Total army size
# of infantrymen
# of archers
# of cavalry
# of bombards(cannon)

If there is more than one army,clicking the mouse or joystick button(or
pressing the space bar)will display each army in turn,showing one at a
time.

				4

The map is color-coded to show which nation controls each province. The
lower right-hand provinces are all under French(your)control when the game
begins. The upper left-hand provinces and the province of Guyenne to the
middle-left side of the country are under English control. The province of
Bretagne(closest to England)is under the rule of Jean of Bretagne,who has
allied himself with the English. The provinces toward the upper right-hand
side,nearest the Netherlands and Belgium,and those around Burgundy are
under the rule of Philippe the Good,who has also allied himself with the
English.

Control of a province is determined by which country controls the towns
within that province. If all towns within a province are controlled by one
side or the other,the map will show that province color-coded
appropriately. If each side controls at least one town in that province,it
will be described as in a "State of War."

SAVING/LOADING GAMES

In the lower left corner of your screen,you'll see icons for saving or
loading games in progress. Clicking the icon with the arrow pointing toward
the disk will save the game you are currently playing;clicking the icon
with the arrow pointing away from the disk will load a game from a disk.
You can only save one game in progress on any one disk.

THE ROYAL TREASURY

Toward the lower left portion of your screen,you'll see a small box labeled
"Royal Treasury." Once you become King,that area will show you how many
pounds are in your treasury.(All money is measured in Tournois pounds,a
measure of the time equal to 300 of today's francs). This will change each
month as your armies are paid(according to their sizes).

				5

Until you are crowned,however,you will have no money and will need to
campaign only with your miracle army,for as long as it lasts.

You'll want to keep an eye on this amount-when your treasury runs out of
money, all of your armies will disperse,and you'll need to raise money in
order to create new armies.

Different methods of raising money will be addressed in the section
entitled "Royal Actions."

VIEWING DIFFERENT MAPS

The box to the lower right of your screen,which contains three arrows
positioned circularly,cycles you through three different depictions of
France. Clicking the box once will show you the weather conditions in each
part of the country. This could be an important factor in choosing what
kind of army to raise and where to attack. It also affects the size of the
hearth tithe you collect each year-bad weather will decrease the amount
your subjects can pay. Weather conditions range from "sunny" to
"snow",according to these icons.

				6

Clicking this box a second time shows you which provinces are in revolt.
Provinces represented as clear are presently not in a state of rebellion.
More dangerous stages of rebellion are represented in darker shades,with
provinces in open rebellion showing flashing colors. Each province's level
of satisfaction/rebellion is indicated by a "Trust in the King"
value,ranging from 0(low satisfaction)to 100(high satisfaction),which can
be viewed by clicking on each province while viewing this map. Clicking
again will erase the "trust" display. You can increase a province's "trust"
value by building fortresses or executing rebellion leaders. Tithing(other
than the hearth tithe)and recruiting for the Royal Army may cause a
province's "trust" level to decrease.

Provinces in rebellion will not pay taxes,and so should be subdued before
September(before the hearth tithe). Rebellions spread between provinces if
you allow rebellion leaders to go unpunished,and levying a tax on a
province will cause it to rebel more quickly. For more on taxing
provinces,see "Royal Treasury;" for more on punishing provinces in
rebellion,see "Royal Justice."

Clicking the box a third time will return you to the original map of
France, showing which provinces are controlled by which forces.

				7

Throughout the manual and in the game,you'll see the phrases "select",or
"click on" and "press the left mouse button." These are all instructions
for you to continue;you may do so by clicking once on the input device you
are using,or by pressing the space bar.

To pause while playing an action game,press "ESCAPE." To continue
playing,press "ESCAPE" again.

If you wish to change a selection you've made during the game,you may use
the "Escape" key. This key willusually display either the main screen,the
main menu,or the most recent "small scroll" menu,depending on where you are
in the game.

USING THE MAP

Before you actually begin playing the game,you'll be asked to identify a
specific province. Use the map printed on red paper(included in your
package), to locate the province. Click the space bar,joystick or mouse
button once to gain control over the cursor,then move the cursor over the
province and click again.

You'll be given two opportunities to identify the province correctly.

				8

			CHAPTER 2 - THE STORY

				9

			      THE STORY

BACKGROUND

Charles IV,the last Capetian King of France,died in 1328,leaving open the
question of succession to the throne. Shortly after the king's death,an
assembly of princes,barons,and Peers of the Realm gathered and decreed that
Charles' cousin Philip of Valois would be crowned as King. Edward III,King
of England,contested the appointment,since his mother was sister to the
late King, and the Hundred Years War was begun.

England's proximity to Normandy and Brittany,and the fact that the King of
England also held the title of Duke of Aquitaine(the provinces of Guyenne
and Gascony)and Peer of France,gave the English easy points of invasion as
long as the war continued. Under Edward III,England took control of vast
portions of France,but the French,under Charles V,slowly regained almost
all the land in question.

In 1415,Henry V of England again took arms against a France ruled by the
often insane Charles VI. Crowned by the tremendous victory at
Agincourt,Henry's campaign captured virtually all of Northern France
and,with the alliance of the Dukes of Burgundy and Brittany,induced Queen
Isabella to sign,on her behalf,the Treaty of Troyes,which recognized Henry
V of England as heir to the French throne.

The dauphin(or prince),later Charles VII,was called by many the "King of
Bruges," since much of his country was controlled by his enemies. Dukes of
France fought each other for territory,slaughtering entire villages in a
single stroke. The people of a country ravaged by one hundred years of war
were of low morale;many starved or waited for death at the hands of the
invaders.

				10

THE SITUATION

You,as Charles VII,are in a rather tight spot. Your treasury has no money.
You are not recognized as King by half of your countrymen. Your "miracle
army" of 4000 is bound by honor along;you must move quickly to be crowned
in the town of Reims and regain the respect of your people. Should that
army be defeated even once in battle before you can be crowned,you'll have
no chance of regaining your throne.

Your last hope is Joan of Arc. The voices of St. Michael and St. Catherine
have told her to come to your aid and restore the country to your rule.
After great skepticism,this peasant girl has convinced you and the court of
her credibility as a leader of the army.

All your hopes rest upon her ability to raise the siege at Orleans and
recapture Reims,where you can be crowned. Only after you are King will you
be able to collect taxes for the treasury,engage in diplomacy with your
enemies, dispense royal justice-in fact,until you are King,you are limited
to working with your "miracle army." Winning through to Reims should be
your first order of business.

Once you have the power of a king at your disposal,you can choose the best
way to liberate your country from the English. Do you raise great armies
and go into battle like your great-grandfather Jean? Should you rely on
diplomacy rather than arms like your grandfather Charles V? Or is intrigue
and espionage more to your liking?

Should you raise money by releasing hostages for ransom,or should you
execute the hostages and tax your subjects? Can you keep your nobles and
subjects under control,or will you have to execute rebellious provincial
leaders? Can you be the King your country desperately needs?

				11

YOUR COURT

Along with your army,you have a set of courtiers and war generals to help
you victoriously end the war.

JOAN OF ARC - "The Maid of Orleans",your last hope of deliverance in
France's darkest hour.

YOLANDE OF ARAGON - The Princess of Aragon,Duchess of Anjou,cousin and
mother- in-law to the King is a skillful diplomat.

JEAN,DUKE OF ALENCON - Called by Joan "the Handsome Duke," this young
Lieutenant of the King from a noble family is almost like a brother to
Joan.

GILLES OF RAIS - An unstable man and sometime criminal,on whom the legend
of Bluebeard will be based,he is suspected of having more allegiance to
your courtiers than to you.

LAHIRE - The most famous French captain of all,no man is more feared by
your enemies. This arrogant veteran is often described as "the most
pitiless of all the captains."

XAINTRAILLES - Poton de Xaintrailles,one of Joan's constant companions,is
known for his good judgement and valor.

REGNAULT OF CHARTRES - Archbishop of Reims as well as Chancellor of the
realm, this member of the clergy also uses his religious affiliation to
help in his political negotiations.

				12

DUNOIS,BATARD OF ORLEANS - The Count of Dunois,an illegitimate sone of the
late Louis of Orleans(a very powerful uncle of the King)holds Orleans
against the siege.

TREMOILLE - A wily and unscrupulous courtier,rich and powerful,this
Chamberlain of the realm uses his close ties to the Burgundy court to
enhance his negotiating abilities.

RICHEMONT - Artur de Richemont,brother to the Duke of Brittany,is Constable
of France. Banished from court through the influence of Tremoille,he is
still one of your strongest army leaders.

PIERRE DE BREZE - Count of Evreux,this counselor owes his position to
Yolande of Aragon.

JACQUES COEUR - Chancellor of the Exchequer,this man is mostly responsible
for the financial welfare of the country.

Each of these subjects is rated for their abilities in Politics,Strategy
and as Army Leader. Be sure to select appropriate tasks for each subject
based on their abilities. Poor war generals will lose battles they should
win,and those poor in politics make bad negotiators. You also have a set of
"right-hand men" to help you with less savory acts(like
kidnapping,assassination,or poisoning). Each of these characters has a
particular act at which he or she is best you will learn who to send on
each mission over time,as you see their success rates. 

The characters are as follows: 
Gunter of Koln			
Hans the Merciful 
Juan Andalusian			
Robert the Devil Mathew
Claymore	
Vivianne the Mad

				13

You will be required to pay a premiun for the acts performed by these
characters. Don't spend your money foolishly,but be sure you invest enough
for their success;if you spend too little,they may be caught and executed
by the enemy.

YOUR ENEMIES

Your opponents also have war generals and courtiers available to them. These
characters include:

HENRY VI,KING OF ENGLAND

  Captain Falstaff - This "hawk" of England controls much of the supplies for 
the other English armies throughout France.

  Duke of Warwick - This rich,powerful noble belongs to one of the strongest
families in England,one of whom will later be called "the kingmaker".

  Duke of Bedford - Henry VI's uncle,appointed by Henry V(as overlord of both
England and France)as Regent of France for his son. He rules English
territories very ably for the King.

  Earl of Suffolk - This noble's ability to gather large armies,strong leader-
ship,and diplomatic skills make him the most valuable English lord in the war.

  Captain John Talbot,Earl of Shrewsbury - Another member of the English "War
Party",this general is given to impetuous daring rather than deliberate assault
in his battle tactics.

  Cardinal of Winchester - Henry Beufort,great-uncle of the King,shrewdly uses
the power of the church in politics,and is a crafty and wise negotiator.

				14

  Duke of Gloucester - Another uncle of Henry VI,this young,headstrong Duke
acts as Regent of England.

  Duke of Somerset - Leader of another powerful English family,this man may be
destined to become Regent of France.

  Sir Thomas Kyriel - This general's great ability may allow him to preserve in
the struggle against you longer than the other Commanders-in-Chief.

PHILIP THE GOOD(PHILIPPE LE BON),

DUKE OF BOURGOGNE(Burgundy)

  Guillaume of Vienne - General Bailiff of Bourgogne,Phillipe's prime minister
and Knight of Toison d'Or.

  Pierre Cauchon - This "Peer of the Realm" is one of the fiercest French
supporters of England's claim to the throne. His long support to the house of
Burgundy resulted in this position of power,where he has the power to try
heresy cases.

  Jean of Luxembourg - A warrior who lost an eye in battle,this vassal of the
Duke of Burgundy is the Duke's strongest war captain.

JEAN VI,DUKE OF BRETAGNE(Brittany)

  Jean de Montfort,though a French noble,supports the King of England who
helped him gain control of Bretagne. His family has,throughout the war,given
the English a ready entrance for invasion of France.

These characters also have their various strengths and weaknesses. Stronger
characters will make life harder for you(War Generals on the field of battle,
Political characters in negotiations),but are also worth more in ranson should

				15

you capture 

			(MISSING PAGES)

THE MENU

The most important facet of the map is the fleur-de-lis located right-center on
your screen.

Clicking on this box unveils the menu containing the actions you may take.
These general categories include:

	DIPLOMACY
	ESPIONAGE
	HELPHING HAND
	ROYAL TREASURY
	ROYAL JUSTICE
	RAISING THE ROYAL ARMY
	STARTING A CAMPAIGN

Until you recapture the town of Reims and are crowed King,the only option
you'll be allowed to use is option 7 - Starting a Campaign. Only when you are
King do you have the right to tax your people and dabble in diplomacy.

				16


			CHAPTER 4 - HOW TO BECOME KING

				17

			HOW TO BECOME KING

Until you are King,you can only direct the movements of your "miracle army"
under the command of Joan of Arc. If that army should be eliminated in battle
(either in open battle or in attempting to capture a town),you will lose your
last hope of becoming King and driving the English from your country. At the
beginning of the game,that Army is stationed at Bourges,in the province of
Berry.

Your first task is to move your army north to Orleans,raising the siege of the
English oppressors. From there,you should move as quickly and carefully as
possible to the town of Reims,located in the province of Chapagne.

Along the way,you may have to do battle with various types of enemies. You may
have to battle armies in open fields,defeat enemy cavaliers in combat on horse
or defend cities from siege. You'll find how to defeat these enemies under
"Starting a Campaign" and "Enemy Attacks."

Once you have liberated the town of Reims,you will be granted the full
political powers of a legitimate King of France. This means all of the options
on the menu will now become available to you. It also means that your army will
expect to be paid.

				18

			CHAPTER 5 - ROYAL ACTIONS

				19

ROYAL ACTIONS

Any action you take in the game will be accomplished by selecting the fleur-de-
lis,the sign of French royalty. This will bring up the menu of possible actions
you can take. Until you are King,selecting any option other than "Starting a
Campaign" (option 7)will refer you to that option.

DIPLOMACY

One of the most important tools available to a ruler is diplomacy-the art of
using words rather than swords. As King of France,you'll have two major areas
of diplomacy in which you can dabble:

	1) Agreeing to lay down arms for a period of time;and
	2) Agreeing to transfer prisoners or towns for money.

In the first category fall the options of "Alliance," "Armistice," and "Peace
Treaty." In the second category fall "Release" and "Ransom."

Whenever you engage in diplomacy,you'll always be asked to choose a partner for
negotiations. Your options will include:Henry V,King of England;Philippe the
Good,Duke of Burgundy;and Jean,Duke of Bretagne(unless you have captured or
executed him). It's a good idea to select the partner with the closest ties to
the prisoner you are offering for ransom-Henry of England will pay more for the

				20

Duke of Bedford than will Philip of Burgundy. Depending on whom you wish to
negotiate with,you'll also be asked to choose a site for the negotiations.
You'll also always be asked to select two ambassadors to negotiate for you. Be
sure to select courtiers who are politically strong in order to achieve your
best results.

On the selection screen,you'll see a list of names on the left side of the
page. Positioning the cursor over the desired name and clicking once will
display the character's picture,name and attributes on the right side of the
page.

When you have identified a character you wish to send for this negotiation,
display him or her on the screen,move the cursor over his or her picture and
click once.

All of these factors,along with the abilities of the best enemy negotiators,
will determine the outcome of the diplomacy.

PEACE TREATY/ALLIANCE/ARMISTICE

Should you find yourself in a pinch,a little overwhelmed by the opposition,you
can always go to one of your enemies and ask for a little breathing room.

If you want a cease-fire for a short amount of time,you can ask for an
armistice. Depending on the negotiating ability of your ambassadors,your
request may be denied or your negotiating partner may agree to an armistice for
a specified period of time.

If you don't want to worry about an enemy for a longer period of time(perhaps
two years),you should request a peace treaty. Again,your partner in diplomacy
will respond with either a specified period of time of ceased hostilities or
with a desire not to hear from you again.

				21

You'd like to enlist the aid of one of your enemies against the others,you can
request an alliance. Don't be surprised if they decline.

Once you have identified your partner,a location and your ambassadors,you'll be
asked how long you'd like the cease fire to last. You can then place your royal
seal on the diplomatic request. Should you decide at this last minute not to
engage in this diplomacy,you can press the "Escape" key.

Should you decide to give your seal of approval,you'll receive from your
negotiating partner a document which will either reject or accept(for a
specified period of time)your proposal.

RELEASE

Diplomacy also involves the ransoming of prisoners of war on both sides. Once
you capture(or kidnap)an English character,you can attempt to ransom him for
money to sustain your army. Of course,your enemy may refuse to ransom him. You
can then either keep him in prison,pardon him,or execute him(more on this under
Royal Justice).

To negotiate the release of an English prisoner in your prisons for meony,
select "Release."

Once you have identified your partner,a location and your ambassadors,you'll be
shown a menu of English characters(unless you have none in your prison). You'll
only be shown the list of surviving characters available in your prisons.

Choose one of these by selecting the name on the left side of the screen,then
selecting the picture on the right side of the screen.

Next,select the amount of money for which you will ransom the prisoner. While
you don't want to leave money on the table,asking for too much will result in 

				22

your partner refusing to negotiate with you. Carefully consider the abilities
of your prisoner and the state of the war when choosing the ransom amount.
Place your seal of approval on the document and await a response.

If your enemies will not negotiate with you,you have few options. You can
attempt to negotiate for less money,execute the prisoner,or simply hold him in
your jail until later in the game,when your enemy may be more willing to spend
money. Keep in mind,though,that prisoners have been known to escape from the
Royal Prison.

RANSOM

If you start running low on capable war generals,you may be forced to pay a
ransom for the release of someone to lead your army;or perhaps you have more
money than armies and wish to pay the English for delivering to you a town
presently controlled by the English. These fall under the heading of "Ransom:
under the "Diplomacy" menu.

RANSOM OF A PRISONER

Once again,you must first select your negotiating partner;of course,you'll want
to select the enemy who is holding your prisoner. You'll go through the steps
of selecting the prisoner you want released and the site for negotiations;you
will not select the ransom price(that will be chose by your enemy). It's a good
idea to have more than 2,000,000 pounds available for ransoming a prisoner.

Again,when you have made all the selections,place your royal seal on the
document by clicking,or press the escape key if you change your mind.

				23

RANSOM OF A TOWN

If you have more money than army or generals,you may find yourself preferring
to pay money for the English to relinquish a town rather than risking an army.
Ransom a town just as you would a prisoner,except that you'll choose a town
from the map rather than a general from the list of characters.

ESPIONAGE

As a legitimate King of France,you will also be able to send characters out to
"investigate" provinces or towns,so that you may increase or decrease your
armies according to your enemy's strengths and decide which towns to capture in
order to raise the largest possible army.

Choose one of your "right-hand men" for the mission and decide how much to pay
him or her. Generally,the more you pay one of these characters,the more
precautions they will be able to take and the less likely it is that they will
be captured. However,some characters are simply inept at espionage and will be
caught no matter how much they are paid,while others may be able to perform the
task for the minimum amount of pay. Then again,some territories will have such
a large army that a character will stand no chance of succeeding in a mission
regardless of how good he or she is.

Inform on a Province

One of your options is to charge one of your "right-hand men" to inform about a
province. This is especially useful just before raising or moving an army.

When the game starts,you will know where your enemies are by the location of
the red flags on the map-each flag represents one or more enemy armies. If an
enemy army moves,you will not know where it is located unless a)one of your
armies comes across it while moving,or b)one of your spies discovers it on a
mission.

				24

Having one of your spies inform about a province before you create your army
gives you a chance to raise your army elsewhere,rather than allowing that army
to be immediately defeated by a larger enemy force.

Inform on a Town

Your other espionage option is to send one of your spies to inform on a
garrison(a town or fortress).

If successful,your spy will tell you how many men are in the garrison. This
will not only help you in determining if your attacking army strength is
sufficient,but will also help you decide which garrisons are most important for
you to attack.

When raising an army,only the men from towns that you controls are available.
Consequently,when moving into a new province,it is sometimes wise to attack the
largest garrison first so that you'll be able to raise men in the event that
your army is significantly diminished in battle.

HELPING HAND

Your unsavory "right-hand men" can also be used to help you out of difficult
positons by performing acts unbecoming to one anointed as King. While your
countrymen wouldn't stand for you ordering the assassination,poisoning,or
kidnapping of an enemy(these actions are not in the code of chivalry),your
countrymen don't have to know. You can pay these lesser known characters "under
the table" to perform these acts. Remember,"He who cannot hide cannot rule."

You can eliminate an enemy courtier(through either assissination or poisoning)
or kidnap an enemy courtier to hold for ransom. You can only target characters
who reside at the King's court;i.e.,you cannot target someone on campaign with
the army.

				25

You'll need to select a "right hand man," a target character and a price.
Again,you should pay enough to accomplish the mission,but you are in no
position to be wasteful. As with "Espionage," there are three possible
outcomes:

1)The mission is a success(the enemy is killed or kidnapped);
2)The mission is a failure,but your character has escaped unharmed;or
3)The mission is a failure and your character has been executed.

You'll learn over time which characters to send on which missions-some
characters are better at kidnapping than killing,and some should just stick
with espionage.

ROYAL TREASURY

When looking at the map,you'll see a small scroll in the lower left quarter of
the screen entitled "Royal Treasury." This scroll tells you how much money you
have at any given time.

You can add to your treasury by:
Trading prisoners for ransom money(See "Diplomacy")
Levying a hearth tithe every September
Levying a regular tithe at any time of the year

You'll use the money in your treasury by:
Paying your "right-hand" men & women to spy,kill,or kidnap
Paying ransom for the return of your courtiers,generals,and towns
Raising armies

At the beginning of the game,you have just scraped your coffers to create the
army which Joan of Arc commands.

				26

You'll not be able to levy taxes or trade prisoners of war for more money until
you have proved yourself legitimate by capturing Reims and being crowned.

Once you have been crowned "King of France,"you'll be able to raise the money
needed to fund your armies and various underhanded political projects. Keep in
mind,though,that only provinces entirely under your control will contribute to
your treasury.

TITHE

One type of tax,the "tithe," may be levied at any time of the year. You may
only tithe one province at a time,and most provinces will only pay a tithe once
a year. The amount you raise in the tithe depends on the size and population of
the province;larger provinces will contribute more money.

The tithe carries with it a risk,however;levying a tithe against a province
will cause it to be more likely to rebel. Be prepared to assert yourself in any
province you tithe.

HEARTH TITHE

Once a year-every September-you may levy a "hearth tithe" on all provinces
loyal to you. Unlike a tithe,this tax will not cause a province to rebel.
However,only provinces which are not in rebellion that month will contribute to
your treasury. The extent of your control over the country and the weather
conditions for that year will determine the amount you can raise in this tithe.

ROYAL JUSTICE

Once you are ordained King,you'll be allowed to dispense Royal Justice. You'll
decide if you should bring charges against members of your court,and determine
the fate of all those sent to your Royal Prison,including prisoners of war.

				27

Do not let your thirst for vengeance on your enemies cause you to make
political mistakes,and do not use these powers lightly;prisoners of war can add
to your treasury and relieve the burden of financing the war from your people.
You can often raise as much(or more)money from a hostage as you can from a
hearth tithe.

Your courtiers and war generals are your arms and mouth when it comes to
fighting and negotiating with your enemies. Do not be too hasty to arrest them
without good cause.

Sparing prisoners will also increase your stature among your people.they'll
know they are ruled by a good and wise King,and will be less likely to rebel.
On the other hand,you're nobody's fool. If you should capture a particularly
able enemy general,or your enemies will not pay ransom for a prisoner,perhaps
the Place de Greve...

EXECUTION

As King,you have the right to send any of your prisoners to the Place de Greve
to be executed. Simply select "Royal Justice" from the menu,then select
"Execution." You'll be asked whether you want to execute a hostage,a French
prisoner,or the leaders of a revolt in one of your provinces.

WARNING:The execution scene contains graphics of medieval violence. The faint
of heart or easily disturbed should not watch this scene.

HOSTAGE

When you've captured an enemy general,or kidnapped a courtier from England or
Burgundy,you have the option of executing him. There is often an advantage in
attempting to sell him back to his sovereign,but,you're the King;it's your
choice.

				28

To execute a hostage of war,select "Hostage" on the "Execution" menu. You'll be
shown a list of enemy generals in your Royal Prison and asked to identify the
hostage you wish executed.

Once you have selected the hostage and placed your stamp of approval on the
necessary documents,you'll go to the Place de Greve to see the execution. If
you change your mind,simply press the "Escape" key.

FRENCH PRISONER

You may also execute members of your court whom you have imprisoned(for
whatever reason). To do so,simply select "French Prisoner" from the "Execution"
menu and follow the same steps as you would for executing an enemy hostage.

PROVINCE IN REBELLION

Although you have been crowned King of France,and have been accepted by many of
your countrymen,it is a fact of the times that yours is an unstable
sovereignty. Not only do the English invaders and the Burgundian traitors
challenge your reign,the turmoil of a hundred years of war has created a
volatile environment where any province is subject to rebellion.

As described earlier,the small scroll with three arrows on the lower right of
the map screen allows you to see the weather conditions and the state of
rebellion in each province,as well as the main political map. Should you find
provinces in rebellion,you'll need to use this aspect of Royal Justice to bring
them back under your control.

Select "Province in Rebellion" on the "Execution" map to have the leaders of
the rebellion hanged. You'll be shown the status of each province under your
control and asked which province you'll take action against. Again,select the
province and place your royal seal on the necessary documents for your justice
to take its course.

				29

It is particularly important to have few(if any)provinces in rebellion when you
levy your hearth tithe. For this reason,you should start checking up on your
provinces in early summer.

ARREST

Should you be dissatisfied with the performance of a member of your court,you
can have him or her arrested(tried and convicted,of course-you ARE King)on
charges of High Treason,Fleeing from the Enemy,or Witchcraft. As always,you
must place your royal seal on the appropriate document for the action to take
place.

Arresting a member of the court simply removes him/her to the Royal Prison. You
cannot arrest an army leader on campaign with his/her army. You must first
disband the army,whereupon the general will return to your court,where he/she
can be arrested.

GRACE

Should you,in your whimsical king-like way,decide that you do not wish a member
of your court to reside in the Royal Prison,you may grant him/her the King's
Grace-a royal pardon. This act restores him/her to his former position at
court.

RAISING THE ROYAL ARMY

While diplomacy and intrigue are integral parts of your responsibilites as
King,you cannot hope to drive your enemies from France without fighting
battles. You also cannot hope to win battles without an army(or two).
You may have as many armies as you have commanders(or as many as the royal
treasury can afford). You can put any member of your court in command of an
army(none of your unscrupulous "right-hand men" may command one),but you'll 

				30

have better success if you use "war generals" who are stronger in the
"Strategy" and "War" attributes.

CREATING AN ARMY

When you create an army,you'll be asked:
Where will it meet?
Who will be in command?
How large will it be?

Your army can only gather in a city of fortress which you control. If you
should designate your army to meet in a province which is already occupied by
an enemy army,your army will find itself in battle immediately upon its
creation. It might be a good idea to spy out a province before creating an army
in it.

When you select "Create an Army" from the "Raising the Royal Army" menu,you'll
be shown the map and asked to choose the site where the army will meet. You'll
then be asked to designate an army leader. Be sure to select someone who is
skilled in that area.

Next,you'll need to determine the size of your army. You'll be presented with a
scroll,on which you can determine the size of each component of your army
separately. This will be especially important when you engage in open battle
with another army.

				31

The components of your army are as follows:

Cavalry-These expensive fighters can cause great damage to the enemy when used
appropriately in battle,but should not be relied on to carry the day,even if
you can afford an entire army of them.

Archers-English use of these troops was greatly responsible for their victories
at Crecy and Poitiers early in the war. They can have a great impact when
employed from a distance,but are less effectively in close battle.

Infantry-The staple of your army,these less expensive troops often depend
solely on number to overwhelm the enemy,but can fight more effectively under a
good war general.

Bombards-These troops are necessary for operation of the cannon. A very good
investment for thinning out the enemy,these troops will be overwhelmed if all
other army components are destroyed.

				32

You'll be able to increase the size of each element of your army in the
following increments at the following costs:

ARMY GROUP		INCREMENT SIZE		COST
Cavalry				100		5000
Archers				1500		3000
Infantry			1000		2000
Bombards			  1		1000

You can increase the size of your army component by highlighting the component
tow and clicking on the "+" sign below the boxes. Accordingly,clicking the "-"
sign will decrease the size of the highlighted component.

As you change the size of your army,you'll see the number at the bottom of the
scroll labeled "Monthly Cost" change accordingly. The value of your treasury is
also displayed so that you can calculate how long you can support your army.
When you are satisfied with the size and composition of your army,select the
bar marked "Validation."

MODIFYING AN ARMY

You can use this option to increase or decrease the size of an existing army,or
to disband an army altogether. When you choose this option,you must first
select which army you want to modify.

You'll then see a scroll entitled "Modification of a Royal Army," which,as when
creating an army,will show the commander of the army,its present location,the
size of each of the four components of the army,the amount in the Royal
Treasury,and the monthly payment that particular army will require.

				33

To modify the army,simply use the "+" and "-" signs to increase or decrease the
size of your army,respectively. As when creating an army,select the bar marked
"Validation" when finished.

STARTING A CAMPAIGN

As peaceful a ruler as you may wish to be,the times dictate that you must
engage in battles in order to liberate your people. Not only must you start
campaigns and liberate towns in order to be crowned in Reims,you will have to
lay siege to towns occupied by the English in order to recapture them;it is
unlikely that you'll ever have enough in your treasury to negotiate money for
them. On the other hand,as a prince and knight of the Middle Ages,you are
probably spoiling for battle.

RELOCATE

"Relocate" is the way you move your armies from one provience to another.
Armies may only move to provinces adjoinng that in which they currently reside.
(Armies in costal proviences may move by ship to certain other coastal
provinces,however.)Moving an army into a new province will often result in
pitched battle or a challenge upon your guard by an enemy cavalier.

To move your army,select "Relocate" from the "Campaign" menu. If you have only
one army,you'll be asked to select your destination. Choose from among the
highlighted provinces. If you decide not to move your army,press "Escape."
If you have more than one army,you'll be asked to choose which army you will
move. Select one of the blue flages which represent your armies. If you have
more than one army in the same province,you'll see the names of the army
leaders appear in a series of black blocks toward the side of the scroll;select

				34

the block containing the name of the leader of the army you wish to move. You
can then select one of the highlighted provinces as your destination.
Moving an army into another province may have one of three effects:

1)Nothing at all may happen
2)You may discover an enemy army and engage in "Battle in Open Fields"
3)An enemy cavalier may challenge your guard

BATTLE IN OPEN FIELDS

If you move into a province where an enemy army is camped,you'll be informed
that your army has discovered the army of the enemy commander in that province.
You will not be told how large a force the enemy has. Keep in mind that you may
not see the flag of the enemy army in the province before you move there.

Your screen will change to show you the battle area. Your army is in white on
the left side of the screen;the enemy is in black on the right side.

				35

The grey area toward the bottom of the screen allows you to control the
different groups in your army as follows:

Infantry-The right-facing triangle moves them right,the left-facing triangle
moves them left. Beware of moving them into range of enemy archers and cannon.

Archers-They have a set distance their arrows fly. Move them left and right to
the proper range with the triangles,then shoot the arrows using the square
between the triangles.

Cavalry-Mounted knights cannot retreat;they would get slaughtered. Experiment
to find the proper timing,then start their charge with the right-facing
triangle.

Bombards-Selecting the "up" and "down" arrows will set the height(and therefore
range)of the cannon shot;a higher shot will go farther. Select the block in the
middle to shoot.

Retreat-Select the arrow at the bottom of the screen if you are being
slaughtered and wish to save your army from certain destruction in order to
fight another day.

NOTE:On MS-DOS machines,use the left and right-arrow cursor keys(or move the
mouse or joystick left or right)to move between the command icons. On Atari and
Amiga machines,you can use the cursor keys,but you'll find it easier to use the
mouse or joystick.

Parts of your army may not respond to your commands. This may be for one of two
reasons-either they are engaged in hand to hand combat and cannot act
immediately,or they have been eliminated. Beside each group's control area is a
red vertical bar showing the size of that group.

				36

How you fight the battle will affect the outcome as much as the size of your
army and the ability of your leader. Archers using the longbow were the
revolutionary tactic of the time;be sure to make use of them and your bombards
if you have them.

CAVALIER CHALLENGE

Upon moving your army,you may find your guard challenged by an enemy cavalier.
You will be required to send out a mounted knight for one-on-one battle to
defend your honor. Should your knight lose,you can expect part of your army to
lose confidence and desert.

Keep in mind as you direct the combat that a mounted knight is most vulnerable
when attacked from behind.

Your champion will be the blue knight on the left,and a measure of his strength
can be seen in the upper left corner of the screen;your opponent will be in red
on the right,with strength measured in the upper right corner.

KEYBOARD

Use the right-and left-arrow cursor keys to move your character right or left.
Attack with a side-cut by simultaneously pressing the right-arrow cursor key
and the space bar;attack with an overhead-cut by simultaneously pressing the up
arrow cursor key and the space bar. Charge with your sword pointed by holding
down the up arrow. Stop your horse by pressing once on the space bar,then
releasing.

JOYSTICK

Move the joystick right and left to move you character right or left. Attack
with a side-cut by moving the joystick to the right and pressing the fire
button;attack with an overhead-cut by moving the joystick forward and pressing
the fire button. Charge with your sword pointed by holding the joystick
forward. Stop your horse by pressing the fire button once,then releasing.

				37

MOUSE

Scroll the mouse right and left to move your character right or left. Attack
with a side-cut by scrolling the mouse to the right and pressing the button;
attack with an overhead-cut by scrolling the mouse forward and pressing the
button. Charge with your sword pointing by scrolling the mouse forward. Stop
your horse by pressing the button once,then releasing.

ASSAULT

"Assault" is the usual(and least expensive)way to capture a town occupied by
the enemy(you can use "Diplomacy," but that can quickly deplete your treasury).
Liberating towns held by the English is the building block of the war-not only
is it the path to ultimate victory,but it has short term implications as well.
The number and size of the towns that you control in a province dictate the
size of the army you create,and liberation of all towns in a province converts
it to French rule(making it eligible for taxing).

Laying siege to a town can be deceptively difficult. It involves two steps:
Attacking the main gate,and scaling the "donjon" wall. You will need to
complete both of these steps to successfully liberate the town or castle.
Even if you make it through the main gate,your losses may be so heavy that it
will be virtually impossible to successfully scale the wall. You may even
capture the city at the cost of almost your entire army;your first act in such
a case should be to increase your army be calling on the residents of the newly
liberated town.

TAKING THE BRIDGE

The first stage of assaulting a town is fighting your way across the bridge.
Your man will start on the left and must dispatch enemy soldiers in
hand-to-hand combat while working his way across the bridge into town. Each
time the enemy draws blood either by sword or by the arrows raining down from

				38

above,you'll be driven back a step. You'll only have one character on the
bridge;he'll sustain injuries as long as you have an army,but once he is
killed,your army is destroyed.

KEYBOARD

Use the right-and left-arrow cursor keys to move your character ahead or back.
Attack with a side-but by simultaneously pressing the right-arrow cursor key
and the space bar;attack with an overhead-cut by simultaneously pressing the up
arrow cursor key and the space bar;attack low by simultaneously pressing the
down-arrow cursor key and the space bar.

JOYSTICK

Move the joystick right and left to move your character ahead or back. Attack
with a side-cut by moving the joystick to the right and pressing the fire
button;attack with an overhead-cut by moving the joystick forward and pressing
the fire button;attack low by moving the joysick back and pressing the fire
button.

MOUSE

Scroll the mouse right and left to move your character ahead or back. Attack
with a side-cut by scrolling the mouse to the right and pressing the button;
attack with an overhead-but by scrolling the mouse forward and pressing the
button;attack low by scrolling the mouse back and pressing the button.

SCALING THE WALL

You will need to send one man up the wall at a time to dispatch the defenders
who are throwing rocks and scalding oil down the ladders. Once your first man
wins through,you'll be able to send your entire army up the wall. Be careful
with your men here as well;each lost man represents a portion of your army,
based on the ability of your commander.

				39

Your character will automatically climb whichever ladder he starts on. You have
two actions at your disposal to avoid being knocked from the ladder. You can:

a)Raise your shield;or
b)Jump to another ladder.

Raising your shild will protect you from rocks hurled down your ladder,but will
not protect you from the scaling oil. Jumping to another ladder will avoid any
projectiles thrown at you-except,of course,those thrown down the ladder you are
jumping to. Jumping right from the right-most ladder or left from the left-most
ladder will send your character falling to his death(depleting a portion of
your army).

KEYBOARD

Use the right- and left-arrow cursor keys to jump from ladder to ladder. Press
the space bar to raise your shield. Press the up-arrow cursor key to climb.

JOYSTICK

Move the joystick right and left to jump from ladder to ladder. Press the fire
button to raise your shield. Push the joystick forward to coimb.

MOUSE

Scroll the mouse right and left to jump from ladder to ladder. Press the(left)
button to raise your shield. Scroll forward to climb.

CONSTRUCTING A FORTRESS

You may construct a fortress in any province you completely control. This will
take several months to complete and will cost 1,400,000 2,000,000 or 2,500,000
pounds,but will give you the ability to recruit a larger army closer to your
target,as well as the advantage of making it more difficult for the English to
entirely recapture a province.

				40

ENEMY INITIATIVE

Of course,your enemies will not simply sit and wait for you to drive them from
their strongholds. Enemy armies under the Earl of Suffolk,the Duke of Warwick,
Jean of Bretagne and other war generals will be attacking towns under your
sovereignty. You must defend these capably as you direct the liberation of
towns held by the enemy,or you will be taking one step back for every step
forward.

As it was in the 15th century,defending a town is easier than capturing one,all
things being equal. On the other hand,defending a town against a much larger
army may be impossible. A good ruler should know how to defeat a large army
over time while giving ground in specific towns,for the benefit of all his
subjects.

DEFENDING THE WALL

Defending a town or castle looks much like laying siege to a town or castle,
except that you have one man defending three ladders. The number of men that
will climb up the ladder to attack will depend on the size of the attacking the
army. You will move your character left and right between the ladders,puring
oil or dropping rocks down the appropriate ladders to knock the attackers into
the moat.

				41

Dropping a rock onto the attackers will knock only the first man it hits off
the ladder;any other men on that ladder will continue to climb. Puring oil down
a ladder will knock all men on that ladder into the moat. You have a limited
amount of oil,however,so you should use it carefully-don't use oil when a rock
will do. The bar across the upper left corner of your screen shows how much oil
you have left.

KEYBOARD

Use the right- and left-arrow cursor keys to move from ladder to ladder. To
drop a rock,simultaneously press the up-arrow cursor key and the space bar. To
pour oil,simultaneously press the down-arrow cursor key and the space bar.

JOYSTICK

Move the joystick right and left to move from ladder to ladder. To drop a rock,
move the joystick forward and press the fire button. To pour oil,pull the
joystick back and press the fire button.

MOUSE

Scroll the mouse-right and left to move from ladder to ladder. To drop a rock,
scroll the mouse forward and press the button. To pour oil,scroll the mouse
toward you and press the button.

End................
