                           JOE BLADE 2
                           ===========
                                                 TYPED BY SHARD - N&B

JOE BLADE IS BACK!

MORE MUSCLE - MORE ACTION

An impossible task?  The streets are crawling with punks thugs and muggers!
The ordinary urbanite masses remain prisoners in their crumbling homes, too
terrified  to venture outside, into the crime-ridden inner-city horrorscape
beyond their front doors.

Only one man can clean up this city.....

That man is JOE BLADE.

JOE  BLADE  teenage  pin-up  and  pop  idol,  trained  in  a remote Tibetan
monastery,  a  mean, tough fighting machine his very name strikes fear into
the cold hearts of every punk thug and mugger.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------

ATARI ST:
Ensure  that  your computer has been switched of for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the  gama  disc  in  drive zero (all other drives, printers, cartridges etc
should  have  been  removed).   The game should load automatically.  If the
game  fails  to load on the first attempt.  leave the disc in the drive and
press the reset button.

AMIGA:
Ensure  that your computer has been switched off for at least sixty seconds
immediately  prior  to loading the game.  Switch on your machine and insert
the game disc in drive zero (all other drives, printers, additional memory,
cartridges   etc   should   have   heen   removed)  The  game  should  load
automatically.   If  the game fails to load on the first attempt, leave the
disc in the drive and reset the machine.


THE STORY
---------

The  year  is  1995,  crime  is  spirelling out of control.  The streets of
London  are  crawling  with  evil  thugs, sadistic muggers and crack crazed
psychopathetic  punks.   The  ordinary  urbanite masses remain prisoners in
their  crumbiing  homes,  too  terrified  to venture outside into the crime
ridden inner city horrorscape beyond their front doors.

Only  one man can clean up this city....  That man is JOE BLADE!  JOE BLADE
- Sole survivor of a harrowing plane crash, the infant Joe was rescued by a
family  of  friendly  apes.  Due to the extorionate price of baby food they
were  forced  to  off  load  our  hero on a group of kindly, but incredibly
stupid  Tibetan monks.  Realising his amazing powers they taught him how to
use  his  strength for the good of mankind, training him in unarmed combat,
undercover  surveillance,  code  breaking and the art of writing good inlay
covers.

JOE  BLADE  -  Teenage  pin-up  and  pop idol, media celebrety, hero of the
people,  defender  of  the  flag  and  helper  to those less fortunate than
himself.  Mean tough and fearless, his very name strikes fear into the cold
hearts of every punk, thug and mugger.

JOE BLADE II - THE MISSION
--------------------------

You  are  JOE  BLADE....   Using only the skills of hand to hand combat you
must clean up the city.

The  punks  all  wear  armour  to protect themselves from each other, so in
order  to  kill  a  punk you must kick him in the head, this is achieved by
jumping  over  him (not to easy as the punks like jumping too).  You do not
have to kill all the punks in the city.

Once  you  have  killed  about 100 the surviving punks will get the message
repent of their evil deeds and become decent law abiding citizens.

Not  only  must you kill your daily quota of punks, you must also rescue 16
citizens who have foolishly ventured onto the streets.

To  rescue  a  citizen  you  must walk into him, then solve one of the four
sub-games.

Scattered  around the city you may find items such as bins, clocks and food
which  will  help  you  in  your  mission,  press  1  on  the menu for more
information.

CONTROLS
--------

ST owners can use a joystick in port 1 or keys Q, A, O, P & SPACE

To pause the game press the CONTROL key.

To abort the game press the ESC key.

Amiga owners use a joystick in port 2 (not the mouse port) or keys Q, A, O,
P & SPACE.

To pause the game press the CTRL key.

To abort the game press the ESC key.

SUBGAME 1
---------

You  must  complete  the sequence 1,2,3,4 by pressing FIRE when the correct
number appears.

SUBGAME 2
---------

As  with  subgame  one  you must complete the sequence 1,2,3,4 however this
time  by  swapping numbers, press FIRE when the desired pair of numbers are
flashing.

SUBGAME 3
---------

In  this  subgame  you are presented with two sets of jumbled numbers.  You
only  have  to  complete  one  1,2,3,4  sequence,  either top or bottom, by
swapping  numbers  between  the two.  When the desired pair of number icons
are flashing press FIRE.

SUBGAME 4
---------

In  subgame  four  you  are presented with an ever changing number icon and
four  jumbled  numbers, the object of this sequence is to swap the changing
number  with  the  flashing  number to form the sequence 1,2,3,4.  When the
desired pair of number icons are flashing press FIRE.