                       JOHN BARNES European Football 


  LOADING THE GAME
  ----------------

  Amiga and ST (1 megabyte)

  Please note that `John Barnes European Football' requires one Megabyte
  or more memory to run.  If your computer only contains 512K, then you
  will require a half megabyte memory expansion to run the game.
  Ensure your computer is switched off before loading.  Turn on the 
  computer and insert the disc into the disk drive.  The game will
  autoboot, and the title screen will be displayed.  If this does not
  occur, turn off the computer and try again.

  Section 1

  the main section

  Upon loading you will be presented with a screen showing the config-
  uration of your computer.  Wait a few seconds, and after selecting
  your language the main menu will be displayed.  On all menus you will
  see a representation of a function key, along side each option.
  Pressing the revvelant key on the keyboard will either toggle an option
  on or off, change a detail in the game, or take you to a new screen.
  Alternatively you may move a pointer over the keys and press fire to
  select.  Press `HELP' to bring up the pointer, and once again to cycle
  through the various control devices (Mouse,joystick or keyboard)
  depending on which one you wish to use. (default keys are: Amiga - Z
  X, ], # left amiga key, right amiga key. ST -Z, X, ],`,ALT,CAPSLOCK).

  Main menu

  This contains the following options:

  F1 - Load Game
  F2 - New Game
  F3 - Play Arcade
  F4 - Options

  a) F1 - Load Game - This allows you to load a previously saved game,
                      and continue from the point that you saved out.
                      Saving out a game is described later.

  b) F2 - New Game -  Selecting this option takes you into competition 
                      for the european Nations Cup, to compete with the 
                      cream of European talent from eight nations to 
                      become the champions of Europe.  Displayed on the
                      screen are eight diagrams representing the teams 
                      taking part in the 1992 Championships. 

     These are:

     F1 - England
     F2 - Scotland
     F3 - Germany
     F4 - Sweden
     F5 - Yugoslavia
     F6 - Holland
     F7 - C.I.S.
     F8 - France

  Pressing the revelant function key will give human control to that 
  team for the length of the tournament.  You will notice that `P1' 
  appears over your first selection.  This team will now be controlled
  by player one.  The team maybe de-selected by pressing the same key
  again, or more players added by pressing others.  Up to eight players
  may participate in the tournament at the same time.
  When happy with your selections, pressing F10 will take you to the 
  next menu which contains the following options:

  a) F1 - View tables - This shows the order of the two groups, and semi
     final and final pairings if you are at that stage.

  b) F2 - Save Game - Insert a save game disc into the disk drive, and
     select this to save game point to disc, enabling you to carry on 
     at a later time.  After selecting which drive, press one of the
     function keys shown on the screen to save a game to that `BOX'
     if any of the `BOXES' contain games already, a piece of text will
     be displayed along with it, altough you may save over any game
     with a new one.

  c) F3 - Play Next match - This will play out the match displayed on 
     the screen under the heading  `Next Match'.  If no human players 
     are involved the computer will decide the result.  If one or two 
     players are involved then you must select the formation you wish 
     to adopt for the match.

     Choose from the following:

     F1 - 4 - 4 - 2
     F2 - 4 - 3 - 3
     F3 - 4 - 2 - 4
     F4 - 1 - 3 - 3 - 3
     F5 - 3 - 2 - 5
     F6 - 5 - 3 - 2

     Select your formation depending on the tactics you wish to employ,
     be it attacking, defensive or balanced.  You will now enter the
     match selection which is described in detail in section 2 of these
     instructions.

  d) F10 - Quit competition - Select this option to clear the current
     competition and return to main menu, but remember, all results
     and placings will be lost.

     Main menu (Cont)

  c) F3 - Play Arcade - This allows you to play a one-off match between 
     any two teams, without having to go through the cup competition.  
     Select one or two player match, followed by player 1 team and 
     formation, followed by player 2 team and formation or computer team.
     you will not enter the match section,which is described in detail
     in section 2 of these instructions.

  d) F4 - Options - Selecting this takes you to a further menu, from 
     which many of the games' features may be altered to suit your tastes.  
     A description of each option is given below:

     F1 - Weather - Turning this option `ON' will result in random rain
     showers during the match, which makes the pitch slippery and ball
     control more difficult.

     F2 - Scanner - Turning this `ON' will show a small map of the 
     pitch during play, to make location of the players easier.  This
     is especially useful when controlling one player only.

     F3 - Match length - Alter this to select the length of time in
     actual minutes that the match will last.  You may choose 4,10,20,30
     40,50,60,70,80 or 90 minutes.  Default length is 10.

     F4 - Set Pieces - Turn these off if you do not wish to go through
     the sequence of setting up complex strategic free kicks.  These
     will be replaced by the usual one kick set piece.

     F5 - Choose game controls - Select the device you wish to use to
     control your players with this option, between one button joystick
     two button joystick, keyboard or mouse.  The column on the left
     is used to select the control device for player one, whilst the
     right hand column displays controls for player two.  Press the
     required function key (F1-F6) to select.
     Also from within this screen you may configure mouse sensitivity 
     by pressing `F8', or define the keys for keyboard control by 
     selecting `F9'.  To adjust mouse sensivity, use the keys `F1' and 
     `F2' to slide the bar between the `sleepy' mouse and the `active' 
     mouse around to test the settings represented on the joystick
     diagram at the top of the screen.
     To define the control keys, press `F9' and follow the prompts at
     the bottom of the screen, which will ask you to choose a key for 
     right, left, up, down and two kick buttons.  Press `F10' to exit
     this screen.
    
     F6 - More Options - Includes the following choices:

     F1 - Control all players / john barnes - selecting `Control all-
     players' means you will always control the player who is nearest
     to the ball, no matter who he is (Goalkeeper excluded).
     Selecting `John Barnes' only, means control will stay with that 
     player, although the screen will follow the ball.  It is advisable 
     to watch the scanner when locating your player, to move him into 
     position, or bring him in to the screen.

     NOTE: If this player is sent from the field (red card) or 
     subsituted, then control will revert to full team.  Remember, you
     must select england as your team for this option.
     F2/F3 - Swap kick function (player 1 & player 2) - Use this option
     to swap the kick button functions i.e button B/Single press 
     becomes KICK and button C/Double press becomes lob.  Select again 
     to revert to normal.

     F4 - Celebrations on/off - When a goal is scored, an exuburent player
     will run off the pitch, and celebrate by running along side his 
     jubilant fans.  If you do not wish to spend time watching this
     sequence, set this option to `OFF'.

     F6 - More Options - Takes you to the previous `options' menu.

     F10 - Exit - Takes you back to the main menu.

     SECTION 2

     playing the match

     Press any kick button to make players run on the pitch.  The match
     will begin when all players are in position.

     Single button joystick (Amiga St)

     Use the joystick directions to control the nearest player to the 
     ball.  This player is signified by an arrow beneath him, which also 
     indicates the direction in with the team is kicking.
     To tackle the ball from an opponent, move your player as near to 
     him as possible, and when in suitable range your player will
     attempt the tackle.  If successful, possession of the ball will be
     transferred to your man.

     Keyboard control

     The control keys are fully definable from the menu in the first 
     section of the game.  Use the same method of control as for dual
     button joystick, using the two keys inplace of buttons `B' and
     `C'.

     Throw ins and free kicks -

     Move the cross hair to the intended target area and press either 
     kick button.

     Close range free kicks - 

     when a player is fouled in close proximity to his opponents' 18
     yard box, and this option is truned on, an advantage strategic
     free kick may be next up.  This is taken as follows:

     1) The attacking team must first setup their players in position
     for the kick.  this is done by aiming the cross hair at any player,
     holding down either kick button, and moving the joystick in any
     direction.  To place the player, release the button.  Next, the 
     player must be instructed on what to do when the kick is taken.
     Use the up and down directions to cycle through the options on the
     panel.  These are:-

     a) Wall player - this option is mainly for the use by the defensive 
     team.  A wall player will stand still during the free kick, and hope 
     to block the ball.

     b) Inactive player - This player will run to a given spot.

     c) Active player - this type of player will run to a given spot,
     and kick the ball to an area of your choice, should it reach him
     assuming `Active' or `inactive' is chosen, hold down either kick
     button and move the joystick to `stretch' out the yellow line 
     that appears.  This represents the path the player will take before 
     the kick the ball if it reaches him.  the length of the line is
     equal to the strength of the kick i.e a short line = low power
     long line = high power.
     You may now select another player to move, or, when you are 
     statisfied with the positioning, move the cross hair to any area
     not occupied by a player and press either kick button.  Confirm
     your selection by moving the joystick up or down to display the 
     word `YES' on the panel at the bottom of screen, and pressing
     either kick button.
     
     2) The defensive team must now repeat this process and move their 
     players into position to defend the kick.  The computer will set up 
     a default `Wall' of players, although you may alter this as much as 
     you like.
     
     3) The attacking team now has a further chance to alter the 
     positions only of their players.  repeat the method in 1), and 
     press either kic buttons over the pitch to continue.

     4) Finally, the attacking team must select the player who is to take 
     the free kick, by selecting the player who is to take the free kick, 
     by selecting with cross hair and pressing either kick button.  
     Stretch out the kick line as before. After selection you will see 
     a picture of a football appear on the panel Move the joystick in any 
     direction to alter the position of the red star.  This represents the 
     area that the taker will strike the ball.  Different effects may be 
     achieved as follows:

     TOP - Low Kick
     BOTTOM - Chip Kick
     Left/Right - Swerve

     You can use different combinations of these together e.g down/left
     to chip and swerve.

     5) The free kick will now be taken.  when the sequence has run 
     through, play will be handed back to your control.
     NOTE: If you are playing against the computer, then the revelant 
     section will be set up automatically.

     Penalties - A player who is tripped in his opponents 18 yard box,
     either by the opposition goalkeeper or another player, will be
     awarded a penalty kick.  This is taken by holding the joystick in
     the direction you wish to shoot (Left, right or Central) and pressing 
     either kick button/double or single tapping, depending on the height 
     of the kick you choose.

     Extra keyboard commands

     Control + Q - Quit match
     F1 - pause/un-pause
     F5/F6 - team 1/2 substitution
     F9 - Scanner position (if displayed)
     F10 - Action replay

     NOTE: During action replay you can load a previous replay or save 
     current replay to a disk in your internal drive.
    
     F1 - load replay
     F2 - save replay

     Substitutions - each team has four substitutes on the bench, of which
     two may be brought on to the field, replacing tiring players.  To
     make a substitution press the revelant sub.Key (F5 team 1, F6 taem 2)
     and overlaid on the flag at the bottom of the screen you will see the
     numbers 1 2 3 4 with a small football beneath the `1'.  these 
     represent the four substitutes on the bench, and you will notice that 
     holding your control device left and right will move the football to 
     the next number.  Move the joystick `Up' and the number will start to 
     flash , and the revelant substitute will leave the bench, and start 
     to warm up.  At the next break in play this player will then be ready 
     to come onto the field although you can cancel him by moving the 
     joystick `down' when beneath his number, to cease flashing and make 
     the player sit down again.  Note that you may only have a maximum of
     two substitutes warming up at one time, and when two have been 
     brought on to the field, no more substitutions can be made.  Press 
     the revelant Sub. Key once again to remove the numbers and return to 
     the game.
     When the ball next goes out of play the substition will be made, and
     the players will run to their bench alongside the coach, who will be
     holding up one or two numbered cards.  Move the joystick left or
     right to change the number on the Left card, and up and down for the
     right (double substitution only).  These numbers represent the 
     players who are to come off the field, and their names will also be
     printed on the panel at the bottom of the screen.  When happy with 
     your choice(s) press either kick button and the swap will be made.
     If a cup semi-final or final match is drawn, then you play extra
     time.  If the scores are still level after this period, then a 
     penalty shoot-out is played.  Both teams must take five penalties
     each, and the team that scores the most are declared the winners.
     If the penalty scores are level after five kicks each, you will
     enter sudden death penalties ie. the first to miss a penalty lose
     the match.
     
     WHEN RUNNING WITH THE BALL, a single press of the kick button will
     execute a lob pass or shot.  A quick tap of the button will give
     medium power shot, whilst holding it down for a little longer will
     vary the power, from a weak pass to a hard shot, depending on the
     duration of the press.  Holding the joystick left or right 
     immediately after kicking will add swerve to the shot.
     
     WHEN NOT IN POSSESSION OF THE BALL, the single tap will cuase the 
     nearest player to the ball attempt either a header (normal or 
     diving) or a volley shot, depending on his range to the ball.
     The other actions are available by using a double instead of a 
     single press of the joystick button.  this means pressing twice
     in quick succession, as you would do when using a mouse on the 
     workbench/desktop.
     
     WHEN RUNNING WITH THE BALL, a double press of the kick button will
     execute a low pass or shot.  A quick double tap of the button will
     give a medium power shot.  Holding down the second tap for a little 
     longer will vary the power, from a weak pass to a hard shot, 
     depending on the duration of the pass.  Holding the joystick left
     or Right immediately after kicking will add swerve to the shot.

     WHEN NOT IN POSSESSION OF THE BALL, the double tap will cause the
     nearest player to carry out a sliding tackle.

     NOTES:

     1) The button functions may be swapped by selecting from the 
     revelant menu in the first section of the game.

     2) If you have opted to control John Barnes only from menus, then
     control will stay with that player permanently, instead of 
     switching to the nearest man to the ball.

     Dual button joystcik
     (console standard)
 
     control is virtually the same as above, with the following changes:-
       
     The single-tap functions are accessed from the button B, Whilst a 
     single press of button C repleaces the double tap command.  The 
     `START' and `A' buttons are unused.

     Mouse control

     Use the same method as for dual button joystick, using the left 
     mouse button in place of button B, and the right mouse button for
     C.

End..................
