			   JUDGE DREDD DOX
	      -------------------------------------------
              TYPED BY THE UNDERTAKER OF -= A G I L E =-
	      -------------------------------------------
            

 CONTROLS  AMIGA/ST               KEYBOARD         JOYSTICK
 -----------------------------   ----------       ---------- 
 Jump/Go Up Ramp                 -  Q               - UP
 Duck/Go Down Ramp		 -  A		    - DOWN	
 Walk/Drive Right		 -  P               - RIGHT
 Walk/Drive Left		 -  O               - LEFT
 Fire				 -  Left ALT        - FIRE
 Select Lawmaster 		 -  SPACE
 Select Weapon			 -  Left SHIFT
 Joystick/Keyboard(Start Screen) -  F1
 Quit Game			 -  F5
 Pause Game			 -  F10

 GAME LOGON : DREDD

 PLAYING JUDGE DREDD
 -------------------
 Judge Dredd is able to move left and right, and walk to drive up and down
 ramps built onto the side of the city blocks. Dredd cannot be killed but his
 energy level will decrease if he is attacked by a perp. If he loses too much
 energy he will be commitied to hospital and the crime rate will soar.
 If the crime rate is too high Dredd must take the 'Long Walk'. The crime rate
 in Mega-City also increases if Dredd does not do anything,and also while he
 is riding his 'Lawmaster Bike'.Although the bike travels around the block 
 faster than if Dredd is walking,he cannot shoot or arrest 'Perps',hence the
 crime rate rises.If he arrests a 'Perp' with his 'Lawgiver' drawn or shoots
 a 'Perp' the crime rate drops.Dredd's weapon is his 'Lawgiver' which uses
 three types of bullets.

 General Purpose    - Standard Bullets.
 High-Powered Laser - Which are so powerful they can kill a whole line of
		      'Perps'.
 Homing Missiles    - Which are limited in number.
 
 The overall objective of the game will be to uphold the law, and keep the
 crime rate as low as possible. There is no scoring during each game but
 2 bonuses are available at the end of each level:
 Bonus 1 level of crime rate.
 Bonus 2 level of energy.

 LEVEL ONE - THE LEAGUE OF FATTIES
 ---------------------------------
 "Control to Judge Dredd,A 299 for you on Dan Tanner Block"
 As dredd speeds towards Dan Tanner Block the Fatties of Mega-City One are
 running riot,devouring everything in sight. Four food dispensers are placed
 around the block; Dredd will have to destroy these to quell the Fatty rampage.
 Meanwhile the Civs'are taking their revenge upon the Fatties and taking any
 opportunity to shove a Fatty off  the building and send him crashing to
 certain death.
 The Fatties desperately attack Dredd who is threatening their food supply:
 Running Fatties charge into him trying to push him from the building:
 Jumping Fatties climb the building and when they are above Dredd,they jump,
 crashing into him as they plummet towards the ground.Some of the Fatties are
 so distraught that they resort to throwing lethal lumps of pizza at him.
 Remember every time one of the Fatties is succesful in squashing,hitting or
 jumping on Dredd, his energy level will be affected.

 END OF LEVEL ONE - THE FOOD CONVOY
 ----------------------------------
 Defeated by Dredd the Fatties have hi-jacked a food Convoy.
 Dredd's only chance of going on to the next level is to reach the front of
 the convoy before it reaches the Fatty hideout.Crazed with hunger,the Fatties
 attack dredd as he runs along the top of the convoy,determained to hang on to
 their prize.

 LEVEL TWO - EVOLUTION LEVEL
 ---------------------------
"Justice control to Judge Dredd:investigate situation on Charles Darwin Block"
 Judge Dredd arrives on the block to discover that the entire population of
 Charles Darwin Block is slowly regressing through Frenzied Proffesor Fribb
 has developed an enzyme that can reverse the process of evolution.An accident
 in his laboratory has released some of the enzyme into the ventilation system.
 Dredd must fight his way past various forms of regressed human evolution to
 reach Fribb's laboratory at the top of the block.On his way he must close the
 outlets from the ventilation system to halt the spread of the enzyme.

 Monkeys roam around the block at different stages of development,throwing
 rocks and rubble.Some still have enough intelligence to realise when Dredd is
 arresting them, but some have regressed too far and punch Dredd when he tries
 to arrest them.
 
 On the higher parts of the block Dredd is attacked by Lizards,running towards
 him at high speed and lunging at his throat.Further down the evolutionary
 scale,Dredd confronts amoebas,although few are found on the main level.

 END OF LEVEL TWO - FRIBBS LABORATORY
 ------------------------------------
 Finally Dredd reaches Fribb's lab at the top of Charles Darwin block,but finds
 the lab has been overrun by amoebas.On the far side of the lab Dredd can see
 a considerably regressed Proffesor Fribb. Dredd must fight his way through
 the amoebas and arrest Fribb to complete the level. Dredd's task is made
 infinitely more difficult as the amoebae split into two when shot.

 LEVEL THREE - THE AQUA STATION
 ------------------------------
"Control to Judge Dredd,investigate presence of Sov agent,location Atlantic
 Purification Plant."
 Sov agent,Orlock has been sent to Mega-City One to penertrate blockmania.
 His mission is to poison the water supply with the blockmania solution.
 Dredd must destroy all the inlets to the main water supply to stop the 
 contamination.
 Aware of his adversary,Orlok has come well prepared with two types of
 'Satallats' and two types of 'Sov Agent':
 Satallat 1 will hover around the Aqua Station and drain Dredd's energy if
 they hit him.
 Satallat 2 is the more lethal class of Satallat: while hovering around the 
 station it sprays out bullets indiscriminately and drops bombs at random
 which have a delay device of 20 seconds before they explode, firing bullets
 in all directions.
 On the ground Orlok has his deadly Sov Agents.One type,armed with knives,walk
 and run around the level trying to stab Dredd,whilst the second type are 
 armed with rifles.They walk onto the screen,take aim and fire three or four 
 shots before they turn round and run off the screen.

 END OF LEVEL THREE - THE SLUDGE TRUCK
 -------------------------------------
 When Dredd has successfully destroyed all of the inlets to the main water
 supply,Orlok will abort his mission and escape in a sludge truck. Judge Dredd
 chases his opponent on his Lawmaster avoiding the bombs that Orlok hurls from
 the back of the truck. Orlok escapes and if Dredd has surived  the shower of
 bombs he will be awarded a bonus for halting Orlok's  first attempt at causing
 chaos.

 LEVEL FOUR - WEATHER STATION
 ----------------------------
 As the first raysof dawn creep over Mega-City One,the Wather Control Judges
 programme another fine,fair day.Orlok has other ideas:he forcasts rain,
 deadly  rain,contaminated with blockmania solution.
 Having failed in his mission at the Aqua Station,Orlok has contaminated the
 weather station's water supply.Judge Dredd must destroy the weather control
 devices to stop the contaminated water raining down on Mega-City One.

 Orlok has reprogrammed some of the Weather Station's maintenance robots to
 attack anybody that they meet on the station.If Dredd gets too close these
 robots will zap him with blue sparks and drain his energy levels.
 The normal maintenence robots roam the station fulfilling their daily tasks
 of repairing and cleaning. If Dredd gets in their way they will force him to
 the edge of the station and push him off. While Dredd is endeavouring to
 destroy the weather control devices, Orlok will be on the Weather Station
 and will shoot Dredd whenever he gets the opportunity also,some of the Class
 2 Satallats are hovering around dropping the deadly delay bombs and spraying
 out bullets indiscriminately.

 END OF LEVEL FOUR - THE SHUTTLE
 -------------------------------
 Oriok makes his escape from the Weather Station in a shuttle.
 Dredd gives chase on a Hover bike and will have to shoot down Orlok's shuttle
 from the skies.
 
 LEVEL FIVE - BLOCKMANIA
 -----------------------
 "Control to Judge Dredd we have possible Block Mania in your vicinity.
 Heavy firing has broken out between two neighbouring blocks".

 Block fighting is a common feature of Mega-City life.Boredom,overcrowding,
 mass unemployment all combine to set tensions on a razor edge.The slightest
 incident can invoke a Block War. A serious disturbance is developing: two
 rival blocks have both obtained two large guns each and are attempting to
 blow each other to oblivion. Dredd must destroy all four guns and go to the
 command centre which is situated on the building on the left of the screen.
 Crazed 'civs',some with guns and some with bombs,hamper his progress, whilst
 suicidal jumpers,crazed by the boredom and loneliness of their existance,
 leap from the higher levels of the blocks.Usually jumpers will try to land
 on someone just to cause an extra bit of aggravation as they die.
 The most courageous of the blockmania freaks are the 'fighters'.
 These brave men actually try to punch Judge Dredd.

 END Of LEVEL FIVE - THE BIG GUN
 -------------------------------
 On finally reaching the command centre Dredd discovers a Mega-gun. One of the
 crazed 'Perps' is manning the gun and as Dredd enters the command centre
 starts firing at him. To survive Dredd must blast through the shield on the
 front of the gun and kill the 'Perp'. When this happens the gun will self-
 destruct.

 LEVEL SIX - THE DARK JUDGES
 ---------------------------
 From another dimension have come the Dark Judges, their mission - to kill.
 In their dimension,being alive is illegal and now they have come to Mega-City
 One to wreak havoc upon its citizens. Dredd's job is to send them back to 
 their own dimension by using dimension bombs.These can be found scattered 
 around the level but,while Dredd is collecting these bombs,the Dark Judges
 are killing as many 'Civs' as they can,and the crime rate is increasing to
 dangerous levels.

 Judge Death is the leader of the dark Judges.If he gets close to Dredd he will
 reach out and squeeze his heart,causing Dredd to loose a dangerous amount of
 energy.

 Judge Fear is even more pernicious.If he gets the chance to stand in front of
 Dredd he has the power to drain dredd's energy. 
 
 Any contact with Judge Mortis is disastrous for Dredd's Energy level,and  if
 Mortis touches a dimension bomb it just turns to dust.
 
 The Fourth Judge is Fire, who will throw fire bombs at Dredd. As they hit him
 they'll explode causing a massive energy drain. This is the most difficult 
 level in the game for, whilst combating the Dark Judges, Dredd is in danger of
 losing vast amounts of energy and,whilst the Judges walk the streets of
 Mega-City One killing 'Civs',the crime rate will rise.

 END OF LEVEL SIX - THE DARK JUDGES
 ----------------------------------
 Once Dredd has collected all of the available dimension bombs,he will have to
 face the Dark Judges one by one.
 This takes place in the Doomsday Room.Each Dark Judge will walk into the room
 and Dredd will have to drop a dimension bomb and stand well clear of the 
 explosion. If succesful he will have saved the city from a dreadful menace.

 SIGNED : THE UNDERTAKER OF -= A G I L E =- 1991