                                    Jug
                              complete docs by
                               MERKWooD/MAAD

You are an interactive humanoid made of Titanium fleximetal and other organic
materials - nicknamed 'JUG' becasue of you barrel chested profile which can
transform into many different shapes and re-form instantaneously.

Within the living core of the planet Spiraeus is a dealy virus that is
causing its' brain to malfunction, and the inner sanctums to die. You must
find and destroy the deadly tumor within the deepest parts of the planet.

WARNING! The planet's immune system will see JUG as a hostile and alien body.
You will be attacked by the defences of the very planet that you are trying
to save! You must dare to enter the very heart of the planet, and destroy the
invading mutants before they destroy you.

Vital equipment will be transported into the planet along your proposed
trajectory to help you with your quest, and fuel pods will be available
throughout the game. Take heed, the problems will really start when you reach
the scene of the disaster.

                               Game Controls

The game needs a joystick in port two, and, optionally, a mouse in port one.

                                 Joystick

     UP/LEFT/RIGHT - move the JUG in the given direction.
     DOWN          - collect, activate, or select an object.
     FIRE BUTTON   - fire the selected weapon.

                                  Mouse

Move to select game options.

                                 Keyboard

     ESC - Abort current player's game.
     F7  - Decrease music volume.
     F8  - Increase music volume.
     F9  - Sound effects on/off.
     F10 - Pause game. Any other key will resume game.

                              Starting A Game

To start a game, press any key to display the 'Selection Screen', then use
the mouse pointer to select the level of difficulty, and to select either the
one or two player game.

                                Game Levels

As you progress through each zone, the level of difficulty gradually
increases. This affects the number of aliens that appear on the screen, and
how accurately they fire. If you are a beginner, start on level one, other-
wise select a harder level, and you will be rewarded with much higher scores
for every alien that is destroyed.

                                  Scoring
Points are awarded for shooting aliens, and for collecting objects. As the
difficulty increases so does the points for each alien killed as described
above.

                             Collecting Weapons

The JUG is capable of carrying three different types of weapons. They are:

  *Plasma Fire - High energy plasma bolt.
     Advantages - Enough power to destroy most aliens with a single shot.
     Disadvantages - Low fire rate and speed, plasma bolt destroyed on
                     collision with an alien. Awkward fire mounting.

  *Laser Cannon - Low energy laser beam.
     Advantages - High speed, single beam can hit more than one aline at a
                  time.
     Disadvantages - Low power.

  *Smart Bomb - Zeo-quark particle emitter.
     Advantages - Will destroy every alien on the screen with no need to aim.
     Disadvantages - Constant replenishment needed as they are FOO (Fire
                     Once Only) weapons.

Collect weapons by moving onto the weapon, and then pulling down on the
joystick. If the weapon is successfully retrieved the weapon status LED's
will show the extra weapon. As you pick up more weapons of the same type,
they become more powerful. NOTE: it is not possible to pick up a weapon if
you are already carrying the maximum load for that weapon.

                             Selecting Weapons

To select a weapon you have picked up, simply pull down on the joystick.

                              Collecting Fuel

In order for JUG to fly, it needs fuel. This is slowly absorbed from the
surrounding air, but should also be collected from the FUEL PODS as this
will also reduce any damage to your ship. Collect fuel in the same way that
you collect weapons.

                                 Teleports

These can be used to get out of danger and to beam to a new section of the
planet. All teleports are two way, and can be used as many times as you
want. Teleports are indicated by blue spinning energy fields. To use a
teleport, enter it then pull down on the joystick.

                                Sector Keys

The world is split up into zones. Each zone is split up into sectors. To get
from one sector to another you must first find the keys used to dissolve the
solid walls which prevent you from finishing the section. Collect keys the
same way you collect weapons.

                                  Damage

The JUG is capable of sustaining multiple hits without being destroyed.
Damage can be reduced by collecting fuel. When the damage becomes critical,
the damage lamp indicator starts to light. This means you can be hit 16
times, at most, before being destroyed.

                                 Radiation

Certain areas within the planet are heavily contaminated with radiation. This
radiation will not harm you directly, but it will slowly neutralize any fuel
that you have. If all your fuel is neutralized your shields will slowly be
damaged until the JUG is finally destroyed. Radiation zones are indicated by
a flashing red background. These areas should only be entered if you have
plenty of fuel.

                                Status Panel

During the game play the lower third of the display shows your status panel.
These panels are slightly different for player one or player two, but
basically follow these rules:

                   Numeric Line:

                   First Digit       -  Game level
                   Second Digit      -  Zone Number
                   Third Digit       -  Sector Number
                   Next Six Digits   -  Score
                   Last Digit        -  Number of lives

             Damage indicator - A vertical line of four red lamps.
             Key indicator - A pear shaped hole to the left.
             Weapon LED's - Three sets of three LED's.
             Fuel Bar - Large horizontal broken bar.

