                        JUMPING JACK'SON

Typed in by MR.THOMPSON and MR.TERRY of TRIPPLE H. Edited by PARASITE.


THE STORY
 The bad times have come. ROCK'N'ROLL is dead! Classical
 music(yuk) has taken over and the world's a sad, sad place
 you want to get out of;nothing but dusty oboes, creaky
 cellos and incredible old conductors waving their melancholy
 arms around.
 To save civilization as we know and love it, someone's going
 to have to find ELVIS PRESLEY's first ever record, because
 that's where the whole soul of ROCK is preserved in its
 essential purity.
 The KING cut the historic masterpiece when he has working
 as a truck driver. He saved up enough to record two songs
 for his mother's birthday. The record was made in a small
 studio in MEMPHIS, where 10 copies were pressed.
 Of the original 10 records, only 1 remains. Whoever finds
 it will free the spirit of ROCK'N'ROLL and save the world
 from the gloom and despair of classical music. Before we
 get some fun back in the world, however, all the great
 ROCK'N'ROLL records of history have to be collected.
 There is only one person who can do the job right: the
 direct descendant of the one and only JUMPING JACK
 (from JUMPING JACK FLASH, the crazed amazing 1968 ROLLING
 STONES song, written by Mick JAGGER and Keith RICHARDS).

THE OPTIONS SCREEN
 The screen will offers the following options:

 START.....This starts the selected game(A or B,with 1 or
           2 players)
 GAME A....You have to get through 16 game levels.The easy
           version.Click on this option to obtain the GAME B
           icon. GAME B also features 16 game levels,but
           they are harder; for professional rock-fans only!
           Click on the GAME B icon to switch back to
           GAME A mode.
 1 PLAYER..This is for solitary fans.Click on it to switch
           to the 2 PLAYER option.Click again if you want
           to to choose the 1 PLAYER version.
 DEMO......This gives you an idea of the game.
 PASSWORD..Every 4 levels,following the CHALLENGE level,
           you'll be given a password in case of success.
           To use it,click on PASSWORD at the beginning of
           play, and type in your password.
 TOP 1000..All your names and scores are stocked here.

 When you're ready to roll,click on START.If you don't
 select anything ,a demo will auto-start.

THE RULES

THE MISSION:
 In each game level,JJS must collect all the ROCK records
 and save them from being destroyed by classical
 instruments.When all the records in one level have been
 picked up, JJS moves to the next level.

HOW TO PICK UP THE ROCK RECORDS:
 In each level, there are special zones with coloured tiles.
 JJS must colour the whole special zone with the same
 colour.Once a special zone has tiles of only one colour,
 a good ol' Rock'n'Roll record appears beside the zone.
 JJS must then move onto the tile containing the record.
 The record will then appear in the JUKE BOX. JJS then has
 to put the record onto a turntable of the same colour(for
 example, a yellow record on a yellow turntable).The
 turntable willstart to spin,some good music starts to
 happen and this joint gets rockin'!

HOW TO COLOUR A SPECIAL ZONE:
 Do this by jumping onto the colour-tiles,which can be of
 three different colours; for example, Blue,Yellow and Pink
 for the first level.
 Each time JJS  bounces,the tile changes colour. If it
 started blue, it will turn yellow.If JJS bounces on the
 same tile a second time, it will turn pink. Another bounce,
 and it turns blue again. And so on.

JUMPING JACK's HERE TO HELP YOU:
 Every time he bounces on a colour-tile, his fluorescent
 hair turns the same colour as the tile he's on.
 The colour order is notedby three small lights at bottom
 left of the screen.

STORING THE RECORDS:
 In the player's control zone, you can see a juke box which
 shows the colour of the record(s) that JJS has picked up.
 In general,you can store (and therefore take) only one
 record at a time, unless you've already picked up a juke-
 box or two on the game screen. In that case, your
 bottom-screen juke box will grow,allowing the storage of
 on or two extra records.

STARTING AND FINISHING A LEVEL:
 JJS starts each level from a chequered tile which has a
 number of special properties.As long as JJS stays on the
 chequered tile, the monsters can't move.No monster can move
 onto that tile. Anytime JJS is being chased by a monster,
 you can increase the distance between them by moving JJS
 across the tile. The chequered tile is also the FINISH for
 the level. When JJS has completed the level, he has to move
 onto a chequered tile in order to go on to the next level.

THE GAME UNIVERSE

THE CHALLENGE LEVELS:
 JJS will confront one of these every four levels.A
 CHALLENGE level is made of lots of little balls that grow
 when JJS moves over them. He has to move over all of them.
 Once they've grown,they block his path. Success is
 rewarded! The price is a password which allows you access
 to a level.

DELAYED POWERS:
 During the Challenges and SECRET levels, JJS will find
 powers on golden tiles; these  powers will only activate on
 the next level.They are, of course, shades,
 invisibility, etc.

JJS HAS ENEMIES:
 Classical instruments hate JJS. They'll stop at nothing to
 stop him. Some are only pretty intelligent. Others are
 diabolically clever.You will need to work out the tactics
 necessary for cornering them or keeping away from them.
 There's one sure way:drop a rock cassette,by hitting FIRE
 (or one of the two AMIGA keys). You have 3 cassettes.
 A cassette will block the instrument for a few seconds,then
 disappear. You can recover a cassette before it disappears,
 by moving over it and hitting FIRE. A cassette can only be
 dropped onto an ordinary tile, not a colour-tile or bonus.
 MEGAENEMIES: you'll see.

USING THE TOP 1000:
 Arrow UP and DOWN      :scroll the scores.
 Arrow LEFT and RIGHT   :stop the scrolling.
 FIRE                   :scrolls the score 10 by 10
 The keys "F1" to "F10" :scroll the scores in the
                         corresponding hundreds.
 RETURN or "E"          :allow to leave the TOP 1000.

WINNING TECHNIQUES
 --Keep an eye on the colour-order lights at bottom screen.
   When they're off,it means it's no longer necessary to get
   a disk of the corresponding colour.
 --Don't forget the bottom-screen JUKE BOX which shows the
   colour of record JJS is carrying. Try to pick up the
   game-zone juke-boxes.
 --The best way to get through a level is to corner the most
   dangerous enemies as soon as you can.
 --It's important to build up a big score as fast as you
   can.At scores of 5000, 10000 and 20000, if you have three
   lives left, a double scoring system is triggered. The
   score will flash during the double score period which
   ends when you lose a life. If you have less than three
   lives when you reach these scores, then you will get
   another one.
 --Here are some keyboard commands:
   *"P" or "SPACE" will pause the game.Same keys to restart.
   *"HELP" will scroll the entire level, showing you which
    turntables have yet to be completed.(Your enemies will
    leave you alone during the scroll).
   *"F1" :all sound on/off
   *"F2" :music on/off
   *"F10" and "E" quit the game and switches you to the
    options screen.

 A final word.If JJS gets stuck on a level,stay cool.Check
 out the screen; the word on the street says there are
 secret passages in there.
