DARK SEED TIPS DOCS
===================
				
GENERAL TiPS
------------
				    (1)

Dark Seed is unusual in that  time dictates  the whole  pattern  of  play.
Certain strategies will only work at  certain specific times,so  don't  be
afraid to try the same thing more than once during the course of the game.

				    (2)

There are two worlds that you have to contend with - the Normal  world and
the Dark World. These two worlds are not seperate  entities  but  parallel
places where what happens in one can have great effect on what happens  in
the other. In fact,many places in one world are  mirrored  directly in the
other. The important ones are as follows:

		Normal World		 Corresponding Dark World
		Location		 Location		
		--------		 --------
        	
		Living Room		 Nursery
		Front of House		 Front Of Hatchery
		Car			 Alien Starship
		Library			 Archives
		Prison Cell		 Dark Prison Cell
		Secret Rooms 1&2	 Turbo Lifts 1&2

				    (3)

It is advisable to save your game frequently, and certainly  at the end  of
each day. Saving a game before Mike goes to bed means that you can  go back
and do something that you may forgotten to do during the course of the day.

				    (4)

Not everything around you is immediately apparent. Try  using the  question
mark  cursor  and  move  it  all  around  the room.  When it  turns into an 
exclamation mark you know you have found something interesting.

				    (5)

A most vital point to note,and one which may frustrate to a certain degree,
is that it is not what you as the  player knows  that is  important. Dawson
must learn things for himself before he can do or  find certain things  for
himself. For example, you  will not  be able to  find the  car keys in  the 
cellar until Dawson  has  visited the Keeper Of The Scrolls  on day  Three,
even though you know that they are there.

MAPS
----

Although  most rooms/locations  in the  Normal and  the Dark  Worlds  have 
specific  objects  or  purposes, there  are  some  that exist  merely  for 
decoration. Don't,for example, spend a day and a  half  trying to get into
the Barber Shop,even though you seem to be able to do so.
It is also worth bearing in mind that it is  not enough  simply to  simply
visit each location once and check it out,never to return again. Much  may
be revealed at a later visit.But then,that is the way with a strange game!

Have fun.... And Good Luck!

End...............
=============================================================================
DARK SEED SOLVE DOCS
====================

				 DAY ONE
				 -------

What you will need and where to find it:

	Item			Location
	----			--------
	Aspirin			Cabinet in the bathroom
	Library Card  		In the pocket of the raincoat
	House Plan		On the desk in the study
	Rope			On the floor in the secret room no.2
	Watch			Under the bigger trunk in the attic
	Crowbar			In the boot of the car in the garage
	Gloves			In the car's glovebox
	Diary			Large trunk in the attic	
	Bobby Pin		Floor of the library in front of the desk
	Scotch			Buy from the store
	Clock Case Key		Tuttle Tomb.Urn Room

The first thing to do when you get up on day  One is  to rid  Dawson of his
headache. If you don't  he won't be  able to think staright and playing the
game becomes impossible! This is done by taking the aspirin in the bathroom
cabinet and,while while you're there,taking a shower -no-one likes a smelly
newcomer.		
Next, you want to wander  into the spare bedroom  to the right. Use the "!"
cursor a few times to discover and examine the library ticket in the pocket
of the raincoat. You may have to try more than once but it is there,honest!
From here head on downstairs to the study. Read the  plans to  discover the
secret rooms.This having been done,you can now open the bookcase on the
right and enter secret room one.
Once you have gone through it is important to open the door again and leave 
it that way,otherwise you cannot use the turbo-lift in the Dark World.Climb
the ladder and take the rope before exiting to your bedroom.Whatever you do
,dont forget to leave the door open.
Go downstairs again and wait for the postman  to call - If you  press T the
time will pass quicker.Open the door to the postie and recieve the slightly
unusual parcel before heading on up to the attic. Shoving  the large  trunk
on the right foward reveal the exit to the balcony  and the watch. Pick  up
the watch and wind it  by clicking  on it. You  can now  find out the time,
which is vital. Dont forget to wind the watch at odd intervals, or it  runs
down and you're left up a deeply unattractive creek without a paddle.
Go out onto the balcony,tie the rope to the gargoyle and you have a 
convenient rear access. Despite what you may have read elsewhere,do not use
this exit on day one as it tends to upset things. Always enter the and exit
the house through the front door for now. So using the aforementioned exit,
take a trip down to the garage and and take the crowbar out of the boot.
Next you should obtain the gloves from the  glovebox in the car, and  while
you're there amuse yourself by sounding the horn and turning on the radio -
and don't forget to turn the thing off when you're done!
Go back into the house,not forgetting to read the newspaper on the pavement
,and walk back upstairs. The phone will ring so  go into your  bedroom  and
answer it - don't  take  too  long or you'll  miss it. It is the  librarian
telling you to come and collect a book. In  the  meantime climb  up  to the 
attic and use the crowbar to get the diary out of the big trunk. Give  it a
good read.
Now go outside and head towards  the town. Enter the library and  find  the
bobby pin infront of the desk. Next talk to the librarian,she'll direct you
to your book which you should take and read. Go back to her again and  give
her the library card. She'll tell you where to  find the book it  should go
with,inside which is the  missing piece of the diary - definetly  essential
reading.
On your way back,take time to go to the store. You need to buy the  scotch,
so first pay the store keeper and then take the demon drink. You  alcoholic
neighbour will now make an appearance and give you a "Get Out Of Jail Free"
card,which will come in very handy tomorrow.
Go past the house and take a trip  to the  graveyard and, beyond  what, the 
Tuttle Crypt.Enter the  crypt by  following the  instructions in the  diary
exerpt and head on to the urn room. You will find the key to the clock case
in the urn on the far left of the bottom  shelf. Take t his  and  head back 
home.
Once home,use the key to open the clock case in the living  room and admire
the John McKeegan nameplate. Take the time  to examine the mirror a nd  the
Painting over the matle piece.Put Dawson to bed now,he needs  his sleep and
tomorrow is going to be a long day.

				 DAY TWO
				 -------

What you will need and where to find it:

	Item			Location
	----			--------
	Mirror Fragment		Postman delivers it
	Shovel			Catacombs entrance
	Diary Fragment		John McKeegan's grave
	Gun			Police station
	Stick			Delbert's back yard
	Headband		From Sargo in the dark prison corridor
	Microfiche		From the Keeper Of The Scrolls

Following the bizarre and,it should be said, macabre dream, you  wake up as
before and should shower and take your aspirin as before.Before the  postie
arrives go and have a listen to the car radio - you'll help Dawson discover
that what goes  on in  one  world is  reflected in the  other, although  we 
already knew that didn't we?
Go back into the house throught the front door - from now on  it's not only
o.k to your the rope but often essential - and  press T a couple  of  times
before the postie arrives. Take the mirror fragment that  he brings and use
it on the mirror in the living room. This completes the portal to  the Dark
World,so take the opportunity to cross over and see what gives.
Take the right hand door in the nursery to the room of skulls and then take
the  room  on your  left. This  room  contains the  plans  for  the  embryo 
implantatin which confirms Dawson's worst fears. The plans can't be  picked
up so just use the "!" cursor to read them.
Take the right hand door into turbo-lift one room and step into the lift on
the far wall. This will teleport  you to the second  turbo-lift  room, from 
which you should exit left onto the  observation  deck. Use the gloves  (to
avoid electrocution) to activate the switch between the two exits.This will
a previously hidden door in the skull room,so go back there and go  through
the new door. Keep going left and you will find a shovel,of all things,
which you should pick up and save for use later on.
Leave the Dark World and take a jaunt  to the  graves and  exhume the  body
of John McKeegan  with the  shovel. Read the  last bit of  his diary, which
advises you that you need to get the car started  and break the mirror, and
suggests how this could be done.
When you get  home you'll find  yourself  under arrest  for  blatant  grave
robbery. The "Get Out Of Jail Free" card will see you out  before long, but
first you  should stow  the bobby pin, the  gloves and the money under  the
pillow - they'll come in mighty useful in a while. Get out by  rattling the
tin cup against the bars and giving the  card to  the  policeman. You  will
just have enough time to steal the gun which is located just over  the desk
on the wall. 
Go and meet Delbert as arranged. He'll  meet  you in your back  yard rather
than his,but follow him next door. He will  studiously ignore you until you
give him the scotch.He'll leave you,but take the stick that the dog  leaves
behind.
Return to the Dark World and take the right hand door into the skulls  room
and go through that door the lever opened.
Keep on going right until you encounter Dark Fido, the  dog - type guardian 
thingy that guards the bridge over the abyss. To get past him simply  throw
the stick over the side and watch the stupid thing chase after it!
You are now free to continue right to the Dark Police station. Although you
find your gun confiscated  and  yourself incarcerated, this is exactly what
you need to happen.
Test the synchronicity theory by retrieving from under the pillow the items
you stashed there earlier. The bobby pin now comes in very handy as a means
o f picking  the  lock, buy  you may need  a  few attempts before  you  are
successful.
Once out you will meet a fellow  prisoner by the name  of Sargo who, having
seen what you've just done,offers you an invisibility inducing headband  in
exchange for the bobby pin. Seems a fair swap, but don't  use  the headband
now,it only works once and for a limitied period,so deploy it only when you
need to - which is soon.
Walk out of the passage  and  past  the Drakketh  Factory (which, like  the 
barber shop,you can't go in).Now you will find yourself at the front of the
Archives building,and now is the time to use that headband.
So,invisibility assured,you can walk past the guard and into the chamber of
the Keeper Of The Scrolls. Turn the machine  on and  you will see an  image
of the Keeper. She will then give you a  roll of microfiche which will come
in useful tomorrow,but for now leg it home and get some shut-eye!

				 DAY THREE
				 ---------

What you will need and where to find it:

	Item			Location
	----			--------
	Axe Handle		Delivered by postman
	Scotch			Store
	Car Keys		Under Stone In Cellar
	Stone 			Cellar

Take your aspirin and shower as normal. Go downstairs  and hang around  for 
the postman to arrive. He'll  bring  you a package from  the  Keeper Of The
Scrolls which contains the axe handle. Useful item  this, but not  straight
away so save it for later.
Now take a trip down town,using the rope from the attic. Always use this as
your entrance and exit from the house as police have  staked out the front,
but are blind to the comings and goings from the rear.Go into the 
periodicals room in the  library and turn on the microfiche reader. Pop the
in the roll of film and read  the bit about home  improvements. Dawson  has
now learned that the keys to the car are in the hiding place in the cellar.
So hurry back home and pick up another bottle of scotch on the way.
 Get inside the house using the rope and head down into the cellar. In  the
middle of the floor there is a loose stone. Pick it up  and  pick  up  also
the keys which are stowed underneath.
 Now cross to the Dark World once again  and take  the  stone to the  power
nexus. Use the machine on the left to energize the stone,which should  then
be put together with the axe handle to make a hammer.
Hurry back to the Normal World and go into the garage. Fill the petrol tank
with scotch (what a waste!) get into  the car and, using  the keys, turn on
the ignition. Leave the engine running as you cross once more into the Dark
World.
Enter the spaceship (the small opening on the left outside the front of the
hatchery) and use the  gloves  on the  lever to  the left  of the  computer
console. This has started the craft's launch sequence so get the hell out.
Once the craft takes off you will find yourself back infront of the  mirror
in the Normal world. Smash the  mirror  with the hammer and  the  world  is
saved and the game is won! Enjoy the end-sequence.

		  Congratulations,you've completed Dark Seed!
		         Now go and get some sleep,dude!

End................