         D E A T H   K N I G H T S   O F   K R Y N N   C L U E B O O K   1 0 0 %


                                  INTRODUCTION
                                  ------------

  DEATH KNIGHTS OF KRYNN is Strategic Simulations, Inc's sequal to CHAMPIONS OF
KRYNN and is the second ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS computer roleplaying game
set in the DRAGONLANCE universe. It takes the award-winning system first used in
POOL OF RADIANCE and applies it to the world of Krynn. The group of adventureres
you create in DEATH KNIGHTS OF KRYNN or transfer from CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN, will
be responsible for destroying Lord Soth and the pockets of evil he has created
throughout the countryside. Your characters must untangle an intricate web of
intrigue as they discover the range of Soth's influence and exactly how he may
be destroyed.

Getting Help
------------

  In the section MONSTERS: How to Deal With Them is a description of all the
monsters in the game. Information provided here tells what the monsters can do
and how to most effectively fight them. Following the section The Story and
Events are descriptions of the encounters. These include specific suggestions on
the best way to get through the most difficult parts of the game.
  If you find the combats too easy or too difficult, you can adjust them by
using the LEVEL command found under the 'Alter' menu. Instructions on how to use
the LEVEL feature are found in the rule book that came with the game.

The Story and Events
--------------------

  The characters begin by attending a commemoration of the Battle of Kernen at
the end of CHAMPIONS OF KRYNN. During the celebration, Sir Karl - now an
undead - attacks. He spirits away the dragonlance on display and leaves a pile
of cursed weapons. Maya, the silver dragon, flies off in pursuit.
  Throughout the game, the party will run across people who have taken these
cursed items. They will act throughly evil, despite their previous natures. If
the characters can wrestle the item away, then the victim will return to normal.
  Everyone retreats to Gargath Outpost as more evil forces advance. The outpost
is besieged and characters meet an old knight who claims to have seen the battle
occur in his dreams. He gives the party a Sleepstone in which he has trapped the
dream and tells them to seek the Dream Merchant in Kalaman who might interpret
it for more information.
  The siege is raised and the characters head to Kalaman. They meet the local
Knight Commander, Daine, and his consort Ariela. Daine suspects that the undead
were summoned by Lord Soth and his servant cleric, Sebas Astmoor. The characters
seek the Dream Merchant, only to find him kidnapped. They agree to a midnight
meeting with the kidnappers, which goes wrong. In the confusion, the Dream
Merchant teleports away to Vingaard Keep.
  Tracking down the merchant leads the characters to Crook Street in Vingaard
Keep. They enter the dream and gain enigmatic clues. They find Sebas Astmoor and
learn that he has renounced Soth. He seeks a force of good strong enough to hold
the powerful Rod of Omniscience, which in the wrong hands could allow the evil
goddess Takhisis to lay waste to Krynn.
  Before he'll reveal the rod's location, Sebas requires the party to go to the
High Clerist's Tower and protect the crypts from Lord Soth. The characters rush
to the tower as the undead attack. They meet an old knight, Sir Durfey, holding
out alone against a horde of monsters. Once rescued, he joins the party.
  The party is too late. Soth's forces have stolen the bodies of many knights,
including the famous hero Strum Brightblade, and released an imprisoned red
dragon. The characters pursue the marauders into tunnels below the tower. They
learn that the evil forces are directed by Sir Garren, a good knight enchanted
by a cursed sword Sir Karl left at Gargath. As they chase down the retreating
undead, they defeat the red dragon, rescue Sir Garren and recover many of the
bodies. Lord Soth escapes with some bodies, including Strum Brightblade's. Lord
Sothplans to convert the bodies into new death knights. With this powerful new
army he can crush the forces of good.
  Returning to Vingaard, Sebas sends the characters to the Dragon Pit, an
ancient temple of Takhisis. Sebas suspects that Sir Karl is there. At the Dragon
Pit, they meet Maya who also seeks Sir Karl. Sir Karl ambushes Maya, plunging
the dragonlance into her. Badly wounded, Maya lifts off with the dragonlance
still embedded. Sir Karl holds on and the two disappear into the clouds. Soon,
the party sees the dragonlance crash to the ground.
  Having completed Sebas' quests, the characters return to Vingaard Keep only to
find that Sebas has been abducted and clues point to Kalaman and Ariela. Going
there, they inform Sir Daine, who is later slain when he confronts his former
consort. The characters avenge Daine's death and learn that Ariela is a red
dragon in the employ of Kitiara - Lord Soth's consort. Sebas is spirited away,
but the party rescues a kight to whom Sebas revealed the location of the rod in
Voice Wood.
  Clues in Kalaman indicate that Ariela often went to Cerberus to contact
Kitiara. Going there, the characters find that the mayor has been assassinated.
When they attend the funeral, the entire graveyard erupts, disgorging a mass of
undead. The cemetary had been protected by mystical wards, but a gravedigger
corrupted by Soth stole them. The party locates and replaces the wards to end
the threat.
  A key found on Ariela opens a secret tunnel into Dargaard Keep, Lord Soth's
castle. There the characters meet Lenore, a thief raiding the keep. She guides
them past some traps, but soon must return home. Sir Durfey offers to escort her
and the two depart.
  Returning to Cerberus, they find more undead laying siege to the town. The
local fortune teller is allied with Lord Soth and leads the attack. He captures
the town's cleric Zakarie, the only person capable of opening the town's armory.
They resue Zakarie and slay the fortune teller. The armed peasants overwhelm the
undead and peace is restored.
  To penetrate deeper into Dargaard Keep, the party heads to Voice Wood to
recover the Rod of Omniscience. Before the characters can reach the wood, they
pass through Dulcimer, a twisted mirror image of Cerberus created by a lich with
fond memories of that town.Dulcimer is populated with undead who now stagger
through a parody of life in Cerberus. The lich has no quarrel with the party,
but has sworn to Soth that it will allow no one entrance to Voice Wood. The
party slays the lich and destroys its phylactery, the jar housing its soul. Then
the party proceeds into Voice Wood.
  Voice Wood is a faerie glen, one of the few places of good near Dargaard
Keep. The party convinces the sprites and the spirit of the wood to release the
rod.
  The party proceeds through the top two levels of the keep. Along the way, the
characters reunite with Lenore, find the dying Sebas Astmoor, rescue Strum's
body and discover that Sir Durfey has been converted into an undead. They put
Durfey to rest and proceed to their final meeting with Lord Soth.
  Lord Soth proves impossible to defeat in physical combat. The party strikes
Lord Soth with the Rod of Omniscience sending him to another dimension. Lenore
revleas herself as Kitiara and tries to take the rod. She fails and gets
transported to another dimension. The rod is destroyed and the party is
transported to the High Clerist's Tower.




                                      MAPS
                               ------------------

A. The Overland
---------------

  The overland map is used to travel from place to place in the game. This map
shows the area of Anslaon covered in the game and shows many of the major points
of interest as symbols on the terrain.
  Overland travel is filled with many monsters and other travellers. They may be
friendly or hostile and thus many help or hinder your progress during the game.
  Your location and its terrain affects the kinds of encounters you have. As you
get closer to Dargaard Keep or Gargath Outpost, the characters ancounter a
higher percentage of undead monsters. They may meet hatori in the plains region
or wyndlass in the forest regions. They are also more likely to battle dragons
in the regions near the Dragon Pit.
  Once Lord Soth has been defeated, the chance of encountering undead monsters
is greatly reduced and the number of friendly travellers increases.
  Wandering the overland is a good way to discover some of the unmarked
encounters in the game. Fighting monsters gains valuable experience points for
the party. This is especially useful if a party member is close to gaining
another level.

B. Gargath Outpost
------------------

  SYNOPSIS: After meeting the undead Sir Karl, the characters bring survivors to
the Gargath Outpost. They meet and old knight who sends them to find the Dream
Merchant in Kalaman.
  The party may have to fight a besieging force of sivaks to enter or leave the
outpost. If the party aids in healing, it recieves a Ring of Protection +1. On
later trips, the outpost may be besieged. For relieving the siege, the party
recieves a Wand of Fireballs.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: Monsters are most frequently met outside the outpost
walls. The party fights blue dragons, sivaks, evil mages and fighter
mercenaries.
  RESTING: The best place is the room assigned by the innkeeper.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. Main gates, the primary entrance to Gargath Outpost. The party leaves by
      moving away from outside the walls.
   2. The ouposts's postern, or rear exit.
   3. Stairs lead to the upper level of towers and battlements.
   4. Main entry to the keep. Spiral stairs lead to the upper floor.
   5. On the lower level, this door leads outside the oupost walls, on the
      upper level, it opens onto the parapet walk.
   6. On the lower level, the keep's well, on the upper level, the Commander's
      Office. The party recieves work assignments and information here. Sir Thom
      may be met here.
   7. The alcove containing Sir Karl's empty grave. The party meets the Dread
      Wolf here. Players should have a Charm Snakes spell memorized to hadle
      the swarm of carrion snakes that pur from the empty grave.
   8. The inn.
   9. The knights of Solamnia operate a bank here. Note: this is the only such
      bank in the game.
  10. A general store with weapons at fair prices.
  11. The temple.
  12. A training hall open only during the day.
  13. The oupost tavern. The party should come here often to listen for
      interesting tales. Ayn and Sir Thom may be met here.
  14. The party may elect to perform guard duties at one or moew of these
      stations.
  15. When patrolling, the party encounters invaders at these locations. At
      night, the party finds a rope here, indicating that a spy is in the
      outpost. The spy is in the oupost. The spy can be captured in the
      Commander's Office.
  16. If besieging sivaks force the front gates, the party must defeat them here
      to save the outpost.
  17. Front gates. While besieging, knights prevent all parties from leaving.
  18. Parties on patrol are eventually relieved here. If besieged by draconians,
      blue dragons may attack.

C. Kalaman
----------

  SYNOPSIS: Following Sir Thom's advice, the characters travel to Kalaman. They
meet the city commander, Daine. His consort, Ariela, is a red dragon in human
form. The party learns of the hunt for Sebas Astmoor. The Dream Merchant is
spirited away by Ariela's sivaks, and a midnight parley with Ariela in dragon
form is broken up by Soth's undead. The Dream Merchant escapes to Vingaard and
the characters follow.
  The Party returns to Kalaman with an earing implicating Ariela. Daine
confronts Ariela, and she kills him. The party slays Ariela, but sivaks escape
with Sebas. The party rescues another prisoner who relays a message from Sebas
about the Rod of Omniscience in Voice Wood. He also gives the party a Dart of
the Hornet's Nest and Bandmail +2.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: The party encounters evil gangs, especially in the alley
far from the bazaar gates. Once defeated a few times, they learn to leave the
party alone.
  RESTING: The best place is the inn. Other places are patrolled by knights by
day and thugs by night. After confronting Ariela, the party may only rest
briefly before cornering the fleeing sivaks in the bazaar.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. Entrance and exit for Kalaman.
   2. Main gates into and out of the bazaard square. Closed at night.
   3. The Whistling Whale Inn, the only safe place to rest. After the Dream
      Merchant is kidnapped, a ransom note is left here.
   4. Guardhouse cell. The party is imprisoned if arrested.
   5. Temple of Kal. Healing services available during the day.
   6. Bout Hall. Training services available during the day.
   7. A warehouse during the day, at night a bar. Brawls and useful rumors are
      found here.
   8. The house of the City Commander where the charcaters meet Daine, Ariela,
      and Major Tems. They hear a biased account of the activities of Sebas
      Astmoor. After the Dream Merchant escapes, Ariela lets slip that he has
      a shop in Vingaard.
      After Sebas is kidnapped by Ariela, the party returns here with the
      earring proving Ariela's complicity.
   9. The entrance to the Dream Pavilion. Ariela's men revleal themselves to be
      sivaks and fight a holding action while the Dream Merchant is kidnapped.
  10. Apprentices point to a ripped wall, the beggining of a trail of torn
      fabric walls. One trail leads to the Commander's house. The other, a
      diversion, leads to the back door of the inn.
  11. Patrolling knights.
  12. A store during the day. This is where the party meets the merchant's
      kidnappers. Keeping the truce earns the party experience points. The
      parley is broken by Soth's forces, directed by the Dread Wolf. After
      defeating the forces, the party receives a clerical scroll. It is wisest
      to do what the blue dragons ask. Otherwise, you must battle the dragons as
      well.
  13. This is the only way to enter the bazaar at night.
  14. When Daine confronts Ariela with the earring, she kills him. Knights and
      the party then fight her sivaks. The party is left to guard Ariela who
      reveals herself to be a red dragon. The party receives an Elixir of Youth
      for defeating her.
  15. The cell where Sebas was imprisoned.
  16. The party fights sivaks. From here, a trail of slashed walls leads west,
      then north and south.
   X. After defeating Ariela, the party rescues a knight who tells them that the
      rod is in the Voice Wood and tells them the appropriate chant to enter the
      wood.

D. Vingaard Keep
----------------

  SYNOPSIS: In Vingaard, the party seeks the Dream Merchant. The Sleepstone
revleas that the key to defeating Lord Soth is held by Sebas Astmoor. The party
finds Sebas by following a winding route marked with red doors. Before Sebas
will trust the characters, he sends them to stop Lord Soth at the High Clerist's
Tower and to destroy Sir Karl at the Dragon Pit.
  Upon returning from the Dragon Pit, the party finds that someone has seized
Sebas. Evidence in his hideaway incriminates Ariela of Kalaman.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: Gangs of theives wander the streets, especially at night.
They leave the party alone after a few defeats. The dark forces working for Lord
Soth often slip away if confonted.
  RESTING: The party's room in the Inn is the only safe place. After visiting
the Dream Merchant, bad dreams plauge the characters until they complete his
bidding.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. Entance.exits to Vingaard.
   2. Entrances to Crook Street.
   3. Shops.
   4. A fletcher's shop, with good prices.
   5. An armorer's shop. Expensive, but will buy surplus weapons.
   6. The Inn.
   7. The party's room in the inn. Rest here is undisturbed except by bad
      dreams.
   8. Taverns.
   9. Training Halls.
  10. The Temple.
  11. Back rooms. The party learns of the widespread manhunt for Sebas Astmoor.
  12. Various evil parties wait here.
  13. Speakeasy. Bodyguards control entry to the rooms beyond. They are easily
      fooled.
  14. The party finds sivak spies searching for Sebas. The party will likely
      fight both the bosses and their bodyguards.
  15. The Dream Merchant's shop. After the Merchant leaves Kalaman, the party
      meets him here. If the party members broke truce in Kalaman, they must
      fight a dream battle before he'll decipher the Sleepstone. They may also
      fight a dream battle to earn an elixir ridding them of bad dreams. Once in
      a dream battle, the characters should try to complete all three steps. If
      damaged, you should wake. However, you will have to fight all the battles
      over again.
      The Dream Merchant shows the characters the dream in the Sleepstone,
      bidding them to find Sebas Astmoor by starting at the entrance to the
      Candle Shop and opening only red doors.
  16. Entrance to the Candle Shop.
  17. The Candle Shop.
  18. The party members first discover Sebas. If they gain his trust, he sends
      the party to the Dragon Pit, giving it a map that shows how to enter the
      evil place.
  19. After the party explores the Dragon Pit, the red doors lead to a sivak
      ambush. Re-entering the room after the battle, the party discovers
      Ariela's earring, implicating her.

E. Throtl Keep
--------------

  SYNOPSIS: The party learns that Throtl Keep has been overrun by an evil priest
named Lessiter and his followers. They are using the keep as a haven, where they
can create undead to help fill the undead legions of Lord Soth.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: There are no wandering monsters.
  RESTING: No place is entirely safe from interruptions.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. Entrance and exit for the keep. The party is met be Lessiter, a high
      priest of Takhisis. If it stays, it is attacked by skeleton warriors and
      wights while Lessiter retreats.
   2. The party is ambushed by undead dragons.
   3. Lessiter flees while skeleton warriors and zombie minotaurs attack the
      party.
   4. Skeleton warriors and zombie minotaurs attack.
   5. This is a vault requiring a Knock spell cast by a 10th level mage or above
      to open. Inside is a Composite Long Bow +2, 10 Arrows +2, as well as
      money.
   6. The party is attacked by skeleton warriors and zombie minotaurs.
   7. Evil priests and undead minotaurs guard this corridor.
   8. The party meets wights, ghouls and ghasts led by an evil priest.
   9. Dead bodies rise and attack the party. The monsters include priests of
      Takhisis, wights, ghouls and skeleton warriors.
  10. If the party enters this room, it is attacked by red dragons.
  11. Nightmares and skeleton warriors attack from this stable.
  12. Skeleton warriors and wights are alerted by the party's approach.
  13. The party defeats the evil priests and wights to gain booty.
  14. This door is trapped, but can be disarmed by a thief. The party is then
      ambushed by priests of Takhisis carrying a Wand of Ice Storm.
  15. A priestess of Mishakal asks the party to save her love, Sir Michael, who
      was dragged northward by evil priests.
  16. Undead dragons occupy this room.
  17. Skeleton warriors and zombie minotaurs attack the party.
  18. The walls are scorched and the party finds two piles of charred bodies,
      one marked 'yes' and the other marked 'no'. The 'yes' pile has been
      prepared for conversion into undead.
  19. The party fights a large patrol of evil priests and wights.
  20. Lessiter awaits the party with a force of priests, skeleton warriors,
      wights and ghasts. After defeating the evil forces, the party rescues Sir
      Michael and reunites him with his love.

F. Cekos
--------

  SYNOPSIS: Evil blue dragons in Cekos have set up a hierachy of sivak guards,
forbade magic in the town and turned the townspeople into servants. Magic is
only practiced behind closed doors, and both the townspeople and the dragons are
wary of visitors.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: None.
  RESTING: Some chance of interruption everywhere.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. Entrance/exit.
   2. An old woman approaches and asks for help in locating her daughter. If the
      characters agree to help, she gives them a Quarterstaff +2 and an amulet.
      If they have the amulet while in the dragon's lair, the princess joins
      them. If they return after this, the old woman rewards them with gems.
   3. Igorf, a copper dragon, asks to joing the party. He can be helpful in
      battles, nt some townspeople won't let the party rest in their homes
      if he is present.
   4. A kitchen. During the day the party may see a servant carrying a tray of
      food. A successful 'move silently' skill roll allows the party to follow
      her to the entrance of the dragon's lair.
   5. The mayor is a sivak in disguise who suggests that the party leave Cekos.
      If talked to again or attacked, he attacks.
   6. The party receives information if it waits in this tavern without buying a
      drink.
   7. The innkeeper asks the characters to leave. If they refuse, sivaks attack.
   8. A vagabond will tell the characters about Cekos if they offer him two
      steel pieces. Disguised sivaks attack before he can finish. If the
      characters kill the vagabond, the town cleric is outraged.
   9. If this magic statue is approached at night, it asks the characters to
      save the town and gives them a white mage scroll.
  10. If the prisoners in this jail are spoken to before being freed, they tell
      why they were imprisoned. The party gains experience points for freeing
      them.
  11. The clerk suggests speaking to the vagabond at location 8.
  12. Town hall. If the party tries to sneak past or join in the fight amongst
      sivaks, the sivaks attack.
  13. The party finds a key that opens the secret door of the dragons' lair
      after defeating the sivaks.
  14. The characters may be offered food or drink. They are damaged by poison
      if they accept.
  15. This is the passage to the dragons' lair. The party must first have the
      Key from encounter 13 to pass through the secret door.
  16. A wizard tells the party about the Cekos tradition of magic. If attacked,
      he casts a fireball spell and disappears.
  17. A cleric lets the characters rest if they are without Igorf and haven't
      killed the vagabond.
  18. This is the entrance to the dragons' lair.
  19. This is the blue dragons' lair. If the characters defeat the dragons,
      they receive a great deal of treasure and a Wand of Paralyzation.
  20. This is a sivak guard post.

G. Turef
--------

  SYNOPSIS: As the characters enter the village, they see crazed hill dwarves
attacking skomp, a mountain dwarf. The party helps Skomp find his wild boar,
which fled into the village. The party then recovers the book, Ambush Made Easy.
Finally, the party passes an ambush to reach the center of the village, where it
ends the brainwashing of the dwarves by evil mages.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: Creatures include wraiths, wights, vampires, ghouls,
ghasts, crazed dwarves, black robe mages, priests of Takhisis and evil warriors.
(Note: The random encounters vary radically in difficulty. Save the game often.)
  RESTING: The characters may rest freely at location 11. Otherwise, they risk
interruption. Resting indoors is safer than outdoors.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. Entrance/exit. Crazed dwarves attack Skomp, a mountain dwarf. The party
      should come to his aid and agree to help him recover his wild boar.
   2. A scholar says that a book called Ambush Made Easy fell into evil hands
      and must be recovered. If the party returns the book, he tells how the
      ambush might be avoided through the secret door in the tavern.
   3. The party spots a waiting ambush as it enters the square. The party
      shoudl retreat, for the ambush would overwhelm them.
   4. A mother seeks her captured son. If the characters return after sparing
      the son, (the dwarf with a purple hat at location 6,) the mother gives
      them a Cloak of Displacement.
   5. If the characters bring the boar carcass to this cook, they are rewarded
      with a Short Sword +2.
   6. A dwarf with a purple hat attacks. The party should WRESTLE him to the
      ground. Evil soldiers then attack. When the dwarf regains consciousness,
      he tells of seeing a book hidden in a shield.
   7. The secret door in the back corner can't be opened without a magic key
      from location 10.
   8. After location 12, the Dread Wolf slaughters Skomp's boar. Skomp leaves,
      and the party should take the boar carcass to location 5.
   9. Mages and clerics attack the party.
  10. The locksmith will sell keys to the party (100 S.P.) if it knows which
      key it wants. Key number 88 opens the secret door at location 7.
      If the party takes more than one key, the keys rattle and increase the
      chances of random encounters. The locksmith buys back all of the keys
      for 10 steel each.
  11. The party finds gems if it searches in this storeroom. The party may rest
      safely here.
  12. Evil mages use Sir Karl's cursed relics to brainwash the dwarves here.
      Soldiers toss sacks of relics onto blue dragons, preparing to leave. The
      party must defeat the soldiers and prevent the dragons' escape.
  13. Exit from Turef. If the party has the wild boar carcass, it must be
      dropped before leaving.
  14. The party encounters a patrol just as Skomp spots his boar and gives
      chase. If the party doesn't follow Skomp, it later finds him badly
      injured.
  15. This barracks is full of sleeping soldiers, and a blue dragon sleeps in
      the back corner. Propped against it is a Shield +4. Taking the shield
      reveals the book, Ambush Made Easy, hidden in its straps.
      If the soldiers awaken before the characters get the shield, they must
      leave the barracks and have another encounter before the soldiers fall
      back to sleep.
  16. If the party members have several drinks with Milo, he tells of the
      secret door in the back wall. If they've returned Ambush Made Easy to
      the scholar, Milo says that the key they seek is #88.
  17. The village magistrate is being tortured here. The party fights to free
      her, after which she rewards it with gems.
  18. The party surprises soldiers and spell casters.
  19. The party surprises sentries and a fight ensues.
  20. This building is full of traps. If the party searches, it can avoid them.
  21. Same as location 20.
  22. More sentries attack.

H. Gnome Village
----------------

  SYNOPSIS: A mad gnome in this village once invented a picture making device.
The sage gnomes saw this as a threat and asked the mechanical engineering gnomes
to create a deviceto block the new invention. However, they created such
dangerous devices that soon the town was up in arms, fearing it was under
attack. An evil mage saw this as an opportunity to increase his power. He killed
the mad gnome, put poisonous clouds outside his workshop and sent out undead
beats to continue the confusion.
  HINT: There are a limited number of undead beasts in the town. Wander the town
until you find no more beasts. Then go to the battle at location 3. This makes
that battle much easier.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: Undead beasts.
  RESTING: There is no safe place to rest until all the undead beasts are
destroyed.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. Entrance/exit. As soon as the characters enter, the Foreign Relations
      guild takes them to the Hall of Technological Innovation (location 2.)
      They must escape or risk being bored to death. The characters may be
      pulled back later, in which case the must escape again.
   2. Hall of Technological Innovation. This building is filled with
      technological devices invented by the gnomes.
   3. The door can be opened by a Knock spell cast by a mage of 11th level or
      better, otherwise, bash the door or pick the lock. The evil mage waits
      here with his remaining undead beasts. His treasure includes Eyes of
      Charming, a Potion of Speed and a Potion of Healing.
   4. Each poisonous cloud damages the party. Th best way to get through the
      clouds is to to the wizard's lair through the Mechanical Engineering
      Gnomes' guild.
   5. Sage Gnome guild. The sage gnomes explain the recent history of the
      village.
   6. A gnome spy sent by the Militray Planning guild is here.
   7. Grand Council of Bureaucracy.
   8. If a cleric is in the party, he may help the wounded gnome soldiers.
      Casting a healing spell gives the party experience points. If a kender
      is in the party, he may pick up a weapon lying on the floor. It is best
      to leave the weapons, because they sometimes malfunction is spectacular
      ways.
   9. Education guild.
  10. Militray Planning and Weapons guild.
  11. Mechanical Engineering guild. The party shoudl destroy the machines here.

I. Kuo-Toa Slave Ship
---------------------

  SPECIAL NOTE: The characters enter this map automatically while walking near
the river on the overland map.
  SYNOPSIS: The characters spy Kuo-Toa warriors herding peasants aboard a ship.
They dare not attack directly for fear that the slaves might be slaughtered. The
characters disguise themselves to be led aboard.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: Random patrols only appear after the party raises the
alarm in locations 8 or 11. Then the party faces Kuo-Toa fighters, monitors and
clerics, as well as vodyanoi.
  RESTING: The slave cells are the only safe places to rest. (Warning: It is
impossible to return to the cells after location 11. Make sure the party is
fully rested before that event.)

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. The characters are led to this cell. This is a safe place to rest.
   2. Other slave cells. Also safe places to rest.
   3. A group of slaves tells of its plan to burn the boat and win freedom from
      the Kuo-Toa. The meeting is interrupted by guards oredring the party to
      report to work in the galley.
   4. A group of Kuo-Toa orders the characters to leave. If they disobey, the
      Kuo-Toa attack. The party hides the bodies after the fight, so no alarm
      is raised.
   5. Kuo-Toa attack. The party receives a Long Bow +3, Chain Mail +4 and 10
      Arrows +3. Again, no alarm is raised.
   6. This is the galley of the slave ship. A slave asks the party to meet him
      in the pantry, out of sight of the guards.
   7. This is the pantry. The slave gives the party directions to the temple,
      where the attack against the Kuo-Toa will begin.
   8. The Kuo-Toa in this dining room hurl insults at the party. Only by
      ignoring all of the insults can the characters pass. If they take offense
      and attack, the alarm is raised and it becomes much harder to reach the
      temple.
   9. If the party members passed safely through the dining room, the Kuo-Toa
      monitors the attack.
  10. These are the sleeping quarters of the Kuo-Toa monitors.
  11. A human is about to be sacrificed. If the party attacks, the Kuo-Toa are
      surprised and only a few Kuo-Toa monitors and clerics attack.
      If the party hides, it is discovered. The ensuing fight is much more
      difficult than if it attacked initially. During the fight, torches are
      knocked from the walls and the boat begins to burn.
      After the battle, the walls are ablaze and it is impossible to go back
      the way the party entered.
  12. These doors are aflame and impassible after location 11.
  13. Kuo-Toa search the room. After defeating them, the party is unable to find
      what they were searching for.
  14. This is the captains's room. The party is still unable to find what they
      were searching for.
  15. If the party members choose to search this burning closet, they are
      burned. While they retreat, they find a Mace +4.
  16. Once the party has entered and left through this door once, the flames
      around it grow so intense that the characters are unable to re-enter the
      room.
  17. A large group of Kuo-Toa are preparing to jump from the bow of the ship.
      Combat ensues if the party tries to pass.
  18. The characters meet the slaves and are awarded experience points for their
      role in the uprising. The party and the slaves dive from teh ship and swim
      to freedom.

J. High Clerist's Tower
-----------------------

  SYNOPSIS: Until Sebas Astmoor warns the party of Lord Soth's imminent attack,
the tower is merely a safe place to rest. The party will be confined to the top
level.
  After the warning, the party is escorted down to the crypts where it discovers
Sir Durfey holding out against the undead horde. With the aid of the tower's
knights, the party discovers the theft of Strum Brightblade's body and the
escape of the red dragon. The characters descend into the tunnels dug by the
undead.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: When the undead invade, patrols of skeleton warriors and
wights will confront the party.
  RESTING: Except when the undead are attacking, the tower is completely safe to
rest in. During the attack it is possible to rest, but there is no guarantee
that teh party won't be disturbed by an undead patrol.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. The netrance to the tower.
   2. This is where the party is taken to rest. It is also where the party meets
      a council knight when they learn of Lord Soth's attack. He escourts them
      to location 5.
   3. This is as far into the tower as the party may go until the attack is
      underway.
   4. During the attack, the party iwll not be allowed to climb higher in the
      tower.
   5. The party finds Sir Durfey surronded by undead. When rescued, Furfey
      should be allowed to join the party.
 6-8. The party confronts undead and discoveres that the tombs have been looted.
      Knights aid the party in battle.
   9. Durfey warns the party that a dragon was held due west (location 13.) He
      sldo points out Strum's tomb (location 14.)
  10. The party finds slain bodies here, after it has been to locations 11 or
      13.
  11. When the party enters here or location 13, it has a battle with undead
      skeletons and wights. After the battle, it hears the enemy forces
      retreating through location 10.
  12. Evil forces are holding this room.
  13. See location 11.
  14. The empty tomb of Strum Brightblade.
  15. The entrance into the tunnels.

K. Tunnels Beneath Tower
------------------------

  SYNOPSIS: The party descends into these tunnels in pursuit of the undead who
have looted the crypts. The characters also seek an escaped red dragon. As they
proceed along the main corridor, they discover that the undead were lead by a
knight who is under the influence of a cursed sword. Finally, after defeating
the dragon, rescuing the knight and recovering many of the bodies, the party
meets Lord Soth. He is not prepared to do battle and escapes atop a nightmare.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: Various undead wander the tunnels and attack the party on
sight.
  RESTING: No place is completely safe to rest. Undead seek the characters'
lives.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. The party descends from the tower here.
   2. The party meets Sir Garren and the red dragon. The dragon tosses a boulder
      at the party which collapses the tunnel. The evil forces retreat south and
      east.
   3. Skeleton warriors attack, attempting to delay the party.
   4. Zombie giants are digging away at the tower's supports, trying to
      undermine it. They turn and attack if approached.
   5. A rear guard of skeleton warriors tries to stop the party.
   6. The red dragon turns and attempts to slay the party. Sir Garren and the
      undead continue to retreat.
   7. Another delaying action by skeleton warriors. The party finds some loot
      dropped by the fleeing undead: a Short Sword +4 and a Staff Sling +3.
   8. Another delaying action. The party finds a Hoopak +3.
   9. The party confronts Sir Garren. The characters should take the cursed
      sword away from him. They may take damage, but they will free the knight.
      Once Sir Garren is freed, Lord Soth approaches and attempts to slay him.
      Some members of the party should throw themselves in the way.
  10. The corpses looted from the tombs are being loaded onto nightmares and
      flown away. The party shoudl attack immediately in order to rescue as
      many bodies as possible. Lord Soth will battle the party, but is not
      destroyed even if he is defeated. After one battle he will get up and
      leave. 

L. Dragon Pit
-------------

  SYNOPSIS: This is where Lord Soth has hidden one of his attack forces. Sir
Karl has been put in charge. Until Sebas has revealed the secret door at
location 3, the party can't advance past that point.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: The main section of the temple is patrolled by skeleton
warriors. The large corridors along the west and south edges of the temple
contain undead dragons who may also attck.
  RESTING: No place is absoluetly safe from wandering patrols.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. This is the only entrance that the party can reach. When the characters
      know about the secret door, Mata arrives and joins them.
   2. This is next to a deep chasm. The party cannot cross before locating the
      rope bridge at location 16. If Maya is with the party, she crosses to the
      other side to seek Sir Karl.
   3. The secret entrance to the temple can't be opened without the information
      provided by Sebas. If Maya is with the party, she turns back and crosses
      the chasm at location 2.
   4. Wights have drained a knight and await his transformation into one of
      them. It occurs as the party arrives, and the wights attack.
   5. This is the main altar room. The Dread Wolf harasses the party if he still
      lives. Under a stone next to the latar the party finds Plate Mail +3, a
      Shield +2, a white mage scroll and a cleric scroll.
   6. This long corridor is filled with undead dragons. Since few of them have
      been given specific directions, they merely lay around in decaying lumps.
      Occasionally, one recognizes the party as an enemy and attacks.
   7. This is a secondary altar to Takhisis. Undead dragons protect the room.
   8. A red dragon is chained here. He gives directions to find Sir Karl. If the
      party frees him, he flies off, only to be slain by the wards at location
      9. If he is left, the Dread Wolf slays him.
   9. This is the entrance used by the evil forces. It is warded to kill
      anything living that passes through it.
  10. This is the stable where the nightmares are kept.
  11. This is the barracks for the skeleton warriors.
  12. The party confronts Sir Karl. He retreats out the north door.
  13. Sir Karl continues to retreat down the corridor. He calls on the Dread
      Wolf to slay the party. The party finally has the chance to battle and
      defeat the creature.
  14. This area is open to the sky. Maya arrives when the party enters. As she
      approaches, Sir Karl strikes her with the dragonlance from hiding. Though
      wounded, Maya lifts off with Sir Karl. The two disappear into the clouds.
      Before the characters can do anything, they are confronted by the death
      dragon. After the dragon is slain, the dragonlance falls from the clouds.
  15. This is the lair of the death dragon. The treasure includes a Short Bow
      +3, Leather Armor +3 and Plate Mail +2.
  16. A rope bridge lies next to a deep chasm. The party can string the bridge
      and go across.

M. Cerberus
-----------

  SYNOPSIS: After the party completes the Dragon Pit, it finds the citizens of
Cerberus outraged by the assassination of the mayor. They urge the party to the
graveyard to attend the mayor's funeral.
  After the attack in the graveyard, Cerberus is raided by undead forces. The
party must reach the townspeople barricaded in the town hall, then rescue the
town cleric, Zakarie. Before this, the townspeople can't enter the armory and
equip themselves to fight off the invaders.
  RANDOM ENCOUNTERS: The party only encounters monsters during the undead raid.
  RESTING: Before and after the raid, the party may only restat the inn. During
the raid, the party can rest anywhere, but there is a danger of wandering
monsters.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. The entrance to the Farmer's Market.
   2. The fortune teller's tent. Before the raid, the fortune teller gives the
      party a grim fortune if asked.
      During the raid, if the party comes before talking to the townspeople in
      location 4, the fortune teller rushes away. If the characters have been to
      location 4, they fight the fortune teller here and free Zakarie.
      Afterward, the party should return to location 4.
   3. During the raid, giant zombies guard the entrance to the town hall and
      must be battled before the party can enter.
   4. Before the raid, the town hall is abandoned while the townspeople prepare
      for the mayor's funeral.
      During the raid, townspeople barricade themselves here. They say that only
      the town cleric, Zakarie, can dispel the magic gateway guarding the
      armory.
      After the characters rescue Zakarie, when they return here, he sends them
      to the armory (location 9) to claim a reward. The party earns experience
      points for bringing him here.
   5. The party may sleep at this inn free of charge before th raid. During the
      raid, spectres lurk here.
   6. Before the raid, this tavernkeeper tells the party about the assassination
      of the mayor and the impending funeral in the graveyard.
   7. Before the raid, the characters talk to the town cleric, Zakaries. He
      tells them of the assassination of the mayor and also of the citizens
      being forced to work as servants in Dargaard Keep.
      During the raid, when the party arrives, it finds that Zakarie has been
      kidnapped by undead forces.
   8. A magical barricade protects the armory. The party can only enter after
      freeing Zakarie from the fortune teller's tent.
   9. After Zakarie gives the party permission in location 4, the treasure
      includes a Mace of Disruption, Chain Mail +2, a Ring of Protection +3
      and Guantlets of Ogre Strength.
  10. A vendor of oddities and artifacts will buy one rug from the party for
      1000 silver pieces.
  11. This is the town's common garden.
  12. These small houses are destroyed during the raid.

N. Graveyard
------------

  SYNOPSIS: After completing the Dragon Pit and visiting Cerberus, the party
finds the funeral of the assassinated mayor of Cerberus taking place. (Before
completing Dragon Pit, the graveyard is empty.) The funeral is interupted by an
undead assault, which the party must repel.
  The magic wards placed around the graveyard fence have been stolen and
replaced by evil wards. The party must recover the good wards and replace them
around the fence, where their power destroys all evil within the graveyard.
  NOTE: Cleric's turning ability is diminished in the graveyard.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. The first evil ward. The party must replace it with one of the good wards
      from location 10. If the party is first entering the graveyard, a man
      gives directions to the funeral at location 5.
   2. After the undead attack begins, this gate is guarded. The party must fight
      to leave this way.
   3. If the characters are kind to the do here, it follows them throughout the
      graveyard. The chances of being able to rest during the attack are
      improved by having the dog.
   4. A diary describes the odd behavior of the gravedigger and that something
      is wrong with the wards protecting the graveyard.
   5. The funeral for the mayor of Cerberus. The characters see the body twitch,
      but the townspeople refuse to heed any warnings. The attack on the
      graveyard commences, beggining with a fight as the undead mayor attacks.
   6. Empty coffins.
   7. Coffins swarming with spiders.
   8. If the attack has not yet begun, entering this square causes it to
      commence. Undead creatures attack the party.
   9. The insane gravedigger. If the party takes his ruby, he's freed from its
      influence. He says that he killed the graveyard's cleric and stole the
      good wards from around the fence.
      The party obtains a shovel no matter what they do to the gravedigger.
  10. The party uses the shovel from location 9 to uncover the four good wards
      buried here.
  11. If the attack on the graveyard has not yet begun, stepping through this
      door (in either direction) initiates it. A group of undead attacks.
  12. Inside this coffin, a tunnel leads to Dargaard Keep. The party can only
      unlock the coffin with the iron key obtained from Ariela's body in
      Kalaman.
  13. The second evil ward. The party must replace it with one of the good wards
      from location 10.
  14. The third evil ward. The party must replace it with one of the good wards
      from location 10.
  15. The fourth evil ward. The party must replace it with one of the good wards
      from location 10.
  16. After the graveyard attacks begin, the characters find a young woman
      buried alive. If they have the shovel of the dog, they can save her and
      earn experience points.
  17. Undead creatures hold a mourner captive. The party must fight to save him
      and earn experience points.

O. Dulcimer
-----------

  SYNOPSIS: (Note: the map for Dulcimer is identical to the Cerberus map.) To
reach Voice Wood the party must pass through Dulcimer, a twisted mirror image of
Cerberus created by a lich with fond memories of that town. Dulcimer is
populated with undead who now stagger through a parody of life.
  The party must slay the lich then destroy its phylactery, the jar housing its
soul. With the lich destroyed, the party proceeds into Voice Wood.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: Most of the undead ignore the party, but there still are
infrequent attacks. After battling the lich, it regenerates and attacks at
regular intervals until the phylactery is destroyed.
  RESTING: No place is immune from attacks.
  NOTE: Cleric's turning ability is diminished while in Dulcimer.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. The entrance/exit to Dulcimer. Soon after entering, the mayor, a lich,
      greets the party. He admonishes it to stay away from his personal
      chambers and from the entrance to Voice Wood.
   2. The physlactery containing the lich's sould is buried here. The party
      must smash it to defeat the lich. The party won't be able to find the
      phylactery before attacking the lich in location 7.
      After the phylactery is destroyed, all the undead creatures in Dulcimer
      fall to dust. The party may then pass into Voice Wood at location 9.
   3. A zombie tavernkeeper offers the party a drink. It is poison and damaged
      whoever drinks.
   4. The zombie innkeeper welcomes the party, but the atmosphere is
      unappealing.
   5. The lich's guards attack the characters. If they enter the room again,
      more guards attack. After the second combat, the lich's entire guard
      is gone and the party faces none when it fights the lich.
   6. If the party hasn't met the spectre at location 9, he appears before the
      party passes through this door.
   7. The lich's quarters. The lich attacks when the party enters. After the
      battle, the party should go to location 2 before the lich regenerates.
   8. A coop full of undead chickens.
   9. The passage to Voice Wood. The party can't pass until the Lich is dead. If
      they try before then, a spectre appears and tells the party how to dstroy
      the lich.
  10. A living man is confined in these stocks. If the party frees him, he gives
      them information.
  11. The Dulcimer town hall.
  12. A garden of rotted vegetables.
  13. The farmers market is a grim parody of the market in Cerberus. It is
      unlikely that the party will want any of the goods being offered.
  14. After the party battles zombies, it finds a Scroll of Protection against
      Dragon's Breath, a Potion of Invisibility, 4 Darts +3 and a Long Sword +4.

P. Voice Wood
-------------

  SYNOPSIS: After learning the chant from the young knight in Kalaman and
destroying the lich of Dulcimer, the party may enter Voice Wood to claim the Rod
of Omniscience. The party must find the Hall of the Voice and agree to its terms
before recovering the rod.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: There are no wandering monsters.
  RESTING: The sprites won't allow anyone to rest in Voice Wood.
  HINT: use the area map if you have trouble finding location 8.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. The first encounter at one of these clearings reveals that the Rod of
      Omniscience is in Voice Wood, protected by the sprites. After the first
      encounter see location 2.
   2. The party enters a clearing and sprites flee. They shout different
      messages at the party.
   3. Alat to Paladine. If the characters leave an offering, they are helped in
      their next combats at locations 6 and 7.
   4. Damaged area of Voice Wood. The party determines that evil creatures were
      destroyed here. They must have used a Protection from Good spell to enter
      Voice Wood, but the spell expired before they could escape.
   5. The party is damaged by limbs and vines.
   6. The party enters a large clearing and confronts a band of evil creatures.
      The evil ones are worried that their Protection spell is running out.
   7. The party fights a small army of black wizards, wights and giant undead.
   8. Sprite warriors say that the Rod of Omniscience must remain in Voice Wood.
      The party may attack or push forward without hurting the sprites. If the
      party attacks, it is transported to location 14.
   9. This is the Hall of Voice Wood. A voice coming from all the trees explains
      that it has the Rod of Omniscience. If the characters swear to use it only
      against a foe they can't defeat, they can take it.
  10. Through this arch, the party sees Throtl.
  11. Through this arch, the party sees the forest north of Dulcimer.
  12. Through this arch, the party sees the land west of Turef.
  13. Through this arch, the party sees Turef.
  14. This leads back into Dulcimer.
  15. Whisper spiders attack the party.
  16. A fiery rock rests in this glade. Fire minions leap from the rock to
      battle the party.

Q. Dargaard Keep - First Floor
------------------------------

  SYNOPSIS: The characters finally enter the home of Lord Soth. On the first
floor, they meet servants of the keep, young men and women kidnapped from nearby
Cerberus and bound to serve at the keep by a powerful geas. By destroying a
magical orb and killing the servant's captors, the party may life the geas and
allow the servants to return home.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: Other than the four patrols, there are no wandering
monsters.
  RESTING: It is never completely safe to rest.
  NOTE: Cleric's turning ability is diminished throughout Dargaard Keep.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. This drawbridge is the main entrance to Dargaard Keep. The party can't
      enter before recovering an iron key from Ariela's body in Kalaman. The
      password inscribed on the key is 'DENISSA.'
      If the party lingers here for too long, archers fire from nearby towers.
   2. The party smashes the drawbridge controls here. The characters may enter
      and exit the keep freely thereafter.
   3. Guards ambush the party from both sides. After the battle, the characters
      meet Lenore (unless they met her in the throne room.) Lenore asks to
      follow the characters. If they refuse, she leaves. If Durfey is with the
      party, he leaves to escort her home. If the party allows Lenore to join,
      she soon leaves with Durfey.
      If Durfey is in the party but dead, his body siappears during the battle.
   4. These doors are welded shut. The party must find another way around them.
   5. If the characters talk to this maid, she gives them a key and instructs
      them to look fr the locked door on the east side of the Keep. If they
      ignore her, she gives the key but no explanation.
   6. This locked door leads to the servants' quarters. The characters can't
      enter unless they have the key from location 5.
   7. The servants here are under a geas to serve in the keep. They beg the
      party to lift the geas by slaying four patrols and smashing the
      commander's magical orb. The door at the far side of the room leads to
      the commander's closet (location 8,) avoiding the guards outside his
      chamber.
      The four patrols appear randomly on this level of the keep.
      After the party smashes the orb and kills the patrols, the servants give
      it a skull stolen from the commander. The skull can be used at location
      10. The party is also awarded experience points.
   8. This is the commander's closet. The party finds the magical ord and
      destroys it.
   9. If the party approaches the commander's chamber directly, a group of
      guards intercepts it. The party must defeat two groups of guards to pass.
  10. Soth's throne. A panel beneath it leads to a secret tunnel in the
      graveyard, but the panel can only be opened with the skull obtained in
      encounter 7.
      If the party enters the keep through the graveyard tunnel, it emerges
      here. It can't re-enter the tunnel without the skull.
  11. The characters hear chanting through the door. If they wait and listen,
      the chanting eventually stops and they may enter safely. If the party
      enters before the chanting stops, it has a fight at location 12.
  12. If the party didn't wait at location 11, clerics attack.
  13. If the party fought the clerics at location 12, this altar has a 2-Handed
      Sword +2 resting on it.
  14. The party hears cries for help from within a coffin at location 15.
  15. Someone locked inside this coffin pleads for help. If the party opens the
      coffin, it is ambushed by many vampires.
  16. The first time the party enters one of these rooms, it finds evidence of a
      makeshift prison. Whether it searches or leaves, it finds an amulet
      engraved with the initials S.A.
  17. Without the Rod of Omniscience, the party is unable to climb these stairs
      to the second floor of the keep.

R. Dargaard Keep - Second Floor
-------------------------------

  SYNOPSIS: A group of guards rushes its prisoners away from the party as they
enter the second floor of the keep. A chase ensues, and the party frees some of
the prisoners. They are clerics from the High Clerst Tower who came to the keep
to recover the body of Strum Brightblade. The rest of the prisoners are
townspeople from Cerebrus who are transformed into rats for the amusement of the
guards. The party must restore the townspeople and recover Strum before his body
is corrupted by Soth's evil power.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: There are no wandering monsters.
  RESTING: Only the cells (location 10) are completely safe.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. Stairs to first floor. If the clerics from location 6 accompany the party,
      they ask the party not to leave until Strum's body is recovered. If the
      party leaves, the clerics wait here for its return.
   2. A group of guards flees from the party, shoving prisoners ahead of them.
      If the party returns to this spot after sneaking past the vampires in
      location 4, the vampires see them and attack.
   3. The party can't pass this closed portcullis before pushing the lever at
      location 5.
   4. A group of vampires is distracted by something outside. The party can
      attack or sneak past, the vampires leave when the party reaches the next
      room.
   5. This lever raises the portcullis in location 3.
   6. A group of guards, including black mages, vampires and a death knight,
      attacks. Its prisoners, clerics from the High Clerists Tower, tell the
      party that they seek the stolen body of Strum Brightblade. They prevail on
      the party to help.
   7. Flesh golems guard this room.
   8. This prtcullis can only be passed by pulling the lever at location 9.
   9. This lever raises the portcullis at location 8.
  10. These empty cells are safe places for the party to rest undisturbed.
  11. Spectres, flesh golems and vampire mages are posted here.
  12. Sebas Astmoor is confined in this cell. He warns the party to beware of
      Kitiara, Soth's companion. Kitiara plots to obtain the Rod of Omnscience
      and begin her own evil rule. She tortured Sebas for information about the
      Rod. Before the party can question Sebas, he dies.
  13. A magical tome lies open to a circled incantation. If the party reads the
      incantation before location 14, nothing happens. If they've been to
      location 14, the incantation transforms the townspeople back into human
      form and the party gets experience points for saving them.
      If the characters have not yet saved Cerberus from the invaders, the
      townspeople tell them of the undead invasion.
  14. Captive townspeople are being transformed into rats by evil clerics. The
      party can't prevent this, but if it tries to interrupt, the fight is much
      easier than if it waits until the clerics spot it.
  15. A Necklace of Missles, a Potion of Extra Healing, a Wand of Lightning,
      Plate Mail +4 and a red mage scroll are hidden in this cleric's chamber.
  16. Evil mages and clerics are attempting to raise Strum Brightblade from the
      dead. After a fight, the body is recovered by the clerics and the party is
      awarded experience points.

S. Dargaard Keep - Third Floor
------------------------------

  SYNOPSIS: On the final floor of Dargaard Keep the characters find Durfey who
has been slain and made undead by Soth. They also encounter Lenore who
accompanies them to their final battle with Soth under the premise that she
needs their 'protection.' Soth is banished from Krynn.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: There are no wandering monsters.
  RESTING: No place is completely safe.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. A voice mocks the party in this small room, admonishing that tow of the
      three doors ahead lead to death.
   2. These 'doors' are actually magical barriers that do severe damage when
      touched.
   3. Weretigers lie in ait in these rooms.
   4. Once the characters pass through these doors, they are magically sealed
      behind them.
   5. Lenore awaits the party. She says that Sir Durfey has been killed and made
      undead by Soth's death knights, and that more death knights are pursuing
      her. She joins the party, pleading for its protection.
   6. This door is protected with deadly dpikes and razors. It damages any party
      member attempting to open it. It is safer to follow the secret passge
      around this door.
   7. Statues (iron golem) on either side of this door warn the party not to
      enter. If the party attacks, a combat ensues. Otherwise, the statues
      refuse to speak further.
   8. Sir Durfey is here. He has been slain and turned into an evil undead. He
      attacks the party, forcing them to put him to his final rest.
      If the party didn't fight the statues (iron golems) ate location 7, they
      lumber in and attack alongside Durfey.
   9. Wraiths trap the party in this dead end.
  10. Soth awaits a final confrontation with the party. A very tough battle
      ensues with Soth, death knights and iron golems. If Soth is defeated, his
      body regenerates after the fight. He informs the party that as long as
      Dargaard Keep remains standing, he can't be destroyed.
      The party should immediately strike Lord Soth with the Rod of Omniscience,
      sending him to another dimension. Lenore will now reveal herself as
      Kitiara as she tries to take the rod herself. She activates the rod hoping
      to cast the party into another dimension. Unfortunately for her, Sebas
      gave her false instructions for operating the device. The rod explodes,
      sending her into another dimension and the party to the High Clerist's
      Tower.

      CONGRATULATIONS!

T. Shipwreck
------------

  SYNOPSIS: The party finds the ruins of an old cursed pirate ship. The party
recovers great treasure by battling the pirate and his undead crewmembers.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: The party faces giant zombies, wraiths and giant undead
rats.
  RESTING: There is no safe place to rest.
  SPECIAL NOTE: Clerics' turning ability is diminished while on this ship.

  MAP LOCATIONS:
 
   1. The gangway onto the ship. The deck has rotted away, so the party should
      use ropes to descend to the level below.
   2. The party is attacked by some of the giant zombie crewmembers of the ship.
   3. The ship's officers, wraiths, attack when you enter their quarters.
   4. The party is surprised by an attack by the spectre captain and some of his
      wraith officers. The party will find a Mace +4.
   5. This hold is filled with undead giant rats.
   6. A crossbow fires on the party unless they detect and disarm the trap
      first. The treasure includes Banded Mail +3 and a Long Sword +3.

U. Cursed Village
-----------------

  SYNOPSIS: Good and evil forces battle for possession of a magical meteorite
that crashed in this village. The party must rescue the good sorcerer, kill his
evil imposter and destroy the meteorite.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: Wights, wraiths and spectres.
  RESTING: There is no safe place to rest until the meteorite has been
destroyed.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. Entrance/exit. A boy sends the party to the sorcerer imposter.
   2. The shopkeeper gives information about the village.
   3. The party battles a group of black mages to save the real sorcerer.
      Without doing this, the party can't approach the meteroite.
   4. Herbalist.
   5. Village sorcerer's house. An imposter sorcerer claims the meteorite is
      harmless. When the party returns with the real sorcerer, the imposter and
      his minions attack.
   6. A tavern. The party fights the undead remains of the former tavern patrons
      (wights, wraiths and spectres.) When the real sorcerer is present, he
      destroys the meteorite and rewards the party with a Ring of Protection +2,
      a white mage scroll and Olin's Quarterstaff.

V. Fun House
------------

  SYNOPSIS: The characters discover a 'training' maze of riddles and monsters.
When they complete the guantlet, they are awarded experience points.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: None.
  RESTING: No interruptions.

  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. The party meets the maze's proprietor, a dwarf named Gluten.
   2. If the party give the answer 'WATER' to this riddle, it teleports to
      location 3. Otherwise ot teleports to location 4.
   3. If the party give the answer 'HANDS' to this riddle, it teleports to
      location 5. Otherwise it teleports to location 6.
   4. After a battle consisting of zombie giants and spectres, the party
      teleports to location 5.
   5. If the party give the answer 'RING' to this riddle, it receives experience
      points.
      Correct or not, the party teleports to location 6.
   6. The party is attacked by wraiths and spectres.
   7. The party teleports to location 6.
   8. A lich and wights attack the party. The party finds a Mace +4.
   9. The party teleports to location 1 and is rewarded by Gluetn. The reward
      consists of a red mage scroll and the Girdle of Frost Giant Strength.

W. Father of Trees
------------------

  SYNOPSIS: The party ventures inside the heart of the Father of Trees to
recover the wand of tree healing and free a captured faerie warrior. With the
wand, the party can heal the tree and save the forest.
  WANDERING MONSTERS: The party faces wraiths.
  RESTING: There is no safe place to rest until the tree is healed.
  SPECIAL NOTE: Magic does not work in the tree.
  HINT: Use Paladins to heal injured characters.
 
  MAP LOCATIONS:

   1. This is the entrance to the tree. After completing the adventure, the
      party is awarded experience points here.
   2. The party is ambushed by a group of wights.
   3. A group of wraiths is trying to smash the tree from the inside.
   4. Wyndlass attack the party.
   5. A black mage is using fire minions to burn the core of the great tree. The
      party must defeat the made and his followers to free the faerie warrior
      and the Wand of Tree Healing. The characters also recover a Periapt Proof
      vs. Poison and Boots of Speed.
   6. The party encounters a group of whisper spiders.

X. Challenge
------------

  Congratulations! You've completed the quest and Lord Soth has been banished
from Krynn. But there's one more challenge to undertake. In the upper left hand
corner of the map, a path has opened through the mountains...
  One of SSI's game authors has earned a reputation for designing 'killer' mazes
and encounters. Do you remember the brain parasites in Buck Rogers, or the
rescue of the nomad princess in Pool of Radiance? Customarily, we've toned down
these encounters before the publication of the games.
  This time is different.
  This time we encouraged him to go ahead and do his worst. Good luck.

HINTS:
  
  A party without a thief will have difficulty surviving.
  There is only one honest spirit within the temple.
  Do not enter the altar room without the necklace.
  Curiosity is profitable, but dangerous.


 

                        MONSTERS: HOW TO DEAL WITH THEM
                        -------------------------------

  Below is a listing of all the monsters in DEATH KNIGHTS OF KRYNN, a short
description of each, and suggestions on how it can best be defeated. You should
follow these guidelines when developing tactics to combat these monsters.

  Nightmare: These swift beasts carry other evil creatures from the Lower
Planes. Give them a wide berth, as their hot smokey breath can blind you,
reducing your ability to attack.

  Skeleton Warrior: These powerful undead fighters are extrememly resistant to
all magic attacks, and they only take half damage from edged or pointed weapons.
The Mace of Disruption does twice normal damage against these creatures.
  Another strategy useful against any creature with a high magic resistance is
to cast spells on your own party. Good spells to use on your own party include:
Haste, Enlarge, Prayer, Bless and Strength.

  Dragons: Fearsome opponents with devastating attacks, they still have an
Achilles heel. All but the undead and spectral dragons may be incapacitated with
a stinking cloud. The Mace of Disruption is the best attack against the undead
dragon. The spectral dragon is completely magic resistant, so all you can do is
hack until he dies (have lots of healing spells ready).
  Cast Prayer and Haste before attacking any dragons, spread the party out and
concentrate on killing one at a time.

  Undead Beast: The size of a small dragon, this mound of rotting flesh and
bones is resistant to fire and takes half damage from edged or pointed weapons.
It can be turned by high-level clerics with some trouble. A Slow spell would be
useful against a pack of these.

  Undead Roc: This evil avian is immune to Fear, Sleep and Charm. Unlike the
undead beast, the roc is damaged by fire and takes full damage edged or pointed
weapons.

  Zombies: These monsters are easily turned and should provide little challenge.

  Skeletal Giant: Immune to non-magic weapons, it also takes half damage from
edged or pointed weapons.

  Lich: A powerful spell caster, it is immune to Sleep, Charm and Death spells,
and cold and electric based attacks have no effect. Stay out of reach of this
monster, as its touch can cause paralysis for the duration of the battle. Use
ranged attacks and fire-based magic for best results.

  Spectral Minion: Don't worry.

  Wraith, Wight, Spectre: These undead are easily easily turned, but beware of
their touch. The spectre can drain two levels from any player it touches, while
the wraith and wight drain one level per touch.
  Beware, certain regions in the game make turning more difficult. If turning
fails, quickly eliminate these creatures with fire-based spells.

  Vampires: Formidable opponents, their gaze has the effect of a Charm spell,
their touch can drain two levels, and they regenrate their HP at a rate of three
HP per round of combat. They are immune to non-magic weapons, Sleep, Charm and
Hold spells. Some of them can also cast spells, so make sure to check for
vampire mages and clerics at the start of combat.

  Ghoul, Ghoast: The party should have little trouble. These monsters can be
easily turned.

  Fire Minion: From the elmental plane of fire, these 'living flames' are immune
to all fire-based attacks. In fact, Fireballs heal them. Cold attacks do double
dammage, and they can be dispelled, albeit not easily. Players adjacent to the
monster take one to six HP damage per round from the aura of fire surronding it.

  Death Knight: This fearsome enemy throws a 20-120 hit point Fireball as his
first attack, so cast Resist Fire on as many players as possible before engaging
this monster in battle. Three out of four times, any magic attack him will
fail - ten percent of the time, the spell is reflected back on the user, so be
careful not to kill your mages or clerics. He generates an aura of Fear, causing
your characters to run if they fail to save against it. Rush forward and kill
him as quickly as possible before this happens. Kender will be immune to fear.

  Whisper Spider: The poison bite of this monster is the only real threat.

  Flesh Golem: A patchwork of body parts animated by arcane magics, it is immune
to all forms of magic attacks. Fire and cold based attacks slow it for awhile,
and electricty-based attacks actually heal any damage it may have suffered.

  Iron Golem: Magically animated by powerful mages, the iron golem is three
times stronger than the flsh golem and requires magic weapons with a +3 or
better to do damage. Electric-based attacks slow it for three rounds. Fire-based
attacks heal it, and cold based attacks do normal damage.

  Lycanthrpe (Wereboar, Weretiger): The only notable limitation when attacking
these monsters is their immunity to non-magic weapons.

  Sivak: The characters should have little trouble.

  Fire Lizard: No special defenses.

  Rhino Beetle:    "        "

  Wyndlass:        "        "

  Vodyanoi:        "        "

  Hatori:          "        "

  Kuo-Toa: These 'men fish' have an intense hatred of the other humanoid races.
They are immune to spells which affect other humanoids (Sleep, Charm, Hold,
etc.) and are unaffected by poison or paralysis attacks (Stinking Clouds won't
work). Magic Missles have no effect, so hit their spell casters with normal
weapons.

  Dread Wolf: This vile servant of Takjisis is immune to all forms of magic. His
low armor class combined with six attacks per round makes him a formidable
opponent. For spellcasters, the best strategy would be to cast a Haste spell as
soon as possible (or before combat), surrond the beast and whittle him away with
the best magical weapons you have (keep in mind that the dread wolf is larger
than a man when choosing your weapon.)




                               JOURNAL ENTRIES  
                               ---------------

  The following journal entries are TRUE: 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16,
18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 33, 36, 37 (map), 38, 39, 40,
41, 42, 44 (map), 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 51, 52, 54, 55, 57, 58, 59, 66.
   



                        MAGIC ITEMS: WHERE TO FIND THEM
                        -------------------------------

Weapons
---------------------------------------------------------
Darts+3 (x4)                  Dulcimer
Darts of the Hornet's Nest    Kalaman
Mace+2                        Gargath Outpost
Mace+4                        Kuo-Toa
Mace+4                        Fun House
Mace+4                        Shipwreck
Mace of Disruption            Cerberus
Scimitar+3                    Shipwreck
Long Sword+3                  Vingaard Keep
Long Sword+4                  Dulcimer
Short Sword+2                 Turef
Short Sword+4                 Tunnels Beneath Crypt
2-H Sword+3                   Dargaard level 1
Quarterstaff+2                Cekos
Olin's Quartestaff            Cursed Village
Dragonlance                   Dragon Pit
Composite Long Bow+2          Throtl Keep
Long Bow+3                    Kuo-Toa
Short Bow+3                   Dragon Pit
Arrow+2 (x10)                 Throtl Keep
Arrow+3 (x10)                 Kuo-Toa
Staff Sling+3                 Tunnels Beneath Crypt
Hoopak+3                      Tunnels Beneath Crypt

Armor
---------------------------------------------------------
Leather+3                     Dragon Pit
Chain Mail+2                  Cerberus
Chain Mail+4                  Kuo-Toa
Banded Mail+2                 Kalaman
Banded Mail+3                 Shipwreck
Plate Mail+2                  Dragon Pit
Plate Mail+3                  Dragon Pit
Plate Mail+4                  Dargaard level 2
Shield+2                      Dragon Pit
Shield+4                      Turef

Scrolls
---------------------------------------------------------
Protection from Dragon Breath Dulcimer
Red Mage Scroll
 (Fire Shield, Iron Skin,
  Disintegrate)               Vingaard Keep
Red Mage Scroll
 (Iron Skin, Stone to Flesh,
  Stun)                       Fun House
Red Mage Scroll
 (Mass Invisibility, Blind,
  Flesh to Stone)             Dulcimer
White Mage Scroll
 (Ol Dance, Mind Blank,
  Mass Charm)                 Cekos
White Mage Scroll
 (Death Spell, Fireball,
  Invulnerability)            Cursed Village
White Mage Scroll
 (Cloudkill, Cone of Cold,
  Hold Monster)               Dragon Pit
Clerical Scroll
 (Resurrection, Restoration
  x2)                         Dragon Pit
Clerical Scroll
 (Heal, Raise Dead,
  Restoration)                Kalaman

Potions
---------------------------------------------------------
Speed                         Gnome Village
Healing                       Gnome Village
Extra Healing                 Dargaard level 2
Invisibility                  Dulcimer
Elixir of Youth               Kalaman

Wands
---------------------------------------------------------
Ice Storm                     Throtl Keep
Fireball                      Gargath Outpost
Lightning                     Dulcimer
Paralyzation                  Cekos

Rings
---------------------------------------------------------
Protection+1                  Gargath Outpost
Protection+2                  Cursed Village
Protection+3                  Cerberus

Miscellaneous
---------------------------------------------------------
Necklace of Missles           Dargaard level 3
Periapt of Proof Vs. Poison   Father of Trees
Girdle of Frost Giant
 Strength                     Fun House
Gauntlets of Ogre Power       Cerberus
Boots of Speed                Father of Trees
Eyes of Charming              Gnome Village
Cloak of Displacement         Turef