Deuteros


 CHEAT MODE:

 During play, press [CapsLock] and then press the [C] key twice.
 The background should turn red with the first press and then back to
 normal with the second to show that the cheat is on.
 You will have to put up with co-ordinates, but you will find from then
 on that while that is engaged you will always have one of everything in
 stock. Building factories while the cheat mode is on, though not the
 earth factory, will mean it takes one orbital factory section to build
 a complete factory and a resource station will automatically be built
 as well.
 To turn the cheat off, press [CapsLock] again and press the [C] key
 twice again (the background will turn green with the first press).

The Solve 
---------
This solve is not in FULL detail bacause it would take much too long to write
step by step everything you are to do. Well here it is!


Ok, the first thing to do at the beginning is to train 200 producers, 250
researchers, and 41 marines. Once you have them trained start building rigs
and at the same time research all the stuff that you have. Once you have 8 
rigs make them mine. After you researched everything build a shuttle and 
equip it with a factory section. Send it into space and set up the first
section. Land and get another section and repeat this until the factory is 
complete. Now your scientists should have come up with the IOS and its
attachments. Build the IOS and equip it with more factory sections and send
it to build more factories. Do not set up more than 5 factories because the
Methanoids will declare war on you. The best planets to build factories at
are Earth, Moon, Venus, Leda, and Callisto. After you have these factories
launch an IOS equiped with 3 grapples to the asteroids. Go inside the ship
and activate the grapple. Then pass a few days until the computer scans and
finds an asteroid. Pass days some more until a suitable asteroid made of the
mineral you need to make the R Frame appears and is not more than 250T in 
mass. Retrieve the asteroid and go to any factory. Click on the grapple that
has the asteroid and the mineral will be extracted from it. Now you can build
the R Frames. Equip one R Frame onto a shuttle and land with it on a planet.
You must have a factory over that planet though. Click on the Tool Pod which
contains the Frame and the computer will correctly position it. Launch and
get another frame and do the same thing. Now you have a Resource station.
Make these resource stations on every planet that you have an orbital factory
over (remember, no more than five factories). On each of your 5 factories,
including Earth, make sure you have 8 rigs that are mining. Also, on each 
factory you should have a shuttle with an ACC bringing up all the needed
minerals that the rigs are producing to the factory. Ok, before you start the
war with the Methanoids 4 of your factories should have all of these minerals
each: 24000T of Iron, 24000T of Titanium, 24000T of Aluminum, 3000T of 
Carbon, 11000T of Copper, 6000T of Paladium, and 6000T of platinum. This will
take you a long time to do but it's the only way. Also you should have an AOC
on each of these 4 factories. Have alot of fuel on Earth and Leda and also
a IOS with a tool pod ready in Space bay on both of these factories before 
starting the war. Now send an IOS and build the 6th factory and you will 
receive a message from the Methanoids. Pass a day and your scientists will
invent the Drone Computer and the Drones. Research these two and build two
drone computers one on Earth and one on Leda. At the same time make the 
AOC build drones on the other two. Once you have the drone computers built 
make the two other factories build drones. Set the AOC on automatic drone 
building so you won't have to run around from factory to factory to set
production. While your factories are building drones install the two drone 
computers onto the IOSs that you have on Earth and Leda. Fuel the ships and
put Admirals in as their pilots. Launch both of them. Go inside the one that
is around Leda and click on the Battle Computer and add all the drones that
Leda has built to the fleet. Keep adding drones one by one until you reach 
about 20. Then go to the IOS that is around Earth and add the drones that are
there to the fleet. Then fly the IOS to the closest factory that is producing
drones which is the Moon and add those drones to the fleet. Next fly the IOS
to Callisto and take those drones and then fly to Leda and Remove all the 
drones you collected to the pool and fly back to Earth. Then with the other
IOS that is around Leda add all those drones to the fleet. You should now
have an IOS around Leda with around 80 to 90 drones. Always keep this IOS
around Leda because that is the place the Methanoids will attack first. If
they attack Callisto just fly the IOS from Leda to Callisto. When the 
Methanoids attack one of your factories you have 4 days to get an IOS there
and defeat them. Ok, now build 20 more drones on all 4 factories and collect
them with the IOS that is in Earth orbit and take them to Leda. Put them in 
pool and fly back to Earth. Now with the other IOS add them to the fleet and
you should have about 160 to 170 drones. Keep doing this and if you succeed
in getting 200 drones before they attack you save the game and attack 
Jupiter. If you loose then load the game. If you win the IOS will 
automatically dock at the factory. Now quickly click on the PANIC icon (Self-
Destruct Mechanism) and then back to the IOS and take off fast. The factory
will be destroyed. Pass a day or two and your scientists will copy the 
Methanoid's Self-Destruct Mechanism. Research it and build it on all of your
factories. Now keep building drones and keep transfering them to Leda. Also
fly the IOS that is around Jupiter to Leda. Once you have another 200 drones
attack Uranus. Save first though. When you win click on the PANIC icon and 
switch the two levers at the right side of the screen. That should deactivate
the Self-Destruct Mech. Now go to Stores on Uranus and then click on Switch
Storerooms and you will see the M.T.X. Pass a day or two and your scientists
will copy the M.T.X. Build this on all factories. Now all the drones you
build on the 4 factories make the M.T.X automatically transfer them to 
Uranus. Build more drones and attack the Methanoids at Titania, then at 
Neptune, then at Triton and at Pluto. After you conquer Pluto your scientists
will find plans for the S.C.G in the Methanoids records and also the Star
drones. Don't build it YET and don't worry about it YET. Now build an IOS
on Neptune and install the D.F.C.C into it and launch it into orbit. Also 
build an IOS on Callisto and install the D.F.C.C into it and launch it into
orbit. While you are doing this make sure those 4 factories are building 
drones and sending them to Uranus. Also fly the IOS with which you conquered 
Pluto to Uranus. Forget about Pluto, if the Methanoids attack it just nuke
it. The Methanoids will keep attacking you even though they have no more 
factories in that solar system. Now with the IOS that is around Uranus 
collect all the drones that are there into the remaining fleet. Keep building
them until you have 200. Now wherever they attack you can defend it. If they
attack you at Titania just fly your IOS from Uranus to Titania, save it first
and kick their butt. It will take 4 days to fly there but that is enough. 
After you win return the IOS to Uranus. If they attack you at Leda just 
remove the drones from the IOS that is around Uranus and transport them by
the M.T.X to Callisto. At Callisto you should have an IOS so just add them
to the fleet and fly to Leda and kick their butt again. You should have
4 IOSs with the D.F.C.C. One around Earth, one around Callisto, one around
Uranus and one around Neptune. All of your factories will be protected in
this way except Venus which they will not attack in a LONG time. Keep 
building drones and transporting them to Uranus. You must also build as many
orbital factories as you can (16 is the limit for every solar system). Make
sure that you have IOSs with the D.F.C.C to protect them all. Try to pick
planets that have good resources (the most needed resources later in the game
are paladium and silver). Oh! equip an IOS with a grapple on Earth and launch
it into orbit. Activate the grapple and you will find the first part of the
UNKNOWN item. Seven more parts to go! Stock up on resources and make 3 
factories build star drones but keep building the IOS drones too. This will
take you a while to do. Build an S.C.G and equip it with the D.F.C.C. Oh, I 
hope you researched the S.C.G and the special fuel since only Uranus can 
produce it. Collect the drones with the S.C.G and make sure you have full 
fuel. Now most of the rest you will have to do yourself cause it is a pain
for me to explain it to you. Every time you conquer a solar system the race
that has been sending messages to you will tell you the location of the next
part to the Unknown Item. Also, every time you conquer a solar system your
scientists will research a new item (well almost every time). You only need
to conquer seven other solar systems to win the game even though there are     
eight. Now what you must do is send the S.C.G with the star drones to a 
system with the least amount of planets (Proxima will do). Fly to Pacific
and conquer it. Then transport some star drones to Pacific and add them to
the fleet to make a full 200. Now fly to Barent and conquer that too. 
Transport a grapple and a tool pod to Barent and equip it on to the S.C.G.
Pass a day or two and the aliens will tell you the location of the next part.
Fly to that planet and take the item with the grapple and fly back to Barent.
Remove the item for research and equip the D.F.C.C onto the ship and refuel.
After a few days your scientists should invent a formula that will allow you 
to fly faster than the speed of light. Research the formula. Also make sure
you have an IOS with drones to protect the two planets in that system. Now
since you can fly to any system and back very fast you should make all of
your Admirals into Warlords so the strenght of the IOS drones will be 
increased. An Admiral changes into a Warlord just by flying to another system
faster than the speed of light. So fly all of your Admirals to Proxima and 
back until all of them are Warlords. The rest is very simple, build up 
drones, attack another system, conquer it, retreive the part of the Unknown
item, build up more drones and repeat this process until you have conquered
7 systems and have all parts to the Unknown item. Once you have all the parts
the aliens will send you a message with the instructions on how to use it.
Build the item and put it on a tool pod onto an S.C.G. Launch the S.C.G into
orbit and activate the item in the tool pod. You will then see the END 
sequence and you have finished Deuteros.                                                      
                                                  -Sycon