                        Goal! - Hint `n` Tips
                        =====================


 If you have a man or two sent off during the game, then call up the
 subs bench (by pressing the left [Alt] key), click on the man who was
 sent off and a new man will then come on.
 You can only perform this little trick twice.


Goal isn`t the easiest game in the world to play - but show me a Dino 
Dini game that it! It`s a game based on skill and foresight, not pure 
luck as so many other football games seem to be. These copious tips are
dedicated to helping you develop those skills as quickly as possible, 
as well as pointing out what the skills actually are, of course. Fasten
your seatbelts and get ready for a crash course!

Hot Rod
-------

Just like driving a car, you need to know your vehicle and how it works
before you can even begin to start popping wheelies and wheelspin 
starts. Examine the entire team, checking out their speed and 
capabilities, and even try to learn which players are best at what. Too
many goal attempts are foiled simply be using the wrong player, so 
remember what each is good at when they are under your control and use 
them in that capacity. If you are controlling a striker who is adept at
shooting, then shoot. If, however, he is more attuned to passing, then 
pass to some one who is good at shooting then shoot. You might not get as
many shots at the goal this way but the likelihood of actually scoring
will increase.

Watch your speed too. You might be able to get from 0 to 60 in seconds 
but what`s the use if you immediately lose control of the ball the second
you try to turn? Go into practice mode and run with the ball at 
different speeds with different players. See how fast you can go before 
you lose control and try to keep to those speeds in the game.
Unfortunately, it`s a lot easier to be tackled when running at low 
speeds, but if you have the reflexes you need never lose the ball again!
Well, occasionally maybe.

Football shorts don`t come with screw-in studs, so keep your players on
their feet! Beware of sliding unnecessarily - the only way to do that is
keep your finger OFF the fire button until you`re sure that a tackle will
connect or that you will definitely get the ball. Stabbing frantically 
will result in your team lying on the floor while the opposition run rings
around them, and that`s if you`re lucky. In a worst case scenario you`ll
end up fouling someone and before long you`ll start losing players.
Remember: Careless play costs players.

Defend Yourself
---------------

If you`re one of those people who find that every time they try to move
they get tackled, then try to figure out what`s going wrong with your
playing style. Are you attempting long passes without first checking the
scanner? Are you trying to get too far or do too much with a single 
player? If so, then you need to learn the benefits of defensive play.

Practice passing as often as possible, as this stops the computer teams
from homing in and marking you. You`ll soon find that playing like this
will get you far further up the field than hoofing the ball as hard as 
you can.

There is another way to pass, you know. You don`t have to use the Dini
passing system if you don`t want to. One way to do it is to run with the
ball towards another player, and then stop dead in your tracks. As you
would predict the ball will continue rolling, right to the feet of the 
next player. As the ball is travelling, control will swap between the two
players, so you should be ready to grab the ball and run.

Watch very carefully for computer players coming in to tackle, especially
when you are waiting to pass. Quickly check the posistions of other
computer players and see if you are going to be able to make a pass 
without being intercepted. If you can`t you`re going to have to hold your
own for a moment until you have a clear pass. The easiest way to do this 
is to keep your back to the attacking player all the time. This way he
won`t tackle you - computer players only tackle from the front and sides.
However don`t keep it for too long, as sooner or later he will get fed up
waiting for you and sliding tackle you from behind - you never know, the
referee might not see the foul.

Taking Risks
------------

The best place to try and score from is the nine-yard box. Yes, it 
probably sounds very risky - and in most cases it is, as the keeper will
invariably just step forward and take the ball from you.

What you want to do in the spare moments you are sometimes allowed is get
in a supershot. This is a shot calculated by the computer to beat the
keeper, with height and direction figured out on your behalf. All you 
need to do is tap the fire button and see what happens. This doesn`t 
always happen, of course, but if you have a player with a good shooting
ability, well, you never know.

Headers are easy to perform but very hard to control. No matter how exact
you try to be, there`s no definite way to set the direction the ball will
travel in. Overhead kicks are a far safer idea, so practice them as often
as possible. It`s a much more predictable way of turning the direction of
play while remaining in control of the game.

Finally a word on aftertouch - a much neglected and wasted part of the
Goal! armoury. Using aftertouch is a true test of skill, and can make the
game immensely satisfying to play if you can get the hang of it. Spend 
some time practicing the various aftertouch curves and dips, especially
into the goal from odd angles, and you`ll be surprised at the difference 
it makes to your scoring ratio.

Once you have the hang of it, try this shot: line yourself up with one of
the goalposts in your opponent`s end and then run towards it with the 
ball. Now shoot directly forward, and then steer the ball inward towards
the centre of the goal. Most shots of this nature will force the keeper 
to dive towards the post, leaving the ball to sail into the net.