                    GUNSHIP 2000 - HINTS `N` TIPS
                    =============================

o   When you begin playing the game, fly in Europe instead of the
    Persian Gulf. The missions in Europe are generally a bit easier due
    to the terrain of the area. Always try to fly along the rivers as
    you will then be below ground level and the enemy will find it very
    difficult to shoot you down. In some parts of Europe there are
    steep cliffs either side of the river, flying between these provides
    the player with almost perfect cover.

o   If you get a mission where one of the targets is to destroy a train,
    always aim for the engine, destroying this will immobilise the rest
    of the train. You can also fly through the tunnels which provide the
    player with perfect cover from enemy radar and missiles.

o   You should always set the co-pilot to activate the chaff and flares.
    The co-pilot is fairly good at using both the jammers and chaff/
    flares, and as your rank increases, he will improve. When you are
    attacking a target, the last thing you want to be doing is trying
    to jam enemy missiles.

o   Use the hills as much as possible to sneak up on targets, the
    zoomed in map will show you the terrain in detail. When you have
    sneaked up on a target using the hills, wait for them to fire and
    then attack. When attacking targets from this kind of cover there
    are two good methods for attacking the target.

1)  The pop-up attack
    Using this method you put the chopper into a hover just before the
    hill, and then use the shift plus key to increase your height very
    quickly. Lock on to the target which you can now see over the hill
    and wait until it fires. When the target fires at you, use shift
    minus to quickly decrease your altitude and effectively hide behind
    the hill. When the enemy missile hits the other side of the hill
    pop up again, lock on to the target and fire. Your missile should
    then destroy the target before it gets chance to fire again.

2)  Sneaking around the sides of hills
    Using this method, the target should be very close to the hill that
    you are using. You fly around the side of the hill and destroy the
    target using the cannon, before it gets a chance to fire.

3)  Combining the two techniques
    You can also combine the two methods very effectively. Hover behind
    a hill and then pop up. Let the target fire at you and then hide
    behind the hill again. Now fly around the hill. The target will
    still be expecting you to come over the hill and will have to turn
    towards you again before it can fire.

o   Whenever the Longbow Apache is available, use it. It is the only
    chopper that gives you the long range hellfire weapon systems which
    are invaluable in the battle field.


o   If the Longbow Apache is not available, the Comanche Gunship is a
    good alternative. If you fly a Comanche Gunship, give your wing men
    Apaches, then when you fly in the mission the ememy will lock on
    to your wing men and not on to you. This gives you the chance to
    get close to just about any target and destroy it with cannon fire.

o   If you have to transport, rescue or pick up anything always double
    check that you have a Blackhawk in your squadron. There`s nothing
    more frustrating than arriving in the battle zone and finding out
    you haven`t got the choppers you need to complete the mission.

o   When you have to transport or pick something up, always destroy
    all the hostile targets in the immediate area to create a free
    zone.

o   On search and destroy missions, fly around the suspected target
    area in a triangle. Use the normal map to set this flight path.
    Once the objective has been sighted it`s posistion on the map is
    updated.

o   If you send your wing men out to attempt a reconnaissance mission,
    make sure you put their weapons on hold when they are near the
    target, otherwise they will destroy the target when it fires at
    them. When you`re on a reconnaissance mission it is best to use
    choppers with a mast, since they can observe the target from
    further away. As soon as you get confirmation that the objective
    has been acheived, set the wind men weapons to free so that they
    can destroy hostile targets again.

o   Always promote your section leaders to the highest ranks. The
    section leaders usually get fired at most because they fly in front
    most of the time. Remember as their rank increases their ability
    improves. They will become better at using the Jammers and Chaff/
    Flares and won`t get hit so much when they reach the higher ranks.

o   If you run out of chaff or flares it is best to use the outside
    views to try and dodge the incoming missiles.

    Weapons
    -------

o   Some targets need two hits from hellfire missiles, the most common
    target that takes two hits is enemy infantry. It is best to destroy
    these with cannons if possible. Rockets can also destroy infantry
    units with one hit.

o   Practice using the rockets a lot as you can carry lots of them. 
    Once you have mastered the aiming process, they are one of the most
    useful weapons because you do not have to stay locked on to the
    target when you fire. They are also very useful for attacking
    multiple targets. If the targets you attack have good armour, make
    sure you use the salvo options to fire more rockets at them.

o   When you are approaching more than one target always destroy the
    target with the longest range first. The SAMs quite often have a
    range of 14KM they are also quick at reloading and firing again.
    It is usually better to destroy a target instead of running away
    once it has tracked you.

    Miscellaneous
    -------------

o   If there isn`t a FARP point in the mission and you are short of
    missiles and fuel, landing at the base will also replenish your
    supplies.

o   If your HUD is damaged do not panic, make sure you check your
    altimeter straight away and get the chopper into level flight. Then
    put the nose down until you reach a reasonable speed (keep an eye
    on the altimeter). Now fly using the cockpit dials.

o   If you are unsure whether a target is friendly or not, just pause the
    game and it will tell you. If you destroy friendly targets you will
    lose points from your overall mission score.

o   Always try to complete both objectives in 30 game minutes or less. A
    clock is shown in the top left corner of the HUD. If you take longer
    than this, points are deducted from your final score.