DEJA VU: A NIGHTMARE COMES TRUE!!!

*** Clues and Hints ***

{The following is a complete copy of the $3.00 xerox Mindscape sends you!}
{After you pay up to $45 for the game!!! Enjoy. The Paw!}

We hope you enjoy being lost in another world, dazed, and maybe a bit
confussed. If you are TOO lost and need help, take a look inside-but just a
peek!

GENERAL GAME MECHANICS:

All commands are executed by using the mouse to click on a command and/or on
an item.

TO OPEN A DOOR: Click on OPEN then on the door to be opened.
TO UNLOCK A DOOR: Click on the key, then on OPERATE, then on the door or
                  lock.
TO PAY MONEY TO SOMEONE OR SOMETHING: Click on the money, click on the
                  OPERATE command, then click on the person you wish to pay.
TO PAY FOR A CAB RIDE: Click on the money, click on OPERATE, click on the
                       pay slot (labeled "Pay Here").
TO FIRE A GUN: Click on the gun, then on OPERATE, then on the target.
               (If this doesn't work, open the gun and make sure you still
                have unfired bullets of the right caliber. The game has both
                .38 specals and {for the luger} 9 mm. Be sure and ckeck the
                hookers purse. The Paw!)
TO LOOK INSIDE ANYTHING: Click on OPEN, then on the thing you wish to look
                         into.

IN THE BAR
"I can't get out of the bar!"
+You obviously haven't tried very hard!

+Have you found the body? If not, you probably haven't looked inside your
coat and/or wallet. Use the OPEN command to open the coat, then open the
wallet. Examine what you find. There is a key thet might have something to
do with a locked office upstairs. If you have been in the office, but you
still can't get out, open EVERYTHING you find there...including the
corpse...to search for information. You should be able to find the key you
need to go out the front door. Of course there are at least three other
exits besides the front door...

"What is the combination to the safe?"
+You will find it later in the game. You'll know it when you see it.

ON THE STREET
"How do I get past the big, nasty, mean mugger?"

+Shoot him.
"How do I get past the nice, little, weasily mugger?"

+Either pay him some amount of money or hit him.  Note that although hitting
him is a lot of fun, it will eventually prove fatal...to you.

"How do I get past the 'nice lookin lady'?"
+Slug the dame.

"I can't get the newsboy to do anything."
+You're right.

"Is the bum's information worth twenty bucks?"
+There is only one way to find out.

"How do I get past the construction pit?"
+You can't.

"What good is a gun shop?"
+Most people use them to purchase guns and ammunition.  (Except on Sunday,
of course, when the shops are closed for the day.)

THE MERCEDES

"Where is the car key?"
+In the private office in the bar.

"How do I defuse the bomb?"
+You can't.

"I can't enter the back seat!"
+You're right.

"Why is the darn car even in the game?"
+1)  To blow up careless players.
+2) So you will look in the glove compartment for the registration.

THE SEWER

"How do I get past the alligator?"
+Bang.

THE CASINO

"How do I win any money?"
+Play the right-most slot machine until you win.

THE CABS

"How do I pay the cabby?"
+OPERATE the money on the pay slot (labeled "Pay Here").

"I can't get him to take me anywhere!"
+Be explicit. The cabbies only know five addresses. SPEAK to the cabby and
type the street address exactly as you found it (i.e. "934 West Sherman").

"How do I get change from the cabby?"
+You can't.  He thinks you are a big tipper.  You need to have enough
change, and to get it, you need to win it in the casino.

JOEY SIEGEL'S APARTMENT

"The elevator doesn't work!"
+Sure it does.  Look in your wallet.  Do you see anything that might have
something to do with this building...in particular with the slot in the
wall?  Ever hear of an access card?  OPERATE the card on the slot.

THE BUNGALO

"How do I get in?"
+Be tough.  Be mean.  Think like a hard-boiled, well-armed detective.  Shoot
the darn lock off!  A small, wooden screen door is unlikely to stand up to
gun fire.

ACE'S AND THE DOCTOR'S OFFICE

"I can't get in."
+Have you been to the bungalo?  If not, have you been to the apartment?  If
not, have you been inside the Mercede Benz?  Find the address to the
apartment.  Find the address of the bungalo.  Get the key from the bungalo.
THEN you can get into the office.

"I can get into one office, but not the other!"
+There is a thing called a master key which opens all locks in a building.
You might want to try it on the other office.

"Every time I go into my office, I get shot!"
+Shoot first.  THROUGH the glass.

"I can't get the filing cabinet in the Dr.'s office open."
+Well, shoot.

"I cant open the drug cabinet."
+You're right.  That's because its already open.

"How do I use the drugs?"
+OPERATE the syring on the vial.  OPERATE the newly-filled syring on SELF.

"What syringe?"
+Tsk, tsk...the one you didn't find in the strange room at the bar.
Remember--ALWAYS look in wastebaskets at the scene of a crime.

"What is the address of the bar?"
+Re-examine all objects after your memory returns.  You may notice new
details that escaped you before...like the address of the bar on the road
map.


MEMORY IS BACK...NOW WHAT?
"I've done everything, now what?"
+Have you had a chat with the fat lady?

"What fat lady?"
+The one in the trunk of the mercedes.

"How do I get the trunk open?"
+With a key.

"Where is the key?"
+In the office safe.

"Where is the combination?"
+In the bungalo.

"I can't get the gag off."
+Try dragging it off with the mouse...like every other object in the game.

"She won't talk to me."
+Give her something to get her talking. Sodium pentathol comes to mind.

+And no, you can't get her out of the trunk. She weighs too much.

AT THE MANSION
"I can't get the buttler to let me in."
+I know this is getting repetitious, but slug him.

"I can't wake the sleepers."
+Try to get them talking in their sleep. Like you did with the fat lady.

"I can't find the money from the briefcase."
+Neither can I.

"The notepad is blank. What good is it?"
+Haven't you ever watched a Sherlock Holmes movie? OPERATE a pencil on the
pad. EXAMINE the newly-penciled pad. The pencil will expose the indentations
from the previous sheet.

OK, I KNOW IT ALL...NOW WHAT?
When you have all the evidence against the Sternwood/Siegel/Vickers ring, go
to the police with your findings. If you are arrested, read the final text
carefully to find out why you were arrested. All of the false evidence tying
you the murder/kidnapping needs to be disposed of or the police won't
believe you.

Final evidence requirements:
Against the crooks:
1) Marsha Vickers' diary
2) Siegel's note to Sternwood offering to sell him Vickers
3) The timetable

To be destroyed:
1) The bad checks tying you to Siegal
2) The false letter from your files that ties you to the kidnapping
3) The gun used in the murder

Evidence can be burned, flushed, or droped in the whirlpool in the sewer.
The whirlpool is the ONLY safe place to dispose of the gun.

END ...... Hope you enjoy the game.....The Paw!