Dizzy - Prince of the Yolkfolk!

Solved by Hoson/Nemesis & Rebel/FairLight in April 1992

STARTING:

When you start the game you are trapped in a cave. 
Pick up the match, the pile of leaves and the bucket of water.
Use 'pile of leaves', 'match' and 'bucket of water' on the door. 
The door will burn up.

Go left until you meet the green troll at the bridge. 
Pick up the pickaxe. Go east to a man who will give you his flying carpet.
Don't bother to pick it up since you don't need it to complete the game.

Continue walking eastwards until you find a small cage lying beside a wounded
lion. Pick up the cage. Jump onto the clouds and get the bridge kit. Go east
one picture. Use the pickaxe on the boulder. Enter the secret cave. Pick up the
gold nugget and the cherries. Go west until you reach the boat, use the boat to
reach the the ferryman. He will take your goldnugget. Talk to the ferryman, and
he will tell you that his boat is slow. Behind the ghettoblaster lies a cherry.
West of the ferryman is a little cute puffle. Drop the cage besides the puffle.

Walk on the paths in the trees until you come to a gap in the path. Use the
bridgekit here. Now cross the bridge and go east until you reach the clouds,
jump on them until you've landed on the tower of the castle. Go down the tower
and pick up the golden harp. 

Now go back to the trees and walk to the treetops. Go as far to the left as
you can and jump. You will land on a cloud, pick up the cherry. Keep jumping
until you come to Saint Per. Give him the golden harp you found in the castle.
He will give you a holy cheese. Drop the cheese in the little cage beside
the cute puffle. The puffle will go into the trap. Pick up the cage, you will
now have a puffle cage. Go back to the green troll at bridge near the western
castle. Drop the cage on the bridge, the troll will run away. You can now
enter the castle. Pick up the outboard motor in the first room. Use the lifts
to get to the top of the castle. Get the cherries and the rusty key. Don't
bother to pick up the tasty bread, you won't need it. Now go back to the ferry-
man and give him the outboard motor. He will give you his scythe.

Now, when you have the scyte run to the eastern castle and vip the
rose-bushes away. Don't take the magic potion nor the spanner yet.
Collect the sherries, stars and coins etc (make sure you find the bugle). 
Take the lift up to the tower and take the tweezers, now go back to the
lion and help him get rid of the splinter. 

Grab the splinter, go back to the same castle again and put it on the
floor above where your ghost walks. Make your ghost touch the splinter
and God will now have mercy on his soul. You may now take the spanner
as the trap is no longer activated. Run back to man you got the flying
carpet from and give him the bugle. He will now give you a jolly 
jokesbook. 
 
Go to the castle to the left and find the old and rusty mechanic
machinery, start it with the spanner, the bridge will now fall down and
lead you to the princess. Give the Princess the jolly Jokebook and you 
will get a flag from her. Back to the castle again (the one you just 
left). Find the flagstaff at the top of the tower and raise the flag.
The man with the bugle will now appear on the screen so have a chat with
him until the King arrives.
 
When the King has made you a Prince, go to the castle where Daisy sleeps
and don't talk - just kiss!!   Congratulations, you made it!!
 
This solve- and hintsfile was made by REBEL / FAIRLIGHT & HOSON / NEMESIS
on the 14th of April 1992.