Hare Raising Havoc 

 
 CHEAT MODE:

 Hold down the left [Alt], [Ctrl], [Shift] and [F5] to skip scenes.


             Solve for Roger Rabbit's Hare Raising Havoc

     (Don't mind the keys, this solve is from the Peecee! [RYGAR])

     Rather than continuing to respond to a zillion "how do i get
     past this screen?" questions, here it is, from memory on Hare
     Raising Havoc.  The enter key is the action key, and the arrow
     keys move old roger around.  I made it to the top of the
     dairy, I didnt solve that scene which I believe to be the last
     one.  There is a built in cheat, if you press alt-control-
     shift and f5 simultaneously you will go to the next screen. 
     From the top of the dairy, pressing that produces the mom is
     home and where is baby herman screen, so I dont know if some
     successful action on the rooftop rewards you with some ending
     sequence.
     If you only have an Adlib board and no soundblaster, pop for
     the $22 and get youself a Sound Source.  I did and you get all
     the digitized speech and music, which blows  your adlib away,
     plus installation is a five minute idiot proof.  No board, you
     just plug the device into the back of your printer port and
     plug your printer cable into the back of the device.  Add a 9
     volt battery in the box with the speaker and presto.  An
     excellent investment which also will work on Dick Tracy (ho
     hum) and on the Upcoming Rocketeer (Yeah!!!).
     This is all from memory if I leave something out lord knows
     you should be able to figure it out.  If you can't use the
     secondary cheat, press control-alt-delete at the same time.

     Living Room

     Go left, press enter to lower the ironing board.  Go right,
     just past the ottoman (foot rest) and kick it left.  One step
     left, pick up magnet.  Go to fishbowl, use magnet to get key. 
     Not necessary but you get more time later.  Go to left middle
     seat of couch, jump up and keep jumping until fan is turned
     on.  Get down, go to right seat of couch jump up and down
     until you wind up in the fan.  You must press enter as Roger
     goes left, bad timing and you hit the door and must repeat
     this.  When you go left the escape sequence activates, going
     off ironing board to ottoman through top vent over door.

     Kitchen

     Turn on burners on stove.  Use key on locks.  If you get
     timer, fine that's it.  If you get cheese, put it down next to
     mice and grab them when they come out.  This gives you more
     time too for some reason.  Now go nest to right door and move
     old fashioned clothes dryer.  Now go left and eat stuff out of
     refrigerator until banana peel shows (if you screw up from
     here, return to refrigerator and cycle through food to banana
     again).  Go over banana peel and hit enter as you hit table or
     you will not go over the sink.  On the sink hit enter until
     all dishes are trashed.  Walk left, stand on burners.  On
     light, use arrow keys to swing and hit enter when going right,
     this activates the escape sequence through the dryer.

     Bathroom

     My favorite.  Although they add nothing to the solve, you
     should throw the rubber ducky and even better, by the toilet
     paper hit enter.  I love it, he wraps himself in the paper. 
     I think this was my favorite superfluous sequence, even better
     that Jessica saying "Did you hurt yourself" in the
     Construction sequence.  Oh yeah, the solve.

     Move over to the chair, get up and get towel.  get down, put
     towel over water.  go back, kick stool over towel.  Get up,
     and get soap.  Go right, jump on scale until skylight is open. 
     Go right, turn on fan.  Do not turn heater off!!!  Pick up
     plumber aid which sticks to right wall (if it sticks to left
     go pull it again it will go to right wall). Go left, turn on
     water.  Play with soap in water.  Soap goes on floor.  Go step
     on soap that goes in toilet.  Go back up on shelf where you
     got soap.  Go right on top on towels and press left or enter
     to activate sequence, which does not require action from you. 
     You should land on scale, bounce off aid, into toilet, down
     toilet, come out as bubble and float out.

     BAckyard

     Walk right into rake.  Whoops, just kidding.  Turn water on. 
     Going left blocks water in hose.  Then go right, press up and
     enter to grab line.  Use arrows to swing or you will drop.  Go
     right, drop past rake.  Spill fertilizer on tree.  Get bucket
     on far right.  (For fun, swing on tire and have dog bite your
     ass or grab the burning steaks).  Walk left through rake to
     water.  Put bucket down and let it fill.  Pick up bucket.  Go
     back across rope same as before.  Put water from bucket on
     steaks.  (Step over Two Steps exactly here or time will expire
     on fire and it will return).  Grab steaks, one will flop onto
     see-saw.  Go to tree and shake i think three times for apple
     to drop on see saw and send steak to dog.  Get on swing, swing
     right left and hit enter going left to get over fence quickly
     or time will expire on dog and he will return.

     Street Scene

     Pick up ball.  Put in hydrant.  Turn on hydrant.  Get on Pogo
     stick and get on wire (you should have this concept down by
     now).  Go right on wire to bird.  Drop down, get feather.  Go
     back up on wire and stop just lsft of clown.  Press enter
     twice to tickle clowns nose.  Magnet will drop.  Drop down,
     get into garbage can.  Walk over with garbage can on you and
     slowly bet magnet over to right over the manhole, which will
     come up after you move off it.  Dump garbage can, come back
     press down and enter.

     Construction Scene

     This one gave me fits for some reason.  Check out jessica for
     fun.  Tilt the mixer.  Get a brick, put it in the mixer.  Get
     some dynamiter, put it in the mixer.  Elevator now comes down
     halfway.  Repeat brick and dynamite.  Elevator now all the way
     down.  Get dynamite and set mixer upright.  Get on elevator,
     kick bricks.   Go right, grab onto hook and drop into mixer. 
     on wood, saw until you drop into hole.

     Milk sequence.

     Turn on switch, left side.  Go to far right control (QC FIR
     QUALITY CONTROL) and hit enter on all bottles with tops on
     them.  Good ones will go into the crates, bad ones will break. 
     Go to first wheel on left, press when empty dirty bottles come
     by, it will clean them.  Go to second wheel and press to label
     all bottles.  Go to fourth wheel and press enter to fill with
     milk (just inside arm is the right timing, ill let you scope
     out the timing on the others, not too hard to figure).  Go to
     third wheel to add rubber tops to bottles (tougher timing
     actually).  Start at quality control and repeat as necessary
     to fill all crates and get to roof

     Roof.

     Beats me, tried all five keys got the same result each time,
     through the door and scolded by mommy.

     FIXED BY RYGAR!