Harlequin


 TIP/CHEAT:

 Guide the Harlequin to the jigsaw puzzle section whilst carrying the
 space hopper. When you fall from the kite select the space hopper and
 jump up to the lower of the two platforms above you.
 Disengage the space hopper and jump across to the other platform, then
 leap over the low wall. When you land, keep on firing to see where the
 ground is and move across to the point where you're walking on air.
 Run left until you can go no further then jump up and you'll hit an
 invisible warp. You'll be prompted to insert disk one and now you can
 sit back and watch the end sequence!


 PLAYING TIPS:

 Using the space hopper on water will allow you to skim across the
 surface without drowning.
 Watch out for hidden bonuses located at the following locations:

 The first Tower's clock face.
 The clown's noses in the Learning Curve.
 The taps in the Sewerside.
 The trees and flowers in Cutesy Land.
 The pipe openings in the Organ Chamber.
 The ace of Hearts playing cards in The House of Cards.

 Don't stray in the straws level too long. When the timer runs out, the
 credit tokens disappear and aren't regenerated. However, if you grab as
 many as you can and leave before the timer reaches zero, when you
 re-enter the level, all the credit tokens should be back again.
 By doing this two or three times you will gain an extra life.
 When falling long distances, use the brolly power just before you hit
 the ground. It may only save you a small amount of energy but every
 little counts.
 Heart pieces are located in the Rooftops, Hell, Cutesy Land and Sheet
 Muzak.
 Most levels change in some way during the game so make sure there isn't
 an exit you've missed when you pass through a level which you have
 visited before.
 Save your game frequently as it will take a long time to complete
 (roughly two and a half hours if you take the shortest route).
 Any levels which have water are bound to have a Fish Power token nearby
 so don't venture near it without one.
 Something strange might happen should you hit the right notes in the
 Organ Chamber.