Heimdall 2


 CHEAT MODE:

 Combine the following runes for infinite energy: Operation + Detection.

 Go to Loki's shrine and use the empty bottle on the Font to rise
 a rune. Urgha uses the rune spell to gain invulnerability.


 WALK-THROUGH:

 MIDGARD
 ~~~~~~~
 Rurik's Village:

 Go into the hut that looks like a store room. Open the box at the back
 of the room and take the circulet from inside. Now go and talk to Rurik.

 Eadric's Village:

 Go to Eadric and make peace by giving him the circulet.
 Now go into the pub to get further information about your quest.

 Rurik's Village:

 Go and see Rurik again and give him the peace offering (a letter) from
 Eadric. When you have done this, Rurik will give you a pass for the
 King's castle in return.

 King's Castle:

 Give the guard the pass. Now go and speak to the servant girl and she
 will tell you what to do next.
 Find the room with the large picture whose eyes follow you.
 Walk up to the picture and press fire to reveal a secret entrance.
 Enter the secret bedroom and press the fire button on the bed-post.
 This will reveal a secret in the wall! Take the signet ring.
 Go to the guard and give him the ring. Kill the Hakrat and take the
 letter from the king's brother.
 Go and give the king the letter - the advisor will now run away and
 the force sheild at the top of the stairs will disappear.
 Shoot arrows into the three holes to make the missing floor appear.
 Now you can get the first piece of Ro'geld - the skull.
 Go to the fisherman's hut and press fire in front of the cupboard
 to release the fisherman. Visit Loki's shrine and save the fisherman's
 daughter. She will give you a Talisman to open the portal to the next
 world. Now go back to the hall of worlds - where you started.

 UTGARD
 ~~~~~~
 Dwarven Isle:

 Speak to the dying man on the battlefield. Then shoot an arrow into
 the circle of fire to enter the half-world. Go back to the man and
 speak with him again. Shoot another arrow into the circle to exit the
 half-world. Take the armour from the dying man and put it on.
 You will now be able to enter the castle. Give the letter from the
 dying man to the king to get another letter in return.
 Take the rainbow ring from the table and go to the Giant's Isle.

 Giant's Isle:

 Go into the Ice God's room and fill your flask with water.
 Then go into the Fire God's room and throw the water on the fire.
 Now go back to the Ice God and over the bridge.
 Throw the rainbow ring into the sphere of light.

 Giant's HQ:

 Push over the candle and take the Talisman. Now head back to the hall
 of worlds.

 UTGARD 2
 ~~~~~~~~
 Lost Clan Isle:

 Push the peice of bread over to the rat who will then open the cell
 for you. Give the letter to the Dwarven king. He will give you another
 letter. Go down the steps and take the second piece of Ro'geld from the
 skeleton. Go back to the hall of worlds.
 Go back into Utgard 1 and give the king the letter. He will give you a
 Talisman for Her'ker'yn. Go back to the hall of worlds.

 HER'KER'YN
 ~~~~~~~~~~
 Druids grove:

 Speak to the druid and go into the map screen.

 Dakta Village:

 Kill the Dakta inside the Armourer's.
 Speak to the man who is making a sword then take the sword.
 Kill the Dakta inside the pub and both of the Daktas in this room and
 go back to the map screen.

 Dakta HQ:

 Jump down past the spikey ball (you'll need good timing) and go into
 the Alcove where you must press the switch on the wall to make the
 steps appear. Go into the room that contains a pile of gold and press
 fire in front of the map on the wall.
 Kill the mirror reflection of yourself, then kill the Dakta and take
 the Talisman.

 ???? Island:

 Get across the tiles by using clues from the scroll. Shoot the arrows
 into the mouths and take the third piece of Ro'geld. Go back into the
 hall of worlds.

 TAL'KER'YN
 ~~~~~~~~~~
 This is the hall of the Gods. Go into the death Goddess's room and
 kill Heimdall and Ursha by walking into the statues. Walk into the
 light that appears on the wall. Take the crown and the holy symbol.
 Walk out of the room to bring the characters back to life.
 Go into the Judge God's room and place the crown onto his head.
 You will now be judged. Take the holy symbol.

 Enter the Air Goddess's room - the cloud room - walk into the
 lightening in order to teleport. Take the sheild, the armour and helmet.
 Discard the helmet in the main room and the bridge will then appear.
 Take the holy symbol.
 Now go to the God of Weak's room. kill him and the other man and
 take the holy symbol.
 Go into the Light Goddess's room. Make your way across the tiles and
 take the holy symbol.
 Now head to the Nature God's room and take the seeds from three of
 the plants. The seeds you need are from the plant to the right of the
 grass - it looks like a big red bud, the plant just below this one,
 and the plant in the bottom left hand corner.
 Discard them in the patch of grass. Take the holy symbol.
 Go to the closed door at the end of the corridor and place the holy
 symbols on the spaces on the floor. Place the shield in front of the
 laser light and take the last piece of Ro'geld.
 Go back to Ander in the garden and take another symbol, then return
 to the hall of worlds.
 Go back to Her'ker'rn and give the druid the holy symbol. Walk through
 the gate in the trees and then onto the turtle's back.
 Take the fire sprite. He will teleport you to the hall of worlds.

 NIFL'HEIM
 ~~~~~~~~~
 Walk towards the lava and onto the fire boat and take the Dragon's teeth.
 When you get to Loki's daughter there will be a secret door to her right.
 Fire arrows into the three heads and walk through the door.
 Place a Dragon's tooth on each red circle on the floor (pick them up
 with the left mouse button and press the right button to separate) then
 walk into the main circle to be teleported. 
 Walk by the Dragon's head and exit the room. kill the chief Hakrat and
 go into Loki's room. When you get teleported into Baldur's room, Ander
 will teleport you once again.

 SHO KER'YN
 ~~~~~~~~~~
 Make your way across the tiles (save game), when you have completed
 the tile section, go and kill the double Heimdall and Ursha.
 Walk through the gate and then to the room where you will find a
 Ro'geld and the shadow of a character. To retrieve the Ro'geld, turn
 around so that the shadow is facing the Ro'geld and press fire.
 Exit this section and into the room where you will find a Dakta.
 Kill the Dakta and chop the rope on the wall. Now walk across the wood
 plank into Ashok's room.
 Ashok is invisible so just throw the Ro'geld at him.
 Go into Loki's room for the final confrontation. The End!