Hook


 CHEAT MODE:

 Go into the Bait and Tackle and pick up the mug next to the candle.
 Now keep doing "Pick Up" in the space where the mug was and you'll
 find that you get all the items you need to complete the game.


                      HOOK - COMPLETE SOLUTION
                      ========================

Your first task in the game is to get yourself a pirate outfit, otherwise
you won`t be able to blend in with the locals and get on to Hook`s ship 
to talk to him. Seeing you have no money, you must steal the items of
clothing that you need.

At the begining of the game you are in Pirate Square. Go left from 
here, pick up the anchor and the washing pole, then go right to 
Deadman`s Pier. Pick up the rope and use it with the anchor, then go 
into the Crossed Swords pub and get the two mugs from the tables. Go 
into the Bait and Tackle bar and pick up the third mug, then go out of 
the door at the top of the stairs.

Wait until the pirate is walking across the square, then use the anchor 
on the top of the clock. If you time this correctly, you should swing
across to Mrs Smeedle`s front door, grabbing the pirate`s hat at the 
same time (you may need to do this several times until you get it 
right). Know on Mrs Smeedle`s door, and when she replies use the anchor 
to swing back. Now gp back to the square, go left and use the pole on 
the pirate jacket. Examine the jacket, and you will find a coin.

Go right to Mugger`s Alley, and see Dr. Chop to get a couple of teeth
pulled out - he will give you two coins in return. Take the roller blind
and go to the Jolliest Roger pub, where you should give the three mugs 
and coins to the barman. He will give you three mugs of cocoa, which you
should then give to the man in the blue hat who will fall asleep, 
enabling you to remove his trousers.

Right, now you have all three pieces of the uniform, go back to the 
washing line and use the roller-blind, enabling you to put the outfit on 
in private.

Go to Good Form pier and on to Hook`s ship, then walk right and take some
money out of the three pots. Go back to the town, buy the magnet from 
the tailors shop, then go to the beach and use the magnet on the `X` 
which will uncover a clock. Go back to Hook`s ship, and walk towards the
pirates. After a conversation with Hook, you will be made to walk the
gangplank, and will subsequently find yourself on the seabed.

Use the pole on the pulley to get it working, then look at the shiny clam
to find a conch shell. Use the clam to get out of the water, then walk
right along the tree branch. To get through the forest, follow these
directions: North, East, North, West, North, East and then East again.

You should then walk into a rope trap, which reveals the lost boys`
hideout. Walk left into the workshop and get the elastic, then go left to
the jogging area where you can use the weights to get into shape. Go left
to the Avenger, get the net and examine it to find a piece of string. Go
right twice to get to the Four Seasons, then get the dead branch and the
flower. Scare the chicken by blowing the conch shell at it, then pick up
the eggs. Give the eggs to the boy in the workshop, and take the suction
arrow.

Go right twice to the pond, talk to Tinkerbell, and give her the flower. 
In return she will give you a thimble. Get the branch from the tree to 
the right, then use it with the string to make a bow. Go back to the
workshop and use the bow on the panpipes, then pick them up and go to the
slingshot.

Use the elastic to fix the slingshot, then go up and right to the 
clifftop and use yourself with the end of the fence (to practice how to
fly). Do this several times, then ask Thudbutt about his happy thoughts,
and he will give you some marbles. Go back and insult Rufio by saying "Oh,
Rufio!" (strong words indeed), which will enable you to use your
imagination and throw some imaginary food at him. The table will now be
covered with food.

Go down to the round pond, and walk towards the tree. This will take you 
to the island. Examine the log-bed, fireplace and chair, then talk to
Tinkerbell. You will be shown a movie-like story, Rufio will give you a
sword, and then you will fly off towards Hook himself.

Now you are very close to the end of the adventure, and all you need to 
do to kill Hook is to talk him to death - we`re leaving this one to you,
because it reasonably easy!